These experiments demonstrate that morphine-induced catalepsy consists of two complementary, but opposite, behavioral extremes (rigid immobility and sudden locomotor bursts), each of which can be controlled by distinct classes of external stimuli. When stimuli that involve pain and/or nonnociceptive skin pressure are tonic (continuous), morphine-induced electroencephalographic (EEG) deactivation and behavioral immobility are potentiated, even to the extent that a stimulation-bound reversible coma results. In contrast, phasic (discrete) stimulation produces behavioral and/or EEG activation. EEG and behavioral rebound effects are observed following stressful (intense, prolonged) stimuli. On the basis of the observed stimulus controls, sensorimotor characteristics, and EEG reactions, it is suggested that similarities may exist between morphine-induced catalepsy and defensive reactions of immobility and escape in drug-free animals (i.e., the adaptive death- feigning reflex).
Some antiepileptic drugs, when administered at toxic plasma levels or more rarely at levels within the therapeutic range, induce asterixis. We report the case of a patient with painful syndrome of central origin being treated with carbamazepine, in which asterixis appeared with toxic serum levels. A pharmacologic interference was also observed between carbamazepine and beta-methyldigoxin, which in our patient was being used to treat disease. The blood digoxin levels were inversely proportional to those of carbamazepine. The therapeutic effectiveness of digoxin being sharply reduced when carbamazepine reached toxic levels.
Overexpression of the human c-MYC (MYC) oncogene is one of the most frequently implicated events in the pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Previously, we have shown in a conditional transgenic mouse model that MYC overexpression is restrained from inducing mitotic cellular division and tumorigenesis in the adult liver; whereas, in marked contrast, MYC induces robust proliferation associated with the very rapid onset of tumorigenesis in embryonic and neonatal mice.
Here, we show that non-genotoxic hepatotoxins induce changes in the liver cellular context associated with increased cellular proliferation and enhanced tumorigenesis. Both 5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine (DDC) and carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) cooperate with MYC to greatly accelerate the onset of liver cancer in an adult host to less than 7 days versus a mean latency of onset of over 35 weeks for MYC alone. These hepatotoxin-enhanced liver tumors grossly and histologically resemble embryonic and neonatal liver tumors. Importantly, we found that MYC overexpression is only capable of inducing expression of the mitotic Cyclin B1 in embryonic/neonatal hosts or adult hosts that were treated with either carcinogen.
Our results suggest a model whereby oncogenes can remain latently activated, but exposure of the adult liver to hepatotoxins that promote hepatocyte proliferation can rapidly uncover their malignant potential.
In the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project's Breast Cancer Prevention Project (BCPT), tamoxifen use was associated with an increased relative risk for venous thromboembolic events, including deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary emboli, compared with placebo. However, the involvement of hypercoagulability factors in this association is unclear.
To examine possible associations among the risk of venous thromboembolic events, tamoxifen use, and Factor V Leiden (FVL) and prothrombin G20210-->A (PT20210) mutations, which are involved in promoting blood coagulation, we used a nested, matched, case-control (1 : 4) design and compared women in the BCPT who had experienced venous thromboembolic events (n = 76) with women who did not (n = 295). FVL and PT20210 mutations were detected in genomic DNA that was isolated from blood samples collected at trial enrollment.
Venous thromboembolic events occurred in 28 women (deep vein thrombosis in 22 and pulmonary emboli in six) who were taking placebo and in 53 women (deep vein thrombosis in 35 and pulmonary emboli in 18) who were taking tamoxifen (relative risk = 1.90, 95% confidence interval = 1.18 to 3.12). Excessive risk for venous thromboembolic events was observed only in the first 36 months of therapy. There were no differences in age, smoking, and race between the groups, but women with venous thromboembolic events had a higher body mass index than women without (mean +/- standard deviation, 30 kg/m(2) +/- 7.7 versus 27.1 +/- 5.6; P<.001). FVL and/or PT20210 mutations were found in nine women (four on tamoxifen and five on placebo) with venous thromboembolic events and in 20 control subjects (nine on tamoxifen and 11 on placebo). No associations were found between risk of venous thromboembolic events and mutation status in either treatment group.
Venous thromboembolic disease in the BCPT women is associated with tamoxifen use and body mass index, but not with FVL and PT20210 mutations. Screening women at risk for breast cancer for FVL and/or PT20210 appears to offer no benefit in determining the risk of tamoxifen-associated thromboembolic events.
Sotos syndrome (SoS) is an autosomal dominant overgrowth syndrome with characteristic craniofacial dysmorphic features and various degrees of mental retardation. We previously showed that haploinsufficiency of the NSD1 gene is the major cause of SoS, and submicroscopic deletions at 5q35, including NSD1, were found in about a half (20/42) of our patients examined. Since the first report, an additional 70 SoS cases consisting of 53 Japanese and 17 non-Japanese have been analyzed. We found 50 microdeletions (45%) and 16 point mutations (14%) among all the 112 cases. A large difference in the frequency of microdeletions between Japanese and non-Japanese patients was noted: 49 (52%) of the 95 Japanese patients and only one (6%) of the 17 non-Japanese had microdeletions. A sequence-based physical map was constructed to characterize the microdeletions. Most of the microdeletions were confirmed to be identical by FISH analysis. We identified highly homologous sequences, i.e., possible low copy repeats (LCRs), in regions flanking proximal and distal breakpoints of the common deletion, This suggests that LCRs may mediate the deletion. Such LCRs seem to be present in different populations. Thus the different frequency of microdeletions between Japanese and non-Japanese cases in our study may have been caused by patient-selection bias.
The aim of this study was to investigate the possible protective effects of echinacoside, one of the phenylethanoids isolated from the stems of Cistanches salsa, a Chinese herbal medicine, on the free radical damage of liver caused by carbon tetrachloride in rats. Treatment of rats with carbon tetrachloride produced severe liver injury, as demonstrated by dramatic elevation of serum ALT, AST levels and typical histopathological changes including hepatocyte necrosis or apoptosis, haemorrhage, fatty degeneration, etc. In addition, carbon tetrachloride administration caused oxidative stress in rats, as evidenced by increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and MDA concentrations in the liver of rats, along with a remarkable reduction in hepatic SOD activity and GSH content. However, simultaneous treatment with echinacoside (50mg/kg, intraperitoneally) significantly attenuated carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatotoxicity. The results showed that serum ALT, AST levels and hepatic MDA content as well as ROS production were reduced dramatically, and hepatic SOD activity and GSH content were restored remarkably by echinacoside administration, as compared to the carbon tetrachloride-treated rats. Moreover, the histopathological damage of liver and the number of apoptotic hepatocytes were also significantly ameliorated by echinacoside treatment. It is therefore suggested that echinacoside can provide a definite protective effect against acute hepatic injury caused by CCl(4) in rats, which may mainly be associated with its antioxidative effect.
The hearts of 16 autopsy cases with a past history of administration of anthracycline antitumor drugs (DNR, ADR and ACM) and a sign of cardiac failure were investigated morphologically. In macroscopic observation, both ventricles were more or less dilated with thinning of the ventricular wall. Mural thrombi were recognized in the left ventricle of 2 cases. Histologically, the myocardial lesions could be roughly classified into two groups, a) myocardial changes in cases with rapidly developed cardiac failure (acute form), and b) myocardial changes in cases with relatively slowly developed cardiac failure. In acute form, myocardial cells showed marked swelling with dilatation of central sarcoplasmic core, marked reduction of myofibrils, vacuolization of cytoplasm and enlargement of nucleus accompanied by distinct large nucleolus. Necrotic myocardial cells were scattered among these degenerative cells. These degenerative and necrotic cells were distributed diffusely in both ventricular walls, but were more frequent in the left ventricular wall than in the right one. Inflammatory cell infiltration was also recognized not only in the myocardium, but also in the endocardium and epicardium. In chronic form, on the other hand, atrophy and attenuation of myocardial cells with a hypereosinophilic change of the cytoplasm and an increase in number of brown pigments, and marked reduction of myocardial cells were most common findings. These changes of chronic form, however, could not be identified as the specific changes of anthracycline cardiotoxicity. Fibrosis was hardly seen in the myocardium of both acute and chronic forms.
Hexachloro-1:3-butadiene (HCBD) causes segment-specific injury to the proximal renal tubule. A time course study of traditional and more recently proposed urinary biomarkers was performed in male Hanover Wistar rats receiving a single intraperitoneal (ip) injection of 45 mg/kg HCBD. Animals were killed on days 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 14, and 28 postdosing and the temporal response of renal biomarkers was characterized using kidney histopathology, urinary and serum biochemistry, and gene expression. Histopathologic evidence of tubular degeneration was seen from day 1 until day 3 postdosing and correlated with increased urinary levels of α-glutathione S-transferase (α-GST), albumin, glucose, and kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), and increased gene expression of KIM-1, NAD(P)H dehydrogenase, quinone 1, and heme oxygenase (decycling) 1. Histopathologic evidence of tubular regeneration was seen from day 2 postdosing and correlated with raised levels of urinary KIM-1 and osteopontin and increased gene expression of KIM-1 and annexin A7. Traditional renal biomarkers generally demonstrated low sensitivity. It is concluded that in rat proximal tubular injury, measurement of a range of renal biomarkers, in conjunction with gene expression analysis, provides an understanding of the extent of degenerative changes induced in the kidney and the process of regeneration.
The distribution of bone marrow cells in brain areas during the acute period after pilocarpine-induced status epiepticus (SE) was investigated here. To achieve this, we generated chimeric mice by engrafting bone marrow cells from enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) transgenic mice. GFP(+) bone marrow-derived cells were found throughout the brain, predominantly in the hippocampus. As expected, these cells exhibited the characteristics of microglia. The pattern of distribution, proliferation, and differentiation of GFP(+)cells changes as a function of intensity and time following SE. This pattern is also a consequence of the inflammatory response, which is followed by the progressive neuronal damage that is characteristic of the pilocarpine model.
Groups of male A/J mice were given either a regular diet or a regular diet supplemented with 1% BHA. After 10 days of feeding acetaminophen was administered intraperitoneally in amounts known to induce liver necrosis (500 mg/kg). Liver slices from the central lobe, were examined histologically for the extent of necrosis. Eight of the 17 mice treated with BHA showed no necrosis. In contrast 12 of 16 specimens from the mice treated with acetaminophen alone showed a severe centrilobular necrosis. The microsomal-mediated covalent binding of acetaminophen metabolites in-vitro was lower for microsomes from BHA pretreated mice than those from control mice. These results suggest that the ability of BHA to modify the activity of the drug metabolizing enzymes or to act as a scavenger may account for its protective action against acetaminophen-induced liver necrosis.
The clinical and electrophysiological features of a truncal myoclonus in a 55-year-old man are described. The electromyographic characteristics point toward propriospinal myoclonus. It is suggested that a myoclonic generator was released after use of ciprofloxacin, by antagonising the gamma-aminobutyric acid metabolism.
The antimalarial agents, chloroquine (CQ) and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) are used in long-term treatment of connective tissue diseases and dermatological disorders and are generally regarded as safe. We present one case of cardiotoxicity in a 59-year-old woman treated with antimalarials during 13 years for a discoid lupus erythematosus. She progressively developed conduction disturbances and congestive heart failure (CHF). When the diagnosis of antimalarials toxicity was suspected, CQ was withdrawn. However, heart transplantation had to be performed in the following 4 months for severe CHF. Indeed, rare but severe cardiotoxicity may develop following prolonged use of antimalarials with both conduction disturbances (45 patients) and CHF (25 patients). These cardiac toxic effects have been reported with CQ and less frequently with HCQ use alone. Diagnoses are often delayed since the toxicity of the drug might be misattributed to other factors in these patients. The endomyocardial biopsy, or in some cases the muscle biopsy, are essential to confirm the antimalarials toxicity. Antimalarials have been stopped in 12 cases of CHF, leading to improvement in 8 cases (within 3 months to 5 years) and to deaths or to heart transplantation in 4 cases (within 1 week to 3 months). In the latter cases, as in our patient, the lack of improvement may have been explained by the severity of the cardiomyopathy at diagnosis and the short delay since withdrawal. As a consequence, the potential for reversibility and the severity in undiagnosed cases of these toxic cardiomyopathies emphasize the importance of recognizing early signs of toxicity in order to withdraw antimalarials before the occurrence of life-threatening CHF.
Standardized green tea extract was evaluated for exposure and toxicity in Beagle dogs following oral dosing by capsules. The main component (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) accounted for 56-72% of the material. A 9-month chronic study (0, 200, 500, and 1000 mg/kg/day) was done in fasted dogs to take advantage of the reported improved catechin bioavailability with fasting. Extensive morbidity, mortality, and pathology of many major organs led to its early termination at 6.5 months and prevented identification of the toxicity mechanisms. A follow-up 13-week study examined the exposure to and toxicity of the extract. In general, toxicities were less severe than in the chronic study during the same interval. Dosing in a fed state resulted in considerably lower and less variable exposure than found under fasted conditions. Toxicity was less frequent and of lesser severity with lower exposure but limited sample size and large variability prevented reaching that definitive conclusion. Differences in mortality and morbidity between the preliminary terminated chronic and follow-up subchronic studies with the same dose of the same drug lot and similar exposure were not fully resolved as there may be other as yet unclear confounding factors.
Consumers are exposed to organotin compounds (OTCs) via contaminated fish and seafood due to the accumulation of these compounds in marine organisms. Certain OTCs are immunotoxic and may also have endocrine disrupting properties resulting in adverse effects on the reproductive tract in mollusks and mammals. Since effects of in utero exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals on the reproductive system are dependent on the critical window of exposure during its development, we conducted a comprehensive study with the aim to identify the most sensitive window of exposure to TPTCl and to investigate the effects of pre- and postnatal treatment on sexual development in rats. Male and female offspring rats were exposed to 2 or 6 mg TPTCl/kg b.w. and day either in utero and during lactation (gestation day 6 until weaning on PND 21) or from gestation day 6 until termination. As previously reported, offspring in the 6 mg TPTCl dose group exhibited high perinatal mortality and therefore no further evaluation was carried out at this dose level (Grote, K., Hobler, C, Andrade, A.J.M., Wichert Grande, S., Gericke, C., Talsness, C.E., Appel, K.E., Chahoud, I., 2007. Effects of in utero and lactational exposure to triphenyltin chloride on pregnancy outcome and postnatal development in rat offspring. Toxicology 238, 177-185). In the present paper, results on postnatal development obtained from surviving offspring of dams exposed to 2mg TPTCl/kg b.w. are reported. Male offspring were sacrificed on PND 64 or 65 and female offspring at first estrus after PND 58. A clear sex difference in response to treatment was observed. Male postnatal development was severely affected with decreases in body weight gain, reproductive organ weights and testosterone concentration as well as a significant delay in the age at preputial separation. In contrast, females exhibited a precocious completion of vaginal opening while all other endpoints were unaffected. Most of these effects were already present in animals that were only exposed until weaning indicating that these effects may be irreversible and continued treatment until termination had contributed less than expected to the severity of the observed effects. The results of the present study suggest that the sensitive window for the evaluated endpoints seems to be the period of prenatal development and that male offspring rats were more susceptible to treatment.
A relationship between formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and energy depletion has been proposed to play an important role in mediating methamphetamine (METH)-induced neurotoxicity. To evaluate this relationship, we examined the effect of the spin-trap agent, alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) on hyperthermia and self-injurious behavior (SIB) and striatal dopamine (DA) depletion produced by METH (4 injections of 4 mg/kg, 2 hr intervals, s.c.) in BALB/c mice. Repeated administration of METH induced hyperthermia, incidence of SIB and striatal DA depletion (84% after 3 days). Pretreatment with PBN (4 injections of 60 or 120 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced METH-induced hyperthermia, but did not significantly attenuate METH-induced SIB or the striatal DA depletion. On the other hand, pretreatment with high doses of PBN (4 injections of 180 or 240 mg/kg, i.p.) protected against METH-induced hyperthermia and SIB, and PBN (180 mg/kg) also completely protected against the acute striatal DA depletion 60 min after the last injection of the drug. However, the long-lasting striatal DA depletion was only attenuated by 52 or 56%, respectively. These results indicate that METH-induced hyperthermia contributes to, but is not solely responsible for METH-induced neurotoxicity, and supports a role for formation of ROS and other mechanisms in the generation of METH-induced striatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity. In addition, the difference in the efficacy of PBN to protect against the acute or long-lasting striatal DA depletion induced by METH may indicate that both ROS formation and other mechanisms are required for METH-induced neurotoxicity to develop.
Dramatic advances in recent decades in understanding the genetics of Friedreich ataxia (FRDA)--a GAA triplet expansion causing greatly reduced expression of the mitochondrial protein frataxin--have thus far yielded no therapeutic dividend, since there remain no effective treatments that prevent or even slow the inevitable progressive disability in affected individuals. Clinical interventions that restore frataxin expression are attractive therapeutic approaches, as, in theory, it may be possible to re-establish normal function in frataxin deficient cells if frataxin levels are increased above a specific threshold. With this in mind several drugs and cytokines have been tested for their ability to increase frataxin levels. Cell transplantation strategies may provide an alternative approach to this therapeutic aim, and may also offer more widespread cellular protective roles in FRDA. Here we show a direct link between frataxin expression in fibroblasts derived from FRDA patients with both decreased expression of hydrogen peroxide scavenging enzymes and increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide-mediated toxicity. We demonstrate that normal human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) induce both an increase in frataxin gene and protein expression in FRDA fibroblasts via secretion of soluble factors. Finally, we show that exposure to factors produced by human MSCs increases resistance to hydrogen peroxide-mediated toxicity in FRDA fibroblasts through, at least in part, restoring the expression of the hydrogen peroxide scavenging enzymes catalase and glutathione peroxidase 1. These findings suggest, for the first time, that stem cells may increase frataxin levels in FRDA and transplantation of MSCs may offer an effective treatment for these patients.
The promoting activities of 29 compounds on induction of hyperplastic (neoplastic) liver nodules (HN) and the dose-dependent effects of tumor promoting agents were compared by using a short-term test system developed in this laboratory. In tests on promoting activity, F344 rats were given a single dose (200 mg/kg) of N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN), and from two weeks later, were treated with various test compounds for 6 or 10 weeks. They were subjected to partial hepatectomy 3 or 4 weeks after DEN treatment. The results showed that strong hepatocarcinogens, such as aflatoxin B1, DEN, N-nitrosodimethylamine (DMN), 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF), 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (3'-Me-DAB) and ethionine, induced many hyperplastic liver nodules, whereas dieldrin, 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) and alpha-hexachlorocyclohexane (alpha-HCH) induced few lesions. Nonhepatocarcinogens, such as N-nitrosoethylurea (ENU) and 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC), only slightly induced hyperplastic nodules. Of the miscellaneous compounds tested, phenobarbital, deoxycholic acid and ethynyl estradiol also induced gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) positive foci. In tests on the dose-dependent effects of promoting agents, DMN was given at different concentrations for 6 weeks from 2 weeks after DEN treatment. Results were quantitated by histochemical measurement of the number or area of gamma-GT positive lesions induced. A long-term experiment on the effect of feeding DMN for 96 weeks was also done. Clear dose-dependent effects of DMN were seen in induction of gamma-GT positive foci in the short-term experiment and neoplastic lesions in the long-term one.
Standard treatment for osteosarcoma patients consists of a combination of cisplatin, adriamycin, and methotrexate before surgical resection of the primary tumour, followed by postoperative chemotherapy including vincristine and cyclophosphamide. Unfortunately, many patients still relapse or suffer adverse events. We examined whether common germline polymorphisms in chemotherapeutic transporter and metabolic pathway genes of the drugs used in standard osteosarcoma treatment may predict treatment response.
In this study we screened 102 osteosarcoma patients for 346 Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) and 2 Copy Number Variants (CNVs) in 24 genes involved in the metabolism or transport of cisplatin, adriamycin, methotrexate, vincristine, and cyclophosphamide. We studied the association of the genotypes with tumour response and overall survival. We found that four SNPs in two ATP-binding cassette genes were significantly associated with overall survival: rs4148416 in ABCC3 (per-allele HR = 8.14, 95%CI = 2.73-20.2, p-value = 5.1×10⁻⁵), and three SNPs in ABCB1, rs4148737 (per-allele HR = 3.66, 95%CI = 1.85-6.11, p-value = 6.9×10⁻⁵), rs1128503 and rs10276036 (r² = 1, per-allele HR = 0.24, 95%CI = 0.11-0.47 p-value = 7.9×10⁻⁵). Associations with these SNPs remained statistically significant after correction for multiple testing (all corrected p-values [permutation test] ≤ 0.03).
Our findings suggest that these polymorphisms may affect osteosarcoma treatment efficacy. If these associations are independently validated, these variants could be used as genetic predictors of clinical outcome in the treatment of osteosarcoma, helping in the design of individualized therapy.
Corticosteroid-induced acute psychoses in three Chinese patients receiving prednisolone 15-75 mg/d are described. The cases are compared with other cases of corticosteroid mental disturbances in the literature. It is concluded that the mental disturbance usually occurs within the first ten days of treatment, and presents most often in women, as either an acute manic or depressive episode accompanied by delusion and/or hallucinations. An exponential increase in the risk of the mental disturbance occurs as the corticosteroid dose increases.
Male and female CD-1 mice (50 mice per group) were administered thiabendazole (TBZ) in diet at levels of 0 (control), 0.031, 0.125 and 0.5% for 78 weeks. A life time study was terminated after 78 weeks due to enhanced strain specific mortality. There were no significant differences in mortality between the control and treated groups. Mean body weights of high-dose groups showed significant decreases compared with the controls. The bladder weights of male and female mice of the 0.5% group were significantly higher than those of the control mice. Gross findings in treated mice included the renal atrophy, hydronephrosis, calculi in renal pelvis and/or bladder and ovarian atrophy. Microscopic findings in the kidneys of treated mice included the nephrosis, hydronephrosis or hyperplasia of transitional epithelium of renal pelvis or papilla. In the bladder of treated mice, hyperplasia or squamous metaplasia of transitional epithelium and one transitional cell papilloma were observed. Dose-dependent decreases in the incidence of spontaneous lesion in the male or female reproductive system were recognized. It is concluded that TBZ is not carcinogenic to CD-1 mice of both sexes. However, caution should be exercised in the long-term application of high TBZ doses.
Stimulation of sensory nerves with capsaicin regulates ion transport in the small intestine in animal experiments.
To investigate whether sensory nerves that are stimulated by capsaicin administration influence fluid and electrolyte absorption in the human jejunum in vivo.
Intestinal perfusion studies were performed in 12 healthy subjects using a four lumen tube with a proximal occlusion balloon and a plasma-like electrolyte solution. After an initial control period, 5 (n = 3), 10 (n = 8), or 50 (n = 1) micrograms/ml capsaicin was added to the perfusate, and this was followed by a final control period. Rates of absorption of water, sodium, potassium, chloride, and bicarbonate were determined in a 30 cm segment of jejunum using a non-absorbable volume marker.
At all three concentrations of capsaicin there were no significant changes in water and electrolyte absorption as compared with control periods. Two subjects who received 10 micrograms/ml and the subject receiving 50 micrograms/ml experienced crampy abdominal pain.
The results do not support the hypothesis that capsaicin sensitive afferent nerves are involved in the physiological regulation of net absorption or secretion across the human jejunal mucosa. Chemical stimulation of these nerves, however, gives rise to abdominal pain.
Zymbal glands were excised bilaterally from the ear ducts of female Sprague-Dawley rats (three/group), minced into approximately four fragments per gland, and transferred into a microtiter plate containing 1.5 mL per well of Waymouth's tissue culture medium supplemented with fetal calf serum, hydrocortisone, insulin, and gentamicin. After addition of a test compound or solvent vehicle, plates were incubated for 6, 24, 48, or 96 hr at 37 degrees C in a humidified atmosphere of 5% CO2 in air. Tissue in culture for 6 hr was histologically indistinguishable from the freshly excised tissue, while that in culture for 24, 48, and 96 hr showed a progressive deterioration often with necrosis and/or squamous metaplasia. More pronounced deterioration was noted in samples treated with 750 or 1500 micrograms/mL of benzene. Using a nuclease P1-enhanced 32P-postlabeling assay, aromatic DNA adducts were detected in cultured Zymbal glands exposed for 48 hr to benzene and its derivatives, as well as to 7,12-dimethylbenzanthracene (DMBA) and 2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF). Benzene produced very low levels of adducts (0.5 adducts per 10(9) nucleotides), whereas its congeners produced relatively high levels of adducts (50-2000 lesions per 10(9) nucleotides), which decreased in the order benzoquinone greater than hydroquinone greater than phenol greater than benzenetriol greater than catechol. Each adduct profile overall was characteristic for the compound studied, suggesting the formation of compound-specific electrophiles. AAF and DMBA adducts were identical to those formed in vivo in animals. Our results show that the Zymbal glands are capable of metabolizing different carcinogens to DNA-reactive intermediates, a process that may be causally associated with tumor formation in vivo in this organ.
Treatment of thrombotic disease requires a delicate balance between prevention of new thrombotic events and management of bleeding complications. Various antiplatelet and anticoagulant agents have been used to this end, with varying degrees of success. Among the antiplatelet agents tested so far, cilostazol, which selectively targets phosphodiesterase III (PDE-III), has unique features. Cilostazol is classified as an antiplatelet agent because it inhibits the platelet aggregation induced by collagen, 5'-adenosine diphosphate (ADP), epinephrine, and arachidonic acid. Unlike other antiplatelet agents cilostazol not only inhibits platelet function but also improves endothelial cell function. Platelets circulate throughout the body with continuous tethering on the surface of endothelial cells. When endothelial cells are stimulated, the number of activated, or pre-conditioned, platelets in circulation increases. These platelets enhance thrombus formation at the sites of endothelial disruption. Cilostazol effectively prevents the onset of thrombotic disease, not only by direct inhibition of platelet function, but also by reducing the number of activated or pre-conditioned platelets in circulation. Secondary prevention of stroke with modest increase in bleeding complications was achieved by administration of cilostazol in the Japanese Cilostazol Stroke Prevention Study done in Japan. These results suggest that cilostazol may reduce the risk of stroke without increasing the risk of bleeding complications.
Anticonvulsant properties of alpha-ethyl-alpha-methyl-gamma-thiobutyrolactone (alpha-EMTBL) were compared with those of the antiepileptic drugs ethosuximide (ESM) and valproate (VPA) by testing their ability to block seizures in mice caused by maximal electroshock (MES), pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), picrotoxin (PICRO), bicuculline (BIC), methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM), N-methyl-D,L-aspartate (NMDA), aminophylline (AMPH), strychnine (STR), beta-ethyl-beta-methyl-gamma-thiobutyrolactone (beta-EMTBL), and t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS). ESM was able to prevent PTZ-, PICRO-, DMCM-, and beta-EMTBL-induced seizures. In contrast, VPA and alpha-EMTBL blocked all of these plus MESTBPS-, and BIC-induced convulsions. Only VPA prevented AMPH-induced seizures. None of the anticonvulsants blocked STR or NMDA seizures. Rotorod testing for acute neurotoxicity demonstrated that ESM was the least toxic and alpha-EMTBL and VPA were equivalent. Animals treated daily with high doses of alpha-EMTBL for a 2-week period appeared healthier and had a higher survival rate than animals treated with VPA in the same manner. After a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection, the duration of anticonvulsant action of alpha-EMTBL was 1.3 and 4 times longer than that of ESM and VPA, respectively. These results indicate that alpha-EMTBL has a wide spectrum of anticonvulsant action like VPA but may be less toxic and longer acting. We suggest that alpha-EMTBL is a compound worthy of further testing and development as an antiepileptic drug (AED).
Calcium oxalate crystals were demonstrated in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) of a 66-year old white man with changes in the fundus oculi consistent with the flecked retina ayndrome. The patient had a history of rheumatoid arthritis, mild hypertension, and mild renal insufficiency presumed due to his hypertension. He underwent prolonged abdominal surgery under methoxyflurane anesthesia, following which he developed acute irreversible renal failure. Calcium oxalate crystals were demonstrated postoperatively in a kidney biopsy specimen. He subsequently was maintained on renal dialysis with decreasing renal function. Several weeks before his death fundus examination revealed a picture suggestive of a flecked retina syndrome. At autopsy, widespread oxalosis was found including crystals in the RPE and in some areas in the neural retina and cillary epithelium.
1. Rats implanted with osmotic minipumps delivering adrenaline intraperitoneally at the rate of 2.9 nmol/h had significantly higher systolic and diastolic pressures from days 2 to 6 after implantation than sham-operated controls rats. 2. Concomitant treatment with metoprolol tartrate (2.5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, twice daily) prevented the elevation in blood pressure induced by adrenaline from osmotic minipumps. Such metoprolol treatment did not affect the blood pressure of controls rats. 3. Noradrenaline administered intraperitoneally from osmotic minipumps at the rate of 2.9 nmol/h had no significant effect on blood pressure over a 6-day period of observation. 4. Tachyphylaxis developed to the acute pressor responses to intermittent intravenous infusions of adrenaline in doses of 0.78 microgram (4.24 nmol) every 10 min, but after 14 days of such treatment systolic and diastolic blood pressures were significantly greater than in controls rats. 5. It is suggested that the increase in blood pressure produced by chronic treatment with adrenaline is due to the uptake and accumulation of adrenaline in noradrenergic nerve terminals, from which it is subsequently released as a cotransmitter that mediates a positive feedback loop on transmission by acting on prejunctional beta-adrenoceptors.
Coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) promote adipocyte inflammation and impair glucose homeostasis in lean mice. When lipophilic PCBs were administered to obese mice the diabetes promoting effects were observed only during weight loss. The molecular mechanisms linking PCB exposures to impaired glucose metabolism are unclear.
This study tested the hypothesis that coplanar PCBs act at adipocyte aryl hydrocarbon receptors (AhRs) to promote adipose inflammation and impair glucose homeostasis in lean and in obese mice during weight loss.
PCB-77 administration impaired glucose and insulin tolerance in LF-fed control (AhR(fl/fl)), but not in adipocyte AhR deficient mice (AhR(AdQ)). Unexpectedly, AhR(AdQ) mice exhibited increased fat mass when fed standard, low fat (LF) or high fat (HF) diet. When fed a HF diet both genotypes became obese, but AhR(AdQ) mice administered vehicle (VEH) exhibited increased body weight, adipose mass, adipose inflammation, and impaired glucose tolerance compared to AhR(fl/fl) controls. Impairment of glucose homeostasis in response to PCB-77 was not observed in obese mice of either genotype. However, upon weight loss, AhR(fl/fl) mice administered PCB-77 exhibited increased adipose tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) mRNA abundance and impaired glucose homeostasis compared to VEH. In contrast, PCB-77 had no effect on TNF-α or glucose homeostasis in AhR(AdQ) mice exhibiting weight loss.
These results demonstrate that adipocyte AhR mediates PCB-induced adipose inflammation and impairment of glucose homeostasis in mice. Moreover, deficiency of AhR in adipocytes augmented the development of obesity, indicating that endogenous ligand(s) for AhR regulate adipose homeostasis.
In CF1 mice lindane treatment led to a significant increase in liver tumor incidence whilst in Osborne-Mendel rats it was not carcinogenic. Although somewhat less clear, the test in B6C3F1 mice led to the conclusion that under the conditions of the bioassay lindane was not carcinogenic for this strain. In this study, the specific activities of some enzymes which are thought to be involved in the metabolism of lindane were studied in these different strains in order to investigate whether differences exist in the activities of these enzymes. Because the enzyme pattern may change after lindane treatment during the carcinogenicity studies, we also investigated the enzyme activities in animals treated for 3 days or 3 months with various doses of lindane. The influence of lindane treatment on the relative liver weight was also determined. B6C3F1 mice showed no increase in absolute or relative liver weight even after 3 months of treatment with the highest tolerated dose of lindane. However, in the susceptible CF1 strain lindane led to a large increase of the absolute and relative liver weight in both sexes, whilst a smaller increase was observed in Osborne-Mendel rats. Basal glutathione-S-transferase activity was higher in males than in females in all three strains, bearing no apparent relationship to susceptibility for tumor formation. However, after treatment with the highest dose of lindane a 5-6-fold induction of this enzyme activity was observed in female CF1 mice, which then together with the male CF1 mice had a higher glutathione-S-transferase activity than untreated and treated B6C3F1 mice and Osborne-Mendel rats. Whether lindane or one of its metabolites is activated by conjugation with glutathione remains to be established. After treatment of the animals with high doses of lindane detergent-treated rat liver microsomes showed a higher UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity than mouse liver microsomes. This high activity could lead to a rapid conjugation of phenols derived from lindane. The most striking difference observed in this study was the fact that together with the larger increase in absolute and relative liver weight, untreated and treated CF1 mice showed higher monooxygenase activity and, after treatment with lindane, lower epoxide hydrolase activity than rats. Whether the high monooxygenase and rather low epoxide hydrolase activity will lead to an accumulation of reactive epoxides derived from lindane remains to be clarified.
