Up-regulated expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP) occurs early in the cascade of events that leads to amyloid plaque formation in the human brain. APP gene up-regulation, mediated by activated NF-kappaB, is a response to stress from nM concentrations of aluminum ions, aluminum-disregulated iron ions, reactive-oxygen species, cytokines, and physical trauma. We examined in vivo effects of aluminum on APP in aged rats, obtained from previously-reported longitudinal studies, that chronically ingested aluminum in amounts equivalent to total dietary aluminum levels that Americans routinely ingest. These rats exhibited two outcomes: one group remained cognitively-intact, scoring as well on a memory-discrimination task in old age as in middle age. The other developed cognitive deterioration, obtaining significantly lower mean performance scores in old age than in middle age and exhibiting abnormal behaviors associated with dementia. We compared the expression, distribution and accumulation of APP in hippocampal and cortical tissue of these two rat groups. Compared to results from cognitively-intact rats, hippocampal and cortical tissue from the cognitively-deteriorated rats showed elevated APP gene expression, significantly more dense APP deposits in cytoplasm of neural cells, and APP-immunoreactive neurites that were swollen and varicose. This study shows aluminum routinely derived from chronic oral ingestion, that gradually accumulates in brain regions important for memory-processing, is sufficient to increase APP levels in neural cells of those regions. Aluminum may thus launch the cascade that results in the formation of amyloid plaques in human brain.
We report a case of psoriasis with joint pain related to long-term etretinate therapy. In addition, our experiences with twelve additional patients with psoriasis who also received etretinate therapy are discussed.
To review the hematologic adverse effects of hepatitis C virus (HCV) therapy and adjuvant treatment with epoetin alfa and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (ie, filgrastim).
Medical literature indexed in MEDLINE (1966-January 2007) and EMBASE (1980-January 2007) was searched, and published conference abstracts were reviewed.
Peer-reviewed articles and relevant conference abstracts regarding the use of epoetin alfa and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor were reviewed.
Ribavirin induces a dose-dependent hemolytic anemia. Studies using epoetin alfa 40 000 units subcutaneously once weekly have demonstrated efficacy in maintaining hemoglobin, ribavirin dose, and quality of life scores, but clear benefit shown with sustained virologic response (SVR) is lacking. The hemoglobin threshold for initiation of epoetin alfa used in studies may not adequately reflect values used in clinical practice. Treatment-related neutropenia is caused primarily by interferon or peginterferon. Few studies have investigated the impact of granulocyte or granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor derivatives on neutropenia. Results of dose maintenance evaluation vary, and studies reporting data on SVR showed no effect from growth factor therapy. The frequency of bacterial infections was not reported.
The role and benefit of hematopoietic growth factors in HCV therapy have not been conclusively determined to date. However, the possibility of a benefit to individual patients seen on an outpatient basis remains, and an individualized treatment approach is recommended.
This work was designed to study the influence of drugs during seizures and status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine and mortality in adult rats. Fluoxetine (10 and 20 mg/kg), NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate, 10 and 20 mg/kg), amitriptyline (25 and 50 mg/kg), ketamine (0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg), gabapentin (100 and 150 mg/kg) and pimozide (10 and 20 mg/kg) were administered intraperitoneally, 30 min prior to pilocarpine (400mg/kg, s.c.). The animals were observed (24h) to determine: number of peripheral cholinergic signs, tremors, stereotyped movements, seizures, SE, latency to first seizure and number of deaths after pilocarpine treatment. Fluoxetine, amitriptyline, NMDA, and pimozide had proconvulsant effects in both doses tested. Smaller and higher doses of these drugs no protected and increased pilocarpine-induced seizures and/or mortality. Gabapentin and ketamine protected against seizures and reduced the latency to first seizure. Thus, these results suggest that caution should be taken in the selection of pharmacotherapy and dosages for patients with epilepsy because of the possibility of potentiating convulsive process toxicity.
Fenofibrate, an agonist of PPAR-alpha, in doses above 25 microM, inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in Ishikawa endometrial cancer cells. We show that these effects are potentiated by retinoic acid, an agonist of the retinoid-X-receptor. DNA content analysis shows that G1/S phase progression through the cell cycle is inhibited. Independent Component Analysis of gene microarray experiments demonstrated downregulation of Cyclin D1 (CCND1) and associated changes in cell cycle gene expression. Expression of PPAR-alpha mRNA was reduced by >75% using RNA-interference but this resulted in only minor changes in biological effects. A nude mouse model of endometrial carcinoma was used to investigate the effect of fenofibrate in vivo but failed to show consistent inhibition of tumour growth.
The combination of fenofibrate and retinoic acid is a potent inhibitor of Ishikawa endometrial cancer cell growth in vitro.
Bupropion hydrochloride (Zyban) is prescribed for smoking cessation. It is contraindicated in patients with seizure disorders. We report three patients with generalized tonic-clonic seizure that occurred a few days after the intake of this drug.
The first two patients had no personal or family seizure history. They had generalized tonic-clonic seizure after taking bupropion (300 mg per day) for a few days. Acute symptomatic seizures were diagnosed in both cases. The third patient suffered from myoclonic jerks during adolescence, had a history of seizure after high dose codeine treatment and a family seizure history. She had generalized tonic-clonic seizure after taking bupropion 300 mg per day. EEG showed paroxystic generalized activity and photosensitivity, consistent with the diagnosis of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy.
Bupropion can lower seizure threshold. The incidence of seizure at 300 mg per day is 1/1000 patients treated.
Many commonly prescribed drugs can trigger epileptic seizure, bupropion is one of them. When prescribing this drug, this adverse effect must be acknowledged and health practitioners should be aware of this risk.
The principal reasons for a predominantly weekend incidence of migraine attacks are likely to be social or psychological in origin. There may be another factor. This study examines the use, and more importantly the way of use, of caffeine containing substances. We collected data by questionnaire from 151 consecutive Migraine Clinic patients with the diagnosis of migraine or tension type headache. Of the whole group, 21.9% claimed to have weekend attacks, with relatively more males than females. The males amongst these were all migraine patients, but 23% of the women suffered from tension-type headache. Patients with both a high daily caffeine intake and excessively delayed wakening at weekends (each defined as greater than the mean for the whole group) had a 69% risk of weekend headache. This compared with 4% in patients exceeding the mean in one only, and zero in those with moderate habits in both. These results support the idea that weekend attacks are linked to caffeine withdrawal. Sleeping in is not on its own a significant cause. We suggest that this possibility should be considered in clinical management of affected patients.
Adverse neurological and renal effects can occur in patients taking acyclovir. Neurotoxicity of acyclovir results from an accumulation of the antiviral and its metabolites in the bloodstream. This can be observed in the elderly or in patients with chronic renal failure, generally in dialysis patients. Acute renal failure results from intratubular crystallization of acyclovir.
A 78-year-old right-handed woman was admitted in an emergency setting for aphasia. Analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid was normal, but herpetic meningo-encephalitis was suspected and intravenous treatment was initiated with acyclovir. After the second infusion, the patient began to suffer from visual hallucinations, confusion and acute renal failure. Herpes PCR was negative in the cerebrospinal fluid, and the adverse drug reactions regressed completely after 72 hours.
Renal function has to be checked often in patients given acyclovir for appropriate dose titration. Patients recover prompt from the adverse effects at drug withdrawal.
This work was designed to study the influence of drugs during seizures and status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine and mortality in adult rats. Morphine (0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg), SCH 23390 (0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg), haloperidol (5 and 10mg/kg) and lithium (30 and 60 mg/kg) were administered intraperitoneally (i.p.), 30 min before to pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, s.c.). The animals were observed (24 h) to determine: number of peripheral cholinergic signs, tremors, stereotyped movements, seizures, SE, latency to first seizure and number of deaths after pilocarpine treatment. Morphine and haloperidol had proconvulsant effects in both doses tested. Smaller and higher doses of these drugs no protected and increased pilocarpine-induced seizures, SE and/or mortality. SCH 23390 protected against seizures, increased the latency to first seizure and reduced the mortality of the animals treated with pilocarpine Theses results suggest that dopamine receptor system receptor subtypes exert opposite functions on the regulation of convulsive activity. The morphine is proconvulsant in lower doses. The opioids in high doses tested exert an action proconvulsant during the establishment of epileptic activity induce by pilocarpine. The lithium no protected the animals against seizures induced by pilocarpine and is used which a model of epilepsy associated with lower doses of pilocarpine in several studies, suggesting absence of the effect anticonvulsants in rodents.
One hundred and twenty women undergoing gynaecological abdominal operations were randomized to receive either epidural bupivacaine 0.0625% + fentanyl 3.3 micrograms/ml infusion (Group EPI, n = 57), or patient-controlled intravenous morphine analgesia (Group PCA, n = 54) for postoperative pain relief. The groups were comparable in demographic data, types and duration of operation. Group EPI achieved significantly lower verbal rating scale of pain (VRS) at rest at 0, 4, 12, 16, 20, 28 and 40th postoperative hours. The VRS during cough were also significantly lower in Group EPI at 0, 4, 8, 12, 28 and 36th postoperative hours. None of the patients had respiratory depression or hypotension. Nausea/vomiting occurred in 52.6%/33.3% of patients in Group EPI and 52.7%/37.0% in Group PCA. Most patients (84.2% in Group EPI and 72.2% in Group PCA) rated their pain management as "good". We conclude that epidural infusion of bupivacaine 0.0625% and fentanyl 3.3 micrograms/ml provide better analgesia than patient-controlled intravenous morphine after gynaecological laparotomy.
To describe the unmasking of pheochromocytoma in a patient treated with amisulpride and tiapride.
A 42-year-old white man developed acute hypertension with severe headache and vomiting 2 hours after the first doses of amisulpride 100 mg and tiapride 100 mg. Both drugs were immediately discontinued, and the patient recovered after subsequent nicardipine and verapamil treatment. Abdominal ultrasound showed an adrenal mass, and postoperative histologic examination confirmed the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
Drug-induced symptoms of pheochromocytoma are often associated with the use of substituted benzamide drugs, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. In our case, use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a possible relationship between the hypertensive crisis and amisulpride and tiapride therapy.
As of March 24, 2005, this is the first reported case of amisulpride- and tiapride-induced hypertensive crisis in a patient with pheochromocytoma. Physicians and other healthcare professionals should be aware of this potential adverse effect of tiapride and amisulpride.
An insidious feature of drug craving and drug seeking in humans is that it can be induced and maintained by conditioned stimuli after a prolonged drug-free period. Understanding the neural basis of this control over addictive behavior may aid in the development of treatments targeting drug seeking and thereby be beneficial in preventing drug use. In the present study, we used a well established animal model to investigate the functional importance of amygdala-nucleus accumbens interactions in cocaine seeking under the control of drug-associated conditioned reinforcers. To probe the direct neuroanatomical relationship between these structures within a functional corticostriatal loop, we used a neuropharmacological disconnection procedure. Thus, infusing a dopamine receptor antagonist unilaterally into the basolateral amygdala (which had no effect on its own) and an AMPA-kainate (KA) receptor antagonist into the contralateral nucleus accumbens core (which also had no effect on its own) greatly reduced cocaine seeking. We also show that bilateral infusions of the DA receptor antagonist into the amygdala, but not nucleus accumbens, or of the AMPA-KA receptor antagonist in the nucleus accumbens, but not the amygdala, also greatly reduced cocaine seeking. The results of this study demonstrate an amygdala-nucleus accumbens system that critically underlies stimulus-controlled cocaine seeking and indicate possible neurochemical targets for relapse-prevention medication.
In 2003, the Food and Drug Administration placed spironolactone on its list of drugs needing pediatric studies.
To describe the use of spironolactone in a large group of children and evaluate its safety, focusing on its effects on potassium.
A prospective observational study was conducted. Patient demographic information was collected, as well as dosing regimens, use of other medications, and potassium concentrations. Patients were grouped by diagnosis. Comparisons were made with unpaired t-tests.
One hundred consecutive patients were evaluated. The average age was 20.8 months and weight was 9.5 kg. Sixty-two patients had heart disease (HD), 29 had chronic lung disease (CLD), and 9 had other conditions. The initial dose was 1.8 +/- 0.7 mg/kg/day. Patients with CLD received a higher dose than those with HD (2 +/- 0.8 vs 1.7 +/- 0.5 mg/kg/day; p = 0.04). Sixty-six patients received furosemide and 37 received thiazides (12 received both). The average potassium concentration after initiation was 4.3 +/- 0.8 mEq/L, with higher values in patients with CLD versus HD (4.7 +/- 0.7 vs 4.2 +/- 0.7 mEq/L; p = 0.007). Twenty-six patients required potassium supplementation, including 16 with CLD and 8 with HD; no other adverse effects were noted. Average length of treatment was 16 days, with a length of stay of 38 days. Of the 92 patients surviving to discharge, 66 continued on spironolactone.
This sample demonstrates that spironolactone is a common component of diuretic regimens in pediatric patients. The only adverse effects were alterations in potassium. While hyperkalemia was more common initially, hypokalemia was more frequent with long-term use. Potassium concentrations should be carefully monitored, particularly in children receiving multiple diuretics. Additional research is needed to define the pharmacokinetics and optimal dosing interval of spironolactone, as well as determine its long-term effects on potassium.
A total of 13 patients with drug-induced psychosis in Parkinson's disease were treated with two non-classical neuroleptics-clozapine and fluperlapine. Patients mainly complained about severe hallucinatory symptoms and different degrees of paranoid delusions. Complete relief was observed in 8 patients, moderate improvement in 3 and no effects in 2. Parkinsonian disability did not increase under neuroleptic medication with clozapine and fluperlapine, but could be ameliorated by additional L-dopa or bromocriptine medication. The non-classical neuroleptics employed are dopamine D2 blocking agents with a preferential binding to mesolimbic, mesocortical and hippocampal D2 receptors and no substantial binding to striatal dopamine receptors. Restricted use of these two neuroleptics is necessitated because of the danger of agranulocytosis.
To report the probable association of angioedema with aspirin therapy and the selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor rofecoxib.
A 44-year-old white woman, previously tolerant to aspirin and other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), developed angioedema of the lips after ingesting two 325-mg aspirin tablets during one day. The reaction occurred 3 hours after taking the second aspirin and resolved within 3 hours. Two weeks later, the patient took a 25-mg rofecoxib tablet for a sore throat, and she developed angioedema 5(1/2) hours later. Although the woman took 50 mg of diphenhydramine, the swelling did not subside. She repeated the diphenhydramine dose in the evening and, by noon the next day, 26(1/2) hours after the angioedema began, it was resolved. The patient's internist prescribed an epinephrine auto-injector and advised her to consult an allergist. With skin testing and oral rechallenge with aspirin, but not rofecoxib, the allergist determined the cause of the reactions to be aspirin-induced angioedema and selective COX-2 inhibitor intolerance. The Naranjo probability scale indicated that aspirin was a highly probable cause and rofecoxib was a probable cause of this patient's angioedema.
Aspirin-induced angioedema and NSAID intolerance have been well documented. There are reports of both tolerance and intolerance to selective COX-2 inhibitors in patients with documented allergy-like reactions to aspirin and NSAIDs.
Patients with aspirin and NSAID intolerance may develop intolerance to COX-2 inhibitors, especially with repeated exposure.
The goal of this 10-year naturalistic study was to examine, in clozapine-treated patients, the change in cardiovascular risk factors following clozapine initiation and the mortality estimates from cardiovascular disease.
Data were collected from medical records from January 1992 to December 2003 and included age, gender, race, diagnosis, family history of diabetes, and age at clozapine initiation for clozapine-treated patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder (DSM-IV criteria). Clozapine dosage and laboratory results were recorded at 12-month intervals.
At the time of clozapine initiation, the mean +/-?SD age of the 96 patients studied was 36.5 +/- 7.9 years; 28% (N = 27) were women. The Kaplan-Meier estimate for 10-year mortality from cardiovascular disease was 9%. African American and Hispanic American patients exhibited elevated risk of cardiovascular disease-related mortality (odds ratio [OR] = 7.2, p = .09; OR = 11.3, p = .04, respectively) compared to white patients. Body mass index (BMI) significantly increased the odds ratio of mortality (OR = 1.2, p < .01). The Kaplan-Meier estimate for new-onset diabetes mellitus was approximately 43%, and Hispanic American (OR = 4.3, p = .027) and African American (OR = 11.5, p = .0001) patients showed elevated risks of developing diabetes mellitus compared to white patients. Additionally, BMI (OR = 1.11, p = .0006), total cholesterol level (OR = 1.006, p = .04), and serum triglyceride level (OR = 1.002, p = .04) modestly increased the odds ratio for the development of diabetes mellitus.
These results support the hypothesis that clozapine-treated patients appear to be at risk for death from cardiovascular disease secondary to clozapine-associated medical disorders such as obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia.
The neurotoxic potential of intravenous administered benzylpenicillin (BPC) was studied in rabbits with intact blood-CNS barriers and rabbits with experimental E. coli meningitis. At onset of epileptogenic EEG activity or seizures, serum, CSF and brain tissue were collected for assay of BPC. Based on the fact that, in tissues, BPC seems to remain extracellularly, brain concentrations of BPC were expressed as brain tissue fluid (BTF) levels, calculated as 10x the concentration in whole brain tissue. Neurotoxicity could be precipitated in all rabbits. In normal rabbits BTF levels of BPC were considerably higher than those in CSF indicating a better penetration across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). BPC penetrated better to CSF and BTF in meningitic rabbits than in normal controls, suggesting some degree of damage of the BBB concomitant with meningeal inflammation. E. coli meningitis did not increase the neurotoxicity of BPC. In control rabbits the intracisternal injection of saline resulted in some degree of pleocytosis. Unmanipulated animals are therefore preferable as controls. Epileptogenic EEG-changes was the most precise of the two variables used for demonstration of neurotoxicity. EEG-changes were therefore used as neurotoxicity criterion in the following rabbit experiments. To evaluate the effect of uraemia alone and uraemia plus meningitis on the neurotoxity of BPC in rabbits, cephaloridine was used to induce uraemia. Meningitis was induced by intracisternal inoculation of a cephalosporin resistant strain of E. cloacae. Untreated rabbits were used as controls. Uraemia resulted in increased BTF penetration of BPC, possibly explained by permeability changes in the BBB and/or decreased binding of BPC to albumin. Uraemia did not result in increased penetration of BPC into the CSF of non-meningitic rabbits. Uraemic non-meningitic rabbits had the highest BTF levels of BPC at the criterion, indicating that cephaloridine-induced renal failure increased the epileptogenic threshold in these rabbits. The combination of uraemia and meningitis increased the neurotoxicity of BPC since the criterion was reached at considerably lower BTF levels of BPC. Meningitis, either alone or together with uraemia, did not increase the neurotoxicity in comparison to control rabbits. Higher BTF levels of BPC were found in meningitic rabbits than in controls with intact blood-CNS barriers at onset of EEG-changes. In all groups of rabbits there was a pronounced variability of BPC levels in the CSF while the intra-group variations in BTF levels were much smaller. Thus, BTF and not CSF levels were decisive for the neurotoxicity of BPC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Severe cardiotoxicity is a documented, but very unusual side-effect of intravenous 5-fluorouracil therapy. The mechanism producing cardiotoxicity is poorly understood.
A case of 5-fluorouracil-induced cardiotoxicity, possibly due to coronary artery spasm, and mimicking acute anterolateral myocardial infarction is presented and discussed. Electrocardiographs highlighting the severity of the presentation are included in the report along with coronary angiograms demonstrating the absence of significant coronary atherosclerosis.
Severe 5-fluorouracil-induced cardiotoxicity is rare, but can be severe and may mimic acute myocardial infarction, leading to diagnostic and therapeutic dilemmas. Readministration of 5-fluorouracil is not advised following an episode of cardiotoxicity.
This study reports the evaluation of four urinary biomarkers of renal toxicity, α-glutathione-S-transferase (α-GST), μ-GST, clusterin, and renal papillary antigen-1 (RPA-1), in male Sprague-Dawley and Han-Wistar rats given cisplatin, gentamicin, or N-phenylanthranilic acid (NPAA). Kidney injury was diagnosed histopathologically, according to site/nature of renal injury, and graded for severity. The area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to compare the diagnostic accuracy of each exploratory renal biomarker with traditional indicators of renal function and injury (blood urea nitrogen [BUN], serum creatinine [sCr] as well as urinary N-acetyl-β-D-glucosaminidase [NAG] and protein). These analyses showed that increased urinary α-GST was superior to BUN, sCr, and NAG for diagnosis of proximal tubular (PT) degeneration/necrosis. Paradoxically, urinary α-GST was decreased in the presence of collecting duct (CD) injury without PT injury (NPAA administration). RPA-1 demonstrated high specificity for CD injury, superior to all of the reference biomarkers. The clusterin response correlated well with tubular injury, whatever the location, particularly when regeneration was present (superior to all of the reference markers for cortical tubular regeneration). There was no conclusive evidence for the diagnostic utility of μ-GST. The data were submitted for qualification review by the European Medicines Agency and the US Food and Drug Administration. Both agencies concluded that the data justified the qualification of RPA-1 and increased the level of evidence for, and clarified the context of use of, the previously qualified clusterin for use in male rats. These biomarkers can be used in conjunction with traditional clinical chemistry markers and histopathology in Good Laboratory Practice rodent toxicology studies used to support renal safety studies in clinical trials. Qualification of α-GST must await further explanation of the differences in response to PT and CD injury.
Although cadmium causes hepatotoxicity, its molecular mechanism is unclear. In the present study, transcriptional responses in the liver of C57BL/6J mice given 50 ppm cadmium as a drinking water for 30 days were evaluated with DNA microarray. Serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activities were not elevated following the administration of cadmium. Cadmium increased the expressions of 2 genes and reduced those of 15 genes in the liver of mice before the leading to hepatotoxicity.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small single-stranded RNAs of 19-25 nucleotides and are important in posttranscriptional regulation of genes. Recently, the role of miRNAs in toxicity incidence is reported to be a regulator of key-stopper of gene expression, however the detailed mechanism of miRNAs is not well known yet. 6-Mercaptopurine (6-MP), the anti-leukemic and immunosuppressive drug, produced teratogenicity and pregnancy loss. We focused on the placenta to evaluate toxicity in embryo/fetal development produced by 6-MP treatment. MiRNA expression in the placenta was analyzed by miRNA microarray. Fifteen miRNAs were upregulated on GD13 and 5 miRNAs were downregulated on GD15 in 6-MP treatment rat placentas. Some miRNAs may have functions in apoptosis (miR-195, miR-21, miR-29c and miR-34a), inflammation (miR-146b), and ischemia (miR-144 and miR-451). In the maternal plasma, expression of miR-144 was significantly reduced by 6-MP treatment when examined by real-time RT-PCR. We determined toxicity-related gene expression in the rat placenta. Gene expression analysis was carried out by DNA oligo microarray using rat placenta total RNAs. Compared between predicted targets of miRNAs and microarray data in 6-MP-treated rat placenta, expressions of hormone receptor genes (estrogen receptor 1; Esr1, progesterone receptor; Pgr, and prolactin receptor; Prlr), xanthine oxidase (Xdh), Slc38a5 and Phlda2 genes were changed. The histopathologically found increase in trophoblastic giant cells and reduced placental growth by 6-MP treatment were well correlated to these gene expressions. These data suggest that some miRNAs may link to toxicological reactions in 6-MP-induced placental toxicity.
This study provides the first morphological evidence of significant structural damage following high doses of enflurane alone and confirms previous findings of transient renal functional abnormalities following high dosage enflurane. The study also indicates that enflurane may have a greater potential for renal toxicity in the presence of renal impairment. Treatment of Fischer 344 rats with a nephrotoxic dose of gentamicin prior to six hours of enflurane (GE) anaesthesia at 1 MAC resulted in increased serum concentration of the enflurance metabolite inorganic fluoride (GE, 43.9 +/- 1.5; E, 34.5 +/- 1.8 mu mol/L), increased urine flow rate and a greater degree of structural damage in renal proximal convoluted tubule cells than was observed with either gentamicin (G) or enflurane (E) alone. Treatment with gentamicin prior to enflurane also resulted in reduced urinary osmolality compared to enflurane or gentamicin alone (GE, 742 +/- 57; E, 1709 +/- 66; G, 985 +/- 32 m0sm/kg).
Continuous ATP injection is used clinically for Tl imaging or coronary flow measurement and because the effect on human hemodynamics is unknown, the present study investigated it in 14 patients undergoing heart catheter examination. Continuous ATP injection induced chest symptoms in 13 of the patients and second-degree atrioventricular block in one, but these complications disappeared immediately after the end of ATP infusion. Continuous ATP injection decreased aortic pressure, but increased pulmonary artery pressure, right atrial pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. ATP increased heart rate, stroke volume and cardiac output, the latter the result of an increase in preload, a decrease in afterload, and the increase in heart rate.
Post weaning diarrhoea syndrome (PWDS) and wasting pig syndrome (WPS) are two entities of the pig industry induced by stress factors occurring at the early weaning and further complicated by opportunistic pathogens. In the present paper we examine--through one pilot and one final trial--whether prevention of these two syndromes can be achieved in the field by immunomodulation of the pig e.g., by improving its non-specific immunological response. In both trials two groups of early weaned piglets were submitted to the treatments. In the pilot trial the first group received no treatment and served as controls and the animals of the second group were injected twice with an inactivated Parapoxvirus based immunomodulator (Baypamun, Bayer, Germany). In the final trial the first group of piglets received no treatment and served as a control group. The animals of the second group were injected twice with a freeze-dried immunomodulator (Baypamun). Piglets were compared with regard to the severity of PWS, mortality, growth performance parameters, and for the presence of pathogens in their faeces. The results have shown that Baypamun treated piglets performed significantly better than negative control piglets in all the parameters examined. It was concluded that stimulation of the non-specific immunity of piglets may be helpful in preventing the appearance of PWDS and WPS in the field.
Resistance to apoptosis is a prominent feature of melanoma. Pharmacological concentration of arsenic in combination with a widely known oxidant, menadione was explored in this study to synergistically sensitize malignant melanoma cells to apoptosis. The molecular mechanism of apoptosis and the signaling-pathways involved were thoroughly investigated. MATERIALS METHODS AND RESULTS: Menadione synergized NaAsO(2) to significantly increase ROS generation and facilitate the major apoptotic signaling events: alteration of mitochondrial membrane potential, cytochrome c release and anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 down-regulation and subsequent activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3 followed by poly-ADP-ribose polymerase-1 cleavage. Antioxidant N-acetyl-L: -cysteine antagonized these events. Investigation of the signaling-pathway revealed significant suppression of AP-1 activity but not NF-kappaB upon NaAsO(2) and menadione application. An increase in p38 phosphorylation and p53 protein expression did also dictate the apoptotic response. Suppression of p38 activation with SB203580 and inhibition of p53 expression by siRNA attenuated apoptosis. Transfection of p53, in p53 null HCT cells augmented the apoptotic events. Moreover, the treatment also led to tumor size reduction in BALB/c mice developed by intra-dermal B16 mouse melanoma cell injection; however, it had no detectable pro-proliferative or pro-apoptotic effect on non-tumor keratinocytes, normal fibroblasts or PBMC.
This study thus provides an insight into innovative mechanisms of melanoma sensitization, a proper cure against which is still elusive. Taken together, our data also provides the first evidence of arsenic activity accentuation by menadione through modulation of specific signaling-pathways.
The sodium-calcium exchanger (NCX) is one of the transporters contributing to the control of intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)) concentration by normally mediating net Ca(2+) efflux. However, the reverse mode of the NCX can cause intracellular Ca(2+) concentration overload, which exacerbates the myocardial tissue injury resulting from ischemia. Although the NCX inhibitor SEA0400 has been shown to therapeutically reduce myocardial injury, no in vivo technique exists to monitor intracellular Ca(2+) fluctuations produced by this drug. Cardiac manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI) may indirectly assess Ca(2+) efflux by estimating changes in manganese (Mn(2+)) content in vivo, since Mn(2+) has been suggested as a surrogate marker for Ca(2+). This study used the MEMRI technique to examine the temporal features of cardiac Mn(2+) efflux by implementing a T(1)-mapping method and inhibiting the NCX with SEA0400. The change in (1)H(2)O longitudinal relaxation rate, Delta R(1), in the left ventricular free wall, was calculated at different time points following infusion of 190 nmol/g manganese chloride (MnCl(2)) in healthy adult male mice. The results showed 50% MEMRI signal attenuation at 3.4 +/- 0.6 h post-MnCl(2) infusion without drug intervention. Furthermore, treatment with 50 +/- 0.2 mg/kg of SEA0400 significantly reduced the rate of decrease in Delta R(1). At 4.9-5.9 h post-MnCl(2) infusion, the average Delta R(1) values for the two groups treated with SEA0400 were 2.46 +/- 0.29 and 1.72 +/- 0.24 s(-1) for 50 and 20 mg/kg doses, respectively, as compared to the value of 1.27 +/- 0.28 s(-1) for the control group. When this in vivo data were compared to ex vivo absolute manganese content data, the MEMRI T(1)-mapping technique was shown to effectively quantify Mn(2+) efflux rates in the myocardium. Therefore, combining an NCX inhibitor with MEMRI may be a useful technique for assessing Mn(2+) transport mechanisms and rates in vivo, which may reflect changes in Ca(2+) transport.
