The relationship between severity of dopa-induced parkinsonian symptoms and the latency and severity of dopa-induced dyskinesias was studied in monkeys exposed to the toxin MPTP. Levodopa and D-2 receptor agonist-induced dyskinesias appeared early, between 2 and 12 days after initiation of dopa therapy in severely parkinsonian animals. In these animals, it was difficult to find a dose of L-dopa which had beneficial effects clinically and no dyskinesia-producing effects. These animals were all found to have massive (greater than or equal to 95%) striatal dopamine loss. A monkey with mild parkinsonian symptoms never developed dyskinesias similar to those produced in the severely affected animals. Stereotypies could be induced in this animal with excessively high doses of L-dopa or the dopamine D-2 receptor agonist, LY-171555. These movements were controlled by reducing the drug dose. This animal had less severe striatal dopamine loss (less than 80%) than the former group of monkeys. These results suggest that dopa dyskinesias in parkinsonian monkeys may be related to the extent of damage sustained by the nigrostriatal system.
We investigated the effect of dexamethasone (DEX) on tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA level, and TH activity and catecholamine levels in the adrenal medulla of the rat. DEX (1 mg/kg/day, s.c.) was administered for 2 days, and a control group was given corn oil. DEX significantly increased systolic blood pressure. TH mRNA level, TH activity, epinephrine level, and norepinephrine level in the adrenal medulla of DEX-treated rats were significantly higher than those of control rats. Also, epinephrine and norepinephrine levels in plasma were significantly higher in DEX-treated rats than in controls. alpha-Methyl-p-tyrosine prevented the DEX-induced blood pressure increase. These results suggest that the catecholamine synthetic pathway may be involved in DEX-induced hypertension.
To investigate the ability of systemically delivered BCNU to enhance the activity of either systemically delivered irinotecan (CPT-11) or locally delivered camptothecin from a biodegradable polymer for treatment of an intracranial 9L gliosarcoma.
We used a single systemic dose of BCNU on treatment day 1 in combination with systemic doses of CPT-11 on treatment days 1-5 and 8-12 against an intracranial rat 9L gliosarcoma model implanted into female Fischer 344 rats. We also used the same systemic dose of BCNU given on treatment day 1, followed by a local dose of a 20% loaded camptothecin biodegradable polymer implanted on the same day.
Two doses of CPT-11 (10 and 60 mg/kg) were delivered systemically against intracranial 9L. Neither dose showed an increase in survival compared to controls ( P>0.2 for 10 mg/kg and P=0.17 for 60 mg/kg). Systemic delivery of CPT-11 (10 mg/kg per day) in combination with systemic BCNU (15 mg/kg) did not show a significant effect on survival compared to systemic BCNU alone ( P>0.2), even at the maximally tolerated systemic dose of CPT-11 (60 mg/kg per day; P=0.06). The combination of systemic BCNU (15 mg/kg) and intracranial delivery of camptothecin (20% loaded polymer), however, significantly extended survival compared to systemic BCNU alone ( P<0.001) and compared to intracranial delivery of camptothecin alone ( P=0.01).
In a 9L gliosarcoma model, systemic delivery of CPT-11 showed no benefit in survival when delivered alone or in combination with systemic BCNU, because CPT-11 is unable to cross the blood-brain barrier in cytotoxic levels. When cytotoxic levels of a topoisomerase I inhibitor are delivered directly to the brain tumor via a biodegradable polymer, however, the systemic delivery of the alkylating agent BCNU significantly enhances the antitumor effects of camptothecin in a 9L gliosarcoma model.
The effects of hemodynamic stress produced by i.v. infusion of nitroprusside on discharge characteristics of noradrenergic locus ceruleus (LC) neurons were compared to those produced by central administration of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF). Like CRF, both nitroprusside infusion and blood volume withdrawal increased LC spontaneous discharge. Additionally, nitroprusside disrupted the response of LC cells to repeated sciatic nerve stimulation in a manner similar to CRF. The neuronal effects of nitroprusside were prevented by prior administration of a CRF antagonist, alpha helical CRF9-41, but not by dexamethasone, which blocks CRF release into the hypophysial portal circulation. These results suggest that LC activation by hemodynamic stress is mediated by neuronal CRF release onto LC neurons. alpha Helical CRF9-41 had no effect on the magnitude or timecourse of nitroprusside-elicited hypotension, suggesting that LC activation by nitroprusside is not important for maintaining hemodynamic homeostasis. Finally, chronic administration of desmethylimipramine (DMI) attenuated the response of LC cells to nitroprusside, but not to CRF, suggesting that antidepressant therapy may inhibit stress-induced CRF release. This study supports the concept that CRF serves as a neurotransmitter in the LC in the initiation of stress responses.
Mucormycosis is an opportunistic fungal infection usually observed in diabetic or neutropenic patients. Prognosis is serious with a high rate of mortality. Intravenous amphotericin B is the gold standard treatment. The main side effect is renal failure. Liposomal amphotericin B (AmBisome(R)) is not nephrotoxic and can be proposed as an alternative treatment although its cost is high. We report a case of mucormycosis in a diabetic woman who developed renal failure after intravenous amphotericin B treatment. AmBisome(R) could not be used for long-term treatment due to its high case. The patient was given nebulized amphotericin B and achieved recovery. This kind of treatment may provide a useful alternative to intravenous amphotericin B.
Alcohol abuse is one of the major causes of liver fibrosis, which shows a sharply increasing trend worldwide, yet effective therapeutic options for advanced alcohol fibrosis are limited. Recently we investigated the effect of anti-fibrosis by isoorientin-2″-O-α-L-arabinopyranosyl (IOA) isolated from Gypsophila elegans. During the experiment, the model group received alcohol only, and treatment groups received the corresponding drugs plus alcohol respectively, while the normal control group received an equal volume of saline. Analysis at the end of 24-week experiments showed that IOA could significantly improve the liver function, as indicated by decreasing levels of alanine transaminase, aspartate transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, γ-glutamyltransferase, interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α. Moreover, IOA could effectively inhibit collagen deposition and reduce the pathological tissue damage. Research on mechanism showed that IOA was able to markedly reduce lipid peroxidation, recruit the anti-oxidative defense system, and induce HSC apoptosis by down-regulating bcl-2 mRNA, as well as inhibit the expression of α-smooth muscle actin and transforming growth factor β1 proteins. In short, our results showed that IOA is effective in attenuating hepatic injury and fibrosis in the alcohol-induced rat model, which should be developed as a new drug to treat liver fibrosis and even cirrhosis.
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are believed to be responsible for breast cancer formation and recurrence; therefore, therapeutic strategies targeting CSCs must be developed. One approach may be targeting signaling pathways, like Notch, that are involved in stem cell self-renewal and survival.
Breast cancer stem-like cells derived from cell lines and patient samples were examined for Notch expression and activation. The effect of Notch inhibition on sphere formation, proliferation, and colony formation was determined.
Breast cancer stem-like cells consistently expressed elevated Notch activation compared with bulk tumor cells. Blockade of Notch signaling using pharmacologic and genomic approaches prevented sphere formation, proliferation, and/or colony formation in soft agar. Interestingly, a gamma-secretase inhibitor, MRK003, induced apoptosis in these cells.
Our findings support a crucial role for Notch signaling in maintenance of breast cancer stem-like cells, and suggest Notch inhibition may have clinical benefits in targeting CSCs.
Patients with perennial allergic rhinitis (PAR) often present with nasal congestion, poor sleep, daytime fatigue, and daytime somnolence. Pharmacologic therapy that reduces nasal congestion should improve the PAR patients' sleep quality and reduce daytime somnolence and fatigue. Our hypothesis is that intranasal steroid budesonide (BUD), an effective topical anti-inflammatory agent, will reduce nasal congestion and improve the patients' quality of life. The objective of this study was to determine whether topical steroid BUD improves sleep, daytime somnolence, and fatigue in patients with PAR. Twenty-six subjects were enrolled in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study using Balaam's design. Patients were treated with intranasal steroid spray BUD or placebo. The Epworth Sleepiness Scale, daily diary, and questionnaires were used as tools for subjective data analysis, which focused on nasal symptoms, sleep quality, daytime somnolence, and fatigue. The results were summarized and compared by PROC MIXED in SAS. The daily diary data showed significant improvement in self-reported nasal congestion (p = 0.04) and daytime sleepiness (p = 0.01) and a trend in reduction of daytime fatigue (p = 0.08) in the BUD group compared with the placebo group. The sleep measures showed statistically significant improvement in total sleep measures score (p = 0.04), "sleep compared with absolute" (p = 0.01), and "refreshing and restorative" sleep (p = 0.04) in the active group. Nasal corticosteroid BUD is effective in reducing nasal congestion, daytime somnolence, and daytime fatigue, and improving sleep quality in PAR.
We report a patient with psoriasis and hepatitis C virus infection who initially presented with psoriatic erythroderma and eventually showed complete clearance of psoriatic lesions following acute hepatitis induced by etretinate treatment. Cytokine synthesis capabilities in peripheral blood T cells obtained at different stages were evaluated in this patient. A dramatic increase in the frequency of interferon-gamma-producing CD8+ T cells in peripheral blood was observed during the erythrodermic stage. In contrast, the frequencies of interleukin (IL)-4- and IL-13-producing CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells were remarkably high at the resolution stage. These results clearly indicate that a shift towards type 2 cytokine predominance contributes to the resolution of severe psoriasis.
Nitric oxide (NO), synthesized from L-arginine by the enzyme nitric oxide synthase (NOS), seems to play an ambiguous role during tissue ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. This study was designed to investigate the effects of resveratrol, a polyphenolic phytoalexin, in renal ischemia reperfusion (RIR) injury in rats.
Forty-eight rats were randomized into six groups. Group 1: sham operated (C); group 2: right nephrectomy (UNI); group 3: UNI + 45 min of ischemia and 24 h of reperfusion in the contralateral kidney; group 4: UNI + RIR + L-NAME (10 mg/kg, i.p.); group 5: UNI + RIR + resveratrol (5 mg/kg, p.o.); group 6: UNI + RIR + resveratrol + L-NAME. At the end of the reperfusion period, rats were sacrificed. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), reduced glutathione (GSH) levels, catalase (CAT), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities were determined in renal tissue. Serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) were measured for the evaluation of renal function. Tissue and urine nitrite levels were measured to assess total nitric oxide levels.
Ischemic control animals demonstrated severe deterioration of renal function, altered renal morphology, reduced total nitric oxide levels and a marked renal oxidative stress.
Pretreatment of animals with resveratrol markedly attenuated renal dysfunction, morphological alterations, improved nitric oxide levels, reduced elevated TBARS levels and restored the depleted renal antioxidant enzymes, However, treatment with L-NAME attenuated this protection afforded by resveratrol indicating that resveratrol exerts its protective effect through NO release.
1-Methylpyrene, a carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, forms benzylic DNA adducts, in particular N2-(1-methylpyrenyl)-2'-deoxyguanosine, in mice and rats. It is bioactivated via 1-hydroxymethylpyrene (1-HMP) to electrophilic 1-sulfooxymethylpyrene (1-SMP). In this study, we explored the role of individual mouse sulfotransferase (SULT) forms in this activation. First, we showed that all nine mouse SULTs tested were able to activate 1-HMP to a mutagen in the his- Salmonella typhimurium reversion test. Some activation was even observed with Sult2a3 and Sult5a1, orphan forms for which no substrates were identified hitherto. Subsequently, we used cytosolic preparations from tissues of four mouse lines (wild-type, Sult1a1-, Sult1d1-, and transgenic for human SULT1A1/2) for the activation of 1-HMP in the mutagenicity assay. The most prominent impacts of the genetic SULT status were 96% decrease in hepatic activation by Sult1a1 knockout, 99% decrease in renal activation by Sult1d1 knockout, and 100-fold increase in pulmonary activation by transgenic human SULT1A1/2. Finally, we treated the various mouse lines with 1-HMP (19.3 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), and then determined 1-SMP levels in plasma and DNA adducts in tissues. Transgenic human SULT1A1/2 strongly enhanced 1-SMP plasma levels and DNA adduct formation in the liver, lung, heart, and kidney but not in the colon. Sult1a1 and Sult1d1 knockout reduced plasma 1-SMP levels as well as DNA adduct formation in some tissues (strongest effects: 97% decrease in 1-SMP and 89% decrease in hepatic adducts in Sult1a1- mice). The adduct levels detected in various tissues did not accurately reflect the activation capacity of these tissues determined in vitro, probably due to the distribution of the reactive metabolite 1-SMP via the circulation. In conclusion, we demonstrated that many mouse SULT forms are able to activate 1-HMP. In vivo, we verified a prominent role of Sult1a1 in hepatic and renal adduct formation and a smaller but unambiguous role of Sult1d1, and demonstrated the strong impact of transgenic human SULT1A1/2.
Early-onset hypertensive disorders (HD) of pregnancy and small-for-gestational age infants (SGA) are associated with placental vascular thrombosis, these often recur and are also associated with inheritable thrombophilia. Aspirin reduces the recurrence risk.
Adding low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) to aspirin at < 12 weeks gestation reduces the recurrence of HD in women with previous early-onset HD (pre-eclampsia, hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets [HELLP] syndrome and eclampsia) and/or SGA, in the context of inheritable thrombophilia without antiphospholipid antibodies.
In a multicenter randomized control trial (RCT), 139 women included were< 12 weeks gestation.
previous delivery< 34 weeks gestation with HD and/or SGA; inheritable thrombophilia (protein C deficiency, protein S deficiency, activated protein C resistance, factor V Leiden heterozygosity and prothrombin gene G20210A mutation heterozygosity); and no antiphospholipid antibodies detected.
either daily LMWH (dalteparin, 5000 IU weight-adjusted dosage) with aspirin 80 mg or aspirin 80 mg alone.
recurrent HD onset (i) < 34 weeks gestation and (ii) irrespective of gestational age.
recurrent SGA, preterm birth, maternal/neonatal hospitalization, spontaneous abortion and individual HD. Analysis by intention-to-treat.
Low-molecular-weight heparin with aspirin reduced recurrent HD onset < 34 weeks gestation (risk difference [RD] 8.7%: confidence interval [CI] of RD 1.9–15.5%; P = 0.012; number needed to treat [NNT] 12). Recurrent HD irrespective of gestational age was not different between the arms. No women withdrew as a result of adverse effects.
http://www.isrctn.org) (isrctn87325378).
Adding LMWH to aspirin at < 12 weeks gestation reduces recurrent HD onset < 34 weeks gestation in women with inheritable thrombophilia and prior delivery for HD/SGA <34 weeks. However, close monitoring of the mother and fetus remains important throughout pregnancy.
Cinacalcet HCl (cinacalcet) is approved for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in subjects receiving dialysis and for the reduction of hypercalcaemia in patients with parathyroid carcinoma. The drug may also be co-administered with medications used in the renal transplantation setting, such as immunosuppressants. Cinacalcet, as well as some immunosuppressants such as ciclosporin, tacrolimus and sirolimus, is partially metabolized by the cytochrome P450 3A enzymes (CYP3A). This study aimed to evaluate the potential inhibitory effects of cinacalcet on CYP3A activity using midazolam as a probe substrate in healthy volunteers.
In this randomized, open-label, crossover, two-treatment, two-period, single-centre study, 12 healthy volunteers received either oral cinacalcet 90 mg once daily for 5 days plus a single oral dose of midazolam 2 mg on day 5, or a single oral dose of midazolam 2 mg on day 1. Following a 10-day washout period, subjects received the alternate treatment. Blood samples were collected predose and at selected time points up to 24 hours after dosing with midazolam for measurement of midazolam pharmacokinetic parameters.
Eleven subjects completed the study. Mean (standard deviation) midazolam maximum plasma concentrations (C(max)) and area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity (AUC(infinity)) were 9.31 (3.09) ng/mL and 24.1 (7.7) ng . h/mL, respectively, when administered in combination with cinacalcet, compared with 9.76 (2.81) ng/mL and 22.8 (6.1) ng . h/mL when administered alone. The mean geometric ratios (90% confidence interval) were 0.95 (0.84, 1.06) and 1.05 (0.95, 1.16) for C(max) and AUC(infinity), respectively. All adverse events were mild to moderate in severity, and consistent with the safety profile of cinacalcet.
Once-daily administration of cinacalcet did not alter the pharmacokinetics of midazolam relative to administration of midazolam alone. These data suggest that cinacalcet administration does not affect CYP3A activity, and thus would not have an effect on any drug eliminated via CYP3A, including some commonly used immunosuppressant therapies.
A prospective, randomized, double-blinded clinical trial was conducted.
To study the efficacy of piroxicam fast-dissolving dosage form in reducing postoperative pain after simple lumbar spine surgery.
Many reports mention the use of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug for relieving postoperative pain, but study still is lacking on their use in spine surgery.
For this study, 50 patients who underwent discectomy or one-level laminectomy were randomly sampled into two groups: 21 patients in the placebo control group and 29 patients in the study group. In addition to a normal postoperative analgesic regimen, each patient received placebo or piroxicam fast-dissolving dosage form (2 tablets administered sublingually 1 to 3 hours before surgery). This regimen was repeated with 2 tablets after 24 hours, then 1 tablet after 48 hours. Postoperative pain was evaluated every 6 hours by a visual analog scale for 3 days. The amount of morphine usage was measured on postoperative days 1, 2, and 3. Postoperative variables such as blood loss, length of wound, and time of operation also were recorded.
There was no difference between the groups with respect to age, weight, height, gender, and type of operation. The postoperative pain of the study group, as measured by visual analog scale, showed significant improvement (P < 0.05) during the postoperative period 12 to 42 hours after surgery. The study group used less morphine, but their usage showed no significant difference on postoperative days 1, 2, and 3. When the visual analog scale between the types of operation was compared, the scale for the discectomy group was better than that for the laminectomy group. The results of the postoperative variables showed no difference between the groups in terms of postoperative blood loss, length of wound, and time of operation.
Sublingual administration of piroxicam fast-dissolving dosage form after simple spine surgery is effective and efficient in relief of postoperative pain. Because of its low side effects and high toleration, piroxicam fast-dissolving dosage form may be considered as an alternative for postoperative pain control during the early postoperative period.
Although it is well known that cisplatin causes a sensory neuropathy, the primary site of involvement is not established. The clinical symptoms localized in a stocking-glove distribution may be explained by a length dependent neuronopathy or by a distal axonopathy. To study whether the whole neuron or the distal axon was primarily affected, we have carried out serial clinical and electrophysiological studies in 16 males with testicular cancer before or early and late during and after treatment with cisplatin, etoposide and bleomycin at limited (<400 mg/m2 cisplatin), conventional (approximately 400 mg/m2 cisplatin) or high (>400 mg/m2 cisplatin) doses. At cumulative doses of cisplatin higher than 300 mg/m2 the patients lost distal tendon and H-reflexes and displayed reduced vibration sense in the feet and the fingers. The amplitudes of sensory nerve action potentials (SNAP) from the fingers innervated by the median nerve and the dorsolateral side of the foot innervated by the sural nerve were 50-60% reduced, whereas no definite changes occurred at lower doses. The SNAP conduction velocities were reduced by 10-15% at cumulative doses of 400-700 mg/m2 consistent with loss of large myelinated fibres. SNAPs from primarily Pacinian corpuscles in digit 3 and the dorsolateral side of the foot evoked by a tactile probe showed similar changes to those observed in SNAPs evoked by electrical stimulation. At these doses, somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) from the tibial nerve had increased latencies of peripheral, spinal and central responses suggesting loss of central processes of large dorsal root ganglion cells. Motor conduction studies, autonomic function and warm and cold temperature sensation remained unchanged at all doses of cisplatin treatment. The results of these studies are consistent with degeneration of large sensory neurons whereas there was no evidence of distal axonal degeneration even at the lowest toxic doses of cisplatin.
Epidemiological studies consistently indicate that consumption of fruits and vegetables lowers cancer risk in humans and suggest that certain dietary constituents may be effective in preventing colon cancer. Plant-derived phenolic compounds manifest many beneficial effects and can potentially inhibit several stages of carcinogenesis in vivo. In this study, we investigated the efficacy of several plant-derived phenolics, including caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), curcumin, quercetin and rutin, for the prevention of tumors in C57BL/6J-Min/+ (Min/+) mice. These animals bear a germline mutation in the Apc gene and spontaneously develop numerous intestinal adenomas by 15 weeks of age. At a dietary level of 0.15%, CAPE decreased tumor formation in Min/+ mice by 63%. Curcumin induced a similar tumor inhibition. Quercetin and rutin, however, both failed to alter tumor formation at dietary levels of 2%. Examination of intestinal tissue from the treated animals showed that tumor prevention by CAPE and curcumin was associated with increased enterocyte apoptosis and proliferation. CAPE and curcumin also decreased expression of the oncoprotein beta-catenin in the enterocytes of the Min/+ mouse, an observation previously associated with an antitumor effect. These data place the plant phenolics CAPE and curcumin among a growing list of anti-inflammatory agents that suppress Apc-associated intestinal carcinogenesis.
As we have shown previously [Tardieu,D., Jaeg,J.P., Cadet,J., Embvani,E., Corpet,D.E. and Petit,C. (1998) Cancer Lett, 134, 1-5], a 48-h treatment of 6% dextran sodium sulphate (DSS) in drinking water led to a reproducible 2-fold increase of the mutagenic oxidative lesion 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodGuo) in colonic mucosa DNA of rats in vivo. The aim of this study was to test the effect of nimesulide, a preferential COX-2 inhibitor, on the DSS-induced 8-oxodGuo increase. We show that nimesulide when administered orally, simultaneously with DSS at 5 mg/kg/day, not only totally prevents 8-oxodGuo formation but also suppresses the 5-fold increase of superoxide induced by DSS in the colonic mucosa. This was measured by in vivo formazan blue precipitation (P < 0.01 in the Wilcoxon test). Moreover, nimesulide enhances apoptosis by approximately 30% as compared with the already high level induced by DSS treatment (P < 0.01). It is suggested that the significant increase in mutagenic oxidative DNA damage, produced by mild acute colonic inflammation, could be important in the initiation of colon cancer in both animals and man. These effects may explain at least partly the well-documented protective action towards colon cancer by preferential COX-2 inhibitors, either xenobiotics such as nimesulide or natural nutrients.
Using two-stage coronary ligation-, digitalis- and epinephrine-induced canine ventricular arrhythmia models, we examined whether a new positive inotropic agent, NKH477, 6-(3-dimethylaminopropionyl)forskolin hydrochloride, a water-soluble derivative of forskolin, had deleterious effects on arrhythmias. NKH477 increased heart rate (HR) and decreased blood pressure (BP) in dogs with all the arrhythmia models. Unexpectedly, NKH477 suppressed digitalis- and epinephrine-induced arrhythmias, but did not suppress two-stage coronary ligation arrhythmia or aggravate it. These results indicate that NKH477, unlike other new positive inotropic agents such as amrinone, milrinone, sulmazole and vesnarinone, did not worsen these arrhythmias; thus, NKH477 may be a useful positive inotropic agent with little arrhythmogenic effect.
To clarify the mechanism of fluoroquinolone-induced abnormalities in blood glucose, the effect of levofloxacin on serum glucose concentration was investigated in rats. Rats received an intravenous injection of levofloxacin and their arterial blood was sampled periodically. The serum glucose concentration decreased after an injection of 100 mg/kg of levofloxacin, while it increased at levofloxacin 300 mg/kg. The serum immunoreactive insulin concentration increased as the dose of levofloxacin increased. The serum epinephrine concentration was rapidly elevated by levofloxacin at 300 mg/kg. The serum histamine concentration increased after injections of levofloxacin, 200 and 300 mg/kg. Diphenhydramine (1 mg/kg) antagonized the hyperglycemia induced by 300 mg/kg of levofloxacin. In an in vitro study, the release of epinephrine from the adrenal medulla in the presence of levofloxacin was determined. Levofloxacin (300 microg/ml) did not affect epinephrine release from the adrenal medulla. Levofloxacin can induce hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia in rats. Levofloxacin can promote histamine release, leading to an increased serum epinephrine concentration and hyperglycemia.
Daily administration of clonidine for 5 weeks (approx. 300 micrograms/kg/day, p.o.) produced significant decreases in blood pressure and renal sympathetic efferent activity in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). After cessation of clonidine administration, blood pressure and sympathetic nerve activity recovered rapidly from the depressed levels to the untreated control levels. These findings could indicate that clonidine-induced hypotension and its rapid recovery to control after withdrawal of clonidine are caused by corresponding changes in sympathetic efferent nerve activity.
To report 2 cases of serotonin syndrome with serious extrapyramidal movement disorders occurring when metoclopramide was coadministered with sertraline or venlafaxine.
A 72-year-old white woman was treated with sertraline for depression for 18 months and was then admitted to the hospital with a fractured tibia. She was administered metoclopramide because of nausea and, within 2 hours, developed agitation, dysarthria, diaphoresis, and a movement disorder. These symptoms recurred following 2 subsequent administrations of metoclopramide. Treatment with diazepam led to resolution of symptoms within 6 hours, and there was no recurrence at 6 weeks' follow-up. A 32-year-old white woman with major depression was treated with venlafaxine for 3 years. She was admitted following a fall and, after being given metoclopramide, developed movement disorder and a period of unresponsiveness. After a second dose of metoclopramide, these symptoms recurred and were associated with confusion, agitation, fever, diaphoresis, tachypnea, tachycardia, and hypertension. She improved with administration of diazepam, but needed repetition of this treatment over the next 16 hours. Symptoms resolved within 2 days, and she continued venlafaxine with no further adverse effects.
Both cases met Stembach's criteria for serotonin syndrome and had serious extrapyramidal movement disorders. The possible pathophysiologic mechanisms for the adverse reactions include a single-drug effect, a pharmacodynamic interaction, and a pharmacokinetic interaction. We believe that a pharmacodynamic interaction is most likely.
Clinicians should be aware of a risk of serotonin syndrome with serious extrapyramidal reactions in patients receiving sertraline or venlafaxine when metoclopramide is coadministered even in a single, conventional dose.
The objectives of this study were to evaluate long-term safety and efficacy of phentolamine mesylate, an orally active, rapid-acting alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist, for the treatment of men suffering from erectile dysfunction (ED). It was an open-label study involving more than 2000 patients. Men received phentolamine mesylate 40 mg or 80 mg (10 tablets/month) as needed for up to 13 months and self-assessed erectile performance using two validated questionnaires. Treatment with phentolamine mesylate was associated with increases in Erectile Function Domain score of the IIEF, successful vaginal penetrations, and in overall satisfaction. Most adverse events were mild or moderate in severity and consistent with the known pharmacodynamic properties of phentolamine. In conclusion, phentolamine mesylate is safe and effective in the long-term treatment of men with mild to moderate ED.
Pancreatic endocrine tumours and inflammatory vascular changes resembling those of human polyarteritis nodosa occurred simultaneously in male Holtzman rats after a single injection of streptozotocin and two injections of nicotinamide. The histomorphological appearance of the arterioles resembled that seen in vascular diseases of immunopathogenetic origin. The proximity of the vascular lesions to the hormone-producing tumour suggested that the tumour-related hormone production induced the development of the panarteritis. Streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced vasculitis in rats was histologically similar to human polyarteritis nodosa. It may therefore provide a good animal model for the human disease.
Limited bilateral destructions of the ventral portions of the rat striata result in a breakdown of the temporary structure of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. A clear-cut decrease of the power of fluctuations with a 5-7-minute period should be recognized as a specific indicator of striatal deficit.
It has been previously shown that local administration of a high dose of morphine together with a proinflammatory agent has anti-inflammatory effects in several (but not all) strains of mice. In the present paper, behavioural and cellular consequences of morphine co-injection are compared between several strains of mice with zymosan-induced peritonitis. Males of C57C3H, Swiss, Balb/c, C57BL/6, and CBA strains were ip injected with Zymosan (40 mg/kg) and/or morphine at 0, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg without or with naltrexone pretreatment. Early stages of Zymosan-induced peritonitis were connected with intraperitoneal accumulation of leukocytes (mainly PMNs), pain symptoms (body writhes of strain-specific frequency: C57C3H>CBA>Swiss>Balb/c-C57BL/6), and sedation (significant in Swiss and Balb/c). Morphine co-injection abolished pain symptoms at all doses in every investigated strain, and restored locomotor activity or induced hyperlocomotion in a dose- and strain-specific manner. The highest dose of morphine inhibited intraperitoneal accumulation of peritoneal leukocytes (PTLs) including polymorphonuclear cells (PMNs) in all but the CBA strain of mice. Anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive effects of morphine were reversed in naltrexone pre-treated animals. The pre-incubation of Swiss but not CBA leukocytes with morphine inhibited cell chemotaxis towards zymosan-activated serum. In conclusion, morphine exerts various strain-specific effects on peritonitis.
Aspirin for prevention of colorectal cancer is controversial.
To examine the benefits and harms of aspirin chemoprevention.
MEDLINE, 1966 to December 2006; EMBASE, 1980 to April 2005; CENTRAL, Cochrane Collaboration's registry of clinical trials; Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews.
Two independent reviewers conducted multilevel screening to identify randomized, controlled trials (RCTs), case-control studies, and cohort studies of aspirin chemoprophylaxis. For harms, systematic reviews were sought.
In duplicate, data were abstracted and checked and quality was assessed.
Regular use of aspirin reduced the incidence of colonic adenomas in RCTs (relative risk [RR], 0.82 [95% CI, 0.7 to 0.95]), case-control studies (RR, 0.87 [CI, 0.77 to 0.98]), and cohort studies (RR, 0.72 [CI, 0.61 to 0.85]). In cohort studies, regular use of aspirin was associated with RR reductions of 22% for incidence of colorectal cancer. Two RCTs of low-dose aspirin failed to show a protective effect. Data for colorectal cancer mortality were limited. Benefits from chemoprevention were more evident when aspirin was used at a high dose and for periods longer than 10 years. Aspirin use was associated with a dose-related increase in incidence of gastrointestinal complications.
Important clinical and methodological heterogeneity in the definitions of regular use, dose, and duration of use of aspirin necessitated careful grouping for analysis.
Aspirin appears to be effective at reducing the incidence of colonic adenoma and colorectal cancer, especially if used in high doses for more than 10 years. However, the possible harms of such a practice require careful consideration. Further evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of chemoprevention compared with, and in combination with, a screening strategy is required.
1 Fifty infusions of epoprostenol (PGI2) were made, usually increasing the infusion rate until adverse effects were encountered. The volunteers were appraised that they might experience headache and facial flushing. 2 Facial flushing, headache, tachycardia and decrease in diastolic blood pressure were seen in almost all subjects. Erythema over the venous infusing site was also encountered in 13 infusions. Less common effects were sudden bradycardia, pallor and sweating--the vagal reflex--(seven times) and chest pain (twice). Other complaints included restlessness, abdominal discomfort, nausea and drowsiness. 3 The literature on side effects reported during PGI2 infusion is reviewed and recommendations are made concerning administration of PGI2.
Acute exposure to ambient air pollution has been associated with acute changes in cardiac outcomes, often within hours of exposure.
We examined the effects of air pollutants on heart-rate-corrected QT interval (QTc), an electrocardiographic marker of ventricular repolarization, and whether these associations were modified by participant characteristics and genetic polymorphisms related to oxidative stress.
We studied repeated measurements of QTc on 580 men from the Veterans Affairs Normative Aging Study (NAS) using mixed-effects models with random intercepts. We fitted a quadratic constrained distributed lag model to estimate the cumulative effect on QTc of ambient air pollutants including fine particulate matter <or= 2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5), ozone (O3), black carbon (BC), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), carbon monoxide (CO), and sulfur dioxide (SO2) concentrations during the 10 hr before the visit. We genotyped polymorphisms related to oxidative stress and analyzed pollution-susceptibility score interactions using the genetic susceptibility score (GSS) method.
Ambient traffic pollutant concentrations were related to longer QTc. An interquartile range (IQR) change in BC cumulative during the 10 hr before the visit was associated with increased QTc [1.89 msec change; 95% confidence interval (CI), -0.16 to 3.93]. We found a similar association with QTc for an IQR change in 1-hr BC that occurred 4 hr before the visit (2.54 msec change; 95% CI, 0.28-4.80). We found increased QTc for IQR changes in NO2 and CO, but the change was statistically insignificant. In contrast, we found no association between QTc and PM2.5, SO2, and O3. The association between QTc and BC was stronger among participants who were obese, who had diabetes, who were nonsmokers, or who had higher GSSs.
Traffic-related pollutants may increase QTc among persons with diabetes, persons who are obese, and nonsmoking elderly individuals; the number of genetic variants related to oxidative stress increases this effect.
