Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are considered the main cause of sick building syndrome and they are likely to irritate the skin, eyes, and mucous membrane; however, the toxic threshold and the mechanisms of cutaneous reaction induced by long-time VOC exposure have not been clarified. In the present study, we investigated the effect of repeated painting of VOCs onto mouse skin. Various concentrations of toluene, xylene, and formaldehyde (FA) were applied once a week for 5 weeks. While FA solution (2-10%) induced remarkable ear swelling and caused evident infiltration of inflammatory cells, high concentrations of toluene and xylene (50 or 100%) evoked mild ear swelling and marginal inflammatory cell invasion. In addition, FA exposure markedly increased the expression of interleukin-4 (IL-4), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV-1) mRNAs in the ears and IL-4 and NT-3 mRNAs in the cervical lymph nodes. Furthermore, capsazepine, a TRPV-1 antagonist, significantly suppressed ear swelling caused by repeated painting of 5% FA. These findings demonstrate that FA has more potent irritancy against skin than toluene or xylene and suggest that the Th2 response, neurotrophins and TRPV-1 play important roles in FA-induced skin inflammation.
A case of jaundice appearing after 7 days of treatment with troleandomycin 1.5 g/24 hours in a 21-year old woman who had taken an oral contraceptive (OC) for 3 years is described. The young woman had tolerated Ovariostat and later Miniphase, and had never taken troleandomycin. Mild digestive trouble appeared after 48 hours, and on the 7th day the appearance of pruritus and early jaundice caused interruption of the troleandomycin and the OC. Examination disclosed hyperbilirubinemia and increased alkaline phosphatases and transaminases. Pruritus and jaundice regressed about 1 month later but did not disappear completely for 2 months. No evidence of viral hepatitus was found. Although combined pills and troleandomycin are both known to be associated with hepatic effects, jaundice is rare in both cases. From 1977-81 about 60 cases similar to the present one have been published in France. If simultaneous treatment with troleandomycin and combined OCs is the cause of the jaundice, the mechanism may be inhibition of troleandomycin metabolism by the estrogen, inhibition of estrogen metabolism by the troleandomycin, or simply the accumulation of toxicities of 2 hepatotoxic substances. Until careful, large scale studies are undertaken it seems prudent to avoid the prescription of troleandomycin in women who are taking combined oral pills or are pregnant.
We report on the determinants and consequences of induced abortion among 803 women admitted to hospital with abortion complications in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in 1991. 458 (57%) women reported using misoprostol to induce abortion, 74% in the first 4 months of pregnancy. Doses of 200-16,800 micrograms were reported, with a median of 800 micrograms. 65% of the women took the drug orally, 29% used a combination of oral and vaginal routes, and 6% administered it intravaginally. Vaginal bleeding and uterine cramps were the commonest reasons for seeking hospital care. Only 8% of women reported gastrointestinal side-effects. Misoprostol induced vaginal bleeding within 12 h of administration in 52% of the women, but 16% waited 10 days or more for onset of bleeding. 4% were admitted to hospital with complete abortion. The likelihood of bleeding starting within 12 h increased with duration of gestation and it was greater when the drug was used both orally and intravaginally. A significantly smaller proportion of women taking misoprostol than of those who induced abortion by catheter insertion presented signs of infection or physical injuries or required blood transfusion (< 0.0005). Among 803 women interviewed at delivery as controls, 6% had taken misoprostol but abortion had not ensued. Misoprostol has an important role as an abortifacient among the women studied.
The anti-ulcer activity of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was inhibited, in a dose-dependent manner, by pretreatment with NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase. Our results suggest that endogenous nitric oxide is involved in the anti-ulcer activity of CGRP.
Activation of colonic proteinase-activated receptor-2 (PAR-2) provokes colonic inflammation and increases mucosal permeability in mice. The mechanism of inflammation is under debate and could be neurogenic and/or the consequence of tight-junction opening with passage of exogenous pathogens into the lamina propria. The present study aimed to further characterize the inflammatory effect of PAR-2 activation by investigating: 1) the role of NO, 2) the role of afferent neurons, and 3) a possible cause and effect relationship between colonic paracellular permeability changes and mucosal inflammation. Thus, intracolonic infusion to mice of the PAR-2-activating peptide, SLIGRL, increased both myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and damage scores indicating colonic inflammation, and enhanced colonic permeability to (51)Cr-EDTA from 2 to 4 h after its infusion. NO synthase inhibitors, L-NAME and aminoguanidine, as well as the neurotoxin capsaicin and NK1, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists, SR140333 and CGRP(8-37), prevented SLIGRL-induced MPO and damage score increases and permeability. In contrast, although the tight-junction blocker, 2,4,6-triaminopyrimidine, and the myosin L chain kinase inhibitor, ML-7, prevented SLIGRL-induced increase in permeability, they did not prevent MPO and damage score increases. Taken together our data show that both NO and capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons are involved in PAR-2-mediated colonic inflammation and paracellular permeability increase. Nevertheless, the inflammation process is not a consequence of increased permeability which results at least in part from the activation of myosin L chain kinase.
We present the cases of two elderly patients with intermittent long-term tramadol intake against chronic back pain. Over a period of more than two years they experienced fluctuating confusional states and cognitive deficits, reversible only after discontinuation of tramadol. According to the DSM IV-criteria, an unrecognised recurrent tramadol-induced delirium can be diagnosed in both cases. Although tramadol may represent a well established safe therapy for chronic non-malignant pain in the elderly, these cases demonstrate that it should be applied with caution even in healthy subjects.
Amphotericin B colloidal dispersion (ABCD, AMPHOTEC, AMPHOCIL), a lipid complex of amphotericin B, was developed to reduce the nephrotoxicity of amphotericin B while retaining its antifungal efficacy. In this retrospective review, the efficacy and safety of ABCD were evaluated in 220 BMT recipients (167 allogeneic; 53 autologous) with suspected or documented life-threatening fungal infections (primarily Candida or Aspergillus species). Patients were treated in five open-label clinical trials of ABCD therapy. ABCD was administered intravenously once daily, median dose of 4 mg/kg, for up to 409 days (mean 23 days, median 16 days). Successful therapeutic response to treatment (complete or partial) was reported in 52% of the 99 evaluable patients with proven infection, and in 40% of all 220 patients. In the evaluable population, the response and mortality rates were 51% and 73%, respectively, in the allogeneic BMT patients, compared to 52% and 48% in the autologous BMT patients. The response rate for evaluable patients with Candida spp was 65%, 38% for patients with Aspergillus spp, and 42 % for patients with other or multiple fungal infections. In this patient population at high risk of nephrotoxicity due to concomitant cyclosporine and/or other nephrotoxic agents, ABCD did not cause renal dysfunction. Although the majority of patients had pre-existing renal impairment (median baseline serum creatinine 1.8 mg/dl), there was no trend towards increasing serum creatinine. No unexpected toxicities were observed. In conclusion, ABCD appears to be safe and effective for the treatment of severe fungal infections in BMT patients.
A double-blind therapeutic investigation was performed on 178 Chinese patients suffering from osteoarthritis of the knee randomized into two groups, one treated for 4 weeks with glucosamine sulfate (GS, CAS 29031-19-4, Viartril-S) at the daily dose of 1,500 mg and the other with ibuprofen (IBU, CAS 15687-27-1) at the daily dose of 1,200 mg. Knee pain at rest, at movement and at pressure, knee swelling, improvement and therapeutic utility as well as adverse events and drop-outs were recorded after 2 and 4 weeks of treatment. The variables were recorded also after 2 weeks of treatment discontinuation in order to appreciate the remnant therapeutic effect. Both GS and IBU significantly reduced the symptoms of osteoarthritis with the trend of GS to be more effective. After 2 weeks of drug discontinuation there was a remnant therapeutic effect in both groups, with the trend to be more pronounced in the GS group. GS was significantly better tolerated than IBU, as shown by the adverse drug reactions (6% in the patients of the GS group and 16% in the IBU group--p = 0.02) and by the drug-related drop-outs (0% of the patients in the GS group and 10% in the IBU group--p = 0.0017). The better tolerability of GS is explained by its mode of action, because GS specifically curbs the pathogenic mechanisms of osteoarthritis and does not inhibit the cyclo-oxygenases as the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) do, with the consequent anti-inflammatory analgesic activities but also with the several adverse reactions due to this not targeted effect. The present study confirms that GS is a selective drug for osteoarthritis, as effective on the symptoms of the disease as NSAIDs but significantly better tolerated. For these properties GS seems particularly indicated in the long-term treatments needed in osteoarthritis.
Minoxidil, a vasodilating antihypertensive agent, was given orally in doses of 1, 3 or 10 mg/kg to miniature swine on 2 consecutive days. Mean arterial pressure decreased and heart rate increased most consistently after the 10 mg/kg dose. However, all 3 doses of minoxidil induced myocardial hemorrhages and/or left ventricular papillary muscle necrosis within 24 h after the second dose. Necrosis, characterized by hypercontraction of muscle cells and myofibrillar damage, occurred in 1 of 8 pigs given 1 mg/kg, 3 of 13 given 3 mg/kg and 7 of 14 given 10 mg/kg of minoxidil. The pharmacological effects of minoxidil, hypotension and reflex tachycardia, probably led to ischemia and necrosis in left ventricular papillary muscles. Gross hemorrhages involving the left atrium and to a lesser extent the left ventricle were found in 4 of 8 pigs given 1 mg/kg, 9 of 13 given 3 mg/kg and 11 of 14 given 10 mg/kg of minoxidil. The atrial lesions were manifested grossly by diffuse redness and microscopically by interstitial edema, extravasation of erythrocytes and infiltration of areas around small arteries and arterioles with acute and chronic inflammatory cells. The hemmorhagic areas were concentrated along the epicardial surfaces, and to a lesser extent along the endocardial surfaces. Atrial lesions induced by minoxidil preferentially involve the left atrium in pigs and the right atrium in dogs. These differences may be related to the anatomic patterns of coronary circulation in the 2 species.
Carbamazepine is effective in the treatment of acute mania and in the prevention of episodes in bipolar disorder, and it may also be useful in depression, impulse-control disorder and withdrawal from alcohol and benzodiazepine dependence. A potentially life-threatening side effect is the anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome. Here, we describe a patient who developed severe auditory hallucinations followed by a distinct hypersensitivity syndrome most likely induced by carbamazepine treatment.
Epilepsy continues to be a significant clinical problem as current medications neither adequately control seizures nor are free of untoward side-effects. Modulation of the neuroactive steroid site on the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor complex may be an important new direction for pharmaceutical interventions in epilepsy. In this study we evaluated the protective actions of four neuroactive steroids, 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one, the 3beta-methylated analog, ganaxolone (3alpha-hydroxy-3beta-methyl-5alpha-pregnan-20-one), 3alpha-hydroxy-5beta-pregnan-20-one and Co 2-1068 (3beta-(4acetylphenyl)ethynyl-3alpha,21-dihydroxy-5beta++ +-20-one-21-hemisuccinate), against several standard convulsive tests in male, Swiss-Webster mice. Consistent with their GABAergic actions, the neuroactive steroids as well as diazepam and phenobarbital dose-dependently protected against clonic convulsions induced by pentylenetetrazol; the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, dizocilpine, was ineffective. In contrast to diazepam and phenobarbital, however, all of the neuroactive steroids and dizocilpine produced full protection against cocaine-induced convulsions. Some of the neuroactive steroids, as well as dizocilpine, were efficacious against the seizures and lethality induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate. Pregnenolone, a steroid devoid of GABAergic activity, was not effective in any of the convulsant models. Although all of the compounds produced motor toxicity in high doses as measured by the inverted-screen test, the neuroactive steroids demonstrated an equivalent or improved separation between anticonvulsant potency and motoric impairment. Inactive doses of the neuroactive steroids markedly enhanced the anticonvulsant effects of diazepam against pentylenetetrazol without significantly increasing motor toxicity. This adjunct treatment resulted in protective indices ranging from 60 to 360 compared to 12 for diazepam alone. The distinct profile of anticonvulsant activity of the neuroactive steroids may be related to their combined actions on gamma-aminobutyric acid, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, or voltage-operated Ca++ channels. These results help to define the neuroactive steroids as a novel class of antiepileptic agents and suggest their potential in clinical practice.
In the year 2000, the level of methyldibromo glutaronitrile (MDGN) allergy in dermatology clinics in Europe exceeded the level of allergies to all other preservatives, with a prevalence of 3.5%. In the present study, cases of primary sensitization and elicitation to MDGN due to cosmetic products were collected over an 8-month period at the Department of Dermatology, Gentofte University Hospital. The aim was to identify the products related to hand eczema, assess exposure to MDGN in these products and relate the findings to results from a newly developed updated risk assessment model for contact allergy. Out of 24 patients with a positive patch test to MDGN, 17 patients with hand eczema were identified. In 11 of these patients, cosmetic products used in relation to the onset of the disease were shown to contain MDGN (65%). In 8 of these 11 cases, primary sensitization was probable, 5 due to hand/body lotions and 3 due to lotions and/or liquid hand soap. Chemical analysis of 12 products showed that lotions contained 149-390 ppm of MDGN, liquid hand soap 144-399 ppm, a rinsing cream 293 ppm and shampoos 78-79 ppm. The shampoo exposure was not of certain relevance to the eczema. Applying the newly developed updated risk assessment model showed that the concentrations of MDGN in lotions of 149-390 ppm exceeded the calculated maximum acceptable exposure level for MDGN, which would be expected to lead to sensitization in consumers using such products, as seen in the current study. The present cases and updated exposure-based risk assessment process add to the evidence and need for re-defining safe-use concentrations of MDGN in cosmetic products.
A 36-year-old man with testicular cancer had an acute myocardial infarction during the first course of chemotherapy with bleomycin, etoposide and cisplatin. Since the patient had no significant risk factors for coronary heart disease, the infarction was likely to be attributable to the chemotherapy regimen. The physiopathological mechanisms of this causal relationship are discussed here.
To explore the effects of various antihypertensive regimes on microalbuminuria, an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), valsartan, was substituted for or added to treatment with a calcium channel blocker (CCB). After a 6-month CCB baseline period, 28 Japanese hypertensive patients with incipient diabetic nephropathy (defined as a urinary albumin excretion [UAE] of 30-300 mg/g creatinine), were assigned to two groups according to their blood pressure (BP) levels: in patients with a BP of more than 130/85 mmHg (n=17), valsartan was added to the CCB (Group A), while in patients with a BP <130/85 mmHg, valsartan alone was given (Group B: n=11) for 12 months. UAE was determined before and at 3, 6 and 12 months after the initiation of ARB. Although the initial BP was significantly higher in Group A (150/83 mmHg) than Group B (127/77 mmHg), BP was decreased to 141/78 mmHg in Group A and slightly, but not significantly, increased to 130/82 mmHg in Group B. In both groups, UAE was significantly decreased after ARB treatment (to 89% of the basal value in Group A and to 40.5% of the basal value in Group B) and did not differ each other and the amount of decrease did not differ significantly between the two groups. These results suggest that combination therapy with an ARB and CCB is very effective in lowering BP and UAE in cases in which BP is not well controlled, while, even in patients with a sufficient BP control of <130/85 mmHg, the use of ARB singly resulted in a significant decrease in UAE without a further decrease in BP, implying that the ARB had a renoprotective action independent of changes in BP.
We describe an atypical case of pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN) in which slowly progressive arm tremor was the predominant symptom beginning at the age of 25, with late-onset dystonia and dysarthria developing at the age of 50. Compound heterozygous mutations resulting in missense amino acid substitutions G521R and I529V were identified in the pantothenate kinase (PANK2) gene. We demonstrate that while the G521R mutation results in an unstable and inactive protein, the previously unreported I529V substitution has no apparent effect on the stability or catalytic activity of PanK2. The phenotype that results from this combination of mutations suggests that atypical presentations of PKAN may arise from partial deficits in PanK2 catalytic activity.
A mutation in the voltage-gated sodium-channel Scn2a results in moderate epilepsy in transgenic Scn2a(Q54) mice maintained on a C57BL/6J strain background. The onset of progressive epilepsy begins in adults with short-duration partial seizures that originate in the hippocampus. The underlying abnormality is an increase in persistent sodium current in hippocampal neurons. The voltage-gated potassium channel Kcnq2 is responsible for generating M current (I(KM)) that is thought to control excitability and limit repetitive firing of hippocampal neurons. To determine whether impaired M current would exacerbate the seizure phenotype of Scn2a(Q54) mice, we carried out genetic crosses with two mutant alleles of Kcnq2. Szt1 mice carry a spontaneous deletion that removes the C-terminal domain of Kcnq2. A novel Kcnq2 missense mutation V182M was identified by screening the offspring of ENU-treated males for reduced threshold to electrically evoked minimal clonic seizures. Double mutant mice carrying the Scn2a(Q54) transgene together with either of the Kcnq2 mutations exhibited severe epilepsy with early onset, generalized tonic-clonic seizures and juvenile lethality by 3 weeks of age. This dramatic exacerbation of the sodium-channel mutant phenotype indicates that M current plays a critical role in preventing seizure initiation and spreading in this animal model. The genetic interaction between Scn2a and Kcnq2 demonstrates that combinations of mild alleles of monogenic epilepsy genes can result in severe disease and provides a model for complex inheritance of human epilepsy. The data suggest that interaction between these genes might contribute to the variable expressivity observed in human families with sodium-channel mutations. In a screen of 23 SMEI patients with missense mutations of SCN1A, no second-site mutations in KCNQ2 were identified.
Fundamental to complex systems are interconnected processes involved in providing high-quality patient care. A case study and a root cause analysis (RCA) illustrate a patient safety effort with unintended consequences.
A 38-year-old woman presented to the hospital for odynophagia and vomiting. The patient developed Mobitz type 2, second-degree heart block temporally associated with the administration of intravenous ondansetron. RESPONSE TO THE EVENT: An Ishikawa, or fishbone, diagram conducted to enumerate potential contributing factors indicated that a key factor appeared to be an institutional restriction against using intravenous (i.v.) promethazine, which resulted in ondansetron being the only readily available i.v. anti-emetic on formulary. The anesthesia department requested that i.v. promethazine be removed from all operating and recovery room automated medication dispensing machines. The pharmacy department, given the realization that individual departments were taking independent action regarding promethazine, discussed the matter with the medical director, who issued a memo banning the use of i.v. promethazine. An institutional ban on i.v. anti-emetics such as promethazine may have resulted in an increase in the use of ondansetron and contributed to this adverse reaction. The reason to restrict promethazine is not well reported in the literature. In limiting the use of promethazine for patient safety concerns, the inadvertent increase in adverse reactions of the alternative medication, ondansetron, may have been overlooked. The resultant RCA underscores the need for careful cataloguing of adverse medication effects.
Stakeholders should anticipate as many "downstream effects" of quality and patient safety improvements as possible. Comprehensive reporting of adverse medication effects will augment the emerging science of patient safety.
3-Iodo-2-propynyl-butylcarbamate (IPBC) is a fungicide used in both industrial products and cosmetics. We report the first case of allergic contact dermatitis from airborne exposure to this preservative. A 34-year-old female production worker at a paint factory developed dermatitis on air-exposed skin areas. Patch testing showed a ++ reaction to the preservative IPBC 0.01% in petrolatum. The compound was used as a preservative in wood treatment products manufactured at her work place. Based on animal studies, IPBC is considered safe as a cosmetic preservative. However, widespread use of the chemical might lead to increasing levels of contact allergy, and therefore, close monitoring of IPBC is recommended.
Cutaneous reactions to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are rare in spite of their wide use. Only a few cases of hypersensitivity angiitis related to naproxen have been described. We report the case of a 62-year-old woman in whom leukocytoclastic skin vasculitis, peripheral neuropathy and nephritis developed after a short naproxen treatment, and gradually regressed after discontinuation of the drug and under glucocorticoid therapy. In the light of the relevant literature, the clinical and laboratory features of this reversible condition are described.
We describe a 64-year-old man with decompensated hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related cirrhosis who became resistant to lamivudine. He was started on adefovir at 10 mg daily while continuing lamivudine therapy. Several months later, his liver function improved and subsequently his ascites disappeared. The serum HBV-DNA level became undetectable 11 months later. Twenty months after the start of additional treatment with adefovir, one hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was detected, and the patient underwent a successful hepatectomy. Our findings suggest that the addition of adefovir to ongoing lamivudine therapy is useful for improving liver function in patients with decompensated lamivudine-resistant HBV-related cirrhosis, allowing surgery for HCC.
An increased incidence of colonic cancer is associated with chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Sulphasalazine, metronidazole and more recently, modified forms of 5-aminosalicylic acid are used for maintenance therapy of inflammatory bowel disease. In a series of experiments, we used the 1,2-dimethylhydrazine animal model of colonic cancer in conjunction with these drugs, to study the effect on the development of colon cancer. Inbred male Wistar rats were divided into groups receiving orally: metronidazole 18 mg Kg-1 dy-1; sulphasalazine 60 mg Kg-1 dy-1; 5-aminosalicylic acid 30 and 60 mg Kg-1 dy-1 and olsalazine 60 mg Kg-1 dy-1 administered daily. Half of each group also received weekly injections of DMH 40 mg Kg-1. Metronidazole, sulphasalazine and 30 mg Kg-1 dy-1 5-aminosalicylic acid were co-carcinogenic, increasing either the number of cancers or tumour size. In contrast 60 mg Kg-1 dy-1 5-aminosalicylic acid inhibited tumour size and olsalazine had no effect. These results may have a bearing on long term maintenance therapy in inflammatory bowel disease.
Risperidone, a novel antipsychotic agent, is an antagonist of postsynaptic serotonin-2 and dopamine D2 receptors. In certain individuals, the hallucinogenic drug lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) is associated with apparently lifelong continuous visual disturbances, characterized in DSM-IV as hallucinogen-persisting perception disorder (HPPD). Because the hallucinogenic mechanism of LSD is known to act in part at postsynaptic serotonin-2 receptors, it is noteworthy that three HPPD patients treated with risperidone reported an exacerbation of LSD-like panic and visual symptoms. We conclude that HPPD may be a relative contraindication for the use of risperidone.
We evaluated the effect of various immunosuppressive drugs in the SRC assay. We chose the most appropriate day to obtain the results of the SRC assay using the MBT-2 tumor. MBT-2 tumor-bearing mice of homogenic and heterogenic strains were separately given one of the three: cyclophosphamide, azathioprine or mizoribine. These drugs were evaluated on the 6th and the 11th day for the immunosuppressive effects expected from a host versus graft reaction. Concerning the homogenic mice that were injected with drugs, on the 11th day, the growth of the tumor was favorably suppressed in comparison with the growth of the control group (A-1) due to the anti-tumor effect of immunosuppressive drugs. We concluded that the 6th day was the most, appropriate day to obtain the results of this assay. Concerning the heterogenic mice, similar results were observed. In the mizoribine-group, we subcutaneously injected 200 mg/kg on alternate days. Yet the implanted tumor grew almost at the same rate as that of the A-1 group. In this group, a histological study showed reduction of the tumor cells and few inflammatory cells. We concluded that this drug was more useful than the others in the SRC assay and the suitable day for judgement was the 6th day.
The mortality risk of prosthetic valve endocarditis is known to be increased in cases in which staphylococci are the causative organisms. Previous recommendations have concentrated on early surgical management of this condition, but there are now reports that these infections can be treated medically, thus leaving prosthetic material in situ. We describe a case of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis on a bovine pericardial pulmonary valve that responded to antibiotic therapy without the need for surgical intervention.
An 82-year old man was admitted with acute pulmonary edema. Myocardial ischemia and electrolyte abnormalities were excluded and he responded promptly to frusemide, nitrates and morphine. On admission, the duration of the QRS interval was markedly abnormal at 240 ms with a nonspecific intraventricular conduction defect pattern, of left bundle branch block type. This finding was not present three weeks prior to his admission, and was felt to be the result of drug interaction between propafenone and antineoplastic agents, as evidenced by resolution of the clinical and electrocardiographic picture after discontinuation of these agents.
Acne vulgaris is a skin disorder of the sebaceous follicles, involving hyperkeratinization and perifollicular inflammation. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) have a predominant role in inflammatory matrix remodeling and hyperproliferative skin disorders. We investigated the expression of MMP and tissue inhibitors of MMP (TIMP) in facial sebum specimens from acne patients, before and after treatment with isotretinoin. Gelatin zymography and Western-blot analysis revealed that sebum contains proMMP-9, which was decreased following per os or topical treatment with isotretinoin and in parallel to the clinical improvement of acne. Sebum also contains MMP-1, MMP-13, TIMP-1, and TIMP-2, as assessed by ELISA and western blot, but only MMP-13 was decreased following treatment with isotretinoin. The origin of MMP and TIMP in sebum is attributed to keratinocytes and sebocytes, since we found that HaCaT keratinocytes in culture secrete proMMP-2, proMMP-9, MMP-1, MMP-13, TIMP-1, and TIMP-2. SZ95 sebocytes in culture secreted proMMP-2 and proMMP-9, which was also confirmed by microarray analysis. Isotretinoin inhibited the arachidonic acid-induced secretion and mRNA expression of proMMP-2 and -9 in both cell types and of MMP-13 in HaCaT keratinocytes. These data indicate that MMP and TIMP of epithelial origin may be involved in acne pathogenesis, and that isotretinoin-induced reduction in MMP-9 and -13 may contribute to the therapeutic effects of the agent in acne.
Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is the most frequent sporadic soft tissue sarcoma of childhood and adolescence. The overall 5-year survival rate for patients with RMS is 70% with the use of surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy. Novel therapeutic approaches are necessary to improve on these outcomes particularly among the more aggressive alveolar RMS (ARMS) and late stages of disease, where 5-year survival is less than 20%. Retinoids have been successfully used in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APML) and neuroblastoma.
However, analysis of retinoids as a differentiating agent for RMS has been incomplete. This work examined the ability of retinoic acid (RA) to promote differentiation of RMS cell lines by examining the expression of myogenic proteins in five RMS cell lines in response to All-trans Retinoic Acid (ATRA) or 9-cis retinoic acid (CRA).
Analysis of growth curves indicates that both retinoids suppress cell growth of Rh4 and Rh28. RD cells only responded to-CRA whereas Rh30 and Rh18 did not respond. Following treatment with ATRA FACS analysis showed an altered cell cycle with the same pattern as the growth curves. ATRA altered cellular morphology of two cell lines, Rh4 and Rh28, and induced Troponin T expression in these cells suggesting a differentiating effect.
These studies suggest that retinoids are effective inducers of growth arrest and differentiation in some RMS cell lines, and offer a basis for further in vivo testing in mice of ATRA as a potential approach to ARMS treatment.
