Cocaine use has been associated with many vascular complications which may involve the carotid, coronary, and renal vascular beds. Cocaine may also cause venous thrombosis. This report describes a new entity of cocaine-induced aortic thrombosis. On the basis of clinical findings and response to treatment, a therapeutic algorithm is presented.
Nasal transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) stimulation with capsaicin produces serous and mucinous secretion in the human nasal airway. The primary aim of this study was to examine topical effects of various TRP ion channel agonists on symptoms and secretion of specific mucins: mucin 5 subtype AC (MUC5AC) and B (MUC5B).
Healthy individuals were subjected to nasal challenges with TRPV1 agonists (capsaicin, olvanil and anandamide), TRP ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) agonists (cinnamaldehyde and mustard oil) and a TRP melastatin 8 (TRPM8) agonist (menthol). Symptoms were monitored, and nasal lavages were analysed for MUC5AC and MUC5B, i.e. specific mucins associated with airway diseases. In separate groups of healthy subjects, nasal biopsies and brush samples were analysed for TRPV1 and MUC5B, using immunohistochemistry and RT-qPCR. Finally, calcium responses and ciliary beat frequency were measured on isolated ciliated epithelial cells.
All TRP agonists induced nasal pain or smart. Capsaicin, olvanil and mustard oil also produced rhinorrhea. Lavage fluids obtained after challenge with capsaicin and mustard oil indicated increased levels of MUC5B, whereas MUC5AC was unaffected. MUC5B and TRPV1 immunoreactivities were primarily localized to submucosal glands and peptidergic nerve fibres, respectively. Although trpv1 transcripts were detected in nasal brush samples, functional responses to capsaicin could not be induced in isolated ciliated epithelial cells.
Agonists of TRPV1 and TRPA1 induced MUC5B release in the human nasal airways in vivo. These findings may be of relevance with regard to the regulation of mucin production under physiological and pathophysiological conditions.
Phytoestrogens are a wide variety of chemical compounds, mainly isoflavonoids, from a vegetable source. Their name makes reference to their ability to induce estrogenic responses in mammals. Coumestrol is a phytoestrogen that can be found in high concentrations in the dietary elements of cattle. Some endocrine alterations have been reported for cows and ewes after ingestion of vegetables with high concentrations of coumestrol. However, these studies have been made mainly in females.
To analyze some features of the masculine endocrine response in rats after several doses of the phytoestrogen coumestrol.
Adult male rats were injected with several doses of coumestrol. Plasma gonadotrophins (LH/FSH) and testosterone levels were assessed. In addition, morphology of the testicles was analyzed.
Experiments were done in the facilities of the neurosciences area at the University.
No significant changes were observed in gonadotrophin levels after the administration of coumestrol. Testosterone levels showed a significant decrease with the higher doses. Morphological analysis showed an inhibitory effect on spermatogenesis expressed mainly in the right testicle. Testicular volume decreased and the tubular area increased significantly after coumestrol treatment.
These results suggest that the endocrine effect of coumestrol is mainly expressed in peripheral targets in male rats. In addition, the possible mediation of estrogen beta receptors is discussed.
A 20-year-old woman presented with chronic renal failure after several months of ibuprofen use for recurrent minor sports injuries. The features of chronic interstitial nephritis were noted on histological examination of a renal biopsy specimen. No improvement in renal function occurred with steroid therapy.
To determine whether the nonselective and relatively inexpensive nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ibuprofen would be effective in inhibiting colorectal cancer and might improve mortality in a mouse model.
The effects of ibuprofen on tumor growth inhibition and animal survival have been examined in both mouse and human colorectal cancer tumor models. Angiogenesis was measured by in vitro endothelial cell tube formation and immunohistochemistry.
Ibuprofen significantly inhibited cell proliferation in mouse (MC-26) and human (HT-29) colorectal cancer cell lines. In vitro angiogenesis assays also indicated that ibuprofen decreased both cell proliferation and tube formation. The administration of chow containing 1,360 ppm ibuprofen, which achieved an average plasma concentration of ibuprofen lower than the peak level achieved in humans at therapeutic doses, inhibited tumor growth by 40% to 82%. Fewer liver metastases were found in the ibuprofen group compared with the control group. In combination therapy with the standard antineoplastic agents, 5-fluorouracil, or irinotecan (CPT-11), tumor volumes in the groups with ibuprofen +/- CPT-11 or 5-fluorouracil were smaller than in the control group. Ibuprofen was similar to the cyclooxygenase-2 selective inhibitor rofecoxib in its ability to suppress tumor growth and improve overall survival.
Ibuprofen, in part by modulating tumor angiogenesis, decreases both tumor growth and metastatic potential in mice. The ibuprofen doses were in the low range of therapeutic human plasma concentrations. Ibuprofen potentiates the antitumor properties of CPT-11 and improves survival of mice without increasing gastrointestinal toxicity.
Demographics and health practices of 2,232 pregnant women in rural northeastern Ghana and characteristics of their 2,279 newborns were analyzed to determine benefits associated with intermittent preventive treatment (IPTp), antenatal care, and/or bed net use during pregnancy. More than half reported bed net use, 90% reported at least two antenatal care visits, and > 82% took at least one IPTp dose of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine. Most used a bed net and IPTp (45%) or IPTp alone (38%). Low birth weight (< 2,500 grams) characterized 18.3% of the newborns and was significantly associated with female sex, Nankam ethnicity, first-born status, and multiple births. Among newborns of primigravidae, IPTp was associated with a significantly greater birth weight, significantly fewer low birth weight newborns, improved hemoglobin levels, and less anemia. Babies of multigravidae derived no benefit to birth weight or hemoglobin level from single or multiple doses of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine during pregnancy. No differences or benefits were seen when a bed net was the only protective factor.
Sotos syndrome (SoS) is a congenital dysmorphic disorder characterized by overgrowth in childhood, distinctive craniofacial features, and mental retardation. Haploinsufficiency of the NSD1 gene owing to either intragenic mutations or microdeletions is known to be the major cause of SoS. The common approximately 2.2-Mb microdeletion encompasses the whole NSD1 gene and neighboring genes and is flanked by low-copy repeats (LCRs). Here, we report the identification of a 3.0-kb major recombination hotspot within these LCRs, in which we mapped deletion breakpoints in 78.7% (37/47) of patients with SoS who carry the common microdeletion. The deletion size was subsequently refined to 1.9 Mb. Sequencing of breakpoint fragments from all 37 patients revealed junctions between a segment of the proximal LCR (PLCR-B) and the corresponding region of the distal LCR (DLCR-2B). PLCR-B and DLCR-2B are the only directly oriented regions, whereas the remaining regions of the PLCR and DLCR are in inverted orientation. The PLCR, with a size of 394.0 kb, and the DLCR, with a size of of 429.8 kb, showed high overall homology (approximately 98.5%), with an increased sequence similarity (approximately 99.4%) within the 3.0-kb breakpoint cluster. Several recombination-associated motifs were identified in the hotspot and/or its vicinity. Interestingly, a 10-fold average increase of a translin motif, as compared with the normal distribution within the LCRs, was recognized. Furthermore, a heterozygous inversion of the interval between the LCRs was detected in all fathers of the children carrying a deletion in the paternally derived chromosome. The functional significance of these findings remains to be elucidated. Segmental duplications of the primate genome play a major role in chromosomal evolution. Evolutionary study showed that the duplication of the SoS LCRs occurred 23.3-47.6 million years ago, before the divergence of Old World monkeys.
Parkinson disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer disease (AD). There is considerable consensus that the increased production and/or aggregation of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) plays a central role in the pathogenesis of PD and related synucleinopathies. Current therapeutic strategies for treating PD offer mainly transient symptomatic relief and aim at the restitution of dopamine levels to counterbalance the loss of dopaminergic neurons. Therefore, the identification and development of drug-like molecules that block alpha-synuclein aggregation and prevent the loss of dopaminergic neurons are desperately needed to treat or slow the progression of PD. Here, we show that entacapone and tolcapone are potent inhibitors of alpha-syn and beta-amyloid (Abeta) oligomerization and fibrillogenesis, and they also protect against extracellular toxicity induced by the aggregation of both proteins. Comparison of the anti-aggregation properties of entacapone and tolcapone with the effect of five other catechol-containing compounds, dopamine, pyrogallol, gallic acid, caffeic acid, and quercetin on the oligomerization and fibrillization of alpha-syn and Abeta, demonstrate that the catechol moiety is essential for the anti-amyloidogenic activity. Our findings present the first characterization of the anti-amyloidogenic properties of tolcapone and entacapone against both alpha-synuclein and Abeta42 and highlight the potential of this class of nitro-catechol compounds as anti-amyloidogenic agents. Their inhibitory properties, mode of action, and structural properties suggest that they constitute promising lead compounds for further optimization.
To determine if NMDA receptor alterations are present in the cerebellum in schizophrenia, we measured NMDA receptor binding and gene expression of the NMDA receptor subunits in a post-mortem study of elderly patients with schizophrenia and non-affected subjects. Furthermore, we assessed influence of genetic variation in the candidate gene neuregulin-1 (NRG1) on the expression of the NMDA receptor in an exploratory study. Post-mortem samples from the cerebellar cortex of ten schizophrenic patients were compared with nine normal subjects. We investigated NMDA receptor binding by receptor autoradiography and gene expression of the NMDA receptor subunits NR1, NR2A, NR2B, NR2C and NR2D by in situ hybridization. For the genetic study, we genotyped the NRG1 polymorphism rs35753505 (SNP8NRG221533). Additionally, we treated rats with the antipsychotics haloperidol or clozapine and assessed cerebellar NMDA receptor binding and gene expression of subunits to examine the effects of antipsychotic treatment. Gene expression of the NR2D subunit was increased in the right cerebellum of schizophrenic patients compared to controls. Individuals carrying at least one C allele of rs35753505 (SNP8NRG221533) showed decreased expression of the NR2C subunit in the right cerebellum, compared to individuals homozygous for the T allele. Correlation with medication parameters and the animal model revealed no treatment effects. In conclusion, increased NR2D expression results in a hyperexcitable NMDA receptor suggesting an adaptive effect due to receptor hypofunction. The decreased NR2C expression in NRG1 risk variant may cause a deficit in NMDA receptor function. This supports the hypothesis of an abnormal glutamatergic neurotransmission in the right cerebellum in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
To determine whether all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) improves the destruction of joints and the effect of cytokines on DBA/1J mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA).
Starting from the time of type II collagen injection, DBA/1J mice were injected intraperitoneally with PBS or 0.5 mg of ATRA 3 times per week for 35 days. The effects of treatment were monitored by determining arthritis and histological scores and measuring cellular proliferation, production of cytokines (IL-2, IL-10, IL-12, IL-6, IFN-gamma, and TNF-alpha) and IgG, and the expression of mRNAs for inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), and CXCR3.
The arthritis score and incidence of arthritis were lower in the mice treated with ATRA than in those treated with PBS. Histopathologic evidence of joint damage was 34% lower, and the infiltrations of macrophages were reduced in the mice treated with ATRA compared with those treated with PBS. Type II collagen- and ConA-stimulated proliferation of spleen cells, the production of cytokines (IL-6, IL-12, and TNF-alpha), the serum levels of total IgG and IgG1 anti-collagen antibodies, and the expression of mRNAs for MCP-1 were significantly reduced in the mice treated with ATRA than in those treated with PBS.
ATRA improved the clinical course and reduced the production of inflammatory cytokines, immunoglobulin, and chemokines in murine CIA. These data suggest that ATRA might be also effective for the treatment of inflammatory arthritis like human rheumatoid arthritis.
A recurrent 17 bp duplication (c.657ins17bp) of a segment of the paired-like homeodomain transcription factor 3 (PITX3) gene on human chromosome 10 has been reported in seven families with autosomal dominant posterior polar cataracts with or without anterior segment mesenchymal dysgenesis (ASMD). ASMD can include Peters anomaly with corneal clouding, iridolenticular corneal adhesions, displaced Schwalbe's line, and cataract as described previously in a large Australian family. This study reports the examination of PITX3 in this Australian family.
Clinical examinations of the proband and her relatives were performed as part of routine follow up. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based test for the duplication in PITX3 was developed, and DNA from 21 members of the proband's family was tested.
All clinically affected members of the family had the same 17 bp duplication of PITX3. There was no difference in the size of the duplication between the severely affected individuals and the more mildly affected individuals. Prenatal diagnosis was performed for two offspring of one affected person. In the first pregnancy, the fetus was shown to carry the duplication while in the second pregnancy, the fetus was shown to be homozygous for the normal allele.
The results show that in some individuals within one family, duplication of this segment of PITX3 can result in severe symptoms leading to functional blindness while in other individuals in the same family or in other families, the same duplication leads to treatable cataract with minimal visual impairment.
Acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is a major complication after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT). A similar manifestation involving skin, gastrointestinal (GI) mucosa, and liver can occur after autologous hematopoietic SCT (autoHSCT), either spontaneously or after treatment with cyclosporine or interferon. Severity of spontaneous GI GVHD among patients treated with autoHSCT is variable. Recurrent spontaneous GI GVHD induced by succeeding cycles of chemotherapy has rarely been reported and is poorly understood. Enteric-coated budesonide has been studied extensively in Crohn's disease, and beclomethasone has been studied in GI GVHD. There are no comparative studies between these drugs for GI GVHD. Furthermore, GI GVHD has to be considered when microbiologic workup remains negative during the workup of persistent diarrhea in autoHSCT. Endoscopic appearances can be normal, and pathologic diagnosis is essential. Further research into risk factors involving type of chemotherapy, interval between chemotherapies, and gene polymorphisms have to be considered for better understanding of autologous GVHD. We report for the first time a patient with spontaneous recurrent GI GVHD after autoHSCT for multiple myeloma with predominant lower GI symptoms and excellent response to enteric-coated budesonide therapy.
To assess thyroid disruption induced by sodium pentachlorophenol (PCP) using Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) recommended TG 407 method.
A total of 30 specific pathogen free (SPF) SD adult male and female rats were randomly divided into 3 groups, and treated with water, 0.33 and 30 mg x kg(-1)x d(-1) of PCP-Na by oral gavage for consecutive 28 days, respectively. After final treatment, histological changes of thyroid were observed by hematoxylin-eosin stain, and the levels of thyroid hormones (total thyroxine (TT(4)), free thyroxine (FT(4)), total triiodothyronine (TT(3)), and free triiodothyronine (FT(3))) were determined by radioimmunoassay. The expression levels of thyroid receptors (TRalpha and TRbeta) mRNA and deiodinases (DioI, DioII and DioIII) mRNA in liver were analyzed by RT-PCR.
In high dose group, liver weight coefficient of male and female rats were (4.82 +/- 0.42)% and (4.99 +/- 0.17)%, increased by 36.2% (t = 7.338, P < 0.01) and 41.8% (t = 8.955, P < 0.01), compared to control group ((3.54 +/- 0.14)%, (3.52 +/- 0.19)%), respectively, while the significant changes of kidney or thyroid weight were not observed. In high dose group, the levels of TT(4) and FT(4) in serum of male rats were (64.95 +/- 7.16) nmol/L and (8.16 +/- 2.29) pmol/L, and decreased by 26.6% (t = -3.999, P < 0.01) and 42.3% (t = -4.112, P < 0.01) compared to control group ((88.48 +/- 6.99) nmol/L, (14.13 +/- 1.68) pmol/L). In the same group, FT(4) in serum of female rats was (4.94 +/- 0.89) pmol/L, decreased by 55.5% (t = -3.380, P = 0.012) compared to control group ((11.10 +/- 3.40) pmol/L) and TT(3) and FT(3) in serum of female rats were (1.92 +/- 0.24) nmol/L and (3.05 +/- 0.79) pmol/L, increased by 74.5% (t = 5.263, P < 0.01) and 55.6% (t = 3.495, P < 0.01) compared to control group ((1.10 +/- 0.23) nmol/L, (1.96 +/- 0.32) pmol/L), respectively. PCP-Na didn't affect the expression levels of TRalpha, TRbeta, DioIII mRNA in high dose group, while DioII expression of male rats (0.209 +/- 0.017) down-regulated by 79.2% (t = -5.426, P < 0.01) compared to control group (1.006 +/- 0.137), and DioI expression of female rats (1.844 +/- 0.189) up-regulated by 66.6% (t = 4.359, P < 0.01) compared to control group (1.005 +/- 0.083), indicating DioI and DioII poss different sensitivity to adverse effects induced by PCP-Na between male and female rats. The histopathological results showed that PCP-Na could give rise to hyperplasia of the follicular epithelium cells, and the depletion of colloid. There were no significant changes in serum THs levels and expression of TRalpha, TRbeta, DioI-IIImRNA in low dose group. However, sporadic lymphocytic infiltration, follicles amplification in part and slightly increased in thickness of follicular cells were observed in this group.
PCP is a kind of thyroid disrupting chemical.
Asthma exacerbations contribute substantially to morbidity, and their reduction is an important therapeutic objective. In this integrated analysis the risk of asthma exacerbations was assessed during treatment with the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast.
Data were collected from all five double blind, multicentre, randomised, placebo controlled, 13 week trials of zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily performed in steroid-naive patients with mild to moderate asthma. Exacerbation data were collected prospectively during monitoring of adverse events and concomitant medication use. Pooled data were used to assess the relative risk of asthma exacerbations using three definitions: worsening of asthma leading to withdrawal from the study; requirement for additional anti-asthma therapy (excluding increased short acting beta(2) agonist use); and requirement for oral corticosteroid therapy.
The proportion of patients with an asthma exacerbation leading to withdrawal was consistently lower in the group treated with zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily than in the placebo group. Overall, the risk of an asthma exacerbation requiring withdrawal from zafirlukast therapy was approximately half that of placebo (odds ratio 0.45; 95% CI 0.26 to 0.76; p = 0.003). Similar results were observed for exacerbations requiring additional control medication (odds ratio = 0.47; 95% CI 0.30 to 0.74; p = 0.001) and oral corticosteroid rescue (odds ratio = 0.53; 95% CI 0.32 to 0.86; p = 0.010).
Zafirlukast in a dose of 20 mg twice daily reduces the risk of asthma exacerbations and the need for additional anti-asthma therapies, fulfilling an important goal of control medication in patients with mild to moderate asthma.
Hemorrhagic cystitis is a complication of systemic lupus erythematosus and is also a common side effect after cyclophosphamide therapy. Intractable hemorrhagic cystitis is not unusual and may be a life-threatening condition; it has no effective noninvasive treatment at present. We report a case of hemorrhagic cystitis with intractable refractory bleeding that occurred in a 40-year-old woman after cyclophosphamide treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus. The hemorrhage was resistant to various therapies but resolved after hyperbaric oxygen therapy. There was no recurrent hematuria after hyperbaric oxygen therapy during 6 months of follow-up.
Neuroblastoma is one of the most common extracranial solid cancers found in young children. The prognosis of neuroblastoma patients in advanced stages having N-myc amplification remains poor despite intensive multimodal therapy. Agents that trigger neuroblastoma cells to undergo cellular differentiation and thereby stop proliferation have attracted considerable interest as an alternative therapy. Tryptanthrin (12-dihydro-6,12-dioxoindolo-(2,1-b)-quinazoline) is a weakly basic alkaloid isolated from the dried roots of medicinal indigo plants known as Banlangen. It has been shown to possess various biological activities, such as anti-microbial, anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor activities. However, its effects and mechanism(s) of action on human neuroblastoma cells remain poorly understood. Therefore, the objective of this study is to investigate the effects of tryptanthrin on the growth and differentiation of human neuroblastoma LA-N-1 cells with N-myc amplification. Our results show that tryptanthrin inhibited the growth of the human neuroblastoma cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Mechanistic studies indicated that tryptanthrin induced cell cycle arrest of the human neuroblastoma LA-N-1 cells at the G0/G1 phase. Tryptanthrin also induced neuronal differentiation of LA-N-1 cells, as assessed by morphological criteria, enhancement of acetylcholine esterase activity and up-regulation of various differentiation markers. Moreover, tryptanthrin treatment led to the significant reduction of N-myc expression in LA-N-1 cells while siRNA directed against N-myc induced morphological differentiation of LA-N-1 cells. These results, when taken together, suggest that tryptanthrin suppressed the growth and induced neuronal differentiation in the human neuroblastoma LA-N-1 cells and might be exploited as a potential therapeutic candidate for the treatment of high-risk neuroblastomas with N-myc-amplification.
Understanding the role of oncomirs allows new insights into the development of modern therapeutic approaches for the repression of multiple oncomirs in cancer cells. At present, no suitable approach is available to repress the development of multiple oncomirs in cancer cells. Herein, we report that argonaute 2 (AGO2) could be a unique molecule to regulate the development of multiple oncomirs in cancer cells. Knock-down of AGO2 by custom-made AGO2 siRNA resulted in the induction of apoptosis in myeloid leukaemia cells (HL-60). Further investigations revealed that knock-down of AGO2 by custom-made AGO2 siRNA in HEK-293 cells resulted in silencing of the expression of target genes vascular endothelial growth factor A and histone deacetylase 2, which are known to be involved in the development of myeloid leukaemia. From these results, it can be predicted that AGO2 could regulate siRNA-mediated RNAi pathways in cancer cells. Furthermore, we investigated the possible implication of AGO2 in drug-induced apoptosis. Investigations revealed that treatment with the newly synthesized drug analogue SH-03[{(7S,7aR,13aS)-9,10-dimethoxy-3,3-dimethyl-7,7a,13,13atetrahydro-3H-chromeno[3,4-b]pyrano[2,3-h]chromen-7-ol}] could induce AGO2-mediated apoptosis in myeloid leukaemia cells via intrinsic apoptotic pathways independent of Dicer.
We present a comprehensive in vitro approach to assessing metabolism-mediated hepatotoxicity using male Sprague-Dawley rat liver slices incubated with the well characterized hepatotoxicant, precocene I, and inhibitors of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. This approach combines liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC MS) detection methods with multiple toxicity endpoints to enable identification of critical metabolic pathways for hepatotoxicity. The incubations were performed in the absence and presence of the non-specific CYP inhibitor, 1-aminobenzotriazole (ABT) and isoform-specific inhibitors. The metabolite profile of precocene I in rat liver slices shares some features of the in vivo profile, but also had a major difference in that epoxide dihydrodiol hydrolysis products were not observed to a measurable extent. As examples of our liver slice metabolite identification procedure, a minor glutathione adduct and previously unreported 7-O-desmethyl and glucuronidated metabolites of precocene I are reported. Precocene I induced hepatocellular necrosis in a dose- and time-dependent manner. ABT decreased the toxicity of precocene I, increased exposure to parent compound, and decreased metabolite levels in a dose-dependent manner. Of the isoform-specific CYP inhibitors tested for an effect on the precocene I metabolite profile, only tranylcypromine was noticeably effective, indicating a role of CYPs 2A6, 2C9, 2Cl9, and 2E1. With respect to toxicity, the order of CYP inhibitor effectiveness was ABT>diethyldithiocarbamate∼tranylcypromine>ketoconazole. Furafylline and sulfaphenazole had no effect, while quinidine appeared to augment precocene I toxicity. These results suggest that rat liver slices do not reproduce the reported in vivo biotransformation of precocene I and therefore may not be an appropriate model for precocene I metabolism. However, these results provide an example of how small molecule manipulation of CYP activity in an in vitro model can be used to confirm metabolism-mediated toxicity.
Gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH), the active ingredient of the insecticide lindane, has been shown to decrease seizure threshold to pentylenetrazol (PTZ) 3 h after exposure to gamma-HCH and conversely increase threshold to PTZ-induced seizures 24 h after exposure to gamma-HCH (Vohland et al. 1981). In this study, the severity of response to other seizure-inducing agents was tested in mice 1 and 24 h after intraperitoneal administration of 80 mg/kg gamma-HCH. One hour after the administration of gamma-HCH, the activity of seizure-inducing agents was increased, regardless of their mechanism, while 24 h after gamma-HCH a differential response was observed. Seizure activity due to PTZ and picrotoxin (PTX) was significantly decreased; however, seizure activity due to 3-mercaptopropionic acid (MPA), bicuculline (BCC), methyl 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-B-carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM), or strychnine (STR) was not different from control. In vitro, gamma-HCH, pentylenetetrazol and picrotoxin were shown to inhibit 3H-TBOB binding in mouse whole brain, with IC50 values of 4.6, 404 and 9.4 microM, respectively. MPA, BCC, DMCM, and STR showed no inhibition of 3H-TBOB (t-butyl bicyclo-orthobenzoate) binding at concentrations of 100 micron. The pharmacological challenge data suggest that tolerance may occur to seizure activity induced by PTZ and PTX 24 h after gamma-HCH, since the response to only these two seizure-inducing agents is decreased. The in vitro data suggest that the site responsible for the decrease in seizure activity 24 h after gamma-HCH may be the GABA-A receptor-linked chloride channel.
In a prospective, randomized and controlled study, 29 patients received i.v. verapamil, 5-10 mg/h for two days, at a mean of eight hours after onset of myocardial infarction. In a control group, 25 patients received no specific treatment. In all patients, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was initially less than 15 mm Hg. The two groups were comparable as to age, infarct site and haemodynamics (measured via Swan-Ganz catheter). CK and CKMB peaks were significantly lower in the verapamil than the control group (CK 547 vs 703 U/1, P less than 0.05; CKMB 51 vs 68 U/1, P less than 0.025), as well as infarct weight (CK = 48 vs 65 g-equivalent; P less than 0.03; CKMB = 31 vs 49 g-equivalent; P less than 0.005). Arterial blood pressure was lower by 10 mm Hg than in the control group. Peripheral resistance and filling pressure remained unchanged. In patients without left ventricular failure verapamil reduces the infarct size by about 30%. The most prominent haemodynamic change is a reduction in blood pressure.
Although an effective treatment for hyper-prolactinaemia, initiation of bromocriptine therapy may be associated with significant acute side-effects in some patients, particularly nausea, vomiting and postural hypotension. These may be minimized by initial treatment with i.m. depot bromocriptine (Parlodel-LAR, Sandoz, Basel, Switzerland), but adverse effects following the first injection may still be a significant problem. Following the observation that cortisol deficient patients were subject to an increased incidence of severe side-effects on initiation of bromocriptine therapy, we have evaluated whether concurrent administration of oral prednisolone to patients without cortisol deficiency might reduce adverse effects.
Double-blind placebo-controlled trial with prednisolone (20 mg) prior to, and 16 hours after, depot injection of i.m. bromocriptine (50 or 100 mg).
Twenty-one consecutive patients with hyperprolactinaemia (serum prolactin > 1000 mU/l on 3 separate occasions) who were due to start depot bromocriptine and who had a normal cortisol response to insulin-induced hypoglycaemia.
Symptoms at 0, 16 and 40 hours after injection were assessed using visual linear analogue scales and both inter and intra-group scores were compared by non-parametric tests.
Depot bromocriptine was associated with the significant occurrence of light-headedness and lethargy in the placebo-administered group by 16 hours, and also with nausea and nasal congestion by 40 hours. These symptoms did not occur in the prednisolone-administered group.
Concurrent oral administration of prednisolone significantly reduces the incidence of acute adverse effects following depot bromocriptine. Two 20 mg doses of prednisolone given at 12-hour intervals may be used to avoid dopamine-agonist-induced adverse effects at the initiation of treatment with depot bromocriptine, and may also be of value in the treatment of side-effects associated with other dopamine agonist drugs.
Benzene-induced acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is considered a secondary form of AML, based both in theory and on limited cohort observations. Its latency, cytogenetic aberrations, and clinical features are thought similar to, or identical with, AML resulting from the use of modern day cytotoxic agents for chemotherapy and immunotherapy. Although distinction between secondary AML and the far more common de novo AML is difficult to establish with certainty in any given case, latency from toxic therapeutic and environmental exposure and certain clinical and pathological features generally separate these two entities. AML is the only human neoplasm proven to be potentially caused by benzene, which actually is an obsolete form of chemotherapy. Despite many years of environmental regulation, alleged toxic exposure to this ubiquitous chemical has become an expanding area of litigation. A review of benzene-induced AML suggests that, in developed countries, this entity should no longer merit serious consideration among workers in the modern petrochemical industry and related fields.
Antituberculous drugs are generally safe but can occasionally be associated with life-threatening complications. This is a case report of neurotoxicity, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and drug fever, occurring in a patient after initiation of antituberculous therapy (ATT).
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) is a sympathetic amine used in over-the-counter cold remedies and weight-control preparations worldwide. Its use has been associated with hypertensive episodes and hemorrhagic strokes in younger women. Several reports have linked the abuse of PPA with myocardial injury, especially when overdose is involved. We report here the first case of Dexatrim (PPA)-induced myocardial injury in a young woman who was using it at recommended doses for weight control. In addition, we review the 7 other cases of PPA related myocardial injury that have been reported so far. Physicians and patients should be alert to the potential cardiac risk associated with the use of PPA, even at doses generally considered to be safe.
Metastatic uveal melanoma is resistant to conventional chemotherapy and immunotherapy. In this study, we investigated the responsiveness of uveal melanoma cell lines to IFNs and the hypomethylating agent decitabine.
The uveal melanoma cell lines 92-1, UW-1, OCM-1, and MKT-BR were exposed to varying concentrations of IFN-alpha, IFN-gamma, and decitabine, alone and in combination. The effects of decitabine on gene expression were examined using DNA microarray analysis.
We found that IFN-gamma and decitabine induced cell death in uveal melanoma. Whereas a high concentration of IFN-gamma (1,000 units/mL) was required to induce cell death, we observed a dose-related increase in cell death when decitabine was used at a range of 0.1 to 10 micromol/L. Strikingly, 1 micromol/L decitabine synergized with 10 to 1,000 units/mL IFN-gamma to induce massive cell death. In contrast, decitabine had no effect on three cutaneous melanoma cell lines and exhibited no synergy with either IFN. In uveal melanoma, decitabine up-regulated the expression of genes involved in growth control and apoptosis and down-regulated genes that have been implicated in the malignant phenotype of cutaneous melanoma. The gene up-regulated to the greatest degree by decitabine and whose expression showed a dose-effect across the three concentrations of decitabine was S100A2, a putative tumor suppressor. The genes modulated by decitabine in uveal melanoma were largely unaffected in cutaneous melanoma.
These findings form a basis for testing the decitabine/IFN-gamma combination in metastatic uveal melanoma and for exploring the role of S100A2 in the susceptibility of uveal melanoma to IFN-mediated cell death.
Neurotrophins support neuronal survival and differentiation via Trk receptors, yet can also induce cell death via the p75 receptor. In these studies, we investigated signaling mechanisms governing p75-mediated death of hippocampal neurons, specifically the role of caspases. Although p75 is structurally a member of the Fas/TNFR1 receptor family, caspase-8 was not required for p75-mediated death, unlike other members of this receptor family. In contrast, p75-mediated neuronal death was associated with mitochondrial loss of cytochrome c and required Apaf-1 and caspase-9, -6, and -3. In particular, caspase-6 plays a central role in mediating neurotrophin-induced death, illuminating a novel role for this caspase. Inhibition of DIABLO/Smac, which blocks inhibitor of apoptosis proteins, protected cells from death, whereas simultaneous inhibition of both DIABLO/Smac and MIAP3 allowed trophin-induced death to proceed. In vivo, pilocarpine-induced seizures, previously shown to up-regulate p75 expression and increase neurotrophin production, caused activation of caspase-6 and -3 and cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase in p75-expressing hippocampal neurons. In p75(-/-) mice, no activated caspase-3 was detected, and there was a marked reduction in the number of dying neurons after pilocarpine treatment compared with wild type mice. Neurotrophin-induced p75-mediated death is likely to play an important role in mediating neuronal loss consequent to brain injury.
Sildenafil citrate (Viagra) is the pharmacological agent used to treat erectile dysfunction in men. Because this drug has a vasodilatory effect, we hypothesized that such an action may induce a preconditioning-like cardioprotective effect via opening of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive K (K(ATP)) channels. Rabbits were treated with sildenafil citrate (0.7 mg/kg iv) either 30 min (acute phase) or 24 h (delayed phase) before 30 min of ischemia and 3 h of reperfusion. Mitochondrial K(ATP) channel blocker 5-hydroxydecanoate (5-HD, 5 mg/kg iv) was given 10 min before ischemia-reperfusion. Infarct size was measured by tetrazolium staining. Sildenafil caused reduction in arterial blood pressure within 2 min of treatment, which returned to nearly baseline levels 3 min later. The infarct size (% risk area, means +/- SE) reduced from 33.8 +/- 1.7 in control rabbits to 10.8 +/- 0.9 during the acute phase (68% reduction, P < 0.05) and 19.9 +/- 2.0 during the delayed phase (41% reduction, P < 0.05). 5-HD abolished protection with an increase in infarct size to 35.6 +/- 0.4% and 36.8 +/- 1.6% during the acute and delayed phase, respectively (P < 0.05). Similar acute and delayed cardioprotective effects were observed when sildenafil was administered orally. Systemic hemodynamics also decreased after oral administration of the drug. However, these changes were mild and occurred slowly. For the first time, we demonstrate that sildenafil induces acute and delayed protective effects against ischemia-reperfusion injury, which are mediated by opening of mitochondrial K(ATP) channels.
