Dystonic reactions produce twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal posturing; this sign is considered an extrapyramidal sequela that is most typically thought to arise from decreased dopamine activity in the basal ganglia. Severe dystonic reactions have been shown to occur in concert with numerous medications. Although most commonly described with anti-psychotic agents such as haloperidol and phenothiazine, dystonic reactions have been observed in those who have used fluoxetine, erythromycin, crack cocaine, phenobarbital, cisapride, and buspirone. This report details the case of a patient who developed an acute dystonic reaction while taking ranitidine for peptic ulcer prophylaxis, a complication that, to our knowledge, has yet to be described with the use of this agent.
The importance of asking the right question is highlighted in this case study. The patient was a 76-yr-old man with hearing loss that initially appeared to be a classic case of presbycusis. Without asking the right question this patient might have been managed in a manner inappropriate to his true hearing sensitivity.
Psychostimulant drugs exert their behavioral effects primarily through enhancement of monoaminergic neurotransmission. Augmented dopamine activity is thought to play a critical role in the psychomotor stimulant effects of amphetamine and cocaine, as well as in the development of long-term behavioral sensitization evoked by repeated exposure to amphetamine. However, despite the fact that brain dopamine and noradrenaline systems are closely interconnected, the extent to which noradrenergic transmission contributes to these behavioral effects of psychostimulants is a relatively unexplored issue.
By inhibiting noradrenergic neurotransmission with the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine, the alpha1-antagonist prazosin and the beta-antagonist propranolol, we investigated the involvement of noradrenaline neurotransmission in the psychomotor stimulant and long-term sensitizing effects of d-amphetamine and cocaine in rats.
Clonidine (0.003-0.1 mg/kg), prazosin (0.1-3.0 mg/kg) and propranolol (1.0-3.0 mg/kg) were administered prior to d-amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg), cocaine (15 mg/kg) or apomorphine (1.0 mg/kg) and psychomotor activity was measured. In separate studies, clonidine (0.03 mg/kg), prazosin (1.0 mg/kg) or propranolol (3.0 mg/kg) were co-administered with d-amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg) or cocaine (30 mg/kg) for 5 days, and locomotor sensitization was assessed 3 weeks post-treatment.
The psychomotor stimulant effect of d-amphetamine, but not that of cocaine or apomorphine, was dose-dependently inhibited by clonidine and prazosin, and enhanced by propranolol. Clonidine, prazosin, and propranolol did not influence the induction of sensitization by amphetamine or cocaine.
Enhancement of synaptic noradrenaline concentrations contributes to the psychomotor stimulant effect of d-amphetamine, but not cocaine or apomorphine. In addition, noradrenergic neurotransmission is not critically involved in the induction of psychostimulant sensitization.
Epidemiological studies showed that hypercholesterolemia is associated with higher left ventricular mass. Endothelin signaling is activated in hyperlipidemic animals and may contribute to progressive ventricular hypertrophy. Simvastatin has been shown to inhibit endothelin-1. However, the behavior of simvastatin on ventricular hypertrophy in hyperlipidemic animals is not well understood. In this study, we evaluated the hemodynamic, biochemical, and morphological responses to simvastatin in cholesterol-fed (1%) rabbits. The left ventricular weight increased 8 wk after cholesterol feeding compared with that in normocholesterolemic rabbits. Simvastatin at a clinical therapeutic dose (1.2 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1)) significantly decreased left ventricular weight by 14% and left ventricular myocyte sizes by 14% as isolated by enzymatic dissociation. Hypercholesterolemia upregulated ventricular preproendothelin-1 mRNA as assessed by real-time quantitative RT-PCR and elevated production of cardiac endothelin-1 concentration. The increased endothelin-1 responses can be inhibited after simvastatin administration. Left ventricular mass indexed by body weight positively correlated with tissue endothelin-1 levels (P = 0.0003). In Langendorff-perfused rabbit hearts, hyperlipidemia led to significant QT prolongation compared with normocholesterolemia, which can be reversed by administering simvastatin. In contrast, simvastatin-induced beneficial effects were reversed by the addition of mevalonate. The addition of bosentan, a nonspecific endothelin receptor blocker, improved the response in hypercholesterolemic rabbits and did not have additional beneficial effects in simvastatin-treated rabbits. The results of the present study suggest that the antihypertropic and electrocardiographic effects of simvastatin at a clinical therapeutic dose are mediated through inhibition of tissue endothelin-1 expression, which is linked to mevalonate metabolism, and result in an amelioration of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy development by an atherogenic diet.
To date, cocaine-induced myocardial infarction (MI) remains an infrequent reason for admission into hospital. However, reports identify rising cocaine usage in the UK. With 7-10% of all patients presenting chest pain having traces of cocaine in their urine, there is an increasing incidence of cardiovascular disease in the under 30s age group. The potential impact on health care resources must cause concern. This report describes the case of a young man admitted to the emergency department after an 18-h cocaine session. With evidence of an anterolateral MI, left heart studies and thrombectomy were undertaken in cardiac catheters. Admission to critical care was required for ongoing respiratory and cardiac support therapies. Although there are many aspects of patient management that can be explored, specific issues to be discussed in this paper include evidence-based treatment options, nursing management of inotrope administration and caring for family and friends.
The effects of treatment with broad-spectrum parenterally administered cephalosporins and cefuroxime, cefazolin, or nafcillin were compared in an experimental model of Staphylococcus aureus infective endocarditis, and the results in vivo were compared with the activities of the study drugs in vitro. After 3 days of treatment, all antimicrobial agents tested were more effective than no treatment in reducing the number of surviving bacteria in cardiac valve vegetations. Nafcillin was the most effective agent studied and was significantly more active than was ceftizoxime, ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, cefoperazone, cefuroxime, or cefazolin (P < or = 0.05). Cefpirome and ceftazidime were the most effective broad-spectrum cephalosporins. The outcome of treatment with cefpirome or ceftazidime was similar to that of treatment with nafcillin and significantly better than that of treatment with ceftizoxime or cefotaxime (P < or = 0.05). Treatment outcome correlated closely with the MICs of the antimicrobial agents for the study strain with the exception of ceftazidime, which was significantly more active in vivo in comparison with other agents than predicted by its MIC (P < or = 0.0003). When ceftazidime was excluded as an outlier, treatment outcome correlated with the MICs of the remaining study drugs (Spearman's correlation coefficient, 0.95; P < or = 0.0004), as well as with the estimated percentage of time during which the concentration of total drug (correlation coefficient, -0.85; P < or = 0.007) or free drug (correlation coefficient, -0.90; P < or = 0.003) exceeded the MIC. A consideration of total or free drug concentrations in relation to MICs did not significantly improve the correlation with outcome observed with the MICs alone.
It has been reported that patients on pergolide and carbergoline have an increased risk of developing valvular heart disease. It is uncertain if bromocriptine, an ergot-derived dopamine agonist (DA) with partial 5-HT(2B) activity, is associated with a similar risk. We assessed the frequency of valvular heart disease in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients on bromocriptine compared to pergolide and a control group of PD patients who had not been treated on any DA. Seventy-two PD patients on bromocriptine, 21 patients on pergolide, and 47 control PD patients were recruited. Transthoracic echocardiographic studies were performed and reviewed by a blinded cardiologist. The risk for the bromocriptine group to develop any abnormal valvular regurgitation was 3.32 (adjusted OR, 95% CI: 1.11-9.92, P = 0.03) compared to controls, whereas the risk for the pergolide group was 3.66 (adjusted OR, 95% CI: 1.22-10.97, P = 0.02). When cumulative dose of bromocriptine was analyzed by quartiles, patients with a greater exposure to bromocriptine had significantly higher risk of developing both mild and moderate-severe regurgitations (P for trend, 0.005 and 0.019, respectively). This study demonstrated that bromocriptine use was associated with an increased risk of developing valvular heart disease, which occurred in a cumulative dose-dependent manner.
We recently demonstrated that oestrogens ameliorate the progression of chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN). In our present study, we investigated the role of progesterone and selective oestrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) in this process.
Female Fisher (F344) kidneys were orthotopically transplanted into intact or ovariectomized female Lewis recipients. Ovariectomized recipients were divided into four groups and were treated with either progesterone alone or in combination with oestradiol, oestradiol alone or vehicle. Intact recipients were divided into three groups and were treated with SERMs such as tamoxifen and one of its new derivatives, droloxifene or vehicle. Animals were harvested 24 weeks after transplantation for histological and immunohistological studies as well as for molecular analysis.
Administration of progesterone resulted in increased urinary protein excretion as well as profound glomerulosclerosis and mononuclear cell infiltration. The combined treatment had similar detrimental effects on the development of CAN. In contrast, oestradiol treatment alone improved graft function, reduced glomerulosclerosis and diminished cellular infiltration. SERMs again impaired allograft function and promoted the development of CAN. Renal allograft damage paralleled intragraft mRNA expression of transforming growth factor-beta1 in all groups.
Our results suggest that addition of progesterone diminishes the beneficial effects of oestrogens on the development of CAN in rats. Similarly to progesterone, SERMs worsened long-term renal allograft outcome.
Chronic hyperglycaemia in diabetes leads to the overproduction of free radicals and evidence is increasing that these contribute to the development of diabetic nephropathy. Among the spices, turmeric (Curcuma longa) is used as a flavouring and colouring agent in the indian diet every day and is known to possess anti-oxidant properties. The present study was designed to examine the effect of curcumin, a yellow pigment of turmeric, on renal function and oxidative stress in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of STZ (65 mg/kg) in rats. Four weeks after STZ injection, rats were divided into four groups, namely control rats, diabetic rats and diabetic rats treated with curcumin (15 and 30 mg/kg, p.o.) for 2 weeks. Renal function was assessed by creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine and urea clearance and urine albumin excretion. Oxidative stress was measured by renal malonaldehyde, reduced glutathione and the anti-oxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase. Streptozotocin-injected rats showed significant increases in blood glucose, polyuria and a decrease in bodyweight compared with age-matched control rats. After 6 weeks, diabetic rats also exhibited renal dysfunction, as evidenced by reduced creatinine and urea clearance and proteinuria, along with a marked increase in oxidative stress, as determined by lipid peroxidation and activities of key anti-oxidant enzymes. Chronic treatment with curcumin significantly attenuated both renal dysfunction and oxidative stress in diabetic rats. These results provide confirmatory evidence of oxidative stress in diabetic nephropathy and point towards the possible anti-oxidative mechanism being responsible for the nephroprotective action of curcumin.
The present study was conducted to establish a simple method for measuring muscular rigidity in rats, which could be used for screening and is able to discriminate between rigidity and akinesia/catalepsy. Therefore, we treated rats with morphine (30 mg/kg i.p.), since large doses of morphine lead to muscular rigidity and akinesia. We measured muscular rigidity with a new method by determining the resistance of the hindlimb to passive flexion in the 'balance test' and also checked haloperidol (3 mg/kg i.p.) treated rats for muscular rigidity. Furthermore, catalepsy was also tested after administration of each of these drugs. Then, the influence of D(1)-like and D(2)-like dopamine receptor stimulation on muscular rigidity and catalepsy was studied. Therefore, the partial D(1) agonist SKF 38393 (3 and 8 mg/kg s.c.), the D(2)/D(1) agonist pergolide (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg i.p.) and the dopamine precursor L-DOPA (50 and 100 mg/kg i.p.) were administered up to 30 min before muscular rigidity was measured in morphine-treated rats. The results showed that morphine, but not haloperidol led to muscular rigidity, whereas both drugs led to positive scores in the catalepsy test. The dopaminergic drugs partly antagonized the morphine-induced muscular rigidity in the doses applied, but not the catalepsy. Apparently, rigidity, akinesia/catalepsy produced by morphine can be discriminated from that produced by haloperidol in simple and quick tests.
Two female patients developed a severe, painful proximal myopathy after taking 18--30 g of epsilon-aminocaproic acid daily for 5 weeks. Marked elevations of serum aminotransferases, creatine kinase and aldolase levels were found and the first patient had electromyographic and muscle biopsy changes of an acute monophasic, necrotising myopathy at the height of the illness. Resolution occurred in both cases on stopping the drug and the second patient had no electromyographic or muscle biopsy abnormalities 3 weeks later. Only 2 recognized cases of the condition have been reported previously but a review of the literature revealed several other possible examples.
In the current study, the non-transformed prostatic epithelial cells (BPH-1) were exposed to the catechol estrogens (CE) 2-hydroxyestradiol (2-OHE2) or 4-hydroxyestradiol (4-OHE2), or the parent hormone 17-β-estradiol (E2) at an equimolar concentration (1μM) for a period of 6 weeks. It was found that both 2-OHE2 and 4-OHE2 have more potent proliferation-enhancing effect than E2. Exposure to 2-OHE2, 4-OHE2 or E2 resulted in a significant increase in the protein abundance of cyclin D1 and c-myc. The treated cells exhibited a shift toward the proliferative phase as indicated by FACScan. BPH-1 cells treated with 4-OHE2 showed increased abundance of estrogen receptor-α (ERα) and its downstream IGF-1R. Reduced abundance of estrogen receptor-β (ERβ) and its downstream tumor suppressor FOXO-1 were observed in cells exposed to E2, 2-OHE2 and, to a greater extent, 4-OHE2. Comet assay revealed that CE, especially 4-OHE2, elicited significant genotoxic effects as compared to E2. 4-OHE2 showed greater ability to neoplastically transform BPH-1 cells as indicated by increased colony forming capacity in soft agar and matrix invasion. In conclusion, in vitro exposure to CE could neoplastically transform human prostatic epithelial cells. Further, 4-OHE2 is more carcinogenic to prostate epithelial cells than the parent hormone E2.
Prostanoids, bioactive lipids derived from arachidonic acid (AA), are important for vascular homeostasis. Among them, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) enhances aggregation of platelets submaximally stimulated in vitro. This results from activation of EP3, one of the four PGE2 receptors, which decreases the threshold at which agonists activate platelets to aggregate. Although PGE2 altered venous thrombosis induced by administration of AA, its role in pathophysiopathological conditions has remained speculative. We report that arterial walls subjected to inflammatory stimuli produce PGE2. In several models, we show that PGE2 produced by the arterial wall facilitates arterial thrombosis. Next, we detected PGE2 in mouse atherosclerotic plaques. We demonstrate that this plaque-produced PGE2 is not altered and is still able to activate EP3. In addition, we present evidence that PGE2 can leave the plaque and activate EP3 on blood platelets. Consistent with these findings, we observed that atherothrombosis induced in vivo by mechanical rupture of the plaque was drastically decreased when platelets lacked EP3. In conclusion, PGE2 facilitates the initiation of arterial thrombosis and, hence, contributes to atherothrombosis. Inhibition of the platelet EP3 receptor should improve prevention of atherothrombosis.
We found previously that plasma levels of acrolein (CH2=CHCHO) and spermine oxidase (SMO) were well correlated with the degree of severity of chronic renal failure. The aim of this study was to test whether the levels of these 2 markers and of acetylpolyamine oxidase (AcPAO) were increased in the plasma of stroke patients.
The activity of AcPAO and SMO and the level of protein-conjugated acrolein in plasma of the stroke patients and normal subjects were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography and ELISA, respectively. Focal infarcts were estimated by MRI or computed tomography (CT).
The levels of AcPAO, SMO, and acrolein were significantly increased in the plasma of stroke patients. The size of stroke was nearly parallel with the multiplied value of acrolein and total polyamine oxidase (AcPAO plus SMO). After the onset of stroke, an increase in AcPAO first occurred, followed by increased levels of SMO and finally acrolein. In 1 case, an increase in AcPAO and SMO preceded focal damage as detected by MRI or CT. Furthermore, stroke was confirmed by MRI in a number of mildly symptomatic patients (11 cases) who had increased levels of total polyamine oxidase and acrolein. Among apparently normal subjects (8 cases) who had high values of acroleinxtotal polyamine oxidase, stroke was found in 4 cases by MRI.
The results indicate that increased levels of AcPAO, SMO, and acrolein are good markers of stroke.
To evaluate the cognitive effects of acute challenges with the antispasmodic agent oxybutynin hydrochloride in normal older volunteers and to compare these effects with those attributable to diphenhydramine, another commonly used medication with anticholinergic (muscarinic-blocking) activity.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study.
Laboratory evaluations of community subjects.
A convenience sample of 12 volunteers, average age 69.17 years.
Baseline assessment was followed by randomized administration of a placebo, oxybutynin hydrochloride (5 and 10 mg), and diphenhydramine hydrochloride (50 mg) in test sessions separated by 1 week.
Evaluation of cognitive performance with a 1-hour battery of pencil and paper, interviewer-administered, and computer-administered tests beginning 90 minutes after drug (or placebo) administration.
Random regression analyses demonstrated that oxybutynin caused significant cognitive decrements on seven of 15 cognitive measures, and diphenhydramine caused decrements on five measures. The most sensitive measures for detecting the effects of oxybutynin hydrochloride were the Buschke Selective Reminding Test and Reaction Time.
These findings demonstrate that oxybutynin can cause cognitive impairment and suggest that physicians prescribing it should monitor their patients to facilitate the early recognition of those who experience drug-related cognitive deficits. More generally, the findings demonstrate that systematic research with normal volunteers can identify cognitive toxicity not recognized during the process of drug development or postmarketing surveillance.
Numerous studies link arsenic exposure to human cancers in a variety of tissues, including the prostate. Our prior work showed that chronic arsenic exposure of the non-tumorigenic, human prostate epithelial cell line, RWPE-1, to low levels of (5 microM) sodium arsenite for 29 weeks resulted in malignant transformation and produced the tumorigenic CAsE-PE cell line. The present work focuses on the molecular events occurring during this arsenic-induced malignant transformation. Genomic DNA methylation was significantly reduced in CAsE-PE cells. A time course experiment showed that during malignant transformation DNA methyltransferase activity was markedly reduced by arsenic. However, DNA methyltransferase mRNA levels were not affected by arsenic exposure. Microarray screening showed that K-ras was highly overexpressed in CAsE-PE cells, a result further confirmed by Northern blot and Western blot analyses. Since ras activation is thought to be a critical event in prostate cancer progression, further detailed study was performed. Time course experiments also showed that increased K-ras expression preceded malignant transformation. Mutational analysis of codons 12, 13, and 61 indicated the absence of K-ras mutations. The K-ras gene can be activated by hypomethylation, but our study showed that CpG methylation in K-ras promoter region was not altered by arsenic exposure. Arsenic metabolism studies showed RWPE-1, CAsE-PE, and primary human prostate cells all had a very poor capacity for arsenic methylation. Thus, inorganic arsenic-induced transformation in human cells is associated with genomic DNA hypomethylation and K-ras overexpression. However, overexpression of K-ras occurred without mutations and through a mechanism other than promoter region hypomethylation.
Long-term exposure to ingested inorganic arsenic is associated with peripheral vascular disease (PVD) in the blackfoot disease (BFD)-hyperendemic area in Taiwan. This study further examined the interaction between arsenic exposure and urinary arsenic speciation on the risk of PVD. A total of 479 (220 men and 259 women) adults residing in the BFD-hyperendemic area were studied. Doppler ultrasound was used to diagnose PVD. Arsenic exposure was estimated by an index of cumulative arsenic exposure (CAE). Urinary levels of total arsenic, inorganic arsenite (As(III)) and arsenate (As(V)), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA(V)), and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)) were determined. Primary methylation index [PMI = MMA(V)/(As(III) + As(V))] and secondary methylation index (SMI = DMA(V)/MMA(V)) were calculated. The association between PVD and urinary arsenic parameters was evaluated with consideration of the interaction with CAE and the confounding effects of age, sex, body mass index, total cholesterol, triglycerides, cigarette smoking, and alcohol consumption. Results showed that aging was associated with a diminishing capacity to methylate inorganic arsenic and women possessed a more efficient arsenic methylation capacity than men did. PVD risk increased with a higher CAE and a lower capacity to methylate arsenic to DMA(V). The multivariate-adjusted odds ratios for CAE of 0, 0.1-15.4, and >15.4 mg/L x year were 1.00, 3.41 (0.74-15.78), and 4.62 (0.96-22.21), respectively (P < 0.05, trend test); and for PMI < or = 1.77 and SMI > 6.93, PMI > 1.77 and SMI > 6.93, PMI > 1.77 and SMI < or = 6.93, and PMI < or = 1.77 and SMI < or = 6.93 were 1.00, 2.93 (0.90-9.52), 2.85 (1.05-7.73), and 3.60 (1.12-11.56), respectively (P < 0.05, trend test). It was concluded that individuals with a higher arsenic exposure and a lower capacity to methylate inorganic arsenic to DMA(V) have a higher risk of developing PVD in the BFD-hyperendemic area in Taiwan.
The U.S. Air Force is converting from JP-4 jet fuel to the less volatile JP-8 jet fuel, which is similar to commercial Jet Fuel A. Our previous 90-day inhalation study with JP-8 vapor, using F-344 rats and C57BL/6 mice, resulted in no treatment-related adverse effects other than alpha 2-microglobulin nephropathy in male rats (Mattie et al., 1991). In the present study, male rats were dosed with neat JP-8 (0, 750, 1500, 3000 mg/kg) daily by gavage for 90 days in an effort to characterize the kidney lesion and assess further any additional adverse effects associated with prolonged oral exposure to this fuel. Results of this study revealed a significant dose-dependent decrease in body weights of rats exposed to JP-8. Male rat-specific alpha 2-microglobulin nephropathy was observed by histopathologic examination. A number of significant changes were also seen in blood and urine that were not dose-dependent. Additional treatment-related effects were a gastritis and a perianal dermatitis. Although there were no histopathological or weight changes in the livers of exposed rats, there was an increase in the liver enzymes AST and ALT. The elevated enzymes did not increase with increasing dose of JP-8.
A pediatric formulation of roxithromycin is a relatively new addition to the antibiotic market in Australia. A previously healthy 5-year-old boy with no significant medical history was treated with roxithromycin 50 mg twice/day for cough, fever, and anorexia. After completing a 5-day course of the agent, he developed a nonpruritic, nonurticarial, erythematous, maculopapular, generalized rash and occasional vomiting. Three days later his symptoms included jaundice, dark urine, and pale stools. Laboratory results revealed acute hepatitis, and the patient was admitted to the hospital. His hepatic function continued to deteriorate, so the boy was transferred to a tertiary pediatric hospital. His condition continued to worsen, and 6 days after transfer, he underwent liver transplantation. Clinicians should be aware of potential hepatic complications associated with the use of roxithromycin.
Abuse of doping agents may pose a higher risk for heart disease including acute myocardial infarction. We report the case of a 50-year-old body-builder Caucasian man with a long-standing abuse of nandrolone and erythropoietin that developed a ventricular septal defect following acute myocardial infarction. This mechanical complication led to cardiogenic shock ultimately treated with the implantation of a circulatory support by means of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. The patient subsequently underwent orthotopic heart transplantation. The association of intense isometric exercise, abuse of erythropoietin and nandrolone is likely to have predisposed to coronary thrombus formation and acute myocardial infarction, as the patient presented no traditional cardiovascular risk factors.
To present a case of chlorpromazine-associated torsades de pointes, review established cases of ventricular arrhythmias associated with chlorpromazine, and describe the proarrhythmic characteristics of this drug.
Articles identified through a search of MEDLINE and IDIS from January 1966-November 2000 and thorough review of the article bibliographies. Patient cases also were identified from a search of the Food and Drug Administration's Adverse Event Reporting System database (November 1997-March 2001). Cases involving intentional overdoses of chlorpromazine were excluded.
In addition to the case reported herein, 12 cases of documented, chlorpromazine-associated ventricular arrhythmias were identified; five had characteristic features of torsades de pointes. Chlorpromazine delayed repolarization and produced electrocardiographic abnormalities; although, whether chlorpromazine induced torsades de pointes through a mechanism of early afterdepolarizations is unclear. Similar to other instances of drug-induced torsades de pointes, concurrent factors such as electrolyte deficiencies may place the patient at increased risk for arrhythmia.
Chlorpromazine can delay repolarization and produce electrocardiographic abnormalities. These can result infrequently in ventricular arrhythmias and torsades de pointes, particularly in patients with confounding factors.
The beta-cell is a highly specialized cell with a unique differentiation that optimizes glucose-induced insulin secretion (GIIS). Here, we evaluated changes in gene expression that accompany beta-cell dysfunction in the db/db mouse model of type 2 diabetes. In db/db islets, mRNA levels of many genes implicated in beta-cell glucose sensing were progressively reduced with time, as were several transcription factors important for the maintenance of beta-cell differentiation. Conversely, genes normally suppressed in beta-cells, such as a variety of stress response mediators and inhibitor of differentiation/DNA binding 1, a gene capable of inhibiting differentiation, were markedly increased. We assessed whether this global alteration in the pattern of beta-cell gene expression was related more to chronic hyperglycemia or hyperlipidemia; db/db mice were treated with phlorizin, which selectively lowered plasma glucose, or bezafibrate, which selectively lowered plasma lipids. GIIS as well as the majority of the changes in gene expression were completely normalized by lowering glucose but were unaffected by lowering lipids. However, the restoration of GIIS was not accompanied by normalized uncoupling protein 2 or peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma mRNA levels, which were upregulated in db/db islets. These studies demonstrate that hyperglycemia, independent of plasma lipid levels, is sufficient for the loss of beta-cell differentiation and secretory function in db/db mice.
The two isomeric N-nitroso derivatives of the dialkylurea, 1-ethyl-3-(2-hydroxyethyl)urea, were given by gavage to 20 male F344 rats for 30 weeks at equimolar doses. The tumorigenic responses were compared with those to a similar dose of nitrosoethylurea or nitroso-2-hydroxyethylurea. Each of the nitrosomonoalkylureas caused death from tumors more rapidly than the analogous nitrosodialkylurea. Each of the nitrosodialkylureas induced a broader spectrum of tumors in the rats than did either nitrosoethylurea or nitroso-2-hydroxyethylurea, including neoplasms of the thyroid, lung, skin, colon, mesotheliomas and neoplasms of the brain and liver in high incidence, the last two of which were not seen in animals given the nitrosomonoalkylureas. On the other hand, there were fewer tumors of the forestomach in rats given the nitrosodialkylureas than with the nitrosomonoalkylureas. The major difference between 1-nitroso-1-ethyl-3-hydroxyethylurea and 1-nitroso-1-hydroxyethyl-3-ethylurea was that the former induced only neoplastic nodules in the liver of 30% of the rats, while the latter induced hepatocellular carcinomas in 55% of the rats; approximately half of the rats given either compound had brain neoplasms, which included astrocytomas, gliomas and oligodendrogliomas.
The clinical features and management of theophylline-induced seizures are not well appreciated in spite of their unique aspects. These seizures tend to occur in neurologically intact patients and leave no or only minor neurologic sequelae if controlled early. They begin with focal motor seizures with or without secondary generalization and are followed by stupor or coma. They are responsive only to adjustment of theophylline dosage. Should the motor phenomenon persist, it takes the form of epilepsia partialis continua. Extensive workup for a structural brain lesion may be unrewarding. The electroencephalogram typically shows periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges, which may provide a diagnostic clue.
Acute hepatitis related to psychotropic drugs has been rarely reported with anxiolytic treatments. Alpidem (Ananxyl) is a new imidazopyridine derivative with anxiolytic properties which was launched in October 1991. Several cases of acute hepatitis, some severe, were described with this drug and its liver toxicity was questioned. Results of a study monitoring drug side-effects caused this drug to be withdrawn from the market for one year. We report four cases of acute hepatitis and discuss the role of alpidem. All but one case were presented as severe acute hepatitis with hepatic failure. One patient ran a fulminant course and died despite liver transplantation. The mechanism of liver toxicity remains unclear.
We have previously shown that acute preischemic adenosine A3 receptor stimulation results in an increased postischemic damage, while chronic stimulation of this receptor diminishes it. Since several pathophysiological phenomena are common for both ischemia and seizures, we have explored the effect of acute and chronic administration of the adenosine A3 receptor selective agonist IB-MECA (N6-(3-iodobenzyl) adenosine-5'-N-methylcarboxamide) prior to seizures induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), pentamethylenetetrazole, or electric shock. At 100 micrograms/kg, acutely injected IB-MECA was protective in chemically but not electrically induced seizures. In chronic administration of IB-MECA, significant protection against chemically induced seizures was obtained in all studied measures, i.e., seizure latency, neurological impairment, and survival. Although threshold voltage was unchanged in electrically induced seizures, a chronic regimen of IB-MECA significantly reduced postepileptic mortality. Since the combination of an arteriole-constricting compound 48/80 and hypotension-inducing clonidine injected prior to NMDA results in a significant protection against seizures, and since acute stimulation of adenosine A3 receptor causes both arteriolar constriction and severe hypotension, there is a possibility that the protection obtained by the acutely administered drug may result from inadequate delivery of chemoconvulsants to the brain. It is, however, unknown whether the protective effect of chronically administered IB-MECA is related to the effect of the drug on blood flow, neuronal mechanisms, or both.
In a double-blinded study, we have investigated psychomotor recovery after three sedation schemes during spinal anaesthesia for transurethral resection of prostate. Thirty-nine patients were allocated randomly to receive i.v. midazolam only, i.v. midazolam with antagonism by flumazenil or an infusion of propofol. The psychomotor tests were of long and short term memory, critical flicker fusion threshold, attention and concentration, cognition, mental arithmetic, and sedation and anxiety levels, and were performed before operation and at 30 min, 60 min, 2 h and 24 h after operation. Free recall of a picture learning task was the most sensitive test, showing a significant impairment in all groups, persisting for more than 2 h. Propofol was associated with the most rapid recovery and least impairment compared with preoperative baseline. Performance improved in all the tests after antagonism with flumazenil, but was still significantly impaired compared with baseline in tests of picture recall and letter deletion. Significant decreases in performance in all tests were detected 1 h after flumazenil. No increase in anxiety was recorded after flumazenil. We conclude that infusion of propofol is the technique with the most rapid recovery, while only brief and incomplete antagonism of the effects of midazolam may be expected with flumazenil.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) and angiotensin II (AT-II) have been suggested to play an important role in liver fibrogenesis. There is a significant relationship between inheritance of hightened expression of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) and AT-II and the development of progressive hepatic fibrosis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of captopril, an ACE inhibitor and candesartan cilexetil, an AT-II type 1 receptor (AT1-R) blocker, on liver fibrosis induced in rats by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) administration.
rats were divided into 4 experimental groups: The first group was given CCl4 alone; the second was given both CCl4 and captopril (100 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1)); the third was given both CCl4 and candesartan cilexetil (8 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1)); fourth group was given 0.9% NaCl only. Seven weeks after initiating the treatment, indices of fibrosis were assessed.
Candesartan cilexetil treatment significantly reduced the fibrosis development. These inhibitory effects were not observed in the captopril-treated group. The mean fibrosis score was significantly lower in the CCl4/candesartan group compared with the group applied to CCl4 alone and the group applied to CCl4/captopril. Similarly, the number of alpha-smooth muscle actin positive cells was markedly suppressed by candesartan treatment.
The results suggest that AT-II plays a pivotal role in hepatic fibrogenesis and candesartan significantly attenuates the progression of liver fibrosis. This drug may provide an effective new strategy for prevention of liver fibrosis. Its effectiveness should be investigated in chronic liver disease associated with progressive fibrosis.
