We present two patients who developed complete heart block due to treatment with methyldopa. After discontinuing methyldopa, conduction disturbances completely disappeared and recurred upon rechallenge with the medication. It is assumed that methyldopa can impair the myocardial conduction system by its central sympatholytic effect. Conduction anomalies should be excluded prior to treatment with methyldopa, and during treatment with the medication, the patients should be routinely screened for the presence of conduction anomalies.
High doses of the muscarinic cholinergic agonist, pilocarpine, result in behavioural changes, seizures and status epilepticus in rats. The purpose of the present work is to invetigate the striatal neurotransmissors level in young rats after status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine. Wistar rats were treated with a single dose of pilocarpine (400mg/Kg; s.c.). Controls received saline. Young animals were closed observed for behavioural changes during 1 and 24h. In these periods, the animals that developed status epilepticus and didn't survive this acute phase of seizures had the brains removed and striatal neurotransmissors level determined by HPLC. The concentration of dopamine, serotonine, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid was reduced and an increase in 4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-phenylacetic acid was observed. These results suggest that cholinergic activation can interage with dopaminergic and serotonergic systems in acute phase of the convulsive process in immature striatum.
Glucosamine is used for alleviating pain in osteoarthritis. Clinical trials have reported that glucosamine has equivocal efficacy. Glucosamine is also used in cell cultures to stimulate hexosamine flux and protein O-glycosylation, but at many-fold greater concentrations than those in human plasma following oral dosing. Lean Zucker rats were dosed orally for 6 weeks with glucosamine hydrochloride at doses (0-600 mg/kg/day) that produced peak serum concentrations of <1-35 μM, spanning the human exposure range. Relative expression of both TGFβ1 and CTGF mRNA were significantly increased up to 2.3-fold in liver, kidney and articular cartilage when evaluated 4h after final dose. Apparent threshold serum glucosamine (C(max)) concentration required to increase TGFβ1 expression in cartilage was 10-20 μM. These increases were associated with significant increases in UDP-N-acetylglucosamine concentrations suggesting increased hexosamine flux. Both TGFβ1 and CTGF are mediators of chondrocyte proliferation and cartilage repair. Study demonstrates that oral glucosamine doses that produce clinically relevant serum glucosamine concentrations can induce tissue TGFβ1 and CTGF expression in vivo and provides a mechanistic rationale for reported beneficial effects of glucosamine therapy. Induction of renal TGFβ1 and CTGF mRNA suggests that potential sclerotic side-effects may occur following consumption of potent glucosamine preparations.
The aim of this study was to assess the inhibitory action of phytate in formation of renal calculi. Hypertension (induced by nicotine) combined with hypercalcemia (induced by D vitamin) was used to induce calcification in renal tissue in male Wistar rats that were fed a purified phytate free diet. Phytate non-treated rats developed significant calcium deposits in kidneys and papillae, as well as in kidney tubules and vessels, whereas calcium deposits were absent in control and phytate treated rats. Fragments of hydroxyapatite (HAP) calculi exhibited the capacity to induce the growth of calcium salts on their surfaces. Presence of 1.5 mg/L of phytate in the synthetic urine inhibited the formation of calcium oxalate monohydrate on HAP renal calculi in normocalciuric conditions. The findings show that the action of phytate as a crystallization inhibitor takes place both in the intrapapillary tissue and urine.
Clomiphene citrate (CC) therapy for disorders of anovulatory infertility has been linked to an increased frequency of tubal ectopic pregnancy. Although CC enhances apoptotic processes in the ovaries, villi, and decidual tissues, its effect on apoptosis in the fallopian tube is unknown. Here, we show that chronic treatment with CC induces tubal apoptosis, but not necrosis, through an intrinsic mitochondria-dependent signaling pathway in vivo. The apoptosis was specific to epithelial cells in the isthmus, and the damage was reversed with 17beta-estradiol (E2); however, pretreatment or concomitant treatment with E2 did not protect against tubal apoptosis induced by chronic treatment with CC. Chronic treatment activated estrogen receptors (ESRs), particularly cilia-localized ESR2A (formerly ERbeta2). In contrast to E2, acute treatment of superovulating rats with a high dose of CC or the ESR2-selective agonist 2,3-bis (4-hydroxyphenyl)-propionitrile (DPN) significantly delayed the transport of oocyte-cumulus complexes through the fallopian tube. Our findings suggest that in response to chronic CC therapy, isthmus-specific apoptosis of epithelial cells and activation of cilia-ESR2A act in parallel to block gamete and embryo passage through the fallopian tube, eventually resulting in tubal ectopic pregnancy.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is an idiosyncratic and uncommon but serious adverse effect that has been reported with both typical and atypical antipsychotic agents. We describe a 58-year-old man with Down syndrome and dementia who was receiving low-dose olanzapine and rivastigmine therapy; he developed NMS 4 months after starting olanzapine. The patient presented with altered mental status, rigidity, fever, diaphoresis, and tremor, and his creatine kinase level was elevated. Olanzapine was discontinued, and the patient fully recovered; antipsychotic therapy was not restarted. Based on the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale, olanzapine was the probable cause of the patient's NMS. In addition, use of rivastigmine in combination with olanzapine may have placed the patient at greater risk for NMS, possibly due to an acetylcholine-dopamine imbalance. Clinicians should be aware of the potential for NMS even with low doses of antipsychotics, particularly in patients who have a limited ability to communicate. Concomitant administration of cholinesterase inhibitors such as rivastigmine may represent an unrecognized risk factor for NMS development.
Verapamil, a class IV anti-arrhythmic drug that blocks voltage-dependent calcium channels in cardiac and smooth muscle, also has effects on presynaptic and postsynaptic voltage-dependent calcium channels at the neuromuscular junction. In a postoperative patient with pre-existent myasthenia gravis, oral verapamil caused a marked exacerbation in myasthenic weakness.
Children are generally more sensitive to toxicants than adults, including an increased sensitivity to genotoxic carcinogens. We previously demonstrated that neonatal mice are also more sensitive to the mutagenic effects of the direct alkylating agents N-ethyl-N-nitrosoamine and the arylamine 4-aminobiphenyl than adult mice. In this study, we have evaluated the effect of age on the mutagenicity of the fungal toxin and liver carcinogen aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)). Neonatal Big Blue transgenic mice were treated with 6 mg/kg AFB(1), a treatment that produces liver tumors, while adult mice were treated with 6 and 60 mg/kg AFB(1), treatments that do not result in tumors. The cII liver mutant frequency (MF) in mice treated with AFB(1) as neonates was 22-fold higher than in control neonatal mice, whereas the treatment of adult mice with either dose of AFB(1) did not significantly increase the liver MF over the controls. In AFB(1)-treated neonatal mice, the frequency of G:C --> T:A transversion, a major type of mutation induced by AFB(1), was about 82-fold higher than for the control and 31-fold higher than for adult mice treated with 60 mg/kg AFB(1). Our mutagenicity findings parallel the relative carcinogenicity of AFB(1) in neonatal and adult mice, and are consistent with previous observations of the lower level of hepatic glutathione S-transferase and higher level of hepatic AFB(1)-DNA adduction in neonatal mice compared to adult mice.
A patient on systemic amphotericin B therapy developed polyuria with low osmolarity of the urine probably due to nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. This rarely reported side effect of amphotericin B appears not to necessitate discontinuation of the treatment provided adequate fluid intake can be guaranteed. The diabetes insipidus is reversible in 2-6 months after cessation of the treatment: in our patient the polyuria and the low urine osmolarity disappeared within a few days.
Recombinant interferon alfa-2b (rIFNalpha2b) is a standard therapy for chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Severe neuropsychiatric toxicity has been described in patients receiving rIFNalpha2b, although the frequency of and the risk factors for developing this toxicity are not well described. The purpose of this study was to identify predictors for the development of severe neuropsychiatric toxicity in CML patients receiving rIFNalpha2b-based therapy.
From a prospective cohort of 91 Philadelphia chromosome-positive, previously untreated, chronic-phase CML patients treated on Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) 9013, a phase II trial of rIFNalpha2b plus cytarabine, the following were recorded at baseline: age, sex, race, pretreatment history of neurologic or psychiatric diagnosis, spleen size, blood counts, and peripheral blast count. Best response to treatment, rIFNalpha2b cumulative dose, dose duration, and dose-intensity were recorded during follow-up. Severe neuropsychiatric toxicity was defined as grade 3 or 4 events, according to CALGB expanded common toxicity criteria. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were used to identify variables that were associated with the development of severe neuropsychiatric toxicity.
Severe neuropsychiatric toxicity developed in 22 patients (24.0%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 15.2% to 32.8%). Toxicity resolved after withdrawal of treatment in all patients. Five of six patients developed recurrence of symptoms with rechallenge. Twelve (63%) of 19 patients with a pretreatment neurologic or psychiatric diagnosis developed severe neuropsychiatric toxicity, as compared with 10 (14%) of 72 patients without a pretreatment neurologic or psychiatric diagnosis (P =.001), resulting in a relative risk of 4. 55 (95% CI, 2.33 to 8.88) for developing severe neuropsychiatric toxicity. No other variables were independently associated with the development of neuropsychiatric toxicity.
CML patients with a pretreatment history of a neurologic or psychiatric diagnosis are at significantly increased risk of developing severe neuropsychiatric toxicity during therapy with rIFNalpha2b plus cytarabine. Monitoring for neuropsychiatric symptoms and avoiding rechallenge are recommended measures for such patients receiving rIFNalpha2b-based therapy.
The use of the fluoroquinolone antibiotic trovafloxacin (TVX) was severely restricted in 1999 due to its association with idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity. Previously, we reported that a nontoxic dose of TVX interacts with a nontoxic dose of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to cause robust hepatocellular injury in mice. This interaction with LPS was not seen in mice treated with levofloxacin (LVX), a fluoroquinolone not associated with hepatotoxicity in people. TVX/LPS-coexposure caused an increase in plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity as early as 4.5 h after LPS administration which progressed through 15 h.We examined the role of the hemostatic system in TVX/LPS-induced liver injury. At the onset of liver injury, coexposure to TVX/LPS, but not exposure to TVX, LVX, LPS or LVX/LPS, caused increased plasma concentration of thrombin-antithrombin dimers and decreased plasma circulating fibrinogen. LPS treatment induced a small increase in plasma plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) concentration, and TVX pretreatment enhanced this effect. TVX/LPS coexposure also resulted in hepatic fibrin deposition. Anticoagulant heparin administration reduced TVX/LPS-induced hepatic fibrin deposition and liver injury. PAI-1-/- mice treated with TVX/LPS exhibited similar fibrin deposition to wild-type mice but had significantly reduced hepatocellular injury. PAI-1-/- mice, but not heparin-treated mice, had reduced plasma concentrations of several cytokines compared to TVX/LPS-treated controls. In summary, TVX/LPS-coexposure caused an imbalance in the hemostatic system, resulting in thrombin activation increased, plasma concentration of PAI-1 and hepatic fibrin deposition. Both thrombin activation and PAI-1 play critical roles in the progression of TVX/LPS-induced liver injury, but through different modes of action.
To compare a short intensified regimen followed by sequential consolidation therapy (doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vindesine, bleomycin, and prednisone [ACVBP]) to the standard regimen of methotrexate, bleomycin, cyclophosphamide, and etoposide (m-BACOD) in patients with low-risk aggressive lymphoma.
A total of 752 patients with intermediate- or high-grade lymphoma and no adverse prognostic factors (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 2 to 4, >/= two extranodal sites of disease, tumor burden >/= 10 cm in largest dimension, bone marrow or CNS involvement, Burkitt's or lymphoblastic subtypes) were registered. Of 673 eligible patients, 332 received ACVBP and 341 received m-BACOD.
The complete remission rate was identical (86%) in the two groups. With a median follow-up duration of 7 years, the 5-year failure-free survival (FFS) rate was 65% in the ACVBP group and 61% in the m-BACOD group (P =.16). The 5-year overall survival rate was 75% in the ACVBP group and 73% in the m-BACOD group (P =.47). ACVBP was responsible for more severe and life-threatening infections (P <.01), but m-BACOD caused more pulmonary toxicity (P <.001). The number of treatment-related deaths did not differ between the two regimens. A multivariate analysis indicated that ACVBP was associated with a longer FFS in patients with two or three risk factors of the International Prognostic Index.
In this population of patients with low-risk aggressive lymphoma, toxicities of the regimens are different, but the rates of response and survival are identical. The survival advantage of ACVBP over standard regimen in patients with advanced disease is suggested by this analysis but remains to be assessed in prospective studies specifically designed for this purpose.
To survey clinical visual function including quantitative manual perimetry results in a group of patients taking vigabatrin; to assess the severity of any field defects; to tabulate cumulative and daily doses of medication and to assess possible changes in visual function over time.
A prevalence study of 100 out of 183 patients currently attending a tertiary referral epilepsy centre who were taking or had recently discontinued vigabatrin (duration 83-3570 days; mean 1885 days) as part of combination anticonvulsant therapy. Complete neuro-ophthalmic examination including Goldmann kinetic perimetry was performed and monocular mean radial degrees (MRD) to the I/4e isopter calculated. Patients were followed up at 6-monthly intervals for not less than 18 months.
Acuity and colour vision remained stable in all patients regardless of changes in visual fields. Twenty per cent of patients had significant constriction of their visual field defined as a monocular MRD of 30 degrees or less. Males were significantly more likely to be severely affected than females (P < 0.01). Twenty one patients were followed after discontinuing vigabatrin treatment. Only three of these showed a change in MRD of 10 degrees or more with two deteriorating and one improving. No correlation between treatment duration or cumulative dosage/kg and the severity of defects could be demonstrated.
Earlier reports of a high prevalence of both moderate and more serious field defects were confirmed in patients taking vigabatrin but not in epileptic patients taking other anti-convulsants. We found no evidence of progression or resolution of visual field defects on discontinuing the drug, and no relationship between dose history and visual deficit field loss. An idiosyncratic drug reaction within the neurosensory retina may underlie the pathogenesis of the visual field loss in some patients.
Vitamin A is an essential micronutrient with important roles in immunity and maintenance of normal epithelial cell differentiation. Little information is available regarding the relationship between vitamin A concentrations and asthma despite the repair of epithelial and other structural changes being of utmost importance for the relief of symptoms and control of the disease. The authors evaluated vitamin A and vitamin E concentrations in well-nourished children with asthma.
The serum vitamin A and vitamin E concentrations were measured by high performance liquid chromatography methods. Statistical analysis was performed using the Mann-Whitney U-test and Peason's correlation coefficient test.
According to these methods, the mean serum vitamin A concentrations were significantly lower (19.41+/-7.45 microg/dL, mean+/-SD) in asthmatic children than controls (29.52+/-11.34 microg/dL, P=0.0001). To compare the correlation of C-reactive protein and serum vitamin A concentrations, there was also significant difference between the two groups.
The data suggest that there is a correlation between vitamin A deficiency and the mechanism of asthmatic response. These data support that the mechanism of hypovitaminosis A in asthmatic children may involve not only the acute phase response but also the various degrees of chronic epitherial damage of airways.
Dexamisole antagonized the reserpine-induced hypothermia but was ineffective in the apomorphine-induced hypothermia in mice. It reduced ptosis produced by reserpine in mice but this effect was very weak. The effect of dexamisole on the amphetamine-induced hyperactivity depended upon the animal species. Dexamisole reduced the duration of immobility in the despair test in rats. It did not modify the 5-HTP-induced head twitch reaction in mice but produced stimulation of the hind limb flexor reflex in spinal rats. The latter effect was blocked by phenoxybenzamine but not by cyproheptadine and metergoline. Dexamisole also exerted a sedative and hypothermic effect. The above findings indicate that the pharmacological profile of dexamisole resembles in some respects that of tricyclic antidepressants; they also point out that this drug has a central noradrenergic activity.
The effects of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists (ondansetron 0.1 mg kg-1 SC 30 min; bemesetron 0.03 mg kg-1 SC 45 min) on nicotine-induced increases in locomotor activity were measured in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Intermittent daily injections of nicotine (0.3-1.2 mg kg-1 SC 30 min) resulted in increased locomotor activity as measured by photocell counts. The effect of nicotine was not affected by administration of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists at doses that are reported to block nicotine- and morphine-induced place-preference conditioning. Neither of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists tested affected activity counts in vehicle treated animals. Nicotine-induced hyperactivity was blocked by the dopamine antagonist haloperidol (0.03 mg kg-1 SC 2 h) and by the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (1 mg kg-1 SC 1 min). The effects of a range of doses (0-1 mg kg-1) of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists ondansetron, bemesetron, granisetron and tropisetron on hyperactivity induced by 0.6 mg kg-1 nicotine were then assessed. Only tropisetron at 1 mg kg-1 attenuated nicotine-induced hyperactivity. To demonstrate the efficacy of the present range of doses of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists in this study, conditioned taste aversion experiments were conducted. Ondansetron (0.1 mg kg-1) failed to attenuate a conditioned taste aversion to saccharin induced by nicotine (0.6 mg kg-1), but did induce a reduction in saccharin preference in choice tests following three saccharin-ondansetron pairings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have described fatty liver, diagnosed by computed tomography scanning (CT) in more than 30% of patients with breast cancer who received tamoxifen. Therefore, it is urgent to elucidate the frequency and the degree of fatty liver induced by toremifene, an analogue of tamoxifen, which is also used in breast cancer. We enrolled 52 breast cancer patients who were treated with breast-conservation treatment and administered oral toremifene for 3-5 years as adjuvant endocrine therapy. We evaluated the degree of fatty liver by abdominal CT performed annually. CT demonstrated toremifene-induced fatty liver in four (7.7%) of 52 breast cancer patients. Toremifene-induced fatty liver did not correlate with abnormal levels of AST, ALT, GGT or total cholesterol. One patient who demonstrated moderate fatty liver by CT was histologically diagnosed as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) by liver biopsy. The incidence of toremifene-induced fatty liver was significantly lower than that induced by tamoxifen. Accordingly, in terms of fatty liver and NASH, toremifene is considered to be more appropriate agent than tamoxifen. Though toremifene is less likely to induce fatty liver, the possibility remains that toremifene-induced steatohepatitis occurs. Because the diagnosis of fatty liver or NASH can be easily missed if only a blood test is performed, it is necessary to screen fatty liver by annual CT examination for patients who receive an antiestrogen agent.
Topical minoxidil, used in the treatment of baldness, has been commercially available since 1987. Its systemic side effects are rare. We observed an as yet unreported "polymyalgia syndrome" in four otherwise healthy males whose sole medication was topically applied minoxidil. They experienced fatigue, weight loss and severe pain in the shoulders and pelvic girdle, suggesting connective tissue disease. Three patients had a transient rise in liver enzymes, while other laboratory analyses remained normal. Tritanomaly was detected in two patients who underwent systematic color vision testing. All symptoms disappeared after withdrawal of minoxidil. Rechallenge was positive once in one patient and twice in another. The mechanism of this side effect remains to be determined.
Cigarette smoking is an important risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), yet its pathogenic mechanisms are not yet fully understood. Endothelial dysfunction is known to be involved in the pathogenesis of COPD. A detailed understanding of the mechanism involved in its progression would have a substantial impact on the optimization and development of treatment strategies. Here, we report that the expression of SIRT4, a mitochondrial sirtuin, is markedly down-regulated in cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-treated human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (HPMECs). Overexpression of SIRT4 significantly inhibits CSE-induced mononuclear cell adhesion to HPMECs. Consistently, we found that overexpression of SIRT4 attenuates the induction of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1) and E-selectin. Importantly, SIRT4 was found to negatively regulate CSE-induced NF-κB activation via inhibiting the degradation of IκBα. Moreover, we also found that proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and IL-6, the downstream target genes of NF-κB, are also inhibited by overexpression of SIRT4. These results suggest that SIRT4 protects HPMECs exposed to CSE stress via a mechanism that may involve the NF-κB pathway. Strategies based on the enhancement of SIRT4 may prove to be beneficial in the treatment of cigarette smoking caused COPD.
Extramedullary involvement in the absence of bone marrow disease is rare in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). We report two patients with APL who had central nervous system (CNS) relapse without evidence of cytologic and molecular disease of bone marrow after all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) treatment. Both of the patients were treated successfully with combination of intrathecal chemotherapy and radiotherapy with or without systemic chemotherapy. Although increasing number of cases with extramedullary involvement of APL after ATRA including therapy have been reported, further studies with a large series of patients are necessary to determine whether ATRA increases the risk of development of extramedullary involvement of disease in patients with APL.
Intrathecal neostigmine not only produces analgesia but also severe nausea. In contrast, epidural neostigmine enhances opioid and local anesthetic analgesia without causing nausea. Previous studies examined only single epidural neostigmine bolus administration and did not assess the efficacy of continuous epidural infusion or several aspects of maternal and fetal safety. We therefore tested the hypothesis that epidural neostigmine in combination with bupivacaine by continuous infusion during labor would reduce the amount of bupivacaine required.
Twelve healthy women scheduled for elective cesarean delivery were assigned to receive epidural neostigmine, 40 microg (first six subjects) or 80 microg (second six subjects) as a single bolus, with fetal heart rate (FHR) and uterine contractions monitored for 20 min. In a subsequent experiment, 40 healthy laboring women were randomized to receive bupivacaine 1.25 mg/mL alone or with neostigmine 4 microg/mL by patient-controlled epidural analgesia. The primary outcome measure was hourly bupivacaine use.
Epidural neostigmine bolus did not alter baseline FHR, induce contractions, or produce nausea. Epidural neostigmine infusion reduced bupivacaine requirement by 19% in all patients and 25% in those with >4 h of treatment (P < 0.05 for both) but might have contributed to the incidence of mild sedation. Mode of delivery, incidence of maternal nausea, and FHR abnormality were similar between groups.
These data show that adding epidural neostigmine 4 microg/mL reduces the hourly bupivacaine requirement by 19%-25% with patient-controlled epidural analgesia during labor. Administered as a bolus and by continuous infusion at the studied doses, epidural neostigmine does not cause nausea and does not induce uterine contractions or FHR abnormalities, but mild sedation can occur.
We report mutations in SDHAF1, encoding a new LYR-motif protein, in infantile leukoencephalopathy with defective succinate dehydrogenase (SDH, complex II). Disruption of the yeast homolog or expression of variants corresponding to human mutants caused SDH deficiency and failure of OXPHOS-dependent growth, whereas SDH activity and amount were restored in mutant fibroblasts proportionally with re-expression of the wild-type gene. SDHAF1 is the first bona fide SDH assembly factor reported in any organism.
A patient who had several grand-mal seizures while taking disulfiram in the absence of a challenge with alcohol is described and some of the possible mechanisms for this occurrence are discussed.
The Chinese herbal formula Qilong-Lishui granule (QLG) is an effective natural product for treatment of renal disorder. It was composed of six Chinese herbs according to our clinical practice in the treatment of patients with kidney disease. However, molecular and cellular mechanisms of QLG are still unclear. Therefore, the objective of the current study is to investigate molecular and cellular mechanisms of QLG in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrotic syndrome.
Wistar rats were divided into six groups of sham operation, PAN model, PAN model with high-dosage QLG (QLG-H), PAN model with median-dosage QLG (QLG-M), PAN model with low-dosage QLG (QLG-L), and PAN model with fosinopril (FP). The PAN model was induced by jugular vein injection of PAN at a dose of 5 mg/100 g body weight. Quantities of 24 h urinary protein excretion were examined on days 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30. All rats were sacrificed on day 31 for blood biochemistry, kidney histology and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis.
PAN-induced nephrotic syndrome was successfully produced in rats. Treatment of QLG significantly reduced protein excretion and blood urea nitrogen and creatinine. QLG and FP treatments also improved protein content in blood, and reduced total cholesterol and triglyceride in blood. Moreover, QLG and FP improved the damage of interstitial induced by PAN. Furthermore, CYP and FP were able to reverse BMPRII and Smad1 mRNAs abundance caused by PAN.
QLG attenuates PAN-induced kidney injury possibly through the bone morphogenetic protein signal transduction pathway.
Dimemorfan (a sigma1 receptor agonist) showed neuroprotective properties in animal models of inflammation-mediated neurodegenerative conditions, but its effects on inflammatory cells and systemic inflammation remain unclear.
The effects of dimemorfan on phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA)- and N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (fMLP)- induced neutrophils and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated microglial cells, as well as LPS-induced endotoxin shock in mice were elucidated.
Dimemorfan decreased PMA- and fMLP-induced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and CD11b expression in neutrophils, through mechanisms independent of sigma1 receptors, possibly by blocking ROS production and G-protein-mediated intracellular calcium increase. Dimemorfan also inhibited LPS-induced ROS and nitric oxide (NO) production, as well as that of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), by inhibition of NADPH oxidase (NOX) activity and suppression of iNOS up-regulation through interfering with nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kappaB) signalling in microglial cells. Treatment in vivo with dimemorfan (1 and 5 mg kg(-1), i.p., at three successive times after LPS) decreased plasma TNF-alpha, and neutrophil infiltration and oxidative stress in the lung and liver.
Our results suggest that dimemorfan acts via sigma1 receptor-independent mechanisms to modulate intracellular calcium increase, NOX activity, and NF-kappaB signalling, resulting in inhibition of iNOS expression and NO production, and production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. These effects may contribute its anti-inflammatory action and protective effects against endotoxin shock in mice.
A multigenic model of prostate cancer susceptibility has been proposed, in which common polymorphic variants of genes, such as the androgen and vitamin D receptor, contribute to tumorigenesis. The discovery of additional genetic factors that contribute to prostate cancer risk should provide opportunities for new approaches to the detection and treatment of this common malignancy. Herein, we examined single nucleotide polymorphic variants in the 3'-untranslated region of CDKN1A (p21(cip1)) and in codon 109 of CDKN1B (p27(kip1)) for association with advanced prostate cancer in a European-American population. Ninety-six cases and 106 controls were analyzed using PCR amplification and restriction digestion assays. CDKN1A genotype was scored as CC, CT, and TT on the basis of the digestion products. The CDKN1A genotypes CT and TT were associated with an increased risk of advanced prostate carcinoma compared with the CC genotype [odds ratio (OR), 2.24; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.02-4.95]. The CDKN1B genotype was scored as VV, VG, or GG, again on the basis of the digestion products. The CDKN1B genotype VV was also associated with an increased risk of advanced prostate carcinoma (OR, 1.95; 95% CI, 1.09-3.47). These associations were particularly strong in those patients with androgen-independent disease [OR = 2.88 (95% CI, 1.19-6.97) and 2.11 (95% CI, 1.05-4.22) for high-risk genotypes of CDKN1A and CDKN1B, respectively]. In addition, the association of CDKN1B was particularly strong in the cohort of patients under the median age of diagnosis (OR, 2.23; 95% CI, 1.08-4.59). These results suggest that in a European-American population, CDKN1A and CDKN1B variants are associated with advanced prostate cancer. Analysis of CDKN1A and/or CDKN1B genotypes may prove useful in determining which patients are at risk for developing advanced prostate carcinoma and therefore would gain the most from aggressive screening, prophylaxis, and/or treatment.
Polymicrogyria is a relatively common but poorly understood defect of cortical development characterized by numerous small gyri and a thick disorganized cortical plate lacking normal lamination. Here we report de novo mutations in a beta-tubulin gene, TUBB2B, in four individuals and a 27-gestational-week fetus with bilateral asymmetrical polymicrogyria. Neuropathological examination of the fetus revealed an absence of cortical lamination associated with the presence of ectopic neuronal cells in the white matter and in the leptomeningeal spaces due to breaches in the pial basement membrane. In utero RNAi-based inactivation demonstrates that TUBB2B is required for neuronal migration. We also show that two disease-associated mutations lead to impaired formation of tubulin heterodimers. These observations, together with previous data, show that disruption of microtubule-based processes underlies a large spectrum of neuronal migration disorders that includes not only lissencephaly and pachygyria, but also polymicrogyria malformations.
