Resveratrol (RSV), a naturally occurring polyphenolic stilbenoid, is known to possess potent anti-atherogenic properties; however, the effect of RSV on hypercholesterolemia is not fully understood. We hypothesized that RSV decreases blood cholesterol levels through the activation of cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase (CYP7A1)-mediated bile acid synthetic pathway pathways in vitro and in vivo.
In this study, we evaluated body weight, serum lipid concentrations, hepatic lipid content and the size of the bile acid pool in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed C57BL/6 J mice that were treated with RSV. In addition, we characterized the underlying mechanism of the effects of RSV in HepG2 hepatocytes by Western blot analysis.
RSV (200 mg/kg per day) reduced body weight and liver weight gains, improved serum lipid parameters, reduced hepatic cholesterol accumulation and increased the bile acid pool size in mice fed an HFD for 8 wks. RSV significantly increased liver expression of CYP7A1 mRNA and protein and CYP7A1 enzyme activity. Furthermore, RSV treatment upregulated CYP7A1 expression and induced liver X receptor alpha (LXRα) activation in a time- and dose-dependent manner in HepG2 cells. In addition, the specific liver X receptor alpha (LXRα) inhibitor geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) inhibited the RSV-induced expression of CYP7A1 in HepG2 hepatocytes.
The beneficial effects of RSV on HFD-induced hypercholesterolemia are mediated through LXRα signaling pathways, suggesting a potential target for the prevention of dyslipidemia.
To determine whether regression of hypertensive hypertrophy through blood pressure control also involves left ventricular collagen and consecutive alterations in left ventricular diastolic and systolic function, antihypertensive treatment with the calcium channel blocker nifedipine (30 mg/kg.day) was employed in 20-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats (n = 15) for a period of 20 weeks. Age-matched (40 weeks old) untreated (n = 13) and 20-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats representing the state before therapy (n = 14) were used for comparison. Myocardial stiffness was described by the tangent modulus Km of the elastic stiffness-stress relation. Left ventricular collagen was determined by means of hydroxyproline (OH-proline) concentration. Myocardial working capacity of the left ventricle was measured as the peak developed systolic pressure per weight unit muscle mass and systolic peak pump function as the maximum achievable cardiac output under volume loading. After the 20-week course of nifedipine treatment, systolic aortic pressure dropped from 187 +/- 11 to 144 +/- 6 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). Regression of hypertrophy was shown by a left ventricular muscle/body weight ratio of 2.13 +/- 0.18 mg/g (p less than 0.01) in the 40-week-old nifedipine-treated hypertensive rats, whereas the ratios of the 20-week-old and 40-week-old untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats were 2.3 +/- 0.30 and 2.34 +/- 0.18 mg/g, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To explore the expression of multidrug resistance gene 1 ( MDR1), glutathione-S-transferases-pi (GST-pi) in osteosarcoma and soft tissue sarcoma tissues from 34 patients and their correlation with chemotherapy resistance.
MDR1 and GST-pi expressions were analyzed by real-time fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction (FQ-PCR) and flow cytometry (FCM) at mRNA and protein levels, respectively. Chemotherapy sensitivity on adriamycin, cisplatinum, fluorouracil, mitomycin C, dacarbazine, vincristine, methotrexate in tumor tissues were detected by MTT assay.
The nonsensitive rates on adriamycin, cisplatinum, fluorouracil, mitomycin C, dacarbazine, vincristine, methotrexate in tumor tissues were 41.18%, 17.7%, 47.1%, 50.0%, 76.5%, 61.8% and 52.9%, respectively. The expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and GST-pi in tumor tissues was 1.54 and 2.58 (relative fluorescence intensity). Chi2 analysis showed that there was a positive correlation between P-gp expression and drug resistance on ADM, GST-pi expression and resistance on ADM, DDP and MMC (P < 0.05). There was not seen obvious correlation between expression of MDR1, GST-pi and age, gender, pathological type, tumor size in osteosarcoma and soft tissue sarcoma patients (P > 0.05). The expression of GST-pi was increased in patients receiving preoperative chemotherapy. The rate of postoperative recurrence was higher in patients with higher GST-pi expression level than those with lower GST-pi expression level before operation (P < 0.05).
Individual differences exist in chemotherapy sensitivity and expression of MDR1 and GST-pi in osteosarcoma and soft tissue sarcomas patients. Chemotherapy can induce up-regulation of GST-pi protein expression. Primary high expression of GST-pi is the main mechanism of resistance of osteosarcoma and soft tissue sarcomas to chemotherapy and is related to poor prognosis.
A new hypothesis is advanced suggesting that unpredictable cases of profound hearing loss after intratympanic gentamicin treatment (IGT) may be caused by decreased patency of the communication routes between the inner ear and the cerebrospinal fluid, primarily of the cochlear aqueduct. A tympanic displacement analyzer, which can indirectly analyze inner ear and intracranial pressure changes and can also evaluate the efficiency of communication between these two compartments, was used. Two cases are presented: in the first, a patient who became deaf after IGT showed signs of decreased patency of the communication routes with the tympanic membrane displacement (TMD) test; in the second, a patient without hearing damage after IGT had efficient communication evaluated by the TMD test. These preliminary findings are in accordance with the proposed pathophysiology. If future clinical studies confirm the present theory and findings, it may prove possible to predict and prevent deafness after IGT and possibly also after systemic aminoglycoside treatment.
Resveratrol is known as an activator of SIRT1, which leads to the deacetylation of histone and non-histone protein substrates, but also has other pharmacological profiles such as the inhibition of monoamine oxidase (MAO)-A and MAO-B. Resveratrol was previously demonstrated to potentiate the rewarding effects of chronic cocaine via activation of SIRT1. However, the role of resveratrol in cocaine responses in the acute phase remains unexplored. Therefore, we investigated the acute effects of resveratrol on cocaine-stimulated dopamine neurotransmission by analyzing protein phosphorylation in neostriatal slices. Treatment with resveratrol (50μM for 30min) enhanced cocaine-induced increases in the phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr34 and GluA1 at Ser845, postsynaptic substrates for dopamine/D1 receptor/PKA signaling, and a cocaine-induced decrease in the phosphorylation of tyrosine hydroxylase at Ser40, a presynaptic substrate for dopamine/D2 receptor signaling. The inhibition of both MAO-A and MAO-B by clorgyline and pargyline, respectively, enhanced the effects of cocaine on DARPP-32 phosphorylation. The acute effect of resveratrol on cocaine-induced DARPP-32 phosphorylation was occluded with inhibition of MAO-A and MAO-B. In behavioral studies, resveratrol (40mg/kg, s.c.) enhanced the increase in locomotor activity induced by acute cocaine administration (10mg/kg, i.p.). Thus, this study provides pharmacological evidence that acute resveratrol enhances cocaine-induced dopamine neurotransmission and behavioral responses, presumably via mechanisms involving the inhibition of dopamine catabolism by MAO-A and MAO-B. Resveratrol may be useful to treat dysregulated dopamine neurotransmission, but it may enhance the risk of developing drug addiction.
Hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD) is nephrotoxic in rats causing damage to the proximal tubules. Renal toxicity is presumed to be due to bioactivation by glutathione S-conjugate formation and further processing by the enzymes of the mercapturic acid pathway to reactive intermediates. Recent studies revealed major sex-dependent differences in the pattern of urinary metabolites and gave evidence for the excretion of unmetabolized HCBD in the urine of male, but not female, rats. The objective of this study was to investigate the basis for the excretion of unchanged HCBD in the urine. We administered [14C]-HCBD (200 mg/kg bw, po) to male and female Sprague-Dawley (SD) and NCI Black-Reiter rats (NBR), an alpha 2u-globulin-deficient strain. No major differences in the disposition and in the rates of excretion of [14C]-derived radioactivity were observed between animals of both strains. Previously observed sex-specific differences in the formation of urinary metabolites in Wistar rats were now confirmed in SD rats and were also found in NBR rats. In contrast to male SD rats, however, NBR rats did not excrete unmetabolized HCBD with urine. [14C]-HCBD (10% of total urinary metabolites) was only present in the urine of male SD rats. Anion-exchange HPLC showed radioactivity associated with the alpha 2u-globulin fraction in urine and renal cytosol of male SD rats; the radioactive compound was identified as HCBD bound to the protein. The results indicate that the male-specific urinary excretion of HCBD is associated with its binding to alpha 2u-globulin. Light microscopic examination revealed the formation of hyaline droplets indicative of the accumulation of alpha 2u-globulin in the kidney of male SD rats after staining with Lee's methylene blue basic fuchsin. H&E staining additionally confirmed the finding of more pronounced necrotic changes in renal tubules of male SD rats than in females as previously described for Wistar rats. Binding of HCBD to alpha 2u-globulin may contribute to the pronounced nephrotoxicity in male rats.
The aim of this study was to explore the molecular mechanisms underlying the protective effect of pravastatin against carboplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in rodents. We exposed rat NRK-52E renal tubular epithelial cells to carboplatin, with or without pravastatin. Pravastatin decreased production of reactive oxygen species, increased expression of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), cyclooxygenase-2, and 6-keto prostaglandin F1alpha, enhanced nuclear translocation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha), and increased HO-1 promoter and peroxisome proliferator response element (PPRE) activities. We found interaction of PPARalpha with PPRE on the HO-1 promoter in nuclear extracts from pravastatin-treated NRK-52E cells and by chromatin immunoprecipitation. We pretreated mice with pravastatin and then administered a single intraperitoneal injection of carboplatin. Effects on renal function, morphology, apoptosis, and survival were assessed. In response to carboplatin injection, mice developed acute renal failure, with elevated activated caspase-3, increased apoptotic bodies, and decreased survival. Pretreatment with pravastatin significantly ameliorated renal dysfunction and apoptosis and improved renal morphology and survival. Injection of pravastatin also induced overexpression of PPARalpha and HO-1 in wild-type mice, and HO-1 expression was significantly attenuated in PPARalpha-knockout mice. These results indicate that pravastatin up-regulates HO-1 and protects against carboplatin-induced renal dysfunction and apoptosis via a PPARalpha-dependent pathway.
Cisplatin is an effective and widely used first-line chemotherapeutic drug for treating cancers. However, many patients sustain cisplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN), often leading to a reduction in drug dosages or complete cessation of treatment altogether. Therefore, it is important to understand cisplatin mechanisms in peripheral nerve tissue mediating its toxicity and identify signaling pathways for potential intervention. Rho GTPase activation is increased following trauma in several models of neuronal injury. Thus, we investigated whether components of the Rho signaling pathway represent important neuroprotective targets with the potential to ameliorate CIPN and thereby optimize current chemotherapy treatment regimens. We have developed a novel CIPN model in the mouse. Using this model and primary neuronal culture, we determined whether LM11A-31, a small-molecule, orally bioavailable ligand of the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)), can modulate Rho GTPase signaling and reduce CIPN. Von Frey filament analysis of sural nerve function showed that LM11A-31 treatment prevented decreases in peripheral nerve sensation seen with cisplatin treatment. Morphometric analysis of harvested sural nerves revealed that cisplatin-induced abnormal nerve fiber morphology and the decreases in fiber area were alleviated with concurrent LM11A-31 treatment. Cisplatin treatment increased RhoA activity accompanied by the reduced tyrosine phosphorylation of SHP2, which was reversed by LM11A-31. LM11A-31 also countered the effects of calpeptin, which activated RhoA by inhibiting SHP2 tyrosine phosphatase. Therefore, suppression of RhoA signaling by LM11A-31 that modulates p75(NTR) or activates SHP2 tyrosine phosphatase downstream of the NGF receptor enhances neuroprotection in experimental CIPN in mouse model.
To date no controlled, randomised studies with flexible dose regimens have been conducted in children with rolandic epilepsy, and therapy is therefore still empirical.
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of clobazam (CLB) compared with that of carbamazepine (CBZ) in rolandic epilepsy.
A prospective, open, controlled and randomised study was carried out to compare CBZ and CLB in children with rolandic epilepsy with a follow-up over a two-year period. A random sample of 45 patients was taken and 38 of them finished the study. A flexible dose regimen was indicated. Control of seizures, academic performance, behaviour, adherence to treatment, parents' degree of satisfaction and side effect profiles were all evaluated.
Both drugs were equally effective at controlling seizures (94.1% of patients with CLB and 100% of those with CBZ were free of seizures on ending the study; p = 0.26). CLB controlled seizures earlier (33.3 +/- 45 days versus 48.2 +/- 72.3; p < 0.05) and had fewer side effects than CBZ (side effects appeared in three patients with CLB and in eight of those on CBZ; p = 0). In two of the patients taking CBZ, the seizures got worse and a series of cognitive-behavioural complications also appeared.
CBZ is an effective drug in rolandic epilepsy, but it may be associated with exacerbation of seizures as well as with cognitive-behavioural impairment. CLB in monotherapy seems to be an effective and better tolerated drug in this kind of epilepsy.
We sought to characterize the effects of the nonselective Ca2+ channel antagonist, verapamil, and the vascular-selective Ca2+ channel antagonist, felodipine, on obese, hypertensive, heart failure-prone, female SHHF/Mcc-fa(cp) rats. Rats were treated for < or = 2 months with verapamil (57 mg/kg/day) or felodipine (24 mg/kg/day). Blood pressures were determined at monthly intervals by the tail-cuff method. Heart weights and myosin isoforms were measured at the end of treatment. Direct cardiac effects of verapamil and felodipine were examined in electrically field stimulated, fura-2/AM-loaded cardiomyocytes. Both Ca2+ channel antagonists reduced systolic blood pressures. Verapamil, but not felodipine, increased heart weights and decreased expression of the myosin V1 isoform. In older animals, 75% of those treated with verapamil developed end-stage congestive heart failure. Age-matched control and felodipine-treated rats remained healthy. In isolated cardiomyocytes, 10(-9) M verapamil significantly reduced Ca2+ transient amplitudes but 10(-9) M felodipine did not. Both Ca2+ channel antagonists reduced blood pressures in obese, hypertensive, female SHHF rats. Verapamil, but not felodipine, produced heart failure in a large number of these animals. Differences between the in vivo effects of the two Ca2+ channel antagonists may be related to the differing effects on sarcolemmal Ca2+ influx.
Myopathy often complicates Zidovudine (AZT) treatment in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). The pathogenesis of the myopathy is controversial, since clinical phenomena intrinsic to AIDS may interfere per se with the onset of the myopathy. In the present work we investigated the in vivo effect of AZT in an animal model species (rat) not susceptible to HIV infection. Histochemical and electron microscopic analyses demonstrated that, under the experimental conditions used, the in vivo treatment with AZT does not cause in skeletal muscle true dystrophic lesions, but rather mitochondrial alterations confined to the fast fibers. In the same animal models, the biochemical analysis confirmed that mitochondria are the target of AZT toxicity in muscles. The effects of AZT on mitochondria energy transducing mechanisms were investigated in isolated mitochondria both in vivo and in vitro. Membrane potential abnormalities, due to a partial impairment of the respiratory chain capability observed in muscle mitochondria from AZT-treated rats, closely resemble those of control mitochondria in the presence of externally added AZT. mtDNA deletion analysis by PCR amplification and Southern blot analysis did not show any relevant deletion, while mtDNA depletion analysis demonstrated a significant decrease in mtDNA in AZT-treated rats. The present findings show that AZT causes damage to mitochondria by two mechanisms: a short-term mechanism that affects directly the respiratory chain, and a long-term mechanism that alters the mitochondrial DNA thus impairing the mitochondrial protein synthesis. In addition, the ultrastructural observations indicate that the fiber types are differently affected upon AZT treatment, which poses a number of questions as to the pathogenesis of this myopathy.
A randomised study was conducted in 62 patients with advanced breast cancer to assess whether granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) would yield an increase in the dose intensity of a standard-dose CEF regimen through an acceleration of chemotherapy administration. Patients received CEF (cyclophosphamide 600 mg m-2, epidoxorubicin 60 mg m-2 and fluorouracil 600 mg m-2) i.v. on day 1 or the same chemotherapy, plus GM-CSF 10 micrograms kg-1 s.c. starting from day 4, repeated as soon as haematopoietic recovery from nadir occurred. Patients in the CEF + GM-CSF group received chemotherapy at a median interval of 16 days compared with 20 days in the control group. This led to a significant increase (P = 0.02) in the dose intensity actually administered in the third, fourth and sixth cycles: +28%, +25%, +20% respectively. Non-haematological toxicity was mild. GM-CSF had to be reduced or suspended in 50% of patients because of toxicity. Haematological toxicity, mainly cumulative anaemia and thrombocytopenia, was manageable. An increase in response rate for patients with measurable disease, of borderline statistical significance (P = 0.088, P for trend = 0.018), from 42% in the CEF group to 69% in the CEF + GM-CSF group, was observed. This randomised trial indicates that GM-CSF is useful for chemotherapy acceleration. Accelerated CEF + GM-CSF is a moderately dose-intensive regimen that can be administered in an outpatient clinic and is associated with a high objective response.
Apart from the essential role of 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in calcium and phosphorus metabolism, this compound and its analogs are involved in regulating the functions of the central nervous and immune systems. Active forms of vitamin D3 have been reported to stimulate neurotrophin gene expression and to prevent neuronal damage against a variety of insults. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of PRI-2191-a low-calcemic analog of 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (50 ng/kg i.p., once daily for 8 days) on seizure-related neuronal degeneration, changes in some brain gene expression and immune system activity. Seizures were induced by pilocarpine (400 mg/kg; i.p.) administration. An in situ hybridization study showed that the pilocarpine-induced seizures led to time-dependent changes in the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), heat shock protein 70 (HSP-70) and prepro-thyreoliberin (prepro-TRH) gene expression in several cortical and hippocampal regions. The maximal induction of gene expression was 3 h for BDNF and 24 h for HSP-70 and prepro-TRH; however, only in the case of prepro-TRH that effect was long-lasting. PRI-2191 alone had no effect on gene expression, but it enhanced the seizure-evoked expression of HSP-70, had an opposite effect on BDNF mRNA level and did not affect prepro-TRH mRNA level. Moreover, PRI-2191 had a moderate inhibitory effect on the seizure-related hippocampal damage in the CA1 field only. An immunological study revealed that PRI-2191 reversed the seizure-induced decrease in the proliferative activity of splenocytes and their ability to produce interferon-gamma. Summing up, the present study demonstrated that subchronic administration of PRI-2191 significantly modulated the seizure-related changes in both the brain and the peripheral immune system of rats.
Previous research suggests that the noradrenergic system modulates flexibility of access to the lexical-semantic network, with propranolol benefiting normal subjects in lexical-semantic problem solving tasks. Patients with Broca's aphasia with anomia have impaired ability to access appropriate verbal output for a given visual stimulus in a naming task. Therefore, we tested naming in a pilot study of chronic Broca's aphasia patients with anomia after propranolol and after placebo in a double-blinded crossover manner. Naming was better after propranolol than after placebo, suggesting a potential benefit from propranolol in chronic Broca's aphasia with anomia. Larger follow-up studies are necessary to further investigate this effect.
To clarify effect of converting enzyme inhibitors (CEI) on heart rate regulation, captopril (2 mg/kg) was injected intravenously (i.v.) with or without pretreatment of atropine and also responses to intracisternal (i.c.) injections were examined. Captopril induced bradycardia with lowering blood pressure, and this bradycardia was abolished by pretreatment of atropine. Reduction of heart rate by i.c. injection of captopril was significantly larger than those of i.v. injection. Furthermore, to determine whether CEI can modify baroreflexes centrally, the aortic depressor nerve (ADN) was stimulated electrically in captopril treated rats. Vasodepressor and sympatho-inhibitory responses induced by ADN stimulation were significantly attenuated by captopril, while the bradycardiac response was not changed. These findings suggest that captopril attenuated centrally vasodepressor and sympatho-inhibitory responses of the baroreflex and activated centrally cardiac vagal efferent activity.
The role of mu opioid receptors in the nucleus raphe dorsalis (DR) in the control of apomorphine-induced aggression was studied in rats. Administration in the DR of a selective mu opioid receptor agonist, (D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol)-enkephalin (DAGO), in doses ranging from 0.01 to 1 microgram/0.5 microliter, dose-dependently reduced aggression caused by apomorphine 20 mg/kg intraperitoneally. 0.01 microgram DAGO significantly reduced the time spent by the animals in aggressive posture and 0.1 and 1 microgram markedly reduced both aggressive postures and attacks. 5 micrograms (in 0.5 microliter) naloxone in the DR completely antagonized the anti-aggressive effect of DAGO (0.1 microgram/0.5 microliter) injected in the same area. 0.1 and 1 microgram but not 0.01 microgram DAGO significantly increased serotonin (5-HT) metabolism in the striatum, a terminal area almost exclusively innervated by DR, indicating that the activity of 5-HT cells in the DR was modified by DAGO. In animals given 6 micrograms/3 microliters 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine in the DR 11 days before, in which striatal 5-HT levels were markedly depleted, no significant changes were found in the time spent by the apomorphine-treated animals in aggressive postures, numbers of attacks or anti-aggressive effect of 0.1 and 1 microgram DAGO administered in the DR. The study shows for the first time that activation of mu opioid receptors in the DR has a powerful anti-aggressive effect in one model of experimental aggression by a mechanism apparently not involving changes in the activity of 5-HT cells in this area.
This study assessed the feasibility of augmenting cerebral blood flow (CBF) and decreasing hemispheric cerebrovascular resistance (CVR) by intracarotid papaverine during acute cerebral hypotension. Awake patients (n = 10) undergoing transfemoral balloon occlusion of an internal carotid artery (ICA) with nitroprusside (SNP)-induced systemic hypotension (10% reduction of mean arterial pressure) were studied. We measured mean femoral artery pressure (MAP), mean distal ICA pressure (P(ica)), and CBF (intracarotid 133Xe) at two time points: before and after intracarotid papaverine infusion (1 or 7 mg/min). Two patients became symptomatic immediately after ICA occlusion and were excluded. One patient developed a focal seizure during papaverine infusion. In another, the occlusion balloon deflated prematurely. Of the remaining six patients, two of the three patients who received high-dose papaverine (7 mg/min) developed transient obtundation. The remaining three patients, who received low-dose papaverine (1 mg/min), did not develop any neurologic symptoms. There was a trend for intracarotid papaverine to increase hemispheric CBF by 36% (33 +/- 10 versus 45 +/- 22 ml x 100 g(-1) x min(-1), P = .084, n = 6); papaverine decreased CVR from 1.3 +/- 0.4 to 1.0 +/- 0.3 mm Hg x ml(-1) x 100 g(-1) x min(-1) (P = .049). There was no significant change in heart rate, MAP, or P(ica) during experimental protocol. Manipulation of CVR by intracarotid papaverine during acute hemispheric arterial hypotension appears to be feasible. Further studies are needed to establish safety and efficacy.
We investigated the role of endogenous nitric oxide, kinins, and prostaglandins in the vasodepressor and renal excretory effects of the angiotensin II receptor antagonist losartan and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor ramipril administered for 1 week to spontaneously hypertensive rats. To this end, either losartan (10 mg/kg per day) or ramipril (2.5 mg/kg per day) was administered in drinking water with or without simultaneous administration of (1) the nitric oxide synthesis inhibitor Ng-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 6 mg/kg per day), (2) the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (5 mg/kg per day), (3) the bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist Hoe 140 (0.5 mg/kg per day SC), or (4) L-NAME plus indomethacin. Both losartan and ramipril significantly reduced blood pressure as measured by the tail-cuff method. L-NAME increased blood pressure when administered solely or in combination with losartan. However, L-NAME attenuated the hypotensive effect of ramipril. Indomethacin did not affect blood pressure but it reduced the antihypertensive action of losartan and ramipril. Indomethacin administration did not potentiate the increase in blood pressure induced by L-NAME. However, the concurrent administration of both inhibitors almost totally blunted the vasodepressor action of ramipril. By contrast, losartan administration in the presence of L-NAME and indomethacin increased blood pressure to a level similar to that after losartan plus L-NAME. Hoe 140 did not modify either blood pressure or the hypotensive effects of losartan or ramipril. Increases in diuresis and water intake were observed during ramipril administration. Both effects were blunted only with the concurrent administration of L-NAME and indomethacin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia. It is characterized by the presence of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the brain, and impairment of the central cholinergic system, which contribute to memory loss and cognitive dysfunction. Cholinesterase inhibitors prevent the hydrolysis of acetylcholine and are currently approved for the symptomatic treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Donepezil, a piperidine-based, reversible and specific inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase, has been demonstrated to be clinically effective in the treatment of patients with mild to moderate AD. To date, clinical trials have not reported an association between treatment with donepezil and hepatotoxicity. We describe a case of toxic hepatitis, documented by liver biopsy, in a patient treated with donepezil.
Amphotericin B-induced nephrotoxicity is frequent, severe and associated with an increased risk of death. Patients with underlying renal disease are considered to be at high risk for amphotericin B nephrotoxicity. Amphotericin B is a molecule that is highly protein bound over a wide range of protein and drug concentrations, including those seen in patients with >or= 3 + proteinuria. We hypothesized that amphotericin B treatment in patients with proteinuria will be associated with less hypokalaemia than patients with non-proteinuric renal disease.
Thirty-six subjects who received amphotericin B deoxycholate were studied retrospectively. Twenty-five patients with proteinuria < 3 g/L and 11 with proteinuria >or= 3 g/L were compared.
Hypokalaemia (K+ < 3.5 mmol/L) developed in 47.2% (17/36) of our cohort of patients. There was a 64% (16/25) incidence of hypokalaemia in the group with < 3 g/L of proteinuria in contrast to an incidence of 9.1% (1/11) in the other group.
In our study, heavy proteinuria appears to protect the tubular luminal membrane by decreasing the luminal concentration of free drug available to bind with the membrane. Our findings redefine the patient population deemed to be at risk of developing amphotericin B nephrotoxicity. This ensures the benefit of this important antifungal treatment option to patients with heavy proteinuria who might otherwise not be administered this drug due to the presence of pre-existing kidney disease.
Complex regional pain syndrome type I (CRPS-I) requires the presence of regional pain and sensory changes associated with findings such as abnormal skin color, temperature change, sudomotor activity, or edema, following a noxious event. Complex regional pain syndrome type I induced by phenobarbital (PB) is not well known, although several reports have strengthened the association between PB and CRPS-I. I reviewed the charts of 99 patients treated with PB to assess the incidence, clinical characteristics, investigations, dosage and plasma concentration of PB, and risk factors in the development of CRPS-I. Six patients developed CRPS-I. Pain was severe and allodynia, swelling, discoloration, sweating were present in all patients. This syndrome manifested bilaterally in some patients. Affected patients included 5 men and 1 woman between the ages of 52 and 78 (average 64.2 years). A radiograph showed demineralization in one patient. Thermography showed temperature differences between affected and unaffected limbs, although in a few patients the differences were little because of bilateral affected limbs. 99Technetium methlyene diphosphonate bone scan showed increased periarticular changes in most of the patients. The patients developed CRPS-I at 9.7 weeks (average) after PB was begun. The average time was 7.5 months between CPRS-I and PB reduction. Neither sympathetic ganglion blockade nor physical therapy was effective. Treatment of CRPS-I consists of PB reduction and prednisone and/or Neurotropin. In all patients clinical symptoms and signs such as pain and edema, and range of motion of their shoulders were improved after PB discontinuation. One patient was followed longitudinally, documenting improvement following discontinuation, reexacerbation with PB rechallenge, and remission once more when PB were discontinued. The higher incidence should depend on the coexistence of separate risk factors such as age and PB dosage. Recognition of CRPS-I induced PB, early diagnosis, and withdrawal of PB are important for symptomatic relief and improvement of QOL.
Acute pancreatitis, which can develop after any whole-organ transplant, is often associated with immunosuppression. Pancreatitis that complicates a liver transplant can be a significant problem that results in a high mortality rate.
We describe the successful use of minimally invasive techniques to treat severe acute pancreatitis. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case in which major laparotomy was precluded by the use of percutaneous necrosectomy to manage necrotizing pancreatitis in a liver transplant recipient. We also briefly review the published literature on severe acute pancreatitis in liver transplant recipients.
Our patient, who had a Model for End- Stage Liver Disease score of 39 when transplanted and an Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score of 19 when infected necrosis in his pancreas was diagnosed, recovered completely after 92 days of hospitalization. He underwent 2 percutaneous drainage procedures and 3 percutaneous necrosectomies to treat his pancreatic complication. A review of the literature revealed that severe acute pancreatitis significantly increases morbidity and mortality in liver transplant recipients. Unlike necrotizing pancreatitis, which develops outside the context of liver transplant where there is a distinct shift towards minimally invasive procedures, infected necrosis associated with fulminant liver failure or a liver transplant is usually treated with open necrosectomy.
Severe acute pancreatitis in liver transplant recipients should be managed exactly as it is in patients who have not received a liver transplant. Anatomically guided minimally invasive necrosectomy appears to be beneficial, especially when patients are critically unwell, as they are following a liver transplant.
One hundred fifty-three patients with limited and 167 with extensive small cell carcinoma of the lung (SCCL) were evaluable for response to treatment with six courses of chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine), irradiation to intrathoracic disease, and prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI). No maintenance chemotherapy was given. Fifty-two percent of patients with limited disease (LD) and 10% of extensive disease patients (ED) achieved a complete response. The median survival times for LD and ED patients were 49 and 34 weeks, respectively. These results were compared to a previous experience with 147 patients who were treated with three courses of similar induction chemotherapy and thoracic irradiation, as well as one year of maintenance chemotherapy (CCNU, procarbazine, and methotrexate) but without PCI. Although the use of PCI was found to reduce the frequency of brain metastases as the site of first relapse, detailed comparisons of response rates and survival showed no significant differences between the two study populations. Prolonged maintenance chemotherapy of the type used in the first study does not favorably influence outcome after intensive induction therapy for SCCL.
Calcium antagonists are reported to have protective effects on the endothelium in vitro and in vivo. Especially, nifedipine, among many calcium antagonists, was shown to improve endothelial dysfunction in patients with hypertension. However, no report has determined whether the improvement of endothelial dysfunction by nifedipine is due to direct effects or indirect effects such as its hypotensive effect. Thus, in this study, we evaluated the direct effects of nifedipine on smoking-induced endothelial dysfunction, since cigarette smoking itself is a major factor in damage of endothelial cells, as well as hypertension. We examined whether nifedipine improves endothelial function in 10 normotensive smokers without any risk factors for atherosclerosis. The subjects were treated with 20 mg nifedipine monotherapy (n = 10) or placebo (n = 10) for 4 weeks. Nifedipine did not affect blood pressure and heart rate of normotensive smokers. We measured forearm blood flow (FBF) by strain-gauge plethysmography after 2 and 4 weeks of treatment. Changes in vasodilator response to reactive hyperaemia were significantly improved in nifedipine-treated subjects (P < 0.05), while there was no significant change in FBP response in control subjects. Response to nitroglycerin was not changed in either group. Moreover, to evaluate the mechanisms of the direct effects of nifedipine on the endothelium, we focused on hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), which is a novel angiogenic growth factor with an antiapoptotic action on endothelial cells. Interestingly, serum HGF concentration in smokers treated with nifedipine was significantly elevated both at 2 and 4 weeks (P < 0.05). Overall, these results demonstrated direct effects of nifedipine in the improvement of endothelial dysfunction in normotensive smokers. The increase in serum HGF concentration by nifedipine might contribute to the improvement of endothelial dysfunction.
Allelotype studies have suggested that chromosome 1p is frequently lost in thyroid cancers, thus suggesting that there is an important tumor suppressor at this location. RIZ1 (PRDM2), located on 1p36, is a recently described tumor suppressor gene and is a member of the protein methyltransferase superfamily. RIZ1 expression is lost in a variety of tumors, primarily by means of epigenetic mechanisms that involve promoter hypermethylation.
RIZ1 expression was examined in a panel of thyroid tumor cell lines and primary thyroid tissues (14 normal, 19 benign, and 31 cancerous) by using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Methylation status of the RIZ1 promoter was studied using bisulfite sequencing and methylation-specific PCR.
The authors demonstrated that RIZ1 expression is lost in thyroid tumor cell lines and is also significantly reduced in thyroid carcinomas, when compared with normal thyroid tissues (P < .0001) and benign tumors (P = .0003). The current study results also showed that loss of RIZ1 is mediated by aberrant cytosine methylation of the RIZ1 promoter. One hundred percent of carcinomas were methylated, compared with 33% of normal thyroid tissues (P = .001). RIZ1 mRNA expression was significantly higher (P = .02) in unmethylated (1.22 +/- 1.2, mean +/- standard deviation [SD]), compared with methylated tissues (0.37 +/- 0.42, mean +/- SD). Last, treatment with a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor led to reactivation of RIZ1 expression in cell lines that had negligible RIZ1 expression at baseline.
The current study suggested an important role for RIZ1 expression in thyroid tumorigenesis and identified a potential novel therapeutic target for tumors unresponsive to other therapies.
Previous studies showed that myocardial contrast echocardiography can be used to detect relative regional underperfusion in a canine model of critical coronary stenoses. The aim of this study was to determine if myocardial contrast echocardiography performed with a sterile sonicated human serum albumin preparation (Albunex, Molecular Biosystems, San Diego, Calif.) could detect the presence of coronary stenoses of variable degrees of severity. The results were compared with myocardial blood flow as assessed by radiolabeled microspheres in 16 open-chest dogs during baseline, following the creation of a coronary stenosis of variable severity and at the peak of dipyridamole-induced hyperemia. When flow ratios (that is, flow in the control area/ischemic area) were examined, a good correlation was observed between the area under the time-intensity curve and radioactive microsphere blood flow (r = 0.94, p < 0.0001), which allowed distinction of mild from severe stenosis. However, a consistent underestimation of the dipyridamole-induced hyperemia by myocardial contrast echo was seen in the control zone. This could be partially explained by a simultaneous increase in coronary blood flow and blood volume with dipyridamole and by attenuation of the ultrasound signal because of the high concentration of microbubbles at high flows. Myocardial contrast echocardiography can quantitate the amount of jeopardized myocardium during various degrees of coronary stenoses.
Arsenic is one of the most common heavy metal contaminants found in the environment, particularly in water. We examined the impact of perinatal exposure to relatively low levels of arsenic (50 parts per billion, ppb) on neuroendocrine markers associated with depression and depressive-like behaviors in affected adult C57BL/6J mouse offspring. Whereas most biomedical research on arsenic has focused on its carcinogenic potential, a few studies suggest that arsenic can adversely affect brain development and neural function. Compared to controls, offspring exposed to 50 parts per billion arsenic during the perinatal period had significantly elevated serum corticosterone levels, reduced whole hippocampal CRFR 1 protein level and elevated dorsal hippocampal serotonin 5HT 1A receptor binding and receptor-effector coupling. 5HT 1A receptor binding and receptor-effector coupling were not different in the ventral hippocampal formation, entorhinal or parietal cortices, or inferior colliculus. Perinatal arsenic exposure also significantly increased learned helplessness and measures of immobility in a forced swim task. Taken together, these results suggest that perinatal arsenic exposure may disrupt the regulatory interactions between the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and the serotonergic system in the dorsal hippocampal formation in a manner that predisposes affected offspring to depressive-like behavior. These results are the first to demonstrate that relatively low levels of arsenic exposure during development can have long-lasting adverse effects on behavior and neurobiological markers associated with these behavioral changes.
Cohen syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder with a variable clinical picture mainly characterized by developmental delay, mental retardation, microcephaly, typical facial dysmorphism, progressive pigmentary retinopathy, severe myopia, and intermittent neutropenia. A Cohen syndrome locus was mapped to chromosome 8q22 in Finnish patients, and, recently, mutations in the gene COH1 were reported in patients with Cohen syndrome from Finland and other parts of northern and western Europe. Here, we describe clinical and molecular findings in 20 patients with Cohen syndrome from 12 families, originating from Brazil, Germany, Lebanon, Oman, Poland, and Turkey. All patients were homozygous or compound heterozygous for mutations in COH1. We identified a total of 17 novel mutations, mostly resulting in premature termination codons. The clinical presentation was highly variable. Developmental delay of varying degree, early-onset myopia, joint laxity, and facial dysmorphism were the only features present in all patients; however, retinopathy at school age, microcephaly, and neutropenia are not requisite symptoms of Cohen syndrome. The identification of novel mutations in COH1 in an ethnically diverse group of patients demonstrates extensive allelic heterogeneity and explains the intriguing clinical variability in Cohen syndrome.
