Modern immunosuppressants have improved the success of kidney transplantation for renal failure patients. They also may induce neurotoxic effects including tremor. We report two cases of pseudonystagmus and oscillopsia in transplant patients caused by immunosuppressant-induced head tremor and gentamicin-induced vestibulotoxicity.
Case reports. Head tremor, static visual acuity, and dynamic visual acuity were measured. Vestibular function was evaluated with ice water calorics.
Both patients had significant head tremor and pseudonystagmus. Head stabilization improved static visual acuity. Dynamic visual acuity revealed a 4-line and 10-line loss of visual acuity, respectively.
These findings of pseudonystagmus and oscillopsia are likely to become more prevalent as more renal failure patients receive transplants. Improvement may be seen with reduction of immunosuppressant, reduction of stimulant intake, use of medications to reduce head tremor, and vestibular rehabilitation.
The aim of this study was to detect clinically relevant differences between iohexol 300 mgI/ml and ioxaglate 320 mgI/ml in lower extremity arteriography. In this randomized double-blind study, 40 patients were examined with iohexol and 40 patients with ioxaglate. Adverse events were evaluated by recording the time of onset and the duration of possible adverse events: during or immediately following the contrast medium injections, after 6 h, and after 24 h following these injections. Heat and pain were scored on visual analog scales. The amount of contrast medium and possible thromboembolic complications were noted. Image quality was evaluated. There were no significant differences in the total amounts of contrast agent administered (ioxaglate mean 121.5 ml vs. iohexol 125.1 ml), scores for heat (ioxaglate mean 6.1 vs. iohexol 6.1) and pain (both agents mean 2.35). Nausea/vomiting was noticed significantly more frequently with ioxaglate (ioxaglate seven patients vs. iohexol one patient (chi 2, P < 0.05)). Thromboembolic complications were not detected. Opacification of vessels was optimal in all patients. No clues were found indicating that one of the agents was better tolerated 6-24 h after the procedure than the other. Nausea/vomiting occurred significantly more frequent with ioxaglate; no further clinically relevant differences were detected.
The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and the safety of a short oral ribosomal immunotherapy (Immucytal) in the prevention of chronic otitis media in children. Seventy-two patients were enrolled in this study, 41 males and 31 females, aged between 6 and 14 years, with an history of recurrent otitis media. Patients were randomised to receive Immucytal (group A) or placebo (group B) according to the following protocol: one tablet daily in the morning 8 days per month for three consecutive months. Immucytal and placebo were identical in shape and size, in order to maintain double-blind conditions. The efficacy parameters were (evaluated before, at the end and 6 months after the beginning of the therapy): clinical score; changes in immunological parameters; patient's parents assessment of symptoms on a scale from 0 (much worse) to 4 (much improved) and hearing tests. Patients of group A, had an improvement of clinical items measured, serum concentrations of immunoglobulins, subjective patient's parents assessment of symptoms and hearing tests. For all evaluations, a significant difference between treatment groups was found. Using this dosage and posology (shorter than others) the beneficial effects of Immucytal were maintained until the end of the 6-month study period.
Treatment of C57Bl/6J mice with three successive doses of all-trans retinoic acid (28 mg kg-1 body weight) on 8 day, 6 h (8d,6h), 8d,12h, and 8d,18h of gestation resulted in a high incidence (79%, 31/39 fetuses) of spina bifida with myeloschisis (spina bifida aperta) in near term fetuses. Twelve hours following the last maternal dose (9d,6h), the caudal aspects of treated embryos, were abnormal, with eversion of the neural plate at the posterior neuropore, as compared to its normal concavity in comparably staged control specimens. This eversion persisted in affected embryos through the time that the posterior neuropore should normally close. The distribution of cell death in control and experimental embryos was determined using vital staining with Nile blue sulphate and with routine histological techniques. Twelve hours following the maternal dosing regimen, experimental embryos showed evidence of excessive cell death, predominantly in the mesenchyme associated with the primitive streak and in the endoderm of the tail gut, both of which are readily identifiable sites of physiological cell death at this stage of development. In addition, the presumptive trunk neural crest cells located in the dorsal midline, cranial to the posterior neuropore, exhibited a marked amount of cell death in the experimental embryos. We propose that the major factor in the generation of spina bifida in this model is excessive cell death in the tail gut and mesenchyme ventral to the neuroepithelium of the posterior neuropore.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lipid metabolic disorders are widely considered to be one of the most critical and basic link in the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The aim of this study was to illustrate the alleviation function of resveratrol (Res) on NAFLD and the roles of hepatic fatty acid synthase (FAS), low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLr), scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI), and thyroid hormone receptor β1 (TRβ1), which are the key molecules involved in lipid metabolism. Adult male Wistar rats were fed a normal diet or high fat/sucrose diet (HFS) with or without resveratrol for 13 weeks. HFS induced NAFLD formation and increased the lipids concentrations in serum and livers of rats, while noticeable improvement has been reached by Res intervention. Moreover, Res protected against HFS-induced decrease in hepatic LDLr and SR-BI mRNA and protein expressions, whereas TRβ1 expressions were impervious with/without Res. Unexpectedly, hepatic FAS gene expressions were markedly diminished in NAFLD rats and were gradually increased by treatment with Res. These data indicate that the alleviative effects of Res on NAFLD are associated with up regulation of hepatic LDLr and SR-BI gene expressions, which provide new insights into the pharmacological targets of Res in the prevention of NAFLD.
In two placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized trials scopolamine (0.3 mg) alone or combined with ephedrine (25 mg) was tested for its effectiveness in the prevention of seasickness during 24 h at sea and of motion sickness in rotating chair tests in a laboratory. Scopolamine was effective both alone and in combination with ephedrine, which supports the hypothesis on central cholinergic overactivity in the pathogenesis of motion sickness. Ephedrine did not markedly increase the effectiveness of scopolamine. Side-effects were slight and did not disturb the operating ability of the volunteers.
In three alcoholic patients, two men aged 30 and 42, and a woman aged 52, hepatitis was diagnosed after the use of disulfiram. In all cases, there was a close temporal relationship between the occurrence of symptoms and disulfiram intake. Other possible causes were excluded. The 30-year-old man died from liver damage. Biopsy showed massive hepatic necrosis without signs of alcoholic hepatitis. In the other patients, symptoms subsided quickly and liver function returned to normal after discontinuation of disulfiram, but there was no confirmation by biopsy. The possibility of drug-induced hepatitis should always be considered in an alcoholic patient treated with disulfiram.
Propolis (bee glue) is one of the major hive products of bees and is rich in flavonoids, which are known for antioxidant activities. Doxorubicin-induced myocardiopathy is the consequence of oxidative stress through the mediation of free radicals. The effect of intraperitoneal administration of propolis (50 and 100 mg/kg) was studied on cardiomyopathy produced by doxorubicin (10 mg/kg, i.v.) in rats. Serum creatine phosphokinase (CK), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), blood and tissue glutathione (GSH), and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in heart were estimated to assess the status of heart muscle. An elevation of the levels of CK, AST, GSH, and TBARS was observed following doxorubicin treatment. Parallel experiments with a pretreatment of propolis significantly reduced the levels of these parameters . Biochemical observations were supplemented by histopathological examination of heart sections. The protective effect of propolis was compared with that of rutin, a known cardioprotective flavonoid. The study demonstrates the cardioprotective effect of propolis in doxorubicin-induced experimental cardiotoxicity.
In childhood, several drugs are the cause of acute extrapyramidal syndromes which are true medical emergencies. In the course of one year out of 321 children with acute poisoning, 49 (14.9%) showed these side effects. The responsible drugs were mainly the phenothiazines and haloperidol; only in two cases the metoclopramide. The extrapyramidal syndromes were characterized by akathisia, dyskinesia with dystonic reactions, parkinsonism and akinesia. Diphenhydramine has shown to be useful in treating acute extrapyramidal disturbances when used intravenously followed by oral administration.
The intrathecal effect of 0.1 to 10 microg of RP-67,580 (3aR,7aR)-7,7-diphenyl-2[1-imino-2(2-methoxyphenyl)-ethyl]++ +perhydroisoindol-4-one hydrochloride, CP-96,345 (2S,3S)-cis-(2(diphenylmethyl)-N-[(2-methoxyphenyl) methyl]-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-3-amine), SR-140,333 (S)-(1-¿2-[3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)- 1-(3-isopropoxyphenylacetyl)piperidin-3-yl]ethyl¿-4-phenyl-1 -azonia-bicyclo[2.2.2.]-octane,chloride), all neurokinin (NK)1-receptor antagonists, SR-48,968 (S)-N-methyl-N[4-(4-acetylamino-4-[phenylpiperidino)-2-(3,4-dichlorophen yl)-butyl]benzamide, a tachykinin NK2 receptor antagonist and SR-142,801 (S)-(N)-(1-(3-(1-benzoyl-3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl) piperidin-3-yl)propyl)-4-phenylpiperidin-4-yl)-N-methyl acetamide, a tachykinin NK3 receptor antagonist, and of their respective inactive enantiomers on thresholds of vocalization due to a mechanical stimulus in mononeuropathic (sciatic nerve ligature) and diabetic rats, was examined. The tachykinin NK1 and the NK2 receptor antagonists were antinociceptive in both models, with a higher effect of the former in diabetic rats. The tachykinin NK3 receptor antagonist was weakly effective in diabetic rats only. This indicates a differential involvement of the tachykinins according to the model of neuropathic pain, suggesting a potential role for tachykinin receptor antagonists in the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Although vitamin D supplementation is a fundamental part of osteoporosis treatment, many patients do not regularly take adequate amounts. A once-weekly (OW) alendronate (ALN) preparation that includes 2800 IU of vitamin D3 in a single combination tablet (ALN+D2800) is available for treating patients and ensuring intake of vitamin D that is consistent with existing guidelines. This randomized, double-blind study extension was conducted to evaluate the safety and tolerability of ALN+D2800 and ALN+D2800 plus an additional 2800 IU vitamin D3 single tablet supplement (ALN+D5600) administered for 24 weeks in men and postmenopausal women with osteoporosis previously treated OW for 15 weeks with either ALN or ALN+D2800. The primary endpoint was the proportion of participants who developed hypercalciuria (defined as a 24-hour urine calcium >300 mg in women or >350 mg in men and an increase of >25% versus randomization baseline) at week 39. The key secondary endpoint was the proportion of participants with vitamin D insufficiency (serum 25(OH)D <15 ng/mL [37.4 nmol/L]) at the end of the study. Hypercalciuria incidence (4.2% [ALN+D5600] vs. 2.8% [ALN+D2800]), did not differ between groups (p = 0.354). No participants developed hypercalcemia. Among the participants with vitamin D insufficiency at the week 0 baseline, the prevalence of insufficiency at the end of the study was reduced by 92% in the ALN+D5600 group and by 86% in the ALN+D2800 group. The incidences of clinical adverse experiences, including drug-related adverse experiences, were similar in both groups. In subjects previously treated with ALN+D2800 for 15 weeks, the addition of 2800 IU D3 for 24 weeks did not produce hypercalcemia nor increase the risk of hypercalciuria.
In 4 years (1993-1996) 206 pts. with nephroblastoma were treated. All children were treated according to SIOP 93-01 protocol. Overall survival was 92%. In 27 cases hepatotoxic events occurred. In 10 cases, venoocclusive liver disease (VOD) was diagnosed. VOD is a syndrome associated with hepatomegaly, sudden weight gain or ascites and jaundice. It results from damage to the endothelium of hepatic venules and necrosis of central hepatocytes with subsequent proliferation of fibrous tissue and occlusion of the central hepatic veins. Dactinomycin is one of the drugs considered responsible for its development. Mean age of VOD patients was 4 yrs, however 3 of them were below 1 yr. In all cases, VOD occurred during postoperative chemotherapy (mean 16 th week of treatment). All patients received dactinomycin and vincristine. Five children with right kidney tumors underwent post-operative abdominal irradiation. Main VOD symptoms were hepatomegaly and ascites (80%). Hypertransaminasaemia, as well as, on ultrasound, gallbladder wall thickening and/or free abdominal fluid were observed. Median VOD duration was 27 days and its course was usually temporary and self-limiting. However, in 2 cases recurrent VOD episodes were noted. All children received supportive treatment only. In 6 cases, VOD resulted in chemotherapy delay or drug reductions, while in 4 others chemotherapy was completed preliminarily. Nevertheless it did not affect patients' outcome overall survival in VOD group was 90%.
Total 5% VOD frequency is similar to other reports. Infants and children receiving abdominal irradiation seem to be at special risk of VOD development.
To analyze cellular mechanisms of limbic-seizure suppression, the response to pilocarpine-induced seizures was investigated in cortex and thalamus, comparing epilepsy-resistant rats Proechimys guyannensis with Wistar rats.
Fos immunoreactivity revealing neuronal activation, and degenerating neurons labeled by Fluoro-Jade B (FJB) histochemistry were analyzed on the first day after onset of seizures lasting 3 h. Subpopulations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic cells were characterized with double Fos-parvalbumin immunohistochemistry.
In both cortex and thalamus, degenerating neurons were much fewer in Proechimys than Wistar rats. Fos persisted at high levels at 24 h only in the Proechimys thalamus and cortex, especially in layer VI where corticothalamic neurons reside. In the parietal cortex, about 50% of parvalbumin-containing interneurons at 8 h, and 10-20% at 24 h, were Fos-positive in Wistar rats, but in Proechimys, Fos was expressed in almost all parvalbumin-containing interneurons at 8 h and dropped at 24 h. Fos positivity in cingulate cortex interneurons was similar in both species. In the Wistar rat thalamus, Fos was induced in medial and midline nuclei up to 8 h, when <30% of reticular nucleus cells were Fos-positive, and then decreased, with no relationship with cell loss, evaluated in Nissl-stained sections. In Proechimys, almost all reticular nucleus neurons were Fos-positive at 24 h.
At variance with laboratory rats, pilocarpine-induced protracted seizures elicit in Proechimys limited neuronal death, and marked and long-lasting Fos induction in excitatory and inhibitory cortical and thalamic cell subsets. The findings implicate intrathalamic and intracortical regulation, and circuits linking thalamus and cortex in limbic seizure suppression leading to epilepsy resistance.
Repeated administration of benzene (440 mg/kg/day, s.c.) to 6-week-old male Fischer-344 rats resulted in a progressive decline in the number of circulating lymphocytes. Pretreatment of these animals with 2,4,5,2',4',5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (HCB) or 3,4,3',4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (TCB) protected against benzene toxicity for as long as 7 days, but not after 10 days of repeated dosing. Representative phase I (mixed-function oxidase) and phase II (conjugating) enzyme activities were measured to determine whether the altered susceptibility to benzene toxicity in TCB- and HCB-pretreated rats could be correlated with changes in the profile of hepatic oxidative and detoxification pathways. Measurement of 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and benzphetamine N-demethylase activities indicated that the loss of protection by HCB or TCB against benzene toxicity after 7 days was not associated with changes in the activities of hepatic mixed-function oxidases inducible by 3-methylcholanthrene or phenobarbital. The time course for the stimulation by TCB and return to control values, of UDP-glucuronosyl transferase activity, a potential route for the elimination of benzene metabolites, mirrored the time course for the protection against toxicity. Epoxide hydratase activity was induced 2- to 3-fold by HCB. Although stimulation of this pathway could result in a decreased concentration of phenol, this activity did not decline with the loss of protection. Hepatic 10 000 X g supernatant fractions, prepared from livers of rats given TCB, were incubated with a non-saturating concentration of [14C] benzene (equivalent to 19 nmol/mg wet wt. tissue). Under these conditions the metabolism of benzene was depressed (40% of control) 2 days after pretreatment; after 14 days, the metabolism of benzene returned to control values. This pattern correlated temporarily with the protection against lymphocytopenia. The data indicate that the protection against benzene toxicity in rats pretreated with HCB or TCB is not necessarily related to the capacity of these compounds to induce phase I activities. In rats pretreated with TCB, the data suggest that decreasing the concentration of primary benzene metabolites, either by inhibiting the hepatic metabolism of benzene or increasing hepatic conjugation activity is an important factor modulating toxicity.
Pharmacological concentrations of arsenic trioxide (ATO) and organic arsenic melarsoprol induce apoptosis in malignant plasma cells. In an attempt to further document the interest of the arsenic in vivo, we treated severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice transplanted with human myeloma cells by ATO or melarsoprol.
Fifty-two SCID mice were irradiated before intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of plasma cells from five myeloma patients. Engraftment was assessed by serial measurement of the human monoclonal immunoglobulin G (HuMIgG) concentration in mouse serum. Treatment with ATO (10 microg/g i.p. 5 d a week), melarsoprol (30 microg/g i.p. 5 d a week) or phosphate buffer saline was started when a sustained growth of the tumor cells was demonstrated.
Seventeen mice developed the human tumor. A significant decrease in HuMIgG amounts was observed in three of five mice of the ATO group, including two that achieved an apparent complete remission persisting up to 5 months after ATO discontinuation. In these mice, no human plasma cells were detected in tissue samples collected postmortem. Soluble human interleukin-6 receptor amount, measured in mice sera as a surrogate marker of the plasma cell proliferation, varied in parallel with HuMIgG concentration. A significant difference in survival was observed between control and ATO treated mice (113 and 158 d, respectively; P = 0.01) whereas no difference could be evidenced in control and melarsoprol groups.
Present study confirms in vivo the in vitro effects of ATO on myeloma cells. Delayed relapses were observed suggesting that prolonged or maintenance therapy has to be considered in future clinical trials. Whether or not this will translate into clinically relevant effect of the drug in myeloma patients deserves further consideration.
Sildenafil citrate (Viagra(R); Pfeizer US Pharmaceutical Group, New York, NY, USA) is a potent vasodilating agent to treat male erectile dysfunction. Among its adverse effects, hemorrhagic stroke has not been widely reported yet. We present a case of a 33-year-old healthy man who ingested 50 mg sildenafil a half hour before onset of headache, nervousness and speech disturbance. Head computed tomogram of this stuporous man showed huge intracerebral hemorrhage and thick subarachnoid hemorrhage, but angiography failed to disclose any vascular anomalies. Subsequent surgical procedure was followed, and rehabilitation was provided thereafter. Sildenafil seems to act by redistributing arterial blood flow, and concurrent sympathetic hyperactivity, which lead to such hemorrhagic presentation. Extreme caution should be paid on even in a young adult male patient wven without known risk factors.
A 3-year-old boy developed confusion, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and sustained ventricular tachycardia following ingestion of an unknown quantity of orphenadrine (Norflex). Although refractory to precordial thump, synchronous cardioversion, and lidocaine, the ventricular tachycardia was reversed by intravenous administration of the tertiary acetylcholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine. We discuss the underlying physiology and manifestations of anticholinergic overdose, the specific manifestations of orphenadrine overdose, and the current recommendations regarding the utilization and toxicity of physostigmine in the treatment of anticholinergic syndromes and orphenadrine intoxication.
Recent studies examining mechanisms of defibrillation have focused on prolongation of graded cellular response duration during refractory period stimulation. This mechanism assumes that defibrillation shocks interact with ventricular cells during the process of repolarization.
To test this assumption, we examined monophasic action potentials (MAPs) from 171 episodes of induced ventricular dysrhythmia associated with loss of systemic perfusion pressure in 22 patients undergoing nonthoracotomy defibrillator implantation. Ventricular fibrillation (VF)/polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (PVT), defined by an irregular limb lead I morphology, was present in 156 dysrhythmia episodes. Monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT), present in the remaining 15 episodes, was associated with regular limb lead morphology. All episodes were examined for MAP cycle length, variation, fractionation, and repolarization. VF/PVT cycle length was 215 +/- 28 msec, with a 14 +/- 7% (33 +/- 20-msec) cycle length variability. Nonfractionated MAP recordings were found in 122 of 156 VF/PVT episodes. Episodes characterized as VF by ECG criteria (n = 136) showed lack of MAP diastole and had a mean cycle length of 213 +/- 27 msec. Episodes characterized as PVT (n = 20) were associated with amiodarone therapy and had occasional MAP diastole and a significantly longer mean cycle length of 257 +/- 22 msec (p < 0.001). Monomorphic VT had a mean cycle length of 261 +/- 29 msec, minimal cycle length variation (1 +/- 3%), absence of MAP fractionation, and consistent degree of repolarization before restimulation.
These results suggest that human VF cycle length is limited by cellular refractory periods so that defibrillating shocks interact with cells primarily during their refractory period.
Lead exposure causes cardiac and vascular damage in experimental animals. However, there is considerable debate regarding the causal relationship between lead exposure and cardiovascular dysfunction in humans. Paraoxonase 1 (PON1), a high-density lipoprotein-associated antioxidant enzyme, is capable of hydrolyzing oxidized lipids and thus protects against atherosclerosis. Previous studies have shown that lead and several other metal ions are able to inhibit PON1 activity in vitro. To investigate whether lead exposure has influence on serum PON1 activity, we conducted a cross-sectional study of workers from a lead battery manufactory and lead recycling plant. Blood samples were analyzed for whole-blood lead levels, serum PON1 activity, and three common PON1 polymorphisms (Q192R, L55M, -108C/T). The mean blood lead level (+/-SD) of this cohort was 27.1+/-15 microg/dL. Multiple linear regression analysis showed that blood lead levels were significantly associated with decreased serum PON1 activity (p<0.001) in lead workers. This negative correlation was more evident for workers who carry the R192 allele, which has been suggested to be a risk factor for coronary heart disease. Taken together, our results suggest that the decrease in serum PON1 activity due to lead exposure may render individuals more susceptible to atherosclerosis, particularly subjects who are homozygous for the R192 allele.
Frequent genetic alterations of the components in the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/PTEN/AKT signaling pathway contribute greatly to breast cancer initiation and progression, which makes targeting this signaling pathway a promising therapeutic strategy for breast cancer treatment. In this study, we showed that in the presence of copper (Cu), disulfiram (DSF), a clinically used antialcoholism drug, could potently inhibit breast cancer cell growth regardless of the PIK3CA status. Surprisingly, the treatment with a mixture of DSF and copper (DSF-Cu) led to the decreased expression of PTEN protein and the activation of AKT in a dose- and time-dependent manner in different cell lines with or without PIK3CA mutations. Treatment of breast cancer cell lines with a combination of DSF-Cu and LY294002, a pan-PI3K inhibitor, resulted in the significant inhibition of cell growth when compared with either drug alone. In addition, the combined treatment of DSF and LY294002 significantly inhibited the growth of the breast tumor xenograft in nude mice induced by MDA-MB-231 cells expressing mutant PIK3CA-H1047R and PIK3CA-E545K, whereas neither DSF nor LY294002 alone could significantly retard tumor growth. Finally, the observed in vivo inhibitory effects are found associated with aberrant signaling alterations and apoptosis-inducing activities in tumor samples. Thus, our finding shows for the first time that treatment of breast cancer with DSF results in a novel feedback mechanism that activates AKT signaling. Our study also suggests that the combination of DSF and a PI3K inhibitor may offer a new combinational treatment model for breast cancer, particularly for those with PIK3CA mutations.
Sotos syndrome is an overgrowth syndrome characterised by pre- and postnatal overgrowth, macrocephaly, advanced bone age, and typical facial features. Weaver syndrome is a closely related condition characterised by a distinctive craniofacial appearance, advanced carpal maturation, widened distal long bones, and camptodactyly. Haploinsufficiency of the NSD1 gene has recently been reported as the major cause of Sotos syndrome while point mutations accounted for a minority of cases. We looked for NSD1 deletions or mutations in 39 patients with childhood overgrowth. The series included typical Sotos patients (23/39), Sotos-like patients (lacking one major criteria, 10/39), and Weaver patients (6/39). We identified NSD1 deletions (6/33) and intragenic mutations (16/33) in Sotos syndrome patients. We also identified NSD1 intragenic mutations in 3/6 Weaver patients. We conclude therefore that NSD1 mutations account for most cases of Sotos syndrome and a significant number of Weaver syndrome cases in our series. Interestingly, mental retardation was consistently more severe in patients with NSD1 deletions. Macrocephaly and facial gestalt but not overgrowth and advanced bone age were consistently observed in Sotos syndrome patients. We suggest therefore considering macrocephaly and facial gestalt as mandatory criteria for the diagnosis of Sotos syndrome and overgrowth and advanced bone age as minor criteria.
Lysosomal involvement in renal tubular lesions was studied mainly by electronmicroscopy after single and repeated administrations of cephacetrile, cephalothin, cephaloridine, gentamicin or leupeptin and combine administrations of cephalothin and gentamicin or gentamicin and leupeptin in female Wistar rats. Large cytosomes of high density were increased due probably to either reabsorption and secretion of drugs or their metabolites. These cytosomes displaying acid phosphatase activity were demonstrated histochemically and were identified as heterolysosomes. In rats treated with cephaloridine, gentamicin or leupeptin, disruption of lysosomal membrane was noted and regional cytoplasmic destruction was seen in the vicinity of the disrupted heterolysosomes. Necrotic epithelial cells and renal insufficiency were observed in these animals. On the other hand, neither destruction of lysosomes nor cell lesion was found in rats treated with cephacetrile or cephalothin. It was speculated that lysosomal destruction might be the cause of the cell lesions found in cephaloridine, gentamicin or leupeptin treated rats.
Adenosine has been postulated to be the physiological transmitter coupling increases in coronary blood flow to increases in myocardial metabolism. The purpose of this experiment was to evaluate the role of adenosine in the coronary hyperemia due to norepinephrine. In 11 anesthetized, closed-chest canine preparations, the left main coronary artery was cannulated and perfused with blood at 100 mmHg. Coronary blood flow and myocardial oxygen consumption were measured, and interstitial adenosine concentration was estimated from arterial and coronary venous measurements using a distributed model. Adenosine receptor blockade with 8-phenyltheophylline (8-PT) was used to shift the adenosine dose-response curve 12-fold. During intracoronary norepinephrine infusion, coronary blood flow and myocardial oxygen consumption increased similarly before and after 8-PT, demonstrating a lack of an effect from the adenosine receptor blockade. Before 8-PT, estimated interstitial adenosine increased to a vasoactive concentration (220 nM); however, the temporal correlation with coronary blood flow was poor. After 8-PT, a similar increase in estimated interstitial adenosine was found, demonstrating that there was no augmentation in adenosine concentration to overcome the adenosine receptor blockade. Thus adenosine could not be responsible for the increase in coronary blood flow after adenosine receptor blockade and therefore is not required for norepinephrine-induced hyperemia.
A woman with mitral prosthesis, treated with amiodarone i.v. (500 mg in two boluses) for an atrial tachycardia, shows repeated episodes of torsade de pointes. Although there is a connection between the intensity of electro-physiological alterations due to the anti-arrhythmic therapy and pro-arrhythmic effects, there are cases in which the torsade de pointes seems to be associated with modest alterations of QT intervals or even without high plasma concentrations of drugs. In these cases a genetic predisposition for drug's metabolism alteration or greater sensibility of target organs is suggested.
Di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) has been widely used in polyvinyl chloride products and has become ubiquitous in the developed countries. DEHP reportedly displays an adjuvant effect on immunoglobulin production. However, it has not been elucidated whether DEHP is associated with the aggravation of atopic dermatitis. We investigated the effects of DEHP on atopic dermatitis-like skin lesions induced by mite allergen in NC/Nga mice. NC/Nga male mice were injected intradermally with mite allergen on their right ears. In the presence of allergen, DEHP (0, 0.8, 4, 20, or 100 microg) was administered by intraperitoneal injection. We evaluated clinical scores, ear thickening, histologic findings, and the protein expression of chemokines. Exposure to DEHP at a dose of 0.8-20 microg caused deterioration of atopic dermatitis-like skin lesions related to mite allergen; this was evident from macroscopic and microscopic examinations. Furthermore, these changes were consistent with the protein expression of proinflammatory molecules such as macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) and eotaxin in the ear tissue in overall trend. In contrast, 100 microg DEHP did not show the enhancing effects. These results indicate that DEHP enhances atopic dermatitis-like skin lesions at hundred-fold lower levels than the no observed adverse effect level determined on histologic changes in the liver of rodents. DEHP could be at least partly responsible for the recent increase in atopic dermatitis.
