Antipsychotic (AP) treatment, in particular with some second-generation drugs, is associated with weight gain and other metabolic side effects. However, the relationship between drug-induced weight gain and dyslipidemia is not well understood. We investigated how cardiometabolic risk factors were related to body mass during treatment with different APs under real-life conditions.
This cross-sectional naturalistic study included 242 subjects with severe mental disorders who were on monotherapy with olanzapine (OLZ) or clozapine (CLZ) (n = 80), monotherapy with other APs (n = 80), or unmedicated (n = 82). Groups were adjusted for age and compared for prevalence of the metabolic syndrome and its components. Groups were further adjusted for body mass and compared for mean values of blood pressure, lipids, and fasting glucose.
There was no significant intergroup difference in the prevalence of metabolic syndrome, obesity, hypertension, or hyperglycemia. Despite similar body mass index, OLZ/CLZ-treated subjects had significantly higher prevalence of dyslipidemia (high triglyceride and low HDL cholesterol levels) than unmedicated subjects. They also had higher mean values of triglycerides (P = 0.003) and lower mean values of HDL cholesterol (P < 0.001). Patients treated with other APs had intermediate values.
Intergroup differences in body mass index were minimal in this naturalistic setting, probably because of awareness of this treatment hazard among clinicians. However, independently of body mass, dyslipidemia was significantly associated with AP treatment, in particular with OLZ and CLZ. These findings indicate a primary effect of APs on lipid regulation, important in understanding their mechanism of action, and with clinical implications.
Epidemiologic studies indicate that the incidence of gastric cancer is higher in males than in females. Although the mechanisms mediating this difference are unclear, a role for estrogens has been proposed. We used Western blotting to evaluate the role of estrogen receptor (ER) subtypes ERα and ERβ and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)-induced gastric carcinogenesis in Wistar rats; ERα and ERβ mRNA levels also were analyzed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis. The incidence of gastric cancer was significantly higher in male than female rats. In both sexes, ERα expression was similar in MNNG-treated cancerous and noncancerous tissues and normal gastric tissue. However, ERβ expression in MNNG-treated cancerous and noncancerous tissues was significantly lower in male rats and higher in female rats than that in normal gastric tissue; MNNG-induced cancerous tissue showed the highest ERβ expression. PCNA expression in MNNG-treated cancerous tissues was higher than that in noncancerous tissues, and was higher in male rats than female rats. Western blotting results were consistent with the mRNA changes determined by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. The present study provides evidence of a sex-associated difference in ERβ and PCNA expression in MNNG-induced gastric cancers in Wistar rats.
Characterization of aberrant microRNA (miRNA) expression during carcinogen-induced cell transformation will lead to a better understanding of the role of miRNAs in cancer development. In this investigation, we evaluated changes in p53 function and its downstream target miRNAs in benzo[a]pyrene (BaP)-induced transformation of human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells. Chronic exposure to BaP induced malignant transformation of cells, in which there were increased levels of mutant p53 (mt-p53) and reduced expression of wild-type p53 (wt-p53) and phosphorylated p53 (p-p53). With acute (12h) exposure to BaP, p-p53 was increased, and with increasing time of exposure (24h), the increase in p-p53 at a concentration of 1μM BaP was followed by a decline with increasing concentrations; wt-p53 and mt-p53 did not change. With prolonged exposure (48h), p-p53 and wt-p53 decreased, but mt-p53 increased. At different exposure times, the levels of miR-34c were consistent with p-p53. Over-expression of miR-34c resulted in inhibition of the BaP-induced G1-to-S transition and diminished up-regulation of cyclin D. Further, up-regulation of miR-34c or silencing of cylin D prevented BaP-induced malignant transformation. Thus, changes in the cell cycle mediated by the p53/miR-34c axis are involved in the transformation cells induced by BaP.
Copper is a common chemical contaminant in coastal environments, including coral reefs. Ecotoxicological studies have demonstrated that exposure to copper can cause stress and detrimental effects in both host cnidarian and algal symbionts. The objective of this study was to investigate the sublethal effects of copper on the reef-building coral Montastraea franksi, by identifying genes with altered expression in corals exposed to dissolved copper, and by measuring the extent of damage to DNA in response to copper exposure. Corals exposed to 30 μg L(-1) copper for 48 h experienced significant DNA damage and displayed changes in expression patterns of genes that are known to play role cellular and oxidative stress responses. Corals also experienced changes in gene expression of genes that are not already known to play roles in oxidative stress in corals. Our data suggest that these genes may either play roles directly in mediating a stress response, or may be genes acting downstream of the stress response. These include an ETS domain-containing transcription factor related to the ETS1 family of transcription factors, known in mammals to mediate development, disease, and stress response, and two genes that are associated with biomineralization: galaxin, a protein from the organic matrix of the coral skeleton, and a coral-specific gene SCRIP2.
We studied mortality after pertussis immunization in the mouse. Without treatment, 73 of 92 animals (80%) died after injection of bovine serum albumin (BSA) on day +7 of pertussis immunization. After pretreatment with 3 mg of cyproheptadine, 2 mg mianserin, or 2 mg chlorpheniramine, only 5 of 105 animals (5%) died after receiving BSA on day +7 (p less than 0.001). Blockade of histamine H1 receptors may reduce mortality in pertussis immunization-induced encephalopathy in mice.
Weight gain and other metabolic disturbances have now become discouraging, major side effects of atypical antipsychotic drugs (AAPDs). The novel strategies required to counteract these serious consequences, however, should avoid modulating the activities of the neurotransmitter receptors involved because those receptors are the therapeutic targets of AAPDs. Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase is an enzyme that plays a pivotal role in energy homeostasis. We hypothesized that alpha-lipoic acid (ALA), which is known to modulate adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase activity in the hypothalamus and peripheral tissues, would ameliorate AAPD-induced weight gain. We describe the case series of a 12-week ALA trial in schizophrenia patients treated with AAPDs. Two of 7 enrolled subjects were dropped from the study because of noncompliance and demand for new medication to treat depressive symptoms, respectively. The mean (SD) weight loss was 3.16 (3.20) kg (P = 0.043, last observation carried forward; median, 3.03 kg; range, 0-8.85 kg). On average, body mass index showed a significant reduction (P = 0.028) over the 12 weeks. During the same period, a statistically significant reduction was also observed in total cholesterol levels (P = 0.042), and there was a weak trend toward the reduction in insulin resistance (homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance) (P = 0.080). Three subjects reported increased energy subjectively. The total scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale and the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale did not vary significantly during the study. These preliminary data suggest the possibility that ALA can ameliorate the adverse metabolic effects induced by AAPDs. To confirm the benefits of ALA, more extended study is warranted.
Data on percent tumors in male rats after administration of methyl eugenol, obtained from the National Toxicology Program, or tamoxifen were plotted on a linear scale for percent tumors against the dose on a logarithmic scale. Data on (32)P-postlabelled DNA adducts were plotted on the same graphs for each of these two compounds in order to correlate adduct formation and tumor incidence with dose. The resulting graph for methyl eugenol showed a linear response for both adduct formation and tumor incidence. The threshold dose of administered methyl eugenol for adduct formation (zero adducts) was 10(19.3) molecules of methyl eugenol/kg/day, which compared with a threshold of 10(20.1) molecules of methyl eugenol/kg/day for tumor formation; however, 30 adducts/10(8) nucleotides was the threshold for tumor formation. The dose of tamoxifen for adduct formation fit an exponential plot slightly better than a linear plot, but reached minimal values close to the threshold of 10(18.7) molecules of tamoxifen/kg/day for tumor formation. These data confirm that tumor formation coincides with adduct formation and that both have thresholds, or at least reach minimal values, above levels to which humans are exposed. Although the threshold dose for tumor formation from tamoxifen is only about 10x above the dose received by women at risk for breast cancer, this should be an adequate safety margin. The safety factor for methyl eugenol is several orders of magnitude; therefore, there should be no cause for concern for humans at current levels of exposure.
A young women was treated with intravenous quinine and chloramphenicol for suspected severe malaria and/or typhoid fever. On the second day of quinine therapy (after 2.25 g of quinine) she suddenly developed total bilateral loss of vision. Both drugs were stopped and cyclandelate therapy was started. She showed slight improvement in vision but on referral her visual acuity was limited to seeing waving hand movement only; visual fields were constricted and colour vision was absent. Both pupils were fixed and dilated. The fundi showed macular oedema and attenuated retinal arteries. She was treated with dexamethasone, cyclandelate, vitamin B complex and vitamin C. Colour vision was completely recovered after 5 days of treatment. Full recovery of the direct light reflex occurred after 10 days. Visual acuity improved slowly over a period of one month to 6/15 vision in both eyes. At this time macular oedema and retinal arteriolar attenuation were still present but less severe. In the context of this case report the condition of quinine blindness is briefly reviewed and the management discussed.
Cadmium (Cd), a toxic environmental contaminant, induces neurodegenerative diseases. Recently, we have shown that Cd elevates intracellular free calcium ion ([Ca(2+) ](i) ) level, leading to neuronal apoptosis partly by activating mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathways. However, the underlying mechanism remains to be elucidated. In this study, we show that the effects of Cd-elevated [Ca(2+) ](i) on MAPK and mTOR network as well as neuronal cell death are through stimulating phosphorylation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). This is supported by the findings that chelating intracellular Ca(2+) with 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy) ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid tetra(acetoxymethyl) ester or preventing Cd-induced [Ca(2+) ](i) elevation using 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate blocked Cd activation of CaMKII. Inhibiting CaMKII with KN93 or silencing CaMKII attenuated Cd activation of MAPK/mTOR pathways and cell death. Furthermore, inhibitors of mTOR (rapamycin), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (SP600125) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (U0126), but not of p38 (PD169316), prevented Cd-induced neuronal cell death in part through inhibition of [Ca(2+) ](i) elevation and CaMKII phosphorylation. The results indicate that Cd activates MAPK/mTOR network triggering neuronal cell death, by stimulating CaMKII. Our findings underscore a central role of CaMKII in the neurotoxicology of Cd, and suggest that manipulation of intracellular Ca(2+) level or CaMKII activity may be exploited for prevention of Cd-induced neurodegenerative disorders.
The case history of a young woman who developed severe mitral regurgitation after four years of methysergide therapy is reported. Replacement of the mitral valve was required. A brief review of the toxic effects of methysergide is given and special reference is made to lesions of the heart valves that have occurred during methysergide therapy.
Dietary flavonoids have been shown to be protective against various types of cancers. Here we studied the effects of 12 different flavonoids and other substances on cell proliferation and VEGF expression in human ovarian cancer cells, OVCAR-3. Cell growth was determined to pinpoint the best time for drug treatment. By LDH assay, no cytotoxicity was observed for OVCAR-3 cells with all 12 chemicals except mevinolin. Six flavonoids, including apigenin, taxifolin, luteolin, quercetin, genistein, and kaempferol, were shown to inhibit the ovarian cancer cell growth in a dose-dependent manner. From both RT-qPCR and ELISA results, all flavonoids have shown varied degrees of inhibition in VEGF expression. Taxifolin and naringin showed the least inhibition effect. They both lack a double bond in the second ring structure that may be important in inhibiting VEGF expression. The rank order of VEGF protein secretion inhibitory potency was genistein > kaempferol > apigenin > quercetin > tocopherol > luteolin > cisplatin > rutin > naringin > taxifolin. Genistein, quercetin, and luteolin have shown strong inhibition to cell proliferation and VEGF expression of human ovarian cancer cells, and they show promising in the prevention of ovarian cancers.
Cis-Dichlorodiammine platinum (DDP) 75 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 and Adriamycin (ADR) 60 mg/m2 on day 1 were used in 31 patients with advanced gynecological and genitourinary neoplasms. The DDP was given by 6 hours intravenous infusion with 2 liters of 5% Dextrose and 0.5 normal saline using Mannitol and/or furosemide diuresis. Courses were repeated every 21 to 28 days. Responses were seen in 7 of 8 patients with germinal cell neoplasms (5 complete, 2 partial) with a median duration of eight months. A partial response was obtained in 3 of 7 patients with bladder carcinoma with a median duration of three months. There were four partial responses obtained in 9 patients with ovarian carcinoma with a median duration of five months. Toxicities included nausea and vomiting in all 31 patients, nephrotoxicity (serum creatinine > 2 g/100 ml) in patients, tinnitus and/or high frequency hearing loss in 10 patients, and neurotoxicity (peripheral neuropathy, normal pressure hydrocephalus, papilledema) in 8 patients. Severe leukopenia (WBC < 2000/cu mm) and thrombocytopenia (< 100,000/cu mm) occurred in 25% and 45% of evaluable courses, respectively and necessitated dosage reduction in all and delay of therapy in some patients. Peak plasma Pt levels were 2.61 +/- .18 microgram/cc on day 1 and 3.52 +/- .39 microgram/cc on day 8 with a longer terminal half-life on day 8 (252 hours) compared to day 1 (156 hours). Peak plasma ADR levels ranged from .53 to 1.67 N moles/cc with an average terminal half-life of 22.8 hours. This agrees with values of ADR when given alone. This dose and schedule of DDP-ADR is active against advanced gynecological and genitourinary neoplasms, but the amount of toxicity seen indicates that modifications will have to be made.
Quinine ingestion reportedly induces tinnitus in humans. To expand our salicylate-based animal model of tinnitus, a series of conditioned suppression experiments was performed on 54 male-pigmented rats using quinine injections to induce tinnitus. Quinine induced changes in both the extent of suppression and recovery of licking, which followed a pattern that paralleled those produced after salicylate injections, and which may be interpreted as the result of tinnitus perception in animals. These changes depended on the dose and time schedule of quinine administration. Additionally, the calcium channel blocker, nimodipine, abolished the quinine-induced effect in a dose-dependent manner.
Placental hypoxia has been implicated in pregnancy pathologies, including fetal growth restriction and preeclampsia; however, the mechanism by which the trophoblast cell responds to hypoxia has not been adequately explored. Glucose transport, a process crucial to fetoplacental growth, is upregulated by hypoxia in a number of cell types. We investigated the effects of hypoxia on the regulation of trophoblast glucose transporter (GLUT) expression and activity in BeWo choriocarcinoma cells, a trophoblast cell model, and human placental villous tissue explants. GLUT1 expression in BeWo cells was upregulated by the hypoxia-inducing chemical agents desferroxamine and cobalt chloride. Reductions in oxygen tension resulted in dose-dependent increases in GLUT1 and GLUT3 expression. Exposure of cells to hypoxic conditions also resulted in an increase in transepithelial glucose transport. A role for hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 was suggested by the increase in HIF-1alpha as a result of hypoxia and by the increase in GLUT1 expression following treatment of BeWo with MG-132, a proteasomal inhibitor that increases HIF-1 levels. The function of HIF-1 was confirmed in experiments where the hypoxic upregulation of GLUT1 and GLUT3 was inhibited by antisense HIF-1alpha. In contrast to BeWo cells, hypoxia produced minimal increases in GLUT1 expression in explants; however, treatment with MG-132 did upregulate syncytial basal membrane GLUT1. Our results show that GLUTs are upregulated by hypoxia via a HIF-1-mediated pathway in trophoblast cells and suggest that the GLUT response to hypoxia in vivo will be determined not only by low oxygen tension but also by other factors that modulate HIF-1 levels.
Inflammation can play a key role in Cd-induced dysfunctions. Quercetin is a potent oxygen free radical scavenger and a metal chelator. Our aim was to study the effect of quercetin on Cd-induced kidney damage and metallothionein expression. The study was performed in Wistar rats that were administered during 9 weeks with either cadmium (1.2 mg Cd/kg/day, s.c.), quercetin (50 mg/kg/day, i.p.) or cadmium + quercetin. Renal toxicity was evaluated by measuring blood urea nitrogen concentration and urinary excretion of enzymes marker of tubular damage. Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) renal expression were assessed by Western blot. Renal expression of metallothionein 1 and 2 (MT-1, MT-2) and eNOS mRNA was assessed by Northern blot. Our data demonstrated that Cd-induced renal toxicity was markedly reduced in rats that also received quercetin. MT-1 and MT-2 mRNA levels in kidney were substantially increased during treatment with Cd, being even higher when the animals received Cd and quercetin. Renal eNOS expression was significantly higher in rats receiving Cd and quercetin than in animals receiving Cd alone or in control rats. In the group that received Cd, COX-2 and iNOS expression was markedly higher than in control rats. In the group Cd+quercetin, no changes in COX-2 and iNOS expression were observed compared with the control group. Our results demonstrate that quercetin treatment prevents Cd-induced overexpression of iNOS and COX-2, and increases MT expression. These effects can explain the protection by quercetin of Cd-induced nephrotoxicity.
Skin flap necrosis due to underlying hematoma can be devastating in reconstructive surgery. The production of free radicals in ischemic tissue and cellular damage caused by them have been well established. Deferoxamine, which is both an iron chelator and a free radical scavenger may have a dual benefit in the pharmacologic manipulation of necrosis in a flap jeopardized by hematoma. Past studies showing the importance of free radical scavengers in improving flap survival in hematoma-induced flap necrosis have used the rat model. The porcine model was used for this study because it is the animal model that most closely resembles human skin. A statistically significant benefit of deferoxamine in reducing necrosis of a skin flap induced by hematoma formation was found. Deferoxamine appears to be promising but requires further investigation before it can be optimally used in human applications.
Polygalasaponins were extracted from a plant (Polygala tenuifolia Willdenow) that has been prescribed for hundreds of years to treat psychotic illnesses in Korean traditional medicine. Previous in vitro binding studies suggested a potential mechanism for its antipsychotic action, as polygalasaponin was shown to have an affinity for both dopamine and serotonin receptors [Psychopharmacol. Bull. 31 (1995) 139.]. In the present study we have investigated the functional in vivo actions of this material in tests that are predictive of dopamine and serotonin antagonist activities. Polygalasaponin (25-500 mg/kg) was shown to produce a dose-related reduction in the apomorphine-induced climbing behaviour (minimum effective dose [ED(min)] 25 mg/kg ip, 250 mg/kg sc and po), the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HTP)-induced serotonin syndrome (ED(min) 50 mg/kg ip) and the MK-801-induced hyperactivity (ED(min) 25 mg/kg ip) in mice. This compound also reduced the cocaine-induced hyperactivity (ED(min) 25 mg/kg ip) in rats. These results demonstrated that polygalasaponin has dopamine and serotonin receptor antagonist properties in vivo. This might suggest its possible utility as an antipsychotic agent.
Troglitazone is a thiazolidinedione insulin sensitizer drug for the treatment of type 2 non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Based on an increasing number of reports on troglitazone-associated liver toxicity, the cholestatic potential of troglitazone and its major metabolite troglitazone sulfate has been investigated. In isolated perfused rat livers troglitazone (10 microM) reduced the bile flow by 25% (female) to 50% (male) within 60 min. After single intravenous administrations of troglitazone to rats of both genders, rapid and dose-dependent increases in the plasma bile acid concentrations were observed, with male rats being more sensitive than female rats. In male rat liver tissue fivefold higher troglitazone sulfate levels were measured as compared to female rat liver tissue. This difference was due to the formation rate of troglitazone sulfate, which was four times faster in cytosolic fractions of male rat liver as compared to female rat liver (Clint=132 and 35 microl min(-1) mg(-1), respectively). Troglitazone sulfate strongly inhibited the ATP-dependent taurocholate transport mediated by the canalicular bile salt export pump (Bsep) in isolated canalicular rat liver plasma membrane preparations of both genders (IC(50) value of 0.4-0.6 microM), while troglitazone was 10 times less potent (IC(50) values of 3.9 microM). This high Bsep inhibition potential and the efficient formation and accumulation of troglitazone sulfate in liver tissue, suggested that troglitazone sulfate was mainly responsible for the interaction with the hepatobiliary export of bile acids at the level of the canalicular Bsep in rats. Such an interaction might lead potentially also in man to a troglitazone-induced intrahepatic cholestasis, potentially contributing to the formation of troglitazone-induced liver injuries.
We attempted a clinical trial to interrupt transmission of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection from hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive and hepatitis Be antigen (HBsAg) positive mothers to their infants in Taiwan. Screening of 5,595 pregnant women revealed that 856 (15.3%) were HBsAg positive. Three hundred and sixty-one (42.2%) of the HBsAg positive pregnant women were HBeAg positive. Infants born to HBsAg and HBeAg positive mothers were randomized into 3 groups to receive the HBV vaccine alone or combined with hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG). HGV vaccine was given at 2, 6, and 10 weeks after birth. Group I received HBV vaccine alone while Group II received HBV vaccine in combination with HBIG at birth and group III received HBV vaccine plus HBIG at birth and again at one month old. Group IV constituted the control group when their parents refused vaccination. At 6 months of age, the HBV carrier rate was 23.7% (9/38) in Group I, 11.1% (4/36) in Group II, and 5.3% (2/38) in Group III infants. Compared with 90% of infants who became HBV carriers in the control group (Group IV), the efficacy of HBV vaccination in preventing HBV infection among these high risk infants at the 6th month was 73.7% in Group I, 87.7% in Group II, and 94.1% in Group III. The antibody to HBsAg (anti-HBs) positivity rate in sera of Group I, II, III infants at 6 months of age was 79.0%, 88.9% and 94.7%, respectively. These initial results indicate that combined passive and active immunization is efficacious in interrupting perinatal transmission of HBV infection.
The therapeutic efficacy of bezafibrate, a hypolipidemic drug, has been shown in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) in some pilot studies; however, little is known regarding the mechanism of action of bezafibrate in PBC. This study was conducted to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy, as well as to gain insight about the possible mechanism of action, of bezafibrate in PBC.
Sixteen patients with PBC were administered with bezafibrate (400 mg/day) either with (n = 10) or without ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA; n = 6). The peripheral blood of these patients was collected before and at different times after therapy commencement, and antigen-presenting dendritic cells (DCs) were then cultured. The DCs were enriched and cultured with Staphylococcus aureus Cowan strain-1 for 48 h to evaluate their capacity to produce nitrite.
One month after the start of bezafibrate therapy, the serum levels of alkaline phosphatase (P = 0.0005), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (P = 0.0006), total cholesterol (P = 0.0072), and immunoglobulin M (P = 0.0281) were decreased significantly compared to those before patients started bezafibrate therapy. The levels of nitrite produced by DCs decreased in all patients with PBC within 1 month of commencement of bezafibrate therapy. Moreover, decreased nitrite production by DCs was also seen when nitrite production was evaluated 1 year after the start of bezafibrate therapy.
This study reconfirms the therapeutic efficacy of bezafibrate in patients with PBC, including those with UDCA-resistant PBC. Downregulation of nitrite production by DCs may have some relationship with the therapeutic efficacy of bezafibrate; however, further study will be needed to clarify whether or not the antiinflammatory activity of bezafibrate is mediated through nitrite production.
The clinical use of the antineoplastic agent paclitaxel (Taxol) is significantly limited in its effectiveness by a dose-related painful peripheral neuropathy. To evaluate underlying mechanisms, we developed a model of Taxol-induced painful peripheral neuropathy in the rat and determined the involvement of two second messengers that contribute to enhanced nociception in other models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain, protein kinase Cepsilon and protein kinase A. Taxol administered acutely, or chronically over 12 days, produced a decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold. Acutely, Taxol induced hyperalgesia that was significant within 1 h, maximal after 6 h and resolved completely by 24 h after a single treatment. Chronically, Taxol treatment resulted in a dose (0.1-1 mg/kg/day)-dependent decrease in nociceptive threshold, measured 24 h after administration, maximal within 5 days from the commencement of Taxol administration and resolving by 2 weeks after the last dose of Taxol. Chronic Taxol treatment also increased the number of action potentials evoked by sustained (60-s) threshold and suprathreshold (10-g) stimulation of a sub-population of C-fibers in rats with Taxol-induced hyperalgesia. Mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia were also present in Taxol-treated rats. Hyperalgesia, produced by both acute and chronic Taxol, was attenuated by intradermal injection of selective second messenger antagonists for protein kinase Cepsilon and protein kinase A. These findings provide insight into the mechanism of Taxol-induced painful peripheral neuropathy that may help control side effects of chemotherapy and improve its clinical efficacy.
The effect of etomidate and alfentanil on heart rate, systolic arterial pressure, diastolic arterial pressure, and mean arterial pressure was compared with etomidate and placebo during electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). We also studied the influence of alfentanil on seizure duration using both the cuff method and 2-lead electroencephalographs on the prevention of myoclonus induction by etomidate, on duration of apnea and on postictal agitation after ECT. We enrolled 21 consecutive patients in a prospective placebo-controlled, within patient blocked randomized study. Alfentanil significantly reduced heart rate, diastolic arterial pressure, and mean arterial pressure both before and after the stimulus. The increase in these variables during the convulsion was not affected, compared with placebo. Alfentanil had no effect on seizure duration. However, apnea duration was prolonged during the alfentanil sessions as compared with placebo (73 seconds). Alfentanil did not significantly reduce the occurrence of myoclonus after etomidate as compared with placebo, nor did postictal agitation after ECT appear more often with alfentanil. Alfentanil could be useful to reduce tachycardia and hypertension during ECT in high-risk patients without effects on seizure duration. Alfentanil itself has no proconvulsive effect in combination with etomidate.
Three generations of a family with the Romano-Ward syndrome are described. Of all the affected members, only 1 was symptomatic, experiencing episodes of syncope proven to be due to polymorphous ventricular tachycardia (PMVT) induced by chlorimipramine treatment for depression. During treatment of an episode of PMVT with lidocaine, the patient developed the 'torsade de pointes' variant of ventricular tachycardia, which progressed to ventricular fibrillation and was successfully treated with electroversion. The hazards of treating these patients with commonly used drugs, the possible etiologies for the Romano-Ward syndrome and its mode of inheritance are discussed.
The indications for pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (doxil) are expanding. We, therefore, wished to assess the safety of delivering doses exceeding 500 mg/m2 of doxil to patients with solid tumors.
Subjects accrued to eight phase I and II protocol studies conducted at two institutions, were assessed for cardiac function at baseline and at specified intervals by MUGA scans. In this retrospective analysis, the findings of 42 patients, from the total of 237 entered, who had reached or exceeded cumulative doses of 500 mg/m2 (range 500-1500 mg/m2) were reviewed. Changes in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), and in clinical cardiac status were analyzed. Six patients, three who had received prior doxorubicin, also underwent endomyocardial biopsies after cumulative doses of 490-1320 mg/m2.
None of the 42 patients had clinical congestive heart failure (CHF) secondary to cardiomyopathy. Post doxil MUGA scans were available for 41 of the 42 patients. Five had a drop of 10% or more in LVEF; three of these had received prior doxorubicin. Billingham endomyocardial biopsy scores ranged from 0-1 in five patients, while the sixth had a score of 1.5 after both 900 mg/m2 and 1320 mg/m2 doxil. Of a remaining 195 patients, 1 episode of CHF was recorded in a patient who had received 312 mg/m2 doxil over 120 mg/m2 of mitoxantrone and chest radiation.
Cumulative doses in excess of 500 mg/m2 of doxil appear to carry a considerably lesser risk of cardiomyopathy as judged by serial LVEF's and clinical follow-up, than is generally associated with free doxorubicin. Heart biopsies have provided reassuring data in a small number of patients, even if pretreated with doxorubicin. However, since three doxorubicin pretreated patients were among the five experiencing drops in LVEF, more data are warranted on such patients.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)-inhibiting peptide D-JNKI-1, syn. XG-102 was tested for its therapeutic potential in acute inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in mice. Rectal instillation of the chemical irritant trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS) provoked a dramatic acute inflammation in the colon of 7-9 weeks old mice. Coincident subcutaneous application of 100 µg/kg XG-102 significantly reduced the loss of body weight, rectal bleeding and diarrhoea. After 72 h, the end of the study, the colon was removed and immuno-histochemically analysed. XG-102 significantly reduced (i) pathological changes such as ulceration or crypt deformation, (ii) immune cell pathology such as infiltration and presence of CD3- and CD68-positive cells, (iii) the production of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α in colon tissue cultures from TNBS-treated mice, (iv) expression of Bim, Bax, FasL, p53, and activation of caspase 3, (v) complexation of JNK2 and Bim, and (vi) expression and activation of the JNK substrate and transcription factor c-Jun. A single application of subcutaneous XG-102 was at least as effective or even better depending on the outcome parameter as the daily oral application of sulfasalazine used for treatment of IBD.The successful and substantial reduction of the severe, TNBS-evoked intestinal damages and clinical symptoms render the JNK-inhibiting peptide XG-102 a powerful therapeutic principle of IBD.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is highly prevalent and associated with considerable morbidities. Unfortunately, there is no currently available drug established to treat NAFLD. It was recently reported that intraperitoneal administration of taurine-conjugated ursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) improved hepatic steatosis in ob/ob mice. We hereby examined the effect of oral TUDCA treatment on hepatic steatosis and associated changes in hepatic gene expression in ob/ob mice. We administered TUDCA to ob/ob mice at a dose of 500 mg/kg twice a day by gastric gavage for 3 weeks. Body weight, glucose homeostasis, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, and hepatic gene expression were examined in comparison with control ob/ob mice and normal littermate C57BL/6J mice. Compared to the control ob/ob mice, TUDCA treated ob/ob mice revealed markedly reduced liver fat stained by oil red O (44.2±5.8% vs. 21.1±10.4%, P<0.05), whereas there was no difference in body weight, oral glucose tolerance, insulin sensitivity, and ER stress. Microarray analysis of hepatic gene expression demonstrated that oral TUDCA treatment mainly decreased the expression of genes involved in de novo lipogenesis among the components of lipid homeostasis. At pathway levels, oral TUDCA altered the genes regulating amino acid, carbohydrate, and drug metabolism in addition to lipid metabolism. In summary, oral TUDCA treatment decreased hepatic steatosis in ob/ob mice by cooperative regulation of multiple metabolic pathways, particularly by reducing the expression of genes known to regulate de novo lipogenesis.
