Quercetin is a major dietary flavonoid found in onions and other vegetables, and potentially has beneficial effects on disease prevention. In the present study, we demonstrate for the first time the effects of dietary quercetin on bone loss and uterine weight loss by ovariectomy in vivo. Female mice were ovariectomized (OVX) and were randomly allocated to 3 groups: a control diet or a diet with 0.25% (LQ) or 2.5% quercetin (HQ). After 4 weeks, dietary quercetin had no effects on uterine weight in OVX mice, but bone mineral density of the lumbar spine L4 and femur measured by peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) was higher in both the sham and the HQ groups than in the OVX group. Histomorphometric analysis showed that the HQ group restored bone volume (BV/TV) completely in distal femoral cancellous bone, but did not reduce the osteoclast surface area and osteoclast number when compared with the OVX group. In in-vitro experiments using mouse monocyte/macrophage cell line RAW264.7 cells, however, quercetin and its conjugate, quercetin-3-O-beta-D: -glucuronide dose-dependently inhibited the receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa B ligand (RANKL)-induced osteoclast differentiation, and the RANKL-stimulated expression of osteoclast related genes was also inhibited by quercetin. The luciferase reporter assay showed that quercetin did not appear to have estrogenic activity through estrogen receptors. These results suggest that dietary quercetin inhibits bone loss without effect on the uterus in OVX mice and does not act as a potent inhibitor of osteoclastogenesis or as a selective estrogen receptor modulator in vivo.
The epigenetic silencing of tumor suppressor genes is a common event during carcinogenesis, and often involves aberrant DNA methylation and histone modification of gene regulatory regions, resulting in the formation of a transcriptionally repressive chromatin state. Two examples include the antimetastatic, tumor suppressor genes, desmocollin 3 (DSC3) and MASPIN, which are frequently silenced in this manner in human breast cancer. Treatment of the breast tumor cell lines MDA-MB-231 and UACC 1179 with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-CdR) induced transcriptional reactivation of both genes in a dose-dependent manner. Importantly, DSC3 and MASPIN reactivation was closely and consistently linked with significant decreases in promoter H3 K9 di-methylation. Moreover, 5-aza-CdR treatment also resulted in global decreases in H3 K9 di-methylation, an effect that was linked to its ability to mediate dose-dependent, post-transcriptional decreases in the key enzyme responsible for this epigenetic modification, G9A. Finally, small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated knockdown of G9A and DNMT1 led to increased MASPIN expression in MDA-MB-231 cells, to levels that were supra-additive, verifying the importance of these enzymes in maintaining multiple layers of epigenetic repression in breast tumor cells. These results highlight an additional, complimentary mechanism of action for 5-aza-CdR in the reactivation of epigenetically silenced genes, in a manner that is independent of its effects on DNA methylation, further supporting an important role for H3 K9 methylation in the aberrant repression of tumor suppressor genes in human cancer.
Anti-alpha4 integrin reagent, natalizumab, which is 1 of the most promising antiadhesion monoclonal antibodies, has been introduced into clinical trials against inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Lethal consequences such as progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy have recently been reported in patients using natalizumab, making it critical to determine which selective adhesion molecule in the alpha4 integrins-dependent pathway should be targeted for inhibition and the minimal spectrum of activity required for the valid treatment of IBD. Mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule (MAdCAM)-1 is known to be restrictedly expressed in gut-associated lymphoid tissues, and its expression dramatically increases in IBD. This study aimed to reevaluate the effectiveness of MAdCAM-1 inhibition and to determine the feasibility of anti-MAdCAM-1 strategy.
Antisense MAdCAM-1 oligonucleotides were injected into mice at 1.5 mg/kg/day for 7 consecutive days from the first day of a trinitrobenzene sulfonate enema.
MAdCAM-1 antisense oligonucleotides significantly suppressed the development of trinitrobenzene sulfonate colitis clinically and histopathologically compared with controls. Immunohistochemistry and semiquantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction of the colon tissues revealed that MAdCAM-1 protein and mRNA expression were lower in antisense-treated mice than in controls. In addition, MAdCAM-1 antisense treatment reduced the number of alpha4beta7 lymphocytes in the inflamed colonic mucosa.
These data suggest that antisense suppression of MAdCAM-1 is of equivalent effectiveness to that of anti-MAdCAM-1 or anti-alpha4 integrin antibody in previous reports and could be a new therapy for IBD.
A case is reported of a 54-year old man who developed acute hallucinosis while being treated for hypertension with clonidine. The history revealed a similar previous episode which also cleared on discontinuation of the drug.
Two cases of tetracycline-associated fatty liver of pregnancy are reported. In one, the history was negative for antibiotic use, yet autopsy revealed typical gross and microscopic bone fluorescence of tetracycline. Tissue extraction and chemical analysis showed qualitative evidence of tetracycline, whereas quantitation revealed 60 microgram/gm of wet bone tissue. Findings in our cases and in those from the literature indicate that the association of tetracycline use and fatty liver of pregnancy is even more common than has been suggested.
The aims of this study were to identify the effect of clofibrate administration in the development of high blood pressure secondary to aortic coarctation (AoCo) and to assess its effect on vascular reactivity. Three experimental groups of rats were used: sham-operated, aortic coarctated vehicle-treated (AoCo-V), and aortic coarctated clofibrate-treated (AoCo-C100). The rats were treated for seven days. Blood pressure was measured, and the vascular response to angiotensin II (AngII), norepinephrine (NE), and acetylcholine (ACh) were evaluated in aortic rings. The activity and expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) was also evaluated. The major findings of this study include the following: AoCo induced a rise in blood pressure, and this effect was attenuated by clofibrate. The vascular response to AngII was higher in aortic rings from the AoCo-V group compared to the Sham-V or AoCo-C100 groups. ACh-elicited vasorelaxation was lower in the arteries of AoCo-V rats than Sham-V or AoCo-C100, while it was comparable between the Sham-V and AoCo-C100 groups. In every case, vasorelaxation was dependent on NO. However, the ACh-induced release of NO as well as NOS activity and expression were reduced in the arteries of AoCo-V rats. Clofibrate maintained normal NOS activity and increased eNOS expression. In conclusion, clofibrate administration attenuated the AoCo-induced rise in blood pressure by a mechanism that involves the participation of the NO system at both the NO synthesis and the eNOS protein expression levels. These events improved endothelial function, preserved normal vascular responses to both vasorelaxants and vasoconstrictors, and led to better blood pressure control.
Goodpasture's syndrome is a recognised but rare complication of penicillamine therapy. Return of useful renal function has no been recorded with this complication. A patient is presented in whom aggressive management with plasmapheresis, haemodialysis and immunosuppression in the acute stage resulted in rapid control of pulmonary haemorrhage and return of useful renal function without the need for long-term haemodialysis. Immunofluorescence and electron microscopic studies of renal tissue together with the demonstration of circulating immune complexes, established the immune complex pathogenesis of this patient's disease. Microhaematuria is emphasised as an important warning sign of this complication.
The aim of the present paper is to establish the possible role of serum TNF in the pathophysiology of three experimental models of liver injury: paracetamol intoxication, cholestasis followed by paracetamol intoxication and cholestasis. We concluded that under our experimental conditions the serum TNF-alpha levels were not responsible for the inflammatory phenomena described in our previous paper as apoptosis.
The effect of vitamin E on the contact sensitization responses induced in mice by 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) was studied. Mice were fed a vitamin E-adequate or a vitamin E-deficient diet for 5 weeks. The amounts of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in the spleens and draining auricular lymph nodes of mice were decreased by dietary vitamin E. Dietary vitamin E prevented lipid peroxidation in the spleens and lymph nodes of mice. Contact sensitization develops in two phases, induction (sensitization) and elicitation. Following sensitization to DNCB on ears, draining lymph node responses, i.e., lymph node weight, total lymph node cell number and in vitro lymph node cell proliferation as assessed by [3H]methyl thymidine incorporation, were examined. These responses, activated by DNCB, were lower in the mice fed a vitamin E-deficient diet as compared with those of the mice fed a vitamin E-adequate diet. In the elicitation phase, lymphocytes from sensitized mice respond to the antigen and blastogenate in vitro. The blastogenesis of spleen lymphocytes in the DNCB-sensitized mice was decreased by vitamin E deficiency, which was enhanced by exogenously adding vitamin E. It was found that vitamin E deficiency decreases the contact sensitization responses to DNCB in mice, but responses were restored by exogenous vitamin E. In conclusion, vitamin E may participate in the lymphocyte responses to contact allergens through scavenging reactive oxygen species.
Several studies have described mercury toxicity and the role of metallothioneins (MT) in the detoxification and regulation of metal homeostasis. However, little data exist on this topic during the specific post-natal developmental phase in young mammals. This developmental phase is particularly important since young animals are more sensitive to toxicants than adults. The objective of this work was to investigate whether MT participates in the mechanism of protection conferred by zinc pre-treatment on the toxic effects induced by mercury in neonate rats. Pups were exposed to ZnCl(2) (5 doses of 27 mg/kg/day, s.c.) and subsequently to HgCl(2) (5 doses of 5 mg/kg/day, s.c.); metal (Zn and Hg) and MT contents were analyzed in the liver, kidney, and blood. MT was induced in the liver and kidney of pups of both Zn-sal and Zn-Hg groups, although the greatest increase was in neonates exposed to Zn only. A direct relationship exists between MT and metals for both hepatic and renal tissues, which indicates that the increase in metal levels occurs in parallel to the increase in MT content. Although the heat-treated cytosolic fraction is rich in MT and metals, higher Zn and Hg contents were detected in the insoluble fraction of all tissues. These results suggest that MT is, at least in part, responsible for preventing Hg accumulation in the liver and blood and decreasing renal toxicity.
Cisplatin, a widely used chemotherapeutic drug, causes ototoxicity in a large percentage of patients. The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of epicatechin (EC) as an otoprotective agent to prevent cisplatin toxicity and to investigate the molecular mechanism of EC. The effects of EC on cisplatin-induced ototoxicity were investigated in a cochlear organ of Corti-derived cell line, HEI-OC1 and in a rat model. In addition, signaling mechanisms were investigated, specifically those involving MAP kinase. Cisplatin induced apoptosis and demonstrated, conjugation of annexin V/PI in FACS, and an increase of subG1 in HEI-OC1. EC protected HEI-OC1 against cisplatin and showed inhibition of cisplatin-induced apoptosis of the HEI-OC1 by transmission electron microscopy. Intratympanic administration of EC protected against cisplatin-induced ototoxicity in the rat model, as determined by auditory brainstem responses. EC inhibited activation of JNK, ERK, cytochrome-c and caspase-3 by cisplatin. An ERK Inhibitor, cisplatin-induced ototoxicity in a dose dependent manner but a JNK inhibitor did not. The results of this study suggest that EC may provide a mechanism by which ototoxicity caused by the administration of cisplatin can be reduced through the inhibition of ERK. EC may have clinical use as a chemopreventive agent that prevents cisplatin ototoxicity.
Gentamicin sulphate was administered to male Wistar rats by intramuscular injection at varying dosage and for varying periods. At high dosage (50-100 mg/kg/day) gentamicin causes tubular necrosis. At dosages equivalent to that given to man (5 mg/kg/day) obvious degenerative changes are produced. Similar changes are seen in human tubular epithelium and urine deposits of patients treated with gentamicin. There is increased excretion of urinary enzymes proportional to the degree of tubular damage. The importance of these changes in man is stressed.
Flurbiprofen (Ansaid, Upjohn), a substituted phenyl propionic acid, is a new analgesic/anti-inflammatory agent. To evaluate its relative efficacy in noninflammatory pain, 159 hospitalized women with moderate or severe postpartum uterine cramps were given single oral doses of 50 mg of flurbiprofen, 650 mg of aspirin, 60 or 120 mg of codeine sulfate, or placebo in a parallel, stratified, randomized block, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial. Patients rated pain intensity, pain relief, and side effects in uniform interviews for six hours after treatment. All measures of peak and summed analgesia exhibited significant differences among the five treatments. Flurbiprofen and aspirin showed the greatest analgesic response and were significantly superior to placebo. Results of codeine treatment were equivocal with no evidence of a positive dose response. Side effects were unremarkable except for dizziness and drowsiness after the 120-mg codeine dose. These findings suggest that flurbiprofen as an analgesic for patients with postpartum uterine pain is equivalent to aspirin and superior to codeine.
This study concerns 465 patients with dermatitis. The clinical history suggested allergy to cosmetics, drugs, industrial products or clothes. These patients were tested with 29 preservatives chosen among the most frequently employed or most sensitising products. Seven french clinics of Dermatology were involved in this study during one year. The patients' age varied between 2 years old and 80 years old. Positive reactions were seen mostly with formaldehyde (4.7 p. 100), Bronopol (4.7 p. 100), ammoniated mercury chloride (3.8 p. 100), benzoic acid (2.1 p. 100), sodium benzoate (1.9 p. 100), parabens (1.9 p. 100), dichlorophen (1.7 p. 100), chloracetamid (1.5 p. 100), benzyl benzoate (1.5 p. 100), Germall 115 (1.2 p. 100), butylhydroxyanisol (1 p. 100) and Dowicil (0.8 p. 100). The incidence of sensitivity to formaldehyde, Bronopol, ammoniated mercury chloride is too high; their use should decrease. Patients sensitive to benzoic acid, benzyl benzoate are not rare. Chloracetamid whose frequency of uses seems to be rather low is a very sensitising product. Parabens which are widely used were seldom found positive; nearly all cases are caused by topical medications.
A 50-year-old woman taking carbamazepine (CBZ) 1200 mg daily for her partial epilepsy developed acute confusion after valproate (VPA) add-on treatment for 10 days. The administration of VPA started from 1000 mg daily and, 3 days later, increased to 1500 mg daily. Beside a mildly elevated serum ammonia level (81 microg/dL), her electroencephalogram showed diffuse background slowing intermixed with 2-2.5 Hz of high-amplitude slow waves, which indicated a diffuse encephalopathy. The serum levels of VPA and CBZ were 49.1 mg/L and 8.6 mg/L, both being non-toxic. The liver functions appeared normal. She recovered rapidly after discontinuation of VPA. In this patient, a safe previous administration of VPA did not preclude the occurrence of encephalopathy. A relatively large initial VPA dosage could possibly be the culprit.
A patient is described who developed symptomatic sinus bradycardia as low as 20 beats per minute and sinus arrest of up to 4.4 seconds while receiving guanethidine, 75 mg daily. The bradycardia resolved following discontinuation of the drug and reappeared upon challenge with it. Intrinsic disease of the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes was evidenced 3 weeks following discontinuation of the guanethidine by a borderline abnormally prolonged sinus node recovery time of 1500 msec and a PR interval of 0.28 seconds. Although sinus bradycardia is a known and not infrequent side effect of guanethidine, such an extreme form as seen in our patient appears to be quite rare, and may be related to the pre-existing disease of the conduction system.
In this study, both catalepsy and changes in extracellular levels of striatal dopamine (DA) and dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC) induced by the typical neuroleptic haloperidol (HAL) were simultaneously assessed, using intracerebral microdialysis in freely moving rats, in the presence of either the 5-HT1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT or the 5-HT2A/C antagonist ritanserin. HAL (1 mg/kg, SC) elicited a strong cataleptic state, reaching its maximal intensity (about 240 s) 2 h after the drug administration. This effect was paralleled by a long-lasting enhancement of striatal DA and DOPAC extracellular levels, reaching 230 and 350% of basal values, respectively. 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg, SC) given 2.5 h after, and ritanserin (0.63 and 1.25 mg/kg, IP), given 15 min prior to HAL, significantly reduced the neuroleptic-induced catalepsy. However, both 5-HT agents failed to modify basal DA and DOPAC striatal outflow as well as the stimulatory effect of HAL on these parameters. It can thus be concluded that the anticataleptic effect of these compounds is not related to an alteration of DA release within the striatum.
Patients with transient ischaemic attack (TIA) or minor stroke are at high immediate risk of stroke. The optimum early treatment options for these patients are not known.
Within 24 h of symptom onset, we randomly assigned, in a factorial design, 392 patients with TIA or minor stroke to clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose then 75 mg daily; 198 patients) or placebo (194 patients), and simvastatin (40 mg daily; 199 patients) or placebo (193 patients). All patients were also given aspirin and were followed for 90 days. Descriptive analyses were done by intention to treat. The primary outcome was total stroke (ischaemic and haemorrhagic) within 90 days. Safety outcomes included haemorrhage related to clopidogrel and myositis related to simvastatin. This study is registered as an International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial (number 35624812) and with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT00109382).
The median time to stroke outcome was 1 day (range 0-62 days). The trial was stopped early due to a failure to recruit patients at the prespecified minimum enrolment rate because of increased use of statins. 14 (7.1%) patients on clopidogrel had a stroke within 90 days compared with 21 (10.8%) patients on placebo (risk ratio 0.7 [95% CI 0.3-1.2]; absolute risk reduction -3.8% [95% CI -9.4 to 1.9]; p=0.19). 21 (10.6%) patients on simvastatin had a stroke within 90 days compared with 14 (7.3%) patients on placebo (risk ratio 1.3 [0.7-2.4]; absolute risk increase 3.3% [-2.3 to 8.9]; p=0.25). The interaction between clopidogrel and simvastatin was not significant (p=0.64). Two patients on clopidogrel had intracranial haemorrhage compared with none on placebo (absolute risk increase 1.0% [-0.4 to 2.4]; p=0.5). There was no difference between groups for the simvastatin safety outcomes.
Immediately after TIA or minor stroke, patients are at high risk of stroke, which might be reduced by using clopidogrel in addition to aspirin. The haemorrhagic risks of the combination of aspirin and clopidogrel do not seem to offset this potential benefit. We were unable to provide evidence of benefit of simvastatin in this setting. This aggressive prevention approach merits further study.
A low-level inflammation has been hypothesized to mediate visceral hypersensitivity in functional bowel disorders that persist after or even in the absence of gut inflammation. We aimed to test the efficacy of a steroidal anti-inflammatory treatment, and identify local inflammatory molecules mediating post- and non-inflammatory colorectal hypersensitivity using two mouse models.
Visceromotor responses to colorectal distension were quantified as a measure of colorectal sensitivity. On day 1, mice received intracolonic saline (control), trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (postinflammatory on day 15), or acidified hypertonic saline (non-inflammatory). Colorectal sensitivity before (day 10) and after (day 15) 4-day dexamethasone (Dex) treatment was compared, and colonic gene expression of inflammatory molecules was quantified.
Dexamethasone effectively inhibited gene expression of inflammatory molecules such as interleukin (IL)-1β and mast cell protease-1 in the colon, but did not attenuate colorectal hypersensitivity in either model. Gene expression of inflammatory molecules in the colon did not differ between control and the non-inflammatory model, but the postinflammatory model showed increased IL-10 and tight junction protein 2, and decreased IL-6, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β, a precursor of β-endorphin, occludin, and mucin 2. While no common molecule explained colorectal hypersensitivity in these models, hypersensitivity was positively correlated with TGF-β2 mRNA in control, and with IL-1β, inhibin βA, and prostaglandin E2 synthase in the Dex-treated postinflammatory model. In the non-inflammatory model, cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA was negatively correlated with colorectal sensitivity.
These results suggest that persistent functional colorectal hypersensitivity is mediated by condition-specific mediators whose gene expression in the colon is not inevitably sensitive to steroidal anti-inflammatory treatment.
The first reports of neuropathy due to treatment with statins appeared in 1994, although it is an infrequent complication. It usually consists of an axonal polyneuropathy, which is predominantly sensory, distal and symmetric, and may be subacute or chronic. We present here the second case reported in the literature of multiple mononeuropathy associated to the use of statins.
A 51-year-old female patient who, after beginning therapy with pravastatin, presented with progressive, asymmetrically distributed, distal paresthesias in the limbs and an unstable gait. An electromyographic study was compatible with multiple mononeuritis. Results of complementary tests that were carried out to preclude other causes of multiple mononeuropathy were normal. The patient's condition improved on withdrawing treatment with the drug and it became worse again when therapy was restarted. When pravastatin therapy was stopped for good, the patient's condition progressively improved until she was practically free of symptoms.
The relationship between treatment with statins and the appearance of polyneuropathy has been proved in different epidemiological case-control studies. It does not only appear as the classical distal symmetrical polyneuropathy, but has also been reported as taking on atypical clinical forms including a few cases, like ours, of multiple mononeuropathy. The risk of developing this complication is low and is offset by the cardiovascular benefits offered by statins, although it may become more common in the future due to the increasing rate of use of these agents. It is important to bear this cause of neuropathy in mind, given the fact that it is potentially reversible.
Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) is a systemic fibrotic disorder occurring in some patients with renal insufficiency after exposure to gadolinium-based contrast agents (GdBCA).
To examine cultured NSF dermal fibroblast production and expression of collagens I and III, fibronectin, hyaluronic acid and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) during serial passages and the effects of two GdBCA on collagen gene expression and production by normal dermal fibroblasts.
NSF fibroblasts were analysed for expression and production of types I and III collagen, fibronectin, hyaluronic acid and α-SMA. Collagen, type I, α1 (COL1A1) promoter transcription was examined in transient transfections. Nuclear extracts were assayed for binding activity of 108 transcription factors, and specific transcription factor binding was examined by electrophoretic gel mobility assays. Normal fibroblasts were cultured with GdBCA, and collagen expression assessed by real-time PCR and western blots.
NSF fibroblasts displayed a marked increase in collagens I and III, fibronectin and hyaluronic acid production, which was maintained for 9-11 subpassages in vitro. NSF fibroblasts also showed a marked increase in α-SMA expression, twofold higher transcriptional activity of the COL1A1 promoter and increased cREL binding in nuclear extracts compared with normal fibroblasts. GdBCA induced a dose-dependent stimulation of COL1A1 expression and production of type I collagen in normal fibroblasts.
Fibroblasts from patients with NSF displayed a markedly profibrotic phenotype, which was maintained for several passages in culture. Elevated COL1A1 expression was mediated by transcriptional activation of its promoter associated with increased cREL binding activity. GdBCA stimulated cultured normal fibroblasts to produce increased amounts of collagen.
Recent research on adults suggests that "beneficial" psychostimulant effects of caffeine are found only in the context of caffeine deprivation; that is, caffeine improves psychomotor and cognitive performance in habitual caffeine consumers following caffeine withdrawal. Furthermore, no net benefit is gained because performance is merely restored to "baseline" levels. The effects of caffeine in children is an under-researched area, with only a handful of studies being carried out in the US where children's consumption of caffeine appears to be lower on average than in the UK.
Twenty-six children aged between 9 and 11 years completed a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Habitual caffeine consumers (mean daily caffeine intake = 109 mg) and non/low-consumers (12 mg) were tested on two separate days following overnight caffeine abstinence. On each day measures of cognitive performance (a number search task), and self-rated mood and physical symptoms, including alertness and headache, were taken before and after administration of 50 mg of caffeine, or placebo.
At baseline (before treatment), the habitual consumers showed poorer performance on the cognitive test than did the non/low-consumers, although no significant differences in mood or physical symptoms were found between the two groups. There were significant habit by treatment (caffeine vs. placebo) interactions for accuracy of performance and headache, and a significant main effect of treatment for alertness. Post hoc comparisons showed that caffeine administration improved the consumers' accuracy on the cognitive test (to near the level displayed by the non/low-consumers at baseline), but that it had no significant effect on the non/low-consumers' performance. In the consumers, caffeine prevented an increase in headache that occurred after placebo, and it increased alertness relative to placebo. Again, however, caffeine did not significantly affect levels of headache or alertness in the non/low-consumers.
These results suggest that, like adults, children probably derive little or no benefit from habitual caffeine intake, although negative symptoms associated with overnight caffeine withdrawal are avoided or rapidly reversed by subsequent caffeine consumption.
Several reports have documented various forms of glomerular diseases in adults with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), but similar reports in children are lacking. We describe two children with MDS-associated steroid-responsive nephrotic syndrome (NS). Patient 1, who had MDS with myelofibrosis, presented with hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia, chronic hepatitis, moderate proteinuria, hypocomplementemia and elevated ANA titer. During initial prednisone treatment proteinuria markedly diminished and partial but transient hematological improvement occurred. Relapse subsequently occurred that manifested by overt NS and pancytopenia. High doses of prednisolone led to remission of the renal disease, but hematological remission did not occur. Persisting pancytopenia and repeated infections terminated in sepsis, 2 years after the onset of the MDS. Patient 2, who had refractory anemia with clonal monosomy 19, presented with bowel disease, hepatosplenomegaly, anemia and non-organ-specific autoantibodies. Prednisone led to both clinical and hematological remission. The hematologic disease relapsed 12 months later, when nephrotic-range proteinuria, hematuria and mild azotemia were also found. Corticosteroid treatment led to long-lasting renal and hematologic remission, maintained by a small dosage of prednisone. In both patients, renal biopsy findings were consistent with those seen in idiopathic NS. A Medline search disclosed 16 cases of glomerulopathy in the course of MDS in adult patients. Clinical features included NS, usually accompanied by renal insufficiency with acute, chronic, or rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. On biopsy, membranous nephropathy, crescentic or mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis, and AL amyloidosis were found. We conclude: (1) that glomerular disease may be present and should be searched for in patients with MDS and (2) that MDS can be added to the list of rare conditions associated with corticosteroid-responsive NS in children.
Trivalent methylated metabolites of arsenic, monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)) and dimethylarsinous acid (DMA(III)), have been found highly reactive and toxic in various cells and in vivo animal models, suggesting their roles in the arsenic-associated toxicity. However, their effects on cardiovascular system including blood cells, one of the most important targets for arsenic toxicity, remain poorly understood. Here we found that MMA(III) and DMA(III) could induce procoagulant activity and apoptosis in platelets, which play key roles in the development of various cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) through excessive thrombus formation. In freshly isolated human platelets, treatment of MMA(III) resulted in phosphatidylserine (PS) exposure, a hallmark of procoagulant activation, accompanied by distinctive apoptotic features including mitochondrial membrane potential disruption, cytochrome c release, and caspase-3 activation. These procoagulant activation and apoptotic features were found to be mediated by the depletion of protein thiol and intracellular ATP, and flippase inhibition by MMA(III), while the intracellular calcium increase or reactive oxygen species generation was not involved. Importantly, increased platelet procoagulant activity by MMA(III) resulted in enhanced blood coagulation and excessive thrombus formation in a rat in vivo venous thrombosis model. DMA(III) also induced PS-exposure with apoptotic features mediated by protein thiol depletion, which resulted in enhanced thrombin generation. In summary, we believe that this study provides an important evidence for the role of trivalent methylated arsenic metabolites in arsenic-associated CVDs, giving a novel insight into the role of platelet apoptosis in toxicant-induced cardiovascular toxicity.
A 58-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of low grade fever and purpura in September. 1987. On admission, his bone marrow aspiration showed nucleated cell count of 48 x 10(4)/mm3 with 94.6% of promyelocyte-like leukemic cells. A diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia was made and he was treated with high dose cytosine arabinoside (HDAra C). After this therapy, serum bilirubin, especially direct bilirubin was increased and hyperbilirubinemia was progressed with normal transaminase levels. He had complicated by pneumonia and died of respiratory failure. Autopsy revealed only cholestasis in the liver with neither hepatic cell necrosis nor cell infiltration. This case was though to be a rare case with cholestatic liver injury due to HDAra C.
The aromatic amine 2-acetylaminofluore (2-AAF) is a powerful complete genotoxic rat liver carcinogen that induces tumors without any additional interventions. While the tumor-initiating genotoxic activity of 2-AAF is well established, its tumor-promotion activity is far less understood. It is believed that the tumor-promoting property of 2-AAF is associated with selective enhancement of cell replication and sustained suppression of apoptosis in initiated cells. In the present study, we investigated the underlying mechanisms of tumor-promoting events induced by 2-AAF-exposure. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed NIH-31 diet containing 0.02% of 2-AAF for 12 and 24 weeks, and the expression pattern of genes associated with the p53-signaling pathway and microRNA genes was determined in the livers of control and 2-AAF-fed rats. The results indicate that the tumor-promoting property of 2-AAF during hepatocarcinogenesis is associated predominantly with the up-regulation of anti-apoptotic growth-related genes and down-regulation of expression of pro-apoptotic genes. This disrupts the balance between cell proliferation and apoptosis, which leads to consequential unrestricted cell proliferation, especially of initiated cells. Also, the long-term-administration of 2-AAF resulted in disruption of regulatory miR-34a-p53 feed-back loop that mediates apoptosis. This was evidenced by an increased expression of miR-34a in response to genotoxic effects of 2-AAF in the absence of p53 up-regulation, and loss of regulatory control of mir-34a on SIRT1 function. Additionally, the livers of 2-AAF-exposed rats were characterized by the substantial deregulation of expression of miR-18, miR-21, miR-182, and miR-200 family, microRNAs involved in control of apoptosis/cell proliferation and cell-cell contact pathways, two major pathways disrupted during the promotion stage of hepatocarcinogenesis.
Ten patients, who were admitted to the Intensive Coronary Care Unit during a one year period with symptomatic bradycardia while on combination therapy with oral diltiazem and beta-blocker agents, are described. The important features of this adverse reaction to drug combination were that it appeared mainly in a relatively elderly age group and with presenting symptoms of lethargy, dizziness, syncope, chest pain, and (in one patient with poor left ventricular function) pulmonary edema. It was not dose dependent and occurred even in very low doses of each drug. Electrophysiologic abnormalities were localized to the sinus node in all 10 patients and the primary rhythm disorders were junctional escape rhythm, sinus bradycardia, and sinus pause. These rhythm abnormalities resolved within 24 h following withdrawal of the offending drugs. Temporary pacemaker insertion was necessary in four patients. The duration of drug combination used before the acute episode range from within hours to up to 2 years. In conclusion, although combination diltiazem/beta blocker therapy is very effective in ischemic syndrome, caution is advised when this combination is used especially in the elderly or in patients with left ventricular dysfunction or antecedent sinoatrial or atrioventricular conduction abnormality.
Dapsone hydroxylamine is a direct-acting hemolytic agent responsible for dapsone-induced hemolytic anemia in the rat. In the present study, we compared the responsiveness of rat and human red cells to dapsone hydroxylamine-induced cellular changes. Dapsone hydroxylamine induced a rapid and concentration-dependent loss of erythrocytic reduced glutathione content with a concomitant increase in protein-glutathione mixed disulfide formation in both human and rat red cell suspensions. However, the rate of mixed disulfide formation in human cells was considerably slower than that in rat cells and was preceded by a transient increase in oxidized glutathione (glutathione disulfide) formation. Sodium dodecylsulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting analysis of membrane ghosts from human red cells revealed changes in skeletal proteins that in general were similar to those observed with rat cells, including a loss of protein band 2.1 and the appearance of membrane-bound hemoglobin. Notable differences were the resistance to loss of band 4.2 and a considerably higher amount of protein aggregation in human ghosts. Although the morphology of human red cells was altered, the incidence and degree of change were considerably less than those of rat red cells. Furthermore, the concentration of dapsone hydroxylamine required to induce damage in human red cells (175-750 microM) was significantly higher than that required for rat red cells (50-175 microM), suggesting that human cells are probably less sensitive than rat cells to dapsone hydroxylamine-induced oxidative damage.
