Orlistat is an anti-obesity drug licensed in the United Kingdom for 7 years. We present a case of a patient who developed pancreatitis four days after commencing orlistat.
A 36 year old man presented to hospital with acute severe pancreatitis four days after starting a course of Orlistat, a lipase inhibitor used in the treatment of obesity. A diagnosis of drug related pancreatitis was made by exclusion of other causes of pancreatitis; he was a teetotaller, had a normal serum calcium, had no family history of pancreatitis or hyperlipidaemia, no history of trauma and had no evidence of gallstones on Computerised Tomography scan (CT).
Orlistat was the only drug that had been started recently and has been associated with pancreatitis previously. We found no case reports of similar cases, however 99 cases of orlistat related pancreatitis have been reported to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), but no causative link has been found in clinical trials by the drug company. It is therefore not on the list of possible complications or side effects of the drug.
A 37-year-old female patient was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis 8 months ago and medical treatment with oral azathioprine, low-dose corticosteroids and 5-ASA was started. Following 3 months without any symptoms, the patient had total colectomy and ileostomy. After this period, liposomal amphotericin B (3 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) was given with the diagnosis of probable fungal infection. Palpable purpuric skin lesions on the anterior surface of both legs appeared on the 55th day of amphotericin B treatment. Histological examination of a skin biopsy was consistent with leucocytoclastic vasculitis. We present a case of cutaneous leucocytoclastic vasculitis in which amphotericin B might presumably be the aetiological factor.
A case of a 20-year-old woman who developed a hemolytic-uremic syndrome while using the contraceptive drug Rigevidon is reported. Clinically the disease was manifested by acute renal failure, thrombocytopenic purpura and hemolytic anemia. The treatment with antiaggregants, anticoagulants, hemodialysis and plasmapheresis was without effect. The diagnosis was proved by the postmortem examination. The risks of the use of oral contraceptives and the need of new and better methods for contraception are discussed.
Polyclonal antibodies were produced in rabbits against purified cytochrome P-450j isolated from isoniazid-treated adult male rats. The monospecificity of immunoadsorbed antibody to cytochrome P-450j was demonstrated by Ouchterlony double diffusion analyses, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, and immunoblots. Immunoquantitation results indicated that rat liver microsomal cytochrome P-450j content decreases between 3 and 6 weeks of age in both the male and female animal. Several xenobiotics, such as Aroclor 1254, mirex, and 3-methylcholanthrene, repressed cytochrome P-450j levels when administered to male rats. Isoniazid, dimethyl sulfoxide, pyrazole, 4-methylpyrazole, and ethanol were inducers of cytochrome P-450j in rat liver although these compounds showed different inducing potencies. Microsomes from adult male rats with chemically induced diabetes also contained elevated levels of cytochrome P-450j compared to untreated animals. Cytochrome P-450j levels were measurable in kidney, whereas this isozyme was barely detectable in lung, ovaries, and testes; however, extrahepatic cytochrome P-450j was inducible by isoniazid. Approximately 80-90% of microsomal N-nitrosodimethylamine demethylation was inhibited by antibody to cytochrome P-450j whether the microsomes were isolated from untreated rats or animals administered inducers or repressors of cytochrome P-450j. The residual catalytic activity resistant to antibody inhibition may be a reflection of the inaccessibility of a certain amount of cytochrome P-450j due to interference by NADPH-cytochrome P-450 reductase based on results obtained with the reconstituted system. There was a good correlation (r2 = 0.87) between cytochrome P-450j content and N-nitrosodimethylamine demethylase activity in microsomes from rats of different ages and treated with various xenobiotics. The evidence presented indicates that cytochrome P-450j is the primary, and perhaps sole, microsomal catalyst of N-nitrosodimethylamine demethylation at substrate concentrations relevant to hepatocarcinogenesis induced by N-nitrosodimethylamine.
Treatment of pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats with etretinate or retinoic acid on pregnancy Day 8.5-9.0 resulted in craniofacial malformations in 100% of the embryos. A morphological investigation of the maxillofacial malformations was undertaken. Retinoid-exposed embryos showed a reduced skull base, flattened and elongated occiput and micrognathia. The malar bones were reduced or missing. Meckel's cartilage was delayed in differentiation as was the mandibular bone. The fusion between different facial processes was disturbed which resulted in facial and palatal clefts. Disturbance of the development of the hypophysis was combined with persisting Rathke's pouch. Aplasia of incisor and molar tooth buds was seen as was aplasia of salivary gland ducts. The facial artery was hyperplastic.
The International Schizophrenia Outpatient Health Outcomes study, IC-SOHO is a three-year international observational study that investigates clinical and health outcomes of antipsychotic treatments. 7658 outpatients treated for schizophrenia were enrolled in the study, who needed an antipsychotic therapy to initiate or switch. The primary analysis compared the group taking olanzapine with the group taking any other antipsychotics, while the secondary comparison was performed between those treated with olanzapine and those with risperidone. Efficacy analysis was carried out based on changes in Clinical Global Impression of Severity scale (CGI-S), which was performed at a global symptom level, as well as with respect to the patients' positive, negative, cognitive and depressive symptoms. In addition, adverse events were also evaluated. Results of the analysis of the 3- and 6-month data from Hungary are disclosed in this publication. 200 patients were enrolled in the country. Demographics of the treatment groups were not significantly different. At 3 and 6 months after treatment initiation, there were no significant between-group differences in improvement of global symptomatology, however, cognitive symptoms improved more in the Olanzapine-group compared to those taking other antipsychotics (p<0.05). In patients showing Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) at baseline, these symptoms finished to a greater extent among those receiving olanzapine than in those receiving other antipsychotics (after 6 months D<0.0001). Half a year later, significantly less patients showed extrapyramidal adverse events (p=0,0007), and the previous EPS terminated to a greater extent (p=0.0016) in the olanzapine group, as compared to those taking risperidone. No between-group differences were found in changes of sexual functions, as well as of weight and Body Mass Index measures. Switching antipsychotic initiated at study baseline, and adding-on one or more other antipsychotic to the initial one, were significantly less frequent in the Olanzapine-group compared to those initiated other antipsychotics. In the first 3 months, treatment compliance was significantly higher with olanzapine therapy than with other antipsychotic treatments, and with risperidone respectively. Results from the Hungarian sample correspond with results from higher analysis levels of wider patient populations of IC-SOHO study. Olanzapine showed outstanding efficacy in lessening cognitive disturbances and global clinical symptomatology associated with schizophrenia. Extrapyramidal symptoms of patients treated with olanzapine improved significantly better compared with those patients who received other antipsychotics and risperidone respectively.
The comparative clinical effectiveness of new (reteplase, tenecteplase) vs. older (alteplase, streptokinase) thrombolytic agents in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction is uncertain.
To examine 30-35 day mortality and major adverse effects of thrombolytic agents in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction.
Systematic review of randomized controlled trials comparing the clinical efficacy of included drug regimens.
We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, Science Citation Index/Web of Science from 1980 to December 2001, and the Cochrane Library (2001, Issue 4). Reference lists of included studies and a number of medical journals were hand searched. Randomized controlled trials that compared any two of the included drugs provided to patients in the early stages of acute myocardial infarction, were included. Outcome measures included: mortality, bleeding, stroke, reinfarction, allergy and anaphylaxis.
We found 14 studies, total study population 142 907. For available comparisons (all alteplase vs. streptokinase, reteplase vs. streptokinase or alteplase, tenecteplase vs. alteplase), meta-analysis showed no significant differences in mortality at 30-35 days. The GUSTO-I study showed an apparent benefit of accelerated alteplase over streptokinase, but its inclusion or exclusion made little difference. Total stroke and haemorrhagic stroke rates were lower for streptokinase than for all alteplase combined (total stroke, OR 1.29, 95%CI 1.13-1.46; haemorrhagic stroke OR 1.83, 95%CI 1.14-2.93).
All thrombolytic drugs appear to be of similar efficacy in reducing mortality, and the apparent benefits of accelerated alteplase in GUSTO-I are consistent with this. Whether accelerated alteplase is sufficiently different from other regimens of administering alteplase to be excluded from a meta-analysis, and whether more weight should be placed on a meta-analysis than on a single trial, are matters for debate.
Familial partial lipodystrophy (FPLD) is a monogenic form of diabetes characterised by a dominantly inherited disorder of adipose tissue associated with the loss of subcutaneous fat from the limbs and trunk, with excess fat deposited around the face and neck. The lipodystrophy causes severe insulin resistance, resulting in acanthosis nigricans, diabetes, dyslipidaemia, and increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Preliminary results from animals and man suggest that increasing subcutaneous fat by treatment with thiazolidinediones should improve insulin resistance and the associated features of this syndrome.
We report a 24-year-old patient with FPLD caused by a mutation in the LMNA gene (R482W) treated with 12 months of rosiglitazone. Subcutaneous fat increased following rosiglitazone treatment as demonstrated by a 29% generalised increase in skin-fold thickness. Leptin levels increased from 5.8 to 11.2 ng/ml. Compared with treatment on Metformin, there was an increase in insulin sensitivity (HOMA S% 17.2-31.6) but no change in glycaemic control. The lipid profile worsened during the follow-up period.
This initial case suggests that, for modification of cardiovascular risk factors, there are no clear advantages in treating patients with FPLD with rosiglitazone despite increases in subcutaneous adipose tissue. Larger series will be needed to identify moderate beneficial effects and treatment may be more effective in patients with generalised forms of lipodystrophy.
The response of LEW and F344 strain rats to the pancreatic carcinogen azaserine was compared using the size and number of azaserine-induced acidophilic acinar cell foci and nodules as parameters in a 4-month experiment. A second experiment compared the effect of corn oil intake by gavage and dietary routes on the growth of azaserine-induced pancreatic lesions in LEW rats. A third experiment tested the activity of benzyl acetate in regard to its ability to induce acinar cell foci or to promote the growth of such foci in azaserine-treated rats. The results showed that equivalent doses of azaserine induce two to seven times more foci in LEW than in F344 rats, and that LEW rats have a higher incidence of "spontaneous" foci than F344 rats. Azaserine-treated LEW rats that were given 5 mL corn oil/kg body weight 5 days per week by gavage developed more acinar cell foci than rats fed a basal diet (chow). Addition of an equivalent amount of corn oil to chow had a similar effect of enhancing the development of foci. Rats of neither strain developed acinar cell foci when benzyl acetate was given by gavage or in the diet nor was there evidence that benzyl acetate has a significant effect on the development of foci in azaserine-treated rats. These studies also demonstrate that the azaserine/rat model of pancreatic carcinogenesis which was developed in LEW rats can be adapted for use with F344 rats.
Anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) hypoactivations during cognitive demand are a hallmark deficit in drug addiction. Methylphenidate (MPH) normalizes cortical function, enhancing task salience and improving associated cognitive abilities, in other frontal lobe pathologies; however, in clinical trials, MPH did not improve treatment outcome in cocaine addiction. We hypothesized that oral MPH will attenuate ACC hypoactivations and improve associated performance during a salient cognitive task in individuals with cocaine-use disorders (CUD). In the current functional MRI study, we used a rewarded drug cue-reactivity task previously shown to be associated with hypoactivations in both major ACC subdivisions (implicated in default brain function) in CUD compared with healthy controls. The task was performed by 13 CUD and 14 matched healthy controls on 2 d: after ingesting a single dose of oral MPH (20 mg) or placebo (lactose) in a counterbalanced fashion. Results show that oral MPH increased responses to this salient cognitive task in both major ACC subdivisions (including the caudal-dorsal ACC and rostroventromedial ACC extending to the medial orbitofrontal cortex) in the CUD. These functional MRI results were associated with reduced errors of commission (a common impulsivity measure) and improved task accuracy, especially during the drug (vs. neutral) cue-reactivity condition in all subjects. The clinical application of such MPH-induced brain-behavior enhancements remains to be tested.
To test the hypothesis that the endothelin system is involved in chlorine gas-induced lung injury.
Experimental study.
Academic research laboratory.
Twenty-four domestic juvenile pigs.
Anesthetized, ventilated pigs were exposed to chlorine gas (400 parts per million in air) for 20 mins and then randomly allocated to four groups (n=6 in each group). The tezosentan pretreatment group received the dual endothelin receptor antagonist tezosentan 20 mins before and hyperoxic gas (Fio2 0.6) after chlorine gas exposure. The tezosentan postinjury treatment group received hyperoxic gas after chlorine gas exposure and tezosentan 60 mins later. Animals in the oxygen group received hyperoxic gas after chlorine gas exposure. Pigs in the fourth group (air) were ventilated with room air (Fio2 0.21) throughout the experiment.
Hemodynamics, gas exchange, lung mechanics, and plasma endothelin-1 were evaluated for 6 hrs. Chlorine gas exposure induced an increase in circulating endothelin-1 by 90% (p<.05). The acute chlorine gas-induced rise in pulmonary vascular resistance was partly blocked by tezosentan pretreatment (p<.001). Tezosentan postinjury treatment also decreased pulmonary vascular resistance to levels significantly lower than in the air and oxygen groups (p<.001). Recovery of peak airway pressure was better in the tezosentan-treated groups than in the air group. There were significant linear relationships between circulating endothelin-1 and pulmonary vascular resistance (r=.47, p<.001) and endothelin-1 and peak airway pressure (r=.41, p<.001). These relationships were modified by tezosentan.
Tezosentan modified chlorine gas-induced pulmonary dysfunction, indicating that the endothelin system is involved in this mode of acute lung injury.
Raynaud's phenomenon occurred in 22 of 60 men (37%) treated with vinblastine and bleomycin with or without cisplatin for germ cell testicular cancer. An additional six patients (10%) had symptoms suggestive of Raynaud's phenomenon. Patients with and without Raynaud's phenomenon did not differ with respect to median age; tumor histology; total doses of vinblastine, bleomycin, and cisplatin; or the frequency of vinblastine-induced neuropathy and bleomycin-induced cutaneous toxicity. Digital ischemia occurred in 21% of patients treated with only vinblastine and bleomycin, and in 41% of patients treated also with cisplatin. Cigarette smoking was commoner in patients with than in those without Raynaud's phenomenon. Hand arteriograms showed diffuse arterial narrowing and abrupt vascular cutoffs. Except for one patient with a very low titer of cold agglutinins, no patient had detectable antinuclear antibody, rheumatoid factor, cryoglobulins, or cold agglutinins. Raynaud's phenomenon is a common delayed toxicity after chemotherapy with vinblastine, bleomycin, and cisplatin in patients with germ cell neoplasms.
This randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group trial was initiated to evaluate and compare the tolerability of once-daily astemizole-D capsules (10 mg astemizole/240 mg pseudoephedrine) and twice-daily loratadine-D tablets (5 mg loratadine/120 mg pseudoephedrine), with particular reference to the impact of treatment on quality of sleep. A total of 240 healthy volunteers participated in this study with a treatment duration of 3 days. Astemizole-D consistently produced less sleep impairment than loratadine-D with statistically significant differences in favour of astemizole-D reported for night-time waking on days 4 and 5 (P = 0.004 and P = 0.006, respectively), as well as for night-time restlessness on day 4 and the total score for all sleep parameters on day 4 (P < 0.05). Global evaluations of overall sleep quality at the end of the trial also revealed some statistically significant differences in favour of astemizole-D. Both drugs were well tolerated and there were no differences in the incidence and type of adverse events reported in the two treatment groups. Slight changes in heart rate and blood-pressure were observed in both treatment groups, but these were small and were not considered to be of clinical significance. In conclusion, once-daily astemizole-D is well tolerated and appears to cause less sleep impairment than twice-daily loratadine-D.
To study the characteristics of metacresol burn.
Metacresol of 99.6% was used. The animals were randomly separated into control group, excision group, topical SD-Ag group, saturated sodium sulfate wet compress group, and warm running water flushing group.
It was proved that metacresol could not only cause deep burns to skin but also penetrate skin and to produce impairment of functions of the main internal organs of the body, as shown by abnormalities in blood BUN, GPT, GOT, GGT, and AKP. Pathological changes were also found in the liver, heart, brain, kidney, and skin with light and electron microscopy.
Through comparison of the four different treatment methods for metacresol burns, it is concluded that excision of the wound followed by skin grafting should be done as early as possible to minimize absorption of the chemical. Topical application of SD-Ag or sodium sulfate wet compress, and flushing with running water can alleviate direct injury to skin. Drugs to protect the heart, liver, and kidney should be used for a longer period than usual.
Long-term treatment with lithium induces functional and/or structural disturbances in the kidneys. However, no procedure has been established for the early diagnosis of lithium intoxication. In this study, we prepared mild to severe lithium-induced nephropathy rat models and examined the usefulness of urine N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) for the early diagnosis of lithium-induced renal insufficiency. Lithium was administered by repeated intraperitoneal injection (1, 2 and 4 mEq/kg/day for 10 days). We also measured the plasma creatinine and paraaminohippuric acid (PAH) clearance, and observed renal histological changes. Lithium pretreatment elevated the plasma creatinine level and decreased PAH clearance in a dose-dependent manner. The NAG level in the lithium 4 mEq/kg group was very high. The levels in the lithium 1 mEq/kg and 2 mEq/kg groups were almost the same and were higher than the control group. A histological examination of the kidney revealed glomerular congestion and/or atrophy and tubular expansion in all of the groups except the control group. These histological changes were dose-dependent. In conclusion, urine NAG may be useful in the early diagnosis of renal side effects caused by lithium therapy. When the urine NAG level becomes high in a patient taking lithium for bipolar disorder, the physician may need to consider lithium-induced renal insufficiency.
NT69L, a neurotensin analog that crosses the blood-brain barrier, reduces body temperature, reverses apomorphine-induced climbing, haloperidol-induced catalepsy, and D-amphetamine- and cocaine-induced locomotor activity in rats. In this study we tested the development of tolerance to these effects of NT69L in rats. The blockade of apomorphine-induced climbing behavior and D-amphetamine- and cocaine-induced hyperactivity seen after a single acute injection did not show significant change with repeated daily injections of NT69L. Thus, for example, NT69L after five daily injections at a fixed dosage was as effective at reversing cocaine-induced hyperactivity as after the first injection. On the other hand, repeated daily injections of NT69L resulted in a diminished hypothermic response and a diminished anticataleptic effect against haloperidol. The effect of NT69L on blood glucose, cortisol, and thyroxine (T(4)) were all back to control levels after five daily injections. Thus, tolerance developed to NT69L after the first injection, when it was tested for causing hypothermia, blockade of haloperidol-induced catalepsy, and change in blood glucose, cortisol and T(4) levels. Since tolerance did not develop to the effects of drugs acting as direct (apomorphine) or indirect (D-amphetamine and cocaine) agonists at dopamine receptors over the course of 5 days, these findings suggest a selective role of neurotensin in the modulation of dopamine neurotransmission. Furthermore, due to the lack of development of tolerance, NT69L or similar analogs might be useful in modulating certain behavioral effects of psychostimulants or have potential use as an antipsychotic drug in humans.
A case history is presented of a man who developed angioedema of his head and neck during anaesthesia for his 11th cystoscopy within four years. Thiopentone was always used to induce his general anaesthesia. An intradermal skin test with 1 : 100 dilution of 2-5 per cent thiopentone was positive and subsequent anaesthesia without thiopentone was straightforward.
The heat pain threshold was assessed in 32 healthy participants after a mild burn on the dorsal surface of each hand, after injection of an opioid antagonist (80 microg naloxone) or vehicle alone (0.2 mL saline) into the burnt skin of 1 hand, and after repeated painful immersion of this hand in cold water for up to 180 seconds. We hypothesized that sensitivity to heat would decrease at the burn-injured site after the immersions, due to local release of opioids into the burnt skin. Naloxone augmented cold-induced pain during the immersions in participants who tolerated the longest immersions, implying that release of endogenous opioids suppressed cold-pain. After the immersions, sensitivity to heat decreased at the burn-injured site in the immersed hand, but naloxone did not block this effect. Instead, naloxone altered sensitivity to heat in unburnt skin, implying that thermal hyperalgesia at sites of burn injury masked the modulatory effects of opioids. In particular, naloxone blocked a decrease in sensitivity to heat at an unburnt site on the contralateral hand of participants who tolerated the longest immersions, consistent with central or systemic opioid release. Naloxone reduced sensitivity to heat at unburnt sites in participants who tolerated medium-length immersions, suggesting that an increase in systemic or central opioid activity evoked thermal hyperalgesia in this group. In addition, in a small group of participants who tolerated only brief immersions, naloxone blocked decreases in sensitivity to heat at an unburnt site in the immersed hand. These findings suggest that repeated painful immersions trigger local opioid release in participants who tolerate only brief immersions, and elicit central or systemic opioid release in participants who tolerate longer immersions.
This article demonstrates that repeated immersion of the hand in painfully cold water increases opioid activity and that the increase in opioid activity exerts multiple opposing effects on sensitivity to heat. Individual differences in the response to opioids might contribute to individual differences in pain tolerance.
Sorafenib and sunitinib are 2 tyrosine kinase inhibitors that were recently approved for renal cell carcinoma. In many patients sequential administration of the 2 drugs occurs because of the lack of sustained efficacy of the first agent. We determined the efficacy and safety of sequential administration.
To determine whether cross-resistance occurs between these 2 drugs we analyzed the outcome in 90 consecutive patients with renal cell carcinoma from 4 sites in France who had received the 2 drugs sequentially. All patients received sorafenib followed by sunitinib or vice versa. From 2003 to 2006, 68 patients received sorafenib, while 22 received sunitinib first.
In the sorafenib-sunitinib group median progression-free survival was 26 weeks with sorafenib and 28 with sunitinib. In the sunitinib-sorafenib group median progression-free survival was 22 weeks with sunitinib and 17 with sorafenib. Median overall survival was 135 weeks in the sorafenib-sunitinib group and 82 weeks in the sunitinib-sorafenib group (HR 0.49, 95% CI 0.16 to 0.96, p = 0.04). The average duration of sequential administration was 61 and 49 weeks, respectively, in the sorafenib-sunitinib and sunitinib-sorafenib groups. Each sequence was well tolerated and no increase in grade 3-4 toxicity was observed.
Overall this retrospective study supports the conclusion of the lack of absolute cross-resistance between tyrosine kinase inhibitors. In this renal cell carcinoma population sorafenib followed by sunitinib was associated with longer survival than sunitinib followed by sorafenib. However, this observation needs further confirmation.
Human N-Myc downstream regulated gene2 (NDRG2), a novel gene has been cloned and shown to be related to a number of cellular processes, including proliferation, differentiation, stress, and apoptosis. NDRG2 has also been linked to age-related Alzheimer's disease. Since the role of this gene in senescence is limited, we have investigated the potential role of NDRG2 in human lens epithelial cells (HLECs), a paradigm implicated in age-related cataract.
Cultured HLECs (SRA01/04) were subjected to prolonged exposure to low dose of H(2)O(2) to simulate senescence. After being exposed to 50 µM H(2)O(2) for 2 weeks, HLECs senescent-morphological changes appeared, cell viability decreased dramatically, cell proliferation reduced from 37.4% to 16.1%, and senescence-associated β-galactosidase activity increased from 0 to 90.3%. Ndrg2 protein expression was also significantly increased in these senescent cells. To induce overexpression of NDRG2, SRA01/04 cells were infected with the adenoviral vector of NDRG2. In these cells, overexpression of NDRG2 resulted in a fibroblast-like appearance and the cell viability decreased about 20%. In addition, the NDRG2-overexpression cells demonstrated 20% lower viability when exposed to 50-200 µM H(2)O(2) for acute oxidative stress. Furthermore, the expression of NDRG2 from age-related cataracts was up-regulated 2-fold at both mRNA and protein levels compared with the clear lenses.
NDRG2 is up regulated not only in the ageing process of HLECs in vitro but also in the cells from human age-related cortical cataract in vivo. Up-regulation of NDRG2 induces cell morphological changes, reduces cell viability, and especially lowers cellular resistance to oxidative stress. NDRG2-mediated affects in HLECs may associate with age-related cataract formation.
Hypertension is associated with reduced cardiac vagal activity and decreased atrial guanylate cyclase and cGMP levels. Neuronal production of NO facilitates cardiac parasympathetic transmission, although oxidative stress caused by hypertension may disrupt this pathway. We tested the hypothesis that peripheral vagal responsiveness is attenuated in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) because of impaired NO-cGMP signaling and that gene transfer of neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) into cholinergic intracardiac ganglia can restore neural function. Cardiac vagal heart rate responses in the isolated SHR atrial/right vagus preparation were significantly attenuated compared with age-matched normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats. [(3)H] acetylcholine release was also significantly lower in the SHR. The NO donor, sodium nitroprusside, augmented vagal responses to nerve stimulation and [(3)H] acetylcholine release in the Wistar-Kyoto rat, whereas the soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor 1H-(1,2,4)oxadiazolo(4,3-a)quinoxaline-1-one attenuated [(3)H] acetylcholine release in Wistar-Kyoto atria. No effects of sodium nitroprusside or 1H-(1,2,4)oxadiazolo(4,3-a)quinoxaline-1-one were seen in the SHR during nerve stimulation. In contrast, SHR atria were hyperresponsive to carbachol-induced bradycardia, with elevated production of atrial cGMP. After gene transfer of adenoviral nNOS into the right atrium, vagal responsiveness in vivo was significantly increased in the SHR compared with transfection with adenoviral enhanced green fluorescent protein. Atrial nNOS activity was increased after gene transfer of adenoviral nNOS, as was expression of alpha(1)-soluble guanylate cyclase in both groups compared with adenoviral enhanced green fluorescent protein. In conclusion, a significant component of cardiac vagal dysfunction in hypertension is attributed to an impairment of the postganglionic presynaptic NO-cGMP pathway and that overexpression of nNOS can reverse this neural phenotype.
Cardiac disease is the commonest cause of death amongst diabetic patients. Diabetic cardiomyopathy, which has a poor prognosis, is characterized by left ventricular hypertrophy and impaired cardiac function and mitochondrial damage is said to contribute to its development. We recently showed that treatment with the Cu(II) -selective chelator, triethylenetetramine (TETA), improved cardiac structure, and function in diabetic subjects without modifying hyperglycemia. Thus, TETA has potential utility for the treatment of heart disease. To further understand the molecular mechanism by which it causes these effects, we have conducted the first study of the effect of oral TETA on protein abundance in the cardiac left ventricle of rats with severe streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Proteomic methods showed that of 211 proteins changed in diabetes, 33 recovered after treatment. Through MS, 16 proteins were identified which may constitute major targets of drug action. Remarkably, most of these were mitochondrial proteins with roles in energy metabolism. In addition to components of the mitochondrial respiratory chain and enzymes involved in fatty acid oxidation, TETA treatment normalized both myocardial expression and enzymatic activity of carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2. These findings indicate that mitochondria constitute major targets in the mechanism by which TETA restores cardiac structure and function in diabetes.
Our research is focused on modifying effects of an isoflavone aglycones (IAs)-rich extract at a hormonally active dose of 150 mg/kg body weight/day on mammary and endometrial carcinogenesis in female Donryu rats. IA administered for 2 weeks in a phytoestrogen-low diet exerted estrogenic activity and induced cell proliferation in the uterus of ovariectomized rats. Furthermore, administration for 4 weeks resulted in elevation of cell proliferation in the mammary glands of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-treated animals. Forty weeks of postpubertal administration of IA to 5-week-old rats after initiation of mammary and endometrial carcinogenesis with DMBA and N-ethyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (ENNG) caused significant increase of incidence and multiplicity of mammary adenocarcinoma, multiplicities of endometrial atypical hyperplasia, adenomatous polyps, and an increased trend of uterine adenocarcinomas. Liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry and immunohistochemical analyses revealed significant elevation of tumorigenesis-related proteins such as S100 calcium-binding protein A8, kininogen 1, and annexins 1 and 2 in mammary adenocarcinomas and cadherin EGF LAG seven-pass G-type receptor 2, DEAD box polypeptide 1, and cysteine- and glycine-rich protein 1 in uterine proliferative lesions of IA-treated animals. Those changes are likely to be related to modulation of estrogen receptor (ER), AP1, nuclear factor-kappa B, and actin signaling pathways. Our results indicate that the postpubertal exposure of Donryu rats to IA at an estrogenic dose results in promotion of mammary and uterine carcinogenesis induced by DMBA and ENNG, which might be related to the activation of ER-dependent signaling and alteration of the molecular tumor environment in the mammary gland and endometrium.
Over the past 2 decades the use of thrombolytic therapy in the management of peripheral occlusive diseases, most notably peripheral arterial occlusion (PAO) and deep venous thrombosis (DVT), has become an accepted and potentially preferable alternative to surgery. We examined the period when urokinase was in short supply and subsequently unavailable, to explore potential differences in clinical outcome and economic effect between urokinase and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA).
Data were obtained from the Premier Perspective Database, a broad clinical database that contains information on inpatient medical practices and resource use. The study population included all patients hospitalized in 1999 and 2000 with a primary or secondary diagnosis of PAO or DVT. Incidence was calculated for common adverse events, including bleeding complications, intracranial hemorrhage, amputation, and death. Cost data were also abstracted from the database, and are expressed as mean +/- SD.
Demographic variables were similar in the urokinase and rt-PA groups. The rate of bleeding complications was similar in the urokinase and rt-PA groups. There were no intracranial hemorrhages in the urokinase group, compared with a rate of 1.5% in the rt-PA PAO group (P = .087) and 1.9% in the rt-PA DVT group (P = .175). The in-hospital mortality rate was lower in the urokinase-treated PAO subgroup (3.6% vs 8.5%; P = .026), but a similar finding in the DVT subgroup did not achieve statistical significance (4% vs 9.8%; P = .069). While pharmacy costs were greater in the urokinase-treated group (US 5472 dollars +/- US 5579 dollars vs US 3644 dollars +/- US 6009 dollars, P < .001; PAO subgroup, US 11,070 dollars +/- US 15,409 dollars vs US 6150 dollars +/- US 12,398 dollars, P = .003), overall hospital costs did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. This finding appears to be explained by a shorter hospital stay and reduced room and board costs in the urokinase-treated group.
There were significant differences in outcome in patients with PAO and DVT who received treatment with urokinase and rt-PA. While pharmacy costs were significantly greater when urokinase was used, reduction in length of stay accounted for similar total hospital costs compared with rt-PA. These findings must be considered in the context of the retrospective nature of the analysis and the potential to use dosing regimens that differ from those in this study.
The biochemical and behavioural effects of the chronic administration of the beta-carboline inverse agonist FG 7142 were studied in the rat. Repeated administration of FG 7142 (15 mg/kg IP, twice daily for 10 consecutive days) induced sensitization to the effects of this drug, which from proconvulsant became a full convulsant. Thus, myoclonic seizures were observed in 30% and 80% of the animals by the third and the eighth day of treatment, respectively. The sensitization to the convulsant effect of FG 7142 persisted for up to 50 days after withdrawal and was completely prevented by the concurrent administration of the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist Ro15-1788 (15 mg/kg IP, twice a day for 10 days). Moreover, four to twelve days after withdrawal from chronic treatment with FG 7142, an increased sensitivity to the proconvulsant beta CCE and to the convulsant DMCM was observed. In addition, convulsions induced by isoniazid (350 mg/kg, SC) were potentiated in rats chronically treated with FG 7142 at 5 and 20 days after withdrawal. These pharmacological effects were paralleled by a decrease in the density of low affinity GABA receptors in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum. These results are consistent with the view that repeated administration of FG 7142 induces a long-lasting down-regulation of the GABAergic function which results in an increased sensitivity to beta-carboline inverse agonists and isoniazid. The possibility that a concomitant decrease in the responsiveness to benzodiazepines and Ro15-1788 takes place after chronic treatment with FG 7142 is also discussed.
