Our patient experienced acute renal failure but not fulminant hepatic failure from acetaminophen toxicity.
To review the clinical and laboratory characteristics of similar cases of acetaminophen nephrotoxicity.
A MEDLINE search and medical record search at two large teaching hospitals.
We reviewed our index case, a patient at Jackson Memorial Hospital, and 34 additional patients with acetaminophen nephrotoxicity reported in the literature. Oliguria was present in 23 of 31 patients. There was no difference in peak serum creatinine levels between patients treated with N-acetylcysteine and those not treated. The onset of acute renal failure was from 2-5 days after overdose, and peak serum creatinine levels occurred 3-16 days (average 7.3 days) after overdose. Thirteen patients required hemodialysis; all but one were oliguric. Renal failure was spontaneously reversible in all patients.
Although uncommon, it is possible to have acute renal failure due to acetaminophen toxicity in the absence of fulminant hepatic failure.
Miconazole is an imidazole antifungal agent that is available in topical, vaginal, and parenteral formulations. Indications for the parenteral product have become rare with the development of newer, more effective agents. A 54-year-old man who had undergone orthotopic heart transplantation developed a widespread subcutaneous Scopulariopsis infection that progressed despite treatment with amphotericin B and itraconazole. Intravenous miconazole was added to his regimen. During the infusion he developed a bradyarrhythmia that resolved after miconazole was discontinued. On rechallenge with a lower dosage, bradyarrhythmia recurred and progressed to ventricular fibrillation. The patient died despite full resuscitation efforts. Only a few case reports exist of miconazole-induced cardiac arrhythmias, and these events were attributed to rapid intravenous administration, insufficient dilution, and the drug's vehicle. We believe that intravenous miconazole should be given with caution to patients with underlying heart disease.
Intestinal mucosa barrier (IMB) dysfunction results in many notorious diseases for which there are currently few effective treatments. We studied curcumin's protective effect on IMB and examined its mechanism by using methotrexate (MTX) induced rat enteritis model and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treated cell death model.
Curcumin was intragastrically administrated from the first day, models were made for 7 days. Cells were treated with curcumin for 30 min before exposure to LPS. Rat intestinal mucosa was collected for evaluation of pathological changes. We detected the activities of D-lactate and diamine oxidase (DAO) according to previous research and measured the levels of myeloperoxidase (MPO) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) by colorimetric method. Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and interleukin 1β (IL-1β) were determined by RT-PCR and IL-10 production was determined by ELISA. We found Curcumin decreased the levels of D-lactate, DAO, MPO, ICAM-1, IL-1β and TNF-α, but increased the levels of IL-10 and SOD in rat models. We further confirmed mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1 (MKP-1) was activated but phospho-p38 was inhibited by curcumin by western blot assay. Finally, NF-κB translocation was monitored by immunofluorescent staining. We showed that curcumin repressed I-κB and interfered with the translocation of NF-κB into nucleus.
The effect of curcumin is mediated by the MKP-1-dependent inactivation of p38 and inhibition of NF-κB-mediated transcription. Curcumin, with anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant activities may be used as an effective reagent for protecting intestinal mucosa barrier and other related intestinal diseases.
We report two male adolescents who developed partial or complete retrograde ejaculation during risperidone treatment. Additionally, one patient complained of bladder outflow obstruction, and the other reported a reduced ejaculatory volume and decreased viscosity of semen. On rechallenge with risperidone, patient A showed a prompt recurrence of the ejaculatory dysfunction. The side effects were highly disturbing and led to reduced treatment compliance in both patients. The impact of risperidone, a strong alpha(1)-receptor antagonist, on the adrenergic system might induce retrograde ejaculation by altering the sympathetic tonus, allowing semen to pass retrogradely into the bladder during ejaculation. The reduced ejaculatory volume may be caused by risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia. Clinicians should regularly inquire about sexual dysfunction and symptoms suggestive of hyperprolactinemia before starting risperidone treatment and regularly thereafter.
Preclinical and clinical studies suggest that yohimbine facilitates sexual behavior and may be helpful in the treatment of male impotence. A single case report suggests that yohimbine may be used to treat the sexual side effects of clomipramine. This study evaluated yohimbine as a treatment for the sexual side effects caused by serotonin reuptake blockers.
Six patients with either obsessive compulsive disorder, trichotillomania, anxiety, or affective disorders who suffered sexual side effects after treatment with serotonin reuptake blockers were given yohimbine on a p.r.n. basis in an open clinical trial. Various doses of yohimbine were used to determine the ideal dose for each patient.
Five of the six patients experienced improved sexual functioning after taking yohimbine. One patient who failed to comply with yohimbine treatment had no therapeutic effects. Side effects of yohimbine included excessive sweating, increased anxiety, and a wound-up feeling in some patients.
The results of this study indicate that yohimbine may be an effective treatment for the sexual side effects caused by serotonin reuptake blockers. Future controlled studies are needed to further investigate the effectiveness and safety of yohimbine for this indication.
The objective of this study was to trigger the formation of rat abdominal aortic aneurysm by applying calcium chloride periarterially and then to detect the degree of prevention of aneurysm occurrence by oral introduction of indomethacin in some of the rats. Thirty-one rats were divided into three groups. The infrarenal aorta above the iliac bifurcation of rats was treated with sodium chloride in group 1 (control, n = 7), calcium chloride in group 2 (n = 12), and calcium chloride-indomethacin in group 3 (n = 12) periarterially. The rats of each group were randomly selected at the end of the first, second, and third weeks postoperatively; and vessel diameters of abdominal aortas were measured by digital photography using a micrometer. Aneurysmal development was not observed in any of the rats in the control group. None of the comparisons was statistically significant (p > 0.05). Aneurysmal development was observed in all of the rats in the calcium chloride group. Results from the first, second, and third weeks postoperatively were statistically significant (p < 0.05). A middle aneurysmal development was observed in all rats in the calcium chloride-indomethacin group. Only results from the second and third weeks postoperatively were statistically significant (p < 0.05). Measurements in groups 2 and 3 were statistically significant when compared to group 1 (p < 0.001). However, the mean increase in the indomethacin-treated group (group 3) was only 26.1%. The macroscopic appearance of the control group and an aneurysm induced by calcium-chloride application are shown.
Reactive oxygen species, derived from hypoxia and reoxygenation during transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI), are associated with the signaling pathway that leads to neuronal survival or death, depending on the severity and duration of the ischemic insult. The Akt survival signaling pathway is regulated by oxidative stress and is implicated in activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Mild cerebral ischemia in mice was used to induce increased levels of Akt phosphorylation in the cortex and striatum. To clarify the role of Akt activation by NF-kappaB after tFCI, we injected the specific Akt inhibitor IV that inhibits Akt phosphorylation/activation. Inhibition of Akt phosphorylation induced decreases in sequential NF-kappaB signaling after 30 mins of tFCI at 1 h. Furthermore, the downstream survival signals of the Akt pathway were also decreased. Akt inhibitor IV increased ischemic infarct volume and apoptotic-related DNA fragmentation. Superoxide production in the ischemic brains of mice pretreated with the Akt inhibitor was higher than in vehicle-treated mice. In addition, those pretreated mice showed a reduction of approximately 33% in copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase expression. We propose that Akt signaling exerts its neuroprotective role by NF-kappaB activation in oxidative cerebral ischemia in mice.
Dyskinetic movements and dystonic postures may be induced by neuroleptics in monkeys that have undergone previous neuroleptic treatment, and these motor abnormalities constitute a primate model of drug-induced extrapyramidal symptomatology. In view of previous suggestions that brain serotonergic systems may tonically inhibit dopamine neurons, the effects of several new and selective 5-HT2 receptor antagonists and 5-HT1A receptor agonists were investigated in this model. Setoperone, a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist with extremely potent 5-HT2 antagonism, caused dyskinetic movements. Although ritanserin is a potent 5-HT2 antagonist with very weak dopamine antagonist properties, this drug did not antagonize dyskinesias but induced them when administered at a high dose (30 mg/kg). Buspirone induced dyskinesias and blocked apomorphine-induced climbing, supporting prior reports that it has dopamine antagonist effects. Gepirone, a 5-HT1A agonist with less marked dopamine antagonist properties, induced dyskinesias in only one of six monkeys at 30 mg/kg and did not block haloperidol-induced dyskinesias. 8-OH-DPAT partly attenuated haloperidol-induced dyskinesias, an effect possibly attributable to its weak dopamine agonist properties. Tonic inhibition of brain extrapyramidal dopamine systems by serotonin systems does not appear to characterize neuroleptic-related dyskinesias in squirrel monkeys.
Offspring of women who smoke during pregnancy are themselves more likely to take up smoking in adolescence. We evaluated neurotoxicant effects of prenatal and adolescent nicotine exposure in developing rats to evaluate whether these contribute to a biological basis for this relationship. Rats were given nicotine or vehicle throughout pregnancy and the offspring then again received nicotine or vehicle during adolescence (postnatal days PN30-47.5); this regimen reproduces the plasma nicotine levels found in smokers. Indices of neural cell number (DNA concentration and content), cell size (protein/DNA ratio), and cell membrane surface area (membrane/total protein) were then evaluated in brain regions during adolescent nicotine administration (PN45) and up to 1 month post-treatment. By itself, prenatal nicotine administration produced cellular alterations that persisted into adolescence, characterized by net cell losses in the midbrain and to a lesser extent, in the cerebral cortex, with corresponding elevations in the membrane/total protein ratio. The hippocampus showed a unique response, with increased DNA content and regional enlargement. Adolescent nicotine treatment alone had similar, albeit smaller effects, but also showed sex-dependence, with effects on protein biomarkers preferential to females. When animals exposed to nicotine prenatally were then given nicotine in adolescence, the net outcome was worsened, largely representing summation of the two individual effects. Our results indicate that prenatal nicotine exposure alters parameters of cell development lasting into adolescence, where the effects add to those elicited directly by adolescent nicotine; neurotoxicant actions may thus contribute to the association between maternal smoking and subsequent smoking in the offspring.
A 42-year-old obese man presented with acute pulmonary edema. He had a history of chronic residual schizophrenia for which he had been taking clozapine for 7 years, but had no known prior cardiac disease. Echocardiography demonstrated severe biventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction with severe left ventricular enlargement. Cardiac catheterization showed no coronary artery disease.
Physical examination, chest radiography, electrocardiography, transthoracic echocardiography, laboratory testing, viral serology, cardiac catheterization, coronary angiography and abdominal and renal ultrasonography.
Clozapine-induced dilated cardiomyopathy.
Intravenous nesiritide, furosemide and morphine followed by oral heart-failure therapy comprising ramipril, metoprolol succinate, spironolactone, and furosemide. Clozapine therapy was withdrawn.
Variable response to inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) therapy in patients with mitral stenosis (MS) having pulmonary hypertension (PH) has been documented in early studies. The objectives of this study were to measure plasma Endothelin-1 (ET-1) levels in those patients and to correlate them with pulmonary vascular indices after iNO therapy. It was Quesi-experimental study.
Thirty patients with mitral or mixed mitral and aortic valve disease with severe pulmonary hypertension and enrolled for valve replacement surgery were included. Before the replacement, baseline pulmonary vascular indices and cardiac output were recorded. After the surgery, 10-20 ppm iNO was administered for 1 hour and all the parameters were again recorded. Patients were grouped into responders and non responders on the basis of % reduction in Pulmonary Vascular Resistance (PVR) after iNO therapy. Plasma ET-1 levels were measured in both groups by ELISA before and after the iNO therapy. Paired sample t-test was used to compare mean values for significance. The correlations between variables were then calculated by using Pearson's coefficient.
The plasma ET-1 levels were very high in all patients. They reduced in responders after iNO therapy; non-responders paradoxically showed significant increase in the levels of ET-1 after iNO therapy. Moreover, a positive correlation was observed in plasma ET-1 levels and post operative levels of PVR.
The correlation of changes in PVR and plasma ET-1 levels in responders suggests that high plasma ET-1 is a key mediator of poor response in PH secondary to MS, after iNO therapy.
We have studied the protective effect of chitosan on isoniazid- and rifampicin-induced hepatotoxicity with respect to the changes in the levels of diagnostic marker enzymes (in serum), lipid components and lipid peroxidation (in serum and liver). The oral administration of antitubercular drugs caused a significant elevation in the levels of diagnostic marker enzymes and cholesterol, triglycerides, free fatty acids and lipid peroxidation in serum and liver of experimental rats. There was a slight decline in the level of phospholipids in liver tissue also observed. Co-administration of chitosan significantly prevented the antitubercular drugs-induced elevation in the levels of serum diagnostic marker enzymes (alanine amino transferase, aspartate amino transferase, lactate dehydrogenase, acid phosphatase and alkaline phosphatase) in experimental groups of rats. It exerted a significant antilipidemic effect against isoniazid- and rifampicin-induced hepatitis by maintaining the levels cholesterol, triglycerides, free fatty acids and phospholipids in serum and liver at near normalcy. A tendency to prevent the isoniazid- and rifampicin-induced lipid peroxidation was also observed. The results of the present study indicated that the hepatoprotective effect of chitosan might be ascribable to its antilipidemic effect and/or antioxidant property.
Hemorrhagic cerebrovascular accident is an uncommon but serious complication of drug overdose. A case of fatal intracranial hemorrhage following overdose with phenylpropanolamine, pentazocine, and tripelennamine is presented. The pharmacology, pathophysiology, clinical presentation, and management of poisoning by these agents are discussed.
Prolonged topical corticosteroid use is often associated with atrophic skin changes. This trial compared signs of skin atrophy related to 3 super-high-potency corticosteroids: fluocinonide 0.1% cream, clobetasol propionate 0.05% cream, and 0.05% foam.
The test treatments were applied to the forearms 10 females twice daily for 21 days. Skin characteristics were assessed pretreatment and posttreatment for atrophic changes. Further punch biopsies obtained from 5 subjects were assessed histologically.
Clobetasol foam produced mild changes in noninvasive tests, but stained skin biopsies revealed structural changes nearly comparable to clobetasol cream, which showed substantial atrophic changes. Fluocinonide cream was the least atrophogenic, producing no or only mild effects that were slightly greater than vehicle.
Fluocinonide cream has a lower potential to produce atrophic changes of the skin than either clobetasol cream or clobetasol propionate foam.
The effects of acute and repeated treatments with the dipivaloyl ester of apomorphine on behaviour and brain dopamine metabolism were compared in rats. A single injection of the ester (50 mg/kg i.p.) indued a stereotyped behaviour lasting for at least 6 h and a concomitant decrease in striatal HVA levels. After repeated treatment (twice daily for 7 days) with the drug, both the stereotyped behaviour and the decreases in striatal HVA levels were attenuated as compared to acute treatment; the minimal dose tested which induced this tolerance was found to be 25 mg/kg i.p. The minimal length of treatment with 50 mg/kg of the ester after which tolerance was observed was 3-4 days. The ED50 for haloperidol-induced catalepsy was about 4 times lower in rats treated with apomorphine dipivaloyl ester (50 mg/kg) for 7 days than in naive rats. Similarly, a shift to the left of the haloperidol dose-response curve for the increase in striatal dopamine metabolite levels was observed in rats treated subacutely with the ester as compared to control rats. Repeated treatment (7 days) with the dipivaloyl ester of apomorphine also attenuated the decrease in NVA levels seen with acute treatment in nucleus accumbens and tuberculum olfactorium; however, the threshold dose inducing tolerance in limbic regions was higher than in striatum. No difference in the brain concentrations of apomorphine was found after acute and repeated treatments with the ester. Thus, the present study provides evidence for the development of subsensitivity of dopamine receptors after repeated administration of aopomorphine dipivaloyl ester.
Azelaic acid (AzA) 15% gel is approved for the treatment of rosacea in the US, but also has approval for the treatment of acne vulgaris in many European countries where it has demonstrated success. Two randomized, multicenter, controlled clinical trials compared the effects of AzA 15% gel with those of topical benzoyl peroxide 5% or topical clindamycin 1%, all using a twice-daily dosing regimen. The primary endpoint in the intent-to-treat analysis was a reduction in inflammatory papules and pustules. AzA 15% gel resulted in a 70% to 71% median reduction of facial papules and pustules compared with a 77% reduction with benzoyl peroxide 5% gel and a 63% reduction with clindamycin. AzA 15% gel was well-tolerated. In addition, a 1-year European observational study conducted by dermatologists in private practice evaluated the safety and efficacy of AzA 15% gel used as monotherapy or in combination with other agents in more than 1200 patients with acne. Most physicians (81.9%) described an improvement in patients' symptoms after an average of 34.6 days, and 93.9% of physicians reported patient improvement after an average of 73.1 days. Both physicians and patients assessed AzA 15% gel to be effective with 74% of patients being "very satisfied" at the end of therapy. AzA 15% gel was considered "well-tolerated" or "very well-tolerated" by 95.7% of patients. The majority of patients were more satisfied with AzA than with previous therapies. AzA 15% gel represents a new therapeutic option for the treatment of acne vulgaris.
Ninety-two adult patients with AIDS or severe AIDS-related complex were treated with 2',3'-dideoxyinosine (didanosine; ddI) at dosages ranging from 0.8 to 66.0 mg/(kg.d) for at least 6 weeks in phase I trials. Potentially beneficial changes in weight (40% of patients), clinical signs or symptoms (40% of patients), CD4+ cell counts (25% of patients), and serum levels of HIV p24 antigen (50% of antigen-positive patients) were reported. Response rates tended to be higher among patients with AIDS-related complex and among those who had not received prior zidovudine therapy. A major response (improvement in at least one clinical parameter and in at least one laboratory marker) occurred in 29% of patients, and rates of major response tended to be higher in patients receiving higher dosages. The primary dose-limiting toxicity observed was peripheral neuropathy, which was observed with increasing frequency in patients receiving greater than 20 mg/(kg.d). Of the other adverse effects, pancreatitis was possibly dose-dependent and hyperuricemia (without clinical gout) occurred only at high doses. Dosages of 250 mg and 375 mg of ddI twice daily will be used in extended phase II/III studies.
This study reports the prevalence and types of sexual dysfunction in a sample of men on methadone maintenance for opioid dependence, and describes factors which may contribute to sexual dysfunction.
92 opioid-dependent men were recruited from a methadone maintenance clinic and completed two questionnaires, a research interview and laboratory measures.
Fourteen percent reported some sexual dysfunction. Erectile dysfunction (r = 0.24, p = 0.020), libido dysfunction (r = 0.30, p = 0.003), and global dysfunction (r = 0.26, p = 0.013) increased with increasing age of the patient. Methadone dose showed a significant direct correlation with increased orgasm dysfunction, both before and after adjusting for duration of treatment (p = 0.012). None of the sexual dysfunction subscales or global dysfunction were associated with plasma testosterone or plasma prolactin levels.
The rate of global sexual dysfunction in methadonetreated men is similar to general population studies and should be evaluated using general population guidelines. Orgasm dysfunction is a special case and may respond to methadone dose reduction.
Puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) is a model for human minimal change nephropathy induced in rats by injection of puromycin. In PAN, defective sialylation of a major sialoprotein of podocytes, podocalyxin, has been demonstrated and the consequent decrease of anionic charge suggested as a causative factor for increased glomerular permeability and proteinuria. Whether defective sialylation is a general feature of PAN affecting also glomerular glycosphingolipids is not known. We have shown that rat glomeruli are rich in disialogangliosides GD3 and O-acetyl GD3, the functions of which are not known. Here, we made a sequential analysis of the glomerular gangliosides, especially of GD3 and its O-acetyl derivative in acute PAN using immunohistochemical and biochemical techniques and compared the results with another rat model of glomerular disease, Heymann nephritis. The prominent immunohistochemical finding was the almost total disappearance of glomerular O-acetyl GD3 and a substantial decrease of its precursor GD3 peaking at 10 days after injection of puromycin. Segmental areas lacking these gangliosides remained in glomeruli still at 30 days after injection. The response was dose dependent. Semiquantitative analysis by thin layer chromatograms showed that O-acetyl GD3 was decreased by 41% already at 3 days and by 60% at 10 days after injection of puromycin. Also GD3, the immediate precursor of O-acetyl GD3, was decreased by 20 and 19%, respectively, at 3 and 10 days after injection. At 3 days after injection, overt proteinuria had not started. At these times, no other changes were observed in the glomerular gangliosides. The decrease of glomerular GD3 and O-acetyl GD3 indicates a decrease of GD3 synthase activity and perhaps of O-acetyltransferase activity in PAN nephrosis. As these changes preceded the overt proteinuria, they may have a causal relationship to it. In the glomeruli of Heymann nephritic rats, no similar changes were seen, suggesting that the sialylation defect is not due to proteinuria but is a consequence of targeted puromycin action on cells.
Investigations of maternal caffeine intake and neural tube defects (NTDs) have not considered genetic influences. Caffeine metabolism gene effects were examined in the National Birth Defects Prevention Study.
Average daily caffeine was summed from self-reported coffee, tea, soda, and chocolate intake for mothers of 768 NTD cases, and 4143 controls delivered from 1997 to 2002. A subset of 306 NTD and 669 control infants and their parents were genotyped for CYP1A2*1F, NAT2 481C>T, and NAT2 590G>A. CYP1A2*1F was classified by fast or slow oxidation status, and NAT2 variants were categorized into rapid or slow acetylation status. Case-control logistic regression analyses, family-based transmission/disequilibrium tests and log-linear analyses, and hybrid log-linear analyses were conducted to produce odds ratios (ORs) or relative risks (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for caffeine intake and maternal and infant gene variants, and to examine interaction effects.
NTDs were independently associated with infant slow NAT2 acetylator status (RR, 2.00; 95% CI, 1.10-3.64) and maternal CYP1A2*1F fast oxidation status (OR, 1.49; 95% CI, 1.10-2.03). Mothers who consumed caffeine, oxidized CYP1A2*1F quickly, and acetylized NAT2 slowly had a nonsignificantly elevated estimated risk for an NTD-affected pregnancy (OR, 3.10; 95% CI, 0.86-11.21). Multiplicative interaction effects were observed between maternal caffeine and infant CYP1A2*1F fast oxidizer status (p(interaction) = 0.03).
The association identified between maternal CYP1A2*1F fast oxidation status and NTDs should be examined further in the context of the other substrates of CYP1A2. Maternal caffeine and its metabolites may be associated with increased risk for NTD-affected pregnancies in genetically susceptible subgroups.
Percutaneous angiography with iodinated contrast in patients with chronic kidney disease carries a risk of contrast nephropathy, which is independently associated with renal disease progression and increased mortality. Gadolinium contrast is a potential alternative to iodinated contrast for percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty (PTRA), and appears to be safe and well tolerated. The aim of this study was to assess the results of gadolinium use to facilitate PTRA in patients with chronic kidney disease.
Clinical outcomes were compared between patients with serum creatinine (Cr) >/= 176 micromol/L (2 mg/dL), who had either gadolinium (n = 57; gadoteridol or gadodiamide), iodinated (n = 68; iohexol or iodixanol) or a combination of gadolinium and iodinated-contrast-enhanced (n = 38) PTRA.
Despite similar degrees of pre-procedural renal insufficiency, the incidence of immediate contrast nephropathy [defined as an increase in serum Cr of 44 micromol/L (0.5 mg/dL) within 7 days without other identifiable causes] was lowest in the gadolinium group (3/57, 5.3%) compared to those receiving a combination of modest iodinated contrast in addition to gadolinium (4/38, 10.5%) or solely iodinated contrast (14/68, 20.6%). This was associated with a reduction in the 30-day progression to need for renal replacement therapy (RRT) (P < 0.005). Yet, over a mean follow-up of 40 +/- 22 months, renal function outcomes or all-cause mortality were not different between the contrast groups. The type of contrast used had no effect on technical success and both short- and long-term blood pressure outcomes were comparable between the groups. Two patients developed pathology-proven nephrogenic fibrosing dermopathy, a serious skin condition that has been seen in patients with kidney disease following administration of gadolinium.
Gadolinium contrast appears to be an effective agent for interventional renal angiograms. Compared to iodinated contrast, gadolinium contrast is associated with a significantly lower incidence of contrast nephropathy and early progression to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in patients with pre-existing chronic kidney disease. The risk of fibrosing dermopathy however and remains to be established.
The present study describes a case of endodontic paste (Endomethasone) penetration within and along the mandibular canal from the periapical zone of a lower first premolar following endodontic treatment of the latter. The clinical manifestations comprised anesthesia of the right side of the lower lip and paresthesia of the gums in the fourth quadrant, appearing immediately after endodontic treatment. The lip anesthesia was seen to decrease, with persistence of the gingival paresthesia, after 7 months.
Nitric oxide synthesized from inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) plays role in acetaminophen (APAP)-induced liver damage. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the effect of iNOS inhibitor S-methylisothiourea (SMT) in APAP-induced hepatotoxicity in rats (1 g/kg, i.p.). SMT was (10, 30, and 100 mg/kg; i.p.) given 30 min before and 3 h after APAP administration. At 6 and 24 h, blood was collected to measure alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), and nitrate plus nitrite (NOx) levels in serum. At 48 h, animals were sacrificed, and blood and liver tissues were collected for biochemical estimation. SMT reduced significantly the serum ALT, AST, and NOx levels at 24 and 48 h and liver NOx levels at 48 h as compared with APAP-treated control. The amount of peroxynitrite measured by rhodamine assay was significantly reduced by SMT, as compared with APAP-treated control group. SMT treatment (30 mg/kg) has significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation and protein carbonyl levels, increased SOD and catalase, and reduced glutathione and total thiol levels significantly as compared with APAP-treated control. SMT 30 mg/kg dose has protected animals from APAP-induced hypotension and reduced iNOS gene expression. Hepatocytes were isolated from animals, and effect of SMT on apoptosis, MTP, and ROS generation was studied, and their increased value in APAP intoxicated group was found to be significantly decreased by SMT (30 mg/kg) at 24 and 48 h. In conclusion, nitric oxide produced from iNOS plays important role in toxicity at late hours (24 to 48 h), and SMT inhibits iNOS and reduces oxidative and nitrosative stress.
Two patients with hepatoma of the liver were treated with ligation of the hepatic artery and continuous infusion of adriamycin into the distal arterial branch. Both patients had tumor replacing 60-75% of the normal liver parenchyma. There was clinical improvement and objective shrinkage of the tumor by liver scan lasting for 5 and 7 months. But both cases died 7 and 11 months later, probably of cardiac toxicity (total dose of adriamycin = 500 mg/m2).
A novel series of zwitterions is reported that contains potent, selective antagonists of the chemoattractant receptor-homologous expressed on Th2 lymphocytes receptor (CRTh2 or DP2). A high quality lead compound 2 was discovered from virtual screening based on the pharmacophore features present in a literature compound 1. Lead optimization through side chain modification and preliminary changes around the acid are disclosed. Optimization of physicochemical properties (log D, MWt, and HBA) allowed maintenance of high CRTh2 potency while achieving low rates of metabolism and minimization of other potential concerns such as hERG channel activity and permeability. A step-change increase in potency was achieved through addition of a single methyl group onto the piperazine ring, which gave high quality compounds suitable for progression into in vivo studies.
A patient with serious neurological and neuropsychological side-effects of a 2-year treatment with 1,1-dichloro-(o-chlorophenyl)-2-(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (o,p'-DDD) for adrenal carcinoma showed complete recovery after discontinuation of the drug. Studying a larger number of patients during and after long term treatment with o,p'-DDD is indicated. If results of this report are confirmed, therapy should not be discontinued even if serious side effects occur.
