The aim of this study was to determine the ideal time of administration of Na-nitroprusside to prevent neutrophil infiltration in ischemically damaged kidneys. Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to 75 min of renal warm ischemia and contralateral nephrectomy. The animals were divided into 7 groups: the ischemic control (IC), which received normal saline, the sham group without warm ischemia and the experimental groups, which received intravenous Na-nitroprusside (NP) (5 mg/kg) at 75, 30, 15, and 5 min prior to reperfusion. Another experimental group was given verapamil (V) (5 mg/kg) as a NO-independent vasodilator 5 min prior to reperfusion. The final evaluation included survival at seven days, serum creatinine (SCr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) daily for 3 days, and neutrophil infiltration determined by the presence of myeloperoxidase (MPO) in renal tissue at 2 hr after reperfusion. Histological damage was assessed at 24 hr. There were significant improvements in all parameters when the Na-NP was administered at 75, 30, and 15 min prior to reperfusion when compared with the control group (p < 0.05). There were no differences either in survival or renal function when the 5 min group was compared with the IC or V groups. It is concluded then, that Na-NP can be administered as late as 15 min before reperfusion and still have a protective effect. It appears that the mechanism of protection of Na-NP is due to blocking of one of the steps of the interaction between leukocytes and endothelium--migration. Furthermore, the verapamil (a NO-independent vasodilator) and Na-NP5 (a NO-dependent vasodilator) groups did not show a beneficial effect in these severely ischemically damaged kidneys, which might be one more reason to believe that Na-NP could be interacting at the level of leukocyte-endothelial cell interaction.
To evaluate efficacy and safety of intravenous amiodarone for conversion of recent-onset atrial fibrillation.
MEDLINE search of published, randomized, controlled trials assessing the efficacy and safety of intravenous amiodarone in recent-onset (< 7 days) atrial fibrillation, supplemented with searches of reference lists of identified articles and bibliographies of secondary and tertiary review articles.
The identified trials were eligible for meta-analysis if they met the following criteria: patients had recent-onset atrial fibrillation; patients were randomized to intravenous amiodarone, placebo, or another antiarrhythmic agent; no other antiarrhythmic agent except digoxin was administered simultaneously with intravenous amiodarone or other active treatments; the number and percentage of conversions to sinus rhythm after treatment began were reported; and the number and type of adverse drug reactions occurring after treatment began were reported.
Eighteen randomized controlled trials, including active control cohorts and placebo cohorts, met inclusion criteria. Atrial fibrillation was spontaneous in 13 trials, postoperative in 4, and combined spontaneous and postoperative in 1. A total of 550 patients received intravenous amiodarone, 451 received other antiarrhythmic therapy, and 202 received placebo. Unadjusted averages for cardioversion were as follows: intravenous amiodarone, 417 (76%) of 550 patients; other antiarrhythmics, 324 (72%) of 451 patients; and placebo, 121 (60%) of 202 patients. Pooled estimates of cardioversion for active cohort studies were 72.1% for intravenous amiodarone and 71.9% for other antiarrhythmics (p=0.84). Pooled estimates of cardioversion for placebo cohort studies were 82.4% for intravenous amiodarone and 59.7% for placebo (p=0.03). Unadjusted averages for adverse event rates were intravenous amiodarone, 94 (17%) of 550 patients; other antiarrhythmics, 63 (14%) of 451 patients; and placebo, 23 (11%) of 202 patients. Pooled estimates of adverse event rates for active cohort studies were 12.2% for intravenous amiodarone and 14.0% for other antiarrhythmics (p=0.64). Pooled estimates of adverse event rates for placebo cohort studies were 26.8% for intravenous amiodarone and 10.8% for placebo (p=0.02). The most common adverse drug reactions reported with intravenous amiodarone were infusion phlebitis, bradycardia, and hypotension.
The efficacy and safety profile of intravenous amiodarone is similar to that of other antiarrhythmics for cardioversion of recent-onset atrial fibrillation. Intravenous amiodarone is significantly more effective than placebo but is associated with significantly higher frequency of adverse events, although most were not considered to be dose limiting.
Glucocorticoid-induced ocular hypertension (the steroid response) may result in optic nerve damage that very closely mimics the pathologic course of primary open angle glaucoma (POAG). In addition, patients with glaucoma and their relatives are much more likely to exhibit the steroid response than unaffected individuals, suggesting a potential link between the steroid response and POAG. Recently, the expression of a gene (MYOC) in the trabecular meshwork was shown to be steroid-induced. MYOC variations thought to be disease-causing also were found in 3% to 5% of POAG cases. The purpose of this study was to determine whether some variations in MYOC might be involved in steroid-induced ocular hypertension.
Seventy human steroid responders and 114 control subjects were screened for variations in the coding sequence and promoter of MYOC. Also, topical doses of dexamethasone (DEX) were administered to cynomolgus monkeys to determine their steroid responsiveness, and the MYOC orthologue was cloned from the cynomolgus monkey.
Overall, 109 instances of 20 different sequence variations were identified in the human myocilin gene. However, only four of these (each observed in a single individual) met the study criteria for a possible phenotype-altering variation. Three of these were present in steroid responders and one in a control patient, a distribution that was not statistically significant (P: = 0.3). In addition, the allele frequency of a closely flanking marker was compared between the steroid responders and the control subjects, and no evidence for linkage disequilibrium was observed. Reproducible and reversible ocular hypertension was induced in approximately 40% of the monkeys treated with DEX, similar to that seen in man. Ten monkeys were screened for MYOC mutations with single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis. Overall, 37 instances of 13 different sequence variations were observed. Four of these changes met the study criteria for a possible phenotype-altering variation, and these were equally distributed between responder and nonresponder monkeys.
This study identified no statistically significant evidence for a link between MYOC mutations and steroid-induced ocular hypertension.
A 90-year-old woman was hospitalized for gastrointestinal bleeding. Although she had been receiving only warfarin 5 mg/day, her international normalized ratio (INR) was 66. Warfarin was discontinued, and her INR fell to 3.7 after transfusion of fresh-frozen plasma. However, it rose again spontaneously to 7.5. Eleven days after the last dose of warfarin had been administered, it was still detectable in the patient's plasma, indicating that impaired warfarin clearance may have caused an enhanced anticoagulation effect. Genetic analysis of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzyme 2C9, which mediates the major deactivating pathway of S-warfarin, revealed that the patient was a compound heterozygote carrying two variant alleles: CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3. The patient's enhanced sensitivity to warfarin 5 mg/day can be ascribed to decreased clearance of S-warfarin secondary to genetic alteration of the gene encoding CYP2C9, resulting in a life-threatening complication.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic benefit of minocycline in mucous membrane pemphigoid (MMP) predominantly involving the oral cavity. A descriptive, open clinical study with no control group, including 9 patients, was developed. The diagnosis was confirmed by histopathological examination and direct and salt-split-skin indirect immunofluorescence analysis. Target antigens were sought by immunoblotting. Patients received minocycline (200mg/day) for a variable period. All patients were followed up for at least 2 years after initial diagnosis. Therapeutic response was assessed by clinical improvement in three categories: major response, minor response and no response. A major response was observed in 3 patients (33%), a minor response in 4 (44%) and 2 (22%) patients showed no improvement. Two of the 3 patients with a major response showed no immunoblot reactivity; 80% of patients with circulating autoantibodies (autoAb) against BP180 had a minor or no response. Permanent remission of signs with no relapse was only obtained in one patient. 5 patients (55%) stopped the drug because of adverse effects, such as vertigo and gastralgia. The results revealed temporary clinical benefits in MMP predominantly involving the oral cavity with minocycline, although frequently side effects led to drug withdrawal.
Pharmacoresistance is a common problem hindering treatment of epilepsy. A possible cause for this resistance is the overexpression of efflux drug transporters, e.g. P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which may decrease extracellular antiepileptic drugs levels in brains of intractable epilepsy patients. Another transmembrane drug transporter is the organic anion transporting polypeptide 2 (Oatp2), which is colocalized with P-gp in many polarized tissues. However, a role for Oatp2 in the development of multidrug resistance has not been established. In the present work, we investigated the expression of drug transporters Oatp2 and P-gp in brain, liver and kidney of rats with chronic epilepsy induced by lithium-pilocarpine.
Chronic epilepsy was elicited after status epilepticus (SE) induced by lithium-pilocarpine in adult Wistar rats. Following SE, expression of Oatp2 and P-gp protein was detected by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis and messenger RNA (mRNA) using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Levels of the drug transporters were compared in brain, liver and kidney of chronic epileptic and control rats.
Both Oatp2 and P-gp were expressed in the brain, liver and kidney but predominantly in the brain. In the brain, Oatp2 and P-gp immunopositive cells were observed in brain capillary endothelium and choroid plexus epithelium. Compared with control rats, Oatp2 protein expression in brain was significantly decreased, while P-gp was obviously increased in chronic epileptic rats. P-gp mRNA was also significantly higher in brains of chronic epileptic rats, whereas the expression of Oatp2 did not change. Organic anion transporting polypeptide 2 and P-gp did not change at the mRNA or protein level with epilepsy in the liver or kidney.
Organic anion transporting polypeptide 2 and P-gp colocalized in tissues that are important in drug absorption, metabolism and excretion. Seizures seem to induce the cerebral changes of P-gp and Oatp2. However, the changes of expression of two transporters exhibit the opposite trend. Organic anion transporting polypeptide 2 might play a different role than P-gp in intractable epilepsy. Our data provide a basis for the assessment of the role of uptake transporters and efflux pumps in the development of intractable epilepsy.
A moderate dose of quinine sulfate, administered to three young adult males, reduced or eliminated various forms of otoacoustic emission (OAE). The individual differences in response to the drug were substantial, but a number of generalizations did emerge. The time courses of onset and recovery were considerably more rapid than for the parallel effects produced by aspirin. Most spontaneous otoacoustic emissions (SOAEs) were eliminated within 7 h of the first 325-mg dose (about 3 h after the second dose). Most SOAEs showed partial or complete recovery about 24 h after the last dose, although considerable instability often remained. The functions relating the magnitude of a distortion-product OAE (DPOAE) to the sound-pressure level (SPL) of the primary tones producing it were displaced toward higher primary levels and became lower sloped following quinine administration. The magnitudes of SOAEs, DPOAEs, and nonlinear peaks in the click-evoked spectra declined and recovered with grossly similar time courses, but there were some partial dissociations. The ability of a DPOAE to suppress an SOAE lying about 50 Hz below it either increased slightly or remained about constant through the drug episode, even though the magnitudes of both DPOAE and SOAE were changing. On several occasions, increases in SOAE magnitude of as much as 10-20 dB were observed during the first 15-30 min of an SOAE measurement period (an initializing effect). Psychophysical measures revealed hearing losses of as much as 20 dB at some frequencies in some subjects. Several short-lived "enhancements" of OAEs are discussed relative to similar quinine-induced effects reported in an animal model.
This study was conducted to determine the feasibility of, and improve outcome by, incorporating ifosfamide and etoposide (IE) into the therapy of newly diagnosed patients with Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors of bone and soft tissue.
Fifty-four newly diagnosed patients received 7 cycles of vincristine, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (VAdriaC) and 11 cycles of IE. Radiation therapy after the fifth chemotherapy cycle was the primary approach to local control.
Actuarial 5-year event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival rates were 42% and 45%, respectively, with a median duration of potential follow-up of 6.8 years. EFS was significantly better for patients with localized tumors than for those with metastatic lesions (64% v. 13%, P < 0.0001). Actuarial local progression-free survival at 5 years was 74%, and did not correlate with primary tumor size or site, histologic subtype, or the presence of metastases. Febrile neutropenia developed after 49% of cycles, and clinical or sub-clinical cardiac dysfunction was common (7% and 40% respectively). There were four toxic deaths and one case of secondary myelodysplastic syndrome.
Despite substantial toxicity, the integration of IE into the front-line, VAdriaC-based therapy of patients with Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors is feasible and appeared to significantly improve the outcome for patients with high risk localized tumors, but had no impact on the poor prognosis of patients with metastatic tumors. Local control can be achieved in the vast majority of patients using radiotherapy exclusively, even among patients with bulky, central axis tumors. Longer follow-up is needed to evaluate the late effects of this intensive therapy.
To describe the patterns and clinical features of toxicity related to recreational use of mephedrone and other cathinones in the U.K. using data collected by the National Poisons Information Service (NPIS).
The number of accesses to TOXBASE, the NPIS online poisons information database, details of consecutive cases uploaded onto TOXBASE and the number and details of telephone enquiries made to the NPIS by health professionals in the U.K. were collected for the period March 2009 to February 2010.
Over the year of study there were 2901 TOXBASE accesses and 188 telephone enquiries relating to cathinones, the majority relating to mephedrone (TOXBASE 1664, telephone 157), with a month-on-month increase in numbers. In 131 telephone enquiries concerning mephedrone, alone or in combination with alcohol, common clinical features reported included agitation or aggression (n=32, 24%, 95% CI 18% to 33%), tachycardia (n=29, 22%, 95% CI 16% to 30%), confusion or psychosis (n=18, 14%, 95% CI 9% to 21%), chest pain (n=17, 13%, 95% CI 8% to 20%), nausea (n=15, 11%, 95% CI 7% to 18%), palpitations (n=14, 11%, 95% CI 6% to 18%), peripheral vasoconstriction (n=10, 8%, 95% CI 4% to 14%) and headache (n=7, 5%, 95% CI 2% to 11%). Convulsions were reported in four cases (3%, 95% CI 1% to 8%). One exposed person died following cardiac arrest (1%, 95% CI 0% to 4%), although subsequent investigation suggested that mephedrone was not responsible.
Toxicity associated with recreational mephedrone use is increasingly common in the UK. Sympathomimetic adverse effects are common and severe effects are also reported. Structured data collected by the NPIS may be of use in identifying trends in poisoning and in establishing toxidromes for new drugs of abuse.
The effect of Hg(2+) and CH3Hg(+) on the mitochondrial carnitine/acylcarnitine transporter (CACT) has been studied on the recombinant protein and on the CACT extracted from HeLa cells or Zebrafish and reconstituted in proteoliposomes. Transport was abolished upon treatment of the recombinant CACT in proteoliposomes by Hg(2+) or CH3Hg(+). Inhibition was reversed by the SH reducing agent 1,4-dithioerythritol, GSH, and N-acetylcysteine. IC50 for Hg(2+) and CH3Hg(+) of 90 nM and 137 nM, respectively, were measured by dose-response analyses. Inhibition was abolished in the C-less CACT mutant. Strong reduction of inhibition by both reagents was observed in the C136A and some reduction in the C155A mutants. Inhibition similar to that of the WT was observed in the C23V/C58V/C89S/C155V/C283S mutant, containing only C136. Optimal inhibition by Hg(2+)was found in the four replacement mutants C23V/C58V/C89S/C283S containing both C136 and C155 indicating cross-reaction of Hg(2+) with the two Cys residues. Inhibition kinetic analysis showed mixed inhibition by Hg(2+) or competitive inhibition by CH3Hg(+). HeLa cells or Zebrafish were treated with the more potent inhibitor. Ten micromolar HgCl2 caused clear impairment of viability of HeLa cells. The transport assay in proteoliposomes with CACT extracted from treated cells showed that the transporter was inactivated and that DTE rescued the activity. Nearly identical results were observed with Zebrafish upon extraction of the CACT from the liver of the treated animals that, indeed, showed accumulation of the mercurial compound.
Accurately following the time course of tumor progression and response to therapy in animal models of cancer is key to the development of better chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic agents. The goal of this work was to monitor quantitatively the development and progression of adenocarcinoma in a time course study of mice treated with the carcinogen urethane using in vivo small-animal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Mice treated with a single dose of urethane were imaged at four time points beginning 8 months after treatment. High-resolution images of mouse lung were obtained in vivo using respiratory-gated MRI methods. Individual tumors were manually segmented and their volumes calculated. At the end of the study, mice were euthanized and MRI tumor quantification was validated by histology and histopathology.
Tumors as small as 0.4 mm in diameter can be detected and quantitatively measured in mice by in vivo MRI. Total tumor burden increased consistently in all mice studied, whereas the growth rate of individual tumors varied widely. The positions and diameters of individual tumors as measured by MRI correlated well with histology results. Histologic study of large, rapidly growing tumors showed that these were adenocarcinomas, whereas small, slowly growing lesions were predominantly adenomas.
Longitudinal in vivo MRI is a powerful modality that can be of great aid in elucidating the factors that control the onset of lung tumors and can serve as a platform for the development and preclinical testing of novel therapies having a high likelihood of efficacy in human clinical trials.
In a double blind, placebo controlled study, propranolol (240 mg), atenolol (200 mg) or bisoprolol (100 mg) were administered as a single oral dose to groups of 6 healthy male volunteers. Exercise tachycardia was monitored for 84 hours after administration of the drugs to monitor beta blockade in vivo. Plasma samples drawn in parallel with these effects were used to detect beta 1- or beta 2-adrenoceptor occupancy in two subtype selective in vitro receptor binding assays. Reduction of exercise tachycardia parallels beta 1-adrenoceptor occupancy. Furthermore, at comparable beta 1-adrenoceptor occupancy, less beta 2-adrenoceptor occupancy was observed after bisoprolol than after atenolol. The latter finding is in agreement with the two-fold higher beta 1/beta 2-selectivity ratio of bisoprolol (75-fold) versus atenolol (35-fold). It is concluded, that beta blockade observed via the reduction of exercise tachycardia can be delineated from the in vitro occupancy of beta 1-adrenoceptors by an antagonist present in plasma samples.
Cetuximab is a member of a new family of antineoplastic agents that inhibit the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R), and which are increasingly being used in the treatment of solid tumors.
We have observed new secondary side effects. We present here 2 patients with acneiform eruption secondary to the administration of cetuximab (IMC-C225, Erbitux). The diagnoses of these patients were adenocarcinoma.
Histologically, a superficial purulent folliculitis and disordered differentiation with focal parakeratosis were observed. The follicular eruption responded favorably to treatment with 5% benzoyl peroxide and 4% erythromycin gel. These lesions healed within a few days after treatment.
The cutaneous adverse effects of cetuximab are similar to other EGF-R-targeted agents and result from direct interference with the functions of EGF-R signaling in the skin.
Hypotension caused by hypovolemic, hemorrhagic shock induces disturbances in the immune system that may contribute to an increased susceptibility to sepsis. The effect of chemically induced hypotension on circulating cytokines and adhesion molecules has not been investigated yet. In 21 patients scheduled for resection of malignant choroidal melanoma of the eye the perioperative serum levels of the cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-alpha, and the adhesion molecules sE-Selectin and sICAM-1 were investigated. Moderate hypothermia of 32 degrees C was induced in all patients. In 14 patients profound hypotension (mean arterial blood pressure 35-40 mmHg, hypotension group) was induced by enalapril and nitroglycerin for a mean duration of 71 min. In 7 patients the tumor was not resectable, and hypotension was not induced (controls). We did not detect significant differences in serum levels of cytokines or sE-Selectin perioperatively in patients with profound hypotension compared with controls. In both groups IL-6 serum levels increased significantly and reached a maximum after rewarming (17 +/- 6 and 16 +/- 5 pg/dL, respectively, P < 0.001). IL-1beta, IL-10, and TNF-alpha did not change perioperatively in both groups. On the first postoperative day sICAM-1 serum levels were significantly increased in both groups (mean increase of 96 and 54 ng/mL, respectively, P < 0.01 and P < 0.05). We conclude from this study that profound normovolemic arterial hypotension does not seem to have effects on serum levels of circulating IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-alpha, and sE-Selectin. Perioperative moderate hypothermia may be the reason for the postoperative increase in sICAM-1 levels independent of the blood pressure.
Recent case reports suggest that a combination of the appetite suppressants fenfluramine and phentermine is associated with an increased risk of cardiac-valve regurgitation. There are also reports of valvular disorders in persons taking fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine alone, particularly for more than three months.
We conducted a population-based follow-up study and a nested case-control analysis of 6532 subjects who received dexfenfluramine, 2371 who received fenfluramine, and 862 who received phentermine to assess the risk of a subsequent clinical diagnosis of a valvular disorder of uncertain origin. For comparison, we identified a group of 9281 obese subjects who had not taken appetite suppressants who were matched to the treated subjects for age, sex, and weight. All subjects were free of diagnosed cardiovascular disease at the start of follow-up. The average duration of follow-up for all subjects was about four years.
There were 11 cases of newly diagnosed idiopathic valvular disorders, 5 after the use of dexfenfluramine and 6 after the use of fenfluramine. There were six cases of aortic regurgitation, two cases of mitral regurgitation, and three cases of combined aortic and mitral regurgitation. There were no cases of idiopathic cardiac-valve abnormalities among the subjects who had not taken appetite suppressants or among those who took only phentermine. The five-year cumulative incidence of idiopathic cardiac-valve disorders was 0 per 10,000 subjects among those who had not taken appetite suppressants (95 percent confidence interval, 0 to 15.4) and among those who took phentermine alone (95 percent confidence interval, 0 to 76.6), 7.1 per 10,000 subjects among those who took either fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine for less than four months (95 percent confidence interval, 3.6 to 17.8; P=0.02 for the comparison with subjects who had not taken appetite suppressants), and 35.0 per 10,000 subjects among those who received either of these medications for four or more months (95 percent confidence interval, 16.4 to 76.2; P<0.001).
The use of fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine, particularly for four months or longer, is associated with an increased risk of newly diagnosed cardiac-valve disorders, particularly aortic regurgitation.
After case reports of cardiac-valve abnormalities related to the use of appetite suppressants were published, we undertook a study to determine the prevalence of the problem using transthoracic echocardiography.
We examined patients who had taken dexfenfluramine alone, dexfenfluramine and phentermine, or fenfluramine and phentermine for various periods. We enrolled obese patients who had taken or were taking these agents during open-label trials from January 1994 through August 1997. We also recruited subjects who had not taken appetite suppressants and who were matched to the patients for sex, height, and pretreatment age and body-mass index. The presence of cardiac-valve abnormalities, defined by the Food and Drug Administration and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as at least mild aortic-valve or moderate mitral-valve insufficiency, was determined independently by at least two cardiologists. Multivariate logistic-regression analysis was used to identify factors associated with cardiac-valve abnormalities.
Echocardiograms were available for 257 patients and 239 control subjects. The association between the use of any appetite suppressant and cardiac-valve abnormalities was analyzed in a final matched group of 233 pairs of patients and controls. A total of 1.3 percent of the controls (3 of 233) and 22.7 percent of the patients (53 of 233) met the case definition for cardiac-valve abnormalities (odds ratio, 22.6; 95 percent confidence interval, 7.1 to 114.2; P<0.001). The odds ratio for such cardiac-valve abnormalities was 12.7 (95 percent confidence interval, 2.9 to 56.4) with the use of dexfenfluramine alone, 24.5 (5.9 to 102.2) with the use of dexfenfluramine and phentermine, and 26.3 (7.9 to 87.1) with the use of fenfluramine and phentermine.
Obese patients who took fenfluramine and phentermine, dexfenfluramine alone, or dexfenfluramine and phentermine had a significantly higher prevalence of cardiac valvular insufficiency than a matched group of control subjects.
Wilson disease (WD) is caused by defects in ATP7B gene due to impairment of normal function of the copper transporting P-type ATPase. This study describes a comprehensive genetic analysis of 199 Indian WD patients including mutations detected in our previous studies, undertakes functional assessment of the nucleotide variants in ATP7B promoter and correlates genotype with disease phenotype. The patient cohort harbors a total of 10 common and 48 rare mutations in the coding region of ATP7B including 21 novel changes. The common mutations represent 74% of characterized coding mutant alleles with p.C271X (63/260) and p.G1101R (7/31) being the most prevalent in eastern and western Indian patients, respectively. The mutation spectrum between east and west is mostly different with only three mutations (p.G1061E, p.N1270S and p.A1049A-fs) being shared between both the groups. Eight novel and 10 reported variants have been detected in the promoter and non-coding regions (5' and 3'UTRs) of ATP7B. Promoter reporter assay demonstrated that 3 novel variants and 5 reported polymorphisms alter the gene expression to a considerable extent; hence might play important role in ATP7B gene regulation. We devised the neurological involvement score to capture the spectrum of neurological involvement in WD patients. By utilizing the age at onset, neurological involvement score and ATP7B mutation background, we generated a genotype-phenotype matrix that could be effectively used to depict the phenotypic spectra of WD affected individuals and serve as a platform to identify prospective "outliers" to be investigated for their remarkable phenotypic divergence.
A 39-year-old man with a left parietal malignant glioma was treated with intracarotid infusion of 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU). Five weeks after a second infusion, he developed inferior altitudinal visual field loss and pallid optic disc edema ipsilateral to the injection. Retinal vasculitis is a well-recognized complication of intra-arterial BCNU infusion. It is believed that this patient suffered a similar vasculopathy in the posterior ciliary artery circulation.
Ethambutol is frequently used in the treatment of tuberculosis, and, although optic neuropathies have been reported with the use of ethambutol, this adverse side effect has been considered to be rare and generally reversible with discontinuation of the medication. However, we recently saw two patients with renal tuberculosis treated with ethambutol in whom visual loss from toxic optic neuropathies was severe and irreversible despite careful ophthalmological monitoring and prompt discontinuation of the agent at the first sign of impaired visual function. While ethambutol treatment is most commonly instituted for pulmonary tuberculosis, it is interesting to note that both of these patients had renal tuberculosis. Since ethambutol is actively excreted via the renal system, compromise of renal function such as due to renal tuberculosis may lead to serum concentration elevations of ethambutol sufficient to produce optic neuropathy.
Metal exposure causes reproductive damage in hermaphrodite nematodes, but effects of metals on male development are unclear. We here investigated the effects of mercury chloride exposure on development of males. Hg exposure severely increased the percentage of abnormal males, disrupted the development of male-specific structures, and caused high reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in male tails. Pre-treatment with antioxidant (vitamin E) protected the nematodes against toxicity from Hg exposure on development of male-specific structures. The ROS production in tails was closely correlated with formation of abnormal male-specific structures in males induced by Hg exposure. Moreover, mutations of clk-1, encoding ortholog of COQ7/CAT5, and daf-2, encoding an insulin/IGF receptor, functioned in two different pathways to suppress the formation of deficits in development of male-specific structures. Thus, three different lines of evidence support our conclusion that HgCl(2) causes male structure-specific teratogenesis via production of oxidative stress.
The appetite-suppressant drug fenfluramine, usually given in combination with phentermine, has been reported to be associated with cardiac valvular regurgitation. Concern has been raised that the d-enantiomer of fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine, may also cause this problem. We were able to study the question by modifying an ongoing trial comparing dexfenfluramine with regular dexfenfluramine and placebo.
We modified our randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of dexfenfluramine to include echocardiographic examinations of 1072 overweight patients within a median of one month after the discontinuation of treatment. The patients (approximately 80 percent of whom were women) had been randomly assigned to receive dexfenfluramine (366 patients), investigational sustained-release dexfenfluramine (352 patients), or placebo (354 patients). The average duration of treatment was 71 to 72 days in each of the three groups. Echocardiograms were assessed in a blinded fashion.
When all degrees of valvular regurgitation were considered and when the two dexfenfluramine groups were combined, there was a higher prevalence of any degree of aortic regurgitation (17.0 percent vs. 11.8 percent, P=0.03) and any degree of mitral regurgitation (61.4 percent vs. 54.4 percent, P=0.01) in the active-treatment groups than in the placebo group. These differences were primarily due to a higher prevalence of physiologic, trace, or mild regurgitation. Analyses that used the criteria of the Food and Drug Administration for aortic regurgitation of mild or greater severity and mitral regurgitation of moderate or greater severity found no statistically significant difference among the groups (P=0.14 to 0.75). These analyses showed that aortic regurgitation of mild or greater severity occurred in 5.0 percent of the patients in the dexfenfluramine group, 5.8 percent of those in the sustained-release dexfenfluramine group, 5.4 percent of those in the two active-treatment groups combined, and 3.6 percent of those in the placebo group. Mitral regurgitation of moderate or greater severity occurred in 1.7, 1.8, 1.8, and 1.2 percent, respectively. Aortic regurgitation of mild or greater severity, mitral regurgitation of moderate or greater severity, or both occurred in 6.5 percent, 7.3 percent, 6.9 percent, and 4.5 percent, respectively.
The increased prevalence of aortic and mitral regurgitation in patients treated with dexfenfluramine was small, and the degree of regurgitation was usually classified as physiologic, trace, or mild. However, the duration of therapy was short, and whether therapy of longer duration would yield the same or different results is not known.
To combat hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in Taiwan, a mass immunoprophylaxis program was launched on July 1, 1984, aiming first at prevention of chronic HBV carriage from perinatal mother-to-infant infection. In the first 15-month period, 352,721 (78%) of 450,585 pregnant women were screened for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg); HBsAg was present in 62,359 (18%), with 50% of them categorized as highly infectious. Infants born to HBsAg-positive women were given 5 micrograms of a plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine at ages 1, 5, and 9 weeks, with a booster at age 12 months. Infants of highly infectious carrier mothers received an additional 0.5 mL of hepatitis B immune globulin within 24 hours after birth. The coverage rate of the hepatitis B immune globulin was 77% in 27,375 infants born to highly infectious mothers, and that of the first, second, third, and the fourth doses of vaccine was 88%, 86%, 84%, and 71%, respectively, in infants of 55,620 carrier mothers. The reported untoward reactions to immunization were negligible. We conclude that a mass hepatitis B vaccination program is feasible in hyperendemic areas such as Taiwan; this should be a significant step toward the effective control of HBV infection in these areas.
In a double-blind randomised cross-over study atenolol 100 mg daily and matching placebo were given to 14 patients whose blood pressure (BP) was uncontrolled on a fixed dose of captopril and frusemide. Atenolol produced a further reduction in both supine (170/105 mmHg to 163/94 mmHg) and standing (171/114 mmHg to 160/96 mmHg) BP and a significant fall in pulse rate and plasma renin activity (PRA). This fall in BP showed a highly significant correlation with pre-treatment plasma renin levels. No adverse side effects were encountered during the study. Previous suggestions that beta-blockade had no additional hypotensive effect in patients receiving captopril were not substantiated. For patients whose BP was poorly controlled with captopril and a diuretic, a selective beta-blocker is suggested as a useful third line agent.
Abnormalities in anatomy and function of the cranial nerve motor nuclei have been demonstrated in some people with autism and can be modeled in rats by exposure to valproic acid during neural tube closure. Reductions in Purkinje cell number and cerebellar volume, particularly of the posterior lobe, have also been reported in people with autism. Thus, a stereological examination of cerebellar morphology was undertaken in valproate-exposed rats. Compared to controls, rats exposed to a single dose of 600-mg/kg sodium valproate on embryonic day 12.5 had significantly fewer Purkinje cells in the cerebellar vermis and a reduction short of significant in the hemispheres. The diminished cell numbers reflect reductions in tissue volume throughout the cerebellum, rather than cell density, which was unaffected in all regions. Within the vermis, the reduction in volume was significantly greater in the posterior lobe than in the anterior lobe. The results parallel those reported for human cases of autism.
Telbivudine is an L-nucleoside analogue with potent antiviral activity against hepatitis B virus (HBV). Clinical trials have shown that telbivudine is more potent than lamivudine for suppressing virus.
A total 101 Korean patients among 1,367 patients who participated in the phase III GLOBE trial were randomized in this study. All 101 HBeAg positive or HBeAg negative patients were assigned to treatment with 600 mg of telbivudine or 100 mg of lamivudine once daily. The primary efficacy endpoint (the "therapeutic response") was defined as suppression of the serum HBV DNA to less than 5 log10 copies/mL coupled with either normalization of the serum alanine aminotransferase level or loss of HBeAg. The secondary endpoints included the histologic response, serum HBV DNA reduction, serum alanine aminotransferase normalization and HBeAg loss for the HBeAg positive patients. This analysis includes the data collected at 52 weeks of treatment.
Fifty four of 101 patients were assigned to telbivudine treatment and 47 patients were assigned to lamivudine treatment. At week 52, significantly more patients who were treated with telbivudine than those treated with lamivudine had a therapeutic response (83% vs 62%, respectively, P=0.017), their mean serum HBV DNA levels were more reduced (6.6 vs 5.6 log10 copies/mL, respectively, P=0.027), and they more often achieved PCR-undetectable levels of serum HBV DNA (74% vs 34%, P<0.0001). No virologic resistance to telbivudine was detected (0% vs 18%, respectively, P=0.001). Telbivudine was well tolerated and it had a safety profile comparable to lamivudine.
Patients treated with telbivudine achieved earlier and more profound viral suppression than those treated with lamivudine.
We recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) in patients with schizophrenia before and after treatment with quetiapine, to investigate this drug's effects on cognitive function. Auditory and visual oddball stimulus discrimination paradigms were presented to patients with schizophrenia (N=20) before and after 3months' treatment with quetiapine. The 2-stimulus auditory oddball paradigm used a standard tone (1000Hz, 75dB, 80%) and a target tone (2000Hz, 75dB, 20%). The 2-stimulus visual oddball paradigm used a standard stimulus (small circle, 80%) and a target stimulus (large circle, 20%). Patients' severity of psychopathology was initially evaluated with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and was likewise re-evaluated after treatment. After treatment with quetiapine, patients' P300 amplitudes increased over baseline for both tasks (auditory stimuli, P<0.01; visual stimuli, P<0.01) and their P300 latencies for both target stimuli decreased significantly (auditory stimuli, P<0.001; visual stimuli, P<0.01). Visual P300 amplitude was negatively correlated with the severity of positive symptoms at the Fz electrode before the treatment (r=-0.45, P<0.05). After treatment with quetiapine, there were no significant correlations between severity of positive or negative symptoms and visual P300 amplitudes for midline electrodes. These findings suggest that the reduced and delayed P300 may be a state marker for schizophrenia, which may in turn be modulated by positive symptoms, and also suggest that the amplitude and latency for both auditory and visual tasks may be decreased by quetiapine treatment. Based on these results, we suggest that the atypical antipsychotic quetiapine may improve some aspects of cognitive domains in patients with schizophrenia.
Exposure to indoor radon has been determined to be the second leading cause of lung cancer after tobacco smoking. Canadian population risk of radon induced lung cancer was assessed in 2005 with the radon distribution characteristics determined from a radon survey carried out in the late 1970s in 19 cities. In that survey, a grab sampling method was used to measure radon levels. The observed radon concentration in 14,000 Canadian homes surveyed followed a log-normal distribution with a geometric mean (GM) of 11.2 Bq m(-3) and a geometric standard deviation (GSD) of 3.9. Based on the information from that survey, it was estimated that ∼10 % of lung cancers in Canada resulted from indoor radon exposure. To gain a better understanding of radon concentrations in homes across the country, a national residential radon survey was launched in April 2009. In the recent survey, long-term (3 month or longer) indoor radon measurements were made in roughly 14 000 homes in 121 health regions across Canada. The observed radon concentrations follow, as expected, a log-normal distribution with a GM of 41.9 Bq m(-3) and a GSD of 2.8. Based on the more accurate radon distribution characteristics obtained from the recent cross-Canada radon survey, a re-assessment of Canadian population risk for radon induced lung cancer was undertaken. The theoretical estimates show that 16 % of lung cancer deaths among Canadians are attributable to indoor radon exposure. These results strongly suggest the ongoing need for the Canadian National Radon Program. In particular, there is a need for a focus on education and awareness by all levels of government, and in partnership with key stakeholders, to encourage Canadians to take action to reduce the risk from indoor radon exposure.
1 Alpha1-Adrenoceptor (alpha1-AR) subtypes were characterized in isolated omental arteries obtained after abdominal surgery in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) or with Diabetes Mellitus type 2 plus ESRD (ESRD-DM). 2 Omental arteries from patients with ESRD and ESRD-DM elicited a significant increase in sensitivity to phenylephrine with a pD(2) (-log EC50) of 6.7 and 6.6, respectively, vs. the control (5.8, P < 0.001). 3 Stimulation with phenylephrine was conducted in the presence or absence of selective alpha1-AR competitive antagonists: 5-methylurapidil (alpha1A-), AH11110A (1-[biphenyl-2-yloxy]-4-imino-4-piperidin-1-yl-butan-2-ol; alpha1B-) and BMY7378 (8-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-8-azaspiro [4.5] decane-7,9-dione; alpha(1D)-). The relative abundance of mRNA for all three alpha(1)-ARs was determined. 4 The maximal contractile responses to phenylephrine were: E(max) 1.59 +/- 0.17, 1.48 +/- 0.08 and 1.55 +/- 0.14 g for the ESRD, ESRD-DM and control groups, respectively. 5 Functionally, there was an increment in the affinity for the alpha(1A)-AR antagonist (pA2: control 7.45, ESRD 8.36, ESRD-DM 8.0; P < 0.01), and a reduction in the alpha1B-AR antagonist affinity (8.3 for controls, 7.6 for ESRD and 7.3 for ESRD-DM; P < 0.01) associated with renal disease. The affinities for the alpha1D-AR antagonist were similar among the studied groups (8.5 for the controls, 8.7 for the ESRD and 8.1 for the ESRD-DM groups). 6 Renal disease increased mRNA expression of alpha(1B)-ARs and reduced both alpha1A- and alpha(1D)-ARs subtypes in ESRD and ESRD-DM patients. 7 The results suggest that human omental arteries exposed to chronic uraemia show vascular hypersensitivity to phenylephrine, because of functional alpha1-AR changes.
