Alterations in serum CXCR3 ligand levels were examined in interstitial cystitis (IC) patients; similar expression patterns in serum as well as CXCR3, CXCR3 ligands, and cytokines expressed by peripheral and local leukocyte subpopulations were characterized during cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced acute cystitis in mice.
Serum levels of monokine-induced by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) (MIG/CXCL9), IFN-gamma-inducible protein-10 (IP-10/CXCL10), and IFN-gamma-inducible T cell alpha chemoattractant (I-TAC/CXCL11) were elevated in patients with IC. These clinical features closely correlated with CYP-induced cystitis in mice. Serum levels of these CXCR3 ligands and local T helper type 1 (Th1) cytokines were also increased. We demonstrate that CXCR3 as well as CXCL9, CXCL10 and CXCL11 mRNA were significantly expressed by urinary bladder lymphocytes, while CXCR3 and CXCL9 transcripts were significantly expressed by iliac lymph node leukocytes following CYP treatment. We also show that the number of CD4+ T cells, mast cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and NKT cells were increased at systemic (spleen) and mucosal (urinary bladder and iliac lymph nodes) sites, following CYP-induced cystitis in mice. Importantly, CXCL10 blockade attenuated these increases caused by CYP.
Antibody (Ab)-mediated inhibition of the most abundant serum CXCR3 ligand, CXCL10, in mice decreased the local production of CXCR3 ligands as well as Th1 cytokines expressed by local leukocytes, and lowered corresponding serum levels to reduce the severity of CYP-induced cystitis. The present study is among the first to demonstrate some of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of chemokines in cystitis and may represent new drug target for this disease.
In this study, Trp53-deficient and wild-type mice of both C57BL/6 and C3H/He strains were exposed to benzene (33, 100, and 300 ppm; 6h/day, 5 days/week for 26 weeks) and then observed for lifetime. As results, first, the incidence of nonthymic lymphomas in C57BL/6 mice and acute myeloid leukemias (AMLs) in C3H/He mice showed linear responses at the lower exposure level in Trp53-deficient mice; second, the incidence of thymic lymphomas in C57BL/6 mice and nonthymic lymphomas in C3H/He mice increased without a plateau-like ceiling; thus, the former equivocal induction of hematopoietic neoplasms (HPNs) in the case of low-dose benzene exposure was assumed to be based on the DNA repair potential in wild-type mice, and the latter limited increase in HPNs in the case of high-dose benzene exposure was considered to be due to excessive apoptosis in wild-type mice. Concerning the incidence of AMLs, though a dose of 300 ppm benzene inhalation induced 9% AMLs in wild-type C3H/He mice-AML-prone, it induced AMLs in 38% of Trp53-deficient C3H/He mice. Because AMLs were also observed in Trp53-deficient mice, including in the C57BL/6 mice, benzene exposure may also be a potent inducer of AMLs in mice with some strain differences. In the present study, to elucidate the hematopoietic stem cell-specific, aryl hydrocarbon-receptor-related low-dose adverse effect, global gene expression in the bone marrow was analyzed at 28 days after 2-week-intermittent exposure to 150 mg/kg b.w. benzene, by gavage, i.e., equivalent to the above inhalation protocol with 300 ppm. We observed two conceptually different gene expression profiles; "common gene profiles" (CGPs) shared among mice in each group, and "stochastic gene profiles" (SGPs), i.e., unique union genes from one individual mouse to another. The CGPs of the experimental group and the SGPs of each individual mouse were separately characterized by individual assay. Concerning the CGPs, reciprocal strain differences between C3H/He and C57BL/6 mice in expression gene profiles, both plausible for leukemogenesis, were identified; namely, dominant downmodulations of Sltm and Cryl1, related to suppression of apoptosis and genomic instability in C3H/He mice, respectively, and dominant downmodulations of Atrx/rad54 and Kdm2a, related to a decrease in DNA repair and genomic instability, respectively, in C57BL/6 mice. These findings imply that these reciprocal gene expression differences induced by benzene exposure may lead each strain to undergo different hematopoietic neoplastic pathways. In contrast, each individual mouse often shows a unique SGP. SGPs often include transcription factors, which regulate reciprocal signaling pathways including further SGPs. Among them, apoptosis-related genes expressed in C57BL/6 mice and those in C3H/He mice were attributable to different combinations of SGPs. Such stochastic case-by-case gene expression may be in good agreement with the individual and strain differences observed following benzene exposure. Because gene chip microarray techniques can elucidate stochastic changes in gene expression profiles, possible stochastic toxicology and its future role are discussed.
3-(4-(Benzo[d]thiazol-2-yl)-1-phenyl-1H-pyrazol-3-yl) phenyl acetate (DPB-5) is a synthetic benzothiazole derivative. In the present study, we revealed that DPB-5 had strong cytotoxicity to induce cell apoptosis, which was mediated by ROS. And DPB-5 was more cytotoxic toward hepatoma cells than toward normal hepatic cells, which was resulted from the greater susceptibility of the malignant cells to ROS. DBP-5 caused massive ROS accumulation and GSH decrease, which lead to MMP disruption, caspase activation and finally induced cell apoptosis. Additionally, rotenone, an inhibitor of mitochondria electron transport system, effectively blocked the ROS elevated effect of DPB-5, which suggested that DPB-5-induced ROS generated from the mitochondria. Further studies showed that DPB-5-induced cell apoptosis through caspases-cascade, but failed to activate caspase-9. Hence, we concluded that DPB-5-induced Hep G2 cells apoptosis via a ROS-mediated pathway which was caspase-dependent but did not rely on caspase-9.
2,3-Dibromo-1-propanol is a metabolite of the flame retardant tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate, previously shown to be a mutagen and carcinogen in experimental animals. Toxicology and carcinogenesis studies of 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol were conducted by applying the chemical in 95% ethanol to the interscapular skin of male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice 5 days a week for 13 weeks in the prechronic study and 48-55 weeks (rats) or 36-42 weeks (mice) in the carcinogenicity study. In the 13-week study, 10 rats and 10 mice of each sex received doses of 0, 44, 88, 177, 375, or 750 mg/kg. Deaths associated with chemical application occurred only in the high-dose (750 mg/kg) male mice. Chemical-related lesions were seen in the kidney of male rats, liver of female rats, and liver and lung of both sexes of mice. Based on the toxicity observed in the 13-week study, 50 rats of each sex received doses of 0, 188, or 375 mg/kg and 50 mice of each sex received 0, 88, or 177 mg/kg in the carcinogenicity study. The planned 2-year study was terminated early because of reduced survival of rats related to chemical-induced neoplasia and because of the appearance of antibodies to lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus in sentinel mice. Nearly all dosed rats had malignant neoplasms at one or more sites, while only one control male and one control female had malignant neoplasms. In rats, neoplasms induced by 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol occurred in the skin, nasal mucosa, Zymbal's gland, oral mucosa, esophagus, forestomach, intestines, liver, kidney, mammary gland (females), clitoral gland (females), spleen (males), and mesothelium (males). In mice, chemical-induced neoplasms occurred in the skin, forestomach, liver (males), and lung (males).
Preclinical toxicologic investigation suggested that a new calcium channel blocker, Ro 40-5967, induced cardiovascular alterations in rat fetuses exposed to this agent during organogenesis. The present study was designed to investigate the hypothesis that calcium channel blockers in general induce cardiovascular malformations indicating a pharmacologic class effect. We studied three calcium channel blockers of different structure, nifedipine, diltiazem, and verapamil, along with the new agent. Pregnant rats were administered one of these calcium channel blockers during the period of cardiac morphogenesis and the offspring examined on day 20 of gestation for cardiovascular malformations. A low incidence of cardiovascular malformations was observed after exposure to each of the four calcium channel blockers, but this incidence was statistically significant only for verapamil and nifedipine. All four agents were associated with aortic arch branching variants, although significantly increased only for Ro 40-5967 and verapamil.
To compare the effects of topical timolol maleate 0.5% and carteolol hydrochloride 1% on pulse rate and blood pressure.
In a randomized, double-masked, parallel-design, multicenter clinical trial, we compared the effects of timolol and carteolol on pulse rate and blood pressure measured by 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in 169 adult patients with either ocular hypertension or primary open-angle glaucoma.
From noon to 8 PM, baseline mean pulse rate of 82 to 83 beats per minute (bpm) had decreased by 4 to 6 bpm in both groups after 4 weeks of therapy with timolol or carteolol. From midnight to 4 AM, the pulse rate in the carteolol group was significantly above baseline (P = .005), while the timolol group was significantly below baseline (P < .001). Four times as many patients became bradycardic (heart rate, < 60 bpm) on timolol (18.4%) as did patients on carteolol (4.5%) from midnight to 4 AM. More than twice as many patients exhibited a resolution of their bradycardia with carteolol (46.7%) as did patients treated with timolol (18.2%) from midnight to 4 AM. Overall cardiovascular adverse effects were reported significantly more frequently in the timolol than the carteolol group (P = .002).
Timolol causes significantly lower mean heart rate during the nighttime and more nocturnal bradycardia than carteolol does in patients with ocular hypertension and primary open-angle glaucoma. These differences may be because of the intrinsic sympathomimetic activity of carteolol.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common inflammatory skin disease caused by multiple genetic and environmental factors. AD is characterized by the local infiltration of T helper type 2 (Th2) cells. Recent clinical studies have shown important roles of the Th2 chemokines, CCL22 and CCL17 in the pathogenesis of AD. To investigate whether polymorphisms of the CCL22 gene affect the susceptibility to AD, we conducted association studies and functional studies of the related variants. We first resequenced the CCL22 gene and found a total of 39 SNPs. We selected seven tag SNPs in the CCL22 gene, and conducted association studies using two independent Japanese populations (1(st) population, 916 cases and 1,032 controls; 2(nd) population 1,034 cases and 1,004 controls). After the association results were combined by inverse variance method, we observed a significant association at rs4359426 (meta-analysis, combined P = 9.6×10⁻⁶; OR, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.65-0.85). Functional analysis revealed that the risk allele of rs4359426 contributed to higher expression levels of CCL22 mRNA. We further examined the allelic differences in the binding of nuclear proteins by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. The signal intensity of the DNA-protein complex derived from the G allele of rs223821, which was in absolute LD with rs4359426, was higher than that from the A allele. Although further functional analyses are needed, it is likely that related variants play a role in susceptibility to AD in a gain-of-function manner. Our findings provide a new insight into the etiology and pathogenesis of AD.
The ventral subiculum (vSUB), a hippocampal efferent target implicated in learning and stress coping, receives cholinergic input and sends glutamatergic output to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). This study examined the roles of vSUB muscarinic activation and its interaction with BNST N-methyl-D-aspartate and noradrenergic receptors in formation of aversive memory. Male Wistar rats with cannulae implanted into the vSUB or BNST were trained on a step-through inhibitory avoidance task. Shortly after training, they received cholinergic drugs infused into the vSUB and/or glutamatergic or noradrenergic drugs infused into the BNST. Results of the 1-day retention tests showed that intra-vSUB infusion of oxotremorine (0.01 microg) or scopolamine (0.3 or 3.0 microg) enhanced or impaired retention, respectively. Both effects were dose- and time-dependent, and 0.001 microg oxotremorine attenuated the amnesia induced by 3.0 microg scopolamine. The oxotremorine-induced memory enhancement was blocked by intra-BNST infusion of DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid or propranolol at a dose not affecting retention; the amnesia induced by scopolamine was blunted by intra-BNST infusion of glutamate or norepinephrine at a dose with a negligible effect on retention. These data suggest that in an inhibitory avoidance task muscarinic activation of the vSUB modulated memory formation by interacting with the BNST glutamatergic and noradrenergic functions.
Flutamide (FLU), a nonsteroidal anti-androgen, is used for the treatment of prostate cancer but is also a cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A inducer. Some CYP1A inducers are known to exert hepatocellular tumor-promoting activities in rodents, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by CYP1A1 induction via a metabolism of FLU is probably involved in the liver tumor promotion. In the present study, to clarify the possible liver tumor promoting effect of FLU, a two-stage liver carcinogenesis assay was performed using male F344 rats. Rats received an intraperitoneal (ip) injection of 200 mg/kg body weight of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and fed a diet containing 0, 0.1 or 0.2% FLU for 6 weeks. After 2 weeks of DEN treatment, all rats were subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy. Animals were killed 8 weeks after ip injection of DEN. Immunohistochemically, the number and area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive foci significantly increased in the liver of rats given 0.2% FLU as compared with the control. Ki-67-positive cell ratio also increased in rats given FLU at both concentrations. ROS generation in the microsomal fraction and production of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance [TBARS] and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) content in the liver did not increase in any of the FLU-treated groups. The results of microarray and real-time RT-PCR revealed that phase 1 drug-metabolizing enzymes such as CYP1A1, Ugt1a61 and Nqo1 and phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes such as Yc2, Akr1b7, Akr1b8, Akr1b10, Aldh1a1, Gpx2 and Me1 were up-regulated in rats treated with FLU. In addition, the MAPK pathway family-related genes such as Prkcα, Mek1, Rafb, Myc, Mek2, Raf1 and Egfr were also up-regulated in FLU-treated groups. The results of the present study indicate that FLU is a CYP1A inducer but does not cause any production of microsomal ROS in the liver and suggest that microsomal ROS is not involved in the liver tumor promoting effect of FLU.
To investigate the effects of deferiprone on doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity and determine its protection on cardiac contractility in vivo at tissue level.
Spontaneously-beating isolated atria from rats were pretreated with deferiprone for 10 min at 1.2 mmol/L or 0.3 mmol/L, respectively before co-incubation with doxorubicin (DOX) at 0.03 mmol/L for 60 min. Contractility (dF/dt) was assessed every 10 min during the incubation. After that, the tissues around the sinuatrial nodes were fixed for ultrastructural study; succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) and Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase (Cu, Zn-SOD) activity, as well as malondialdehyde (MDA) level of the atria were assayed.
Treatment with DOX alone resulted in a 49.34% reduction of the contractility, mitochondria swelling, disruption of mitochondrial crista and decreased electron density of the matrices. Conversely, with the presence of deferiprone, the negative inotropic effect and lesions in the cardiac mitochondria structure induced by DOX were attenuated. Cu, Zn-SOD activity increased by 12.97%-12.11%, the MDA level decreased by 29.12%-39.82% and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity was ameliorated by 25.15%-34.76%.
Deferiprone can efficiently preserve cardiac contractility. Moreover, the results of this study indicate that deferiprone is able to protect mitochondrial function and structure form damage induced by DOX. This cardiac protective potential of deferiprone could be due to its defense capability against oxidative damage.
The prognosis for advanced gastric cancer remains very poor due to the limited effectiveness of chemotherapy agents. The range in efficacy of these chemotherapy agents is likely the result of various factors including gene expression. In addition, the emergence of drug resistance during chemotherapy can result in the undesirable outcome of patients experiencing the side effects of chemotherapy without benefiting in terms of tumor response. Gene expression profiling provides a unique opportunity to gain insight into the development of different types of gastric cancer. We applied the TaqMan low density array to investigate the expression of 96 genes in four gastric cancer cell lines (TMK-1, MKN-45, MKN-74 and CDDP-resistant MKN-74). The cell lines displayed different patterns of gene expression alteration after exposure to the chemotherapeutic drugs cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil. We also established that cisplatin-resistant MKN-74 cells do not show the same gene expression patterns as the parental MKN-74 cell line at 0, 8 and 24 h after CDDP exposure. This study reveals the underlying complexity of biological and pathological events and could, perhaps, contribute to new experimental protocols or treatments that would achieve a consistent and desirable outcome of chemotherapy.
We have explored the use of minocycline, a tetracycline with antiinflammatory properties, to treat chronic relapsing-remitting experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, an animal model of multiple sclerosis. Therapeutic treatment with minocycline dramatically suppresses ongoing disease activity and limits disease progression. Disease suppression is associated with immune deviation in the periphery and with suppression of the inflammatory cascade in the central nervous system. This association is demonstrated by inhibition of microglial activation and metalloproteinase-2 expression, which results in a concomitant decrease in inflammation and demyelination. As an established antiinflammatory drug with neuroprotective properties, minocycline may provide a novel therapeutic agent for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.
To date there are only few reports evaluating the potential nephrotoxic reactions of the new 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) preparations in patients with ulcerative colitis (UC). The aim of this study was to screen the tubular and glomerular functions in patients with UC in maintenance treatment with either 5-ASA azo-compounds (sulphasalazine and olsalazine) or mesalazine. Patients with UC in clinical remission treated with either sulphasalazine, olsalazine, or mesalazine for more than 1 year were included in an open, single-blind retrospective Norwegian multicenter study. Serum and urine creatinine, serum and urine beta2-microglobulin, urine N-acetyl-beta-glucoseamidase (NAG), urine alkaline phosphatase, urine microalbumin, urine alanine amino peptidase, and urine beta2-microglobulin were measured. Fifty-two females and 75 males (n = 127), ages 20-69, were evaluated. Thirty-six patients were treated with sulphasalazine (mean treatment time 10.1+/-6.6 years [mean +/- SD]), 32 patients were treated with olsalazine (2.3+/-1.4 years), and 59 patients with mesalazine (3.2+/-2.0 years). At inclusion, there were no significant differences in the serum or urine values between the groups. In 17 patients (1 patient [3%] in the sulphasalazine group, 4 patients [13%] in the olsalazine group, and 12 patients [20%] in the mesalazine group), at least one abnormal serum and/or urine value was detected. After 10 years of treatment, only one abnormal value was found among the 19 patients in the sulphasalazine group. The abnormal values observed in the other groups indicated minor glomerular or tubular renal damage. In conclusion, long term sulphasalazine treatment appears to be safe and free of nephrotoxic side effects, whereas minor glomerular and tubular impairment are observed in a few patients treated with olsalazine and mesalazine.
Tumor-promoting abilities of four barbiturates, phenobarbital [(PB) CAS: 50-06-6], amobarbital [(AB) CAS: 57-43-2], barbital sodium [(BB) CAS: 144-02-5], and barbituric acid [(BA) CAS: 67-52-7], on the development of neoplasms in livers and other organs of rats following initiation with N-nitrosodiethylamine [(DENA) CAS: 55-18-5] were compared. Four-week-old F344/NCr male rats were given a single ip injection of 75 mg DENA/kg body weight. Beginning 2 weeks later, they were given either tap water (group 1) or drinking water containing 500 ppm of PB (group 2), the sodium salt of BB (group 3), AB (group 4), or BA (group 5) for the remaining experimental period. Control groups (groups 6-10) received an ip injection of saline alone and 2 weeks later were given either tap water or drinking water containing barbiturates as listed above. Animals were sacrificed at either 52 weeks or 78 weeks. None of the barbiturates altered the growth and survival of animals. PB and BB increased liver weights and significantly enhanced the development of hepatocellular foci and hepatocellular adenomas at 52 weeks and hepatocellular foci, hepatocellular adenomas, and trabecular carcinomas at 78 weeks in DENA-treated rats. No such enhancing effects were observed with AB or BA. PB or BB did not significantly enhance the incidence of nonhepatic tumors at 52 weeks. However, at 78 weeks BB significantly enhanced the development of renal tubular adenomas and carcinomas, while PB enhanced the development of thyroid follicular cell neoplasms in DENA-treated rats. These results clearly showed that barbiturates exhibited structure-promoting activity relationships and that their promoting abilities were not restricted to liver alone. Substitution of both hydrogen atoms at the C-5 position of the pyrimidine ring by alkyl or aryl groups appears to be essential but not sufficient for tumor-promoting activity of barbiturates.
Protease inhibitor treatment strongly diminishes mortality in HIV-infected patients. This treatment has also been associated with lipodystrophy and has been shown to alter adipocyte differentiation. The protease inhibitor nelfinavir has been indirectly implicated in the appearance and development of lipodystrophic syndrome, as well as in adipocyte cell death. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of nelfinavir on the 3T3-F442A adipocyte cell line. Nelfinavir (30 microM) induced cell death of 3T3-F442A adipocytes by a necrotic process that was not mediated by TNF-alpha. Treatment of cells with this protease inhibitor led to a significant increase in expression of the heme oxygenase-1 gene that could be reduced by 100 microM of the antioxidant ascorbate. Moreover, ascorbate had a protective effect on nelfinavir-induced necrosis, decreasing the percentage of necrotic cells by 70%. Our results show that nelfinavir induces necrosis of adipocytes mediated by a cellular increase of reactive oxygen species. This deleterious effect could be counterbalanced by ascorbate.
We tested the hypothesis that pretreatment with the antioxidant probucol attenuates reperfusion-induced diastolic abnormalities in the heterotopic rat cardiac isograft.
American Cancer Institute rats (n = 48) were divided into 6 groups. Hearts were arrested by coronary perfusion with 3 ml 4 degrees C University of Wisconsin solution at 60 mmHg. Eighteen donor hearts were divided into 3 groups of 6 and arrested either 1 hour after intraperitoneal injection of 3 ml oil with (Prob Tx) or without (Oil Tx) probucol (300 mg/kg) or without injection (Ctrl Tx). After a 90 minute storage period, abdominal isografting was performed with a total ischemic time of 2 hours. Following 15 minutes of blood reperfusion, donor hearts were rearrested and excised. Recipients' native hearts (NH, n = 18) were also arrested. Two additional groups with (Prob NR, n = 6) and without (Ctrl NR, n = 6) probucol pretreatment were arrested and subjected to 2 hours of ischemia without reperfusion. Postmortem LV pressure-volume curves and myocardial water content (MWC) were measured.
At each pressure interval normalized LV volume (LVV) was significantly greater for Prob Tx than Oil Tx or Ctrl Tx. All isograft groups had significantly lower LVV at all pressure intervals and higher MWC than non-transplanted hearts.
Pretreatment with probucol attenuates reperfusion-induced decreases in LVV in the heterotopic rat heart isograft model. Probucol, which is orally active in humans, merits further study for its potential to improve myocardial protection during cardiac surgery.
Aldosterone plays a major role in cardiac pathology. This study was designed to investigate the role of cardiac aldosterone in modulating K(+) currents and oxidative stress in the streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat heart.
Transient and sustained K(+) currents were measured in ventricular myocytes by voltage clamp. Plasma and cellular aldosterone were measured by ELISA. Fluorescent dihydroethidium (DHE) was used to assess superoxide ions as markers of oxidative stress.
The mineralocorticoid antagonist spironolactone (1 microM, 5-9 h) significantly augmented both K(+) currents in diabetic males, with a concomitant shortening of the action potential but had no effect in myocytes from control males or from diabetic females. Effects of spironolactone were restored in ovariectomized diabetic females and abolished in orchidectomized diabetic males. The aldosterone synthase inhibitor FAD286 (1 microM, 5-9 h) significantly augmented K(+) currents in cells from diabetic males, but not females. Spironolactone and FAD286 significantly reduced oxidative stress in cells from diabetic males. Plasma aldosterone content was elevated in diabetic males (relative to control), but not in females. Cellular aldosterone was also elevated, but not significantly. The elevation in aldosterone was only partly dependent on a concomitant increase in cellular angiotensin II.
A gender-related, sex-hormone-dependent elevation in plasma and cardiac cell aldosterone contributed to oxidative stress and to attenuation of K(+) currents in diabetic male rats. Aldosterone may thus contribute to diabetes-associated cardiac arrhythmias. Aldosterone elevation was partly related to levels of angiotensin II, but residual, angiotensin II-independent, aldosterone maintains functional relevance.
We report on unobserved, sudden, and unexpected deaths that occurred in a randomized multicenter trial. The long-term effects of aspirin plus dipyridamole on major vascular outcome variables were studied in 231 non insulin-dependent diabetic men with either a recent amputation for gangrene or active gangrene. Depending upon the definition of sudden death used, there were 14, 22, or 17 deaths in the drug group versus 6, 6, or 3 deaths in the placebo group (p = 0.04, 0.001, or 0.001, respectively). Total deaths from atherosclerotic vascular disease or deaths from all causes did not differ in the two treatment groups. Since this finding of a secondary end point is found only after multiple analyses of the data, it must be interpreted with caution. However, it is suggested that further studies on effects of antiplatelet agents on sudden deaths should be performed.
The effect of the anti-anginal drug fendiline on intracellular free Ca(2+) levels ([Ca(2+)](i)) in a rabbit corneal epithelial cell line (SIRC) was explored using fura-2 as a fluorescent Ca(2+) indicator. At a concentration above 1 microM, fendiline increased [Ca(2+)](i) in a concentration-dependent manner with an EC(50) value of 7 microM. The [Ca(2+)](i) response consisted of an immediate rise and an elevated phase. Extracellular Ca(2+) removal decreased half of the [Ca(2+)](i )signal. Fendiline induced quench of fura-2 fluorescence by Mn(2+) (50 microM), suggesting the presence of Ca(2+) influx across the plasma membrane. This Ca(2+) influx was abolished by La(3+) (50 microM), but was insensitive to dihydropyridines, verapamil and diltiazem. Fendiline (10 microM)-induced store Ca(2+) release was largely reduced by pretreatment with thapsigargin (1 microM) (an endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) pump inhibitor) to deplete the endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+). Conversely, pretreatment with 10 microM fendiline abolished thapsigargin-induced Ca(2+) release. Fendiline (10 microM)-induced Ca(2+) release was not altered by inhibiting phospholipase C with 2 microM 1-(6-((17beta-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl)amino)hexyl)-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione (U73122). Cumulatively, this study shows that fendiline induced concentration-dependent [Ca(2+)](i )increases in corneal epithelial cells by releasing the endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) in a phospholipase C-independent manner, and by causing Ca(2+) influx.
To identify and characterize the mutation(s) causing nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy in a German extended family.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit genes were screened by direct sequencing. Once a CHRNA4 mutation was identified, its biophysical and pharmacologic properties were characterized by expression experiments in Xenopus oocytes.
We report a new CHRNA4 mutation, causing a alpha4-T265I amino acid exchange at the extracellular end of the second transmembrane domain (TM). Functional studies of alpha4-T265I revealed an increased ACh sensitivity of the mutated receptors. alpha4-T265I is associated with an unusual low penetrance of the epilepsy phenotype. Sequencing of the TM1-TM3 parts of the 1 known nAChR subunits did not support a two-locus model involving a second nAChR sequence variation.
nAChR mutations found in familial epilepsy are not always associated with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance. alpha4-T265I is the first nAChR allele showing a markedly reduced penetrance consistent with a major gene effect. The low penetrance of the mutation is probably caused by unknown genetic or environmental factors or both.
Metal-on-metal hip arthroplasty has been performed with increasing frequency throughout the world, particularly in younger and more active patients, including women of childbearing age. The potential toxicity of cobalt exposure on fetus is concerned since cobalt ions generated by metal-on-metal bearings can traverse the placenta and be detected in fetal blood and amniotic fluid. This study examined the effects of cobalt exposure on early embryonic development and the mechanisms underlying its toxicity. Zebrafish embryos were exposed to a range of cobalt concentrations (0-100 mg/L) between 1 and 144 h postfertilization. The survival and early development of embryos were not significantly affected by cobalt at concentrations <100 μg/L. However, embryos exposed to higher concentrations (>100 μg/L) displayed reduced survival rates and abnormal development, including delayed hatching, aberrant morphology, retarded growth, and bradycardia. Furthermore, this study examined oxidative stress and apoptosis in embryos exposed to cobalt at concentrations of 0-500 μg/L. Lipid peroxidation levels were increased in cobalt-treated embryos at concentrations of 100 and 500 μg/L. The mRNA levels of catalase, superoxide dismutase 2, p53, caspase-3, and caspase-9 genes were upregulated in a dose-dependent manner. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling assays also revealed abnormal apoptotic signals in the brain, trunk, and tail when treated with 500 μg/L cobalt. These data suggest that oxidative stress and apoptosis are associated with cobalt toxicity in zebrafish embryos.
A case of urinary retention emerging after fluoxetine (20 mg/day) addition to low risperidone doses (2 mg/day) is presented. Severe extrapyramidal side-effects (EPS) also occurred after fluoxetine-risperidone combination. Several possibilities, based on the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of risperidone and fluoxetine, which merit consideration in an attempt to explain our patient's side-effects, are discussed. Extrapyramidal side-effects can be due to an increase of the plasma concentration of risperidone and/or the intrinsic propensity of fluoxetine to produce EPS. Urinary retention may be the consequence of a central serotoninergic mechanism in, or without, combination central D2 blockade.
Diabetes mellitus is characterized by oxidative stress, which in turn determines endothelial dysfunction. Gliclazide is a sulphonylurea antidiabetic drug with antioxidant effects due to its azabicyclo-octyl ring. It has been reported to potentially protect the vasculature through improvements in plasma lipid levels and platelet function. We hypothesized that gliclazide has a beneficial effect on endothelial function in Goto-Kakizaki rats (GK), an animal model of type 2 diabetes fed an atherogenic diet for 4 months. We evaluated the influence of gliclazide on both metabolic and oxidative status and NO-mediated vasodilation. GKAD rats showed increased oxidative stress and impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation. GKAD rats treated with gliclazide showed increased sensitivity to NO-mediated vasodilation, a significant decrease in fasting glycemia and insulinemia, and a significant decrease in systemic oxidative stress. In conclusion, our results suggest that gliclazide treatment improves NO-mediated vasodilation in diabetic GK rats with dyslipidemia probably due to its antioxidant effects, although we cannot rule out substantial benefits due to a reduction in fasting blood glucose. The availability of a compound that simultaneously decreases hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and inhibits oxidative stress is a promising therapeutic candidate for the prevention of vascular complications of diabetes.
Increasing evidence suggests a proatherogenic role for lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A₂ (Lp-PLA2). A meta-analysis of published cohorts has shown that Lp-PLA2 is an independent predictor of coronary heart disease events and stroke.
In this study, we investigated whether the association between air pollution and cardiovascular disease might be partly explained by increased Lp-PLA2 mass in response to exposure.
A prospective longitudinal study of 200 patients who had had a myocardial infarction was performed in Augsburg, Germany. Up to six repeated clinical examinations were scheduled every 4-6 weeks between May 2003 and March 2004. Supplementary to the multicenter AIRGENE protocol, we assessed repeated plasma Lp-PLA2 concentrations. Air pollution data from a fixed monitoring site representing urban background concentrations were collected. We measured hourly means of particle mass [particulate matter (PM) < 10 µm (PM₁₀) and PM < 2.5 µm (PM(2.5)) in aerodynamic diameter] and particle number concentrations (PNCs), as well as the gaseous air pollutants carbon monoxide (CO), sulfur dioxide (SO₂), ozone (O₃), nitric oxide (NO), and nitrogen dioxide (NO₂). Data were analyzed using mixed models with random patient effects.
Lp-PLA2 showed a positive association with PM₁₀, PM(2.5), and PNCs, as well as with CO, NO₂, NO, and SO₂ 4-5 days before blood withdrawal (lag 4-5). A positive association with O₃ was much more immediate (lag 0). However, inverse associations with some pollutants were evident at shorter time lags.
These preliminary findings should be replicated in other study populations because they suggest that the accumulation of acute and subacute effects or the chronic exposure to ambient particulate and gaseous air pollution may result in the promotion of atherosclerosis, mediated, at least in part, by increased levels of Lp-PLA2.
The use of zidovudine in the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus infection has been associated with toxic mitochondrial myopathy. There are some reported cases of improvement after stopping the drug, but in only one were molecular studies performed. We therefore studied three patients with toxic AZT myopathy during AZT treatment and after drug withdrawal. Clinical complaints disappeared within the next three months after drug cessation. In all cases, histological data of mitochondrial abnormalities also disappeared. Molecular studies showed an initial depletion of the total amount of mitochondrial DNA with respect to healthy controls which was reversible after AZT withdrawal. This work demonstrates that AZT myopathy is reversible not only at a clinical and histological, but also at a molecular level.
Postimplantation rat embryo culture is used widely for studies of embryotoxic effects on the isolated embryo after in vitro exposure to xenobiotic compounds. In this study, the relevance of three routes of exposure of the embryo in vitro was evaluated using the embryotoxic anticonvulsant carbamazepine. Embryotoxic effects were assessed, and analyses in conceptus tissues were done to reveal uptake and metabolism of the compound. Exposure via the culture medium resulted in neural tube defects and general retardation of growth and development. After injections into the amniotic or exocoelomic space, local membrane adhesions were found. Intra-amniotic exposure caused adhesions of the amniotic membrane with the embryonic neural plate, resulting in trapping of the membrane in the closing neural tube, as well as in open neural tube defects occurring in various areas of the neural tube. Only after exposure via the culture medium were amounts of carbamazepine detectable in the embryonic tissue, correlating with the systemic effects found. It is concluded that uptake from the culture medium via the yolk sac circulation is the relevant exposure route to be used for embryotoxicity effect assessment.
Hypocretin-1 and -2 (Hcrt-1 and Hcrt-2), also referred to as orexin-A and -B, are neuropeptides synthesized by a few thousand neurons in the lateral hypothalamus. Hypocretin-containing neurons project throughout the brain, with a prominent input to basal forebrain structures involved in motivation, reward, and stress. However, the role of hypocretins in addiction-related behaviors remains largely unexplored. Here we show that intracerebroventricular infusions of Hcrt-1 lead to a dose-related reinstatement of cocaine seeking without altering cocaine intake in rats. Hcrt-1 also dramatically elevates intracranial self-stimulation thresholds, indicating that, unlike treatments with reinforcing properties such as cocaine, Hcrt-1 negatively regulates the activity of brain reward circuitries. Hypocretin-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking was prevented by blockade of noradrenergic and corticotropin-releasing factor systems, suggesting that Hcrt-1 reinstated drug seeking through induction of a stress-like state. Consistent with this interpretation, the selective Hcrt-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 blocked footshock-induced reinstatement of previously extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior. These findings reveal a previously unidentified role for hypocretins in driving drug seeking through activation of stress pathways in the brain.
B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) is an endogenous cardiac neurohormone, produced in the ventricles in response to pressure and volume elevation. Nesiritide is identical to endogenous BNP and is synthesized using recombinant DNA technology. It is currently used in the treatment of acute decompensated heart failure. In clinical trials, nesiritide has been shown to decrease pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, pulmonary artery pressure, right atrial pressure, and systemic vascular resistance, as well as increase cardiac index and stroke volume index. Infusions of nesiritide have led to increased diuresis and natriuresis. Patients treated with nesiritide have reported improvements in global clinical status, dyspnea, and fatigue. Therapy with nesiritide has resulted in decreased plasma renin, aldosterone, norepinephrine, and endothelin-1 levels, as well as reduced ventricular ectopy and ventricular tachycardia. Heart rate variability also improved with nesiritide. Patients with acute coronary syndromes, serious arrhythmia, renal disease, diastolic dysfunction, or vasopressor dependence have been safely managed with nesiritide. Early treatment with nesiritide in the emergency department may lead to decreased length of hospital stay and reduced readmission rates compared to standard care. Outpatient serial infusions of nesiritide in severe heart failure patients on optimal medical therapy may result in improved clinical status, increased ejection fraction, reduced aldosterone and endothelin-1 levels, and decreased hospitalizations. Potential future uses of nesiritide include treatment of acute coronary syndromes, pulmonary hypertension, bronchospasm in chronic lung disease, and as antifibrotic/anti-remodeling therapy or bridge to cardiac transplant. The possibility of subcutaneous injections of nesiritide has been studied in both animals and humans.
