Remission followed prednisolone therapy in 9 out of 21 Nigerian children with the nephrotic syndrome who had highly selective proteinuria (CG/CA less than 15%). Of these, 5 patients have remained well off all treatment during a follow-up of nearly 5 years, 4 have relapsed more than once but have responded to further courses of prednisolone. 3 of 21 with less selective proteinuria also remitted but all relapsed and only one of these has responded again. The other two have relapsed and further courses of prednisolone have not totally abolished their proteinuria though they are asymptomatic and in good health. Toxicity (hypertension, sometimes with encephalopathy and infection) was commoner in the patients with less selective proteinuria treated with steroids than in those with highly selective proteinuria. 3 steroid-sensitive patients who had had repeated relapses became free from relapse off all treatment after a course of cyclophosphamide, given during steroid-maintained remission. All but 2 of the renal biopsies taken were regarded as abnormal. The lesions were less severe in those who responded than in those who did not. There is some evidence to suggest that Plasmodium malariae may be a cause of some of the steroid-sensitive disease, as well as the steroid-resistant.
Plasma levels of tricyclic antidepressant drugs vary considerably between individuals receiving the same amount of drug. The bearing of this variation on the occurrence of subjective side effects was investigated in 40 psychiatric inpatients with depressive disorders. Plasma levels were determined before and during four weeks of treatment with nortriptyline 50 mg. three times a day and patients were rated for subjective side effects, the assessors being unaware of the plasma levels of the drug.Plasma levels varied widely between individual patients, but in any given patient the plasma level tended to be constant over a period of time. The side effects of nortriptyline diminished significantly with time and were in most cases absent during the fourth week of treatment. There was a significant positive correlation between plasma level of nortriptyline and subjective side effects.The steady-state plasma level of a drug which is metabolized is usually a more important determinant for its effect than dosage, since it reflects the amount of drug available for biological action. Very high plasma levels of nortriptyline should presumably be avoided, since there is no evidence that they are needed for therapeutic effect and they are potentially harmful.
Epigenetic modifications, such as DNA methylation, due to in utero exposures may play a critical role in early programming for childhood and adult illness. Maternal smoking is a major risk factor for multiple adverse health outcomes in children, but the underlying mechanisms are unclear.
We investigated epigenome-wide methylation in cord blood of newborns in relation to maternal smoking during pregnancy.
We examined maternal plasma cotinine (an objective biomarker of smoking) measured during pregnancy in relation to DNA methylation at 473,844 CpG sites (CpGs) in 1,062 newborn cord blood samples from the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study (MoBa) using the Infinium HumanMethylation450 BeadChip (450K).
We found differential DNA methylation at epigenome-wide statistical significance (p-value < 1.06 × 10-7) for 26 CpGs mapped to 10 genes. We replicated findings for CpGs in AHRR, CYP1A1, and GFI1 at strict Bonferroni-corrected statistical significance in a U.S. birth cohort. AHRR and CYP1A1 play a key role in the aryl hydrocarbon receptor signaling pathway, which mediates the detoxification of the components of tobacco smoke. GFI1 is involved in diverse developmental processes but has not previously been implicated in responses to tobacco smoke.
We identified a set of genes with methylation changes present at birth in children whose mothers smoked during pregnancy. This is the first study of differential methylation across the genome in relation to maternal smoking during pregnancy using the 450K platform. Our findings implicate epigenetic mechanisms in the pathogenesis of the adverse health outcomes associated with this important in utero exposure.
Pathological laughter can be a sign of epilepsy, psychiatric illness, effect of toxins or psychotropic drugs or of structural brain disease.
Case Studies.
Two patients developed inappropriate uncontrollable laughter following intravenous sodium valproate for treatment of epilepsy.
Pathological laughter can be a side effect of intravenous sodium valproate.
The effect of AO-8, a herbal formulation was evaluated for free radical scavenging activity using in vitro and in vivo experimental models. AO-8 dose dependently inhibited ferric ion induced lipid peroxidation in vitro at 125-1000 micrograms. AO-8 was investigated at dose levels of 250, 500 and 750 mg/kg p.o. in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction and CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity in rats. The levels of serum GOT and LDH, cardiac glutathione, SOD and catalase were estimated following induction of myocardial infarction with isoproterenol. The estimation of parameters such as SGOT, SGPT, liver glycogen and lipid peroxidation were carried out in CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity. Treatment with AO-8 for 15 days at a dose of 500 and 750 mg/kg offered marked protection in both in vivo models. The reversal of increased serum enzymes in both the models may be due to the prevention of leakage of the intracellular enzymes by its membrane stabilizing activity. The inhibition of lipid peroxidation and enhancement of antioxidant enzymes by AO-8 may be due to the direct free radical scavenging activity which could be attributed to the antioxidant potential of various ingredients present in the formulation. Thus it can be concluded that AO-8 is an effective free radical scavenger and could prove beneficial in the treatment of various disorders associated with the involvement of free radicals.
The protective role of amrinone against toxicity of anthracyclines was examined in both mice and rats. These two anthracyclines were selected since they are characterized by different patterns of toxicity. In contrast to doxorubicin, the 4'-deoxy derivative did not cause delayed mortality. The results of this investigation indicate that amrinone is an effective protective agent against acute lethal events induced by both anthracyclines. However, the inotropic agent did not reduce the delayed mortality produced by doxorubicin. This parallels the apparent lack of prevention of doxorubicin-induced myocardial toxicity in CD rats, as determined by ECG changes and by morphologic alterations following multiple drug administrations. The administration of amrinone did not interfere with the antitumor activity of 4'-deoxy-doxorubicin against C-26 colon tumor.
Algodystrophy syndrome is characterized by pain, vasomotor disorders and/or trophic skin changes, without laboratory signs of inflammation. Among the etiological factors of this syndrome (trauma, cerebrovascular accident, diabetes mellitus...), iatrogenic ones including phenobarbital can be observed. We report a case of phenobarbital induced recurrent bilateral shoulder-hand syndrome in a 67 years old women with hypertension, diabetes, and history of epileptic crisis following ischemic cerebrovascular accidents. The patient recovered after barbiturate withdrawal and treatment with calcitonin. It's necessary to diagnose promptly shoulder-hand syndrome of iatrogenic cause in order to withdraw definitively the responsible drug, to start an effective therapy, at this stage, on pain and bone demineralization and to prevent severe sequels.
Norepinephrine (NE) has been reported to modulate neuronal excitability and act as endogenous anticonvulsant. In the present study we used NE transporter knock-out mice (NET-KO), which are characterized by high levels of extracellular NE, to investigate the role of endogenous NE in seizure susceptibility. Seizure thresholds for cocaine (i.p.), pentylenetetrazol (i.v.) and kainic acid (i.v.) were compared in NET-KO, heterozygous (NET-HT) and wild type (NET-WT) female mice. The dose-response curve for cocaine-induced convulsions was significantly shifted to the right in NET-KO mice, indicating higher seizure thresholds. The threshold doses of pentylenetetrazol that induced clonic and tonic seizures were also significantly higher in NET-KO when compared to NET-WT mice. Similarly, NET-KO mice displayed higher resistance to convulsions engendered by kainic acid. For all drugs tested, the response of NET-HT mice was always intermediate. These data provide further support for a role of endogenous NE in the control of seizure susceptibility.
A case of a 58 years old female is presented, who died because of a Budd-Chiari-syndrome. This complication had developed during treatment with Dacarbazine (DTIC), which was given after surgical removal of a malignant melanoma. The causative relation between the Budd-Chiari-syndrome and this cytostatic drug is discussed, even though the influence of other drugs cannot be excluded.
In many diseases, including progressive renal disorders, tissue injury and pathological intracellular signaling events are dependent on oxidative stress. Glutathione peroxidase-1 (Gpx1) is an antioxidant enzyme that is highly expressed in the kidney and removes peroxides and peroxynitrite that can cause renal damage. Therefore, we examined whether this abundant renal antioxidant enzyme limits renal damage during the development of type 1 diabetic nephropathy. Wild-type (Gpx1+/+) and deficient (Gpx1-/-) mice were made diabetic by intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (100 mg/kg) on 2 consecutive days. Diabetic Gpx1+/+ and -/- mice with equivalent blood glucose levels (23 +/- 4 mM) were selected and examined after 4 mo of diabetes. Compared with normal mice, diabetic Gpx1+/+ and -/- mice had a two- to threefold increase in urine albumin excretion at 2 and 4 mo of diabetes. At 4 mo, diabetic Gpx1+/+ and -/- mice had equivalent levels of oxidative renal injury (increased kidney reactive oxygen species, kidney lipid peroxidation, urine isoprostanes, kidney deposition of advanced glycoxidation, and nitrosylation end products) and a similar degree of glomerular damage (hypertrophy, hypercellularity, sclerosis), tubular injury (apoptosis and vimentin expression), and renal fibrosis (myofibroblasts, collagen, TGF-beta excretion). A lack of Gpx1 was not compensated for by increased levels of catalase or other Gpx isoforms in diabetic kidneys. Contrary to expectations, this study showed that the high level of Gpx1 expressed in the kidney is not protective against the development of renal oxidative stress and nephropathy in a model of type 1 diabetes.
A qualitatively evident enhancement of chromolytic neurons within the lateral posterior thalamus of rats in which limbic seizures had been induced by lithium and pilocarpine and who were later trained for spatial memory was assessed quantitatively. The significant increase in the numbers of chromolytic neurons and the decrease in the numbers of normal neurons for these rats compared to the reference brains suggested these morphological changes were recent. The hypothesis that excessive stimulation of the lateral posterior nucleus by daily training in a radial maze may have facilitated the necrosis was supported by the inverse relationship between a linear combination of the numbers of normal neurons and oligodendroglia and the rate of learning during the earlier but not the later sessions. An implication for iatrogenic effects from rehabilitation of humans following brain injury was suggested.
The effects of nicardipine administration on the morphology of coronary, renal, and pulmonary vascular trees were studied in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). Male 10-week-old SHRs received 1 mg/kg/day of nicardipine or vehicle orally for 12 weeks. Age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats were used as normotensive reference animals. Blood pressure, heart weight, heart/body weight ratio, the area occupied by the medial layer, and area occupied by the vascular wall/area of lumen ratio increased significantly (p less than 0.001) in SHRs compared with normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats. Nicardipine reduced blood pressure, as well as relative heart weight, the area occupied by vascular smooth muscle, and the area occupied by the vascular wall/area of lumen ratio. In addition, the size of laminae of smooth muscle of the pulmonary artery was reduced in nicardipine-treated SHRs; coronary artery branches were the most sensitive. The results of the study provide direct evidence that nicardipine reduces not only blood pressure but is also able to counteract the development of hypertension-dependent changes in the morphology of the cardiovascular system.
Benign familial neonatal convulsions are a rare, autosomal-dominant form of neonatal epileptic syndrome. It can occur 1 week after birth, and usually involves frequent episodes, but with a benign course. The diagnosis depends on family history and clinical features. The mutant gene locates at 20q13, a voltage-gated potassium-channel gene (KCNQ2). Our patient exhibited an uneventful delivery course and onset of seizures at age 2 days. The general tonic seizures were unique and asymmetric, with frequencies of >20 per day. Results of examinations were within normal limits, including biochemistry and brain magnetic resonance imaging. Abnormalities included a small ventricular septum defect on cardiac sonography unrelated to the seizures, and nonspecific, multiple, high-voltage sharp waves and spike waves occurring infrequently in the central region on electroencephalogram. After phenobarbital and phenytoin use, the seizures persisted. On day 12, another antiepileptic drug, vigabatrin (unavailable in the United States), was used, and seizures decreased. A novel mutation of KCNQ2 was identified from a blood sample. The baby had occasional seizures with drug treatment at age 3 months. Benign familial neonatal convulsion should be considered in a baby with a unique seizure pattern and positive family history. Genetic counseling and diagnosis are mandatory.
A five-year prospective study of chloramphenicol induced aplastic anaemia in Nigerians was undertaken. Five proven cases were seen, representing 45.5% of all cases of aplastic anaemia diagnosed during the period of study and 1.0 cases per year. Chloramphenicol induced aplastic anaemia is rare (only 0.002% of all new non-obstetric patients seen in the hospital during the period of study) but preventable. Restriction of the drug or its total withdrawal is recommended.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias have been reported in Parkinson's disease and multiple system atrophy. Cranial dystonias are rare in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). In this report we describe an unusual case of reversible levodopa-induced Oromandibular dystonia (OMD) in a PSP patient to highlight the importance of recognizing this drug related complication in the management of PSP, and discuss the possible underlying pathophysiology.
An investigation into the preparation of potential extended-release cocaine-abuse therapeutic agents afforded a series of compounds related to 1-[2-(diphenylmethoxy)ethyl]-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine (1a) and 1-[2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy]ethyl]-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine (1b) (GBR 12935 and GBR 12909, respectively), which were designed, synthesized, and evaluated for their ability to bind to the dopamine transporter (DAT) and to inhibit the uptake of [(3)H]-labeled dopamine (DA). The addition of hydroxy and methoxy substituents to the benzene ring on the phenylpropyl moiety of 1a-1d resulted in a series of potent and selective ligands for the DAT (analogues 5-28). The hydroxyl groups were included to incorporate a medium-chain carboxylic acid ester into the molecules, to form oil-soluble prodrugs, amenable to "depot" injection techniques. The introduction of an oxygen-containing functionality to the propyl side chain provided ketones 29 and 30, which demonstrated greatly reduced affinity for the DAT and decreased potency in inhibiting the uptake of [(3)H]DA, and benzylic alcohols 31-36, which were highly potent and selective at binding to the DAT and inhibiting [(3)H]DA uptake. The enantiomers of 32 (34 and 36) were practically identical in biological testing. Compounds 1b, 32, 34, and 36 all demonstrated the ability to decrease cocaine-maintained responding in monkeys without affecting behaviors maintained by food, with 34 and 36 equipotent to each other and both more potent in behavioral tests than the parent compound 1b. Intramuscular injections of compound 41 (the decanoate ester of racemate 32) eliminated cocaine-maintained behavior for about a month following one single injection, without affecting food-maintained behavior. The identification of analogues 32, 34, and 36, thus, provides three potential candidates for esterification and formulation as extended-release cocaine-abuse therapeutic agents.
We report a possible association between autism in our sample and a recently described brain-expressed tryptophan hydroxylase gene (TPH2). The well-replicated involvement of the serotonin neurotransmitter system in autism has stimulated interest in many genes in the serotonin pathway as possible candidates for mutations leading to autism susceptibility. Serotonin synthesis is controlled by the rate-limiting enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase. A mouse study of the original tryptophan hydroxylase gene (TPH1) and the new isoform (TPH2) showed that while TPH1 is primarily expressed peripherally, TPH2 is found exclusively in brain tissue. We searched for human sequence variants in 6,467 nucleotides covering all 11 exons of TPH2, and also 248 nucleotides upstream of the start codon, and 935 nucleotides downstream of the stop codon. Eighteen variants were characterized in 88 subjects with autism studied at our two centers, and 95 unrelated control subjects. Using a model-free association method and empirical P value estimation, two variants showed frequency differences between autism and control subjects (P = 0.01 for a T-G variant in intron 1, and P = 0.02 for a A-T variant in intron 4). A haplotype including these variants showed slightly increased significance (P = 0.005). Further investigation of clinical phenotypes showed a possible association between presence of the variants at these two SNPs and higher scores on the Autism Diagnostic Interview (ADI) domain describing repetitive and stereotyped behaviors (P = 0.007). We conclude that TPH2 may play a modest role in autism susceptibility, perhaps relating specifically to repetitive behaviors, pending replication of this result.
More than 150 million people suffer from diabetes mellitus worldwide, and this number is expected to rise substantially within the next decades. Despite its high prevalence, the pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus is not completely understood. Therefore, appropriate experimental models are essential tools to gain more insight into the genetics and pathogenesis of the disease. Here, we describe the current efforts to establish novel diabetes models derived from unbiased, phenotype-driven, large-scale N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) mouse mutagenesis projects started a decade ago using hyperglycemia as a high-throughput screen parameter. Mouse lines were established according to their hyperglycemia phenotype over several generations, thereby revealing a mutation as cause for the aberrant phenotype. Chromosomal assignment of the causative mutation and subsequent candidate gene analysis led to the detection of the mutations that resulted in novel alleles of genes already known to be involved in glucose homeostasis, like glucokinase, insulin 2, and insulin receptor. Additional ENU-induced hyperglycemia lines are under genetic analysis. Improvements in screen for diabetic animals are implemented to detect more subtle phenotypes. Moreover, diet challenge assays are being employed to uncover interactions between genetic and environmental factors in the pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus. The new mouse mutants recovered in phenotype-driven ENU mouse mutagenesis projects complement the available models generated by targeted mutagenesis of candidate genes, all together providing the large resource of models required for a systematic dissection of the pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus.
We report a case of acute-onset, long-lasting cholestasis induced by atorvastatin. This antihyperlipidaemic drug was taken for 40 days by a 72-year-old male as a treatment for his mixed dyslipidaemia. At that point, the patient presented with asthenia, nausea, painless icterus, acholic stools and hyperchromic urine with biochemical analyses showing a dramatic increase in bilirubin (total bilirubin 22 mg/dL; direct bilirubin 21 mg/dL) and alkaline phosphatase (up to 4-fold over the normal level) with less marked increases in transaminases. Liver histology showed a pattern of cholestasis with evident signs of cholangiolitis and damage of the interlobular bile ducts. Serum transaminase and bilirubin levels returned to normal within 5 months after atorvastatin withdrawal while alkaline phosphatase normalized after only 8 months. Scores on both the Maria and Victorino clinical scale for the diagnosis of drug-induced hepatitis and the Naranjo Adverse Drug Reaction Probability Scale indicated that atorvastatin was the probable cause of prolonged cholestasis in this patient. This is a rare case of cholestasis probably caused by atorvastatin and unusually characterized by bile duct damage.
There is growing evidence that exposure to stress alters the acute effects of abused drugs on the CNS. However, it is not known whether stress augments the longer-term neurotoxic effects of psychostimulant drugs, such as methamphetamine. Methamphetamine at high doses decreases forebrain dopamine concentrations. The current study tested the hypothesis that 10 days of unpredictable stress augmented striatal dopamine depletions 7 days following four injections of either 7.5 or 10 mg/kg methamphetamine (1 injection every 2 h). Furthermore, to assess the effects of chronic stress on immediate responses to methamphetamine, extracellular striatal dopamine and methamphetamine concentrations, and rectal temperature were monitored during the methamphetamine injection regimen. Seven days following either a 7.5 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg methamphetamine injection regimen, male rats exposed to unpredictable stress showed greater depletions in striatal dopamine tissue content compared with non-stressed controls injected with methamphetamine. Stressed rats had increased hyperthermic responses and dopamine efflux in the striatum during the methamphetamine injections when compared with non-stressed control rats. Moreover, stressed rats had an increased mortality rate (33%) compared with non-stressed controls (16.7%) following four injections of 10 mg/kg methamphetamine. The enhanced acute and longer-term effects of methamphetamine in stressed rats was not due to a greater concentrations of methamphetamine in the striatum, as extracellular levels of methamphetamine during the injection regimen did not differ between the two groups. In summary, exposure to 10 days of chronic unpredictable stress augments longer-term depletions of dopamine in the striatum, as well as acute methamphetamine-induced hyperthermia and extracellular dopamine levels. These findings suggest that chronic stress increases the responsiveness of the brain to the acute pharmacological effects of methamphetamine and enhances the vulnerability of the brain to the neurotoxic effects of psychostimulants.
The effect of nitroprusside in limiting myocardial infarct was compared with that of pinacidil, a new antihypertensive agent with potent coronary vasodilator properties, in instrumented awake dogs subjected to 4 hr of left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion and 20 hr of reperfusion. Dogs were randomly assigned to receive intravenous normal saline, nitroprusside, or pinacidil beginning 40 min after the onset of coronary artery occlusion and continuing throughout the occlusion and the first hour of reperfusion. Nitroprusside and pinacidil were titrated to decrease mean aortic pressure by 25 mm Hg; normal saline had no effect on mean aortic pressure. Other systemic hemodynamic variables were not significantly altered by normal saline or nitroprusside, and myocardial blood flow did not change during normal saline infusion in normal and ischemic myocardium. In contrast, nitroprusside increased the blood flow and the endocardial/epicardial flow ratio in ischemic myocardium. This increase in ischemic myocardial blood flow was accompanied by a significant reduction in infarct size (40 +/- 3% of region at risk vs 58 +/- 4% in the normal saline group; p less than .05). Pinacidil increased heart rate, cardiac output, and the peak rate of rise of left ventricular pressure. Furthermore, despite causing a threefold to fourfold increase in normal myocardial blood flow, pinacidil had no effect on either blood flow to ischemic myocardium or infarct size (57 +/- 5%). The data indicate that the marked coronary vasodilator effect of pinacidil does not cause an increase in ischemic blood flow or a reduction in infarct size.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Resveratrol (trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene) is a naturally occurring polyphenolic compound highly enriched in grapes, peanuts, red wine, and a variety of food sources. Resveratrol has antiinflammatory and antioxidant properties, and also has potent anticancer properties. Human glioma U251 cells were used to understand the molecular mechanisms by which resveratrol acts as an anticancer agent, since glioma is a particularly difficult cancer to treat and eradicate. Our data show that resveratrol induces dose- and time-dependent death of U251 cells, as measured by lactate dehydrogenase release and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation assays. Resveratrol induces activation of caspase-3 and increases the cleavage of the downstream caspase substrate, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Resveratrol-induced DNA fragmentation can be completely blocked by either a general caspase inhibitor (Z-VAD-FMK) or a selective caspase-3 inhibitor (Z-DEVD-FMK), but not by a selective caspase-1 inhibitor. Resveratrol induces cytochrome c release from mitochondria to the cytoplasm and activation of caspase-9. Resveratrol also increases expression of proapoptotic Bax and its translocation to the mitochondria. Resveratrol inhibits U251 proliferation, as measured by MTS assay [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium, inner salt], and induces G0/G1 growth arrest, as determined by flow cytometry. The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, olomoucine, prevents cell cycle progression and resveratrol-induced apoptosis. These results suggest that multiple signaling pathways may underlie the apoptotic death of U251 glioma induced by resveratrol, which warrants further exploration as an anticancer agent in human glioma.
Obesity is an increasing health problem in most developed countries and its prevalence is also increasing in developing countries. There has been no great success with dietary means and life style modification for permanent weight loss. Various surgical treatment methods for obesity are now available. They are aimed at limiting oral energy intake with or without causing dumping or inducing selective maldigestion and malabsorption. Based on current literature, up to 75% of excess weight is lost by surgical treatment with concomitant disappearance of hyperlipidaemias, type 2 diabetes, hypertension or sleep apnoea. The main indication for operative treatment is morbid obesity (body mass index greater than 40 kg/m2) or severe obesity (body mass index > 35 kg/m2) with comorbidities of obesity. Orlistat is a new inhibitor of pancreatic lipase enzyme. At doses of 120 mg three times per day with meals it results in a 30% reduction in dietary fat absorption, which equals approximately 200 kcal daily energy deficit. In the long term, orlistat has been shown to be more effective than placebo in reducing body weight and serum total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Orlistat has a lowering effect on serum cholesterol independent of weight loss. Along with weight loss, orlistat also favourably affects blood pressure and glucose and insulin levels in obese individuals and in obese type 2 diabetic patients.
Up to now, cardiotoxicity of epirubicin has been studied almost exclusively in adult cancer patients. The aim of this study was to investigate epirubicin in children and adolescents, in comparison with doxorubicin.
About 172 soft tissue sarcoma patients (mean age at diagnosis: 8.3 years), treated with epirubicin (median cumulative dose: 450 mg/m2) or doxorubicin (median cumulative dose: 240 mg/m2) within the high-risk group of the CWS-96 study, were examined in a prospective multicentre study. Heart function was analysed by echocardiography, measuring left-ventricular fractional shortening (FS). The median follow up was 27.7 months.
Incidence of clinically manifest cardiomyopathy was 0% (0/60; 95% CI: 0-6.0%) in patients treated with epirubicin, and 0.9% (1/108; 95% CI: 0-5.1%) in patients treated with doxorubicin. A further three patients showed subclinical cardiomyopathy. There was no difference in FS between the two treatment arms.
Cardiotoxicity was low in our study. For the short term, cardiotoxicity seems to be only a minor problem in patients treated with epirubicin as applied in this cohort.
An ethanol extract of turmeric ("Curcuma longa") as well as an ointment of curcumin (its active ingredient) were found to produce remarkable symptomatic relief in patients with external cancerous lesions. Reduction in smell were noted in 90% of the cases and reduction in itching in almost all cases. Dry lesions were observed in 70% of the cases, and a small number of patients (10%) had a reduction in lesion size and pain. In many patients the effect continued for several months. An adverse reaction was noticed in only one of the 62 patients evaluated.
