In the first few hours after acute coronary thrombosis, clinical coronary angiography is associated with enhanced risk of ventricular fibrillation. In these experiments, the ventricular fibrillation threshold (VFT) was measured in anesthetized dogs before and during acute occlusion of the left circumflex coronary artery. Ischemia alone reduced the fibrillation threshold. Angiography with 1- or 2-ml does of Renografin 76 lowered VFT significantly more than did equal doses of iohexol or iopamidol. It is concluded that nonionic agents may be safer for coronary angiography in the presence of acute coronary insufficiency.
Specific causes for Lhermitte's sign (LS) in cancer patients are spinal cord compression, radiation therapy to the spinal cord, and cisplatin chemotherapy. We observed a transient LS in five of 87 patients treated with more than two cycles of 100 mg/m2 docetaxel (Taxotere). LS developed either concurrently or after the onset of docetaxel-induced sensory neuropathy, and disappeared after the discontinuation or dose reduction of chemotherapy.
(1) When oral morphine does not relieve severe pain and when there is no specific treatment for the underlying cause, the first option is to try subcutaneous or intravenous administration. If this standard treatment fails or is poorly tolerated, intrathecal injection is usually preferred as the direct route to the central nervous system. However, one-quarter to one-half of patients still do not achieve adequate pain relief, and adverse effects are relatively frequent; (2) Ziconotide is not an opiate and is not related to the usual classes of drugs that interfere with nervous transmission in the posterior horn of the spinal cord. Marketing authorization has been granted for "severe, chronic pain in patients who require intrathecal analgesia". The Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) recommends continuous infusion via an intrathecal catheter connected to a pump; (3) Clinical evaluation of ziconotide does not include any trials versus morphine in patients with nociceptive pain, or any trials versus tricyclic or antiepileptic drugs in patients with neurogenic pain; (4) In a trial in 220 patients in whom systemic morphine had failed, the mean pain score on a 100-mm visual analogue scale was 69.8 mm after three weeks on ziconotide, compared to 75.8 mm with placebo. This difference, although statistically significant, is clinically irrelevant. The proportion of "responders" (reduction of at least 30% in the initial pain score) was respectively 16.1% and 12.0% (no statistically significant difference); (5) The two other placebo-controlled trials included 112 patients with pain linked to cancer or HIV infection, and 257 patients with non-cancer pain. After a titration phase lasting 5 to 6 days, a combined analysis of the two trials showed that the mean pain score was 48.8 mm with ziconotide and 68.4 mm with placebo (statistically significant difference). However, many patients did not complete the titration phase. Efficacy also appeared to differ according to the type of pain; ziconotide was more effective on cancer pain than on neurogenic pain; (6) The main adverse effects of ziconotide in clinical trials were cerebellovestibular disorders such as ataxia, dizziness, and gait disorders, as well as confusion, hallucinations (increased in cases of overdose), nausea, vomiting, postural hypotension, and urine retention. About 40% of patients had an elevation in muscle creatine kinase activity, through an unknown mechanism; (7) Intrathecal administration carries a risk of infection (especially meningitis). Some patients might experience a paradoxical increase in pain with ziconotide; (8) In practice, the efficacy of ziconotide in relieving neurogenic pain remains to be established. In cancer pain, the available evidence showing that ziconotide is effective after opiate failure is too weak in view of the potential risks. It is better to re-examine and, if possible, correct the reasons for opiate treatment failure rather than prescribe ziconotide.
Anti-ulcerogenic activity of Thamira parpam (TP) was investigated in two ulcer models (aspirin + pylorus ligation and HCl-ethanol). Aspirin-pylorus ligation (Asp 200 mg/kg-7 days + PL-4 hours) and HCl-ethanol (150 mM HCl in 70% ethanol) induction in rat resulted in elevation of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and depletion of antioxidants (superoxide dismutase [SOD], glutathione [GSH], glutathione peroxidase [GPx]) with high ulcer scores (p < .01). In Asp + PL model, TP treatment showed mild inhibition on ulcer scores, changes in pH, gastric volume, total and free acidity, and elevation of TBARS and depletion of antioxidants. Compared to the ulcer-untreated rats (HCl-ethanol), the herbomineral drug TP treatment (0.5, 1, 2 mg/kg, per oral [p.o.]) attenuated the elevation of TBARS, decrease of antioxidants and nitrite (p < .05). Histopathological examinations were correlated with the antioxidant profile. In conclusion, the prophylactic cytoprotective nature of the herbomineral drug in experimentally induced ulcers could be mediated by its free radical quenching property.
Arsenic is both a human carcinogen and a chemotherapeutic agent, but the mechanism of neither arsenic-induced carcinogenesis nor tumor selective cytotoxicity is clear. Using a model cell line in which p53 expression is regulated exogenously in a tetracycline-off system (TR9-7 cells) , our laboratory has shown that arsenite disrupts mitosis and that p53-deficient cells [p53(-)], in contrast to p53-expressing cells [p53(+)], display greater sensitivity to arsenite-induced mitotic arrest and apoptosis.
Our goal was to examine the role p53 plays in protecting cells from arsenite-induced mitotic arrest.
p53(+) and p53(-) cells were synchronized in G2 phase using Hoechst 33342 and released from synchrony in the presence or absence of 5 microM sodium arsenite.
Mitotic index analysis demonstrated that arsenite treatment delayed exit from G2 in p53(+) and p53(-) cells. Arsenite-treated p53(+) cells exited mitosis normally, whereas p53(-) cells exited mitosis with delayed kinetics. Microarray analysis performed on mRNAs of cells exposed to arsenite for 0 and 3 hr after release from G2 phase synchrony showed that arsenite induced inhibitor of DNA binding-1 (ID1) differentially in p53(+) and p53(-) cells. Immunoblotting confirmed that ID1 induction was more extensive and sustained in p53(+) cells.
p53 promotes mitotic exit and leads to more extensive ID1 induction by arsenite. ID1 is a dominant negative inhibitor of transcription that represses cell cycle regulatory genes and is elevated in many tumors. ID1 may play a role in the survival of arsenite-treated p53(+) cells and contribute to arsenic carcinogenicity.
We report a case of recurrent gastric cancer with peritoneal dissemination and paraaortic lymph node metastases, successfully treated with weekly administration of paclitaxel. The patient was a 63-year-old man who underwent distal gastrectomy with lymph node dissection for advanced gastric cancer in February 2005. After the operation, adjuvant chemotherapy with S-1 was started and continued. He complained of abdominal distention, anorexia and nausea in April 2006. Therefore, paclitaxel (PTX) was administered at a dose of 60 mg/m(2)/day for 3 weeks followed by a week rest. Clinical symptoms were relieved, and abdominal X-ray findings showing intestinal obstruction disappeared after 2 courses. CT scan revealed metastatic lymph nodes were reduced after 3 courses. Grade 1 peripheral neuropathy and grade 2 leukocytopenia were noted, but no serious adverse reaction appeared. Weekly administration of PTX may be a promising regimen as second-line chemotherapy for S-1-resistant recurrent gastric cancer.
Previous clinical studies have shown the safety and efficacy of the traditional Chinese medicinal herbal aqueous extract Chan-Yu-Bao-Yuan-Tang (CYBYT) for the treatment of lung and cervical cancer patients. Used in combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu), CYBYT has been observed to be particularly effective in cancer treatment. Herein, the combined anticancer effect and the underlying mechanisms of 5-Fu and CYBYT in the human lung cancer cell line A549 and the human cervical cancer cell line HeLa were investigated in vitro. The MTT assay, Annexin V-FITC staining and Western blotting were applied to identify cell viability, the stages of apoptosis and the expression of signaling proteins, respectively. The results indicated that CYBYT and 5-Fu, alone or in combination, significantly inhibited proliferation and induced marked apoptosis in A549 and HeLa cells, but had no significant inhibitory effects on normal human IMR-90 fibroblasts. The rate of mid and late apoptosis or necrosis was greater after 5-Fu treatment compared to treatment with CYBYT or the combination of agents; however, the early apoptotic rate showed opposite results. CYBYT and 5-Fu, alone or in combination, up-regulated cleaved caspase-3 expression in a time-dependent manner, with CYBYT being more effective than 5-Fu. Taken together, our data show that the pro-apoptotic activity of the two-drug combination was much stronger than that of CYBYT or 5-Fu alone; CYBYT combined with 5-Fu had synergistic effects at lower concentrations and promoted apoptosis, while the combined treatment also decreased the cytotoxic side effects of 5-Fu.
The original 4-factor structure of the University of Rhode Island Change Assessment (URICA; C. C. DiClemente & S. O. Hughes, 1990) was replicated, and the scale's internal consistency was found to be acceptable in a sample of 106 cocaine- and alcohol-dependent participants receiving either disulfiram or no medication in a psychotherapy trial. In addition, participants categorized as having high Committed Action (CA), a new URICA composite, had a significantly greater percentage of days abstinent from both alcohol and cocaine (85.6%) than low-CA participants (72.7%, p < .01). Furthermore, a significant Treatment x CA interaction emerged, suggesting that low-CA participants had better outcomes than those with high CA when assigned to medication, whereas high-CA participants fared equally well with or without medication.
This study examined the acute effects of severe monocrotophos (MCP) poisoning on AChE inhibition, mRNA expression and recovery of acetylcholinesterase activity in different regions of the rat brain.
Wistar rats were administered monocrotophos (0.8LD(50)) by oral gavage to elicit severe effects of acute poisoning and were sacrificed 2.5 h, 24 h, 7 days, 14 days and 1 month after poisoning. Acetylcholinesterse activity, mRNA and protein were assessed in cortex, striatum, hippocampus and cerebellum.
Acute monocrotophos administration resulted in significant AChE inhibition (50-82%) in the rat brain regions 2.5 h after poisoning. AChE inhibition was associated with down regulation of synaptic AChE mRNA 24 h after poisoning in cortex and striatum. Partial recovery of AChE activity was observed 24 h after poisoning associated with increased catalytic efficiency (K(m)) of the enzyme. The recovery of AChE mRNA and protein levels to normal occurred in 7 days in cortex and cerebellum and over one month in striatum and hippocampus.
Cholinergic neurotoxicity of acute severe monocrotophos poisoning is characterized by high acetylcholinesterase inhibition, downregulation of acetylcholinesterase mRNA and slow recovery of acetylcholinesterase activity in brain regions. De novo synthesized acetylcholinesterase is associated with increased catalytic efficiency that may contribute in restoring cholinergic function.
We present the case of a 28-year-old man on chronic warfarin therapy who sustained a minor muscle tear and developed increasing pain and a flexure contracture of the right hip. Surgical exploration revealed an iliopsoas hematoma and femoral nerve entrapment, resulting in a femoral nerve palsy and partial loss of quadriceps functions. Anticoagulant-induced femoral nerve palsy represents the most common form of warfarin-induced peripheral neuropathy; it is characterized by severe pain in the inguinal region, varying degrees of motor and sensory impairment, and flexure contracture of the involved extremity.
Retinoic acid (RA) and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) activate distinct ligand-dependent transcription factors, and both cause cardiac malformation and heart failure in zebrafish embryos. We hypothesized that they cause this response by hyperactivating a common set of genes critical for heart development. To test this, we used microarrays to measure transcript changes in hearts isolated from zebrafish embryos 1, 2, 4, and 12 h after exposure to 1 muM RA. We used hierarchical clustering to compare the transcriptional responses produced in the embryonic heart by RA and TCDD. We could identify no early responses in common between the two agents. However, at 12 h both treatments produced a dramatic downregulation of a common cluster of cell cycle progression genes, which we term the cell cycle gene cluster. This was associated with a halt in heart growth. These results suggest that RA and TCDD ultimately trigger a common transcriptional response associated with heart failure, but not through the direct activation of a common set of genes. Among the genes rapidly induced by RA was Nr2F5, a member of the COUP-TF family of transcriptional repressors. We found that induction of Nr2F5 was both necessary and sufficient for the cardiotoxic response to RA.
Transcriptomic screens in breast cancer cell lines have identified a protein named anterior gradient-2 (AGR2) as a potentially novel oncogene overexpressed in estrogen receptor (ER) positive tumours. As targeting the ER is responsible for major improvements in cure rates and prevention of breast cancers, we have evaluated the pro-oncogenic function of AGR2 in anti-hormone therapeutic responses. We show that AGR2 expression promotes cancer cell survival in clonogenic assays and increases cell proliferation and viability in a range of cancer cell lines. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and reporter assays indicate that AGR2 is transcriptionally activated by estrogen through ERalpha. However, we also found that AGR2 expression is elevated rather than inhibited in response to tamoxifen, thus identifying a novel mechanism to account for an agonistic effect of the drug on a specific pro-oncogenic pathway. Consistent with these data, clinical analysis indicates that AGR2 expression is related to treatment failure in ERalpha-positive breast cancers treated with tamoxifen. In contrast, AGR2 is one of the most highly suppressed genes in cancers of responding patients treated with the anti-hormonal drug letrozole. These data indicate that the AGR2 pathway represents a novel pro-oncogenic pathway for evaluation as anti-cancer drug developments, especially therapies that by-pass the agonist effects of tamoxifen.
Three very low birth weight infants, treated with frusemide for broncho-pulmonary dysplasia are described. They all developed medullary nephrocalcinosis identifiable by real time ultrasound. The sonographic findings of diffuse medullary hyper-echogenicity appears to be specific for nephrocalcinosis.
We evaluated the effect of capsaicin, one of the transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1) agonists, on ischemic acute renal failure (ARF) in rats. Ischemic ARF was induced by occlusion of the left renal artery and vein for 45 minutes followed by reperfusion, 2 weeks after contralateral nephrectomy. Renal function in vehicle-treated ARF rats markedly decreased at 24 hours after reperfusion. Treatment with capsaicin (3, 10, and 30 mg/kg, orally) 30 minutes before ischemia dose-dependently attenuated ischemia/reperfusion-induced renal dysfunction. In renal tissues exposed to ischemia/reperfusion, neutrophil infiltration, renal superoxide production, and renal tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha mRNA expression were augmented, but these alterations were attenuated by the treatment with capsaicin. On the other hand, ischemia/reperfusion-enhanced renal interleukin (IL)-10 mRNA expression and plasma concentrations of IL-10 were augmented by treatment with capsaicin in ARF rats. In addition, resiniferatoxin (20 microg/kg, subcutaneous), a more selective and potent TRPV1 agonist, showed a renoprotective effect on ischemia/reperfusion-induced renal injury, in a qualitatively similar way to cases seen with capsaicin. These results demonstrate that TRPV1 agonists prevent ischemia/reperfusion-induced renal dysfunction. These renoprotective effects seem to be closely related to the inhibition of inflammatory response via TRPV1.
Oral methionine is noncomatogenic in normal dogs, but it is consistently comatogenic in dogs with portacaval shunts in the presence of elevated ammonia levels. Such action appears to be enhanced by the ammonia itself, since relatively small doses of oral methionine can induce coma when baseline levels of ammonia are above 1,000 mug/100 ml; much higher doses are nesessary for near normal ammonemia. The methionine-induced coma closely reproduces the clinical and electroencephalographic picture of coma in other canine models. Oral methionine does not significantly increase the ammonia levels, but its action is probably mediated by the release of methanethiol (and other less active compounds) from the bowel. Methanethiol levels tend to increase in proportion to the amount of methionine administered, and its comatogenic action may be amplified, up to one hundredfold, by high ammonia levels. Methanethiol levels in comatose patients and the concept of the synergistic effect with ammonia may lead to a clearer understanding of certain enterogenous and dietetic forms of hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhotic patients. The lowering of ammonia levels by hemodialysis or methanethiol levels by activated charcoal hemoperfusion, as attempts to reverse such forms of coma, warrants further investigation.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the calcium antagonist Nifedipine GITS in a double-blind, randomized comparison with the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) on reduction of left ventricular (LV) mass and minimal vascular resistance in a group of essential hypertensives with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). The effects on blood pressure and on echocardiographic LV functional parameters were also analysed. After two months of randomized treatment with Nifedipine GITS or HCTZ, if diastolic blood pressure was > 90 mmHg, a combination of the two drugs was given and was continued for 24 weeks. M-mode, 2D-guided echocardiography was used to measure LV mass index (LVMI) according to the "Penn convention". Minimal vascular resistance was measured in the forearm, from arterial pressure and maximal blood flow, using a strain gauge plethysmography. All examinations were performed before and after 8 and 24 weeks of treatment. Changes in LVMI were analysed at 8 weeks and at 24 weeks in patients receiving monotherapy ("according to protocol" analysis), and also at the end of treatment in patients taking Nifedipine or HCTZ monotherapy or the combination of the two drugs ("intention to treat" analysis). Both Nifedipine and HCTZ significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure (p < 0.001), without any significant difference between the two drug treatments. Heart rate was not significantly modified by either treatment. A progressive decrease in LVMI was observed after 8 and 24 weeks of treatment with Nifedipine monotherapy (ANOVA, p = 0.03), while the decrease in LVMI during HCTZ treatment did not progress further at 24 weeks (ANOVA, p = 0.49). A significant reduction of minimal vascular resistance was observed in patients treated with Nifedipine GITS monotherapy (ANOVA, p = 0.001), but not in the HCTZ group (ANOVA, p = 0.06). Comparison of changes of forearm minimal vascular resistance, considering baseline values, could demonstrate a greater effect during Nifedipine monotherapy as compared to HCTZ monotherapy. In conclusion, in a group of hypertensive patients with LVH, treatment for 24 weeks with Nifedipine GITS alone or in combination with HCTZ induced a significant reduction in LVMI and of forearm vascular structural changes, as evaluated by minimal vascular resistance. The decrease of minimal vascular resistance was significantly greater in patients treated with Nifedipine monotherapy, as compared to those given HCTZ.
This study was designed to explore the effect and mechanism of matrine, an active component of Chinese traditional medicine, on isoproterenol-induced acute cardiotoxicity in rats.
Acute myocardial injury was induced in rats by daily subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol (85 mg/kg) for two days. Haemodynamic and biochemical parameters were measured and histopathological examination was performed.
Chronic oral administration of matrine (50, 100 or 200 mg/kg per day for 10 days) significantly reduced the release of lactic dehydrogenase, glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and creatine kinase after isoproterenol-induced myocardial ischaemic injury, improved the left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, including increased LV systolic pressure (LVSP), maximum rate of developed LV pressure (LV dP/dt(max)) and minimum rate of developed LV pressure (LV dP/dt(min)), increased the activity of superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase, and also decreased the content of the lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde in plasma and myocardial tissues in rats. Acute oral administration of matrine at a dose of 100 or 200 mg/kg for two days also had a cardioprotective effect on this rat model. The protective role of matrine on isoproterenol-induced myocardial damage was further confirmed by histopathological examination. There were no significant changes in heart rate and blood pressure in all experimental groups.
Our results suggest that matrine has a significant cardioprotection against isoproterenol-induced cardiotoxicity through its antioxidant property.
D(2) blockers, including the atypical antipsychotic risperidone, induce hyper-prolactinemia in a significant number of patients treated. The endocrine and sexual side effects related to hyperprolactinemia significantly impair tolerability and compliance in patients, including those with a good response to risperidone. This pilot study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of a low dose of cabergoline, a D(2) agonist, in the treatment of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia.
Nineteen male and female DSM-IV-defined schizophrenic patients who were clinical responders to risperidone but were suffering from symptomatic hyperprolactinemia were treated with cabergoline, 0.125 to 0.250 mg/week for 8 weeks. Plasma prolactin level was assessed at baseline and at the end of the study. Data were collected from January 2002 to April 2003.
After cabergoline treatment, the mean decrease in plasma prolactin levels was statistically significant (p <.05) for the total sample, and 11 patients showed remission of clinical signs with prolactin values within the normal range. No side effect was observed or reported, and the patients' psychopathology was unchanged.
Results suggest that low-dose cabergoline treatment of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia may be safe and clinically effective in a relevant number of patients.
9 children presenting with an ampicillin-sensitive coliform urinary tract infection were treated with talampicillin using 1 week of full-dose treatment followed by low-dose prophylaxis. The bowel coliforms were ampicillin-resistant at the start in one girl and became resistant in the remaining 8 within 4 months. During a total of 44 months of talampicillin therapy, 6 girls (2 with vesico-ureteric reflux) developed a symptomatic re-infection of the urinary tract, a recurrence rate of 1 per 7.3 months, or 1.6 recurrences per annum. A further 12 girls were given prophylactic talampicillin, 9 after an initial therapeutic course of co-trimoxazole for 1 week and 3 following a period of prophylaxis with low-dose co-trimoxazole. The rectal swab from one girl showed partial ampicillin resistance but 9 of the remaining 11 showed that a predominance of ampicillin-resistance coliforms had emerged in the bowel flora within 4 months. 5 of the 12 also developed a symptomatic ampicillin-resistant urinary infection within 4 months, a recurrence rate of 1 per 7.1 months or 1.7 recurrences per annum. Talampicillin, though very effective in treating urinary infection, is not recommended for the prevention of subsequent recurrence.
The influence of the calcium channel blocker nifedipine plus bicuculline-induced seizures on the permeability of the blood-brain barrier to protein was studied in rats. Evans-blue was used as a blood-brain barrier tracer. Four groups of rats were studied. Group I: control, Group II: Nifedipine, Group III: bicuculline-induced seizure, Group IV: Nifedipine + seizure. The mean value for Evans-blue dye in the brain was found to be 0.23+/-0.03 mg/g in control animals and 0.32+/-0.06 mg/g in the group of all rats during nifedipine-induced hypotension. This difference between control and hypotensive animals was not statistically significant (p < 0.5). Mean value for Evans-blue dye in the brain was found to be 1.4+/-0.3 mg/g in bicuculline-induced seizure, and 0.73+/-40.2 mg/g in the group of nifedipine plus bicuculline-induced seizures. This difference between Group III and Group IV was found statistically significant (p < .01). The calcium channel blocker nifedipine significantly prevents the blood brain barrier disruption during bicuculline-induced seizure.
To compare the effect of a single 5-mg dose of pilocarpine hydrochloride on the salivary flow rate in three groups of xerostomic patients.
Forty-five patients were divided into three groups according to the etiology of their xerostomia: (i) radiotherapy; (ii) Sjögren's syndrome; and (iii) sialosis and xerogenic medications. Following the oral administration of a 5-mg pilocarpine hydrochloride tablet blood pressure, heart rate, body temperature and saliva secretion rates were monitored hourly for 3 h and adverse events were reported.
The most significant and persistent elevation of salivary flow rate was observed in the sialosis/drug-induced group followed by the Sjögren's syndrome group. The radiotherapy group presented a significant elevation of salivary secretion rate after 1 and 2 h, but returned to baseline at 3 h. No significant changes in vital signs were reported, except for low diastolic pressure measured at 1 h in the radiotherapy group. Several adverse events were recorded throughout the trial; however, only one patient withdrew from the study.
Treatment with pilocarpine hydrochloride tablets may improve saliva secretion in patients taking xerogenic medications and/or suffering from metabolic sialosis expanding the beneficial potential of this sialogogue.
A 55-year-old woman underwent total mastectomy and axillary lymphnode dissection in 2001. Widespread lymphnode metastasis was found histologically (26/33). Neither PgR nor ER was positive. She underwent an AC regimen and paclitaxel chemotherapy. As CEA began to rise in 2002, she was given paclitaxel and docetaxel chemotherapy sequentially. As CEA rose again in 2004, capecitabine was begun. Painful erythema of the palms and soles of the feet appeared at the end of the second cycle. After admission, severe bone marrow suppression and jaundice were found. The bilateral hands, palms and soles of the feet became bullous and erosive with desquamation. The erosive lesions began to heal with epithelization in the third week. After general conditions had improved, capecitabine was restarted at a reduced dose. This patient had continued taking capecitabine even though she noticed the occurrence of the adverse effect. Patients and doctors must share confidential information when performing chemotherapy at the outpatient clinic.
This study evaluated the effects of the seleno-organic substance Ebselen [2-phenyl-1,2-benzisoselenazol-3(2H)-one] in two models of acute hemorrhagic and acute edematous pancreatitis. Ebselen is known to catalyze glutathione peroxidase-like reactions and to inhibit lipid peroxidation. Hemorrhagic pancreatitis was induced by feeding a choline-deficient, ethionine-supplemented (CDE) diet to mice for 66 h. Edematous pancreatitis was induced by 7-h subcutaneous injections of 50 micrograms/kg of cerulein in mice. Ebselen was given from the beginning of the CDE diet either as a subcutaneous injection of 100 mg/kg at 6-h intervals or was mixed in with the CDE diet to yield a daily dose of 100 mg/kg of Ebselen. In further experiments, Ebselen was given at various time intervals after the beginning of the CDE diet as subcutaneous injections of 100 mg/kg at 6-h intervals. In the cerulein model, Ebselen was given 5 min prior to each cerulein injection at doses from 10-500 mg/kg. Prophylactic administration of Ebselen given orally or subcutaneously significantly improved survival from 38.5% in the control group of saline-injected CDE-fed mice to 61.9 and 65.0%, respectively. Ebselen also reduced increases in serum amylase and pancreatic weight in the diet model. Therapeutic administration of Ebselen significantly increased survival only when injections were started 20 h after the beginning of the CDE diet (64%), but not when started after 40 h (44%). Similarly, increases in serum amylase and pancreatic weight due to the CDE diet were significantly reduced by Ebselen only when injections were started after 20 h but not when started after 40 h.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A chronic schizophrenic patient was treated with an anticholinergic drug, trihexyphenidyl hydrochloride. The patient developed, paradoxically, sinus bradycardia. The reaction was specific to trihexyphenidyl and not to other anticholinergic drugs. This antidyskinetic drug is widely used in clinical psychiatric practice and physicians should be aware of this side effect.
Fenoldopam, a selective dopamine1 receptor agonist, has been recommended for induced hypotension because it effectively lowers arterial blood pressure and improves renal perfusion. We examined cardiovascular functions during hypotension induced by fenoldopam or sodium nitroprusside. In eight halothane-anesthetized dogs, the left ventricle (LV) was instrumented with pressure and ultrasonic dimension transducers for the assessment of LV contractility using the analysis of the pressure-diameter relationship. Blood flow distribution was measured by radioactive microspheres. Doses of fenoldopam and nitroprusside were titrated to reduce mean arterial blood pressure to 60 mm Hg. After 40 min of hypotension, fenoldopam and nitroprusside caused similar increases in heart rate (17% +/- 4% vs 19% +/- 10%, respectively) and decreases in systemic vascular resistance (-24% +/- 5% vs -27% +/- 4%). Hypotension induced by fenoldopam was associated with higher LV end-diastolic pressure (4.4 +/- 0.6 vs 2.5 +/- 1.1 mm Hg) and end-systolic meridional wall stress (33.0 +/- 4.3 vs 17.8 +/- 2.1 g/cm2) when compared with nitroprusside. There were no significant changes in cardiac output and cardiac contractility as expressed by the slope (Ees) of the LV end-systolic pressure-diameter relationship, velocity of shortening of the diameter, and percentage of wall thickening of the LV. In contrast to nitroprusside, which decreased renal blood flow from 197 +/- 19 to 163 +/- 15 mL/min, renal blood flow increased during fenoldopam-induced hypotension from 187 +/- 20 to 239 +/- 18 mL/min. The increase in renal perfusion was similar in upper, middle, and lower regions of the kidney; however, it was more in the medulla compared with the cortex (37% +/- 17% vs 25% +/- 7%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
