We have studied the efficacy and tolerability of felodipine plus a beta-adrenoceptor blocker in 79 patients with essential hypertension previously treated with a combination of three or more anti-hypertensive agents, one of which was a beta-adrenoceptor blocker. After a 4-week run-in period on the same beta-blocker plus placebo (as a substitute for the other agents in the regimen), felodipine was added and its dose titrated to achieve a supine diastolic blood pressure or less than 90 mm Hg. This was followed by a 12-week maintenance phase in all patients, and 47 patients entered an optional long-term follow-up for an additional 9 months. The mean supine blood pressure was 149/88 mm Hg at entry and 174/108 mm Hg after the run-in phase. Felodipine significantly reduced the blood pressure to 142/85 mm Hg after dose titration and to 141/84 mm Hg after 12 weeks, 94% of patients achieving a supine diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg or below. This reduction was maintained in the patients who were followed for 12 months. The adverse events recorded were usually mild, transient, and typical for an effective precapillary vasodilator. Nine of 74 patients (11%) were withdrawn in the first phase of the study because of adverse events and 5 of 47 patients were withdrawn during the long-term follow-up. These results show that the efficacy and tolerability of a combination of felodipine with a beta-blocker allow a simplified regimen for hypertensive patients who were previously taking three or more drugs for satisfactory blood pressure control.
Resveratrol (Res) has been reported to possess cancer chemopreventive activity on the basis of its in vitro effects on tumor cells and in vivo experimental models of rodents transplanted with parental tumors or treated with carcinogens. We investigated the effects of Res on the development of mammary tumors appearing spontaneously in HER-2/neu transgenic mice at an early age. The mechanisms involved in the Res antitumor effect were evaluated by studying the immune effectiveness, tumor apoptosis and expression of mRNA and protein for HER-2/neu in tumoral mammary glands from Res-treated mice and in tumor cell lines. Res supplementation delayed the development of spontaneous mammary tumors (p < 0.001), reduced the mean number and size of mammary tumors (p < 0.0001) and diminished the number of lung metastases in HER-2/neu transgenic mice. The effects of Res were associated with downregulation of HER-2/neu gene expression and increased apoptosis both in tumoral mammary glands and in murine (N202) and human (SKBr3) tumor cell lines. Neither the basal, the IL-2-induced NK activity nor the lymphocyte number and proliferation was modified in Res-supplemented compared to control mice. Our results demonstrate that Res supplementation delays the development and reduces the metastasizing capacity of spontaneous mammary tumors in HER-2/neu transgenic mice. The antitumor effect of Res might be related to the downregulation of HER-2/neu expression and the induction of apoptosis in tumor cells.
To explore the correlation of rs2106809 from angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 gene with antihypertensive effects of benazepril, as well as its interactions with polymorphisms of angiotensinogen(AGT) and angiotensin II type 1 receptor(AGTR1) gene.
Correlation between rs2106809 and blood pressure reduction was estimated based on a field trail with 1 831 hypertensive patients using benazepril for 2 weeks. Generalized multifactor dimensionality reduction (GMDR) was used to explore the interactions of rs2106809 and 8 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of AGTR1 gene and 3 SNPs of AGT gene.
rs2106809 was found to be associated with reduction in systolic blood pressure and pulse pressure in women, as well as pulse pressure reduction in men. T allele carriers presented more blood pressure reduction (1.4, 1.3 and 0.9 mmHg/T allele respectively). Gene-gene interactions involving rs2106809 were found in systolic blood pressure reduction of men, and the response to benazepril of non-sensitive genotypes carriers was 8.2 (95% confidence interval: 6.6-9.7) mmHg, lower than that of sensitive genotypes carriers.
rs2106809 might act as an independent influencing factor or component of gene-gene interaction in blood pressure reducing effects of benazepril.
Neuroleptic-induced catatonia is reported in an adolescent patient who responded successfully to lorazepam. The authors propose five discrete stages toward the progression of neuroleptic malignant syndrome, each with a separate treatment.
Oxidative stress due to abnormal production of reactive oxygen species has been implicated in the nephrotoxicity induced by a commonly used anticancer antibiotic doxorubicin (DXN). The nephroprotective effect of aqueous ethanol extract of Zingiber officinale (200 and 400mg/kg, p.o) was evaluated against doxorubicin-induced (15mg/kg, i.p) acute renal damage in rat. Serum urea and creatinine levels were evaluated as the markers of renal failure. Renal antioxidant status such as activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and level of reduced glutathione (GSH) were determined. Level of lipid peroxidation as equivalents of malondialdehyde (MDA), and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity were determined in the kidneys. Serum urea and creatinine levels were reduced in the Z. officinale (200 and 400mg/kg, p.o) plus DXN treated groups. The renal antioxidant enzymes activities such as SOD, CAT GPx, levels of GSH and GST activity were restored and that of MDA declined significantly (p<0.001) in the Z. officinale (400mg/kg) plus DXN treated group. The nephroprotection is mediated by preventing the DXN-induced decline of renal antioxidant status, and also by increasing the activity of GST.
Chronic exposure to low levels of lead causes hypertension (HTN) in humans and animals. We have previously shown that increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) leads to enhanced NO inactivation, depressed NO bioavailability, and compensatory upregulation of NO synthases (NOSs) in rats with lead-induced HTN. We have further demonstrated increased ROS generation with lead exposure in cultured endothelial cells. In the present study, we tested the effect of lead (medium containing lead acetate, 1 ppm) alone and with either the superoxide dismutase-mimetic agent tempol or a potent antioxidant lazaroid compound (both at 10(-8) and 10(-7) mol/L) on endothelial NOS expression and NO production in cultured human coronary endothelial cells. Lead-treated cells showed a significant upregulation of endothelial NOS (eNOS) protein abundance (P:<0.002) and a significant increase in the production of NO metabolites (NO(2)(-) +NO(3)(-)=NOx, P:<0.01). Cotreatment with either tempol or lazaroid abrogated the lead-induced upregulation of eNOS protein and NO(x) production. In contrast, tempol and lazaroid had no effect on either eNOS protein expression or NO(x) production in the control cells. Thus, lead exposure upregulated eNOS expression in vitro, simulating the results of our previous in vivo studies. This phenomenon points to a direct as opposed to an indirect (eg, HTN-mediated) effect of lead on NO metabolism. The reversal of lead effect by lazaroid and the cell-permeable superoxide dismutase-mimetic agent tempol suggests that lead exposure increases generation and/or reduces dismutation of superoxide, which in turn promotes oxidative stress, enhances NO inactivation, and elicits a compensatory upregulation of eNOS whose expression is negatively regulated by NO.
To characterize the sensory effects of epidural lidocaine, 2 groups each of 10 human subjects received 25 ml of 2% lidocaine at the L1-L2/L2-L3 interspace (high lumbar group) or at the L3-L4/L4-L5 interspace (low lumbar group). Twelve quantitative sensory tests in the L5 and S1 dermatomes and leg extension strength were determined every 30 min for 3 h. Sensory and motor blockade were more pronounced in the low than in the high lumbar group. Sensory functions were blocked in the following order by epidural lidocaine: warm > cold > electrical stimuli. Perception of brief localized noxious stimuli was attenuated more than perception of noxious stimuli of longer duration and involving larger stimulus areas. It is suggested that both peripheral mechanisms (differential conduction blockade of afferent fibres) and central mechanisms (temporal and spatial summation) play a role in the sensory effects of epidural lidocaine.
In this study we have found that the crude extract of Psoraleae Fructus inhibited acetylcholinesterase activity in vitro and ameliorated impairment of the inhibitory avoidance response and of the water maze spatial performance caused by scopolamine in rats. Among all fractions, the chloroform fraction showed the best inhibitory effect on acetylcholinesterase activity and could reduce the scopolamine-induced inhibitory avoidance response impairment. Psoralen and isopsoralen, two major constituents of the chloroform fraction of Psoraleae Fructus identified by high performance liquid chromatography, also reduced the extent of the inhibitory avoidance response impairment. The results suggest that psoralen and isopsoralen are the major active ingredients of Psoraleae Fructus responsible for the progressive reversal of scopolamine-induced amnesia, whose effects are partially associated with inhibition of AchE activity and hence activation of the central cholinergic neuronal system.
We have evaluated the role of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in vascular and renal damage associated with hypertension and possible interactions with angiotensin II (Ang II). Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were treated with either the Ang II receptor antagonist candesartan (C;2 mg/Kg(-1)/day(-1)) or antihypertensive triple therapy (TT; in mg/Kg(-1)/day(-1);20 hydralazine +7 hydrochlorothiazide +0.15 reserpine) for 10 weeks. Wistar Kyoto rats were used as a normotensive control group. Hypertension was associated with an increase in aortic media area, media-to-lumen ratio and collagen density. Kidneys from SHR showed minimum renal alterations. Aorta and renal gene expression and immunostaining of CTGF were higher in SHR. Candesartan decreased arterial pressure, aortic media area, media-to-lumen ratio and collagen density. However, although arterial pressure decrease was comparable for both treatments, TT partially reduced these parameters. Candesartan-treated rats showed lower levels of vascular CTGF expression, aortic media area, media-to-lumen ratio and collagen density than TT-treated animals. Treatments improve renal damage and reduce renal gene expression and CTGF immunostaining in SHR in a similar manner. The results show that vascular and renal damage is associated with stimulation of CTGF gene and protein content. These results also might suggest that CTGF could be one downstream mediator of Ang II in hypertension-associated organ damage in SHR.
Beclin1, as a key molecule in controlling autophagy pathway, can activate both cell survival and cell death pathway. As a role of autophagy in cancer progression remains controversial, introduction of beclin1 to the lungs of K-ras(LA1) mice was performed via inhalation. Prolonged autophagy activation was induced by repeated exposure of lentivirus-beclin1, total of 8 times (2 times/week, 4 weeks). By the time of sacrifice, lungs were collected and analyzed for the therapeutic efficacy. Total numbers of tumors on the surface and histopathological tumor progression were reduced in the lungs of K-ras(LA1) mice. Successful delivery of beclin1 induced autophagy and apoptosis in the target organ, which were confirmed by following features; increased autophagic vacuoles in the cytosol, increased number of mitochondria with decreased mitochondrial 12S RNA, and increased protein levels of mitochondria-related apoptosis. Markers for cell proliferation and angiogenesis, PCNA and VEGF, which used for prediction of cancer prognosis, were significantly reduced after introduction of beclin1. Taken together, the results indicate that autophagy regulating gene, beclin1, can be a potential target for lung cancer gene therapy.
The benzene fraction (BF) of a petroleum ether extract of dried rhizomes of ginger, which contained anticonvulsant principle(s), was screened for anxiolytic and antiemetic activity. Motor coordination was not affected by BF per se, but diazepam-induced motor incoordination was potentiated. Animals treated with BF showed decreased occupancy in the closed arm of the elevated plus maze suggesting the presence of anxiolytic principles in the BF. BF also blocked lithium sulphate-induced conditioned place aversion indicating antiemetic activity. These findings suggest that the fraction (BF) possesses anticonvulsant, anxiolytic and antiemetic activity.
The objective of this study was to examine the effects of long-term antihypertensive therapy on blood pressure and vascular responses of resistance arteries during prolonged inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis. Four groups of 6-week-old Wistar-Kyoto rats were treated with either placebo as controls or N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) alone or in combination with verapamil or with trandolapril. Drugs were given orally for 6 weeks or short-term in vitro to vessels obtained from untreated rats. Endothelium-dependent and -independent relaxations as well as contractions were studied in isolated perfused mesenteric and renal arteries with an arteriograph. Kidney nitric oxide synthase activity was also evaluated. Verapamil and trandolapril prevented the increase in systolic blood pressure and the blunted acetylcholine-induced relaxations that occurred with L-NAME treatment without improving the nitric oxide synthase activity. Both antihypertensive regimens also normalized sensitivity to sodium nitroprusside, which was enhanced by L-NAME. In contrast, short-term in vitro preincubation with verapamil or trandolaprilat in the presence of L-NAME did not improve the impaired relaxations to acetylcholine. Long-term but not short-term therapy with a calcium antagonist or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor improved the blunted endothelium-dependent relaxations in nitric oxide-deficient hypertension. These findings strongly suggest that the role of other vasodilator systems, which normally do not regulate vascular tone, is enhanced with long-term but not short-term treatment with these drugs. These observations emphasize the potential importance of these treatments in the management of hypertension in which nitric oxide production is diminished.
The cure rate of infections in cancer patients is adversely affected by neutropenia (less than 1,000/mm3). In particular, patients with severe neutropenia (less than 100/mm3) have shown a poor response to antibiotics. To overcome the adverse effects of neutropenia, tobramycin was given by continuous infusion and combined with intermittent carbenicillin. Tobramycin was given to a total daily dose of 300 mg/m2 and carbenicillin was given at a dose of 5 gm every four hours. There were 125 infectious episodes in 116 cancer patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy. The overall cure rate was 70%. Pneumonia was the most common infection and 61% of 59 episodes were cured. Gram-negative bacilli were the most common causative organisms and 69% of these infections were cured. The most common pathogen was Klebsiella pneumoniae and this, together with Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, accounted for 74% of all gram-negative bacillary infections. Response was not influenced by the initial neutrophil count, with a 62% cure rate for 39 episodes associated with severe neutropenia. However, failure of the neutrophil count to increase during therapy adversely affected response. Azotemia was the major side effect recognized, and it occurred in 11% of episodes. Major azotemia (serum creatinine greater than 2.5 mg/dl or BUN greater than 50 mg/dl) occurred in only 2%. Azotemia was not related to duration of therapy or serum tobramycin concentration. This antibiotic regimen showed both therapeutic efficacy and acceptable renal toxicity for these patients.
We report a case of severe hypertension with an occluded renal artery to a solitary kidney, who developed sudden deterioration of renal function following treatment with captopril. His renal function remained impaired but stable during 2 years' treatment with captopril but returned to pre-treatment levels soon after cessation of the drug. This indicates reversibility in captopril-induced renal failure even after its prolonged use and suggests that no organic damage occurs to glomerular arterioles following chronic ACE inhibition.
Entamoeba histolytica produces monocyte locomotion inhibitory factor (MLIF), a pentapeptide with in vitro and in vivo anti-inflammatory properties. MLIF may interfere with leukocyte migration, disturbing the balance of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines secreted by CD4(+) T lymphocytes. We evaluated the effect of MLIF on expression of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in human CD4(+) T lymphocytes. Regulatory cytokines [interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta), IL-2, interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), IL-5, IL-6, and IL-10] were studied by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method in CD4(+)-cell supernatant fluids. Proinflammatory cytokines were produced per se by MLIF (IL-1beta, IL-2, and IFN-gamma) and also anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-5, IL-6, and IL-10) with 1-phorbol-12 myristate-13 acetate + MLIF; the IL-1beta, IFN-gamma, IL-5 and IL-6 production was inhibited but not that of IL-10 which disclosed increase in its expression. MLIF disturbs the pro- and anti-inflammatory balance, and it induces inhibition of IL-1beta (principal proinflammatory cytokine) and increases IL-10 (prototype of an anti-inflammatory cytokine).
Seven patients (3 females, 4 males) developed symptomatic hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, and hypokalemia following gentamicin therapy. The excessive and inappropriate urinary excretion of magnesium and potassium in the presence of subnormal serum concentrations was noted. A significant correlation was found between the total cumulative dose of gentamicin and serum Mg concentration (r = 0.76, p less than 0.05), as well as between the renal wasting of Mg and the total cumulative dose of gentamicin administered (r = 0.89, p less than 0.01). The gentamicin-induced Mg depletion is a very rare but important complication which is most likely to occur when the drug is given to older patients in large doses over extended periods of time.
For many years, breast-feeding was forbidden if antithyroid drugs were being used. Recently, limited studies have shown the relative safety of propylthiouracil and methimazole (MMI). It is not known whether MMI therapy of lactating mothers for 1 yr is safe for breast-fed infants and does not cause alterations in thyroid function and intellectual development. Between 1988 and 1998, 139 thyrotoxic lactating mothers and their infants were studied. Fifty-one thyrotoxic lactating mothers were treated with MMI during pregnancy, and MMI was continued during breast-feeding. Eighty-eight mothers were given 10 mg MMI (n 46) or 20 mg MMI (n = 42) daily for 1 month, 10 mg daily for the second month, and 5-10 mg daily thereafter. Serum T4, T3, and TSH concentrations were measured in thyrotoxic lactating mothers and their infants, before and at 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12 months. Serum MMI was measured in the infants of thyrotoxic lactating mothers taking 20 mg MMI. Thyroid function, urinary iodine, thyroid antibodies, intelligence quotient (IQ), verbal and functional components (Wechsler and Goodenough tests) were performed on 14 children of thyrotoxic lactating mothers between 48 and 74 months of age and on 17 controls. Mean +/- SD of FT4I in thyrotoxic lactating mothers treated with 10 mg MMI for 1 month decreased from 19.4 +/- 4.1 to 11.6 +/- 4.4 and from 20.5 +/- 4.7 to 9.8 +/- 1.5 when treated with 20 mg MMI. Values for FT3I decreased from 462 +/- 52 to 194 +/- 52 with 10 mg MMI and from 481 +/- 92 to 171 +/- 38 with 20 mg MMI. FT4I and FT3I were normal from the third to the twelfth months. In all infants FT4I, FT3I, and TSH concentrations were normal before and up to 12 months of MMI therapy in their lactating mothers. The lowest T4 and T3 values were 108 and 1.87 nmol/L, and the highest TSH value was 4.0 mU/L. Serum MMI levels in infants were less than 0.03 microg/mL. Six mothers receiving 20 mg MMI had increased serum TSH concentrations ranging from 26-135 mU/L after 1 month of treatment. Their infants were euthyroid with serum TSH values less than 2.6 mU/L. At 48-74 months of age, height, weight, FT4I, FT3I, TSH, and antithyroid antibody titers were not different than controls. The mean IQ was 107 +/- 14 vs. 106 +/- 16 (Goodenough test) and 103 +/- 10 vs. 103 +/- 16 (Wechsler test) for infants of thyrotoxic lactating mothers and control infants, respectively. Similarly, there was no difference in verbal and performance IQ and their components between infants of thyrotoxic lactating mothers and control children. No deleterious effects occur in thyroid function and physical and intellectual development of breast-fed infants whose lactating mothers were treated with doses of MMI up to 20 mg daily.
Reticular dysgenesis is an autosomal recessive form of human severe combined immunodeficiency characterized by an early differentiation arrest in the myeloid lineage and impaired lymphoid maturation. In addition, affected newborns have bilateral sensorineural deafness. Here we identify biallelic mutations in AK2 (adenylate kinase 2) in seven individuals affected with reticular dysgenesis. These mutations result in absent or strongly decreased protein expression. We then demonstrate that restoration of AK2 expression in the bone marrow cells of individuals with reticular dysgenesis overcomes the neutrophil differentiation arrest, underlining its specific requirement in the development of a restricted set of hematopoietic lineages. Last, we establish that AK2 is specifically expressed in the stria vascularis region of the inner ear, which provides an explanation of the sensorineural deafness in these individuals. These results identify a previously unknown mechanism involved in regulation of hematopoietic cell differentiation and in one of the most severe human immunodeficiency syndromes.
Human severe combined immunodeficiencies (SCID) are phenotypically and genotypically heterogeneous diseases. Reticular dysgenesis is the most severe form of inborn SCID. It is characterized by absence of granulocytes and almost complete deficiency of lymphocytes in peripheral blood, hypoplasia of the thymus and secondary lymphoid organs, and lack of innate and adaptive humoral and cellular immune functions, leading to fatal septicemia within days after birth. In bone marrow of individuals with reticular dysgenesis, myeloid differentiation is blocked at the promyelocytic stage, whereas erythro- and megakaryocytic maturation is generally normal. These features exclude a defect in hematopoietic stem cells but point to a unique aberration of the myelo-lymphoid lineages. The dramatic clinical course of reticular dysgenesis and its unique hematological phenotype have spurred interest in the unknown genetic basis of this syndrome. Here we show that the gene encoding the mitochondrial energy metabolism enzyme adenylate kinase 2 (AK2) is mutated in individuals with reticular dysgenesis. Knockdown of zebrafish ak2 also leads to aberrant leukocyte development, stressing the evolutionarily conserved role of AK2. Our results provide in vivo evidence for AK2 selectivity in leukocyte differentiation. These observations suggest that reticular dysgenesis is the first example of a human immunodeficiency syndrome that is causally linked to energy metabolism and that can therefore be classified as a mitochondriopathy.
The study aims to explore the relationship between expressions of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) on peripheral blood monocytes, serum tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in patients with acute coronary syndromes(ACS), and to investigate the possible mechanisms of Benazepril stabilizing atherosclerosis plaques.
70 patients selected were randomly divided into Benazepril treatment group (35 patients) and regular treatment group (35 patients). Meanwhile, Stable angina pectoris (SAP) group of 32 patients and control group of 22 patients were also set up. With the help of flow-cytometry, expressions of TLR4 on peripheral blood monocytes of the four groups were analyzed and compared to show differences, correlations and changes of the above mentioned indicators. The concentration of TNF-α and MMP-9 in serum were measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
(1) Expressions of TLR4, levels of TNF-α and MMP-9 were increased and the rate was rising from the control group, to SAP group and then to ACS group. All these indicators in ACS group are significantly higher than those in other groups (P < 0.05). (ACS versus SAP, control; all (P < 0.05). (2) Multi-linear regression analysis indicates that there was a positive correlation between the expression level of TLR4 and serum levels of TNF-α and MMP-9 in patients with ACS (P < 0.01). (3) There is no significant differences between the expression level of TLR4 and serum levels of TNF-α and MMP-9 in Benazepril treatment group and regular treatment group before treatment (P > 0.05) while they all fell after treatment (P < 0.05). In addition, all the indicators decreased more greatly than the regular treatment group.
TLR4 on peripheral blood monocytes and serum TNF-α and MMP-9 in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis disease may be effective markers of the vulnerable plaque. Benazepril can inhibit over-expression of TLR4 and reduce serum levels of TNF-α and MMP-9, thus stabilize the vulnerable plaques and improve the condition of the patients with ACS.
Human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) often arises from a background of liver cirrhosis. Therefore, in order to develop therapeutic strategies for HCC, an animal model bearing multifocal liver tumors accompanied by liver cirrhosis is a preferred experimental setting. In this study, we developed a rapid and reproducible method for generating such a model in rats by weekly administration of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) at doses based on body weight (BW). By adjusting the duration of administration of DEN, the animals could be induced to develop HCC alone, or HCC and liver cirrhosis simultaneously. The latter model was used for evaluating the therapeutic effects of adenoviral delivery of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha). Our results demonstrated that targeting of IFN-alpha expression to the liver significantly reduced liver tumor volume and ameliorated liver cirrhosis. Mechanistic studies revealed that IFN-alpha gene therapy induced immunomodulatory, antiproliferative, and proapoptotic activities that were effective in the control of tumor growth, and reduced the expressions of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1), leading to amelioration of liver cirrhosis. These results suggest that IFN-alpha gene therapy is a promising strategy to treat HCC patients who have concomitant liver cirrhosis.
An 81 year old depressed female is described who developed catatonic-like behaviours while on the combination of the monoamine oxidase inhibitor phenelzine, and the neuroleptic haloperidol. Alternative etiologies, and the roles of the individual agents are discussed. It is suggested that whenever there is evidence of drug-induced catatonia, consideration should be given to stopping all medications.
Despite increased exposure to cancer risk factors, several studies have demonstrated a lower incidence of cancer in schizophrenia patients than in the general population. Lower cancer rates in first-degree relatives of schizophrenia patients suggest that the inverse relationship between cancer and schizophrenia may be related to genetic factors. Few studies of schizophrenia have focused on cancer-related genes. The MET proto-oncogene is primarily linked to tumor metastasis, but MET is also involved in neurodevelopment and influences risk for autism. Thus, MET may be of particular interest as a candidate gene for neuropsychiatric diseases with a developmental etiology, including schizophrenia.
The authors examined the relationship between 21 single-nucleotide polymorphisms in MET and schizophrenia in 173 Caucasian patients and 137 comparison subjects. They then genotyped a second independent sample (107 patients and 112 comparison subjects) for replication. Finally, they tested for MET's effects on general cognitive ability (g).
In the initial cohort, the authors identified four haplotype blocks and found one block to be globally associated with schizophrenia. In block 3, the most common haplotype was overrepresented in comparison subjects (frequency, 47%) relative to schizophrenia patients (frequency, 33%) (p=4.0 x 10(-4); odds ratio=0.56). The authors replicated the block 3 finding in the second sample with similar frequencies: 46% in comparison subjects and 36% in schizophrenia patients (p=0.03; odds ratio=0.66). Moreover, the protective haplotype was associated with a higher g in the combined comparison sample.
These data suggest that MET variation influences schizophrenia risk and neurocognition, supporting a neurodevelopmental role across CNS-relevant phenotypes. These results add to the growing evidence suggesting an intriguing relationship between cancer-related genes and schizophrenia susceptibility.
Results of animal experiments suggest that consumption of refined carbohydrates (e.g. fructose) can result in small intestinal bacterial overgrowth and increased intestinal permeability, thereby contributing to the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Furthermore, increased plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI)-1 has been linked to liver damage of various etiologies (e.g. alcohol, endotoxin, nonalcoholic). The aim of the present pilot study was to compare dietary factors, endotoxin, and PAI-1 concentrations between NAFLD patients and controls. We assessed the dietary intake of 12 patients with NAFLD and 6 control subjects. Plasma endotoxin and PAI-1 concentrations as well as hepatic expression of PAI-1 and toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 mRNA were determined. Despite similar total energy, fat, protein, and carbohydrate intakes, patients with NAFLD consumed significantly more fructose than controls. Endotoxin and PAI-1 plasma concentrations as well as hepatic TLR4 and PAI-1 mRNA expression of NAFLD patients were significantly higher than in controls. The plasma PAI-1 concentration was positively correlated with the plasma endotoxin concentration (Spearman r = 0.83; P < 0.005) and hepatic TLR4 mRNA expression (Spearman r = 0.54; P < 0.05). Hepatic mRNA expression of PAI-1 was positively associated with dietary intakes of carbohydrates (Spearman r = 0.67; P < 0.01), glucose (Spearman r = 0.58; P < 0.01), fructose (Spearman r = 0.58; P < 0.01), and sucrose (Spearman r = 0.70; P < 0.01). In conclusion, our results suggest that dietary fructose intake, increased intestinal translocation of bacterial endotoxin, and PAI-1 may contribute to the development of NAFLD in humans.
High-dose 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) continuous infusion over a 4-day period seems to dramatically increase the frequency of cardiac complications, which were however extremely rare in the past when it was injected in bolus form (1.6%). In order to evaluate their real incidence we looked for a relation between cardiac toxicity and clinical or 5 FU pharmacokinetic parameters. One hundred and thirty-three patients were followed up from January 1989 to March 1990, treated for head and neck, breast and colorectal cancers by high-dose 5-FU infusion (1,000 mg/sqm/d x 4 d) and cis-platinum (20 mg/sqm/d x 4 d). During each treatment course, daily electrocardiogram and 5 FU plasma assays were performed by high performance liquid chromatography, at 8 am and 8 pm. Twenty-eight patients presented 36 ischemic cardiac manifestations which were sometimes severe. Of these, 29 were asymptomatic. Cardiac toxicity frequency was not increased in the group treated for head and neck cancers. Pharmacokinetic analysis showed wide variations in 5-FU plasma levels in the 133 patients under study (from 20 to 1,200 ng/ml). Cardiac manifestations always appeared during the hours following very high 5-FU plasma levels (greater than 450 ng/ml). Cardiotoxicity seems to be linked to 5-FU plasma levels. Cis-platinum probably increases toxicity in this regimen. These findings indicate the advisability of a close follow-up by daily ECG when 5-FU is administered at high doses in continuous infusion and associated with cis-platinum. We are continuing to study 5 FU cardiac toxicity, especially in other regimens containing 5 FU and aim to evaluate the contribution of cardiac isotopic exams.
