The authors previously published the first epidemiological study from the United States associating thimerosal from childhood vaccines with neurodevelopmental disorders (NDs) based upon assessment of the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS). A number of years have gone by since their previous analysis of the VAERS. The present study was undertaken to determine whether the previously observed effect between thimerosal-containing childhood vaccines and NDs are still apparent in the VAERS as children have had a chance to further mature and potentially be diagnosed with additional NDs. In the present study, a cohort of children receiving thimerosal-containing diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis (DTaP) vaccines in comparison to a cohort of children receiving thimerosal-free DTaP vaccines administered from 1997 through 2000 based upon an assessment of adverse events reported to the VAERS were evaluated. It was determined that there were significantly increased odds ratios (ORs) for autism (OR = 1.8, p < .05), mental retardation (OR = 2.6, p < .002), speech disorder (OR = 2.1, p < .02), personality disorders (OR = 2.6, p < .01), and thinking abnormality (OR = 8.2, p < .01) adverse events reported to the VAERS following thimerosal-containing DTaP vaccines in comparison to thimerosal-free DTaP vaccines. Potential confounders and reporting biases were found to be minimal in this assessment of the VAERS. It was observed, even though the media has reported a potential association between autism and thimerosal exposure, that the other NDs analyzed in this assessment of the VAERS had significantly higher ORs than autism following thimerosal-containing DTaP vaccines in comparison to thimerosal-free DTaP vaccines. The present study provides additional epidemiological evidence supporting previous epidemiological, clinical and experimental evidence that administration of thimerosal-containing vaccines in the United States resulted in a significant number of children developing NDs.
A pharmacokinetic study was carried out in rats to investigate the effects of experimental hepatic injury on the liver glucuronidation and bile excretion of ketoprofen (KP) and its glucuronides (KPGs). In vivo, KP (20mg/kg b.w.) was intravenously administered to carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) or alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) induced hepatic injury male rats. Concentrations of KP and its glucuronides (S-KPG and R-KPG) in plasma and bile were determined by RP-HPLC. It was observed that there was significant difference in the accumulative bile excretion of KPGs between the CCl(4) intoxicated rats and the normal rats (54+/-18.3% versus 90+/-6.9%), while it was extremely inhibited in ANIT intoxicated rats (2.0+/-3.1% versus 90+/-6.9%). As the result of reduction of KPGs excreted in bile, the area under the curve (AUC((0-infinity))) of KP and KPGs were higher in blood in CCl(4) and ANIT hepatic injury rats than those of the normal rats. Specifically, ANIT caused approximately 10-fold elevation of AUC((0-infinity)) of plasma S-KPG. In microsomal incubations experiment, the glucuronyltransferase activity was impaired in CCl(4) and ANIT intoxicated rats. It suggested that the glucuronyltransferase activity was impaired in CCl(4) and ANIT intoxicated rats, while the bile excretion function was suppressed extremely in ANIT intoxicated rats.
Fish consumption is the most important source of human exposure to methylmercury (MeHg). Since fish is also a rich source of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, this study was conducted to examine the effects of dietary fats on MeHg-induced acute toxicity in rats. Weanling male Sprague Dawley rats were administered semi-purified casein-based isocaloric diet containing soy oil, seal oil, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), fish oil, or lard for 28 days. Rats were then gavaged with 0, 1, or 3 mg MeHg/kg body weight (BW) per day and fed the same diet for 14 consecutive days. On 43rd day of the experiment, rats were sacrificed and blood samples were collected and analyzed for hematology. Liver and spleen were removed, fixed, and examined for pathological changes. Blood, feces, liver, and brain were analyzed for total mercury and/or MeHg contents. Serum samples were analyzed for clinical markers of hepatic injury and immunoglobulin. Total mercury contents in all tissues measured increased with dose. Mercury excretion in feces increased with dose and duration of MeHg treatment. Both diets and MeHg showed significant effects and interacted significantly on many of the toxicological endpoints measured. Many of the effects of MeHg were diet-dependent. For example, in the rats fed the lard diet, 3mg MeHg/kg BW significantly increased relative liver and spleen weight as compared with vehicle control; whereas in rats fed the fish oil, soy oil, seal oil, or DHA, this effect of MeHg was less obvious or absent, suggesting a protective effect of these diets. MeHg at 3mg/kg BW significantly decreased serum albumin level in all except DHA dietary groups, implying a protection by the DHA diet on this parameter. Only in the lard dietary group, did 3mg MeHg/kg BW significantly increase serum bilirubin level, indicating an enhancing effect of this diet on MeHg toxicity. MeHg suppressed the adaptive immune system and stimulated the innate immune system in rats in a diet-dependent fashion. The seal oil diet provided more resistance, while the fish oil diet rendered greater sensitivity to these effects of MeHg on the immune system. These results imply significant modulating effects of dietary fats on MeHg toxicity which may translate into more severe or protective clinical outcomes. Therefore, dietary fats are important factors to be considered in the risk assessment of MeHg exposure.
If the pregnant and lactating female rats are exposed to environmental levels of bisphenol-A (BPA), their male offspring will display hyperactivity and attention-deficit. In patients with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), the size of the amygdala is reported to be reduced. This study examined functional alterations in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of the postnatal 28-day-old male offspring exposed perinatally to BPA (BPA-rats). We specifically focused on the synaptic properties of GABAergic/dopaminergic systems in the BLA. A single electrical stimulation of the capsule fibers evoked multispike responses with an enhanced primary population spikes (1st-PS) in the BPA-rats. A single train of high-frequency stimulation of the fibers induced NMDA receptor (NMDAR) dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) in BPA-rats, but not in control rats. Also, paired-pulse inhibition (PPI, GABA-dependent) in control rats was reversed to paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) in BPA-rats. Perfusion of slices obtained from BPA-rats with the GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) agonist muscimol blocked the multispike responses and LTP, and recovered PPI. By contrast, the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 abolished LTP and attenuated the increased amplitude of 1st-PS in BPA-rats. Conversely, blockade of GABA(A)R by bicuculline could produce the multispike responses and PPF in BLA in control rats. Furthermore, in BLA the infusion of SCH23390, muscimol or the NMDAR blocker MK801 ameliorated the hyperactivity and improved the deficits in attention. These findings suggest that the perinatal exposure to BPA causes GABAergic disinhibition and dopaminergic enhancement, leading to an abnormal cortical-BLA synaptic transmission and plasticity, which may be responsible for the hyperactivity and attention-deficit in BPA-rats. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Synaptic Plasticity & Interneurons'.
The relationships between adverse events (AEs) and plasma concentrations of nevirapine (NVP) and efavirenz (EFV) were investigated as part of the large, international, randomized 2NN study.
Treatment-naive, HIV-1-infected patients received NVP (once or twice daily), EFV or their combination, each in combination with lamivudine and stavudine. Blood samples were collected on day 3 and weeks 1, 2, 4, 24 and 48. Concentrations of NVP and EFV were quantitatively assessed by a validated HPLC assay. Individual Bayesian estimates of the area under the plasma concentration-time curve over 24 h (AUC24h), and minimum and maximum plasma concentrations (Cmin and Cmax) as measures for drug exposure of NVP and EFV, were generated using a previously developed population pharmacokinetic model. Pharmacokinetic parameters were compared for patients with and without central nervous system (CNS) and psychiatric AEs, hepatic events, liver enzyme elevations (LEEs) and rash. Furthermore, it was investigated whether a clear cut-off for a pharmacokinetic parameter could be identified above which the incidence of AEs was clearly increased. AEs were also related to demographic parameters and baseline characteristics.
In total, from 1077 patients, NVP (3024 samples) and EFV (1694 samples) plasma concentrations and AE data (825 observations) were available. For all patients Cmin, Cmax and AUC24h were determined. When corrected for known covariates of gender, CD4 cell count at baseline, region, hepatitis coinfection and possible interactions between these factors, no significant associations between AEs and any tested exposure parameter of NVP was observed. Also, no target Cmin value, above which patients were at increased risk for AEs, could be established. On the other hand, geographical region, hepatitis coinfection, CD4 cell count and gender were found to be significantly related with the incidence of CNS and psychiatric AEs, hepatic events, LEEs and rash during the treatment with NVP. The occurrence of elevated liver enzymes during the first 6 weeks in the EFV-containing arm was significantly (P = 0.036) correlated to the exposure of EFV (Cmin). Only hepatitis coinfection impacted on LEEs during the first 6 weeks of treatment. With an EFV Cmin above 2.18 mg/l during the induction phase, patients were 4.4 (range 1.3-15.5) times more at risk for elevated liver enzymes. No other correlations between AEs and EFV pharmacokinetics or patient characteristics could be identified.
Pharmacokinetic parameters of NVP did not have a relationship to AEs in the 2NN trial when corrected for known covariates. The value of periodical drug monitoring of NVP as a way to prevent toxicity is therefore limited. Treating physicians should instead focus on factors that are more predictive of AEs (gender, CD4 count and hepatitis coinfection). High EFV Cmin levels resulted in elevated liver enzyme values during the first 6 weeks of treatment. Regular measurement of EFV levels and liver enzymes at the start of therapy may therefore be advised.
A 77-y-old patient developed weakness of extremities, legs paralysis, dysarthria and tremor 1 h after ingestion of 200 mg ketoconazole for the first time in his life. All complaints faded away within 24 h. Few days later, the patient used another 200 mg ketoconazole tablet, and within an hour experienced a similar clinical picture, which resolved again spontaneously within hours. Laboratory evaluations, including head CT scan, were normal. This case illustrates the need for close vigilance in adverse drug reactions, particularly in the elderly.
Phosphorylated ERK expression has been demonstrated in the central and peripheral nervous system after various stimuli, including visceral stimulation. Changes in the activation (i.e., phosphorylation) of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (pERK) were examined in the urinary bladder after 4 h (acute), 48 h (intermediate), or chronic (10 day) cyclophosphamide (CYP) treatment. CYP-induced cystitis significantly (P < or = 0.01) increased pERK expression in the urinary bladder with intermediate (48 h) and chronic CYP treatment. Immunohistochemistry for pERK immunoreactivity revealed little pERK-IR in control or acute (4 h) CYP-treated rat urinary bladders. However, pERK expression was significantly (P < or = 0.01) upregulated in the urothelium after 48 h or chronic CYP treatment. Whole mount preparations of urothelium/lamina propria or detrusor smooth muscle from control (noninflamed) rats showed no pERK-IR in PGP9.5-labeled nerve fibers in the suburothelial plexus. However, with CYP-treatment (48 h, chronic), a few pERK-IR nerve fibers in the suburothelial plexus of whole mount preparations of bladder and at the serosal edge of urinary bladder sections were observed. pERK-IR cells expressing the CD86 antigen were also observed in urinary bladder from CYP-treated rats (48 h, chronic). Treatment with the upstream inhibitor of ERK phosphorylation, U0126, significantly (P < or= 0.01) increased bladder capacity in CYP-treated rats (48 h). These studies suggest that therapies targeted at pERK pathways may improve urinary bladder function in CYP-treated rats.
Adequate growth of coronary vasculature in the remaining left ventricular (LV) myocardium after myocardial infarction (post-MI) is a crucial factor for myocyte survival and performance. We previously demonstrated that post-MI coronary angiogenesis can be stimulated by bradycardia induced with the ATP-sensitive K(+) channel antagonist alinidine. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that heart rate reduction with beta-blockade may also induce coronary growth in the post-MI heart. Transmural MI was induced in 12-mo-old male Sprague-Dawley rats by occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Bradycardia was induced by administration of the beta-adrenoceptor blocker atenolol (AT) via drinking water (30 mg/day). Three groups of rats were compared: 1) control/sham (C/SH), 2) MI, and 3) MI + AT. In the MI + AT rats, heart rate was consistently reduced by 25-28% compared with C/SH rats. At 4 wk after left anterior descending coronary ligation, infarct size was similar in MI and MI + AT rats (67.1 and 61.5%, respectively), whereas a greater ventricular hypertrophy occurred in bradycardic rats, as indicated by a higher ventricular weight-to-body weight ratio (3.4 +/- 0.1 vs. 2.8 +/- 0.1 mg/g in MI rats). Analysis of LV function revealed a smaller drop in ejection fraction in the MI + AT than in the MI group ( approximately 24 vs. approximately 35%). Furthermore, in MI + AT rats, maximal coronary conductance and coronary perfusion reserve were significantly improved compared with the MI group. The better myocardial perfusion indexes in MI + AT rats were associated with a greater increase in arteriolar length density than in the MI group. Thus chronic reduction of heart rate induced with beta-selective blockade promotes growth of coronary arterioles and, thereby, facilitates regional myocardial perfusion in post-MI hearts.
Early somite mouse embryos were exposed in vitro to xylocaine (Lignocaine hydrochloride) to examine its effect on neural tube closure. When embryos were exposed to 2.4 x 10(-4) mg/ml xylocaine for the entire 36-hour culture period, cephalic neural tube closure did not take place. Then examined by SEM, the neuroepithelial cells of these embryos were incompletely elevated, and depressions in their lateral surfaces were often observed. TEM observations on the neuroepithelium of similar embryos indicated that the microtubules and apical microfilament bundles were absent. The role of calcium in the maintenance of neuroepithelial cell asymmetry and in the production of these defects is considered.
A 56-year-old woman with scleroderma developed rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis with epithelial crescents associated with hemoptysis after 27 months of D-penicillamine therapy and a cumulative dose of 1,200 g. Renal failure necessitated 5 hemodialysis sessions. D-penicillamine was withdrawn and glucocorticoids combined with azathioprine were given with good recovery of renal function. The 9 other reported cases of D-penicillamine induced rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis have been reviewed. This syndrome is potentially life-threatening: the 5 untreated patients died, whereas 5 patients given immunosuppressive therapy are alive.
Methylphenidate (MP) has become the primary drug of choice for treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, its psychotropic effects severely hamper long-term clinical use. We evaluated the effects of YY162, which consists of terpenoid-strengthened Ginkgo biloba and ginsenoside Rg3, on the ADHD-like condition induced by Aroclor1254, because both components have been suggested to modulate oxidative stress, dopaminergic neurotransmission, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling, which may be critical targets for understanding the pathogenesis of ADHD. YY162 attenuated the increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) and decrease in BDNF levels induced by Aroclor1254 in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. YY162 significantly attenuated Aroclor1254-induced ADHD-like behavior and oxidative stress in ICR mice. Furthermore, YY162 attenuated reductions in p-TrkB, BDNF, dopamine transporter (DAT) and norepinephrine transporter (NET) expression. These attenuating effects of YY162 were comparable to those of MP. Importantly, K252a, a TrkB antagonist, counteracted the protective effects of YY162. Our results suggest that YY162 possesses significant protective activities against ADHD-like conditions with negligible behavioral side effects, and that interactive signaling between antioxidant potential and BDNF/TrkB receptor for the positive modulation of the DAT and NET is important for YY162-mediated neuroprotective activity.
The effect of SNP-induced hypotension on the sympatho-adrenal nerve activity (SANA) was studied in enflurane anesthetized rats. Anesthesia was maintained with enflurane (2.2%) in 50% O2, and the rats were ventilated to achieve an end-tidal CO2 of 40 +/- 5 mmHg after giving pancuronium bromide. A bundle of the left adrenal nerves was dissected under a microscope and placed on a pair of platinum wire electrodes during SNP-induced hypotension for measurement of SANA. SNP was administered at 33-66 micrograms.kg-1.hr-1 for 20 minutes to maintain the mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 60% of the MAP before SNP infusion. SANA was measured for 45 minutes from 5 minutes before SNP infusion to 20 minutes after cessation of SNP infusion. When MAP was lowered, SANA increased by 80.2% (P less than 0.05), 29.4% (P less than 0.05) and 0%, in control group (n = 6), baroreceptor denervated group (n = 5) and baroreceptor denervated and bilateral renal vessel ligated group (n = 5), respectively. In order to study the mechanism in which the kidney may be involved, SANA during SNP-induced hypotension was measured before and after intravenous infusion of angiotensin II competitive inhibitor, [Sar1, Ile8] angiotensin II (SI-AII), (n = 5). Before SI-AII infusion, SANA increased by 31.2% during SNP-induced hypotension, but after SI-A II infusion, SANA during SNP-induced hypotension increased by 13.6%. (P less than 0.05; vs. before SI-AII infusion). There was no evidence of acidosis due to cyanide toxicity, hypoglycemia and profound hypotension, which make SANA increase. Therefore I concluded that SANA increased by 80.2% during SNP-induced hypotension, and that the increase in SANA was mediated by baroreceptor and kidney. And among the mechanism which the kidney is involved in, angiotensin II was suggested to be responsible for SANA increase during SNP-induced hypotension.
The eighth component of human complement (C8) is a serum protein consisting of three chains (alpha, beta, and gamma) and encoded by three different genes, C8A, C8B, and C8G. C8A and C8B are closely linked on chromosome 1p, whereas C8G is located on chromosome 9q. In the serum the beta subunit is non-covalently bound to the disulfide-linked alpha-gamma subunit. Patients with C8 beta deficiency suffer from recurrent neisserial infections such as meningitis. Exon-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification with primer pairs from the flanking intron sequences was used to amplify all 12 C8B exons separately. No difference regarding the exon sizes was observed in a C8 beta-deficient patient compared with a normal person. Therefore, direct sequence analysis of all exon-specific PCR products from normal and C8 beta-deficient individuals was carried out. As a cause for C8 beta deficiency, we found a single C-T exchange in exon 9 leading to a stop codon. An allele-specific PCR system was designed to detect the normal and the deficiency allele simultaneously. Using this approach as well as PCR typing of the Taql polymorphism located in intron 11, five families with 7 C8 beta-deficient members were investigated. The mutation was not found to be restricted to one of the two Taql RFLP alleles. The mutant allele was observed in all families investigated and can therefore be regarded as a major cause of C8 beta deficiency in the Caucasian population. In addition, two C8 beta-deficient patients were found to be heterozygous for the C-T exchange. The molecular basis of the alleles without this point mutation also causing deficiency has not yet been defined.
Recent guidelines recommend vancomycin trough concentrations between 15 and 20 mg/liter. In response, some clinicians increased vancomycin dosing to >or=4 g/day. Scant data are available regarding toxicities associated with higher vancomycin doses. The purpose of this study was to examine vancomycin-associated nephrotoxicity at >or=4 g/day. To accomplish the study objective, a cohort study among a random selection of patients receiving vancomycin or linezolid between 2005 and 2006 was performed. Patients were included if they (i) were >or=18 years of age, (ii) were nonneutropenic, (iii) were on therapy for >48 h, (iv) had baseline serum creatinine levels of <2.0 mg/dl, (v) did not suffer from cystic fibrosis, and (vi) had no intravenous contrast dye within the previous 7 days. For drug exposure, three treatment strata were created: standard vancomycin dose (<4 g/day), high vancomycin dose (>or=4 g/day), and linezolid. Nephrotoxicity was defined as a serum creatinine increase of 0.5 mg/dl or 50%, whichever was greater, after therapy initiation. Stratified Kaplan-Meier analysis and Cox modeling were used to compare times to nephrotoxicity across groups. During the study, 246 patients on vancomycin (26 patients taking >or=4 g/day and 220 patients taking <4 g/day) and 45 patients on linezolid met the criteria. A significant difference in nephrotoxicity between patients receiving >or=4 g vancomycin/day, those receiving <4 g vancomycin/day, and those receiving linezolid was noted (34.6%, 10.9%, and 6.7%, respectively; P = 0.001), and Kaplan-Meier analysis identified significant differences in time to nephrotoxicity for the high-vancomycin-dose cohort compared to those for groups taking the standard dose and linezolid. In the Cox model, patients taking >or=4 g vancomycin/day, a total body weight of >or=101.4 kg, estimated creatinine clearance of </=86.6 ml/min, and intensive care unit residence were independently associated with time to nephrotoxicity. The data suggest that higher-dose vancomycin regimens are associated with a higher likelihood of vancomycin-related nephrotoxicity.
Many recent studies demonstrate that most nanoparticles (NPs) have an adverse or toxic action on liver. The aim of this study was to investigate the hepatoprotective effect of glycyrrhizic acid (GA) against hepatic injury induced by titanium dioxide nanoparticles (NTiO2) in rats. Thirty-two Wistar rats were randomly divided into 4 groups. NTiO2-intoxicated rats received 300 mg/kg of NTiO2 for 14 days by gavage method. Protection group pretreated with GA for 7 days before NTiO2 administration. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were detected as biomarkers in the blood to indicate hepatic injury. Product of lipid peroxidation (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) were evaluated for oxidative stress in hepatic injury. Light microscopy for histopathological studies and TUNEL assay was also done. Administration of NTiO2 induced a significant elevation in plasma AST, ALT and ALP. In the liver, NTiO2 increased oxidative stress through the increase in lipid peroxidation and decrease in SOD and GPx enzymes. Histopathological studies showed that treatment with NTiO2 caused liver damage including centrilobular necrosis, which was accompanied by congestion and accumulation of inflammatory cells. Apoptotic index was also significantly increased in this group. Pretreatment of GA significantly decreased ALT, AST and ALP, attenuated the histopathology of hepatic injury, decreased apoptotic index, ameliorated oxidative stress in hepatic tissue, and increased the activities of SOD and GPx. These findings indicate that GA effectively protects against NTiO2-induced hepatotoxicity. GA has a potent protective effect against the NPs induced hepatotoxicity and might be clinically useful.
Mice with a history of chronic (10 days), but not acute, treatment with a non-convulsant dose of cocaine showed increased sensitivity (P<0.001) to the toxic effects of aminophylline (seizures, lethality) relative to controls even days after the cessation of cocaine treatment. The present finding suggests that individuals with a history of cocaine use may be at increased risk for convulsive and lethal complications associated with the therapeutic use of aminophylline.
The new 8-methoxyquinolone moxifloxacin was tested against two ciprofloxacin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus strains (strains P8 and COL) and two ciprofloxacin-resistant derivatives of strain P8 carrying a single grlA mutation (strain P8-4) and double grlA and gyrA mutations (strain P8-128). All strains were resistant to methicillin. The MICs of ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin were 0.5 and 0.125 mg/liter, respectively, for P8; 0.25 and 0.125 mg/liter, respectively, for COL; 8 and 0.25 mg/liter, respectively, for P8-4; and >or=128 and 2 mg/liter, respectively, for P8-128. In vitro, the rate of spontaneous resistance of P8 and COL was 10(-7) on agar plates containing ciprofloxacin at two times the MIC, whereas it was <or=10(-10) on agar plates containing moxifloxacin at two times the MIC. Rats with experimental aortic endocarditis were treated with doses of drugs that simulate the kinetics in humans: moxifloxacin, 400 mg orally once a day; ciprofloxacin, 750 mg orally twice a day; or vancomycin, 1 g intravenously twice a day. Treatment was started either 12 or 24 h after infection and lasted for 3 days. Moxifloxacin treatment resulted in culture-negative vegetations in a total of 20 of 21 (95%) rats infected with P8, 10 of 11 (91%) rats infected with COL, and 19 of 24 (79%) rats infected with P8-4 (P < 0.05 compared to the results for the controls). In contrast, ciprofloxacin treatment sterilized zero of nine (0%) vegetations infected with first-level resistant mutant P8-4. Vancomycin sterilized only 8 of 15 (53%), 6 of 11 (54%), and 12 of 23 (52%) of the vegetations, respectively. No moxifloxacin-resistant derivative emerged among these organisms. However, moxifloxacin treatment of highly ciprofloxacin-resistant mutant P8-128 failed and selected for variants for which the MIC increased two times in 2 of 10 animals. Thus, while oral moxifloxacin might deserve consideration as treatment for staphylococcal infections in humans, caution related to its use against strains for which MICs are borderline is warranted.
1. There is a large body of evidence indicating that fenfluramines damage brain serotonin neurons in animals. 2. Little is known about potential adverse neuropsychiatric consequences in humans associated with use of fenfluramines that could potentially be related to serotonergic dysfunction. 3. The authors now report numerous cases of severe and, sometimes persistent, neuropsychiatric syndromes associated with fenfluramine use. 4. Thirty one representative cases are presented and summarized in table form. 5. Several of the cases presented suggest long-lasting deleterious effects of fenfluramines on brain serotonin function. 6. Clinicians should be vigilant for disorders of mood, anxiety, cognitive function and impulse control in patients previously exposed to fenfluramines.
Ginseng contains many bioactive constituents, including various ginsenosides that are believed to have anti-allergic, anti-oxidant, and immunostimulatory activities; however, its effects on atopic dermatitis (AD) remain unclear. In the current study, we hypothesized that cultivated ginseng (CG) would inhibit 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD-like skin lesions in NC/Nga mice by regulating the T helper (Th)1/Th2 balance. Also, CG inhibits TNF-α/IFN-γ-induced thymus- and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC) expression through nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB)-dependent signaling in HaCaT cells. CG ameliorated DNCB-induced dermatitis severity, serum levels of IgE and TARC, and mRNA expression of TARC, TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 in mice. Histopathological examination showed reduced thickness of the epidermis/dermis and dermal infiltration of inflammatory cells in the ears. Furthermore, CG suppressed the TNF-α/IFN-γ-induced mRNA expression of TARC in HaCaT cells. CG inhibited TNF-α/IFN-γ-induced NF-κB activation. These results suggest that CG inhibited the development of the AD-like skin symptoms by modulating Th1 and Th2 responses in the skin lesions in mice and TARC expression by suppressing TNF-α/IFN-γ-induced NF-κB activation in keratinocytes, and so may be a useful tool in the therapy of AD-like skin symptoms.
Concentrations of the circulating hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) increase in the very early phase of acute myocardial infarction, and are a marker of arterial thrombosis. A recently developed, highly sensitive HGF assay can detect the early stages of arterial thrombosis in patients with unstable angina pectoris, acute aortic dissection and pulmonary thromboembolism. Heparin rapidly induces the release of HGF into the circulation, and HGF is a major factor involved in heparin-induced angiogenesis. Furthermore, the activation of mast cells by thrombus formation releases HGF into the circulation. This new pathway, thrombus formation-mast cell activation- degranulation-heparin-HGF-angiogenesis, may be both diagnostically useful and a therapeutic target.
Copper is essential for the function of the mitochondrial electron transport chain and several antioxidant proteins. However, in its free form copper can participate in Fenton-like reactions that produce reactive hydroxyl radicals. Aryl-hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonists, including the most potent polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) congener, 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126), increase copper levels in rodent livers. This is accompanied by biochemical and toxic changes. To assess the involvement of copper in PCB toxicity, male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed an AIN-93G diet with differing dietary copper levels: low (2 ppm), adequate (6 ppm), and high (10 ppm). After three weeks, rats from each group were given a single ip injection of corn oil (control), 1, or 5 μmol/kg body weight PCB126. Two weeks following injections, biochemical and morphological markers of hepatic toxicity, trace metal status, and hepatic gene expression of metalloproteins were evaluated. Increasing dietary copper was associated with elevated tissue levels of copper and ceruloplasmin. In the livers of PCB126-treated rats, the hallmark signs of AhR activation were present, including increased cytochrome P450 and lipid levels and decreased glutathione. In addition, a doubling of hepatic copper levels was seen, and overall metal homeostasis was disturbed, resulting in decreased hepatic selenium, manganese, zinc, and iron. Expression of key metalloproteins was either decreased (cytochrome c oxidase), unchanged (ceruloplasmin and CuZnSOD), or increased (tyrosinase and metallothioneins 1 and 2) with exposure to PCB126. Increases in metallothionein may contribute/reflect the increased copper seen. Alterations in dietary copper did not amplify or abrogate the hepatic toxicity of PCB126. PCB126 toxicity, i.e., oxidative stress and steatosis, is clearly associated with disturbed metal homeostasis. Understanding the mechanisms of this disturbance may provide tools to prevent liver toxicity by other AhR agonists.
Bupropion is an increasingly prescribed agent to aid in smoking cessation. However it has important drug-drug interactions related to the cytochrome P450 system. One of these is its inhibition of the metabolism of the commonly used beta-blocker, metoprolol. The authors describe a case of severe bradycardia related to the addition of bupropion to the medical regimen of a patient on metoprolol.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether diuretic and natriuretic effects are altered in response to intracerebroventricular (ICV) infusion of clonidine in diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats by 65 mg/kg i.p. injection of streptozocin, and control rats were injected with vehicle 2 wk before the experiment. Blood glucose levels were significantly elevated in the diabetic group (26.3 +/- 1.3 mM) compared with the control group (8.4 +/- 1.6 mM). Before and during ICV infusion of clonidine (2 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 for 45 min), urine flow and sodium excretion were measured from intact and denervated kidneys in anesthetized diabetic and control rats. The ICV infusion of clonidine significantly increased urine flow in both innervated and denervated kidneys from control rats but not from diabetic rats. There was a significant increase in sodium excretion during ICV infusion of clonidine from innervated kidneys of control rats, and denervation abolished this effect. In diabetic rats, clonidine failed to promote natriuresis from intact kidneys, and similar to control rats, did not promote natriuresis in denervated kidneys. This study demonstrates that 1) the diuretic response to the ICV infusion of clonidine is blunted in diabetic rats, and 2) a natriuretic response to the ICV infusion of clonidine is blunted in innervated kidneys of diabetic rats.
Menstrual cycle characteristics may have implications for women's fecundability and risk of hormonally related diseases. Certain pesticides disrupt the estrous cycle in animals. The authors investigated the cross-sectional association between pesticide use and menstrual function among 3,103 women living on farms in Iowa and North Carolina. Women were aged 21-40 years, premenopausal, not pregnant or breastfeeding, and not taking oral contraceptives. At study enrollment (1993-1997), women completed two self-administered questionnaires on pesticide use and reproductive health. Exposures of interest were lifetime use of any pesticide and hormonally active pesticides. Menstrual cycle characteristics of interest included cycle length, missed periods, and intermenstrual bleeding. The authors used generalized estimating equations to assess the association between pesticide use and menstrual cycle characteristics, controlling for age, body mass index, and current smoking status. Women who used pesticides experienced longer menstrual cycles and increased odds of missed periods (odds ratio = 1.5, 95% confidence interval: 1.2, 1.9) compared with women who never used pesticides. Women who used probable hormonally active pesticides had a 60-100% increased odds of experiencing long cycles, missed periods, and intermenstrual bleeding compared with women who had never used pesticides. Associations remained after control for occupational physical activity.
The decoction of leaves of Clinopodium mexicanum Benth. Goaverts (Lamiaceae), commonly known as "Toronjil de Monte", is used in the Mexican traditional medicine to induce sleep, as well as sedative and analgesic remedy.
To evaluate the putative depressant effects of an aqueous extract of the medicinal plant Clinopodium mexicanum on the central nervous system (CNS).
The effects of the extract (AECM) on mice were tested in several animal paradigms, including sodium pentobarbital-induced sleep, open field tests, and hole-board tests. The effects of AECM on pentylenetetrazole- and picrotoxin-induced convulsions in mice and on the antithermonociceptive response in the hot-plate paradigm were also tested. Additionally, the active extract (AECM) was analyzed with HPLC-ESI-MS techniques.
Mice acutely treated with AECM at 100, 200, 500 and 1000mg/kg doses prolonged the sleeping time induced by sodium pentobarbital (42mg/kg). This extract, at 100 and 200mg/kg doses, showed a sedative effect in the hole-board paradigm and decreased spontaneous activity in mice. AECM at 10, 100 and 200mg/kg prolonged the onset of seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole (90mg/kg) and antagonized tonic convulsions induced by picrotoxin (10mg/kg). Additionally, AECM inhibited the response to a thermonociceptive stimulus. The intraperitoneal AECM treatment produced mortality with an LD(50)=2154mg/kg. Chemical analysis showed that the flavanone glycosides neoponcirin, poncirin, and isonaringenin are the main compounds of the active extract.
This study demonstrates that an acutely administered single dose of an aqueous extract of Clinopodium mexicanum can exert depressant effects on the CNS. These findings are in agreement with the traditional use of Clinopodium mexicanum to induce sleep as well as sedative and analgesic remedy. The chemical analysis of AECM revealed the presence of the flavanone glycosides neoponcirin, poncirin, and isonaringin.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the hyperglycemic potential of acute exposure to acephate and its etiology employing rat model system. Oral administration of acephate (140mg/kg b.w.) caused reversible hyperglycemia as evidenced by peak increase in blood glucose at 2h after the administration (87% over control) followed by trend of normalization. In further experiment carried out to understand the etiology of the induced hyperglycemia, we observed that 2h exposure to acephate caused significant increase in blood glucose, plasma corticosterone (78%) and activities of two gluconeogenesis enzymes in liver viz., glucose-6-phosphatase (91%) and tyrosine aminotransferase (84%) compared to that in control. When rats were exposed to acephate for 6h, decrement was observed in elevated levels of blood glucose, plasma corticosterone and the gluconeogenesis enzymes of the liver. Adrenal cholesterol levels in acephate-exposed rats were significantly depleted. While the glycogen content in liver of 2-h exposure group was comparable to control, a tremendous increase in liver glycogen content ( approximately 3.5 folds) was observed in rats of the 6-h exposure group. Our results demonstrate that acephate causes reversible hyperglycemia in rats probably by enhancing hepatic glucose output via gluconeogenesis. A role for hyperactivity of adrenal cortex is suggested in increased gluconeogenesis while significant attenuation in elevated levels of blood glucose and the activity the gluconeogenesis enzyme, glucose-6-phosphatase in liver with concomitant increase in liver glycogen are indicative of the onset of counter-regulatory responses such as hyperinsulinemia, to overcome the induced hyperglycemia.
