Although donepezil, a potent acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, has been used to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD) due to its neuroprotective effects, its mode of action to inhibit the growth of cancer cells is poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the pro-apoptotic activities of donepezil in HL-60 human promyelocytic leukemia cells and the underlying molecular mechanism involved. It was found that donepezil induced the apoptosis of HL-60 and U937 cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner, as evidenced by the formation of DNA fragmentation and the accumulation of positive cells for Annexin V. In addition, the activations of caspase-8, -9, and -3 were significantly increased 36 h after donepezil treatment. Furthermore, the broad caspase inhibitor (z-VAD-fmk) blocked donepezil-induced apoptosis. In addition, donepezil was found to cause the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)), to increase the release of cytochrome c to the cytosol, and to alter the expressions of Bcl-2 family proteins. Taken together, these results demonstrate for the first time that donepezil displayed an induction of apoptosis in HL-60 cells via a mitochondria-mediated caspase-dependent pathway.
The clinical effect of ketoprofen is based not only on the inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis. Ketoprofen also acts through kynurenic acid as a central antagonist on the NMDA receptor. Due to this central analgesic mechanism of ketoprofen, we expected an analgesic preemptive effect. This study was carried out following the Breivik/Stubhaug preemptive effect study design.
In 81 patients scheduled for gynaecological surgery a randomized double-blind study was performed. Three groups were studied: Group I received preoperative ketoprofen 100 mg i.v., 12 mg/h during surgery and for 48 hours afterwards. Group II received 100 mg ketoprofen as a bolus injection before the end of surgery, thereafter 12 mg/h ketoprofen continuously for 48 hours. Group III received a placebo during surgery and for 48 hours after surgery. The effects were measured postoperatively using a visual analog scale (VAS; at rest and on exertion) and the total analgesic consumption (PCA piritramide) within the first 48 hours after surgery. Furthermore, the time to first analgesic request was recorded. The vital signs and side effects were documented.
The time to first analgesic request in group I was significantly longer than in groups II and III. In addition, the cumulative postoperative analgesic consumption during the first 24 hours after surgery was significantly lower in group I than in group III. Furthermore, the combination of an opioid with a non-opioid led to a lower pain score (VAS) at rest and on exertion.
We showed a preemptive effect with ketoprofen, which was expressed significantly both in terms of the time to first analgesic request and by the lower analgesic consumption in the first 24 hours after surgery.
The post-receptorial mechanism of the amnesic action of the alpha2-agonists clonidine and guanabenz was investigated in the mouse passive avoidance test. Animals were i.c.v. injected with pertussis toxin (PTX) or with antisense oligonucleotides, complementary to the sequence of the alpha-subunit mRNA of Gi1, Gi2, Gi3, Go1 and Go2 proteins. The administration of PTX (0.25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) reversed the amnesia induced by both alpha2-agonists. Similarly, anti-Gialpha1 (6.25-12.5 microg per mouse i.c.v.), anti-Gialpha3 (3.12-12.5 microg per mouse i.c.v.), anti-Goalpha1 (12.5-25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) antagonised the detrimental effect induced by clonidine and guanabenz. By contrast, pretreatment with anti-Gialpha2 (3.12-25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) and anti-Goalpha2 (12.5-25 microg per mouse i.c.v.) never modified the impairment of memory processes induced by the alpha2-agonists. At the highest effective doses, none of the compounds used impaired motor coordination (rota rod test), nor modified spontaneous motility and inspection activity, (hole board test). These results indicate the involvement of Gi1, Gi3, and Go1, but not Gi2 and Go2, protein subtypes in the transduction mechanism responsible for the induction of amnesia by clonidine and guanabenz.
Three on-farm studies were conducted in Nicaragua during three consecutive years (1999-2001) to assess the impact of natural helminth infections on growth performance of free-range chickens aged 3-4 months. On all participating farms, half of the chickens were treated regularly with anthelmintics (Trifen avicola - a combined formulation of piperazine, phenothiazine and dichlorophen - or albendazole) to express the growth potential of non-infected birds, whereas the other half served as non-treated controls. In 1999, treated chickens had a 39% higher weight gain compared to the control group 6 weeks after the first treatment on 15 farms. In 2000 and 2001, treated chickens had similar weight gain as the control group 10 weeks after the first treatment on 7 farms and 12 farms, respectively. The main reason for the very-different weight gain figures seems to be the weather conditions. In 1999, the study site experienced a rainy season with precipitation far above average, whereas in 2000 and 2001 the rainy seasons had precipitations far below average. Based on these findings, routine use of anthelmintics in the study area would only be recommended in wet years when production losses due to helminth infections seem to be pronounced. In 2001, the study set-up included an assessment of the effect of protein supplementation (soybean) on growth on six farms. Supplemented chickens (treated and non-treated with anthelmintics) had 17% higher weight gain than non-supplemented. Protein supplementation affected neither worm burdens nor faecal egg counts for any of the studied helminths. The post-mortem examinations showed that Trifen reduced burdens of Ascaridia galli, Heterakis gallinarum, and cestodes (efficacies of 100, 100 and 67%, respectively). Albendazole reduced burdens of H. gallinarum (efficacy of 100%). Efficacies against other helminths were difficult to assess due to low worm burdens. Chickens treated with albendazole had lower Ascaridia and Heterakis faecal egg counts than non-treated chickens.
Peripheral neuropathy (PN) in HIV-infected individuals is thought be due to a toxic effect on mitochondria induced by some nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI).
A time-to-event analysis was performed using data from the Delta trial to study the incidence of PN in HIV-infected individuals receiving zidovudine (AZT) alone or in combination with didanosine (ddl) or zalcitabine (ddC). In an on-treatment analysis, changes in the incidence of PN by duration of treatment were directly estimated using a flexible parametric survival model.
A total of 3,195 patients (total follow-up 4,593 person-years) were included in the analysis. AZT+ddC was associated with a higher incidence of PN (6.2 cases/100 person-years) compared with AZT monotherapy (3.0 cases/100 person-years) and AZT+ddl (2.2 cases/100 person-years). The risk of PN peaked around day 90 following randomization (at 8.9 events/100 person-years in the AZT+ddC arm). PN was also associated with age at entry (hazard ratio (HR)=2.35 for those aged 35-44 years compared with <30) and current CD4+ T-cell count (HR=2.27 for CD4+ T-cell counts <150 cell/mm3 compared with >350).
Our findings challenge the common supposition that PN arises from cumulative exposure to NRTIs. We found that patients who developed PN tended to do so shortly after exposure to antiretroviral therapy. Therefore, our results support the hypothesis of a susceptibility in a subgroup of patients. These results will be of direct interest to those working in resource-limited countries where potentially neurotoxic dideoxynucleosides are still widely used.
Chloroquine, a potent lysosomotropic agent, induces myopathy in experimental animals similar to rimmed vacuole (RV) myopathy in humans. The abnormal accumulation of amyloid beta protein (A beta), which is the invariable pathological alterations in the brains affected by Alzheimer's disease (AD), has been demonstrated in denervated soleus muscle fibers in chloroquine-induced myopathy in rats. In AD affected brains, a variety of additional proteins are associated with the extracellular deposition of A beta, which leads to the intracellular accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles and finally to neuronal death. In this study, we demonstrate that amyloid-associated proteins, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin, apolipoprotein E, SP-40,40 and ubiquitin co-localize with A beta in vacuolated muscle fibers in chloroquine-induced myopathy. There are striking similarities in immunopathology between experimental RV myopathy and AD. Chloroquine-induced myopathy in rats provides a suitable model not only to obtain insight into the basic mechanisms underlying RV formation in muscle, but also to understand amyloid precursor protein processing into A beta, and the role of amyloid-associated proteins in terms of the pathogenesis of AD.
Cyclosporine A (CsA) nephrotoxicity has been linked to reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in renal cells. We have demonstrated that the antioxidant Vitamin E (Vit E) abolished renal toxicity in vivo and in vitro models. As one of the main sources of intracellular ROS are mitochondria, we studied the effects of CsA on several mitochondrial functions in LLC-PK1 cells. CsA induced ROS synthesis and decreased reduced glutathione (GSH). The drug decreased mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) and induced physiological modifications in both the inner (IMM) and the outer mitochondrial membranes (OMM). In the IMM, CsA provoked mitochondrial permeability transition pores (MPTP) and cytochrome c was liberated into the intermembrane space. CsA also induced pore formation in the OMM, allowing that intermembrane space contents can reach cytosol. Furthermore, CsA altered the mitochondrial dynamics, inducing an increase in mitochondrial fission; CsA increased the expression of dynamin related protein 1 (Drp1) that contributes to mitochondrial fission, and decreased the expression of mitofusin 2 (Mfn2) and optic atrophy protein 1 (Opa1), proteins involved in the fusion process. All these phenomena were related to apoptosis. These effects were inhibited when cells were treated with the antioxidant Vit E suggesting that they were mediated by the synthesis of ROS.
This study compared the effects of alcohol and cocaine dependence severity on the outcome of outpatient detoxification from alcohol and cocaine. Subjects included 84 subjects with both alcohol and cocaine dependence admitted for outpatient detoxification. Fifty-three of the 84 subjects (63%) completed detoxification. Baseline cocaine use, cocaine craving, and cocaine withdrawal symptoms predicted detoxification outcome, whereas alcohol use, alcohol craving, and alcohol withdrawal symptoms did not. Among cocaine- and alcohol-dependent subjects, cocaine dependence severity appears to be a more important predictor of detoxification success than alcohol dependence severity.
Long-term treatment with antipsychotic medications alters the regional density of several of the neurotransmitter receptors that mediate cocaine toxicity. However, the effect of either up- or down-regulation of the neurotransmitter receptors on cocaine toxicity is unknown. In this study, we determined if subacute administration of the atypical antipsychotic ziprasidone altered the toxic effects of cocaine in mice. Ziprasidone (4 mg/kg) or placebo was administered to the first two groups of CF-1 mice for 10 days and, then on day 10, an estimated LD50 dose of cocaine (102 mg/kg) was given to these mice. In a third group, in order to produce a ziprasidone withdrawal state, we administered ziprasidone for 10 days, followed by no treatment for 2 days before cocaine administration. There was no significant difference among the three groups in overall survival: 63% in the treatment group, 60% in the withdrawal group, and 80% in the placebo group. Survival time was significantly shorter for the withdrawal group than for the control group. Our study may have been limited by lower than expected serum ziprasidone concentrations and lower than expected lethality from cocaine. However, our findings suggest that administration of an atypical antipsychotic for 10 days may increase the toxic effects of cocaine.
A physiological feature of many tumor tissues and cells is the tendency to accumulate high concentrations of copper. While the precise role of copper in tumors is cryptic, copper, but not other trace metals, is required for angiogenesis. We have recently reported that organic copper-containing compounds, including 8-hydroxyquinoline-copper(II) and 5,7-dichloro-8-hydroxyquinoline-copper(II), comprise a novel class of proteasome inhibitors and tumor cell apoptosis inducers. In the current study, we investigate whether clioquinol (CQ), an analog of 8-hydroxyquinoline and an Alzheimer's disease drug, and pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), a known copper-binding compound and antioxidant, can interact with copper to form cancer-specific proteasome inhibitors and apoptosis inducers in human breast cancer cells. Tetrathiomolybdate (TM), a strong copper chelator currently being tested in clinical trials, is used as a comparison.
Breast cell lines, normal, immortalized MCF-10A, premalignant MCF10AT1K.cl2, and malignant MCF10DCIS.com and MDA-MB-231, were treated with CQ or PDTC with or without prior interaction with copper, followed by measurement of proteasome inhibition and cell death. Inhibition of the proteasome was determined by levels of the proteasomal chymotrypsin-like activity and ubiquitinated proteins in protein extracts of the treated cells. Apoptotic cell death was measured by morphological changes, Hoechst staining, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage.
When in complex with copper, both CQ and PDTC, but not TM, can inhibit the proteasome chymotrypsin-like activity, block proliferation, and induce apoptotic cell death preferentially in breast cancer cells, less in premalignant breast cells, but are non-toxic to normal/non-transformed breast cells at the concentrations tested. In contrast, CQ, PDTC, TM or copper alone had no effects on any of the cells. Breast premalignant or cancer cells that contain copper at concentrations similar to those found in patients, when treated with just CQ or PDTC alone, but not TM, undergo proteasome inhibition and apoptosis.
The feature of breast cancer cells and tissues to accumulate copper can be used as a targeting method for anticancer therapy through treatment with novel compounds such as CQ and PDTC that become active proteasome inhibitors and breast cancer cell killers in the presence of copper.
To report a case of seizures occurring during administration of high-dose intravenous morphine containing sodium bisulfite as a preservative.
A 56-year-old woman hospitalized with multiple myeloma developed myoclonic and tonic-clonic seizures following administration of intravenous morphine with sodium bisulfite preservative at doses exceeding 400 mg/h. These seizures resolved when the morphine was discontinued, anticonvulsants were administered, and the drug therapy was changed to intravenous fentanyl without preservative.
The factors potentially associated with this adverse reaction are discussed and the literature concerning the adverse central nervous system effects of opiates and sulfites is reviewed.
High doses of intravenous morphine with sulfite preservative may be associated with seizure development. If patients require high doses of intravenous morphine, a preservative-free formulation should be used to avoid possible additive or synergistic toxicities.
Disruption of E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in immature zebrafish mind bomb mutants leads to a failure in Notch signaling, excessive numbers of neurons, and depletion of neural progenitor cells. This neurogenic phenotype is associated with defects in neural patterning and brain development. Because developmental brain abnormalities are recognized as an important feature of childhood neurological disorders such as epilepsy and autism, we determined whether zebrafish mutants with grossly abnormal brain structure exhibit spontaneous electrical activity that resembles the long-duration, high-amplitude multispike discharges reported in immature zebrafish exposed to convulsant drugs. Electrophysiological recordings from agar immobilized mind bomb mutants at 3 d postfertilization confirmed the occurrence of electrographic seizure activity; seizure-like behaviors were also noted during locomotion video tracking of freely behaving mutants. To identify genes differentially expressed in the mind bomb mutant and provide insight into molecular pathways that may mediate these epileptic phenotypes, a transcriptome analysis was performed using microarray. Interesting candidate genes were further analyzed using conventional reverse transcriptase-PCR and real-time quantitative PCR, as well as whole-mount in situ hybridization. Approximately 150 genes, some implicated in development, transcription, cell metabolism, and signal transduction, are differentially regulated, including downregulation of several genes necessary for GABA-mediated signaling. These findings identify a collection of gene transcripts that may be responsible for the abnormal electrical discharge and epileptic activities observed in a mind bomb zebrafish mutant. This work may have important implications for neurological and neurodevelopmental disorders associated with mutations in ubiquitin ligase activity.
Schizoaffective disorder shares clinical characteristics with schizophrenia and affective disorders, with patients experiencing concurrent manic, mixed, or depressive episodes during psychosis. Because efficacy may be better in schizoaffective disorder than schizophrenia, this post-hoc analysis examines the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of aripiprazole in patients with schizoaffective disorder.
Data were obtained from a sub-sample of subjects with schizoaffective disorder (randomized: aripiprazole n=123, placebo n=56) who participated in two 4-week, multicenter, double-blind trials of subjects with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Aripiprazole was administered at fixed doses of 15 mg/day, 20 mg/day, or 30 mg/day. Efficacy assessments included the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) Total score, and the Positive, Negative, and General Psychopathology subscale scores. Safety and tolerability evaluations included incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events and extrapyramidal symptom assessments (SAS, BARS, and AIMS), and metabolic profile changes including weight and BMI.
A significantly greater improvement from baseline to endpoint was observed with aripiprazole compared with placebo on the PANSS Total (-15.9 vs. -3.4; p=0.038) and PANSS Positive subscale (-4.6 vs. -1.0; p=0.027). Differences between treatments were not significant for the PANSS Negative subscale score (-3.7 vs. -1.2; p=0.15) or PANSS General Psychopathology subscale score (-8.3 vs. -3.1; p=0.06). There were no statistically significant differences at endpoint between groups in the mean change from baseline to endpoint in weight, glucose, or total cholesterol, or on SAS, BARS, or AIMS scores. There was a statistically significant decrease in prolactin in subjects treated with aripiprazole compared with placebo (-5.6 vs. -1.3, p<0.001).
Aripiprazole was efficacious and well tolerated in patients with schizoaffective disorder.
The hemodynamic effects of dobutamine were compared with those of digoxin in six patients with cardiac failure within 24 hours of onset of acute myocardial infarction. Dobutamine (8.5 microgram per kilogram of body weight per minute) was given intravenously for 30 minutes and then discontinued until hemodynamics returned toward base line. Digoxin (12.5 microgram per kilogram) was then given intravenously, and hemodynamics were recorded for 90 minutes. Dobutamine decreased left ventricular filling pressure (from 22.3 to 9.8 mm Hg, P < 0.02) and systemic vascular resistance (1686 +/- 188 to 1259 +/- 108 dynes . sec . cm-5), and increased cardiac index (from 2.4 to 3.2 liters per minute per square meter of body-surface area, P < 0.005) and stroke work index (from 24.6 to 36.6 g . m per square meter, P < 0.02), without changing heart rate or arterial pressure. In contrast, digoxin had no effect on filling pressure (18.3 versus 17.0) and only a slight effect on cardiac index (2.2 versus 2.4, P < 0.05) and stroke work index (21.9 versus 27.6, P < 0.05). Thus, dobutamine markedly increased cardiac output, decreased filling pressure, and relieved pulmonary congestion. Digoxin, did not affect preload or afterload.
Because drug-induced liver injury (DILI) remains a major reason for late-stage drug attrition, predictive assays are needed that can be deployed throughout the drug discovery process. Clinical DILI can be predicted with a sensitivity of ~50% and a false positive (FP) rate of ~5% using 24-h cultures of sandwich-cultured primary human hepatocytes and imaging of four cell injury endpoints (Xu et al., 2008). We hypothesized that long-term drug dosing in a functionally stable model of primary hepatocytes (micropatterned cocultures [MPCCs]) could provide for increased predictivity over short-term dosing paradigms. We used MPCCs with either primary human or rat hepatocytes to understand possible species differences along with standard endpoints (glutathione levels, ATP levels, albumin, and urea secretion) to test 45 drugs either known or not known to cause clinical DILI. Human MPCCs correctly detected 23 of 35 compounds known to cause DILI (65.7% sensitivity), with a FP rate of 10% for the 10 negative compounds tested. Rat MPCCs correctly detected 17 of 35 DILI compounds (48.6% sensitivity) and had a higher FP rate than human MPCCs (20 vs. 10%). For an additional 19 drugs with the most DILI concern, human MPCCs displayed a sensitivity of 100% when at least two hepatocyte donors were used for testing. Furthermore, MPCCs were able to detect relative clinical toxicities of structural drug analogs. In conclusion, MPCCs showed superiority over conventional short-term cultures for predictions of clinical DILI, and human MPCCs were more predictive for human liabilities than their rat counterparts.
Mutations in hemochromatosis protein (HFE) or transferrin receptor 2 (TFR2) cause hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) by impeding production of the liver iron-regulatory hormone, hepcidin (HAMP). This study examined the effects of disruption of Hfe or Tfr2, either alone or together, on liver iron loading and injury in mouse models of HH. Iron status was determined in Hfe knockout (Hfe(-/-)), Tfr2 Y245X mutant (Tfr2(mut)), and double-mutant (Hfe(-/-) ×Tfr2(mut) ) mice by measuring plasma and liver iron levels. Plasma alanine transaminase (ALT) activity, liver histology, and collagen deposition were evaluated to assess liver injury. Hepatic oxidative stress was assessed by measuring superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and F(2)-isoprostane levels. Gene expression was measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Hfe(-/-) ×Tfr2(mut) mice had elevated hepatic iron with a periportal distribution and increased plasma iron, transferrin saturation, and non-transferrin-bound iron, compared with Hfe(-/-), Tfr2(mut), and wild-type (WT) mice. Hamp1 expression was reduced to 40% (Hfe(-/-) and Tfr2(mut) ) and 1% (Hfe(-/-) ×Tfr2(mut)) of WT values. Hfe(-/-) ×Tfr2(mut) mice had elevated plasma ALT activity and mild hepatic inflammation with scattered aggregates of infiltrating inflammatory cluster of differentiation 45 (CD45)-positive cells. Increased hepatic hydoxyproline levels as well as Sirius red and Masson's Trichrome staining demonstrated advanced portal collagen deposition. Hfe(-/-) and Tfr2(mut) mice had less hepatic inflammation and collagen deposition. Liver F(2) -isoprostane levels were elevated, and copper/zinc and manganese SOD activities decreased in Hfe(-/-) ×Tfr2(mut), Tfr2(mut), and Hfe(-/-) mice, compared with WT mice.
Disruption of both Hfe and Tfr2 caused more severe hepatic iron overload with more advanced lipid peroxidation, inflammation, and portal fibrosis than was observed with the disruption of either gene alone. The Hfe(-/-) ×Tfr2(mut) mouse model of iron-induced liver injury reflects the liver injury phenotype observed in human HH.
Tissue distribution of dichlorvos (DDVP) was determined in a case of fatal ingestion using a rapid and simple gas chromatographic (GC) assay. Remarkable autopsy findings were congestion of the lung and kidneys and bleeding ulcer extending from the dorsum of the tongue to the upper pharynx. The serum cholinesterase activity was 2 IU/1, however, miosis was not observed. In the stomach, 250 ml of volatile fluid was found. Tissue distribution of DDVP was determined using a newly developed simple and rapid GC method. DDVP was found in the spleen and heart at higher concentrations (3340 and 815 micrograms/g, respectively), and also detected in the urine at the lowest level (4.5 micrograms/ml). The DDVP concentrations in blood, brain, lung, kidney and liver were 29, 9.7, 81, 80 and 20 micrograms/ml or g, respectively.
The free fatty acid receptor 1 (FFA1, also known as GPR40) enhances glucose-stimulated insulin secretion from pancreatic β-cells and is recognized as an interesting new target for treatment of type 2 diabetes. Several series of selective FFA1 agonists are already known. Most of these are derived from free fatty acids (FFAs) or glitazones and are relatively lipophilic. Aiming for the development of potent, selective, and less lipophilic FFA1 agonists, the terminal phenyl of a known compound series was replaced by nitrogen containing heterocycles. This resulted in the identification of 37, a selective FFA1 agonist with potent activity on recombinant human FFA1 receptors and on the rat insulinoma cell line INS-1E, optimal lipophilicity, and excellent in vitro permeability and metabolic stability.
Keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) is the seventh member of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family. It is produced by mesenchymal cells and its activity is specific for epithelial cells, controlling epithelial homeostasis and wound repair in a paracrine manner. Although KGF has been implicated in a number of hyperplastic pathologies, it has not previously been investigated in gingival hyperplasia (GH), an adverse side-effect of three pharmacologically different types of drugs, including the anti-hypertensive drug nifedipine (NIF). The mechanism by which NIF causes GH is not yet known, but we have recently shown that KGF mRNA transcripts are elevated in drug-induced GH in vivo (manuscript submitted). It is therefore possible that the action of NIF is mediated via KGF and, in the present study, using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and the semi-quantitative reverse transcribed-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we found that NIF upregulates KGF secretion and gene transcription by gingival fibroblasts in vitro. Our results thus suggest that KGF may have an important role in the molecular pathology of GH in vivo.
Previous analyses of fibrate safety may have been driven by a higher propensity for gemfibrozil to interact with cerivastatin, which is currently off the market because of safety concerns. We reviewed gemfibrozil- and fenofibrate-associated adverse event reports (AERs) submitted to the US Food and Drug Administration over a 5-year period. To control for cerivastatin's impact on fibrate-associated AERs, reports with concomitant cerivastatin use were excluded. Rates per million prescriptions were calculated for all AERs, serious AERs, rhabdomyolysis AERs, muscle-related AERs without rhabdomyolysis, and liver AERs. The rates of all AERs (odds ratio [OR] 0.76, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.69 to 0.83), serious AERs (OR 0.72, 95% CI 0.65 to 0.81), and liver AERs (OR 0.37, 95% CI 0.28 to 0.50) were significantly lower for gemfibrozil compared with fenofibrate (p <0.001 for each). In contrast, rates of rhabdomyolysis AERs (OR 2.67, 95% CI 2.11 to 3.39, p <0.001) and muscle-related AERs without rhabdomyolysis (OR 1.36, 95% CI 1.12 to 1.71, p = 0.002) were significantly higher for gemfibrozil compared with fenofibrate. In conclusion, the safety profiles of fibrates differ, with a higher rate of liver-related AERs associated with fenofibrate and a higher rate of muscle-related AERs associated with gemfibrozil. Rates of all AERs and serious AERs were higher with fenofibrate, but well within the range observed with commonly used lipid-altering medications.
Since 1981 we have received 50 tumor samples from 10 different sites; over half were breast or ovary. Of the 27 that were considered suitable for cloning, 11 produced colony formation and 6 of these were drug tested. One ovarian granulosa cell tumor and its xenograft (V7) were tested against several cytotoxic agents. During a period of 16 months, sensitivity to cisplatin was relatively stable but sensitivity to vinblastine was markedly changed when the original tumor cells and original cells stored in liquid nitrogen were compared with xenograft cells. These changes may be related to patient treatments prior to tumor sample collection. This xenograft V7 exhibited chromosome karyotype and iso-enzyme Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase consistent with it being of human origin. Gross histology of original tumor and xenograft were similar. Chemosensitization in vivo of a breast xenograft (Hx99) to melphalan by misonidazole was investigated. Misonidazole at a total dose of 0.5 g/kg given prior to melphalan (14 mg/kg) was an effective chemosensitizer.
To examine the time- and dose-dependent effects of ouabain on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) in vivo, and the changes in aortic endothelium and the different expression levels of Kv4.2 in vitro.
The proliferation of HUVEC and cell death were determined by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, the incorporation of [3H]TdR, trypan blue staining, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release. The response of endothelial cells to ouabain was explored with a complementary DNA microarray and a candidate gene was found. Ouabain-sensitive hypertensive rats were established by chronic administration of ouabain. Changes in the aortic endothelium were observed by electron microscopy, and the expression level of Kv4.2 in different animals was studied by using real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
Ouabain stimulated the proliferation of HUVEC at physiological concentrations (0.3-0.9 nmol/L). Ouabain at pathological concentrations (0.9-1.8 nmol/L) inhibited proliferation and induced cell death. mRNA profile analysis indicated that 340 genes were differentially expressed after ouabain treatment: 145 were upregulated, of which 6 were upregulated significantly, including KCND2 (encoding the potassium voltage-gated channel shal-related subfamily member 2). The upregulated genes were mainly related to cell metabolism and transcription. In ouabain-sensitive hypertensive rats, the aortic endothelium was damaged and Kv4.2 (coded by KCND2) was over-expressed.
The physiological role of ouabain in HUVEC might involve the control of growth and metabolism. Ouabain at pathological concentrations might affect the structure and function of the vascular endothelium by modification of expression of the KCND2 gene, and participate vascular remodeling in hypertension.
At present, the management of non-organ confined prostate cancer, whether it is a recurrence or metastasis, continues to evolve based on prostate cancer detection using prostate-specific antigen and the development of medications as alternatives for the classical orchiectomy, which induced irreversible implications for quality of life. Diethylstilbestrol therapy was associated with cardiovascular side-effects; GnRH agonists were able to create a castration level, but again considerable side-effects were described. Combination therapies using antiandrogens and GnRH agonists do not improve survival and have additional toxicity. GnRH antagonists, which also suppress FSH, represent the latest class of agents introduced for hormonal treatment, but phase III studies with survival data are not yet available. In spite of all these achievements, hormonal manipulation has resulted in only modest improvements during recent decades and new targets are needed to improve the clinical outcome. Selectively modifying the androgen receptor is currently one of the most promising developments.
It is estimated that 39% of people with diabetes worldwide who use insulin are prescribed premixes, largely because of the practical advantages of addressing both prandial and basal insulin needs with a single product. Rapid-acting premixed insulin analogues such as biphasic insulin aspart 30 (BIAsp 30 [30% soluble insulin aspart and 70% protamine-crystallized insulin aspart], NovoLog Mix 70/30, Novo Nordisk, Bagsvaerd, Denmark) have been developed recently to overcome the pharmacokinetic limitations of regular human insulin used in the most commonly prescribed premix, biphasic human insulin 30 (BHI 30, 30% human insulin and 70% neutral protamine Hagedorn [NPH] insulin). It would be expected that these pharmacokinetic improvements would enhance clinical performance. However, the efficacy of BIAsp 30 compared with other common treatment regimens has not yet been systematically reviewed.
The aim of this paper is to review current data on the efficacy of BIAsp 30 in comparison with other treatment strategies in type 2 diabetes, including oral antidiabetic drugs (eg, metformin, sulfonylureas, meglitinides, thiazolidinediones), conventional insulins (eg, BHI 30, NPH insulin), and other analogue insulins (eg, insulin glargine, biphasic insulin lispro 25 [Mix 25, 25% biphasic insulin lispro and 75% protaminated lispro]). The focus will be on comparative efficacy (ie, postprandial glucose [PPG], blood glucose profiles, and glycosylated hemoglobin [HbA1c]).
We identified human clinical studies published through February 2005 involving BIAsp 30 in patients with type 2 diabetes by performing a MEDLINE search (key words: biphasic insulin aspart, BIAsp 30, biphasic insulin, and premixed insulin). Additional papers were identified by assessing (1) the reference lists in these studies, (2) published conference proceedings, and (3) our reference files. A total of 21 relevant papers were retrieved: 13 were published as full manuscripts, 1 as a short communication, 5 as abstracts, and 1 as a poster. One paper is currently in press. Novo Nordisk supplied data from an unpublished trial (Study 1536, 2004), as well as data from a trial published in abstract form only (Study 1269, 2002).
A regimen of BIAsp 30 BID, at breakfast and dinner, provides improved PPG control compared with BHI 30 BID, NPH BID, and insulin glargine OD for patients with type 2 diabetes. Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) with BIAsp 30 was not significantly different from FPG with insulin glargine; however, FPG was higher with BIAsp 30 than with NPH. BIAsp 30 prevented excessive PPG excursions whether it was injected at the beginning of a meal or < or =15 minutes after starting a meal. BIAsp 30 was not associated with an increased risk of major hypoglycemia compared with other insulin regimens used in the studies reviewed. The incidence of minor hypoglycemic events with BIAsp 30 varied across studies but occurred with frequency or risk similar to BHI 30, Mix 25, or NPH. Treat-to-target trials reported that BIAsp 30 can be used to intensify insulin therapy and to reach the glycemic target recommended by the American Diabetes Association (ie, HbA1c <7.0%). One study reported a greater lowering of postprandial triglyceride levels with BIAsp 30 than with BHI 30.
BIAsp 30 BID can reduce PPG levels to a greater extent than other common treatment regimens, including basal insulin OD. Using BIAsp 30, even once daily, may allow some patients to reach glycemic targets with a degree of convenience and tolerability that may not be achievable with other treatment regimens.
The motor effects of the partial dopamine agonist EMD 49980 were evaluated in parkinsonian patients under controlled conditions. EMD 49980 monotherapy resulted in a mild improvement in parkinsonian symptoms, but when co-administered with levodopa, had no significant effect on dyskinesias or on the antiparkinsonian effect of the dopamine precursor. These results suggest that EMD 49980 exerts a net weak dopamine agonist effect but fails to ameliorate levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
