Adriamycin (ADR) is nephrotoxic. One component of ADR-induced nephropathy may be oxidative stress. This study used a recently developed line of transgenic mice (Nmt) on the FVB background strain, which over-express the antioxidant protein metallothionein (MT) in podocytes. Cultured podocytes from Nmt mice were resistant to H(2)O(2) injury, as judged by disruption of F-actin filaments. FVB control and transgenic mice received 11 mg/kg body weight ADR by tail vein injection and 24-h urine samples were then collected for albumin analysis. Also renal morphology was investigated by light and electron microscopy. Urine albumin analysis showed that ADR treatment significantly increased albuminuria in control mice, indicating that the FVB strain is sensitive to ADR nephropathy and Nmt mice were significantly protected from elevated albuminuria. Glomerular histopathology revealed that ADR reduced podocyte number and produced foot process effacement in FVB mice. The Nmt transgene protected podocyte numbers and podocyte foot processes from the effects of ADR. These results show that metallothionein can protect podocytes from ADR toxicity.
Ursodeoxycholic acid is widely used as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of cholestatic liver diseases. In these hepatopathies, the bile secretory failure produces accumulation of endogenous, tensioactive bile salts, leading to plasma membrane damage and, eventually, hepatocellular lysis. In the present study, we analyzed the capacity of the ursodeoxycholic acid endogenous metabolite, tauroursodeoxycholate (TUDC), to stabilize the hepatocellular plasma membrane against its transition to the micellar phase induced by the tensioactive bile salt taurochenodeoxycholate (TCDC), the main endogenous bile salt accumulated in cholestasis. The disruption of the plasma membrane was evaluated (i) in isolated hepatocytes, through the release of the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase to the incubation medium and (ii) in isolated plasma membranes, through the self-quenching assay of the membranotropic probe octadecylrhodamine B; this assay allows for detergent-induced transition from membrane bilayer to micelle to be monitored. Our results showed that isolated hepatocytes treated with TUDC are more resistant to TCDC-induced cell lysis. When this effect was evaluated in isolated plasma membranes, the TCDC concentration necessary to reach half of the transition from bilayer to micelle was increased by 22% (p<0.05). This difference remained even when TUDC was removed from the incubation medium before adding TCDC, thus indicating that TUDC exerted its effect directly on the plasma membrane. When the same experiments were carried out using the non-ionic detergent TX-100 or the cholesterol-complexing detergent digitonin, no protective effect was observed. In conclusion, TUDC prevents selectively the bilayer to micelle transition of the hepatocellular plasma membrane induced by hydrophobic bile salts that typically build up and accumulate in cholestatic processes. Our results suggest that formation of a complex between negatively charged TUDC and cholesterol in the membrane favours repulsion of negatively charged detergent bile salts, thus providing a basis for the understanding of the TUDC protective effects.
Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) is a blinding retinal disease that presents within the first year after birth. Using exome sequencing, we identified mutations in the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) synthase gene NMNAT1 encoding nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase 1 in eight families with LCA, including the family in which LCA was originally linked to the LCA9 locus. Notably, all individuals with NMNAT1 mutations also have macular colobomas, which are severe degenerative entities of the central retina (fovea) devoid of tissue and photoreceptors. Functional assays of the proteins encoded by the mutant alleles identified in our study showed that the mutations reduce the enzymatic activity of NMNAT1 in NAD biosynthesis and affect protein folding. Of note, recent characterization of the slow Wallerian degeneration (Wld(s)) mouse model, in which prolonged axonal survival after injury is observed, identified NMNAT1 as a neuroprotective protein when ectopically expressed. Our findings identify a new disease mechanism underlying LCA and provide the first link between endogenous NMNAT1 dysfunction and a human nervous system disorder.
We present the case of an 80-year-old lady known to be sensitive to chlorocresol (4-chloro-3-methyl phenol) who developed severe erythrodermic exfoliative dermatitis with atypical features 2 weeks after commencing subcutaneous insulin. All medications except insulin were stopped, without major improvement. It was noted that the insulin contained m-cresol (m-methyl phenol) so a parabens-based insulin was substituted. There was a significant improvement in her clinical condition within 72 hr. Further patch and intradermal testing to the insulin and m-cresol was planned, but she developed a nosocomial infection and died. We hypothesize that the adverse cutaneous reaction was a systemic manifestation of cresol sensitivity, given the rapid clinical resolution on changing insulins and the previously demonstrated sensitivity to chlorocresol, particularly as cross-reactivity between different low molecular weight methyl phenols is documented. Local injection site reactions and systemic side-effects including nausea, diarrhoea and vomiting have previously been reported with cresol-containing insulins, although to our knowledge, this is the first reported case of a severe cutaneous reaction. It is important to be aware of m-cresol as a potential allergen, as it is contained in most commercially available insulins.
Alternating hemiplegia of childhood (AHC) is a rare, severe neurodevelopmental syndrome characterized by recurrent hemiplegic episodes and distinct neurological manifestations. AHC is usually a sporadic disorder and has unknown etiology. We used exome sequencing of seven patients with AHC and their unaffected parents to identify de novo nonsynonymous mutations in ATP1A3 in all seven individuals. In a subsequent sequence analysis of ATP1A3 in 98 other patients with AHC, we found that ATP1A3 mutations were likely to be responsible for at least 74% of the cases; we also identified one inherited mutation in a case of familial AHC. Notably, most AHC cases are caused by one of seven recurrent ATP1A3 mutations, one of which was observed in 36 patients. Unlike ATP1A3 mutations that cause rapid-onset dystonia-parkinsonism, AHC-causing mutations in this gene caused consistent reductions in ATPase activity without affecting the level of protein expression. This work identifies de novo ATP1A3 mutations as the primary cause of AHC and offers insight into disease pathophysiology by expanding the spectrum of phenotypes associated with mutations in ATP1A3.
Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) is an autosomal recessive retinal dystrophy that manifests with genetic heterogeneity. We sequenced the exome of an individual with LCA and identified nonsense (c.507G>A, p.Trp169*) and missense (c.769G>A, p.Glu257Lys) mutations in NMNAT1, which encodes an enzyme in the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) biosynthesis pathway implicated in protection against axonal degeneration. We also found NMNAT1 mutations in ten other individuals with LCA, all of whom carry the p.Glu257Lys variant.
To assess the relative impact of inherited and de novo variants on autism risk, we generated a comprehensive set of exonic single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and copy number variants (CNVs) from 2,377 families with autism. We find that private, inherited truncating SNVs in conserved genes are enriched in probands (odds ratio = 1.14, P = 0.0002) in comparison to unaffected siblings, an effect involving significant maternal transmission bias to sons. We also observe a bias for inherited CNVs, specifically for small (<100 kb), maternally inherited events (P = 0.01) that are enriched in CHD8 target genes (P = 7.4 × 10(-3)). Using a logistic regression model, we show that private truncating SNVs and rare, inherited CNVs are statistically independent risk factors for autism, with odds ratios of 1.11 (P = 0.0002) and 1.23 (P = 0.01), respectively. This analysis identifies a second class of candidate genes (for example, RIMS1, CUL7 and LZTR1) where transmitted mutations may create a sensitized background but are unlikely to be completely penetrant.
A randomised observer masked clinical study was conducted to assess the additive effect of latanoprost (13,14-dihydro-17-phenyl-18,19,20-trinorprostaglandin F2 alpha-isopropylester) to timolol maleate in patients with elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). Patients were randomly assigned to two treatment groups. One group (n = 10) received timolol, the other group (n = 9) received latanoprost twice daily for 1 week. After 1 week all patients received both timolol and latanoprost. Eyes treated with timolol (mean diurnal IOP (SD) day 0, 24.2 (2.8) mm Hg) and latanoprost (mean diurnal IOP day 0, 28.5 (5.6) mm Hg) showed an IOP reduction of 5.9 (2.3) mm Hg (24%) and 8.9 (2.5) mm Hg (31%), respectively after the first week. Adding latanoprost to the eyes treated with timolol as well as timolol to the eyes receiving latanoprost gave a further reduction of 2.6 (1.1) mm Hg (13%) and 2.6 (2.2) mm Hg (14%), respectively. Only mild transient hyperaemia was observed in patients receiving latanoprost. The results indicate that latanoprost and timolol can be combined successfully and that complete or almost complete additivity is reached even at pressure levels below 20 mm Hg.
Cardiac arrhythmias have been reported during doxorubicin infusion. The aim of the present study was to investigate the prevalence of arrhythmias and elucidate whether previous cardiac disease might increase the probability of treatment-related ectopic activity. In 18 patients with small cell lung cancer, 11 with concomitant heart disease, electrocardiogram (ECG) was continuously registered by a portable tape recorder 24 h before, during and 24 h after doxorubicin infusion (Holter monitoring). The only significant finding was an increased number of bigeminal ventricular extrasystoles after doxorubicin infusion. A trend of increased number of ventricular extrasystoles was also observed. The study suggests that pretreatment arrhythmias do not dispose for increased cardiac irritability and that bolus injections of doxorubicin do not seriously influence the ectopic activity in patients with and without heart disease.
The simultaneous administration of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) and phenobarbital in the rat produces one of the most common experimental models of liver cirrhosis. As phenobarbital also has a hepatotrophic effect, its role in liver regeneration following partial hepatectomy (HTX) is not elucidated.
To examine the effect of long-term administration of phenobarbital in liver regeneration after HTX with regard to CCl4-induced cirrhotic rat model. Materials and Methods. The liver regeneration following HTX in phenobarbital-treated rats (PB rats) was compared to that seen in cirrhotic rats (LC rats), induced by oral gavage of CCl4 and phenobarbital, and normal rats. The effect of the withdrawal of phenobarbital was also examined. Liver regeneration was estimated 24 h after the HTX by measuring the liver weight, the DNA content in the liver, and [3H]thymidine incorporation into the DNA.
Treatment with CCl4 and phenobarbital caused liver deformity, and the highest percentage of liver weight regeneration was seen in LC rats with this deformity, even though [3H]thymidine incorporation into the DNA was impaired in this group. Phenobarbital had a hepatotrophic effect, but its withdrawal caused a decrease in liver mass and cessation of body weight gain. The change in the DNA content 24 h after HTX was negative in PB rats.
Liver regeneration could not be estimated using liver or body weight in the PB or LC rat model. [3H]Thymidine incorporation into the DNA was reliable indicator of liver regeneration in the different liver states during the early stage after HTX. Although the DNA content with respect to total liver mass was obscured due to liver inflation in PB rats, [3H]thymidine incorporation into the DNA between PB rats and normal rats was similar.
Seventy-nine patients with malignant gliomas (19 anaplastic astrocytomas and 60 glioblastoma multiforme) received 4 cycles of infra-ophthalmic carotid injection of 160 mg carmustine, 2 mg vincristine IV and procarbazine orally 50 mg 3 times daily for 1 week, followed by whole-brain irradiation, with a midpoint dose of 54 Gy/6 weeks. Response, judged by CT-scan, was seen in 31 out of 57 evaluable patients with a median survival of 30 months and 40% survival at 3 years. In all patients who responded to the treatment, a tumour regression was seen on CT-scan after chemotherapy before irradiation. In the 26 patients with progressive disease under chemotherapy, the median survival was 5 months. None of the patients who had progressive disease during chemotherapy had benefit from irradiation. The most important prognostic factors were good pretreatment performance status, glucocorticoid dependency and age. Few serious side-effects of the angiographic procedure were seen. Leukoencephalopathy was not observed in this study.
1. Granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is reported to have a beneficial effect on cardiac dysfunction in postinfarction and doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy. Thus, the aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of G-CSF on cardiac remodelling in angiotensin (Ang) II-induced hypertrophy. 2. Four groups of mice were investigated. The first group served as a control group. The second group was injected with recombinant human G-CSF (10 microg/kg per day, s.c.) on the first 5 days of each week and treatment was continued for 4 weeks. An osmotic minipump was implanted subcutaneously into each mouse in the third group so that pressor doses of AngII (2.88 mg/kg per day) or saline could be administered over a period of 4 weeks. The fourth group was infused with AngII (2.88 mg/kg per day) and injected with G-CSF (10 microg/kg per day, s.c.) for 4 weeks. 3. Angiotensin II treatment significantly elevated blood pressure and caused cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis in mice. Treatment of mice with G-CSF did not reduce the AngII-induced increase in blood pressure, but ameliorated the development of cardiac fibrosis and hypertrophy. Infusion of AngII induced upregulation of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) expression and downregulation of ACE2 expression. Treatment with G-CSF reduced cardiac levels of ACE and increased ACE2 expression. In addition, G-CSF treatment reduced the expression of osteopontin (OPN) and phospho-p70S6 kinase, which were upregulated by AngII infusion. 4. These results suggest that G-CSF reduces AngII-induced hypertrophy. Modulation of the expression of the ACE isoforms contributes to regression of AngII-induced cardiac hypertrophy. The effect of G-CSF to prevent cardiac fibrosis and hypertrophy may be mediated, in part, via inhibition of OPN expression and p70S6 kinase phosphorylation.
Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) is an infantile-onset form of inherited retinal degeneration characterized by severe vision loss(1,2). Two-thirds of LCA cases are caused by mutations in 17 known disease-associated genes(3) (Retinal Information Network (RetNet)). Using exome sequencing we identified a homozygous missense mutation (c.25G>A, p.Val9Met) in NMNAT1 that is likely to be disease causing in two siblings of a consanguineous Pakistani kindred affected by LCA. This mutation segregated with disease in the kindred, including in three other children with LCA. NMNAT1 resides in the previously identified LCA9 locus and encodes the nuclear isoform of nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase, a rate-limiting enzyme in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) biosynthesis(4,5). Functional studies showed that the p.Val9Met alteration decreased NMNAT1 enzyme activity. Sequencing NMNAT1 in 284 unrelated families with LCA identified 14 rare mutations in 13 additional affected individuals. These results are the first to link an NMNAT isoform to disease in humans and indicate that NMNAT1 mutations cause LCA.
Catecholamines have been shown to produce irreversible contraction band lesions of myocardial cells. However, little is known about the temporal appearance and correlation of the acute form of coagulative myocytolysis with ECG, hemodynamic and biochemical parameters. Groups of adult mongrel dogs were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital, infused continuously with isoproterenol (2.5 micrograms/kg/min) and killed after periods of 0, 5, 15, 30, or 60 min. There were two predominant myocardial patterns: 'paradiscal' and 'holocytic' contraction band lesions. Either type of lesion was non-existent or rare in the control hearts. The small 'paradiscal' contraction band lesions were present as early as 5 min of isoproterenol infusion, particularly in the inner myocardial layer. The large 'holocytic' contraction band lesions were present by 15 min, however, they were not produced in any significant numbers before 30 min. Both types of contraction band lesions continued to accumulate up to 60 min. ST segment depression was the predominant ECG change. This occurred as early as 5 min when heart rate, blood pressure and dP/dt values had also significantly changed. The high-energy phosphates, phosphocreatine and ATP, started declining as early as 5 min. Furthermore, these phosphates and lactate were distributed in transmural gradients across the left ventricular wall with the greatest change in the endocardial third. This was also the site of the largest accumulation of each type of contraction band lesion. While the lesions correlated with certain biochemical and hemodynamic changes, the underlying pathophysiology is more complex than ischemia or high-energy phosphate depletion alone.
In addition to its activity in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) synthesis, the nuclear nicotinamide mononucleotide adenyltransferase NMNAT1 acts as a chaperone that protects against neuronal activity-induced degeneration. Here we report that compound heterozygous and homozygous NMNAT1 mutations cause severe neonatal neurodegeneration of the central retina and early-onset optic atrophy in 22 unrelated individuals. Their clinical presentation is consistent with Leber congenital amaurosis and suggests that the mutations affect neuroprotection of photoreceptor cells.
We characterized the mutational landscape of melanoma, the form of skin cancer with the highest mortality rate, by sequencing the exomes of 147 melanomas. Sun-exposed melanomas had markedly more ultraviolet (UV)-like C>T somatic mutations compared to sun-shielded acral, mucosal and uveal melanomas. Among the newly identified cancer genes was PPP6C, encoding a serine/threonine phosphatase, which harbored mutations that clustered in the active site in 12% of sun-exposed melanomas, exclusively in tumors with mutations in BRAF or NRAS. Notably, we identified a recurrent UV-signature, an activating mutation in RAC1 in 9.2% of sun-exposed melanomas. This activating mutation, the third most frequent in our cohort of sun-exposed melanoma after those of BRAF and NRAS, changes Pro29 to serine (RAC1(P29S)) in the highly conserved switch I domain. Crystal structures, and biochemical and functional studies of RAC1(P29S) showed that the alteration releases the conformational restraint conferred by the conserved proline, causes an increased binding of the protein to downstream effectors, and promotes melanocyte proliferation and migration. These findings raise the possibility that pharmacological inhibition of downstream effectors of RAC1 signaling could be of therapeutic benefit.
Cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of death worldwide, and hypertension is the major risk factor. Mendelian hypertension elucidates mechanisms of blood pressure regulation. Here we report six missense mutations in PDE3A (encoding phosphodiesterase 3A) in six unrelated families with mendelian hypertension and brachydactyly type E (HTNB). The syndrome features brachydactyly type E (BDE), severe salt-independent but age-dependent hypertension, an increased fibroblast growth rate, neurovascular contact at the rostral-ventrolateral medulla, altered baroreflex blood pressure regulation and death from stroke before age 50 years when untreated. In vitro analyses of mesenchymal stem cell-derived vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) and chondrocytes provided insights into molecular pathogenesis. The mutations increased protein kinase A-mediated PDE3A phosphorylation and resulted in gain of function, with increased cAMP-hydrolytic activity and enhanced cell proliferation. Levels of phosphorylated VASP were diminished, and PTHrP levels were dysregulated. We suggest that the identified PDE3A mutations cause the syndrome. VSMC-expressed PDE3A deserves scrutiny as a therapeutic target for the treatment of hypertension.
Long-term outcome was analyzed in 28 patients transplanted between 1989 and 1992 following busulfan and cyclophosphamide and who had busulfan levels studied. While there was no significant correlation of busulfan levels with diagnosis, patients who had received extensive prior chemotherapy had a significantly higher area under the curve (AUC; P = 0.02) and maximum busulfan levels (Cmax; P = 0.03). High AUC was associated with the development of hepatic veno-occlusive disease (P = 0.03) and with early transplant-related mortality (P = 0.06). No significant correlation of busulfan levels with relapse, late non-relapse death, late complications, nor event-free survival was detected.
We report six cases of psychosis in patients with akinetic-rigid syndromes who were treated with risperidone.
Five of the six patients experienced intolerable exacerbation of parkinsonism. Four subsequently did well on clozapine therapy. One patient required nursing home placement and a feeding gastrostomy as a result of the worsening parkinsonism during risperidone treatment, but was able to return home and have the gastrostomy removed after switching from risperidone to clozapine. Two of the five patients who worsened motorically also developed encephalopathy during risperidone treatment; the encephalopathy resolved when the patients were switched to clozapine treatment. Only one patient, the youngest, did well on risperidone therapy.
We believe that risperidone is not a substitute for clozapine in treating psychosis in parkinsonian patients and should be used with caution.
In animal models, kidney formation is known to be controlled by the proteins RET, GDNF, and GFRA1; however, no human studies to date have shown an association between abnormal kidney development and mutation of these genes. We hypothesized that stillborn fetuses with congenital renal agenesis or severe dysplasia would possess mutations in RET, GDNF, or GFRA1. We assayed for mutations in these genes in 33 stillborn fetuses that had bilateral or unilateral renal agenesis (29 subjects) or severe congenital renal dysplasia (4 subjects). Mutations in RET were found in 7 of 19 fetuses with bilateral renal agenesis (37%) and 2 of 10 fetuses (20%) with unilateral agenesis. In two fetuses, there were two different RET mutations found, and a total of ten different sequence variations were identified. We also investigated whether these mutations affected RET activation; in each case, RET phosphorylation was either absent or constitutively activated. A GNDF mutation was identified in only one fetus with unilateral agenesis; this subject also had two RET mutations. No GFRA1 mutations were seen in any fetuses. These data suggest that in humans, mutations in RET and GDNF may contribute significantly to abnormal kidney development.
Seventy-five female patients suffering from advanced breast cancer were treated with toilet mastectomy, radiotherapy and oophorectomy (if premenopausal) or tamoxifen therapy (if postmenopausal) as well as chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil and prednisone. The most common side-effects of combined chemohormonal therapy were gastro-intestinal (nausea, vomiting, rarely diarrhoea) in 43 patients (57.3%), followed by alopecia in 23 patients (30.6%), myelosuppression in 12 patients (16%), extravasation and thrombophlebitis in 7 patients (9.3%), and mucositis and oral erythema in 3 patients (4%). Side-effects of tamoxifen therapy such as vaginal discharge, bleeding, hot flushes were encountered in 10 patients (13.3%). Hypercalcaemia, tumour flare and hepatic, renal, cardiac, pulmonary and neurological toxicities were not encountered. Improvement of 10-30% in Karnofsky performance status was noted in responders while 20-30% deterioration was observed in non-responders. Combination therapy was mostly well tolerated, side-effects were few and toxicities were temporary and reversible.
Although scopolamine is currently used to treat morphine addiction in humans, its extensive actions on behaviors have not been systematically analyzed yet, and the underlying mechanisms of its effects still remain ambiguous. The present study was carried out to clarify the possible mechanisms by evaluating the effects of scopolamine pretreatment and treatment on naloxone-precipitated withdrawal signs and some of other general behaviors in morphine dependent rats. Our results showed that scopolamine pretreatment and treatment attenuated naloxone-precipitated withdrawal signs including jumping, writhing posture, weight loss, genital grooming, teeth-chattering, ptosis, diarrhea and irritability, except for wet dog shakes, while general behaviors such as water intake, urine volume and morphine excretion in urine were increased. Our findings suggest that scopolamine has significant actions in the treatment of opiate addiction, which might result from increasing morphine excretion from urine.
Insulin resistance is the hallmark of type 2 diabetes. As an essential trace element, selenium (Se) is recommended worldwide for supplementation to prevent Se-deficient pathological conditions, including diabetes and insulin resistance. However, recent evidence has shown that supra-nutritional Se intake is positively associated with the prevalence of diabetes. In the present research, we examined the effect of high Se on insulin sensitivity, and studied possible mechanisms in rats and in rat hepatocytes. Insulin sensitivity and glucose/lipid metabolism were determined by glucose/insulin tolerance test, western blot, immunofluorescence, specific probes and other biochemical assays. We show that high Se activates selenoproteins, including glutathione peroxidase and selenoprotein P, and depletes chromium, leading to a common metabolic intersection-lipolysis in adipose tissue and influx of fatty acids in liver. Fatty acid β-oxidation generates acetyl-CoA, which is metabolized in trichloroacetic acid cycle, supplying excessive electrons for mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and leading to increased "bad" reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in mitochondria and final disturbance of insulin signaling. Furthermore, high Se-activated selenoproteins also weaken insulin-stimulated "good" ROS signal generated by NAD(P)H oxidase, leading to attenuation of insulin signaling. Taken together, these data suggest that excessive intake of Se induces hepatic insulin resistance through opposite regulation of ROS.
To evaluate relationships between the phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of patients with congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD).
Retrospective study.
A university hospital urology-andrology department.
Forty-one men with CBAVD.
CBAVD was diagnosed during surgical and/or ultrasound exploration of the vasa deferentia (VD) (n = 39), or on the basis of impalpable scrotal VD (n = 2).
History, clinical and seminal characteristics, and cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene mutations including IVS-8 polyT analysis.
A palpable scrotal vas deferens was present as a fibrous cord or nonpermeable duct in 13% of patients undergoing surgical exploration. Seminal vesicles were bilaterally absent in 28% of patients. No CFTR gene mutation or 5T allele was detected in 24.5% of the patients. Two CBAVD patients with renal agenesis carried a CFTR gene mutation (DeltaF508/5T-9T and R117G/7T-9T). CBAVD patients who have both a semen volume of < or =1.0 mL and a semen pH of < 7.0 have a significantly higher risk of severe CFTR gene mutation (OR = 9.12 [95% CI = 1.81-49.50]).
A palpable scrotal vas deferens was found in 13% of CBAVD patients. Semen volume of < or =1.0 mL and semen pH of < 7.0 in CBAVD patients were associated with a higher risk of severe CFTR gene mutations. Patients with CBAVD and renal agenesis should be screened for CFTR gene mutations before assisted reproductive techniques are used.
The present experiment deals with the effects of amphetamine and cocaine on the development and course of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced in Lewis rats. Rats were immunized at the age of eight weeks with purified myelin basic protein isolated from guinea pig brain in complete Freund's adjuvant. Drug administration and recording of EAE clinical signs was performed daily since day 1 post-immunization (PI). On day 14 and 28 PI, six rats per group were bled and sacrificed. Spinal cord was examined histologically for EAE lesions. In vivo administration of 0.5 and 1 mg/Kg of amphetamine or cocaine resulted in a dose-related enhancement of neurological and histological signs of acute EAE in comparison with control rats. Both drugs caused a reduction of latent period together with a delayed regression of neurological signs along with an increase in inflammation in the central nervous system in comparison with placebo. Human & Experimental Toxicology (2007) 26, 637-643.
The most important side-effect of sulfonylureas is hypoglycaemia. According to surveys in Switzerland and in Sweden it occurs at a frequency of about 2 cases per 10,000 treatment years. Mortality is high, about 10%. The syndrome of inappropriate ADH-secretion has been observed almost exclusively during treatment with chlorpropamide. Asymptomatic cases of SIADH-syndrome are quite frequent, hyponatraemia has been observed in 6-10% of diabetics treated with chlorpropamide. The most dangerous side-effect of biguanides is lactic acidosis. It occurs significantly more frequent during treatment with phenformin compared to metformin. Metformin has been reported to lead to lactic acidosis in 0.4 cases per 10,000 treatment years; mortality is about 30%. Mortality of phenformin-associated lactic acidosis is even higher, 70%. Both biguanides, phenformin and metformin, cause relatively frequently vitamin B12-malabsorption (in about 1/3 of the cases). However, symptomatic vitamin B12-deficiency is extremely rare.
The trial has been carried out on 33 treated Parkinsonian patients and 14 healthy controls. A series of psychometric tests were employed in order to show a possible intellectual deterioration in Parkinsonian patients. Bender's test showed greater motor-perceptive deterioration in Parkinsonian patients respect to control, the Wechsler-Bellevue Intelligence Scale evidenced in patients significant deterioration of mnesic and psychomotor capacity. When considering drug treatments patients undergoing combined treatment or anti-cholinergics alone obtained worse results in all tests made whilst patients on L-Dopa alone obtained the best results.
