Extradural clonidine produces analgesia, with sedation, hypotension and bradycardia, in postoperative patients. This study assessed if oral yohimbine would reverse these side effects. We studied 30 ASA I-II patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery. After operation they were allocated randomly to three groups to receive placebo, extradural clonidine 450 micrograms or extradural clonidine 450 micrograms plus oral yohimbine 16 mg. Pain score was measured on a visual analogue scale (VAS); sedation was assessed on a simple scale graded from 0 (awake and alert) to 3 (deeply sedated, awakening after tactile stimulations) and heart rate and arterial pressure were monitored for 5 h. Yohimbine reversed the sedation induced by extradural clonidine, but also shortened the duration of analgesia (31 (SD 15) min, 186 (72) min and 126 (52) min in the placebo, extradural clonidine and extradural clonidine+yohimbine groups, respectively) (P < 0.05), and did not reduce the hypotension and bradycardia related to clonidine administration. These results suggest that alpha 2 adrenoceptors are mediators of the sedation induced by clonidine and that the haemodynamic effects are not related to stimulation of supraspinal alpha 2 receptors.
Propranolol and Dyazide (25 mg hydrochlorothiazide and 50 mg triamterene) were used singly to reduce the elevated blood pressure (systolic ranging from 170 to 271 mmHg and diastolic ranging from 100 to 141 mmHg) of 38 elderly hypertensive patients whose ages ranged from 69 to 91 years. Each compound was administered for a period of four weeks with a wash-out period of four weeks in between. The following parameters were assessed before and after each treatment period: cerebral blood flow (CBF), mental functions, cardiac output (CO), electrocardiogram, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and serum biochemistry. Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure were significantly reduced following the administration of either compound. No significant change in CBF and CO could be observed after reducing the blood pressure whether Propranolol or Dyazide was used. The GFR was, however, significantly reduced and the plasma creatinine significantly increased following Dyazide but not Propranolol administration. As expected the administration of the latter compound was associated with a significant bradycardia. No significant change could be observed in the other parameters studied.
Adverse reactions to drugs are well recognized as a cause of acute or chronic urticaria, and angio-oedema. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, used to treat hypertension and congestive heart failure, were introduced in Europe in the middle of the eighties, and the use of these drugs has increased progressively. Soon after the introduction of ACE inhibitors, acute bouts of angio-oedema were reported in association with the use of these drugs. We wish to draw attention to the possibility of adverse reactions to ACE inhibitors after long-term use and in patients with pre-existing angio-oedema.
We evaluated a unilateral retinal vascular abnormality in a 34-year-old woman receiving bromocriptine mesylate for the suppression of postpartum lactation. After using bromocriptine, 2.5 mg twice daily for 1 week, the patient complained of metamorphopsia in the left eye. A central retinal vein occlusion was found. We believe that central retinal vein occlusion in patients receiving bromocriptine, as demonstrated in our patient, is rare.
Hepatitis represents a common problem in operating room (OR) personnel. The differential diagnosis is usually narrowed to viral hepatitis versus halothane-associated hepatitis. While specific immunologic technics are available to diagnose viral hepatitis, halothane hepatitis cannot presently be unequivocally diagnosed with available clinical, biochemical, immunologic, or pathologic technics. Suggestions for management of OR personnel with hepatitis can only be based on insufficient evidence at present. The authors have initiated a prospective study to help clarify this situation.
Alpha-tocopherol has been reported to exert an anti-atherogenesis effect. We attempted to clarify the effect of alpha-tocopherol-both as an antioxidant and as a nonantioxidant--on apoptosis induced by oxidized low-density lipoprotein (LDL) or oxysterols. Oxidized LDL and oxysterols induced necrosis and/or apoptosis of vascular endothelial cells. The induction of apoptosis was associated with increased caspase-3 activity and the generation of intracellular reactive oxygen species, both the effects of which were attenuated by alpha-tocopherol. Apoptosis was also decreased by beta-tocopherol or intracellular radical scavengers, but these suppressive effects were less than those of alpha-tocopherol. Neither beta-tocopherol nor the scavengers had pronounced effect on caspase-3 activity, but each of them decreased the generation of reactive oxygen species to the same extent as alpha-tocopherol. Our study suggests that alpha-Toc protects against apoptosis not only by scavenging reactive oxygen species, but also by inhibiting caspase activity, which means that its activity may exceed that of a mere antioxidant.
This report notes the incidence and quality of paraesthesiae related to treatment with risperidone, as well as potential implications for treatment. Possible pathophysiologic explanations are offered.
Diazepam is a valuable and widely-used adjunct to many inpatient and outpatient diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. However, the occasional and often unexpected delirium or coma induced by even modest doses of diazepam can be life threatening. Four cases are reported which demonstrate the prompt and effective reversal of diazepam-induced delirium and coma by the administration of physostigmine.
SKH-1 hairless mice were irradiated with ultraviolet B (UVB) twice weekly for 20 weeks. These tumor-free mice, which had a high risk of developing skin tumors during the next several months, were then treated topically with caffeine (6.2 micromol) or (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG; 6.5 micromol) once a day 5 days a week for 18 weeks in the absence of further treatment with UVB. Topical applications of caffeine to these mice decreased the number of nonmalignant and malignant skin tumors per mouse by 44% and 72%, respectively. Topical applications of EGCG decreased the number of nonmalignant and malignant tumors per mouse by 55% and 66%, respectively. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that topical applications of caffeine or EGCG increased apoptosis as measured by the number of caspase 3-positive cells in nonmalignant skin tumors by 87% or 72%, respectively, and in squamous cell carcinomas by 92% or 56%, respectively, but there was no effect on apoptosis in nontumor areas of the epidermis. Topical applications of caffeine or EGCG had a small inhibitory effect on proliferation in nonmalignant tumors as measured by BrdUrd labeling (16-22%), and there was also a similar, but nonsignificant, inhibitory effect on proliferation in malignant tumors. The results suggest a need for further studies to determine whether topical applications of caffeine or EGCG can inhibit sunlight-induced skin cancer in humans.
The fluorescent hydrophobic pyrene probe was employed to study the viscosity of membrane lipids of rat heart sarcoplasmic reticulum in isoproterenol myocarditis. During pyrene incorporation into the reticulum obtained from the affected myocardium, the increase in the microviscosity occurred at lower temperatures and more rapidly both in "bound" and "free" membrane lipids as compared with normal. The increase of the viscosity of the reticulum membranes in isoproterenol myocarditis was accompanied by a lowering of the activity of Ca, Mg-ATPase of the sarcoplasmic reticulum coupled with an elevation of the content of lipid peroxidation products.
Acute toxic responses to a 50-mg/kg oral dose of 1-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) were evaluated by microarray analysis of laser capture-microdissected rat biliary epithelium or hepatic parenchyma obtained 2 and 6 hours postdose. Distinct differences in gene expression patterns between biliary epithelium and hepatic parenchyma were noted at the 2-hour postdose time point, where 375 genes were altered in biliary epithelium but only 38 genes were altered in hepatic parenchyma. Endoplasmic reticulum stress genes were uniquely expressed in biliary epithelial cells at 2 hours postdose. By 6 hours postdose, 620 genes were altered in biliary epithelium, but only 32 genes were altered in hepatic parenchyma. In biliary epithelium, expression of genes involved in the unfolded protein response had decreased compared with the 2-hour time point, while expression of genes involved in protein degradation such as proteasome-ubquination pathways and cell death pathways had increased. At this same time, hepatic parenchymal gene expression changed little. Within 6 hours following oral exposure to ANIT, prior to morphologic changes, specific biliary epithelial gene expression changes, indicative of a vigorous unfolded protein response with protein destruction and cell death pathway activation were noted, in contrast to minor changes in the hepatic parenchyma.
Using clonogenic survival assays, we demonstrated that a new platinum-acridine hybrid agent, PT-ACRAMTU, is cytotoxic in SNB19 and U87MG glioblastoma cells at low-micromolar concentrations. PT-ACRAMTU is more cytotoxic than ACRAMTU (the platinum-free acridine), acts in a time and dose dependent manner, and appears to generate an apoptotic response in both cell lines on the basis of increased caspase-3 activity.
A case of a 13-year-old boy with ocular quinine intoxication was reported. He had been diagnosed as having cerebral malaria and had received quinine dihydrochloride for one week by intravenous drip infusion; the total dose was 12.6 g. When the patient was examined by us at the time of admission to our Hospital the visual acuity was zero in both eyes. During the hospitalization, recordings of electroretinogram and visually evoked potential were repeated, in addition to the conventional ophthalmological examinations. Although no particular treatment was given, the visual acuity showed a gradual recovery in both eyes; it was 20/200 at the 4th week and 20/30 at the 21st week after admission. Fluorescein fundus angiography at one week after admission revealed a moderate narrowing of the retinal arterioles and a slight reduction of capillaries on the optic disk. The electroretinogram and visually evoked potential were nonrecordable initially, but they showed recovery concomitantly with the recovery of the visual acuity. It was suggested that all of the retinal layers and also the optic nerve were affected by the intoxication.
The objective was to compare outcomes in emergency department (ED) patients with preinjury warfarin use and traumatic intracranial hemorrhage (tICH) who did and did not receive recombinant activated factor VIIa (rFVIIa) for international normalized ratio (INR) reversal.
This was a retrospective before-and-after study conducted at a Level 1 trauma center, with data from 1999 to 2009. Eligible patients had preinjury warfarin use and tICH on cranial computed tomography (CT) scan. Patients before (standard cohort) and after (rFVIIa cohort) implementation of a protocol for administering 1.2 mg of rFVIIa in the ED were reviewed. Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score, Revised Trauma Score (RTS), Injury Severity Score (ISS), INR, and Marshall score were collected. Outcome measures included mortality, thromboembolic complications, and INR normalization.
Forty patients (median age=80.5 years, interquartile range [IQR]=63.5-85) were included (20 in each cohort). Age, GCS score, ISS, RTS, initial INR, and Marshall score were similar (p>0.05) between the two cohorts. Survival was identical between cohorts (13 of 20, or 65.0%, 95% confidence interval [CI]=40.8% to 84.6%). There were no differences in rate of thromboembolic complications in the standard cohort (1 of 20, 5.0%, 95% CI=0.1% to 24.9%) than the rFVIIa cohort (4 of 20, 20.0%, 95% CI=5.7% to 43.7%; p=0.34). Time to normal INR was earlier in the rFVIIa cohort (mean=4.8 hours, 95% CI=3.0 to 6.7 hours) than in the standard cohort (mean=17.5 hours, 95% CI=12.5 to 22.6; p<0.001).
In patients with preinjury warfarin and tICH, use of rFVIIa was associated with a decreased time to normal INR. However, no difference in mortality was identified. Use of rFVIIa in patients on warfarin and tICH requires further study to demonstrate important patient-oriented outcomes.
1. The effects of orally administered aqueous lyophilized extract of the leaves of Rhazya stricta (2, 4 & 8 g/kg) on aspects of nervous system function were investigated in mice. 2. In three antinociceptive tests (hot plate, abdominal constriction, and warm water tail flick tests), the extract exhibited dose-dependent and significant antinociceptive activity. Naloxone was ineffective in antagonizing the analgesic effect of Rhazya stricta on tail-flick and abdominal constriction tests, possibly indicating that this effect occurs via non-opiate pathways. 3.Pretreatment of mice with the xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes inhibitor cimetidine (50 mg/kg) did not significantly alter the antinociceptive action of the extract, indicating that the effect is probably due to the parent compound(s) present in the extract and not to metabolites thereof. 4. Rhazya stricta produce dose-dependent sedation, decreased motor activity, and impaired motor control. Time spent on a rotarod treadmill was significantly decreased after treatment with the extract. 5. Rhazya stricta extract (8 g/kg) produced a degree of sedation comparable to that produced by diazepam (5-10 mg/kg), and also significantly increased the reaction time of the tail-flick test, an action which was not produced by diazepam. 6. Administration of R. stricta extract potentiated pentobarbitone sleeping time in a dose dependent manner. The extract did not significantly antagonize picrotoxin induced convulsions. The extract (4 and 8 g/kg) significantly decreased the rectal temperature of normothermic and hyperthermic mice. 7. Pretreatment with R. stricta extract (8 g/kg) completely prevented the occurrence of aggressive behaviour in male mice. 8. It is concluded that the crude extract of R. stricta has central nervous system depressant properties.
Growth arrest-specific gene 6 (gas6) product enhances the formation of stable platelet macroaggregates in response to various agonists. To determine whether Gas6 amplifies the response to known platelet agonists through one or more of its receptor tyrosine kinases of the Tyro3 family, mice deficient in any one of the Gas6 receptors (Gas6-Rs: Tyro3, Axl, or Mer) were submitted to thrombosis challenge and their platelet function. The loss of any one of the Gas6-Rs protects mice against thromboembolism induced by collagen-epinephrine and stasis-induced thrombosis. Importantly, these mice do not suffer spontaneous bleeding and have a normal bleeding time but a tendency to repetitively re-bleed after transient hemostasis. Re-bleeding in mice lacking any one of the Gas6-Rs is not due to thrombocytopenia or coagulopathy but to a platelet dysfunction characterized by a lack of the second wave of platelet aggregation and an impaired clot retraction, at least in part by reducing outside-in alpha(IIb)beta(3) signaling and platelet granule secretion. The early release of Gas6 by agonists perpetuates platelet activation through its three receptors, reinforcing outside-in alpha(IIb)beta(3) signaling by activation of PI3K and Akt signaling and stimulation of tyrosine phosphorylation of the beta(3) integrin. Furthermore, "trapping" Gas6 prevents pathological thrombosis, which indicates that blocking this novel cross-talk between the Gas6-Rs and alpha(IIb)beta(3) integrin may constitute a novel target for antithrombotic therapy.
Recent data suggest that aldosterone antagonists have beneficial effects on diabetic nephropathy. In this study, we investigated the dose-dependent effect of eplerenone and a combined treatment with eplerenone and enalapril compared with each drug alone on renal function in type II diabetic rats. To further explore the molecular mechanism of action of combination therapy, we also performed in vitro study.
The animals were divided into six groups as follows: normal control Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rats, Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rats, OLETF rats treated with low dose of eplerenone (50 mg/kg/day), OLETF rats treated with high dose of eplerenone (200 mg/kg/day), OLETF rats treated with enalapril (10 mg/kg/day) and OLETF rats treated with a combination of both drugs (eplerenone 200 mg/kg/day and enalapril 10 mg/kg/day) for 6 months.
Treatment of OLETF rats had no significant effect on body weight, kidney weight and blood glucose levels. However, urinary albumin excretion, glomerular filtration rate and glomerulosclerosis were significantly improved in the enalapril group and improvement was observed in a dose-dependent manner in the eplerenone groups; the most dramatic decreases were observed in the combination group. In accordance with these findings, renal expressions of TGF-beta1, type IV collagen and PAI-1 were also markedly decreased in the treatment groups, with the combined treatment providing the most significant level of improvement. In cultured mesangial cells, combined treatment resulted in an additive decrease in TGF-beta1, PAI-1 and collagen gene expressions and protein production induced by high glucose and aldosterone stimulation.
Aldosterone receptor antagonism provided additional benefits beyond blockade of the renin-angiotensin system in type II diabetic nephropathy.
The cardiovascular effects of the H2-receptor-antagonists cimetidine and ranitidine have been compared in a randomized double-blind crossover study. The experiments were performed in seven anesthetized mongrel dogs. Cimetidine (200 mg) and ranitidine (50 mg) were infused i.v. for 2 min. The time interval between cimetidine and ranitidine application was always 3 h. The direct comparison of the drug effects on blood pressure shows a significant difference between cimetidine and ranitidine (P less than 0.001). Apart from the sequence of application, cimetidine causes a significant decrease (P less than 0.01) in total peripheral resistance (-271 +/- 50 dyn . s . cm-5) resulting in a decrease in mean blood pressure (-9 +/- 1.1 mmHg). In contrast to cimetidine, none of the recorded parameters are altered significantly by ranitidine. Heart rate, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, myocardial contractility (dP/dtmaxLV), mean right atrial pressure, mean pulmonary artery pressure, and cardiac output are not affected significantly by either drug. Due to our results it might be concluded that the cimetidine-induced hypotension is mediated by peripheral vasodilation.
The effects of several schedules of multiple morphine pellet implantation on body weight and dependence development in rats were studied. One schedule designated 6/7 (total number of pellets implanted per total number of treatment days), consisting of 1 pellet on day 0, 2 pellets on day 2 and 3 pellets on day 4 and a total treatment period of 7 days, produced high levels of dependence without affecting either body weight or rates of protein synthesis in whole brain or liver. The components of this schedule, 1/2 (one pellet on day 0 and a total treatment period of 2 days), 3/4 (one pellet on day 0 and two pellets on day 2 and a total treatment period of 4 days) and 6/7 (see above), produced a linear increase in the degree of dependence as measured by loss of body weight following naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. Hence, they were used to investigate the relationship between the degree of dependence and the rate of translation in vivo on free and membrane-bound polysomes in seven brain regions (cerebrum, cerebellum, mesencephalon, pons-medulla, striatum-septum, hippocampus-amygdala and thalamus-hypothalamus) following a 6 min pulse with a pool expansion dose of [3H]leucine. The rate of translation on free and membrane-bound polysomes was unaffected except on the bound polysomes of the pons-medulla and striatum-septum, where increased rates of translation were found to be closely correlated with degrees of dependence, measured as loss of body weight. Concomitant administration of naltrexone prevented both the stimulation of protein synthesis and the development of dependence, whereas administration of naltrexone alone did not affect translation rates in either polysome compartment of any region. Thus, it is concluded that the mechanisms underlying opiate dependence involve the stimulation of secretory protein synthesis in the pons-medulla and striatum-septum, presumably by the interaction between morphine and opiate receptors.
A patient with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) who had failed conventional therapy was treated with IL-2 gene therapy. The patient received 10 subcutaneous immunizations with autologous tumor cells and fibroblasts genetically modified to secrete IL-2 by retroviral gene transfer. An antitumor immune response mediated in part by CD8+ cytotoxic T cells was demonstrated with the patient's peripheral blood mononuclear cells. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan performed 4 weeks after the highest treatment dose revealed marked tumor necrosis. These results support the evaluation of this form of IL-2 gene therapy in additional patients with glioblastoma.
Nausea and vomiting are major adverse reactions in cancer chemotherapy, and affect quality of life (QOL). We performed a retrospective study that examined the efficacy of aprepitant and palonosetron for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) on patients taking cisplatin doublets for lung cancer. The study subjects were 73 patients. A 5-HT(3) group received old-generation 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists and dexamethasone for preventive treatment (32 patients). An A group received old-generation 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists, aprepitant and dexamethasone (22 patients). An A+P group received palonosetron, aprepitant and dexamethasone (19 patients). On acute emesis (occurring within 24 hours after chemotherapy), there was no significant difference in the complete suppression rate of nausea and vomiting among the three groups. However, on delayed onset emesis (occurring between 24 to 120 hours), the complete suppression rate of nausea was significantly higher in the A+P group (57. 9%) than in the 5- HT(3) group (16. 7%) and A group (23. 8%). Significantly better efficacy was seen in the 5-HT(3) group and A group in the complete suppression rate of vomiting, and in the need of rescue medication rates on delayed-onset emesis. The cost of antiemesis was 19, 735 yen for the 5-HT(3) group, 32, 252 yen for the A group and 15, 557 yen for the A+P group. In conclusion, it was suggested that concurrent administration of palonosetron, aprepitant and dexamethasone for CINV on cisplatin doublet in lung cancer is a clinically useful treatment that might reduce the economic burden on patients.
Acute and chronic ingestion of cocaine predisposes the abuser to a wide range of local and systemic complications. This article describes the case of a 38-year-old man whose chronic cocaine snorting resulted in the erosion of the midfacial anatomy and recurrent sinus infections. Previously published case reports specific to this problem are presented, as are the oral, systemic and behavioural effects of cocaine abuse.
