Ten HTLV-I-associated myelopathy (HAM) patients (four men and six women aged 38 to 58 years) with Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) scores ranging from 4.0 to 8.5 entered an open-label zidovudine study. A high-dosage induction (2 g/d for 4 weeks) was followed by 1 g/d for 20 weeks. Five patients were natives of the Caribbean island Hispaniola, and one each was from Colombia, Cuba, El Salvador, Jamaica, and the United States; all were positive by polymerase chain reaction, and nine had positive Western immunoblots for HTLV-I. Side effects included anxiety, insomnia, gastric upset, anorexia, and loss of taste. Preexisting leg cramps were increased in two and headaches in one. Hemoglobin decreased from a mean of 13.5 to 11.8 g/dl and the hematocrit from 40.7% to 34.9% at 8 weeks, and then stabilized. Neutropenia appeared regularly but did not necessitate drug withdrawal. Mean EDSS scores changed little for the group as a whole, but the seven ambulatory patients improved objectively, with their scores dropping from 5.5 to 4.0 and none worsening. Timed gait improved by at least 50%. Following withdrawal, four of the five who had improved regressed. Zidovudine appears to be safe in subjects with HAM who have no other major health problems and should be investigated further.
The aim of the study was to investigate patterns of the P600 component of event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited during a working memory test in 16 male schizophrenic patients experiencing auditory hallucinations before and after treatment with clozapine and olanzapine, and 13 male normal subjects matched for age and educational level. Before treatment, patients showed significantly reduced P600 amplitudes on the right parietal region compared with controls, and when in remission also showed significantly reduced P600 amplitudes located on the right parietal and temporofrontal areas, compared both to themselves before treatment and to normal controls. The patient's memory performance before and after treatment remained significantly lower than that of healthy controls. These findings may indicate that auditory hallucinations in schizophrenia are associated with impaired synchronization of the processes related to target detection, as reflected by the P600. The present study also casts doubts regarding the cognitive sparing effect of atypical antipsychotics, despite the fact that they mediate symptom improvement.
In this study we investigated the effectiveness of two antiepileptic drugs: riluzole and topiramate against pilocarpine-induced seizures, which are considered to be a model of intractable epilepsy commonly used to investigate the antiepileptic effect of drugs and mechanisms of epileptogenesis. Seizures and status epilepticus were induced by pilocarpine in adult male Wistar rats. Riluzole (1-4mg/kg) administered intraperitoneally before pilocarpine dose-dependently protected rats against seizures with the anticonvulsant ED(50) value (50% effective anticonvulsant dose) of 1.8 (1.3-2.6)mg/kg. In contrast, riluzole at 8 and 12mg/kg administered after the onset of pilocarpine-induced seizures affected neither status epilepticus nor mortality of rats. Topiramate significantly enhanced convulsive action of pilocarpine, lowering the convulsant CD(50) value (50% effective convulsant dose) of pilocarpine from 350.8 (329.2-373.8) to 246.4 (218.6-278.2)mg/kg. Riluzole (4mg/kg) lowered plasma and brain concentration of pilocarpine administered at a dose of 400mg/kg from 168.0+/-8.6 to 75.3+/-19.9microg/ml and from 193.7+/-6.6 to 97.0+/-26.1microg/g, respectively. Topiramate (200mg/kg) increased plasma and brain concentration of pilocarpine administered at a dose of 300mg/kg from 78.1+/-2.9 to 106.0+/-6.8microg/ml and from 138.4+/-5.0 to 155.2+/-5.1microg/g, respectively. It seems that both anticonvulsant effect exerted by riluzole and proconvulsant effect exerted by topiramate in pilocarpine model of seizures are due to a pharmacokinetic interaction. Therefore, we postulate that the concentration of pilocarpine should be measured routinely whenever the anticonvulsant effect of drugs is determined in the pilocarpine model of seizures.
The Authors report their clinical experience about the use of atracurium besylate in preventing succinylcholine-induced fasciculations and postoperative myalgias in fifty athletes (ASA class 1), submitted to arthroscopic meniscectomy. The patients were pretreated with atracurium 5 mg i.v. or saline solution in a double-blind fashion. After 2.5 minutes, succinylcholine 1.3 mg/kg was administered, and fasciculations were recorded on a scale ranging from 0 to 3. Twenty-four hours after surgery all subjects were questioned about myalgias occurrence, scored by a 0-3 scale. Fasciculations occurred in all patients who received saline and in 44% of those treated with atracurium. Myalgias on the postoperative day were observed in 80% of patients treated with saline solution, but only in 36% of patients who received atracurium. The difference between atracurium and saline solution was statistically significant (p less than 0.001) either for fasciculations or myalgias incidence. These findings show that atracurium 5 mg i.v. is effective in preventing succinylcholine-induced fasciculations and postoperative myalgias, and suggest atracurium as the drug of choice for this purpose, particularly in muscular subjects.
To evaluate the pathogenesis of end-of-dose dystonia in levodopa-treated patients with Parkinson's disease, we discontinued a steady-state optimal-dose levodopa infusion either abruptly or slowly. Although dystonic signs appeared sooner after sudden levodopa termination, in both situations dystonia emerged only when circulating drug levels had fallen to the same concentration and parkinsonian scores had declined by the same amount. Dystonia onset thus appears to reflect the degree, rather than the rate, of reduction in dopaminergic stimulation, and may involve the preferential interaction of dopamine with a receptor subpopulation that does not mediate its antiparkinsonian efficacy.
Levetiracetam (LEV) (Keppra; UCB Pharma, Brussels, Belgium) has recently been reported to have antidyskinetic activity against levodopa (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset and macaque models of Parkinson's disease. Amantadine is frequently used as adjunctive therapy for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, but adverse effects limit its clinical utility. The current study was designed to investigate whether LEV can potentiate the antidyskinetic action of amantadine. The antiparkinsonian and antidyskinetic effects of LEV (13 and 60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, and 0.3 mg/kg), administered alone and in combination, were assessed in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (n = 12). LEV (60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.3 mg/kg) administered alone significantly reduced l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia without compromising the antiparkinsonian action of l-DOPA. Lower doses were without any significant effects. The combination of LEV (60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, and 0.3 mg/kg) significantly decreased dyskinesia severity, without compromising the antiparkinsonian action of L-DOPA, more efficaciously than LEV or amantadine monotherapy. These results support the concept that normalization of different pathophysiological mechanisms (i.e., altered synchronization between neurons and enhanced N-methyl-D-aspartate transmission) has a greater efficacy. Combined LEV/amantadine therapy might be useful as an adjunct to L-DOPA to treat dyskinetic side effects and to expand the population of Parkinson's disease patients who benefit from treatment with amantadine alone.
Recently, clinical cases of parkinsonism due to antiarrhythmics drugs amiodarone and aprindine and a local anesthetic drug procaine have been reported. We performed both in vivo and in vitro experiments to quantitatively predict the intensity of catalepsy by these drugs and haloperidol in mice. Haloperidol showed the most potent relative intensity of catalepsy, followed by aprindine, metoclopramide, tiapride, amiodarone and procaine, in that order. In vivo dopamine D1 and D2 receptor occupancies of the six drugs to the striatum were observed. In vitro binding affinity (Ki) of these drugs to the D1 and D2 receptors in the striatum synaptic membrane was within the range of 60 nM to 706 microM, 0.5 nM to 75 microM and 860 nM to 115 microM, respectively. A good correlation between the relative intensity of drug-induced catalepsy and the Ki values for the dopamine D1 and D2 receptors was obtained (r =.911 and r =.896, respectively; P <.05). The partial tertiary structure of the tested drugs was well superimposed on that of haloperidol. In conclusion, these drug-induced catalepsies were due to the blockade of the D1 and D2 receptors, which was related to the analogous tertiary structures (diethylaminoethyl side chain).
Cocaine is a drug capable of potentiating the response to catecholamines. Acute myocardial infarction is the most frequently reported cardiac consequence of cocaine abuse, usually in those patients who had used cocaine in a habitual basis. We report a 30-year-old man, first-time cocaine user, that suffered an acute myocardial infarction.
To determine whether the neonatal mouse can serve as a useful model for studying the molecular pharmacological basis of Long QT Syndrome Type 1 (LQT1), which has been linked to mutations in the human KCNQ1 gene, we measured QT intervals from electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings of wild-type (WT) and Kcnq1 knockout (KO) neonates before and after injection with the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist, isoproterenol (0.17 mg/kg, i.p.). Modest but significant increases in JT, QT, and rate-corrected QT (QTc) intervals were found in KO neonates relative to WT siblings during baseline ECG assessments (QTc = 57 +/- 3 ms, n = 22 versus 49 +/- 2 ms, n = 28, respectively, p < 0.05). Moreover, JT, QT, and QTc intervals significantly increased following isoproterenol challenge in the KO (p < 0.01) but not the WT group (p = 0.57). Furthermore, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings show that the slow delayed rectifier K+ current (IKs) was absent in KO but present in WT myocytes, where it was strongly enhanced by isoproterenol. This finding was confirmed by showing that the selective IKs inhibitor, L-735,821, blocked IKs and prolonged action potential duration in WT but not KO hearts. These data demonstrate that disruption of the Kcnq1 gene leads to loss of IKs, resulting in a long QT phenotype that is exacerbated by beta-adrenergic stimulation. This phenotype closely reflects that observed in human LQT1 patients, suggesting that the neonatal mouse serves as a valid model for this condition. This idea is further supported by new RNA data showing that there is a high degree of homology (>88% amino acid identity) between the predominant human and mouse cardiac Kcnq1 isoforms.
The objectives of this study were to evaluate the outcome after polychemotherapy for patients with primary cutaneous large-cell lymphomas (PCLL) and to validate the recently proposed immunohistologic classification of cutaneous lymphomas. Among 140 patients with positive skin biopsies included in the LNH87 protocol (for treatment of aggressive lymphomas), 49 patients met the criteria of PCLL. Characteristics were: sex ratio M/F, 2.3; age 18 to 83 years (median, 52), peripheral lymph nodes, n=22; diffuse disease, n=12; median tumor size, 4.5 cm; elevated lactate dehydrogenase, n=9; ECOG: 0/1, n=49. Histology was: follicular center B cell, n=23; B-lymphoblastic, n=1; anaplastic large-cell lymphoma, n=14 (T cell phenotype n=8); CD30- T cell lymphoma, n=11. All patients received polychemotherapy: under 70 years, ACVBP (three to four cycles and consolidation for 6 months) n=25; mBACOD (eight cycles) n=16; over 70 years, C(T)VP (six cycles) n=8. Radiation therapy was not included in the protocol. With a median follow-up of 5 years, 24/49 patients had relapsed, with 20 skin relapses. Event-free (EFS) and overall survival (OS) at 5 years were, respectively, 50 and 77%. Significant adverse prognostic factors were: histology (CD30- T cell lymphoma) and diffuse cutaneous disease (>10% of skin). The presence of nodal involvement was only significant for EFS. When compared to 140 non-cutaneous lymphoma patients included in the same trial and fully matched for the main clinical characteristics, OS was similar. In conclusion, PCLL behaves like other localized B or T cell extranodal lymphomas with the same prognostic factors (LDH, ECOG, age) except for CD30+ PCLL which have a very good prognosis.
Endocrine treatment of breast cancer is widely applied and effective. However, in advanced disease cases, the tumors will eventually progress into an estrogen-independent and therapy-resistant phenotype. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying this endocrine therapy failure, we applied retroviral insertion mutagenesis to identify the main genes conferring estrogen independence to human breast cancer cells. Estrogen-dependent ZR-75-1 cells were infected with replication-defective retroviruses followed by selection with the anti-estrogen 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen. In the resulting panel of 79 tamoxifen-resistant cell lines, the viral integrations were mapped within the human genome. Genes located in the immediate proximity of the retroviral integration sites were characterized for altered expression and their capacity to confer anti-estrogen resistance when transfected into breast cancer cells. Out of 15 candidate BCAR (breast cancer anti-estrogen resistance) genes, seven (AKT1, AKT2, BCAR1, BCAR3, EGFR, GRB7, and TRERF1/BCAR2) were shown to directly underlie estrogen independence. Our results show that insertion mutagenesis is a powerful tool to identify BCAR loci, which may provide insights into the molecular and cellular mechanisms of breast tumor progression and therapy resistance thereby offering novel targets for the development of tailor-made therapeutical and prevention strategies.
To assess mutagenicity of N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) in vivo using the lacZ transgenic mouse (Muta Mouse).
LacZ gene was recovered through in vitro packing. Mutant frequencies (MFs) in the lacZ gene of liver, lung and bladder were examined after intraperitoneal treatment with DEN (25mg/kg per week x 4). Simultaneously, the clastogenicity of DEN was evaluated by the peripheral blood micronucleus assay.
The mean frequency of micronucleated reticulocytes (MNRETs) did not increase by the treatment with DEN. The MFs increase above spontaneous levels were apparent in liver and lung, with respectively 6.13 - and 3.66 fold increase. The MF of lacZ of bladder was of the background level.
Liver and lung are target organ of genotoxicity in vivo induced by DEN with different sensitivity.
Colorectal carcinoma shows several sex-related differences with regard to incidence, response to chemotherapy and microsatellite instability. These differences may relate to differential expression of ERbeta1 (wild-type) as well as the truncated ERbeta2 and ERbeta5 splice variant isoforms, which have recently been detected in normal and malignant colorectal epithelium. This hypothesis was tested through the study of ERbeta isoform protein and/or mRNA expression amongst 91 primary colorectal carcinoma cases and 20 colorectal carcinoma cell lines. Study of the latter showed an absolute correlation between mRNA and protein expressions for ERbeta1 and ERbeta2. ERbeta1 and ERbeta2 protein expression was lost in 22% and 49%, respectively, of the primary colorectal carcinomas. By contrast, ERbeta5 expression was found in all primary colorectal carcinomas and all colorectal carcinoma cell lines studied. Lower ERbeta1 protein expression was associated with poorer differentiation, higher pT stage and absence of microsatellite instability. Higher ERbeta2 protein expression was associated with right-sided location and presence of lymph node metastases. Protein expression of ERbeta1 correlated positively with expression of the oestrogen-responsive protein trefoil factor 1 (TFF1). There was no correlation between ERbeta protein isoform expression and response to 5-fluorouracil therapy, tumour proliferation, or thymidylate synthase expression. These data suggest that ERbeta1 and/or ERbeta2 isoform expression may have prognostic value and may explain sex-related differences in microsatellite instability and colorectal carcinoma. The opposing associations shown by ERbeta1 and/or ERbeta2 in relation to colorectal carcinoma are in keeping with differential activities shown by the two isoforms.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors improve arterial stiffness independently of blood pressure reduction. Since we have recently shown that in hypertensive individuals the A1166C polymorphism of the angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1-R) is an independent determinant of aortic stiffness, we designed the present study to assess the influence of this polymorphism on the changes of aortic stiffness after chronic treatment with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor perindopril and the calcium channel blocker nitrendipine. Forty perindopril- and 42 nitrendipine-treated hypertensive individuals were studied. We evaluated aortic stiffness by measuring the carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity. Carriers of the AT1-RC allele showed higher baseline values of pulse wave velocity than AA homozygotes (P < .05). In the perindopril group, a threefold greater reduction in pulse wave velocity was observed in carriers of the C allele than in AA homozygotes (-2.85 +/- 0.62 versus -0.94 +/- 0.32 m/s, respectively; P < .001), whereas in the nitrendipine group, pulse wave velocity decreased only in AA homozygotes and not in AT1-R C carriers (-1.38 +/- 0.35 versus +0.04 +/- 0.60 m/s, respectively; P < .01). These results indicate that according to the AT1-R A1166C genotype, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and a calcium channel blocker affect pulse wave velocity in opposite ways. Since some evidence shows that increased pulse wave velocity may enhance cardiovascular risk, it might be useful for physicians to consider the AT1-R genotype when prescribing an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or calcium channel blocker to a hypertensive individual.
We investigated the possible renal protective effects of KW-3902 (8-(noradamantan-3-yl)-1,3-dipropylxanthine), an adenosine A1-receptor antagonist, against gentamicin (GM)-induced acute renal failure (ARF) in rats. ARF was induced by subcutaneous injection of GM at 80 mg/kg/day for 12 days. KW-3902 (0.001-0.1 mg/kg, p.o., twice daily) attenuated the increases of serum creatinine and urea nitrogen and the decrease of creatinine clearance in rats treated with GM. In contrast, furosemide and trichlormethiazide aggravated the GM-induced nephrotoxicity. These results suggest that KW-3902 can ameliorate the GM-induced ARF and that endogenous adenosine may be involved in GM-induced ARF via the adenosine A1-receptor.
Previous reports have proposed that reactive oxygen species resulting from induction of cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes might be involved in the modes of action of hepatocarcinogens with CYP-inducible potency. In the present study, we investigated 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels, in vivo mutagenicity and glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive foci in the livers of gpt delta rats treated with piperonyl butoxide (PBO) or phenobarbital (PhB) for 4 and 13 weeks. Significant elevations in Cyp 1A1 and Cyp 1A2 mRNA levels after PBO treatment, and in Cyp 2B1 mRNA levels after PBO or PhB treatment, appeared together with remarkable hepatomegaly through the experimental period. Time-dependent and statistically significant increases in 8-OHdG levels were observed in the PBO treatment group along with significant increases in proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive hepatocytes at 4 weeks, while no increase in 8-OHdG levels was found in PhB-treated rats. No changes in mutant frequencies of gpt and red/gam (Spi(-)) genes in liver DNA from PBO- or PhB-treated rats were observed at 4 or 13 weeks. A 13-week exposure to either PBO or PhB did not affect the number and area of GST-P-positive hepatocytes. CYP 1A1 and 1A2 induction may be responsible for elevated levels of 8-OHdG in PBO-treated rats. However, neither GC:TA transversions nor deletion mutations, typically regarded as 8-OHdG-related mutations, were observed in any of the treated rats. We conclude that reactive oxygen species, possibly produced through CYP catalytic pathways, likely induced genomic DNA damage but did not give rise to permanent gene mutation.
We evaluated the relationship between the efficacy of low-dose azathioprine (AZA) therapy and the inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase (ITPA) 94C>A (Pro32Thr) polymorphism in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). We performed a multiple regression analysis to assess the influence of various factors on the reduction in SLE disease activity index (SLEDAI) scores. The ITPA 94C>A polymorphism had the highest correlation with the change in SLEDAI score (r = 0.354, P = 0.006).
The Bcr-Abl kinase inhibitor, imatinib mesylate, is the front line treatment for chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), but the emergence of imatinib resistance has led to the search for alternative drug treatments and the examination of combination therapies to overcome imatinib resistance. The pro-apoptotic PBOX compounds are a recently developed novel series of microtubule targeting agents (MTAs) that depolymerise tubulin. Recent data demonstrating enhanced MTA-induced tumour cell apoptosis upon combination with the cyclin dependent kinase (CDK)-1 inhibitor flavopiridol prompted us to examine whether this compound could similarly enhance the effect of the PBOX compounds. We thus characterised the apoptotic and cell cycle events associated with combination therapy of the PBOX compounds and flavopiridol and results showed a sequence dependent, synergistic enhancement of apoptosis in CML cells including those expressing the imatinib-resistant T315I mutant. Flavopiridol reduced the number of polyploid cells formed in response to PBOX treatment but only to a small extent, suggesting that inhibition of endoreplication was unlikely to play a major role in the mechanism by which flavopiridol synergistically enhanced PBOX-induced apoptosis. The addition of flavopiridol following PBOX-6 treatment did however result in an accelerated exit from the G2/M transition accompanied by an enhanced downregulation and deactivation of the CDK1/cyclin B1 complex and an enhanced degradation of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) survivin. In conclusion, results from this study highlight the potential of these novel series of PBOX compounds, alone or in sequential combination with flavopiridol, as an effective therapy against CML.
Clozapine and risperidone were the first two "second-generation" antipsychotic drugs approved for schizophrenia. There is currently little information about their comparative efficacy from head-to-head clinical trials. The purpose of this study was to examine the comparative efficacy of clozapine and risperidone for positive and negative symptoms, depression, parkinsonian side effects, and indexes of neuroendocrine function in schizophrenic patients who met a priori criteria for partial response to traditional neuroleptic agents.
After a baseline fluphenazine treatment period, 29 patients participated in a 6-week, double-blind, parallel-group comparison of the effects of these agents.
Clozapine was superior to risperidone for positive symptoms and parkinsonian side effects, but there were no significant differences between the drugs on two measures of negative symptoms, Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale total scores, and depression scores. The clozapine patients, but not the risperidone patients, demonstrated significant reductions from the fluphenazine baseline in positive symptoms, total symptoms, and depression. In addition, clozapine produced fewer effects on plasma prolactin than risperidone or fluphenazine. The mean daily doses during week 6 of the trial were 403.6 mg of clozapine and 5.9 mg of risperidone.
The findings from this study indicate that these drugs have both important differences and similarities in their comparative efficacy in chronically ill, partially responsive patients with schizophrenia. Further research on second-generation antipsychotic drugs in this patient population that addresses key methodological issues, such as optimal dose and treatment duration, are needed.
A patient with native valve endocarditis caused by a vancomycin "heteroresistant" strain of Enterococcus faecium experienced failure of daptomycin monotherapy without evidence of daptomycin resistance. The infecting organism exhibited in vivo emergence of a vancomycin-susceptible subpopulation lacking vanA. Treatment with a combination of high-dose daptomycin, gentamicin, and high-dose ampicillin cleared the infection.
A 65-year-old female patient suffering from hypertension and myxedema due to chronic thyroiditis developed anginal attacks under trichlormethiazide therapy. The ECG revealed a SA block with reciprocal beats and aberrant ventricular conduction in a form of bigeminy. Upon substitution of desiccated thyroid for the antihypertensive drug, the anginal attacks subsided, the conduction disturbances disappeared and the blood pressure returned to normal without hypotensive treatment. This observation suggests that replacement therapy should precede diuretics in hypertensive patients with myxedema.
Drug-induced renal tubular injury is one of the major concerns in preclinical safety evaluations. Toxicogenomics is becoming a generally accepted approach for identifying chemicals with potential safety problems. In the present study, we analyzed 33 nephrotoxicants and 8 non-nephrotoxic hepatotoxicants to elucidate time- and dose-dependent global gene expression changes associated with proximal tubular toxicity. The compounds were administered orally or intravenously once daily to male Sprague-Dawley rats. The animals were exposed to four different doses of the compounds, and kidney tissues were collected on days 4, 8, 15, and 29. Gene expression profiles were generated from kidney RNA by using Affymetrix GeneChips and analyzed in conjunction with the histopathological changes. We used the filter-type gene selection algorithm based on t-statistics conjugated with the SVM classifier, and achieved a sensitivity of 90% with a selectivity of 90%. Then, 92 genes were extracted as the genomic biomarker candidates that were used to construct the classifier. The gene list contains well-known biomarkers, such as Kidney injury molecule 1, Ceruloplasmin, Clusterin, Tissue inhibitor of metallopeptidase 1, and also novel biomarker candidates. Most of the genes involved in tissue remodeling, the immune/inflammatory response, cell adhesion/proliferation/migration, and metabolism were predominantly up-regulated. Down-regulated genes participated in cell adhesion/proliferation/migration, membrane transport, and signal transduction. Our classifier has better prediction accuracy than any of the well-known biomarkers. Therefore, the toxicogenomics approach would be useful for concurrent diagnosis of renal tubular injury.
Dozens of studies link acute exposure to particulate matter (PM) air pollution with premature mortality and morbidity, but questions remain about which species and sources in the vast PM mixture are responsible for the observed health effects. Although a few studies exist on the effects of species and sources in U.S. cities, European cities-which have a higher proportion of diesel engines and denser urban populations-have not been well characterized. Information on the effects of specific sources could aid in targeting pollution control and in articulating the biological mechanisms of PM.
Our study examined the effects of various PM sources on daily mortality for 2003 through 2007 in Barcelona, a densely populated city in the northeast corner of Spain.
Source apportionment for PM ≤ 2.5 μm and ≤ 10 µm in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5 and PM10) using positive matrix factorization identified eight different factors. Case-crossover regression analysis was used to estimate the effects of each factor.
Several sources of PM2.5, including vehicle exhaust, fuel oil combustion, secondary nitrate/organics, minerals, secondary sulfate/organics, and road dust, had statistically significant associations (p < 0.05) with all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. Also, in some cases relative risks for a respective interquartile range increase in concentration were higher for specific sources than for total PM2.5 mass.
These results along with those from our multisource models suggest that traffic, sulfate from shipping and long-range transport, and construction dust are important contributors to the adverse health effects linked to PM.
