To determine the effect of IV administration of crystalloid (lactated Ringer's solution [LRS]) or colloid (hetastarch) fluid on isoflurane-induced hypotension in dogs.
6 healthy Beagles.
On 3 occasions, each dog was anesthetized with propofol and isoflurane and instrumented with a thermodilution catheter (pulmonary artery). Following baseline assessments of hemodynamic variables, end-tidal isoflurane concentration was increased to achieve systolic arterial blood pressure (SABP) of 80 mm Hg. At that time (0 minutes), 1 of 3 IV treatments (no fluid, LRS [80 mL/kg/h], or hetastarch [80 mL/kg/h]) was initiated. Fluid administration continued until SABP was within 10% of baseline or to a maximum volume of 80 mL/kg (LRS) or 40 mL/kg (hetastarch). Hemodynamic variables were measured at intervals (0 through 120 minutes and additionally at 150 and 180 minutes in LRS- or hetastarch-treated dogs). Several clinicopathologic variables including total protein concentration, PCV, colloid osmotic pressure, and viscosity of blood were assessed at baseline and intervals thereafter (0 through 120 minutes).
Administration of 80 mL of LRS/kg did not increase SABP in any dog, whereas administration of <or= 40 mL of hetastarch/kg increased SABP in 4 of 6 dogs. Fluid administration increased cardiac index and decreased systemic vascular resistance. Compared with hetastarch treatment, administration of LRS decreased blood viscosity. Treatment with LRS decreased PCV and total protein concentration, whereas treatment with hetastarch increased colloid osmotic pressure.
Results indicated that IV administration of hetastarch rather than LRS is recommended for the treatment of isoflurane-induced hypotension in dogs.
Overdose of acetaminophen (APAP) causes necrosis of centrilobular cells of the liver. Accumulating evidence suggests that innate immune system may contribute to APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. Interaction between RANTES and its receptor C-C chemokine receptor (CCR) 5 is related to recruitment of macrophages to sites of inflammation. In this study, we examined effects of CCR5 deficiency on APAP-mediated liver injury by employing CCR5 knockout (KO) mice. CCR5 wild-type (WT) and KO mice received intraperitoneal injection of APAP (300 mg/kg) and were killed 24 h after the injection. Hepatic injury was determined by using histological and biochemical analyses. Intraperitoneal APAP caused the hepatocytic necrosis, as evidenced by hematoxylin and eosin staining and an increase in alanine transaminase and aspartate transaminase levels in serum. Hepatic damage appeared to be larger in CCR5 WT animals compared with KO animals. There were no differences in cytochrome P450 2E1 between CCR5 WT and KO animals suggesting that the resistance of CCR5 KO mice did not come from alterations in APAP metabolism. Infiltration of macrophages into the liver was reduced in CCR5 KO mice, and this was accompanied decreased inflammatory responses. Inhibition of macrophage activity by pretreatment of gadolinium chloride significantly blocked APAP-caused hepatotoxicity. These results indicate that recruitment of macrophage into the inflammatory sites significantly contributes to APAP-mediated hepatocytic death and CCR5 gene deletion protects from APAP-induced liver injury by alleviating macrophage recruitment and inflammatory responses. This study represents a critical role of CCR5 in macrophage infiltration into the liver and subsequent hepatotoxicity upon challenge of APAP.
A child with advanced stage large cell lymphoma in remission developed overwhelming, irreversible anthracycline cardiac toxicity incompatible with life early in her treatment course. The medical complexities and ethical issues concerning a decision to proceed with orthotopic heart transplantation are discussed.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1 and ERK2) are phosphorylated in the nervous system after somatic or visceral stimulation or inflammation and play roles in central sensitization and pain hypersensitivity. ERK1/2 activation with cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis has been demonstrated in urinary bladder and inhibitors of ERK1/2 phosphorylation reduce CYP-induced bladder hyperreflexia. In this study, we determined pERK1/2 expression and regulation in lumbosacral dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord with CYP-induced cystitis (4 h, 48 h, chronic) using Western blotting and immunohistochemical techniques. Phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinases (pERK1/2) expression was significantly (P< or =0.01) upregulated in L6 and S1 DRG with CYP-induced cystitis with the greatest upregulation occurring at 4 h. No changes in pERK1/2 expression were observed in L1, L2 or L5 DRG or in any spinal cord segment examined (L1, L2, L5-S1) with CYP-induced cystitis. Cytoplasmic pERK1/2-immunoreactivity (IR) and pericellular pERK1/2-IR was observed in all DRG examined from control rats and cytoplasmic pERK1/2-IR was significantly (P< or =0.01) increased in L6 and S1 DRG with 4 and 48 h CYP-induced cystitis. In contrast, pericellular pERK1/2-IR in DRG was not regulated by CYP-induced cystitis. A small percentage of bladder afferent cells in lumbosacral DRG expressed pERK1/2-IR in control rats; however, CYP-induced cystitis (48 h) significantly (P< or =0.01) increased the percentage of bladder afferent cells in the L6 and S1 DRG exhibiting pERK1/2-IR. These studies suggest that activation of the ERK pathway in lumbosacral DRG may play a role in neuroplasticity in micturition reflexes with CYP-induced cystitis.
A variety of observations suggest that decreasing glycolysis and increasing levels of reduced glutathione, generated by metabolism of glucose through the pentose phosphate pathway, would have an anticonvulsant effect. Because fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (F1,6BP) shifts the metabolism of glucose from glycolysis to the pentose phosphate pathway, it was hypothesized to have anticonvulsant activity. The anticonvulsant activity of F1,6BP was determined in rat models of acute seizures induced by pilocarpine, kainic acid, or pentylenetetrazole. The efficacy of F1,6BP was compared with that of 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG; an inhibitor of glucose uptake and glycolysis), valproic acid (VPA), and the ketogenic diet. One hour before each convulsant, Sprague Dawley rats received either saline (as seizure controls), F1,6BP (0.25, 0.5 or 1 g/kg), 2-DG (0.25 or 0.5 g/kg), or VPA (0.3 g/kg). Additional animals received the ketogenic diet (starting at 20 or 60 d old). Time to seizure onset, seizure duration, and seizure score were measured in each group. F1,6BP had dose-dependent anticonvulsant activity in all three models, whereas VPA had partial efficacy. 2-DG was only effective in the pilocarpine model. The ketogenic diet had no effect in these models. F1,6BP was also partially effective when given at the first behavioral seizure after pilocarpine. Administration of sodium lactate, which bypasses the block in the glycolytic pathway, abolished the anticonvulsant activity of 2-DG in the pilocarpine model, but only decreased the efficacy of F1,6BP. These data demonstrate that F1,6BP has significant anticonvulsant efficacy.
In the present study, we found that inostamycin increased the ability of paclitaxel to induce apoptosis in Ms-1 cells. A considerably higher concentration of paclitaxel was required for the induction of apoptosis in Ms-1 cells than in other cell lines tested. Treatment of Ms-1 cells with inostamycin, an inhibitor of phoshatidylinositol (PI) synthesis, reduced the dosage of paclitaxel required to induce cell death by apoptosis. This effect of inostamycin is specific to Ms-1 cells, and inostamycin did not increase the cytotoxicity of other antitumor drugs such as adriamycin, vinblastine, methotrexate, cisplatin, etoposide, or camptothecin in Ms-1 cells. Addition of inostamycin to paclitaxel-treated cells caused a significant increase in the sub G1 peak, representing apoptosis, which was accompanied by a decrease in the G2/M peak seen in paclitaxel-treated Ms-1 cells, without affecting paclitaxel-inhibited tubulin depolymerization. Moreover, paclitaxel did not enhance inostamycin-inhibited PI synthesis. The expression levels of Bcl-2, Bax, and Bcl-XL were not changed following the co-treatment with inostamycin plus paclitaxel, whereas the activated form of caspase-3 was markedly increased. Thus, inostamycin is a chemosensitizer of paclitaxel in small cell lung carcinoma Ms-1 cells.
Acute renal failure after contrast-induced nephropathy is a clinically important and costly complication after the use of iodine-based contrast media. We investigated the cost and cost-effectiveness of 2 contrast media in patients at high risk of contrast-induced nephropathy.
The analyses were based on a randomized, prospective, multinational clinical study comparing the nephrotoxic effects of an isosmolar nonionic contrast medium, iodixanol, with those of a low-osmolar nonionic contrast medium, iohexol. Resource utilization data were obtained from the study and from a retrospective review of patients' hospital records. Swedish, German, and French unit prices were applied to resources used. Between-group differences in average costs were analyzed using a nonparametric bootstrap method.
Resource utilization data for 125 patients were analyzed. Seven contrast media-related serious adverse reactions, of which 6 were acute renal failures, were noted in 6 patients receiving iohexol. Two patients in the iodixanol group had 1 nonserious reaction each. The mean hospitalization cost per patient was Euros 489, Euros 573, and Euros 393 lower after iodixanol than after iohexol using Swedish, German, and French unit prices, respectively. The mean per-patient costs of treating adverse drug reactions were Euros 371, Euros 399, and Euros 445 lower after iodixanol than after iohexol, using the respective unit prices (P < or = 0.01). Iodixanol was cost-effective compared with iohexol, with both lower costs and better effects related to fewer adverse drug reactions.
The isosmolar contrast medium iodixanol appears to be cost-effective when compared with a low-osmolar contrast medium, iohexol, in diabetic patients with renal impairment undergoing angiography.
Mitral valve prolapse is the most frequent cardiac valvulopathy. Given its greater incidence in young women it is a factor which must be taken into account when performing cesarean section. Two patients with mitral valve prolapse in whom a cesarean section was carried out are presented: case 1, a 22-year-old woman, ASA II, 72 kg, with mitral valve prolapse associated with the Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome and an episode of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. The cesarean section which was indicated because of the absence of fetal progression was performed under epidural anesthesia. Forty-five minutes after regional blockade a hypotensive episode was observed which remitted following the i.v. administration of 6 mg of methoxamine. No other complication was reported. The Apgar score of the neonate at one minute was 7; case 2, a 31 year-old woman, ASA II, 51 kg, diagnosed with mitral valve prolapse with no associated symptomatology. A cesarean section was performed in this patient because of pedal presentation under general anesthesia without complications. The Apgar score of the neonate at one minute was 8. The physiopathology of mitral valve prolapse as well as anesthesia management during cesarean section in this type of valvulopathy is reviewed.
Rosacea fulminans is characterized by the sudden onset of large, coalescing nodules and draining sinuses on the face. A few reports have linked medications to this condition, but none have described the onset of rosacea fulminans with pegylated interferon or ribavirin therapy. We report a patient who presented with rosacea fulminans after initiation of therapy for Hepatitis C.
The prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is high. NAFLD is linked to obesity, diabetes mellitus, and hypertriglyceridemia. Approximately 20% of patients with NAFLD will eventually develop cirrhosis. Our purpose was to investigate whether resveratrol decreased hepatic steatosis in an animal model of steatosis, and whether this therapeutic approach resulted in a decrease in tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) production, lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress.
Male Wistar CRL: Wi (Han) (225 g) rats were randomized into three groups. A control group (n = 12) was given free access to regular dry rat chow for 4 weeks. The steatosis (n = 12) and resveratrol (n = 12) groups were given free access to feed (a high carbohydrate-fat free modified diet) and water 4 days per week, and fasted for the remaining 3 days for 4 weeks. Rats in the resveratrol group were given resveratrol 10 mg daily by the oral route. All rats were killed at 4 weeks and assessed for fatty infiltration and bacterial translocation. Levels of TNF-alpha in serum, hepatic malondialdehyde (MDA), oxidative stress (superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, catalase and nitric oxide synthase) and biochemical parameters were measured.
Fat deposition was decreased in the resveratrol group as compared to the steatosis group (Grade 1 vs Grade 3, P < 0.05). TNF-alpha and MDA levels were significantly increased in the steatosis group (TNF-alpha; 33.4 +/- 5.2 vs 26.24 +/- 3.47 pg/ml and MDA; 9.08 +/- 0.8 vs 3.17 +/- 1.45 muM respectively, P < 0.05). This was accompanied by increased superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and catalase and decreased nitric oxide synthase in the liver of resveratrol group significantly (P < 0.05 vs steatosis group). Bacterial translocation was not found in any of the groups. Glucose levels were decreased in the group of rats given resveratrol (P < 0.05).
Resveratrol decreased NAFLD severity in rats. This effect was mediated, at least in part, by TNF-alpha inhibition and antioxidant activities.
A case of reversible encephalopathy after one dose of ifosfamide/mesna in an epileptic 15-year-old girl is reported. No other pathology could be responsible for the symptoms. An epilepsy or a toxicity induced by vincristine were discussed. Nevertheless, the possible role of phenobarbital, known to induce hepatic microsomal activity, seems the more probable mechanism.
Haloperidol persists in brain tissue long after discontinuation while haloperidol-induced tardive dyskinesia often worsens after withdrawal of the drug. The mechanism of haloperidol-associated tardive dyskinesia is unknown, although neurotoxic pathways are suspected. Nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) inhibitors exacerbate haloperidol-induced catalepsy, while haloperidol itself is a potent neuronal NOS inhibitor in vitro. Since NO and cGMP are involved in striatal neural plasticity, this study investigates a possible relation between cGMP and extrapyramidal symptoms as early predictors of haloperidol-associated tardive dyskinesia. Sprague-Dawley rats were administered either water or oral haloperidol (0.25 mg/kg/d p.o.) for 17 weeks, followed by 3 weeks withdrawal. Saline (i.p.) or the nNOS/guanylate cyclase inhibitor, methylene blue (5 mg/kg/d i.p.), were co-administered with haloperidol for the first three weeks of treatment. Vacous chewing movements (VCM's) were continuously monitored, followed by the determination of striatal cGMP and peripheral serum nitrogen oxide (NOx) levels. Chronic haloperidol engendered significant VCM's, with acute withdrawal associated with significantly reduced striatal cGMP levels as well as reduced serum NOx. Furthermore, suppressed cGMP levels were maintained and VCM's were significantly worse after early administration of methylene blue to the chronic haloperidol group. However, serum NOx was unchanged from control. We conclude that the central effects of chronic haloperidol on striatal NO-cGMP function persist for up to 3 weeks post-withdrawal. Moreover, suppression of striatal cGMP constitutes an early neuronal insult that determines the presence and intensity of haloperidol-associated motor dysfunction.
Numerous studies have suggested that dopamine (DA) D2 and D3 receptors are involved in the behavioral effects of cocaine. The present experiments evaluated the reinforcing and cocaine-like discriminative stimulus effects of several D2/D3 agonists in rhesus monkeys. In the first experiment, animals (n = 4) were trained to self-administer 0.03 mg/kg/inj cocaine under a fixed-interval (FI) 5-min schedule. When substituted for cocaine, the D2/D3 agonist quinpirole (0.003-0.03 mg/kg/inj) functioned as a reinforcer in all monkeys. In two cocaine-naive monkeys trained to respond under an FI 3-min schedule of food presentation, quinpirole maintained low rates of responding in one subject, while at the highest dose (0.03 mg/kg/inj) it functioned as a reinforcer in the second monkey. In this animal, increased activity was observed at this dose, which may have contributed to the overall rate of responding. In the second experiment, monkeys (n = 4) were trained to discriminate cocaine from saline using a two-lever, food-reinforced, drug discrimination procedure. The D2/D3 agonists quinpirole, (+/-)-7-OH-DPAT, and R-( + )-7-OH-DPAT fully substituted for cocaine. However, the time-course of substitution differed between quinpirole, which substituted for cocaine 10 min after administration, and (+/-)- and R-(+)-7-OH-DPAT, which required 60-min pretreatments. The behavioral potencies, as determined from ED50, values, correlated with previously reported in vitro binding affinity and functional activity at the D3 receptor [R-(+ )-7-OH-DPAT > (+/-)-7-OH-DPAT > quinpirole]. These results further indicate that direct-acting D2/D3 agonists can function as reinforcers and produce cocaine-like discriminative stimulus effects, and support the idea that D3 receptors should continue to be a valuable target for future behavioral studies evaluating cocaine's mechanisms of action.
1. We investigated the cardiovascular effects of rilmenidine, moxonidine and clonidine in conscious wild-type and D79N alpha2A-adrenoceptor mice. The in vitro pharmacology of these agonists was determined at recombinant (human) alpha2-adrenoceptors and at endogenous (dog) alpha2A-adrenoceptors. 2. In wild-type mice, rilmenidine, moxonidine (100, 300 and 1000 microg kg(-1), i.v.) and clonidine (30, 100 and 300 microg kg(-1), i.v.) dose-dependently decreased blood pressure and heart rate. 3. In D79N alpha2A-adrenoceptor mice, responses to rilmenidine and moxonidine did not differ from vehicle control. Clonidine-induced hypotension was absent, but dose-dependent hypertension and bradycardia were observed. 4. In wild-type mice, responses to moxonidine (1 mg kg(-1), i.v.) were antagonized by the non-selective, non-imidazoline alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, RS-79948-197 (1 mg kg(-1), i.v.). 5. Affinity estimates (pKi) at human alpha2A-, alpha2B- and alpha2C-adrenoceptors, respectively, were: rilmenidine (5.80, 5.76 and 5.33), moxonidine (5.37, <5 and <5) and clonidine (7.21, 7.16 and 6.87). In a [35S]-GTPgammaS incorporation assay, moxonidine and clonidine were alpha2A-adrenoceptor agonists (pEC50/intrinsic activity relative to noradrenaline): moxonidine (5.74/0.85) and clonidine (7.57/0.32). 6. In dog saphenous vein, concentration-dependent contractions were observed (pEC50/intrinsic activity relative to noradrenaline): rilmenidine (5.83/0.70), moxonidine (6.48/0.98) and clonidine (7.22/0.83). Agonist-independent affinities were obtained with RS-79948-197. 7. Thus, expression of alpha2A-adrenoceptors is a prerequisite for the cardiovascular effects of moxonidine and rilmenidine in conscious mice. There was no evidence of I1-imidazoline receptor-mediated effects. The ability of these compounds to act as alpha2A-adrenoceptor agonists in vitro supports this conclusion.
To characterize changes in clusterin (sCLU-2) expression in bladder cancer cells after continuous treatment with gemcitabine and to determine whether knockdown of sCLU-2 can re-introduce sensitivity of gemcitabine-resistant cells to treatment with gemcitabine.
A human bladder cancer cell line, UM-UC-3, was continuously exposed to increasing doses of gemcitabine in vitro, and a gemcitabine-resistant cell line UM-UC-3R was developed. The role of sCLU-2 in chemoresistant phenotype acquired in both in vitro and in vivo was then analysed using antisense oligonucleotide targeting the sCLU-2 gene (OGX-011).
Treatment of parental UM-UC-3 cells (UM-UC-3P) with gemcitabine induced transient up-regulation of sCLU-2 protein. There was a sustained increase in sCLU-2 expression levels in UM-UC-3R compared with UM-UC-3P cells (6.4-fold). Treatment of UM-UC-3R cells with OGX-011 resulted in a dose-dependent and sequence- specific inhibition in sCLU-2 expression. Furthermore, OGX-011 chemo-sensitized UM-UC-3R cells to gemcitabine in vitro with a reduction in the concentration that reduces the effect by 50% (IC50) from 100 nm to 10 nm. Tumour volume and the incidence of metastasis in nude mice injected with UM-UC-3R cells was significantly greater than those of nude mice injected with UM-UC-3P cells; however, systemic administration of OGX-011 plus a low dose of gemcitabine significantly suppressed tumour volume and the incidence of metastasis in both groups.
These findings suggest that sCLU-2 plays a significant role in the acquisition of chemoresistant phenotype in bladder cancer cells and the knockdown of sCLU-2 using OGX-011 combined with a chemotherapeutic agent could be an attractive approach for advanced bladder cancer through the enhancement of chemosensitivity.
We conducted a genome-wide association study of type 2 diabetes (T2D) using 459,359 SNPs in a Japanese population with a three-stage study design (stage 1, 4,470 cases and 3,071 controls; stage 2, 2,886 cases and 3,087 controls; stage 3, 3,622 cases and 2,356 controls). We identified new associations in UBE2E2 on chromosome 3 and in C2CD4A-C2CD4B on chromosome 15 at genome-wide significant levels (rs7612463 in UBE2E2, combined P = 2.27 × 10⁻⁹; rs7172432 in C2CD4A-C2CD4B, combined P = 3.66 × 10⁻⁹). The association of these two loci with T2D was replicated in other east Asian populations. In the European populations, the C2CD4A-C2CD4B locus was significantly associated with T2D, and a combined analysis of all populations gave P = 8.78 × 10⁻¹⁴, whereas the UBE2E2 locus did not show association to T2D. In conclusion, we identified two new loci at UBE2E2 and C2CD4A-C2CD4B associated with susceptibility to T2D.
Although overdoses of tricyclic antidepressant are known to produce both sinus tachycardia and ventricular tachyarrhythmias in man, these have been assumed to occur by independent mechanisms. This study was designed to evaluate the relationship of ventricular activation frequency to the cardiotoxic effects of amitriptyline. When amitriptyline was infused into dogs with formalin-induced atrioventricular (AV) block to evaluate a broad range of pacing frequencies, the drug produced dose-related QRS prolongation that was markedly frequency dependent. Similar frequency-dependent depression of the maximum rate of depolarization (Vmax) was noted for canine Purkinje fibers superfused with amitriptyline in vitro. The time constant of recovery from amitriptyline-induced block was dose independent and averaged 228 msec in vivo and 216 msec in vitro. When amitriptyline was infused into dogs with intact AV conduction, sinus tachycardia occurred within 15 min, followed by progressive QRS prolongation and ventricular tachyarrhythmias after an average 29 min. Slowing of sinus rate by vagal stimulation (seven dogs) or intravenous metoprolol (five dogs) reproducibly reversed the QRS prolongation and ventricular tachyarrhythmias caused by amitriptyline. These studies show that amitriptyline produces frequency-related depression of ventricular conduction in vivo, with a time dependence similar to effects on the maximum rate of depolarization in vitro. Interventions that slow heart rate reverse the adverse effects of amitriptyline on ventricular conduction and cardiac rhythm.
Discovering the molecular basis of mitochondrial respiratory chain disease is challenging given the large number of both mitochondrial and nuclear genes that are involved. We report a strategy of focused candidate gene prediction, high-throughput sequencing and experimental validation to uncover the molecular basis of mitochondrial complex I disorders. We created seven pools of DNA from a cohort of 103 cases and 42 healthy controls and then performed deep sequencing of 103 candidate genes to identify 151 rare variants that were predicted to affect protein function. We established genetic diagnoses in 13 of 60 previously unsolved cases using confirmatory experiments, including cDNA complementation to show that mutations in NUBPL and FOXRED1 can cause complex I deficiency. Our study illustrates how large-scale sequencing, coupled with functional prediction and experimental validation, can be used to identify causal mutations in individual cases.
The local tolerance of ketorolac tromethamine (Toradol, Syntex) was compared with that of four other injectable nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (diclofenac sodium, piroxicam, ketoprofen, and metamizol magnesium) in the rat paw-lick/muscle irritation assay as described previously. All drugs were tested at concentrations approved for clinical use. After subplantar (footpad) injection, ketorolac produced virtually no pain-on-injection as assessed by the number of paw-lick/lift responses during a 15 min observation period. The other NSAIDs produced slight to moderate paw-lick/lift responses. Redness and swelling at the injection site were less severe for ketorolac than for the other NSAIDs. After intramuscular (i.m.) injection, all of the NSAIDs produced some degree of muscle damage, as assessed histopathologically 24 h after injection. The lesions, consisting primarily of muscle degeneration, were less severe for ketorolac than for the other NSAIDs. Ketorolac and metamizol produced the smallest elevations in serum creatine kinase, as measured 2 h after i.m. dosing, not significantly different from isotonic saline. Overall, ketorolac was better tolerated in the assay than the other injectable NSAIDs, thereby suggesting the possibility of improved local tolerance on clinical use.
Enalapril is the result of a targeted research programme to develop a non-mercapto converting enzyme inhibitor with a long duration of action and an improved safety profile for use in the therapy of hypertension and congestive heart failure. Over 3500 patients world-wide have received enalapril or enalaprilat. Long-term experience at present includes over 2500 patients. While enalapril and captopril produce similar efficacy, enalapril is better tolerated and appears not to be associated with occurrence of captopril-type side-effects, particularly the skin rash, taste loss, leukopenia and proteinuria. Enalapril and other converting enzyme inhibitors may be associated with renal insufficiency when given to patients with bilateral renovascular hypertension.
Newborn mice were injected with measured doses of EDTA, resulting in the development of a complex of multiple neural crest tumors, hyperplasia, excessive cell proliferation, cell death of neural crest cells and heterotopic melanin pigmentation in the sites where the neural crest cells are present. The occurrence of multiple neural crest tumors as well as the mechanism of EDTA as a teratogen may be associated with cell membrane perturbation. Oncogenesis of neural crest tumors and cell death of neural crest cells from a single agent showed the complexity and variability of phenotypic expression. Neural crest cells may differentiate into many divergent cellular phenotypes derived from an initially undifferentiated stem cell population.
HgCl2 is a known environemental neurotoxin, but is also used as preservative in vaccines as thimerosal containing ethyl mercury covalently linked to thiosalicylate. We recently reported that mercury choloride (HgCl(2)) can stimulate human mast cells to release vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), which is also vasoactive and pro-inflammatory. Here we show that thimerosal induces significant VEGF release from human leukemic cultured LAD2 mast cells (at 1 microM 326 ± 12 pg/106 cells and 335.5 ± 12 pg/106 cells at 10 microM) compared to control cells (242 ± 21 pg/106 cells, n=5, p less than 0.05); this effect is weaker than that induced by HgCl2 at 10 microM (448 ± 14 pg/106 cells) (n=3, p less than 0.05). In view of this finding, we hypothesize that the thiosalicylate component of thimerosal may have an inhibitory effect on VEGF release. Thimerosal (10 microM) added together with the peptide Substance P (SP) at 2 microM, used as a positive control, reduced VEGF release by 90 percent. Methyl thiosalicylate (1 or 10 microM) added with either SP or HgCl2 (10 microM) inhibited VEGF release by 100 percent, while sodium salicylate or ibuprofen had no effect. Pretreatment for 10 min with the flavonoid luteolin (0.1 mM) before HgCl2 or thimerosal compeletly blocked their effect. Luteolin and methyl thiosalicylate may be useful in preventing mercury-induced toxicity.
The relationship between monoamine neurotransmitter function and spontaneous recurrence of methamphetamine (MAP) psychosis, a phenomenon known as flashbacks, was studied in a group of incarcerated women. Plasma levels of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, and their respective metabolites were assayed in 28 flashbackers, 19 non-flashbackers with a history of previous MAP psychosis, and 9 subjects with persistent MAP psychosis. Control data were available from 61 physically healthy prisoners (41 MAP users and 20 non-users, none of whom became psychotic). The plasma NE levels of the 28 flashbackers during flashbacks were significantly higher than levels during periods of normality, and were significantly higher than those in the MAP user and non-user controls. Plasma 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) levels during flashbacks were significantly higher than those in the user controls. The nine subjects with persistent MAP psychosis had significantly higher NE levels than the user and non-user controls. The 19 non-flashbackers had significantly higher MHPG levels than the user controls. Plasma levels of 3-methoxytyramine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid contributed to the NE levels in the flashbackers, in contrast to the findings in the control group. Noradrenergic systems may be compromised in the flashbackers, suggesting increased vulnerability to psychotic decompensation. These findings suggest that aggravation in peripheral noradrenergic hyperactivity may be an important factor in the occurrence of flashbacks.
Beta-blockers with different receptor bindings reduce mortality in patients with chronic heart failure. We compared the effects of the beta1-blocker metoprolol tartrate and the beta1-, beta2-, and alpha1-blocker carvedilol.
In a randomized double-blind design, 3029 patients with chronic congestive heart failure requiring diuretic therapy and with left ventricular dysfunction were randomized to treatment with carvedilol (n = 1511) or metoprolol tartrate (n = 1518) and titrated to target doses of 25 mg of carvedilol twice daily or 50 mg of metoprolol tartrate twice daily. The main outcome measures were total mortality and the combination of mortality or hospitalization for any cause. Secondary end points were cardiovascular death, combinations of morbidity and mortality, New York Heart Association class, worsening of heart failure, hospitalizations, and discontinuation of study therapy.
A total of 512 and 600 patients in the carvedilol group and metoprolol group, respectively, died (hazard ratio [HR] 0.83, 95% CI 0.74-0.93, P = .0017). Cardiovascular death was reduced by carvedilol (HR 0.80, 95% CI 0.70-0.90, P = .0004). There were fewer sudden deaths and deaths caused by circulatory failure or by stroke in the carvedilol group. There was no difference in all-cause hospitalizations or in worsening heart failure between treatment groups. The incidence of fatal or nonfatal acute myocardial infarction was significantly lower in the carvedilol group (HR 0.71, 95% CI 0.52-0.97, P = .03). Discontinuations of study therapy were similar in the 2 groups.
Compared with metoprolol tartrate, carvedilol reduced cardiovascular mortality, sudden death, death caused by circulatory failure, death caused by stroke, as well as fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarctions.
Hypotension during exercise treadmill testing is correlated with the presence of coronary artery disease, its severity, and prognosis. The importance of hypotension during dobutamine stress testing has not been previously reported to our knowledge. We reviewed 43 cases of hypotension occurring in 42 patients out of a total of 116 consecutive stress dobutamine echocardiographic procedures performed in a total of 112 patients. Of the 42 patients with hypotension, 20 underwent cardiac catheterization. Regional wall motion abnormalities induced by dobutamine infusion were found in 13 of these patients, all of whom had significant (greater than or equal to 70% diameter reduction) coronary artery disease. The remaining seven patients without regional wall motion abnormalities did not have significant coronary artery disease at catheterization. Of the remaining 22 patients with dobutamine-induced hypotension, 20 had no induced regional wall motion abnormalities, were not catheterized, and were followed clinically. None of these patients had a cardiac event during a mean follow-up period of 11.5 months. We conclude that hypotension during dobutamine stress echocardiography in the absence of regional wall motion abnormalities does not indicate significant coronary artery disease or portend an adverse prognosis.
Despite the existence of successful vaccine and antiviral therapies, infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) continues to be a major global cause of acute and chronic liver disease and high mortality. We synthesized and evaluated several lyxofuranosyl, 2'-fluoroxylofuranosyl, 3'-fluoroarabinofuranosyl, and 2'-fluoro-2',3'-didehydro-2',3'-dideoxyribose pyrimidine nucleoside analogues for antiviral activities against hepatitis B virus. Among the compounds examined, 1-(2-deoxy-β-d-lyxofuranosyl)thymine (23), 1-(2-deoxy-β-d-lyxofuranosyl)-5-trifluoromethyluracil (25), 1-(2-deoxy-2-fluoro-β-d-xylofuranosyl)uracil (38), 1-(2-deoxy-2-fluoro-β-d-xylofuranosyl)thymine (39), 2',3'-dideoxy-2',3'-didehydro-2'-fluorothymidine (48), and 2',3'-dideoxy-2',3'-didehydro-2'-fluoro-5-ethyluridine (49) were found to possess significant anti-HBV activity against DHBV in primary duck hepatocytes with EC(50) values of 4.1, 3.3, 40.6, 3.8, 0.2, and 39.0 μM, respectively. Compounds 23, 25, 39, 48, and 49 (EC(50) = 41.3, 33.7, 19.2, 2.0-4.1, and 39.0 μM, respectively) exhibited significant activity against wild-type human HBV in 2.2.15 cells. Intriguingly, 25, 39, 48, and 49 retained sensitivity against lamivudine-resistant HBV containing a single mutation (M204I) and 48 emerged as an effective inhibitor of drug-resistant HBV with an EC(50) of 4.1 μM. In contrast, 50% inhibition could not be achieved by lamivudine at 44 μM concentration in the drug-resistant strain. The compounds investigated did not show cytotoxicity to host cells up to the highest concentrations tested.
