Valproic acid (VPA) is used to treat epilepsy and bipolar disorders, as well as for migraine prophylaxis. However, its clinical use is limited by two life-threatening side effects: hepatotoxicity and teratogenicity. To develop a more potent and safer second-generation VPA drug, the urea derivatives of four VPA analogs (2-ethyl-3-methylpentanoyl urea, 2-ethylhexanoyl urea, 2-ethyl-4-methylpentanoyl urea, and 2-methylbutanoyl urea) were synthesized.
Four CNS-active analogs of a VPA urea derivative testedthe anticonvulsant activity in the maximal electroshock seizure test (MES) and subcutaneous metrazol seizure threshold test (scMet). Teratogenic effects of these compounds were evaluated in NMRI mice susceptible to VPA-induced teratogenicity by comparison with VPA.
All four VPA analogs showed superior anticonvulsant activity over VPA. Compared with VPA, which induced neural tube defects (NTDs) in fetuses at 1.8 and 3.6 mmol/kg, the analog derivatives induced no NTDs at any concentration up to 4.8 mmol/kg (except for a single abnormality at 3.6 mmol/kg with 2-ethyl-3-methylpentanoyl urea). Skeletal examination also revealed that the acylurea derivatives induced vertebral and rib abnormalities in fetuses markedly less frequently than VPA. Our results confirmed that the analogue derivatives are significantly less teratogenic than VPA in NMRI mice.
The CNS-active VPA analogs containing a urea moiety, which have better anticonvulsant potency and lack teratogenicity, are good potential candidates as second-generation VPA antiepileptic drugs.
After single i. p. injection of arsenic trioxide, at the dosage range of 1/4 to 1/40 LD50 into hybrid mice (CBA X C57B1/6J)F1, no induction of dominant lethals in male germ cells was observed. However, it led to an increase in the number of micronuclei in the erythrocytes of bone marrow. Treatment with the effective dose of thioTEPA, causing an increase in the number of dominant lethals in male germ cells and in the number of micronuclei in the erythrocytes of bone marrow, followed by injection of arsenic trioxide, resulted in inhibition of the mutagenic activity of thioTEPA. This inhibition increased proportionally with the dose of arsenic trioxide.
Overactivity of the dopaminergic system in the brain is considered to be a contributing factor to the development and symptomatology of schizophrenia. Therefore, the GABAergic control of dopamine functions was assessed by disrupting the gene encoding the alpha3 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor. alpha3 knockout (alpha3KO) mice exhibited neither an obvious developmental defect nor apparent morphological brain abnormalities, and there was no evidence for compensatory up-regulation of other major GABA(A)-receptor subunits. Anxiety-related behavior in the elevated-plus-maze test was undisturbed, and the anxiolytic-like effect of diazepam, which is mediated by alpha2-containing GABA(A) receptors, was preserved. As a result of the loss of alpha3 GABA(A) receptors, the GABA-induced whole-cell current recorded from midbrain dopamine neurons was significantly reduced. Spontaneous locomotor activity was slightly elevated in alpha3KO mice. Most notably, prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex was markedly attenuated in the alpha3KO mice, pointing to a deficit in sensorimotor information processing. This deficit was completely normalized by treatment with the antipsychotic D2-receptor antagonist haloperidol. The amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion was not altered in alpha3KO mice compared with WT mice. These results suggest that the absence of alpha3-subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors induces a hyperdopaminergic phenotype, including a severe deficit in sensorimotor gating, a common feature among psychiatric conditions, including schizophrenia. Hence, agonists acting at alpha3-containing GABA(A) receptors may constitute an avenue for an effective treatment of sensorimotor-gating deficits in various psychiatric conditions.
To study the micronucleus rate and chromosome aberration of mouse embryo liver induced by formaldehyde.
The pregnant mice (been pregnant for 13 days) were divided into 5 groups randomly: Formaldehyde was given as intraperitoneal injection (0.00, 0.20, 2.00, 20.00 mg/kg) for exposure group and Cyclophosphamide (30 mg/kg) for positive control group. When the 14th days (i.e After exposed in formaldehyde 18 hours), escapes the cervical vertebra cervical killed off pregnant mouse, peels on both sides of the uterus, takes an embryo respectively each side, beheads and emits the circumference blood, takes out the embryo liver, performs micronucleus experiment and chromosome aberration experiment by use of embryo liver, validate embryo liver blood micronucleus rate and the chromosome distortion factor.
The micronucleus rate and chromosome aberration (mainly for chromosome breakage, polyploid) rate of embryonic liver showed significant differences in formaldehyde exposure group (2.00, 20.00 mg/kg) compared with the control group (P < 0.01).
The micronucleus rate and chromosome aberration of mouse embryos liver induced by formaldehyde.
The transient stimulated otoacoustic emissions TEOAE's from 10 patients treated with Streptomycin for tuberculosis, were measured. The patients received a combination of four drugs consisting of isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamid and streptomycin. All patients received a total of 30 grams of streptomycin during 30 days of treatment. Pure tone audiograms between 125 Hz and 8000 Hz were performed before, during and at the end of the treatment. The TEOAE's were measured in a soundproof cabin before during and after the streptomycin treatment. None of the patients experienced subjective dizziness, hearing loss or tinnitus. The pure tone audiograms showed no significant fluctuations. However, 14 of the 20 examined ears showed a significant decrease in the amplitudes of the TEOAE's. An observation of the TEOAE-amplitudes of each patient during the treatment allows an assessment of impending cochlear dysfunction before subjective hearing loss can be recognized.
The incidence of ventricular arrhythmias following the intracoronary injection of papaverine was assessed. A 3F coronary Doppler catheter was placed in the proximal left anterior descending artery and 6-12 mg of papaverine was injected into the left coronary artery in 42 patients. After intracoronary papaverine, the corrected QT interval on the electrocardiogram was prolonged from 0.43 +/- 0.03 to 0.49 +/- 0.07 s (p < 0.001). Occasional premature beats were observed in 2 patients (4.5%) with dilated cardiomyopathy. In 1 patient (2.3%) with 99% stenosis of the left anterior descending artery, polymorphous ventricular tachycardia with marked QT prolongation occurred. This patient also had hypokalemia (2.5 mEq/l) due to primary aldosteronism. In conclusion, careful use of intracoronary papaverine is necessary because of the risk of occasional serious ventricular arrhythmias.
Myophosphorylase deficiency is characterized by exercise intolerance, muscle cramps, and recurrent myoglobinuria. Some patients are severely affected, whereas others are minimally affected or asymptomatic. The molecular basis of the disease has been elucidated but does not provide an explanation for the clinical variability. In a large cohort of patients with myophosphorylase deficiency, we tested the hypothesis that polymorphic variants in either myoadenylate deaminase (MADA) or angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) could act as modulators of phenotype expression. Forty-seven patients were evaluated. Clinical severity was assessed according to a severity scale of four grades. MADA activity was studied by histochemical and biochemical analysis of muscle, and the Q12X mutation in the adenine monophosphate deaminase 1 gene (AMPD1) and the insertion/deletion polymorphism in the ACE gene were assessed genetically. A complete MADA defect together with the Q12X mutation was detected in one severely affected patient. Eleven patients were heterozygous for the Q12X mutation. There was no association between clinical grading and MADA status. In contrast, we found a highly significant (p < 0.01) association between ACE genotype and clinical severity, with strong correlation between severe phenotype and number of D alleles. We show that ACE insertion/deletion polymorphism may play a significant role as phenotype modulator in McArdle's disease.
The major aim of the present study was to evaluate the role of the angiotensin II receptors located within the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) in the maintenance of high blood pressure following chronic nitric oxide inhibition. Rats were treated orally with L-NAME (70 mg/kg/day) for 1 week. We inhibited the RVLM neurons using drugs such as Sarthran, Losartan and glycine in urethane-anesthetized rats (1.2 to 1.4 g/kg, i.v.). (1) Bilateral microinjection of Sarthran into the RVLM decreased BP in the hypertensive and normotensive groups, but the depressor effect of the drug was lower in hypertensive than in normotensive rats. (2) The decrease in BP in response to Sarthran in the RVLM compared with glycine was significantly smaller in the hypertensive group, but not in the normotensive group. (3) No change in MAP was observed in response to bilateral microinjection of the Ang AT(1) receptor antagonist Losartan into the RVLM in either group. These results suggest that (1) the endogenous angiotensin receptors of the RVLM are involved in the maintenance of high BP in L-NAME-treated animals and (2) the tonic action of Ang II is not dependent on AT(1) receptors within the RVLM. The possibility of an action via other Ang II receptors remains to be investigated.
The effects of intracoronary nifedipine on coronary bloodflow, its regional distribution, myocardial oxygen consumption and lactate metabolism during pacing-induced angina were evaluated in 15 subjects. These responses were directly compared to 10 subjects who received an alcohol-based control solvent. Myocardial bloodflow was measured by thermodilution, with changes in regional coronary flow assessed using a dual radiolabelled (technetium-99m and indium-111) intracoronary microsphere technique and single photon emission tomography. Neither intracoronary nifedipine (100 micrograms) or the control solvent produced changes in systemic arterial pressure (nifedipine -2 mmHg and control +2 mmHg, both not significant). Intracoronary nifedipine markedly increased left ventricular end diastolic pressure (pre-nifedipine 13.0 mmHg versus post nifedipine 20.1, P less than 0.05), while increasing total coronary sinus bloodflow (pre-nifedipine 134 mL/min versus post nifedipine 189, P less than 0.05): Regional coronary bloodflow increased in all myocardial segments, regardless of the severity of coronary stenosis (64 to 132% baseline, all P less than 0.05). In addition, intracoronary nifedipine increased myocardial oxygen consumption (pre-nifedipine 12.3 mL/min versus post nifedipine 15.7, P less than 0.05), with a trend towards improved lactate extraction (pre-nifedipine 0.24 mg/mL versus post nifedipine 0.12, not significant). Although decreased ventricular afterload (left ventricular systolic wall stress) may contribute to nifedipine's antianginal properties, a primary increase in regional coronary bloodflow also appears to be an important factor in the alleviation of myocardial ischemia.
Recent studies have shown increased immunoreactivity for neuropeptide Y (NPY) within the perilesional cortex following experimental middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) or focal excitotoxic damage. Downregulation of the NPY Y1 receptor gene using an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide produced a doubling of the infarct volume, implying that NPY may mediate neuroprotection against focal ischemia. The effects of treatment with NPY on infarct volume and hemodynamic parameters were investigated in the present study. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital to undergo right-sided endovascular MCAO for 2 h. A single dose of NPY was given via intracarotid injection (10 microg/kg) at the beginning of reperfusion, intracisternal injection (10 or 30 microg/kg) at 30 min of ischemia, or intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection (10 or 70 microg/kg) at 30 min of ischemia. Control groups received the vehicle only via the same route. Body temperature was maintained constant, and hemodynamic parameters were monitored during anesthesia. Laser Doppler flowmetry was used to monitor the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during ischemia and reperfusion in some rats. The rats were decapitated on day 3, and their brains were cut into 2-mm thick coronal slices before reaction with a 2% solution of 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride to reveal the infarct. Compared to the respective control groups, NPY treatment via any method of administration increased the relative infarct volume. Suppression of rCBF was observed during reperfusion. These results indicate that peripheral or central administration of NPY impairs reperfusion following experimental MCAO and worsens the outcome of focal cerebral ischemia.
A survey is presented of neuromuscular drug involvement in 390 clinically severe anaphylactoid reactions (grades II-IV reported to a Sheffield laboratory from 1988 to the end of 1992 from hospitals throughout the UK. Despite advances in patient monitoring and newer drugs, the reporting frequency and individual drug involvement were remarkably similar to those of a previous report from the laboratory in 1988. The highly immunogenic drug suxamethonium still predominated (48% of reports), but there was now much reduced use of the similarly immunogenic drug, alcuronium. The incidence of reactions to vecuronium and atracurium remained similar (12% and 18% reports, respectively) and acceptable to the anaesthetist. However, in choosing drugs for individual patients, the anaesthetist may wish to note that vecuronium reactors mainly showed bronchospasm, and atracurium reactors hypotension. By a systematic laboratory investigation, based on measurement of plasma tryptase and urinary methylhistamine, reaction mechanisms were assessed in 53 reactions. Despite their overall clinical similarity, analysis revealed that only one reaction in three was likely to be due to IgE-mediated anaphylaxis (Type 1). Not only was suxamethonium the most frequently reported drug, but in this study 11 reactions were identified as Type 1 response: no allergic reactions were identified for either vecuronium or atracurium, although single cases were identified for alcuronium, gallamine, and tubocurarine, with two unidentified. The remaining reactions were judged to be non-immune, although most involved mast cell degranulation. These reactions were no less hazardous than Type 1 reactions (one death), and two deaths were recorded. The importance of laboratory investigation as a feature of postreaction care is emphasized.
Papaverine hydrochloride (smooth muscle relaxant), phentolamine mesylate (alpha-adrenergic blocking agent) and prostaglandin E1 (vasodilator and smooth muscle relaxant) were combined to produce a potent vasoactive drug therapy for use in a pharmacological erection program. Doses of 2.5 cc papaverine (30 mg./cc), 0.5 cc phentolamine (5 mg./cc), 0.05 cc prostaglandin E1 (500 micrograms./cc) and 1.2 cc 0.9% normal saline were combined to produce a vial of 4.25 cc for patient convenience. Twenty unit vials were made from the 1 cc vial of prostaglandin E1, the most expensive ingredient. The solution is physiologically active for at least 6 months and can be stored at room temperature although refrigeration is recommended. The pH of the solution is 4. This vasoactive drug combination has been used in 116 patients for diagnostic testing and subsequent treatment. A dose of 0.25 cc has been effective for diagnosis and treatment in the majority of patients with mild to moderate arteriogenic and/or venogenic and diabetic impotence. For patients with neurogenic dysfunction 0.1 to 0.125 cc was the usual dose. Two patients had a prolonged erection requiring irrigation, 1 on the day of initial testing and 1 on home therapy. Pain at the site of injection or during intercourse was noted in only 2 patients and to date no fibrosis or plaques have been found.
To investigate liver tumor promotion mechanisms of copper (Cu)- and iron (Fe)-overloading, immunolocalization of metal-related biomolecules and lipid peroxidation end products was examined in preneoplastic liver cell foci that expressed glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) in early-stage tumor promotion over 6 weeks in a rat two-stage hepatocarcinogenesis model. Gene expression and concentrations of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) in the liver were also analyzed. Cu-overloading alone exerted a weak promoting activity, which was enhanced by Fe-overloading. By Cu-overloading, GST-P(+) foci that co-expressed transferrin receptors or downregulated ceruloplasmin increased, suggesting preneoplastic lesion-specific enhancement of oxidative cellular stress. Cu-overloading also increased transcripts of antioxidant enzymes (Gstm3 and Gst Yc2 subunit), cell proliferation, and numbers of single liver cells expressing GST-P or heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in the liver, suggesting that oxidative stress induces single-cell toxicity, with the ensuing regeneration contributing to tumor promotion. Fe-overloading increased liver TBARS and HO-1-expressing Kupffer cells, the latter suggesting protection against inflammatory stimuli causing fluctuating proinflammatory cytokine mRNA levels. By co-overloading of Cu and Fe, Cu-overload-related single liver cell toxicity and regeneration increased, as did cytokine imbalances involving increased cyclooxygenase-2-producing Kupffer cells and accumulation of malondialdehyde within GST-P(+) foci. These results suggest an involvement of oxidative stress responses in Cu-induced tumor promotion and Fe-induced enhancement by increasing cytokine imbalances and GST-P(+) foci-specific lipid peroxidation.
The long term efficacy and tolerability of sulphasalazine (SASP) in the treatment of 21 patients with active classical or definite rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were examined and compared with the effects of penicillamine in a similarly active group of RA patients. Nineteen of the 21 patients treated with SASP improved during the first 6 months as shown by significant changes in the clinical and laboratory variables. Clinical improvement was maintained for the remainder of the year. Improvement in laboratory variables was maintained at 9 months but showed some deterioration at 1 year. Six patients went into remission by the ARA criteria, and 16 were able to continue the drug at the end of 1 year. In addition SASP had a steroid-sparing effect in 4 of the patients on systemic steroids. No potentially dangerous side effects were encountered by the end of the first year, although 5 patients were withdrawn. Dyspepsia, nausea and abdominal discomfort were the most common side-effects, although rashes (3) and macrocytosis (2) also occurred. Eighteen of the 21 patients treated with penicillamine improved during 9 months, although there was some deterioration at 1 year. Eight patients were withdrawn because of side-effects - thrombocytopenia (5), nephrotic syndrome (1) and proteinuria (2). This study suggests that SASP has a disease modifying action maintained over a year and associated with low toxicity. It is a useful addition to the small number of second-line drugs with a possibly different mode of action.
We present the case of a young man who developed severe cardiomyopathy eight years after receiving high-dose doxorubicin therapy as treatment for diffuse lymphoblastic lymphoma. He underwent cardiac transplantation and eighteen months later the tumor has not recurred and the patient has no cardiac symptoms.
A patient with recessive generalized congenital myotonia and severe, disabling weakness underwent various forms of treatment while being monitored electrophysiologically. Phenytoin, verapamil, and acetazolamide were ineffective, but tocainide yielded good results. Improvement was dose-dependent, and was limited by irritability and action tremor when the patient was taking 1,600 mg per day.
Previous studies demonstrated that the spiny rat Proechimys guyannensis exhibits resistance to experimental epilepsy. Neural activation was studied in the Proechimys hippocampus, using Fos induction, within 24 h after pilocarpine-induced seizures; neurodegenerative events were investigated in parallel, using FluoroJade B histochemistry. These parameters were selected since pilocarpine-induced limbic epilepsy is known to elicit immediate early gene expression and cell loss in the hippocampus of seizure-prone laboratory rodents. At variance with matched experiments in Wistar rats, pilocarpine injection resulted in Proechimys in seizure episodes that, as previously reported, did not develop into status epilepticus. At 3 h and 8 h after seizure onset, Fos immunoreactivity filled the dentate gyrus of both rat species, and was quite marked in pyramidal cells of the Proechimys Ammon's horn. At 24 h, Fos immunoreactivity dropped in the Wistar hippocampus and persisted in Proechimys. At 8 h and 24 h, FluoroJade-stained neurons were very few in the Proechimys hippocampus, whereas they were abundant in that of Wistar rats. Double immunohistochemistry for Fos and parvalbumin, the protein expressed by fast-spiking hippocampal interneurons, indicated that Fos was induced up to 24 h in the vast majority of parvalbumin-containing cells of the Proechimys hippocampus, and in a minority of these cells in the Wistar hippocampus. The findings demonstrate that early postepileptic neurodegeneration is very limited in the Proechimys hippocampus, in which sustained Fos induction persists for several hours. The findings also indicate that Fos induction and persistence may not correlate with seizure intensity and may not be associated with neuronal death. Finally, the data implicate differential mechanisms of interneuron activity in anti-convulsant and pro-convulsant phenomena.
To investigate whether striatal enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase (STEP) influences ictogenesis.
STEP knockout mice were compared to wild-type (WT) mice in pilocarpine-induced seizures. Hippocampal slices were also prepared from these two mouse populations, allowing the examination of ictal-like stimulation in these slices using calcium imaging and electrophysiologic recordings.
To examine seizure thresholds, increasing doses of pilocarpine were administered to adult mice and seizures were scored behaviorally. Significantly fewer STEP knockout mice developed seizures that progressed to the stage of status epilepticus compared to WT mice. To examine potential differences in neural circuits that might account for this finding, seizure-like activity was induced in hippocampal slices. Electrical stimulation of the hippocampal-entorhinal cortex pathway in STEP knockout mice resulted in less activation of the dentate gyrus granule cell layer (GCL), but greater activation of the hilus in STEP knockouts, compared with heterozygous slices.
STEP deficiency is associated with higher seizure thresholds. The locus of these effects appears to include the dentate gyrus granule cell layer and hilus.
The hypoplastic lung and persistent pulmonary hypertension (PPH) are the principle causes of high mortality and morbidity in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). Endothelin-1 (ET-1), which is produced by vascular endothelial cells and some leukocytes, plays a key role in modulating pulmonary vascular tone in PPH. Two different receptors (ET(A) and ET(B)) for ET-1 have been characterized. Binding of ET-1 to ET(A), which is present on smooth muscle cells in fetal lung, results in vasoconstriction. However, binding of ET-1 to ET(B), which is present on endothelial cells results in vasodilation mediated by endogenous nitric oxide. Antenatal glucocorticoid therapy has been shown to prevent abnormal pulmonary arterial structural changes in animal model with CDH. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of antenatal glucocorticoid administration on ET-1 system in nitrofen-induced CDH hypoplastic lung in rats.
A CDH model was induced in pregnant rats after administration of nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation. Dexamethasone (Dex) was given intraperitoneally on days 18.5 and 19.5 of gestation. Cesarean section was performed on day 21 of gestation. Rat ET-1 protein expression was measured in solubilized lung tissue extracts, by sandwich type enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) analysis. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was performed to evaluate the relative amount of ET-1, ET(A), and ET(B) mRNA expression.
The ET-1 protein and mRNA expression of ET-1 and both receptors were increased significantly in CDH lung compared with controls. Although there was no significant difference in ET(A) mRNA expression between CDH lung with Dex treatment and without Dex treatment, ET(B) mRNA expression was elevated significantly in CDH lung with Dex treatment compared with CDH lung without Dex treatment.
These findings suggest that antenatal glucocorticoid therapy may modulate pulmonary vascular tone in CDH hypoplastic lung by selectively upregulating local expression of ET(B).
Motor neuron axonopathy in diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis can be modeled and probed with neurotoxic chemicals that induce similar patterns of pathology, such as axonal spheroids that represent focal accumulation of anterogradely transported neurofilaments (NFs). The aromatic gamma-diketone-like 1,2-diacetylbenzene (1,2-DAB), but not its 1,3-DAB isomer, reacts with epsilon-amino- or sulfyhydryl groups of (neuro)proteins, forms adducts, and causes NFs to accumulate at proximal sites of elongate motor axons. We exploit the protein-reactive properties of neurotoxic 1,2-DAB versus the nonprotein-reactive properties of non-neurotoxic 1,3-DAB to unveil proteomic changes associated with this type of pathology. We used two-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE), matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry to analyze the lumbosacral spinal cord proteome of adult Sprague-Dawley rats treated systemically with 20 mg/kg/day 1,2-DAB, equimolar dose of 1,3-DAB, or equivalent volume of vehicle (saline containing 2% acetone), 5 days a week, for 2 weeks. 1,2-DAB significantly altered the expression of protein disulfide isomerase, an enzyme involved in protein folding, and gelsolin, an actin-capping and -severing protein. Modifications of these two proteins have been incriminated in the pathogenesis of nerve fiber degeneration. Protein-reactive and neurotoxic 1,2-DAB appears to be excellent tool to dissect mechanisms of nerve fiber (axon) degeneration.
To determine the effect of combined finasteride and flutamide therapy on haemoglobin and haematocrit values in men with advanced prostate cancer.
Nineteen men, previously untreated by hormone therapy, with histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate and clinical evidence of advanced disease, were treated with combined finasteride (5 mg/day) and flutamide (750 mg/day) for at least 6 months. Complete blood counts were performed before initiation and after 6 months of therapy.
After 6 months of finasteride and flutamide therapy both haemoglobin levels and haematocrit decreased in all men, with a mean (sd, range) decrease of 16 (10, 3-42) g/L and 4.6 (2.7, 0.8-9.9)%, respectively.
Combined finasteride and flutamide therapy significantly lowers haemoglobin and haematocrit levels in men with advanced prostate cancer, and further study of this effect is warranted.
In both cell culture experiments and in vivo studies, a number of angiotensin II type 1 (AT(1)) receptor antagonists activated the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ). This mechanism has been discussed to be, at least in part, responsible for the improvement in glucose metabolism observed in animal studies and clinical trials. To investigate whether the PPARγ-dependent mechanism may represent a valid target for chronic therapy, spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were fed either with a cafeteria diet (CD) or standard chow. CD-fed SHR were simultaneously treated with either telmisartan (TEL; 8 mg/kg(body weight)· d) or candesartan (CAND; 10 mg/kg(body weight)· d) for 3 months because TEL, but not CAND, has been demonstrated to be a strong activator of PPARγ. After 3 months, chow- and CD-fed controls were hypertensive, whereas TEL and CAND treatment resulted in normalized blood pressures in SHR. Body weight and the amount of abdominal fat (determined by magnetic resonance imaging) were higher in CD- than in chow-fed SHR. After TEL or CAND, body weight, abdominal fat quantity, and adipocyte size returned to normal. In glucose tolerance tests, the glucose responses were comparable in the TEL- and CAND-treated SHR and obese controls, whereas the insulin response was almost halved by AT(1) blockade. Expression of PPARγ target genes aP2, FAT CD36, FASn, and PEPCK remained unaltered at the protein level in visceral fat after TEL and CAND compared with the CD-fed controls. Because the expression of examined PPARγ target genes was not affected, we concluded that improved insulin sensitivity after long-term treatment with AT(1) blockers was not related to a PPARγ-dependent mechanism.
Pemetrexed has shown varied response rates in advanced breast cancer. This randomized, double-blind, phase II study was conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of two doses of pemetrexed in a homogeneous population. A secondary objective was to identify molecular biomarkers correlating with response and toxicity.
Patients with newly diagnosed metastatic breast cancer or locally recurrent breast cancer received 600 mg/m(2) (P600 arm) or 900 mg/m(2) (P900 arm) of pemetrexed on day 1 of a 21-day cycle. All patients received folic acid and vitamin B(12) supplementation.
The P600 (47 patients) and P900 (45 patients) arms had response rates of 17.0% (95% confidence interval, 7.7-30.8%) and 15.6% (95% confidence interval, 6.5-29.5%) with approximately 50% stable disease per arm, median progression-free survival of 4.2 and 4.1 months, and median times to tumor progression of 4.2 and 4.6 months, respectively. Both arms exhibited minimal toxicity (grade 3/4 neutropenia <20%, leukopenia <9%, and other toxicities <5%). Tumor samples from 49 patients were assessed for the expression levels of 12 pemetrexed-related genes. Folylpolyglutamate synthetase and thymidine phosphorylase correlated with efficacy. Best response rates and median time to tumor progression for high versus low thymidine phosphorylase expression were 27.6% versus 6.3% (P = 0.023) and 5.4 versus 1.9 months (P = 0.076), and for folylpolyglutamate synthetase were 37.5% versus 10.0% (P = 0.115) and 8.6 versus 3.0 months (P = 0.019), respectively. gamma-Glutamyl hydrolase expression correlated with grade 3/4 toxicities: 78.6% for high versus 27.3% for low gamma-glutamyl hydrolase (P = 0.024).
The two pemetrexed doses yielded similar efficacy and safety profiles. Exploratory biomarker analysis identified efficacy and toxicity correlations and warrants further evaluation.
Excess oxygen radical formation is suggested to be involved in the etiology of diabetic embryopathy. We aimed to investigate the effects of altered maternal antioxidative status in conjunction with a varied severity of the maternal diabetic state on embryonic development by using mice with different gene expression of CuZn superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD). The mice were wild-type (WT), transgenic (TG), or knockout (KO) with regard to CuZnSOD. Alloxan was used to induce diabetes (DWT, DTG, DKO) in female mice before pregnancy and, noninjected mice served as controls (NWT, NTG, NKO). The minimum alloxan dose required to induce diabetes was 80 mg/kg for WT, 100 mg/kg for TG, and 65 mg/kg for KO mice. When KO mice were made diabetic with 80 mg/kg alloxan, they produced no living offspring. The pregnancies were interrupted on gestational day 18, when maternal diabetic state, that is, blood glucose concentration, as well as fetal outcome, genotype and hepatic isoprostane levels were assessed. The mean maternal blood glucose levels were positively associated with the alloxan dose, that is, the DWT and DTG groups had higher blood glucose concentration than the DKO group, and the DWT and DTG fetuses increased their hepatic isoprostane levels, whereas the DKO fetuses did not. However, in all diabetic groups, increased maternal blood glucose concentration was associated with higher resorption and malformation rates as well as lowered fetal and placental weight. Furthermore, diabetes increased the fraction of WT offspring in the TG and KO groups. We conclude that both fetal antioxidative capacity and maternal diabetic state affect the development of the offspring. However, the maternal diabetic state is the major teratogenic factor and overrides the influence of fetal antioxidative capacity.
Present generation non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) are potent inhibitors of the enzyme cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Even though they exhibit reduced incidence of gastrotoxicity, severe nephrotoxicity and other side effects have been widely reported with respect to usage of these drugs. Since COX-2 levels are not only upregulated by inflammation but also by other stimuli such as cytokines, growth factors, mitogens and steroid hormones, we investigated the localization of COX-2 and activity of both COX-1 and COX-2 in mice testis. To correlate the localization of COX-2 with its function we suppressed COX-2 expression with the aid of nimesulide a preferential COX-2 inhibitor. We found COX-2 was constitutively expressed in the Leydig cells of mice testis suggesting a role on testosterone synthesis. Suppression of COX-2 resulted in increased concentration of most of polyunsaturated fatty acids especially arachidonic acid (AA). Prostaglandin (PG) levels which showed an initial decline during nimesulide treatment had a reversible effect during prolonged treatment. These findings state that cyclooxygenase is constitutively expressed in mice testis and continuous inhibition of COX-2 interferes in maturation of sperm.
A novel antibody-drug conjugate (trastuzumab-DM1, T-DM1) is currently in clinical trials for patients with trastuzumab resistant HER2-positive breast cancer. Since no clinical data is available from gastric cancer, we studied T-DM1 on HER2-positive human gastric cancer cells and xenograft tumors.
Effects of T-DM1 were studied in four HER2-positive gastric cancer cell lines (N-87, OE-19, SNU-216 and MKN-7) in vitro. Xenograft tumors from N-87 and OE-19 were studied to determine the effect of T-DM1 in vivo.
T-DM1 was found more effective than trastuzumab in N-87 and OE-19, and moderately effective in MKN-7 cells. On SNU-216 cells both trastuzumab and T-DM1 showed limited efficacy. In xenograft tumor experiments, complete pathological response was observed in all OE-19 xenografted mice and in half of the N-87 xenografted mice. The results were equally good irrespective of the tumor burden at therapy initiation, or preceding trastuzumab treatment. T-DM1 treatment showed direct effects (apoptotic cell death and aberrant mitosis) as well as it mediated antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC).
T-DM1 showed a promising anti-tumor effect in HER2-positive gastric cancer cell lines in vitro and in vivo, even in tumors which had developed resistance to trastuzumab. T-DM1 therapy may warrant clinical trials for HER2-positive gastric cancer patients.
