The authors evaluated the association between lead burden and psychiatric symptoms and its potential modification by a delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD) polymorphism. Lead measurements in blood or bone and self-reported ratings on the Brief Symptom Inventory from 1991 to 2002 were available for 1,075 US men participating in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Normative Aging Study. The authors estimated the prevalence odds ratio for the association between interquartile-range lead and abnormal symptom score, adjusting for potential confounders. An interquartile increment in tibia lead (14 microg/g) was associated with 21% higher odds of somatization (95% confidence interval of the odds ratio: 1.01, 1.46). An interquartile increment in patella lead (20 microg/g) corresponded to a 23% increase in the odds of global distress (95% confidence interval of the odds ratio: 1.02, 1.47). An interquartile increment in blood lead (2.8 microg/dl) was associated with 14% higher odds of hostility (95% confidence interval of the odds ratio: 1.02, 1.27). In all other analyses, lead was nonsignificantly associated with psychiatric symptoms. The adverse association of lead with abnormal mood scores was generally stronger among ALAD 1-1 carriers than 1-2/2-2 carriers, particularly regarding phobic anxiety symptoms (p(interaction) = 0.004). These results augment evidence of a deleterious association between lead and psychiatric symptoms.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are ubiquitous air pollutants generated by combustion of organic material, including fossil fuel.
It has been an open question whether prenatal exposure to air pollution in general and PAHs in particular significantly increases the risk of intrauterine growth restriction, including small size for gestational age (SGA), and preterm delivery. Here, we have examined this hypothesis in a cohort of mothers and newborns in New York City.
Subjects were young, nonsmoking, healthy African-American (n = 224) and Dominican (n = 392) mother-newborn pairs residing in New York City whose prenatal PAH exposures were estimated by personal air monitoring. Questionnaire and medical record data were obtained.
A 1 natural-log (ln)-unit increase in prenatal PAH exposure was associated with a 2-fold increase in risk of symmetric intrauterine growth restriction (i.e., SGA and fetal growth ratio < 85%) among full-term African Americans (p < 0.05). Preterm delivery risk was 5-fold greater among African Americans per ln-unit increase in prenatal PAH exposure. The same unit increase in exposure significantly increased the ratio of head circumference to birth weight by 0.04% in African Americans. These effects were not observed in Dominicans.
Prenatal PAH exposure is likely to contribute to the occurrence of SGA as well as preterm births among African Americans. The lack of an association in Dominicans might reflect modification of the risk by healthful cultural practices among recent Dominican immigrants. Given that PAHs are globally generated and distributed pollutants, our observations have potential implications for environmental health and energy policies.
The mechanism of Botulinum Toxin Type A (BTX-A) action at the neuromuscular junction is well known. But from the introduction of BTX-A, some authors have suggested a central action of BTX-A and possible side effects far from the site of injection. Some studies demonstrate an improvement of cortical SEPs associated with reduction of spasticity after BTX-A injection. The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of BTX-A treatment on cortical somatosensory potentials (SEP).
A group of twenty nine children ranging from 2 to 17 years old with cerebral palsy were studied. Each patients spasticity level was evaluated before, 2 weeks and 6 weeks after BTX-A injection by the Modified Ashworth Scale and modified Gait Physician's Rating Scale. The SEPs from lower and upper extremities were performed before and between 2 and 6 weeks (19.34 +/- 8.82 days) after BTX-A administration.
The mean spasitity level was significantly lower 2 and 6 weeks after BTX-A injection. The gait analysis by modified Physician's Rating Scale (PRS) showed significant improvement two weeks and six weeks after BTX-A injection. SEPs results were abnormal before BTX-A injection in 25 children with cerebral palsy. However we didn't find any significant changes of SEPs latencies after BTX-A injection.
The results of SEP after BTX-A administration in children with cerebral palsy do not confirm the central action of BTX-A on somatosensory pathways. We did not find any significant changes of SEP latencies associated with clinical reduction of spasticity. It seems that SEP results could support the opinion, that BTX-A does not have any direct central effect on sensory pathways. Remote side effects may be explained by an indirect mechanism due to modification of the central loops of reflexes or to hematogenous spread of BTX-A.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and dibenzodioxins (PCDDs) may affect the female reproductive system in animals and humans. In 1978-1979, a mass poisoning occurred in central Taiwan due to PCB/PCDF-contaminated cooking oil; this incident was called Yucheng ("oil disease" in Chinese).
The purpose of our study was to determine whether PCB/PCDF exposure affected fertility in exposed women.
After the event, we followed the exposed individuals and a reference group who were sex-, age-, and community-matched. In 2003, we obtained fertility histories from Yucheng and reference women by telephone interview. We used Kaplan-Meier survival curves and multivariable Cox regression to compare time to pregnancy (TTP) between Yucheng and reference women, and we performed multiple logistic regression to determine whether PCB/PCDF exposure caused infertility.
In total, 412 women responded, with a median TTP of 4 months in Yucheng women and 3 months in reference women (p = 0.019). After adjusting for confounders by Cox regression, we found a fecundability ratio of 0.90 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.80-1.00] for Yucheng women. Among the 408 women who had non-contraceptive sexual activity for > 12 months, 19.7% of Yucheng women and 9.7% of reference women did not become pregnant (i.e., they were infertile). After we adjusted for confounders by logistic regression, the infertility odds ratio was 2.34 (95% CI, 1.23-4.59) for Yucheng women compared with the reference group.
We found prolonged TTP and reduced fertility among women previously exposed to PCBs/PCDFs. Because of the limited sample size and the relatively small decrease in the fertility rate, these effects require cautious interpretation and further investigation for confirmation.
Analgesics and topical agents ineffectively inhibit painful erections after penile and urethral surgery. Oral ketoconazole reversibly inhibits testosterone production and has been used empirically at our institution to decrease postoperative erections. We performed a retrospective review of 38 patients who had undergone penile and urethral reconstructive surgery. In all, 31 patients received 400 mg of ketoconazole three times daily for 10-14 days postoperatively (the study group) and seven patients did not receive ketoconazole (the control group). The incidence of postoperative erections, pain, side effects, surgical outcomes and patient satisfaction in each group were compared. Of the control group, 71% reported erections in the immediate postoperative period, and all these patients reported the erections were painful. Only 23% of the patient taking ketoconazole reported postoperative erections, and only 16% reported the erections were painful. We conclude that ketoconazole effectively prevents painful postoperative erections with minimal side effects.
About 10% of children develop Fanconi syndrome (FS) a few months after ifosfamide (IFO) treatment. To establish an animal model, IFO was injected as 4 or 5 treatment courses (TCs, once daily for 3 consecutive days), to adult female rats (AF, 8 mg 100 g(-1) body wt, 4 TCs), to young female rats (YF, 8 mg 100 g(-1) body wt, 5 TCs) and to male rats (M, 6 mg 100 g(-1) body wt, 4 TCs). In the adult female rats, polyuria with electrolyte and albumin wasting occurred acutely, 2 days after the first treatment course. After the third treatment course, 30% of the rats died, but survivors showed a reduced excretion of electrolytes and glucose. The body weight increase was significantly diminished in adult female and male rats by about 25% or 70%, respectively. Up to 5 months after 5 TCs in young female rats, 15% of the animals died but the survivors did not show any sign of renal failure. In males, 28% of the rats died and in surviving animals the excretion of electrolytes, proteins and glucose as well as GFR were reduced 7 weeks after the last treatment course. There were no pathomorphological changes in kidney and liver. Determination of renal and hepatic cytochrome P450 activities indicated that results of adult female and male rats could be caused by starving, known as a common side effect of IFO, and not by its nephrotoxicity. Altogether, it was not possible to establish a model of a Fanconi syndrome persisting after cessation of IFO treatment in our rat strain, whereas acute, FS-like IFO effects on the kidney could be shown.
Among the various medications that have been associated with the development of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) are the tricyclic antidepressants. A 69-year-old man admitted for treatment of a depressive disorder that had not responded to trazodone was prescribed imipramine. Twenty-two days after initiation of therapy, the patient developed hyponatremia. The patient also had depressed serum osmolality and elevated urine sodium concentrations consistent with SIADH. With the discontinuation of imipramine, fluid restriction, and several doses of furosemide, normal serum sodium concentrations were attained. As antidepressant therapy was indicated, doxepin was selected. The patient maintained normal electrolyte values and water balance over the next two months of follow-up. No reports of doxepin-related SIADH were found in the literature; therefore, this agent may be considered as an alternative therapy in patients developing SIADH during antidepressant drug therapy.
Rifampin is a widely used antimicrobial agent, most commonly administered in the treatment of tuberculosis. Since its introduction in the late 1960s, rifampin has become a standard agent in the treatment of tuberculosis, especially with the acceptance of short-course chemotherapy in the U.S. Rifampin also is being used with increasing frequency in the treatment of nontuberculous infections, especially serious staphylococcal infections. While rifampin usually is well tolerated in most patients, adverse effects, including serious forms of toxicity, have been reported. Some of these adverse effects include liver toxicity and various immunologic reactions such as skin rashes, eosinophilia, and interstitial nephritis. This report documents a case of acute interstitial nephritis, most likely secondary to intermittent rifampin administration.
A clinical evaluation of indomethacin employing a controlled, cross-over technique with an inert placebo was undertaken in 30 patients with ankylosing spondylitis. Patients were studied for the frequency and dose relationship of side effects and for the subjective response of morning stiffness, chronic spinal pain, acute exacerbations of pain and peripheral arthralgia. Objective evaluation assessed measured change in movements of the cervical and lumbar spines, in chest expansion and in the range of movement of involved peripheral joints.Evaluation of the results indicated that a significant number of patients experienced side effects in the form of headache and dizziness while receiving indomethacin in doses above 150 mg. per day. Many other side effects reported by the patients were not found to occur at a statistically significant level. The significance of pulmonary infections encountered in three patients was reviewed. Relief of chronic spinal pain and peripheral arthralgia occurred in 14 and 16 patients, respectively (p < 0.05). Relief of morning stiffness and acute exacerbations of pain, and increase in the range of movement of any of the segments of the spine or the involved peripheral joints were not significant (p > 0.05). Based on the results of this study, it is suggested that the role of indomethacin in the management of ankylosing spondylitis be re-evaluated and that the daily therapeutic dose of this drug which has been heretofore recommended be decreased.
The UK Prospective Diabetes Study demonstrated that the hypoglycaemic drug metformin is associated with a reduction in cardiovascular events in a group of obese type 2 diabetes patients. The energy sensing enzyme AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) has been indicated to play an important protective role in the ischaemic heart and is activated by metformin. The aim of this study was to determine whether a single dose of metformin protects the myocardium against experimentally induced ischaemia 24 hr after the administration, and furthermore to determine whether a single dose of metformin results in an acute increase in myocardial AMPK activity. Wistar rats were given either a single oral dose of metformin (250 mg/kg body weight), or a single oral dose of saline. After 24 hr, the hearts were Langendorff-perfused and subjected to 45 min. of coronary artery occlusion. Infarct size was determined by staining with triphenyltetrazoliumchloride (TTC) and Evans Blue and expressed as a percentage of the risk zone (IS/AAR %). Isoform specific AMPK activity was measured 2 hr after administration of metformin or saline. Infarct size was significantly reduced in the metformin treated (I/R: 19.9 +/- 3.9%versus 36.7 +/- 3.6%, P < 0.01, n = 8-14) compared to the control group. A single oral dose of metformin resulted in an approximately ~2-fold increase in AMPK-alpha2 activity 2 hr after administration (P < 0.015, n = 10). In conclusion, a single dose of metformin results in an acute increase in myocardial AMPK activity measured 2 hr after administration and induces a significant reduction in myocardial infarct size 24 hr after metformin administration. Increased AMPK activity may be an important signal mediator involved in the mechanisms behind the cardioprotective effects afforded by metformin.
Prolactin blood level and apomorphine-induced yawning were studied in rats treated with the substituted benzamide amisulpride in association with bromocriptine or carmoxirole; two dopamine D(2) receptor agonists with high or low propensity to cross the brain-blood barrier, respectively. Administration of amisulpride produced a maximum increase in rat serum prolactin level (315+/-18%) vs. vehicle-treated animals (ED(50)=0.25+/-0.017 mg/kg, s.c.). The concurrent administration of carmoxirole or bromocriptine completely reversed the hyperprolactinemia induced by amisulpride (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) (ID(50)=14.9+/-0.8 mg/kg and 0.81+/-0.03 mg/kg, respectively). Carmoxirole (15 mg/kg, i.p.) did not affect yawning induced by apomorphine (0.08 mg/kg, s.c.) nor amisulpride (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) blockade of apomorphine-induced yawning. Conversely, a significant increase in the number of yawns was observed when bromocriptine (0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) was associated with apomorphine in the absence or presence of amisulpride. These results suggested that a peripheral dopamine D(2) receptor agonists could be a useful tool in alleviating amisulpride-induced hyperprolactinemia without possibly affecting its central effect.
Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan; Cy) is an alkylating agent with cytotoxic and immunosuppressive activities. The parent compound is inactive in vitro and exerts its biologic activity through metabolites, mainly phosphoramide mustard generated by hepatic microsomal enzymes. The exact mode of cytotoxic and immunosuppressive action of Cy at cellular level is not completely understood. Myelosuppression, hemorrhagic cystitis, alopecia, and gonadal damage are the main toxic effects. Available data suggest that Cy has carcinogenic potential in humans. Cy is widely used for cancer chemotherapy. As an immunosuppressive agent, it is successfully used in certain nonmalignant diseases in which autoimmune phenomena are established or suspected in the pathogenesis of the disease. It is the drug of choice in Wegener's granulomatosis. Extensive efforts are being made to synthesize Cy analogues with greater selective cytotoxic and immunosuppressive activity. Ifosfamide, a Cy analogue, appears to possess similar cytotoxic activity with less myelosuppression. Further research will help in synthesizing a Cy analogue with specific pharmacologic activity and reduced or absent harmful effects.
Dipyridamole thallium-201 scintigraphy (DP-Tl) and coronary angiography were studied on 74 patients with suspected coronary artery disease. We compared the clinical features, hemodynamic responses, angiographic results and scintigraphic findings of patients who had chest pain during DP-Tl testing ('chest pain' group) with those of patients who did not have chest pain ('no pain' group). Thirty eight (51%) of the 74 patients developed chest pain. Heart rate and rate pressure product during DP infusion of 'chest pain' group were greater than those of the 'no pain' group (p less than 0.05). Ischemic ST depression was more frequently observed among 'chest pain' patients (p less than 0.01). There were no differences in angiographic severity of coronary artery disease between 'chest pain' and 'no pain' group. Also, we could find no differences in extent and severity scores of perfusion defects and washout abnormalities between the two groups. However, when patients with myocardial infarction were excluded, the 'chest pain' group had significantly greater extent and severity scores of washout abnormalities than the 'no pain' group (extent score: 38 +/- 8 vs 18 +/- 5, p less than 0.05, severity score: 55 +/- 15 vs 18 +/- 7, p less than 0.01). Our study indicated that in patients without myocardial infarction, patients with 'chest pain' had more severe ischemia than 'no pain' patients. But in patients with myocardial infarction, myocardial ischemia not accompanied by chest pain might be as severe as that with chest pain. The presence or absence of myocardial infarction might have great influence on results regarding the relation of chest pain to myocardial ischemia.
Few studies have addressed the issue of adverse drug reactions with non-protease inhibitor (PI)-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) in resource-constrained settings. We studied prospectively the incidence of adverse drug reactions with generic ART among our patients.
A total of 100 HIV-infected individuals were recruited. Patients received nevirapine (NVP) or efavirenz (EFV) with lamivudine (3TC) and zidovudine (ZDV)/stavudine (d4T). They were followed for 6 months for evidence of adverse drug reactions.
The mean CD4 count was 114.09 +/- 60.07 cells/mm(3) (range, 12-232 cells/mm(3)). Transient gastrointestinal symptoms were most frequent. Fourteen individuals (12 receiving ZDV/d4T, 3TC, NVP and 2 receiving ZDV/d4T, 3TC, EFV) developed skin rash. Among patients receiving NVP, 25.7% developed grade 1 hepatotoxicity. Three patients had numbness in both lower limbs. Among those individuals who received EFV, 32.3% individuals had central nervous system (CNS) symptoms in the form of insomnia, vivid dreams, dizziness, and drowsiness.
As the developing world increasingly uses generic ART, the clinician must be constantly vigilant for treatment-related adverse events.
Rats concomitantly fed N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT) and phenothiazine, or concomitantly fed FANFT and Glucaron then fed Glucaron alone had significantly greater incidences of transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder than rats fed FANFT alone. Caffeine and cysteamine did not affect FANFT bladder carcinogenesis. Phenothiazine induced nitroreductase activity of hepatic microsomes.
Although association between beta blockers and depression has been reported since decades ago, the subject is still controversial. Most evidence supporting an association has been based on case reports or case series. Epidemiologic studies and randomized clinical trials have not generally supported this association. If this association exists, possible causes of disparity of findings may include methodological difficulties, and/or weak association.
We present a case of a 67 year old woman, without personal history of psychiatric illness or stress factors, who develops a depressive episode after initiating treatment with atenolol. The symptoms remitted rapidly when atenolol was discontinued, and an antidepressant was prescribed during a short period.
This case report suggests the existence of an association between a beta blocker, atenolol, and depression.
In this study, five months old female transgenic (Tg2576) and wild-type mice were exposed for 6 months to aluminum (1mg Al/g diet), melatonin (10mg/kg/day), Al plus melatonin, or vehicle only (control group). General motor activity was evaluated using an open-field, whereas spatial learning and memory were assessed in a water maze. Aluminum levels in hippocampus, cortex and cerebellum were determined. Aluminum-treated Tg2576 mice showed higher Al levels in hippocampus than non-Al treated animals. No Al effects on general motor activity were found, while the open-field test showed an increased number of rearings in Tg2576 mice. A lower habituation pattern was observed in melatonin-treated animals. Differences in learning were noted in the water maze acquisition test, in which Al-treated Tg2576 mice showed more difficulties in learning the task than Al-exposed wild mice. No significant effects of melatonin in the acquisition task were observed. The present results indicate that Tg2576 mice are sensitive to high dietary Al levels. A significant protector role of melatonin on Al-induced behavioral effects was not observed.
Almost 40 years ago, it was reported that cattle-feed which had been extracted with hot trichloroethylene and then fed to calves produced renal injury and a fatal aplastic anaemia. The toxic factor was subsequently identified as S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC). These original findings have been confirmed, a single intravenous dose of DCVC at 4 mg/kg, or 0.4 mg/kg intravenously per day administered for 10 days to calves produced aplastic anaemia, and renal injury after a single dose of 4 mg/kg. The toxicity to calves of a number of other haloalkene cysteine conjugates has been examined to ascertain whether, like DCVC, they produce bone marrow and renal injury. Intravenous administration of the N-acetyl cysteine conjugate of DCVC produced renal but not bone marrow injury at a molar equivalent dose to DCVC, indicating that the calf can deacetylate the mercapturic acid and further that sufficient chemical had reached the kidney to be a substrate for the enzyme cysteine conjugate beta-lyase. However, intravenous administration of the alpha-methyl analogue of DCVC, which cannot undergo metabolism via the enzyme cysteine conjugate beta-lyase, was without toxicity at doses about five-fold higher than DCVC. These latter findings provide strong evidence that metabolism of DCVC via the enzyme beta-lyase is necessary for bone marrow and renal injury to occur. The cysteine conjugates of perchloroethylene and hexachloro-1,3-butadiene(HCBD) when given intravenously to calves at molar equivalent doses to DCVC, or above, did not produce either bone marrow or renal injury. In contrast, intravenous administration of the cysteine conjugate of tetrafluoroethylene (TFEC) produced severe renal tubular injury in calves without affecting the bone marrow. In vitro studies with these haloalkene cysteine conjugates showed, like DCVC, that they were good substrates for calf renal cysteine conjugate beta-lyase and toxic to renal cells as judged by their ability to reduce organic anion and cation transport by slices of calf renal cortex and inhibit the renal enzyme glutathione reductase. Calves were also dosed either orally or intravenously with HCBD to assess its toxicity. HCBD at higher molar equivalent doses than DCVC produced mid-zonal necrosis in the liver, renal tubular necrosis but no bone marrow injury in calves. The key findings emerging from these studies are (1) that none of the other cysteine conjugates, at molar equivalent doses to DCVC and above, produce bone marrow injury in calves, (2) TFEC produced only renal injury, suggesting that sufficient of the other conjugates had not reached the kidney for metabolism by beta-lyase to produce cytotoxicity and (3) that HCBD itself is more toxic than its cysteine or mercapturic acid conjugate, suggesting that pharmaco-kinetics and disposition are important factors in determining the toxicity of these conjugates to calves. Further studies are needed to understand the basis for the selective toxicity of DCVC to the bone marrow of calves.
We report the activity and toxicity of intrathecal melphalan in the treatment of human neoplastic meningitis in the subarachnoid space of athymic nude rats. Animals received injections via chronic indwelling subarachnoid catheters with 5 x 10(5) or 5 x 10(6) TE-671 human rhabdomyosarcoma cells or 5 x 10(6) D-54 MG human glioma cells and were treated with melphalan on days 8, 5, or 5, respectively. Melphalan toxicity in nontumor-bearing rats was assessed at single doses of a 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, or 5.0 mM solution, with clinical and histological evidence of neurotoxicity observed at the 4.0 and 5.0 mM levels. Multiple-dose toxicity studies using a dosing schedule of twice a week for two weeks with a 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.5, or 2 mM solution revealed dose-dependent clinical and histological evidence for toxicity at all dosages. Treatment of TE-671 with a single dose of 2.0 mM intrathecal melphalan produced an increase in median survival of 442% compared with saline controls (P < 0.003). Comparison of a single dose of 1.0 or 2.0 mM melphalan with a multiple dose regimen at 0.25 or 0.5 mM melphalan in the treatment of TE-671 revealed increases in median survival of 50% for 1.0 mM, 57% for 2.0 mM, 79% for 0.5 mM, and 111% for 0.25 mM concentrations. Comparison of a single dose of 1 mM melphalan with multiple doses of 0.25 mM melphalan in the treatment of D-54 MG revealed an increase in median survival of 475+% for each of the regimens. Intrathecal melphalan may be an important new addition in the treatment of neoplastic meningitis and is currently being evaluated clinically in a Phase 1 trial.
Endothelial cell (EC) death may play an important role in the development of increased vascular permeability and capillary leak syndrome during systemic inflammatory response syndrome. However, the mode of EC death and the mechanisms involved remain unclear. In this study we employed the proinflammatory mediators lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), the chemical reagent sodium arsenite, and heat shock to trigger the stress gene responses. Human ECs were used as surrogates of the microvasculature to test the hypothesis that the induction of the heat shock response and the oxidative stress response might combine to induce apoptosis rather than necrosis in human ECs. Sodium arsenite at 80-320 microM, which induced heat shock protein 72 (HSP72) expression and reactive oxygen intermediate (ROI) generation in ECs, resulted in EC apoptosis. TNF-alpha alone (5-75 ng/ml) increased EC ROI generation but did not induce EC apoptosis. Heat shock alone (42 degrees C, 45 min) or sodium arsenite (40 microM) alone, each of which induced HSP72 expression, did not result in EC apoptosis. However, the combination of TNF-alpha with heat shock or 40 microM sodium arsenite led to EC apoptosis as HSP72 expression and ROI were induced. Furthermore, sodium arsenite (80 microM) in the presence of antioxidants failed to induce EC apoptosis. Apoptotic ECs also exhibited functional disturbances as represented by the depression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression as well as the disruption of EC monolayer integrity. These results indicate that the simultaneous induction of a heat shock response and an oxidative stress response is responsible for human EC apoptosis.
The authors report a case of a patient who in the 24th week of a twin pregnancy became sero-positive for toxoplasmosis. This was diagnosed by cordocentesis as being infected, and the treatment was therefore started with pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine and folic acid at the 28th week of pregnancy. At 35 weeks, the patient had an acute medullary aplasia due to the absence of the folates. The mother's state was improved rapidly by giving her folinic acid and the twins were normal haematologically. In this case, the authors point out how important the folates are in a pregnancy, especially in twin pregnancies, and point out the precautions that have to be taken when treatment with pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine is started for congenital toxoplasmosis.
Sumatriptan, a 5-HT1D receptor agonist, is believed to alleviate migraine attacks by extracerebral vasoconstriction. Chest pain associated with myocardial ischemia may occur after sumatriptan administration. We investigated the effect of a single 6-mg subcutaneous dose of sumatriptan on myocardial perfusion (MP) as measured by 13NH3 positron emission tomography (PET) in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial at the Clinical PET Centre, Guy's and St. Thomas' Hospitals, London. Nineteen volunteer female migraineurs, age range 33 to 62 years, at low risk for ischemic heart disease were included. All bad undergone previous treatment with oral or intravenous sumatriptan. Patients were recruited by advertisement and referral from local neurology specialists. Each volunteer underwent two scanning sessions. On each occasion, a baseline dynamic 13NH3 PET scan was acquired followed by a 13NH3 PET scan 10 minutes after subcutaneous injection of placebo or 6 mg of sumatriptan. Regional MP was measured in five myocardial regions using the Patlak system of image analysis. The mean % change from baseline (+/-SD) in global MP after placebo was +9.5% +/- 18.0 and after sumatriptan was +6.6% +/- 18.8 (repeated measures ANOVA for treatment effect p = 0.56). There were no significant differences in MP changes from baseline observed in any of the five myocardial regions (treatment p = 0.32 to 0.84). These data suggest that in healthy female migraineurs, a single 6-mg subcutaneous dose of sumatriptan does not cause a significant change in regional or global myocardial perfusion.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) plays a critical role in the survival of aerobic life, and its aberrant expression has been implicated in carcinogenesis and tumor resistance to therapy. However, despite extensive studies in MnSOD regulation and its role in cancer, when and how the alteration of MnSOD expression occurs during the process of tumor development in vivo are unknown. Here, we generated transgenic mice expressing a luciferase reporter gene under the control of human MnSOD promoter-enhancer elements and investigated the changes of MnSOD transcription using the 7,12-dimethylbenz(α)anthracene (DMBA)/12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-l3-acetate (TPA) multistage skin carcinogenesis model. The results show that MnSOD expression was suppressed at a very early stage but increased at late stages of skin carcinogenesis. The suppression and subsequent restoration of MnSOD expression were mediated by two transcription-factors, Sp1 and p53. Exposure to DMBA and TPA activated p53 and decreased MnSOD expression via p53-mediated suppression of Sp1 binding to the MnSOD promoter in normal-appearing skin and benign papillomas. In squamous cell carcinomas, Sp1 binding increased because of the loss of functional p53. We used chromatin immunoprecipitation, electrophoretic mobility shift assay, and both knockdown and overexpression of Sp1 and p53 to verify their roles in the expression of MnSOD at each stage of cancer development. The results identify MnSOD as a p53-regulated gene that switches between early and advanced stages of cancer. These findings also provide strong support for the development of means to reactivate p53 for the prevention of tumor progression.
Doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity was used as a model to prospectively investigate neuroendocrine changes during the development of left ventricular dysfunction. Radionuclide ventriculography, frequency domain analysis of heart rate variability (HRV), and plasma noradrenaline and natriuretic peptide measurements were performed in 27 adult lymphoma patients at baseline and after cumulative doxorubicin doses of 200, 400 and 500 mg/m(2). The left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decreased from 58.1+/-1.4% to 50.3+/-1.1% (P<0.001) and 49.3+/-1.7% (P<0.001) after cumulative doxorubicin doses of 400 and 500 mg/m(2) respectively. With a doxorubicin dose of up to 400 mg/m(2) there was an increase in sympathetic tone, characterized by a decrease in the normalized high-frequency (HF(nu)) power (P=0.011), and increases in the normalized low-frequency (LF(nu)) power (P=0.011), the LF/HF ratio (P=0.021) and the plasma noradrenaline concentration (P=0.034). The decrease in LVEF was correlated with the changes in LF(nu) and HF(nu) power (r=0.540, P=0.012) and LF/HF ratio (r=-0.452, P=0.04). However, after the cumulative doxorubicin dose of 500 mg/m(2) the changes in HRV components and plasma noradrenaline levels returned towards baseline. This was accompanied by increased concentrations of plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (P=0.004) and brain natriuretic peptide (P=0.021). Our findings suggest that doxorubicin-induced left ventricular dysfunction is associated with an early change in sympathovagal balance towards sympathetic predominance. Along with further progression of left ventricular dysfunction, there is an attenuation of sympathetic tone, which may be attributable to sympatho-adrenal inhibition by increased secretion of natriuretic peptides.
Glucose is a common component of anesthetic solutions used for spinal anesthesia. However, its possible contribution to recent injuries occurring with spinal anesthesia has not been adequately addressed. Accordingly, the present studies compare the functional and morphologic effects of intrathecally administered glucose with those of lidocaine.
Twenty rats, implanted with intrathecal catheters, were divided into three groups to receive a 1-hour infusion of 5% lidocaine (n = 6), 10% glucose (n = 7), or normal saline (n = 7). Four days after infusion, animals were evaluated for persistent sensory impairment using the tail-flick test. Three days later, the animals were sacrificed, and the spinal cord and nerve roots were examined by a neuropathologist blinded to the solution received and the results of sensory testing.
Lidocaine-treated animals exhibited persistent sensory impairment, whereas glucose- and saline-treated animals did not. Neuropathologic evaluation revealed moderate to severe nerve root injury in lidocaine-treated animals. Histologic changes in glucose- and saline-treated animals were minimal, similar, and restricted to the area adjacent to the catheter. Morphologic damage associated with lidocaine preferentially affected the nerve roots, with relative sparing of the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia.
These results suggest that, at clinically relevant concentrations, glucose does not induce neurologic injury, providing indirect evidence that recent clinical injuries occurring after spinal anesthesia resulted from a neurotoxic effect of the local anesthetic. Additionally, the present studies suggest that deficits resulting from neurotoxicity of intrathecally administered anesthetic result from injury to the axon.
To assess a role for oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), we analyzed the immunohistochemical localization of 8-hydroxy2'-deoxyguanosine (OHdG) as a nucleic acid oxidation product, acrolein-protein adduct and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE)-protein adduct as lipid peroxidation products, Nepsiloncarboxymethyl-lysine (CML) as a lipid peroxidation or protein glycoxidation product, pentosidine as a protein glycoxidation product, and imidazolone and pyrraline as nonoxidative protein glycation products in the spinal cord of three familial ALS patients with superoxide dismutase(SOD 1) A4V mutation, six sporadic ALS patients, and six age-matched control individuals. The spinal cord sections of the control cases did not show any distinct immunoreactivities for these examined products. In the familial ALS cases, intense immunoreactivities for pyrraline and CML were confined to the characteristic Lewy body-like hyaline inclusions, and imidazolone immunoreactivity was located in the cytoplasm of the residual motor neurons. No significant immunoreactivities for other examined products were detected in the familial ALS spinal cords. In the sporadic ALS cases, intense immunoreactivities for pentosidine, CML and HNE-protein adduct were seen in the cytoplasm of the degenerated motor neurons, and OHdG immunoreactivity was located in the cell nuclei of the residual neurons and glial cells. The present results indicate that oxidative reactions are involved in the disease processes of sporadic ALS, while there is no evidence for increased oxidative damage except for CML deposition in the familial ALS spinal cords. Furthermore, it is likely that the accumulation of pyrraline and imidazolone supports a nonoxidative mechanism in SOD1-related motor neuron degeneration.
