We examined the evidence for a decreased risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) with intramuscular second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) versus intramuscular haloperidol alone or in combination with an anticholinergic agent.
We searched MEDLINE (1950 to the present), and EMBASE and the Cochrane Database through January 16, 2008, for studies published in English of intramuscular SGAs and intramuscular haloperidol alone or in combination with an anticholinergic agent using the following drug names: ziprasidone, Geodon, olanzapine, Zyprexa, aripiprazole, Abilify, haloperidol, and Haldol. We then searched this pool of studies for trials with the terms intramuscular, IM, or injectable. Initially, we included only randomized controlled trials (RCTs). To obtain more data comparing SGAs to the combination of haloperidol and an anticholinergic, we conducted a second analysis including studies of any methodology.
Seven RCTs that compared intramuscular SGAs to intramuscular haloperidol alone were identified. However, we found only one RCT of haloperidol plus an anticholinergic. In the second analysis, we identified 18 studies, including 4 using haloperidol combined with promethazine (an antihistamine with anticholinergic properties).
The primary outcome measure was acute dystonia; secondary outcome measures included akathisia, parkinsonism, or the need for additional anticholinergic medication. For RCTs, risk ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated for each outcome. When all studies were included in the second analysis, we calculated the risk of acute dystonia.
Among RCTs (N = 2032), SGAs were associated with a significantly lower risk of acute dystonia (RR = 0.19, 95% CI = 0.10 to 0.39), akathisia (RR = 0.25, 95% CI = 0.14 to 0.44), and anticholinergic use (RR = 0.19, 95% CI = 0.09 to 0.43) compared with haloperidol alone. When all trials were considered (N = 3425), rates of acute dystonia were higher for haloperidol alone (4.7%) than for SGAs (0.6%) or for haloperidol plus promethazine (0.0%).
Intramuscular SGAs have a significantly lower risk of acute EPS compared to haloperidol alone. However, intramuscular haloperidol plus promethazine has a risk of acute dystonia comparable to intramuscular SGAs. The decision to use SGAs should consider other factors in addition to the reduction of EPS, which can be prevented by the use of an anticholinergic agent.
Ammonia coma was produced in rats within 10 to 15 minutes of an intraperitonealinjection of 1.7 mmol NH4CL. This coma was prevented with 1.68 mmol L-dopa given by gastric intubation 15 minutes before the ammonium salt injection. The effect of L-dopa was correlated with a decrease in blood and brain ammonia, an increase in brain dopamine, and an increase in renal excretion of ammonia and urea. Intraventricular infusion of dopamine sufficient to raise the brain dopamine to the same extent did not prevent the ammonia coma nor affect the blood and brain ammonia concentrations. Bilateral nephrectomy eliminated the beneficial effect of L-dopa on blood and brain ammonia and the ammonia coma was not prevented. Thus, the reduction in blood and brain ammonia and the prevention of ammonia coma after L-dopa, can be accounted for by the peripheral effect of dopamine on renal function rather than its central action. These results provide a reasonable explanation for the beneficial effects observed in some encephalopathic patients receiving L-dopa.
The clinical course and histological changes in the liver during a presumed adverse reaction to the drug dantrolene sodium are described in four patients. After a typical prodrome one developed a moderately severe hepatitis-like illness. Another also had a prodrome but never became jaundiced. In the other two, abnormal liver function tests were detected on routine screening. In each case liver biopsy showed changes typical of an acute hepatitis, but the severity was unrelated to the clinical presentation. In addition, there were also changes in the portal tracts resembling ascending cholangitis. In each case liver function tests returned to normal after withdrawing treatment with dantrolene.
Two continuous lines, BL-MaTU/A1 and BL-MaTU/s6, were established from C57Bl/10 mammary adenocarcinomas induced by DMBA-prolactin-estradiol treatment. Under in vivo stimulation with dexamethasone, insulin, prolactin, and prostaglandin A1, the cells produce detectable amounts of B-type particles with biochemical properties similar to the GR-MuMTV. Analysis of restriction endonuclease-generated fragments of cellular DNA revealed identical patterns in the integration sites and internal recognition sites of MuMTV proviral equivalents in the tumor cells and normal organs of C57Bl/10 strain mice. The restriction DNA fragments of C57Bl/10-associated MuMTV proviral DNA are closely related to those of the Balb/c-associated MuMTV. These results indicate the endogenous origin of MuMTV produced in the hormonally stimulated cultures of DMBA-prolactin-estradiol-induced C57Bl/10 mammary tumors.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that prolonged treatment of mild to moderate hypertension with low-dose thiazide diuretics or beta blockers does not induce any of the major untoward biochemical changes, such as hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, hyperuricemia and electrolyte imbalances. The effect of these drugs was analyzed in 100 outpatients (52 males and 48 females) aged 52.0 +/- 7.9 years with mild to moderate hypertension, in a prospective 6-month study. After an appropriate workup, the patients were randomized to either 25 mg chlorthalidone (40 patients), 120 mg propranolol (30 patients), or 2 mg per day bopindolol (30 patients). A significant reduction of approximately 10% in systolic and diastolic blood pressure was recorded in all the groups. At the end of the 6th month, in the chlorthalidone group triglycerides increased to 3.0 +/- 2.1 mmol/l from 2.8 +/- 1.6 mmol/l, while cholesterol after an initial increase to 6.6 +/- 1.6 from 6.4 +/- 1.6 mmol/l returned to the baseline level. Uricemia and serum potassium concentration decreased by 4%. The body weight was reduced to 83.8 +/- 13.4 kg from 86.1 +/- 13.4 kg. There was no change in serum glucose level. In the propranolol group, as expected, heart rate decreased by 20%, but there were no significant changes in glucose and potassium plasma concentration. Triglycerides did not change significantly, while cholesterol, after a small increase, returned to the initial levels. Similar results were obtained in the bopindolol group, apart from the triglycerides, which increased significantly (to 2.5 +/- 1.1 from 2.2 +/- 0.4 mmol/l), probably because of the lower baseline concentration. We conclude that in prolonged treatment, chlorthalidone, propranolol and bopindolol do not induce significant untoward biochemical changes that alone might increase cardiovascular risk.
Human data linking inflammation with long-term particulate matter (PM) exposure are still lacking. Emerging evidence suggests that people with metabolic syndrome (MS) may be a more susceptible population.
Our goal was to examine potential inflammatory responses associated with long-term PM exposure and MS-dependent susceptibility.
We conducted secondary analyses of white blood cell (WBC) count and MS data from The Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey and PM10 (PM with aerodynamic diameter < 10 microm) data from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Aerometric Information Retrieval System. Estimated 1-year PM10 exposures were aggregated at the centroid of each residential census-block group, using distance-weighted averages from all monitors in the residing and adjoining counties. We restricted our analyses to adults (20-89 years of age) with normal WBC (4,000-11,000 x 10(6)/L), no existing cardiovascular disease, complete PM10 and MS data, and living in current residences > 1 year (n = 2,978; age 48.5 +/- 17.8 years). Mixed-effects models were constructed to account for autocorrelation and potential confounders.
After adjustment for demographics, socioeconomic factors, lifestyles, residential characteristics, and MS, we observed a statistically significant association between WBC count and estimated local PM10 levels (p = 0.035). Participants from the least polluted areas (1-year PM10 < 1st quartile cutoff: 27.8 mug/m3) had lower WBC counts than the others (difference = 145 x 10(6)/L; 95% confidence interval, 10-281). We also noted a graded association between PM10 and WBC across subpopulations with increasing MS components, with 91 x 10(6)/L difference in WBC for those with no MS versus 214, 338, and 461 x 10(6)/L for those with 3, 4, and 5 metabolic abnormalities (trend-test p = 0.15).
Our study revealed a positive association between long-term PM exposure and hematological markers of inflammation and supported the hypothesized MS-dependent susceptibility.
Maternal exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) is associated with increased proportions of spontaneous abortion and stillbirth in animal studies. In Japan in 1968, accidental human exposure to rice oil contaminated with PCBs and other dioxin-related compounds, such as polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), led to the development of what was later referred to as Yusho oil disease.
The aim of this study was to investigate the association of maternal PCB and dioxin exposure with adverse pregnancy outcomes in Yusho women.
In 2004, we interviewed 214 Yusho women (512 pregnancies) about their pregnancy outcomes over the past 36 years. Pregnancy outcomes included induced abortion, spontaneous abortion, preterm delivery, and pregnancy loss.
In pregnancy years 1968-1977 (within the first 10 years after exposure), the proportions of induced abortion [odds ratio adjusted for age at delivery (ORadj) = 5.93; 95% confidence interval (CI), 2.21-15.91; two-tailed p < 0.001) and preterm delivery (ORadj = 5.70; 95% CI, 1.17-27.79; p = 0.03) were significantly increased compared with the proportions in pregnancy years 1958-1967 (10 years before the incident). Spontaneous abortion (ORadj = 2.09; 95% CI, 0.84-5.18), and pregnancy loss (ORadj = 2.11; 95% CI, 0.92-4.87) were more frequent (OR = 2.18; 95% CI, 1.02-4.66), but these were not significant (p = 0.11 and p = 0.08, respectively) in pregnancy years 1968-1977. We found no significant increases in the proportions of these adverse pregnancy outcomes in pregnancies occurring during 1978-1987 or 1988-2003 compared with those in pregnancies before 1968.
High levels of PCB/PCDF exposure had some adverse effects on pregnancy outcome in Yusho women.
The acute behavioural consequences of intragastric p,p'-DDT in high doses to mice are stimulus sensitive abrupt muscle jerks (myoclonus). The serotonin (5-HT) precursor 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) ameliorated in contrast to the natural precursor tryptophan, the neurotoxin-induced myoclonus. The extracerebral decarboxylase inhibitor carbidopa and the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor paroxetine both enhanced the antimyoclonic action of 5-HTP. The effect was reversed by the 5-HT receptor blockers cinanserine and methysergide. The data add further evidence to a central serotonergic mechanism involved in p,p'-DDT induced myoclonus.
A case of aplastic anemia quickly followed therapy with intravenous chloramphenicol and cimetidine and rapidly resulted in death. This is the second such case reported and the 10th case of fatal aplastic anemia complicating therapy with parenteral chloramphenicol. The patient died 19 days (and the previously reported patient 18 days) after the initiation of intravenous therapy with chloramphenicol and cimetidine; the interval from the start of treatment to death was 414 +/- 683 days (mean +/- SD) in the total of nine evaluatable cases of aplastic anemia following parenteral administration of chloramphenicol. Chloramphenicol and cimetidine, each a rare cause of aplastic anemia, should be used--separately or together--with caution. The case described herein is consistent with reports of liver disease, uremia, or bone marrow dysfunction influencing the toxicities of these drugs. The potential for aplastic anemia must be considered whenever chloramphenicol is used, regardless of the route of administration.
Prophylactic isoniazid therapy is currently recommended for adolescents with positive tuberculin reactions because of the risk of activation of tuberculosis in this age group. Since this drug has been associated with hepatic dysfunction in adults, the present study was undertaken to evaluate its effect on liver function in teen-agers. Accordingly, liver function tests were performed on 178 adolescents prior to and following administration of INH. Abnormalities in SGPT values were encountered in 10% of these patients and occurred in the main within the first 10 weeks of testing, suggesting INH maybe hepatotoxic. However, jaundice was notably absent in the patients with enzyme elevations and prompted a further investigation into the possible effect of INH on bilirubin metabolism. Thus, Sprague-Dawley rats were given four daily injections of INH. These animals manifested increased hepatic bilirubin glucuronyl transferase activity when compared with control rats, supporting the hypothesis that enzymatic induction may be responsible for the absence of jaundice in our adolescent subjects.
The authors compared the regions of motor involvement in levodopa-induced dyskinesia and neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia. Significantly more patients with tardive dyskinesia than parkinsonian patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesia had lip and tongue movements. Patients with tardive dyskinesia had significantly higher mean AIMS scores in the orofacial region than parkinsonian patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesia. More patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesia than those with tardive dyskinesia demonstrated hyperkinesia in the lower extremities. Limb and truncal movements in levodopa-induced dyskinesia were worse in patients with more severe parkinsonism and correlated positively with the length of Parkinson's disease. These findings suggest that these dyskinesias may involve different pathophysiological mechanisms.
Glutamate (Glu) is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. The role of peripheral Glu and Glu receptors (GluRs) in nociceptive transmission is, however, still unclear. In the present study, we examined Glu levels released in the subcutaneous perfusate of the rat hind instep using a microdialysis catheter and the thermal withdrawal latency using the Plantar Test following injection of drugs associated with GluRs with/without capsaicin into the hindpaw. The injection of capsaicin into the rat hind instep caused an increase of Glu level in the s.c. perfusate. Capsaicin also significantly decreased withdrawal latency to irradiation. These effects of capsaicin were inhibited by pretreatment with capsazepine, a transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1) competitive antagonist. Capsaicin-induced Glu release was also suppressed by combination with each antagonist of ionotropic GluRs (iGluRs: NMDA/AMPA receptors) and group I metabotropic GluR (mGluR), but not group II and group III mGluRs. Furthermore, these GluRs antagonists showed remarkable inhibition against capsaicin-induced thermal hyperalgesia. These results suggest that Glu is released from the peripheral endings of small-diameter afferent fibers by noxious stimulation and then activates peripheral iGluRs and group I mGluR in development and/or maintenance of nociception. Furthermore, the activation of peripheral NMDA/AMPA receptors and group I mGluR may be important in mechanisms whereby capsaicin evokes nociceptive responses.
Nicotine administered acutely at subconvulsive dose of 4 mg/kg, significantly decreased the protective activity of valproate, carbamazepine, diphenylhydantoin, phenobarbital, topiramate and lamotrigine against maximal electroshock-induced tonic convulsions in mice. The obtained data may suggest that interaction between nicotine and antiepileptic drugs should be carefully considered as a cause of the therapeutic failure in epileptic patients.
The beneficial effects of the inactivation of endocannabinoid system (ECS) by administration of antagonists of the cannabinoid receptor (CB) 1 on several pathological features associated with obesity is well demonstrated, but the relative contribution of central versus peripheral mechanisms is unclear. We examined the impact of CB1 antagonism on liver and adipose tissue lipid metabolism in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity.
Mice were fed either with a standard diet or a high-sucrose high-fat (HSHF) diet for 19 weeks and then treated with the CB1-specific antagonist SR141716 (10 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1)) for 6 weeks.
Treatment with SR141716 reduced fat mass, insulin levels, and liver triglycerides primarily increased by HSHF feeding. Serum adiponectin levels were restored after being reduced in HSHF mice. Gene expression of scavenger receptor class B type I and hepatic lipase was induced by CB1 blockade and associated with an increase in HDL-cholesteryl ether uptake. Concomitantly, the expression of CB1, which was strongly increased in the liver and adipose tissue of HSHF mice, was totally normalized by the treatment. Interestingly, in visceral but not subcutaneous fat, genes involved in transport, synthesis, oxidation, and release of fatty acids were upregulated by HSHF feeding, while this effect was counteracted by CB1 antagonism.
A reduction in the CB1-mediated ECS activity in visceral fat is associated with a normalization of adipocyte metabolism, which may be a determining factor in the reversion of liver steatosis induced by treatment with SR141716.
Gabapentin and baclofen at doses not affecting motor performance, produced dose-dependent inhibition of both phases in the formalin test in mice. Isobolographic analysis revealed an additive interaction between the studied drugs in the second phase of the formalin test. Gabapentin given at doses effective in both phases of the formalin test significantly potentiated baclofen-induced motor impairment.
The dopamine D(3) receptor (D(3)R) is an important pharmacotherapeutic target for its potential role in psychiatric disorders and drug dependence. To further explore its function in rats, a regulatable lentivirus, Lenti-D3, holding the rat D(3)R cDNA, has been constructed as well as three nonregulatable lentiviruses, Lenti-D3-siRNA1, Lenti-D3-siRNA2 and Lenti-D3-siRNA3, expressing small hairpin RNAs, aimed at silencing D(3)R expression and specifically targeted against different regions of the D(3)R mRNA. In vitro, Lenti-D3 expressed D(3)R and could efficiently be blocked with Lenti-D3-Sils. These viruses were stereotaxically injected into the shell part of the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and effects of passive cocaine delivery on locomotor activity were assessed. Manipulations of D(3)R levels induced changes in the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine as compared to control treatment. Suppression of dopamine (DA) D(3)R in the NAcc by means of local knockdown (with Lenti-D3-Sils) increased locomotor stimulant effects, whereas its overexpression with Lenti-D3 drastically reduced them. The latter effects could be reversed when animals were fed doxycycline, which prevented lentiviral-mediated DA D(3)R overexpression in the NAcc. Gene expression assessed by quantitative RT-PCR confirmed very efficient gene knockdown in vivo in animals treated with Lenti-D3-Sils (> 93% silencing of D(3)R gene). Thus D(3)R expression significantly contributes to behavioural changes associated with chronic cocaine delivery.
To observe the effects of the prone position and the need for positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) to improve oxygenation.
Sixteen rats were anesthetized and ventilated at a tidal volume of 8 mL/kg, respiratory rate of 60 rpm and PEEP = 0 cmH(2)O (ZEEP), in the supine position for 30 minutes. Lung injury was then induced by means of intratracheal instillation of hydrochloric acid. Once the injury was established, rats were placed in the prone position for a further 30 minutes and randomized into two groups: in group 1 PEEP = 5 cmH(2)O was added; while group 2 was kept on ZEEP. Measurements of pulmonary mechanics, arterial blood gas analysis and mean arterial pressure were taken at the end of each phase.
In group 1, oxygen partial pressure increased significantly from 98.7+/-26.5 to 173.9+/-58.4 mmHg between injury and prone phases; in group 2 it was unchanged, varying from 99.6+/-15.4 to 100.5+/-24.5 mmHg. Group 1 also exhibited significant improvement in complacency, from 0.20+/-0.01 to 0.23+/-0.02 mL/cmH(2)O, while, once more, group 2 did not exhibit improvement, going from 0.21+/-0.02 to 0.22+/-0.01 mL/cmH(2)O. Mean arterial blood pressure measurements did not change significantly in either group at any point during the experiment.
The prone position only resulted in improved oxygenation and respiratory mechanics when combined with PEEP = 5 cmH(2)O. The prone position did not cause hemodynamic compromise with or without PEEP = 5 cmH(2)O.
Epinephrine produces sexually dimorphic beta(2)-adrenergic receptor-mediated mechanical hyperalgesia, with male rats exhibiting greater hyperalgesia. Because female rats have higher plasma epinephrine levels, and beta-adrenergic receptor sensitivity is affected by chronic exposure to agonists, we tested the hypothesis that this sexual dimorphism is due to epinephrine-induced desensitization of beta(2)-adrenergic receptors. Following gonadectomy, epinephrine hyperalgesia, as measured by the Randall-Selitto paw-withdrawal test, was unchanged in male rats while in females it was increased. Prepubertal male and female rats do not demonstrate sexual dimorphism in either plasma epinephrine level or epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia. Adrenal medullectomy and adrenal denervation both significantly enhanced epinephrine hyperalgesia, but only in females. In contrast, the sexually dimorphic hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E(2), another agent that acts directly to sensitize primary afferent nociceptors, was not enhanced by adrenal medullectomy or denervation. Chronic administration of epinephrine in male rats, to produce plasma levels similar to those of gonad-intact females, significantly attenuated epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia, making it similar to that in females. These results strongly support the suggestion that estrogen regulates plasma epinephrine in female rats and differential sensitivity to beta(2)-adrenergic agonists accounts for the sexual dimorphism in epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia. Unexpectedly, regulation of adrenal medullary function by estrogen was also found to modulate baseline nociceptive threshold such that females had a lower nociceptive threshold.
Bis and tris-selenide alkene derivatives, a class of organoselenium compounds, were screened for antinociceptive and antioxidant activities. In vitro, bis-selenide alkene 1c (R=2,4,6-Me(3)C(6)H(2)), 1d (R=4-ClC(6)H(4)) and 1e (R=4-MeOC(6)H(4)) protected against lipid peroxidation about 50%, whereas 1b (R=C(6)H(5)) and 1a (R=C(4)H(9)) protected only 23%. Compound 1d presented lesser IC(50) against lipid peroxidation than other bis-selenide alkene compounds (1d>1e> or =1c>1a=1b). The maximal inhibitory effect of tris-selenide alkenes on lipid peroxidation was in the following order 2c>2a=2b. Compound 1e increased the rate of GSH, but not DTT, oxidation. Tris-selenide alkene 2c (R=4-MeOC(6)H(4)) demonstrated the higher rate of thiol oxidation, while 2a (R=C(6)H(5)) did not change DTT oxidation but oxidized GSH. Conversely, compound 2b (R=4-ClC(6)H(4)) did not change the rate of GSH oxidation, but oxidized DDT. Bis-selenide alkene derivatives 1c, 1d and 1e were the most promising compounds tested in vitro. In vivo, compounds 1c and 1d (5-50mg/kg, subcutaneously) produced significant inhibition of acetic acid- and capsaicin-induced pain. Compounds 1c and 1d increased the tail-flick response latency time. The antinociception effect of 1c and 1d was not abolished by naloxone (an antagonist of opioid receptor, 1mg/kg, subcutaneously), suggesting that the antinociceptive effect is not influenced by the opioidergic mechanism.
In rats, acute administration of SB-277011A, a highly selective dopamine (DA) D(3) receptor antagonist, blocks cocaine-enhanced brain stimulation reward, cocaine-seeking behaviour and reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behaviour. Here, we investigated whether SB-277011A attenuates cocaine reinforcement as assessed by cocaine self-administration under variable-cost-variable-payoff fixed-ratio (FR) and progressive-ratio (PR) reinforcement schedules. Acute i.p. administration of SB-277011A (3-24 mg/kg) did not significantly alter cocaine (0.75 mg/kg/infusion) self-administration reinforced under FR1 (one lever press for one cocaine infusion) conditions. However, acute administration of SB-277011A (24 mg/kg, i.p.) progressively attenuated cocaine self-administration when: (a) the unit dose of self-administered cocaine was lowered from 0.75 to 0.125-0.5 mg/kg, and (b) the work demand for cocaine reinforcement was increased from FR1 to FR10. Under PR (increasing number of lever presses for each successive cocaine infusion) cocaine reinforcement, acute administration of SB-277011A (6-24 mg/kg i.p.) lowered the PR break point for cocaine self-administration in a dose-dependent manner. The reduction in the cocaine (0.25-1.0 mg/kg) dose-response break-point curve produced by 24 mg/kg SB-277011A is consistent with a reduction in cocaine's reinforcing efficacy. When substituted for cocaine, SB-277011A alone did not sustain self-administration behaviour. In contrast with the mixed DA D(2)/D(3) receptor antagonist haloperidol (1 mg/kg), SB-277011A (3, 12 or 24 mg/kg) failed to impede locomotor activity, failed to impair rearing behaviour, failed to produce catalepsy and failed to impair rotarod performance. These results show that SB-277011A significantly inhibits acute cocaine-induced reinforcement except at high cocaine doses and low work requirement for cocaine. If these results extrapolate to humans, SB-277011A or similar selective DA D(3) receptor antagonists may be useful in the treatment of cocaine addiction.
The toxicities of ethylene glycol (EG) and ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE) were studied in Fischer 344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice. In a 13-week study, EG was administered in feed to groups of 10 rats and 10 mice of both sexes at dose levels of 0 (control), 0.32, 0.63, 1.25, 2.5 and 5.0%. Kidney/body weight ratios were elevated in the 2.5 and 5.0% dose groups of male and female rats relative to controls, while serum urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels were elevated in the two highest dose groups of male rats. Toxic nephrosis and crystal deposits in renal tubules were observed in the 2.5 and 5.0% dose groups of male rats. Crystals were also observed in brains of male rats in the 5.0% dose group. Nephrosis was the only lesion observed in female rats (5.0% dose group). Mild, compound-related lesions were seen in kidneys (nephrosis) and livers (centrilobular degeneration) of male mice in the 2.5 and 5.0% dose groups. There were no adverse effects observed in female mice. Groups of 50 rats and 50 mice of both sexes were administered EGEE by gavage in a 2-year study at dose levels of 0 (control), 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 g/kg body weight. Testicular atrophy was observed in male rats that died early in this study and in the medium- and high-dose male mouse groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This is the first report of a case of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) complicated by myasthenic syndrome. The patient suffered two prolonged periods of idiosyncratic busulphan-induced marrow aplasia, the first occurring 5 months after busulphan was stopped. Between these two episodes, and at a time when no therapy was required for the leukaemia, myasthenic syndrome developed. After the patient recovered from the second episode, the myasthenic syndrome disappeared, and, despite subsequent recrudescence of CML, there were no further myasthenic symptoms, and treatment with neostigmine was discontinued.
Tretinoin administered topically in 0.1% concentration has been shown to improve the wrinkling and irregular pigmentation of photoaged skin.
The purpose of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of various concentrations of tretinoin in a new emollient cream base in the treatment of photoaged skin.
Three concentrations of tretinoin (0.05%, 0.01%, and 0.001%) in a new emollient cream formulation were compared with vehicle in a 24-week, double-blind, randomized, multicenter study of 296 subjects with photodamaged facial skin.
Tretinoin emollient cream 0.05% gave a significantly better global response to therapy than vehicle (p less than 0.001), with 68% of subjects exhibiting improvement at the end of therapy, compared with 43% of subjects in the vehicle group. An excellent or good response was found in 26% of subjects treated with tretinoin emollient cream 0.05% versus 11% of vehicle-treated subjects. Fine wrinkling, mottled hyperpigmentation, and roughness were more improved in subjects who received tretinoin emollient cream 0.05% than in vehicle-treated subjects (p less than 0.05). No significant difference was found between vehicle and tretinoin emollient cream 0.01% or 0.001%. Histologic examination showed increases in epidermal and granular layer thickness, decreased melanin content and compaction of the stratum corneum after therapy with tretinoin emollient cream 0.05% or 0.01%. Mild to moderate skin reactions, such as erythema, peeling, and burning, were the most common side effects and, although most prevalent in the group using the 0.05% concentration, generally did not limit tretinoin use.
Tretinoin emollient cream 0.05% appears to be safe and effective in the treatment of photodamaged skin.
Fifty-four patients with endoscopically documented therapy-resistant erosive reflux esophagitis were treated with lansoprazole, a new proton pump inhibitor, for up to 12 weeks. Prior to entry, all had remained unhealed after treatment with at least two histamine2-receptor antagonists, at therapeutic doses or higher, for at least 12 weeks. Patients were randomized to receive either 30 or 60 mg lansoprazole once daily. Endoscopy was performed and symptoms assessed at weeks 2,4,6,8 and 12. Fifty-nine percent of the 50 evaluable patients were healed (ie, no evidence of erosions) after only two weeks of lansoprazole. Cumulative endoscopic healing rates were 82% and 92% by week 4 and week 8, respectively, and the two doses were equally effective in healing. The 30- and 60-mg doses effected a decrease in the overall symptom score from 5.30 and 4.85 to 2.35 and 1.67, respectively, by the final treatment visit (P = 0.001). No clinically significant adverse events or changes in laboratory parameters were observed, and no patients withdrew prematurely from the study. This study demonstrates that lansoprazole therapy is highly effective in healing erosive reflux esophagitis resistant to therapy with histamine H2-receptor antagonists.
