COPD is a chronic disease and, like many other chronic diseases, there is no treatment to reverse the severity of the disease except for lung transplant. To date, no inhaled medications have been shown to improve survival. Tiotropium bromide is a long-acting inhaled anticholinergic drug for the treatment of COPD that can improve lung function, reduce symptoms and exacerbations, and improve quality of life with once-daily dosing. It was initially approved and marketed in several countries in Europe in 2002 and then approved in the US in 2004. Tiotropium is generally well tolerated with dry mouth being the main adverse effect. Other adverse effects include constipation, tachycardia, blurred vision, urinary retention and increased intraocular pressure. Despite the recently raised concerns about an excess risk of cardiovascular adverse events with inhaled anticholinergic agents, the risk/benefit ratio of tiotropium appears still favorable given the favorable safety profile demonstrated in the UPLIFT study. However, caution should be advised in patients at high risk for cardiovascular disease given the paucity of data in such patients.
The chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin (DOX) is associated with a dose-dependent cardiotoxicity that can eventuate into heart failure. This study aimed to characterize the onset and degree of cardiotoxicity in rats receiving 10 mg/kg DOX administered as a single intraperitoneal injection (DOX1), 10 daily intraperitoneal injections of 1 mg/kg (DOX2), or in 5 weekly intraperitoneal injections of 2 mg/kg (DOX3). Transthoracic echocardiography measurements were recorded every week to characterize the onset and degree of cardiotoxicity in the 3 groups. An 80% mortality rate was observed at day 28 in DOX1, whereas DOX2 and DOX3 reached 80% mortality at days 107 and 98, respectively. Fractional shortening decreased by 30% at week 2 in DOX1, 55% at week 13 in DOX2, and 42% at week 13 in DOX3. In addition, cardiac function clearly differed between DOX1 and DOX3, whereas DOX2 and DOX3 were similar. These findings indicate that administration of the dose over the course of days (DOX2) or weeks (DOX3) results in a better survival rate and more classic signs of DOX-induced dilated cardiomyopathy, albeit with later onset, as compared with a single 10 mg/kg bolus injection of DOX.
Cocaine abuse causes nasal defects ranging from minor septal perforation to loss of dorsal support, potentially leading to collapse of the entire nose. The authors review the defects caused by frequent insufflation of cocaine, outline representative internal and external nasal deformities, and detail the surgical methods available to correct these deformities.
The patient must be cocaine-free for several years and committed to remaining free of cocaine use permanently. Next, a clear definition of the existing deformity and precise plan of surgical correction should be established. Surgical correction involves adequate dissection of the soft tissues and cephalic release and caudal advancement of the nasal lining, with a complete and waterproof separation of the nasal cavity from the external reconstructive site. Using costal cartilage, a tongue-and-groove technique is used to elongate the nasal frame. Kirschner wires may be used for costal cartilage graft fixation; avoiding penetration of the nasal cavity is critical. Maxillary defects are restored with cartilage and bone grafts. To address notching of the alae, V-to-Y caudal advancement flaps of the nasal lining and alar rim grafts are used. Tip projection and definition are restored with a columella strut with or without a tip graft.
The surgical outcome is gratifying and does not necessarily require external skin or nasal lining graft, or local or regional flaps. Reconstruction of massive septal perforation is unnecessary, as the nasal form can be restored without repair of this defect. The key to success is avoiding postoperative infection.
Correction of cocaine-related internal and subsequent external nasal defects is extremely challenging and requires a clear understanding of the patient's psychology and nasal abnormality.
We report the use of polymerase chain reaction for the diagnosis of prosthetic valve methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis in a patient with chronic liver disease where conventional laboratory testing failed. This case highlights the diagnostic and therapeutic potential of molecular techniques in the management of culture-negative endocarditis.
In accordance with a previous study of adjuvant effects of the anticonvulsant carbamazepine (CBZ) on the neuroleptic treatment of schizophrenic psychoses, the effects of valproate (VPA) were tested in a randomly assigned double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Apart from a (statistically nonsignificant) psychopathological deterioration following discontinuation of VPA while on continuous neuroleptic mediation after four weeks and a statistically significant effect on "hostile belligerence", no overall therapeutic effects of the combination of haloperidol (HPD) with VPA were observed under controlled conditions. Unlike the results with CBZ, concomitant use of VPA led to an even higher consumption of haloperidol and biperiden and to a higher rate of extrapyramidal symptoms compared with the corresponding placebo group, although these differences did not attain statistical significance. In regard to use of the sedative neuroleptic chlorprothixene, there was a trend toward lower doses in the VPA group than in the placebo group. From these results, adjuvant effects like those of carbamazepine in the neuroleptic treatment of schizophrenic psychoses could not be confirmed for valproate in the present study. However, the trend toward lower doses of sedative medication and observed effects on "hostile belligerence" may indicate sedative and/or antimanic properties of valproate which have recently been demonstrated in several controlled studies.
This article suggests ways to manage the dose-limiting adverse reactions caused by foscarnet so that this agent may be used with confidence as first-line therapy in patients with cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease. Foscarnet (trisodium phosphonoformate) has been used for the treatment of CMV disease in patients who are infected with HIV. Some physicians who treat patients with CMV infection are reluctant to use foscarnet because of the serious adverse effects that may occur, especially during the induction period. The most frequently reported serious adverse effects are nephrotoxicity, electrolyte disturbances, nausea, penile ulcerations and seizures. The nephrotoxicity associated with foscarnet is attributable to renal tubular damage, and may be minimised by calculating and infusing the appropriate dose after hydrating the patient. Monitoring serum electrolyte levels and replacing electrolytes before symptoms occur may limit the development of dosage-limiting toxicities. Nausea occurring during foscarnet infusions may be ameliorated by using antiemetics and slowing the infusion rate. Seizures associated with the use of this agent are mostly a result of the simultaneous presence of other CNS pathologies. Penile ulcers are best managed by stopping the infusion until the ulcers heal; they may be prevented by paying careful attention to personal hygiene.
In the Federal Republic of Germany nearly 4 million patients receive cardiac glycosides. Intoxication rates of up to 20% have been reported. About 80% of digoxin-intoxicated patients show generalized color vision deficiencies. Ophthalmologists should pay more attention to color vision disturbances due to digitalis.
Drug-induced Parkinsonism is a common serious side-effect of neuroleptic therapy. In cases of irreversible drug-induced Parkinsonism, pharmacological management is notoriously difficult. A schizophrenic patient with severe neuroleptic-induced Parkinsonism and Tardive Dyskinesia is presented in whom administration of pyridoxine (vitamin B6) (100 mg/d) resulted in dramatic and persistent attenuation of the movement disorders as well as reduction of psychotic behavior. Since pyridoxine deficiency is associated with marked reduction of cerebral serotonin concentrations and pineal melatonin production in rats, the effects of pyridoxine on the movement disorder and psychosis may have been mediated largely by enhancing serotonin and melatonin functions. An additional effect of excess pyridoxine administration on GABA and dopamine activity cannot be excluded. Pyridoxine has been reported to attenuate the severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in patients with Parkinson's disease and it is suggested that pyridoxine supplementation should be considered in psychiatric patients with drug-induced movement disorders including persistent Parkinsonism. An underlying pyridoxine deficiency in these patients may exacerbate the psychotic behavior and additionally, potentially increase the risk of drug-induced movement disorders.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is overexpressed and contributes to tumor cell growth in cholangiocarcinoma. Enforced IL-6 production can alter the expression of specific microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in tumor growth, and moreover can modulate expression of methylation-dependent genes. Thus, we assessed the methylation-dependent regulation of miRNA expression in human malignant cholangiocytes stably transfected to overexpress IL-6. The expression of the methyltransferases DNA methyltransferase enzyme-1 and HASJ4442 was increased by IL-6 overexpression, but was decreased by the methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-CdR). Expression profiling identified seven miRNAs that were significantly downregulated by IL-6 overexpression (<0.4-fold) and upregulated (>2-fold) by 5-aza-CdR. One of these, miR-370, is embedded in a CpG island. Although 5-aza-CdR increased miR-370 expression by 2.1-fold in malignant cells, the expression in nonmalignant cells was unchanged. The oncogene mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 8 (MAP3K8) was identified as a target of miR-370, and its expression was decreased by 5-aza-CdR in cholangiocarcinoma cells. Overexpression of IL-6 reduced miR-370 expression and reinstated MAP3K8 expression in vitro as well as in tumor cell xenografts in vivo. Thus, IL-6 may contribute to tumor growth by modulation of expression of selected miRNAs, such as miR-370. These studies define a mechanism by which inflammation-associated cytokines can epigenetically modulate gene expression and directly contribute to tumor biology.
A case is described of complex reactions associated with exposure to diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI), with some immunologic observations.
Medical history, clinical examinations, and analyses of immunologic parameters and the 4,4'-MDI-related amine 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane (MDA) in hydrolyzed serum and urine were used.
The patient, a mechanic whose medical history suggested repeated attacks of a work-related pulmonary or systemic disease, was examined because of acute respiratory disorder, rhinoconjunctivitis, and a late systemic reaction after exposure to polyurethane pyrolysis products, including 4,4'-MDI (air level 15 micrograms.m3). Spirometry showed a partly reversible obstructive dysfunction, and a skin-prick test was positive versus isocyanates conjugated with human serum albumin (HSA). MDA was detected in hydrolyzed serum (5.6 ng.ml) and urine (1.6 micrograms.g creatinine-1). In serum, there were specific immunoglobulin (Ig) G (IgG1 and IgG4) and IgE antibodies to 4,4'-MDI-HSA and other isocyanates (phenylisocyanate, toluene diisocyanate, p-toluene monoisocyanate, hexamethylene diisocyanate) conjugated with HSA, a very high total IgE, a raised total IgG, and moderate neutrophilia and eosinophilia. The specific antibodies declined, but were still increased five years later. Furthermore, the values of circulating immune complexes were high. In vitro, the circulating immune complexes in serum increased after the addition of 4,4'-MDI-HSA. The patient had anti-Clq antibodies, which probably accounted for part of the circulating immune complexes.
The reactions associated with MDI exposure (in combination with exposure to pyrolysis products) had features compatible with immediate hypersensitivity and with a complement-mediated immune-complex reaction.
We studied the clinical characteristics and plasma levodopa (LD) profile of complex, LD-associated dystonia in 33 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Generalized, abdominal, respiratory, and myoclonic, but not facial or foot, dystonia could be related to specific phases of the plasma LD cycle. Simultaneous clinical observation and determinations of plasma LD concentrations were often necessary to find the most efficacious dosing schedule for these patients. Maintenance of steady plasma LD concentrations within a dystonia-free window of benefit was the best treatment.
Azathioprine is a widely used anti-inflammatory, immunosuppressive, and anticancer agent. However, chronic treatment with this drug is associated with a profoundly increased risk (in certain cases by more than 100-fold) of developing squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Incorporation of its ultimate metabolite, thio-dGTP, in DNA results in partial substitution of guanine with 6-thioguanine which, combined with exposure to UVA radiation, creates a source of synergistic mutagenic damage to DNA. We now report that oral treatment with azathioprine leads to a much greater incorporation of 6-thioguanine in DNA of mouse skin than liver. These higher levels of 6-thioguanine, together with the fact that the skin is constantly exposed to UV radiation from the sun, may be responsible, at least in part, for the increased susceptibility of this organ to tumor development. Genetic upregulation of the Keap1/Nrf2/ARE pathway, a major cellular regulator of the expression of a network of cytoprotective genes, reduces the incorporation of 6-thioguanine in DNA of both skin and liver following treatment with azathioprine. Similarly, pharmacologic activation of the pathway by the potent inducer sulforaphane results in lower 6-thioguanine incorporation in DNA and protects 6-thioguanine-treated cells against oxidative stress following exposure to UVA radiation. Protection is accompanied by increased levels of glutathione and induction of multidrug resistance-associated protein 4, an organic anion efflux pump that also exports nucleoside monophosphate analogues. Our findings suggest that activation of the Keap1/Nrf2/ARE pathway could reduce the risk for skin cancer in patients receiving long-term azathioprine therapy.
Experimental studies have demonstrated that dietary macronutrient distribution plays an important role in insulin regulation, a risk factor associated to obesity, diabetes and other metabolic disorders. To assess whether the macronutrient composition of the diet could be related to obesity onset by affecting the epigenetic regulation of gene expression, we investigated in rats the metabolic effects of two pair-fed isocaloric diets: control (rich in carbohydrates) and high fat diet (rich in fat; HFD). Compared to controls, HFD induced higher weight gain and adiposity and impaired glucose tolerance, which was accompanied by a slight increase in adiponectin levels and liver steatosis. Epididymal adipose tissue expression of the fatty acid synthase (FASN) gene and NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) 1β-subcomplex 6 (NDUFB6) were significantly reduced in HFD group. These variations in mRNA levels were accompanied by changes in the methylation patterns of several CpG islands located in the promoter region of these genes. However, no correlations were found between gene expression and the methylation status. These results suggest that high fat intake produces overweighted rats independently of total energy intake. These diets could also induce some epigenetic changes in the promoters of key genes that could influence gene expression and may be behind metabolic alterations.
A patient with Parkinson's disease had severe levodopa-associated leg pain in a beginning-of-dose and peak-dose pattern. Local anesthetic block of the lumbar sympathetic chain or differential epidural block did not alter the pain. Spinal anesthesia abolished the pain. We postulate that levodopa-associated pain in Parkinson's disease either originates in or is mediated by spinal cord dopaminergic systems.
Pentosan polysulfate may induce severe thrombocytopenia by an immunoallergic mechanism similar to that observed with heparin. We report five cases of serious arterial and venous thrombosis associated with pentosan polysulfate-induced thrombocytopenia: --two cases of fatal circumferential myocardial infarction due to disseminated thrombosis in patients whose coronary vessels were free from atheroma at angiography. Such cases have not previously been published. They seem to represent an unusual and dangerous manifestation of immunoallergic thrombocytopenia complicated by diffuse intravascular coagulation and induced by pentosan polysulfate; --two cases of myocardial infarction with favourable outcome; one of them was associated with hemiplegia with aphasia; --one case of extensive phlebitis of the inferior vena cava. The diagnosis was suspected on the ground that the patients had previously been treated with intramuscular pentosan polysulfate for 8 to 10 days and had less than 100,000 platelets per mm3; it was confirmed by in vitro platelet aggregation tests. Cross-allergy with heparin was present in all cases. Out of 18 published cases of pentosan polysulfate-induced thrombocytopenia, 15 were revealed by thrombosis of a coronary, cerebral or peripheral artery (80 p. 100) or of a vein (20 p. 100). Arterial thrombosis carries a 50 p. 100 risk of death, and for this reason pentosan polysulfate should be subjected to the same rules of prescription and monitoring as heparin.
Folate deficiency has been associated with colorectal cancer risk and may be involved in colorectal carcinogenesis through increased chromosome instability, gene mutations, and aberrant DNA methylation. Within the Netherlands Cohort Study on diet and cancer, we investigated the associations between dietary folate intake and colorectal cancer risk with (APC(+)) and without (APC(-)) truncating APC mutations, accounting for hMLH1 expression and K-ras mutations. In total, 528 cases and 4200 subcohort members were available for data analyses of the study cohort (n = 120,852) from a follow-up period between 2.3 and 7.3 y after baseline. Adjusted gender-specific incidence rate ratios (RR) over tertiles of folate intake were calculated in case-cohort analyses for colon and rectal cancer. Although relatively high folate intake was not associated with overall colorectal cancer risk, it reduced the risk of APC(-)colon tumors in men (RR 0.58, 95% CI 0.32-1.05, P(trend) = 0.06 for the highest vs. lowest tertile of folate intake). In contrast, it was positively associated with APC(+) colon tumors in men (highest vs. lowest tertile: RR 2.77, 95% CI 1.29-5.95, P(trend) = 0.008) and was even stronger when the lack of hMLH1 expression and K-ras mutations were excluded (RR 3.99, 95% CI 1.43-11.14, P(trend) = 0.007). Such positive associations were not observed among women; nor was folate intake associated with rectal cancer when APC mutation status was taken into account. Relatively high folate consumption reduced the risk of APC(-) colon tumors, but folate intake was positively associated with APC(+) colon tumors among men. These opposite results may indicate that folate enhances colorectal carcinogenesis through a distinct APC mutated pathway.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness and degree of toxicity of paclitaxel and carboplatin (PC) combination chemotherapy in patients with recurrent or persistent cervical carcinoma.
Fifteen patients who received PC chemotherapy for recurrent or persistent carcinoma of the cervix at the Magee-Womens Hospital from 1994-1998 were studied retrospectively. Demographic data, pathology, radiation treatment response, site of recurrence, chemotherapy response, survival rates, and toxicities were reviewed. Months of survival were calculated by the method of Kaplan-Meier from the date after initiation of chemotherapy to death or the last date of follow-up.
Fifteen patients received PC for recurrence or persistence of disease with a median of six courses of PC (range, four to 26). Fourteen patients (93.3%) had received prior radiation, and one patient had received surgery as the primary therapy. Four (26.7%) of 15 patients had complete response and five (33.3%) had partial response for an overall clinical response rate of 60%. The median survival of all 15 patients treated with PC was 17 months (range, four to 39). Four patients demonstrated progression of disease while two patients had stable disease. Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia occurred in four patients (26.7%) while one patient (6.7%) suffered from sepsis. Three patients (20%) suffered from Grade 2 anemia and four patients (26.7%) patients developed Grade 2 or Grade 3 neuropathy. There was no incidence of nephrotoxicity.
Paclitaxel/carboplatin chemotherapy appears to have promising activity in recurrent or persistent carcinoma of the cervix with an acceptable toxicity profile. Due to patient convenience and tolerance, consideration should be given to carboplatin as an alternative regimen to cisplatin in combination with paclitaxel.
Patients with mutations in divalent metal transporter-1 (DMT1), an intestinal nonheme iron transporter, suffer from microcytic anemia and hepatic iron loading. DMT1 is also mutated in Belgrade rats, an animal model with a thalassemic-like disorder of microcytic anemia with hyperferrinemia. However, aspects of hepatic iron loading in this genetic model are not well characterized. To more fully define the Belgrade rat's iron status, we compared the characteristics of homozygous (b/b) and heterozygous (b/+) rats fed an iron-supplemented diet for 3 wk postweaning. Dietary supplementation with ferrous iron improved the anemia of b/b rats insofar as hematocrits increased from 0.13 (21-d-old) to 0.31 (42-d-old). However, hematocrits remained significantly lower than those of age-matched b/+ rats (0.36 and 0.41 in 21- and 42-d-old heterozygotes, respectively, P < 0.05). Wright's staining of b/b red cells confirmed the hypochromic microcytic nature of Belgrade rats' anemia. The liver iron concentration of 42-d-old b/b rats was greater than in age-matched b/+ rats (5.97 vs. 2.24 mumol/g, P < 0.05). Whereas Perls' Prussian blue iron staining was evident in both periportal and centrilobular regions in 42-d-old b/b liver sections, no staining was observed in age-matched b/+ tissue sections. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis showed that expression of liver hepcidin mRNA in 42-d-old b/b rats was 3-fold greater than age-matched b/+ rats. These results indicate that, similar to human patients with DMT1 mutations, Belgrade rats also display hepatic iron loading. Our data suggest this condition arises from ineffective erythropoiesis.
This study was designed to define the maximum tolerated dose of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil) and multiday vinorelbine (VNB), without and with prophylactic filgrastim, and to identify antineoplastic effect.
Patients with resistant cancers were treated with Doxil 50 mg/m2 every four weeks, and with VNB 15 mg/m2 on the same day. The VNB dose escalations were accomplished in subsequent patient cohorts by adding VNB doses on consecutive days. When the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of VNB with Doxil was defined, prophylactic filgrastim was added to define a second MTD.
Of 29 patients entered, two had early adverse events, and 27 received at least one full cycle with at least one month follow-up. The MTD of VNB, combined with Doxil 50 mg/m2, was 15 mg/m2 on day 1, with neutropenia as the dose-limiting toxicity. With prophylactic filgrastim, the MTD was 15 mg/m2 daily for two days, with neutropenia and stomatitis as dose-limiting toxicities. Palmar plantar erythrodysesthesia occurred frequently, usually after the third cycle. Objective responses were documented in six patients, all of whom received multiday VNB.
Doxil 50 mg/m2 on day 1 of a 28-day cycle can be safely combined with VNB 15 mg/m2 day 1, or with VNB 15 mg/m2 days 1 and 2 with filgrastim prophylaxis. Antineoplastic activity was observed in this heavily pretreated population. Future studies of Doxil 35-40 mg/m2 with multiday VNB may be worthwhile, especially in metastatic breast cancer.
A 60 years old woman was admitted for jaundice and fever which appeared after a treatment with ajmaline-butabarbital for two-weeks. Abdominal ultrasound examination and endoscopic retrograde cholangiography were normal. Mitochondrial antibodies were absent. Jaundice persisted for three years, associated with diffuse cutaneous xanthomatosis. Five years later, alkaline phosphatases remained elevated. A liver biopsy showed vanishing interlobular bile ducts with centrolobular cholestasis and ductular proliferation. We suggest that ajmaline can induce long lasting cholestasis due to damage to the intrahepatic bile ducts. The responsibility of butabarbital and the relationship with primary biliary cirrhosis are discussed.
Urticaria is a rather common, often vexing skin disease, characterized by evanescent, pruritic, erythematous wheals, and sometimes by giant hives (angioedema). The cause of chronic urticaria remains unknown in 75 to 80 percent of the cases. Its pathogenesis is related to the activation of tissue mast cells by many immunologic or non-immunologic mechanisms, resulting in a release of biologically active products. The therapeutic possibilities in practice are discussed. Non-sedative antihistaminic drugs of the H1 type (Terfenadine, Astemizole, Loratidine and Cetirizine) are the main stay in the treatment of urticaria. In case of failure the sedative non-selective antihistaminics from the old generation are used. Particular emphasis is given the possibilities to combining various antiallergic drugs. The combination of a H1 and H1 antihistamine can be effective in individual patients.
Chemotherapy-induced delayed emesis (DE) can affect up to 50% to 70% of patients receiving moderately and highly emetogenic chemotherapy, although rates are improving. DE most commonly occurs within the first 24 to 48 hours of chemotherapy administration and can persist for 2 to 5 days. Olanzapine, due to its activity at multiple dopaminergic, serotonergic, muscarinic, and histaminic receptor sites, has potential as antiemetic therapy. A phase I study was designed with olanzapine, using a four-cohort dose escalation of 3 to 6 patients per cohort, for the prevention of DE in cancer patients receiving their first cycle of chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, platinum, and/or irinotecan. All patients received standard premedication. Olanzapine was administered on days -2 and -1 prior to chemotherapy and continued for 8 days (days 0-7). Episodes of vomiting as well as daily measurements of nausea, sedation, and toxicity were monitored at each dose level. Fifteen patients completed the protocol. No grade 4 toxicities were seen, and three patients experienced a dose-limiting toxicity (grade 3) of a depressed level of consciousness during the study. The maximum tolerated dose appeared to be 5 mg (for days -2 and -1) and 10 mg (for days 0-7). Four of six patients receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy (cisplatin, > or = 70 mg/m2) and nine of nine patients receiving moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (doxorubicin, > or = 50 mg/m2) had complete control (no vomiting episodes) of DE. Therefore, olanzapine may be an effective agent for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced DE. A phase II trial is underway.
To report a case of carbamazepine-induced acute hyponatremia resulting in seizures.
A 44-year-old white woman developed acute hyponatremia and 2 subsequent tonic-clonic seizures after ingesting twice her evening dose of carbamazepine (usual evening dose 600 mg). On admission, her serum sodium level was 122 mEq/L. An infusion of NaCl 0.9% was begun and, within 24 hours, the serum sodium level had returned to her previous level of 136 mEq/L. The woman's preadmission carbamazepine concentration was 8.6 microg/mL, and it was 11.3 micorg/mL on admission. Carbamazepine was withheld and, the following day, the concentration was 5.6 microg/mL. The woman had experienced a similar event 6 months earlier when she also took a large dose of carbamazepine.
We attributed the acute hyponatremia and seizures to the large increase in dose of carbamazepine in the presence of other risk factors for hyponatremia. Hyponatremia associated with carbamazepine has been well described. The incidence ranges from 1.8% to 40% depending on the patient population studied. Severe hyponatremia in patients treated with monotherapy is uncommon. Several risk factors have been reported to increase the risk of hyponatremia including age >40 years, concomitant use of medications associated with hyponatremia, menstruation, psychiatric condition, surgery, psychogenic polydipsia, and female gender. Treatment is focused on removal of the precipitating factors or discontinuation of carbamazepine therapy. Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a highly probable relationship between acute hyponatremia and carbamazepine in our patient.
Hyponatremia with carbamazepine is well known. The factors associated with increased risk are less understood. An increased awareness of these risks, careful monitoring, and patient education are important in the prevention of neurologic complications.
This Phase II trial was designed to evaluate the overall objective response rate, complete response rate, efficacy, and safety of weekly paclitaxel (Taxol) and carboplatin (Paraplatin) in the treatment of advanced urothelial carcinoma. Thirty-three patients with measurable, unresectable, stage III-IV carcinoma of the urothelium were enrolled. Paclitaxel (135 mg/m2) and carboplatin (AUC=2) were given by intravenous (IV) infusion weekly x 6 followed by two weeks rest. Patients were premedicated with oral dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, and cimetadine (or equivalent). Patient characteristics included an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) 0 (36%), one (36%), two (28%); median age 70 years (37-83); 29 (88%) male, four (12%) female; 16 (48%) patients had prior chemotherapy [eight postoperative (adjuvant), five neoadjuvant, three for metastatic disease] and eight (24%) had prior radiation therapy. Eight patients (24%) achieved objective responses, three complete responses (CR) and five partial responses (PR); one patient was not evaluable (patient died prior to first dose). The median duration of response was 13 months (range, 2-29). Nine patients (27%) had stable disease (SD) and 15 patients (45%) had progressive disease (PD). Median time to progression was 3.6 months (range, < 1-29) and median survival was 10.3 months (range, < 1-33). Grade 3 and 4 toxicities included: asthenia (46%), neutropenia (36%), leukopenia (15%), thromboembolism (12%), diarrhea (9%), nausea and vomiting (9%), hyperglycemia (7%), and neuropathy (6%). Two patients died of sepsis, one death was treatment-related. Weekly paclitaxel plus carboplatin shows promising activity; however in the current study, efficacy may have been limited by the toxicities associated with this dose-intensive regimen in an elderly, pretreated patient population with poor performance status. This regimen warrants further study, perhaps as a three out of four week regimen or at reduced doses.
Evidence suggests dietary phytoestrogens may reduce the risk of certain hormonal cancers (e.g. breast and prostate). There is a paucity of data regarding phytoestrogens and colorectal cancer risk. Phytoestrogens are plant compounds with estrogen-like activities. Main classes include isoflavones (found in legumes such as soy) and lignans (found in grains, seeds, nuts, fruits, and vegetables). Although isoflavones have dominated phytoestrogen cancer research, lignans may be more relevant to North American diets. Food questionnaires and analytic databases have recently been modified to incorporate some lignan information. We conducted a case-control study to evaluate the association between phytoestrogen intake and colorectal cancer risk. Colorectal cancer cases were diagnosed in 1997-2000, aged 20-74 y, identified through the population-based Ontario Cancer Registry, and recruited by the Ontario Familial Colorectal Cancer Registry. Controls were a sex and age-group matched random sample of the population of Ontario. Epidemiologic and food frequency questionnaires were completed by 1095 cases and 1890 control subjects. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to obtain adjusted odds ratio (OR) estimates. Dietary lignan intake was associated with a significant reduction in colorectal cancer risk [OR (T3 vs. T1) = 0.73; 95% CI: 0.56, 0.94], as was isoflavone intake [OR (T3 vs. T1) = 0.71; 95% CI: 0.58, 0.86]. We evaluated interactions between polymorphic genes that encode enzymes possibly involved in metabolism of phytoestrogens (CYPs, catechol O-methyl transferase, GSTs, and UGTs) and found no significant effect modification with respect to phytoestrogen intake. This finding that phytoestrogen intake may reduce colorectal cancer risk is important, because dietary intake is potentially modifiable.
Human craniofacial morphogenesis is a complex biological event: it is mediated by several factors and different types tissue interaction. Recent studies on animal models have led to an improved understanding of human craniofacial malformations. In particular, the endothelins, peptides that are involved in various biological functions in many tissues and organs, have been shown to play a crucial role in the development of the first branchial-arch-derived structures in mice [Kurihara et al., Nature 368:703-710, 1994]. We previously reported the identification and localization of endothelin-1 (ET-1) and its receptors in human fetal jaw [Barni et al., Dev Biol 168:373-377, 1995]. In the present study, the gene expression of ET-1 and its receptors were demonstrated in human jaw from 11-12-week-old fetuses. By using in situ hybridization, mRNA for ET-1 was localized in the epithelial cells of the oral mucosa: mRNA for ET receptors (ETA and ETB subtypes) was expressed in the mesenchyme. In situ binding experiments confirmed the presence of ETA and ETB receptors in the cells involved in the osteogenesis of the mandible. Furthermore, ET-1 was able to stimulate thymidine uptake and the expression of the oncoprotein c-fos in the same cell types. Our results indicate that ET-1 may play a putative role in epithelium-mesenchyme interaction during human craniofacial morphogenesis. Our findings are in complete accord with those of the most recent works by Yanagisawa [Yanagisawa H et al., 1998] and Clouthier [Clouthier et al., Development 125:813-824, 1998]. They most probably confirm the primary role of ET-1 in the development of the pharyngeal arches.
The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major cause of chronic liver disease worldwide, with approximately 170-200 million people infected. The HCV virus is transmitted by blood and blood products and such transmission occurs primarily through drug use by injection, sex with an infected partner and occupational exposure. The severity of the disease varies widely from mild chronic hepatitis to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Nowadays, the reference treatment is combination therapy of pegylated interferon and ribavirin, which is an inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase inhibitor and immunomodulator. Efficacy of treatment in our clinical trials is 87% in patients infected by HCV genotypes 2 or 3, whereas in patients infected by HCV genotype 1 response to treatment is 66%. The current combination treatment has significant side-effects and sometimes is poorly tolerated. HCV genotypes 2 or 3 can be treated with a lower dose of ribavirin and a shorter course of therapy, 24 weeks vs 48 weeks for patients with genotype 1. There is a growing consensus that acute control of HCV infection is associated with a vigorous intrahepatic antiviral CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell response, enhanced Th1 and natural killer activity. Pretreatment genotype and response to therapy measured at weeks 12 and 24 of treatment have been identified as key determinants in decisions about continuing treatment. Elevated serum ferritin levels and hepatic iron deposition as well as hepatic steatosis and high ALT levels with chronic hepatitis C are risk factors for HCC development. Heterozygosityfor the C282Y mutation in HFE contributes to iron accumulation and fibrosis progression in chronic hepatitis C. Ribavirin could cause dose-dependent reversible haemolytic anaemia, which can be managed with dose reductions or with administration of epoetin alpha at 40,000 IU once weekly without sacrificing the optimal dosing of ribavarin. Among patients who received ribavirin alone, serum ALT levels and necroinflammatory features of liver histology were improved, whereas symptoms, HCV RNA levels and hepatic fibrosis scores were not changed significantly from baseline. For HCV-HIV co-infected patients, treatment is given when blood CD4 counts are above 350/ml and before antiretroviral (ART) treatment is needed.
In a previous dose-finding trial, in previously treated patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC), we showed that the combination of Mitoxantrone (M) and Paclitaxel (P) may be an interesting (response rate: 69%) and well-tolerated regimen. On the basis of these results, our group started a new trial in chemotherapy-naive patients with MBC.
Forty-six women entered in this trial, and all patients were evaluated for response and toxicity. Schedule of treatment was P 175 mg/m2 over 3 hr day 1 and M 12 mg/m2 day 1, every 3 weeks. Patients were reevaluated every 3 months and chemotherapy was continued unless tumor progression or unacceptable toxicity occurred.
The intent-to-treat objective response was 61% (95% confidence interval: 49%-78%). Five patients (11%) obtained complete response and 23 (50%) partial response with a median time to failure of 14 months. The median survival was 22 months (range 1-39). The principal toxicity was hematological: 38 (82%) patients had grade 3 to 4 leukopenia; only 2 patients had grade 4 anemia and one grade 4 thrombocytopenia. Nonhematological toxicity (grade 3-4) was mild and cardiotoxicity was infrequent.
This trial suggests the combination of M and P is an active palliative regimen for patients with MBC. Toxicity was moderate. The infrequent development of cardiotoxicity suggests this combination may not share the problems reported with P plus doxorubicin combinations.
The second generation antipsychotics clozapine and olanzapine frequently induce weight gain. Randomized studies investigating abnormal eating behavior (food craving, binge eating) possibly associated with weight gain are lacking. Thirty patients with schizophrenia, schizophreniform, or schizoaffective disorder were included in this randomized, double-blind, parallel study comparing abnormal eating behavior using a standardized scale, clinical efficacy using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale 0-6 and Clinical Global Impression-Severity scale, and tolerability of clozapine and olanzapine. In both treatment groups, the number of patients reporting food craving, binge eating, or both increased over time. The likelihood to experience food craving at any time during drug treatment showed a trend (P = 0.068) to be higher in the olanzapine group (48.9%) compared with the clozapine group (23.3%). The likelihood to experience binge eating at any time during drug treatment was numerically but not statistically significantly higher in the olanzapine group (16.7%) than in the clozapine group (8.9%). In both groups, significant baseline-to-end point improvements of clinical symptoms (Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale 0-6: clozapine, 36.6 +/- 8.8 to 15.9 +/- 13.7; olanzapine, 36.7 +/- 9.9 to 19.1 +/- 13.8) and severity of illness (Clinical Global Impression-Severity scale: clozapine, 4.7 +/- 0.6 to 2.5 +/- 1.5; olanzapine, 4.5 +/- 0.6 to 2.3 +/- 1.2) were observed. These improvements did not differ significantly between groups. Olanzapine was more tolerable than clozapine; adverse events occurred significantly (P < 0.01) less frequently than in the clozapine group. These results suggest that both clozapine and olanzapine can induce food craving and binge eating, however, olanzapine possibly to a greater extent. Findings on clinical efficacy and safety are in accordance with previous reports.
