To test the effect of rapamycin (RAPA) on hepatic tumor growth and metastasis in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat model and explore the possible mechanism.
SD rat hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) model with metastatic potential was induced by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and N-nitrosomorpholine (NMOR). 120 SD rats were randomized into four groups 16 weeks after DEN and NMOR treatment, and received 4-week intraperitoneal injection of RAPA (1.5 or 4.5 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)), CsA (25 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) or equal volume of 0.9% saline, respectively. Tumor growth and metastasis were checked after the 4-week treatment. Serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Antiangiogenetic effects were assessed by CD34 immunostaining. The levels of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF-1 alpha) and VEGF proteins and mRNAs were detected by immunohistochemistry, western blot and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
The mean liver weight (5.58% +/- 0.42% and 5.69% +/- 0.74%), the metastatic liver nodules (5.12 +/- 0.68 and 5.67 +/-1.12), the metastasis lung nodules (0.43 +/- 0.11 and 0.45 +/- 0.83), and the lung metastasis rate (17.2% and 14.8%) were lower in rats treated with RAPA 1.5 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) or 4.5 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) than those in rats treated with saline, which were 10.42% +/- 1.86%, 12.36 +/- 3.45, 1.81 +/- 0.3 and 50.0% respectively (P < 0.01 or P < 0.05). The intratumoral microvessel density (MVD), serum VEGF, and the levels of HIF-1 alpha and VEGF were lower in RAPA-treated rats than those in control rats. However, CsA-treated rats showed an opposite trend compared with the RAPA-treated rats.
RAPA can repress the expression of angiogenesis-promoting factors HIF-1 alpha and VEGF, and significantly inhibits the growth and metastasis of HCC.
ThioTEPA is a chemotherapeutic agent used in the treatment of cancers, and more recently has been proposed as a component of high-dose therapy for young patients with recurrent malignant brain tumors. We previously demonstrated a significant dose-dependent reduction of cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in mice immediately following a 3-day regiment of thioTEPA. The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term effects of thioTEPA treatment on hippocampal cell proliferation and potential effects on memory deficit or depression-related behavior in C57BL/6J mice. A 3-day regimen of thioTEPA (10mg/kg/d, i.p.) yielded a significant reduction in cell proliferation immediately after treatment as assessed by BrdU incorporation, and none of the labeled progeny that initially survived the treatment were detectable one week later. Following a 3-week rebound in proliferation following treatment, a significant deficit in proliferation reappeared and persisted for at least 21 weeks following treatment. ThioTEPA-treated mice subjected to an object recognition test 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, 20 or 30 weeks following treatment demonstrated significant memory deficits at 12 and 20 weeks. Mice demonstrated a similar deficit in an object placement test when tested 20 weeks following thioTEPA treatment. However, no observable effects on performance in the Porsolt forced swim test or the tail suspension test were observed in thioTEPA-treated mice. Together, these studies suggest that cumulative long-term negative effects of thioTEPA treatment on proliferation of new cells in the dentate gyrus may contribute to cognitive impairments associated with its use in the treatment of cancer.
Indomethacin is used in the treatment of inflammatory diseases. But the drug toxicity limits its usage. This study investigated whether adaptation occurred after various dosages of repeated (chronic) indomethacin in rats to the gastro-toxic effects of indomethacin. It also examined whether the adaptation was related to oxidant-antioxidant mechanisms and oxidative DNA damage in gastric tissue. To illuminate the adaptation mechanism in the gastric tissue of rats given various dosages of chronic indomethacin, the levels of oxidants and antioxidants (GSH, MDA, NO, SOD and MPO), activities of COX-1 and COX-2 enzymes and oxidative DNA damage (8-OHd Gua/10(5) Gua) were measured. Results were compared to 25-mg/kg single-dose indomethacin group, and the role of oxidant and antioxidant parameters and oxidative DNA damage in the adaptation mechanism was evaluated. The average ulcer areas of gastric tissue of the 0.5-, 1-, 2-, 3-, 4-, and 5-mg/kg dosages of chronic indomethacin given to rats were 19.5+/-3.7, 12.5+/-3.3, 10+/-5.2, 4.5+/-3.6, 8.6+/-2.4, and 9.5+/-2.1mm(2), respectively. This rate was measured as 21.3+/-2.6mm(2) in the single-dose indomethacin group. Consequently, after various dosages of repeated (chronic) indomethacin administration in rats, it was observed that a clear adaptation developed against gastric damage and that gastric damage was reduced. The best adaptation was observed in the gastric tissue of the 3-mg/kg chronic indomethacin group. In parallel with the damage reduction, the oxidant parameters (MDA and MPO) and oxidative DNA damage (8-OHd Gua/10(5) Gua) were reduced, and the antioxidant parameters (GSH, NO and SOD) were increased. There is no relation between COX enzymes and adaptation mechanism. This circumstance shows that not COX-1 and COX-2 enzymes, oxidant and antioxidant parameters may play a role in the adaptation mechanism.
We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of transdermal scopolamine in the prevention of motion sickness (MS) aboard a frigate during 7 days of continuously moderate or heavy seas. Forty-nine healthy sailors with a previous history of MS were randomly assigned to receive a transdermal therapeutic system of scopolamine (TTS-S) or transdermal placebo (TD-P). Patches were placed behind the ears at least 4 hours before departure and were removed 72 hours later. Subjects were observed on days 1 to 4 and 6. In the TTS-S group, both subjective feeling of MS and the incidence of nausea were reduced during the first 2 days. Because of adaptation, differences in signs and symptoms of MS between subjects receiving TTS-S and TD-P disappeared after the second day. During the first 3 days, vomiting occurred less often in the TTS-S group. On day 6, 3 days after removal of the patch, vomiting occurred in 23% of the TTS-S group, probably due to delay in adaptation, but none of the subjects in the TD-P group vomited. Concentration was not adversely influenced, since the ability to work increased in the TTS-S group. During prolonged continuous exposure to heavy and moderate seas, 2.5 cm2 TTS-S discs proved to be efficacious in preventing MS, with xerostomia as a tolerable side effect and no significant ocular side effects.
Artemisinin (ART) is a sesquiterpene lactone natural product that is widely used to treat multi-drug resistant strains of malaria. Artemisinin and its derivatives are also selectively cytotoxic to cancer cells, which can be modulated by altering heme synthesis. Cytotoxicity to cancer cells is thought to involve generation of oxidative stress, although conflicting data exist. We have analyzed reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation using the fluorescent probes 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (DCF) and dihydroethidine (HET) upon exposure to dihydroartemisinin (DHA) in Molt-4 leukemia cells. HET fluorescence correlated with dose-dependent DHA-induced cytotoxicity, increased within 30 min of DHA exposure, and was significantly enhanced by increasing heme synthesis. Protein levels of copper, zinc-superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD), manganese-superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), catalase, and glutathione peroxidases 1/2 were also found to increase with DHA exposure. 4-hydroxy-tempol (TEMPOL) and DF-Mn, MnSOD mimetics, could significantly inhibit ROS generation and reduce cell death. Production of superoxide appears to be a central mediator of cytotoxicity from DHA.
Long-term treatment with aspirin and paracetamol produced renal papillary necrosis in female Fischer 344 rats. Aspirin (230 mg/kg body weight/day) and paracetamol (380 mg/kg body weight/day) were dissolved in drinking water and given continuously for up to 65 weeks. Renal morphological changes were examined between 21 weeks and 65 weeks of commencement of analgesic treatment using light and electron microscopy, and were compared with age-matched controls. Structural damage initially occurred in the mid-papillary region, and specifically involved the interstitial cells and interstitial matrix. Necrosis of the epithelium of the thin limbs of the loop of Henle was present only after interstitial changes were well established. Cortical interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy occurred after renal papillary changes were observed. There was no evidence of significant vascular damage. Urinary concentrating ability was measured sequentially during the period of analgesic treatment. A decrease in urine concentrating ability was present when early changes to the interstitial cells and matrix were observed, and concentrating ability continued to decrease in parallel with increasing morphological damage. This study describes an animal model of analgesic-induced nephropathy, enabling early morphological changes to be studied and correlated with renal functional changes.
Cytogenetics is of considerable value when diagnosing lipomatous tumours, as different tumour types have different more or less specific chromosomal abnormalities. One such entity is lipoblastoma, which is a benign lipomatous tumour that often exhibits rearrangements of chromosome bands 8q11-13, and the gene PLAG1 has been implicated as the target of these chromosomal changes. All lipomatous tumours karyotyped at the Norwegian Radium Hospital were reviewed, looking for rearrangements of 8q11-13. Five tumours exhibiting chromosomal abnormalities affecting this region were found. Only one of them was morphologically diagnosed as a lipoblastoma, two being classified as lipomas, one as a hibernoma, and one as a well-differentiated liposarcoma. The two tumours successfully analysed with bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) covering the gene PLAG1 showed involvement of this gene in the rearrangement. The findings raise the question as to what extent the diagnosis lipoblastoma should be based on histopathological or cytogenetic/molecular data or a combination thereof. When karyotypic information from this series was combined with available literature data, it was found that the sensitivity of 8q11-13 rearrangements for diagnosing lipoblastomas when found in a lipomatous tumour was 77% and that the corresponding specificity was 98%. The validity of these calculations of the diagnostic information provided by the cytogenetic findings is, of course, totally dependent on the morphological diagnosis made in each case. Regardless of what the precise phenotypic diagnosis was, it is suggested that lipomatous tumours with 8q11-13 rearrangement constitute a distinct pathogenetic entity. When selective therapies tailor-made against the specific pathogenetic rearrangement become available, it will become mandatory to pay more attention to the genetic constitution of the tumour cells than to their phenotypic appearance.
Haloperidol, a typical antipsychotic, is the most commonly prescribed medication for the treatment of mental health problems such as agitation and psychosis. We attempted to determine the effects of haloperidol treatment on the kidneys of female rats. In addition, we aimed to estimate the numerical density, total number, and height of renal glomeruli and the volume and volumetric fractions of the cortex, medulla, and whole kidneys, and tried to determine whether there was a change in these stereological parameters depending on haloperidol treatment. Both the qualitative and quantitative histological features of the kidney samples were analyzed with conventional histopathological and modern stereological methods at the light microscopic level. The total number of glomeruli and numerical density of glomerulus in the haloperidol-treated groups was not changed by increasing the dose in comparison to the control group. The mean height of the glomerulus significantly increased, especially in low-dose groups. In the haloperidol-treated groups, the volumetric fractions of the cortex to the whole kidney of the rats were significantly decreased by increasing the dose. The volumetric fractions of the medulla to the whole kidney of the rats were increased significantly in parallel by the given dose. In addition, we present quantitative findings showing that haloperidol is associated with many alterations in rat kidneys. It was shown that haloperidol may lead to undesirable changes in the kidney after chronic treatment with especially high doses.
Neuropeptide-Y (NPY) is expressed by granule cells and mossy fibres of the hippocampal dentate gyrus during experimental temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). This expression may represent an endogenous damping mechanism since NPY has been shown to block seizure-like events following high-frequency stimulation in hippocampal slices. The pilocarpine (PILO) model of epilepsy is characterized by an acute period of status epilepticus followed by spontaneous recurrent seizures and related brain damage. We report peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunostaining for NPY in several brain regions in this model. PILO-injected animals exhibited NPY immunoreactivity in the region of the mossy fibre terminals, in the dentate gyrus inner molecular layer and, in a few cases, within presumed granule cells. NPY immunoreactivity was also dramatically changed in the entorhinal cortex, amygdala and sensorimotor areas. In addition, PILO injected animals exhibited a reduction in the number of NPY-immunoreactive interneurons compared with controls. The results demonstrate that changes in NPY expression, including expression in the granule cells and mossy fibres and the loss of vulnerable NPY neurons, are present in the PILO model of TLE. However, the significance of this changed synthesis of NPY remains to be determined.
Downbeat nystagmus is generally the result of a structural lesion at the craniocervical junction. It has rarely been reported as a manifestation of metabolic disease or drug intoxication. We observed two patients with downbeat nystagmus secondary to phenytoin (Dilantin) intoxication. Both individuals had other features of phenytoin-induced central nervous system dysfunction with toxic blood levels of the drug (greater than 20 micrograms/ml). Complete resolution of the downbeat nystagmus followed the return of phenytoin levels to the therapeutic range.
This study inquired about the role of tumor suppressor PTEN in the arterial remodeling of Ang II induced hypertension. The expression of PTEN of aorta was examined in the aortic-constricted hypertensive rats (hypertension group), in the aortic-constricted hypertensive rats treated with captopril(hypertension and captopril group), and in the rats having undergone sham operation (control group). At day 28 after surgery, the aortas were collected from the groups. The expression of PTEN mRNA was detected by RT-PCR. The expression and location of PTEN protein were determined by immunohistochemistry. The results showed that the expression of PTEN in aorta of the hypertension group was significantly lower than that of the hypertension and captopril group, and similarly lower than that of the control group. The intensity of PTEN-positive immunohistochemical production in aorta of the hypertension group was weaker than that of the hypertension and captopril group, and likewise, it was weaker than the control. PTEN-positive immunohistochemical production was located in VSMC of aorta. The findings indicated that the expression of PTEN is reduced in hypertensive aorta, that the reduced PTEN experession can be reversed by captopril treatment, that AngII and the increased mechanical strain may participate in regulating expression of PTEN, and that PTEN may play a role in the arterial remodeling induced by hypertension.
In the Studies of Left Ventricular Dysfunction (LVD), enalapril or placebo was administered in a double-blind fashion to 6797 participants with ejection fraction < or = 0.35. During 40 months' average follow-up, 28.1% of participants randomized to enalapril reported side effects compared with 16.0% in the placebo group (p < 0.0001). Enalapril use was associated with a higher rate of symptoms related to hypotension (14.8% vs 7.1%, p < 0.0001), azotemia (3.8% vs 1.6%, p < 0.0001), cough (5.0% vs 2.0%, p < 0.0001), fatigue (5.8% vs 3.5%, p < 0.0001), hyperkalemia (1.2% vs 0.4%, p = 0.0002), and angioedema (0.4% vs 0.1%, p < 0.05). Side effects resulted in discontinuation of blinded therapy in 15.2% of the enalapril group compared with 8.6% in the placebo group (p < 0.0001). Thus enalapril is well tolerated by patients with LVD; however, hypotension, azotemia, cough, fatigue, and other side effects result in discontinuation of therapy in a significant minority of patients.
The aim of the present prospective study was to substantiate possible side effects of short-term oral acitretin therapy (1 mg/kg/day) on peripheral nerve function of 13 patients with severe keratinization disorders. Clinical neurological examination before and 1 and 3 months after onset of treatment was unremarkable in all patients; however, a significant alteration of one or more neurophysiological, predominantly sensory, parameters was demonstrated in 3 out of 13 patients (23%) after 1 month and in 9 out of 13 (69%) after 3 months of oral acitretin therapy. These findings indicate that oral acitretin might be capable of causing a dysfunction of predominantly sensory nerve fibres in some individuals. Although in the investigated patients this dysfunction remained subclinical, it seems reasonable to suggest that neurological and neurophysiological evaluation of peripheral nerves should be added to the list of investigations that are routinely performed in patients receiving oral acitretin.
The role of hepatic energy deficits in the pathogenesis of anesthetic hepatotoxicity is suggested by the involvement of hypoxia in various animal models and by the ability of anesthetics to inhibit mitochondrial oxidations. We have been studying anesthetic effects on hepatocellular energy metabolism using suspensions of intact hepatocytes freshly isolated from phenobarbital-treated or untreated rats (+PB or -PB cells, respectively), an experimental system that is metabolically complete yet also biochemically homogeneous and accessible. In the present work, diazepam, lidocaine, thiopental, and enflurane, as well as the combination of thiopental and enflurane, were studied at concentrations similar to those achieved in vivo. Thiopental increased cellular oxygen consumption rate (VO2) in both +PB and -PB cells significantly, as did aminopyrine, a test substrate for PB-inducible cytochrome P450 activity. Diazepam increased VO2 only in +PB cells, as did enflurane, whereas lidocaine did not increase VO2 in either +PB or -PB cells. The combination of thiopental and enflurane significantly decreased VO2 in -PB cells but increased it in +PB cells. The higher VO2 in +PB cells compared to -PB cells, seen with all drugs tested (except lidocaine), was eliminated by prior addition of the P450 inhibitor metyrapone. Starting from steady states of oxygen metabolism, with VO2 offset by O2 supply from an overlying gas phase and PO2 stabilized at 24 mm Hg, aminopyrine significantly lowered extracellular PO2, increased lactate production, and decreased high energy phosphate levels within 10 minutes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Forty-two patients with localized intermediate and high-grade sarcoma were randomized after optimal primary treatment to receive five cycles of adjuvant doxorubicin 90 mg/m2 every three weeks (20 patients) or observation (22 patients). Patients were stratified for grade, size, extent of surgical margin, and soft tissue versus other sarcomas. Groups appeared balanced for histology and superficial versus deep lesions. Eight patients (19%) have died. Follow-up times range from two to 69 months (median, 16 months). Two patients receiving doxorubicin (10%) developed cardiotoxicity presenting as pulmonary edema. One patient returned to normal activity on digoxin and diuretics; the other (age, 28 years) died of intractable failure and arrhythmias after four weeks. While a nonsignificant difference in local control, metastasis-free survival, disease-free survival, and survival was observed for extremity lesions, the advantage may be outweighed by the risk of cardiotoxicity. Seventy-six percent of the control patients with extremity lesions remain disease free. Because control patients do well, a very large study is required to define the role of adjuvant doxorubicin.
The effect of the methylprednisolone (MP) pulse therapy on renal function was examined in 15 patients with renal or collagen disease. Three nephrotic patients who had reduced renal function and active renal disease with progressive deterioration of renal function prior to the use of MP developed transient renal failure following an MP pulse therapy. The renal failure in each case was reversed by discontinuation of MP and/or by forced diuresis using albumin and furosemide. We examined the correlations between the individual changes in serum creatinine (Scr), body weight (BW) and urine volume (UV) before and after the pulse therapy and other laboratory data such as Scr, total serum protein and albumin. There were significant correlations between a change in Scr on the one hand and changes in BW and UV, Scr and serum albumin on the other. These findings mean that the effect of the MP pulse therapy on renal function depends on the clinical state of the patient and that renal deterioration after the pulse therapy may be more marked in patients who are more nephrotic and more impaired in renal function and suggest that increasing sodium and water retention during an MP therapy and the associated renal interstitial edema, proposed as one of the mechanisms of acute renal failure occurring in patients with minimal-change nephrotic syndrome, may be responsible for the MP-induced transient renal failure.
Chronic allograft nephropathy is the principal cause of late graft loss after the first year of renal transplantation. Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is a key fibrogenetic cytokine involved in the fibrosis of a number of chronic diseases of the kidney and other organs, and recently evidence has shown that TGF-beta1 is involved in the pathogenesis of chronic renal allograft dysfunction. Production of TGF-beta1 in these circumstances may be modulated by the intrarenal renin-angiotensin system (angiotensin II induces TGF-beta1 production and secretion by the mesangial cells) and by a direct effect of cyclosporin A, which stimulates the synthesis and expression of TGF-beta1. In a prospective study of 14 renal transplant patients exhibiting chronic graft nephropathy, we demonstrated that treatment with losartan significantly decreased plasma levels of TGF-beta1 by >50%. There was a significant correlation (P=0.04) between the increase in circulating angiotensin II after 2 weeks and the decrease in plasma TGF-beta(1) at the end of the study period, suggesting that the degree of angiotensin II receptor blockade plays a decisive role in the synthesis of TGF-beta1. A significant decrease in circulating endothelin-1 (ET-1) levels also occurred during treatment with losartan, together with a decrease in proteinuria. In a randomized 2x2 crossover study, the effects of losartan and amlodipine on renal haemodynamics and on profibrogenetic cytokines were analysed. Whereas amlodipine increased the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) through an increase in the FF and P(G), losartan slightly decreased the GFR, but with a significant decrease in FF and P(G). With respect to the profibrogenetic cytokines, losartan decreased the plasma levels of TGF-beta1 and ET-1, while amlodipine did not significantly change TGF-beta1 and slightly increased ET-1.
We report a case of a 75-year-old male patient who presented to the emergency room with arterial hypotension and impaired vigilance. The patient was on lithium therapy due to mood disorder. One month earlier medication with a betablocker, a loop-diuretic and an ACE-inhibitor had been started due to heart failure. Findings at admission included renal insufficiency, pneumonia and a slightly increased serum level of lithium. Three days later his Glasgow Coma Scale Score was 7, he showed gaze deviation, increased muscle tonus and cloni. The patient fully recovered after volume substitution and normalization of his renal function. Diagnosis of chronic intoxication with lithium was made due to the clinical picture and after exclusion of neurological pathologies. The pharmacokinetic characteristics of lithium is described and the risk factors leading to lithium intoxication and treatment of intoxication are discussed.
Prospective longitudinal examinations of anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy in a homogeneous cohort are rare in pediatric oncology. We herein report the results of observations on the frequency of cardiomyopathy in doxorubicin-treated sarcoma patients in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland.
The Late Effects Surveillance System (LESS) prospectively collects longitudinal data on late sequelae of antineoplastic therapy in Ewing-, soft tissue-, and osteosarcoma patients treated within the therapy trial protocols of the German Society of Pediatric Oncology and Hematology. Two hundred sixty-five relapse-free patients who had received doxorubicin for the treatment within the EICESS-92/EURO-E.W.I.N.G.-99, COSS-96, and CWS-96 therapy trials were serially examined by echocardiography. The analyzed population consisted of 142 males and 123 females. Their mean age at the end of therapy was 13 +/- 5 years. The mean follow-up time was 34 +/- 12 months. The mean cumulative doxorubicin dose was 290 +/- 91 mg/m(2).
In this cohort, the total cumulative incidence of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy was 7.5%. Four patients (1.5%) suffered from a symptomatic cardiomyopathy and 16 (6%) from a subclinical cardiomyopathy. Cardiomyopathy manifested in 11 cases already under antineoplastic therapy and in the remaining nine cases at a median of 26 days (range: 17-174 days) after stopping antineoplastic therapy. Univariate and multivariable analysis did not confirm any of the known risk factors for developing anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy in our patient group within the described time interval.
After a mean follow-up of 34 +/- 12 months, cumulative incidence of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy in our pediatric sarcoma patients was at the lower end of that reported by other groups.
Chlorine gas (Cl(2)) exposure during accidents or in the military setting results primarily in injury to the lungs. However, the potential for Cl(2) exposure to promote injury to the systemic vasculature leading to compromised vascular function has not been studied. We hypothesized that Cl(2) promotes extrapulmonary endothelial dysfunction characterized by a loss of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS)-derived signaling. Male Sprague Dawley rats were exposed to Cl(2) for 30 minutes, and eNOS-dependent vasodilation of aorta as a function of Cl(2) dose (0-400 ppm) and time after exposure (0-48 h) were determined. Exposure to Cl(2) (250-400 ppm) significantly inhibited eNOS-dependent vasodilation (stimulated by acetycholine) at 24 to 48 hours after exposure without affecting constriction responses to phenylephrine or vasodilation responses to an NO donor, suggesting decreased NO formation. Consistent with this hypothesis, eNOS protein expression was significantly decreased (∼ 60%) in aorta isolated from Cl(2)-exposed versus air-exposed rats. Moreover, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA was up-regulated in circulating leukocytes and aorta isolated 24 hours after Cl(2) exposure, suggesting stimulation of inflammation in the systemic vasculature. Despite decreased eNOS expression and activity, no changes in mean arterial blood pressure were observed. However, injection of 1400W, a selective inhibitor of iNOS, increased mean arterial blood pressure only in Cl(2)-exposed animals, suggesting that iNOS-derived NO compensates for decreased eNOS-derived NO. These results highlight the potential for Cl(2) exposure to promote postexposure systemic endothelial dysfunction via disruption of vascular NO homeostasis mechanisms.
Progesterone exerts anti-seizure effect against several chemoconvulsants. However, there is no published report on the interaction between progesterone and picrotoxin (PTX). The present study evaluated the effects of progesterone and its active metabolite, allopregnanolone against PTX-induced seizures, brain lipid peroxidation and DNA fragmentation in male mice. Finasteride, a 5alpha-reductase inhibitor and indomethacin, an inhibitor of 3infinity-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase were assessed against progesterone's effects on PTX-induced seizures, brain lipid peroxidation and DNA fragmentation. PTX produced clonic-tonic seizures in mice with CD50 and CD97 of 2.4 and 4.0mg/kg, i.p. respectively. Progesterone significantly countered PTX-induced seizures, with ED50 of 78.30mg/kg and ED97 of 200mg/kg. Progesterone antagonized PTX-induced DNA fragmentation. Finasteride (200mg/kg) and indomethacin (1mg/kg) reversed the anti-seizure and anti-DNA fragmentation effects of progesterone. Allopregnanolone, also protected against PTX-induced seizures and DNA fragmentation. There was no significant change in the brain lipid peroxidation parameters in any of the treatment groups. It may be concluded that progesterone protects against PTX-induced seizures and DNA fragmentation through its active metabolites allopregnanolone and 5alpha-pregnan-3,20-dione. However, it appears from the present study that, the neuroprotection with progesterone is primarily on account of allopregnalone. The therapeutic potential of allopregnanolone deserves to be evaluated clinically.
The development of thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) associated with the use of cyclosporine has been well documented. Treatments have included discontinuation or reduction of cyclosporine dose with or without concurrent plasma exchange, plasma infusion, anticoagulation, and intravenous immunoglobulin G infusion. However, for recipients of organ transplantation, removing the inciting agent is not without the attendant risk of precipitating acute rejection and graft loss. The last decade has seen the emergence of tacrolimus as a potent immunosuppressive agent with mechanisms of action virtually identical to those of cyclosporine. As a result, switching to tacrolimus has been reported to be a viable therapeutic option in the setting of cyclosporine-induced TMA. With the more widespread application of tacrolimus in organ transplantation, tacrolimus-associated TMA has also been recognized. However, literature regarding the incidence of the recurrence of TMA in patients exposed sequentially to cyclosporine and tacrolimus is limited. We report a case of a living donor renal transplant recipient who developed cyclosporine-induced TMA that responded to the withdrawal of cyclosporine in conjunction with plasmapheresis and fresh frozen plasma replacement therapy. Introduction of tacrolimus as an alternative immunosuppressive agent resulted in the recurrence of TMA and the subsequent loss of the renal allograft. Patients who are switched from cyclosporine to tacrolimus or vice versa should be closely monitored for the signs and symptoms of recurrent TMA.
The sigma receptors were first classified as a subtype of opioid receptors but later they were found to be a distinct pharmacological entity. Many preclinical and clinical data have indicated that sigma receptor ligands have to be involved in neuropsychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia. Numerous data have suggested that potential antipsychotic activity of sigma ligands results from their "antagonistic" activity. However, the subcellular mechanisms by which sigma ligands exert their effects have not been elucidated in detail, therefore, the terms "agonist" or "antagonist" and their functional implications are not entirely unequivocal. The aim of the present study was to find out if BD 1047, described recently as a selective functional antagonist of sigma receptors, shows antipsychotic activity in animal models predictive of efficacy in schizophrenia. In contrast to rimcazole and panamesine, two selective sigma ligands whose antipsychotic activity was confirmed clinically, BD 1047 did not decrease amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in mice in a statistically significant manner. Likewise, it did not modify the hyperactivity induced by NMDA receptor antagonists, phencyclidine, memantine or dizocilpine. On the other hand, BD 1047 attenuated apomorphine-induced climbing in mice and phencyclidine-induced head twitches in rats, like rimcazole and panamesine did. Summing up, BD 1047 shows a moderate activity in models used in this study suggesting that its usefulness as an antipsychtic drug is doubtful. However, more detailed studies are required for definitive confirmation of this conclusion.
Five patients with a steroid-responsive, frequently relapsing nephrotic syndrome who had failed at least one course of treatment with cyclophosphamide were all put into a long term remission with chlorambucil. One patient developed a severe neutropenia and herpes zoster and another with an epileptic tendency developed myoclonic jerks. The indications and potential hazards of using chlorambucil in this context are discussed.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) markedly reduces infarct volume induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in the rat, when injected either centrally (intracerebroventricularly) or peripherally. The site or sites of action of IL-1 in stroke pathology, however, are not known. The present study investigated the site(s) of action of IL-1/IL-1ra in ischemic brain damage by studying the effects of local injection of IL-1ra into the cortex or striatum following permanent MCAO in the rat. Cortical injection of IL-1ra (5 micrograms) did not affect infarct volume in the cortex or striatum measured 24 h after MCAO. In contrast, striatal injection of IL-1ra ipsilateral to the infarction caused a significant and highly reproducible reduction of cortical (37%, p < 0.001) and striatal damage (27%, p < 0.001, corrected for edema) compared with vehicle-injected animals. Injection of IL-1ra (5 micrograms) into the striatum, contralateral to the infarction, resulted in a small (9%) but significant (p < 0.001) reduction of ipsilateral cortical damage, with no effect on ipsilateral striatal damage. Injection of a higher dose of IL-1ra (7.5 micrograms) in the contralateral striatum caused a further inhibition of ipsilateral cortical damage (24%, p < 0.001) and a significant reduction of ipsilateral striatal damage (16%, p < 0.001). In separate groups of rats, it was established that core temperature (measured continuously in free-moving animals with remote radiotelemetry) was not affected by striatal or cortical injection of IL-1ra. These data show that injection of IL-1ra into the striatum but not the cortex reduces infarct volume in both the striatum and the cortex, independently of effects on core temperature. These results imply that blocking striatal IL-1 contributes to IL-1ra-protective effects. We hypothesize that IL-1 may influence striatal distal cortical damage through either the release of specific substances or activation of polysynaptic pathways.
The transition from drug use to drug addiction is associated with a process of escalation, whereby drug use becomes excessive and difficult to control. Several mechanisms have been advanced to explain escalating patterns of drug use as opposed to nonescalating patterns. Although current evidence favors hedonic tolerance, there remains some dispute about the contribution of behavioral sensitization to cocaine intake escalation. Here, we concurrently assessed the ability of cocaine to induce psychomotor sensitization and drug-seeking behavior in animals with 1-h (short access or ShA) vs 6-h (long access or LgA) access to intravenous (i.v.) cocaine self-administration. As expected, cocaine intake by LgA rats escalated over time and became excessive compared to cocaine intake by ShA rats, which remained low and stable. Despite escalated levels of cocaine consumption, however, LgA rats were not more sensitized to cocaine than ShA rats. The dose-effect function for cocaine-induced locomotion (0.125-1 mg, i.v.) was shifted to the left in LgA rats by the same amount as in ShA rats after cocaine self-administration. In contrast, LgA rats were much more responsive than ShA rats to the motivational effects of cocaine, as measured by the ability of i.v. cocaine to reinstate extinguished drug-seeking behavior. This study demonstrates a dissociation of psychomotor sensitization from the change in motivation underlying the transition to compulsive cocaine consumption, and therefore suggests that responsiveness to the motivational effects of the drug, not psychomotor sensitization, would represent a specific behavioral marker of the transition to and maintenance of compulsive cocaine use.
In a tertiary referral centre 63 patients underwent 67 treatment periods with enalapril. The median age was 5.4 months. All children had signs of heart failure: congestive cardiac failure with breathlessness at rest was present in 88%. Haemodynamic groups were left-to-right shunt (n = 15), impaired ventricular function (n = 14), after cardiac surgery (n = 23), valvar regurgitation (n = 12), and hypertension (n = 3). Serial clinical, radiological, and laboratory data were used to judge outcome. The mean (SD) maximal dose was 0.30 (0.21) mg/kg/day. Thirty nine (58%) patients improved, 20 (30%) showed no improvement, and eight (12%) had side effects requiring discontinuation of enalapril. Renal failure in eight patients was related to young age, low weight, and left-to-right shunt group. Three patients died in congestive heart failure with renal failure. Enalapril was clinically safe and effective for children with cardiac failure secondary to ventricular impairment, valvar regurgitation, or after cardiac surgery. Renal failure was a problem in young infants with left-to-right shunts.
