Neuropathological investigations of CNS of two epileptic patients (a man and a woman), who had been treated over years with diphenylhydantoin, disclosed in both cases severe cerebellar atrophy, with almost complete loss of Purkinje cells. Hypoxic tissue alterations were found neither in cerebellum nor in cerebrum. Ultrastructural examination of formalin fixed tissue revealed in cytoplasm of degenerating Purkinje cells multilamellar structures similar to those reported by other authors, presumably consisting of proliferated cisternae of endoplasmic reticulum, degenerating mitochondria and "multilamellar cytoplasmic bodies". However, these findings are very probably not specific; they were detected also in Purkinje cells of a non-epileptic patient of the same age-group, suddenly deceased by car accident. Reversible cerebellar dysfunction is a common manifestation of acute phenytoin toxicity. However, further factors can influence the action of DPH, leading to chronic intoxication and irreversible cerebellar damage. A review of these factors is given. The periodic monitoring of serum DPH-concentration is emphasized.
Trichloroethylene (TCE) is the most frequently reported organic groundwater contaminant in the United States. It is controversial whether gestational TCE exposure causes congenital heart defects. The basis for TCE's proposed cardiac teratogenicity is not well understood. We previously showed that chick embryos exposed to 8 ppb TCE during cardiac morphogenesis have reduced cardiac output and increased mortality. To further investigate TCE's cardioteratogenic potential, we exposed in ovo chick embryos to TCE and evaluated the heart thereafter. Significant mortality was observed following TCE exposures of 8-400 ppb during a narrow developmental period (Hamburger-Hamilton [HH] stages 15-20, embryo day ED2.3-3.5) that is characterized by myocardial expansion, secondary heart looping, and endocardial cushion formation. Of the embryos that died, most did so between ED5.5 and ED6.5. Echocardiography of embryos at ED5.5 found that TCE-exposed hearts displayed significant functional and morphological heterogeneity affecting heart rate, left ventricular mass, and wall thickness. Individual embryos were identified with cardiac hypertrophy as well as with hypoplasia. Chick embryos exposed to 8 ppb TCE at HH17 that survived to hatch exhibited a high incidence (38%, p < 0.01, n = 16) of muscular ventricular septal defects (VSDs) as detected by echocardiography and confirmed by gross dissection; no VSDs were found in controls (n = 14). The TCE-induced VSDs may be secondary to functional impairments that alter cardiac hemodynamics and subsequent ventricular foramen closure, an interpretation consistent with recent demonstrations that TCE impairs calcium handling in cardiomyocytes. These data demonstrate that TCE is a cardiac teratogen for chick.
The abuse of the combination drug containing butalbital 50 mg, aspirin 325 mg and caffeine 40 mg (or BAC), is commonly recognized by headache specialists as causing headaches. Despite this widespread problem, there is not a published treatment regimen for the BAC detoxification of patients. I describe such a protocol which was used four times in three patients. These patients fulfilled the diagnostic criteria of the IHS Headache Classification for headaches induced by chronic substance abuse (8.2) and analgesics abuse headache (8.2.2). These patients took between 150 and 420 BAC/month for 2-15 years. Two patients had previously undergone inpatient detoxification. One patient unsuccessfully tried detoxification twice as an outpatient. All patients were required to have psychological support prior to hospitalization for this protocol. BAC was discontinued. A pentobarbital challenge test corroborated butalbital dosage. The patients were given phenobarbital and caffeine which were tapered over several days. Dihydroergotamine (DHE) with metoclopramide was used (Raskin). Propranolol 60 mg bid was started. No narcotics were permitted. After hospital discharge, patients were allowed to continue subcutaneous DHE, as needed. One patient restarted BAC use after 8 months without it. The other two patients were still BAC free 18 and 14 months after detoxification.
Tamoxifen has been used as a chemotherapeutic agent with no serious side effects noted. Four patients receiving high-dose tamoxifen for greater than 1 year have demonstrated similar retinal changes. Three of the four patients had a significant decrease in visual acuity as the result of a retinopathy, primarily affecting the region about the macula accompanied by macular edema. In addition, three of the four patients had unusual corneal changes. These findings suggest that the corneal and retinal changes are the result of a toxic effect of tamoxifen when used in the doses and duration described.
In order to follow the spatial and temporal evolution of neuronal damage, cellular activation and stress responses subsequent to lithium-pilocarpine seizures of various durations in the adult rat, we analyzed the expression of Fos protein and local cerebral glucose utilization as markers of cellular activation, HSP72 immunoreactivity and acid fuchsin staining as indicators of cellular stress and injury, and Cresyl violet staining for the assessment of neuronal damage. The expression of Fos appeared very early, 2-30 min after the onset of polyspikes and intensified during the following 4 h. Fos immunoreactivity was especially high in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, amygdala and anterior olfactory nuclei. Local cerebral glucose utilization measured during the second hour of seizures was largely increased (350-580%) over control levels in cortical areas, amygdala, dentate gyrus, caudate nucleus and mediodorsal thalamus. HSP72 immunoreactivity never appeared earlier than 40-50 min after the onset of polyspikes, and was most prominent in hippocampal CA3 area, cerebral cortex (except the piriform cortex) and anterior olfactory nuclei. Acid fuchsin staining was maximal in the piriform cortex and the polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus. Staining was moderate in the sensorimotor cortex and the amygdala. Neuronal damage was extensive in the piriform and entorhinal cortices, the hippocampal CA3 area and the polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus, basal amygdala, mediodorsal thalamus and anterior olfactory nuclei. In conclusion, the present study shows that brain regions with the highest expression of Fos and the largest metabolic activation were also highly stained with acid fuchsin and most heavily damaged. Conversely, there is no clear relationship between HSP72 expression, cellular activation and neuronal damage.
This study examines the effects of long-term continuous exposure to light on dopaminergic supersensitivity induced by repeated treatment with haloperidol in rats.
Spontaneous general activity in an open-field (SGA) and stereotyped behavior induced by apomorphine (SB-APO) or amphetamine (SB-AMP) were used as experimental parameters. Rats were allocated to four groups in each experiment: saline-treated animals kept under a 12-hour light/dark cycle (LD) or 24-hour light/light cycle (LL), and 2 mg/kg haloperidol-treated animals kept under the above cycles. Plasma corticosterone concentration was also measured by radioimmunoassay in saline-treated rats kept under a LD or LL cycle.
All the behavioral parameters used showed the development of central dopaminergic supersensitivity in rats kept under both cycles. Continuous exposure to light enhanced SGA and SB-AMP in both saline- and haloperidol-treated rats, but did not modify SB-APO. Animals kept under the LL cycle presented an increased plasma corticosterone concentration.
Our results suggest that continuous exposure to light leads to an increase in dopaminergic function in both normal and "supersensitive" rats. This effect seems to be mediated by a presynaptic mechanism possibly involving corticosterone actions.
To evaluate the severity of choreoathetoid movements in cocaine dependent (CD) subjects and age-matched normal control subjects.
Choreoathetoid movements were evaluated using the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) in samples of 71 CD, 56 normal control, and 9 amphetamine-dependent male subjects.
The CD subjects had a significantly increased nonfacial (limbs plus body) AIMS subscore. When the nonfacial AIMS scores of the two groups were compared in relation to age, a significant age by diagnosis interaction was observed, indicating that the differences between groups were most marked in the younger age groups. The facial AIMS scores were also increased but only in the youngest CD cohort (under 32 years of age). The comparison group of 9 younger amphetamine-dependent subjects also showed increased AIMS scores.
Increases in choreoathetoid movements in younger cocaine and amphetamine-dependent subjects may be related to their psychostimulant use. The absence of differences in choreoathetoid movements between the older CD subjects and normal control subjects may represent an age-related self-selection effect.
The present work explores suspicious consequence of low molecular weight glycosaminoglycan (LMW-GAG) on oxidative stress and cellular abnormalities in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction in an experimental model. Group-III male Wistar rats (140 +/- 10 g) were administrated by ISO (85 mg ISO/ml subcutaneously (SC) injected at the last two days of a 2-week period). Group-IV rats were treated LMW-GAG plus ISO (300 microg/day per rat SC for 1 week followed by 85 mg/kg ISO on the end last two days of the 2 - weeks). Untreated control (Group-I) and LMW-GAG drug control (Group-II) were also included. Serum and tissue lactate dehydrogenase, aminotransferases, and creatine kinase activities were increased in ISO group, which were normalized by LMW-GAG pretreatment rats. Antioxidant enzymes - superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activities and non-enzymatic enzyme reduced glutathione (GSH) were decreased in the ISO induced rats, and this was increased by LMW-GAG pretreatment. Increased level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in plasma and the heart of ISO treated rats; pre s.c. injected with LMW-GAG to ISO-induced rats decreased the levels of TBARS. Histological examination revealed that the ISO-induced deleterious changes in the heart tissues were offset by LMW-GAG treatment. LMW-GAG affords considerable protection to the tissues challenged by cardiotoxicity, evidenced by its correction and restoration of serum and tissue indices of injury, to normalcy.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease characterized by peripheral activation of CD4(+) T cells that migrate into the central nervous system (CNS) and mount an autoimmune neuroinflammatory attack on myelin and oligodendrocytes. Secondary to these events, however equally destructive, is the generation of inflammatory-mediated reactive oxygen and nitrogen species generated by persistently activated microglia and astrocytes. Nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a basic leucine zipper transcription factor that regulates genetic expression of many protective antioxidant and detoxication enzymes. Here we describe the Nrf2 modulation of innate and adaptive immune responses in an acute autoimmune model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Wild-type (WT) mice and Nrf2 knockout mice were immunized with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG 35-55) and monitored daily for clinical scores of disease. Disruption of Nrf2 resulted in a more severe clinical course, a more rapid onset, and a greater percentage of mice with the disease. Furthermore, increased immune cell infiltration and glial cell activation in spine was observed. In conjunction, we observed increased inflammatory enzyme (iNOS, phox-47, gp91-phox, and phox-67), cytokine (IFN-gamma, IL1-b, TNF-alpha, and IL-12), and chemokine (BLC and MIG) gene expression levels in the Nrf2-deficient mice compared to the WT mice, supporting the notion that Nrf2 can modulate an autoimmune neuroinflammatory response. Our results show that the absence of Nrf2 exacerbates the development of EAE and thus suggests that activation of Nrf2 may then attenuate pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases such as MS as well as other neurodegenerative diseases that present with neuroinflammation.
Brucine is the predominant alkaloid present in the bark of the tree Strychnos nux vomica and is a weaker alkaloid when compared to strychnine. However, its toxicological property is akin to strychnine. We report a rare case of brucine poisoning complicated by acute renal failure and rhabdomyolysis. A 24-year-old male presented with a history of consumption of a decoction made from the bark of the Strychnos nux vomica tree. Soon after, he developed widespread muscle spasms and convulsions, which were promptly treated. On the fifth day of admission, he developed features of rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure. Investigations revealed elevated creatine phosphokinase levels and elevated blood urea and serum creatinine. The patient was managed with hemodialysis and recovered gradually. There are many reports of strychnine poisoning producing rhabdomyolysis and renal failure. In this case report, attention is drawn to the fact that brucine, although a weaker alkaloid, can also produce life threatening complications like rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure.
An unusual case is reported of coma of gradual onset in a 67-year old woman being treated with oxytetracycline. Ten hours after the last dose, the patient regained consciousness but remained confused with hallucinations for another 24 hours. The possibility of side-effects should be borne in mind in any patient who develops coma whilst on oxytetracycline.
Methamphetamine is the most widespread illegally used stimulant in the United States. Previously published case reports and series suggest a potential association between methamphetamine exposure and cardiomyopathy. The objective of this study is to demonstrate an association between methamphetamine use and cardiomyopathy.
Case-control study based on chart review of discharges from a tertiary care medical center from January 2001 to June 2004. Patients were < or =45 years old. Cases included patients with a discharge diagnosis of either cardiomyopathy or heart failure. Controls included hospitalized patients who had an echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular function with ejection fraction > or =55% and no wall motion abnormalities.
One hundred and seven cases and 114 controls were identified. Both groups had similar gender distribution, length of hospital stay, rates of health insurance, prevalence of coronary artery disease, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, cigarette smoking, alcohol abuse, and marijuana and cocaine use. Cases were older than controls (mean age: 38 vs 35 years; P=.008), had higher body mass index (BMI) (mean BMI: 37 vs 30 kg/m2; P<.001), and higher prevalence of renal failure (13% vs 4.4%; P=.03). Methamphetamine users had a 3.7-fold increased odds ratio [95% confidence interval, 1.8-7.8] for cardiomyopathy, adjusting for age, body mass index, and renal failure.
Methamphetamine use was associated with cardiomyopathy in young patients.
The tumor suppressor p53 gene is mutated in minimally half of all cancers. It is therefore reasonable to assume that naturally occurring polymorphic genetic variants in the p53 stress response pathway might determine an individual's susceptibility to cancer. A central node in the p53 pathway is the MDM2 protein, a direct negative regulator of p53. In this report, a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP309) is found in the MDM2 promoter and is shown to increase the affinity of the transcriptional activator Sp1, resulting in higher levels of MDM2 RNA and protein and the subsequent attenuation of the p53 pathway. In humans, SNP309 is shown to associate with accelerated tumor formation in both hereditary and sporadic cancers. A model is proposed whereby SNP309 serves as a rate-limiting event in carcinogenesis.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) overexpression is observed in experimental and clinical acute pancreatitis. Moreover, previous studies have shown that administration of HGF reduces pancreatic damage in experimental pancreatitis. The aim of our studies was to determine the role of cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2 in the protective effect of HGF administration against caerulein-induced pancreatitis. Acute pancreatitis was induced in rats by infusion of caerulein. HGF was administered twice at the dose 10 microg/kg s.c. The activity of cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2 was inhibited by resveratrol and rofecoxib, respectively (10 mg/kg). Immediately after cessation of caerulein or saline infusion, pancreatic blood flow, pancreatic cell proliferation, pancreatic prostaglandin E(2) generation, plasma lipase activity, plasma interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-10 concentration were measured and morphological signs of pancreatitis were examined. Expression of cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA transcripts was determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Cyclooxygenase protein production was analyzed by Western blot. Administration of HGF or caerulein alone, or their combination, was without effect on cyclooxygenase-1 mRNA expression in pancreatic tissue. Expression of cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA was increased by HGF and caerulein. The maximal increase in cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA expression was observed when HGF administration was combined with caerulein infusion. A similar effect was observed when we studied the influence of HGF and caerulein on pancreatic cyclooxygenase-2 production, as determined by Western blot. Administration of HGF without induction of acute pancreatitis increased pancreatic prostaglandin E(2) generation and plasma interleukin-10, and this effect was abolished by the cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, rofecoxib. Treatment with HGF, during the development of pancreatitis, increased the plasma interleukin-10 concentration and attenuated pancreatic damage, as evidenced by: (a) histological improvement of pancreatic integrity; (b) the partial reversal of the decrease in DNA synthesis and pancreatic blood flow; (c) the reduction in pancreatitis-evoked increase in plasma lipase and interleukin-1 beta. Administration of resveratrol and rofecoxib alone was without effect on the development of pancreatitis. Combination of rofecoxib with HGF reduced the HGF-evoked increase in plasma interleukin-10 concentration and pancreatic prostaglandin E(2) generation, and abolished the protective effect of HGF against pancreatic damage in pancreatitis. Resveratrol did not affect the protective effect of HGF. We conclude that: (1) HGF induces cyclooxygenase-2 but not cyclooxygenase-1 expression; (2) inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 in HGF-treated rats decreases the release of anti-inflammatory interleukin-10, increases the production of pro-inflammatory interleukin-1 beta and reduces pancreatic blood flow; (3) cyclooxygenase-2 activity is necessary for the protective effect of HGF in acute pancreatitis.
Amphetamine (AMPH) is known as an anorectic agent. The mechanism underlying the anorectic action of AMPH has been attributed to its inhibitory action on hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY), an appetite stimulant in the brain. This study was aimed to examine the molecular mechanisms behind the anorectic effect of AMPH. Results showed that AMPH treatment decreased food intake, which was correlated with changes of NPY mRNA level, but increased c-fos, c-jun and superoxide dismutase (SOD) mRNA levels in hypothalamus. To determine if c-fos or c-jun was involved in the anorectic response of AMPH, infusions of antisense oligonucleotide into the brain were performed at 1 h before daily AMPH treatment in freely moving rats, and the results showed that c-fos or c-jun knockdown could block this anorectic response and restore NPY mRNA level. Moreover, c-fos or c-jun knockdown could partially block SOD mRNA level that might involve in the modulation of NPY gene expression. It was suggested that c-fos/c-jun signaling might involve in the central regulation of AMPH-mediated feeding suppression via the modulation of NPY gene expression.
The mechanism of action of DNA methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-CdR), a potential anticancer agent is believed to be activated by the demethylation of tumor suppressor genes. We tested here the hypothesis that demethylating agents also demethylate and activate genes involved in invasion and metastasis and therefore might increase the risk of developing tumor metastasis. The effect of 5-aza-CdR on noninvasive human breast cancer cells MCF-7 and ZR-75-1 was evaluated by cell proliferation, invasion, and migration assay. The ability of 5-aza-CdR to activate a panel of silenced prometastatic and tumor suppressor genes was evaluated using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and bisulfite DNA sequence analysis in vitro and for change in tumor growth and gene expression in vivo. Treatment of MCF-7 and ZR-75-1 with 5-aza-CdR diminished cell proliferation, induced tumor suppressor RASSF1A, and altered cell cycle kinetics' G(2)/M-phase cell cycle arrest. While these effects of 5-aza-CdR slowed the growth of tumors in nude mice, it also induced a battery of prometastatic genes, namely, uPA, CXCR4, HEPARANASE, SYNUCLEIN gamma, and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), by demethylation of their promoters. These results draw attention to the critical role of demethylation as a potential mechanism that can promote the development and progression of tumor metastasis after demethylation therapy as an anticancer treatment.
The Antley-Bixler syndrome (ABS) is a rare syndrome with synostosis of cranial sutures and elbow joints as minimal diagnostic criteria. The inheritance has been suggested to be autosomal recessive based on two families with sib recurrence with both sexes being affected, and two cases born to consanguineous parents. We report the first case of ABS associated with an apparent dominant de novo mutation in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) gene. The patient was found to be heterozygous for a C-->G transversion at nucleotide 1064, which predicts a Ser351Cys amino acid substitution in the IgIII domain of FGFR2. Apart from the craniosynostosis and elbow ankylosis, our patient also presented with severe spinal dysraphism, the first report of such a finding in association with ABS. This suggests that FGFR2 is expressed as early as the fourth week of embryogenesis when somite formation occurs. We propose that the Antley-Bixler syndrome is an autosomal dominant condition with possible gonadal mosaicism. Alternatively, there may be two types of ABS: an autosomal dominant form and an autosomal recessive form. In light of our findings, FGFR mutations should be looked for in other craniosynostosis patients with elbow synostosis.
Activity of renal meprin, a membrane-bound proteinase in the proximal tubule brush border, was measured in normal rats and in two disease groups: chronic puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy for 12 weeks and streptozocin-induced diabetes for 6 months. Enzyme activity in kidney homogenates was assayed using azocasein as substrate. The mean activity of mephrin was 3.22 +/- 0.34 U/g kidney weight in normal rats. In diabetic animals, enzyme activity was 8.58 +/- 2.11 U/g kidney weight, P < 0.01. In contrast, meprin activity was decreased in rats with puromycin-induced glomerulopathy, 2.13 +/- 0.17 U/g kidney weight, P < 0.01. These findings indicate that meprin activity is elevated in experimental diabetes. Diminished activity of this luminal membrane enzyme in puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy may contribute to renal injury in this disease model associated with massive urinary protein excretion.
The synergistic protective effect of nicorandil (KATP channel opener) and amlodipine (calcium channel blocker) on mitochondrial respiration and mitochondrial lipid contents were examined on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. The rats given isoproterenol (150 mg kg(-1) daily, i.p.) for 2 days showed significant changes in mitochondrial respiration and mitochondrial lipid profile levels. Pretreatment with nicorandil (2.5 mg kg(-1) daily, p.o.) and amlodipine (5.0 mg kg(-1) daily, p.o.) for 3 days significantly prevented these alterations and restored the mitochondrial respiration and mitochondrial lipid contents to near normal. Histopathological observations were also in correlation with the biochemical parameters. These findings indicate the synergistic protective effect of nicorandil and amlodipine on mitochondrial respiration and its membrane integrity during isoproterenol-induced cardiac damage.
Accumulation of neurobiological knowledge points to neurodevelopmental origins for certain psychotic and mood disorders. Recent landmark postmortem reports implicate Reelin, a secretory glycoprotein responsible for normal lamination of brain, in the pathology of schizophrenia and bipolar disorders. We employed quantitative immunocytochemistry to measure levels of Reelin protein in various compartments of hippocampal formation in subjects diagnosed with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depression compared to normal controls. Significant reductions were observed in Reelin-positive adjusted cell densities in the dentate molecular layer (ANOVA, P < 0.001), CA4 area (ANOVA, P < 0.001), total hippocampal area (ANOVA, P < 0.038) and in Reelin-positive cell counts in CA4 (ANOVA, P < 0.042) of schizophrenics vs controls. Adjusted Reelin-positive cell densities were also reduced in CA4 areas of subjects with bipolar disorder (ANOVA, P < 0.001) and nonsignificantly in those with major depression. CA4 areas were also significantly reduced in schizophrenic (ANOVA, P < 0.009) patients. No significant effects of confounding variables were found. The exception was that family history of psychiatric illness correlated strongly with Reelin reductions in several areas of hippocampus (CA4, adjusted cell density, F = 13.77, P = 0.001). We present new immunocytochemical evidence showing reductions in Reelin expression in hippocampus of subjects with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depression and confirm recent reports documenting a similar deficit involving Reelin expression in brains of subjects with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
The aim of this double-blind randomized study was to compare the antihypertensive effects of trandolapril and nitrendipine in the elderly. After a 2-week placebo period, patients received either trandolapril 0.5 mg or nitrendipine 10 mg, once daily for 15 days. At the end of this period, according to a forced titration, the dose was increased to 2 mg of trandolapril or 20 mg of nitrendipine once daily for 2 months. Seventy-three hypertensive patients, aged 65 and over, entered the study. Demographic data and initial blood pressure (BP) level were comparable in the two groups. The antihypertensive effect, measured with a mercury sphygmomanometer, was assessed in 64 patients: SBP decreased by 18.6 +/- 12.1 mm Hg in the trandolapril (P < 0.001) and by 21.0 +/- 13.7 mm Hg in the nitrendipine group (P < 0.001); DBP decreased by 13.4 +/- 8.5 mm Hg in the trandolapril group (P < 0.001) and by 15.4 +/-8.2 mm Hg in the nitrendipine group (P < 0.001). No statistically significant difference was seen between the two treatment groups. A sub-group of 42 patients were evaluated by 24 h ambulatory BP monitoring. Mean 24 h ambulatory SBP/DBP decreases were 6.6 +/- 18.0/8.4 +/- 8.5 mm Hg in the trandolapril group (P < 0.001) and 5.7 +/- 11.1/7.2 +/-9.6 mm Hg in the nitrendipine group (P < 0.001). The differences between the two treatment groups were not statistically significant. The antihypertensive action of trandolapril was sustained throughout the 24 h period with a trough-to-peak ratio of 70.2% for SBP and 70.9% for DBP. Nitrendipine exerted its action mainly during the day, with a very modest antihypertensive effect during the night and early morning; its trough/peak ratio was 25.9% for SBP and 28% for DBP. The tolerance of both treatments were good; seven patients were withdrawn from the trial for adverse events (four in the nitrendipine group, three in the trandolapril group).
The risk of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML) in patients with multiple myeloma has been estimated to be 10-20% after 10 years. Most myeloma patients develop MDS/AML after 3-4 years of treatment with alkylating agents, mainly melphalan; chromosomes 5 and 7 are most frequently involved. We studied 14 patients with myeloma by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with a probe to 5q31 (the critical area of deletion on chromosome 5) to verify whether deletion of 5q31 occurs during the course of stable, uncomplicated myeloma, and to assess the clinical importance of this abnormality. We found 2 patients (14%) with deletion of 5q31 in 30-40% of their peripheral white blood cells. One patient with this deletion received a high cumulative amount of melphalan, and the other patient was treated with multiple alkylating agents, including melphalan. In these patients, no clinical or laboratory evidence of transformation occurred 14 and 12 months after the finding of the aberration. These findings suggest that 5q-may occur months prior to the overt development of (t)-MDS/AML, and raise important concerns regarding the management of patients with this and similar aberrations, including modification of treatment and performance of cytogenetic evaluation prior to autologous or PSC transplantation. The clinical and biological implications of these findings should be evaluated in larger clinical and laboratory studies.
A 75-year-old woman was admitted with a two-week history of anorexia and vague abdominal pain. She had been taking amitriptyline 75 mg at night for depression for four months before her admission. On presentation she was jaundiced, but with no stigmata of chronic liver disease. Initial liver function tests showed a slightly raised bilirubin, but were otherwise normal. Over the next three weeks her bilirubin concentration continued to rise without evidence of biliary obstruction on ultrasound examination. Her condition continued to deteriorate, and she later developed renal failure consistent with hepatorenal syndrome. Seven weeks after admission she died following a large gastrointestinal bleed. At autopsy, liver histology confirmed pure cholestasis consistent with amitriptyline ingestion.
Efficient and accurate safety assessment of compounds is extremely important in the preclinical development of drugs especially when hepatotoxicity is in question. Multiparameter and time resolved assays are expected to greatly improve the prediction of toxicity by assessing complex mechanisms of toxicity. An integrated approach is presented in which Hep G2 cells and primary rat hepatocytes are compared in frequently used cytotoxicity assays for parent compound toxicity. The interassay variability was determined. The cytotoxicity assays were also compared with a reliable alternative time resolved respirometric assay. The set of training compounds consisted of well known hepatotoxins; amiodarone, carbamazepine, clozapine, diclofenac, tacrine, troglitazone and verapamil. The sensitivity of both cell systems in each tested assay was determined. Results show that careful selection of assay parameters and inclusion of a kinetic time resolved assay improves prediction for non-metabolism mediated toxicity using Hep G2 cells as indicated by a sensitivity ratio of 1. The drugs with EC(50) values 100 microM or lower were considered toxic. The difference in the sensitivity of the two cell systems to carbamazepine which causes toxicity via reactive metabolites emphasizes the importance of human cell based in-vitro assays. Using the described system, primary rat hepatocytes do not offer advantage over the Hep G2 cells in parent compound toxicity evaluation. Moreover, respiration method is non invasive, highly sensitive and allows following the time course of toxicity. Respiration assay could serve as early indicator of changes that subsequently lead to toxicity.
Nitrofurantoin has been described as a cause of both hepatocellular cholestatic hepatic injury. A case report of a patient in whom granulomatous hepatitis developed attributed to nitrofurantoin is given.
Beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is believed to play a recognized role in pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Self-association of Abeta peptide into amyloid fibrils causes neurotoxicity. Compounds capable of interfering with Abeta-Abeta interaction through binding to nucleation sites can inhibit Abeta amyloidogenesis and Abeta-induced cytotoxicity. AA3E2 is a triazine-derivative whose anti-amyloidogenic ability has previously been established. In the present study, we evaluated the protective effect of AA3E3 against Abeta(1-42)-induced toxicity in SK-N-MC cell line. The cell exposure to the co-incubated Abeta(1-42) with AA3E2 decreased the cell viability loss dose-dependently, compared to cells exposed to Abeta(1-42) fibrils. Co-incubation with AA3E2 also attenuated the ROS production, activation of caspase-3 and the extent of apoptotic cell death induced by Abeta(1-42) fibril. Moreover, the 3D structure of the molecular associates between Abeta(1-42) and AA3E2 were theoretically determined by docking studies. Our docking data indicated that AA3E2 inhibits the formation of Abeta fibril likely via binding to the nucleation site within the hydrophobic region of Abeta (KLVFF). These observations provide the background for future design of more elegant beta-breaking agents for dissolution of Abeta fibrillar aggregates.
