Varicocele is a bilateral vascular disease which occurs when the one-way valves in the internal spermatic veins, the testicular venous drainage system, malfunction. Based on new findings and fluid-mechanics analysis we showed that this process results in vertical blood columns, which cause pathological hydrostatic pressure in the testicular venous microcirculatory system. Ultimately, these pressures exceed the pressure in the arteriolar system. This unique phenomenon of reversal of pressures gradient between the arteriolar and venular systems leads to persistent hypoxia in the testosterone production site, namely, the Leydig cells. The result of bilateral varicocele is decreased testosterone production. Adequate treatment of bilateral varicocele significantly elevates the testosterone production. We found that the prevalence of varicocele increases with age with a rise of about 10% for each decade of life with the incidence reaching 75% in the eight decade of life. Based on our findings the following statements can be made: (1) varicocele prevalence is increased over time. (2) The rise of the incidence is about 10% for each decade of life. (3) 75% of men in the eight decade of their life have varicocele. As varicocele decreases testosterone production and it is reversible by appropriate treatment, it raises two interesting and important issues to be studied: (i) it is possible that varicocele accelerates the process of the ageing male. (ii) It is possible to retard, at least partially, the process of ageing in men by adequate treatment of bilateral varicocele.
Glutamate transport represents a key mechanism for maintaining low level of glutamate in the extracellular milieu to restrict the excitotoxic action of glutamate released during ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Recently, it has been reported that glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1) is a novel target for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ) agonist, which shows neuroprotection following oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) in neuronal-astrocytic cocultures. Hence, the present study was undertaken to investigate the role of rosiglitazone in neuroprotection mediated by GLT-1 following focal cerebral I/R injury in rat. We found that rosiglitazone (2 mg/kg i.p) administered pre- or post-I/R injury significantly improved behavioral outcome and decreased cerebral infarct volume. However, no significant changes were observed in GLT-1 mRNA and protein expression in rosiglitazone-treated rats following 1 hr of ischemia/24 hr of reperfusion (1/24 hr I/R) injury. Interestingly, bioinformatics analysis also does not reveal any PPAR response element on the GLT-1/EAAT2 promoter region. Further rosiglitazone neither increased [(3) H]glutamate uptake in glia-enriched preparations nor caused any change in glutamine synthetase activity. On the other hand, there was a significant (P < 0.05) downregulation in tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-1β gene expression, which were more pronounced in the posttreatment group. The posttreatment with rosiglitazone also significantly reduced the increase in prostaglandin E2 level in the ischemic brain. Therefore, the present findings suggest that the neuroprotective effect of rosiglitazone does not seem to be mediated by modulation of GLT-1 protein expression/activity in a focal cerebral ischemia model. However, the results do provide increasing evidence that the neuroprotective effect may be mediated by its antiinflammatory action.
The influences of fasting on DEN-initiation and of intermittent fasting (IF) on the rat liver chemical carcinogenesis process were evaluated in a 52-week long assay. Three groups of adult male Wistar rats were used: Groups 1 to 3 were treated with a single i.p. injection of 200 mg/kg of diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Group 2 was submitted to 48 h fasting prior to DEN treatment. After the 4th week, Group 3 was submitted to IF, established as 48 h weekly fasting during 48 weeks, while Groups 1 and 2 were fed ad libitum until the 52nd week. All animals were submitted to 70% partial hepatectomy and sacrificed at the 3rd and 52nd weeks, respectively. Fasting prior to DEN-initiation did not influence the development of altered foci of hepatocytes (AFHs) and of hepatic nodules (Group 2 vs. Group G1). IF inhibited the development of preneoplastic lesions, since this dietary regimen decreased the number and the size of glutathione S-transferase (GST-P) positive foci and the number and size of liver nodules (Group G3 vs. Group G1). The inhibitory effect of IF was also reflected in the development of clear and basophilic cell foci. These results indicate that long-term IF regimen exerts an anti-promoting effect on rat hepatocarcinogenesis induced by DEN.
Intracellular pH is under strict control in myocardium; H+ are extruded from the cells by sodium-dependent mechanisms, mainly Na+/H+ exchanger and Na+/HCO3- symport, whereas Na+-independent Cl-/HCO3- exchanger extrudes bases on intracellular alkalinization. Hypertrophic myocardium from spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) exhibits increased Na+/H+ exchange activity that is accompanied by enhanced extrusion of bases through Na+-independent Cl-/HCO3- exchange. The present experiments were designed to investigate the effect of enalapril-induced regression of cardiac hypertrophy on the activity of these exchangers. Male SHR and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) received enalapril maleate (20 mg/kg per day) in the drinking water for 5 weeks. Gender- and age-matched SHR and WKY were used as untreated controls. Enalapril treatment significantly reduced systolic blood pressure in SHR and completely regressed cardiac hypertrophy. Na+/H+ activity was estimated in terms of both steady pHi value in HEPES buffer and the rate of pHi recovery from CO2-induced acid load. Na+-independent Cl-/HCO3- activity was assessed by measuring the rate of pHi recovery from intracellular alkalinization produced by trimethylamine exposure. Regression of cardiac hypertrophy was accompanied by normalization of Na+/H+ and Na+-independent Cl-/HCO3- exchange activities. Inhibition of protein kinase C (PKC) activity with chelerythrine (10 mmol/L) or calphostin C (50 nmol/L) returned both exchange activities to normal values. These results show that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition normalizes the enhanced activity of both exchangers while regressing cardiac hypertrophy. Because normalization of exchange activities could be also achieved by PKC inhibition, the data would suggest that PKC-dependent mechanisms play a significant role in the increased ion exchange activities of hypertrophic myocardium and in their normalization by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition.
Bell's palsy is an acute facial paralysis of unknown etiology. Infections including syphilis have been implicated as causes for peripheral facial paresis. The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is an acute worsening of skin manifestations and systemic symptoms occurring after administration of antimicrobial therapy for spirochetal infections. Although rare, neurological signs can present as part of the Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction. The authors report a case of Bell's palsy experienced by a patient shortly after treatment with penicillin for secondary syphilis and propose that this acute unilateral peripheral facial paralysis was a Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction in response to therapy.
About 30% of patients with chronic urticaria experience flares of hives and/or angioedema after ingesting either aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. In such patients, cross-reactivity to all NSAIDs seems to occur suggesting a mechanism dependent on cyclooxygenase inhibition.
To evaluate the preventive effect of leukotriene receptor antagonists on urticaria exacerbations induced by NSAIDs in a patient with chronic urticaria.
A 59-year-old woman with a 2-year history of recurrent urticaria exacerbated by different NSAIDs including aspirin 500 mg (2 episodes), piroxicam 20 mg, and nimesulide 100 mg (1 episode each) was studied. Acetaminophen 375 mg and floctafenine 50 mg induced a marked flare of urticaria/angioedema in a single-blind, placebo-controlled challenge.
The patient was totally urticaria free during a 3-week course of montelukast 10 mg once a day. After montelukast withdrawal, a gradual relapse of urticaria/angioedema occurred along with a further acute urticaria/angioedema episode after a single piroxicam, 20-mg tablet. Zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily was started. After some days the patient was urticaria-free again, and after 3 weeks she tolerated a 6-day course of injective piroxicam (20 mg once a day) without any problem. To date the patient is still urticaria-free.
Leukotriene receptor antagonists may prevent the severe urticaria/angioedema exacerbations which follow the use of NSAIDs in some patients with chronic urticaria.
2,4,6-Trinitrotoluene (TNT) and compounds associated with its production are toxic and phototoxic to a wide range of biota. The planarian Dugesia dorotocephala, but not Daphnia magna, metabolized TNT (1 mg/liter) to 4-amino-2,6-dinitrotoluene (4A; 0.4 mg/liter) and 2-amino-4,6-dinitrotoluene (2A; 0.2 mg/liter). Coexposure to near-ultraviolet (nuv) light enhanced the toxicity of 2A more than that of TNT and 4A. The toxicities of TNT, 4A, and 2A to Du. dorotocephala were all decreased by glutathione (GSH) conjugation. This suggests that all had mechanisms of toxic action involving formation of quinone-GSH conjugates. Dark and light mechanisms for TNT and 2A depended on GSH conjugation, but the specific mechanisms may be different for each compound. The dark and light mechanisms of toxic action for 4A appeared to be fundamentally different in that the dark toxic mechanism of action was less dependent on GSH conjugation. Hemolysis studies using sheep erythrocytes showed that the light-enhanced toxic mechanism of action for TNT, 2A, and/or 4A did not involve cellular membrane damage in response to nuv-induced anions.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer mortality in the United States, and its incidence is growing throughout the world. The high morbidity and mortality of lung cancer largely results from the fact that most people are diagnosed with advanced disease, when surgical cures are no longer possible. Although many risk factors have been implicated, the most significant risk for developing lung cancer is clearly tobacco exposure. Tobacco use is currently increasing among specific population groups. It is probable that lung cancer will continue as a major medical and social problem for the foreseeable future.
Previously, we showed that prenatal exposure to boric acid (BA), an industrial agent with large production, causes alterations of the axial skeleton in rat embryos, reminiscent of homeotic transformations. Indeed, Sprague-Dawley rats exposed in utero to BA on gestation day 9 (GD 9) had only six, rather than the normal seven, cervical vertebrae. This finding, observed in 91% of GD 21 fetuses, suggests posterior transformations of vertebrae. The present study attempts to determine if these skeletal alterations could be explained by modifications of the hox code, involved in the establishment of positional information along the craniocaudal axis of the embryo.
Pregnant rats were treated by gavage with BA (500 mg/kg, twice) on GD 9. Embryos were collected on GD 11 or GD 13.5 and processed for in situ hybridization. Several hox genes were selected according to the position of their cranial limit of expression in the cervical and thoracic region.
At GD 13.5, we detected a cranial shift of the anterior limit of expression of hoxc6 and hoxa6. We observed no difference between control and treated embryos in the location of the cranial limit of expression of the other genes: hoxd4, hoxa4, hoxc5, and hoxa5.
Our results demonstrate that following in utero exposure to BA on GD 9, a disturbance of the expression of hox genes involved inthe specification of most anterior vertebrae is observed at GD 13.5. Based on their expression domain and on their implication in the definition of the cervicothoracic vertebral boundary, it is likely that the anteriorization of hoxc6 and hoxa6 reported here is correlated to the morphological phenotype observed in BA-exposed fetuses at GD 21.
Malignant mesotheliomas (MMs) are aggressive tumors derived from mesothelial cells lining the lungs, pericardium and peritoneum, and are often associated with occupational asbestos exposure. Suppression subtractive hybridization was used to identify genes differentially expressed in MM cells compared to normal mesothelial cells. A gene, SEP15, encoding a 15-kDa selenium-containing protein was isolated using this approach and was subsequently shown to be downregulated in approximately 60% of MM cell lines and tumor specimens. A SEP15 polymorphic variant, 1125A, resides in the SECIS recognition element in the 3'-UTR and may influence the efficiency of Sec incorporation into the protein during translation. Since previous studies have implicated a potential role of the trace element selenium as a chemopreventive agent in animal models and in several types of human cancer, we investigated the effect of selenium on MM cells and its dependence on SEP15 genotype. Selenium was shown to inhibit cell growth and induce apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner in MM cells but had minimal effect on normal mesothelial cells. However, MM cells with downregulated SEP15 or the 1125A variant were somewhat less responsive to the growth inhibitory and apoptotic effects of selenium than MM cells expressing wild-type protein. RNAi-based knockdown studies demonstrated that SEP15 inhibition makes sensitive MM cells more resistant to selenium. These data imply that selenium may be useful as a chemopreventive agent in individuals at high risk of MM due to asbestos exposure, although those with the 1125A polymorphism may be less responsive to the protective benefits of dietary selenium supplementation.
Dioxins are a class of extremely toxic environmentally persistent pollutant, comprised of halogenated dibenzo-p-dioxins, dibenzofurans and biphenyls. Despite significant human exposure via multiple routes, very little is known about toxicity induced by dibenzofuran (DF). Current study shed lights on the potential toxicity mechanism of DF using human hepatoma cell line (HepG2). It was observed that the exposure to DF potentiate oxidative stress, apoptosis and necrosis at 10μM within 8h in HepG2 cells. Interestingly, when we pre-incubated the cells with α-NF (1nM) for 12h, an aromatic hydrocarbon receptor antagonist, the IC(50) of DF increased by 14 folds indicating the cytoprotective ability of α-NF from DF induced toxicity. Furthermore, three additional metabolites were observed while studying the metabolic profile of DF in HepG2 cells with and without pre-incubation with α-NF using chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS). Of these, two metabolites were characterized as dihydroxylated derivative of DF and third metabolite was characterized as quinone derivative of DF. By flow cytometry and confocal laser microscopy analysis we followed the ROS formation after DF (10μM) exposure for 3h. Significantly low ROS was generated in cells which were pre-incubated with α-NF than cells which were not pre-incubated with α-NF underlining the importance of metabolism in DF toxicity. The same pattern of protection was consistent while measuring mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), i.e., less MMP dip was observed in 'with α-NF pre-incubated and DF (10μM) exposed cells' than 'without α-NF pre-incubated but DF exposed cells'. In cell cycle studies, it was confirmed that cell population of HepG2 at G1 stage progressively increased in number (∼74%) within 24h. Thus, DF and its metabolites induce significantly higher cytotoxicity after metabolism in HepG2 cells than its parent compound (DF) by ROS formation, MMP dip and impaired cell cycle.
Studies in genetic absence epileptic rats from Strasbourg (GAERS) indicate that enhancement of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor activity is a critical mechanism in the aggravation of seizures by carbamazepine (CBZ). We examined whether structural analogs of CBZ, oxcarbazepine (OXC), and its active metabolite, monohydroxy derivative (MHD), also potentiate GABA(A) receptor current and aggravate seizures.
In vitro studies in Xenopus oocytes compared the three drugs' effect on GABA(A) receptor currents. In vivo studies compared seizure activity in GAERS after intraperitoneal drug administration.
OXC potentiated GABA(A) receptor current and aggravated seizures in GAERS, similarly to the effect of CBZ. Conversely, MHD showed only a minor potentiation of GABA(A) receptor current and did not aggravate seizures.
A hydroxyl group at the C-10 position on the CBZ tricyclic structure in MHD reduces GABA(A) receptor potentiation and seizure aggravation. Reports of the aggravation of absence seizures in patients taking OXC may result from circulating unmetabolized OXC rather than MHD.
The role of exposure to antiretrovirals in chronic renal failure (CRF) is not well understood. Glomerular filtration rates (GFR) are estimated using the Cockcroft-Gault (CG) or Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) equations.
Baseline was arbitrarily defined as the first recorded GFR; patients with two consecutive GFR < or = 60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) were defined as having CRF. Logistic regression was used to determine odds ratio (OR) of CRF at baseline. ART exposure (yes/no or cumulative exposure) prior to baseline was included in multivariate models (adjusted for region of Europe, age, prior AIDS, CD4 cell count nadir, viral load, hypertension and use of nephrotoxic anti-infective therapy).
Using CG, the median GFR at baseline (n = 4474) was 94.4 (interquartile range, 80.5-109.3); 158 patients (3.5%) had CRF. Patients with CRF were older (median, 61.9 versus 43.1 years), had lower CD4 cell count nadirs (median, 80 versus 137 cells/microl), and were more likely to be diagnosed with AIDS (44.3 versus 30.4%), diabetes (16.5 versus 4.3%) or hypertension (53.8 versus 26.4%), all P < 0.001. In a multivariate model any use of indinavir [odds ratio (OR) 2.49; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.62-3.83] or tenofovir (OR, 2.18; 95% CI, 1.25-3.81) was associated with increased odds of CRF, as was cumulative exposure to indinavir (OR, 1.15 per year of exposure; 95% CI, 1.06-1.25) or tenofovir (OR, 1.60; 95% CI, 1.20-2.15). Highly consistent results were seen using the MDRD formula.
Among antiretrovirals, only exposure to indinavir or tenofovir was associated with increased odds of CRF. We used a confirmed low GFR to define CRF to increase the robustness of our analysis, although there are several potential biases associated with this cross-sectional analysis.
In patients with malignant ventricular arrhythmias, antiarrhythmic therapy is known to carry a substantial risk of proarrhythmia. This risk is usually considered to be low when supraventricular arrhythmias or benign ventricular arrhythmias are considered. We were able to collect data on four patients without a history of life-threatening arrhythmias, in whom antiarrhythmic therapy was used and resulted in documented ventricular fibrillation or torsade de pointes. In Cases No. 1 and 2, atrial fibrillation was treated with either quinidine or quinidine and sotalol in combination. In both patients Holter monitoring, 4-12 h after conversion to sinus rhythm, documented the spontaneous occurrence of torsade de pointes degenerating into ventricular fibrillation and requiring DC shock for termination. In Case No. 3, atrial fibrillation was treated with sotalol and amiodarone for 2 months when incessant episodes of torsade de pointes were documented. In Case No. 4, frequent but unsustained ventricular arrhythmias were treated with amiodarone in a patient suffering dilative cardiomyopathy. After 6 days of treatment at a heart rate of 54 beats/min, a marked QT increase was associated with the occurrence of repetitive episodes of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia degenerating into ventricular fibrillation. None of the patients presented significant electrolyte abnormalities in the laboratory. A pathologic increase of the QTc-time was documented in Cases No. 1, 3, and 4. In all patients antiarrhythmic therapy was withdrawn after the proarrhythmic event and the patient became free of malignant tachyarrhythmias. Antiarrhythmic therapy also carries a considerable risk of proarrhythmia when "benign" cardiac arrhythmias are treated. The risk seems to be lower than in patients with malignant arrhythmias, however it includes the occurrence of lethal tachyarrhythmias. Special attention should be paid to the selection of antiarrhythmic agents when used in combination.
The present study sought to elucidate the genetic basis of thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) polymorphism and subsequently to investigate the relationship between mutant TPMT and an adverse response observed in Korean patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) taking azathioprine (AZA).
The TPMT genotype of 342 patients with SLE was determined by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry and correlated with the effects of clinical exposure to AZA.
TPMT polymorphism was detected in 17 of the 342 study subjects (5.0%), 12 heterozygous for the TPMT*3C allele and 5 heterozygous for the TPMT*6 allele. Numerous patients taking AZA demonstrated adverse drug responses. Severe nausea occurred in 4 patients with the TPMT*3C allele, while 1 patient with the TPMT*6 allele suffered severe bone marrow toxicity. Leucopenia (n = 17), nausea (n = 4), and abnormal liver function (n = 1) were suspected in 23 of the 94 lupus patients taking AZA. AZA was relatively well tolerated by the remainder of the patients. The heterozygous genotype for the TPMT*3C and *6 alleles was frequently detected in Korean SLE patients.
Contrary to previous hypotheses, this study identified no statistical correlation between TPMT genotype and AZA toxicity. We thus conclude that TMPT genotyping cannot replace regular blood monitoring in SLE patients receiving AZA treatment.
Carbenicillin disodium was temporally associated with eight episodes of a mild reversible anicteric hepatitis characterized by nausea, vomiting, and a tender, somewhat enlarged liver. Serum glutamic and oxaloacetic transaminase as well as alkaline phosphatase levels rose, but serum bilirubin values remained normal. There usually were no signs of concomitant allergy to penicillin, and other penicillins could be given subsequently without ill effects. Biopsy specimens of the liver showed spotty liver cell necrosis with no cholestasis.
This international, multicenter double-blind trial was designed to compare the therapeutic profile of an atypical antipsychotic, olanzapine, with that of a conventional dopamine D2 antagonist, haloperidol.
A total of 1,996 patients at 174 sites in Europe and North America were randomly assigned to treatment with olanzapine (N = 1,336) or haloperidol (N = 660) over 6 weeks. The primary efficacy analysis involved the mean change from baseline to endpoint in total scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS). Secondary analyses included comparisons of the mean change in positive and negative symptoms, comorbid depression, extrapyramidal symptoms, and overall drug safety.
Olanzapine demonstrated clinical results superior to those of haloperidol on overall improvement according to the BPRS and on every secondary measure, including depression. Olanzapine was also associated with significantly fewer discontinuations of treatment due to lack of drug efficacy or adverse events. Substantially more olanzapine-treated patients (66.5%) than haloperidol-treated patients (46.8%) completed 6 weeks of therapy. Statistically significant advantages of olanzapine treatment were related to 1) change in negative symptoms, 2) extrapyramidal symptom profile, 3) effect on prolactin levels, and 4) response rate.
Olanzapine shows a superior and broader spectrum of efficacy in the treatment of schizophrenic psychopathology, with a substantially more favorable safety profile, than haloperidol. It meets several of the criteria for a novel atypical antipsychotic agent.
A newborn with transposition of the great arteries developed methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis a few days after cardiac catheterization and atrial septostomy performed through the umbilical vein. The association of vancomycin and rifampicin was successful after vancomycin alone proved insufficient.
A 63-year-old woman had chest pain that worsened when nifedipine was given. She was found to have a right coronary-to-thorax angioma/fistula. Acute nifedipine administration elicited precordial symptoms, associated with ischemic changes in the inferior ECG leads and an obvious vasodilatation of the fistulous tract, suggesting that a nifedipine-induced "steal" phenomenon might be responsible for the paradoxic clinical response.
Human Paneth cell alpha-defensins, especially DEFA5, are involved in maintaining homeostasis of the human microbial microflora. Since breakdown of normal mucosal antibacterial defence occurs in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), variants in the DEFA5 gene could be associated with IBD risk.
A cohort of 25 patients with indeterminate colitis (IC), 405 with ulcerative colitis (UC), and 385 with Crohn's disease (CD), were compared with 201 control individuals from the Canterbury region in New Zealand.
A 15 kb haplotype block surrounding DEFA5 contained 35 HapMap markers which were polymorphic in Caucasians. Four markers (A-D) were selected to tag 27 of the 35 markers at r(2)>0.68, and were genotyped in DNA samples.
Minor allele frequencies for all single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were somewhat elevated in patients. Subgroup analysis showed SNP A had odds ratio 1.44 in UC patients with pancolitis (95% C.I. 1.07-1.94), SNP B odds ratio 2.37 in CD patients with onset prior to 17 years age (95% C.I. 1.12-5.03), SNP C odds ratio 1.68 in UC patients with left colonic localisation (95% C.I. 1.12-2.52), and SNP D had odds ratio 1.56 in CD patients with one or more relatives with IBD (95% C.I. 1.03-2.35). Two two-marker haplotypes and one three-marker haplotype were associated with UC (p-values 0.025-0.05).
The SNPs genotyped in our study were surrogates for common variants, and observed associations between these and IBD status are likely due to linkage disequilibrium with a functional common DEFA5 variant. Identifying such functional variants will be prioritized in subsequent work.
We report a case of splenic artery thrombosis developed in a 54-year old woman after prolonged use of oral contraceptives. The diagnosis of the disease, difficult on clinical grounds, was confirmed by computerized tomography and selective arteriography. The presence of anti-ethinyloestradiol antibodies in the serum is suspected to be a risk factor for thrombosis associated with oral contraception.
Amsacrine (AMSA) was a high effective medicine of acute leukemia treatment. But it could lead to severe phlebitis with venous drip. 44 patients were treated 71 courses with AMSA. After we used fasting venous drip and diluting high concentration AMSA, occurrence of phlebitis remarkably decreased and patients of phlebitis could be cured with early comprehensive nursing.
The purpose of our study was to determine the effect of the combined action of phytochemicals on the early stages of skin tumorigenesis, i.e. initiation and promotion. We tested calcium D-glucarate (CG) given in the diet, while resveratrol (RES) and ursolic acid (UA) were applied topically. The 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-initiated, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-promoted multistage skin carcinogenesis model in SENCAR mice was used. Mice received one topical dose of DMBA, then after one month, two weekly doses of TPA for 14 weeks until sacrifice. RES or UA were applied 20 min prior to DMBA or TPA treatment and 2% dietary CG was given from 2 weeks prior to 2 weeks after the DMBA dose or continually beginning 2 weeks prior to the first dose of TPA. UA applied alone and in combination with CG during the promotion stage was the only inhibitor of tumor multiplicity and tumor incidence. A number of combinations reduced epidermal proliferation, but only UA and the combination UA+CG applied during promotion significantly reduced epidermal hyperplasia. DMBA/TPA application resulted in significant increases in c-jun and p50, which were reversed by a number of different treatments. DMBA/TPA treatment also strongly increased mRNA levels of inflammation markers COX-2 and IL-6. All anti-promotion treatments caused a marked decrease in COX-2 and IL-6 expression compared to the DMBA/TPA control. These results show that UA is a potent inhibitor of skin tumor promotion and inflammatory signaling and it may be useful in the prevention of skin cancer and other epithelial cancers in humans.
Five patients developed neurological adverse effects as they were treated with amiodarone for 2 to 18 months. The daily maintenance dose did not exceed 400 mg. The neurological manifestations included tremor, ataxia, peripheral neuropathy, dyskinesia, myoclonic jerks, extrapyramidal hypertony, and altered mental status. These side effects resolved within 3 days to 3 months after amiodarone withdrawal. Advanced age, renal failure, diabetes mellitus, and alcoholism seemed to be risk factors for development of amiodarone neurotoxicity. Both peripheral and central nervous systems are involved in these amiodarone-induced complications.
The content of cAMP in the rat heart under neoepinephrine myocarditis does not differ from the control values and less increases relative to the control at the adrenalin concentrations of 5 X 10(-5) and 5 X 10(-4) M in the in vitro experiments (control: myocardium of healthy animals). Under these conditions dissociation of holoenzyme of cAMP-dependent protein kinase is disturbed in the presence of endogene-developed nucleotide and the phosphorylating activity decreases, respectively. The injection of the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase encapsulated into neutral liposomes increases the duration of the myocarditis action potential for animals with the metabolic myocardial insufficiency.
