Neutral endopeptidase (NEP, 24.11) is an ectoenzyme involved in the degradation of peptide hormones such as endothelin (ET), atrial natriuretic factor and enkephalins. The current study was designed to assess the involvement of NEP in ischemia-induced acute renal failure (ARF). In unilaterally nephrectomized Sprague-Dawley rats, the left renal artery was occluded for 30 min under pentobarbital anesthesia (40 mg/kg, i.p.) at 37 degree C. In addition to plasma creatinine levels, NEP activity was determined in renal cortical membranes at 0, 2, 5, and 24 h following reperfusion. Plasma creatinine levels significantly increased at 2, 5 and 24 h. There was a significant decrease in NEP activity as early as 2 h following reperfusion that was maintained up to 24 h (57.9 +/- 4%) with a concomitant loss of enzyme protein shown by Western analysis. Northern analysis of kidney cortical RNA, probed with an NEP cDNA, showed a 45% decrease in NEP mRNA level by the end of the ischemic period and decreased further during reperfusion. Thus, decrease in NEP mRNA levels preceded the changes in protein level, enzyme activity and plasma creatinine levels. These data, along with the reported increase in the tissue level of ET in kidney cortex, and the beneficial effect of ET antibody as well as ET receptor antagonist in ARF, suggest that down regulation of NEP, one of the mechanisms leading to increased tissue level of ET, may be a contributing factor to ARF.
The use of previous anorectic medications and the combined use of the anorectic medications fenfluramine and phentermine (Fen-Phen) have been associated with varying degrees of valvular regurgitation and pulmonary hypertension. More recent reports have suggested a lower incidence of both than was previously reported. Comparisons of patients with similar body mass index (BMI) have been missing as well as information regarding chamber dimensions and pressures. Using transthoracic 2D, M-mode, and Doppler echocardiography, 57 men and women (30 Fen-Phen and 27 BMI-matched individuals/BMIMCG) were studied to determine their chamber dimensions, wall motion, diastolic function, valvular abnormalities, left ventricular ejection fractions (LVEFs), and pulmonary artery pressures (pAPs). The 30 Fen-Phen subjects were studied shortly after discontinuing the medications and again 6 to 12 months later. The results in these subjects were then compared with the valvular findings of 660 randomly selected cardiac patients with non-Fen-Phen-induced heart disease (NFPHD). Valvular regurgitation was greatest among patients who had recently discontinued the use of Fen-Phen (EFP) with 57% of all valves having regurgitation, 87.5% of which were "mild." These same individuals also had the largest left ventricles at end (LVEDD) diastole (5.03 +/-0.22 cm) and systole (LVESD). The LVESDs were statistically larger (p <or= 0.05) than that seen in the other groups, while at the same time their LVEFs were statistically (p <or= 0.01) lower (53.44 +/-9.48%). These same patients had statistically (p <or= 0.05) greater PAPs (29.21 +/-10.52 mm Hg), which were associated with a lower incidence rate (14%) of pulmonic regurgitation (PR). The number of people with aortic regurgitation (AR), statistically (p <or= 0.05) decreased (40%) as the duration of time since discontinuing Fen-Phen increased (late Fen-Phen/LFP). However, for those individuals who continued to have AR, there was an increase in the number of people who progressed from mild to moderate AR, with an associated increase in LVEDD (5.41 +/-0.55 cm), LVESD (3.51 +/- 0.84 cm), and LVEF (63.45 +/-15.25%). The LFP studies showed a statistical (p <or= 0.001) increase in PR with a subsequent drop in PAPs from 29.21 +/-10.52 mm Hg in the early (EFP) studies to 14.02 +/-1.35 mm Hg, which was augmented with weight-bearing and Valsalva maneuvers. The reduction in the percentage of individuals with valvular regurgitation and pulmonary hypertension appears to be due to changes in the heart valves, pressures, and chamber size. The incidence of tricuspid and mitral regurgitation decreased with time, while pulmonic and aortic regurgitation tended to increase or become more severe when present. Dilatation of the pulmonary ring, resulting from elevated pulmonic pressures with subsequent pulmonary regurgitation and reduction in pulmonary artery pressures, appears to be a functional change in the hearts of these individuals with unknown long-term consequences.
We developed a novel inhalation-based mouse model of prenatal cocaine exposure. This model approximates cocaine abuse via smoking, the preferred route of cocaine administration by heavy drug users. The model is also characterized by (i) absence of procedural stress from drug administration, (ii) long-term drug exposure starting weeks before pregnancy and continuing throughout the entire gestation, and (iii) self-administration of cocaine in multi-hour daily sessions reminiscent of drug binges, which allows animals to set up the levels of their own drug consumption. The offspring of female mice inhaling cocaine in our model displayed no gross alterations in their cortical cytoarchitecture. These offspring, however, showed significant impairments in sustained attention and spatial working memory. We hope that the introduction of the present model will lead to a significant increase in our understanding of outcomes of prenatal cocaine exposure.
3-Chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (MX) is a potent direct-acting Salmonella mutagen found in wood pulp chlorination effluents and chlorinated drinking water. In cultured rat peripheral lymphocytes, MX induced significant dose-related increases in sister-chromatid exchanges (SCEs) and chromosome aberrations at doses of 20-60 micrograms/ml and of 60-80 micrograms/ml, respectively. MX produced primarily chromatid-type as opposed to chromosome-type aberrations. The peripheral lymphocytes of male and female rats exposed to MX by gavage 5 days a week for 14-18 weeks showed significant dose-related increases in SCEs at both levels of exposure (30 and 45-75 mg/kg) in both sexes. The present results demonstrate for the first time that MX is genotoxic in vivo.
Young female Zucker fa/fa rats of 370-430 g were implanted with osmotic minipumps releasing 3.5 micromol/day-kg of estrone oleate in liposomes (Merlin-2) into the bloodstream for up to 14 days. Merlin-2 induced a sustained loss of appetite, and a decrease in body weight of 3.5%, which contrasts with the 8.2% increase in controls during the period studied. Plasma insulin, glucose and urea decreased, and liver glycogen increased with Merlin-2 treatment. Plasma ACTH and corticosterone increased to a maximum at the end of the experiment. The expression of the ob gene in adipose tissue was unchanged, and plasma leptin levels were also unchanged by treatment. Estrone levels increased more than 1500-fold, and estrone oleate rose 100-fold during treatment. The fact that estrone oleate had no effect on the leptin levels or expression in obese rats, in contrast with the marked inhibition observed in the lean suggests that the functionality of the leptin receptor is essential for estrone oleate inhibition of the ob gene. This also suggests that leptin may control ob gene expression in white adipose tissue and that estrone oleate may activate this process. The slimming effect of estrone oleate is, thus, not directly dependent on leptin, since both normoleptinemic and hyperleptinemic animals lose fat following treatment nor are the effects on appetite and energy expenditure mediated by leptin. However, leptin levels and the expression of the ob gene are directly linked with estrone oleate function. A possible involvement of leptin in estrone oleate action is postulated. The results support the participation of estrone oleate in the control of body weight and hint at the complexity of its regulation by leptin and glucocorticoids.
We describe a case of accidental intrathecal administration of vincristine in a 33-year-old man with clinical diagnosis of acute lymphocytic leukemia. The patient died 20 days after receiving the drug. Clinically, the patient developed acute ascending paralysis with motor and sensory dysfunctions, and respiratory failure. Neuropathological investigation revealed lesions in spinal cord, roots, and cerebellum characterized by rarefaction of the neuropil, axonal, and myelin degeneration, accompanied by macrophagic infiltration.
Pseudolymphoma syndrome (PLS) is relatively rare but can lead to death if there are extensive skin lesions, severe hepatitis, agranulocytosis and neutropenia. PLS may also give rise to harmful effects if misdiagnosed as malignant lymphoma and patients with PLS are treated unnecessarily with chemotherapy, because it may mimic histologically other lymphomas, including mycosis fungoides (MF).
To examine the clinicopathological and genotypic features of anticonvulsant-induced PLS. Patients and methods We retrospectively reviewed clinical, laboratory and histological findings for eight cases of anticonvulsant-induced PLS, and performed T-cell receptor gene rearrangement using polymerase chain reaction with paraffin-embedded specimens from each case.
The causative agents were carbamazepine (four cases), phenytoin (two cases), phenobarbital (one case) and valproic acid (one case). A cross-reaction between phenobarbital and phenytoin was observed in one case. The duration from the start of anticonvulsant therapy to skin eruption was 3-24 weeks (mean 7 weeks). The skin lesions were generalized maculopapular eruptions in all cases, including one case accompanied by vesiculopustular lesions. The frequencies of the associated features were as follows: facial oedema (88%), fever (75%), lymphadenopathy (63%), and hepatomegaly (25%). Laboratory findings revealed leukocytosis, atypical lymphocytes, eosinophilia, monocytosis, neutrophilia, lymphocytosis and abnormal liver function. Histopathologically, there was similarity between PLS and MF in that epidermotrophism of atypical lymphocytes (100%) and Pautrier's microabscess-like structures (38%) were observed. However, PLS has some differences from MF that include moderate to marked spongiosis (75%), necrotic keratinocytes (63%), and infiltration of eosinophils (25%) in the epidermis and, in the dermis, papillary dermal oedema (100%), extravasated erythrocytes (100%), lymphocytes within the dermis larger than those within the epidermis (63%), and infiltration of various inflammatory cells including neutrophils (50%). Genotypic analysis demonstrated a rearrangement of the T-cell receptor-gamma gene in one of eight cases studied. There were no deaths and all cases were improved at 2-9 weeks (mean 6 weeks), after the cessation of causative agents, systemic and topical corticosteroid therapy, and symptomatic therapy. There were no significant differences in clinical, laboratory and histological findings between the causative agents.
PLS may show histopathological findings similar to MF and take a prolonged course even after the cessation of causative agents. Thus, a clear understanding and diagnosis of this disease is considered to have an important effect on treatment and prognosis.
Tenofovir is an acyclic nucleotide analog with activity against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV). Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF), a bis-alkoxyester prodrug of tenofovir, is approved for the treatment of HIV and is currently being developed to treat chronic hepatitis B. In this report, we further characterize the in vitro activity of tenofovir against HBV as well as its metabolism in hepatic cells. We show that tenofovir is efficiently phosphorylated to tenofovir diphosphate (TFV-DP) in both HepG2 cells and primary human hepatocytes. TFV-DP has a long intracellular half-life (95 h) and is a potent and competitive inhibitor of HBV polymerase (Ki = 0.18 microM). Tenofovir has a 50% effective concentration of 1.1 microM against HBV in cell-based assays, and potency is improved > 50-fold by the addition of bis-isoproxil progroups. Tenofovir has previously demonstrated full activity against lamivudine-resistant HBV in vitro and clinically. Here we show that the major adefovir resistance mutation, rtN236T, confers three- to fourfold-reduced susceptibility to tenofovir in cell culture; the clinical significance of this susceptibility shift has not yet been determined. The rtA194T HBV polymerase mutation recently identified in tenofovir DF-treated HIV/HBV-coinfected patients did not confer in vitro resistance to tenofovir as a single mutation or in a lamivudine-resistant viral background. Overall, the antiviral and metabolic profile of tenofovir supports its development for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
Increased oxidative stress and antioxidant deficit have been suggested to play a major role in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction. The present study was designed to evaluate the effect of alpha-mangostin on the antioxidant defense system and lipid peroxidation against isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. Induction of rats with ISO (150 mg/kg body weight, ip) for 2 days resulted in a marked elevation in lipid peroxidation, serum marker enzymes (LDH, CPK, GOT, and GPT) and a significant decrease in the activities of endogenous antioxidants (SOD, CAT, GPx, GST, and GSH). Pre-treatment with alpha-mangostin (200 mg/kg of body weight per day) orally for 6 days prior to the ISO administration and 2 days along with ISO administration significantly attenuated these changes when compared to the individual treatment groups. These findings indicate the protective effect of alpha-mangostin on lipid peroxidation and antioxidant tissue defense system during ISO-induced myocardial infarction in rats.
Dietary flavonoids intake has been reported inversely related to the incidence of cardiovascular diseases (CVD). The present study is undertaken to evaluate the preventive role of naringin on mitochondrial enzymes in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction in male albino Wistar rats. Rats subcutaneously injected with ISO (85 mg/kg) at an interval of 24 h for 2 days, resulting in significant (p < 0.05) increase in the levels of mitochondrial lipid peroxides. ISO-induction also showed significant (p < 0.05) decrease in the activities of mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid cycle enzymes (isocitrate dehydrogenase, succinate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase) and respiratory chain enzymes (NADH dehydrogenase and cytochrome c oxidase). Oral pretreatment with naringin (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg) to ISO-induced rats daily for a period of 56 days significantly (p < 0.05) minimized the alterations in all the biochemical parameters and restored the normal mitochondrial function. Transmission electron microscopic (TEM) observations also correlated with these biochemical findings. Thus, our findings demonstrate that naringin prevents the mitochondrial dysfunction during ISO-induced myocardial infarction in rats.
Transplantable nitrosoguanidine-induced rat colonic carcinoma was transplanted into the liver of 49 rats in six different series during three years. Tumor growth in vivo was surveyed by repeated laparotomy at day eight and day seventeen, and 25 rats were treated with 5-fluorouracil (30 mg/kg body weight) once a day, between day 8 and day 17. Tumor take was one hundred per cent and the tumor growth rate was similar throughout the experimental period. No animals died due to treatment or due to progressive tumor growth. The animals treated with 5-fluorouracil revealed a 5 per cent weight loss compared to the controls but no other signs of health deterioration were observed. The tumors treated with 5-fluorouracil had a 70 per cent decrease of growth rate compared to control rats. Exposure of the tumor cells in vitro to 5-fluorouracil induced a dose--related decrease in surviving cells with a 50 per cent reduction of surviving cells 48 hours after exposure to 0.01 mg/ml of 5-fluorouracil. Thus, we present here a new, feasible and reproducible animal model, excellently suited to in vivo and in vitro studies of fluorinated pyrimidines and solid tumor growth.
Valvular heart disease (VHD), inducing valvular regurgitation, has been described in carcinoid heart disease and recently in Parkinson's patients treated with pergolide. The aim of this study was to develop an in vivo model of drug-induced valvulopathy with pergolide in rats.
Thirty male Wistar rats were given daily injections of either pergolide (0.5 mg/kg intraperitoneally) (n = 8), serotonin (20 mg/kg subcutaneously) (n = 8), or the vehicle only (n = 14) for 5 months. At 20 weeks, echocardiography demonstrated the presence of aortic regurgitation (AR) and/or mitral regurgitation (MR) in serotonin (86% AR, P = 0.0001; 57% MR, P = 0.006) and in pergolide animals (67% AR, P = 0.003; 67% MR, P = 0.003) compared with none in placebo. Pulmonary regurgitation (PR) and tricuspid regurgitation (TR) were found in the serotonin (71% PR, P = 0.19; 100% TR, P = 0.06 vs. placebo), pergolide (100% PR, P = 0.014; 83% TR, P = 0.35 vs. placebo), and placebo groups (36% PR; 57% TR). Tricuspid regurgitant area ratio (jet/atrium), however, was more severe in the serotonin [median 26.5 (range 17-42)%; P = 0.02] and pergolide animals [32 (17-39) %; P = 0.03] compared with placebo [12.5 (5-33)%]. We found a good correlation between valvular regurgitation and histologically assessed valvular thickness. Histological examination revealed the presence of diffusely thickened and myxoid aortic, mitral, and tricuspid valves in serotonin and pergolide animals as seen in VHD.
We demonstrated, for the first time, that long-term pergolide administration led to VHD in rats. This small animal model will permit further in vivo investigation of drug-induced valvulopathies.
A patient with chronic myelogenous leukemia was treated with cimetidine and antibiotics after pneumonectomy. The prolonged suppression of the WBC that followed may be related to cimetidine administration in a stressed patient. Such patients should have periodic white blood cell counts because substituting the cyanoguanidine group for the thiourea group may not eliminate the hematologic effects of the H2 receptor antagonists.
Movement disturbances are often overlooked consequences of chronic cocaine abuse. The purpose of this study was to systematically investigate sensorimotor performance in chronic cocaine users and characterize changes in brain activity among movement-related regions of interest (ROIs) in these users. Functional magnetic resonance imaging data were collected from 14 chronic cocaine users and 15 age- and gender-matched controls. All participants performed a sequential finger-tapping task with their dominant, right hand interleaved with blocks of rest. For each participant, percent signal change from rest was calculated for seven movement-related ROIs in both the left and right hemisphere. Cocaine users had significantly longer reaction times and higher error rates than controls. Whereas the controls used a left-sided network of motor-related brain areas to perform the task, cocaine users activated a less lateralized pattern of brain activity. Users had significantly more activity in the ipsilateral (right) motor and premotor cortical areas, anterior cingulate cortex and the putamen than controls. These data demonstrate that, in addition to the cognitive and affective consequences of chronic cocaine abuse, there are also pronounced alterations in sensorimotor control in these individuals, which are associated with functional alterations throughout movement-related neural networks.
Three episodes, in which patients suffered a cardiac arrest in close association with receiving a bolus intravenous injection of cimetidine, are reported. The possible role of cimetidine in causing cardiac arrest, and the mechanisms which may be involved, are discussed. It is recommended that intravenous administration of cimetidine should be an infusion performed over at least 30 minutes.
The International Prognostic Score (IPS) and circulating levels of the soluble form of CD30 molecule (sCD30) have both been associated with poor outcome in patients with advanced Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL). The aim of this study was to assess the prognostic power of the combined evaluation of sCD30 and IPS in these patients.
We included 101 patients with advanced HL, treated with ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine) or MOPP (mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine and prednisone)/ABVD chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy. All were tested for pre-treatment sCD30 levels.
Six-year estimated overall survival (OS) and failure-free survival (FFS) was 89% +/- 3% and 75% +/- 4%, respectively. Thirty-three patients (33%) had IPS >2; their FFS was 60% compared with 82% in the remaining patients (P = 0.027). Serum sCD30 levels were > or =100 U/ml in 41 (41%) patients; their FFS at 6 years was 58%, compared with 87% in patients with sCD30 <100 U/ml (P = 0.003). In the 18 patients with both sCD30 > or =100 U/ml and IPS >2, FFS was significantly worse (44%) than in patients with low sCD30 and low IPS (89%) (P <0.001) or with only one of the two adverse prognostic factors (73%) (P = 0.03).
In our study, the combination of IPS >2 and serum sCD30 levels > or =100 U/ml identifies a sizeable subgroup (18%) of advanced HL patients with very poor FFS, who might take advantage of intensified up-front treatment strategies.
Varenicline, a new nicotinic ligand based on the structure of cytisine, has recently been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for use as a smoking cessation aid. Varenicline has been shown to be a partial agonist of alpha4beta2 receptors, and in equilibrium binding assays, it is highly selective for the alpha4beta2 receptor. In this study, we have examined the functional activity of varenicline at a variety of rat neuronal nicotinic receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes and assayed under two-electrode voltage clamp. We also find that varenicline is a potent, partial agonist at alpha4beta2 receptors, with an EC50 of 2.3 +/- 0.3 microM and an efficacy (relative to acetylcholine) of 13.4 +/- 0.4%. Varenicline has lower potency and higher efficacy at alpha3beta4 receptors, with an EC50 of 55 +/- 8 microM and an efficacy of 75 +/- 6%. Varenicline also seems to be a weak partial agonist at alpha3beta2 and alpha6-containing receptors, with an efficacy <10%. It is remarkable that varenicline is a potent, full agonist at alpha7 receptors with an EC50 of 18 +/- 6 microM and an efficacy of 93 +/- 7% (relative to acetylcholine). Thus, whereas varenicline is a partial agonist at some heteromeric neuronal nicotinic receptors, it is a full agonist at the homomeric alpha7 receptor. Some combination of these actions may be involved in the mechanism of varenicline as a smoking cessation aid.
We present the effects of abrupt discontinuation of inhaled nitric oxide (NO) in four patients with severe hypoxemic respiratory failure. These patients ranged from 9 mo to 65 yr of age. In each patient, after the initiation of inhaled NO, a marginal, but immediate, beneficial effect on gas exchange and, when measured, a reduction in pulmonary artery pressures was noted. However, during attempts to discontinue inhaled NO, not only did these patients develop worsening oxygenation and recrudescence of pulmonary hypertension but, unexpectedly, these parameters were worse than the baseline values, leading to life-threatening hemodynamic instability. These effects reversed immediately after reinstitution of inhaled NO. The mechanism of this severe ¿rebound¿ in pulmonary hypertension after abrupt withdrawal of NO is unclear, but its existence emphasizes the need to avoid a substantial risk to these patients. Moreover, we believe that both unintentional and intentional termination of inhaled NO therapy may lead to life-threatening deterioration in gas exchange and circulatory hemodynamics that exceeds the initial therapeutic benefit.
Studying a patient with Cushing's disease by 24-hour indirect blood pressure monitoring, we confirmed that the normal nocturnal fall in blood pressure was absent, although the usual decrease in heart rate persisted. Thereafter we found a hypervariability in blood pressure and heart rate, which was reversed by treatment with betablockers and/or cyproheptadine. The therapy restored also the normal nocturnal fall in blood pressure. The low-dose cyproheptadine therapy normalized urinary free cortisol levels and restored a 24-hour blood pressure profile better than the low-dose beta-blocker therapy.
Permethrin (PM), as a chiral pesticide, has two asymmetric centers, resulting in two pairs of enantiomers. In China, the commercial formulation of PM contains four enantiomers. The enantiomer-specific activity for endocrine disruption in mice remains unclear. In the present study, the four individual PM enantiomers were separated by preparative HPLC. Then, three week-old male ICR mice (after maternal ablactation) were orally administered (+)-cis, (-)-cis, (+)-trans, and (-)-trans-PM separately daily for 3 weeks at doses of 0, 25, 50 and 100 mg/kg/day, respectively. The results showed that 100 mg/kg of (+)-cis, (-)-cis and (-)-trans-PM treatments resulted in serious testicular histopathological damage, decreases in testis weight and serum testosterone (T) concentrations. Moreover, the transcription status of some key genes involved in cholesterol synthesis and transport as well as T synthesis in the testes were also influenced selectively by PM enantiomers, especially by the (+)-cis-PM. Additionally, peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) and 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17β-HSD) mRNA levels decreased significantly in the (+)-cis-PM group regardless of the administrated doses, while steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) levels were significantly down-regulated by (+)-cis and (-)-trans-PM. Moreover, significant differences were mainly found in HMG-CoA reductase, PBR, StAR and 17β-HSD mRNA levels between different enantiomers. Combined with the effects on physiology, histopathology and the expression of genes related to T synthesis, (+)-cis-PM showed the greatest endocrine disruption activities, (-)-cis and (-)-trans-PM were moderate, while (+)-trans-PM exhibited the lowest. These results suggested significant PM enantioselectivity in the reproductive toxicity of mice during puberty exposure.
A patient with schizoaffective disorder and anticholinergic refractory neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism manifested a marked increase of parkinsonian symptoms and dystonia after ECT. This is the first report in the literature of such an unusual reaction of parkinsonian and dystonic symptoms to ECT.
In the clinical setting, antidotes are generally administered after the occurrence of a drug overdose. Therefore, the most pertinent evaluation of any new agent should model human exposure. This study tested whether acetaminophen (APAP) hepatotoxicity was reversed when S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe) was administered after APAP exposure, similar to what occurs in clinical situations. Comparisons were made for potency between SAMe and N-acetylcysteine (NAC), the current treatment for APAP toxicity. Male C57BL/6 mice were fasted overnight and divided into groups: control (VEH), SAMe treated (SAMe), APAP treated (APAP), N-acetylcysteine treated (NAC), SAMe or NAC administered 1h after APAP (SAMe+APAP) and (NAC+APAP), respectively. Mice were injected intraperitoneal (i.p.) with water (VEH) or 250 mg/kg APAP (15 ml/kg). One hour later, mice were injected (i.p.) with 1.25 mmol/kg SAMe (SAMe+APAP) or NAC (NAC+APAP). Hepatotoxicity was evaluated 4h after APAP or VEH treatment. APAP induced centrilobular necrosis, increased liver weight and alanine transaminase (ALT) levels, depressed total hepatic glutathione (GSH), increased protein carbonyls and 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) adducted proteins. Treatment with SAMe 1h after APAP overdose (SAMe+APAP) was hepatoprotective and was comparable to NAC+APAP. Treatment with SAMe or NAC 1h after APAP was sufficient to return total hepatic glutathione (GSH) to levels comparable to the VEH group. Western blot showed reversal of APAP mediated effects in the SAMe+APAP and NAC+APAP groups. In summary, SAMe was protective when given 1h after APAP and was comparable to NAC.
A 22-year-old man treated with ceftazidime-amikacine for a Pseudomonas aeruginosa pneumonia, experienced two days later allergic symptoms, acute renal failure and urinary sediment abnormalities. The renal biopsy showed an acute interstitial nephritis. Basophils stimulation test was positive for ceftazidime. Early diagnosis and discontinuation of the suspected agent is essential to allow rapid and complete recovery of renal function.
The objective of this study was to determine whether indomethacin is associated with an increased incidence of constriction of the human fetal ductus arteriosus with advancing gestational age.
A retrospective analysis of fetal echocardiograms performed in 44 patients with premature labor or hydramnios treated with indomethacin (25 mg orally every 6 hours) was undertaken. Fisher's exact test, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, and log-rank techniques were used; a value of p < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
The frequency of ductal constriction was similar for fetuses of singleton and multiple gestations. A dramatic increase in constriction was noted at 32 weeks' gestation when the rate of compromise approached 50%.
The use of indomethacin should be restricted to gestational ages of < 32 weeks. In multiple gestations each fetus should be evaluated by echocardiography, because the ductal response may vary between individual fetuses.
To determine the current use of beta2-agonists, in particular salbutamol, for the management of acute asthma in children in emergency departments throughout Australia and New Zealand.
A cross-sectional survey using a questionnaire that sought to determine the current use of salbutamol and any adverse drug reactions in paediatric emergency departments.
Out of 37 hospitals eligible as paediatric emergency departments, 33 (89.1%) responded to the survey, 54.5% having guidelines for the management of acute asthma. Of the paediatric emergency departments surveyed, 45.5% used metered-dose inhaler spacer combination in the treatment of mild to moderate asthma. All paediatric emergency departments used nebulized salbutamol for acute severe asthma. In addition, 85% of paediatric emergency departments used continuous-infusion intravenous salbutamol in unresponsive patients, 63.6% administering a single-dose intravenous salbutamol bolus before commencing the infusion. District paediatric emergency departments were more likely to treat with continuous-infusion intravenous salbutamol outside of the intensive care unit. Clinical unresponsiveness to inhaled salbutamol and clinical improvement were the reported criteria in all paediatric emergency departments for the use and cessation of intravenous salbutamol. Adverse drug reactions were common: tremor (90%), hypokalaemia (45.5%) and supraventricular tachycardia (21%), particularly if continuous-infusion intravenous salbutamol administered. Eight deaths from asthma were reported, none being related to adverse drug reactions.
We report a wide variation of salbutamol use in paediatric emergency departments and a high prevalence of type A adverse drug reactions when continuous-infusion intravenous salbutamol therapy was administered. More evidence is needed on the clinical significance of the adverse effects reported in this study and optimal doses for the safe use of continuous-infusion intravenous salbutamol therapy in paediatric emergency departments.
