Enalapril, an orally-active, long-acting, nonsulphydryl angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, is extensively hydrolysed in vivo to enalaprilat, its bioactive form. Bioactivation probably occurs in the liver. Metabolism beyond activation to enalaprilat is not observed in man. Administration with food does not affect the bioavailability of enalapril; excretion of enalapril and enalaprilat is primarily renal. Peak serum enalaprilat concentrations are reached 4 hours post-dose, and the profile is polyphasic with a prolonged terminal half-life (greater than 30 hours) due to the binding of enalaprilat to ACE. Steady-state is achieved by the fourth daily dose, with no evidence of accumulation. The effective accumulation half-life following multiple dosing is 11 hours. Higher serum concentrations and delayed urinary excretion occur in patients with severe renal insufficiency. Enalapril reduces blood pressure in hypertensive patients by decreasing systemic vascular resistance. The blood pressure reduction is not accompanied by an increase in heart rate. Furthermore, cardiac output is slightly increased and cardiovascular reflexes are not impaired. Once- and twice-daily dosage regimens reduce blood pressure to a similar extent. Enalapril increases renal blood flow and decreases renal vascular resistance. Enalapril also augments the glomerular filtration rate in patients with a glomerular filtration rate less than 80 ml/min. Enalapril reduces left ventricular mass, and does not affect cardiac function or myocardial perfusion during exercise. There is no rebound hypertension after enalapril therapy is stopped. Enalapril does not produce hypokalaemia, hyperglycaemia, hyperuricaemia or hypercholesterolaemia. When combined with hydrochlorothiazide, enalapril attenuates the undesirable diuretic-induced metabolic changes. Therapeutic doses of enalapril do not affect serum prolactin and plasma cortisol in healthy volunteers or T3, rT3, T4 and TSH in hypertensive patients. Enalapril has natriuretic and uricosuric properties. The antihypertensive effect of enalapril is potentiated by hydrochlorothiazide, timolol and methyldopa, but unaffected by indomethacin and sulindac. No interactions occur between enalapril and frusemide, hydrochlorothiazide, digoxin and warfarin. The bioavailability of enalapril is slightly reduced when propranolol is coadministered, but this does not appear to be of any clinical significance. Enalapril increases cardiac output and stroke volume and decreases pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in patients with congestive heart failure refractory to conventional treatment with digitalis and diuretics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression is up-regulated in several types of human cancers and has also been directly linked to carcinogenesis. To investigate the role of COX-2 in pancreatic cancer, we evaluated COX-2 protein expression in primary human pancreatic adenocarcinomas (n = 23) and matched normal adjacent tissue (n = 11) by immunoblot analysis. COX-2 expression was found to be significantly elevated in the pancreatic tumor specimens compared with normal pancreatic tissue. To examine whether the elevated levels of COX-2 protein observed in pancreatic tumors correlated with the presence of oncogenic K-ras, we determined the K-ras mutation status in a subset of the tumors and corresponding normal tissues. The presence of oncogenic K-ras did not correlate with the level of COX-2 protein expressed in the pancreatic adenocarcinomas analyzed. These observations were also confirmed in a panel of human pancreatic tumor cell lines. Furthermore, in the pancreatic tumor cell line expressing the highest level of COX-2 (BxPC-3), COX-2 expression was demonstrated to be independent of Erk1/2 activation. The lack of correlation between COX-2 and oncogenic K-ras expression suggests that Ras activation may not be sufficient to induce COX-2 expression in pancreatic tumor cells and that the aberrant activation of signaling pathways other than Ras may be required for up-regulating COX-2 expression. We also report that the COX inhibitors sulindac, indomethacin and NS-398 inhibit cell growth in both COX-2-positive (BxPC-3) and COX-2-negative (PaCa-2) pancreatic tumor cell lines. However, suppression of cell growth by indomethacin and NS-398 was significantly greater in the BxPC-3 cell line compared with the PaCa-2 cell line (P = 0.004 and P < 0.001, respectively). In addition, the three COX inhibitors reduce prostaglandin E(2) levels in the BxPC-3 cell line. Taken together, our data suggest that COX-2 may play an important role in pancreatic tumorigenesis and therefore be a promising chemotherapeutic target for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
The clinical utility of dopamine (DA) D1 receptor agonists in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) is still unclear. The therapeutic use of selective DA D1 receptor agonists such as SKF-82958 (6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzaze pine hydrobromide) and A-77636 ([1R, 3S] 3-[1'-admantyl]-1-aminomethyl-3,4-dihydro-5,6-dihydroxy-1H-2-benzo pyran hydrochloride) seems limited because of their duration of action, which is too short for SKF-82958 (< 1 hr) and too long for A-77636 (> 20 hr, leading to behavioral tolerance). We therefore conducted the present acute dose-response study in four 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-exposed cynomolgus monkeys primed to exhibit levodopa-induced dyskinesias to evaluate the locomotor and dyskinetic effects on challenge with four doses (from 0.03 to 1.0 mg/kg) of A-86929 ([-]-[5aR,11bS]-4,5,5a,6,7,11b-hexahydro-2-propyl-3-thia-5-+ ++azacyclopent-1- ena[c]phenathrene-9-10-diol), a selective and full DA D1-like receptor agonist with an intermediate duration of action. Levodopa and the DA D2-like receptor agonist, LY-171555 ([4aR-trans]-4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-o-dihydro-5n-propyl-2H-pyrazo lo-3-4-quinoline hydrochloride) were also used for comparison. Acute administration of A-86929 was as efficacious in alleviating MPTP-induced parkinsonism as levodopa and LY-171555, but was less likely to reproduce the levodopa-induced dyskinesias in these animals than with either LY-171555 or subsequent challenge of levodopa. Selective stimulation of the DA D1 receptor may provide better integration of neural inputs transmitted to the internal segment of the globus pallidus (referred to as the basal ganglia output) compared with levodopa and selective DA D2 receptor agonist. Potent DA D1 receptor agents with an intermediate duration of efficacy such as A-86929 (approximately 4 hr at higher doses tested) are potential therapeutic tools in PD and merit further attention.
The endogenous mediator nitric oxide (NO) blocked apoptosis of Jurkat cells elicited by staurosporine, anti-CD95 or chemotherapeutics, and switched death to necrosis. The switch in the mode of cell death was dependent on the ATP loss elicited by NO. This affected two distinct steps of the apoptotic cascade. First, the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria was delayed by NO. Second, processing of procaspases-3/7 to the active proteases was prevented even after cytochrome c had been released. Thus, NO interferes with execution steps of apoptosis both upstream and downstream of cytochrome c release.
Diet-induced changes in serum lipoproteins are a major risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis, the leading cause of mortality in Westernized countries. Atherosclerosis is now appreciated to be a systemic inflammatory disease where increased synthesis of inducible proteins by the liver, such as C-reactive protein (CRP) and others, may play roles in accelerating the disease process. To systematically investigate the genetic response of the liver to diet-induced atherosclerosis, we applied high-density microarray technology in a mouse model of atherosclerosis (LDLR-/- mouse). LDLR-/- mice and congenic (LDLR+/+) controls were placed on low-fat (LF) or high-fat (HF) Western-style diets. The Western diet produced sustained elevations in total cholesterol (2.5-fold for LDLR+/+, 5.0-fold LDLR-/-) relative to the respective LF groups. Tissues were harvested after 12 wk when significant atherosclerotic lesion development was first detectable by en face histomorphometry of oil red O-stained aortas. Diet, rather than genotype, was most highly associated with development of atherosclerotic lesions. Liver mRNA expression profiles of triplicate animals from each group were determined by high-density oligonucleotide microarrays; and genes with transcript levels influenced by genotype and diet were identified by two-way ANOVA. Approximately one-third of the 102 genes identified to be altered by diet [Pr(F) < 0.0005] were involved in lipid metabolism. In addition, we identified components of the alternative complement pathway, including C3, properdin, and factor D, for which mRNA levels were independently confirmed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis, and C3 protein was demonstrated in aortic lesions by immunostaining. These findings suggest that induction of the alternative complement pathway may be an additional mechanism by which a high-fat/Western diet accelerates atherosclerosis.
A middle-aged woman with narcolepsy developed a pronounced exacerbation of cataplexy within 3 days of beginning treatment for hypertension with prazosin, an alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist. At times, episodes of cataplexy were virtually continuous (status cataplecticus), and there was only partial amelioration with tricyclic antidepressants. Cataplexy improved when prazosin was discontinued. These findings are similar to the reported effects of prazosin on cataplexy in narcoleptic dogs; they support a role for altered alpha 1-adrenoceptor function in narcolepsy.
Modafinil, a novel stimulant, is effective in the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness associated with narcolepsy. It is biochemically and pharmacologically distinct from prototypical stimulants such as D-amphetamine, cocaine, and methylphenidate. The present experiment was designed to assess the acute behavioral effects of oral modafinil, cocaine, and placebo in participants (n=9) with recent histories of cocaine use (i.e. positive urine for cocaine or benzoylecgonine during the initial screening interview). Drug effects were assessed with a battery of self-reported drug-effect questionnaires, performance measures, and physiological indices. Cocaine, but not modafinil, produced stimulant-like self-reported drug effects (e.g. increased ratings of High and Stimulated). Modafinil and cocaine dose-dependently increased heart rate and blood pressure. The results of the present study suggest that modafinil has minimal abuse potential, but should be viewed cautiously because of the relatively small sample size. Future studies should further characterize the abuse potential of modafinil using other behavioral arrangements, such as drug discrimination or drug self-administration. A full characterization of the abuse potential of modafinil will become important as the use of this drug increases.
Reduced adenosine deaminase (ADA) activity has been reported in sera of autistic children relative to controls. Additionally, the Asn allele of the ADA Asp8Asn polymorphism has been associated with reduced enzymatic activity. Therefore, we studied this polymorphism in autistic children and controls from two Italian populations. We observed a significantly elevated frequency of the low-activity Asn allele in the total sample of autistic cases relative to controls (P < 0.00001), and in both study populations (P < 0.001 and P < 0.025). We suggest that this putative genotype-dependent reduction in ADA activity may be a risk factor for the development of autism.
The results achieved in a series of 63 patients diagnosed of multiple myeloma in one Centre between February 1981 and December 1984 are reported. One patient was in stage IA, 27 in stage II (A, 24; B, 3), and the remaining 35 were in stage III (A, 22; B, 13). The initial therapy consisted of courses of vincristine, cyclophosphamide, melphalan and prednisone combination chemotherapy (VCMP) given every 4th week. Among the 56 patients who were evaluable, 28 (50%) showed objective response, 6 (10.7%) clinical improvement, and therapeutical failure was seen in 14, whereas 8 patients died during the first two months of treatment. The haematological tolerance to VCMP was acceptable, but neurotoxicity due to vincristine appeared in 17.8% of the cases. Thirty-two patients showing resistance to VCMP at any given moment received vincristine, BCNU, adriamycin and prednisone or dexamethasone (VBAP/D) as salvage therapy, only 5 responses (15.6%) being achieved. Only 5 patients are still alive and the median survival of the series is 23 months. Progression of the disease and infections were the major causes of death.
This study shows that pentoxifylline (ptx), a xanthine derivative, significantly attenuates scopolamine-induced memory impairment in rats, as demonstrated in a passive avoidance task (50 mg/kg intraperitoneally [i.p.]) and in an elevated T-maze (10 and 50 mg/kg i.p.). Ptx (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg i.p.) also potentiates oxotremorine-induced tremors in mice, in a dose-dependent manner, and this effect was completely prevented by atropine. In addition, ptx (50 and 100 mg/kg i.p.) increased the number of animals developing pilocarpine-induced seizures, and potentiated the latency to the first pilocarpine-induced convulsion. Hippocampus homogenates from rats treated with ptx (100 mg/kg) for 1 week and sacrificed 15 min after the last injection showed a significant decrease in the muscarinic receptor numbers, indicative of a downregulation phenomenon. Similar effects were observed when assays were performed 24 h after the last ptx injection (10 and 50 mg/kg i.p.), but not after 72 h. Additionally, in vitro assays showed that ptx inhibits acetylcholinesterase activity in a dose-dependent manner when incubated with homogenates from rat hippocampus. Our data suggest that the muscarinic agonist effect of ptx could possibly depend on factors such as endogenous cholinergic activity.
Despite high plasma levels of vitamin E, red blood cell membranes contain relatively low levels of vitamin E. This suggests the existence of a selective vitamin E uptake/regeneration system in human red blood cell membranes. alpha-Tocopherol binding sites on human red blood cells are thought to be involved in the uptake of alpha-tocopherol from the plasma. To understand the role of the uptake system we have compared the alpha-tocopherol content and binding activity of red blood cells from smokers and non-smokers. The specific binding of [3H] alpha-tocopherol to pure red blood cell preparations from smokers (n = 7, 28.4 +/- 2.8 years) was 30.6 +/- 3.2 fmoles per 3 x 10(8) red blood cells and for non-smokers (n = 17, 27.9 +/- 1.3 years) was 41.7 +/- 3.7 fmoles per 3 x 10(8) red blood cells. Thus alpha-tocopherol uptake activity was significantly lower in smokers (P = 0.05). Red blood cells from smokers contained less (1.8 +/- 0.4 micrograms/gHb) alpha-tocopherol than non-smokers (2.8 +/- 0.3 micrograms/gHb), (P < 0.05), despite plasma levels of alpha-tocopherol being similar: 12.9 +/- 0.8 microM in non-smokers vs. 12.7 +/- 0.5 microM in smokers. However, adjusting plasma alpha-tocopherol for total plasma cholesterol plus triacylglycerols showed alpha-tocopherol levels were higher (P < 0.01) in non-smokers (2.84 +/- 0.10 mumol alpha-tocopherol/ mmol [cholesterol+triacylglycerol]) than in smokers (2.36 +/- 0.11 mumol alpha-tocopherol/mmol [cholesterol+triacylglycerol]). The reduced alpha-tocopherol levels in red blood cells from smokers may be due to impairment of alpha-tocopherol uptake activity. The reduced levels of alpha-tocopherol in smokers red blood cells was not associated with any changes in cell membrane fluidity. At present it is not known whether supplementation of smokers with vitamin E would normalise the alpha-tocopherol uptake activity of red blood cells.
Meperidine neurotoxicity manifests as shakiness, tremors, myoclonus, and seizures. It is generally seen with repeated parenteral use. We report a case of meperidine neurotoxicity from oral use by an otherwise healthy woman. The pharmacology and clinical implications are discussed.
The effect of treatment with the acute GABAA receptor agonist THIP and the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen on apomorphine-induced aggressive behavior was studied in adult male Wistar rats. Both THIP (10 mg/kg i.p.) and baclofen (8 mg/kg i.p.) attenuated the aggressiveness, thereby indicating the involvement of GABAergic neurotransmission in the mediation of apomorphine-induced aggressiveness. On the basis of our data it can be proposed that both GABAA and GABAB receptor subtypes are involved in the neurobiology of apomorphine-induced aggressive behavior, as this phenomenon is evidently subject to the general inhibitory effect of GABAergic neurotransmission.
The aim of the study was to report the incidence and clinical meaning of side-effects caused by echo-dobutamine testing in a large population and to evaluate any possible correlation between dobutamine dose and side-effects.
The study population consisted of 3041 patients enrolled from January 1994 to August 1995 at 63 centers participating in the Italian Register of Echo-Dobutamine Testing (Registro Italiano Test Eco-Dobutamina, RITED). The four major indications were myocardial infarction older than one month (40.4%), recent myocardial infarction (22.7%), coronary artery disease without a history of myocardial infarction (10.8%) and suspected coronary artery disease (19.3%). Dobutamine was administered in a peripheral vein at 5, 10, 20, 30, 40 micrograms/kg/minute + atropine 1 mg in four divided doses of 0.25 mg/minute.
Severe complications were asystole, which went as high as 6" in one patient, and ventricular fibrillation in two patients. The clinical side-effects were headache (2.5%), hypotension (2.2%), nausea (1.7%), bradycardia (1.4%), palpitations (0.5%), tremors (0.3%), dyspnea (0.2%), paresthesia (0.2%) and hypertension (0.2%). Atrial arrhythmia was recorded in 10.6% of patients, while ventricular arrhythmia was recorded in 26.5%. The percentage of supraventricular and ventricular repetitive arrhythmia did not increase with dosage. The cumulative incidence of supraventricular and ventricular repetitive arrhythmia, considered as an interruption criteria, was 6.6% and 5.9%, respectively.
Echo-dobutamine stress test seems to be a very safe and reliable test for unmasking myocardial ischemia or viability in known or suspected coronary artery disease. It has been shown to be widely applicable in clinical practice for outpatients as well, as long as a protected environment is available.
To determine if dobutamine-induced myocardial ischaemia causes abnormalities in Doppler parameters of left ventricular ejection and filling and to assess early effects of successful coronary angioplasty (PTCA) on these parameters, dobutamine stress echocardiography and Doppler studies were performed once in 11 normal volunteers and twice in 17 patients (within 1 day pre- and post-PTCA). Dobutamine induced wall motion abnormalities, ST changes and angina in 11, five and five patients, respectively, before and three, two and one patients, respectively, after PTCA. Doppler indices of both systolic and diastolic function were comparable at rest, before and after PTCA. Dobutamine induced similar increases in peak aortic velocity and average acceleration in healthy individuals (39% and 53%) and in patients with one-vessel disease both before (38% and 39%) and after PTCA (39% and 40%). In the three patients with multivessel disease, peak aortic velocity showed a blunted response (-0.3%) before PTCA but increased by 17% after PTCA, while acceleration decreased both before (12%) and after PTCA (14%). There were significant differences (P < 0.0001) between healthy individuals and pre-PTCA patients in the effect of dobutamine on peak early (E) filling velocity (+34% vs -19%), E-acceleration (+35% vs -26%), peak early to atrial filling velocity ratio (E/A) (-0.7% vs -37%) and diastolic time velocity integral (TVI) (+34% vs -22%). After PTCA, the response of Doppler diastolic indices improved during dobutamine, as shown by the increase in E and E-acceleration (+8%, +24%), respectively) and by the decline in the reduction of E/A and TVI (-17% and -10%, respectively). Thus, the response of Doppler diastolic parameters to dobutamine stress is a sensitive indicator of significant coronary disease and is superior to changes in ejection indices. Successful PTCA resulted in an improved diastolic filling response to dobutamine stress.
The prognosis of metastatic/high-risk localized small round-cell tumors (SRCTs) treated conventionally is dismal. In this phase II study, we explored a high-dose chemotherapy (HD-CT) approach and analyzed the clinical significance of fusion transcripts detection.
From June 1997 to November 1999, 28 SRCT patients (median age, 26 years; 14 peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors [pPNETs], seven rhabdomyosarcomas [RMSs], and seven desmoplastic small round-cell tumors [DSRCTs]) received induction chemotherapy with ifosfamide, epirubicin, and vincristine followed by HD-CT. Local treatment (radiotherapy and/or surgery) was performed when possible. Molecular analysis was performed on peripheral-blood and leukapheresis products by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction.
Overall response (OR) was 65% (18 of 28), with 40% complete response and 25% partial response. According to histology, the OR rate was 86% in pPNET and 43% in both RMS DSRCT. With a median follow-up of 35 months, median overall survival was 16 months and median progression-free survival (PFS) was 10 months. PFS was statistically better in pPNET than other histologic types (P =.0045). No correlation was found between the fusion transcript and clinical outcome during follow-up. Furthermore, transcript detection in leukapheretic products was not of prognostic significance.
Intensive HD-CT seems to enhance the response rate and survival when compared with conventional treatment in poor-prognosis pPNET. The poor results of this treatment in RMS and DSRCT do not support the inclusion of such an approach in these patient subsets. No definitive conclusions can currently be drawn concerning the clinical implications of the detection of fusion transcripts during treatment or follow-up.
A patient with diagnosis of manic-depressive illness, circular type, and receiving therapeutic dosages of lithium carbonate, developed papilledema that seemed to be directly related to the drug. Although this is an extremely rare complication, the authors suggest that fundal exams may be considered in patients treated with lithium.
We present a case of a 79-year-old woman with periods of syncope, complete heart block (CHB), and ventricular standstill during periods of increased vagal tone following sublingual nifedipine for hypertension. The syncopal episodes were associated with periods of elevated vagal tone (micturition and vomiting) with one monitored episode showing a clear time course of emesis; CHB then ensued, progressing to ventricular standstill with loss of consciousness that resolved over several minutes. Although nifedipine is not thought to affect conduction at current clinical dosages, it seems likely that the additive effects of nifedipine and elevated vagal tone produced the observed conduction abnormalities. This is the first case report of nifedipine administration followed by syncope and conduction disturbances.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is one of the major causes of chronic liver disease worldwide. Cancer patients who are chronic carriers of HBV have a higher hepatic complication rate while receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy (CT) and this has mainly been attributed to HBV reactivation. In this study, cancer patients who have solid and hematological malignancies with chronic HBV infection received the antiviral agent lamivudine prior and during CT compared with historical control group who did not receive lamivudine. The objectives were to assess the efficacy of lamivudine in reducing the incidence of HBV reactivation, and diminishing morbidity and mortality during CT. Two groups were compared in this study. The prophylactic lamivudin group consisted of 37 patients who received prophylactic lamivudine treatment. The historical controls consisted of 50 consecutive patients who underwent CT without prophylactic lamivudine. They were followed up during and for 8 weeks after CT. The outcomes were compared for both groups. Of our control group (n= 50), 21 patients (42%) were established hepatitis. Twelve (24%) of them were evaluated as severe hepatitis. In the prophylactic lamivudine group severe hepatitis were observed only in 1 patient (2.7%) of 37 patients (p < 0.006). Comparison of the mean ALT values revealed significantly higher mean alanine aminotransferase (ALT) values in the control group than the prophylactic lamivudine group; 154:64 (p < 0.32). Our study suggests that prophylactic lamivudine significantly decreases the incidence of HBV reactivation and overall morbidity in cancer patients during and after immunosuppressive therapy. Further studies are needed to determine the most appropriate nucleoside or nucleotide analogue for antiviral prophylaxis during CT and the optimal duration of administration after completion of CT.
Local cold injury often induces hypersensitivity to cold and cold allodynia. Sensitisation of TRPM8 or TRPA1 could be the underlying mechanisms. This was evaluated by psychophysics and axon-reflex-flare induction following topical menthol and cinnamaldehyde application in cold injury patients and healthy subjects. The patients had no signs of neuropathy except cold allodynia. We applied 20% cinnamaldehyde and 40% menthol solutions in the cold-allodynic area of the patients and in a corresponding area in healthy subjects and obtained sensory ratings during application. Thermotesting and Laser Doppler Imaging were performed before and after exposure to the compounds. Menthol did not induce axon-reflex-erythema in patients or in controls. After menthol cold pain threshold was decreased in healthy subjects; however, no further sensitisation was observed in the patients moreover in some patients an amelioration of their cold allodynia was observed. Cinnamaldehyde-induced pain sensation did not differ between patients and controls. Heat pain thresholds following cinnamaldehyde were lowered to a similar extent in patients and controls (43-39.8 and 44-39 degrees C) and also the axon-reflex-flare responses were comparable. No evidence for sensitisation of responses to TRPM8 or TRPA1-stimulation was found in patients with cold injury-induced cold allodynia. The lack of TRPM8 induced axon-reflex indicates that also de-novo expression of TRPM8 on mechano-insensitive C-nociceptors does not underlie cold allodynia in these patients. We conclude from these data that the mechanisms for the induction of cold allodynia in the patients with cold injury are independent of TRPM8 or TRPA1 and differ therefore from neuropathic pain patients.
In a prospective non-randomized study, 229 patients with a verified first acute anterior myocardial infarction (AAMI) underwent echocardiography before discharge in order to study left ventricular (LV) thrombus formation. Antithrombotic therapy was given according to the routine of each centre. Patients receiving high-dose heparin had few LV thrombi, irrespective of warfarin therapy (6/32 vs 3/25, P ns). In patients not given heparin, however, a significantly higher prevalence of LV thrombi was found in a subgroup of patients treated with warfarin as compared to those who did not receive warfarin (8/13 vs 17/68, P 0.02). A similar, but non-significant difference was observed in patients given low-dose heparin (42% vs 27%, P ns). Within the non-heparin and low-dose heparin groups, age, infarct size, occurrence of Q-wave infarction, congestive heart failure and LV wall motion impairment did not differ between those treated or not treated with warfarin. In conclusion, high-dose heparin seems effective in the prevention of LV thrombosis irrespective of warfarin therapy after AAMI. The start of warfarin therapy in patients not receiving heparin was, however, associated with an increased prevalence of LV thrombosis.
Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) is commonly associated with at least three currently known DNA mismatch repair genes: (a) hMSH2; (b) hMLH1; and (c) hMSH6. A majority of HNPCC families has identifiable mutations in hMLH1 and hMSH2. When these mutations cause an inherited risk of colorectal cancer, they are also most often associated with microsatellite instability in the tumors. Recently, hMLH3 was suggested to be causative in HNPCC. We screened 70 index patients suggestive of a genetic predisposition for germ-line mutations in hMLH3 with denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography. One frameshift mutation and 11 missense mutations were identified in 16 index patients (23%). Most families presented evidence against hMLH3 as a high risk factor in familial colorectal cancer, and most of the mutations were found in the low risk patients, suggesting hMLH3 to be a low risk gene for colorectal cancer. We demonstrate in one family that a hMLH3 mutation segregated with disease together with a missense mutation in hMSH2, which makes us hypothesize that these mutations work together in an additive manner and result in an elevated risk of colorectal tumors in the family. None of the tumors with hMLH3 mutations showed microsatellite instability, which demonstrates that hMLH3 does not make its contribution to carcinogenesis through an impaired DNA mismatch repair function.
This report describes two women who presented with severe respiratory failure and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates in the fall of 1989. Both required prolonged assisted ventilation because of severe shunt physiology. Open lung biopsies on admission revealed a small vessel vasculitis as the sole morphologic abnormality in both patients. Both responded to high dose corticosteroids. Neither patient exhibited evidence of systemic vasculitis, and neither had serologic evidence of an immune disorder. Common to both patients was ingestion of L-tryptophan. One patient exhibited several features of the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome. The other patient did not appear to have the syndrome, but the temporal relationship between the onset of symptoms and initiation of L-tryptophan treatment was striking. The presentation of these patients alters our notions concerning the spectrum of clinical manifestations caused by this agent, and the response to methylprednisolone supports its efficacy in the treatment of this disorder.
Dopamine agonists have been used as first-line treatments for patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) during its early stage, and several impulse control disorder (ICD) behaviors have been reported to be associated with their use.
To investigate the association between ICD behaviors and the use of agonists in Chinese patients with PD and associated risk factors.
Self-report screening questionnaires were mailed to 400 PD patients treated with anti-parkinsonian drugs in our clinical database and their spouses (served as control group). Those who screened positive for ICD behaviors by questionnaire were further interviewed over the telephone by a movement disorder specialist to confirm the diagnosis.
A total of 11 (3.53%) patients were diagnosed with ICD behaviors as follows: lifetime pathological gambling (1, 0.32%); subclinical or clinical hypersexuality (6, 1.92%); binge eating (1, 0.32%); dopamine dysregulation syndrome (2, 0.64%); and compulsive internet browsing (1, 0.32%). ICD behaviors were associated with an increased mean levodopa equivalent daily dosage and alcohol use (p=0.005 and p=0.002, respectively). Patients using dopamine agonists were significantly (p=0.003) more likely to be diagnosed with an ICD (6.3%) as compared to those who were not (0.6%).
PD patients who took dopamine agonists were more likely to report ICD behaviors in Chinese PD.
Although serum sickness-like reactions are uncommon, various drugs have recently been implicated to manifest the reaction. The following case report is of a possible serum sickness-like reaction secondary to ciprofloxacin use, a commonly prescribed antibiotic in the US. A 62-y-old female developed polyarthralgias, myalgia and a generalized urticarial rash following 5 d use of ciprofloxacin. On admission to the hospital, patient was placed on cefazolin and gentamicin for suspected bacteremia. However, the regimen was discontinued after 72 h because of worsening clinical condition. Patient was placed on iv methylprednisolone therapy, and within 18 h a significant improvement was noted in her myalgias and rash. Over the next 72 h the steroid therapy was changed to a po regimen and the patient became asymptomatic 5 d after the initiation of steroid therapy. Patient was discharged on day 9 of hospital admission. Though serum sickness-like reactions have been reported with various drugs, only 1 case has been reported implicating ciprofloxacin. Clinicians should be aware of this potential adverse event secondary to ciprofloxacin use.
Malignant gliomas are generally resistant to all conventional therapies. Notable exceptions are anaplastic oligodendrogliomas with loss of heterozygosity on chromosome 1p (1p+/-). Patients with 1p+/- anaplastic oligodendroglioma frequently respond to procarbazine, 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-l-nitrosourea, and vincristine. Because the underlying biologic basis for this clinical finding is unclear, we evaluated differentially expressed 1p-encoded proteins in 1p+/- and 1p+/+ malignant glioma cell lines and then examined whether their expression was associated with outcome of patients with anaplastic oligodendroglioma.
We used a comparative proteomic screen of A172 (1p+/-) and U251 (1p+/+) malignant glioma cell lines to identify differentially expressed 1p-encoded proteins, including stathmin, a microtubule-associated protein. 1p+/- and 1p+/+ anaplastic oligodendroglioma specimens from 24 patients were assessed for stathmin expression by immunohistochemistry. The relationship between stathmin expression and clinical outcome was assessed with Kaplan-Meier analyses. RNA inhibition and cDNA transfection experiments tested effects of stathmin under- and overexpression, respectively, on the in vitro and in vivo resistance of malignant glioma cells to treatment with nitrosourea. For in vivo resistance studies, 36 mice with intracranial and 16 mice with subcutaneous xenograft tumor implants were used (one tumor per mouse). Flow cytometry was used for cell cycle analysis. Immunoblotting was used to assess protein expression. All statistical tests were two-sided.
Decreased stathmin expression in tumors was statistically significantly associated with loss of heterozygosity in 1p (P<.001) and increased recurrence-free survival (P<.001). The median recurrence-free survival times for patients with tumors expressing low, intermediate, or high stathmin levels were 45 months (95% confidence interval [CI] = 0 to 90 months), 17 months (95% CI = 10.6 to 23.4 months), and 6 months (95% CI = 1.7 to 10.3 months), respectively. Expression of stathmin was inversely associated with overall survival of nitrosourea-treated mice carrying xenograft tumors. Median survival of mice with stathmin+/- tumors was 95 days (95% CI = 68.7 to 121.3 days) and that of mice with stathmin+/+ tumors was 64 days (95% CI = 58.2 to 69.8 days) (difference = 31 days, 95% CI = 4.1 to 57.9 days; P<.001, log-rank test). Nitrosoureas induced mitotic arrest in malignant glioma cells, and this effect was greater in cells with decreased stathmin expression.
Loss of heterozygosity for the stathmin gene may be associated with improved outcomes of patients with 1p+/- anaplastic oligodendroglioma tumors.
