Fifty-four patients with advanced breast cancer who had failed prior non-anthracycline combination chemotherapy were randomized to treatment with either epirubicin 85 mg/m2 or doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 intravenously every three weeks. Of 52 evaluable patients, 25% (six of 24) treated with epirubicin, and 25% (seven of 28) treated with doxorubicin experienced major therapeutic responses. The median duration of response to epirubicin was 11.9 months compared to 7.1 months with doxorubicin. Cardiotoxicity was monitored by serial multigated radionuclide cineangiocardiography performed at rest and after exercise. Laboratory evidence of cardiotoxicity was defined as a decrease in resting left ventricular ejection fraction of greater than 10% from the baseline value, or a decrease of 5% or greater with exercise compared with the resting study performed on the same day. Fifteen patients treated with epirubicin and 18 patients treated with doxorubicin had at least two determinations of left ventricular ejection fraction and were evaluable for laboratory cardiotoxicity. Using methods of survival analysis, the median doses to the development of laboratory cardiotoxicity were estimated to be 935 mg/m2 of epirubicin and 468 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. Four patients treated with epirubicin and five treated with doxorubicin developed symptomatic congestive heart failure. The median cumulative dose at which congestive heart failure occurred was 1,134 mg/m2 of epirubicin compared with 492 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. Fewer episodes of nausea and vomiting were observed in patients receiving epirubicin. Epirubicin is a new anthracycline with reduced cardiac toxicity, but preserved efficacy in the treatment of patients with advanced breast cancer.
Glyceryl triacetate (GTA), a compound effective at increasing circulating and tissue levels of acetate was used to treat rats subjected to a continual 28 day intra-ventricular infusion of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). This model produces a neuroinflammatory injury characterized by global neuroglial activation and a decrease in choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in the basal forebrain. During the LPS infusion, rats were given a daily treatment of either water or GTA at a dose of 6 g/kg by oral gavage. In parallel experiments, free-CoA and acetyl-CoA levels were measured in microwave fixed brains and flash frozen heart, liver, kidney and muscle following a single oral dose of GTA. We found that a single oral dose of GTA significantly increased plasma acetate levels by 15 min and remained elevated for up to 4 h. At 30 min the acetyl-CoA levels in microwave-fixed brain and flash frozen heart and liver were increased at least 2.2-fold. The concentrations of brain acetyl-CoA was significantly increased between 30 and 45 min following treatment and remained elevated for up to 4 h. The concentration of free-CoA in brain was significantly decreased compared to controls at 240 min. Immunohistochemical and morphological analysis demonstrated that a daily treatment with GTA significantly reduced the percentage of reactive glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes and activated CD11b-positive microglia by 40-50% in rats subjected to LPS-induced neuroinflammation. Further, in rats subjected to neuroinflammation, GTA significantly increased the number of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive cells by 40% in the basal forebrain compared to untreated controls. These data suggest that acetate supplementation increases intermediary short chain acetyl-CoA metabolism and that treatment is potentially anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective with regards to attenuating neuroglial activation and increasing ChAT immunoreactivity in this model.
Protein Z (PZ) is a plasma vitamin K-dependent protein that functions as a cofactor to dramatically enhance the inhibition of coagulation factor Xa by the serpin, protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor (ZPI). In vitro, ZPI not only inhibits factor Xa in a calcium ion-, phospholipid-, and PZ-dependent fashion, but also directly inhibits coagulation factor XIa. In murine gene-deletion models, PZ and ZPI deficiency enhances thrombosis following arterial injury and increases mortality from pulmonary thromboembolism following collagen/epinephrine infusion. On a factor V(Leiden) genetic background, ZPI deficiency produces a significantly more severe phenotype than PZ deficiency, implying that factor XIa inhibition by ZPI is physiologically relevant. The studies in mice suggest that human PZ and ZPI deficiency would be associated with a modest thrombotic risk with ZPI deficiency producing a more severe phenotype.
The agouti (a) locus acts within the microenvironment of the hair follicle to regulate coat color pigmentation in the mouse. We have characterized a gene encoding a novel 131 amino acid protein that we propose is the one gene associated with the agouti locus. This gene is normally expressed in a manner consistent with a locus function, and, more importantly, its structure and expression are affected by a number of representative alleles in the agouti dominance hierarchy. In addition, we found that the pleiotropic effects associated with the lethal yellow (Ay) mutation, which include pronounced obesity, diabetes, and the development of neoplasms, are accompanied by deregulated overexpression of the agouti gene in numerous tissues of the adult animal.
The aim of this study was to identify a subset of patients at high risk of bleeding or myocardial infarction from a percutaneous coronary intervention and to investigate whether such high-risk subsets derive preferential benefit from heparin or bivalirudin.
This study included 4570 patients with coronary artery disease enrolled in the Intracoronary Stenting and Antithrombotic Regimen: Rapid Early Action for Coronary Treatment trial and randomized to receive bivalirudin or heparin. Primary outcomes were in-hospital incidence of major bleeding and 30-day incidence of myocardial infarction. Major bleeding, myocardial infarction, and bleeding plus myocardial infarction occurred in 140, 204, and 34 patients, respectively. Older age, female sex, lower body weight, low cholesterol, multi-lesion intervention, complex lesions, and heparin therapy were independent correlates of increased risk of bleeding. Multi-lesion intervention, unstable angina, and lower body weight correlated independently with increased risks of myocardial infarction. Compared with heparin, bivalirudin was associated with a reduction in major bleeding (3.1 vs. 4.6%, P = 0.008), but mostly in low-risk patients. A reduction in the bleeding risk inversely correlated with an increase in the risk of myocardial infarction with bivalirudin (R = -0.61).
Bivalirudin and unfractionated heparin have a differential effect on risk of bleeding and myocardial infarction across various subsets of patients.
Myoclonic movements have been observed in depressed patients receiving therapeutic doses of clomipramine. Such movements, which appear in states of deep muscular relaxation such as sleep, do not appear to have any repercussion in the outcome of the depression and are reversible following withdrawal of the drug. In this study the plasma levels of clomipramine and desmethylclomipramine were determined and their possible relationship with myoclonus studied. No statistically significant relationships were found.
In the present study, developmental and reproductive effects of lifelong exposure to environmental relevant concentrations of two natural mixtures of persistent organic pollutants (POP) were investigated using classical and molecular methods in a controlled zebrafish model. The mixtures used were extracted from burbot (Lota lota) liver originating from freshwater systems in Norway: one mixture with high levels and one mixture with background levels of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB), and dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane metabolites (DDT). The concentration of POP measured in the zebrafish ranged from levels detected in wild fish from Lake Mjøsa to concentrations reported in human and wildlife populations, indicating that the experimental fish were exposed to concentrations comparable with wild fish. Phenotypic effects observed in both exposure groups included earlier onset of puberty, increased male/female sex ratio, and differences in body weight at 5 mo of age. Interestingly, genome-wide transcription profiling showed changes in regulation of genes involved in endocrine signaling and growth. The transcriptomics changes include key regulator genes for steroid hormone functions (ncoa3), and growth (c/ebp, ncoa3). The effects observed in the experimental zebrafish model raise the question whether chemical pollution represents a risk to reproductive health of wild fish inhabitating the freshwater system.
We report a case of a 42 year old male patient with a history of adrenocortical carcinoma, who was admitted with bilateral loss of sight and hypertension. Laboratory tests and further clinical evaluation showed hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and acute renal failure. This was consistent with thrombotic microangiopathy / hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) due to gemcitabine therapy. The patient was successfully treated with prednisolon and antihypertensive drugs. Visus was completely restored, plasmapheresis was not needed. Clinicians should be aware of HUS as a rare complication of gemcitabine therapy.
The effect of biphenyldimethyldicarboxylate (DDB), a synthetic compound, in use for the treatment of chronic hepatitis was studied on hepatic injury caused in rats by administration of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). Starting at time of administration of the first dose of CCl4, rats received DDB at four dose levels (3, 15, 75 or 375 mg/kg), silymarin (22 mg/kg), a combination of DDB (75 mg/kg) and silymarin (22 mg/kg) or saline (control) once orally daily for 30 days. The administration of DDB in CCl4-treated rats at 75 or 375 mg/kg resulted in 61.2-76.2% decrease in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and 46.9-60.8% decrease in aspartate aminotransferase (AST), respectively compared with the CCl4 control group. Silymarin treatment resulted in 34.6 and 30% decrease in ALT and AST, while DDB (75 mg/kg) combined with silymarin (22 mg/kg) resulted in 58.2 and 31% decrease in ALT and AST, respectively. Serum creatinine increased by 50% by DDB at 375 mg/kg. After treatment with DDB at 75 or 375 mg/kg or DDB combined with silymarin, the development of liver necrosis and fibrosis caused by CCl4 was markedly reduced, while after DDB combined with silymarin no DNA aneuploid cells could be observed. The decrease in glycogen and protein contents in hepatocytes caused by CCl4 was markedly prevented by co-treatment with DDB at 75 or 375 mg/kg or DDB combined with silymarin. It is concluded that in the model of hepatic injury caused by chronic administration of CCl4 in rats, the synthetic compound DDB, limits hepatocellular injury and exerts antifibrotic effect. Better improvement in protein, DNA, mucopolysaccharide content was seen after both DDB and silymarin compared to DDB alone. It is suggested, therefore, that DDB alone or in combination with silymarin might prove of benefit in the therapy of chronic liver disease. Monitoring of kidney functions in patients taking DDB is warranted.
Dopaminergic changes were studied in the caudate nucleus of adult female mice after pre- and post-treatment with an antioxidant, selenium, 72 h after the multiple injections of methamphetamine (METH, 4x10 mg/kg, i.p. at 2-h interval) or an equivalent volume of saline. Selenium treatment prevented the depletion of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) in caudate nucleus resulting from the METH treatment. These data suggest that METH-induced neurotoxicity is mediated by free radical and selenium plays a protective role against METH-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity.
The aim of this study was to determine whether 1-deoxynojirimycin (DNJ) isolated from Bacillus subtilis MORI beneficially influences lipid metabolism and mitochondrial function in the liver of mice fed a high-fat diet in addition to the anti-obesity properties of DNJ. Male C57BL/6 mice (n = 29; 5 weeks old) were randomly assigned to three groups: normal control diet (CTL, n = 10), high-fat diet (HF, n = 10), and high-fat diet supplemented with DNJ (DNJ, n = 9). After 12 weeks, the HF group exhibited higher overall weight gain, of the liver, and of various fat pads than the CTL and DNJ groups did. The HF group also showed greater expression of C/EBPα and CD36 mRNA in the liver than that in the CTL and/or DNJ groups. In addition, mRNA expressions of AAC and FAS were lower, while mRNA expression of PGC-1β was higher in the liver of the DNJ group than that of the HF group. The hepatic expression of p-AMPK/AMPK was higher in the DNJ group than in the HF group. This study provides novel insight into the protective effect of DNJ supplementation against obesity-induced hepatic lipid abnormalities and mitochondrial dysfunction.
Phenylpropanolamine is consumed by millions of persons annually and is sold in varying dosages and combinations for different ailments. Adolescents are an especially susceptible group influenced by its action as an anorexiant. During the past 6 years, several cases have been reported of patients in whom intracerebral hemorrhage developed, with and without concomitant angiographic evidence of vasculitis, after taking phenylpropanolamine. In this report, the 11th documented case of phenylpropanolamine-associated intracerebral hemorrhage with vasculitis is described. This is the first case in an adolescent following the ingestion of an overdose of diet-aid pills. Cases of intracerebral hemorrhage with vasculitis have also been described in users and abusers of amphetamine, methamphetamine, and ephedrine, all sympathomimetics with chemical structures similar to that of phenylpropanolamine. This report should alert pediatricians to the potential use by their patients of nonprescription medications containing phenylpropanolamine whenever unexplained acute cerebral symptoms are present.
Ibutilide is a newer class-III antiarrhythmic agent approved for clinical use. We sought to investigate its electrophysiological effects in canines and also the underlying mechanism of conversion of atrial flutter (AFL). For this purpose, 15 male mongrel dogs were anesthetized, intubated with tracheal tube, and heart was exposed and connected to electrodes. Electrophysiologic variables were measured with and without ibutilide (10-min infusion-dose: 0.10 mg/kg; 30-min later, maintaining dose: 0.01 mg/min) which included heart rate, conduction of intra- and inter-atrium, conduction ratio of isthmus, and ERP. Ibutilide had a significant inhibitory effect on sinus atrial node, peak response time was 20-30 min, and heart rate returned to the baseline after 2 h. One canine had 5 s sinus pause, and the other had 2:1 atrioventricular conduction post-administration. Atrial, ventricular, and pulmonary vein ERP was significantly prolonged (P < 0.05). No significant differences were observed regarding conduction of intra-atrium, inter-atrium, and isthmus. It was, therefore, concluded that ibutilide had suppressive effect on sinus atrial and atrioventricular nodes. Ibutilide rapidly terminated AFL due to the reentrant wave front's inability to proceed as the refractory period was protracted and hence caused the whole excitable gap of the reentrant circuit to be affected by refractoriness.
The effects of chronic carbamazepine on cocaine-kindled seizures and behavioral sensitization were examined in this study. Rats were fed a diet containing carbamazepine or no drug and then repeatedly administered cocaine (40 and 50 mg/kg intraperitoneally [IP] [117.6 and 147.0 mumol/kg, respectively]). Carbamazepine markedly decreased the development of cocaine-kindled seizures and their associated lethality, but did not affect the development of sensitization of behavioral stereotypies. Carbamazepine consistently decreased the peak stereotypy ratings at the 40 mg/kg but not 50 mg/kg dose. In a 2-day sensitization paradigm chronic carbamazepine did not affect acute cocaine-induced hyperactivity (day 1; 40 mg/kg), nor did it affect sensitization to a low dose challenge of cocaine (day 2; 10 mg/kg [29.4 mumol/kg]). Sensitization of stereotypy and locomotor activity are thought to be related to the psychomotor stimulant properties of cocaine, while seizures may be associated with cocaine's local anesthetic effects. Our data suggest that carbamazepine is inhibiting mechanisms associated with local anesthetic kindling and only minimally affecting the psychomotor stimulant effects of cocaine.
Bromocriptin, member of the class of ergolines, is commonly prescribed as treatment of Parkinson's disease. Apart from vascular, digestif, neurologic and psychic disorders, the authors report cases of retroperitoneal fibrosis and pleural effusion, as adverse reactions related to the bromocriptin.
About 40 cases of skin, pleural, lung and retroperitoneal attacks were described after long term and high doses of bromocriptin. More ten years ago, the first case of constrictive pericarditis was cited in the medical literature, and the bromocriptin was incriminated as responsible. Since then, two other cases were cited. Our observation is a constrictive pericarditis, found in a 72 years old patient treated with bromocriptin for Parkinson's disease since five years (cumulative dose intake 73 grams). Investigations aimed to establish etiology were negative. Bromocriptin is suspected and the treatment is discontinued. As in the three other cases, cardiac and neurologic conditions markedly improved after bromocriptin's withdrawal. A pericardic thickening persists at the echography.
The responsibility of bromocriptin in the etiology of constrictive pericarditis is seldom discussed, because it remains an exclusion diagnosis. Periodic chest X-ray and echocardiography should be considered in patients with long-term bromocriptin treatment.
Aspirin intolerance is characterized by polypous rhinosinusitis, bronchial asthma and adverse reactions to aspirin. The common intolerance to all cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors allows us to focus study of the pathogenesis of AI on the metabolism of arachidonic acid. Nasal polyposis is a chronic inflammatory condition that is mostly characterized by an infiltration of eosinophils. How this eosinophilic inflammation leads to polyp formation remains largely unclear. Eosinophils are the major source of cysteinyl leukotrienes--potent pro-inflammatory mediators they can by responsible for nasal blockade, rhinorrhoea and hyperresponsiveness. A role of prostaglandins (PGs) and leukotrienes (LTs) in the pathogenesis of nasal polyps has been recently suggested and leukotriene levels have been shown to be elevated in patients with asthma as well as in those with sinonasal polyposis and sinusitis. Because leukotriene receptor antagonists inhibit activity of endogenous leukotrienes and decrease tissue eosinophilia it is speculated that these drugs may be useful also in the management of nasal polyps. Our study was designed to determine the efficacy of zafirlukast, a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor antagonist, in nasal polyposis. We conclude that antileukotrienes might play a role in controlling polyposis and their symptoms, and they might be a alternative to long-term steroid therapy and repeated surgical therapy.
Bronchial hyperresponsiveness is a hallmark of asthma and many factors modulate bronchoconstriction episodes. A potential correlation of formaldehyde (FA) inhalation and asthma has been observed; however, the exact role of FA remains controversial. We investigated the effects of FA inhalation on Ovalbumin (OVA) sensitisation using a parameter of respiratory mechanics. The involvement of nitric oxide (NO) and cyclooxygenase-derived products were also evaluated. The rats were submitted, or not, to FA inhalation (1%, 90 min/day, 3 days) and were OVA-sensitised and challenged 14 days later. Our data showed that previous FA exposure in allergic rats reduced bronchial responsiveness, respiratory resistance (Rrs) and elastance (Ers) to methacholine. FA exposure in allergic rats also increased the iNOS gene expression and reduced COX-1. L-NAME treatment exacerbated the bronchial hyporesponsiveness and did not modify the Ers and Rrs, while Indomethacin partially reversed all of the parameters studied. The L-NAME and Indomethacin treatments reduced leukotriene B₄ levels while they increased thromboxane B₂ and prostaglandin E₂. In conclusion, FA exposure prior to OVA sensitisation reduces the respiratory mechanics and the interaction of NO and PGE₂ may be representing a compensatory mechanism in order to protect the lung from bronchoconstriction effects.
Oxidative stress is one of the major mechanisms implicated in inorganic arsenic poisoning. Curcumin is a natural phenolic compound with impressive antioxidant properties. What's more, curcumin is recently proved to exert its chemopreventive effects partly through the activation of nuclear factor (erythroid-2 related) factor 2 (Nrf2) and its antioxidant and phase II detoxifying enzymes. In vivo, we investigated the protective effects of curcumin against arsenic-induced hepatotoxicity and oxidative injuries. Our results showed that arsenic-induced elevation of serum alanine amino transferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activities, augmentation of hepatic malonaldehyde (MDA), as well as the reduction of blood and hepatic glutathione (GSH) levels, were all consistently relieved by curcumin. We also observed the involvement of curcumin in promoting arsenic methylation and urinary elimination in vivo. Furthermore, both the hepatic Nrf2 protein and two typically recognized Nrf2 downstream genes, NADP(H) quinine oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), were consistently up-regulated in curcumin-treated mice. Our study confirmed the antagonistic roles of curcumin to counteract inorganic arsenic-induced hepatic toxicity in vivo, and suggested that the potent Nrf2 activation capability might be valuable for the protective effects of curcumin against arsenic intoxication. This provides a potential useful chemopreventive dietary component for human populations.
In the present study, the possible involvement of nitric oxide systems in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in nicotine's effect on morphine-induced amnesia and morphine state-dependent memory in adult male Wistar rats was investigated. Step-through type inhibitory avoidance task was used to test memory retrieval. Post-training administration of morphine (5 and 7.5 mg/kg) induced amnesia. The response induced by post-training morphine was significantly reversed by pre-test administration of the drug. Pre-test injection of nicotine (0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg s.c.) alone and nicotine (0.1, 0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg s.c.) plus an ineffective dose of morphine also significantly reversed the amnesia induced by morphine. Morphine amnesia was also prevented by pre-test administration of l-arginine (1 and 3 μg/rat, intra-VTA), a nitric oxide (NO) precursor. Interestingly, an ineffective dose of nicotine (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) in combination with low dose of l-arginine (0.3 μg/rat, intra-VTA) synergistically improved memory performance impaired by morphine given after training. In contrast, pre-test administration of NG nitro-l-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (l-NAME), a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor (2 μg/rat, intra-VTA) prevented the nicotine reversal of morphine effect on memory. The results suggest a possible role for nitric oxide of ventral tegmental area in the improving effect of nicotine on the morphine-induced amnesia.
Cardiotoxicity has rarely been reported as a complication of melphalan or fludarabine administration as single agents. Recently, melphalan and fludarabine have been used in combination as non-myeloablative conditioning chemotherapy prior to allogeneic stem cell transplantation. We have observed the development of severe left ventricular failure in three of 21 patients treated with this combination. Cardiotoxicity in this context has not previously been reported and has implications for the assessment, monitoring and treatment of patients undergoing pre-transplant conditioning with melphalan and fludarabine.
We have studied the effects of acute serotonin (5-HT) 5-HT1A receptor agonist buspirone (0.5, 1.0, 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg, s.c.), gepirone (5.0 and 10 mg/kg, s.c.), and 8-OH-DPAT (0.1, 0.25, and 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) treatment on the apomorphine-induced aggressive behaviour in adult male Wistar rats. Buspirone in doses of 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg completely blocked, gepirone (10 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the aggressiveness, and 8-OH-DPAT abolished aggressive behaviour only in the lowest dose used (0.1 mg/kg) which effect disappeared in higher doses. The antiaggressive effect of buspirone (2.5 mg/kg) and gepirone (10 mg/kg) was not reversed by a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 (0.3 mg/kg). All 5-HT1A receptor agonists tested dose-dependently decreased the exploratory behaviour of experimentally naive rats, while buspirone (2.5 mg/kg) and gepirone (10 mg/kg) had only a weak effect on the locomotor activity and stereotyped behaviour in the apomorphine-pre-sensitised rats. In conclusion, our experiments demonstrate the 5-HTIA receptors may be involved in the mediation of the apomorphine-induced aggressive behaviour in adult male Wistar rats. However, the prominent antiaggressive effect of buspirone, and to a lesser extent--gepirone, seems to be mediated by some other mechanisms, evidently via the dopamine D2 receptors.
A total of 72 impotent patients entered into a pharmacological erection program using prostaglandin E1. Of the men 35 (49%) used prostaglandin E1 on a regular basis, while 37 (51%) failed to continue in the program beyond the in-office dose titration period. In patients who continue to use prostaglandin E1 the median duration of drug use is 7 months, with a range of 2 to 28 months. There have been no instances of cavernous fibrosis, systemic reaction or chemical priapism (erection present longer than 4 hours) in any patient. Only 8 men (11%) were unable to achieve an adequate erection with prostaglandin E1 injections. The most common adverse effect of prostaglandin E1 was penile pain after injection. The incidence of severe pain leading to drug discontinuation was 17% (12 of 72 patients) while mild to moderate pain occurred in 22% (16 of 72). Over-all, intracavernous prostaglandin E1 injections appear to be a safe, effective treatment for impotence in most men.
Liver is the main detoxifying organ and therefore the target of high concentrations of genotoxic compounds, such as environmental carcinogens and anticancer drugs. Here, we investigated the usefulness of lovastatin, which is nowadays widely used for lipid lowering purpose, as a hepatoprotective drug following the administration of the anthracycline derivative doxorubicin in vivo. To this end, BALB/c mice were exposed to either a single high dose or three consecutive low doses of doxorubicin. Acute and subacute hepatotoxicities were analyzed with or without lovastatin co-treatment. Lovastatin protected the liver against doxorubicin-induced acute pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic stress responses as indicated by an attenuated mRNA expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), respectively. Hepatoprotection by lovastatin was due to a reduced induction of DNA damage following doxorubicin treatment. The statin also mitigated subacute anthracycline-provoked hepatotoxicity as shown on the level of doxorubicin- and epirubicin-stimulated CTGF mRNA expression as well as histopathologically detectable fibrosis and serum concentration of marker enzymes of hepatotoxicity (GPT/GLDH). Kidney damage following doxorubicin exposure was not detectable under our experimental conditions.Moreover, lovastatin showed multiple inhibitory effects on doxorubicin-triggered hepatic expression of genes involved in oxidative stress response, drug transport, DNA repair, cell cycle progression and cell death. Doxorubicin also stimulated the formation of ceramides. Ceramide production, however, was not blocked by lovastatin, indicating that hepatoprotection by lovastatin is independent of the sphingolipid metabolism. Overall, the data show that lovastatin is hepatoprotective following genotoxic stress induced by anthracyclines. Based on the data, we hypothesize that statins might be suitable to lower hepatic injury following anthracycline-based anticancer therapy.
