The purpose of this prospective study was to evaluate the hypothesis that magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) histogram analysis of the whole brain could detect early and subtle brain changes nonapparent on conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) receiving methotrexate (MTX) therapy.
Subjects in this prospective study comprised 10 children with ALL (mean age, 6 years; range, 0-16 years). In addition to conventional MRI, magnetization transfer images were obtained before and after intrathecal and intravenous MTX therapy. MTR values were calculated and plotted as a histogram, and peak height and location were calculated. Differences in peak height and location between pre- and post-MTX therapy scans were statistically analyzed. Conventional MRI was evaluated for abnormal signal area in white matter.
MTR peak height was significantly lower on post-MTX therapy scans than on pre-MTX therapy scans (p = 0.002). No significant differences in peak location were identified between pre- and post-chemotherapy imaging. No abnormal signals were noted in white matter on either pre- or post-MTX therapy conventional MRI.
This study demonstrates that MTR histogram analysis allows better detection of early and subtle brain changes in ALL patients who receive MTX therapy than conventional MRI.
In a small series of patients, suffering from obsessional disorders, it was found that there seems to be a type of depression which occurs during the course of clomipramine therapy. As clomipramine is an antidepressant, this may seem to be an anomaly but it is suggested that depression is secondary to agitation and tension which are recognised side-effects of clomipramine. The patients nevertheless showed improvement in their obsessional symptomatology. The finding seems to reinforce the view that clomipramine has an antiobsessional effect which is distinct from its antidepressant property.
Although inhaled steroids are used as the first line of therapy in asthmatic patients, symptoms of asthma do not improve completely in some patients.
To investigate the effects of pranlukast, a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1 antagonist, in patients with moderate/severe asthma, when combined with beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP).
Protocol 1: After a 2-week observation period, 41 patients with moderate asthma were divided into those receiving BDP at 1,600 microg/day or 800 microg/day + pranlukast (450 mg/day). The effect of treatment was evaluated by measuring AM peak expiratory flow rate, symptom score, frequency of beta2-agonists, and daily variability of peak expiratory flow rate. Protocol 2: 39 patients participated in this study including those with moderate asthma on 800 microg/day BDP (group I), severe asthma on BDP at 1,600 microg/day (group II), and severe asthma on 1,600 microg/day BDP + 5 to 20 mg prednisolone (group III). Patients of all groups were additionally treated with pranlukast.
Protocol 1: Both treatment regimens resulted in improvement in each clinical parameter. There were no significant differences in the effects of two treatment regimens. Protocol 2: Pranlukast was effective in group I and II, but not in group III. In groups I and II, pranlukast tended to be more effective when BDP was introduced within the first year of onset of asthma.
Pranlukast is effective for patients with moderate asthma and those patients with severe asthma who are not treated with oral steroids. Pranlukast is more effective in patients treated with BDP early after onset.
Copper deficiency during pregnancy results in early embryonic death and foetal structural abnormalities including skeletal, pulmonary and cardiovascular defects. During pregnancy, copper is transported from the maternal circulation to the foetus by mechanisms which have not been clearly elucidated. Two copper-transporting ATPases, Menkes (ATP7A; MNK) and Wilson (ATP7B; WND), are expressed in the placenta and both are involved in placental copper transport, as copper accumulates in the placenta in both Menkes and Wilson disease. The regulatory mechanisms of MNK and WND and their exact role in the placenta are unknown. Using a differentiated polarized Jeg-3 cell culture model of placental trophoblasts, MNK and WND were shown to be expressed within these cells. Distinct roles for MNK and WND are suggested on the basis of their opposing responses to insulin. Insulin and oestrogen increased both MNK mRNA and protein levels, altered the localization of MNK towards the basolateral membrane in a copper-independent manner, and increased the transport of copper across this membrane. In contrast, levels of WND were decreased in response to insulin, and the protein was located in a tight perinuclear region, with a corresponding decrease in copper efflux across the apical membrane. These results are consistent with a model of copper transport in the placenta in which MNK delivers copper to the foetus and WND returns excess copper to the maternal circulation. Insulin and oestrogen stimulate copper transport to the foetus by increasing the expression of MNK and reducing the expression of WND. These data show for the first time that MNK and WND are differentially regulated by the hormones insulin and oestrogen in human placental cells.
A case report of an unusual formaldehyde exposure that had happened accidentally is described. A 54-year-old male ingested 10% formaldehyde and inhaled while vomiting and he developed cough, dyspnea and wheezing with prevalent ronci and bilateral infiltrates on chest x-ray (cxr). His pulmonary symptoms and FEV1 responded well to systemic corticosteroids and nebulised salbutamol given for the possible diagnosis of hypersensitivity and/or chemical pneumonitis, and infiltrates were cleared. Two weeks after the incident, he had massive haemoptysis, fever, leucocytes, prevalent crackles, bronchospasm, and new infiltrates on CXR. After an antibiotic and steroid therapy, his symptoms and crackles relieved, radiographic infiltrates were regressed. Delayed type hypersensitivity to formaldehyde patch test was appropriate with late-onset symptoms. This is a first case of pneumonitis as well as asthma different from the occupational exposure to formaldehyde. This data suggests direct and indirect effects of formaldehyde in healthy human airways.
Cocaine is increasingly used by drug addicts. It is considered harmless, but numerous, varied and often serious complications due to its abuse have been published. Among these, neurological complications are in the forefront. They include generalized or partial epileptic seizures, ischaemic or haemorrhagic cerebral vascular accidents, visual loss caused by optic neuropathy or by retinal artery occlusion, headaches and exacerbation of tics. Infections of the central nervous system are possible via endocarditis or septicaemia of venous or nasal origin. Neurological disorders may also occur as a consequence of a major cardiovascular complication induced by cocaine (myocardial infarction and/or dysrhythmia, aortic dissection). These neurological complications are unpredictable, and they weigh heavily on the functional and sometimes vital prognosis in habitual or occasional cocaine abusers.
Tizanidine and aceclofenac individually have shown efficacy in the treatment of low back pain. The efficacy and tolerability of the combination have not yet been established. The objective of the study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of aceclofenac-tizanidine fixed dose combination against aceclofenac alone in patients with acute low back pain. This double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, comparative, multicentric, parallel group study enrolled 197 patients of either sex in the age range of 18-70 years with acute low back pain. The patients were randomized to receive either aceclofenac (100 mg)-tizanidine (2 mg) b.i.d or aceclofenac (100 mg) alone b.i.d for 7 days. The primary efficacy outcomes were pain intensity (on movement, at rest and at night; on VAS scale) and pain relief (on a 5-point verbal rating scale). The secondary efficacy outcomes measures included functional impairment (modified Schober's test and lateral body bending test) and patient's and investigator's global efficacy assessment. aceclofenac-tizanidine was significantly superior to aceclofenac for pain intensity (on movement, at rest and at night; P < 0.05) and pain relief (P = 0.00) on days 3 and 7. There was significant increase in spinal flexion in both the groups from baseline on days 3 and 7 with significant difference in favour of the combination group (P < 0.05). There were significantly more number of patients with excellent to good response for the aceclofenac-tizanidine treatment as compared to aceclofenac alone (P = 0.00). Both the treatments were well tolerated. In this study, aceclofenac-tizanidine combination was more effective than aceclofenac alone and had a favourable safety profile in the treatment of acute low back pain.
A case report of a male presenting with a gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) induced coma at a gay-oriented dance event is reported. A friend accompanying the patient reported that when the patient started to become stuporous, he attempted to revive him with intranasally administered aliquots of crystal methamphetamine. Such treatment partially counters the hypotonia of GHB induced coma, resulting in "automatic" movements by the patient; however, it does not reverse the cognitive effects of the drug. The result increases the difficulty of medical management. The authors report the physical findings and implications for increased difficulty in managing such patients.
Forty-four patients with uncomplicated systemic hypertension underwent 48-hour electrocardiographic monitoring before and after four weeks of treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, 100 mg daily. Plasma potassium concentration decreased from 4.07 +/- 0.26 mmol/L (4.07 +/- 0.26 mEq/L) to 3.36 +/- 0.44 mmol/L (3.36 +/- 0.44 mEq/L). The average number of premature ventricular contractions, couplets, or ventricular tachycardia episodes did not change significantly. Twenty patients had more than minimal ventricular ectopy (class 2 to 5) before and 17 after diuretic therapy. Further analysis revealed that following diuretic therapy, neither patients with plasma potassium levels of 3.4 mmol/L or less (less than or equal to 3.4 mEq/L) nor patients with left ventricular hypertrophy had increased ectopy as compared with baseline. At baseline, patients with left ventricular hypertrophy had more arrhythmias than patients without. We conclude that the results of this study provide no evidence that diuretic therapy or diuretic-induced hypokalemia results in increased ventricular ectopy, and that patients with left ventricular hypertrophy may have more ventricular ectopy than patients without, but these arrhythmias are not adversely effected by diuretic therapy.
To investigate the effect of Jianpi Yiqi Qingyou decoction on lymphocyte subsets and IL-2 mRNA in gastric tissue in rats with chronic superficial gastritis.
Wistar rats were randomly divided into 6 groups (11 for each): a blank control groups, the model of the control groups, the treatment groups (low-dose groups of traditional Chinese medicine, moderate-dose groups of traditional Chinese medicine, high-dose groups of traditional Chinese medicine) and lansoprazole groups. The models were made with the method in reference except a blank control groups. These rats are drinking freely with 0. 02% ammonia, continuous 90 days, and made preparations for experimental animal model of superficial gastritis. Making the model were detected by HE dying. The count of CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were detected by immunohistochemistry. Using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), the expression levels of IL-2 mRNA in gastric tissue were quantified.
Compared with that in model groups, the content of CD3+ T cells and CD4+ T cells in gastric tissue obviously increased in high dose of traditional Chinese medicine groups , the content of CD8+ T cells in gastric tissue obviously decreased in high dose of traditional Chinese medicine groups and the difference was significant (P < 0.01). The expression levels of IL-2 mRNA in gastric tissue obviously increased in moderate and high doses of traditional Chinese medicine groups, and the difference was significant compared with that in model group (P < 0.01).
Jianpi Yiqi Qingyou decoction can obviously improve the content of CD3+ T cells and CD4+ T cells and the expression levels of IL-2 mRNA, decrease the content of CD8+ T cells in gastric tissue, improve immunity of rats. So the research results can provide some evidences for the treatment for chronic superficial gastritis.
Hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) is a limiting side effect of chemotherapy with ifosfamide (IFS). In this study, we investigated the participation of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) upon ifosfamide-induced HC.
Male Wistar rats (150-200 g; six rats per group) were treated with saline, IFS (400 mg/kg, i.p.) and analyzed by changes in bladder wet weight, macroscopic and microscopic parameters, and COX-2 expression. In other groups etoricoxib (selective COX-2 inhibitor), indomethacin (non-selective COX inhibitor), thalidomide (selective TNF-alpha inhibitor), pentoxifyllin (non-selective TNF-alpha inhibitor) were added 1 h before IFS administration. The classical protocol using three doses of Mesna was also evaluated and compared with two extra doses of etoricoxib or indomethacin.
COX-2 was expressed significantly 24 h after IFS administration mainly in myofibroblasts and mast cells evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Treatment 1 h before IFS injection with etoricoxib, indomethacin, thalidomide, and pentoxifylline reduced COX-2 expression and some macroscopic and microscopic parameters in IFS-induced HC. Moreover, addition of etoricoxib or indomethacin with the last two doses of Mesna was more efficient than three doses of Mesna alone when evaluated microscopically.
COX-2 participates in the pathogenesis of IFS-induced HC and the treatment with COX and TNF-alpha inhibitors reduced COX-2 expression. The addition of COX-inhibitors to the last two doses of Mesna represents a new therapeutic strategy of preventing HC.
Epidemiologic studies have revealed a decreased risk of colon cancer among people who have regularly taken cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors such as aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Whereas the selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib and exisulind, a metabolic product of sulindac, have gained increasing attention as efficacious chemopreventive agents against colon and prostate cancer, not much is known about the underlying molecular targets and mechanisms. Moreover, the side effects of NSAIDs are a major obstacle for large-scale application to the prevention of cancer in humans; for example, in the United States in 1998, there were 16,550 deaths from NSAID-induced gastrointestinal complications. The toxicity associated with these compounds is raising concerns, and more needs to be known about their mode of action and molecular targets.
We used the transgenic mouse prostate (TRAMP) model, which exhibits similarities with human prostate cancer, including epithelial origin, progression from the PIN stage to adenocarcinoma, and metastasis by a transgene that is hormonally regulated by androgens. In addition to histologically analyzing the PIN lesions of the dorsolateral prostate from TRAMP mice, we delineated the molecular targets and mechanisms of celecoxib and exisulind against mouse PIN lesions. We performed Western blot analysis of the total protein lysate from the tissues of mouse PIN lesions to measure the level of expression of androgen receptor, vascular endothelial growth factor, nuclear factor-kappaB p65, BclII, AKT (total and phosphorylated Ser473), p53, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21WAF1/CIP1, p27, BAX, and caspase-3 to demonstrate the COX-2-independent mechanism involved in the inhibition of PIN lesions of the dorsolateral prostate by both celecoxib and exisulind.
We found for the first time that (a) both celecoxib and exisulind as dietary supplements induce strong inhibitory effects against prostate cancer at doses of 800 and 500 ppm, respectively, after 16 weeks; (b) the histologic analysis of the dorsolateral prostate after 2 weeks of treatment indicated a reduction of PIN lesions from 75% to 19% with celecoxib and to 16% with exisulind; (c) more importantly, those few PINs and adenocarcinomas in the groups treated with celecoxib or exisulind showed more apoptotic cells, lower levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen, and a lower number of mitotic cells. To understand the molecular mechanisms involved in the inhibition of PIN lesions, first, we examined the expression of molecular targets involved in angiogenesis and inflammatory processes. It was clearly evident from Western blot analysis of the total protein lysate derived from the dorsolateral prostate tissues with PIN lesions that expression of androgen receptor, vascular endothelial growth factor, nuclear factor-kappaB p65, and BclII is down-regulated more effectively by celecoxib. Down-regulation of AKT protein (total and phosphorylated at Ser473) signaling by celecoxib clearly indicates an inhibition of the survival gene and the pathological process that could otherwise lead to adenocarcinoma.
Overall, the findings from this study clearly show the effectiveness of celecoxib and exisulind in reducing the PIN lesions by modulating a cascade of molecular targets involved in COX-2-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Whereas these agents are already in clinical trial or in use as chemopreventive agents, findings from this study demonstrate the difference in their mode of action, thus helping us to understand the side effects.
Estrogens exert positive effects on the quantity and quality of bone, including the maintenance of osteocytes through the inhibition of their apoptosis. Ideally, selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) confer all of the positive bone-associated effects of estrogens without any adverse effects. In a similar way to estrogen, the raloxifene analog LY 117018 has been shown to prevent bone loss in ovariectomized (OVX) rats. In this study, we investigated whether the osteocyte-sparing effect of 17beta-estradiol can be mimicked by the SERM LY 117018 in a rat model of OVX. Twenty-four juvenile female rats were divided into four treatment groups: sham-operated (SHAM), OVX, OVX + 17beta-estradiol (OVX+E(2)), and OVX + LY 117018 (OVX+SERM). At 7 or 14 days following the start of treatment, the radius and ulna were removed. The percentage of apoptotic osteocytes, determined using an in situ nick-translation method, was increased (2.5-fold at 7 days and sixfold at 14 days) in the OVX group compared with SHAM in both the radius and ulna. Treatment of OVX animals with either 17beta-estradiol at a dose rate of 0.125 mg/kg/day or LY 117018 at a dose rate of 3 mg/kg/day prevented these increases in osteocyte apoptosis similarly. These observations demonstrate that LY 117018 exerts a powerful inhibitory effect upon osteocyte apoptosis directly after estrogen loss, in a similar way to the known effect of 17beta-estradiol replacement. These results point to the potential benefits of SERMs on both the quantity and quality of bone in E(2)-depleted rats.
To determine the impact of a strategy using enoxaparin for up to 8 days compared with unfractionated heparin (UFH) for 48 h as an adjunct to fibrinolysis for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) on 1-year clinical outcomes.
Follow-up at 1 year (n = 20 275) was conducted by telephone in the ExTRACT-TIMI 25 trial to ascertain the endpoints of death, MI, and disabling stroke. The primary endpoint of death or non-fatal MI occurred in 1614 (15.8%) and 1732 (17.0%) of patients allocated to enoxaparin and UFH, respectively [hazard ratio (HR) 0.92, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.86-0.98, P = 0.01]. The enoxaparin strategy significantly reduced non-fatal MI at 1 year (5.7 vs. 6.8%, HR 0.82, 95% CI 0.73-0.92, P < 0.001). The risks of death (10.5 vs. 10.6%, HR 0.98, 95% CI 0.91-1.07) and disabling stroke (1.1 vs. 1.2%, HR 0.97, 95% CI 0.75-1.26) were not reduced. The composite of death, MI, or disabling stroke favoured enoxaparin (HR 0.91, 95% CI 0.85-0.98, P = 0.007).
Compared with UFH for 48 h, a strategy using enoxaparin as an adjunct to fibrinolysis resulted in a sustained reduction in death or MI at 1 year with no additional benefit after 30 days. Mortality was not reduced at 1 year with the enoxaparin strategy. The study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00077792.
An 11-mo-old child with primary hyperoxaluria was scheduled for a nephroureteromia procedure. Anesthesia was induced and maintained with sevoflurane. Two days after the operation, a hepatomegaly was diagnosed, and a considerable increase in liver enzymes was observed. These pathologic findings disappeared without treatment within 7 days. In a subsequent operation 2 wk later, general anesthesia was performed (sevoflurane was avoided). After the second operation, no pathologic findings could be detected. Nothing in this patient's disease or the conduct of the anesthesia suggested a cause for the injury other than an idiosyncratic response to sevoflurane.
To identify new susceptibility loci for psoriasis, we undertook a genome-wide association study of 594,224 SNPs in 2,622 individuals with psoriasis and 5,667 controls. We identified associations at eight previously unreported genomic loci. Seven loci harbored genes with recognized immune functions (IL28RA, REL, IFIH1, ERAP1, TRAF3IP2, NFKBIA and TYK2). These associations were replicated in 9,079 European samples (six loci with a combined P < 5 × 10⁻⁸ and two loci with a combined P < 5 × 10⁻⁷). We also report compelling evidence for an interaction between the HLA-C and ERAP1 loci (combined P = 6.95 × 10⁻⁶). ERAP1 plays an important role in MHC class I peptide processing. ERAP1 variants only influenced psoriasis susceptibility in individuals carrying the HLA-C risk allele. Our findings implicate pathways that integrate epidermal barrier dysfunction with innate and adaptive immune dysregulation in psoriasis pathogenesis.
We present the case of a 17-year-old male who was diagnosed at birth with hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI). The patient complained of morning-time asthenia and post-prandial drowsiness despite a correct sleep pattern. The physical examination and biological check-up only showed severe vitamin C deficiency (<10 mol/l; normal range: 26-84). The patient's tiredness was attributed to this vitamin C deficiency, which is a frequent side-affect of the fructose-free diet. A change in diet associated with a supplementation in vitamin C was advised, with an increase in vegetable intake, principally avoiding carrots, onions, leaks and tinned sweet-corn. This case offers the opportunity for a review of this rare disease. Two kinds of fructose metabolism disorders (both autosomal recessive) are recognized: 1) essential fructosuria caused by a deficiency of fructokinase, which has no clinical consequence and requires no dietary treatment; 2) HFI, linked to three main mutations identified in aldolase B gene that may be confirmed by fructose breath test, intravenous fructose tolerance test, and genetic testing. In HFI, fructose ingestion generally induces gastro-intestinal (nausea and vomiting, abdominal pain, meteorism) and hypoglycemic symptoms. Fasting is well tolerated. If the condition remains undiagnosed, it leads to liver disease with hepatomegaly, proximal tubular dysfunction, and slow growth and weight gain. In conclusion, endocrinologists should be aware of this rare metabolic disease in order to provide careful follow-up, particularly important when the patient reaches adulthood. Moreover, hypoglycemia induced by fructose absorption, unexplained liver disease, irritable bowel syndrome or familial gout in an adult is suggestive of the diagnosis.
The safety and efficacy of twice-daily applications of alclometasone dipropionate cream 0.05% were evaluated in 39 children with eczema during a three-week open study. Early-morning plasma cortisol levels were monitored at weekly intervals (visits 1, 2, and 3) for six children. For the remaining 33 children, levels were measured at visits 1 and 2 and two weeks later, at visit 4. Improvement in signs and symptoms of erythema, induration, and pruritus and a global response to therapy were determined weekly. Plasma cortisol levels remained within the acceptable normal range of 7 to 25 micrograms/100 ml throughout the study in all 39 children. At the conclusion of treatment, a favorable global response--complete clearing of monitored signs and symptoms--was observed in 28 (72%) children, and marked or moderate improvement was recorded for seven (18%) children.
Cardiac surgery has been associated with a significant incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV). To assess the antiemetic property of midazolam, we undertook this double-blinded, randomized trial in 200 patients undergoing cardiac surgery involving cardiopulmonary bypass, and we compared its efficacy with that of ondansetron in preventing PONV. Assessments on the occurrence of PONV were made at regular intervals for the first 24 h after tracheal extubation, along with sedation and pain scoring. We report a 6% incidence of nausea and no incidence of vomiting in the midazolam group, compared with a 21% incidence of PONV in the ondansetron group (P < 0.001). All 21 patients (18 women and 3 men) in the ondansetron group and none of the 6 patients (all women) in the midazolam group required a rescue antiemetic drug (P < 0.001). The sedation scores and postoperative pain scores were comparable in both groups. We conclude that midazolam, instituted as a continuous infusion in a dose of 0.02 mg. kg(-1). h(-1), is a more effective antiemetic than ondansetron in a dose of 0.1 mg/kg IV every 6 h for the prevention of PONV after cardiac surgery.
Recreational use of cocaine dates back to the Incas in South America 5000 years ago. Cocaine is derived from the leaves of Erythroxylon coca, a shrub native to South America. In the late 1800s, Sigmund Freud popularized the drug in Europe. He used cocaine to treat depression, asthma, cachexia, and for overcoming morphine addiction. Also in this period cocaine rapidly gained acceptance in surgical procedures as a local anesthetic and vasoconstrictor. Cocaine reached the United States in the early 1900s, and its popularity led President Taft to declare it public enemy number one in 1910. Cocaine became popular again in the 1980s. Currently cocaine use is responsible for more ED visits then any of the other illicit drugs. Because most cocaine users are young, they are at a lower risk for coronary artery atherosclerotic disease. An estimated 25 million people between the ages of 26 and 34 years have used cocaine at least once, 20% were women and 30% men. Habitual users of cocaine are estimated to number 1.5 million. Most cocaine-induced chest pains do not progress to MI, and in fact many originate in the chest wall. The chest pains due to cocaine, however, are induced by myocardial ischemia, a result of vasospasm and not a thrombotic occlusion of a coronary artery that has a ruptured atheromatous plaque. ECG findings can be misleading in the diagnosis because the early repolarization syndrome, a normal variant, is a frequent finding in young African American men. Measurement of cardiac troponin levels is the most reliable diagnostic test. Percutaneous coronary intervention and angioplasty, rather than thrombolysis, is the treatment of choice because intense coronary vasospasm is the primary pathophysiology in cocaine-induced MI.
The case of a 12-yr-old male exposed to a substantial amount of dicofol, a DDT analog, is presented. The patient was still contaminated 3 wk after exposure. Blood and fat analysis documented the presence of dicofol. The patient demonstrated subjective and objective evidence of neurological injury, which resolved. Other organ injury was not present. Cognitive and emotional difficulties persisted over an 18-mo period.
A 34-year-old female with an 8-month history of systemic lupus erythematosus and intermittent naproxen use presented with acute oliguric renal failure, hypoalbuminemia, 4+ proteinuria, and an active urinary sediment. The clinical picture suggested a rapidly progressive lupus glomerulonephritis. Renal biopsy, however, demonstrated chronic, active interstitial nephritis without evidence of immune deposits by immunofluorescence or electron microscopy. Nonsclerotic glomeruli revealed diffuse foot process fusion without cellular proliferation. These findings were consistent with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug induced nephropathy. Discontinuation of naproxen and institution of corticosteroid therapy was followed by improvement in renal function and remission of nephrotic syndrome. This case represents the first report of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug nephropathy associated with systemic lupus erythematosus.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease of the central nervous system characterized by two major lesions: extracellular senile plaques and intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles. beta-Amyloid (Abeta) is known to play a major role in the pathogenesis of AD. Protein synthesis and especially translation initiation are modulated by different factors, including the PKR/eIF2 and the mTOR/p70S6K pathways. mRNA translation is altered in the brain of AD patients. Very little is known about the translation control mediated by mTOR in AD, although mTOR is a central regulator of translation initiation and also ribosome biogenesis and cell growth and proliferation. In this study, by using Western blotting, we show that mTOR pathway is down-regulated by Abeta treatment in human neuroblastoma cells, and the underlying mechanism explaining a transient activation of p70S6K is linked to cross-talk between mTOR and ERK1/2 at this kinase level. This phenomenon is associated with caspase-3 activation, and inhibition of mTOR by the inhibitor rapamycin enhances Abeta-induced cell death. Moreover, in our cell model, insulin-like growth factor-1 is able to increase markedly the p70S6K phosphorylation controlled by mTOR and reduces the caspase-3 activity, but its protective effect on Abeta cell death is mediated via an mTOR-independent pathway. These results demonstrate that mTOR plays an important role as a cellular survival pathway in Abeta toxicity and could represent a possible target for modulating Abeta toxicity.
A 71-year-old hypertensive patient experienced a severe hypertensive crisis. His blood pressure was 300/200 mm Hg three days after nifedipine therapy was discontinued. He had been taking nifedipine together with methyldopa. During five months on the combined treatment, his blood pressure had not risen higher than 170/100 mm Hg. A severe hypertensive crisis following abrupt nifedipine withdrawal has not been previously reported, to our knowledge. We recommend that caution be used when abrupt cessation of nifedipine therapy is considered in the treatment of hypertension.
Resveratrol, a polyphenol from grapes and red wine has many health beneficial effects, including protection against cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. However, our group and others have provided evidence for a dual cancer promoting or inhibitory role for resveratrol in breast cancer, dependent on estrogenic or antiestrogenic activities. Moreover, much of the inhibitory effects of resveratrol have been reported from studies with high non-physiological concentrations.
We investigated the effects of a range of concentrations (0.5, 5, 50 mg/kg body weight) of resveratrol on mammary tumor development post-initiation, using immunocompromised mice.
Our findings suggest promotion of mammary tumor growth and metastasis by resveratrol at all concentrations tested in tumors derived from the low metastatic estrogen receptor (ER)α(-), ERβ(+) MDA-MB-231 and the highly metastatic ER(-) MDA-MB-435 cancer cell lines. Additionally, the activity of the migration/invasion regulator Rac, which we have previously shown to be regulated by resveratrol in vitro, was measured in tumors from resveratrol treated mice. Our results show a significant induction of tumoral Rac activity and a trend in increased expression of the Rac downstream effector PAK1 and other tumor promoting molecules following resveratrol treatment.
Taken together, our findings implicate low concentrations of resveratrol in potential promotion of breast cancer. Therefore, this study illuminates the importance of further delineating resveratrol's concentration dependent effects, particularly in breast cancer, before it can be tested in the clinic or used as a dietary supplement for breast cancer patients.
To compare the pharmaceutical properties and the anti-tumor activities of three kinds of stealth liposomes prepared with different phospholipid composition containing brucine.
Stealth liposomes with different phospholipids composition, such as soybean phosphatidycholine (SPC), hydrogenated soybean phosphatidylcholine (HSPC) and the complex of SPC and HSPC, were prepared by ammonium sulfate transmembrane gradient method. Pharmaceutical properties such as shape, encapsulation efficiency and size of three stealth liposomes were compared intensively. Anti-tumor activity of SPC, HSPC and novel stealth liposomes composed of both SPC and HSPC were compared by established mouse liver cancer H22 model. Meanwhile, the mice body weight and immune organ weight were also compared.
The encapsulation efficiency of novel, SPC and HSPC stealth liposomes were 77.7%, 64.8% and 74.8%, respectively. The mean diameters of them were less than 100 nm. The tumor inhibition rate of novel, HSPC and SPC stealth liposomes were 57.88%, 49.15%, 23.37%, respectively. The mice body weight, thymus gland index of three stealth liposomes group and spleen index of novel stealth liposomes group had no significant difference with the negative group while SPC and HSPC stealth liposomes group increased the spleen index.
Phospholipids composition is the key factor which determines the antitumor activity of brucine-loaded stealth liposomes.
