Cessation of daily caffeine consumption produces a withdrawal syndrome comprised of subjective symptoms and functional impairment. Few controlled studies have examined the physiological effects of caffeine withdrawal.
The present study examined the effect of caffeine withdrawal on cerebral blood flow velocity and quantitative EEG.
Ten volunteers reporting moderate caffeine intake (mean 333 mg/day) participated in this double-blind study. Subjects completed several tests when maintaining their normal diet (baseline period) and during two 1-day periods during which they consumed caffeine-free diets and received capsules containing placebo (placebo test session) or caffeine (caffeine test session) in amounts equal to their baseline daily caffeine consumption. Blood flow velocity was determined for four arteries: right and left middle (MCA), and right and left anterior (ACA) cerebral arteries using pulsed transcranial Doppler sonography. EEG was recorded for 3 min from eight scalp sites while subjects sat, with eyes closed, in a sound-attenuated electronically shielded chamber. Subjective effects were assessed with questionnaires.
Results showed an effect of the placebo (21-h withdrawal) condition compared to the caffeine condition. Placebo significantly increased the mean velocity, systolic velocity and diastolic velocity (cm/s) in all four cerebral arteries. In the MCA, the pulsatility index was significantly decreased following placebo. Placebo significantly increased EEG theta power. Placebo also produces subjective effect changes, including increases in heavy feelings in arms and legs and decreases in ability to concentrate. The caffeine and baseline conditions produced similar results on both the physiological and subjective measures.
Cessation of daily caffeine consumption produced changes in cerebral blood flow velocity and quantitative EEG. These changes may be related to classic caffeine withdrawal symptoms of headache, drowsiness and decreased alertness.
The ankyrin-repeat transient receptor potential 1 (TRPA1) has been implicated in pathological conditions of the bladder, but its role in overactive bladder (OAB) following spinal cord injury (SCI) remains unknown. In this study, using a rat SCI model, we assessed the relevance of TRPA1 in OAB induced by SCI. SCI resulted in tissue damage, inflammation, and changes in bladder contractility and in voiding behavior. Moreover, SCI caused upregulation of TRPA1 protein and mRNA levels, in bladder and in dorsal root ganglion (DRG; L6-S1), but not in corresponding segment of spinal cord. Alteration in bladder contractility following SCI was evidenced by enhancement in cinnamaldehyde-, capsaicin-, or carbachol-induced bladder contraction as well as in its spontaneous phasic activity. Of relevance to voiding behavior, SCI induced increase in the number of nonvoiding contractions (NVCs), an important parameter associated with the OAB etiology, besides alterations in other urodynamic parameters. HC-030031 (TRPA1 antagonist) treatment decreased the number and the amplitude of NVCs while the TRPA1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (AS-ODN) treatment normalized the spontaneous phasic activity, decreased the cinnamaldehyde-induced bladder contraction and the number of NVCs in SCI rats. In addition, the cinnamaldehyde-induced bladder contraction was reduced by exposure of the bladder preparations to HC-030031. The efficacy of TRPA1 AS-ODN treatment was confirmed by means of the reduction of TRPA1 expression in the DRG, in the corresponding segment of the spinal cord and in the bladder, specifically in detrusor muscle. The present data show that the TRPA1 activation and upregulation seem to exert an important role in OAB following SCI.
The rat has been shown to be resistant to the inotropic action of milrinone. We compared in conscious rats, the effects of an i.v. infusion of milrinone (0.3 mg/kg/min), a phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor to those of nitroprusside (50 micrograms/kg/min), a pure vasodilator, on blood pressure and dP/dtmax to determine whether or not an inherent positive inotropic effect of milrinone is offset by its powerful hypotensive action. For the first 10 min of infusion, we found no differences in dP/dtmax, (the first derivative of the left ventricular pressure (LVP), an index of contractility) for equihypotensive doses of milrinone or nitroprusside. A second objective of this study was to determine if milrinone-induced ventricular fibrillation (VF) is due to cardiac ischemia which could be associated with the profound hypotension induced by the drug. Milrinone infusion was accompanied by a significant QTc interval (QT corrected for heart rate) prolongation. VF and death occurred in 5/6 rats at total doses varying from 3.6 to 20.1 mg/kg infused over 12 to 67 min respectively. Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) were noted in all 6 milrinone infused rats during the first min. of infusion. No arrhythmias were noted during the 2 hour i.v. infusion with nitroprusside. A direct action on the heart is postulated to explain, at least partially, the milrinone-induced VF since nitroprusside had a similar hypotensive action but no effect on the ECG. We conclude that the rat, in analogy to patients with severe cardiac failure, might be resistant to the inotropic action of milrinone but is sensitive to its vasodilatory and arrhythmogenic effects.
The role of trivalent arsenic (As(3+)) on the regulation of the recently identified noncoding small RNAs, mainly microRNAs, has not been explored so far. In the present study, we provide evidence showing that As(3+) is a potent inducer for the expression of miR-190 in human bronchial epithelial cells. The induction of miR-190 by As(3+) is concentration dependent and associated with the expression of the host gene of miR-190, talin 2, a gene encoding a high-molecular-weight cytoskeletal protein. The elevated level of miR-190 induced by As(3+) is capable of downregulating the translation of the PH domain leucine-rich repeat protein phosphatase (PHLPP), a negative regulator of Akt signaling. Such a downregulation is occurred through direct interaction of the miR-190 with the 3'-UTR region of the PHLPP mRNA, leading to a diminished PHLPP protein expression and consequently, an enhanced Akt activation and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor, an Akt-regulated protein. Overexpression of miR-190 itself is able to enhance proliferation and malignant transformation of the cells as determined by anchorage-independent growth of the cells in soft agar. Accordingly, the data presented suggest that induction of miR-190 is one of the key mechanisms in As(3+)-induced carcinogenesis.
Clofibrate, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPAR alpha) agonist, increases renal tubular cytochrome P450 4a (Cyp4a) expression thereby increasing 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE) production. To determine if clofibrate affects blood pressure regulation we studied mice with DOCA-salt induced hypertension in wild-type and PPAR alpha knockout mice. Wild-type mice treated with DOCA-salt had higher mean arterial pressures and higher cumulative sodium balance, but lower renal 20-HETE production than did vehicle-treated mice. Treating DOCA-salt mice with clofibrate attenuated the increase in mean arterial pressure and cumulative sodium balance while increasing 20-HETE production and renal Cyp4a expression. In contrast the PPAR alpha knockout mice treated with clofibrate and DOCA-salt showed no attenuation in the increase of blood pressure, cumulative sodium balance, renal 20-HETE production or Cyp4a protein expression. Expression of the PPAR alpha protein was greater in proximal tubules than in renal microvessels. Our results show that PPAR alpha pathway induces renal tubular 20-HETE production which affects sodium retention and blood pressure regulation in DOCA-salt-treated mice.
3-5% of patients taking the 5HT1D agonist sumatriptan for migraine have chest discomfort, suggesting a cardiac origin. We have investigated an alternative explanation of an oesophageal cause in 24 volunteers after the subcutaneous administration of a supratherapeutic dose of sumatriptan (16 mg) or placebo in a randomised, double-blind crossover study. Sumatriptan did not alter the electrocardiogram but increased the amplitude (p < 0.001) and duration (p < 0.001) of oesophageal contractions without affecting velocity of propagation. Clinically abnormal motility was also increased (p = 0.001), and was more common in the 5 subjects with chest pain after sumatriptan. The effect of sumatriptan on oesophageal function provides an alternative explanation for the chest symptoms.
In hypercholesterolemic and hypertensive patients, an increased propensity of their low-density lipoprotein (LDL) to oxidative modification has been observed. Because oxidized LDL (ox-LDL) plays a major role in atherosclerosis, the current study analyzed the anti-oxidative effect of valsartan (an angiotensin II receptor antagonist) therapy in combination with fluvastatin therapy in these patients. Administration of 40 mg/d of fluvastatin for 2 months to seven patients resulted in significant reduction in plasma total and LDL cholesterol (by 24-28%). Valsartan administration (80 mg/d for an additional 2-month period) in combination with fluvastatin did not further affect plasma cholesterol levels. Fluvastatin therapy inhibited the susceptibility of LDL to copper ion-induced oxidation, as shown by prolongation of the lag time by 22% and by a reduction of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) levels by 14%, as compared with the patient's LDL baseline oxidation. The addition of valsartan to fluvastatin resulted in a further 17% prolongation of the lag time and in an additional reduction of 21% in TBARS levels. In a parallel study, the LDL from eight patients who were first treated with 80 mg/d of valsartan for 2 months demonstrated reduced susceptibility to copper ion-induced oxidation, as observed by prolongation of lag time by 23% and reduction in TBARS levels by 19%, compared with the baseline values. The administration of 40 mg/d of fluvastatin for an additional 2 months in combination with valsartan, however, demonstrated no further inhibitory effect on LDL oxidation. The anti-oxidative properties of fluvastatin and valsartan against LDL oxidation were also demonstrated in vitro and the combination of both drugs was shown to have an additive effect. Valsartan therapy in hypercholesterolemic and hypertensive patients has an additive anti-oxidative effect to that of fluvastatin therapy. This may be related both to the anti-oxidative properties of valsartan and to the blocking of angiotensin II-induced oxidative stress.
Previous investigations have shown that areca nut extracts (ANE) or arecoline (ARE) causes DNA damage, which in turn contributes to oral cell carcinogenesis. To understand the role of microRNA (miRNA) in ANE-associated carcinogenesis, miRNA expression profile was examined in ANE-treated normal human oral fibroblasts. Among the miRNAs changed by ANE exposure, we found that ANE-induced miR-23a overexpression was correlated with an increase of γ-H2AX, a DNA damage marker. In addition, DNA double-strand breaks (DSB) repair that was determined by an in vivo plasmid-based assay was reduced in ANE-treated or miR-23a-overexpressed cells, suggesting the role of miR-23a in DSB repair. FANCG is one of Fanconi anemia susceptibility genes that participate in DSB repair pathway to prevent chromosomal aberrations. FANCG was predicted as a candidate target of miR-23a by TargetScan algorithm. This was confirmed by ectopic overexpression or knockdown of miR-23a. The correlation between miR-23a overexpression and areca nut-chewing habit could also be found in oral cancer patients. Finally, we showed that ANE-induced/ARE-induced miRNAs were significantly associated with the functional categories of "genetic disorders" and "cancer" using network-based analyses. In conclusion, our data showed for the first time that ANE-induced miR-23a was correlated with a reduced FANCG expression and DSB repair, which might contribute to ANE-associated human malignancies.
A 22-year-old man was given 70-75 million I.U. vitamin A by mouth for 38 days as a treatment for psoriasis. But it had to be stopped because of the appearance of typical signs of vitamin A poisoning. Acute renal failure set in nine days later, after hospital admission for cerebral signs. In addition to conventional conservative treatment, seven haemodialyses were undertaken, with complete restitution to normal within 12 days. The skin disease and the cerebral signs predominated, in addition to later anaemia, hypercalcaemia, bone pain, and acute renal failure, the latter confirmed by renal biopsy. There were no histological changes in the liver.
An 18-year-old primipara developed acute hypertension leading to cerebral edema and convulsions following the IV injection of a bolus of 10 units of oxytocin with 0.2 mg methylergonovine maleate. Oxytocin in a dose of more than 2 units should not be administered IV in a single injection, as severe hypotension may result. If oxytocin is required, it can be injected either IM, or by IV pump or drip. The use of ergot in obstetrics should be limited to the treatment of life-threatening postpartum hemorrhage and be given only by the IM route. Ergot should not be administered to patients with cardiac, renal, or hypertensive disease, or in association with a vasoconstrictor.
Amphotericin B (AmphoB) is the drug of choice for treatment of severe fungal illnesses; however, it is very nephrotoxic. Modified (less toxic) amphotericins are very expensive. In low-risk patients, saline loading would be enough to prevent significant loss of renal function.
Patients with normal renal function and within the first 24 hours of treatment with AmphoB were prospectively enrolled in the study. Patients in intensive care units or who were using vasoactive drugs were excluded. Saline loads were infused before and after the AmphoB treatment. Blood and urine analyses were made at the beginning and at the end of the treatment. Serum creatinine was repeated 30 days after the end of the AmphoB treatment.
The mean increase in serum creatinine in the 48 patients was 0.3 (0.18-0.41) mg/dL, due to a mean decrease of 25 (12.8-36.9) mL/min of creatinine clearance (CrCl). Acute renal failure, defined as an increase of more than 50% of the baseline creatinine, occurred in 15 patients (31%). Patients that were on antibiotics, in post-chemotherapy status or those submitted to bone marrow transplantation had the highest risk. Mean serum creatinine and the CrCl levels were no different from baseline values after 30 days.
In low-risk patients, the use of AmphoB with prophylactic sodium chloride loading was associated with a small and reversible decrease in renal function. Due to its high cost the use of more expensive therapies for this type of patient does not seem to be justified.
Cocaine users represent an emergency department (ED) population that has been shown to be at increased risk for acute coronary syndrome (ACS); however, there is controversy about whether this higher risk is mediated through advanced atherosclerosis. Thus, we aimed to determine whether history of cocaine use is associated with ACS and coronary artery disease. In this matched cohort study, we selected patients with a history of cocaine use and age- and gender-matched controls from a large cohort of consecutive patients who presented with acute chest pain to the ED. Coronary atherosclerotic plaque as detected by 64-slice coronary computed tomography was compared between the groups. Among 412 patients, 44 had a history of cocaine use (9%) and were matched to 132 controls (mean age 46 +/- 6 years, 86% men). History of cocaine use was associated with a sixfold higher risk for ACS (odds ratio 5.79, 95% confidence interval 1.24 to 27.02, p = 0.02), but was not associated with a higher prevalence of any plaque, calcified plaque, or noncalcified plaque (all p>0.58) or the presence of significant stenosis (p = 0.09). History of cocaine use was also not associated with the extent of any, calcified, or noncalcified plaque (all p>0.12). These associations persisted after adjustment for other cardiovascular risk factors. In conclusion, in patients presenting to the emergency department with acute chest pain, history of cocaine use is associated with an increase in risk for ACS; however, this was not attributable to a higher presence or extent of coronary atherosclerotic plaque.
The role of the ventral subiculum in cocaine- or cue-induced cocaine-seeking behavior was investigated in rats tested on a between-session reinstatement model. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.25 mg/infusion, i.v.) in a lever-pressing operant task in a daily 2 hr session. Responding was reinforced contingent on a modified fixed-ratio 5 schedule. Reinstatement tests began after the lever-pressing behavior was extinguished in the absence of cocaine and conditioned cues (light and tone). Bilateral microinjections of lidocaine (100 microg) into the ventral subiculum decreased cocaine- or cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior compared with saline microinjections into the same area in another group of rats. Lidocaine microinjections, however, had no effect on cocaine self-administration behavior or food-maintained or food-reinstated responding. Collectively, these results suggest that the ventral subiculum plays an important role in cocaine-seeking behavior. Considering the role of this structure in context learning, our data suggest that the full expression of cocaine- or cue-induced reinstatement may depend on the context in which the cocaine experience occurred.
Vigabatrin is an effective antiepileptic drug for treatment of partial crises with or without generalization. It acts by increasing GABA levels by irreversible inhibition of the enzyme GABA-transaminase. In recent years there have been several reports published on the appearance of alterations of the visual fields of patients treated with this drug.
To study the prevalence and characteristics of the visual field changes associated with vigabatrin treatment in an adult epilepsy clinic.
Ophthalmological examination, consisting of questions about eye symptoms, study of the fundus oculi, Humphrey-type campimetry, protocol 30-2, visual evoked potentials and electroretinogram were done on a group of 10 patients on long-term vigabatrin treatment.
Six of the ten patients (60%) had campimetric alterations, which were serious in two cases (20%). Only the two patients with severe field defects complained of sight changes when questioned and their complaints were mainly of repeatedly bumping into things. In two patients (20%) there was pallor of the optic nerve. In both cases, the patients with severe field defects showed alterations on the electroretinogram. Visual evoked potentials were normal in all cases.
There is a very high prevalence of visual field defects in patients on long-term treatment with vigabatrin. Clinical ophthalmological signs are not usually seen until advanced stages. Pallor of the optic nerve was seen in a group of patients. It is very important that serial campimetric studies are done for early detection of such alterations.
To report on 6 weeks of daptomycin treatment for tricuspid valve endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus aureus in a pregnant female in her second trimester.
A 24-year-old, 14-week pregnant patient with no significant medical history, but with a history of intravenous drug abuse presented with tricuspid valve endocarditis caused by methicillin-sensitive S. aureus. After initial treatment with vancomycin, the patient continued to have fever and bacteremia and was initiated on daptomycin 6 mg/kg for 6 weeks of therapy. The treatment resulted in the resolution of the endocarditis, and no adverse sequelae were identified in the mother or baby.
Infective endocarditis is a common infection encountered in the hospital setting and represents an increased cost burden to institutions due to prolonged lengths of treatment. Antimicrobial resistance, antimicrobial failure, inadequate attainment of effective drug concentrations, drug allergies, and adverse reactions may be factors that limit the use of commonly utilized antimicrobial agents. Therefore, newer therapies like daptomycin may need to be employed in these situations. Although daptomycin is pregnancy category B, limited case reports with neonatal outcomes are reported.
This case provides further support for the safety of daptomycin in pregnancy with the dose of 6 mg/kg, the extended duration of therapy (6 weeks), and the primary exposure in the second trimester.
A 48-year-old immunocompetent women treated with ceftriaxone 2 g daily i.v. for late Lyme borreliosis developed severe haemolytic anaemia. The patient had previously received the same antibiotic two times without any side effects. The first clinical signs began to appear on the seventh day of treatment. The patient developed severe anaemia with a haemoglobin level of 45 mg/l on day 10; thereafter she ceased to receive the antibiotic. The outcome was favourable. The clinical course and serologic results suggest that severe anaemia was induced by ceftriaxone and that drug adsorption as well as immune complex mechanisms were involved in the pathogenesis.
To report a case of hypertrophic cranial pachymeningitis (HCP) associated with the long-term administration of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
A 23-year-old man presented with recurrent headaches as the primary clinical manifestation. After the administration of the NSAIDs indomethacin and aceclofenac for 2 years, he developed signs of progressive cranial polyneuropathies (eg, II, III, V, VI, and VII palsy) and damage to the brainstem. Cranial contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed curvilinear subdural enhancement and significant tentorium cerebelli and falx cerebri enhancements. Since antituberculosis treatment combined with corticosteroid therapy and analgesia with celecoxib for 40 days had not achieved satisfactory results, NSAIDs were discontinued and a single oral dose of a corticosteroid was given. No headaches were reported at a 6-month follow-up appointment. In addition, his cranial polyneuropathy improved significantly. Reexamination by contrast-enhanced MRI scan demonstrated that tentorial enhancement and thickening of the falx cerebri were markedly alleviated.
No additional causes of HCP were found during systematic investigation in this patient. In addition to headache, cranial polyneuropathy and thickened cerebral dura mater appeared after administration of NSAIDs for 2 years. The symptoms that appeared during the NSAID therapy were remarkably alleviated 5 months after medication discontinuation. Adverse drug reaction (ADR) assessment revealed that long-term administration of NSAIDs may be associated with the occurrence and development of HCP.
Long-term administration of NSAIDs is a probable cause of HCP. Clinicians should be aware of this ADR and avoid prescribing NSAIDs for an extended period.
Excitatory movements have been observed during induction of anesthesia with etomidate, thiopental, methohexital, and propofol. We studied the frequency of these excitatory effects and correlated movements with electroencephalographic (EEG) findings in 67 unpremedicated patients (mean age 66.1 yr, range 45-82 yr). Excitatory effects, including myoclonus, tremor, and dystonic posturing, occurred in 86.6% of patients receiving etomidate; 69.2% of the patient responses were myoclonic. Multiple spikes appeared on the EEG in 22.2% of the etomidate patients. The frequency of excitatory effects was 16.6% after thiopental, 12.5% after methohexital, and 5.5% after propofol. None of the patients receiving thiopental, methohexital, or propofol developed myoclonic or seizure activity. In most patients, the excitatory movements were coincident with the early slow phase of the EEG which corresponds to the beginning of deep anesthesia. We conclude that perhaps caution should be exercised when administering etomidate to patients with a history of seizures as the myoclonic activity is associated with seizure activity. The incidence of excitatory movements after administration of propofol is very low.
A 24-year-old woman was followed for about ten months with oral administration of prednisolone (22.5-35 mg/d) for autoimmune hepatitis. In June 1995, she noticed fatigue and appetite loss and blood chemistry revealed markedly deteriorated liver function. She was admitted to our hospital. The daily dose of prednisolone was increased to 60 mg. Her elevated levels of transaminases decreased gradually. Administration of azathioprine (100 mg/d) was started with tapering of prednisolone on August 18th. Ten days later, tender cervical lymphadenopathy and high fever occurred. Azathioprine administration was stopped immediately and intravenous antibiotics were given. On September 5th, 50 mg of azathioprine was administered again. Two hours later, the patient complained of intolerable pain from the lumbar region to the knee joints, which subsided following two injections of analgesics within a few hours. However, chills, high fever and hypotension (86/30 mmHg) subsequently developed. No bacterial growth was detected in blood culture. She was discharged on September 12th. On October 4th, she visited our out-patient clinic. The next day, she took one tablet (50 mg) of azathioprine at 10 o'clock. She noted intense pain from the thighs to the knees and calves around noon again. Her home doctor found that she exhibited shock (BP 67/?). She was immediately taken to our department. The same symptoms and signs as the above-mentioned occurred. Azathioprine was considered responsible for these two adverse reactions (shock) as an allergen. Later, systemic lupus eythematosus was diagnosed in 1996. And she died to pulmonary hypertension in May 1999. Physicians should be aware of the potential adverse effect of azathioprine administered in order to manage the patients with autoimmune disorders.
Local application of exogenous nitric oxide donors, such as isosorbide dinitrate and glyceryl trinitrate, promotes fissure healing by reducing anal resting pressure and improving anodermal blood flow. The major drawback of these nitric oxide donors is headache. The overall incidence of this side effect is approximately 40 percent. Recently we have shown in healthy volunteers that L-arginine, being an intrinsic precursor of nitric oxide, reduces anal resting pressure without headache as a side effect. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of L-arginine on anal resting pressure, anodermal blood flow, and fissure healing in patients with chronic anal fissure.
Fifteen patients with a chronic anal fissure were included in the present study. Before entering the study 10 patients were unsuccessfully treated by local application of isosorbide dinitrate. Six of these patients experienced severe headache during treatment with isosorbide dinitrate. All patients were treated for at least 12 weeks by local application of a gel containing L-arginine 400 mg/ml five times a day. In patients with a persistent fissure, treatment was continued until 18 weeks. Anal manometry and laser Doppler flowmetry of the anoderm were performed before treatment, 20 minutes after local application of the first dose, and after 12 weeks of treatment. A visual analog scale was used to assess fissure-related pain and headache.
One patient dropped out after one day of treatment, and one was excluded because of violation of the study protocol. After 12 weeks of treatment complete fissure healing was observed in 3 of 13 (23 percent) patients, and after 18 weeks the healing rate was 8 of 13 (62 percent) patients. None of the 13 patients experienced typical nitric oxide-induced headache. The pressure recordings showed a significant reduction of maximum anal resting pressure (mean +/- SD): pretreatment 89 +/- 17 mmHg; 20 minutes after application of the first dose 67 +/- 17 mmHg; 12 weeks after treatment 74 +/- 14 mmHg (P < 0.005). Recordings of anodermal blood flow showed a significant increase in flow: pretreatment 0.36 +/- 0.25 volts; 20 minutes after application of the first dose 0.59 +/- 0.27; 12 weeks after treatment 0.64 +/- 0.33 (P < 0.005).
Local application of L-arginine promotes fissure healing without headache as a side effect, and L-arginine is effective even in patients not responding to isosorbide dinitrate treatment.
Cocaine abuse is associated with a number of cardiovascular complications that include arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death. Although the mechanism(s) remain unclear, cocaine-induced block of sodium channels resulting in slowed cardiac conduction is thought to play an important role. Several reports suggest that the effects of cocaine effects on cardiac sodium channels can be reversed by administration of sodium bicarbonate. Whether the beneficial effects of sodium bicarbonate are due to sodium ions or an increase in blood pH is unknown. Therefore the purpose of this study was to compare the effects of sodium loading alone (by using sodium chloride) versus sodium loading with an associated increase in arterial pH (by using sodium bicarbonate) on reversing cocaine-induced effects on the electrocardiogram (ECG) in a canine model. Seventeen anesthetized dogs received three i.v. injections of cocaine, 5 mg/kg, with each dose separated by 15 min. Two minutes after the third cocaine dose, each dog was randomly assigned to receive 2 mEq/kg i.v. sodium bicarbonate (1 mEq/ml) or 2 mEq/kg i.v. sodium chloride (1 mEq/ml). ECG, electrophysiologic, and hemodynamic data were recorded at baseline, after each cocaine injection, and after administration of sodium bicarbonate or sodium chloride. In both groups of animals, the first cocaine injection significantly (p < 0.05) prolonged the PR, QTc, AH, and HV intervals, and QRS duration compared with baseline. All intervals continued to lengthen in a dose-dependent manner after the second and third cocaine doses. Sodium bicarbonate significantly (p < 0.05) reduced cocaine-induced prolongation of PR [(147 +/- 5-130 +/- 5 ms), AH (81 +/- 6 - 72 +/- 6 ms), and HV intervals (55 +/- 2 - 39 +/- 1 ms). and QRS duration (96 +/- 6 - 66 +/- 4 ms), peak effect after third cocaine dose versus after sodium bicarbonate, respectively]. Sodium chloride had no effect on reversing cocaine-induced effects on the ECG. Cocaine produces dose-dependent slowing of cardiac conduction that is effectively reversed by sodium bicarbonate. The lack of efficacy of sodium chloride suggests that the increase in arterial pH associated with sodium bicarbonate is responsible for reversal of the effects of cocaine on the ECG. Therefore sodium bicarbonate may be clinically useful in the treatment of cocaine-induced cardiac arrhythmias, primarily as a result of its effects on arterial pH.
Severe halothane (HAL)-induced hepatotoxicity occurs in one in 6000-30,000 patients by an unknown mechanism. Female sex is a risk factor in humans and rodents. We tested the hypothesis that a sex difference in natural killer (NK) cell activity contributes to HAL-induced liver injury. HAL (15 mmol/kg, ip) treatment resulted in severe liver injury by 12 h in female, wild-type BALB/cJ mice, and the magnitude of liver injury varied with stage of the estrous cycle. Ovariectomized (OVX) mice developed only mild liver injury. Plasma interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) was elevated 10-fold in HAL-treated females compared with similarly treated male mice or with OVX female mice. IFN-γ knockout mice were resistant to severe HAL-induced liver injury. The deactivation of NK cells with anti-asialo GM1 treatment attenuated liver injury and the increase in plasma IFN-γ compared with immunoglobulin G-treated control mice. Mice with a mutated form of perforin, a protein involved in granule-mediated cytotoxicity, were protected from severe liver injury. Furthermore, HAL increased the activity of NK cells in vivo, as indicated by increased surface expression of CD69, an early activation marker. In response to HAL, NK cell receptor ligands on the surface of hepatocytes were expressed in a manner that can activate NK cells. These results confirm the sexual dimorphic hepatotoxic response to HAL in mice and suggest that IFN-γ and NK cells have essential roles in the development of severe HAL-induced hepatotoxicity.
To investigate clinically important hypotension and bradycardia after induction of anesthesia with propofol, we analyzed data from a Phase IV stepwise study involving 25,981 patients, 1722 institutions, and 1819 anesthesiologists. In Step 1, propofol was used for induction only. In Step 2, propofol was used for induction and then maintenance by intermittent injection. In Step 3, an induction dose was followed by a maintenance infusion. Participants were to be 18-80 yr of age and ASA physical status I-III; they could not have a continuing pregnancy or prior adverse anesthetic experience. Detailed data on demographic, perioperative, and outcome variables were recorded on data collection forms. The overall incidence of hypotension (systolic blood pressure < 90 mm Hg) was 15.7%; 77% of the episodes were recorded within 10 min of induction of anesthesia with propofol. Bradycardia (heart rate < 50 beats/min) occurred in 4.8% of patients, with 42% of the episodes in the first 10 min. Only 1.3% of patients had both hypotension and bradycardia. The incidence of hypotension was significantly higher for the elderly, females, Caucasians, those undergoing abdominal and integumentary procedures, and those given propofol with opioids, benzodiazepines, or propranolol. Bradycardia was significantly more common when propofol was combined with opioids or chronically taken beta-adrenergic receptor-blocking drugs. Bradycardia and hypotension were not commonly associated. Giving this new drug by protocol, even inexperienced anesthesiologists incurred few adverse hemodynamic changes. Hemodynamic changes were transient and rarely (< 0.2%) required drug therapy. Cardiovascular changes and drug interactions were predictable and manageable based on knowledge of the pharmacology of propofol.
The biological significance of the almost constant presence of macrophages in the tumoral microenvironment is an issue debated by several authors. The major difficulty in understanding the role played by tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in tumor progression is due to the contrasting effects of TAMs found in different studies. In addition, there is a limited information on which of the many biological activities expressed by TAMs are critical in inducing stimulatory or inhibitory effect on tumor growth. The aim of our study was: (a) to explore to what extent cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) in TAMs associated with human melanoma is expressed at different stages of tumor progression; and (b) to explore whether COX-2 expression in TAMs is stimulated by melanoma cells. In order to answer this question, we determined COX-2 positive TAMs associated with cutaneous melanocytic nevi, in situ, invasive and metastatic melanoma. In addition, we investigated whether COX-2 is expressed in peritoneal thioglycollate-elicited macrophages after co-cultivation with murine B16 melanoma cells. We found that COX-2-positive TAMs, as revealed by immunohistochemical analysis, were rare in common nevi and "dysplastic nevi", but present in a high percentage in in situ and thin melanoma. COX-2-positive TAMs were also found in more advanced tumors and metastatic melanoma, although at a significantly lower percentage in these latter. The in vitro protocol revealed that COX-2 was expressed in peritoneal macrophages upon contact with B16 murine melanoma cells, but not with normal murine fibroblasts. On the whole, the results of in vivo and in vitro studies suggest that COX-2 expressed in TAMs appears to act as an effective biomarker of melanoma progression, and melanoma cells themselves might stimulate COX-2 in macrophages.
Cognitive alterations are a core symptom of nicotine withdrawal, contributing to smoking relapse. In rodents and humans, cognitive deficits can be reversed by treatment with the alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptor partial agonist varenicline. This neuroimaging study examined the neural mechanisms that underlie these effects.
Twenty-two smokers completed 13 days of varenicline and placebo treatment in a double-blind crossover study with two functional magnetic resonance imaging sessions: after 3 days of abstinence while on varenicline and after 3 days of abstinence while on placebo (counterbalanced randomized order, 2-week washout). Blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) data were acquired during performance of a visual N-back working memory task.
In a region of interest analysis, significant effects of treatment on mean percent signal change (varenicline > placebo) were observed in the dorsal anterior cingulate/medial frontal cortex, left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. In a cross-region model, there was a significant interaction of treatment by memory load, indicating significant increases in BOLD signal for varenicline versus placebo at the 2-back and 3-back levels but not the 1-back level. Varenicline improved performance (correct response time) in highly dependent smokers with no effect among less dependent smokers. In highly dependent smokers, faster correct response time was associated with increased BOLD signal.
This study provides novel evidence that the alpha4beta2 partial agonist varenicline increases working memory-related brain activity after 3 days of nicotine abstinence, particularly at high levels of task difficulty, with associated improvements in cognitive performance among highly dependent smokers.
The water decoction of root and aerial parts of Desmodium gangeticum (Leguminosae) was examined for anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive activity in experimental animals. The root and aerial decoction in doses of 5, 10 and 20 mg /kg caused a dose-dependent inhibition of swelling caused by carrageenin equivalent to 14.58-51.02% protection and 14.43-38.67%, respectively, in cotton pellet granuloma. There was a significant increase in analgesio-meter-induced force equivalent to 6.56-67.66% protection and 22.18-73.83% protection in acetic acid-induced writhing. The result establishes the traditional use of water decoction of Desmodium gangeticum codified in Indian System of Medicine.
The serotonin receptor 1A (encoded by the HTR1A gene) plays a critical role in serotonergic transmission and was linked with many human diseases. A 33-year-old woman with rare menstrual cycle-dependent fever showed abnormal estrogen profile and responded well to the HTR1A agonist buspirone, suggesting that her fevers were allied to estrogen-related HTR1A deficiency. We identified an adenine deletion 480-bases upstream of the translation start site (i.e., -480delA) of HTR1A in this patient. To determine the underlying mechanism of -480delA-mediated HTR1A deficiency, we first showed that HTR1A -480 region can be bound by multiple nuclear protein(s). We then identified poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP1) as one of the proteins that binds to HTR1A -480 region. Using PARP1 overexpression and knockdown, our data demonstrated that PARP1 represses HTR1A transcription. Furthermore, HTR1A -480delA promoter possesses increased interaction with PARP1 and caused an additional reduction in transcription. Finally, 17β-estradiol administration further reduced transcription associated with the mutant promoter. Altogether, these data suggest that estrogen-induced hyperactivity of HTR1A mutant promoter causes the reduction of HTR1A mRNA and leads to the disruption of HTR1A-mediate hypothermic regulation. This is the first report of HTR1A mutation underlying menstrual cycle-dependent febrile episodes, and implies that similar "febrile episode" cases may also result from the dysfunction of serotonin transmission.
