Quinolones have been reported to induce CNS reactions in 0.9-2.1% of cases, but severe reactions occur in less than 0.5%. Flumequine and fleroxacin, but not other quinolones, have produced convulsions in animals after systemic administration; by interventricular injection convulsions could be produced by some quinolones, but by pefloxacin only when a dose of 400 micrograms was reached. A possible mechanism for CNS excitation may be the displacement of GABA from receptors. Quinolones may interact with other drugs--theophylline, caffeine, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs--in producing CNS effects.
We report a patient in whom extreme hyperthermia, rhabdomyolysis, acute renal failure and a residual pancerebellar syndrome occurred while taking a combination of perphenazine and amitriptyline. We postulate that impaired thermoregulation due to psychotropic drugs was responsible for the development of heat stroke and that the cerebellar syndrome resulted directly from the elevated temperature.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy has been increasingly recognized as an important cause of heart failure in diabetic patients. Excessive oxidative stress has been suggested to play a critical role in the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy. The objective of this study was to investigate the potential protective effects and mechanisms of taxifolin on cardiac function of streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice and on hyperglycemia-induced apoptosis of H9c2 cardiac myoblasts. In vivo study revealed that taxifolin improved diastolic dysfunction, ameliorated myocardium structure abnormality, inhibited myocyte apoptosis and enhanced endogenous antioxidant enzymes activities. Interestingly, taxifolin reduced angiotensin II level in myocardium, inhibited NADPH oxidase activity, and increased JAK/STAT3 activation. In vitro investigation demonstrated that taxifolin inhibited 33 mM glucoseinduced H9c2 cells apoptosis by decreasing intracellular ROS level. It also inhibited caspase-3 and caspase-9 activation, restored mitochondrial membrane potential, and regulated the expression of proteins related to the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis, thus inhibiting the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria into the cytoplasm. In conclusion, taxifolin exerted cardioprotective effects against diabetic cardiomyopathy by inhibiting oxidative stress and cardiac myocyte apoptosis and might be a potential agent in the treatment of diabetic cardiomyopathy.
The effect of hydrocortisone on the growth and differentiation of the pancreas was examined in suckling rats. Three doses of hydrocortisone (40, 20, 5 mg/kg/day) were administered during the second week of life. Biochemical and ultrastructural morphometric studies were performed on the pancreas at the end of the treatment. Whatever the dose used, hydrocortisone induced pancreatic hypertrophy and significantly increased enzymatic activities by 70-200% for lipase and colipase, 140-340% for trypsinogen and chymotrypsinogen and 600-1,200% for amylase. With the 20-mg/kg/day dose, ultrastructural morphometric data indicated that the increase in pancreatic weight was associated with cellular exocrine hypotrophy (diminution of cell size, and of the number of zymogen granules). They also suggest that hydrocortisone, at that dose, might enhance the excretion of secretory products. By contrast, the 5-mg/kg/day dose of hydrocortisone did not modify the acinar cell size, but significantly increased the number of granules per cell. The increase in pancreatic weight and the fact that either cellular hypotrophy or no change in acinar cell size was observed, strongly suggest that hyperplasia occurred with both doses. These results confirm that hydrocortisone is an important modulator of pancreatic development in the rat, inducing stimulation of pancreatic activities, associated with modifications in cell structure and components which vary according to the dose.
Male BALB/C mice were treated with the anabolic androgen Decadurabolin (17 beta-hydroxy-19-nor-androst-4-ene-17 beta-n-decanoate) (DecaD) with and without pretreatment with diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Treatment with DEN alone caused development of severe hepatocytic dysplasia in all animals; 11/11 had cystadenomas and 3/11 haemangiomas, both of which were benign. Mice treated with DecaD alone developed only moderate to severe hepatocytic dysplasia. Treatment with DecaD after DEN induced neoplasms in the livers; 15/15 had severe dysplasia; 14/15 had cystadenomas, 2/15 had haemangiomas, and 4/15 developed nodular proliferation. Single hepatomas were seen in 4/15 livers, two of which also had multiple hepatomas. Control animals had normal liver histology. We conclude that DecaD enhances the hepatocarcinogenicity of DEN, especially with respect to neoplastic lesions in hepatocytes.
New options are needed for the treatment of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Proteasome inhibitors represent a potential therapeutic strategy. One such agent, bortezomib, was recently approved for the treatment of refractory multiple myeloma. In this study, lymphocytes were isolated from the blood of CLL patients, treated in vitro with bortezomib, and evaluated for apoptosis by flow cytometry. Bortezomib promoted apoptosis in CLL cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. At 18 h incubation time, 10 nM bortezomib induced an average 4.27 fold (+/-2.57) increase in the percentage of apoptotic cells versus untreated controls. These data indicate that bortezomib has in vitro activity in CLL and support further investigations of this promising new drug.
The authors report 2 cases of stroke in 2 young women using oral contraception with production of anti-ethinyl-oestradiol antibodies. From literature, they recall the mechanisms of production of theses antibodies, their frequence in women with and without stroke and the different hypothesis lied to their pathogen action.
The aim of the study was to assess the contribution of the NMDA receptors in the caudate-putamen to the regulation of the muscle tone. The experiment was carried out on male Wistar rats. The hind foot of a rat was flexed or extended at the ankle joint by 25 degrees and the resistance of the foot to passive movements was measured. Haloperidol (1 mg/kg ip) induced the muscle rigidity. The competitive antagonist of NMDA receptors, (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5), injected in doses of 2 and 5 micrograms/0.5 microliter bilaterally into rostral regions of the caudate-putamen, inhibited the muscle rigidity induced by haloperidol. In contrast, AP-5 injected bilaterally in the same doses into the intermediate-caudal region of the caudate-putamen in rats not pretreated with haloperidol, induced muscle rigidity. The present results seem to suggest that NMDA receptors localized in the rostral and intermediate-caudal regions of the caudate-putamen play an opposite role in regulation of the muscle tone in rats.
Twenty-eight myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) patients were treated with arsenic trioxide (ATO) and thalidomide. Seven patients responded including one complete hematologic and cytogenetic response and one with regression in spleen size. Two trilineage responses were seen in patients with inv(3)(q21q26.2). Three of five patients who had high pre-therapy EVI1 levels showed unexpectedly good responses while two died early in the first cycle. In vitro studies using 32Dcl3 cells forced to express EVI1 confirmed increased sensitivity of these cells to ATO. Both low/high risk MDS may benefit significantly from therapy with ATO/thalidomide, and those with high pre-therapy EVI1 expression may be uniquely sensitive.
The effect of essential oils, such as raspberry ketone, on androgen (AR) receptor was investigated using a MDA-kb2 human breast cancer cell line for predicting potential AR activity. Among them, eugenol had the highest AR antagonistic activity with its IC(50) value of 19 microM. Raspberry ketone, which has threefold higher anti-obese activity than that of capsaicin, also had AR antagonist activity with its IC(50) value of 252 microM. Based on these findings, a more precise CoMFA model was proposed as follows: pIC(50) [log (1/IC(50))]=3.77+[CoMFA field terms] (n=39, s=0.249, r(2)=0.834, s(cv)=0.507, q(2)=0.311 (three components).
Previous studies have indicated that reactive oxygen species play a key role in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced proteinuria in the acute nephrotic phase, and glomerular infiltration of macrophages (M phi) in the acute phase has a critical impact on the subsequent progression to glomerular sclerosis. In the present study, we examined the effect of deferoxamine (DFO), which is known to inhibit the generation of hydroxyl radical on the proteinuria, renal function and morphological changes in PAN-induced chronic glomerulopathy. Rats given a single dose of PAN (150 mg/kg BW, i.p.) were not treated (Group 1, n = 12) or treated with DFO (Group 2 and 3). In Group 2 rats (n = 12), 30 mg of DFO was given for 12 weeks after PAN injection (every day for the first 2 weeks, 3 times a week for the following 2 weeks, once a week for the last 8 weeks). In Group 3 rats (n = 14), DFO was given in an identical manner with Group 2 until 2nd week and was discontinued thereafter. 24-hour urinary protein excretion (UprV) was measured at 1st, 2nd, 4th, 8th, 12th, and 24th weeks. The percentage of segmentally sclerosed glomeruli (%SS), creatinine clearance (Ccr), and serum malondialdehyde levels (MDA) were determined at the 24th week. The average number of M phi per glomerulus (# M phi) was determined at the 4th, 8th and 24th weeks after PAN injection, by biopsy and autopsy. Compared to Group 1 rats, Group 2 rats had a significantly lower amount of UprV throughout the period with marked attenuation in %SS and Ccr. In contrast, UprV in Group 3 was comparable to that in Group 1 except for the 2nd week, and there was no significant difference in %SS or Ccr between Group 1 and 3. Of note, # M phi at 4th week, which significantly correlated with %SS, substantially decreased in Group 2 compared to Group 1 or Group 3 (p < 0.05). These data suggest that the oxidant stress persisting from the acute to the chronic phase of PAN nephropathy plays an important role in inducing glomerular sclerosis. The prevention of progressive glomerular sclerosis following DFO therapy might be associated with an improvement in early glomerular in filtration of M phi.
The potent toxin 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is teratogenic in mice, producing hydronephrosis and cleft palate. Because of the long half-life of TCDD, the urinary tract is exposed throughout development after a single dose on gestation day (GD) 10 or earlier. TCDD-induced hydronephrosis is a consequence of occlusion of the ureter by epithelial cells. Since embryonic growth factors and the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor are probably involved in regulation of embryonic cell proliferation, this study examines the effects of TCDD on expression of EGF receptors and proliferation of ureteric epithelial cells in vivo and in culture. After exposure to TCDD by gavage (12, 24, or 30 micrograms/kg on GD 10; 6 or 24 micrograms/kg on GD 12) the mean cell depth of the ureteric and bladder epithelia was increased. EGF receptors were detected immunohistochemically in sectioned urinary tracts. The expression of receptors decreased with advancing development in control ureteric epithelia. However, after TCDD exposure the level of EGF receptors failed to decline. The incorporation of 3H-TdR was observed in sections by autoradiography, and after exposure to TCDD more epithelial cells showed incorporation than was apparent in controls. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of embryonic ureters from fetuses exposed to TCDD in vivo showed no cytotoxicity in basal cells and the cells remained undifferentiated, as in controls. Ureters taken from GD 12 embryos and cultured with 1 x 10(-10)M TCDD showed ureteric epithelial hyperplasia without cytotoxicity, but at 1 x 10(-8)M TCDD evidence of cytotoxicity was observed by TEM. The levels of TCDD found in fetuses after in vivo exposure (204-307 pg/fetus, with 1-2 pg in the urinary tract) compare well with the in vitro level (32 pg/ml), which was most effective in producing hyperplasia of the epithelial cells. The present study correlates a TCDD-induced increase in cell depth with altered regulation of EGF receptors and excessive proliferation, both in vivo and in cultured embryonic ureters.
Renal dysfunction induced by iodinated contrast medium (CM) administration can minimize the benefit of the interventional procedure in patients undergoing renal angioplasty (PTRA).
To compare the susceptibility to nephrotoxic effect of CM in patients undergoing PTRA with that of patients submitted to percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
A total of 33 patients successfully treated with PTRA (PTRA group, mean age 70+/-12 years, 23 female, basal creatinine 1.46+/-0.79, range 0.7-4.9 mg/dl) were compared with 33 patients undergoing successful PCI (PCI group), matched for basal creatinine (1.44+/-0.6, range 0.7-3.4 mg/dl), gender, and age. In both groups postprocedural (48 h) serum creatinine was measured.
Postprocedural creatinine level decreased nonsignificantly in the PTRA group (1.46+/-0.8 vs. 1.34+/-0.5 mg/dl, P=NS) and increased significantly in the PCI group (1.44+/-0.6 vs. 1.57+/-0.7 mg/dl, P<0.02). Changes in serum creatinine after intervention (after-before) were significantly different between the PTRA and PCI groups (-0.12+/-0.5 vs. 0.13+/-0.3, P=0.014). This difference was not related to either a different clinical risk profile or to the volume of CM administered.
In this preliminary study patients submitted to PTRA showed a lower susceptibility to renal damage induced by CM administration than PCI patients. The effectiveness of PTRA on renal function seems to be barely influenced by CM toxicity.
The primary objective was to compare the efficacy and tolerability of quetiapine and risperidone in the treatment of mood symptoms, drug cravings, and drug use in outpatients with concurrent DSM-IV-defined bipolar I or II disorder and cocaine or methamphetamine dependence.
Men and women of all ethnic origins, 20 to 50 years of age, were eligible to participate. Persons were excluded if they were inpatients, met DSM-IV criteria for substance-induced mood disorder, had any other substance dependence, were euthymic or suicidal, had any life-threatening illnesses, or were currently receiving antipsychotic medications. Duration of the trial was 20 weeks. Study participants attended weekly visits and were evaluated for mood symptoms, drug cravings, drug use, and medication side effects. Treatment outcomes were analyzed using linear mixed models. Fixed-effects terms for medication group, study week, and group-by-study-week were included in the models. The study was conducted between October 2002 and November 2006.
Of 124 consenting outpatients, an evaluable sample of 80 patients who attended baseline and at least 1 follow-up study visit was formed. The mean +/- SD exit dose for quetiapine was 303.6 +/- 151.9 mg/day and 3.1 +/- 1.2 mg/day for risperidone. Both quetiapine (N = 42) and risperidone (N = 38) significantly improved manic and depressive symptoms and reduced drug cravings (p < .0005) compared to baseline. Decreased drug cravings were related to less frequent drug use (p = .03). The 2 medications did not significantly differ in their effects on mood symptoms, drug craving, or drug use.
Relative to baseline mood and drug-craving status, both quetiapine and risperidone were associated with manic, mixed, and depressive symptom improvement and reduced drug cravings. Both medications were well tolerated. The interpretation of these results is limited by the absence of a placebo control.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00227123.
The effects of two choline pivaloyl esters, [2-(2,2-dimethylpropionyloxy)ethyl]trimethylammonium iodide (1) and [2-(2,2-dimethylpropionyloxy)ethyl]trimethylammonium 2,2-dimethylpropionate (2), on learning and memory impairments induced in rats by scopolamine or lesions of nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) have been evaluated by object recognition and Morris water maze tests in comparison with Tacrine (THA). Both 1 and 2 restored discrimination in object recognition test for assessing working-episodic memory and improved spatial memory in scopolamine or NBM-lesioned rats as well. The positive effects produced by 1 and 2 on cognitive and memory deficits were well comparable with those evoked by THA, used as reference compound.
Three new triterpene glycosides, bacopasides VI-VIII (1-3), together with three known analogues, bacopaside I (4), bacopaside II (5), and bacopasaponsin C (6), were isolated from the whole plant of Bacopa monnieri. Compounds 4, 5, and 6 showed antidepressant activity when tested on forced swimming and tail suspension in mice, respectively.
Daunorubicin (DNR) is one of the anthracycline anti-tumor agents widely used in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia. However, the clinical use of DNR has been limited by its undesirable systemic toxicity, especially in the heart and kidney. This study was designed to test the effectiveness of carvedilol, a nonselective beta-blocker against DNR-induced cardiotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. Rats were treated with a cumulative dose of 9 mg/kg body weight DNR (i.v.). Carvedilol was administered orally every day for 6 weeks. DNR rats showed cardiac and nephrotoxicities as evidenced by worsening cardiac and kidney functions, which were evaluated by hemodynamic and echocardiographic studies, and by measuring protein in urine, levels of urea and creatinine in serum, lipid profiles, malondialdeyde level and the total level of glutathione peroxidase activity in both heart and kidney tissues. These changes were reversed by treatment with carvedilol, which resulted in significant improvement in the cardio-renal function. Furthermore, carvedilol down-regulated matrix metalloproteinase-2 expression in the heart, increased nephrin expression in the kidney, and attenuated the increased protein expression of NADPH oxidase subunits in heart and kidney. Moreover, carvedilol reduced myocardial and renal apoptosis and improved the histopathological changes in heart and kidney induced by DNR. In conclusion, the present study demonstrated a beneficial effect of carvedilol treatment in the prevention of DNR-induced cardiotoxicity and nephrotoxicity by reversing the oxidative stress and apoptosis.
Mancozeb, a fungicide of ethylenebisdithiocarbamate group was orally administered at doses of 500, 600, 700 and 800 mg/kg body weight/day to normal virgin rats of Wistar strain for 30 days. The vaginal smear and body weight of the rats were recorded daily and rats were sacrificed on 31st day. Estrous cycle was effected by showing a significant decrease in the number of estrous cycle, duration of proestrus, estrus and metestrus with concomitant significant increase in the duration of diestrus in all the mancozeb treated groups when compared with controls. There were a significant decrease in the number of healthy follicles and a significant increase in the number of atretic follicles in all the mancozeb treated groups when compared with controls. The histologic observation of the ovary revealed the presence of less number of corpora lutea and the size of the ovary was also reduced in high doses of mancozeb treated rats. There was a significant increase in the thyroid weight in all the mancozeb treated rats except in 500 mg/kg/d. In rats treated with 500 mg/kg/d showed a significant increase in the level of total lipids in the liver. In rats treated with 600 mg/kg/d mancozeb showed a significant decrease in the levels of glycogen and total lipids in the uterus and total lipids in the liver. In rats treated with 700 mg/kg/d showed a significant decrease in the levels of protein in ovary, glycogen, total lipids, phospholipids and neutral lipids in the uterus and a significant increase in the levels of phospholipids, neutral lipids in the ovary and total lipids, phospholipids and neutral lipids in the liver. In rats treated with 800 mg/kg/d showed a significant decrease in the levels of protein and glycogen in the ovary and protein, glycogen, total lipids, phospholipids and neutral lipids in the uterus and a significant increase in the levels of total lipids, phospholipids and neutral lipids in the ovary and liver when compared with controls. These observed effect of mancozeb on the estrous cycle, follicles and biochemical constituents may be due to imbalance in the hormone or toxic effect.
Anitangiogenic and apoptotic properties of a novel chemically modified heparin derivative with low anticoagulant activity were evaluated on the experimental in vitro and in vivo model.
Heparin-lithocholate conjugate (HL) was initially synthesized by covalently bonding lithocholate to heparin. Folate-HL conjugate (FHL) was further synthesized by conjugating folate to HL. Antiangiogenic and apoptotic abilities of HL and FHL were characterized in vitro and in vivo experimentations.
Compared to unmodified heparin, both HL and FHL represented a low anticoagulant activity (38 and 28%, respectively). HL and FHL maintained antiangiogenic activity even further modification from the results of Matrigel plugs assay. FHL specifically induced apoptosis on KB cells having highly expressed folate receptor after cellular internalization. Both administered HL and FHL had similar antiangiogenic activity and inhibitory effect on tumor growth in vivo although FHL induced higher apoptosis on tumor tissues.
In vivo tumor growth inhibition was possibly due to the decrease of vessel density and apoptotic cell death, although antiangiogenic effect of FHL seemed more actively affected on growth inhibition than apoptotic potential in vivo system. Thus, Low anticoagulant FHL having antiangiogenic and apoptotic properties would provide benefits for the development of a new class of anticancer agent.
Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured, using the xenon-133 intracarotid injection technique in 10 patients with an acute ischaemic stroke, involving the cerebral cortex, before and after intravenous injection of a single dose of nimodipine (Bay e 9736). After nimodipine application in all patients a dose dependent increase of hemispheric blood flow was observed. In the regional pattern the stroke area showed, after nimodipine in 9 patients relatively similar changes in blood flow as the hemispheric flow did. In three of these patients the increase reached such a level, that the presence was concluded of an inverse steal phenomenon. The intracerebral steal phenomenon was not observed. As a side effect in one patient a mild fall in blood pressure and sinusbradycardia was observed, of short duration.
Morquio B disease was found in a 15-year-old Japanese boy who presented with progressive generalized skeletal dysplasia without neurological manifestations. Mild keratan sulfaturia was found, and beta-galactosidase was deficient in fibroblasts. Gene analysis revealed two mutant alleles, 83Tyr-->His (Y83H) and 482Arg-->Cys (R482C). The former expressed a low enzyme activity (2-5% of normal), and the latter expressed no detectable enzyme activity.
The effects of administering reserpine (0.1 mg/kg) or 17alpha-ethinyloestradiol (2.5 mg/kg) to New Zealand White rabbits on low density lipoprotein receptors in liver, on plasma low density lipoprotein and fibrinogen and on plasma and tissue lipids were determined. Blood pressure and heart rate were also followed. The drugs were injected subcutaneously into conscious unrestrained rabbits for 5 days. On the 6th day homologous 125I-tyramine cellobiose labelled low density lipoprotein (125I-TC-LDL) was injected intravenously and 24 h later the animals were killed. Compared to controls, reserpine significantly increased LDL receptor expression in the liver by about threefold, and reduced total cholesterol in plasma, aorta and heart, without affecting plasma triglycerides. The reductions in plasma cholesterol and heart were due to decreases in both unesterified and esterified cholesterol. Similar effects were observed with oestrogen, except that there was no change in esterified cholesterol in aorta. In liver, a decrease of 24% in total cholesterol was due mainly to decreased esterified cholesterol. In adrenal glands total cholesterol increased by 25%. Reserpine significantly accelerated the plasma clearance of intravenously injected homologous 125I-TC-LDL and reduced its accumulation in aortic wall. Neither reserpine nor oestradiol affected blood pressure, haematocrit or plasma fibrinogen. The results suggest that reserpine is an affective anti-atherogenic drug capable of decreasing cholesterol in plasma, arteries and heart by increasing high affinity LDL receptors in the liver.
Phoneutria nigriventer venom causes stimulation of capsaicin-sensitive primary afferent neurons in the rat dorsal skin, leading to neurogenic plasma protein extravasation due to the release of tachykinin NK(1) receptor agonist. In this study we further investigated the mechanisms involved in the venom-induced activation of capsaicin-sensitive primary afferent neurons. The plasma extravasation in response to venom intradermally injected was measured in Wistar rats as the local accumulation of i.v. injected 125I-labelled human serum albumin into skin sites. The tachykinin NK(1) receptor agonist, D-Ala-[L-Pro(9),Me-Leu(8)]substance P-(7-11) (GR73632; 10-100 pmol/site), induced a significant plasma leakage that was abolished by the selective tachykinin NK(1) receptor antagonist, (S)-1-[2-[3-(3,4-dichlorphenyl)-1 (3-isopropoxyphenylacetyl) piperidin-3-yl] ethyl]-4-phenyl-1 azaniabicyclo [2.2.2]octane chloride (SR140333; 1 nmol/site), whereas the leakage after venom (1-10 microgram/site) was significantly inhibited (but not abolished) by SR140333. The calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist, CGRP-(8-37), failed to further reduce the residual plasma extravasation induced by venom plus SR140333. The mu-opioid receptor agonist, [D-Ala(2), Me-Phe(4),Gly-ol(5)]enkephalin (DAMGO), and the local anaesthetic, lignocaine, had no effect on the venom-induced plasma extravasation. Similarly, the L-, N- and P/Q-type voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channel blockers (verapamil, omega-conotoxin MVIIA and MVIIC, respectively) as well as the Na(+) channel blockers, tetrodotoxin and carbamazepine, had no effect on the venom-induced effect. Neither the systemic treatment nor the local injection of ruthenium red prevented the venom-induced plasma extravasation. However, the vanilloid receptor antagonist, N-[2-(4-chlorophenyl) ethyl]-1,3,4, 5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-2H-2-benzazepine-2-carbothioamide (capsazepine; 120 micromol/kg, i.v.), reduced by 48% (P<0.05) the venom (10 microgram/site)-induced plasma extravasation. A significant inhibitory effect was also observed with the P(2) purinoceptor agonists, adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP; 10 and 30 nmol/site) and adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP; 10 nmol/site). The involvement of histamine and/or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the venom-induced plasma extravasation was ruled out since neither histamine and 5-HT receptor antagonists nor depletion of mast cells by compound 48/80 affected the venom response. This was further supported by the failure of venom to degranulate in vitro peritoneal mast cells. In conclusion, only vanilloid receptors and P(2) prejunctional purinoceptors had an inhibitory effect on the neurogenic plasma extravasation evoked by P. nigriventer venom in rat dorsal skin.
A 72 year old man with coronary heart disease underwent cardioangiographic examination using monomeric non-ionic contrast medium. During and after the examination he gradually developed nearly total cortical blindness. His vision slowly returned after two days, but was not fully restored. Computer tomography (CT) of the brain five hours after the examination showed bilateral contrast medium retention in the visual cortex area, which became normal the day after. The gradual development of nearly total blindness combined with bilateral transient CT-alterations in the visual cortex area suggest a complication induced by the contrast medium.
To report a case of Corynebacterium striatum endocarditis that was treated successfully with daptomycin plus rifampin following an unsuccessful attempt at vancomycin desensitization and failure of linezolid therapy.
A 46-year-old woman with hemodialysis-dependent chronic renal failure was admitted for a graft-related infection. She presented with C. striatum endocarditis that was treated with daptomycin plus rifampin due to a history of allergies to vancomycin and beta-lactam antibiotics and failure of linezolid therapy. The patient received daptomycin and rifampin for a total of 6 weeks. Three months after completion of treatment, no recurrence of endocarditis was evident.
Daptomycin is a lipopeptide antibiotic, with rapid bactericidal activity. It has demonstrated efficacy in animal models of staphylococcal, streptococcal, and enterococcal endocarditis. Case reports of its activity in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis have also been documented.
Daptomycin, which has shown in vitro activity against C. striatum, may be a viable treatment option for patients with C. striatum endocarditis who are either allergic or refractory to traditional antibiotics.
