Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors may induce cough and rhinopharyngeal inflammation. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is characterized by upper airway inflammation. We describe a patient who, during enalapril treatment, developed cough, upper airway symptoms, and diurnal sleepiness, with an increased number of obstructive apnea-hypopnea episodes (apnea-hypopnea index [AHI], 25) during sleep. Her symptoms and AHI improved 1 month after enalapril was discontinued and diuretic therapy (hydrochlorothiazide-spironolactone) was initiated. Similar findings were observed in 4 other patients with OSA who had ACE inhibitor-induced cough. The mean +/- SD AHI was 33.8+/-21.0 during enalapril treatment and 20.0+/-17.0 after withdrawal of this drug (P = .04). Exhaled nitric oxide, a marker of airway inflammation, was increased during enalapril treatment (15.0 +/- 4.3 parts per billion) and decreased after discontinuation of this drug (9.0 +/- 2.6; P = .03). No significant difference in the AHI and exhaled nitric oxide was observed in 4 patients with OSA who did not experience cough, before or after withdrawal of ACE inhibitor treatment. These findings suggest that ACE inhibitor treatment may contribute to OSA by inducing upper airway inflammation.
Ceftriaxone-induced hemolytic anemia is a rare and often fatal phenomenon. We report here the case of a 6-year-old female with sickle cell disease who survived a brisk and profound hemolytic reaction, resulting in hemoglobin of 0.4 g/dL, after ceftriaxone infusion. Ongoing hemolysis was abrogated with aggressive supportive care, but the patient suffered extensive neurologic sequelae as a result of the event. Serologic testing confirmed the presence of ceftriaxone antibodies.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common human cancers and the patients' five-year survival rate is very low. Growing evidence indicates that interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a risk factor for HCC. High serum IL-6 may promote HCC development in hepatitis B patients. Therefore, IL-6 could be considered a HCC biomarker and blockade of IL-6 pathway may be a promising therapeutic alternative for HCC. STAT3 is major pathway to mediate signal from IL-6 to the nucleus, where different genes associated with proliferation and apoptosis are regulated. We previous reported that IL-6 induces cell survival upon drug treatment in HCC cells and inhibition of IL-6/STAT3 pathway using anti-IL-6 antibody or STAT3 small-molecule inhibitor LLL12 reduces this effect. Here we summarized the recent studies of IL-6 in HCC and showed another STAT3 small-molecule inhibitor FLLL32 also blocked IL-6-induced STAT3 activation in HCC cells. FLLL32 is a novel curcumin analogue, which has been described to suppress the constitutive activation of STAT3 in pancreatic and breast cancer cells in vitro and vivo. We demonstrated that FLLL32 blocked IL-6-induced STAT3 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation.
Fetal and neonatal toxic effects of angiotensin II receptor antagonists have been described in animals and humans. Five cases of fetal or neonatal deaths have been reported following maternal use of sartans for hypertension. We report a case of neonatal transient renal failure following telmisartan therapy during pregnancy. This class of antihypertensive drugs should be avoided during pregnancy and breastfeeding.
To report the occurrence of optic neuritis following oral albendazole therapy for orbital cysticercosis.
Two patients having definitively diagnosed orbital cysticercosis at the orbital apex developed an acute visual loss 1 week after initiation of oral albendazole. Ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging determined that the cause was optic neuritis due to disorganization of the cyst with inflammation of the adjacent optic nerve.
Oral corticosteroids (prednisolone 1 mg/kg per day) given for a period of 4 weeks led to resolution of the optic neuritis, with full visual recovery.
Corticosteroids should be given in addition to albendazole in the treatment of orbital cysticercosis when cysts are in close proximity to the optic nerve.
Environmental contaminants are suspected to be involved in the epidemic incidence of metabolic disorders, food ingestion being a primarily route of exposure. We hypothesized that life-long consumption of a high-fat diet that contains low doses of pollutants will aggravate metabolic disorders induced by obesity itself. Mice were challenged from preconception throughout life with a high-fat diet containing pollutants commonly present in food (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, polychlorinated biphenyl 153, diethylhexyl phthalate, and bisphenol A), added at low doses in the tolerable daily intake range. We measured several blood parameters, glucose and insulin tolerance, hepatic lipid accumulation, and gene expression in adult mice. Pollutant-exposed mice exhibited significant sex-dependent metabolic disorders in the absence of toxicity and weight gain. In males, pollutants increased the expression of hepatic genes (from 36 to 88%) encoding proteins related to cholesterol biosynthesis and decreased (40%) hepatic total cholesterol levels. In females, there was a marked deterioration of glucose tolerance, which may be related to the 2-fold induction of estrogen sulfotransferase and reduced expression of estrogen receptor α (25%) and estrogen target genes (>34%). Because of the very low doses of pollutants used in the mixture, these findings may have strong implications in terms of understanding the potential role of environmental contaminants in food in the development of metabolic diseases.
Chromosomal deletion of q13 (del q13) and plasma cell leukemia predict both a worse prognosis in myeloma. Experiences with bortezomib in plasma cell leukemia prior to allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) have not yet been reported.
A 66- year-old male patient was admitted for IgA myeloma(IIIA) with del q13. The myeloma progressed to plasma cell leukemia. Bortezomib was given, free light chain (FLC) excretion decreased, and myeloma cells disappeared from blood and decreased in marrow. An unrelated, mismatched allogeneic SCT was performed. The patient was discharged after engraftment with full chimerism without signs of GvHD. FLC excretion increased, and immunosuppression was discontinued. From day +84 on, bortezomib was infused again and FLC excretion decreased rapidly. Relapse was confirmed in marrow, and bortezomib was continued. Donor lymphocyte infusions (DLI) had no effect, and a further cycle of bortezomib and thalidomide had only minor effects. On day +209, the patient died from myeloma.
This case gives evidence for an excellent initial response of plasma cell leukemia to bortezomib, however, early relapse after SCT clearly indicates limitations of both bortezomib therapy and allogeneic SCT in high-risk myeloma. Future developments are mandatory and could include combination of bortezomib with other cytostatics and early DLI in the absence of GvHD. In addition, there is need to clarify if graft-versus-myeloma effect is diminished by bortezomib therapy after allogeneic SCT.
Telavancin is an investigational lipoglycopeptide antibiotic that is active against gram-positive pathogens. In an in vivo rabbit model, subtherapeutic (15-mg/kg) and therapeutic (30- or 45-mg/kg) doses of telavancin were demonstrated to be noninferior and superior to vancomycin (20 mg/kg), respectively, for preventing subcutaneous implant colonization and infection by Staphylococcus aureus.
To assess side effects during the first 6 months of use of Implanon.
The study was conducted in eastern Turkey between June 2004 and May 2005. Forty-one healthy women, aged 18-40 years who chose to use Implanon participated in the study. The implant was inserted between days 1 and 5 of the menstrual cycle. Findings were recorded before and during 6 months following insertion. Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS package programme including paired samples t-test.
No pregnancy occurred during the study. Ninety days after initiation of therapy, three of the 41 patients (7.3%) had regular periods, 14 (34.1%) were amenorrhoeic and the remaining 24 (58.5%) had some type of abnormal bleeding. Dysmenorrhoea affected significantly less women (1/41, i.e. 2.4%) than before treatment (17/41, i.e. 41.5%), but mastalgia increased significantly as it was reported by five previously unaffected participants (12.2%). Mood changes appeared in seven patients (17.1%) and acne in 11 of them (26.8%). The circulating levels of protein C, total cholesterol and oestradiol dropped significantly. Endometrial thickness decreased significantly. At completion of the study period, removal of the implant was requested by eight of the 41 patients (19.5%) because of irregular bleeding (six women), depressive symptoms requiring treatment (one woman) or weight gain (one woman).
Mainly because of irregular bleeding, the discontinuation rate of Implanon at 6 months among the women in this region is high (19.5%).
A multicentre, double-blind study of unprecedented size was conducted to compare the safety and efficacy of piroxicam and naproxen in the treatment of osteoarthritis. The study comprised 2,035 patients and a treatment period of 12 weeks. The dosage was 20 mg piroxicam and 750 mg naproxen daily with the option to reduce to 10 and 500 mg, respectively, at week 4 or 8. No major difference between the drugs was observed with regard to overall incidence of adverse events. The frequency of serious adverse events was about 1% for both drugs. A statistically significant decline of adverse events with age was found in both sexes. Piroxicam was significantly superior to naproxen for pain at rest and pain on movement at 12 weeks and degree of restriction in daily activity at 4 weeks. A significantly increasing beneficial effect was observed with both drugs between 4 and 12 weeks of treatment. The comparable safety observed for the two drugs is in contrast to perceptions based on spontaneous reports to official monitoring systems.
Accumbal dopamine (DA) is generally accepted to participate in the neural mechanisms underlying drug dependence. Recently the involvement of accumbal DA in drug-seeking behaviour has gained more experimental attention. To study an involvement of accumbal DA in drug-seeking behaviour within and between daily self-administration behaviour, changes in extracellular DA concentration in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell were measured during the daily dynamics of intravenous heroin and cocaine self-administration. Groups of drug naive rats were allowed to intravenously self-administer heroin (30 microg/infusion) and cocaine (30 microg/infusion) during five consecutive daily 3 h sessions. Extracellular DA concentrations in the NAc were measured before and after a single 3 h session (acute) and before and after 5 consecutive 3 h sessions (repeated). Following acute and repeated heroin and cocaine self-administration the extracellular DA concentration in the NAc shell was increased by two-fold to three-fold over baseline. These changes in DA concentrations are thought to reflect a direct effect of heroin and cocaine on DA neurotransmission in the NAC shell. Measurement of basal DA concentrations before the self-administration sessions revealed that just before the scheduled 5th self-administration session the (absolute) basal DA levels in the NAc in heroin or cocaine self-administering animals were decreased by approximately halve, as compared to drug-naive animals. It is assumed that just before a scheduled next session the (daily) desire for the drug is high. This decrease in basal DA neurotransmission in the NAc shell may, therefore, reflect an involvement of accumbal DA in drug-seeking behaviour during daily self-administration behaviour. The results demonstrate that initiation of i.v. heroin and cocaine self-administration is linked with changes in extracellular levels of DA in the NAc shell. Moreover, the present data suggest that accumbal DA might be involved in processes underlying the motivational aspects involved in daily drug-seeking behaviour, and that neuroadaptive changes in the mesolimbic DA system due to repeated drug intake lead to an tonic decrease in overall DA activity in the NAc.
Torsade de Pointes (Tdp) is a form of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in the setting of prolonged QT interval. Any drug that prolongs repolarisation, and hence QT interval, may cause Tdp. Predisposing factors of drug-induced Tdp include female sex, bradyarrhythmia and hypokalaemia.
We retrospectively analysed the case notes of 13 patients with drug-induced LQTS from 1991 to 2000 from National Heart Centre and Changi General Hospital.
Causative drugs in the series were amiodarone (seven patients, 54%), sotalol (two patients), quinidine (one patient), phenothiazine (two patients) and astemizole (one patient). There were eight females and all were Chinese. The mean age was 72 +/- nine years. The patients commonly present with syncope (38%) and cardiac arrest (38%). The mean corrected QTC interval was 545 ms. The most common precipitating factor was hypokalaemia (31%). Nine patients require cardiopulmonary resuscitation and two patients (15%) died. Nine patients (69%) had underlying structural heart disease such as ischaemic heart disease, valvular heart disease and hypertensive heart disease. The left ventricular ejection fraction was normal in six patients. The onset of Tdp ranged from Day 2 to Day 5 in the seven patient with amiodarone-induced LQTS. These were inpatients who were given intravenous loading doses of amiodarone. Both patients with sotalol-induced LQTS were females on sotalol 80 mg and 240 mg per day with Tdp occurring on Day 2 and 10 months respectively.
Tdp is a potentially life-threatening arrhythmia. The list of torsadogenic drugs is ever expanding. Physicians need to know the drugs which can lead to Tdp. Careful assessment of risk-benefit ratio is important before prescribing such drugs. Amiodarone-induced Tdp is not uncommon in our local population. Initiation of a class III agent, especially amiodarone, should be done judiciously, with monitoring of the QT interval and avoidance of hypokalaemia.
The authors have extended preclinical studies on pain to human volunteers by examining the effects of intravenous alfentanil and ketamine on acute sensory thresholds andfacilitated processing induced by intradermal capsaicin. Eleven healthy subjects received targeted plasma concentrations of alfentanil, ketamine, and placebo followed by neurosensory testing (thermal and von Frey hair thresholds). After completing the tests at the highest plasma level, intradermal capsaicin was injected into the volar aspect of the left forearm, and the flare response and hyperalgesia to von Frey hair, stroking, and heat were assessed. Alfentanil significantly elevated cool and warm thresholds and decreased capsaicin-induced stroking hyperalgesia. Ketamine significantly decreased capsaicin-induced von Frey hair hyperalgesia. Both drugs resulted in a significant elevation of von Frey hair-induced pain thresholds and a decrease in capsaicin-induced pain. These studies suggest that experimental human pain models may be used to study analgesic pharmacology and may serve as important methods for defining the analgesic efficacy of drugs in phase I clinical trials.
To evaluate the therapeutic efficiency of combining p53-expressing adenovirus with chemotherapy agents on GLC-82 human lung adenocarcinoma cells.
Human lung adenocarcinoma cell line GLC-82 was transfected with adenovirus-mediated p53 gene (Ad-p53) combining with administration of either kind of chemotherapeutic agents-cisplatin (CDDP) and arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)). The cell growth, morphological changes, cell cycle, apoptosis and molecular changes were measured using cell counting, reversmicroscope, flow cytometry, TUNEL, RT-PC, immunocytochemical assays, and in vivo therapy experiments to evaluate the therapeutic efficiency of such combined regimen.
Ad-p53 transfer and CDDP (or As(2)O(3)) administration to GLC-82 cells could exertubstantially stronger therapeutic effects than the single agent treatment. Especially in in vivo experiments, combined administration of Ad-p53 and CDDP induced almost complete tumor remission (89.0%) compared to the partial tumor remission induced by single agent (43.9% or 57.3%). Moreover, delivery of Ad-p53, or administration of minimal-dose CDDP or As(2)O(3) or combined regimen could induce massive apoptosis of GLC-82 cells. Cell cycle analysis demonstrated that administration of CDDP or As(2)O(3) remarkably arrested GLC-82 cells in G(2)/M prior to apoptotic cell death. When treated with combined regimen, cells were arrested in G(2)/M to a greater extent prior to apoptotic cell death.
After introduced into GLC-82 cells, Ad-p53 shows enhanced therapeutic efficiency for GLC-82 cells when combined with CDDP or As(2)O(3).
We have previously shown that resveratrol possesses cardioprotective effect, which may be attributed to its ability to (i) stimulate nitric oxide production and (ii) free radical scavenging activity. Since resveratrol is one of the major components of certain varieties of red grapes, these events may underlie the cardioprotective effects thought to be obtained from moderate red wine consumption. Here we report resveratrol enhanced myocardial angiogenesis both in vivo and in vitro by induction of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), which was regulated by thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Human coronary arteriolar endothelial cells exposed to resveratrol or Trx-1 on Matrigel demonstrated significantly accelerated tubular morphogenesis with induction of HO-1 and VEGF expression. This angiogenic response was repressed by tin-protoporphyrin IX (SnPP), an HO-1 inhibitor, along with downregulation of VEGF expression. However Trx-1 expression was not affected by SnPP. Again, rat neonatal cardiomyocytes treated with resveratrol significantly expressed Trx-1, HO-1 as well as VEGF. Rats were orally administered with resveratrol (1 mg/kg per day) for 14 days and then underwent permanent left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) occlusion to document similar pro-angiogenic effect. Our results demonstrated that pretreatment with resveratrol markedly reduced infarct size 24 h after myocardial infarction (MI) and increased capillary density in the peri-infarct myocardium along with better left ventricular function 4 days after MI compared with vehicle-treated control. Concomitantly, resveratrol-treated myocardium after MI significantly induced Trx-1, HO-1 and VEGF expression. This effect was blocked by SnPP. Our findings suggest that resveratrol mediates cardioprotection and neovascularization through Trx-1-HO-1-VEGF pathway in rat ischemic myocardium.
To report a case in which a crushed extended-release (XL) nifedipine tablet contributed to a patient fatality.
A 38-year-old woman with multiple medical problems presented to the hospital in acute respiratory distress and was diagnosed with acute pulmonary edema and pneumonia. After initial stabilization, her medications were changed to oral hydralazine, labetalol, and nifedipine XL. These medications were crushed and administered through a nasogastric tube. The patient developed worsening bradycardia with hypotension and experienced asystolic cardiac arrest. She was resuscitated; however, the following morning, another dose of labetalol and nifedipine XL was crushed and administered through the nasogastric tube. She again developed worsening bradycardia with hypotension and ultimately died.
The administration of a crushed nifedipine XL tablet resulted in the patient's severe hypotension. The concurrent administration of labetalol prevented a compensatory heart rate increase. The repeat administration of nifedipine XL in the same manner underscores a fundamental problem in healthcare worker communication and drug delivery system comprehension. Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a highly probable relationship between the patient's hypotension and the nifedipine and labetalol therapy.
Simultaneous administration of a beta-blocker and a calcium-channel blocker may produce synergistic effects. The release characteristics of oral controlled-release medications are destroyed when crushed, resulting in the rapid bioavailability of the total drug amount. The importance of education and communication among nurses, physicians, and pharmacists regarding the mechanism of action of controlled-release medications and their administration needs to be emphasized.
Patients admitted for suspected acute myocardial infarction within 6 hours (mean 3 hours 42 minutes) after onset of symptoms were randomised to double-blind treatment with low-dose oral aspirin or placebo. Early exercise ischemic responses, exercise capacity and resting left ventricular ejection fraction (radionuclide ventriculography) were estimated in 77 survivors 2-4 weeks later. Exercise performance and ejection fraction in patients with confirmed acute myocardial infarction were equal in the two groups. During exercise, patients treated with aspirin had significantly more silent ischemia (ST depression without chest pain) compared to placebo (28% versus 6%; P = 0.015). The occurrence of positive exercise tests (chest pain or ST-segment depression), however, was similar in the two groups. The results indicate that the administration of aspirin early after acute myocardial infarction increases the occurrence of silent ischemia but has no effect on left ventricular function.
Olanzapine is an atypical antipsychotic medication indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and other manifestations of psychotic illness. Common side effects include somnolence, constipation, weight gain, and postural hypotension. The authors report a case of hypotension accompanied by bradycardia in a normal, healthy volunteer participating in an olanzapine pharmacokinetic study following a single 5 mg dose. A venous catheter allowed for serial blood sampling of olanzapine concentrations before, during, and after the adverse event. The subject experienced a rapid absorption of the drug and higher than anticipated maximum plasma concentrations. This case suggests that atypical antipsychotics, although generally better tolerated than conventional agents, may still result in untoward reactions that may be partially due to individual differences in drug absorption and metabolism.
We studied the safety and clinical activity of exisulind in combination with capecitabine in 35 patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
All patients had received previous anthracycline and taxane chemotherapies. Two dose levels of exisulind were explored, 125 and 250 mg orally bid as continuous daily therapy, concomitant with capecitabine 2,000 mg/m2 for 14 days in 21-day cycles. In the phase I study, the dose-limiting toxicities were hand-foot syndrome and diarrhea. The 125-mg bid dose was selected for phase II testing.
The most common nonhematologic grade 2 to 3 adverse events were hand-foot syndrome (57%) and fatigue (48%). The most frequent grade 2 to 3 laboratory abnormality was granulocytopenia. No death, unexpected adverse events, or cumulative toxicity were encountered. One complete and four partial responses were achieved (objective response rate, 16%) in the 31 patients assessable for response. The median duration of response was 31 weeks; three patients experienced stable disease longer than 26 weeks. Overall clinical benefit (complete response, partial response, or stable disease > 26 weeks) was 23%. Fourteen specimens were available for immunohistochemical assessment of phosphodiesterase-5 isoenzyme (PDE-5) and PDE-2 expression, which are the targets of exisulind. Eighty percent of tumors showed some expression of PDE-5 in the invasive cancer cells including 35% that showed moderate or strong staining. PDE-2 showed moderate or strong staining in 78% of tumors. There was no apparent association between tumor response and staining intensity.
Exisulind (125 mg orally bid) in combination with capecitabine is well tolerated and the combination has anticancer activity similar to that of capecitabine alone in heavily pretreated patients with MBC.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis is a protozoal disease transmitted by sandflies. It is endemic across the desert of the Middle East to Afghanistan and Africa. This paper reviews the findings in 148 expatriates with cutaneous leishmaniasis seen in Arar, northern Saudi Arabia, during a five year period. Cutaneous leishmaniasis was seen in all age groups. Farm workers, labourers and military personnel stationed in the region during the Gulf war were most affected. There was a seasonal variation with maximum incidence between November and January. The lesions were commonly multiple, the number of lesions per patient ranged from one to twelve. 18% of the lesions were located on the face, 34% on the upper extremity, 42% on the lower extremity and six per cent on other sites. The average duration of the lesions before diagnosis was two months. The most common complications were secondary bacterial skin infection (pyoderma and cellulitis) and residual scarring. The response to sodium stibogluconate was good. There has been a gradual reduction in the number of cases from a peak of 64 in 1991 to twelve in 1995. As compared to studies in the indigenous population, cutaneous leishmaniasis tends to be more frequent and server in expatriates from non endemic areas. There is a need for increased awareness of this disorder, especially in the home countries of these expatriates.
Amodiaquine (AQ) and clozapine (CLZ) are associated with a relatively high incidence of idiosyncratic agranulocytosis, a reaction that is suspected to involve covalent binding of reactive metabolites to neutrophils. Previous studies have shown that both AQ and CLZ are oxidized to reactive intermediates in vitro by activated neutrophils or by the combination of hydrogen peroxide and myeloperoxidase (MPO). Neutrophil activation leads to an oxidative burst with activation of NADPH oxidase and the production of hydrogen peroxide. However, the importance of this pathway in covalent binding in vivo has not been examined. In this study, we found that the binding of both AQ and CLZ to neutrophils from MPO knockout mice ex vivo decreased approximately 2-fold compared to neutrophils from wild-type mice, whereas binding to activated neutrophils from gp91 knockout (NADPH oxidase null) mice decreased 6-7-fold. When the AQ studies were performed in vivo, again the binding was decreased in MPO knockout mice to about 50% of the binding in wild-type mice; however, covalent binding was significant in the absence of MPO. Surprisingly, there was no significant decrease in covalent binding of AQ to neutrophils in vivo in gp91 knockout mice. In addition, there was extensive binding of AQ to many types of bone marrow cells and to peripheral lymphocytes. These results indicate that MPO is not the only neutrophil enzyme involved in the oxidation of AQ and that NADPH oxidase is not the major source of peroxide. There was also no decrease in AQ binding to neutrophils in COX-1 or COX-2 knockout mice. We were not able to readily reproduce the AQ in vivo studies with CLZ because of its acute toxicity in mice. These are the first studies to examine the enzymes involved in the bioactivation of AQ by neutrophils in vivo.
We report a Japanese patient with familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) who was successfully treated with the anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha monoclonal antibody, infliximab, and low-dose methotrexate. This patient was diagnosed as having FMF based on periodic fever with polyarthralgia typical of this disease and heterozygous mutations in the MEFV gene. Conventional treatment, such as colchicine and reserpine, failed to sufficiently control the FMF attacks. After starting infliximab (3 mg/kg) and low-dose methotrexate (6 mg/week), the frequency of the FMF attacks dramatically decreased and the clinical effect has remained unchanged for longer than 1 year. Combination therapy with infliximab and low-dose methotrexate may be a potent therapeutic option for FMF patients, particularly when conventional treatment is ineffective or cannot be employed because of adverse events.
We aimed to investigate the impact of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) on hematocrit values in those with heart failure, and the relationship between incident anemia and mortality.
Prevalent anemia is an independent risk factor for morbidity and mortality in those with heart failure. Studies in patients with polycythemia have demonstrated that ACEIs are effective in lowering hematocrit values.
We used the Studies Of Left Ventricular Dysfunction (SOLVD) database to compare the odds of developing new anemia at one year in patients who were not anemic at entry and who were randomized to enalapril or placebo. Cox proportional hazards models were utilized to determine the impact of incident and prevalent anemia on subsequent mortality.
Enalapril increased the odds of incident anemia (hematocrit < or =39% in men or < or =36% in women) at one year by 48% (odds ratio [OR] 1.48, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.20 to 1.82) in unadjusted and 56% (OR 1.56, 95% CI 1.26 to 1.93) in adjusted models. With multivariate analysis, prevalent anemia at randomization was associated with a 44% (hazard ratio [HR] 1.44, 95% CI 1.31 to 1.66) increase in all-cause mortality, whereas incident anemia after randomization was associated with a 108% increase (HR 2.08, 95% CI 1.82 to 2.38). After adjusting for incident and prevalent anemia, use of enalapril was associated with a survival benefit.
Enalapril was associated with increased odds of developing anemia at one year. Those with periods of time with incident anemia had the poorest survival, followed by those with prevalent anemia, then those without anemia. Enalapril was protective of overall mortality after adjusting for incident anemia and in those with prevalent anemia.
To test whether adding hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) (12.5 or 25 mg) to olmesartan 20 mg improves 24-h blood pressure in patients whose conventional diastolic blood pressure is inadequately controlled by olmesartan monotherapy.
Male and female patients > or = 18 years with mean sitting diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of 100-115 mmHg, mean sitting systolic blood pressure (SBP) greater than 150 mmHg, mean 24-h DBP of at least 84 mmHg, and at least 30% of DBP daytime readings > 90 mmHg.
Four weeks of single-blind treatment with olmesartan 20 mg once daily, followed in non-responders by 8 weeks of randomized double-blind treatment with placebo or HCTZ (12.5 or 25 mg) once-daily, added to olmesartan.
HCTZ 25 mg added to olmesartan 20 mg decreased mean daytime DBP significantly more (P = 0.0012) than placebo added to olmesartan 20 mg. Compared to olmesartan monotherapy, mean 24-h DBP and SBP were significantly reduced by combination therapy with olmesartan/HCTZ 20/12.5 mg (-1.9 mmHg, P = 0.0167 and -3.9 mmHg, P = 0.0018, respectively) and 20/25 mg (-3.7 and -7.4 mmHg respectively, P < 0.0001 for both). Mean 24-h DBP and SBP and mean night-time SBP reductions were significantly greater for HCTZ 25 mg than for HCTZ 12.5 mg. Response rates (mean daytime DBP assessed by ambulatory blood pressure measurement < or = 85 mmHg) approximately doubled following the addition of HCTZ (12.5 mg = 57.6% and 25 mg = 69.5%).
Combination of olmesartan 20 mg with HCTZ provides significantly better 24-h blood pressure reduction than olmesartan monotherapy in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Moreover, increasing the dose of HCTZ from 12.5 to 25 mg is a reasonable step to reach better daytime and night-time blood pressure control.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis is an endemic disease in Surinam. The disease was treated until the early 1970s with pentavalent antimony. Pentamidine mesylate was introduced by Niemel in 1973 for the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis in Surinam.
In this retrospective study, we evaluate the results of treatment with pentamidine mesylate in 235 patients and with pentamidine isethionate in 80 patients.
In the pentamidine mesylate- and pentamidine isethionate-treated groups, a cure rate (healing without relapse) of nearly 90% was found. Relapses were seen in approximately 10% of patients in both groups. Minor side-effects, such as pain at the injection site, bitter taste, and nausea, were seen with both drugs in about 65% of patients. Complaints of the respiratory tract were seen in less than 10% of patients in the pentamidine isethionate-treated group, but were uncommon in the pentamidine mesylate-treated group.
Pentamidine mesylate and isethionate have similar safety, efficacy, and side-effect profiles in the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis in Surinam.
The pharmacokinetics of panipenem in experimental renal failure animal models was investigated in order to identify the appropriate covariates affecting the pharmacokinetic behavior. Panipenem and betamipron were administered intravenously to rats with a variety of renal failures, such as nephritis induced by glycerol, gentamicin, uranium and antiserum against glomerular basement membrane as well as 5/6 subtotal nephrectomy. Panipenem in plasma and urine was determined and pharmacokinetic analysis was performed using a one-compartment open model. The elimination half-life prolonged and total body clearance, renal clearance (CL(R)) and renal excretion ratio were decreased according to the renal function, i.e. control>glycerol>anti-GBM=gentamicin>nephrectomy=uranium in order. However, distribution volume was consistent in all models. CL(R) showed strong positive correlation with the glomerular filtration rate in spite of a weak correlation with the reciprocal of blood urea nitrogen. However, no obvious correlation was observed with secretory clearance of N-1-methylnicotinamide. This preliminary information based on animal model might be useful for designing pharmacokinetic studies in special population at early stage of new drug development.
Increased mucosal polyamine levels and ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity are associated with an increased risk of colorectal neoplasia and aspirin treatment reduces risk. Previous studies suggest that a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the promoter of the ODC gene (rs2302615) may be associated with adenoma risk and/or response to aspirin chemoprevention. However, a comprehensive investigation of common genetic variation in the region of ODC gene is lacking. Using a tag SNP approach, we investigated associations between genotype or haplotype and adenoma risk among a cohort of 792 non-Hispanic white participants in a randomized trial of aspirin. Generalized linear regression was used to compute relative risks (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) adjusted for age and sex. The false discovery rate was used to account for multiple testing. Interactions terms were used to assess whether genotype modified the effect of aspirin treatment. Of 15 SNPs analyzed, seven were statistically significantly associated with adenoma risk. However, in multiple SNP regression models, only two of these, located downstream of the gene, were independently associated with risk: rs11694911 (RR = 1.29; 95% CI, 1.08-1.53; P = 0.005) and rs2430420 (RR = 1.20; 95% CI, 1.03-1.40; P = 0.022). In addition, there was evidence that rs2430420 and rs28362380 modified the effect of aspirin treatment, whereas the previously investigated SNP, rs2302615, had no statistically significant main effect or interaction with aspirin treatment. Our findings suggest that common genetic variants located downstream (3') of the ODC gene influence risk of colorectal adenoma and may also impact the efficacy of aspirin chemoprevention.
Survivin deserves attention as a selective target for cancer therapy because it is silenced in differentiated adult tissues, but is expressed in a variety of human tumors, and is involved in tumorigenesis and chemoresistance. Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ASODN) can be used to inhibit the expression of survivin to induce apoptosis or enhance chemosensitivity of tumor cells. This study was to investigate the effect of inhibiting survivin expression with ASODN on sensitivity of hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines HepG2 and HepG2/ADM to Adriamycin (ADM).
The expression of survivin in HepG2 and HepG2/ADM cells was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blot. Sensitivities of HepG2 and HepG2/ADM cells to ASODN and ADM were detected by MTT assay. ASODN was transfected into HepG2 and HepG2/ADM cells; expression of survivin was detected by RT-PCR. Synergetic effects of low concentrations of ASODN and subtoxic concentrations of ADM on HepG2 and HepG2/ADM cells were detected by isobolography. The expression of active Caspase-3 and cell apoptosis were evaluated by flow cytometry.
mRNA level of survivin in HepG2/ADM cells was 15 folds as that in HepG2 cells; protein level of Survivin in HepG2/ADM cells was 18 folds as that in HepG2 cells. Both HepG2 and HepG2/ADM cells were sensitive to ASODN-mediated cytotoxicity in a concentration-dependent manner. The 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) of ASODN was 317.90 nmol/L for HepG2 cells, and 480.74 nmol/L for HepG2/ADM cells. The maximal cytotoxicity was observed at 500 nmol/L of ASODN; the inhibitory rate was 71.10% in HepG2 cells, and 53.67% in HepG2/ADM cells. The IC(50) of ADM was 0.36 microg/ml for HepG2 cells, and 2.12 microg/ml for HepG2/ADM cells; the resistance index was 6. ASODN efficiently down-regulated mRNA level of survivin in both cell lines in a concentration-dependent manner. For HepG2 cells, with the IC(50) of 271.93 nmol/L, the maximal effect of ASODN was achieved at a concentration of 400 nmol/L, at which mRNA level of survivin was down-regulated by 69.12%; for HepG2/ADM cells, with the IC(50) of 365.72 nmol/L, its maximal effect was achieved at a concentration of 400 nmol/L, at which mRNA level of survivin was down-regulated by 60.01%. ASODN in combination with ADM synergetically enhanced sensitivity of HepG2 cells to ADM by 6 folds, and HepG2/ADM cells by 4 folds. Combination treatment of ASODN and ADM gradually enhanced activity of Caspase-3 and cell apoptosis in a concentration-dependent manner, and resulted in caspase-dependent cell death in HepG2/ADM cells.
Inhibiting survivin expression with ASODN could sensitize hepatocellular carcinoma cells to ADM, and the combination of ASODN and ADM may be a reasonable approach for clinical treatment of ADM-resistant hepatocellular carcinoma.
Few data are available comparing the effects of monotherapy and combination therapy on target organ damage. The PICXEL study compared the efficacy of a strategy based on first-line combination with perindopril/indapamide versus monotherapy with enalapril in reducing left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in hypertensive patients.
In this 1-year multicentre randomized double-blind study, patients received an increasing dosage of perindopril/indapamide (n = 284) or enalapril (n = 272). Changes in blood pressure and echocardiographic measures of LVH were assessed from baseline to the end of treatment. Reading of the echocardiograms was central and blinded for therapy, patient and sequence.
Systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased significantly more in the perindopril/indapamide than in the enalapril group (P < 0.0001 and P = 0.003). The left ventricular mass index decreased by 13.6 +/- 23.9 g/m(2) (mean +/- SD) with perindopril/indapamide (P < 0.0001) and 3.9 +/- 23.9 g/m(2) with enalapril (P < 0.005); these decreases were significantly different (P < 0.0001). The left ventricular internal diameter, posterior and interventricular septal wall thickness decreased significantly with perindopril/indapamide (P < or = 0.0001); the interventricular septal wall thickness decreased significantly with enalapril (P < 0.001). Both treatments were well tolerated.
A strategy based on first-line combination with perindopril/indapamide achieved better blood pressure decrease with a significantly greater degree of LVH reduction than a strategy based on monotherapy with enalapril in hypertensive patients with LVH.
