Sotalol is a beta-adrenergic blocking drug with the additional property of lengthening the cardiac action potential. These electrophysiologic properties render the drug attractive for use in the prevention of postoperative supraventricular arrhythmias (SVA), and previous studies have suggested that it was indeed effective. The hemodynamic response to sotalol and its safety early after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery were therefore studied. Forty-two patients undergoing CABG were randomly assigned either to receive sotalol to prevent postoperative SVA (25 patients) or to serve as controls (17 patients). Sotalol was started 6 hours after surgery if patients had a cardiac index > 2.8 L/min/m2 with a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure < 15 mmHg, and if they had no contraindications to the use of beta-blockers. The drug was given as a loading infusion of 1 mg/kg over 2 hours, followed by a maintenance infusion of 0.15 mg/kg/h for 24 hours. Three hours later, patients received the first oral dose of 80 mg to be repeated every 8 or 12 hours. Adverse effects necessitating discontinuation of the drug (bradycardia < 50 beats/min, systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg, or cardiac index < 2.2 L/min/m2) occurred in six patients (24%) and were mainly related to the loading infusion. The hemodynamic data for patients who completed the study were characterized by a significant fall of the cardiac index caused by a lower heart rate without significant change of the stroke volume index. The incidence of supraventricular arrhythmias was not significantly different in the two groups (3/19 in the sotalol group, 5/17 in the control group).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Current therapy for primary sclerosing cholangitis is of limited efficacy. Multidrug resistance gene 2 knockout mice (Mdr2(-/-)) represent a well-characterized model for sclerosing cholangitis. Experiments were performed to test in such mice the therapeutic effects of 24-norUrsodeoxycholic acid, a C(23) homologue of ursodeoxycholic acid with 1 fewer methylene group in its side chain.
Mdr2(-/-) mice were fed a diet containing 24-norUrsodeoxycholic acid (0.5% wt/wt) or ursodeoxycholic acid (0.5% wt/wt) as a clinical comparator for 4 weeks; controls received standard chow. Effects on serum liver tests, liver histology, markers of inflammation and fibrosis, and bile acid transport and metabolism were compared. 24-norUrsodeoxycholic acid metabolism was studied in serum, liver, bile, and urine.
24-norUrsodeoxycholic acid markedly improved liver tests and liver histology and significantly reduced hydroxyproline content and the number of infiltrating neutrophils and proliferating hepatocytes and cholangiocytes. 24-norUrsodeoxycholic acid underwent extensive phase I/II metabolism (hydroxylation, sulfation, and glucuronidation), thereby increasing the hydrophilicity of biliary bile acid secretion. There was a coordinated induction of bile acid detoxifying enzymes (Cyp2b10, Cyp3a11, and Sult2a1) and efflux pumps (Mrp3 and Mrp4). Ursodeoxycholic acid, in contrast, increased alanine transaminase and alkaline phosphatase levels, had no significant effects on hydroxyproline content, and induced biliary transporters and detoxification enzymes to a much smaller extent than 24-norUrsodeoxycholic acid.
24-norUrsodeoxycholic acid ameliorates sclerosing cholangitis in Mdr2(-/-) mice. Its therapeutic mechanisms involve (1) increasing the hydrophilicity of biliary bile acids, (2) stimulating bile flow with flushing of injured bile ducts, and (3) inducing detoxification and elimination routes for bile acids.
Dexamethasone is likely to play a role in the etiology of hiccups in patients receiving cisplatin-based regimens. Two hundred seventy-seven patients received three doses of ondansetron 8mg intravenously (IV) at 4hour intervals plus dexamethasone 20mg IV from the start of chemotherapy, followed by dexamethasone 5mg IV every 12hours, until chemotherapy was complete. Hiccups were observed in 114 (41.2%) patients, of whom 97.4% were men. Nausea and vomiting showed inverse correlations with hiccups (P < 0.0001 and P = 0.001, respectively). In 73 patients who experienced hiccups but lacked nausea/vomiting (H+N/V-), we discontinued dexamethasone in subsequent cycles. Sixty-six patients (90.4%) ceased hiccuping, but complete protection rates of nausea and vomiting decreased to 63% and 74%, respectively. For patients who experienced both hiccups and nausea/vomiting, the onset of nausea/vomiting usually was delayed to Day 3 or 4 and began after the cessation of hiccups. We conclude that cisplatin-related hiccups are predominant in males, dexamethasone-induced, and associated with protection against nausea/vomiting.
The cardiovascular effects of volatile anesthetics during sepsis sets patients at high risk for hemodynamic deterioration. We compared the microcirculatory alterations in skeletal muscle under anesthesia with isoflurane, enflurane, and halothane in an endotoxemic rat preparation.
Twenty-one Sprague-Dawley rats under continuous hemodynamic monitoring and intravital microscopy of the spinotrapezius muscle were studied during two level lipopolysaccharide (0.2 mg/kg and 2 mg/kg) induced sepsis. The effects of equianesthetic concentrations (1.5 minimum alveolar concentration [MAC]) of either isoflurane [n:7], enflurane [n:7], or halothane [n:7] on microcirculatory vasoregulation were measured and histopathologic changes were evaluated.
During low-dose endotoxemia, arteriolar vasodilation under isoflurane was nearly abolished (P < .05). At high-dose endotoxemia, this lack of vasodilatory effect was similar (P < .05). Animals receiving 1.5 MAC of enflurane during low-dose endotoxin presented a significant decrease in arteriolar diameter by -11.3 (+/-2.9%), this response was less during high-dose endotoxemia (-7.0, +/-2.9%). Halothane caused pronounced vasoconstriction by -20 (+/-3.7%) during low-dose endotoxemia and moderate but significant constriction during high-dose endotoxemia (-7.9, +/-2.6%).
Isoflurane, enflurane, and halothane exert significantly different effects on vasoregulation of skeletal muscle arterioles in the endotoxemic rat.
The DES Screening Center of Queens, Nassau, and Suffolk counties has screened approximately 2000 diethylstilbestrol (DES)-exposed women since its inception in 1979. Four women, who at their initial visit were noted to have only nonmalignant DES-related changes, subsequently developed clear-cell adenocarcinoma while under observation, between 18-81 months after their first colposcopy. The age at diagnosis ranged from 16-31. Three patients had been receiving close follow-up; one had not. These cases emphasize the need for frequent follow-up for these patients using careful inspection and palpation, vaginal and cervical cytology, colposcopy, and colposcopically directed biopsy of suspicious areas.
The effect of subsequent administration of chloroform or phenobarbital on the incidence of ethylnitrosourea (ENU) initiated liver and lung tumors was investigated. Fifteen day old Swiss mice were administered ENU, and at weaning they started to receive either 1800 p.p.m. chloroform or 500 p.p.m. sodium phenobarbital in their drinking water. The mice continued to receive either chloroform or phenobarbital until 51 weeks of age. They were sacrificed at 52 weeks of age. ENU at 5 and 20 mg/kg, caused a dose-dependent increase in liver and lung tumors. The male mice were more sensitive to the induction of liver tumors, while no sex preference was observed for the induction of lung tumors. In male mice chloroform inhibited, while in female and male mice phenobarbital promoted spontaneous and ENU-induced liver tumors. Subsequent treatment with either chloroform or phenobarbital did not affect the incidence of ENU-induced lung tumors. In conclusion, when administered in the drinking water, chloroform inhibited while phenobarbital promoted hepatocarcinogenesis in mice.
The effects of phenobarbital (PB) and 1,4-bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]benzene (TCPOBOP) on liver hyperplasia, induction of microsomal enzyme activities, and two-stage hepatocarcinogenesis were evaluated in B6C3F1 female mice. For 4 weeks four groups of mice received PB (500 p.p.m. in the drinking water), TCPOBOP (3 mg/kg i.p. once every week), PB together with TCPOBOP or corn oil vehicle i.p. TCPOBOP induced liver hyperplasia and hypertrophy and increased p-nitroanisole-O-demethylase and aminopyrine-N-demethylase more than PB. Neither chemical changed UDPG-transferase activity. The association of PB and TCPOBOP gave the same effects as TCPOBOP alone. Other four groups of mice were treated with N-nitroso-N-diethylamine at 7 days of age and then, starting from 8 weeks of age, received the above specified weekly treatments for 20 weeks and were then sacrificed. Hepatocellular nodules greater than 150 microns were found in all animals of all groups. Due to increased size of the liver compared to controls, the number of nodules/cm3 decreased after PB and TCPOBOP treatments given alone or together; however the mean volume of nodules and the percentage of liver volume occupied by nodules increased after TCPOBOP but not after BP treatment, and the association of PB and TCPOBOP was even more effective than TCPOBOP alone. Hepatocellular adenomas greater than 2.4 mm in diameter were observed in 5 of 10 TCPOBOP-treated mice (total of 11 nodules) and in 5 of 11 mice that received PB plus TCPOBOP (total of 15 nodules). Hepatocellular carcinomas were seen in one mouse treated with PB and in three mice given PB and TCPOBOP.
HuangqinTang (HQT) is a traditional Chinese formula which is composed of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, Paeonia lactiflora Pall, Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch, and Ziziphus jujube Mill. HQT has been used in China for a wide range of disorders, especially in gastrointestinal inflammation with symptoms of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps and so on.
To investigate the protective effects of HQT extract on 2, 4, 6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) induced colitis in mice.
Different doses of HQT extract (1, 2 and 4 g/kg/day) and salicylazosulfapyridine (SASP, 500 mg/kg/day) were administered by gavage for 7 days after the induction of colitis with TNBS. The effects were studied by macroscopic score, histological analysis, immunohistochemical study of Cyclo-oxygenase-2 protein expression, as well as by determination of inflammation markers such as myeloperoxidase (MPO) and mRNA expression levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6.
In TNBS induced group, mice body weight decreased gradually and did not recover at the end of the experiment, as compared with that of control group (p<0.01). Edema and redness were also discovered in the colons profoundly and scores representing inflammation were all high in this group (p<0.01). The level of colonic MPO activity and the tissue levels of TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 were markedly increased (p<0.01). The mice treated with HQT extract and SASP recovered significantly compared with the TNBS group (p<0.01).
Our results suggested that the efficacy of HQT extract, especially at the higher dose, was analogous to that of SASP, which implicated its potential application as a natural alternative medicine in colitis treatment.
The reduced progesterone metabolite tetrahydroprogesterone is a potent positive modulator of GABA(A) chloride conductance that exerts powerful neuroinhibitiory and anti-seizure effects in animal models. Cyclic natural progesterone use may lessen seizure frequency in women with catamenial seizure exacerbation. We report a case in which efficacy was eliminated during concomitant treatment with a reductase inhibitor. The observation suggests that a reduced metabolite, rather than progesterone itself, was responsible for improved seizure control.
Despite successful coronary angioplasty (PTCA), patients may have ischemia after the procedure because of the overall coronary disease and luminal renarrowing at the lesion sites. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of the calcium-channel blocker amlodipine on post-PTCA ischemia.
In a prospective, double-blind design, patients were randomized to receive 10 mg of amlodipine or placebo 2 weeks before angioplasty. Exercise tests and 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiography recordings were performed in 405 patients, 2 weeks before and 2 and 20 weeks (early and late) after PTCA.
There were no differences in clinical and angiographic baseline characteristics between the treatment groups. Ischemia and angina were equally distributed before PTCA, and no difference in restenosis was found between the groups at follow-up. The incidence of angina was significantly lower in the amlodipine group compared with the placebo group both early and late after PTCA (P =.04 and.03). Exercise-induced ischemia was reduced by 40% (P =.009) early and 34% (P =.02) late after PTCA in the amlodipine group, and ischemia on ambulatory electrocardiography was reduced by 18% early and 28% late after PTCA compared with placebo (P =.06 and P =.009).
Ischemia and angina occurred after successful PTCA and were significantly reduced by amlodipine.
We describe clinical and pathological features of kidney and skin involvement in a patient with hypersensitivity vasculitis associated with dapsone. Although visceral damage occurs rarely, similar skin and kidney histopathologic and immunohistochemical findings indicate that this organ is a target for type IV cell-mediated dapsone reaction. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of renal hypersensitivity vasculitis associated with dapsone.
GnRH agonists decrease bone mineral density and increase fracture risk in men with prostate cancer. Raloxifene increases bone mineral density in postmenopausal women, but its efficacy in hypogonadal men is not known. In a 12-month open-label study, men with nonmetastatic prostate cancer (n = 48) who were receiving a GnRH agonist were assigned randomly to raloxifene (60 mg/d) or no raloxifene. Bone mineral densities of the posteroanterior lumbar spine and proximal femur were measured by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry. Mean (+/-se) bone mineral density of the posteroanterior lumbar spine increased by 1.0 +/- 0.9% in men treated with raloxifene and decreased by 1.0 +/- 0.6% in men who did not receive raloxifene (P = 0.07). Bone mineral density of the total hip increased by 1.1 +/- 0.4% in men treated with raloxifene and decreased by 2.6 +/- 0.7% in men who did not receive raloxifene (P < 0.001). Similar between-group differences were observed in the femoral neck (P = 0.06) and trochanter (P < 0.001). In men receiving a GnRH agonist, raloxifene significantly increases bone mineral density of the hip and tends to increase bone mineral density of the spine.
Glomerular tip lesion and its relation to different glomerular diseases is a subject of controversy. The therapeutic and prognostic clinical implications of glomerular tip lesions are ambiguous. We present a case of glomerular tip lesion associated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced nephrotic syndrome that further complicates this issue. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of glomerular tip lesion associated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced nephrotic syndrome.
Leukotrienes play a part in inflammatory response. The unique role of the enzyme 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) in the production of leukotrienes makes it as therapeutic target for inflammatory conditions like inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In the present study, by comparing the responses in wild-type mice (5-LOWT) and mice lacking the 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOKO), we investigated the role played by this enzyme in the development of experimental colitis. To address this question, we used an experimental model of colitis, induced by dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS). When compared to DNBS-treated 5-LOWT mice, DNBS-treated 5-LOKO mice experienced a reduced rate of the extent and severity of the histological signs of colon injury. After administration of DNBS 5-LOWT mice showed hemorrhagic diarrhea, weight loss and large areas of necrosis in the mucosa of the colon. Neutrophil infiltration was associated with the expression of ICAM-1, VCAM-1, P-selectin, E-selectin that were mainly localized around vessels. Absence of a functional 5-LO resulted in a significant reduction of all the above-described parameters. In particular, we have observed a significant reduction of: (i) the degree of colon injury, (ii) the rise in myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity (mucosa), (iii) the increase in staining (immunohistochemistry) for ICAM-1, VCAM-1, P-selectin, E-selectin caused by DNBS in the colon. Similarly, the treatment of 5-LOWT with zileuton (50 mg/kg per os twice a day) resulted in a significant reduction of all the above-described parameters. In addition, in in vitro study a significantly reduced chemotactic response to IL-8 was observed in peripheral blood leukocytes from 5-LOKO in comparison to 5-LOWT polymorphonuclear leukocyte. Similar results were obtained when we analyzed the chemotactic response of 5-LOWT cell incubated for 15 min with zileuton (50 microg/ml). Taken together, our results clearly demonstrate that 5-LO modulates neutrophil infiltration in experimental colitis through the expression of adhesion molecules.
Investigations of the -514 C-->T single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the hepatic lipase (HL) gene promoter region (LIPC) have yielded contradictory results regarding its association with changes in plasma lipids. The current study is a meta-analysis of 25 publications on this SNP, comprising over 24,000 individuals, and its relationship with total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL), triglycerides, and HL activity. Significant decreases were observed in HL activity for both the CT and TT genotypes compared with the CC genotype [weighted mean difference (WMD), -5.83 mmol/liter.h (95% confidence interval, -8.48, -3.17) and -11.05 mmol/liter.h (95% confidence interval, -14.74, -7.36), respectively]. Moreover, significant increases in HDL were found; the CT to CC comparison showed an increase in WMD of 0.04 mmol/liter (95% confidence interval, 0.02, 0.05) mmol/liter, and the increase in the TT vs. CC difference was WMD of 0.09 mmol/liter (95% confidence interval, 0.07, 0.12). These changes appear to be stepwise, implying an allele dosage effect. All P values for these associations were less than 0.001. This meta-analysis demonstrates the importance of the -514C-->T SNP in determining HL activity and plasma HDL concentration and helps quantify the role that hepatic lipase plays in the metabolism of HDL.
Apolipoprotein AI (apo AI) synthesis, measured as the turnover of 125I-labeled apo AI-labeled high-density lipoprotein (HDL), was increased significantly in rats with Heymann nephritis (HN) vs. control Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. However, fractional apo AI catabolic rate was also significantly less in HN vs. SD. We used 125I-apo AI tyramine cellobiose HDL, a marker retained at the catabolic site, to establish where apo AI catabolism decreased in six HN rats, seven rats with adriamycin (Adria)-induced nephrosis, and six control SD. Total renal apo AI catabolism, plus urinary losses, were the same in all three groups, despite significant urinary apo AI in HN and Adria rats. Apo AI catabolism was reduced in skin in both nephrotic groups, accounting for approximately 44% of reduced in apo AI catabolism. Thus a significant fraction of apo AI is catabolized in skin of normal male rats. Reduced apo AI catabolism in skin contributes to increased plasma levels in nephrotic rats.
Many employed chemicals in industries have estrogenic hormone effects on organisms, and these are called as environmental estrogens. Environmental estrogens have adverse effects on development and function of reproductive organs of the birds. Bisphenol A (BPA) is one of the best known environmental estrogens widely found in plastic products. In this study, we injected BPA and the synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES) in ovo and then examined and compared the effects of those on the uteri (shell gland) of the adult hens by histological methods. Five groups have been designed in the current study. Only vehicle substance was given in ovo to the control group and BPA (67 or 134 μg/g egg) and DES (0.02 or 0.2 μg/g egg) were administered in the experimental groups. Tissue specimens were taken from uteri of hens at 21 weeks of age, prior to the laying period. Estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) was immunohistochemically stained. It was observed that the hatching proportion in BPA (67 μg and 134 μg/g) was lesser than the other groups (P<0.01). Uterine tubular glandular density and thickness of tunica mucosa were found to have reduced (P<0.01) in BPA (134 μg/g) and DES (0.2 μg/g) groups, in comparison with those of the control and the other experimental groups. Uterine gland epithelium revealed positive immunoreaction for ERα. These findings suggested that administration of BPA and DES at high doses affected embryonic development in a negative way, and this adverse effect was seen less in adult period.
HOE642 (4-isopropyl-3-methylsulphonylbenzoyl-guanidine methanesulphonate), a novel Na(+)-H+ exchange subtype 1 inhibitor, was investigated for its possible antiarrhythmic effects on coronary artery ligation/reperfusion and ouabain-induced arrhythmias in the canine heart which may occur after intracellular Ca2+ overload. Also, the effects of HOE642 on coronary artery ligation/reperfusion of the left coronary artery were tested in rat hearts. HOE642 (1 mg/kg) significantly suppressed the occurrence of fatal ventricular fibrillation during coronary artery ligation and after reperfusion in dogs (2 out of 8 dogs in the treated group compared to 7 out of 8 dogs in the control group, P < 0.05), but did not suppress ventricular premature contractions and ventricular tachycardia during ischemia in the canine hearts. HOE642 at the same dose markedly reduced the total duration and the incidence of reperfusion-induced ventricular tachycardia, and the incidence and mortality of reperfusion-induced ventricular fibrillation in rats (ventricular tachycardia duration, 159 +/- 12 s to 21 +/- 8 s, P < 0.01; ventricular tachycardia, 100% to 69%; ventricular fibrillation, 89% to 0%, P < 0.01; mortality, 89% to 11%, P < 0.01). The heart rate, blood pressure, QT interval and ST segment did not change in the canine and rat hearts. HOE642 slightly decreased the arrhythmic ratio of the ouabain-induced arrhythmia only at two time points (28 and 35 min after injection) in the canine hearts. In conclusion, HOE642 has obvious antifibrillatory effects on ischemia/reperfusion arrhythmias and, in addition, has a weak suppressing effect on the ouabain-induced arrhythmia.
Activation of cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (cdk4/6) occurs in the majority of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) tumors, and represents a promising molecular target for the development of small molecule inhibitors. In the current study, we investigated the molecular determinants and in vivo response of diverse GBM cell lines and xenografts to PD-0332991, a cdk4/6-specific inhibitor. In vitro testing of PD-0332991 against a panel of GBM cell lines revealed a potent G(1) cell cycle arrest and induction of senescence in each of 16 retinoblastoma protein (Rb)-proficient cell lines regardless of other genetic lesions, whereas 5 cell lines with homozygous inactivation of Rb were completely resistant to treatment. Short hairpin RNA depletion of Rb expression conferred resistance of GBM cells to PD-0332991, further demonstrating a requirement of Rb for sensitivity to cdk4/6 inhibition. PD-0332991 was found to efficiently cross the blood-brain barrier and proved highly effective in suppressing the growth of intracranial GBM xenograft tumors, including those that had recurred after initial therapy with temozolomide. Remarkably, no mice receiving PD-0332991 died as a result of disease progression while on therapy. Additionally, the combination of PD-0332991 and radiation therapy resulted in significantly increased survival benefit compared with either therapy alone. In total, our results support clinical trial evaluation of PD-0332991 against newly diagnosed as well as recurrent GBM, and indicate that Rb status is the primary determinant of potential benefit from this therapy.
Many diabetic patients suffer from a cardiomyopathy that cannot be explained by poor coronary perfusion. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been proposed to contribute to this cardiomyopathy. Consistent with this we found evidence for induction of the antioxidant genes for catalase in diabetic OVE26 hearts. To determine whether increased antioxidant protection could reduce diabetic cardiomyopathy, we assessed cardiac morphology and contractility, Ca(2+) handling, malondialdehyde (MDA)-modified proteins, and ROS levels in individual cardiomyocytes isolated from control hearts, OVE26 diabetic hearts, and diabetic hearts overexpressing the antioxidant protein catalase. Diabetic hearts showed damaged mitochondria and myofibrils, reduced myocyte contractility, slowed intracellular Ca(2+) decay, and increased MDA-modified proteins compared with control myocytes. Overexpressing catalase preserved normal cardiac morphology, prevented the contractile defects, and reduced MDA protein modification but did not reverse the slowed Ca(2+) decay induced by diabetes. Additionally, high glucose promoted significantly increased generation of ROS in diabetic cardiomyocytes. Chronic overexpression of catalase or acute in vitro treatment with rotenone, an inhibitor of mitochondrial complex I, or thenoyltrifluoroacetone, an inhibitor of mitochondrial complex II, eliminated excess ROS production in diabetic cardiomyocytes. The structural damage to diabetic mitochondria and the efficacy of mitochondrial inhibitors in reducing ROS suggest that mitochondria are a source of oxidative damage in diabetic cardiomyocytes. We also found that catalase overexpression protected cardiomyocyte contractility in the agouti model of type 2 diabetes. These data show that both type 1 and type 2 diabetes induce damage at the level of individual myocytes, and that this damage occurs through mechanisms utilizing ROS.
In certain strains of mice, subtoxic doses of HgCl2 (mercuric chloride; mercury) induce a complex autoimmune condition characterized by the production of antinucleolar IgG Abs, lymphoproliferation, increased serum levels of IgG1/IgE Abs, and deposition of renal immune complexes. 4-1BB is an important T cell costimulatory molecule that has been implicated in T cell proliferation and cytokine production, especially production of IFN-gamma. To elucidate T cell control mediated by the 4-1BB signaling pathway in this syndrome, we assessed the effect of administering agonistic anti-4-1BB mAb on mercury-induced autoimmunity. Groups of A.SW mice (H-2s) received mercury/control Ig or mercury/anti-4-1BB or PBS alone. Anti-4-1BB mAb treatment resulted in a dramatic reduction of mercury-induced antinucleolar Ab titers, serum IgG1/IgE induction, and renal Ig deposition. These effects may be related to the present finding that anti-4-1BB mAb decreases B cell numbers and function. The anti-4-1BB mAb-treated mercury group also showed a marked reduction in Th2-type cytokines but an increase in Th1-type cytokines and chemokines. Increased IFN-gamma production due to anti-4-1BB mAb treatment appears to be responsible for the observed B cell defects because neutralization of IFN-gamma in vivo substantially restored B cell numbers and partly restored IgG1/IgE. Collectively, our results indicate that 4-1BB mAb can down-regulate mercury-induced autoimmunity by affecting B cell function in an IFN-gamma-dependent manner and thus, preventing the development of autoantibody production and tissue Ig deposition.
Genome-wide association studies are now identifying disease-associated chromosome regions. However, even after convincing replication, the localization of the causal variant(s) requires comprehensive resequencing, extensive genotyping and statistical analyses in large sample sets leading to targeted functional studies. Here, we have localized the type 1 diabetes (T1D) association in the interleukin 2 receptor alpha (IL2RA) gene region to two independent groups of SNPs, spanning overlapping regions of 14 and 40 kb, encompassing IL2RA intron 1 and the 5' regions of IL2RA and RBM17 (odds ratio = 2.04, 95% confidence interval = 1.70-2.45; P = 1.92 x 10(-28); control frequency = 0.635). Furthermore, we have associated IL2RA T1D susceptibility genotypes with lower circulating levels of the biomarker, soluble IL-2RA (P = 6.28 x 10(-28)), suggesting that an inherited lower immune responsiveness predisposes to T1D.
Li Fraumeni Syndrome (LFS) is a multicancer phenotype, most commonly associated with germ-line mutations in TP53. In a kindred with LFS without an inherited TP53 mutation, we have previously reported a truncating mutation (1100delC) in CHK2, encoding a kinase that phosphorylates p53 on Ser(20). Here, we describe a CHK2 missense mutation (R145W) in another LFS family. This mutation destabilizes the encoded protein, reducing its half-life from >120 min to 30 min. This effect is abrogated by treatment of cells with a proteosome inhibitor, suggesting that CHK2(R145W) is targeted through this degradation pathway. Both 1100delC and R145W germ-line mutations in CHK2 are associated with loss of the wild-type allele in the corresponding tumor specimens, and neither tumor harbors a somatic TP53 mutation. Our observations support the functional significance of CHK2 mutations in rare cases of LFS and suggest that such mutations may substitute for inactivation of TP53.
Centronuclear myopathies are characterized by muscle weakness and abnormal centralization of nuclei in muscle fibers not secondary to regeneration. The severe neonatal X-linked form (myotubular myopathy) is due to mutations in the phosphoinositide phosphatase myotubularin (MTM1), whereas mutations in dynamin 2 (DNM2) have been found in some autosomal dominant cases. By direct sequencing of functional candidate genes, we identified homozygous mutations in amphiphysin 2 (BIN1) in three families with autosomal recessive inheritance. Two missense mutations affecting the BAR (Bin1/amphiphysin/RVS167) domain disrupt its membrane tubulation properties in transfected cells, and a partial truncation of the C-terminal SH3 domain abrogates the interaction with DNM2 and its recruitment to the membrane tubules. Our results suggest that mutations in BIN1 cause centronuclear myopathy by interfering with remodeling of T tubules and/or endocytic membranes, and that the functional interaction between BIN1 and DNM2 is necessary for normal muscle function and positioning of nuclei.
Hughes-Stovin syndrome is an exceedingly rare disorder of unknown etiology, and it is characterized by multiple pulmonary artery aneurysms and peripheral venous thrombosis. We report a case of Hughes-Stovin syndrome with complete resolution of pulmonary artery aneurysm after treatment with cyclophosphamide. A 48-year-old man presented with massive hemoptysis, fever, and weight loss of 4-month duration. Computed tomography angiography revealed multiple pulmonary arterial aneurysms of variable sizes in both lung fields. Inferior vena caval thrombosis was also noted. Despite multiple surgical procedures including embolectomy and lobectomy combined with steroid therapy, new aneurysms continued to appear with persistent hemoptysis. Thorough history and physical examination did not suggest any evidence of Behcet's disease. Hughes-Stovin syndrome was subsequently diagnosed. High-dose prednisolone combined with oral cyclophosphamide therapy was initiated. Chest radiography follow-up in 3 months revealed complete resolution of pulmonary aneurysm. No new aneurysm was detected at 15 months of follow-up.
The salivary activity in pups of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar (W) rats treated with atenolol during pregnancy, and lactation was evaluated. Atenolol's anti-hypertensive effect on the SHR rats was noticed from the beginning of treatment. Atenolol-treated SHR and Wistar rat pups showed a decrease in salivary gland weight, salivary flow, and protein concentration, with no alteration in salivary amylase activity. Atenolol's effect on salivary glands can interfere with oral health maintenance.
