All-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) is a new and effective treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia. It has many side-effects, including the retinoic acid syndrome and Sweet's syndrome. There have been only nine cases of hypercalcemia associated with ATRA described in the literature. We discuss a case of hypercalcemia, which we believe was due to inhibition of cytochrome P450 function by voriconizole when used concomitantly with ATRA.
Propofol is increasingly used for the treatment of status epilepticus due to the ease of use and tolerability, even if safety data from randomized clinical trials are lacking. An association of high infusion rates of propofol (>5 mg/kg/h) for more than 48 h and constellation of acidosis, rhabdomyolysis, and cardiovascular collapse has been reported in children, but has only been described in a few adult cases. We report a case and autopsy findings of an adult who developed rhabdomyolysis and cardiac failure after receiving propofol for status epilepticus. The patient became symptomatic within 55 h after initiation of propofol infusion. The maximal infusion rate did not exceed 7.2 mg/kg/h, and propofol in excess of 5mg/kg/h was infused for less than 20 h. Preexisting antiepileptic medication may have exacerbated acidosis. Propofol infusion for the treatment of status epilepticus should be carefully weighted against its real risk to develop propofol infusion syndrome, and alternative agents such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates should be considered for first line therapy. If necessary, prolonged propofol infusion at high doses for the treatment of status epilepticus should be used with caution, and in all cases careful monitoring for rhabdomyolysis and acidosis must be performed.
beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides are the major protein components of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. Vascular damage and reactive gliosis are found colocalized with amyloid deposits in AD brains, suggesting that the vasculature may be a clinically significant site of AD pathology. Our results show that freshly solubilized Abeta1-40 enhances the vasoconstriction induced by endothelin-1 (ET-1) and increases resistance to relaxation triggered by nitric oxide (NO), suggesting that Abeta may oppose the NO/cGMP pathway. Using specific inhibitors and activators of the NO/cGMP pathway, we show that Abeta vasoactivity is not due to a modulation of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) or soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC). However, we find that a selective cGMP phosphodiesterase (cGMP-PDE) inhibitor (dipyridamole) is able to interactively block the enhanced vasoconstriction as well as the opposition to relaxation induced by Abeta, suggesting that Abeta could effect the activity of this enzyme. Cyclic GMP levels, but not cAMP concentrations, are reduced after Abeta treatment of rat aortic rings, further substantiating this hypothesis. Moreover, in examination of this pathway in another cell type pertinent to AD, we find that Abeta induces a proinflammatory response in microglia as evidenced by increased leukotriene B4 release. We show that both dipyridamole and compounds which increase cGMP levels prevent Abeta-induced microglial inflammation. Our results suggest that therapeutic intervention aimed at reduction of microglial-mediated inflammation via inhibition of cGMP-PDE or elevation of cGMP may be beneficial in the treatment of AD.
Estrogen receptor (ER)-negative tumors represent 20-30% of all breast cancers, with a higher proportion occurring in younger women and women of African ancestry. The etiology and clinical behavior of ER-negative tumors are different from those of tumors expressing ER (ER positive), including differences in genetic predisposition. To identify susceptibility loci specific to ER-negative disease, we combined in a meta-analysis 3 genome-wide association studies of 4,193 ER-negative breast cancer cases and 35,194 controls with a series of 40 follow-up studies (6,514 cases and 41,455 controls), genotyped using a custom Illumina array, iCOGS, developed by the Collaborative Oncological Gene-environment Study (COGS). SNPs at four loci, 1q32.1 (MDM4, P = 2.1 × 10(-12) and LGR6, P = 1.4 × 10(-8)), 2p24.1 (P = 4.6 × 10(-8)) and 16q12.2 (FTO, P = 4.0 × 10(-8)), were associated with ER-negative but not ER-positive breast cancer (P > 0.05). These findings provide further evidence for distinct etiological pathways associated with invasive ER-positive and ER-negative breast cancers.
Three instances of life-threating adverse reations to intravenous contrast media and penicillin have been presented. Hypotension was the major presenting sign, and was prolonged and relieved only by copious dluid therapy. In 1 case the onset of hypotension was delayed for an hour. Urologists should be aware of the variety and proper treatment of drug reactions.
The hypersensitivity dermatitis induced by trichloroethylene (TCE) exposure was influenced by individual genetic susceptibility factors. In this paper, a case-control study was conducted to investigate effects of various genotypes and phenotypes of N-Acetyltransferases (NATs) on individual susceptibility to the disease. The study consists of 111 patients with hypersensitivity dermatitis and 154 healthy TCE-exposed workers. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism was used to detect the polymorphic sites of NAT1 at nt 1095 and 1088 and the sites of NAT2 at nt 481, 590, and 857. Logistic regression was used to calculate the odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95%CI). The results reveal that subjects with intermediate or slow acetylators of NAT2 have a 2.01 fold (95%CI=1.14-3.54) higher risk for the disease than subjects with the fast acetylators. When non-fast NAT2 phenotype (intermediate and slow acetylators) and a slow NAT1 phenotype were combined, the risk for the disease was significantly increased (OR=2.71, 95%CI 1.29-5.70) to the level higher than that observed for NAT2 non-fast acetylators phenotype alone. These findings suggest that slow metabolic phenotype of NAT2 maybe one of risk factor for TCE-induced hypersensitivity dermatitis and combined slow acetylator phenotypes of NAT1 and NAT2 further increase such risk.
Interindividual variation in mean leukocyte telomere length (LTL) is associated with cancer and several age-associated diseases. We report here a genome-wide meta-analysis of 37,684 individuals with replication of selected variants in an additional 10,739 individuals. We identified seven loci, including five new loci, associated with mean LTL (P < 5 × 10(-8)). Five of the loci contain candidate genes (TERC, TERT, NAF1, OBFC1 and RTEL1) that are known to be involved in telomere biology. Lead SNPs at two loci (TERC and TERT) associate with several cancers and other diseases, including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Moreover, a genetic risk score analysis combining lead variants at all 7 loci in 22,233 coronary artery disease cases and 64,762 controls showed an association of the alleles associated with shorter LTL with increased risk of coronary artery disease (21% (95% confidence interval, 5-35%) per standard deviation in LTL, P = 0.014). Our findings support a causal role of telomere-length variation in some age-related diseases.
A myelotomy patient with succinylcholine-induced hyperkalemia and ventricular fibrillation was succesfully resusciated. The urologist and anesthetist can prevent this problem by using non-depolarizing muscle relaxants in patients with denervated skeletal muscle.
Cephalosporin-induced hemolytic anemia is an acquired form of hemolytic anemia caused by interaction of drug with the immune system. Drug adsorption, drug-dependent antibody, and autoimmune induction are the three mechanisms of hemolysis. Cefotetan-induced hemolytic anemia (CIHA) has been described to occur through all three mechanisms. We report four cases of CIHA that occurred after appropriate perioperative use of cefotetan. All of our patients developed an acute and severe hemolytic episode that caused significant symptoms and led to hospitalization within 1-2 weeks after exposure to cefotetan. The hemolytic process was self-limited, and all our patients responded to supportive measures and blood transfusion. This report adds to our knowledge of CIHA, a rare complication of cefotetan use. Our cases suggest that cefotetan-induced acute severe hemolysis is caused by membrane modification (nonimmunologic protein adsorption) in addition to immune complex formation. Prompt diagnosis and aggressive supportive measures are essential in minimizing morbidity and mortality from hemolysis. Physicians should warn their patients about this complication. Given that hemolysis occurs when the subject is no longer under direct clinical supervision, patient awareness on how to recognize signs and symptoms of hemolysis is paramount to reducing the likelihood of this potentially lethal side effect. Finally, physicians might consider restricting cefotetan use.
A possible mechanism for fenfluramine-induced pulmonary hypertension has been investigated. Fenfluramine, like chlorphentermine, may inhibit the pulmonary uptake and/or metabolism of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT). This allows more 5-HT to remain in the pulmonary circulation, where it may exert a greater vasoconstrictor action resulting in pulmonary hypertension. Chlorphentermine has been shown to inhibit the uptake and metabolism of 5-HT. The effect of fenfluramine on the pulmonary disposition of [14C]5-HT has been investigated, in comparison with chlorphentermine, using a recirculating isolated perfused rat lung system. The pulmonary disposition of [14C]5-HT was assessed by measuring the change in [14C]5-HT concentration in the perfusion medium during the experiment and at the end, and the concentration in the lung at the end of the experiment. The concentration of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, a metabolite of 5-HT, was measured in perfusate and lung samples. Mean pulmonary clearance of 5-HT for the control lung and lungs challenged with either fenfluramine (2.5 microM) or chlorphentermine (25 microM) was 4.514, 1.316 and 1.007 mL min(-1), respectively (n = 5). The concentration of 5-HT found in the lungs at the end of the experiment for the control and the lungs preloaded with fenfluramine or chlorphentermine was 695.05+/-9.69, 638.65+/-10.27 and 617.3+/-14.38 ng g(-1), respectively. Fenfluramine, like chlorphentermine, inhibited the pulmonary disposition of 5-HT resulting in an elevated perfusate level of 5-HT. This is a possible contributing mechanism for fenfluramine-induced pulmonary hypertension. The effect of fenfluramine was less pronounced than chlorphentermine.
LEC rats show spontaneous hepatitis and hepatocarcinoma development related to oxidative stress due to abnormal copper accumulation in the liver. We used DNA microarrays bearing 22,012 genes to investigate at the transcriptomic level the progression of the hepatitis in LEC rats in comparison to a control obtained from LEC rats treated with D-penicillamine, a copper chelating agent known to block hepatitis development. Multivariate statistical analyses as partial least square (PLS) regression between transcriptomic data and hepatitis markers in plasma led us to select 483 genes related to hepatitis development in these rats. After a complementary discriminant analysis (PLS-DA), 239 important genes for the separation between the different rat groups were selected. Gene ontology classification revealed an overrepresentation of genes involved in protein metabolism-related functions. More importantly, some genes implicated in proteasome pathway were upregulated. However, analysis of 20S proteasome activity showed that trypsin-like and peptidylglutamyl peptide hydrolase activities were diminished during hepatitis. Because oxidative stress is known to promote the inactivation of the proteasome complex, we propose the deregulation of the proteasome genes expression as a result of oxidative inactivation of proteasome activity during hepatitis in LEC rats. These results bring new insights in the hepatitis and the hepatocarcinogenesis development.
Recent global events have focused attention on the potential threat of international and domestic chemical terrorism, as well as the possibility of chemical warfare proliferation. Sulphur mustard (SM) is one of the potent chemical warfare agents (CWA), which initiates a cascade of events that converge on the redox mechanisms common to brain injury. The present study was designed to examine the effects of chronic SM exposure on neurobehavioral impairments, mitochondrial oxidative stress in male Swiss Albino mice and its role in inducing apoptotic neuronal cell death. The animals were divided into four groups (control, low, medium and high dose) of 5 animals each. Exposure to SM was given percutaneously daily for 12 weeks. The results demonstrated impairment in neurobehavioral indices viz. rota rod, passive avoidance and water maze tests in a dose dependent manner. There was a significant increase in lipid peroxidation and protein carbonyl content whereas, decrease in the activity of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), glutathione reductase and glutathione peroxidase suggesting impaired antioxidant defense system. Immunoblotting of cytochrome c, Bcl-2, Bax and activation of caspase-3 suggest induction of apoptosis in a dose dependent manner. Finally, increased p53 expression suggests that it may target the mitochondrial pathway for inducing apoptosis in response to DNA damage signals. In conclusion, chronic SM exposure may have the potential to generate oxidative stress which may trigger the release of cytochrome c as well as caspase-3 activation in neurons leading to cell death by apoptosis in a dose dependent manner which may in the end be responsible for the disruption of cognitive functions in mice.
Ceftriaxone (a beta-lactam antibiotic) has recently been identified as having the rare ability to increase the expression and functional activity of the glutamate transporter subtype 1 (GLT-1) in rat spinal cord cultures. GLT-1 has been implicated in diverse neurological disorders and in opioid dependence and withdrawal. It has been speculated that it might also be involved in the physical dependence and withdrawal of other abused drugs, but demonstration of this property can be difficult in mammalian models. Here, we demonstrate for the first time using a planarian model that ceftriaxone attenuates both the development of physical dependence and abstinence-induced withdrawal from cocaine, amphetamine, methamphetamine, and a benzodiazepine (clorazepate) in a concentration-related manner. These results suggest that physical dependence and withdrawal from several drugs involve a common - beta-lactam-sensitive - mechanism in planarians. If these findings can be shown to extend to mammals, beta-lactam antibiotics might represent a novel pharmacotherapy or adjunct approach for treating drug abuse or serve as a template for drug discovery efforts aimed at treating drug abuse, recovery from drug abuse, or ameliorating the withdrawal from chronic use of therapeutic medications.
Pseudotumor cerebri developed in a 14-year-old girl with nodulocystic acne, who was taking excessive amounts of a synthetic vitamin A derivative. Although hypervitaminosis A has reportedly caused pseudotumor, Accutane has not previously been implicated.
New therapies against cancer are based on targeting cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Whether COX-2 inhibitor therapy would be beneficial in the prevention and/or treatment of ovarian cancer still remains unclear. This study was designed to investigate whether nimesulide, a COX-2 selective inhibitor, could suppress tumor growth in implanted ovarian carcinoma mice and to explore the molecular mechanisms. Human ovarian SKOV-3 carcinoma cells xenograft-bearing mice were treated with nimesulide 62.5 mg/kg or 250 mg/kg alone i.g., daily for 21 days. Microvessel density (MVD) of ovarian carcinoma was determined with anti-CD(34) as the label. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) levels were also determined by ELISA. In addition, the expression of COX-2 and COX-1 at protein and mRNA levels in the control groups was also detected by immunohistochemistry and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Nimesulide treatment showed a dose-dependent growth-inhibitory effect of human ovarian SKOV-3 tumors. The inhibitory rates in nimesulide 62.5 mg/kg group and 250 mg/kg group were 20.40% and 50.55% respectively, however, which is not significant statistically compared with that of control group (P > 0.05). In treatment groups, nimesulide significantly reduced intratumor PGE2 levels (all, P < 0.01). Microvessel densities in treatment groups were 61.20 +/- 1.67 (62.5 mg/kg) and 66.27 +/- 1.20 (250 mg/kg), which are significant statistically compared with that of control group (79.97 +/- 1.07) (all, P < 0.01). However, COX-1, not COX-2, mRNA, and protein levels are elevated in tumor tissues. Nimesulide decreased microvessel density is associated with the reduction of PGE2 levels but without affecting growth inhibition and the expression of COX-2. Importantly, tumor growth implanted in SKOV-3 mice was not significantly attenuated suggesting that COX-1 in ovarian carcinoma tissue also has an important role in tumor growth. These findings may implicate COX-1 as a suitable target for the treatment of ovarian cancer.
TERT-locus SNPs and leukocyte telomere measures are reportedly associated with risks of multiple cancers. Using the Illumina custom genotyping array iCOGs, we analyzed ∼480 SNPs at the TERT locus in breast (n = 103,991), ovarian (n = 39,774) and BRCA1 mutation carrier (n = 11,705) cancer cases and controls. Leukocyte telomere measurements were also available for 53,724 participants. Most associations cluster into three independent peaks. The minor allele at the peak 1 SNP rs2736108 associates with longer telomeres (P = 5.8 × 10(-7)), lower risks for estrogen receptor (ER)-negative (P = 1.0 × 10(-8)) and BRCA1 mutation carrier (P = 1.1 × 10(-5)) breast cancers and altered promoter assay signal. The minor allele at the peak 2 SNP rs7705526 associates with longer telomeres (P = 2.3 × 10(-14)), higher risk of low-malignant-potential ovarian cancer (P = 1.3 × 10(-15)) and greater promoter activity. The minor alleles at the peak 3 SNPs rs10069690 and rs2242652 increase ER-negative (P = 1.2 × 10(-12)) and BRCA1 mutation carrier (P = 1.6 × 10(-14)) breast and invasive ovarian (P = 1.3 × 10(-11)) cancer risks but not via altered telomere length. The cancer risk alleles of rs2242652 and rs10069690, respectively, increase silencing and generate a truncated TERT splice variant.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified four susceptibility loci for epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), with another two suggestive loci reaching near genome-wide significance. We pooled data from a GWAS conducted in North America with another GWAS from the UK. We selected the top 24,551 SNPs for inclusion on the iCOGS custom genotyping array. We performed follow-up genotyping in 18,174 individuals with EOC (cases) and 26,134 controls from 43 studies from the Ovarian Cancer Association Consortium. We validated the two loci at 3q25 and 17q21 that were previously found to have associations close to genome-wide significance and identified three loci newly associated with risk: two loci associated with all EOC subtypes at 8q21 (rs11782652, P = 5.5 × 10(-9)) and 10p12 (rs1243180, P = 1.8 × 10(-8)) and another locus specific to the serous subtype at 17q12 (rs757210, P = 8.1 × 10(-10)). An integrated molecular analysis of genes and regulatory regions at these loci provided evidence for functional mechanisms underlying susceptibility and implicated CHMP4C in the pathogenesis of ovarian cancer.
Treatment with aminoglycosides is known to cause irreversible hearing loss, typically affecting higher-frequency hearing first and progressing to lower frequencies. Standardized methodology has not been developed for early detection of ototoxicity. Serial conventional (0.25-8 kHz) and high-frequency (9-20 kHz) hearing threshold monitoring was done prospectively in 53 hospitalized patients administered aminoglycosides. Hearing loss occurred in 47% of the ears studied, with hearing loss first appearing in the high-frequency range in 71% of ears showing change. Analysis of data on an individual basis revealed a five-frequency range most susceptible to initial ototoxicity. Testing only this range would have resulted in early identification of 82% of ears showing change. Results confirm the critical need for serial auditory threshold monitoring encompassing high frequencies in patients receiving aminoglycosides. A shortened five-frequency monitoring protocol is presented and suggested for use with patients unable to tolerate lengthy audiometric testing procedures.
We evaluated fluoxetine in six patients with poorly controlled cataplexy by beginning patients on a single 20 mg dose without any change in their current medications. Once benefit occurred, we discontinued or reduced other anticataplectic medication. Reduction in the number of cataplectic episodes per week after 20 weeks of treatment constituted the basis for efficacy determination. Patients experienced a mean reduction of 92% (a mean drop in frequency of 21.7 to 1.7 episodes per week). Although fluoxetine-induced headache occurred in one patient, the other five reported no side effects at the doses used. The results of this pilot study demonstrate that fluoxetine safely and effectively suppresses cataplexy and reduces the need for other, less desirable, anticataplectic agents.
The Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway is an essential cascade for mediating normal functions of different cytokines in the development of the hematopoietic and immune systems. Chronic exposure to arsenic has been found to cause immunotoxicity and has been associated with the suppression of hematopoiesis (anemia and leukopenia). Here, we report the novel finding of arsenic-mediated inactivation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway by its direct interaction with JAK tyrosine kinase. Pretreatment with sodium arsenite strongly inhibited IL-6-inducible STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation in HepG2 cells and did not affect its serine phosphorylation. As a result, sodium arsenite completely abolished STAT activity-dependent expression of suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS). Both cellular and subcelluar experiments showed that the inhibition of JAK-STAT signaling resulted from JAK tyrosine kinase's direct interaction with arsenite, and that arsenic's suppression of JAK tyrosine kinase activity also occurred in the interferon gamma (IFNgamma) pathway. The ligand-independent inhibition by arsenic indicates that JAK was the direct target of arsenic action. Other inflammatory stimulants, stress agents, and metal cadmium failed to induce similar effects on the tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3 as arsenic does. Our experiments also revealed that arsenic inactivation of the JAK-STAT pathway occurred independent of arsenic activation of MAP kinases. Taken together, our findings indicate that arsenic directly inhibits JAK tyrosine kinase activity and suggest that this direct interference in the JAK-STAT pathway may play a role in arsenic-associated pathogenesis.
During anti-hormonal therapy for prostate cancer, a major clinical problem is the development of androgen-independent disease. The molecular mechanisms underlying the transition to androgen independence are the subject of intense investigation. In many prostate tumors, the activity of the transcription factor EGR1 (early growth response gene 1) is elevated due to overexpression of EGR1 and/or downregulation of the co-repressor, NAB2. We have modeled these alterations by expressing active EGR1 that does not bind NAB co-repressor proteins in human prostate carcinoma cells. We show here that active EGR1 expression enhances the androgen-independent growth of prostate carcinoma cells in vitro and in vivo. Employing RNAi and expression analyses, we show that EGR1 mediates its effects, at least in part, through the AR signaling pathway. These findings support a role for enhanced EGR1 activity in regulating the transition from androgen-dependent to androgen-independent prostate cancer.
Mice heterozygous for the Otx2 mutation display a craniofacial malformation, known as otocephaly or agnathia-holoprosencephaly complex. The severity of the phenotype is dependent on the genetic background of a C57BL/6 (B6) strain; most of the offspring of Otx2 knock-out chimeras, which are equivalent to the F(1) of CBA and B6 strains, backcrossed with B6 females display reduction or loss of mandible, whereas those backcrossed with CBA females do not show noticeable phenotype at birth. The availability of phenotypically disparate strains renders identification of Otx2 modifier loci possible. In this study, a backcross of chimera with B6 was generated and genome-wide scans were conducted with polymorphic markers for non-mendelian distribution of alleles in Otx2 heterozygous mutant mice displaying abnormalities in the lower jaw. We identified one significant locus, Otmf18, between D18Mit68 and D18Mit120 on chromosomes 18, linked to the mandibular phenotype (LOD score 3.33). A similar replication experiment using a second backcross (N3) mouse demonstrated the presence of another significant locus, Otmf2 between D2Mit164 and D2Mit282 on chromosome 2, linked to the mandibular phenotype (LOD score 3.93). These two modifiers account for the distribution of the craniofacial malformations by the genetic effect between B6 and CBA strains. Moreover, Otmf2 contain a candidate gene for several diseases in mice and humans. These genetic studies involving an otocephalic mouse model appear to provide new insights into mechanistic pathways of craniofacial development. Furthermore, these experiments offer a powerful approach with respect to identification and characterization of candidate genes that may contribute to human agnathia-holoprosencephaly complex diseases.
Titanium dioxide nanoparticles (nanoTiO(2) ) are used in various applications including in paints. NanoTiO(2) inhalation may induce pulmonary toxicity and systemic effects. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. In this study, the effects of inhaled surface-coated nanoTiO(2) on pulmonary global messenger RNA (mRNA) and microRNA (miRNA) expression in mouse were characterized to provide insight into the molecular response. Female C57BL/6BomTac mice were exposed for 1 hr daily to 42.4 ± 2.9 (SEM) mg surface-coated nanoTiO(2) /m(3) for 11 consecutive days by inhalation and were sacrificed 5 days following the last exposure. Physicochemical properties of the particles were determined. Pulmonary response to nanoTiO(2) was characterized using DNA microarrays and pathway-specific PCR arrays and related to data on pulmonary inflammation from bronchial lavages. NanoTiO(2) exposure resulted in increased levels of mRNA for acute phase markers serum amyloid A-1 (Saa1) and serum amyloid A-3 (Saa3), several C-X-C and C-C motif chemokines, and cytokine tumor necrosis factor genes. Protein analysis of Saa1 and 3 showed selective upregulation of Saa3 in lung tissues. Sixteen miRNAs were induced by more than 1.2-fold (adjusted P-value < 0.05) following exposure. Real time polymerase chain reaction confirmed the upregulation of miR-1, miR-449a and revealed dramatic induction of miR-135b (60-fold). Thus, inhalation of surface-coated nanoTiO(2) results in changes in the expression of genes associated with acute phase, inflammation and immune response 5 days post exposure with concomitant changes in several miRNAs. The role of these miRNAs in pulmonary response to inhaled particles is unknown and warrants further research.
