Patients experiencing erectile dysfunction who fail intracavernous injection (ICI) therapy are commonly believed to have exhausted pharmacologic options. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of transurethral alprostadil (MUSE) in patients experiencing erectile dysfunction who underwent prior ICI therapy (alprostadil, papaverine, phentolamine, or a combination of these).
Of the 1511 patients enrolled in a multicenter trial of transurethral alprostadil, 452 (30%) reported prior ICI therapy and its effects. These patients tested up to four dose levels of transurethral alprostadil in the clinic, and those who achieved an erection satisfactory for intercourse were treated at home in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Prior ICI therapy was reported to be "not effective" by 95 of 452 patients (21%), "sometimes effective" by 119 of 452 (26%), and "effective" by 238 of 452 (53%). In patients reporting ICI therapy as "not effective," 58% achieved an erection sufficient for intercourse following transurethral alprostadil therapy in the clinic; 47% of these responsive patients reported successful sexual intercourse after transurethral alprostadil therapy during home treatment. For patients reporting ICI therapy as "sometimes effective" or "effective," 68% achieved an erection sufficient for intercourse following transurethral alprostadil therapy in the clinic setting and 67% of these responsive patients reported successful intercourse following transurethral alprostadil therapy at home. Few adverse effects were encountered. The most common adverse effect was penile pain, which occurred with 7.8% of administrations.
Transurethral alprostadil therapy is an effective therapeutic option for patients with erectile dysfunction and may even "rescue" some patients who have failed prior intracavernous injection therapy.
Several studies have indicated that ischemia induced by dipyridamole is frequently associated with angina or ischemic ST-segment depression and that it occurs mainly in patients with three-vessel disease, those with collateral vessels, or those with both.
In order to analyze the diagnostic relationships among them, we studied 227 consecutive patients who underwent coronary angiography and dipyridamole-thallium scintigraphy.
A perfusion defect was found in 134 patients. Of these, 88 patients (66%) showed no significant ECG modifications or angina; 46 (34%) had a transient ST-segment depression, which was associated with typical angina ('dipyridamole angina') in 12. These 12 patients had three-vessel disease with intercoronary collateral circulation. Among the 134 patients with coronary critical stenoses and a positive thallium-dipyridamole test, collateral vessels were detected in 91 (68%).
Dipyridamole angina, occurring during a positive dipyridamole-thallium test, is usually a manifestation of severe coronary stenoses with collateral circulation. However, as a diagnostic symptom it is characterized by high specificity but low sensitivity.
To determine the pharmacological significance of reported differences between species in l-bunolol metabolism, oral and intravenous beta-adrenoceptor blocking activity against an isoproterenol-induced tachycardia was compared in dogs, rats, and humans. Propranolol was similarly studied in rats and dogs. Species differences in intravenous potency were minimal for both compounds in contrast to oral dose studies. Oral to intravenous ratios of doses causing a comparable degree of beta-adrenoceptor blockade after l-bunolol were: rat, 212; dog 4; and human, 5. For propranolol, the oral to intravenous dose ratios were 210 and 32 for the rat and dog, respectively. These pharmacological findings show major differences in the rat compared to dogs and humans and may be explained in part by differences in the urinary excretion patterns of l-bunolol in the various species.
Ventricular fibrillation developed in a 19 year old woman taking the antihistamine astemizole. She was successfully resuscitated. QTc prolongation was found and persisted despite withdrawal of the drug. Aggravation of congenital long QTc syndrome by astemizole is postulated. More caution should be exercised with the use of this drug.
The immediate postoperative period after tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy, one of the most common pediatric surgical procedures, is often difficult. These children frequently have severe pain but postoperative airway edema along with increased sensitivity to the respiratory-depressant effects of opioids may result in obstructive symptoms and hypoxemia. Opioid consumption may be reduced by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, but these drugs may be associated with increased bleeding after this operation. Dexmedetomidine has mild analgesic properties, causes sedation without respiratory depression, and does not have an effect on coagulation. We designed a prospective, double-blind, randomized controlled study to determine the effects of intraoperative dexmedetomidine on postoperative recovery including pain, sedation, and hemodynamics in pediatric patients undergoing tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy.
One hundred nine patients were randomized to receive a single intraoperative dose of dexmedetomidine 0.75 microg/kg, dexmedetomidine 1 microg/kg, morphine 50 microg/kg, or morphine 100 microg/kg over 10 minutes after endotracheal intubation.
There were no significant differences among the 4 groups in patient demographics, ASA physical status, postoperative opioid requirements, sedation scores, duration of oxygen supplementation in the postanesthetic care unit, and time to discharge readiness. The median time to first postoperative rescue analgesic was similar in patients receiving dexmedetomidine 1 microg/kg and morphine 100 microg/kg, but significantly longer compared with patients receiving dexmedetomidine 0.75 microg/kg or morphine 50 microg/kg (P < 0.01). In addition, the number of patients requiring >1 rescue analgesic dose was significantly higher in the dexmedetomidine 0.75 microg/kg group compared with the dexmedetomidine 1 microg/kg and morphine 100 microg/kg groups, but not the morphine 50 microg/kg group. Patients receiving dexmedetomidine had significantly slower heart rates in the first 30 minutes after surgery compared with those receiving morphine (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in sedation scores among the groups.
The total postoperative rescue opioid requirements were similar in tonsillectomy patients receiving intraoperative dexmedetomidine or morphine. However, the use of dexmedetomidine 1 microg/kg and morphine 100 microg/kg had the advantages of an increased time to first analgesic and a reduced need for additional rescue analgesia doses, without increasing discharge times.
The Authors describe a clinical case of a patient affected by arterial hypertension of severe degree (IV grade OMS) that during therapy with ACE inhibitors and diuretics developed acute renal failure that reversed after stopping treatment. The clinical course was quite similar to acute renal failure induced by ACE inhibitors and diuretics in patient with bilateral renal artery stenosis. In interpreting the pathogenesis, the Authors suppose, beside a reductions of effective plasma flow, the coexistence of hyalinosis of renal arterioles. They underline the necessity of monitoring renal function at least in the first weeks of therapy when a treatment with ACE inhibitors and diuretics is started especially in patients with hypertension of high degree and/or reduced renal function.
Interleukin-8 is a proinflammatory cytokine with chemo-attractive and major activator properties on neutrophils. The very few studies in literature on the IL-8 behaviour in myocardial ischaemia refer only to acute myocardial infarction. This study investigates the IL-8 behaviour in stable angina pectoris after myocardial ischaemia induced by dipyridamole (14 patients) and in unstable angina pectoris, Braunwald's class III (35 patients). In stable exercise angina following dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischaemia, the plasma IL-8 levels did not increase. In unstable angina pectoris increased plasma IL-8 levels were evidenced in 25 of the 35 patients, after an average interval of 20 +/- 1.2 hours from the last spontaneous episode of angina pectoris. The IL-8 behaviour was different in class III B patients as compared to class III A: only 30% of the patients in class III A presented transient increase of IL-8, while 70% of the class III B presented increased IL-8 with a median value of 900 pg/ml within the first 24 hours from the last spontaneous episode of angina pectoris. The increased plasma IL-8 levels within the first 24 hours from the spontaneous episode could represent a marker of primary angina pectoris, Braunwald's class III B.
The alpha 2-antagonist, yohimbine has been shown to dose-dependently induce clonic seizures in mice. The convulsant effects of yohimbine are not due to alpha 2-antagonism, as other alpha 2-antagonists, such as rauwolscine and idazoxan, did not produce seizures at doses up to 100 mg/kg. Since GABAmimetic and excitatory amino acid antagonist agents attenuate yohimbine-induced seizures, the respective contribution of these systems to the production of yohimbine seizures was investigated. The CD50 dose of yohimbine (dose required to produce clonic seizures in 50% of the mice) was determined to be 25.5 mg/kg (s.c.). The CD15 dose of N-methyl-DL-aspartic acid (NMDLA), bicuculline and methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4 ethyl-beta carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM) significantly potentiated the convulsant effects of yohimbine, such that the CD50 dose was decreased from 25.5 mg/kg to 1.6, 10.9 and 9.9 mg/kg, respectively. Furthermore, the potentiation in the presence of NMDLA was significantly greater than either bicuculline or DMCM. These results suggest that yohimbine-induced seizures are not only mediated through the impairment of GABAergic transmission but moreover, by a possible endogenous enhancement of excitatory amino acid transmission. In addition, the effects of GABAmimetic agents, competitive and non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists and strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor antagonists were compared in the yohimbine-, bicuculline- and NMDLA-induced seizure assays.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by hepatic lipid accumulation that starts with steatosis and progresses to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Recently, the number of patients with such liver diseases has increased, but the understanding of the fundamental mechanisms and appropriate therapies are lacking. Tamoxifen (TAM) is a selective estrogen receptor modulator. We previously reported that TAM plays a protective role against drug-induced and chemical-induced acute liver injuries. However, the effects of TAM on chronic liver injury, including steatosis and NASH, remain to be addressed. We first found that the administration of TAM to mouse models of steatosis and NASH significantly decreased the plasma ALT and AST levels. The administration of TAM decreased the accumulated fat and inflammation in the livers in both mouse models. In addition, we observed decreased hepatic mRNA levels of triglyceride synthesis, acyl-CoA: diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2), proinflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) α, and chemokines, monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP) -1. TAM increased the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation, which is related to the proliferation and regeneration of liver and to decreased DGAT2 gene expression. Furthermore, a decrease in eukaryotic translational initiation factor (eIF2α), which is involved in apoptosis, was observed in both models. These findings suggest that TAM treatment exerts a hepatoprotective effect against steatosis and NASH, presumably via up-regulation of the ERK pathways and attenuation of eIF2α activation. These pathways represent a potential therapeutic target for steatosis and NASH in drug development.
The use of chemopreventive natural compounds represents a promising strategy in the search for novel therapeutic agents in cancer. Resveratrol (3,4',5-trans-trihydroxystilbilene) is a dietary polyphenol found in fruits, vegetables and medicinal plants that exhibits chemopreventive and antitumor effects. In this study, we searched for modulated proteins with preventive or therapeutic potential in MCF-7 breast cancer cells exposed to resveratrol. Using two-dimensional electrophoresis we found significant changes (FC >2.0; p≤0.05) in the expression of 16 proteins in resveratrol-treated MCF-7 cells. Six down-regulated proteins were identified by tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS) as heat shock protein 27 (HSP27), translationally-controlled tumor protein, peroxiredoxin-6, stress-induced-phosphoprotein-1, pyridoxine-5'-phosphate oxidase-1 and hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl transferase; whereas one up-regulated protein was identified as triosephosphate isomerase. Particularly, HSP27 overexpression has been associated to apoptosis inhibition and resistance of human cancer cells to therapy. Consistently, we demonstrated that resveratrol induces apoptosis in MCF-7 cells. Apoptosis was associated with a significant increase in mitochondrial permeability transition, cytochrome c release in cytoplasm, and caspases -3 and -9 independent cell death. Then, we evaluated the chemosensitization effect of increasing concentrations of resveratrol in combination with doxorubicin anti-neoplastic agent in vitro. We found that resveratrol effectively sensitize MCF-7 cells to cytotoxic therapy. Next, we evaluated the relevance of HSP27 targeted inhibition in therapy effectiveness. Results evidenced that HSP27 inhibition using RNA interference enhances the cytotoxicity of doxorubicin. In conclusion, our data indicate that resveratrol may improve the therapeutic effects of doxorubicin in part by cell death induction. We propose that potential modulation of HSP27 levels using natural alternative agents, as resveratrol, may be an effective adjuvant in breast cancer therapy.
Our group of studies investigated the action of butane-2,3-dione thiosemicarbazone oxime against the testicular damage caused by cadmium chloride (CdCl(2)) in mice. Mice received a single injection of CdCl(2 )(5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) and, after thirty minutes, the oxime (10 mg/kg, subcutaneously) was administered. Twenty four hours after the last administration, the animals were killed by cervical dislocation and the testes and serum were removed for analysis. The parameters determined were δ-aminolevulinate dehydratase (δ-ALA-D), myeloperoxidase (MPO), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activities. The levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), nonprotein thiols (NPSH), ascorbic acid, cadmium and testosterone were also determined. In addition, histological analysis and cytokines quantification (IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-α and IFN-γ) were performed. Our results demonstrated that the oxime was effective in restoring the inhibition in δ-ALA-D activity induced by CdCl(2). The activation of MPO and increase in IL-1, IL-6, TNF-α and IFN-γ levels induced by CdCl(2) were also reduced by oxime. IL-10, which was reduced by cadmium, was restored by oxime administration. In addition, the oxime was effective in restoring the increase in TBARS levels and the reduction on NPSH levels induced by CdCl(2). Our results demonstrated that oxime was effective in containing the histological alterations induced by CdCl(2). In addition, oxime was able to increase the testosterone levels, reduced by cadmium exposure. In conclusion, the oxime tested was effective in reducing the testicular damage induced by CdCl(2) in mice. The beneficial effects of this oxime are related to its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory action.
Acetaminophen (APAP) is a commonly used and effective analgesic and antipyretic agent. However, some patients encounter hepatotoxicity after repeated APAP dosing at therapeutic doses. In the present study, we focused on the nutritional state as one of the risk factors of APAP-induced chronic hepatotoxicity in humans and investigated the contribution of undernourishment to susceptibility to APAP-induced chronic hepatotoxicity using an animal model mimicking undernourished patients. Rats were divided into 2 groups: the ad libitum fed (ALF) and the restricted fed (RF) rats and were assigned to 3 groups (n = 8/group) for each feeding condition. The animals were given APAP at 0, 300 and 500mg/kg for 99 days under each feeding condition. Plasma and urinary glutathione-related metabolites and liver function parameters were measured during the dosing period and hepatic glutathione levels were measured at the end of the dosing period. In the APAP-treated ALF rats hepatic glutathione levels were increased and hepatic function parameters were not changed, but in the APAP-treated RF rats hepatic glutathione levels were decreased at 500mg/kg and hepatic function parameters were increased at 300 and 500mg/kg. Moreover the urinary endogenous metabolite profile after long-term treatment with APAP in the ALF and RF rats was similar to that in human non-responders and responders to APAP-induced chronic hepatotoxicity, respectively. In conclusion, the RF rats were more sensitive to APAP-induced chronic hepatotoxicity than the ALF rats and were considered to be a useful model to estimate the contribution of the nutritional state of patients to APAP-induced chronic hepatotoxicity.
An Asian multiparous woman weighing 47 kg, who suffered from a rare myopathy, congenital fibre type disproportion, was given morphine 10 mg intramuscularly for labour analgesia. After delivery, she had diastolic hypertension and proteinuria and was prescribed magnesium sulphate. Some hours later she became unresponsive with little respiratory effort. Blood gas analysis revealed a respiratory acidosis. Naloxone administration reversed the symptoms. Further doses were required as the respiratory depression recurred. Opioid-related narcosis is the most likely diagnosis in this case. Other possible differential diagnoses were magnesium overdose or a post-ictal state. The presence of a myopathy could render this patient susceptible to the respiratory effects of opioids. Other explanations for an exaggerated and delayed response to opioids include co-administration of other respiratory depressant drugs such as magnesium sulphate, co-morbidity such as renal impairment and genetic variability in the metabolism of morphine. Robust guidelines and highlighting patients with risk factors are required to prevent this complication from recurring.
Radiation recall reactions are uncommon delayed tissue reactions seen in previously irradiated sites following treatment with cytotoxic agents. We evaluated a 64-year-old who developed two episodes of acute vulvitis and vaginal necrosis after receiving idarubicin therapy for acute myelogenous leukemia. Three years earlier she had undergone successful radiotherapeutic treatment of a stage I squamous cell carcinoma of the vagina. Her symptoms and examination findings resolved with local therapy and discontinuation of idarubicin. Recall reactions have been associated with the antitumor antibiotics actinomycin D and doxorubicin and, more recently, the mitotic inhibitors vinblastine and Taxol. The mechanism of this phenomenon is poorly understood but may be related to sequential stem cell injury or depletion. Because physical and biopsy findings are nonspecific, the diagnosis must be suspected on the basis of the patient's history and the location of the reaction within the prior treatment field.
Recent evidence suggests that the sodium calcium exchanger (NCX) may contribute to the etiology of pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures. Here we further investigated the role of NCX in the etiology of seizures by quantifying the effects of KB-R7943 and SN-6, potent inhibitors of the reverse mode of NCX subtypes 3 (NCX3) and 1 (NCX1), respectively, on the occurrence of acute seizures and status epilepticus induced by intraperitoneal administration of pilocarpine, a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist. Pretreatment with KB-R7943 significantly reduced the incidence of pilocarpine-induced seizures and status epilepticus in 22-56% of treated animals. In the remaining animals that exhibited seizures, KB-R7943 pretreatment delayed the onset of seizures and status epilepticus, and reduced seizure severity. Delayed onset of seizures and reduced seizure severity also were seen following pretreatment with SN-6. These findings suggest that altered NCX activity may contribute to the pathophysiology of pilocarpine-induced seizures and status epilepticus.
Liposomal encapsulation of anthracyclines is claimed to reduce toxicity and to improve pharmacokinetics. Therefore, 15 patients with locally advanced or metastatic transitional cell cancer (TCC) of the urinary tract were entered into a phase II study assessing the response rate (WHO criteria) and toxicity of DaunoXome 100 mg/m2 given as a 1 h infusion every third week. During treatment, 6 patients remained stable and 8 had progressive disease. 1 patient died of pulmonary embolism after the first cycle and was not evaluable for response. No patient developed grade 4 myelotoxicity. Grade 3 leucopenia was seen in 5 patients and grade 1 thrombocytopenia in 1 patient, with no treatment-related changes of biochemical liver and kidney function tests. 4 patients complained of angina pectoris-like chest pain during the initial phase of the first or second infusion. The event was associated with a decrease in systolic blood pressure by 20-30 mm in 1 patient leading to permanent treatment discontinuation. In the other 3 and all subsequent patients, intramuscular application of 100 mg hydrocortisone 1 h prior to DaunoXome infusion prevented similar hypotensive reactions. In this study, intravenous (i.v.) DaunoXome 100 mg/m2 every third week showed no anticancer activity in advanced TCC.
Prostate cancer is a common and heterogeneous disease, where androgen receptor (AR) signaling plays a pivotal role in development and progression. The initial treatment for advanced prostate cancer is suppression of androgen signaling. Later on, essentially all patients develop an androgen independent stage which does not respond to anti hormonal treatment. Thus, alternative strategies targeting novel molecular mechanisms are required. beta-TrCP is an E3 ligase that targets various substrates essential for many aspects of tumorigenesis.
Here we show that beta-TrCP depletion suppresses prostate cancer and identify a relevant growth control mechanism. shRNA targeted against beta-TrCP reduced prostate cancer cell growth and cooperated with androgen ablation in vitro and in vivo. We found that beta-TrCP inhibition leads to upregulation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) mediating the therapeutic effect. This phenomenon could be ligand independent, as the AhR ligand 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-Dioxin (TCDD) did not alter prostate cancer cell growth. We detected high AhR expression and activation in basal cells and atrophic epithelial cells of human cancer bearing prostates. AhR expression and activation is also significantly higher in tumor cells compared to benign glandular epithelium.
Together these observations suggest that AhR activation may be a cancer counteracting mechanism in the prostate. We maintain that combining beta-TrCP inhibition with androgen ablation could benefit advanced prostate cancer patients.
Enoxaparin, a low-molecular-weight heparin used to treat and prevent deep venous thrombosis, has been evaluated in several clinical trials. Thrombosis induced by enoxaparin with no evidence of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is seldom described. We report a rare case in which an 89-year-old African-American female developed large, multiple, painful lesions induced by enoxaparin administration. Laboratory investigations for HIT, disseminated intravascular coagulation, protein C, protein S, factor V, factor VIII, antithrombin III, and homocysteine deficiency were negative. Unfortunately, despite aggressive management for 2 weeks, the patient developed severe sepsis and died.
Mesalamine is the first line pharmacologic intervention for patients with ulcerative colitis, and recent epidemiologic studies have demonstrated a protective association between therapeutic use of the drug and colorectal carcinoma. However, the mechanism by which this protection is afforded has yet to be elucidated. Because copper is found at higher than normal concentrations in neoplastic cell nuclei and is known to interact with phenolic compounds to generate reactive oxygen species, we investigated whether the reaction of mesalamine/copper was able to induce oxidative DNA strand breaks in φX-174 RF I plasmid DNA, and the various components of the mechanism by which the reaction occurred. Plasmid DNA strand breaks were induced by pharmacologically relevant concentrations of mesalamine in the presence of a micromolar concentration of Cu(II), and damage was inhibited by bathocuproinedisulfonic acid (BCS) and catalase. Further, we showed that the reaction of copper with mesalamine consumed molecular oxygen, which was inhibited by BCS. Electron paramagnetic resonance spectral analysis of the reaction of copper/mesalamine indicated the presence of the hydroxyl radical, which was inhibited by both BCS and catalase. This study demonstrates for the first time that through a copper-redox cycling mechanism, the copper-mediated oxidation of mesalamine is a pro-oxidant interaction that generates hydroxyl radicals which may participate in oxidative DNA damage. These results demonstrate a potential mechanism of the anticancer effects of mesalamine in patients with ulcerative colitis.
Intranasal cocaine abuse may cause significant local ischaemic necrosis and destruction of the nasal and midfacial bones and soft tissue, leading to development of a cocaine-induced midline destructive lesion. Review of the English-language literature reveals only a few case reports describing hard and/or soft palatal perforation related to cocaine inhalation. To date, among the reconstructive techniques of the palate, different surgical options have been reported such as local, regional and free flaps. Common prosthetic obturators have also been used. Presented here are six cases of cocaine abuse showing different types of cocaine-related palatal lesions treated with different surgical approaches including local and free flaps. Mean follow-up was 3 years. A surgical variation of Marshall's classic technique for insetting a free flap in such lesions is proposed.
To compare the long-term effects of finasteride (5 mg/day) and placebo in patients with moderate symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
Patients aged 50 to 75 years, with at least two urinary symptoms indicating moderate BPH, and an enlarged prostate, were followed in a 2-year double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled multicenter study. The effects of finasteride versus placebo were assessed by total symptom score (modified Boyarsky), obstructive symptom score, maximal urinary flow rate, prostate volume, and urologic end points (acute urinary retention, BPH-related surgical intervention).
Of the 3270 men enrolled, 3168 contributed data to the safety analysis, and 2902 to the efficacy evaluation. Significantly greater improvement with finasteride compared to placebo was observed at 12 and 24 months for total symptom score (mean -2.9 versus -1.9 at 12 months, P < or =0.001; -3.2 versus -1.5 at 24 months, P < or =0.001), obstructive symptom score (mean -1.9 versus -1.3 at 12 months, P < or =0.001; -2.1 versus -1.1 at 24 months, P < or =0.001), maximal urinary flow rate (mean +1.2 versus +0.6 mL/s at 12 months, P = 0.010; +1.5 versus +0.7 mL/s at 24 months, P = 0.002), and prostate volume (mean -14.2 versus +5.4% at 12 months, P < or =0.01; -15.3 versus +8.9% at 24 months, P < or =0.001). Greater improvements in placebo-adjusted total symptom score occurred in men with large prostates than in men with small prostates (mean -2.4 versus -1.1 at 12 months; -3.2 versus -1.3 at 24 months, placebo-adjusted data, P = 0.053). Fifteen of 1450 men (1.0%) in the finasteride group experienced an acute urinary retention event, compared with 37 of 1452 (2.5%) in the placebo group, and the corresponding figures for surgery were 51 of 1450 (3.5%) and 86 of 1452 (5.9%), respectively. The hazard rate for occurrence, computed using the log-rank statistic, decreased by 57% for acute urinary retention and by 40% for surgery accompanied by finasteride therapy compared to placebo.
Finasteride causes long-term symptomatic improvement and reduces the risk of acute urinary retention or surgery. Men with enlarged prostates benefit most from finasteride treatment.
Urothelial carcinoma (UC), also referred to as transitional cell carcinoma (TCC), is the most common bladder malignancy in both human and canine populations. In human UC, numerous studies have demonstrated the prevalence of chromosomal imbalances. Although the histopathology of the disease is similar in both species, studies evaluating the genomic profile of canine UC are lacking, limiting the discovery of key comparative molecular markers associated with driving UC pathogenesis. In the present study, we evaluated 31 primary canine UC biopsies by oligonucleotide array comparative genomic hybridization (oaCGH). Results highlighted the presence of three highly recurrent numerical aberrations: gain of dog chromosome (CFA) 13 and 36 and loss of CFA 19. Regional gains of CFA 13 and 36 were present in 97 % and 84 % of cases, respectively, and losses on CFA 19 were present in 77 % of cases. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), using targeted bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones and custom Agilent SureFISH probes, was performed to detect and quantify these regions in paraffin-embedded biopsy sections and urine-derived urothelial cells. The data indicate that these three aberrations are potentially diagnostic of UC. Comparison of our canine oaCGH data with that of 285 human cases identified a series of shared copy number aberrations. Using an informatics approach to interrogate the frequency of copy number aberrations across both species, we identified those that had the highest joint probability of association with UC. The most significant joint region contained the gene PABPC1, which should be considered further for its role in UC progression. In addition, cross-species filtering of genome-wide copy number data highlighted several genes as high-profile candidates for further analysis, including CDKN2A, S100A8/9, and LRP1B. We propose that these common aberrations are indicative of an evolutionarily conserved mechanism of pathogenesis and harbor genes key to urothelial neoplasia, warranting investigation for diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic applications.
The development of painful peripheral neuropathy is a dose-limiting side effect of numerous cancer chemotherapeutic agents. The present study utilized a rodent model of vincristine-induced neuropathy to determine whether a glial modulating agent, propentofylline, could attenuate vincristine-induced mechanical allodynia. Intravenous vincristine administered on days 1 through 5 and days 8 through 11 produced mechanical allodynia using 2 and 12 g von Frey filaments. Lumbar spinal cord from animals on day 15 expressed mild bilateral microglial and astrocytic activation as compared to saline-treated animals. Daily intraperitoneal propentofylline at 10 mg/kg attenuated mechanical allodynia induced by vincristine administration. In addition, propentofylline was found to decrease spinal microglial and astrocytic activation on day 15. These data suggest that central glial cells may play an important role in the development of painful neuropathy following vincristine administration.
Increasing evidence suggests molecular interactions between erbB2 and other receptor tyrosine kinases, and estrogenic compounds and their cognate receptors. We have recently reported that downregulation of erbB3 abrogates erbB2-mediated tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer cells. On the basis of these data, we hypothesized that erbB3 may play a major role connecting these two sentinel pathways. Interactions were studied using mammary/breast cancer cell lines from wild-type rat c-neu gene transgenic mice and humans. Estradiol promoted cell proliferation and activated erbB2/neu tyrosine kinase, Akt, and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling exclusively in mammary and breast epithelial cell lines with coexpression of both erbB2 and erbB3. Estradiol action was independent of the transgene promoter (MMTV-LTR) activity, both in vitro and in vivo, as well as c-neu transgene or endogenous erbB2 gene expression. Estrogen induction of cell growth promotion, erbB2/neu activation, and downstream signaling was abrogated by blockade of estrogen receptor (ER) with the pure ER antagonist ICI 182,780 or knockdown of erbB3 expression via specific siRNA. These data suggest that activation of both ER and erbB2/erbB3 signaling is requisite for estrogen-induced mitogenesis and erbB2/neu tyrosine kinase activation.
Chloroquine is a commonly prescribed antimalarial drug that is widely used for the presumptive treatment of malaria in India. It has rarely been reported to cause psychosis, and to the best of our knowledge, recurrent psychosis due to chloroquine use has been reported only once, in 1996. We are reporting the second case of chloroquine-induced recurrent psychosis. We also discuss some of the possible neurobiological mechanisms leading to this neurotoxic adverse effect and our recommendations for future use of this drug.
It has been reported that regular consumption of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like indomethacin decreases the incidence and mortality rate of a number of gastrointestinal cancers. We aimed to explore the efficacy and possible mechanisms of indomethacin on tumor growth and tumor angiogenesis of human colon cancer xenografts in nude mice.
MTT (thiazolyl blue) assay was used to assess the effect of indomethacin on cultured human colorectal cancer cell line HCT116. HCT116 cells were inoculated subcutaneously into BALB/c-nu/nu mice. After oral administration of indomethacin, 3 mg/kg.d for 4 wk, animals were sacrificed by cervical dislocation. Immunohistochemical staining was employed to determine the microvessel density (MVD) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in tumor tissues.
Indomethacin, a non-selective COX inhibitor, significantly decreased the viability of HCT116 cells in a dose-dependent manner (P<0.05) with 50% inhibition at approximately 318.2+/-12.7 mumol/L. Growth of HCT116 cell tumor was significantly suppressed by indomethacin. The tumor volume was significantly decreased in the treated group (458.89+/-32.07 mm(3)) compared to the control group (828.21+/-31.59 mm(3)) (P<0.05). The MVD of the treated group (19.50+/-5.32) was markedly decreased compared to the control group (37.40+/-4.93) (P<0.001). The VEGF expression of the treated group (1.19+/-0.17) was obviously reduced as compared to the control group (1.90+/-0.48) (P<0.01). The decrease in MVD was positively correlated with the decrease of VEGF expression (r(s) = 0.714, P<0.05). We did not see gastrointestinal complications in the treated group and no differences were noted in the body weight of the mice between the two groups throughout the study (P>0.05).
Indomethacin can significantly decrease the viability of cultured HCT116 cells and retard human colorectal HCT116 cell tumor growth via inhibiting tumor angiogenesis, which might be through reduction of VEGF expression.
In the present work, an attempt has been made to evaluate the possible in vivo radioprotection by eugenol. Swiss albino mice were administered different doses of eugenol (75,150 and 300 mg/kg) before exposure to 1.5 Gy of gamma radiation. The micronucleus test was carried out to determine the genetic damage in bone marrow. Our results demonstrated significant reduction in the frequencies of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes (MnPCEs) with all three eugenol doses. Eugenol (150 mg/kg) was also tested against different doses of radiation (0.5, 1, 1.5, and 2 Gy) and was found to afford significant radioprotection. Reduction in the incidence of MnPCEs could be noticed up to 72 h postirradiation (1.5 Gy). Moreover, the level of peroxidative damage and the specific activities of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and methylglyoxalase I (Gly I) were observed in the liver of mice treated with eugenol for seven days in comparison to untreated mice. The results revealed that eugenol exerted significant protection against oxidative stress. This possibility was further supported by the enhanced response of Gly I and the lowered activity of LDH. The present findings suggested that eugenol has a radioprotective potential.
A variety of acute brain insults bear the risk of subsequent development of chronic epilepsy. Enhanced understanding of the brain alterations underlying this process may ultimately lead to interventions that prevent, interrupt or reverse epileptogenesis in people at risk. Various interventions have been evaluated in rat models of symptomatic epilepsy, in which epileptogenesis was induced by status epilepticus (SE) or traumatic brain injury (TBI). Paradoxically, recent data indicated that administration of proconvulsant drugs after TBI or SE exerts antiepileptogenic or disease-modifying effects, although epilepsy is often considered to represent a decrease in seizure threshold. Surprisingly, to our knowledge, it is not known whether alterations in seizure threshold occur during the latent period following SE. This prompted us to study seizure threshold during and after the latent period following SE induced by lithium/pilocarpine in rats. Timed intravenous infusion of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) was used for this purpose. The duration of the latent period was determined by continuous video/EEG monitoring. Compared to control seizure threshold determined before SE, threshold significantly decreased two days after SE, but returned to pre-SE control thereafter. Moreover, the duration of PTZ-induced seizures was significantly increased throughout the latent period, which ranged from 6 to 10 days after SE. This increased susceptibility to PTZ likely reflects the complex alterations in GABA-mediated transmission that occur during the latent period following SE. The data will allow developing dosing regimens for evaluation of whether treatment with subconvulsant doses of PTZ during the latent period affects the development of epilepsy.
