The effect of repetitive doses of organophosphorus agents in experimental animals has been studied. The cumulative LD50 dose depended upon the time interval between injections of toxic agent. From these data it was possible to obtain the rate of detoxification of these agents. In the case of soman and sarin TOCP pretreatment, an inhibitor of plasma aliesterase, modified both the acute LD50 and the rate of detoxification. The results therefore suggest that recovery of plasma aliesterase contributes to a large extent in detoxification of chronically administered soman and sarin. In contrast, tolerance to chronically administered dichlorvos can not be correlated to recovery of plasma aliesterase, but correlates well with a rapid spontaneous reactivation of acetylcholinesterase.
Childhood absence epilepsy, the most common pediatric epilepsy syndrome, is usually treated with ethosuximide, valproic acid, or lamotrigine. The most efficacious and tolerable initial empirical treatment has not been defined.
In a double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial, we compared the efficacy, tolerability, and neuropsychological effects of ethosuximide, valproic acid, and lamotrigine in children with newly diagnosed childhood absence epilepsy. Drug doses were incrementally increased until the child was free of seizures, the maximal allowable or highest tolerable dose was reached, or a criterion indicating treatment failure was met. The primary outcome was freedom from treatment failure after 16 weeks of therapy; the secondary outcome was attentional dysfunction. Differential drug effects were determined by means of pairwise comparisons.
The 453 children who were randomly assigned to treatment with ethosuximide (156), lamotrigine (149), or valproic acid (148) were similar with respect to their demographic characteristics. After 16 weeks of therapy, the freedom-from-failure rates for ethosuximide and valproic acid were similar (53% and 58%, respectively; odds ratio with valproic acid vs. ethosuximide, 1.26; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.80 to 1.98; P=0.35) and were higher than the rate for lamotrigine (29%; odds ratio with ethosuximide vs. lamotrigine, 2.66; 95% CI, 1.65 to 4.28; odds ratio with valproic acid vs. lamotrigine, 3.34; 95% CI, 2.06 to 5.42; P<0.001 for both comparisons). There were no significant differences among the three drugs with regard to discontinuation because of adverse events. Attentional dysfunction was more common with valproic acid than with ethosuximide (in 49% of the children vs. 33%; odds ratio, 1.95; 95% CI, 1.12 to 3.41; P=0.03).
Ethosuximide and valproic acid are more effective than lamotrigine in the treatment of childhood absence epilepsy. Ethosuximide is associated with fewer adverse attentional effects. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00088452.)
The use of psychostimulants during adolescence and early adult life has increased in recent years. It is known that these substances affect the sensory systems, and the optic nerve has been shown to be a target tissue. This work was conducted to evaluate the effects of prenatal exposure to methamphetamine (MA) on the developmental pattern of the rat optic nerve. Pregnant female rats were given 5 mg/kg body weight/day MA, s.c., in 0.9% saline from gestational days 8 to 22. The control group was injected with an isovolumetric dose of 0.9% saline. Animal model parameters, such as gestational body weight evolution, food intake and pups parameters were registered. The offspring were sacrificed at postnatal days (PND) 7, 14 and 21. Morphometric analyses were performed at light and electron microscopic levels on optic nerve cross sections; parameters measured included optic nerve diameter and area, axonal density, total number of axons and myelin thickness. Myelin basic protein (MBP) was measured by western blotting in optic nerve samples at PND14 and PND21. The animal model parameters, such as maternal and pup weight, showed no significant differences between MA and control groups. Optic nerve diameter was smaller at PND7 in the male MA group and in both male and female MA groups at PND21. The mean cross-sectional area was smaller at PND14 in the male MA group and in both male and female groups at PND21. The total number of myelinated axons did not vary between groups at any of the studied ages. The myelin thickness of the axons in MA-treated females was thinner when compared with the respective control group at PND21. No other differences were found concerning myelin thickness. There was a reduction of MBP protein expression in MA-injected females at PND14 and PND21. The combined results suggest that prenatal exposure to MA affects the myelination process.
In this randomized, double-blinded study, we compared the onset and recovery characteristics of an investigational benzodiazepine, Ro 48-6791 (when administered alone or combined with meperidine), a midazolam-meperidine combination for sedation during gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopic procedures. Ninety consenting outpatients scheduled for upper or lower GI procedures were randomly assigned as follows: Group I received midazolam 1 mg IV and meperidine 50 mg; Group II received Ro 48-6791 0.5 mg IV and meperidine 50 mg; or Group III received Ro 48-6791 1.0 mg IV alone. If the level of sedation did not achieve an Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation (OAA/S) score of 4 (where 5 = awake/alert to 1 = asleep) in < or = 2 min, a second bolus dose, equal to half of the original dose of midazolam or Ro 48-6791, was administered. The onset time was defined as the time to achieve an OAA/S score of 4. During the procedure, a bolus dose equal to half of the total induction dose was given to maintain an OAA/S score of 4. The induction and maintenance dosages, as well as recovery times to an OAA/S score of 5, were recorded. A heel-toe line walk (HTLW) test used to determine the time to "fitness for discharge." Although the onset times were similar in all three groups, the induction dosages were significantly reduced in Group II compared with Groups I and III. There were significantly more patients requiring supplemental sedative boluses and "rescue" analgesia with Ro 48-6791 than with midazolam. The Ro 48-6791 groups also experienced more dizziness after the procedures. Ro 48-6791 was associated with a higher incidence of inadequate sedation (18% vs 3%) without the opioid. The time for the HTLW test to return to baseline values after the procedure was similar among the three groups. However, the Ro 48-6791 groups had significantly reduced times to return to an OAA/S score of 5 and to achieve the baseline HTLW value after the last dose of the benzodiazepine. In conclusion, compared with midazolam, Ro 48-6791 is more potent and may be associated with a more rapid early recovery after endoscopic GI procedures. However, sedation with Ro 48-6791 required more supplemental bolus doses and "rescue" analgesic medication and was associated with a higher incidence of dizziness.
The investigational water-soluble benzodiazepine, Ro 48-6791, is a more potent sedative than midazolam, which appears to have a slightly shorter duration of action. Unfortunately, use of Ro 48-6791 increased the requirement for supplemental doses of the sedative medication and the need for "rescue" analgesics during the procedure and was associated with more dizziness after the procedure.
Epidemiological research has indicated that the anti-oestrogen tamoxifen, used in breast cancer therapy, may increase the risk of gastric adenocarcinoma of the intestinal but not of the diffuse type. To test this hypothesis, and evaluate possible involvement of oestrogen receptors (ERs), we conducted a study amongst tamoxifen users and non-users. The study participants comprised women in the county of Stockholm who in the Swedish Cancer Register were first recorded with breast cancer and subsequently gastric cancer during the period January 1958-August 2005. Medical records were scrutinised to verify the diagnoses and classify into use or non-use of tamoxifen. Tumour material was reviewed histologically to verify gastric adenocarcinoma diagnosis and classify these cancers into intestinal or diffuse type. Intestinal adenocarcinomas were analysed immunohistochemically for the presence of ER alpha, beta and beta cx. Amongst 68 women with verified gastric adenocarcinoma, 30 had been treated with tamoxifen and 38 not. The intestinal type of gastric adenocarcinoma was not more frequent amongst tamoxifen users (27%) than amongst non-users (34%) (p=0.601). There were no material differences between the tamoxifen groups regarding distribution of any of the three ERs of the intestinal adenocarcinoma specimens. Tamoxifen users had a shorter latency between breast cancer and gastric adenocarcinoma (4 versus 13 years) which was similar in the intestinal and diffuse types. This study does not support the hypothesis that tamoxifen increases the isolated risk of the intestinal type, but it indicates that tamoxifen use might accelerate the tumour progression or increase the overall risk of gastric adenocarcinoma.
Many, but not all, reports of delayed neuropathy associated with acute poisoning by trichlorphon refer to cases in U.S.S.R. Adulteration of technical trichlorphon with the ethyl analogue would greatly increase the neurotoxic hazard but analysis of a few samples has not revealed such impurities. Simultaneous ingestion of alcohol does not appear to increase neuropathic hazard. In hens double doses of trichlorphon each exceeding unprotected LD50 can produce moderate neuropathy associated with appropriately high inhibitions of neurotoxic esterase. Similar results are obtained with 2 doses of 10 x LD50 of dichlorvos. In vitro the inhibitory power of dichlorvos against neurotoxic esterase of hen brain is 0.02 x the power against acetylcholinesterase. This ratio correlates reasonably with the ratio of LD50/neuropathic dose. The factor for human brain enzymes is 0.06 suggesting that man is more susceptible to neuropathic effects of near-lethal doses of circulating dichlorvos. It is concluded that the only neuropathic hazard to man from good quality trichlorphon arises from rapid ingestion of massive doses. To obtain critical levels of inhibition of neurotoxic esterase and to cause neuropathy in man by repeated doses would require each dose to be severely toxic. Dichlorvos ingested in large doses is likely to kill rather than to cause neuropathy.
A method for the simultaneous quantitation of metrifonate (0,0-dimethyl-(1-hydroxy-2,2,2-trichloroethyl)-phosphonate) and dichlorvos (2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate, DDVP) in human blood has been worked out. It is based upon multiple labelling of the compounds with deuterium and gas phase analysis using the mass spectrometer as a selective detector. The amount of DDVP in plasma is about 1% of the amount of metrifonate. In erythrocytes the corresponding amount of DDVP is 0.5% or less of metrifonate. Both compounds reach peak levels in blood within two hours after oral dosing and are detectable for at least eight hours. Cholinesterase activity in plasma reaches zero levels within 15 min. and remains inhibited for more than eight hours. Red blood cell cholinesterase is inhibited only 60-80%. According to kinetic calculations, clearance of metrifonate occurs primarily via dichlorvos. If dichlorvos is the only active component, which in all likelihood it is, it's slow release may be important in the schistosomicidal effect. Clinical data in seven metrifonate treated patients revealed that mild vertigo subsiding in a few hours was the most common side effect.
We report three severely disabled children with epilepsy, a 4-year-old boy, 8-year-old girl and 14-year-old girl, who were treated with sodium valproate from the age of 2 months, 3 months and 7 years, respectively, and who developed Fanconi syndrome. All three patients were bed-ridden and fed by means of a nasogastric or gastrostomy tube. Since Fanconi syndrome was considered to be caused by sodium valproate, it was stopped. After the discontinuation of sodium valproate, renal involvement improved in all patients in 2-12 months. Severely handicapped children may be at risk for sodium valproate-induced renal involvement. Although among the adverse effects of sodium valproate, renal involvement is uncommon, Fanconi syndrome due to valproate therapy has rarely been reported. We have to pay attention to Fanconi syndrome in epileptic children treated with sodium valproate, especially in severely disabled children.
The copper response of Proteus hauseri ZMd44 was determined using one-dimensional (1D) gel electrophoresis coupled with MALDI-TOF-TOF mass spectrometry for a similarity analysis of proteins isolated from P. hauseri ZMd44 cultured in CuSO4-bearing LB medium. Candidate proteins identified as a copper-transporting P-type ATPase (CTPP), phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK), flagellin (Fla), and outer membrane proteins (Omps) were the major copper-associated proteins in P. hauseri. In a comparative analysis of subcellular (i.e., periplasmic, intracellular, and inner membranes) and cellular debris, proteomics analysis revealed a distinct differential expression of proteins in P. hauseri with and without copper ion exposure. These findings were consistent with the transcription level dynamics determined using quantitative real-time PCR. Based on a genetic cluster analysis of copper-associated proteins from P. hauseri, Fla and one of the Omps showed greater diversity in their protein sequences compared to those of other Proteus species. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and the observed growth on LB agar plates showed that the swarming motility of cells was significantly suppressed and inhibited upon Cu(II) exposure. Thus, copper stress could have important therapeutic significance due to the loss of swarming motility capacity in P. hauseri, which causes urinary tract infections.
The combination of E2F-1 gene therapy and chemotherapy produces a synergistic effect on melanoma cell apoptosis. However, the molecular mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. The purpose of this study was to identify novel genes or pathways that may play key roles in apoptosis when E2F-1 gene therapy is combined with doxorubicin chemotherapy.
SK-MEL-2 melanoma cells were infected with Ad-E2F-1 alone, Ad-E2F-1 plus doxorubicin, or Ad-LacZ plus doxorubicin. After 16 hours of treatment, the total RNA was extracted from these cells and subjected to microarray analysis. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed to confirm the microarray data.
Our results showed that the combination treatment of Ad-E2F-1 and doxorubicin affected the expression of cytokines, transcription factors, as well as genes involved in signal transduction, cell cycle regulation and apoptosis.
Our findings have identified, for the first time, novel molecular targets and pathways that led to apoptosis in melanoma cells when Ad-E2F-1 was combined with doxorubicin. The molecular information provided here will enhance further mechanistic studies.
Recent clinical studies have shown that inorganic arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) at low concentrations induces complete remission with minimal toxicity in patients with refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Preclinical studies suggest that As(2)O(3) induces apoptosis and possibly differentiation in APL cells. Like APL cells, neuroblastoma (NB) cells are thought to be arrested at an early stage of differentiation, and cells of highly malignant tumors fail to undergo spontaneous maturation. Both APL and NB cells can respond with differentiation to retinoic acid (RA) treatment in vitro and probably also in vivo. For that reason we investigated the effect of As(2)O(3) alone and in combination with RA on NB cell lines. In vitro, the number of viable NB cells was reduced at As(2)O(3) concentrations around 1 microM after 72 h exposure. The IC50 in six different cell lines treated for 3 days was in the 1.5 to 5 microM concentration interval, the most sensitive being SK-N-BE(2) cells derived from a chemotherapy resistant tumor. The combined treatment with RA (1 and 3 microM) showed no consistent additional effect with regard to induced cell death. The effect of As(2)O(3) on NB cell number involved As(2)O(3)-induced apoptotic pathways (decreased expression of Bcl-2 and stimulation of caspase-3 activity) with no clear evidence of induced differentiation. The in vivo effect of As(2)O(3) on NB growth was also investigated in nude mice bearing tumors of xenografted NB cells. Although tumor growth was reduced by As(2)O(3) treatment, complete remission was not achieved at the concentrations tested. We suggest that As(2)O(3), in combination with existing treatment modalities, might be a treatment approach for high risk NB patients.
The complement system effectively identifies and clears invasive pathogens as well as injured host cells. Uncontrolled complement activation can also contribute to tissue injury, however, and inhibition of this system may ameliorate many types of inflammatory injury. Several studies have demonstrated that the filtration of complement proteins into the renal tubules, as occurs during proteinuric renal disease, causes tubular inflammation and injury. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that activation of the complement system in the urinary space requires an intact alternative pathway. Using a model of adriamycin-induced renal injury, which induces injury resembling focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, we examined whether mice deficient in factor B would be protected from the development of progressive tubulointerstitial injury. Complement activation was attenuated in the glomeruli and tubulointerstitium of mice with congenital deficiency of factor B (fB-/-) compared with wild-type controls, demonstrating that complement activation does occur through the alternative pathway. Deficiency in factor B did not significantly protect the mice from tubulointerstitial injury. However, treatment of wild-type mice with an inhibitory monoclonal antibody to factor B did delay the development of renal failure. These results demonstrate that complement activation in this nonimmune complex-mediated model of progressive renal disease requires an intact alternative pathway.
Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) have been accused of causing bleeding problems as a side effect. Theories about the mechanism are still being discussed. We report a case, presenting bleeding problems, during sertraline treatment. The SSRIs are widely used to treat depression and many other psychiatric disorders. Their lower severity of side effects and being markedly safer in overdose are some of the reasons of their preference as primary choice in most of the cases. Besides their common side effects like, agitation, headache, insomnia, weight gain or loss, and sexual dysfunction, SSRIs also have been suspected of increasing the risk of bleeding. A population-based cohort study supported the hypothesis of an increased risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding during the use of SSRIs, and they also indicated that this effect is potentiated with concurrent use of NSAIDs or low-dose aspirin. We would like to report our recent experience with one patient who was on sertraline, 50 mg/day.
To estimate the relative risk of various neuroleptic medications for patients with epilepsy or likely to have neuroleptic-induced seizures, their action on spike activity in perfused guinea pig hippocampal slices was studied. Within the range of concentrations studied, molindone hydrochloride, butaclamol hydrochloride, pimozide, and fluphenazine dihydrochloride produced the least increase in excitability. There were also differences in the dose-response curves. Chlorpromazine, thioridazine, and pimozide produced an inverted U-shaped curve. For haloperidol and fluphenazine, excitability tended to increase and them plateau. Molindone and butaclamol produced no increase in excitability. Combinations of neuroleptics had synergistic effects, while the anticonvulsant diazepam inhibited neuroleptic-induced excitability. This article discusses the clinical implications of these findings and their effect on theories of which neuroleptics might produce the fewest seizures.
Delirium related to levetiracetam has not been previously described in the literature and is infrequently associated with amiodarone.
The aim of this report was to discuss the possibility that administration of levetiracetam and amiodarone may precipitate delirium in some elderly patients.
An 80-year-old white woman with levothyroxine-treated hypothyroidism developed acute confusion and paranoia 5 days after substituting levetiracetam 1000 mg orally twice daily for phenytoin 100 mg orally twice daily to control new, generalized seizures. Before starting levetiracetam treatment, results of the patient's blood and urine tests, brain magnetic resonance imaging, and cerebrospinal fluid examination were within normal limits. Delirium from levetiracetam was suspected. Therefore, the dosage was titrated downward to allow discontinuation of the drug; levetiracetam was replaced with pregabalin 150 mg twice daily. Subsequent improvement in mental status occurred within 14 days after administration of the last dose of levetiracetam. Three months later, the patient developed symptomatic atrial fibrillation, which was treated with cardioversion, followed by oral amiodarone 400 mg twice daily for 10 days and then 200 mg once daily for 3 months. Within 1 to 2 weeks after starting amiodarone, she developed changes in cognition consistent with delirium. Computed tomography of the brain showed no acute changes, and blood test results were within normal limits with the exception of a serum free thyroxine level of 2.06 ng/dL and a suppressed but measurable serum thyroid-stimulating hormone level (0.13 microIU/mL). No improvement was noted after reduction of the dose of levothyroxine from 0.1 mg to 0.075 mg daily. Two weeks after amiodarone was discontinued, her mental status had returned to baseline levels. Based on a score of 6 (probable) for each medication using the Naranjo scale, the 2 episodes of delirium were probably related to levetiracetam and amiodarone.
This case report describes separate episodes of delirium probably related to treatment with levetiracetam and amiodarone in an elderly patient.
Rats were given intraperitoneal injections of adriamycin (cumulative dose 20 mg/kg). Two weeks after the last injection left-ventricular function and systemic and regional hemodynamics were studied before and during isoprenaline infusion (0.64 mcg/kg/min) in conscious rats with no signs of cardiac insufficiency. In the controls isoprenaline increased the left-ventricular contractility index by 45% and the heart rate by 30%. The contractility index in rats given adriamycin did not change, the heart rate increased only by 14%, but in contrast to the controls, a significant increase of the cardiac index by 36% and diminution of total peripheral resistance by 36% were revealed. The sensitivity of the baroreflex chronotropic component in the control animals was twice that in the experimental rats. It is concluded that adriamycin cardiomyopathy in rats is attended by reduced sensitivity of the baroreflex mechanisms and diminished myocardial adrenergic reactivity.
Cocaine is a powerful stimulant that gives users a temporary sense of euphoria, mental alertness, talkativeness, and a decreased need for food and sleep. Cocaine intoxication is the most frequent cause of drug-related death reported by medical examiners in the US, and these events are most often related to the cardiovascular manifestations of the drug. Once playing a vital role in medicine as a local anesthetic, decades of research have established that cocaine has the ability to cause irreversible structural damage to the heart, greatly accelerate cardiovascular disease, and initiate sudden cardiac death. Although pathologic findings are often reported in the literature, few images are available to support these findings, and reviews of cocaine cardiopathology are rare. We describe the major pathologic findings linked to cocaine abuse in earlier research, their underlying mechanisms, and the treatment approaches currently being used in this patient population. A MEDLINE search was conducted to identify all English language articles from January 2000 to June 2008 with the subject headings and key words 'cocaine', 'heart', 'toxicity', and 'cardiotoxicity'. Epidemiologic, laboratory, and clinical studies on the pathology, pathophysiology, and pharmacology of the effects of cocaine on the heart were reviewed, along with relevant treatment options. Reference lists were used to identify earlier studies on these topics, and related articles from Google Scholar were also included. There is an established connection between cocaine use and myocardial infarction (MI), arrhythmia, heart failure, and sudden cardiac death. Numerous mechanisms have been postulated to explain how cocaine contributes to these conditions. Among these, cocaine may lead to MI by causing coronary artery vasoconstriction and accelerated atherosclerosis, and by initiating thrombus formation. Cocaine has also been shown to block K+ channels, increase L-type Ca2+ channel current, and inhibit Na+ influx during depolarization, all possible causes for arrhythmia. Additionally, cocaine use has been associated with left ventricular hypertrophy, myocarditis, and dilated cardiomyopathy, which can lead to heart failure if drug use is continued. Certain diagnostic tools, including ECG and serial cardiac markers, are not as accurate in identifying MI in cocaine users experiencing chest pain. As a result, clinicians should be suspicious of cocaine use in their differential diagnosis of chest pain, especially in the younger male population, and proceed more cautiously when use is suspected. Treatment for cocaine-related cardiovascular disease is in many ways similar to treatment for traditional cardiovascular disease. However use of beta-receptor antagonists and class Ia and III anti-arrhythmics is strongly discouraged if the patient is likely to continue cocaine use, because of documented adverse effects. The medical community is in urgent need of a pharmacologic adjunct to cocaine-dependence treatment that can deter relapse and reduce the risks associated with cardiovascular disease in these patients.
Schizophrenia has a complex genetic underpinning and variations in a number of candidate genes have been identified that confer risk of developing the disorder. We report in the present studies that several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and a two-SNP haplotype in PDE4B are associated with an increased incidence of schizophrenia in two large populations of Caucasian and African American patients. The SNPs in PDE4B associated with schizophrenia occur in intronic sequences in the vicinity of a critical splice junction that gives rise to the expression of PDE4B isoforms with distinct regulation and function. We also observed specific decreases in phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B) isoforms in brain tissue obtained postmortem from patients diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. PDE4B metabolically inactivates the second messenger cAMP to regulate intracellular signaling in neurons throughout the brain. Thus, the present observations suggest that dysregulation of intracellular signaling mediated by PDE4B is a significant factor in the cause and expression, respectively, of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder and that targeting PDE4B-regulated signaling pathways may yield new therapies to treat the totality of these disorders.
An unstable variant of human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is described in four apparently unrelated individuals sensitive to succinylcholine. Sequencing of genomic DNA revealed a single nucleotide substitution which results in the replacement of amino acid residue Gly115 by Asp. This variant can be recognized by its increased instability under extremes of temperature such as heating and also freezing and thawing, both in homozygous and heterozygous states. When in heterozygous combination with the Atypical variant, it produces dibucaine and fluoride numbers which are intermediary between those of Atypical homozygotes and heterozygotes. After repeated freezing and thawing, however, these values approach those of homozygous Atypical plasma. Measurement of activity and immunoreactive BChE protein in plasma of individuals representing different combinations of this allele indicated that the presence of the Usual or Atypical enzymes seems to partially protect this variant from denaturation in vivo. Phenotyping fresh serum or plasma samples, before they are frozen, is critical for the identification of this, and possibly some other, unstable variants.
Studying attacks of migraine is considerably hampered by its fundamentally episodic nature. Developing approaches to triggering migraine reliably is important for advancing understanding of the disorder by facilitating its study. Based on the work of the Copenhagen Group we administered an intravenous infusion of 0.5 microg/kg/min glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) to 44 migraineurs, 23 migraine without aura, 21 migraine with aura, and to 12 healthy controls. We sought to characterise the GTN-induced migraine in terms of the clinical features of the attacks and reproducibility of triggering, and included a non-migraine control group for the purpose of comparing any effects to exclude an ordering effect. Of the 44 patients administered GTN, 33 had a migraine attack fulfilling International Headache Society criteria. Thirty-two attacks were of migraine without aura and one of migraine with aura. Twelve patients described typical premonitory symptoms, which have not been previously documented with GTN-induced migraine. A repeat attack was triggered in all subjects but one. In one case a visual aura was also triggered both times. Our study shows that GTN-induced triggering is common in our patients, and remarkably reproducible. The data will facilitate the use of the GTN model in studies requiring extensive planning, such as brain imaging, or where preventive questions are at issue. We also report the first patient with a reproducible GTN-triggered migraine with aura.
To study the feasibility of using high-dose continuously aerosolized albuterol aerosol in adults, seven adult asthmatic patients were treated eight times with 0.4 mg/kg/h albuterol delivered by continuous nebulization over 4 h. One patient withdrew at 3 h after supraventricular tachycardia developed. This subsided promptly on discontinuing albuterol therapy. Heart rate increases were observed in six of eight treatments and serum albuterol levels at the end of treatment were greater than 25.0 ng/ml in all but one treatment. A mean increase in heart rate of 16.3 percent was observed for the entire group. Of the treatments with elevated (> 25.0 ng/ml) serum albuterol levels, a significant cumulative increase in heart rate was observed with time. A significant improvement of FEV1 was observed (p = 0.0025) with a net increase of 36.8 percent. These data suggest that high-dose continuously aerosolized albuterol treatment in some adult asthmatics can result in markedly elevated serum albuterol levels and potential cardiac stimulation despite spirometric improvement.
To investigate potential effects of curcumin or dexamethasone on lung transplantation-associated lung injury.
Prospective, randomized, controlled study.
Research laboratory.
Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats.
Sham-operated rats were used as time-matched controls. Experimental rats were subjected to unilateral orthotopic lung transplantation with 4 hrs of cold ischemia followed by 2 hrs (or 24 hrs) of reperfusion. Animals were randomly assigned to vehicle-, curcumin-, or dexamethasone-treated groups.
Transplantation-associated lung injury was characterized by an increased alveolar-capillary permeability and myeloperoxidase activity and decreased levels of arterial oxygen tension/inspired oxygen concentration ratio. Pretreatment with curcumin and dexamethasone significantly prevented barrier disruption, lung edema, tissue inflammation, and decreased PaO2 at the early stage of posttransplantation. Nuclear factor-kappaB in transplanted lungs was activated, accompanied by an increase in messenger RNA levels and protein content of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 in lung graft. Those changes were prevented by pretreatment with curcumin and dexamethasone.
Curcumin can be an alternative therapy for protecting lung transplantation-associated injury by suppressing nuclear factor-kappaB-mediated expression of inflammatory genes.
