This paper focuses on the development of four major adverse drug reactions (ADRs) associated with some fluoroquinolones: convulsions, phototoxicity, cardiac effects, and hepatotoxicity. CNS adverse events have been linked to fluoroquinolone administration, including seizures, which are more likely with co-administration of NSAIDs. Only 61 cases of convulsions have been reported with levofloxacin, with 33 of those affected having received NSAIDs. The assumed rate of serious convulsions was as low as 1/65,000 with NSAIDs and 1/260,000 without NSAIDs. Levofloxacin has a very low phototoxicity-inducing potential confirmed by pre-clinical animal studies and the results of post-marketing surveillance (PMS). Pre-clinical results demonstrated that levofloxacin was 20 times less phototoxic than sparfloxacin and PMS data show that serious phototoxicity develops in only 1 in 1.8 million cases treated with levofloxacin. While many fluoroquinolones are associated with cardiac effects, pre-clinical data has shown that compared with sparfloxacin and grepafloxacin, levofloxacin has no effect on myocardial conduction. PMS data further support the safety of levofloxacin in this regard. While trovafloxacin is associated with serious hepatic problems, PMS data demonstrates that levofloxacin has a very low incidence of 1/100,000 hepatic effects. These results were confirmed in a prospective study that confirmed a low 1.3% incidence rate for all ADRs associated with levofloxacin.
Two hundred and twelve patients treated for prostatic cancer grade I or II were investigated for cardiovascular complications. The patients were part of a multicentre study in the Stockholm area and had been randomized to treatment with either estramustine phosphate (Estracyt) or polyestradiol phosphate and ethinyl estradiol. Cardiovascular complications categorized as impaired arterial circulation including ischemic heart disease, venous thromboembolism, cardiac incompensation and cerebral depression were found to be equally frequent following the two different forms of treatment. Among the patients getting cardiovascular complications, these occurred within two months after the start of treatment in 50% and within one year in 85% of them. There was a statistically significant correlation between the incidence of cardiovascular complications and a history of previous cardiovascular disease. This criterion was however in retrospect found to predict cardiovascular complications in only 67 of the 126 patients getting one or several of these complications.
To investigate the expression and the role of three isoforms of Serum and Glucocorticoid-inducible Kinase (SGK) in experimental diabetic nephropathy (DN), 12 male C57BL/6 mice of 8-weeks-old were divided into two groups. Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic nephropathy and normal controls were analyzed at the end of the 4th week after the induction of diabetes. Renal hemodynamics and histological studies were performed. The expression of SGK1 mRNA, SGK2 mRNA and SGK3 mRNA of kidney cortex were measured by RT-PCR, and the cortical SGK1 protein was detected with Western blotting. Our results showed that the blood glucose, blood HbA1c, 24h urinary protein, creatinine clearance and the renal index were all increased in DN group. More extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation was observed. The level of cortical SGK1 mRNA and protein were up-regulated in DN group in comparison with control group. SGK2 and SGK3 mRNA were elevated in DN mice. In DN, mRNA level of three SGK isoforms and SGK1 protein were increased significantly. It is concluded that SGKs may contribute to the early renal injury of DN.
The expression of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in rat liver fibrosis and hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and the relationship between the expression of bFGF and rat liver fibrogenesis were studied. Sixty male SD rats (230-260 g) were divided into 4 groups randomly (the 0 week group, 1 week group, 4 week group and 8 week group). Liver fibrosis was induced by subcutaneous injection of carbon tetrachloride. The sections of rats' liver in each group were tested by Van-Gieson (V-G) staining and immunohistochemistry. The expression of bFGF mRNA was detected by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). HSCs were isolated by the combined methods of collagenase IV perfusion and density gradient centrifugation. The expression of bFGF protein in cultured HSCs was detected by Western blot. Images of immunohistochemistry detection, agarose gel electrophoresis of RT-PCR and SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of Western blot were analyzed semiquantitatively by image-analyzing system. The results were analyzed by statistics. The results showed that the fibers were gradually increased in the sections of rat liver with the prolongation of the model induction. At the end of the 8th weeks, liver fibrosis was formed. The expression of bFGF detected by immunohistochemistry showed a similar tendency of gradual increase. At the end of the 8th weeks, the bFGF expression could be observed in many regions in sections and the strongest expression was in interstitial cells including HSCs and some hepatocytes in regions around the portal area and central veins. Also there was moderate expression widely in extracellular matrix (ECM). In RT-PCR detection and Western blot detection of HSCs cultured in vitro, the similar tendency of gradual increase was evident either. It is suggested that bFGF is related with liver fibrosis of rats closely and may be a fibrogenesis factor of liver. bFGF possibly regulates liver fibrogenesis through regulating metabolism of extracellular matrix (ECM) by autocrine and paracrine stimulation.
To investigate how erythrocyte oxidative stress relates to renal tubular damage and calcium oxalate stone size in patients as oxidative stress has been demonstrated to be associated with stone formation in disease progression.
The study included 29 controls, 29 patients with kidney stones, and 28 patients with ureteral stones. Venous blood samples were collected to measure the expression and activity of antioxidant enzymes in the isolated erythrocytes. A 24-hour urine sample was collected to measure urinary chemistry. The cellular levels of oxalate and the oxidative stress marker malondialdehyde (MDA) were determined to examine their correlations with stone size and renal tubule damage.
Calcium oxalate stone deposition and high free radical levels in venous blood associated with high levels of urinary oxalate, glutathione S-transferases tubular damage markers, and MDA and low urinary citrate levels. Compared with the erythrocytes of controls, the erythrocytes of stone groups had significantly lower levels and activities of antioxidant proteins, namely, reduced glutathione, catalase, and copper- or zinc-superoxide dismutase. The ureteral stone group also had significantly lower erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase levels and glutathione reductase activity than the controls. Erythrocyte oxalate levels correlated positively with erythrocyte MDA levels and negatively with erythrocyte antioxidant protein activities. Erythrocyte oxidative stress, as indicated by cellular MDA levels, also correlated well with urinary glutathione S-transferases and stone size.
These results suggest that oxalate-mediated oxidative stress in erythrocytes might contribute to the tubular damage and stone accumulation in patients with hyperoxaluria.
The relative safety and efficacy of intravenous administration of adenosine, lignocaine, disopyramide, flecainide, and sotalol for termination of stable, induced ventricular tachycardia was assessed in serial trials. Ventricular tachycardia was terminated by pacing if it persisted 10-15 min after the end of drug administration. 24 patients with recurrent ventricular tachycardia were studied. Ventricular tachycardia was terminated by a drug in 35 of 105 trials. In 6 patients no drug terminated the arrhythmia. Adenosine did not terminate tachycardia or have any serious adverse effect in any patient; both flecainide and disopyramide were significantly more effective than lignocaine, but flecainide had significantly more severe adverse effects than lignocaine. Lignocaine was the safest drug and should continue to be used as first-line drug therapy for stable ventricular tachycardia. Disopyramide should be considered as second-line treatment. DC cardioversion is necessary for unstable ventricular tachycardia, and its availability must be ensured before attempted pharmacological intervention.
A patient who developed a cerebral infarct during the course of praziquantel therapy for neurocysticercosis is described. Destruction of a large number of cysts by praziquantel followed by a massive inflammatory response was likely to have precipitated the event. Caution on the use of this drug in patients with heavy parasite loads is emphasized.
Long-term occupational exposure to cotton dust that contains endotoxin is associated with chronic respiratory symptoms and excessive decline in forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV1), but the mechanisms of endotoxin-related chronic airflow obstruction remain unclear.
In the current study, we examined temporal aspects of the exposure-response relationship between airborne endotoxin exposure, longitudinal change in FEV1, and respiratory symptoms in a cohort of Chinese cotton textile workers.
This prospective cohort study followed 447 cotton textile workers from 1981 to 2006. at approximately 5-year intervals. We used a generalized estimating equations approach to model FEV1 level and respiratory symptoms as a function of past exposure (cumulative exposure up to the start of the most recent 5-year survey interval) and cumulative exposure (within the most recent interval) to endotoxins, after adjusting for other covariates. Models were stratified by active versus retired work status and by years employed before the baseline survey (< 5 and > or = 5 years).
Past exposure to endotoxin was associated with reduced FEV1 level among retired cotton workers. Among all cotton workers, past exposure was more strongly associated with reduced FEV1 for those hired < 5 years before baseline than for those who were hired > or = 5 years after baseline. Recent endotoxin exposure was significantly associated with byssinosis, chronic bronchitis, and chronic cough.
Carriers of the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene are at a higher risk of coronary heart disease than individuals with other genotypes. We examined whether the risk of death or a major coronary event in survivors of myocardial infarction depended on apolipoprotein E genotype and whether the benefits of treatment with simvastatin differed between genotypes.
Cox proportional hazards models were used to analyze 5.5 years of follow-up data from 966 Danish and Finnish myocardial infarction survivors enrolled in the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study. A total of 16% of the 166 epsilon4 carriers in the placebo group died compared with 9% of the 312 patients without the allele, which corresponds to a mortality risk ratio of 1.8 (95% confidence interval, 1.1 to 3.1). The risk ratio was unaffected by considerations of sex, age, concurrent angina, diabetes, smoking, and serum lipids in multivariate analyses. Simvastatin treatment reduced the mortality risk to 0.33 (95% confidence interval, 0.16 to 0.69) in epsilon4 carriers and to 0.66 (95% confidence interval, 0. 35 to 1.24) in other patients (P=0.23 for treatment by genotype interaction). Apolipoprotein E genotype did not predict the risk of a major coronary event. Baseline serum levels of lipoprotein(a) also predicted mortality risk and could be combined with epsilon4-carrier status to define 3 groups of patients with different prognoses and benefits from treatment.
Myocardial infarction survivors with the epsilon4 allele have a nearly 2-fold increased risk of dying compared with other patients, and the excess mortality can be abolished by treatment with simvastatin.
To assess L-tryptophan (LT) dose, age, sex, and immunogenetic markers as possible risk or protective factors for the development of LT-associated eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (EMS) and related clinical findings.
HLA-DRB1 and DQA1 allele typing and Gm/Km phenotyping were performed on a cohort of 94 white subjects with documented LT ingestion and standardized evaluations. Multivariate analyses compared LT dose, age, sex, and alleles among groups of subjects who ingested LT and subsequently developed surveillance criteria for EMS, developed EMS or characteristic features of EMS (EMS spectrum disorder), or developed no features of EMS (unaffected).
Considering all sources of LT, higher LT dose (odds ratio [OR] 1.4, 95% confidence interval [95% CI] 1.1-1.8), age >45 years (OR 3.0, 95% CI 1.0-8.8), and HLA-DRB1*03 (OR 3.9, 95% CI 1.2-15.2), DRB1*04 (OR 3.9, 95% CI 1.1-16.4), and DQA1*0601 (OR 13.7, 95% CI 1.3-1.8) were risk factors for the development of EMS, whereas DRB1*07 (OR 0.12, 95% CI 0.02-0.48) and DQA1*0501 (OR 0.23, 95% CI 0.05-0.85) were protective. Similar risk and protective factors were seen for developing EMS following ingestion of implicated LT, except that DRB1*03 was not a risk factor and DQA1*0201 was an additional protective factor. EMS spectrum disorder also showed similar findings, but with DRB1*04 being a risk factor and DRB1*07 and DQA1*0201 being protective. There were no differences in sex distribution, Gm/Km allotypes, or Gm/Km phenotypes among any groups.
In addition to the xenobiotic dose and subject age, polymorphisms in immune response genes may underlie the development of certain xenobiotic-induced immune-mediated disorders, and these findings may have implications for future related epidemics.
Beta blocker treatment has emerged as an effective treatment modality for heart failure. Interestingly, beta-blockers can activate both pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic pathways. Nevertheless, the mechanism for improved cardiac function seen with beta-blocker treatment remains largely unknown. Carvedilol is a non-selective beta-blocker with alpha-receptor blockade and antioxidant properties. We therefore studied the impact of the effects of carvedilol in an animal model of end-stage heart failure.
To test whether chronic treatment with beta-blockade decreases apoptosis, we treated myopathic turkeys with two dosages of carvedilol, 1 mg/kg (DCM1) and 20 mg/kg (DCM20), for four weeks and compared them to non-treated DCM animals (DCM0) and to control turkeys (CON). Echocardiographic measurements showed that non-treated DCM animals had a significantly lower fractional shortening (FS) when compared to CON (68.73 +/- 1.37 vs. 18.76 +/- 0.59%, p < 0.001). Both doses of carvedilol significantly improved FS (33.83 +/- 10.11 and 27.73 +/- 6.18% vs. 18.76 +/- 0.59% for untreated DCM, p < 0.001). DCM left ventricles were characterized by a higher percentage of apoptotic nuclei when compared to CON (5.64 +/- 0.49 vs. 1.72 +/- 0.12%, respectively p < 0.001). Both doses of carvedilol significantly reduced the number of apoptotic nuclei (2.32 +/- 0.23% and 2.36 +/-6% 1 mg and 20 mg/kg respectively).
Carvedilol improves ventricular function. Furthermore, treatment with carvedilol decreased the incidence of apoptosis in cardiac myocytes from failing hearts at both doses. These data suggest that the inhibition of apoptosis with carvedilol may lead to improvement in ventricular function and may underlie a beneficial effect of beta-blockade independent of heart rate lowering effects.
Participants in the Medical Research Council treatment trial for mild hypertension are randomly allocated to one of four treatment groups: bendrofluazide, propranolol, or a placebo for either of these drugs. The trial is single-blind. 23 582 patient-years of observation have been completed so far, 10 684 on active drugs and 12 898 on placebos. The results show an association between bendrofluazide treatment and impotence, and impotence also occurred more frequently in patients taking propranolol than in those taking placebos. Other adverse reactions significantly linked with active drugs include impaired glucose tolerance in men and women and gout in men, associated with bendrofluazide treatment, and Raynaud's phenomenon and dyspnoea in men and women taking propranolol. No corneal disease is known to have occurred in the propranolol group. Mean serum potassium level fell, and urea and uric acid levels rose, in men and women taking bendrofluazide. In the propranolol group, serum potassium and uric acid levels rose in both sexes, but the urea level rose significantly in women only.
Leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) is a product of eicosanoid metabolism and acts as an extremely potent chemotactic mediator for inflammation. LTB(4) exerts positive effects on the immigration and activation of leukocytes. These effects suggest an involvement of LTB(4) in several diseases: inflammatory bowel disease, psoriasis, arthritis, and asthma. LTB(4) elicits actions through interaction with one or more cell surface receptors that lead to chemotaxis and inflammation. One leukotriene B(4) receptor has been recently identified (LTB(4)-R1). In this report we describe cloning of a cDNA encoding a novel 358-amino acid receptor (LTB(4)-R2) that possesses seven membrane-spanning domains and is homologous (42%) and genetically linked to LTB(4)-R1. Expression of LTB(4)-R2 is broad but highest in liver, intestine, spleen, and kidney. In radioligand binding assays, membranes prepared from COS-7 cells transfected with LTB(4)-R2 cDNA displayed high affinity (K(d) = 0.17 nm) for [(3)H]LTB(4). Radioligand competition assays revealed high affinities of the receptor for LTB(4) and LTB(5), and 20-hydroxy-LTB(4), and intermediate affinities for 15(S)-HETE and 12-oxo-ETE. Three LTB(4) receptor antagonists, 14,15-dehydro-LTB(4), LTB(4)-3-aminopropylamide, and U-75302, had high affinity for LTB(4)-R1 but not for LTB(4)-R2. No apparent affinity binding for the receptors was detected for the CysLT1-selective antagonists montelukast and zafirlukast. LTB(4) functionally mobilized intracellular calcium and inhibited forskolin-stimulated cAMP production in 293 cells. The discovery of this new receptor should aid in further understanding the roles of LTB(4) in pathologies in these tissues and may provide a tool in identification of specific antagonists/agonists for potential therapeutic treatments.
Pulmonary fibrosis is a serious and irreversible lung injury with obscure etiologic mechanisms and no effective treatment to date. This study explored a crucial link between oxidative stress and pulmonary fibrogenesis, focusing on nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a core transcription factor in antioxidative regulation systems. Treatment of C57 BL/6 mice with bleomycin increased fibroblast viability and collagen production and significantly downregulated Nrf2. In addition, prominent oxidative stress was indicated by changes in superoxide dismutase, catalase activity, and glutathione and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance levels. In a cell-based model, bleomycin suppressed Nrf2 activation via extracellular signal-related kinase phosphorylation, enhancing intracellular reactive oxygen species in lung fibroblasts and stimulating abnormal cell proliferation and collagen secretion. To confirm this novel mechanism of bleomycin-induced fibrogenesis, we attempted to upregulate Nrf2 and related antioxidant proteins in bleomycin-treated fibroblasts using a putative Nrf2 activator, caffeic acid phenethyl ester, and the results showed that bleomycin-induced fibroblast proliferation and collagen content were attenuated through improved redox balance. Collectively, these results disclose a potential regulatory mechanism in pulmonary fibrosis that will aid the development of new therapies.
Our previous studies demonstrated the ability of exogenous agmatine to inhibit tolerance to and physical dependence on morphine in mice, rats and monkeys. The present study further evaluated the effect of agmatine on the psychological dependence induced by morphine in conditioned place preference assay. Agmatine (0.75-20 mg/kg, s.c.) co-administered with morphine during the conditioning sessions completely abolished the acquisition of morphine-induced conditioned place preference in rats, which was associated with activation of imidazoline receptors. Agmatine (0.75-10 mg/kg, s.c.) administered on the test day inhibited the expression of the place preference. After 30 days of extinction of conditioned place preference, agmatine 2.5 and 40 mg/kg inhibited the priming effect of morphine 0.5 mg/kg on the place preference. Furthermore, agmatine inhibited the increased expression of FosB in the nucleus accumbens caused by chronic morphine. All these results suggest that agmatine could inhibit morphine-induced psychological dependence and relapses by affecting the expression of transcription factor FosB.
Investigators use instrumental tasks for objective assessment of parkinsonian motor disability and its drug response. To date, such studies on treated parkinsonian patients have not addressed acute and long-term effects of dopaminergic drugs.
To determine the impact of long-term dopaminergic therapy within a standardized levodopa challenge test design in combination with two repeatedly performed instrumental tasks, peg insertion and tapping, in previously treated and untreated parkinsonian patients.
Tapping significantly deteriorated in previously untreated, but not in treated parkinsonian patients after levodopa intake. In contrast, motor symptoms and peg insertion significantly improved in both groups of parkinsonian patients. Results of both tests differed between parkinsonian patients and matched controls.
Worsening of cognitively less demanding tapping may result from upregulated presynaptic inhibitory feedback regulation, sedative effects of levodopa or dopamine overflow in untreated parkinsonian patients, who are sensitive to these effects in contrast to treated parkinsonian patients. Tapping is a task with autonomic repetitive performance and programming of standardised movements with a low need for cognitive effort. This autonomic functioning of attentional control and selective processing is intact in Parkinson's disease. Peg insertion depends on more complex movements and thus hypothetically on dopamine-associated cognitive processes. Therefore, impairment of peg insertion responded to dopaminergic stimulation in both groups of parkinsonian patients. Future studies on the efficacy of antiparkinsonian drugs, using instrumental tasks for objective assessment, should consider long-term impact of antiparkinsonian drug therapy and associated cognitive efforts.
Two cases of irreversible bone marrow failure are described, one with rheumatoid disease and one with systemic lupus erythematosus. Each case was associated with prior chlorambucil administration, effective in controlling the clinical manifestations (total dosage 398 and 1,764 mg respectively). The irreversibility of the bone marrow depression in the two cases presented stands in contrast to published assurances that chlorambucil-associated leukopenia is dose-related and readily reversible. The cases illustrate that chlorambucil therapy should not be continued after initial leukopenia, until peripheral counts or marrow cellularity has returned to normal. Titration of drug dosage and leukocyte count, as frequently employed with cyclophosphamide and other alkylating agents, must be presumed hazardous. Additional studies are needed to determine if irreversible bone marrow depression is dose-related or idiosyncratic.
1 To investigate the antinociceptive activity of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) in mice, different nociceptive stimuli were used. TRH (i.p.) was active in the phenyl-p-benzoquinone or acetic acid-induced writhing tests (chemical stimuli) and in Haffner's test (mechanical stimulus); its action decreased rapidly 15 min after intraperitoneal injection. 2 To determine whether the activity of TRH has a peripheral or central origin, we administered TRH intracerebroventricularly via cannulae previously implanted in mice. The results provide evidence that a central mechanism is involved in the analgesic effect of TRH since when given intracerebroventricularly it was 10,000 and 1,000 times more active against chemical and mechanical stimuli respectively than intraperitoneally. The action of TRH decreased rapidly 5 min after i.c.v. injection. Morphine was studied in these tests and it was found that at the peak effect TRH analgesia (i.c.v.) was greater than that of morphine (i.c.v.) on a molar basis. 3 To investigate the mechanisms involved in the antinociceptive action of TRH, the effects of pretreatment with either agonists or antagonists of noradrenaline (NA), dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), or naloxone were studied. TRH activity was generally resistant to modifications of NA, dopamine and 5-HT systems. The TRH effect was not antagonized by naloxone, but TRH at a non-analgesic dose presented the hyperalgesia induced by naloxone. 4 In conclusion, TRH i.c.v. possessed a short, strong antinociceptive activity against chemical and mechanical stimuli. This analgesia was at least equipotent to that of morphine i.c.v.
Indomethacin (IN) can inhibit cyclooxygenase activity and is considered to exert antitumor action in a variety of cancer cells. In the present study, we investigated the underlying mechanism of its antiproliferative effect on chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) cells. We studied the role of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 or 5 (STAT(1) or STAT(5)) and Bcl-X(L) proteins in IN-induced proliferative inhibition on CML cells. Both K562 cells and fresh bone marrow mononuclear cells from five CML patients were exposed to IN. Cell proliferation was determined by MTT assay. The expression of JAK(2), STAT(1), STAT(5), and Bcl-X(L) proteins was probed with Western blotting. The level of phosphorylated STAT(1) (p-STAT(1)) or STAT(5) (p-STAT(5)) proteins was determined by coimmunoprecipitation combined with Western blotting. Intracellular localizations of both STAT(1)/STAT(5) and p-STAT(1)/p-STAT(5) were observed by indirect immunofluorescence assay. Our results showed that IN could inhibit the proliferation of CML cells in a dose-dependent manner (36-288 microg/ml). The expression of STAT(1) and STAT(5) was suppressed by IN both in a concentration-dependent manner and a time-dependent (0-36 h) manner. The levels of p-STAT(1) and p-STAT(5) were down-regulated by IN. A similar result was obtained for Bcl-X(L) protein expression. The intracellular fluorescence signals representing STAT(1)/STAT(5) and p-STAT(1)/p-STAT(5) were obviously weakened by IN. In contrast with IN, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor could significantly promote the growth of CML cells and up-regulate the expression of both STAT(1)/STAT(5) and p-STAT(1)/p-STAT(5). This data indicated that IN is able to suppress the proliferation of CML cells, and the mechanism is associated with the inhibition of STATs/ Bcl-X(L) signal transduction pathway.
A 66-year-old hypertensive woman presented with epigastric and scapular pain on the basis of type 3 aortic dissection. Appropriate therapy with a combined alpha-adrenergic and beta-adrenergic antagonist agent prevented further ongoing dissection and amelioration of symptoms. On day 5, an episode of coronary vasospasm occurred presumably due to beta-blockade with unopposed alpha-adrenergic activity.
The p62/sequestosome 1 protein has been identified as a component of pathological protein inclusions in neurodegenerative diseases including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). P62 has also been implicated in autophagy, a process of mass degradation of intracellular proteins and organelles. Autophagy is a critical pathway for degrading misfolded and/or damaged proteins, including the copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) mutants linked to familial ALS. We previously reported that p62 interacted with ALS mutants of SOD1 and that the ubiquitin-association domain of p62 was dispensable for the interaction. In this study, we identified two distinct regions of p62 that were essential to its binding to mutant SOD1: the N-terminal Phox and Bem1 (PB1) domain (residues 1-104) and a separate internal region (residues 178-224) termed here as SOD1 mutant interaction region (SMIR). The PB1 domain is required for appropriate oligomeric status of p62 and the SMIR is the actual region interacting with mutant SOD1. Within the SMIR, the conserved W184, H190 and positively charged R183, R186, K187, and K189 residues are critical to the p62-mutant SOD1 interaction as substitution of these residues with alanine resulted in significantly abolished binding. In addition, SMIR and the p62 sequence responsible for the interaction with LC3, a protein essential for autophagy activation, are independent of each other. In cells lacking p62, the existence of mutant SOD1 in acidic autolysosomes decreased, suggesting that p62 can function as an adaptor between mutant SOD1 and the autophagy machinery. This study provides a novel molecular mechanism by which mutant SOD1 can be recognized by p62 in an ubiquitin-independent fashion and targeted for the autophagy-lysosome degradation pathway.
By mimicking sympathetic stimulation in vivo, we previously reported that mice globally lacking serotonin 5-HT(2B) receptors did not develop isoproterenol-induced left ventricular hypertrophy. However, the exact cardiac cell type(s) expressing 5-HT(2B) receptors (cardiomyocytes versus noncardiomyocytes) involved in pathological heart hypertrophy was never addressed in vivo. We report here that mice expressing the 5-HT(2B) receptor solely in cardiomyocytes, like global 5-HT(2B) receptor-null mice, are resistant to isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction, as well as to isoproterenol-induced increases in cytokine plasma-levels. These data reveal a key role of noncardiomyocytes in isoproterenol-induced hypertrophy in vivo. Interestingly, we show that primary cultures of angiotensinogen null adult cardiac fibroblasts are releasing cytokines on stimulation with either angiotensin II or serotonin, but not in response to isoproterenol stimulation, demonstrating a critical role of angiotensinogen in adrenergic-dependent cytokine production. We then show a functional interdependence between AT(1)Rs and 5-HT(2B) receptors in fibroblasts by revealing a transinhibition mechanism that may involve heterodimeric receptor complexes. Both serotonin- and angiotensin II-dependent cytokine production occur via a Src/heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-dependent transactivation of epidermal growth factor receptors in cardiac fibroblasts, supporting a common signaling pathway. Finally, we demonstrate that 5-HT(2B) receptors are overexpressed in hearts from patients with congestive heart failure, this overexpression being positively correlated with cytokine and norepinephrine plasma levels. Collectively, these results reveal for the first time that interactions between AT(1) and 5-HT(2B) receptors coexpressed by noncardiomyocytes are limiting key events in adrenergic agonist-induced, angiotensin-dependent cardiac hypertrophy. Accordingly, antagonists of 5-HT(2B) receptors might represent novel therapeutics for sympathetic overstimulation-dependent heart failure.
The nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent, zomepirac, was evaluated for its in vivo antithrombotic effects in conscious canines by inducing left circumflex (LCX) coronary artery thrombosis with low-amperage electrical stimulation (50 muA for 24 h) of the intimal surface of the vessel. Zomepirac, 10 mg/kg i.v., given at 0 and 12 h, prevented occlusive coronary artery thrombosis (seven of 10 controls developed occlusive thrombi, compared to one of eight zomepirac-treated animals; p = 0.02). LCX thrombus mass also was reduced by zomepirac (control: 24.0 +/- 4.0 mg; zomepirac: 10.2 +/- 2.4 mg, p less than 0.05; means +/- SEM). Left ventricular infarct mass due to occlusive LCX coronary artery thrombosis was likewise reduced. In a separate series of experiments, zomepirac (10 mg/kg i.v.), given 30 min before occlusion, failed to limit the extent of irreversible myocardial injury after temporary (90 min) LCX coronary artery occlusion in the canine. Infarct size, as a percent of the area at risk of infarction, averaged 47.8 +/- 3.9% in controls, and 40.4 +/- 7.5% in zomepirac-treated animals (means +/- SEM). No difference in the mass of myocardium at risk of infarction was observed between the two groups. In this latter study, zomepirac produced no significant hemodynamic effects. Ex vivo platelet aggregation in response to collagen and arachidonic acid was decreased significantly by zomepirac, but aggregation to ADP was unaffected. These results suggest that zomepirac possesses anti-thrombotic properties, but lacks intrinsic cardioprotective effects. Therefore, zomepirac may be of potential value in the prevention of coronary artery thrombosis owing to its ability to modify platelet reactivity.
Aluminium (Al) is the third most abundant element in the earth's crust and its compounds are used in the form of house hold utensils, medicines and in antiperspirant etc. Increasing number of evidences suggest the involvement of Al+3 ions in a variety of neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease. Here, we have attempted to investigate the role of Al in endoplasmic reticulum stress and the regulation of p53 during neuronal apoptosis using neuroblastoma cell line. We observed that Al caused oxidative stress by increasing ROS production and intracellular calcium levels together with depletion of intracellular GSH levels. We also studied modulation of key pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins and found significant alterations in the levels of Nrf2, NQO1, pAKT, p21, Bax, Bcl2, Aβ1-40 and Cyt c together with increase in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress related proteins like CHOP and caspase 12. However, with respect to the role of p53, we observed downregulation of its transcript as well as protein levels while analysis of its ubiquitination status revealed no significant changes. Not only did Al increase the activities of caspase 9, caspase 12 and caspase 3, but, by the use of peptide inhibitors of specific and pan-caspases, we observed significant protection against neuronal cell death upon inhibition of caspase 12, demonstrating the prominent role of endoplasmic reticulum stress generated responses in Al toxicity. Overall our findings suggest that Al induces ER stress and ROS generation which compromises the antioxidant defenses of neuronal cells thereby promoting neuronal apoptosis in p53 independent pathway.
Patients with the hamartomatous polyposis Peutz-Jeghers and familial juvenile polyposis syndromes are predisposed to colorectal cancer but lack early genetic alterations found in adenomatous premalignant lesions. We studied hamartomatous polyps for the expression of an early preneoplastic colorectal neoplasia risk marker also found in familial adenomatous polyposis patients. Retrospective, genetic, and hospital archival tissue immunohistochemistry using Adnab-9, a premalignant marker often found in Paneth-like cells (PCs), was performed on sections of polyps from eight patients with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, eight patients with familial juvenile polyposis, and 36 hyperplastic polyp control sections. Anti-alpha-defensin 5 (AD5), a universal PC marker, was also used to label a subgroup of sections. Hamartomatous polyposis patients also underwent specific genetic analysis. Eighty-nine percent of Peutz-Jeghers syndrome polyps labeled with Adnab-9 compared with 63% for AD5; 88% of familial juvenile polyposis sections also labeled with Adnab-9. Of the 36 hyperplastic polyp sections, only four (11%) labeled with Adnab-9 and one (3%) with AD5. Adnab-9 labeling of PCs in the epithelial elements of hamartomatous colonic lesions of hereditary hamartomatous syndrome patients reflects the predisposition to colorectal cancer, further justifying early intervention strategies.
This study reports the efficacy of cobalt preconditioning in preventing hypobaric hypoxia induced vascular leakage (an indicator of cerebral edema) using male Sprague-Dawley rats as model system. Exposure of animals to hypobaric hypoxia led to a significant increase in vascular leakage, reactive oxygen species (ROS), nitric oxide (NO), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels. There was a marked increase in Nuclear Factor kappaB (NFkappaB) DNA binding activity and levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as Monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP-1), Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), Interleukin-1 (IL-1), and Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and cell adhesion molecules such as Vascular Cell Adhesion Molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and P-selectin. Chemical preconditioning by cobalt for 7 days (12.5 mg Co/kg b.w., oral) significantly attenuated cerebral vascular leakage and the expression of inflammatory mediators induced by hypoxia. Administration of NFkappaB inhibitor, curcumin (50 mg/kg b.w.; i.p.) appreciably inhibited hypoxia induced vascular leakage indicating the involvement of NFkappaB in causing vascular leakage. Interestingly, cobalt when administered at 12.5 mg Co/kg b.w. (i.p.), 1 h before hypoxia could not prevent the vascular leakage indicating that cobalt per se did not have an effect on NFkappaB. The lower levels of NFkappaB observed in the brains of cobalt administered animals might be due to higher levels of antioxidant and anti-inflammatory proteins (hemeoxygenase-1 and metallothionein). To conclude cobalt preconditioning inhibited hypobaric hypoxia induced cerebral vascular leakage by lowering NFkappaB DNA binding activity and its regulated pro-inflammatory mediators. This is contemplated to be mediated by cobalt induced reduction in ROS/NO and increase in HO-1 and MT.
