In the present study, cardioprotective effect of aqueous extract of fruits of Embelia ribes Burm (ER) was evaluated in a rat model having acute myocardial infarction, induced by isoproterenol (5.25 and 8.5 mg/kg, sc, for two consecutive days). Aqueous ER extract (100 mg/kg) pretreatment orally for 40 days in isoproterenol (ISO)-treated rats significantly decreased the heart rate, systolic blood pressure, increased levels of serum lactate dehydrogenase, serum creatine kinase and myocardial lipid peroxides and significantly increased the myocardial endogenous antioxidants (glutathione, superoxide dismutase and catalase) levels. The results of biochemical observations in serum and heart tissues were supplemented by histopathological examination of rat's heart sections to confirm the myocardial injury. The results were comparable to that of gliclazide treated group. The present results provide evidence for the first time, that aqueous ER extract pretreatment ameliorated myocardial injury and enhanced the antioxidant defense against ISO-induced myocardial infarction in rats and exhibited cardioprotective property.
Lactitol (beta-galactosido-sorbitol) has been recently compared with lactulose for the treatment of chronic hepatic encephalopathy in a few studies, each comprising a small number of patients. The results are controversial. We studied the efficiency and tolerance of both compounds by using a meta-analysis on the basis of published controlled trials. Our study only included controlled or randomized trials comprising cirrhotic patients with chronic hepatic encephalopathy. Analyzed parameters were the portosystemic encephalopathy index of Conn after treatment, the percentage of improved patients and the percentage of patients who had ill effects related to the treatment (flatulence, diarrhea). Bibliographical screening revealed five studies comparing the effects of lactitol and lactulose in chronic hepatic encephalopathy. Four crossover studies were done that included 48 patients and one parallel study that included 29 patients. The duration of the treatment ranged from 3 to 6 mo. All studies found a similar efficiency with both drugs. However, they exhibited some discrepancies in the relative frequency of adverse reactions (flatulence). Meta-analysis showed no statistical differences in the portosystemic encephalopathy index after lactitol or lactulose treatment. The percentage of improved patients after lactitol or lactulose was similar. In contrast, the analysis revealed a higher frequency (p less than 0.01) of flatulence in patients treated with lactulose compared with those treated with lactitol. In conclusion, this meta-analysis shows no statistical difference between therapeutic effects of lactitol and lactulose, but it does show a higher frequency of flatulence with lactulose. This suggests that lactitol should be preferred to lactulose for the treatment of chronic hepatic encephalopathy.
Pyrazolopyridine inhibitors with low micromolar potency for CHK1 and good selectivity against CHK2 were previously identified by fragment-based screening. The optimization of the pyrazolopyridines to a series of potent and CHK1-selective isoquinolines demonstrates how fragment-growing and scaffold morphing strategies arising from a structure-based understanding of CHK1 inhibitor binding can be combined to successfully progress fragment-derived hit matter to compounds with activity in vivo. The challenges of improving CHK1 potency and selectivity, addressing synthetic tractability, and achieving novelty in the crowded kinase inhibitor chemical space were tackled by multiple scaffold morphing steps, which progressed through tricyclic pyrimido[2,3-b]azaindoles to N-(pyrazin-2-yl)pyrimidin-4-amines and ultimately to imidazo[4,5-c]pyridines and isoquinolines. A potent and highly selective isoquinoline CHK1 inhibitor (SAR-020106) was identified, which potentiated the efficacies of irinotecan and gemcitabine in SW620 human colon carcinoma xenografts in nude mice.
To determine the efficacy and toxicity of combined modality treatment (CMT) or radiotherapy (RT) alone in the management of clinical Stage I-IIA adult Hodgkin's disease patients.
Forty-seven patients with supradiaphragmatic clinical Stage I-IIA Hodgkin's disease without bulky mediastinal lymphadenopathy were enrolled into this prospective study between September 1997 and February 2002. Patients with very favorable criteria presenting with one or two nonbulky nodal areas involved, an erythrocyte sedimentation rate of <50 mm/h, age <40 years, and either lymphocyte predominant or nodular sclerosing histologic findings were treated by RT alone. Patients missing any of these favorable criteria were classified as the other favorable group and were treated with three courses of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine chemotherapy followed by involved-field RT. The median age was 36 years (range, 19-53 years). Of the 47 patients, 15 were women and 32 were men. Only 3 patients were classified as the most favorable group and treated with mantle RT alone; the remaining 44 were treated with CMT.
The median follow-up was 51 months (range, 20-74 months). Only 2 patients developed recurrence, both out of the irradiated field, one in the contralateral neck and the other in the abdomen. The 5-year relapse-free and overall survival rate was 95.4% and 97.8%, respectively. Although none of the prognostic factors were statistically significant for relapse-free survival, a trend was noted for the response to chemotherapy (p = 0.06). Only 2 patients developed treatment-related complications. One patient treated with mantle RT alone developed severe ischemic heart disease and one in the CMT arm developed subclinical hypothyroidism.
Despite the short follow-up, CMT or RT alone tailored according to the clinical prognostic factors were successful in terms of disease control in clinical Stage I-IIA Hodgkin's disease. Longer follow-up is required to make definitive conclusions.
This study was conducted to evaluate whether estramustine (estrogen mustard [EM]) is a promising alternative in the treatment of patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma (OVCA). EM is a microtubule-associated protein (MAP) specific antimicrotubule agent with low toxicity.
The authors investigated the ability of EM to induce apoptosis and suppress colony formation of OVCA cells. Paclitaxel was used as a positive control. DNA electrophoresis and terminal deoxynucleotidyl dUTP-X nick end labeling (TUNEL) assays were used to detect internucleosomal DNA fragmentation. Flow cytometry was used to identify apoptotic cells and disturbance of the cell cycle of EM-treated OVCA cells further. Quantitation of detached cultured cells also provided a relative estimate of the apoptotic response of OVCA cells to treatment with EM. The colony formation assay was used to evaluate the effects of EM on clonogenicity.
The effects of EM on four OVCA cell lines in culture were highly similar to those of paclitaxel in causing apoptosis and inhibiting clonogenicity. DNA electrophoresis and TUNEL assays showed that EM induced internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in OVCA cells. Flow cytometry showed changes typical of apoptotic changes and cell cycle block and synchronization at the G2/M-phase. Counting of detached cells showed a log-dose response to EM treatment. The colony formation assay also showed a log-dose response suppression of OVCA cell clonogenicity after treatment with EM.
EM may be a promising candidate in the clinical treatment of patients with OVCA. The lower toxicity and MAP specific action of EM is a novel chemotherapy for OVCA.
Monocytes are key elements in pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and inflammation. The data regarding associations between antihypertensive treatment and monocytes' function are still lacking. The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of antihypertensive drugs (bisoprolol, perindopril or both) in patients suffering from mild to moderate hypertension.
The study population consisted of 67 patients divided into 3 groups (2 consisted of patients with Grade I essential hypertension and one consisted of patients with Grade II essential hypertension). At baseline and 1 month after treatment we performed 24-h ambulatory noninvasive blood pressure monitoring and measured IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, MCP-1 and TNF-alpha in a medium derived from LPS-stimulated monocytes' culture.
Both monotherapies with bisoprolol or perindopril were equally effective in lowering blood pressure (reduction in mean 24-h systolic blood pressure 12.07 vs. 15.91 mmHg, p = 0.678). Antihypertensive treatment led to significant decrease in IL-1b, IL-6, MCP-1 and TNF-alpha concentration and significant rise in IL-10 level compared to the baseline levels and the decrease was associated with reduction in blood pressure.
Bisoprolol and perindopril effectively reduced elevated blood pressure. As a result, an alteration in cytokine net was observed at the end of the study. These results support the concept of possible anti-inflammatory effects of antihypertensive drugs (e.g., perindopril and bisoprolol).
Orlistat and metformin are the currently used drugs for weight loss. We aimed to compare the effect of orlistat and orlistat plus metformin combination therapy on weight loss and insulin resistance in obese women.
In all, 57 obese women (body mass index >/=30 kg/m(2) and normal glucose tolerance) were included. All subjects took the same content and caloric diet therapy during the study. After a month of diet period, each individual was randomly assigned to receive 360 mg orlistat per day (group 1; n=30) or 360 mg orlistat plus 1700 mg metformin per day (group 2; n=27) during the next 3 months. Body weight and insulin resistance by the homeostasis model assessment model (HOMA-IR) was measured at baseline, first month and fourth month.
The mean weight loss in groups 1 and 2 was 1.36+/-0.8 kg (1.4+/-0.7%) and 1.11+/-0.7 kg (1.1+/-0.7%) from baseline to first month; 4.8+/-2.9 kg (5.28+/-3.0%) and 5.77+/-2.5 kg (6.17+/-2.9%) from first month to fourth month. Body weight was decreased in groups 1 (P< 0.001) and 2 (P< 0.001), but there was no statistically significant difference between groups. Change of HOMA-IR in groups 1 and 2 was 0.41+/-0.4 (14.9+/-10.1%) and 0.23+/-0.7 (8.16+/-12.3%) from baseline to first month; 0.49+/-0.77 (22.0+/-26%) and 0.95+/-0.88 (34.8+/-29.1%) from first month to fourth month. HOMA-IR value was decreased in groups 1 (P< 0.001) and 2 (P< 0.001) but was not different between groups during the study period.
Combination of orlistat with metformin did not result in an additional effect on weight loss and insulin resistance when compared to orlistat alone in our study. However, new studies which have more sample sizes and the longer study period are necessary for this purpose.
We report the case of a young woman who suffered from a seizure after use of almotriptan. There was a recurrence with ergotamine. We discuss possible link with susceptibility genes.
Carvedilol, a chiral compound possessing nonselective beta- and alpha1-blocking activity, is used for the treatment of hypertension and congestive heart failure (CHF). The enantiomers of carvedilol exhibit similar alpha1-blocking activity; only S-carvedilol possesses beta-blocking activity. Carvedilol is primarily hepatically metabolized, with less than 2% of the dose excreted renally as unchanged drug.
The pharmacokinetics of carvedilol, R-carvedilol, and S-carvedilol were studied in hypertensive patients (control; n = 13) versus patients with hypertension and advanced renal insufficiency not yet on dialysis [GFR < or = 30 ml x min(-1) (CRI, chronic renal insufficiency), n = 12] following single (12.5 mg, Day 1) and multiple (25 mg once daily, Days 2 9) dosing.
Mean with (SD) AUC(0-24h) (ng x h x ml(-1)) for carvedilol was 220 (120) and 618 (335) in CRI compared with 165 (83.5) and 413 (247) in controls on Days 1 and 9, respectively, primarily due to higher R-carvedilol concentrations. Mean with (SD) Cmax (ng x ml(-1)) for carvedilol were 53.4 (31.4) and 128 (63.3) in CRI compared with 46.7 (23.3) and 104 (58.9) in controls on Days 1 and 9, respectively. The difference in group mean values was characterized by considerable overlap in individual AUC(0-24h) and Cmax values between groups. There was no apparent difference in mean terminal elimination half-life for carvedilol between groups on each study day. Less than 1% of the dose was excreted in urine as unchanged carvedilol in both groups. Blood pressure and heart rate declined in both groups to a similar degree.
Compared with controls, average AUC(0-24 h) values for carvedilol were approximately 40% and 50% higher on study Days 1 and 9 in patients with renal insufficiency, primarily due to higher R-carvedilol concentrations with only a small change (<20%) in S-carvedilol concentrations, the isomer possessing beta-blocking activity. These changes in pharmacokinetics are modest in view of the large interindividual variability. Carvedilol was well tolerated in both groups. Although the present study cannot provide a final conclusion, based on the results of the present study, no changes in dosing recommendations for carvedilol are warranted in patients with moderate/severe renal insufficiency.
Altered glutamatergic neurotransmission is central to the expression of Parkinson's disease (PD) symptoms and may underlie l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. Drugs acting on glutamate metabotropic receptors (mGluR) of group I can modulate subthalamic nucleus (STN) overactivity, which plays a pivotal role in these phenomena, and may counteract dyskinesias. To address these issues, we investigated the effects of a 3-week treatment with mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), or of a subthalamic lesion, on abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) and associated striatal expression of transcription factor FosB/Delta FosB caused by chronic l-DOPA administration, in rats with a nigrostriatal lesion. MPEP virtually abolished AIMs and reduced, dramatically, striatal expression of FosB/Delta FosB. Reduced FosB/Delta FosB expression, coupled with nonsignificant reduction of AIMs, was also observed in STN-lesioned rats. Our data confirm the role of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the pathogenesis of dyskinesias and the potential of mGluR5 antagonists in the treatment of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias.
Hypotension and a resultant decrease in cerebral blood flow have been implicated in the development of cognitive dysfunction. We tested the hypothesis that nimodipine (NIMO) administered at the onset of nitroglycerin (NTG)-induced hypotension would preserve long-term associative memory.
The passive avoidance (PA) paradigm was used to assess memory retention. For PA training, latencies (seconds) were recorded for entry from a suspended platform into a Plexiglas tube where a shock was automatically delivered. Latencies were recorded 48 h later for a testing trial. Ninety-six Swiss-Webster mice (30-35 g, 6-8 wk), were randomized into 6 groups 1) saline (control), 2) NTG immediately after learning, 3) NTG 3 h after learning, 4) NTG and NIMO, 5) vehicle, and 6) NIMO alone. The extent of hypotension and changes in brain tissue oxygenation (PbtO(2)) and in cerebral blood flow were studied in a separate group of animals.
All groups exhibited similar training latencies (17.0 +/- 4.6 s). Mice subjected to hypotensive episodes showed a significant decrease in latency time (178 +/- 156 s) compared with those injected with saline, NTG + NIMO, or delayed NTG (580 +/- 81 s, 557 +/- 67 s, and 493 +/- 146 s, respectively). A Kruskal-Wallis 1-way analysis of variance indicated a significant difference among the 4 treatment groups (H = 15.34; P < 0.001). In a separate group of mice not subjected to behavioral studies, the same dose of NTG (n = 3) and NTG + NIMO (n = 3) caused mean arterial blood pressure to decrease from 85.9 +/- 3.8 mm Hg sem to 31.6 +/- 0.8 mm Hg sem and from 86.2 +/- 3.7 mm Hg sem to 32.6 +/- 0.2 mm Hg sem, respectively. Mean arterial blood pressure in mice treated with NIMO alone decreased from 88.1 +/- 3.8 mm Hg to 80.0 +/- 2.9 mm Hg. The intergroup difference was statistically significant (P < 0.05). PbtO(2) decreased from 51.7 +/- 4.5 mm Hg sem to 33.8 +/- 5.2 mm Hg sem in the NTG group and from 38.6 +/- 6.1 mm Hg sem to 25.4 +/- 2.0 mm Hg sem in the NTG + NIMO groups, respectively. There were no significant differences among groups.
In a PA retention paradigm, the injection of NTG immediately after learning produced a significant impairment of long-term associative memory in mice, whereas delayed induced hypotension had no effect. NIMO attenuated the disruption in consolidation of long-term memory caused by NTG but did not improve latency in the absence of hypotension. The observed effect of NIMO may have been attributable to the preservation of calcium homeostasis during hypotension, because there were no differences in the PbtO(2) indices among groups.
The effects of a chronic treatment with pefloxacin on aminophylline-induced seizures in genetically epilepsy-prone rat have been investigated. Two series of experiments were performed. In the first, animals received pefloxacin orally twice a day for five days, then were administered aminophylline intraperitoneally and the occurrence of seizures was evaluated. In the second series of experiments, theophylline serum concentration was evaluated in rats subject to the same experimental protocol. Pefloxacin significantly, and in a dose-dependent manner, increased the occurrence of seizure phases induced by aminophylline, but did not influence theophylline serum levels measured at different times after the injection of aminophylline. We suggest that additive neurotoxic effects of both pefloxacin and aminophylline might contribute to the increased severity of seizure score. The possible role of GABA-benzodiazepine, excitatory amino acid and purinergic mechanism, and the role of pharmacokinetic factors are discussed.
The antinociceptive and antidepressant effects of two pyrazolotriazine derivatives, 2-phenyl-3,3a-dihydro-4-oxo-5-(4-phenylpiperazin-1-yl) methyl-pyrazolo[1,5-d][1,2,4]-triazine (SM1) and 2-phenyl-3,3a-dihydro-4-oxo-5-[4-(4-fluorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl] methylpyrazolo[1,5-d][1,2,4] triazine (SM3) have been investigated in mice using classical pharmacological tests. The intraperitoneal LD50 values of SM1 and SM3 were 253.4 and 218.8 mg kg-1 respectively. SM1 and SM3 showed analgesic properties in the phenylbenzoquinone-induced abdominal constriction test (ED50 approximately 10-15 mg kg-1, i.p.) and in the hot-plate test. The antinociceptive effects of the triazines were significantly reduced by administration of naloxone (1 and 3.2 mg kg-1, s.c.) and yohimbine (1 mg kg-1, p.o.). Acute intraperitoneal administration of both compounds (1 mg kg-1 SM1 or 1.5 mg kg-1 SM3) potentiated morphine (0.15 mg kg-1, s.c.) analgesia in the phenylbenzoquinone test. Although this synergistic activity was not reversed by methysergide (0.5 mg kg-1, i.p.), the analgesic activity of both compounds was enhanced by administration of 5-hydroxytryptophan (50 mg kg-1, i.p.) in conjunction with carbidopa (25 mg kg-1, i.p.). Furthermore, neither compound (at 100 mg kg-1, i.p.) significantly reduced the duration of immobility of mice in the forced swimming test, and both (at 75 mg kg-1, i.p.) were ineffective at enhancing the toxic effects of yohimbine (30 mg kg-1, s.c.). Only SM3 (ED50 = 74.5 mg kg-1, i.p.) significantly antagonized reserpine (2.5 mg kg-1, i.p.)-induced ptosis. Thus, the results suggest that SM1 and SM3 have antinociceptive properties related to co-involvement of opioidergic and alpha 2-adrenoceptor mechanism without associated antidepressant properties.
Cocaine binds to sigma receptors with comparable affinity to its well-established interaction with dopamine transporters. Previous studies have shown BD1008 (N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-N-methyl-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)ethylamine) to have high affinity and selectivity for sigma receptors, and to additionally attenuate the locomotor stimulatory effects of cocaine. Therefore, in the present study, three N-alkyl substituted analogs of BD1008 were characterized in receptor binding and behavioral studies: BD1060 (N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)ethylamine), BD1067 (N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-N-ethyl-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)ethylamine), and BD1052 (N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-N-allyl-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)ethylamine). Similarly to BD1008, all three analogs exhibited high affinity and selectivity for sigma receptors. In behavioral studies, BD1008, BD1060 or BD1067 attenuated cocaine-induced convulsions and lethality in Swiss Webster mice. The protective effects appear to be mediated through sigma receptor antagonism because traditional sigma receptor antagonists with high to moderate affinity for these receptors also attenuated the behavioral toxicity of cocaine. In contrast, traditional and novel sigma receptor agonists such as di-o-tolylguanidine and BD1052 worsened the behavioral toxicity of cocaine. To further characterize the actions of the N-alkyl substituted compounds, they were microinjected into the rat red nucleus, a functional assay of sigma receptor activity, where they produced agonist vs. antagonist actions that were consistent with their effects on cocaine-induced behaviors. Together, the data demonstrate that BD1008, BD1060 or BD1067 can attenuate the behavioral toxicity of cocaine, most likely through functional antagonism of sigma receptors.
Within the past 3 years seven cases of reversible peripheral neuropathy apparently caused by statins have been reported. Here we report seven additional cases associated with long-term statin therapy, in which other causes of neuropathy were thoroughly excluded. The neuropathy was in all cases axonal and with affection of both thick and thin nerve fibers. The symptoms of neuropathy persisted during an observation period lasting from 10 weeks to 1 year in four cases after statin treatment had been withdrawn. We suggest that long-term statin treatment may be associated with chronic peripheral neuropathy.
Human septic shock involves multiple genome-level perturbations. We have conducted microarray analyses in children with septic shock within 24 h of intensive care unit admission, using whole blood-derived RNA. Based on sequential statistical and expression filters, there were 2,482 differentially regulated gene probes (1,081 upregulated and 1,401 downregulated) between patients with septic shock (n = 42) and controls (n = 15). Both gene lists encompassed several biologically relevant gene ontologies and canonical pathways. Notably, many of the genes downregulated in the patients with septic shock, relative to the controls, participate in gene ontologies related to metal or zinc homeostasis. Comparison of septic shock survivors (n = 33) and nonsurvivors (n = 9) demonstrated differential regulation of 63 gene probes. Among the 63 gene probes differentially regulated between septic shock survivors and nonsurvivors, two isoforms of metallothionein (MT) demonstrated increased expression in the nonsurvivors. Consistent with the ability of MT to sequester zinc in the intracellular compartment, nonsurvivors had lower serum zinc levels compared with survivors. In a corroborating study of murine sepsis, MT-null mice demonstrated a survival advantage compared with wild-type mice. These data represent the largest reported cohort of pediatric patients with septic shock that has undergone genome-level expression profiling based on microarray. The data are biologically plausible and demonstrate that genome-level alterations of zinc homeostasis may be prevalent in clinical pediatric septic shock.
There is now good evidence that inhaled salmeterol is an effective agent in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),but, at the present time, data on the effects of bambuterol, which is an oral tarbutaline pro-drug, in patients with COPD are scarce. Moreover, no comparative study between bambuterol and salmeterol in patients with chronic obstructive airway disorders has been published. The objective of this research was, consequently, to compare the efficacy and safety of 20 mg oral bambuterol and 50 microg inhaled salmeterol in patients with partially reversible COPD.
The speed and length of bronchodilation with 20 mg bambuterol and 50 microg inhaled salmeterol were compared in 16 patients with partially reversible COPD. The investigation and designed as a double-blind, double-dummy, cross-over, placebo controlled and randomised study. Lung function (FEV1, FVC) and systemic variables (subjective tremor, heart rate, blood pressure) were monitored prior to the administration of the drug and for 12 h after each agent on 3 non-consecutive days.
Inhalation of salmeterol induced a significant (P < 0.05) increase of lung function when compared with placebo. In addition, oral bambuterol elicited good bronchodilation, with its maximum slightly later than for salmeterol. The mean (+/- SE) AUC(0-12h)S for all patients were 3.134 1 +/- 0.553 for salmeterol and 1963 1 +/- 0.573 for bambuterol. Both AUC(0-12h)S were significantly greater than for placebo (P < 0.05), but there was no significant difference (P = 0.077) between the salmeterol and bambuterol AUC(0-12h)S. Bambuterol, but not salmeterol, caused tremor in four patients. Moreover, it induced a higher heart rate when compared with salmeterol at each considered time after the administration of the drug; differences after 9 and 12 h were statistically significant (P < 0.05).
Both oral bambuterol and inhaled salmeterol resulted in good bronchodilation in patients with stable COPD. However, bambuterol, but not salmeterol, caused tremor in several subjects and elicited a more pronounced tachycardia.
One of the suggested health outcomes of PCB exposure is childhood asthma.
This study was conducted to find health relevant biomarkers providing the molecular epidemiological evidence for the positive relationship between exposure to PCBs and childhood asthma.
Blood samples from fifteen asthmatic children as well as an equal number of non-asthmatic children (average 2 year old) were collected, and were analyzed for PCBs and their select marker expression by using qRT-PCR.
Among biomarkers examined IL-8 expression was significantly correlated to serum levels of PCB #163+164 (P=0.022), #170 (P=0.046), #177 (P=0.022), #178 (P=0.022) and #180+193 (P=0.046) in a dose-dependent manner, which was found only among asthmatic children. In contrast, COX-2 correlations to individual congener levels were recognized only among control subjects, not among asthmatic subjects.
Serum concentrations of PCB#163+164, #170, #177, #178 and #180+193 correlate significantly with IL-8 mRNA expressions among asthmatic children.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the early response of lumbar bone mineral density (BMD), bone resorption, and back pain to alendronate after treatment with cyclical etidronate in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Forty postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, 60-83 years of age, without any vertebral fractures in the lumbar spine, were randomly divided into two groups with 20 patients in each group: 18 months of cyclical etidronate (200 mg daily for 2 weeks every 3 months) group and 12 months of cyclical etidronate followed by 6 months of alendronate (5 mg daily) group. BMD of the lumbar spine (L1-L4) measured by DXA, urinary cross-linked N-terminal telopeptides of type I collagen (NTX) level measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and back pain evaluated by face scale score were assessed at baseline and every 6 months. There were no significant differences in baseline characteristics including age, body mass index, years since menopause, lumbar BMD, urinary NTX level, and face scale score between the two groups. Cyclical etidronate significantly reduced urinary NTx level and face scale score over 12 months, but did not significantly increase lumbar BMD. After 12 months of treatment, the switch to alendronate significantly reduced urinary NTX level and face scale score, and significantly increased lumbar BMD, while continued cyclical etidronate did not significantly alter these parameters. These results suggest that switching to alendronate after treatment with cyclical etidronate produces a greater response of lumbar BMD, bone resorption, and back pain than continued cyclical etidronate in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis.
A study was carried out to evaluate the regional variance of retinal dysfunction in chloroquine retinopathy.
In three patients with different stages of chloroquine retinopathy, ophthalmologic evaluations including recording of full-field electroretinogram (ISCEV standard) and multifocal electroretinogram were performed.
In one patient with mild chloroquine retinopathy the visual acuity, visual fields and full-field electroretinogram were normal, but retinal dysfunction was indicated by color vision disturbances. The second patient had moderate chloroquine retinopathy with normal visual acuity, visual fields and dark-adapted full-field electroretinogram; light-adapted and flicker full-field electroretinogram responses were, however, borderline and color vision was abnormal. The third patient had severe chloroquine retinopathy with reduced visual acuity, visual field and color vision defects, and a reduced full-field electroretinogram. In the multifocal electroretinogram, recorded with 61 hexagons, amplitudes and implicit times were evaluated in rings surrounding the center. In all three patients severe dysfunction (either amplitudes or implicit times) was found in the parafoveal and perifoveal areas. In the fovea and towards the periphery the function was normal or only moderately reduced.
Chloroquine retinopathy of different severity presents with characteristic alterations in the multifocal electroretinogram. Regional distribution of cone dysfunction is in agreement with previously reported histologic findings. The multifocal electroretinogram can detect retinal dysfunction in chloroquine retinopathy even when the full-field electroretinogram is normal and retinal alterations are subtle.
Heme oxygenase (HO) plays a critical role in the regulation of cellular oxidative stress. The effects of the reactive oxygen species scavenger ebselen and the HO inducers cobalt protoporphyrin and stannous chloride (SnCl(2)) on HO protein levels and activity, indices of oxidative stress, and the progression of diabetes were examined in the Zucker rat model of type 2 diabetes. The onset of diabetes coincided with an increase in HO-1 protein levels and a paradoxical decrease in HO activity, which was restored by administration of ebselen. Up-regulation of HO-1 expressed in the early development of diabetes produced a decrease in oxidative/nitrosative stress as manifested by decreased levels of 3-nitrotyrosine, superoxide, and cellular heme content. This was accompanied by a decrease in endothelial cell sloughing and reduced blood pressure. Increased HO activity was also associated with a significant increase in the antiapoptotic signaling molecules Bcl-xl and phosphorylation of p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase but no significant increases in Bcl-2 or BAD proteins. In conclusion, 3-nitrotyrosine, cellular heme, and superoxide, promoters of vascular damage, are reduced by HO-1 induction, thereby preserving vascular integrity and protecting cardiac function involving an increase in antiapoptotic proteins.
A case report of a 70 years old female, on tamoxifen for over five (5) years after a left mastectomy and with lymphadenectomy and radiotherapy in whom an asymptomatic adenocarcinoma of the endometrium is reported. Review of the literature suggests this association, however, definitive proof that tamoxifen causes cancer of endometrium has not been fully accepted. The best study in this regards is the one from Radiohemmet Oncologic Centre from Stockholm, Sweden. Patients with cancer of the breast that have been over two (2) years on tamoxifen should be screened with endovaginal sonograms for thickness of endometrium, thickness over 9mm and possibly over 5mm should be investigated with hysteroscopy and fractional uterine curetage.
Although estrogen receptor (ER)α agonists, such as estradiol and ethinylestradiol (EE2), cause cholestasis in mice, they also reduce the degree of liver injury caused by hepatotoxicants as well as ischemia-reperfusion. The functional mechanisms of ERα have yet to be elucidated in drug-induced or chemical-induced liver injury. The present study investigated the effects of an ERα agonist, selective ER modulators (SERMs) and an ER antagonist on drug-induced and chemical-induced liver injuries caused by acetaminophen, bromobenzene, diclofenac, and thioacetamide (TA). We observed hepatoprotective effects of EE2, tamoxifen (TAM) and raloxifene pretreatment in female mice that were exposed to a variety of hepatotoxic compounds. In contrast, the ER antagonist did not show any hepatoprotective effects. DNA microarray analyses suggested that monocyte to macrophage differentiation-associated 2 (Mmd2) protein, which has an unknown function, is commonly increased by TAM and RAL pretreatment, but not by pretreatment with the ER antagonist. In ERα-knockout mice, the hepatoprotective effects of TAM and the increased expression of Mmd2 mRNA were not observed in TA-induced liver injury. To investigate the function of Mmd2, the expression level of Mmd2 mRNA was significantly knocked down to approximately 30% in mice by injection of siRNA for Mmd2 (siMmd2). Mmd2 knockdown resulted in a reduction of the protective effects of TAM on TA-induced liver injury in mice. This is the first report of the involvement of ERα in drug-induced or chemical-induced liver injury. Upregulation of Mmd2 protein in the liver was suggested as the mechanism of the hepatoprotective effects of EE2 and SERMs.
The anticonvulsive action of lidocaine was tested in mice against a series of convulsants, and its profile of action compared with that of phenytoin. Both agents antagonized seizures induced by ouabain or glutamate (injected i.c.b.), effects attributable to reduction of the sodium conductance of neuronal membranes. Lidocaine and phenytoin were relatively ineffective against convulsants that act on synaptic chloride channels via the GABA-ionophore receptor complex. At higher dose levels, both lidocaine and phenytoin are excitatory within limited ranges. Lidocaine-induced seizures were potentiated by phenytoin, and antagonized by chlordiazepoxide, phenobarbital, valproate, trimethadione and muscimol, but not by ethosuximide. This profile of action is similar to that of bicuculline, suggesting that lidocaine may bind to the GABA recognition site and to another site in the GABA-ionophore receptor complex. Phenytoin-induced excitation was antagonized by chlordiazepoxide, less effectively by phenobarbital or trimethadione, only minimally by valproate, and not by trimethadione or muscimol. Phenytoin is known to bind to picrotoxin and benzodiazepine receptor sites; these findings suggest that it may be excitatory at one or both of these sites.
The binding in pre-colonoscopic effluent of Adnab-9, a monoclonal antibody raised against colonic adenomas, was evaluated for specificity in the diagnosis of colorectal cancer. A heterogeneous group of 58 patients was evaluated by ELISA. Effluent samples and tissue extracts were subjected to Western blotting or ELISA to confirm specificity. Immunohistochemistry was performed on the cancer tissue sections. The proportion of positive effluent binding was higher in the cancer when compared to the normal group (P = 0.036). A dominant 87 M(r) band was found in adenoma extracts and some effluent samples. Adnab-9 binding in effluent samples predominated in membrane-bound fractions. Immunohistochemistry showed no specific staining in the cancer cells. The antigen recognised is a glycoprotein shown by effects of N-glycanase digestion and not cross-reactive with carcinoembryonic antigen. Non-gastro-intestinal tissue extracts did not bind Adnab-9. The major 87 M(r) adenoma-derived antigen may be found in effluent material, particularly in the membrane-bound fraction.
It is hoped that recently released low osmolality radiocontrast agents (RCAs) will have a lower nephrotoxic potential, since dye nephropathy may be related to hyperosmolality. We report here 2 cases of typical oliguric dye nephropathy in patients without risk factors for dye nephropathy. These cases show that these new agents do have nephrotoxic potential.
The availability of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and several oral antiviral therapies has reduced but not eliminated hepatitis B virus (HBV) recurrence. We aimed to determine the rate of HBV recurrence after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) in relation to virologic breakthrough pre-OLT and HBIG regimens post-OLT. Data from the NIH HBV-OLT database were analyzed. A total of 183 patients transplanted between 2001 and 2007 followed for a median of 42 months (range 1-81) post-OLT were studied. At transplant, 29% were hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) (+), 38.5% had HBV DNA > 5 log(10) copies/mL, 74% were receiving antiviral therapy. Twenty-five patients experienced virologic breakthrough before OLT. Post-OLT, 26%, 22%, 40% and 12% of patients received intravenous (IV) high-dose, IV low-dose, intramuscular low-dose and a finite duration of HBIG, respectively as maintenance prophylaxis. All but two patients also received antiviral therapy. Cumulative rates of HBV recurrence at 1 and 5 years were 3% and 9%, respectively. Multivariate analysis showed that listing HBeAg status and HBV DNA level at OLT were the only factors associated with HBV recurrence. In conclusion, low rates of HBV recurrence can be accomplished with all the HBIG regimens used when combined with antiviral therapy including patients with breakthrough pre-OLT as long as rescue therapy is administered pre- and post-OLT.
The efficacy and side-effects of Deca-Durabolin (DD) were tested, in a double blind fashion, in twenty female primary Sjögren's syndrome (1 degree SS) patients. Ten randomly assigned patients received DD (100 mg IM bi-weekly) for six months, and ten others placebo, for the same period. Analysis of the results revealed that the DD-treated patients showed a moderate improvement of subjective xerostomia, a significant decrease of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and an overall improvement of their feeling of well-being, -judged by themselves and the investigator subjectively-, when compared with the placebo group. All the sicca objective parameters (results of Schirmer's I test, slit lamp eye examination after rose bengal staining, stimulated parotid flow rate measurements and labial minor salivary gland histopathology) were not significantly altered in either group. The clinical side-effects were the expected ones, i.e. hirsutism, hoarseness and an increase in libido, more pronounced in the DD-treated group. At the end of the study, one DD-treated patient, developed a diffuse well-differentiated B-lymphocytic lymphoma, which regressed spontaneously three months later.
