Several potential risk factors have been identified for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL); however, epidemiological studies investigating the association between these risk factors and DLBCL have yielded inconsistent results.
To investigate potential medical, lifestyle, and environmental risk factors of DLBCL in Shanghai, China through a hospital-based case-control study.
One-hundred- and-forty-seven newly diagnosed DLBCL patients and 294 sex- and age-matched controls were recruited from 11 hospitals in Shanghai between 2003 and 2007. A standardized structured questionnaire was used to obtain patient data on demographics, medical history, family history, lifestyle, and environmental exposures. Conditional logistic regression models were used to estimate odds ratios (ORs), with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), for risk associated with each data category.
History of tuberculosis (TB) infection and "living on a farm" were positively associated with DLBCL (TB: OR=3.05, 95% CI: 1.19-7.80; farm: OR=1.82, 95% CI: 1.21-2.73). In contrast, taking traditional Chinese medicine was negatively associated with DLBCL (OR=0.36, 95% CI: 0.14- 0.89). No significant correlation with DLBCL risk was found for any of the other potential risk factors (p>0.05), including but not limited to hair dyes, alcohol drinking, smoking, and home/workplace renovation within one year.
Consistent with results from previous studies in other DLBCL case populations, traditional Chinese medicine appeared to have a direct or indirect protective effect against DLBCL. However, this study also identified a possible predisposition for DLBCL in TB sufferers and farmers.
To evaluate the impact of clozapine on aggressive behaviour and clinical outcomes in children and adolescents with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
We reviewed the charts of 6 children and adolescents who were admitted consecutively to a long-term care facility for clinical outcomes, including seclusion and restraints incidents prior to and during clozapine treatment. We also present a representative case history.
We noted clinically significant improvements in social interaction and decreases in the number of violent episodes and homicidal or suicidal thoughts. The global assessment of functioning (GAF) scores improved significantly. Weight gain was significant.
These cases illustrate the benefits of clozapine treatment in refractory childhood-onset schizophrenia. Outcomes are similar to those described in adults. Even though open data limit conclusions from this study, it is pertinent that there was a clinically significant improvement in aggressive behaviours. This may be particularly important for improved morale of patients, their families, and treating staff. It may also be helpful in discharge to a less restrictive environment.
Subcutaneous sumatriptan is superior to placebo in achieving headache relief. Some commonly reported adverse events are paresthesias, tingling, and transient worsening of headache. Why do patients develop these symptoms? Our unique case may shed light on its actions.
Dapsone hypersensitivity syndrome (DHS) is a potentially life-threatening adverse drug reaction consisting of fever, hepatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, lymphadenopathy and hemolytic anemia. The incidence of DHS is estimated to be 2% in leprosy patients. Because the incidence of this drug eruption may be different in different ethnicities and diseases, we thought to investigate the incidence of DHS in non-leprosy patients.
This is a retrospective study to examine the incidence, clinical manifestations and prognosis of DHS in non-leprosy patients who were given dapsone at the National Taiwan University Hospital between June 2001 and December 2005.
The incidence of DHS among non-leprosy patients was 1.66%. These patients ran a relatively benign course as compared with leprosy patients.
The incidence of DHS among non-leprosy patients was compatible to that observed among leprosy patients. DHS in non-leprosy patients runs a favorable course with low morbidity in our study.
Dihydroergotamine (DHE), Orstanorm, because of its strong constrictor action on capacitance vessels, is used in the treatment of hypotension caused by orthostatism or spinal or epidural anaesthesia. Lately Orstanorm has also been used in combination with heparin as prophylaxis against postoperative thromboembolism. In the present study, Orstanorm (0.01 mg/kg b.w.) was given intravenously to 20 patients after coronary bypass surgery. Coronary bypass blood flow, heart rate, systemic mean and systolic blood pressures, right and left atrial pressures, pulmonary artery pressure and cardiac output were measured. Stroke volume, cardiac index, stroke index, systemic and regional myocardial vascular resistance and cardiac work index were then calculated. The results showed that despite increased filling pressures there was no rise in cardiac output, and despite increased cardiac work the bypass flow significantly decreased. The significant increase in regional myocardial vascular resistance found after administration of DHE may explain the absence of expected increase of cardiac output and coronary bypass flow.
1. The Bartha-K and NIA-4 strains of Aujeszky's disease virus (ADV) were readily isolated from oropharyngeal swabs up to 7 days after intranasal vaccination of young piglets. 2. Neither strain could be reisolated 14 days after starting treatment with 10 mg of the corticosteroid isoflupredone acetate per kg of body weight, administered intramuscularly for 4 consecutive days when pigs were 7-9 months of age. 3. Similar treatment with corticosteroid pigs infected with two virulent ADV strains resulted in the reactivation of infection and recovery of ADV from oropharyngeal swabs. 4. Serum neutralizing antibodies were present in all piglets vaccinated twice (2 week interval) intranasally with the attenuated ADV strains, 4 weeks after primary vaccination. However, these antibodies were no longer detectable in some pigs at 12 (NIA-4) and 20 (Bartha-K) weeks of age even in undiluted sera. 5. Neutralizing antibodies resulting from infection with virulent ADV were always detectable, were higher in titer than those produced by the vaccine strains and did not vary in a clear pattern after corticosteroid treatment. 6. These results indicate that the Bartha-K and NIA-4 strains undergo little or no latency in swine and confirm the latency of virulent strains of ADV.
The inhibitory transmitters GABA and glycine play an important role in modulating pain transmission, both in normal and in pathological situations. In the present study we have combined in situ hybridization for identifying spinal neurons that use the transmitter(s) glycine and/or GABA (Gly/GABA neurons) with immunohistochemistry for c-fos, a marker for neuronal activation. This procedure was used with acute pain models induced by the injection of capsaicin or formalin; and chronic pain models using Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA, chronic inflammation), and the spared nerve injury (SNI) model (neuropathic pain). In all models Gly/GABA neurons were activated as indicated by their expression of c-fos. The pattern of Gly/GABA neuronal activation was different for every model, both anatomically and quantitatively. However, the averaged percentage of activated neurons that were Gly/GABA in the chronic phase (≥20h survival, 46%) was significantly higher than in the acute phase (≤2h survival, 34%). In addition, the total numbers of activated Gly/GABA neurons were similar in both phases, showing that the activation of non-Gly/GABA (presumed excitatory) neurons in the chronic phase decreased. Finally, morphine application equally decreased the total number of activated neurons and activated Gly/GABA neurons. This showed that morphine did not specifically activate Gly/GABA neurons to achieve nociceptive inhibition. The present study shows an increased activity of Gly/GABA neurons in acute and chronic models. This mechanism, together with mechanisms that antagonize the effects of GABA and glycine at the receptor level, may determine the sensitivity of our pain system during health and disease.
Withdrawal of lithium prophylaxis in patients with bipolar affective disorder has been shown to precipitate 'rebound mania', an effect which may negate its benefits in the poorly compliant. No studies have looked for similar effects on withdrawal of carbamazepine, an alternative and adjunctive prophylactic treatment. This retrospective study examined the effects of withdrawal of carbamazepine prophylaxis in patients with bipolar disorder. A systematic search for patients with bipolar disorder who stopped carbamazepine therapy whilst in remission was conducted, followed by case note review and interview. In a case series of six patients who stopped carbamazepine, four remained well for at least 3 months, one developed an episode of moderate depression and one remained well before resuming treatment after 1 month. None required admission or suffered a manic episode in the 3 months following cessation. This study does not support the existence of a carbamazepine 'rebound' effect. It raises the possibility that recurrence after stopping carbamazepine may be less severe than the 'rebound mania' seen on lithium withdrawal. If this is the case, it may be a better choice of mood stabilizer in the poorly compliant. To date, there is insufficient evidence on which to base this choice. There is a need to examine this issue further through larger prospective and experimental studies on the effects of anticonvulsant withdrawal.
We retrospectively analysed the prognostic factors at diagnosis, clinical response, and survival of 192 patients with newly diagnosed aggressive NHL treated in a single institution between 1985 and 1991. Overall, 37.5% (72/192) of patients were 65 years or older (average age 71 years, range 65-85 years), and 62.5% (120/192) were under 65 years of age (average age 45, range 16-64 years). All patients were completely staged and had intermediate- or high-grade NHL. 127 patients were treated on similar regimens with the same chemotherapy dose intensity irrespective of age. Standard-dose m-BACOD (methotrexate, bleomycin, Adriamycin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone) or CHOP were used to treat 60/72 (83%) elderly patients and 67/120 (56%) patients less than 65 years. The remaining younger patients were treated with more intensive regimens. There were no significant differences between the groups with regard to stage, histological grade, cell type, elevated LDH, number of extranodal sites, presence of B symptoms, or bulky disease. More elderly patients had a significantly (p < 0.02) poorer performance status (PS), with 42% (25/60) having a PS of 2 or more, compared to 22% (15/67) in those less than 65 years of age. Elderly patients had an inferior complete response rate, 65% versus 76%. However, overall response rates of 95% and 92% were similar. The disease-free survival at 3 years for complete responders in elderly patients was 74% compared to 82% in those under 65. The comparable 3-year overall survival was 59% and 62%, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Two patients exhibiting bitemporal hemianopia due to chiasmal optic neuritis with pathological confirmation of noncompressive lesions are presented; the first due to a chronic, idiopathic demyelinating process, and the second a result of ethchlorvynol (Placidyl) toxicity. The literature regarding chiasmal optic neuritis is reviewed, and a discussion of other noncompressive causes of bitemporal hemianopia is presented.
The purpose of this study was to assess whether rivastigmine, a cholinergic agent, affects tremor features when given to improve cognition in demented Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Demented PD patients (n = 26; Mini-Mental State Examination score, 13-25; age, 75.2 +/- 4.9 yr) were given rivastigmine (mean dose, 8.0 mg/day) for 12 weeks. They underwent tremor assessment before and during treatment. Global Tremor Score (GTS) was based on eight items specific to tremor in the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. Tremor amplitude was also measured using accelerometers during the ON state in both hands in 19 patients. Drug therapy for other PD symptoms was unchanged. The mean group baseline GTS was 1.2 +/- 1.6 points, increasing to 1.6 +/- 2.4 points after treatment (mean increase, 0.4 +/- 1.2 points; P > 0.05). The GTS increased by 3.2 +/- 1.9 points (range, 1-5) in 7 patients (26.9%) and decreased by 1 +/- 0 points in 3 patients (11.5%). Accelerometric assessment showed a significant increase of the average tremor amplitude in the right hand (0.08 +/- 0.03 xg at baseline; 0.12 +/- 0.02 xg at Week 12 of treatment, P = 0.02). Left-hand tremor amplitude did not change. Rivastigmine caused only slight worsening of tremor in demented PD patients, while improving cognition.
Large doses of triazolam repeatedly induced brief episodes of mania in a depressed elderly woman. Features of organic mental disorder (delirium) were not present. Manic excitement was coincident with the duration of action of triazolam. The possible contribution of the triazolo group to changes in affective status is discussed.
Interactions between acute exposures to environmental chemical contaminants and psychological stress may be important in situations where they are likely to co-occur, ranging in intensity from daily urban living to participation in war. Modification of symptomatic responses by stress may play a role in medically unexplained symptoms attributed to low-level chemical exposures.
We hypothesized that the combination of exposure to diesel exhaust (DE) and acute psychological stress would cause sickness responses in healthy volunteers. Moreover, these responses would be greater in individuals with self-reported prior chemical odor intolerance.
One hundred adult subjects underwent 1-hr exposures to diluted DE and clean air control. Half of the subjects performed a public-speaking stressor task during the exposures. Subjects completed questionnaires to determine their Chemical Odor Intolerance Index score. Plasma cortisol, end-tidal carbon dioxide, and the severity of 35 symptoms were measured at time points before and after the exposures.
Subjects exposed to DE demonstrated small but statistically significant increases in severity for several symptom categories, including sickness response and upper respiratory, central nervous system, and total symptoms. The psychological stressor did not increase symptom severity independently or via interaction with DE. Subjects with prior self-reported chemical intolerance had more severe sickness response symptoms from DE.
These results suggest that exposure to DE can cause acute sickness response symptoms and that these symptoms are also associated with increased levels of self-reported chemical intolerance. The results did not confirm our hypothesis that an acute stressor would increase sickness response symptom severity during the exposure.
Adenosine is an endogenous purine nucleoside, which acts as a neuromodulator in the central nervous system. A2A adenosine and D2 dopamine receptors are colocalized in the same neurons in discrete brain areas, and the dopaminergic transmission plays a crucial role in the addictive properties of drugs of abuse, such as cocaine. In the present study, we have investigated the specific role of A2A adenosine receptors in cocaine-induced behavioral responses related to its addictive properties. For this purpose, we have evaluated the acute locomotor effects produced by cocaine and the development of locomotor sensitization by repeated cocaine administration. In addition, we have also examined cocaine acute rewarding properties using the conditioned place preference. Finally, we used the intravenous drug self-administration paradigm to investigate the acquisition of an operant response maintained by cocaine self-administration and the reinforcing efficacy of the drug in these knockout animals. Acute cocaine induced a similar increase of locomotor activity in mice lacking A2A adenosine receptors and wild-type littermates. Cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization and conditioned place preference were also maintained in A2A knockout mice. Nevertheless, these knockout mice showed a lower rate of cocaine self-administration than wild-type mice in both fixed ratio 1 and 3 schedules of reinforcement. Moreover, a reduction in the maximal effort to obtain a cocaine infusion was found in A2A knockout mice under a progressive ratio schedule. In addition, a vertical shift of the cocaine dose-response curve was observed in mice lacking A2A adenosine receptors in comparison with wild-type littermates. Our study demonstrates that A2A adenosine receptors play an important role in cocaine addictive properties, and these receptors seem to be required to develop the addictive effects of this drug.
To better characterize sensory neuropathy associated with metronidazole.
We report four patients who developed dysesthesias after metronidazole treatment. One received topical metronidazole only. All four underwent electrodiagnostic studies, including nerve conduction studies (NCS), quantitative sensory testing (QST), and quantitative sudomotor axon reflex testing (QSART). One underwent nerve biopsy.
NCS were normal in all patients. QST showed impaired vibration thresholds in three patients. Three of four patients had abnormal tests of small fiber function. Cooling thresholds were abnormal in one; QSART was abnormal in one and borderline in another. The nerve biopsy specimen showed mild loss of small myelinated axons.
This study shows that paresthesias associated with metronidazole exposure may be the result of a relatively mild sensory neuropathy with predominant involvement of small fibers and milder, mostly subclinical involvement of large fibers.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the value of integrated backscatter (IBS) of kidneys in acute organophosphorus compound poisoning in rabbits.
Eighteen rabbits were poisoned by dimethyl dichlorovinyl phosphate to establish animal models. Sonographic examinations were performed before (T0) and after (T1-T9) the rabbits were poisoned. The echo and size of kidneys were evaluated by 2-dimensional gray scale sonography. Changes of the renal cortex and medulla were analyzed quantitatively with IBS.
No change of the cortex echo was found before and after poisoning. A significant change of the volume of kidneys on both sides began at T6 compared with that at T0 (P < .05). A significant change of renal length on both sides began at T7 compared with that at T0 (P < .05). The volume change was earlier than that of length. A significant change in IBS% of the renal cortex began at T5 compared with that at T0 (P < .05), whereas a significant change in IBS% of the renal medulla began at T6 compared with that at T(0) (P < .05). The change in IBS% of the renal cortex was earlier.
More useful information provided by IBS% has been found in acute organophosphorus compound poisoning in rabbits.
Groups of adult guinea pigs were treated intramuscularly with isepamicin at doses of 100, 150 and 225 mg/kg/day for 21 days. For comparison, two other groups were administered either saline or amikacin 225 mg/kg/day. Auditory function, as measured by the Preyer pinna reflex and the brain stem evoked response, was impaired in both the isepamicin and amikacin groups treated with 225 mg/kg/day, and to a lesser extent in the group receiving isepamicin 150 mg/kg/day. Morphological evaluation of the organ in Corti, performed either by scanning electron microscopy or by light microscopy, showed the typical pattern of damage associated with the aminoglycosides. The greatest damage was observed at 225 mg/kg/day, with no difference between isepamicin and amikacin. Isepamicin 100 mg/kg/day produced no impairment in auditory function and very little change in the morphology of the organ of Corti.
To describe a patient who experienced a hypertensive crisis and myocardial infarction following a massive dose of parenteral clonidine.
A 62-year-old white woman with stage 3 breast cancer metastatic to the spine and a history of hypertension received a combined injection of hydromorphone 48.3 mg and clonidine 12.24 mg subcutaneously in an attempt to refill an implanted epidural infusion pump. She promptly developed mental deterioration, blurred vision, worsening respiration, tachycardia, and hypertension. She was immediately treated with naloxone, but subsequently experienced hypertensive urgency, a short-duration tonic-clonic seizure, and an anteroseptal myocardial infarction. Cardiac catheterization showed no arteriolar narrowing or blockage, but an anterior infarct was confirmed.
Clonidine is a commonly used alpha-adrenergic agonist. At usual oral doses of 0.2-2 mg/d, it acts centrally to produce hypotensive effects; at doses >7 mg/d, it acts peripherally to stimulate alpha1- and alpha2-adrenergic receptors, leading to vasoconstriction and increased blood pressure. These effects are not easy to control by standard medical therapies and can cause significant morbidity.
Clonidine, although a safe medication with usual dosages, must be used with caution when given in injectable form. An overdose of this alpha-adrenoreceptor agonist can produce significant vasospasm and hypertensive emergency. Drugs used to treat overdose, such as naloxone, can potentiate clonidine's adverse effects, leading to further morbidity.
Considerable attention has been focused on plants which are sources of natural anti-oxidant compounds, because most of them have a modulatory role on physiological functions and biotransformation reactions involved in the detoxification process. Such compounds are likely to afford protection from cytotoxic, genotoxic and metabolic actions of environmental toxicant thereby reducing the risk for cancer. The present study reports the anticarcinogenic activity of Swertia chirata Buch.Ham, an Indian medicinal plant. All the four detoxification enzymes studied viz, GST, GPx, SOD and CAT were found to be activated in different degrees following treatment with infusion of Swertia chirata, its crude extract and a purified 'Amarogentin' rich extract. The activation of the enzymes was accompanied by significant reduction in lipid peroxidation and inhibition of incidence as well as multiplicity of Dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) induced papillomas. The effect of S.chirata on apoptosis and cell proliferation was also studied in mice skin exposed to DMBA. Both the crude and purified extracts significantly inhibited cell proliferation and induced apoptosis. This is the fi rst report of its kind and the observation suggests the chemopreventive potential of Swertia chirata.
To report a case of extrapyramidal reaction associated with a dosage increase of clozapine.
A 44-year-old white man with a 20-year history of chronic paranoid schizophrenia was admitted to an inpatient psychiatric facility. His prior medications restarted on admission were clozapine 650 mg at bedtime, haloperidol 10 mg at bedtime, clonazepam 2 mg/d, and aspirin 325 mg/d. Two days after admission (hospital day 3), clozapine and clonazepam were discontinued, and he was prescribed haloperidol 5 mg every morning and 10 mg every evening. Stabilization occurred over the following 24 days, with progressively lower dosages of haloperidol and increasing dosages of clozapine. Haloperidol was discontinued on day 24. On day 47, the patient was agitated and making bizarre statements; thus, the morning dose of clozapine was increased by 50 mg (total 450 mg/d). On day 48 at 2200, a dystonic reaction was diagnosed; he received intramuscular diphenhydramine 50 mg, which caused the reaction to subside. At the time of the adverse reaction, he was prescribed clozapine 450 mg/d, vitamin E 400 IU three times daily, aspirin 325 mg/d, and acetaminophen, milk of magnesia, and Maalox as needed.
Although the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) is significantly lower with clozapine than with conventional agents, elevated clozapine blood concentrations have been reported to cause EPS; other reports have cited severe dystonias and dyskinesias on abrupt clozapine withdrawal. Considering the medications prescribed at the time and the discontinuation of haloperidol 24 days before the event, clozapine was the most likely cause of the extrapyramidal reaction.
Regardless of anticipated safety associated with novel antipsychotics such as clozapine, reports of dystonic reactions must be taken into account and patients monitored appropriately.
The present experiments examined the effects of muscarinic cholinergic receptor blockade in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) and medial prefrontal cortex (MPC) on intravenous cocaine self-administration. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with chronic indwelling jugular catheters and guide cannulae stereotaxically aimed at the NAC or MPC. The rats were then given the opportunity to intravenously self-administer cocaine (0.8 mg/kg/infusion) during daily 2-h sessions. Intra-NAC microinjections of methyl-scopolamine (2, 4, 8, 16, and 32 microg/side) or vehicle did not affect either the number of lever presses made or infusions delivered. On the other hand, intra-MPC injections of scopolamine significantly increased responding, although there was only a trend for an increase in the number of cocaine infusions. The effects of intra-MPC injections of scopolamine (8 and 16 microg/side) on locomotor activity were also evaluated. Intra-MPC injections of scopolamine (16 microg/side) produced significant increases in locomotor activity. However, these same microinjections decreased locomotor activity when the animals also received cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.). These results suggest that cholinergic neurotransmission at muscarinic receptors in the MPC is involved in regulating cocaine-maintained responding.
Mammary adenocarcinomas induced by medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) in female BALB/c mice were investigated as to their morphology and immunohistochemistry and their content of steroid, prolactin (PRL), and epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors. Histologically, these tumors were mainly of ductal origin, since hyperplastic alveolar nodules were observed only in 3 cases. No viral particles were encountered in electron microscopic studies. Estrogen and/or progesterone, PRL, and EGF receptors were detected in MPA-induced tumors, as well as in the occasional spontaneous mammary tumors of multiparous females. EGF was detected, by a radioimmunoassay, in the cystic fluid of 12 mammary adenocarcinomas. MPA treatment was found to induce uterine secretory changes, glandular cystic hyperplasia, and eventually deciduomas that stained strongly for desmin and to a lesser degree for vimentin, suggesting a muscular differentiation. Consequently, MPA-induced adenocarcinomas can be considered as ductal tumors that possess estrogen and/or progesterone, PRL, and EGF receptors. Whether MPA induces tumor growth directly via progesterone receptors remains to be investigated.
Three cases are reported of cholestatic hepatitis occurring during treatment with rifampicin for staphylococcal septicemia (2) and tuberculosis (1). There was no previous history of hepatic affection. The administration of rifampicin caused cholestasis alone. No immunoallergic phenomenon has been shown.
Combined cocaine and illicit opiate use is common. This study aimed to test the hypothesis that cocaine dependence in former heroin-addicted patients maintained on methadone treatment is associated with enhanced glucocorticoid negative feedback. Multiple dose dexamethasone suppression tests, using a conventional 2.0 mg dose, and two lower doses, 0.5 mg and 0.125 mg, were performed in 10 methadone-maintained former heroin addicts with ongoing cocaine dependence (C-MM), 10 stabilized methadone-maintained former heroin addicts with no ongoing drug or alcohol use (MM), and 22 normal volunteers (NV). At 9 hours, there was no difference in plasma adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) and/or cortisol levels among groups on the baseline day, as well as after the two lower doses of dexamethasone. At 17 hours, C-MM and MM had significantly lower plasma ACTH and/or cortisol levels than NV. However, C-MM did not significantly differ from MM in their hormonal levels. When the hormonal responses to dexamethasone are expressed as magnitude of lowering from baseline, there was no significant difference at any dose among groups. Therefore, C-MM exhibited a normal glucocorticoid negative feedback in the morning. Using the standard interpretation of dexamethasone suppression testing based on the examination of the actual hormonal levels rather than the difference from baseline condition, C-MM appear to have glucocorticoid effects similar to MM, yet were both greater than NV in the late afternoon. Thus, further studies are needed to know whether altered glucocorticoid negative feedback is related to chronic cocaine exposure, or is the result of former heroin addiction and/or its long-term treatment with methadone.
As the incidence of Malignant Melanoma (MM) reflects an interaction between skin colour and UV exposure, variations in genes implicated in pigmentation and tanning response to UV may be associated with susceptibility to MM. In this study, 363 SNPs in 65 gene regions belonging to the pigmentation pathway have been successfully genotyped using a SNP array. Five hundred and ninety MM cases and 507 controls were analyzed in a discovery phase I. Ten candidate SNPs based on a p-value threshold of 0.01 were identified. Two of them, rs35414 (SLC45A2) and rs2069398 (SILV/CKD2), were statistically significant after conservative Bonferroni correction. The best six SNPs were further tested in an independent Spanish series (624 MM cases and 789 controls). A novel SNP located on the SLC45A2 gene (rs35414) was found to be significantly associated with melanoma in both phase I and phase II (P<0.0001). None of the other five SNPs were replicated in this second phase of the study. However, three SNPs in TYR, SILV/CDK2 and ADAMTS20 genes (rs17793678, rs2069398 and rs1510521 respectively) had an overall p-value<0.05 when considering the whole DNA collection (1214 MM cases and 1296 controls). Both the SLC45A2 and the SILV/CDK2 variants behave as protective alleles, while the TYR and ADAMTS20 variants seem to function as risk alleles. Cumulative effects were detected when these four variants were considered together. Furthermore, individuals carrying two or more mutations in MC1R, a well-known low penetrance melanoma-predisposing gene, had a decreased MM risk if concurrently bearing the SLC45A2 protective variant. To our knowledge, this is the largest study on Spanish sporadic MM cases to date.
Malignant mesothelioma is a disease that is refractory to chemotherapy. Therefore, the objective of this multi-institutional, cooperative group Phase II trial was to determine the efficacy of dihydro-5-azacytidine (DHAC), a pyrimidine analogue, in the treatment of malignant mesothelioma.
Forty-one patients with histologically confirmed malignant mesothelioma received 120-hour continuous infusions of DHAC (1,500 mg/m2/day every 21 days) until maximal response, intolerable toxicity, or disease progression.
One patient had a complete response, two had objective partial responses, and four had regression of evaluable disease. The overall response rate was 17%. The one complete responder remains without disease progression at 6 years. Chest pain and nausea were the most common toxicities. Supraventricular tachycardia and pericardial effusion occurred in 20% and 15% of patients, respectively. In most patients, gastrointestinal effects were manageable. There was no significant hematologic toxicity.
In malignant mesothelioma, a disease that is refractory to chemotherapy, dihydro-5-azacytidine has definite antitumor activity. Its modest hematologic toxicity profile favors its use in combination with other agents. Caution regarding cardiac arrhythmias and pericardial effusion is necessary.
