Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is a major component of neuronal membranes. In rats, low brain levels of DHA during development produce alterations in the mesocortical and mesolimbic dopamine systems. In this study, male Long-Evans rats (n = 6-7 per group) were raised from conception on diets with (control) or without alpha-linolenic acid, the dietary precursor of DHA. The deficient diet reduced brain DHA to 80% of that of control animals at maturity. At weaning (P21), half of the pups from each deficient litter were changed to a remediation diet enriched in DHA by the addition of fish oil. Beginning at P56, rats were subjected to a battery of behavioral tests. Catalepsy induced by haloperidol (3mg/kg, i.p.) in deficient animals was 49% of that observed in control animals (P < 0.05). Catalepsy in remediated animals was similar to that observed for control animals. In a test of locomotor activity in a novel environment, deficient animals exhibited 187% of the activity of control animals (P < 0.05). Locomotor activity stimulated by d-amphetamine (0.5mg/kg, s.c.) in deficient animals was 145% of that observed in control animals (P < 0.05). Basal and amphetamine-stimulated activity of remediated animals was similar to that of deficient animals. Response to a thermal stimulus was not different between groups. These findings demonstrate that rats exposed from conception to a diet that produces a relatively modest decrease in brain DHA content exhibit alterations in adult behavior indicative of altered dopaminergic function. Some of these behavioral alterations were reversed by dietary remediation initiated at weaning.
The magnitude and duration of the effect of dexamethasone on systolic blood pressure has been examined in 13 very preterm infants (median gestational age 25 weeks). All had chronic lung disease (CLD). To exclude any effect of CLD on blood pressure each infant acted as his or her own control. Systolic blood pressure increased in all infants (P less than 0.01) and remained elevated for at least 48h following cessation of therapy. The median maximum increase in blood pressure was 24 mmHg (range 13-49 mmHg) and occurred on day 4 (median, range 2-10) of treatment. One infant developed hypertensive encephalopathy. These results demonstrate the need to monitor infants with CLD throughout steroid therapy and preferably for some days after it has ceased.
To investigate the myocardial protective effects of pinacidil-induced hyperpolarized arrest and compare with those afforded by conventional depolarized hyperkalemic arrest.
Eighteen dogs were equally divided into three groups: normothermic hyperpolarized group (Group A), hypothermic hyperpolarized group (Group B), and hyperkalemic group (Group C). Pinacidil (50 mumol/L) containing 37 degrees C St. Thomas solution (K+ 5 mmol/L, 10 ml/kg), pinacidil (50 mumol/L, Sigma, USA) containing 4 degrees C St. Thomas solution (K+ 5 mmol/L, 10 ml/kg) and 4 degrees C standard St. Thomas solution (K+ 16 mmol/L, 10 ml/kg) were infused respectively through the aortic root after aortic-clamping. Heart arrest and its recovery, ultrastructure of the myocardium, the level of serum myocardial enzymes, and lipid peroxide and adenine nucleotide of the myocardium were measured. Hemodynamics during ischemia and after reperfusion were observed.
The percentages of normal mitochondria and glycogen did not change much during ischemia (except at 60 min) and after reperfusion in B Group, but declined markedly in Group C 30 min and 60 min after ischemia and 20 min after reperfusion (P < 0.01). In Group A, they were lower than those of Group B before ischemia, but higher than those of Group C. The recoveries of CO, SV, CI, LVSW, RVSW and MAP in Group B were significantly better than those in other two groups 15 min and 30 min after reperfusion (P < 0.05 and 0.01, respectively). However, they were still better in Group A than those in Group C (P < 0.05 and 0.01, respectively). The onset of heart arrest was faster in Groups C and B than that in Group A. Highly elevated serum myocardial enzymes were observed 60 min after ischemia and 20 min after reperfusion in Group C, while they were only mild in the hyperpolarized groups, especially in Group B, and their recoveries were rapid. Adenine nucleotides of the myocardium were better preserved in Group B than in other two groups 30 min, 60 min after ischemia, and 20 min after reperfusion (P < 0.05 and 0.01, respectively). They were also much better in Group A than in Group C (P < 0.05 and 0.01, respectively). Lipid peroxide of the myocardium were significantly lower in Group B than in other groups 20 min after reperfusion (P < 0.01), and they were lower in Group A than in Group C (P < 0.05).
Myocardial protection for global ischemia during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) could be achieved with hyperpolarized heart arrest induced by pinacidil, an ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener, especially in the hypothermic state. The protection is weaker in normothermia but is still superior to that with traditional depolarized hyperkalemic arrest.
Twenty-five patients underwent epidural anaesthesia with a new formulation of chloroprocaine 3% (1.0-1.5 ml x 10 cm body height-1) for a variety of day procedures. The mean (range) duration of surgery was 17 (5-35) min. The mean (range) time taken to establish maximal block was 16 (15-21) min and the mean (range) time to ambulation was 78 (55-95) min after administration of chloroprocaine. Twenty-three patients experienced a decrease in systolic arterial blood pressure of up to 15% of baseline values with another two decreasing by up to 25%. Two patients complained of severe backache immediately after operation and a further 16 and four patients reported mild or moderate backache respectively. Operating conditions were excellent in all but one patient and 23 patients said they would be happy to have the same anaesthetic again.
True positive inotropy of enoximone is hard to prove clinically. It could increase the risk of myocardial ischemia when used in coronary artery disease (CAD). The analysis of the end-systolic pressure-volume relationship (ESPVR) as a load-independent parameter of the contractile left ventricular function (LVF) allows for differentiation of enoximone's unloading effects. Therefore, we analyzed ESPVR and LVF in 12 of 18 CAD patients before and after enoximone, 0.75 mg/kg intravenously. The slope k increased (seven patients) and loops of the ESPVR (12 patients) moved leftward with the enoximone an average of 32% and downward 19%, in the diastolic portion. The delta percent changes in enoximone versus control (18 patients) indicated an improved LVF via load changes: LV filling pressure fell by 50% and end-systolic volume by 28%, while dp/dt max rose by 25%, LV work by 10%, and ejection fraction by 11%. Lastly, the pacing-induced myocardial ischemia threshold increased from an average of 58 +/- 18 sec to 89 +/- 12 sec after eximone, while ischemic postpacing LV filling pressure and ST-segment changes normalized under the drug's influence. Thus, enoximone improved LVF, both by unloading and by true positive inotropy. Lack of enoximone-induced angina and an increased anginal threshold indicate that the drug can be used safely in CAD patients as well.
The ability of potential chemopreventive agents to prevent vinyl carbamate-induced lung tumors was determined in 2 different experiments. Female strain A mice administered intraperitoneally either a single injection of 60 mg/kg vinyl carbamate that induced 24.0 +/- 1.72 tumors/mouse at 24 weeks or 2 injections of 16 mg/kg vinyl carbamate each (32 mg/kg total dose) that induced 43.2 +/- 3.2 tumors/mouse at 20 weeks. Lung carcinomas were found as early as 16 weeks. Dexamethasone and piroxicam provided in the diet were found to significantly inhibit lung tumors induced by 60 mg/kg vinyl carbamate at 24 weeks whereas myo-inositol also provided in the diet, did not significantly inhibit tumor formation. In animals given 6 16-mg/kg doses of vinyl carbamate, tumor multiplicity was reduced roughly 25% by alpha-difluoromethylornithine and green tea and reduced 50% by dexamethasone and piroxicam. Combinations of these agents were also tested using a total dose of 32 mg/kg of vinyl carbamate. Although alpha-difluoromethylornithine and green tea did not result in a significant inhibition of lung tumor formation if used alone, the combination of alpha-difluoromethylornithine and green tea resulted in a significant reduction of tumor multiplicity. The combinations of alpha-difluoromethylornithine or green tea with either dexamethasone or piroxicam or the combination of dexamethasone and piroxicam did not decrease tumor multiplicity greater than achieved by dexamethasone and piroxicam alone. In summary, selected chemopreventive agents previously shown to inhibit lung tumors by other chemical carcinogens also inhibited vinyl carbamate-induced lung tumors.
Erb-B-3 overexpression is associated with poor prognosis in non-small cell lung cancer and is often overexpressed in breast cancers. MMTVhuman-erb-B-3 transgenic mice were generated to evaluate the impact of erb-B-3 overexpression on lung and mammary gland tumorigenesis. These transgenic mice developed a high incidence of lung adenocarcinomas but not mammary gland tumors. The tumors overexpressed transgenic human [h]-erb-B-3 but also overexpressed endogenous erb-B-2, indicating that the heterodimer of h-erb-B-3-erb-B-2 was required for proliferative signal transduction to the nucleus. Lung tumor latency was shorter and the incidence higher in erb-B-3 transgenic mice treated with the methylating agent, methylnitrosourea [MNU]. In MNU treated mice, K-ras activating point mutations in codon 12, synergized with h-erb-B-3 in lung tumorogenesis. In bitransgenic MMTVrat-erb-B2/MMTV-human-erb-B-3 mice, lung tumor latency was also significantly shortened. Unlike over-expression of rat-erb-B-2, overexpression of h-erb-B-3 did not alter the incidence or latency of mammary tumors. Coupled erb-B-2 and erb-B-3 overexpression as well as K-ras activation induced signaling through mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). This animal model links erb-B-3 with lung cancer, suggests that erb-B-2 and erb-B-3 heterodimerization is a necessary intermediate, and documents latency shortening by methylating agent-induced mutation of K-ras. This erb-B-3 mouse lung cancer model will help dissect genetic changes in lung tumorigenesis and may be useful for chemoprevention studies.
The purpose of the study was to assess whether there was an increased rate of congenital anomalies or significant developmental delay in infants of women with epilepsy who had been treated with carbamazepine during pregnancy.
47 children were studied, aged 6 months-6 years, who were born to 37 epileptic mothers on carbamazepine monotherapy (group A). All children had a complete physical and neurodevelopmental assessment by a developmental paediatrician, and 41 a complete psychological evaluation. They were compared with 47 children of similar socioeconomic status (group B).
Six of the 47 children in group A had typical facial features of 'carbamazepine syndrome'. The average cognitive score of children in group A was significantly lower than in group B. This was mainly because all six children with carbamazepine syndrome had a development quotient or intelligence quotient below 90. There were no differences between the two groups in physical growth or in the rate of major anomalies. Two children in group A had cleft palate but in each case this was found in a parent as well.
In utero exposure to carbamazepine may result in 'carbamazepine syndrome' characterised by facial dysmorphic features and mild mental retardation. Prevalence of carbamazepine syndrome does not seem to be related to the dose of carbamazepine or the presence of maternal convulsions. It may depend upon heredofamilial factors that have yet to be defined. One possible factor is decreased activity of the enzyme epoxide hydrolase with resulting increased concentrations of carbamazepine epoxide which may be teratogenic.
Dasatinib is approved for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in patients with resistance or intolerance to imatinib. This article reviews pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, and clinical data on dasatinib, and highlights some of the most important issues that need to be addressed. Imatinib and dasatinib both target the tyrosine kinase activity of the BCR/ABL oncogenic fusion protein. In terms of pharmacodynamics, the two agents differ in several ways: (i) dasatinib is >300-fold more potent than imatinib in inhibiting BCR/ABL activity; (ii) inhibition profiles on other tyrosine kinases differ between imatinib and dasatinib; and (iii) dasatinib has other peculiar effects on the leukemogenic signaling, including activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and reduction of the apoptotic-inactive form of the BCL2-associated agonist of cell death (BAD) protein. Recent pharmacodynamic data suggested combination therapy with dasatinib and signaling inhibitors (e.g. flavopiridol, farnesyl transferase inhibitors, or histone deacetylase inhibitors) may be beneficial. In contrast to other tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), dasatinib has a reduced half-life and no active metabolites. In a randomized, open-label, phase III trial, dasatinib 100 mg once daily demonstrated similar efficacy and a better tolerability profile than 70 mg twice daily. This unexpected result has been confirmed in recent studies, in which a dose of dasatinib 100 mg once daily was sufficient to trigger apoptosis in leukemic cells. Furthermore, cytogenetic responses correlate with BCR/ABL inhibition. Data suggest dasatinib 100 mg once daily achieves oncogenic shock and chronic inhibition of BCR/ABL activity, suggesting that in the future, pulse therapy with TKIs may be an option in some specific patients with CML.
The purpose of this study was to assess the antifungal activity and renal and hepatic toxicity of amphotericin B (AmpB) following administration of Fungizone (FZ) and a heat-treated form of FZ (HFZ) to rats infected with Aspergillus fumigatus.
Infected rats were administered FZ and HFZ at a dosing regimen of 1 mg/kg i.v. once daily for 4 consecutive days. Following administration the number of colony forming units (CFUs) of Aspergillus fumigatus in different organs and serum creatinine concentrations were determined.
FZ and HFZ had similar overall effectiveness in decreasing the total number of Aspergillus fumigatus CFUs found in all organs analyzed compared to controls. Except for the serum creatinine concentrations reported in the nontreated infected control rats, none of the treatment groups tested displayed a greater than 50% increase in serum creatinine.
Taken together, these findings suggest that HFZ at 1 mg/kg once daily x 4 days appears to be as effective as FZ as an antifungal agent without renal toxicity.
To study the mechanism of docetaxel-induced apoptosis.
Morphological study, DNA gel electrophoresis, flow cytometry and fluorescin labeled Annexin V to detect apoptosis, RT-PCR to detect the gene related with apoptosis.
Human lung cancer A549 cells treated with docetaxel induced cell cycle arrest at G2M phase, leading to apoptosis. The morphology of A549 showed nuclear chromatine condensation and fragmentation. Typical ladder pattern of DNA fragmentation was observed. Sub-G1 peak was found by flow cytometry. Transcription of Fas gene was enhanced, while no change in c-myc and bcl-2 genes. Annexin labeling results revealed the co-existence of cell apoptosis and necrosis in docetaxel-treated A549 cells.
Docetaxel induces apoptosis and necrosis of human lung cancer. The induction of apoptosis may be related to expression of Fas.
Alcohol consumption can induce gastric ulcers and zinc deficiency. Zinc complexes were reported to have anti-ulcer activity as it acts as an anti-inflammatory and antioxidant. Zn(II)-curcumin complex and its solid dispersions (SDs) were synthesized and evaluated for its gastroprotective activity and mechanism against ethanol-induced ulcer. The Swiss murine fibroblast cell line (3T3) was used as an alternative in vitro model to evaluate the effects of Zn(II)-curcumin on cell proliferation. Zn(II)-curcumin were administered orally for seven consecutive days prior to induction of ulcers using ethanol. Gross and microscopic lesions, immunological and biochemical parameters were taken into consideration. The results showed that solid dispersions (SDs) of Zn(II)-curcumin (2.5-20 μM) enhanced the proliferation of 3T3 cells more significantly than curcumin at the same concentrations (P<0.01). Oral administration of Zn(II)-curcumin (12, 24 and 48 mg/kg) SDs dose-dependently prevented formation of ulcer lesions induced by ethanol. The levels of proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin 6 (IL-6), and oxidative stress superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPX-Px), malonaldehyde (MDA) and H(+)-K(+)-ATPase were in the rats exposed to ethanol in ulceration have been altered. Zn(II)-curcumin prevented formation of ulcer lesions, significantly inhibited TNF-α and IL-6 mRNA expression, increased the activity of SOD and GSH-Px, reduced MDA levels and H(+)-K(+)-ATPase in mucosa of rats compared to controls (P<0.05). These findings suggest that the gastroprotective activity of Zn(II)-curcumin complex might contribute in stimulating cell proliferation and adjusting the proinflammatory cytokine-mediated oxidative damage to the gastric mucosa.
A recent study has shown mutations in CLN2 gene, that encodes a novel lysosomal pepstatin-insensitive proteinase (LPIP), in the pathophysiology of late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (LINCL). We have measured the LPIP activities in brains from various forms of human neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL), canine ceroid lipofuscinosis and other neurodegenerative disorders with a highly sensitive assay using a tetrapeptide Gly-Phe-Phe-Leu-amino-trifluoromethyl coumarin (AFC) as substrate. Brain LPIP has a pH optimum of 3.5 and an apparent km of 100 microM for the crude enzyme. The enzyme activity is totally absent in LINCL patients. Pronounced increase in the LPIP activity was seen in patients suffering from infantile (INCL), juvenile (JNCL) and adult (ANCL) forms of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses. LPIP activity was also found to be increased about two-fold in Alzheimer's disease when compared with normal or age-matched controls, while in globoidal-cell leukodystrophy (Krabbe's disease) it was similar to the normal controls. Although mannose-6-phosphorylated LPIP is increased 13-fold in brains of patients with JNCL, this form of LPIP did not have any enzyme activity. The mechanism by which LPIP activities are increased in a wide range of neurodegenerative diseases is unknown, although neuronal loss, followed by gliosis are common characteristics of these diseases.
Elevated levels of an endogenous ouabain circulate in many patients with essential hypertension. However, in contrast to ouabain, digoxin does not induce hypertension. This study investigated the hypothesis that within a single cardiac glycoside, the structural elements that induce hypertension differ from those responsible for high potency as a sodium pump inhibitor. Normal male Sprague-Dawley rats received infusions of vehicle (VEH), rhamnose (RHA), ouabain (OUA), ouabagenin (OGN), dihydro-ouabain (DHO), iso-ouabain (ISO), and a lactone ring opened analog (ORO) at 30 microgram. kg(-1). 24 h(-1) for 5 weeks via subcutaneous osmotic pumps. Cuff pressures were taken weekly. At the end of the study, trunk blood was harvested, extracted by C18 column, and subjected to high-performance liquid chromatography. Fractions were analyzed for OUA, OGN, and DHO by immunoassay. In OUA-, OGN-, and DHO-infused rats, 1 main peak of immunoreactivity corresponding to the infused agent was found. No evidence of in vivo conversion to OUA or DHO was found for any analog except ORO. At 5 weeks, systolic blood pressures in VEH, RHA, OUA, OGN, DHO, ISO, and ORO were 132+/-2.5, 133+/-1.5, 159+/-2.6,* 154+/-4,* 167+/-4,* 171+/-2.2,* and 169+/-2.4* mm Hg, respectively (*P<0.01 versus VEH and RHA, P<0.05 versus OUA). The hypertensinogenic activity was greater than OUA in 3 analogs (DHO, ISO, and ORO) in which the lactone was saturated, conformationally restrained by linkage with the oxygen at C14, or opened, respectively. These compounds were weak inhibitors of dog kidney Na,K-ATPase. Thus, RHA and the unsaturated lactone ring are crucial to the high potency of OUA as an inhibitor of the sodium pump but appear to be unrelated to its ability to induce hypertension. The conclusion that this form of hypertension is mediated primarily by the steroid nucleus suggests also that OUA may have a mechanism of action independent of the sodium pump.
Naturally occurring molecules with putative cancer chemopreventive properties such as the phytoalexin resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene) are lead molecules that guide the design of novel agents with improved pharmacologic properties. The synthetic resveratrol analog 3,4,5,4'-tetramethoxystilbene (DMU-212) has been shown to possess stronger antiproliferative properties in human colon cancer cells than resveratrol. We tested the hypothesis that DMU-212 is also a more potent inhibitor of adenoma development in the Apc(Min+) mouse, a model of human intestinal carcinogenesis. Apc(Min+) mice received either stilbene derivative with the diet (0.2%), and adenomas were counted after experiments were terminated. Resveratrol and DMU-212 decreased adenoma load by 27% and 24%, respectively, compared to untreated controls. Cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes are important mechanistic targets of resveratrol, and we investigated whether DMU-212 interferes with the expression and activity of COX in human colon cells. Incubation of HCA-7 cancer cells for 24-96 hr with either stilbene derivative (1-50 microM) decreased prostaglandin E-2 (PGE-2) production, but only resveratrol decreased COX-2 protein expression. In mice, which received either stilbene derivative (0.2%) for 3 weeks with their diet, PGE-2 levels in the intestinal mucosa were reduced by between 45% and 62% compared to mice on control diet. While resveratrol inhibited enzyme activity in purified COX preparations, DMU-212 failed to do so. The PGE-2 decrease seen with DMU-212 in cells and in vivo is probably mediated via its metabolites. The results suggest that alteration of the resveratrol molecule to generate DMU-212 does not abrogate its ability to decrease adenoma number in Apc(Min+) mice or to interfere with PGE-2 generation in cells.
We present the case of a never medicated patient with a diagnosis of DSM-IV paranoid schizophrenia in which olanzapine therapy induced manic symptoms. The latter remitted after drug discontinuation.
This study examined the effect of hypocapnia (PaCO2 20 mm Hg) on cerebral metabolism and the electroencephalogram (EEG) findings in 12 dogs during nitroglycerin (NTG)-induced hypotension. Previous studies suggest that NTG is a more potent cerebral vasodilator than sodium nitroprusside or trimethaphan. It was speculated that combining hypocapnia with NTG-induced hypotension would cause less disturbance of cerebral metabolism and the EEG than the disturbances previously reported when hypocapnia was combined with hypotension induced by sodium nitroprusside or trimethaphan. All 12 dogs were examined at 1) normocapnia with normotension; 2) hypocapnia with normotension; and 3) hypocapnia combined with NTG-induced hypotension to mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) levels of 60, 50, and 40 mm Hg. In six dogs the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen was determined, and the EEG was evaluated using compressed spectral analysis. Brain tissue metabolites were calculated in the other six dogs. During normotension, hypocapnia caused no deterioration of cerebral metabolism or of the EEG. Hypocapnia combined with NTG-induced hypotension caused a decrease of the power of the alpha and beta 2 spectra of the EEG at MABP's of 60 mm Hg or less. At an MABP of 40 mm Hg, brain tissue phosphocreatine and the cerebral energy charge decreased, while the brain tissue lactate:pyruvate ratio increased. Thirty minutes after restoration of normocapnia with normotension, cerebral metabolites returned to initial values, but the power of the EEG alpha and beta 2 spectra was decreased compared to baseline values. The cerebral metabolic disturbances and EEG alterations seen here with hypocapnia plus NTG-induced hypotension were similar to those previously reported with hypocapnia plus sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension, and less than those previously reported with hypocapnia plus trimethaphan-induced hypotension. For hyperventilated patients, administration of NTG may be a better hypotensive treatment than trimethaphan, but similar in effect to sodium nitroprusside.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study in 12 subjects (greater than or equal to 50 years) compared the effects of single oral doses of sertraline (100 mg) and amitriptyline (50 mg) with placebo as assessed by psychomotor function testing. Unlike sertraline and placebo, amitriptyline increased tracking error severity and impaired digit/symbol substitution. Sertraline slightly improved flicker frequency recognition. Both active drugs caused subjective drowsiness, although amitriptyline's effect was greater and of longer duration. Both drugs impaired subjectively assessed performance. Sertraline caused nausea, and amitriptyline, dry mouth; sertraline tended to increase supine systolic blood pressure. The authors conclude that sertraline has a considerably less detrimental effect on psychomotor performance and may have a slight activating effect not found with amitriptyline.
To determine the hemodynamic effects of i.v. milrinone lactate in pediatric patients with nonhyperdynamic septic shock. Specifically we tested the hypothesis that i.v. milrinone would increase cardiac index by 20% and decrease systemic vascular resistance index by 20% during a 2-h study period.
Prospective, double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled, descriptive, interventional study.
Twenty-six-bed pediatric ICU at Children's Medical Center of Dallas and a 10-bed pediatric trauma ICU at Parkland Memorial Hospital.
Twelve patients (age range, 9 months to 15 years) with nonhyperdynamic septic shock despite administration of catecholamines (cardiac index [CI] normal [3.5 to 5.5 L/min/m2] or low [< or =3.5 L/min/m2]; systemic vascular resistance index [SVRI] normal [800 to 1,600 dyne.s.cm5/m2] or high [> or =1,600 dyne.s.cm5/m2]; and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure [PCWP] normal [8 to 12 mm Hg] or higher) with clinical signs of poor perfusion were enrolled, randomized, and treated in a blinded fashion with i.v. milrinone and placebo.
Patients were randomized into two groups. Group A received a loading dose of 50 micrograms/kg i.v. of milrinone followed by a continuous i.v. infusion of 0.5 microgram/kg/min while group B received an equal volume loading dose and continuous infusion of placebo. After 2 h, group A received an equal-volume loading dose followed by a continuous infusion of placebo while the milrinone infusion continued, while group B received a 50 micrograms/kg loading dose of milrinone followed by a continuous infusion of 0.5 microgram/kg/min while the placebo infusion remained. Outcome variable were measured at baseline, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, and 4.0 h. Echocardiographic measurements were taken at baseline, hour 2, and hour 4 in all subjects. No changes in other inotropic or mechanical ventilatory support were allowed during the study period.
Milrinone significantly increased CI, stroke volume index (SVI), right and left ventricular stroke work index, and oxygen delivery (Do2) at 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 h postloading dose (p < 0.05) while significantly decreasing SVRI, pulmonary vascular resistance index, and mean pulmonary arterial pressure at 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 h postloading dose (p < 0.05). No clinically or statistically significant changes in heart rate, systolic and diastolic BP, mean systemic arterial pressure, or PCWP were observed during milrinone treatment compared to placebo.
CI, SVI, and Do2 significantly increased while SVRI significantly decreased when compared to placebo after i.v. administration of milrinone to pediatric patients with nonhyperdynamic septic shock. No adverse effects were observed. In a volume-resuscitated pediatric patient with septic shock, when administered in addition to catecholamines, milrinone will improve cardiovascular function.
4,4'-Methylenedianiline (MDA) is an important chemical intermediate in the production of isocyanates and polyurethane elastomers and polymers. The health hazards from acute inhalation exposure to the aerosols were evaluated. Guinea pigs of albino and pigmented strains were exposed nose-only to the aerosols of MDA in polyethylene glycol 200 (PEG) solution. The exposure was 4 hr per day, 5 days per week for a total of 10 exposures in 2 weeks. The time-weighted average aerosol concentration was 0.44 +/- 0.09 mg/liter and the optical number length mean diameter of the aerosol particle was 2.4 micron with sigma g of 2.1. During exposures, no overt respiratory distress was observed. Two weeks after the exposures, the guinea pigs were tested for possible dermal sensitization by being challenged with dermal application of MDA-PEG solutions at concentrations of 0, 2, 20, and 200 mg/ml. Neither dermal irritation nor allergic response was detected under this experimental condition. Thereafter, the animals were tracheostomized for measurements of changes in lung insufflation pressure for detecting possible changes in the distensibility of the lungs from a challenge dose of an aerosol of MDA-PEG at a concentration of 200 mg/ml. No significant changes were observed under this testing condition. Finally, the animals were euthanized for histopathologic examinations of eye, lung, liver, and kidney. The most remarkable findings was the degeneration of the inner and outer segments of the photoreceptor cells and the pigmented epithelial cell layer of the retinas of both albino and pigmented strains of guinea pigs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lyme disease (LD) is endemic in Monmouth and Ocean counties, New Jersey (1). In June 1992, CDC and the New Jersey Department of Health (NJDOH) conducted a telephone survey in both counties of 65 schoolchildren who required home instruction because of suspected LD to determine the public health impact of the disease. Most children had received prolonged and repeated courses of oral antimicrobials and/or home intravenous infusion of antimicrobials; 79% had been hospitalized for treatment of suspected LD or management of treatment complications, most notably drug-induced symptoms of gallbladder disease occurring in patients receiving ceftriaxone (Rocephin), and bloodstream infections associated with intravenous catheters. To determine the characteristics of and treatment complications for patients hospitalized for treatment of LD, a computerized search of hospital discharge data in New Jersey was performed; nearly 30% of all hospitalizations for LD during 1990-1991 were at a regional hospital serving Monmouth and Ocean counties. This report presents findings of an analysis of patients admitted to that hospital for treatment of LD.
Pancreatic islet cell tumors were induced in 38 of 44 male Wistar rats (86%), which survived 9 to 14 months following the various treatment schedules. A single i.v. injection of streptozotocin alone, 30, 40, 50, or 65 mg/kg of body weight produced adenomas of pancreatic islet cells in 8 of 9 (89%), 6 of 7 (86%), 2 of 4 (50%), and 1 of 2 rats (50%), respectively. The neoplasms were seen in all of the 8 rats given a single i.p. injection of picolinamide, 250 mg/kg of body weight, 15 min before a single i.v. injection of streptozotocin, 65 mg/kg of body weight. Among the 14 rats given a single i.p. injection of nicotinamide, 500 mg/kg of body weight, 15 min before a single i.v. injection of streptozotocin, 65 mg/kg of body weight, 13 rats (95%) developed pancreatic islet cell tumors. Renal tumors were seen in only 3 rats treated with streptozotocin and nicotinamide. None of rats used in this study developed hepatic tumors. This study demonstrates that steptozotocin, even in a dose of 30 mg/kg of body weight, has an exceedingly marked tumorigenic action on the rat pancreas, while it has little effect on the kidney and no effect on the liver.
A 14-year-old girl in whom Reye syndrome developed during aspirin therapy for an inflammatory disorder proven to be systemic lupus erythematosus is reported. This case and similar cases of Reye syndrome in patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis suggest that an etiologic relationship exists between salicylate therapy and Reye syndrome in children with collagen vascular disorders.
Minoxidil is an orally active vasodilator for treatment of severe hypertension. In combination with diuretics and beta-adrenergic blocking agents, it is effective treatment for more than 80% of patients whose blood pressure has been inadequately controlled with combinations of other been inadequately controlled with combinations of other antihypertensive drugs. Major adverse reactions include reflex activation of the adrenergic nervous system, renal sodium retention, and hypertrichosis. Despite the possibility of adverse reactions, minoxidil is indicated in patients whose blood pressure cannot be controlled with conventional therapy, in persons with major adverse reactions to other drugs, and in patients who are candidates for bilateral nephrectomy for control of hypertension.
The Children's Cancer Group 1952 (CCG-1952) clinical trial studied the substitution of oral 6-thioguanine (TG) for 6-mercaptopurine (MP) and triple intrathecal therapy (ITT) for intrathecal methotrexate (IT-MTX) in the treatment of standard-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia. After remission induction, 2027 patients were randomized to receive MP (n = 1010) or TG (n = 1017) and IT-MTX (n = 1018) or ITT (n = 1009). The results of the thiopurine comparison are as follows. The estimated 7-year event-free survival (EFS) for subjects randomized to TG was 84.1% (+/- 1.8%) and to MP was 79.0% (+/- 2.1%; P = .004 log rank), although overall survival was 91.9% (+/- 1.4%) and 91.2% (+/- 1.5%), respectively (P = .6 log rank). The TG starting dose was reduced from 60 to 50 mg/m(2) per day after recognition of hepatic veno-occlusive disease (VOD). A total of 257 patients on TG (25%) developed VOD or disproportionate thrombocytopenia and switched to MP. Once portal hypertension occurred, all subjects on TG were changed to MP. The benefit of randomization to TG over MP, as measured by EFS, was evident primarily in boys who began TG at 60 mg/m(2) (relative hazard rate [RHR] 0.65, P = .002). The toxicities of TG preclude its protracted use as given in this study. This study is registered at http://clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00002744.
