Carbamazepine (CBZ) is a drug which can induce the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). Until 1980's, there were reports regarding CBZ-induced SIADH, but it is rarely reported these days. We here report two cases of CBZ-induced SIADH. Hyponatremia in these cases was rapidly improved by withdrawal of administration of CBZ. According to the previous reports, the rate of hyponatremia in patients receiving CBZ is not small. It ranges from 48% to 31%. As CBZ is frequently used for patients with epilepsy and neuralgia, not only their blood CBZ concentration but also their serum Na level should be monitored.
The tissue factor pathway inhibitor 2 (TFPI-2) is a Kunitz-type serine proteinase inhibitor. Recently, the aberrant methylation of TFPI-2 was detected frequently in pancreatic carcinoma (PCa) tissues but not in normal pancreatic tissues. We analyzed the aberrant methylation of TFPI-2 in the pure pancreatic juice (PPJ) aspirated endoscopically from patients with various pancreatic diseases. Using the highly sensitive methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP) and quantitative MSP (Q-MSP) assay, we investigated the aberrant methylation of TFPI-2 in nine human PCa cell lines and in the PPJ from patients with PCa, intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMN) and chronic pancreatitis (CP). The incidence of aberrant TFPI-2 methylation was seven (77.8%) of nine PCa cell lines by Q-MSP. In cell lines, the expression of TFPI-2 mRNA by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction showed an inverse correlation to the aberrant methylation of TFPI-2. The incidence of aberrant TFPI-2 methylation in the PPJ was 21 (58.3%) of 36 PCa patients, three (17.6%) of 17 IPMN and one (4.8%) of 21 CP by MSP assay. Using a suitable cut-off value of 2.5 according to the receiver operating characteristic curve, the incidence of aberrant TFPI-2 methylation in the PPJ by real-time MSP was 18 (62.1%) of 29 PCa patients, one (5.1%) of 17 IPMN and three (14.3%) of 21 CP, respectively. The incidence of quantitative TFPI-2 hypermethylation in the PPJ with PCa was significantly higher than that with IPMN (P < 0.001) or CP (P < 0.001). Moreover, the aberrant methylation rate of TFPI-2 in the PPJ was 100%, as observed (6/6) in the PCa patients with liver metastasis, and 86.7% (26/30) in stages IVa + IVb of PCa by Q-MSP assay. These results suggest that promoter methylation of TFPI-2 in the PPJ may be a useful marker in the diagnosis and progression of PCa using an endoscopically feasible approach.
Urinary function was assessed in 120 women after cesarean section under epidural anesthesia. Postoperative analgesia was obtained by means of epidurally administered methadone (40 patients) or morphine (40 patients). In the remaining 40 women, no narcotic drugs were given and postoperative pain was treated with intramuscular or oral non-opiate analgesics and sedatives. Both methadone and morphine provided potent postoperative pain relief. Following epidural methadone, mean urine volumes of the first two postoperative voidings were increased (543 +/- 38 ml and 571 +/- 31 ml) as compared with those after epidural morphine (219 +/- 25 ml and 218 +/- 18 ml) and with those of patients receiving non-opiate analgesics (319 +/- 28 ml and 414 +/- 30 ml). The mean time interval between the end of surgery and first voiding following methadone analgesia was shorter (336 +/- 27 min) than after morphine (582 +/- 18 min) or after non-opiate (448 +/- 28 min) analgesic drugs. Difficulty in micturition and the need for bladder catheterization were also decreased in the group with epidural methadone (2.5%) in comparison with the groups receiving morphine (57.5%) or non-opiate analgesic medicaments (12.5%). The use of epidural methadone for postoperative pain relief is advocated, both in view of its analgesic potency and of the low incidence of urinary disturbances.
We investigated the effects of nicardipine on dynamic cerebral pressure autoregulation in 13 normal adult patients undergoing gynecologic or orthopedic surgery. Anesthesia was induced and maintained with propofol and fentanyl. Hypotension to a mean arterial pressure of 60-65 mm Hg was induced and maintained with a continuous infusion of nicardipine. Time-averaged mean blood flow velocity in the right middle cerebral artery was measured continuously by using transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. The cerebral autoregulatory responses were activated by releasing thigh cuffs. The actual blood flow velocity in the right middle cerebral artery response to acute change in mean arterial pressure was fitted to 1 of 10 computer-generated curves to determine the dynamic rate of cerebral autoregulation (dRoR), and the best fitting curve was used. The autoregulation test was repeated until two values of dRoR were obtained at baseline and during induced hypotension. Nicardipine significantly reduced dRoR values of 13.1% +/- 3.6%/s at baseline to 8.3% +/- 2.6%/s during hypotension (P: < 0.01). During deliberate hypotension induced by nicardipine, the cerebral dynamic autoregulatory response is impaired in normal adult patients.
During deliberate hypotension induced by nicardipine, the cerebral dynamic autoregulatory response is impaired in normal adult patients.
A serial measurements of plasma renin activity (PRA), serum angiotensin converting enzyme activity (ACE), concentrations of plasma angiotensin II (AII) and plasma aldosterone (Ald) in 38 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) or suspected AMI showed that PRA, AII and Ald levels increased in patients with AMI, especially within first week after onset, and were significantly higher in those cases with severe complications. ACE kept in normal range in all subjects. After small dose captopril therapy, ACE and Ald decreased significantly, PRA and AII increased in 6 patients with AMI. Small dose captopril could cause remarkable blood pressure reduction, but no effect on heart rate. The results suggested that renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system was activated during AMI, especially in cases with severe complications. Captopril could inhibit this system partially.
We propose a model for assessing the function of 5HT receptors in migraine by evaluating their expression on monocytes by means of double-labeling fluorocytometry (CD14-positive cells FITC-labeled). This model demonstrates that during headache induced in migraine without aura sufferers given isosorbide dinitrate followed by sumatriptan treatment 5HT expression on monocytes progressively increases. This increase may be due to the activation of 5HT turnover and to the increased availability of 5HT displaced by sumatriptan from cerebrovascular receptors during head pain.
Studies have shown associations of diabetes and endogenous hormones with exposure to a wide variety of organochlorines. We have previously reported positive associations of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and inverse associations of selected steroid hormones with diabetes in postmenopausal women previously employed in a capacitor manufacturing plant.
This paper examines associations of PCBs with diabetes and endogenous hormones in 63 men previously employed at the same plant who in 1996 underwent surveys of their exposure and medical history and collection of bloods and urine for measurements of PCBs, lipids, liver function, hematologic markers and endogenous hormones.
PCB exposure was positively associated with diabetes and age and inversely associated with thyroid stimulating hormone and triiodothyronine-uptake. History of diabetes was significantly related to total PCBs and all PCB functional groupings, but not to quarters worked and job score, after control for potential confounders. None of the exposures were related to insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) in non-diabetic men.
Associations of PCBs with specific endogenous hormones differ in some respects from previous findings in postmenopausal women employed at the capacitor plant. Results from this study, however, do confirm previous reports relating PCB exposure to diabetes and suggest that these associations are not mediated by measured endogenous hormones.
Fischer rats, in whom superficial transitional cell cancers of the urinary bladder were induced by the carcinogen N-[4-(5- nitrofuryl )-2-thiazolyl] formamide, were inoculated intraperitoneally with either phosphate buffered saline, indomethacin (a prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor), poly I:C (an interferon inducer), or indomethacin together with poly I:C. While indomethacin alone appeared to have a significant albeit variable inhibitory effect on tumor size, poly I:C had a far more pronounced significant inhibitory effect. The combination of poly I:C and indomethacin together, however, led to the greatest inhibition in tumor growth, and in some instances, to tumor regression. Splenic lymphocytes from the same animals demonstrated enhanced natural cytotoxicity after treatment with poly I:C. Surprisingly, levels of natural cytotoxicity seen in animals treated with indomethacin and poly I:C together were lower than those seen with poly I:C alone. No enhancement of cytotoxicity could be demonstrated in vitro in lymphocytes from indomethacin-treated animals. Macrophages were also treated in this system under identical conditions. However, the activity of macrophages alone and of macrophages and lymphocytes together did not appear to be modified either by indomethacin alone or by the combination of prostaglandin synthetase inhibition and interferon induction together, the combination of which in vivo was suggested to be most effective in controlling tumor progression. Further studies to determine timing of these interactions and doses of immune response modifiers in order to characterize mechanisms possibly at work in modifying tumor growth in this system therefore seem highly indicated.
PLD-118, formerly BAY 10-8888, is a synthetic antifungal derivative of the naturally occurring beta-amino acid cispentacin. We studied the activity of PLD-118 in escalating dosages against experimental oropharyngeal and esophageal candidiasis (OPEC) caused by fluconazole (FLC)-resistant Candida albicans in immunocompromised rabbits. Infection was established by fluconazole-resistant (MIC > 64 microg/ml) clinical isolates from patients with refractory esophageal candidiasis. Antifungal therapy was administered for 7 days. Study groups consisted of untreated controls; animals receiving PLD-118 at 4, 10, 25, or 50 mg/kg of body weight/day via intravenous (i.v.) twice daily (BID) injections; animals receiving FLC at 2 mg/kg/day via i.v. BID injections; and animals receiving desoxycholate amphotericin B (DAMB) i.v. at 0.5 mg/kg/day. PLD-118- and DAMB-treated animals showed a significant dosage-dependent clearance of C. albicans from the tongue, oropharynx, and esophagus in comparison to untreated controls (P </= 0.05, P </= 0.01, P </= 0.001, respectively), while FLC had no significant activity. PLD-118 demonstrated nonlinear plasma pharmacokinetics across the investigated dosage range, as was evident from a dose-dependent increase in plasma clearance and a dose-dependent decrease in the area under the plasma concentration-time curve. The biochemical safety profile was similar to that of FLC. In summary, PLD-118 demonstrated dosage-dependent antifungal activity and nonlinear plasma pharmacokinetics in treatment of experimental FLC-resistant oropharyngeal and esophageal candidiasis.
The patient was a 67-year-old man with a 2-year history of peritoneal dialysis for end-stage renal disease due to hypertensive nephropathy. He presented to a dermatologist with a complaint of pain in the right femoral region. He was diagnosed as having herpes zoster and valacyclovir, 1,000 mg/day, was prescribed. After 5 days of taking valacyclovir orally, he felt fretful and hallucinations appeared. He was admitted to our hospital and was hospitalized in our urology ward. We diagnosed his condition as neurotoxicity caused by an overdose of valacyclovir. As his general condition was stable, he was treated only by continuation of peritoneal dialysis. After 7 days of hospitalization, the neurotoxicity completely disappeared and he left the hospital. His serum acyclovir concentration at admission was 20.20 μg/l, and was reduced to 0.7 μg/l when he left the hospital. This supported our diagnosis of valacyclovir-induced neurotoxicity. In this case, valacyclovir should have been reduced to 500 mg/day, considering his renal function. Although we could treat the patient only by continuation of peritoneal dialysis, hemodialysis seems to be an effective treatment method in the case of unstable general condition or severe adverse effects, because it can eliminate the serum acyclovir.
Acrolein-modified proteins are markers of disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Acrolein (H2C=HC-CH=O), which can be produced by the oxidative properties of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide, localizes to areas immediately surrounding early Abeta aggregates. The focal production of acrolein would consequently yield localized high concentrations that may be susceptible to polymerization via basic latex polymer chemistry. Using albumin as our model we examined whether simple in vitro conditions may bring about higher order aggregates composed of polyacrolein. We observed that thin plastic-like fragments were formed following incubation of albumin in acrolein solutions from 5 to 500 mM in sodium phosphate buffers (pH 7.4). The layered plastic film stained for carbonyls and for amyloid (cross-beta structures) suggesting a polyacrolein-albumin colloidal mixture. Large structures (up to 2700 microm2) readily form under simple conditions. These observations suggest that polyacrolein latexes may potentially exist in biological tissues contributing to the pathogenesis of diseases such as AD.
There is an important debate regarding the functional role of the 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(7) receptor in memory systems. Hence, the objective of this paper is to investigate the function of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in memory consolidation, utilising an autoshaping Pavlovian/instrumental learning test. Specific antagonists at 5-HT(1A) (WAY 100635) and 5-HT(7) (SB-269970 or DR 4004) receptors administered i.p. or s.c.) after training, significantly decreased the improvement of performance produced by the 5-HT(1A/7) agonist 8-OH-DPAT to levels lower than controls'. These same antagonists attenuated the decreased level of performance produced by mCPP, although they decrease the performance levels after p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) lesion of the 5-HT system, which has no effect on its own on the conditioned response. Moreover, SB-269970 or DR 4004 reversed amnesia induced by scopolamine and dizocilpine. These data confirm a role for 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(7) receptors in memory formation and support the hypothesis that serotonergic, cholinergic, and glutamatergic systems interact in cognitively impaired animals. These findings support a potential role for both 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(7) receptors in the pathophysiology and/or treatment of schizophrenia, cognitive deficits and the mechanism of action of atypical antipsychotic drugs.
The effect of nisoldipine, a dihydropyridine Ca2+ antagonist, on the platelet cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), platelet aggregation, and various coagulation and fibrinolysis parameters was assessed in normotensive patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Eleven patients with angiographically confirmed CAD (4 men, 7 women aged 67.3 +/- 5.4 years) were administered nisoldipine at 10 mg/day for two weeks. The [Ca2+]i was determined by use of fura2-loaded platelets, platelet aggregation was measured with an aggregometer, and coagulation/fibrinolysis parameters were measured by standard methods. Nisoldipine did not significantly affect blood pressure or heart rate. However, the [Ca2+]i decreased significantly (P<0.05) and platelet aggregation was also significantly inhibited. Plasma D-dimer levels decreased significantly (P<0.01). Thus, nisoldipine not only suppressed platelet activation but also affected the coagulation system, suggesting that it is not only a vasodilator and platelet inhibitor but also an antithrombotic agent.
Coinfections with opportunistic and pathogenic bacteria induce human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication through microbial antigen activation of NF-kappaB. Here, we assessed whether HIV type 1 protease inhibitors (PI) block microbial antigen activation of NF-kappaB. Human microvessel endothelial cells were transiently transfected with either endothelial cell-leukocyte adhesion molecule NF-kappaB luciferase or interleukin 6 (IL-6) promoter luciferase constructs by using FuGENE 6, and they were treated with PI (nelfinavir, ritonavir, or saquinavir) prior to stimulation with the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and TLR2 ligands, with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), soluble Mycobacterium tuberculosis factor, or Staphylococcus epidermidis phenol-soluble modulin, respectively, or with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). Luciferase activity was measured by using a Promega luciferase kit. TNF-alpha release from the supernatant was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Cell death was assessed by lactate dehydrogenase assay. We observed that PI pretreatment blocked the TLR2- and TLR4- as well as the TNF-alpha-mediated NF-kappaB activation, in a dose-dependent manner. PI pretreatment also blocked the LPS-induced IL-6 promoter transactivation and TNF-alpha secretion. These data suggest that PI block HIV replication not only by inhibiting the HIV protease but also by blocking the TLR- and TNF-alpha-mediated NF-kappaB activation and proinflammatory cytokine production. These findings may help explain the immunomodulatory effects of PI, and they suggest an advantage for PI-containing drug regimens in the treatment of HIV-infected patients who are coinfected with opportunistic and pathogenic bacteria.
The aim of this study was to examine the anti-tumour effects of dual vertical VEGF targeting consisting in the association between bevacizumab, a VEGF-depleting drug, and the VEGF receptor antityrosine kinase AZD2171. Mice bearing human head and neck CAL33 xenografted tumours were treated once daily for 11 d with either vehicle (controls), AZD2171 (2.5mg/kg/day, p.o.), bevacizumab (5mg/kg/day, i.p.) or the bevacizumab-AZD2171 combination. The AZD2171-bevacizumab combination produced additive effects on tumour growth and reduced the number of proliferating cells relative to control. Bevacizumab did not influence tumour vascular necrosis whilst AZD2171 (p=0.01) and the combination (p=0.01) increased it. The number of mature tumour cells decreased significantly with the combination treatment only (p=0.001), which induced the largest increase in the Bax/Bcl2 ratio (up to 25-fold) and a progressive 3-fold decrease in HIF1-alpha expression between 24h and 192h. The present data indicate that there is no redundancy in targeting the same angiogenic pathway with the presently tested clinically applicable drugs. The study provides a strong rationale for future clinical trials.
The efficacy of indigal plus containing indol-3-carbinol, epigallocatexin-3-gallat and Serenoa repens extract in combination with sparfloxacin was studied in a trial with participation of 30 patients with chronic infectious prostatitis associated with intracellular agents. Group 1 (n=15) received indigal plus (2 capsules twice a day for 3 months) and sparfloxacin (200 mg twice a day for 1 month). Group 2 including 15 matched controls received sparfloxacin alone according to the same schedule. The examination included questionnaire survey (IPSS, QoL, NIH-CPSI), blood count, urinalysis, PSA test, microscopy, bacteriological study of prostatic secretion, uroflowmetry, transrectal ultrasound investigation of the prostate with residual urine assay, laser doppleroflowmetry. The examinations were performed on the treatment day 30, 60 and 90. After the antibacterial treatment chlamidia, ureaplasma and E.coli were detected in 13.3, 6.7 and 26.7% patients of the control group, in 6.7, 6.7 and 6.7% patients of the study group, respectively. Thus, the addition of a pathogenetic drug indigal plus to sparfloxacin treatment promoted normalization of apoptosis of the infected cells, led to more effective bacterial eradication, enhanced regression of the symptoms. It is recommended to include indigal plus in a basic scheme of treatment of patients with chronic infectious prostatitis.
Hyperekplexia or startle disease is a rare clinical syndrome characterized by an exaggerated startle in response to trivial tactile or acoustic stimuli. This neurological disorder can have serious consequences in neonates, provoking brain damage and/or sudden death due to apnea episodes and cardiorespiratory failure. Hyperekplexia is caused by defective inhibitory glycinergic neurotransmission. Mutations in the human SLC6A5 gene encoding the neuronal GlyT2 glycine transporter are responsible for the presynaptic form of the disease. GlyT2 mediates synaptic glycine recycling, which constitutes the main source of releasable transmitter at glycinergic synapses. Although the majority of GlyT2 mutations detected so far are recessive, a dominant negative mutant that affects GlyT2 trafficking does exist. In this study, we explore the properties and structural alterations of the S512R mutation in GlyT2. We analyze its dominant negative effect that retains wild-type GlyT2 in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), preventing surface expression. We show that the presence of an arginine rather than serine 512 provoked transporter misfolding, enhanced association to the ER-chaperone calnexin, altered association with the coat-protein complex II component Sec24D, and thereby impeded ER exit. The S512R mutant formed oligomers with wild-type GlyT2 causing its retention in the ER. Overexpression of calnexin rescued wild-type GlyT2 from the dominant negative effect of the mutant, increasing the amount of transporter that reached the plasma membrane and dampening the interaction between the wild-type and mutant GlyT2. The ability of chemical chaperones to overcome the dominant negative effect of the disease mutation on the wild-type transporter was demonstrated in heterologous cells and primary neurons.
The renal glomerular mesangium in male, Swiss Webster mice, fed a diet containing 2.5 percent griseofulvin (GF), showed hypercellularity and mesangial thickening within three weeks. These changes gradually increased, peaking in prominence at 11 to 16 weeks and persisted up to 22 weeks. The tubular epithelium showed minimal light microscopic changes. There was focal hyperplasia of parietal cells of the Bowman's capsule. Ultrastructurally, the changes in the mesangial region of the glomeruli included increase in mesangial cells and mesangial matrix. The renal tubular epithelial cells showed dilatation of mitochondria and smooth endoplasmic reticulum. These changes, in addition to diverse cellular alterations in other organs previously reported, constitute the morphologic features of GF-induced renal disease.
It is well known that isoproterenol (ISO) a nonselective beta adrenoceptor agonist induces cardiac hypertrophy. It can be assumed that, in addition to its direct cardiac effect, ISO has a cardiac trophic effect via stimulation of the renin angiotensin system. Synthesis of polyamines is facilitated in cardiac hypertrophy and polyamine levels are rapidly elevated prior to an increase in heart weight. In the present study, we investigated whether captopril (30 mg/kg body weight, daily) could attenuate cardiac hypertrophy and elevation of cardiac polyamine levels in rats, which effects were elicited by a chronic (1- or 2-weeks) and repeated administration of a small dose (0.5 mg/kg body weight) of ISO. Cardiac hypertrophy was assessed by an increase in the wet weight and RNA content of the heart. Polyamines were analyzed by HPLC. Captopril alone did not affect either heart weight/body weight ratio or cardiac contents of polyamines and nucleic acids at the end of the second week. In isoproterenol-treated rats, the above parameters, except for putrescine content on day 14, were significantly increased on both day 7 and day 14. Captopril slightly attenuated ISO-induced cardiac hypertrophy and significantly prevented the ISO-evoked increase in the contents of RNA, spermidine, and spermine at the end of the second week. These results suggest that the ISO-evoked increase in cardiac polyamines was mediated, at least in part, by the renin angiotensin system, which was stimulated by ISO.
Naltrexone, an opioid antagonist, has been reported to possess an anti-inflammatory effect via blockade of opioid receptor. The aim of this study is to evaluate the protective effect of naltrexone on LPS-induced septic shock in rats. Sepsis was induced by administration of LPS (10 mg/kg, i.v.) in anesthetized rats. Results demonstrated that pretreatment with naltrexone (10 mg/kg, i.v.) significantly ameliorated hypotension and bradycardia of rats 6 h after LPS administration. In isolated blood vessel, study showed that pretreatment with naltrexone significantly improved norepinephrine-induced vasoconstriction and ACh-induced vasorelaxation in aorta of endotoxemic animals. Naltrexone significantly reduced the elevation of serum glutamate-oxalacetate transaminase and glutamate-pyruvate transaminase (as index of hepatic function) induced by LPS. The infiltration of polymorphonuclear neutrophils into liver 48 h after LPS treatment in mice was also reduced by naltrexone. On the other hand, naltrexone significantly decreased the levels of plasma TNF-alpha and inhibited overproduction of superoxide anions in aortic rings. However, naltrexone did not suppress the overproduction of NO (measured by its metabolites nitrite/nitrate in plasma) and iNOS expression in lungs induced by LPS. In in vitro study, naltrexone did not attenuate non-enzymatic iron-induced lipid peroxidation in rat brain homogenates. In conclusion, pretreatment with naltrexone significantly improved circulatory failure and hepatic dysfunction in sepsis. These effects were associated with reduction of TNF-alpha levels and superoxide anion formation, which may be attributed to antagonism of opioid receptors.
Of 17 consecutive patients receiving methadone maintenance treatment who had primary or chronic depression, nine (53%) improved in both mood and drug abuse after imipramine treatment. This finding suggests a potential for helping such dual-diagnosis patients reduce drug abuse and associated risk for HIV. Further controlled trials are warranted.
Small-fiber neuropathy is often idiopathic and commonly follows a chronic course. Treatment is often effective in treating the core symptom of pain, but it has no effect on the pathologic process. We describe four patients with acute small-fiber neuropathy who responded dramatically to steroid therapy. All patients had acute onset neuropathic pain, normal nerve conduction studies, and evidence of small-fiber dysfunction in quantitative sensory testing and skin biopsy. Symptoms were distal and symmetrical in three patients and generalized in one patient. In two cases, the neuropathy presented as an erythromelalgia-like syndrome. Marked clinical improvement occurred 1-2 weeks after oral prednisone therapy was initiated. Three patients remained symptom free, and one patient experienced recurrence of neuropathy after prednisone was tapered.
We evaluated the effects of long-term treatment with amlodipine, a calcium antagonist, on nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and NOS messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in the left ventricle (LV) and its relation to coronary reserve, and microvascular remodeling in Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME)-induced hypertensive rats. Seventeen male Sprague-Dawley rats were given L-NAME (60 mg/kg/day) in drinking water for 6 weeks to induce hypertension, and then treated with amlodipine (L-NAME + A, 5 mg/kg/day, n = 9), or a vehicle (L-NAME + V, n = 8) for 4 weeks. Age-matched rats (C, n = 8) served as the control group. An increased blood pressure in L-NAME + V was significantly decreased in L-NAME + A. Nitrite production and endothelial cell (e) NOS mRNA in the LV were significantly decreased in L-NAME + V compared with C, and were significantly increased in L-NAME + A compared with C and L-NAME + V. L-NAME + V had a significantly decreased coronary reserve and capillary density, and a significantly increased type I collagen mRNA expression, wall-to-lumen ratio, perivascular fibrosis, myocardial fibrosis, and myocyte cross-sectional area. These parameters in the microvasculature were significantly improved by amlodipine. We concluded that NOS activity and eNOS mRNA were significantly increased by amlodipine in the LV of L-NAME-induced hypertensive rats, and that these increase NOS activity and eNOS mRNA expression may play a role in the amelioration of coronary reserve and microvascular remodeling.
The possibility that the atypical neuroleptic olanzapine can antagonize the ability of cocaine to produce both conditioned place preference and self-administration in rats was investigated. Pre-treatment with olanzapine (3.0, 4.5 mg/kg, but not 1.5 mg/kg) significantly attenuated conditioned place preference produced by cocaine (10 mg/kg). However, the higher dose of olanzapine administered alone resulted in conditioned place aversion. Pre-treatment with olanzapine also produced a dose-dependent decrease in cocaine self-administration (0.33 mg/infusion) under a fixed-ratio 2 schedule of reinforcement. Olanzapine produced a similar dose-responsive attenuation in operant responding for food (fixed-ratio 10) suggesting that olanzapine produces a nonspecific decrease in operant behavior. Pre-treatment with 4.5 mg/kg olanzapine significantly attenuated cocaine-induced hyperactivity, whereas lower olanzapine doses had little effect upon cocaine-induced hyperactivity. These results suggest that pre-treatment with olanzapine is capable of blocking the reinforcing effects of cocaine and illustrates the value of using multiple tests of reinforcement when evaluating the pharmacological effects of newer psychotherapeutic agents.
Renal tubular necrosis was observed following intramuscular injections of cephalothin into rats. Lesions were consistently produced with 5.0g/kg and were maximal in severity at the 2nd and 3rd days following injection. Renal tubular necrosis following cephalothin was similar in morphology to that produced by nephrotoxic doses (2.0 g/kg) of cephaloridine. The nephrotoxic potential of cephalothin has been demonstrated in the rat model and caution is urged in using large doses of cephalothin.
