The root of Panax ginseng CA Meyer (ginseng) has been used for diabetes, cancer, stress and allergic diseases in the traditional Chinese medicine.
To understand the role of intestinal microflora in the pharmacological effect of ginsenoside Re, which is a main constituent of ginseng, we investigated its anti-scratching behavioral effect in the mice treated with or without antibiotics.
Ginsenoside Re was orally administered to the mice treated with antibiotics (cefadroxil, oxytetracycline and erythromycin mixture (COE), streptomycin or/and tetracycline) and then investigated the relationship between ginsenoside Re-metabolizing β-glucosidase and α-rhamnosidase activities of intestinal microflora and its antiscratching behavioral effect. The anti-scratching behavioral effects of ginsenosides were investigated in the increments of 1 h and 6 h after their oral administrations. The scratching behavioral frequency was measured for 1 h after treatment with histamine.
Ginsenoside Re inhibited histamine-induced scratching behavior in mice. The anti-scratching behavioral effect of ginsenoside Re was more potent 6 h after its oral administration than 1 h after. However, its inhibitory effect was significantly attenuated in mice treated with COE, but it nearly was not affected in mice treated with streptomycin and/or tetracycline. Treatment with COE also significantly lowered fecal ginsenoside Re-metabolizing β-glucosidase and α-rhamnosidase activities in mice, as well as fecal metabolic activity of ginsenoside Re to ginsenoside Rh1. The anti-scratching behavioral effect of ginsenoside Rh1, a metabolite of ginsenoside Re by intestinal microflora, was superior to that of ginsenoside Re. Ginsenoside Rh1 potently inhibited the expression of IL-4 and TNF-α, as well as the activation of NF-κB and c-jun activation in histamine-stimulated scratching behavioral mice.
Ginsenoside Re may be metabolized to ginsenoside Rh1 by intestinal microflora, which enhances its anti-scratching behavioral effect by inhibiting NF-κB and c-jun activations.
To investigate the presence of liver lesions and their relation with vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) exposure or other personal risk factors, in workers involved in the production of VCM and polyvinyl chloride (PVC).
A liver ultrasonography examination was conducted in 757 workers, some of whom had long standing service in the production of VCM and PVC. The study involved: assessment of individual past and present VCM exposure of each worker; collection of past personal health history, lifestyle and personal data; routine liver function tests; and liver ultrasonography.
No cases of liver malignancies were detected. Angiomas and liver cysts were found with a frequency of occurrence within the expected range of the general population. The main findings consisted of hepatomegaly (34.7%), steatosis (31.8%), and periportal fibrosis (16.0%). A logistic regression analysis indicated that hepatomegaly and steatosis were associated with obesity and lipid metabolism disturbances and not with VCM exposure. Periportal fibrosis, in addition to constitutional or dietary factors, was shown to be associated with VCM exposure, but only when maximum exposure in the subject's history had been at least 200 ppm as a yearly average; no effects were observed at 50 ppm or below.
Workers exposed to 200 ppm VCM for at least one year have a fourfold increased risk of developing periportal liver fibrosis. Liver ultrasonography is a suitable and important diagnostic test for the medical surveillance of vinyl chloride workers.
Clozapine is currently the treatment of choice for neuroleptic-resistant schizophrenia. Olanzapine is a new antipsychotic drug that has shown efficacy against positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia, with minimal extrapyramidal side effects. However, the effectiveness of olanzapine has not yet been reported among treatment-refractory schizophrenic patients.
A total of 25 schizophrenic patients (DSM-IV criteria) with documented lack of response to two conventional antipsychotic drugs entered this 6-week prospective, open-label treatment trial with olanzapine 15 to 25 mg/day. An optional extension up to 6 months was provided.
As a group, the olanzapine-treated patients showed statistically significant improvement (p < .05) in both positive and negative symptoms by the end of 6 weeks of therapy. Overall, 9 of the patients (36%) met the a priori criteria for treatment-response (> or = 35% decrease in Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale [BPRS] total score, plus posttreatment Clinical Global Impression-Severity < or = 3 or BPRS total < 18). Only one patient discontinued treatment because of an adverse event during the study. Despite the relatively high dosages of olanzapine used, there were no reports of parkinsonism, akathisia, or dystonia, and no patients required anticholinergic medication.
This open study suggests that olanzapine may be effective and well tolerated for a substantial number of neuroleptic-resistant schizophrenic patients. Further blinded, controlled trials are needed to confirm our results.
An association between the ingestion of 72 gm of thioridazine over a 31-month period and immune hemolytic anemia is reported, with a schematic presentation of drug treatment and hematopoietic response during hospitalization.
Influence of methylprednisolone (MP) and cyclosporine A (CsA) on the extracellular matrix and growth factors was studied on the model of rapid nephrotoxic nephritis (RNN) and puromycin-aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN). MP decreased accumulation of type IV collagen in RNN and increased the content of laminine in both models. CsA decreased deposits of type IV collagen but increased accumulation of fibronectin in both models. CsA reduced the content of a free form of oPRP in both models but MP did so in RNN only. CsA and MP decreased the level of active PRP in both models but MP did so in RNN only. CsA and MP decreased the level of active TPR-beta and increased the content of latent forms but CsA was more active in PAN. In experimental models of inflammatory RNN and non-inflammatory CPAN nephropathy CsA raised fibronectin production, MP increased deposition of laminine. CsA in both models suppressed production of basic fibrogenic factor TPR-beta while MP inhibited this in RNN only.
Extracellular microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as novel biomarkers (BMs) for various pathological states. To evaluate whether urinary miRNAs could serve as biomarkers for drug-induced kidney injury, we performed a nephrotoxicity study in rats with cisplatin (Cp), which is known to induce renal proximal tubular lesions in several species. Male Wistar rats were treated with a single dose of Cp (0, 1 and 3mg/kg) and urine was collected on days 3, 5, 8, 15 and 26 for measurement of several biomarkers and for RNA isolation. MiRNA profiling experiments with urine samples derived from the 3mg/kg Cp dosed animals, identified 136 miRNAs significantly increased in urine 3 and 5 days after Cp administration. 18 miRNAs with distinct time-dependent profiles were further analyzed using specific miRNA assays and absolute quantification. We observed >20-fold changes for 11 of these 18 miRNAs measured in profiling experiments, and confirmed their direction of change and time course profile by absolute quantification. Furthermore we found mechanistic links between several miRNAs and simultaneously measured mRNAs in the kidney after Cp administration. These were associated with pathways suggested to be involved in Cp-induced nephrotoxicity including a DNA damage response, apoptosis, and cell cycle regulation. Overall our results indicate that miRNAs measured in urine may serve as BMs for nephrotoxicity in rats.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain increased lipid peroxidation and decreased energy utilization are found. Mitochondria membranes contain a significant amount of arachidonic and linoleic acids, precursors of lipid peroxidation products, 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE) and 2-propen-1-al (acrolein), that are extremely reactive. Both alkenals are increased in AD brain. In this study, we examined the effects of nanomolar levels of acrolein on the activities of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) and Alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (KGDH), both reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH)-linked mitochondrial enzymes. Acrolein decreased PDH and KGDH activities significantly in a dose-dependent manner. Using high performance liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS), acrolein was found to bind lipoic acid, a component in both the PDH and KGDH complexes, most likely explaining the loss of enzyme activity. Acrolein also interacted with oxidized nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) in such a way as to decrease the production of NADH. Acrolein, which is increased in AD brain, may be partially responsible for the dysfunction of mitochondria and loss of energy found in AD brain by inhibition of PDH and KGDH activities, potentially contributing to the neurodegeneration in this disorder.
Ten out of 79 patients treated with ifosfamide (IFO) developed a complete (n = 2) or partial (n = 8) de Toni-Debré-Fanconi syndrome (RFS). All but one of these patients had been treated in addition with cisplatinum (CPL) or had undergone radiotherapy to the abdomen or nephrectomy as part of the overall treatment for malignancy. A detailed nephrological work-up of proximal tubular function showed decreased fractional phosphate and percent aminoacid reabsorption in 37.1 and 56.7% of cases, respectively, and the excretion of alpha 1-microglobulin and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase was elevated in 44.4 and 23.5%. Glomerular function was well preserved in the majority of patients. Tubular dysfunction was confirmed by silver-stained SDS PAGE of urine which showed mostly low molecular weight proteinuria. CPL has been shown to result in renal magnesium loss and reduced glomerular filtration rate, and its toxicity clearly differs from IFO-mediated tubulopathy. Our data suggest that subclinical impairment of proximal tubular function was significantly increased by additional CPL therapy. We conclude that CPL may enhance IFO-mediated nephrotoxicity and that a substantial number of patients is at risk of developing persistent tubular dysfunction leading to metabolic bone disease.
Renal antigens are proteins that originate from the kidney and are detectable in urine by immunological techniques. After renal injury cell fragments are shed and appear in urine. Thus, the appearance of cellular fragments represents acute damage to renal cells caused by various means. With this approach proximal tubular cell injury can be detected using the proteins intestinal alkaline phosphatase (IAP) a brush border enzyme, or villin, a protein of the cytoskeleton. Both proteins have been found in urine from children receiving immunosuppressive treatment, including ifosfamide and aminoglycosides. In contrast, Tamm-Horsfall protein (THP) is an actively secreted protein that has been found by mRNA-analysis to occur only in the kidney. Immuno-reactivity to THP is restricted to the ascending loop of Henle and the early distal tubule. In human fetal specimens, THP expression was consistently found in the 16th week of gestation. In amniotic fluid THP was detectable after the 20th week, rising to a median value of 1.3 mg.l-1 at birth. In disturbed pregnancies with the feto-fetal transfusion syndrome, THP was not detectable, indicating reduced tubular THP secretion and renal function. Postnatally, THP excretion increases steadily, reaching a maximum in early adulthood. THP-excretion is low immediately after renal transplantation, reflecting acute renal failure in the early phase of transplantation, and increases to a normal values two to three weeks later. In severe diabetic ketoacidosis THP excretion is extremely low, with partial recovery 12 days later. The combination of low THP excretion and high proximal tubular enzyme release indicates both proximal (renal cortical) and distal tubular (renal medullary) damage in diabetic ketoacidosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To identify susceptibility loci for classical Hodgkin's lymphoma (cHL), we conducted a genome-wide association study of 589 individuals with cHL (cases) and 5,199 controls with validation in four independent samples totaling 2,057 cases and 3,416 controls. We identified three new susceptibility loci at 2p16.1 (rs1432295, REL, odds ratio (OR) = 1.22, combined P = 1.91 × 10(-8)), 8q24.21 (rs2019960, PVT1, OR = 1.33, combined P = 1.26 × 10(-13)) and 10p14 (rs501764, GATA3, OR = 1.25, combined P = 7.05 × 10(-8)). Furthermore, we confirmed the role of the major histocompatibility complex in disease etiology by revealing a strong human leukocyte antigen (HLA) association (rs6903608, OR = 1.70, combined P = 2.84 × 10(-50)). These data provide new insight into the pathogenesis of cHL.
Chronic, unhealed diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) is one of the most severe complications of diabetes mellitus (DM). Naringin, a flavanone glycoside antioxidant, was reported to have antidiabetic and anti-apoptotic properties. In the present study DM was induced experimentally by streptozotocin (STZ, 55 mg/kg, i.p.). In surgically introduced wounds on the dorsal surface of the hind paw of rats, the healing potential of naringin was investigated. Rats were treated with naringin (20, 40 and 80 mg/kg, p.o.), insulin (10 IU/kg, s.c.) and tetrachlorodecaoxide (TCDO) (1 drop, twice a day, topically) for 16 days. The wound area was measured every second day, and on day 17 various biochemical parameters were determined in serum, wound tissue, and histopathological examination of the wound was performed. Naringin (40 and 80 mg/kg) significantly (P<0.05) improved wound area, serum glucose level, glycated Hb and serum insulin. Naringin treatment at 40 and 80 mg/kg resulted in significant (P<0.05) up-regulation of mRNA expression of growth factor (IFG-1, TGF-β and VEGF-c), Ang-1 and collagen-1 whereas mRNA expression of inflammatory mediators (TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6) was down-regulated. Furthermore, naringin significantly (P<0.05) attenuated STZ-induced apoptosis and stimulated angiogenesis in the wound tissue. Further results suggest that angiogenesis was improved via naringin-mediated inhibition of hyperglycemia, oxidative stress, down-regulation of inflammatory mediator expression and up-regulation of growth factor expression, leading to improved wound healing of DFU.
Applying military jet fuel (JP-8) or commercial jet fuel (Jet-A) to the skin of mice suppresses the immune response in a dose-dependent manner. The release of biological response modifiers, particularly prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), is a critical step in activating immune suppression. Previous studies have shown that injecting selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors into jet fuel-treated mice blocks immune suppression. Because the inflammatory phospholipid mediator, platelet-activating factor (PAF), up-regulates cyclooxygenase-2 production and PGE2 synthesis by keratinocytes, we tested the hypothesis that PAF-receptor binding plays a role in jet fuel-induced immune suppression. Treating keratinocyte cultures with PAF and/or jet fuel (JP-8 and Jet-A) stimulates PGE2 secretion. Jet fuel-induced PGE2 production was suppressed by treating the keratinocytes with specific PAF-receptor antagonists. Injecting mice with PAF, or treating the skin of the mice with JP-8, or Jet-A, induced immune suppression. Jet fuel-induced immune suppression was blocked when the jet fuel-treated mice were injected with PAF-receptor antagonists before treatment. Jet fuel treatment has been reported to activate oxidative stress and treating the mice with anti-oxidants (Vitamins C, or E or beta-hydroxy toluene), before jet fuel application, interfered with immune suppression. These findings confirm previous studies showing that PAF-receptor binding can modulate immune function. Furthermore, they suggest that PAF-receptor binding may be an early event in the induction of immune suppression by immunotoxic environmental agents that target the skin.
Exposure to ethanol during development can lead to a constellation of congenital anomalies, resulting in prenatal and postnatal failure to thrive, central nervous system (CNS) deficits, and a number of patterning defects that lead to defects in the cardiovascular system, facial structures, and limbs. The cellular, biochemical, and molecular mechanisms by which ethanol exerts its developmental toxicity and the genes that influence sensitivity to developmental ethanol exposure have yet to be discovered, despite being one of the more common nongenetic causes of birth defects. The zebrafish undergoes much the same patterning and morphogenesis as other vertebrate embryos do--including humans--that are distinct and cannot be studied in invertebrates. Developmental processes in zebrafish are affected by ethanol exposure in a dose-dependent manner, resulting in learning and memory deficits, cell death in the CNS, skeletal dysmorphogenesis, and alterations in startle reflex responses. Interestingly, significant ethanol effects on learning and behavioral endpoints occurred at concentrations well below those that induced cell death in the CNS. This work provides the foundation for identifying genes and pathways involved in developmental alcohol toxicity in vertebrates, leading to a more complete mechanistic understanding of fetal alcohol disorders in humans.
In utero cocaine (IUC) exposure results in offspring rats in complex neurochemical and behavioral alterations, particularly affecting learning and memory processes. We examined here the impact of IUC exposure on memory functions in male and female offspring rats and report that selective sigma(1) (sigma(1)) receptor agonists are effective in reversing the deficits. Dams received a daily cocaine, 20 mg/kg ip, injection between gestational days E17 to E20. Learning was examined in offspring between day P30 and P41 using delayed alternation in the T-maze, water-maze learning and passive avoidance. Both male and female rats prenatally exposed to cocaine showed delayed alternation deficits and impairments of acquisition of a fixed platform position in the water maze, as shown by higher acquisition latencies and diminutions of time spent in the training quadrant during the probe test. The acquisition of a daily changing platform position also demonstrated impaired working memory. Finally, passive avoidance deficits were observed. Pretreatment with the synthetic sigma(1) agonist igmesine (0.1-1 mg/kg ip) or the neuroactive steroid dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA 10-40 mg/kg ip) reversed the prenatal cocaine-induced learning deficits in offspring rats for each test. The sigma(1) antagonist BD1063 (1 mg/kg ip) failed to affect performances alone but blocked the igmesine and DHEA effects, confirming the involvement of the sigma(1) receptor. IUC exposure thus results in marked memory deficits, affecting spatial and nonspatial short- and long-term memories in juvenile male and female offspring rats. The activation of the sigma(1) neuromodulatory receptor allows a complete behavioral recovery of the memory functions in prenatally cocaine-exposed rats.
The ototoxicity of "Cortisporin Otic Suspension" containing 3.5 ml neomycin base, 10,000 units/ml polymyxin B was studied using the baboon (papio ursinus) as an experimental animal. Inner and outer hair cell loss occurred in all cochleas of the ears which received cortisporin. Most lesions were confined to the basal turn of the organ of Corti. Separate evaluation of polymyxin B and neomycin at the same concentration as in cortisporin showed that polymyxin B produced greater cochlear damage. The results of this study and clinical reports of sensorineural hearing loss due to commercially available ear drops indicate that ototopical preparations must be used with caution in clinical situations in which they may reach the middle ear.
The central nervous system is especially susceptible to toxic insults during development. Prenatal administration of bisphenol A (BPA) induces histologic anomalies in the dorsal telencephalon of the embryo. Whether these anomalies affect the morphogenesis and maturation of neuronal function of the newborn neocortex, however, is unknown. To evaluate the neurodevelopmental and behavioral effects of prenatal BPA exposure at 20 and 200μg/kg/day in newborn mice, we performed a detailed histologic analysis of the neocortex and tested for the presence of behavioral abnormalities in newborn mice prenatally exposed to BPA using our newly developed behavioral test. Observations of newborn mice prenatally exposed to BPA revealed abnormal neuronal distribution and layer formation, hypoplasia of layer 6b, and abnormal dopaminergic neuronal projections in the neocortex. Further, the newborn mice exhibited hyperactivity. These findings suggest that prenatal BPA exposure induces neurobehavioral toxicity associated with abnormal dopaminergic neuronal projections, and abnormal corticogenesis and lamination. Histologic and behavioral analyses of newborn mice are considered useful for assessing the neurodevelopmental and behavioral toxicity of chemicals.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a well-known environmental pollutant toxic to the nervous tissue, particularly during development. We recently described transitory hippocampal changes in neonate rats prenatally exposed to MeHg. In this study, we evaluate oxidative stress in the hippocampus on the 1st and 30th postnatal days. Motor behavior (open-field, foot-fault and strength tests) of these animals also was studied after the 30th postnatal day. Female Wistar rats were injected with MeHg (5 mg/Hg/day) on the 12th, 13th and 14th gestational days. Biochemical parameters measured for oxidative stress were levels of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and catalase (CAT). Total antioxidant reactivity (TAR) and protein oxidation (contents of tryptophan and tyrosine) were also recorded. Our results showed low activities of antioxidant enzymes in the MeHg group at birth. SOD activity remained reduced on the 30th postnatal day. Moreover, a decrease of TAR and protein oxidation was observed only at 30 days of age. No changes were observed in the motor behavior of these animals. Although mercury content in hippocampus is present at undetectable levels at 30 days of age, we observed more persistent changes in oxidative balance. Our data confirm that mercury induces oxidative stress in hippocampus and that this alteration, particularly SOD activity, remained altered even when mercury was no longer present.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted to study the effects of acute and chronic administration of carvedilol in essential hypertension, with special emphasis on renal haemodynamics and function. Acute administration of a single dose of 50 mg carvedilol reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure without inducing reflex tachycardia. Renal blood flow was preserved; accordingly, renal vascular resistance was significantly reduced. A significant reduction in the glomerular filtration rate and filtration fraction was observed. Plasma renin activity (PRA) and plasma aldosterone values were not changed. Chronic carvedilol treatment produced a significant fall in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, PRA and plasma aldosterone. Renal blood flow, glomerular filtration rate and filtration fraction also remained unchanged; renal vascular resistance decreased significantly. It is concluded that carvedilol possesses definite antihypertensive and renal vasodilating properties, both acutely and after chronic treatment.
Space motion sickness (SMS) is a problem during the first 72 h of space flight and during transitions from different gravity environments. There currently are no effective drug countermeasures for SMS that also accommodate the retention of optimal cognitive function. This creates a dilemma for astronauts because cognitive skills are particularly important during gravity transitions (e.g., take-off and landing). To quantify the cognitive side effects of potential drug countermeasures, an automated delayed matching-to-sample (DMTS) procedure was used to assess visual working memory before and after drug countermeasures (meclizine 25 mg, scopolamine 0.4 mg, promethazine 25 mg, or lorazepam 1 mg, given orally approximately 45 min prior to testing) and/or the induction of SMS by vestibular stimulation in a rotary chair (spinning). Sixty-seven normal healthy volunteers (mean age, in years, 26.6+/-4.8 S.D.; 24 females and 43 males) each participated in two test sessions, one 'off' drug and one 'on' drug. Spinning by itself significantly decreased task accuracy (Acc) and choice response speed, especially at longer recall delays. Meclizine alone had no effect on Acc or speed with or without spinning. Scopolamine alone decreased Acc, and with spinning, slowed speed. Promethazine alone had no adverse effect, but combined with spinning, decreased Acc and speed. Lorazepam alone decreased speed, and with spinning, decreased Acc. The data suggest that, at clinically useful doses, the rank order of the drugs with the best cognitive profiles is meclizine>scopolamine>promethazine>lorazepam.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra and movement defects, including bradykinesia, tremor, and postural imbalance. Whereas the etiology and pathogenesis of PD is still poorly understood, studies in animal models are providing important insights. One valuable type of animal model for PD is established by treating animals with PD-inducing neurotoxins, including 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), rotenone, and paraquat. These neurotoxins are thought to inhibit mitochondrial complex I activity leading to oxidative stress, impaired energy metabolism, proteasomal dysfunction, and, eventually, dopamine neuronal loss. However, the genes and pathways that underlie the neurotoxicity of these agents are not known. In this study, we explored the effect of MPTP, rotenone, and paraquat in both adult and larval zebrafish, which are highly amenable to genetic analysis that can lead to the identification of the underlying genes and pathways. Here, we report that adult zebrafish display behavioral alterations, including decreased locomotor activity in response to MPTP, whereas larval zebrafish exhibited developmental, behavioral, and DA sensitivity to these agents. Taken together, these findings suggest that zebrafish could be a valuable model for genetically dissecting the molecular mechanisms underlying the neurotoxicity of PD-inducing agents.
Numerous studies suggest that age-related declines in memory storage are related to impairment of central cholinergic systems. Scopolamine, a muscarinic cholinergic antagonist, has been used with young humans and other animal species as a model of the cognitive impairment that often accompanies normal and pathological aging. The present study examined whether amnesia induced by scopolamine could be counteracted in mice by arecoline, a cholinergic agonist, or by other drugs, epinephrine or glucose, which have been found to enhance memory in aged rodents and humans. Young mice were administered scopolamine (3 mg/kg, IP) or saline prior to training on an inhibitory avoidance apparatus. Immediately after training, animals received injections of epinephrine (0.01, 0.05, 0.1, and 0.2 mg/kg), glucose (10, 100, and 250 mg/kg), arecoline (0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10, and 20 mg/kg), or saline. The results indicate that pre-training scopolamine reliably impaired retention assessed in test trials 48 h after training. This impairment was not attenuated by any post-training dose of arecoline; however, immediate post-training injections of both epinephrine (at 0.05 mg/kg) and glucose (at 100 mg/kg) significantly reduced the amnesia. Neither of these drugs was effective if injections were delayed by 1 h after training. These results support the value of scopolamine as a model of age-related memory impairments, but suggest further that these memory deficits may be particularly susceptible to attenuation with non-cholinergic treatments.
Aberrant activation of the wingless-type- (Wnt)-signaling pathway is common in many cancers including nasopharyngeal (NPC) and esophageal squamous cell (ESCC) carcinomas, both prevalent in Southern China and Southeast Asia. However, the molecular mechanism leading to this abnormality is still obscure. Wnt inhibitory factor-1 (WIF1) is a secreted antagonist of the Wnt pathway, and is recently shown to be inactivated by epigenetic mechanism in some tumors. Here, we examined whether WIF1 is also inactivated epigenetically in NPC and ESCC. With semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR and methylation-specific PCR, we detected WIF1 downregulation or silencing in 6/6 of NPC and 12/19 of ESCC cell lines, which is well correlated with its methylation status. Methylation was further confirmed by high-resolution bisulfite genomic sequencing. Methylation was also frequently observed in a large collection of primary tumors of NPC (85%, 55/65) and ESCC (27%, 25/92), with WIF1 expressed and unmethylated in normal NPC and esophageal cell lines and normal tissues. Treatment of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine demethylated WIF1 and induced its expression in NPC and ESCC cell lines, highlighting a direct role of epigenetic inactivation. Ectopic expression of WIF1 in NPC and ESCC tumor cells resulted in significant inhibition of tumor cell colony formation, similar to TP53, and also significant downregulation of beta-catenin protein level in NPC cells. Thus, WIF1 functions as a tumor suppressor for both NPC and ESCC through suppressing the Wnt-signaling pathway, but is frequently silenced by epigenetic mechanism in a tumor-specific way. Our study indicates that epigenetic inactivation of WIF1 contributes to the aberrant activation of Wnt pathway and is involved in the pathogenesis of both tumors. WIF1 methylation could also serve as a specific biomarker for these tumors.
The epidemiology of extrapyramidal reactions to metoclopramide was studied by examining reports in the Adverse Reactions Register of the Committee on the Safety of Medicines and comparing these with prescribing figures by general practitioners in the United Kingdom for metoclopramide (Maxolon). In the period 1967-82 there were an estimated 15.9 million prescriptions and 479 reports of extrapyramidal reactions (455 of dystonia-dyskinesia, 20 of parkinsonism, and four of tardive dyskinesia). When corrected for prescribing rates the relative risk of dystonia and dyskinesia was 1.8 in female compared with male patients (95% confidence interval 1.4-2.2). The overall reporting rate for dystonia and dyskinesia was 28.6/million prescriptions but was significantly more common in young adults (p less than 0.0001) and especially girls and women aged 12-19 (190.7 reports/million prescriptions). By contrast parkinsonian reactions were significantly more common in the elderly (p less than 0.0001).
