With the improved life expectancy of beta-thalassemia major patients, new clinical problems, such as hearing loss, must be evaluated. To determine the incidence of sensorineural hearing loss and its relationship to desferrioxamine (DFO), 128 patients receiving subcutaneous DFO in doses from 21 to 39 mg/kg/day were studied. These patients had received their total weekly dose of DFO according to two different methods. The first group (QOD group of 52%) had received it on an every other day basis. The second group (QD group of 48%) had received it on 6 days a week. Otological examinations and pure tone audiometry were performed on the patients as they routinely visited Shiraz Cooley's Center, to find a possible correlation between the dose and duration of therapy. 56 patients (44%) in both groups had no evidence of drug-induced auditory abnormalities. Of the patients in the QOD group 44.7% had hearing loss in the right ear and 41.8% in the left ear at a frequency of 8,000 Hz compared to the QD group, 27.8 and 23%, respectively (with p < 0.047 and p < 0.02, respectively). No correlation was found between the duration of DFO therapy and sensorineural deficit. A significant correlation was found between the dose of drug given at each episode of DFO therapy and hearing loss at the frequency of 8,000 Hz, when comparing the QOD group with the QD group. Hence, it may be concluded that DFO ototoxicity is determined not only by the total amount of the drug given, but also by its maximal plasma concentration. Thus we suggest periodical audiologic checkups and a low dosage of DFO (below 50 mg/kg/day) given on at least 5-6 days a week for the prevention and prompt diagnosis of audiologic complications.
Developmental exposure to BPA adversely affects reproductive function. In sheep, prenatal BPA treatment induces reproductive neuroendocrine defects, manifested as LH excess and dampened LH surge and perturbs early ovarian gene expression. In this study we hypothesized that prenatal BPA treatment will also disrupt ovarian follicular dynamics. Pregnant sheep were treated from days 30 to 90 of gestation with 3 different BPA doses (0.05, 0.5, or 5mg/kgBW/day). All female offspring were estrus synchronized and transrectal ultrasonography was performed daily for 22days to monitor ovarian follicular and corpora lutea dynamics. Blood samples were collected to assess preovulatory hormonal changes and luteal progesterone dynamics. Statistical analysis revealed that the time interval between the estradiol rise and the preovulatory LH surge was shortened in the BPA-treated females. None of the three BPA doses had an effect on corpora lutea, progestogenic cycles, and mean number or duration of ovulatory and non-ovulatory follicles. However, differences in follicular count trajectories were evident in all three follicular size classes (2-3mm, 4-5mm, and ≥6mm) of prenatal BPA-treated animals compared to controls. Number of follicular waves tended also to be more variable in the prenatal BPA-treated groups ranging from 2 to 5 follicular waves per cycle, while this was restricted to 3 to 4 waves in control females. These changes in ovarian follicular dynamics coupled with defects in time interval between estradiol rise and preovulatory LH release are likely to lead to subfertility in prenatal BPA-treated females.
Extrapyramidal symptomatology has previously been reported in patients on long-term lithium maintenance. This report emphasizes that, in the presence of organic mental disorder, even brief treatment with lithium may induce severe extrapyramidal signs. Furthermore, toxicity to lithium may occur even though serum lithium levels are at therapeutic levels. Following termination of lithium, symptoms subsided quickly in one patient (five days), but more slowly in the other (16 days). Possible pathophysiology of this phenomenon is discussed.
Diabetic nephropathy is the kidney disease that occurs as a result of diabetes. The present study was aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of myricetin by assaying the activities of key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism, insulin signaling molecules and renal function markers in streptozotocin (STZ)-cadmium (Cd) induced diabetic nephrotoxic rats. After myricetin treatment schedule, blood and tissue samples were collected to determine plasma glucose, insulin, hemoglobin, glycosylated hemoglobin and renal function markers, carbohydrate metabolic enzymes in the liver and insulin signaling molecules in the pancreas and skeletal muscle. A significant increase of plasma glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, urea, uric acid, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), urinary albumin, glycogen phosphorylase, glucose-6-phosphatase, and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and a significant decrease of plasma insulin, hemoglobin, hexokinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glycogen and glycogen synthase with insulin signaling molecule expression were found in the STZ-Cd induced diabetic nephrotoxic rats. The administration of myricetin significantly normalizes the carbohydrate metabolic products like glucose, glycated hemoglobin, glycogen phosphorylase and gluconeogenic enzymes and renal function markers with increase insulin, glycogen, glycogen synthase and insulin signaling molecule expression like glucose transporter-2 (GLUT-2), glucose transporter-4 (GLUT-4), insulin receptor-1 (IRS-1), insulin receptor-2 (IRS-2) and protein kinase B (PKB). Based on the data, the protective effect of myricetin was confirmed by its histological annotation of the pancreas, liver and kidney tissues. These findings suggest that myricetin improved carbohydrate metabolism which subsequently enhances glucose utilization and renal function in STZ-Cd induced diabetic nephrotoxic rats.
The effects of quinidine on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of propranolol were investigated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Healthy subjects of group A (n = 5) and group B (n = 11) were given oral propranolol (dose: group A 10 mg, group B 20 mg) with placebo or propranolol with quinidine (dose: group A 100 mg, group B 200 mg) on separate occasions. Quinidine induced a significant rise in the plasma concentrations of propranolol, and the area under the propranolol concentration-time curves (AUC) was also increased about 3-fold in both groups, indicative of an alteration of propranolol pharmacokinetics. In order to estimate the pharmacodynamic action of the pharmacokinetic interaction, the change in the heart rate during treadmill exercise testing was studied in group A. A significant inhibition of exercise-induced tachycardia was observed after administration of propranolol alone, but in combination with quinidine an even greater suppression was evident. These results indicate that the coadministration of propranolol and quinidine provides not only the potentiation of quinidine action by propranolol, which has been reported, but also the enhancement of propranolol action by quinidine, due to an increased plasma concentration of propranolol.
To report previously underrecognized postdosing side effects of methotrexate (MTX).
Over a one and a half year period, in 2 practices, all patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) receiving weekly MTX, and volunteering symptoms within a few hours of MTX dosing were carefully questioned concerning the nature of the postdosing reaction.
Of 356 patients, 36 (10%) reported a previously underemphasized postdosing reaction consisting of arthralgias/myalgias, fatigue/malaise or both. Sixteen patients discontinued MTX primarily because of this side effect.
In these patient populations, postdosing reactions were the 2nd most common side effect (after gastrointestinal) leading to MTX withdrawal.
Anorectal melanoma is an extremely rare malignancy, and has a poor prognosis mainly due to delays in diagnosis and lack of effective systemic therapy. We report the case of a 63-year-old female patient with anorectal melanoma. Diagnosis was established after surgery by histology and immunohistochemistry. Surgical management consisted of abdominoperineal resection of the rectum. Postoperatively, the patient received combination therapy of dacarbazine, nimustine hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, and interferon-beta for 3 cycles. Ten months later, a solitary brain metastatic tumor was noted in the left occipital region, which was resected surgically followed by the above combination therapy for 2 cycles. The last metastatic work-up was normal, and no evidence of recurrence was observed at 2-year follow-up. In our case, abdominoperineal resection of the rectum appears to have some effect in preventing regional and lymph node recurrence. Furthermore, our case suggests that prolongation of survival may depend on extensive block resection and combination therapy of DAV and interferon-beta.
A randomized, multicenter, open clinical trial was undertaken in order to compare the efficacies of azithromycin and doxycycline in the treatment of patients with Lyme disease associated with erythema migrans.
A total of 48 patients was treated orally with azithromycin, 500 mg bid on the 1st day, followed by 500 mg once daily for the next 4 days or doxycycline (40 patients) 100 mg bid for 14 days.
Intention-to-treat analysis of clinical efficacy showed no difference between the two treatment regimens. Clinical success was observed in 46 (95.8%) azithromycin- and 33 (82.5%) doxycycline-treated patients, (p = 0.0731). Minor symptoms persisted or appeared in the posttreatment period in two of 47 azithromycin- and three of 35 doxycycline-treated patients (p = 0.646). Major manifestations appeared only in two patients in the doxycycline group (p = 0.179). There was no difference in the tolerability of both drugs.
Azithromycin (a total dose of 3 g) is equally effective as standard doxycycline treatment for erythema migrans in adult patients.
Dienaldehydes are by-products of peroxidation of polyunsaturated lipids and commonly found in many foods or food-products. Both National Cancer Institute (NCI) and NTP have expressed great concern on the potential genotoxicity and carcinogenicity of dienaldehydes. Trans, trans-2,4-decadienal (tt-DDE or 2,4-De), a specific type of dienaldehyde, is abundant in heated oils and has been associated with lung adenocarcinoma development in women due to their exposure to oil fumes during cooking. Cultured human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2B cells) were exposed to 0.1 or 1.0 microM tt-DDE for 45 days, and oxidative stress, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, GSH/GSSG ratio, cell proliferation, and expression of TNFalpha and IL-1beta were measured. The results show that tt-DDE induced oxidative stress, an increase in ROS production, and a decrease in GSH/GSSG ratio (glutathione status) in a dose-dependent manner. Treatment of BEAS-2B cells with 1.0 microM tt-DDE for 45 days increased cell proliferation and the expression and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines TNFalpha and IL-1beta. Cotreatment of BEAS-2B cells with antioxidant N-acetylcysteine prevented tt-DDE-induced cell proliferation and release of cytokines. Therefore, these results suggest that tt-DDE-induced changes may be due to increased ROS production and enhanced oxidative stress. Since increased cell proliferation and the release of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta are believed to be involved in tumor promotion, our results suggest that tt-DDE may play a role in cancer promotion. Previous studies on dienaldehydes have focused on their genotoxic or carcinogenic effects in the gastrointestinal tract; the present study suggests a potential new role of tt-DDE as a tumor promoter in human lung epithelial cells.
The aim of the present research was to assess in experimental and clinical study the influence of doxepin administered intraperitoneally (ip) as preemptive analgesia on the nociception in the perioperative period. The pain thresholds for mechanical stimuli were measured in rats. The objective of clinical investigation was to assess the influence of preemptive administration of doxepin on postoperative pain intensity, analgesic requirement in the early postoperative period as well as an assessment of the quality of postoperative analgesia by the patient. Doxepin injected ip (3-30 mg/kg) dose-dependently increased the pain threshold for mechanical stimuli measured in paw pressure test in rats. Doxepin injected 30 min before formalin significantly increased the nociceptive threshold in the paw pressure test. In contrast, doxepin injected 240 min before formalin or 10 min after formalin did not change the nociceptive threshold. Morphine administered subcutaneously (sc) at a dose of 1 mg/kg increased the pain threshold measured in the paw pressure test 55 min after formalin treatment. Injection of 10 mg/kg of doxepin 30 min before formalin further enhanced the response after morphine administration. The results of the clinical study demonstrated that the patients who were administered doxepin preemptively showed significantly lower pethidine requirement in order to achieve a similar level of postoperative analgesia. The results of the research under discussion confirm the theoretical assumptions that there is a possibility to modify the nociception process in the perioperative period through preemptive analgesia using a drug that modifies the activity of the descending antinociceptive system.
Seven episodes of simultaneous severe systemic arterial hypotension and absolute or relative bradycardia were observed in five patients receiving either sublingual nitroglycerin (two patients) or intravenous nitroglycerin (three patients) within the first 24 hours of onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction. Left ventricular filling pressure, measured as pulmonary artery diastolic pressure, decreased simultaneously in all four patients in whom pulmonary artery pressures were monitored. No initial increase in heart rate was observed in any of the five patients prior to the development of bradycardia. Possible mechanisms producing simultaneous bradycardia and hypotension during nitroglycerin administration are considered. The patient studies emphasize the importance of careful hemodynamic monitoring during administration of sublingual or intravenous nitroglycerin to patients with acute myocardial infarction.
Renal functional and structural changes were studied in rats treated with lithium for 5 months. The lithium was administered in two different ways: in the food or as a daily intraperitoneal injection. In the perorally treated rats serum lithium was relatively constant during the day. In the injected rats serum lithium reached a high peak value just after the injection followed by a decrease to very low values. In all rats an increased water consumption and a reduced renal concentration ability were seen during lithium treatment. Light microscopy showed focal degenerative changes in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting ducts. These changes comprised nuclear and cellular polymorphism and tubular dilatation. The functional as well as the structural changes were most pronounced in the rats treated with peroral lithium, and a correlation between the functional and morphological changes was present. It is concluded that lithium is more harmful to the kidney when the administrations give a relatively constant serum lithium level, such as in peroral administration, than when administration causes great variations, including peak values and very low minimum levels in serum lithium. The reason for this might be that a number of regenerative processes occur only in periods with low lithium concentrations.
The availability of oral precursors of 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) and its favorable results in treating advanced breast cancer have renewed the interest in the molecular mechanisms underlying its cytotoxicity. We have compared the changes in cell cycle and cell death parameters induced by 2 different concentrations of 5-FU (IC50 and IC80) in the breast adenocarcinoma cell line MCF7. G1/S cell cycle arrest was associated with both concentrations, whereas cell death was mainly induced after IC80 5-FU. These changes were correlated with gene expression assessed by cDNA microarray analysis. Main findings included an overexpression of p53 target genes involved in cell cycle and apoptosis (CDKN1A/p21, TP53INP, TNFRSF6/FAS and BBC3/PUMA), and significant repression of Myc. High dose 5-FU also induced a higher regulation of the mitochondrial death genes APAF1, BAK1 and BCL2, and induction of genes of the ID family. Furthermore, we establish a direct causal relationship between p21, ID1 and ID2 overexpression, increased acetylation of histones H3 and H4 and binding of p53 to their promoters as a result of 5-FU treatment. The relevance of these findings was further studied after interfering p53 expression in MCF7 cells (shp53 cells), showing a lower induction of both, ID1 and ID2 transcripts, after 5-FU when compared with MCF7 shGFP control cells. This molecular characterization of dose- and time-dependent modifications of gene expression after 5-FU treatment should provide a resource for future basic studies addressing the molecular mechanisms of chemotherapy in breast cancer.
Previous studies have shown that both copper (Cu) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) reduce the size of hypertrophic cardiomyocytes, but the Cu-induced regression is VEGF dependent. Studies in vivo have shown that hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is associated with a depression in cytochrome c oxidase (COX) activity, which could be involved in VEGF-mediated cellular function. The present study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that COX is a determinant factor in Cu-induced regression of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Primary cultures of neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were treated with phenylepherine (PE) at a final concentration of 100 microM in cultures for 48 h to induce cell hypertrophy. The hypertrophic cells were then treated with Cu sulfate at a final concentration of 5 microM in cultures for 24 h with a concomitant presence of PE to examine the effect of Cu on the regression of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Cell size changes were determined by flow cytometry, protein content, and molecular markers. Gene silencing was applied to study the effect of COX activity change on the regression of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. PE treatment decreased COX activity in hypertrophic cardiomyocytes, and Cu addition restored the activity along with the regression of cell hypertrophy. Gene silencing using siRNA targeting COX-I significantly inhibited COX activity and blocked the Cu-induced regression of cell hypertrophy. VEGF alone also restored COX activity; but under the condition of COX inhibition by gene silencing, VEGF-induced regression of cell hypertrophy was suppressed. This study demonstrates that both Cu and VEGF can restore COX activity that is depressed in hypertrophic cardiomyocytes, and COX plays a determinant role in both Cu- and VEGF-induced regression of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy.
To evaluate the concept that long duration of action is an advantageous property of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in the treatment of severe heart failure, we randomly assigned 42 patients to therapy with either a short-acting inhibitor (captopril, 150 mg daily) or a long-acting inhibitor (enalapril, 40 mg daily) for one to three months while concomitant therapy with digoxin and diuretics was kept constant. The treatment groups had similar hemodynamic and clinical characteristics at base-line evaluation and similar initial responses to converting-enzyme inhibition. During long-term therapy, captopril and enalapril produced similar decreases in systemic blood pressure, but the hypotensive effects of enalapril were more prolonged and persistent than those of captopril. Consequently, although the patients in both groups improved hemodynamically and clinically during the study, serious symptomatic hypotension (syncope and near syncope) was seen primarily among those treated with enalapril. Sustained hypotension also probably accounted for the decline in creatinine clearance (P less than 0.05) and the notable retention of potassium (P less than 0.05) observed in the patients treated with enalapril but not in those treated with captopril. We conclude that when large, fixed doses of converting-enzyme inhibitors are used in the treatment of patients with severe chronic heart failure, long-acting agents may produce prolonged hypotensive effects that may compromise cerebral and renal function, and thus they may have disadvantages in such cases, as compared with short-acting agents.
The established teratogenicity of antiepileptic drugs raises important issues in women of child-bearing age. While the association between neural tube defects and antiepileptic drugs is well recognised, other congenital malformations are known to occur. We report two siblings with characteristic craniofacial features of Fetal Valproate Syndrome who also had associated ocular and neurodevelopmental problems which would benefit from early recognition and intervention.
Plasma volume is usually lower in patients with essential hypertension than in normal subjects. Normal or expanded plasma volume in some hypertensive patients may respect either a specific hypervolemic subset of the disease or the upper end of a continuum of volume values. Difficulties in defining these groups stem from the small numbers of subjects studied, from the need for a reliable reference index for volume measurements, and from the multiple factors which may affect intravascular volume. Differences in plasma volume cap influence choice of antihypertensive therapy; patients with expanded volume tend also to have slightly exchangeable sodium and greater extracellular fluid (ECF) volume and to respond well to diuretic therapy. There is also some evidence that low plasma renin activity is more frequent among hypervolemic patients. Essential hypertensives as a group have low plasma to interstitial fluid volume ratio (PV/IF), indicating that ECF distribution between the intravascular and interstitial compartments is shifted toward the latter. This is probably related to altered capillary filtration pressure due to increased venous resistance. Hypovolemic essential hypertensives have significantly lower (P less than 0.01) PV/IF ratio than hypervolemic, but whether this is related to differences in neural venous tone is only speculative. Hemodynamic studies revealed no difference in cardiac output between hypertensive patients with contracted blood volume and those with hypervolemia; total peripheral resistance was even higher in the latter, suggesting that "vasoconstriction" is not different between the two groups. It is widely believed that the relationship between ECF expansion and hypertension depends on the development of hypervolemia, increased cardiac output, and subsequent rise in total peripheral resistance reducing volume expansion and normalizing systemic flow while maintaining a high blood pressure. This sequence of events has been demonstrated in some human and experimental forms of hypertension but not in all. Metyrapone-induced hypertension in dogs could be sustained for up to 6 weeks by increased output with no evidence of "autoregulation" developing, and similar observations were reported in some anephric patients. Complementing these findings are observations of elevated cardiac output in some patients with long-standing essential hypertension or primary aldosteronism. It is therefore suggested that the spectrum of hemodynamic changes associated with volume disturbances in hypertension is too wide to be forced under one hypothesis alone and that neurogenic and other factors may play an important role in that complex relationship.
To compare the ocular tolerance of nonpreserved diclofenac versus thiomersal-preserved diclofenac in healthy volunteers.
Forty healthy volunteers instilled Dicloabak in the randomised eye and thiomersal-preserved diclofenac in the other eye, according to a strictly identical dosing regimen, for 28 days. Each volunteer thus served as his or her own control. The dose regimen was five drops/day for 7 days followed by three drops/day for 20 days. Ocular tolerance was assessed by the discomfort upon instillation (measured on a visual analogue scale [VAS]), subjective ocular symptoms following instillation (irritation/burning/stinging, eye dryness and foreign body sensation) and finally by an objective examination of the ocular surface. These criteria were evaluated on days 0, 14, 21 and 28.
The subjective ocular symptoms following instillation were significantly lower in the nonpreserved group at Day 7 and nearly significantly lower until the end of the study. The biomicroscopy exam confirmed that there was better tolerance without thiomersal. There was less follicular-papillary conjunctivitis and a significantly better lissamine green score in the Dicloabak group.
The results of this study demonstrate that the nonpreserved formulation of diclofenac is better tolerated by the ocular surface and thus constitutes a therapeutic benefit.
Several authors have questioned the potential for phrenic nerve paralysis with interpleural analgesia. This study was designed to examine the potential for phrenic nerve paralysis with the use of interpleural bupivacaine in dogs. Seven dogs were anesthetized, tracheally intubated, and allowed to breathe spontaneously with halothane/oxygen while in the supine position. After a midline laparotomy, two wires were inserted into the costal portion of each hemidiaphragm for measurement of electromyographic (EMG) signals. A balloon catheter was placed in the abdominal cavity to measure abdominal pressure. The abdomen was then closed. Airway pressure was measured through a side port in the endotracheal tube. Bilateral interpleural catheters were inserted with the loss-of-resistance technique. Each dog was used for two experiments, one on each side, except for one animal. To assess the contribution of the ipsilateral diaphragm to total respiratory effort, the airway was occluded at functional residual capacity for three consecutive breaths, and EMG, airway pressure, and abdominal pressure were measured. In five of nine experiments with bupivacaine, there was complete loss of EMG activity on the side of the injection. In two dogs, there was partial loss of diaphragmatic function, and in the remaining two, there was no change in EMG. In the normal saline solution group (n = 4), there was no change in the EMG. Two dogs that received bilateral bupivacaine injections developed paradoxical respiration with negative inspiratory intraabdominal pressures. Phrenic nerve paralysis or paresis can occur with interpleural blockade. The factors affecting the occurrence of this complication remain to be elucidated.
Two years after a survey of the kidney function in 237 patients given long-term lithium treatment the patients were invited for reexamination. Of 184 patients who came for the reexamination 147 had continued lithium treatment; in 37 patients the treatment had been discontinued. The lithium-treated patients were compared with a group of 68 manic-depressive patients who were about to be given prophylactic lithium treatment but who had not yet started. Neither the patients who continued nor the patients who had discontinued lithium showed any deterioration of glomerular filtration rate as assessed through determination of the 24-h creatinine clearance and the serum creatinine concentration; mean values in the lithium-treated patients were the same as mean values in patients not yet given lithium. Impairment of renal water reabsorption, revealed by increased 24-h urine volume and decreased urine osmolality after DDAVP, had progressed in the patients who continued lithium treatment, and multiple regression analysis revealed the duration of treatment and the serum lithium level to be significant predictor variables. In the patients who had discontinued lithium the changes in renal water handling had decreased. The urine volume was the same as that found in the patients not yet given lithium; maximum urine osmolality had not become fully normalized. Side effects such as thirst, nycturia, tremor, diarrhoea, oedema, and weight gain were found with the same frequency at the second as at the first examination in the patients who had continued lithium. In the patients who had discontinued lithium they were infrequent or absent.
The present study was designed to evaluate the bronchodilating role of zafirlukast, a CysLT(1)receptor antagonist, at the standard dosage currently recommended in the marketing of this agent in smokers with COPD. The study was performed using a double-blind, cross-over, randomized design and was conducted on 2 non-consecutive days. Sixteen outpatients suffering from stable COPD received 40 mg oral zafirlukast, or placebo. Lung function was controlled before drug administration and 30, 60, 120, 180, 240 min thereafter. At the end of the 4-h period, each patient received 400 microg inhaled salbutamol and spirometric testing was performed 30 min later. Zafirlukast, but not placebo, produced a significant (P<0.05) bronchodilation between 30 min and 4 h following administration, with a maximum mean increase in FEV(1)of 0.134 l (11.2%) above baseline after 2 h. Nine of 16 patients showed an increase in FEV(1)of at least 15% above baseline after zafirlukast. The maximum mean increase in FEV(1)after zafirlukast in these subjects, who were considered responders, observed after 2 h, was 0.221 (19.4%). The mean difference of post-salbutamol FEV(1)values after zafirlukast and placebo (-0.036 l) was not significant (P<0.05). In responders, the mean of differences in pre- and post-salbutamol FEV(1)values after zafirlukast was 0.077 l, whereas the mean of differences between post-salbutamol values after zafirlukast and those after placebo was -0.064 l. The mean AUC(0-4 h)for all patients was 0.121 l for placebo and 0.385 l for zafirlukast. The difference between the placebo and zafirlukast AUC(0-4 h)was significant (P<0.05). The individual FEV(1)AUC(0-4 h)after zafirlukast were higher than those after placebo in 12 out of 16 patients. These findings suggest that cysteinyl leukotrienes might be one of the causes of persistent bronchoconstriction in COPD, at least in several smokers, but do not confirm the hypothesis that the effects of zafirlukast and salbutamol are independent and additive.
The nephrotoxicity associated with interferon therapy for chronic hepatitis C infection has not been clearly defined. We describe a patient with chronic hepatitis C infection who developed the nephrotic syndrome during treatment with interferon and ribavirin. Renal biopsy revealed focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. She had a virologic and biochemical response to the antiviral therapy, and the nephrotic syndrome improved after termination of antiviral therapy. We place our case report in context with a review of the literature on nephrotoxicity associated with interferon therapy. Because our patient had no other obvious reason for the nephrotic syndrome, we are postulating that it may be secondary to interferon-ribavirin therapy. The temporal relation between the administration of the drug and the detection of toxic affects (nephrotic syndrome) and subsequent improvement upon withdrawal also supports a causative role for interferon-ribavirin. Although nephrotoxicity is rare, it should be emphasized that it can occur anytime after the start of interferon therapy, and physicians treating patients with chronic hepatitis C must be aware of this idiosyncratic, unpredictable, and potentially serious adverse event.
HER2/neu overexpression is linked to promotion of angiogenesis in breast cancer. We therefore tested the activity of the combination of Trastuzumab with metronomic, low dose chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide (CTX) and methotrexate (MTX) in metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
Between April 2002 and June 2005, twenty-two patients with metastatic breast cancer with the presence of overexpression or amplification of HER2-/neu, all pre-treated with trastuzumab plus other cytotoxics, were treated with trastuzumab (6 mg/kg every three weeks) in combination with metronomic chemotherapy (MTX 2.5 mg, bid on Day 1 and Day 4 every week) and CTX (50 mg daily) (CM).
The 22 enrolled patients are evaluable: most had an ECOG performance status of 0 (17 pts), and all were pre-treated with chemotherapy for metastatic disease; 14 had progressive disease at study entry, and 11 had progressive disease during the last trastuzumab therapy. Metastatic sites included: lung (5 pts), liver (14 pts), bone (12 pts), lymph nodes (8 pts), central nervous system (CNS) (9 pts). We observed 4 partial remission (PR) (18%, 95% CI 5-40%), 10 stable disease (SD) (46%, 95% CI 24-68%), and 8 PD (36%, CI 17-59%). The clinical benefit (RP plus RC plus SD for > or = 24 weeks) in all pts and in pts with disease resistant to previous trastuzumab therapy were 46% (95% CI, 24-68%) and 27% (95% CI, 6-61%), respectively. Median time to progression was 6 months and median duration of treatment was 5 months (range, 0,7 to 18.4 months and range, 1 to 18 months, respectively). Overall clinical toxicity was generally mild. Grade > or =2 reversible liver toxicity and leukopenia were reported in 5 and 3 pts, respectively.
The combination of trastuzumab and metronomic chemotherapy is effective and minimally toxic in advanced breast cancer patients. The efficacy observed in patients with disease resistant to trastuzumab supports the need of larger trial to confirm a role of this combination to delay acquired trastuzumab resistance.
Methoxamine and alpha-methyl-noradrenaline were administered to six healthy male subjects on separate days as rapid bolus injections until blood pressure increased by approximately 30 mmHg; Valsalva's Manoeuvre was carried out on each occasion. Propranolol (80 mg) or placebo was administered (random order, double-blind, weekly intervals) and the observations were repeated after 2 h. Baroreceptor sensitivity (delta R-R interval ms/mmHg systolic BP) was less (p less than 0.05) with alpha-methyl-noradrenaline than methoxamine. Propranolol abolished the differences in baroreceptor-mediated bradycardia following alpha-methyl-noradrenaline and methoxamine, and shifted the baroreceptor sensitivity regression lines (p less than 0.05) to the left. During the release phase of Valsalva's Manoeuvre baroreceptor sensitivity was increased following propranolol. The smaller baroreceptor-mediated bradycardia response observed with alpha-methyl-noradrenaline does not support the hypothesis that pre-synaptic alpha-adrenoreceptors have a physiological role in the modulation of baroreceptor function in man, and may be due to alpha-methyl-noradrenaline having beta 1-agonist activity.
1. The role of arginine vasopressin (AVP) was examined in adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH)-induced hypertension in Sprague-Dawley rats using the non-peptide AVP V1a receptor antagonist OPC 21268. 2. In an acute study, six rats were pretreated with ACTH for 11 days and direct arterial blood pressure (4 h), plasma osmolality and electrolyte concentrations were measured after OPC 21268 gavage. In a chronic study, 40 rats were randomly divided into four groups: (i) sham injection + sham gavage; (ii) ACTH + sham gavage; (iii) sham injection + OPC 21268; or (iv) ACTH + OPC-21268 for 16 days. Systolic blood pressure (SBP), water intake, urine volume (UV), urine osmolality and electrolytes, food intake, bodyweight and plasma osmolality and electrolyte concentrations were measured. 3. In the acute study, direct mean arterial blood pressure did not change with OPC 21268 (122+/-2 and 120+/-3 mmHg at 0 and 240 min, respectively). 4. In the chronic study, OPC 21268 did not affect ACTH-induced rises in blood pressure (from 125+/-2 (control) to 145+/-5 mmHg (group 4) compared with 122+/-3 (control) to 149+/-5 mmHg (group2)). Water intake and UV increased (from 29+/-2 to 83+/-6 mL/day; and from 5+/-1 to 36+/-5 mL/day, respectively) and the change in bodyweight decreased from 0+/-2 to -107+/-7 g. 5. These results suggest that AVP (at the V1a receptor) does not play a significant role in the maintenance of ACTH-induced hypertension.
alpha7 Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are sparsely distributed throughout the peripheral and central nervous systems. Several studies have suggested that central alpha7 nicotinic receptors may influence sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures in mice. In order to investigate the effect of alpha7 nAChRs on seizure sensitivity, we tested heterozygous mice with a threonine for leucine substitution at position 250 (L250T) within the channel domain, which is known to increase current amplitude and decreases desensitization of the channel. We show that administration of low doses of nicotine to these mutant mice increased the sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures and the mortality rate. EEG recordings showed high amplitude rhythmic activity during tonic-clonic seizures. Pretreatment with the alpha7 nicotinic receptor antagonist methyllycaconitine inhibited the seizures induced by nicotine. These findings further suggest an important role for alpha7 nAChRs in the nicotine-induced seizures model of epilepsy.
