We examined the effect of immunosuppressive agent, FK506 (Fujisawa, Co.), on puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis. Single i.p. injection of PAN in a dose of 100 mg/kg was introduced into Munich-Wistar rats weighing about 200 g. Those rats were divided into four groups. PAN-induced nephrosis rats in group 1 (PAN-FK0.1, n = 5), group 2 (PAN-FK0.3, n = 5), group 3 (PAN-FK1.0, n = 5) were treated with i.m. injection of FK506 for 10 days in a dose of 0.1 mg/kg, 0.3 mg/kg, 1.0 mg/kg, respectively, and rats in group 4 were treated with FK-placebo (PAN-PL, n = 5). The rats in group 5 with Saline+placebo were served as a control (NS-PL, n = 5). Among 5 groups, urinary protein, anionic sites (AS) in GBM, and subsets of peripheral lymphocytes through FACS were compared. After 9 days of PAN injection, the rats in PAN-FK0.1 (160.0 +/- 38.4), PAN-FK0.3 (118.0 +/- 34.4) & PAN-FK1.0 (89.2 +/- 40.0) given FK-506 had significantly less proteinuria in a PAN dose dependent manner, compared to those in NS-PL (349 +/- 86.8 mg/day). The numbers of AS/1000 mmGBM were more attenuated in FK506-treated PAN rats (PAN-FK1.0; 16.2 +/- 3.9) than those in PAN-PL (11.7 +/- 4.4). In related to subset of lymphocytes, increased W3/25 in PAN-PL was regressed in PAN-FK0.1, PAN-FK0.3 & PAN-1.0 after 10 days of PAN-injection. W3/25/OX-8 was significantly higher in PAN-PL (3.6) than those in NS-PL (2.4), but not between PAN-1.0 & NS-PL. These data indicate that the mechanism for therapeutic effect of FK506 on PAN-induced nephrosis includes a revision of abnormal cellular immunity, which attenuates the decrease of AS structure and as a result decrease proteinuria.
The amount of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH), a pivotal enzyme for the biosynthesis of the guanosine tri-phosphate (GTP), is frequently increased in tumor cells. The anti-viral agent ribavirin and the immunosuppressant mycophenolic acid (MPA) are potent inhibitors of IMPDH. We recently showed that IMPDH inhibition led to a necrotic signal requiring the activation of Cdc42.
Herein, we strengthened the essential role played by this small GTPase in the necrotic signal by silencing Cdc42 and by the ectopic expression of a constitutive active mutant of Cdc42. Since resistance to apoptosis is an essential step for the tumorigenesis process, we next examined the effect of the MPA-mediated necrotic signal on different tumor cells demonstrating various mechanisms of resistance to apoptosis (Bcl2-, HSP70-, Lyn-, BCR-ABL-overexpressing cells). All tested cells remained sensitive to MPA-mediated necrotic signal. Furthermore, inhibition of IMPDH activity in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia cells was significantly more efficient at eliminating malignant cells than apoptotic inducers.
These findings indicate that necrosis and apoptosis are split signals that share few if any common hub of signaling. In addition, the necrotic signaling pathway induced by depletion of the cellular amount of GTP/GDP would be of great interest to eliminate apoptotic-resistant tumor cells.
Recently we reported that astroglial loss and subsequent gliogenesis in the dentate gyrus play a role in epileptogenesis following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). In the present study we investigated whether astroglial damages in the hippocampo-entorhinal complex following SE are relevant to pathological or electrophysiological properties of temporal lobe epilepsy. Astroglial loss/damage was observed in the entorhinal cortex and the CA1 region at 4 weeks and 8 weeks after SE, respectively. These astroglial responses in the hippocampo-entorhinal cortex were accompanied by hyperexcitability of the CA1 region (impairment of paired-pulse inhibition and increase in excitability ratio). Unlike the dentate gyrus and the entorhinal cortex, CA1 astroglial damage was protected by conventional anti-epileptic drugs. alpha-Aminoadipic acid (a specific astroglial toxin) infusion into the entorhinal cortex induced astroglial damage and changed the electrophysiological properties in the CA1 region. Astroglial regeneration in the dentate gyrus and the stratum oriens of the CA1 region was found to originate from gliogenesis, while that in the entorhinal cortex and stratum radiatum of the CA1 region originated from in situ proliferation. These findings suggest that regional specific astroglial death/regeneration patterns may play an important role in the pathogenesis of temporal lobe epilepsy.
A 43-year-old woman had two episodes of lung edema at moderate altitudes. She had taken slimming pills containing fenfluramine hydrochloride and diethylpropion hydrochloride. At sea level, catheterization of the right side of the heart showed a mean pulmonary artery pressure of 16 mm Hg, which increased to 34 mm Hg with mild exercise in a supine position. An extensive workup failed to identify a cardiac or a pulmonary cause of pulmonary hypertension. This patient experienced mild primary pulmonary hypertension related to the intake of anorexigens, which was revealed by high-altitude pulmonary edema.
The present study was conducted to assess whether Fhit gene alterations are a feature of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) induced by N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) in male Fischer 344 rats. Animals, 6 wk old, received a single intraperitoneal injection of DEN at a dose of 10 mg/kg body weight, followed by combined treatment with partial hepatectomy and colchicine to induce cell-cycle disturbance and a selection procedure, consisting of 2-acetylaminofluorene and carbon tetrachloride. Fourteen HCCs were obtained 42 wk after the beginning of the experiment; total RNA was extracted for the assessment of aberrant transcription of the Fhit gene by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis. Aberrant transcripts were detected in nine of the 14 HCCs (64.3%). Sequence analysis showed that these resulted from the absence of nt -9 to 279, nt -9 to 348, nt -98 to 279, nt -26 to 365, or nt -98 to 348. Western blot analysis demonstrated reduced expression of Fhit protein in six of 10 HCCs (60.0%), with a perfect correlation with Fhit gene alterations. These results indicated that changes in the Fhit gene occur frequently and may thus play some role in the development of HCCs induced by DEN in rats.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is associated with insulin resistance and obesity. Recent studies have shown that serum retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4) levels increase with obesity. Currently, no data exist on the relative expression of RBP4 in either serum or adipose tissue of PCOS women.
mRNA expression of RBP4 from sc and omental (om) adipose tissue and sc adipocytes in overweight PCOS women were compared with matched controls; RBP4 protein in adipose tissue and serum RBP4 levels were also assessed. Additionally, we studied the effects of testosterone, 17beta-estradiol, androstenedione, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate on RBP4 expression in adipose tissue explants.
Real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting were used to assess the relative mRNA and protein expression of RBP4. Biochemical measurements were also performed.
Compared with controls, there was significant up-regulation of RBP4 mRNA in sc (P < 0.05) and om (P < 0.01) adipose tissue as well as isolated sc adipocytes (P < 0.01) of PCOS women. In addition to elevated serum RBP4 levels in PCOS women (P < 0.05), RBP4 protein levels were significantly greater in sc and om adipose tissue of PCOS women (P < 0.05 and P < 0.05, respectively). Furthermore, in human sc and om adipose tissue explants, 17beta-estradiol significantly increased RBP4 mRNA expression, protein levels, and secretion into the culture media (P < 0.05).
The precise reason for elevated levels of RBP4 in overweight PCOS women is unknown, but it appears that 17beta-estradiol may play a role in their regulation in adipose tissue.
Tardive dystonia is a difficult condition to treat. We describe the case of a patient with tardive dystonia that was unresponsive to various pharmacological and electroconvulsive therapies. The patient showed dramatic improvement after the administration of eperisone, a centrally acting muscle relaxant. Eperisone and tolperisone are beta-aminopropiophenone derivatives which are used clinically as antispastic agents. To date there have been no reports describing the effect of such muscle relaxants on tardive dystonia. The results of our study suggest that these muscle relaxants may be promising therapeutic drugs for the treatment of tardive dystonia.
The case reported here concerns a 40-year-old woman who has suffered from severe migraine without aura since she was 23. The patient has been taking 1-3 suppositories of Virdex (2 mg of ergotamine tartrate, 250 mg of aminophenazone, caffeine) every day for the past three years. In addition to headache, the onset of short, sporadic cramps in the limbs together with paresthesia, hyposthenia, hypothermia and skin pallor with a slight increase in diastolic pressure, made hospital treatment necessary. Instrumental investigation through a stress test on a moving carpet, doppler, echo-doppler and digitalized angiography of the arterial vessels of the lower limbs shows the presence of bilateral impairment attributable to the chronic intake of ergotamine.
COMMD1-deficient dogs progressively develop copper-induced chronic hepatitis. Since high copper leads to oxidative damage, we measured copper metabolism and oxidative stress related gene products during development of the disease.
Five COMMD1-deficient dogs were studied from 6 months of age over a period of five years. Every 6 months blood was analysed and liver biopsies were taken for routine histological evaluation (grading of hepatitis), rubeanic acid copper staining and quantitative copper analysis. Expression of genes involved in copper metabolism (COX17, CCS, ATOX1, MT1A, CP, ATP7A, ATP7B, ) and oxidative stress (SOD1, catalase, GPX1 ) was measured by qPCR. Due to a sudden death of two animals, the remaining three dogs were treated with d-penicillamine from 43 months of age till the end of the study. Presented data for time points 48, 54, and 60 months was descriptive only.
A progressive trend from slight to marked hepatitis was observed at histology, which was clearly preceded by an increase in semi-quantitative copper levels starting at 12 months until 42 months of age. During the progression of hepatitis most gene products measured were transiently increased. Most prominent was the rapid increase in the copper binding gene product MT1A mRNA levels. This was followed by a transient increase in ATP7A and ATP7B mRNA levels.
In the sequence of events, copper accumulation induced progressive hepatitis followed by a transient increase in gene products associated with intracellular copper trafficking and temporal activation of anti-oxidative stress mechanisms.
We report a case of hepatorenal failure complicating rifampicin administration in which rifampicin-dependent antibodies were demonstrated. Hepatorenal failure during rifampicin treatment has been reported before but in none of the previous cases were rifampicin-dependent antibodies described.
The case of a 61-year-old female patient with metastatic breast cancer is reported. She developed neurologic symptoms and supraventricular extrasystoles when she received iv methotrexate. These symptoms were reproducible and were not found with other drugs. The cause for this event is not clear.
Eye complications arising during systemic and ophthalmic steroid use are well known. In contrast, there is little highlighting the similar risks associated with topical steroid use around the eyelids. We now describe a 29-year-old lady who used topical steroids in prolonged fashion throughout most of her life for severe eczema, with the recent application of large quantities of potent steroid continuously for one month, including to the periorbital region. Soon after, she presented to her ophthalmologist with severe bilateral glaucoma and irreversible visual loss attributed to the steroid use. Here we emphasise the possible risks of periorbital topical steroid use, as well as the importance of patient education and ophthalmological follow-up.
Repeated challenges of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) could reduce the expression of proinflammatory cytokines in vitro, and oral administration of ovalbumin (OVA) induces mucosal tolerance in vivo. However, the effect of local administration of LPS and OVA on experimental colitis in vivo remains unknown.
This study was performed to elucidate the effect of rectal administration of LPS and OVA on an acute murine colitis induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS).
BALB/c mice were rectally administered LPS with or without OVA followed by 3% DSS. Colitis was assessed by disease activity index (DAI) including weight loss, stool consistency and rectal bleeding, and histopathology. Primary colon epithelial cells were isolated and the expression of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) was examined using the Western blot analysis. IL-6, IFN-γ and IL-10 mRNA levels in colonic tissue were assessed using real-time RT-PCR.
LPS administration significantly attenuated the severity of acute DSS-induced colitis as assessed by DAI and histopathologic scoring compared with the control group. Combined treatment of LPS and OVA restored body weight loss and further ameliorated the severity of acute DSS colitis. LPS pretreatment regardless of OVA administration decreased TLR4 expression. LPS and OVA pretreatment reduced IL-6 and IFN-γ mRNA expression and increased IL-10 mRNA expression compared with controls.
Rectal administration of LPS attenuated acute murine colitis, possibly through TLR4 down-regulation, and combined treatment of OVA additionally ameliorated colonic inflammation associated with up-regulation of IL-10.
Vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy is a major dose limiting side effect and thus effective therapeutic strategy is required. In this study, we investigated the antinociceptive effect of memantine and morphine on a vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy model in rats.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 220-240 g were used in all experiments. Rats subsequently received daily intraperitoneal injections of either vincristine sulfate (0.1 ml/kg/day) or saline (0.1 ml/kg/day) over 12 days, immediately following behavioral testing. For assessment of mechanical allodynia, mechanical stimuli using von Frey filament was applied to the paw to measure withdrawal threshold. The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors antagonist (memantine; 2.5, 5, 10 mg/kg intraperitoneal), opioid agonist (morphine; 2.5, 5, 10 mg/kg intraperitoneal) and vehicle (saline) on vicristine-induced neuropathy were evaluated.
Mechanical allodynia developed over the course of ten daily injections of vincristine relative to groups receiving saline at the same time. Morphine abolished the reduction in paw withdrawal threshold compared to vehicle and produced dose-responsiveness. Only the highest dose of memantine (10 mg/kg) was able to increase paw withdrawal threshold compared to vehicle.
Systemic morphine and memantine have an antinociceptive effect on the vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy model in rats. These results suggest morphine and memantine may be an alternative approach for the treatment of vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathic pain.
The Southeastern Cancer Study Group conducted a phase I-II trial of sequentially administered 5-azacitidine and amsacrine in patients with refractory adult acute leukemia from September 1980 to March 1983. The 5-azacitidine was administered by continuous iv infusion on Days 1-4 at doses ranging from 112 to 200 mg/m2/day, while amsacrine was given at doses ranging from 75 to 150 mg/m2/day on Days 5-8. The doses of 5-azacitidine and amsacrine were alternately escalated through six dose levels during the phase I portion of the trial. Of 128 patients entered, 102 (80%) were evaluable for response. Remission was achieved in 13 of 80 evaluable patients with acute myeloid leukemia, in one of 12 evaluable patients with acute lymphoid leukemia, and in none of 11 patients with blastic transformation of chronic granulocytic leukemia. Three remissions occurred in patients with acute myeloid leukemia who were refractory to initial induction chemotherapy with cytarabine and anthracycline combination chemotherapy. Remissions were relatively durable, lasting a median of 28 weeks in the 13 patients with refractory acute myeloid leukemia (range, 14-54 weeks). Toxic effects included universal severe myelosuppression, hyperbilirubinemia at a frequency and severity similar to those seen with amsacrine used as a single agent, moderately severe stomatitis and diarrhea, three incidents of amsacrine-related cardiac dysrhythmia, and a single case of probable drug-related cardiomyopathy. This combination has activity in the treatment of myeloid leukemia, which is primarily resistant to cytarabine and anthracyclines, and could have a role in primary management.
Carbonyl sulfide (COS) is an odorless gas that produces highly reproducible lesions in the central nervous system. In the present study, the time course for the development of the neurotoxicological lesions was defined and the gene expression changes occurring in the posterior colliculus upon exposure to COS were characterized. Fischer 344 rats were exposed to 0 or 500 ppm COS for one, two, three, four, five, eight, or ten days, six hours per day. On days 1 and 2, no morphological changes were detected; on day 3, 10/10 (100%) rats had necrosis in the posterior colliculi; and on day 4 and later, necrosis was observed in numerous areas of the brain. Important gene expression changes occurring in the posterior colliculi after one or two days of COS exposure that were predictive of the subsequent morphological findings included up-regulation of genes associated with DNA damage and G1/S checkpoint regulation (KLF4, BTG2, GADD45g), apoptosis (TGM2, GADD45g, RIPK3), and vascular mediators (ADAMTS, CTGF, CYR61, VEGFC). Proinflammatory mediators (CCL2, CEBPD) were up-regulated prior to increases in expression of the astrocytic marker GFAP and macrophage marker CSF2rb1. These gene expression findings were predictive of later CNS lesions caused by COS exposure and serve as a model for future investigations into the mechanisms of disease in the central nervous system.
Rapid-cycling bipolar disorder is often characterized by a lack of response to psychopharmacological treatment, and a standard therapy has not been developed yet. The aim of this study was to examine the long-term efficacy and safety of a monotherapy with quetiapine or sodium valproate (VPA) in patients with rapid-cycling bipolar disorder.
This open-label, randomized, parallel group monotherapy pilot study was conducted at 3 German centers. A sample of 38 remitted or partly remitted patients with bipolar disorder and rapid cycling (quetiapine n = 22; VPA n = 16) were treated with quetiapine or VPA (flexible dose design) for 12 months.
Forty-one percent of the patients with quetiapine and 50% with VPA completed the trial. On the basis of ITT-LOCF, Life Chart Method data showed that patients being treated with quetiapine had significantly less moderate to severe depressive days than patients on VPA (mean +/- SD, 11.7 +/- 16.9 days vs 27.7 +/- 24.9 days; P = 0.04) while they did not differ in the number of days with manic or hypomanic symptoms. Furthermore, according to the Clinical Global Impression Scale, bipolar version, the responder rates tended to be higher for quetiapine than for VPA. There were no differences found evaluating the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Scale, and the Young Mania Rating Scale. The incidence of adverse events, especially of orthostatic dysregulation, sedation, and weight gain, was significantly higher in the quetiapine group.
In this study, quetiapine was more effective than VPA on the number of depressive days and similar to VPA in the treatment of manic symptoms. Quetiapine was associated with a greater incidence of side effects, particularly orthostatic dysregulation, sedation, and weight gain.
Cycloheximide (CHX)-induced liver injury in rats has been characterized by hepatocellular apoptosis and necrosis. We previously reported that Kupffer cell inactivation causes a reduction of IL-10 production, resulting in the exacerbation of CHX-induced liver injury. In this study, we directly evaluate the role of IL-10 in liver injury by a pretreatment with anti-IL-10 neutralizing antibody (IL-10Ab). Rats were given goat IgG or IL-10Ab before being treated with CHX (CHX group or IL-10Ab/CHX group). In the CHX group, the CHX treatment markedly induced hepatic mRNA and serum protein levels of IL-10. The up-regulation of IL-10 was significantly suppressed in the IL-10Ab/CHX group. Blocking IL-10 in the IL-10Ab/CHX group led to greater increases in hepatic mRNA and serum levels of proinflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-alpha and IL-6. The IL-10Ab/CHX group developed more severe hepatocellular apoptosis, neutrophil transmigration, and necrotic change of hepatocytes compared with the CHX group. The caspase activities and mRNA levels of Cc120, LOX-1, and E-selectin in the livers were significantly higher in the IL-10Ab/CHX group than the CHX group. These results demonstrate that IL-10 plays an important role in counteracting the effect of proinflammatory cytokines, such as a TNF signaling cascade, and in attenuating the CHX-induced liver injury.
Twenty-two hypertensive patients from a large clinic, who were resistant to conventional therapy, were entered into this study. Most patients previously had received beta-blocking drugs, thiazide diuretics, alpha-methyl-dopa, or vasodilator drugs (hydrallazine or prazosin) which failed to control their blood pressure. The therapy with vasodilator drugs was discontinued, and the therapy with labetalol (a drug with both alpha-blocking and beta-blocking effect) was commenced. Subsequently, as the blood pressure came under control, other drugs that the patients were taking were also withdrawn. In 13 of the 22 patients, labetalol enabled the blood pressure to be controlled at acceptable levels. In six patients, the response was not considered to be sufficient to justify continuation of labetalol therapy. In three patients, the drug was withdrawn because of postural hypotension in one patient, intractable diarrhoea in another, and an allergic-type skin rash in the third. In certain patients, postural changes in blood pressure were observed, but this rarely produced symptoms. It is suggested that, if blood pressure control is not achieved with a thiazide diuretic and a beta-blocking drug, then labetalol should be introduced and the beta-blocking drug should be withdrawn.
Cancer cells are characterized by a high rate of glycolysis, which is their primary energy source. Glycolysis is known to be controlled by allosteric regulators, as well as by reversible binding of glycolytic enzymes to cytoskeleton. We report here that clotrimazole (l-(alpha-2-chlorotrityl)imidazole), the antifungal azole derivative, which was recently recognized as calmodulin antagonist, induced a dose-dependent detachment of the glycolytic enzymes, phosphofructokinase (ATP: D-fructose-6-phosphate 1-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.11) and aldolase (D-fructose-l,6-bisphosphate D-glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate-lyase, EC 4.1.2.13), from cytoskeleton of LL/2 Lewis lung carcinoma cells and CT-26 colon adenocarcinoma cells. The detachment of glycolytic enzymes from cytoskeleton would reduce the provision of local ATP, in the vicinity of the cytoskeleton membrane, and would also affect cytoskeleton structure and cell shape. We show here that clotrimazole decreased the viability of LL/2 Lewis lung carcinoma cells and CT-26 colon adenocarcinoma cells. After 3h of incubation with clotrimazole, complete cell destruction was detected. Ultrastructural cell damage was manifested by disintegration of the outer membrane by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The detachment of glycolytic enzymes from cytoskeleton, induced by clotrimazole, preceded the decrease in cell viability, which indicates that this is an early effect and not a result of cell death. Since the cytoskeleton is being recognized as an important modulator of cell function, proliferation, differentiation, and neoplasia, detachment of the glycolytic enzymes from cytoskeleton induced by clotrimazole, as well as its reported inhibitory action on cell proliferation, makes this drug the most promising agent in the treatment of cancer.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a crucial proangiogenic component in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA), and its high expression levels have been correlated with poor prognosis and early postoperative recurrence. Angiotensin II (AngII), which has been shown to increase VEGF production in a variety of cancers, is actively generated in the pancreas. We hypothesized that AngII plays a crucial role in PDA-associated angiogenesis.
We analyzed the expression and localization of AngI converting enzyme (ACE) and AngII type 1 receptor (AT1R) in relation to VEGF in matched invasive human PDA (n=25) and surrounding nonmalignant tissues using real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry. VEGF levels in conditioned media of HS766T and PK9 PDA cells treated with or without AngII (10(-7) mol/L) were measured by ELISA. The effects of an AT1R blocker (losartan) and an ACE inhibitor (captopril) on VEGF production and cellular proliferation were also examined.
ACE and AT1R mRNA and protein levels were significantly upregulated in 19 of the 25 neoplastic tissues examined (approximately 75%), when compared with matching controls. VEGF expression was significantly higher in tissues that expressed high levels of AT1R and ACE (n=19), compared with low levels (n=4) or negative (n=2) cases. ACE protein collocalized with AT1R and VEGF in the malignant ducts and in the stromal cells. Addition of AngII significantly enhanced VEGF mRNA production and protein secretion, an effect that was prevented when cells were preincubated with captopril or losartan. Blocking endogenous AngII by captopril or losartan significantly suppressed cell proliferation.
Both ACE and AT1R are functionally expressed in PDA and may be involved in tumor angiogenesis. Because AT1R blockers and ACE inhibitors are already widely used clinically, they may represent a potential novel and promising strategy for controlling angiogenesis, prevention of metastasis, and prolongation of survival in patients with primary or metastatic PDA.
The AhR was initially identified as a ligand-activated transcription factor mediating effects of chlorinated dioxins and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons on cytochrome P450 1 (CYP1) expression. Recently, evidence supporting involvement of the AhR in cell-cycle regulation and tumorigenesis has been presented. To further define the roles of the AhR in cancer, we investigated the effects of AhR expression on cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumorigenesis of MCF-7 human breast cancer cells. In these studies, the properties of MCF-7 cells were compared with those of two MCF-7-derived sublines: AH(R100) , which express minimal AhR, and AhR(exp) , which overexpress AhR. Quantitative PCR, Western immunoblots, 17β-estradiol (E2 ) metabolism assays, and ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase assays showed the lack of AhR expression and AhR-regulated CYP1 expression in AH(R100) cells, and enhanced AhR and CYP1 expression in AhR(exp) cells. In the presence of 1 nM E2 , rates of cell proliferation of the three cell lines showed an inverse correlation with the levels of AhR mRNA. In comparison with MCF-7 and AhR(exp) cells, AH(R100) cells produced more colonies in soft agar and showed enhanced migration and invasion in chamber assays with E2 as the chemoattractant. Despite the lack of significant AhR expression, AH(R100) cells retained the ability to form tumors in severe combined immunodeficient mice when supplemented with E2 , producing mean tumor volumes comparable to those observed with MCF-7 cells. These studies indicate that, while CYP1 expression and inducibility are highly dependent on AhR expression, the proliferation, invasion, migration, anchorage-independent growth, and estrogen-stimulated tumor formation of MCF-7 cells do not require the AhR.
