Previous studies have documented the presence of rimmed vacuoles, atrophic fibers, and increased lysosomal cathepsin activity in skeletal muscle from animal models of chloroquine-induced myopathy, suggesting that muscle fibers in this type of myopathy may be degraded via the lysosomal-proteolysis pathway. Given recent evidence of abnormal ubiquitin accumulation in rimmed vacuoles, in this study we chose to examine the significance of the ubiquitin-proteasome proteolytic system in the process of muscle fiber destruction in experimental chloroquine myopathy. Expression of ubiquitin, 26S proteasome proteins, and ubiquitin ligases, such as muscle-specific RING finger-1 (MuRF-1) and atrogin-1/muscle atrophy F-box protein (MAFbx), was analyzed in innervated and denervated rat soleus muscles after treatment with either saline or chloroquine. Abnormal accumulation of rimmed vacuoles was observed only in chloroquine-treated denervated muscles. Ubiquitin and proteasome immunostaining, and ubiquitin, MuRF-1, and atrogin-1/MAFbx mRNAs were significantly increased in denervated soleus muscles from saline- and chloroquine-treated rats when compared with contralateral innervated muscles. Further, ubiquitin and ubiquitin ligase mRNA levels were higher in denervated muscles from chloroquine-treated rats when compared with saline-treated rats. These data demonstrate increased proteasomes and ubiquitin in denervated muscles from chloroquine-treated rats and suggest that the ubiquitin-proteasome proteolysis pathway as well as the lysosomal-proteolysis pathway mediate muscle fiber destruction in experimental chloroquine myopathy.
The role for corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) receptors in the maintenance of intravenous cocaine self-administration in rats was investigated using the centrally active, small molecule CRH1 receptor antagonist CP-154,526. In these experiments, adult male Wistar rats were allowed alternating 15-min periods of access to food reinforcement and cocaine self-administration (0.125, 0.25 or 0. 5 mg/kg/infusion) during daily 2-h sessions. A 1-min timeout separated access to the two reinforcers. Pretreatment with CP-154, 526 produced dose-related decreases in cocaine self-administration without affecting food-reinforced responding, suggesting a specific effect of the antagonist on cocaine-maintained behavior. Drug intake was decreased across several doses of cocaine, with the dose-response curve for cocaine self-administration shifted downward and flattened, suggesting that CP-154,526 decreased cocaine reinforcement. Furthermore, responding on the cocaine lever following CP-154,526 pretreatment was significantly suppressed, even during the first 15 min of the session, a time when rats typically sample the cocaine lever during extinction, suggesting that CRH receptors may also be involved in some of the conditioned effects of cocaine as well. These data are discussed in terms of the role for CRH in the neurobehavioral effects of cocaine.
Cell migration through connective tissue, or cell invasion, is a fundamental biomechanical process during metastasis formation. Cell invasion usually requires cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix through integrins. In some tumors, increased integrin expression is associated with increased malignancy and metastasis formation. Here, we have studied the invasion of cancer cells with different α5β1 integrin expression levels into loose and dense 3D collagen fiber matrices. Using a cell sorter, we isolated from parental MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells two subcell lines expressing either high or low amounts of α5β1 integrins (α5β1(high) or α5β1(low) cells, respectively). α5β1(high) cells showed threefold increased cell invasiveness compared to α5β1(low) cells. Similar results were obtained for 786-O kidney and T24 bladder carcinoma cells, and cells in which the α5 integrin subunit was knocked down using specific siRNA. Knockdown of the collagen receptor integrin subunit α2 also reduced invasiveness, but to a lesser degree than knockdown of integrin subunit α5. Fourier transform traction microscopy revealed that the α5β1(high) cells generated sevenfold greater contractile forces than α5β1(low) cells. Cell invasiveness was reduced after addition of the myosin light chain kinase inhibitor ML-7 in α5β1(high) cells, but not in α5β1(low) cells, suggesting that α5β1 integrins enhance cell invasion through enhanced transmission and generation of contractile forces.
Nitrotoluenes are widely used chemical manufacturing and munitions applications. This group of chemicals has been shown to cause a range of effects from anemia and hypercholesterolemia to testicular atrophy. We have examined the molecular and functional effects of five different, but structurally related, nitrotoluenes on using an integrative systems biology approach to gain insight into common and disparate mechanisms underlying effects caused by these chemicals.
Sprague-Dawley female rats were exposed via gavage to one of five concentrations of one of five nitrotoluenes [2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT), 2-amino-4,6-dinitrotoluene (2ADNT) 4-amino-2,6-dinitrotoulene (4ADNT), 2,4-dinitrotoluene (2,4DNT) and 2,6-dinitrotoluene (2,6DNT)] with necropsy and tissue collection at 24 or 48 h. Gene expression profile results correlated well with clinical data and liver histopathology that lead to the concept that hematotoxicity was followed by hepatotoxicity. Overall, 2,4DNT, 2,6DNT and TNT had stronger effects than 2ADNT and 4ADNT. Common functional terms, gene expression patterns, pathways and networks were regulated across all nitrotoluenes. These pathways included NRF2-mediated oxidative stress response, aryl hydrocarbon receptor signaling, LPS/IL-1 mediated inhibition of RXR function, xenobiotic metabolism signaling and metabolism of xenobiotics by cytochrome P450. One biological process common to all compounds, lipid metabolism, was found to be impacted both at the transcriptional and lipid production level.
A systems biology strategy was used to identify biochemical pathways affected by five nitroaromatic compounds and to integrate data that tie biochemical alterations to pathological changes. An integrative graphical network model was constructed by combining genomic, gene pathway, lipidomic, and physiological endpoint results to better understand mechanisms of liver toxicity and physiological endpoints affected by these compounds.
3-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-imidazo(1,2-alpha) pyridine was tested for carcinogenicity by long-term administration in the diet to CTM mice at 0.1, 0.2 and 0.4% dose levels and to Wistar rats at 0.2 and 0.4% dose levels, and by short-term intraperitoneal injections to suckling BALB/c mice. The compound was a strong carcinogen. In CTM mice it induced carcinomas of the esophagus and forestomach at all dose levels and thymic lymphosarcomas at the two highest doses. In male and female rats, esophagus and forestomach papillomas were observed at all dose levels, whereas esophagus and forestomach carcinomas and kidney tumors were observed only at the high dose. In female rats, an increased incidence of mammary tumors was seen at the high dose. The treatment of BALB/c suckling mice by intraperitoneal injections did not induce a clear carcinogenic response.
We assessed the effects of i.v. cocaine on parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous system activity, and on the complexity vs. regularity of changes in heart rate over time. Fourteen otherwise healthy men with histories of i.v. cocaine abuse received bolus injections of cocaine (20 mg or 40 mg) and placebo (saline) on different days. Cardiovascular measures derived from the electrocardiogram, including heart rate, Porges' vagal tone (respiratory sinus arrhythmia), the 0.10 Hz rhythm, Toichi's vagal index, Toichi's sympathetic index, and approximate entropy (ApEn), were measured continuously. As predicted, cocaine produced tachycardia, accompanied by pronounced decreases in response to 40 mg cocaine in two different vagal tone indexes that precisely mirrored the increases in heart rate. The measure of sympathetic (and vagal) neural influences on the heart (0.10 Hz wave) also decreased in response to cocaine. Converging evidence from Toichi's vagal index supported the conclusion that the tachycardia from cocaine was due to withdrawal of cardiac vagal tone. These findings, and evidence that cocaine decreased cardiovascular complexity, contradict the prevailing assumption that the mechanism by which cocaine produces tachycardia is sympathetic (beta-adrenergic). We discuss implications for cardiac arrhythmias associated with cocaine abuse and death due to overdose.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of repeated injections of oxytocin on blood pressure and heart rate in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). For this purpose subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of oxytocin 1 mg/kg or saline were given for 5 days to male and female SHR. Blood pressure and heart rate were measured daily before, during and after the oxytocin treatment period. In male rats, a significant decrease in blood pressure (systolic; p < 0.01, diastolic; p < 0.05), but no effect on heart rate, was seen the day after the first injection of oxytocin, when compared to saline-treated controls. Blood pressure decreased further in response to each injection and a maximal difference of 21 mmHg (systolic) (p < 0.01), compared to controls, was reached after the last injection. The significant effect was gone 3 days after the last injection, although a tendency to a lower blood pressure in the oxytocin-treated rats persisted. On day 10, the oxytocin-treated SHR males again had a significantly lower systolic blood pressure (p < 0.05). In female SHR, the same treatment with oxytocin affected neither blood pressure nor heart rate. These results show that oxytocin may cause a sustained decrease in blood pressure, without affecting heart rate, in male but not in female SHR.
A 22-year-old man with a synovial cell sarcoma attained an excellent response to therapy with adriamycin (NSC-123127) and dimethyltriazeno imidazole carboxamide (NSC-45388). Therapy was discontinued at a cumulative dose of adriamycin of 600 mg/m2. Relapse occurred 13 1/2 months later, and therapy with adriamycin was restarted. Because of tumor progression, therapy was discontinued after a cumulative dose of adriamycin of 120 mg/m2. Ten weeks later, severe congestive heart failure developed which ultimately caused the patient's death. Exacerbations of the heart failure were temporally related to the administration of the antitumor antibiotics actinomycin-D (NSC-3053) and mithramycin (NSC-24559). Electron microscopic examination of the heart revealed changes characteristic of adriamycin cardiomyopathy. Thus, even after a long hiatus, it may not be safe to exceed the recommended maximum cumulative dose level of adriamycin. The pathogenic mechanisms involved in the development of adriamycin cardiomyopathy are reviewed, and the possible synergistic effect of other antitumor antibiotics is discussed.
This study reports on new proteolytically stable, pharmacologically active endomorphin analogues, incorporating Dmt(1), Achc(2), pFPhe(4), or βMePhe(4) unnatural amino acids. Consistent with earlier results, it was found that the analogues carrying Dmt(1) and Achc(2) residues displayed the highest μ-opioid receptor affinities, depending upon the configuration of the incorporated Achc(2). Combination of such derivatives with pFPhe(4) or βMePhe(4) yielded further compounds with variable binding potencies. Combined application of Dmt(1), cis-(1S,2R)Achc(2), and pFPhe(4) (compound 16) resulted in the most potent analogue. Ligand stimulated [(35)S]GTPγS binding assays indicated that the analogues retained their agonist activities and opioid receptor specificities. NMR and molecular modeling studies of the analogues containing βMePhe(4) or pFPhe(4) confirmed the predominance of bent structures, however, it is apparent that bent structures are energetically more favored than random/extended structures for all studied compounds.
Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) has been used successfully in patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis as maintenance therapy. Only transient and moderate side effects have been reported with a daily dose of 2 g. Since all the treated patients who have been reported so far had no or only moderate renal insufficiency when MMF was initiated, no data are available regarding side effects in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
Five ESRD patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis and a relapsing course of their disease were treated. All patients had pretreatment with cyclophosphamide for at least 17 months. MMF was initiated as a remission maintenance therapy, and started with a dose of 1 g/d. The aim was to increase the MMF dose to 2 g/d. Blood counts, liver enzymes and gastrointestinal side effects were monitored.
Four patients developed severe anemia, 2 requiring blood transfusion with permanent or temporary cessation of MMF treatment. One patient developed leukopenia. Gastrointestinal symptoms led to a dose reduction to 1 g/d (n = 2) or cessation of treatment (n = 1). Three patients remained on longer MMF treatment; however, their daily dose did not exceed 1 g.
MMF, a promising drug regarding maintenance therapy in ANCA-associated vasculitis, seems to have more side effects in ESRD patients, leading to dose reduction or even cessation of treatment. Therefore, in this patient group a lower dose and closer monitoring for side effects seems to be required compared to patients with no or moderate renal insufficiency.
Treatment with valproate is associated with an increased risk of teratogenicity compared to other antiepileptic drugs and can cause a complex of serious symptoms usually referred to as "foetal valproate symdrome" which is characterised by major and minor malformations in association with developmental delay. This paper aims to give attention to the syndrome through four case descriptions. Furthermore, possible risk factors and the use of the mutation 677C-T as a risk marker are discussed.
Nine developmentally retarded children from a parent group, born of mothers who were treated with valproate during pregnancy, were neuropediatrically and neuropsychologically examined in a non-acute setting. The mothers were screened for the 677C-T mutation.
Four of seven examined children fulfilled the criteria for foetal valproate syndrome. Only one of the four mothers was heterozygote for the 677C-T mutation (CT, n = 1/4) and none of the mothers were homozygote (TT, n = 0/4)
The foetal valproate syndrome is a complex of symptoms which is probably underdiagnosed and should be considered in the diagnostic evaluation program for children with developmental delay who are born of mothers with epilepsy. The 677C-T mutation does not seem to be a useful genetic marker of this syndrome.
To evaluate the cardiovascular effects of carbamazepine in patients presenting to the emergency department.
A retrospective case series from February 1, 1985, to July 30, 1993.
Six urban EDs.
Seventy-two adult and pediatric patients with serum carbamazepine concentrations greater than 12 micrograms/mL and concurrent 12-lead ECGs.
The mean carbamazepine level was 24 micrograms/mL (range, 12.6 to 55 micrograms/mL). Minor ECG abnormalities were noted but no clinically significant arrhythmias were found. No correlation was found between carbamazepine concentration and heart rate or PR, QRS, or corrected QT intervals. Four adult patients had transient hypotension.
Clinically significant cardiovascular toxicity occurs rarely in patients with toxic carbamazepine concentrations. ECG findings do not correlate with serum carbamazepine concentration.
To analyse reports of drug-induced myocardial infarction and chest pain sent to a national reporting centre. To review which drugs were suspected of exhibiting these adverse events and what mechanisms were involved.
During the 20-year period 1975 through 1994, a total of 19,141 reports on adverse reactions to drugs were received by the Netherlands Centre for Monitoring of Adverse Reactions to Drugs. Of these 19,141 reports, 220 (1.1%) were concerned with drug-induced chest pain or myocardial infarction. After excluding reports in which the causal relationship was unlikely, poorly documented reports and reports on cases of overdosage, 183 reports (84%) were analysed.
There were 130 reports (71%) of drug-induced chest pain and 53 reports (29%) of drug-induced myocardial infarction. A total of 104 reports concerned females (57%). The most frequently reported suspected drugs were the antimigraine drug sumatriptan (33 reports, 4 concerning myocardial infarction), the calcium antagonist nifedipin (9 reports, 2 of myocardial infarction) and nicotine [9 reports (8 patches, 1 chewing gum), 5 concerning myocardial infarction]. There were 18 reports of a fatal outcome.
Several drugs can produce chest pain or myocardial ischaemia. It is important to recognise drugs as a potential cause, especially in patients with normal coronary arteries.
Here we report the discovery of truncating mutations of the gene encoding the cohesin subunit STAG2, which regulates sister chromatid cohesion and segregation, in 36% of papillary non-invasive urothelial carcinomas and 16% of invasive urothelial carcinomas of the bladder. Our studies suggest that STAG2 has a role in controlling chromosome number but not the proliferation of bladder cancer cells. These findings identify STAG2 as one of the most commonly mutated genes in bladder cancer.
Activation of insulin signaling and cell cycle intermediates is required for adult beta-cell proliferation. Here, we report a model to study beta-cell proliferation in living rats by administering three different doses of dexamethasone (0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg ip, DEX 0.1, DEX 0.5, and DEX 1.0, respectively) for 5 days. Insulin sensitivity, insulin secretion, and histomorphometric data were investigated. Western blotting was used to analyze the levels of proteins related to the control of beta-cell growth. DEX 1.0 rats, which present moderate hyperglycemia and marked hyperinsulinemia, exhibited a 5.1-fold increase in beta-cell proliferation and an increase (17%) in beta-cell size, with significant increase in beta-cell mass, compared with control rats. The hyperinsulinemic but euglycemic DEX 0.5 rats also showed a significant 3.6-fold increase in beta-cell proliferation. However, DEX 0.1 rats, which exhibited the lowest degree of insulin resistance, compensate for insulin demand by improving only islet function. Activation of the insulin receptor substrate 2/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/serine-threonine kinase/ribosomal protein S6 kinase pathway, as well as protein retinoblastoma in islets from DEX 1.0 and DEX 0.5, but not in DEX 0.1, rats was also observed. Therefore, increasing doses of dexamethasone induce three different degrees of insulin requirement in living rats, serving as a model to investigate compensatory beta-cell alterations. Augmented beta-cell mass involves beta-cell hyperplasia and, to a lower extent, beta-cell hypertrophy. We suggest that alterations in circulating insulin and, to a lesser extent, glucose levels could be the major stimuli for beta-cell proliferation in the dexamethasone-induced insulin resistance.
The prototypical atypical antipsychotic agent, clozapine, is more efficacious for refractory schizophrenia than the 'typical' antipsychotics, but the mechanism underlying this enhanced efficacy is still under investigation. Since 2002, at least 22 association studies have shown that the DTNBP1 can be associated with the risk for schizophrenia. We hypothesized that DTNBP1 might also influence the response to antipsychotic treatments. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between the DTNBP1 and the effects of clozapine and haloperidol on refractory schizophrenia.
Patients with refractory schizophrenia were assigned to clozapine (n=85) or haloperidol (n=96) and followed for 3 months. Symptom improvement was evaluated by Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale score. Six markers at DTNBP1 and 38 ancestry-informative markers were genotyped in all participants. The relationships between the effects of antipsychotics and the diplotypes, haplotypes, genotypes, and alleles of DTNBP1 were tested by analysis of covariance, analysis of variance, and t-test.
Patients with diplotype ACCCTC/GTTGCC, genotypes T/T+T/C, or allele T of marker rs742105 (P1333) have better response to clozapine (0.005< or =P< or =0.049), and patients with diplotype ACCCTC/GCCGCC, genotype A/G, or allele A of marker rs909706 (P1583) have better response to haloperidol (0.007< or =P< or =0.080) in European-Americans, African-Americans, and/or the combined sample; European-American patients with diplotype ACCCTC/GCCGCC have worse response to clozapine on positive symptoms (P=0.011).
This study shows that the DTNBP1 gene modulates the effects of both the atypical antipsychotic clozapine and the typical antipsychotic haloperidol. Participants with different DTNBP1 diplotypes, haplotypes, genotypes, or alleles might have different responses to these antipsychotics.
Acute increases in peripheral osmolality evoke a pressor response and baroreflex-mediated bradycardia. These experiments were designed to determine if the fall in heart rate during peripheral sodium loading is 1) equivalent to bradycardia accompanying phenylephrine (PE) infusion, 2) mediated by the parasympathetic (PSNS) or sympathetic (SNS) nervous system, and 3) controlled by the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO). Male rats received an intravenous infusion of isotonic saline, hypertonic saline (2.5 M NaCl), or PE for 30 min. Blood pressure increased equivalently in the hypertonic NaCl and PE groups. However, heart rate fell more in animals infused with PE. Furthermore, pretreatment with methylatropine to block the PSNS had no effect on bradycardia, whereas blocking SNS influences on cardiac function significantly attenuated the fall in heart rate during peripheral hyperosmolality. Finally, kainic acid administration in the MnPO before testing increased bradycardia observed during hypertonic saline loading. Taken together, these data suggest that acute peripheral hyperosmolality acts at the MnPO to reduce cardiac SNS withdrawal during the pressor response that reduces the associated baroreflex bradycardia.
Rabbit syndrome (RS) is a rare extrapyramidal side effect caused by prolonged neuroleptic medication. Here we present a case of withdrawal-emergent RS, which is the first of its kind to be reported. The patient developed RS during dose reduction of risperidone. The symptom was treated successfully with trihexyphenidyl anticholinergic therapy. The underlying mechanism of withdrawal-emergent RS in the present case may have been related to the pharmacological profile of risperidone, a serotonin-dopamine antagonist, suggesting the pathophysiologic influence of the serotonin system in the development of RS.
Levosimendan, a drug used in the treatment of acute and decompensated heart failure, has positive inotropic and antistunning effects mediated by calcium sensitization of contractile proteins, and vasodilatory and antiischemic effects mediated via the opening of ATP-sensitive potassium channels in vascular smooth-muscle cells. Recently, it also has been shown to act on mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium (mitoKATP) channels, an action thought to protect the heart against ischemia-reperfusion damage. This finding has suggested a possible application for levosimendan in clinical situations in which preconditioning would be beneficial (eg, in pre- and perioperative settings in cardiac surgery). The demonstration that levosimendan can prevent or limit myocyte apoptosis via the activation of mitoKATP channels provides a potential mechanism whereby this agent might protect cardiac myocytes during episodes of acute heart failure. This finding may explain why short-term treatment with levosimendan may improve longer-term survival. The present article reviews the literature on the cardioprotective actions of levosimendan, with particular emphasis on its recently recognized effects on mitoKATP channels and the putative preconditioning effects of that action. A therapeutic approach to acute heart failure that includes a cardioprotective strategy could have a clinically meaningful benefit on disease progression beyond alleviation of symptoms.
Urinary enzyme excretion and proteinuria were studied in 316 children with different underlying diseases. Activities on N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase and alanine aminopeptidase decreased progressively with age in the urine of 66 healthy prematures, newborns, infants or children. In 51 children with nephrotic syndrome, tubulopathies or chronic renal failure, excretion of NAG and AAP rose 3 to 30 fold. Contrary to molecular weight dependent protein analysis, determination of enzymuria did not allow to differentiate between glomerular and tubular disorders. After renal transplantation, 31 out of 52 children had a pathological enzymuria. NAG and AAP were more frequently elevated during treatment with cyclosporine A (21/29), than with azathioprine (10/23). The influence of nephrotoxic drugs upon enzymuria was documented in 14 children with cystic fibrosis or septicaemia treated with tobramycin. Activities of NAG and AAP rose transiently, whereas proteinuria remained almost unchanged. Only three out of 45 children receiving nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug therapy for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or spondylarthritis showed a pathological increase in enzymuria. Mean urinary NAG and AAP excretion in 154 children with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus were not different from controls and were unrelated to either duration of disease or HbA1 concentration. The determinations of urinary enzymes as non-invasive tests of renal integrity in medicine and toxicology provide a very sensitive indicator of renal damage. The assays of NAG and AAP have proven to be most valuable; however, due to a lack of specificity for the type and origin of renal dysfunction, these urinary enzyme assays are most useful when carried out in conjunction with electrophoretic analyses of proteinuria.
1. Epomediol is a terpenoid compound that has been reported to stimulate bile acid synthesis and to reverse 17alpha- ethinyloestradiol-induced cholestasis. The aim of the present study was to investigate the contribution of changes in bile acid and cholesterol metabolism to the protective effects of epomediol in ethinyloestradiol-treated rats. Animals received epomediol for 5 days at 100 mg/kg daily, i.p., ethinyloestradiol for 5 days at 5 mg/kg, s.c., or a combination of both drugs. 2. When compared with control animals, epomediol treatment resulted in a significant increase in bile flow (+42%) and in the secretion of bile acids (+74%) and cholesterol (+42%). Ethinyloestradiol administration caused a significant decrease in bile flow (-43%), bile acid secretion (-37%) and cholesterol secretion (-45%). Bile flow, bile acid secretion and cholesterol secretion were significantly increased in animals receiving ethinyloestradiol plus epomediol compared with ethinyloestradiol-treated rats (+13, +29 and +31%, respectively). 3. Both cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase and hydroxy-3- methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase activities were significantly increased in epomediol-treated rats (+30 and +96%, respectively). Cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase activity was significantly reduced by ethinyloestradiol (-22%) and did not differ from control values in animals receiving epomediol plus ethinyloestradiol. Levels of cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase mRNA were elevated (+41%) by epomediol, but were not significantly modified by ethinyloestradiol or ethinyloestradiol plus epomediol. 4. It is concluded that epomediol enhances bile acid secretion by increasing the expression of cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase. Changes in bile acid metabolism contribute to the effects of epomediol in rats with ethinyloestradiol-induced cholestasis.
This study investigated the efficacy of oral administration of verapamil, started 24 hours after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), in reducing the incidence of postoperative supraventricular tachyarrhythmia (SVT). Two hundred patients were randomly assigned in a double-blind fashion to receive a one-week course of either a placebo or 80 mg of verapamil every 6 hours. Overall, SVT developed in 23 control and 14 verapamil-treated patients, a 39% reduction in incidence (p less than 0.10). Of the patients who received at least four doses and continued to receive the study drug, 17 in the control and 7 in the verapamil group experienced SVT, a 53% decrease in incidence (p less than 0.06). Atrial fibrillation constituted 34 of the 37 SVT episodes and was associated with a slower ventricular response in the group given verapamil (115 +/- 8 versus 156 +/- 4 beats per minute; p less than 0.001). No evidence was found linking postoperative SVT with the withdrawal of beta-blocking drugs. Adverse effects required that 20 patients in the verapamil and 6 in the placebo group be removed from the study. Hypotension or pulmonary edema or both developed in 13 of the patients receiving verapamil, but in only 1 of the control patients (p less than 0.001). We conclude that although verapamil has potential merit for the prophylaxis of SVT after CABG, its use in this setting is associated with a high incidence of unacceptable hemodynamic side effects.
The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy and tolerability of gabapentin and amitriptyline monotherapy in painful diabetic neuropathy. This was a 12-week, open-label, prospective, randomized trial. Twenty-five type-II diabetic patients with pain attributed to diabetic neuropathy and a minimum score of 2 on a pain intensity scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 4 (excruciating pain) were randomized to receive either gabapentin, titrated from 1,200 mg/day to a maximum of 2,400 mg/day, or amitriptyline, titrated from 30 mg/day to a maximum of 90 mg/day. Both drugs were titrated over a 4-week period and maintained at the maximum tolerated dose for 8 weeks. The main outcome measures were weekly pain intensity and paresthesia intensity, measured on two categorical scales. Thirteen patients received gabapentin and 12 received amitriptyline. All 25 patients completed the trial. Gabapentin produced greater pain reductions than amitriptyline (mean final scores were 1.9 vs. 1.3 points below baseline scores; P = 0.026). Decreases in paresthesia scores also were in favor of gabapentin (1.8 vs. 0.9 points; P = 0. 004). Adverse events were more frequent in the amitriptyline group than in the gabapentin group: they were reported by 11/12 (92%) and 4/13 (31%) of patients, respectively (P = 0.003). Side effects were the main limiting factor preventing dose escalation. Gabapentin produced greater improvements than amitriptyline in pain and paresthesia associated with diabetic neuropathy. Additionally, gabapentin was better tolerated than amitriptyline. Further controlled trials are needed to confirm these preliminary results.
Fraternal twin sisters developed idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) shortly after beginning tetracycline for treatment of acne. We reviewed from the literature 19 familial cases of IIH and 37 cases of IIH associated with tetracycline usage. Among the 37 combined adult and pediatric cases, 26 of 37 had resolution of signs or symptoms of IIH within hours to days of stopping the antibiotic, and rapid recurrence with reinitiation of drug occurred in 4 of 37. We suggest that these cases may be tetracycline-induced, may be related to an underlying genetic susceptibility, and support the notion of multifactorial etiologies for IIH.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) requires brief general anesthesia, and succinylcholine is a depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent that is frequently used for this procedure. Its use leads to intracellular potassium release into the extracellular space, usually increasing the serum potassium level by 0.5-1 mEq/L, with little clinical significance. However, long-term immobilization has been associated with changes at the neuromuscular junction (up-regulation of nicotinic cholinergic receptors) and subsequent serious hyperkalemia following succinylcholine administration. We report the case of a severely obese patient, immobilized due to her catatonic state, who developed life-threatening ventricular tachycardia after succinylcholine administration for ECT. Resumption of normal physical activity reverses these neuromuscular junctional changes, allowing subsequent safe succinylcholine administration. Current drug development may eliminate the need for succinylcholine use during ECT.
