The authors discuss some controversial aspects of the therapy of chronic hypertension in pregnancy. In cases in whom the blood pressure has been treated before conception the therapy should be continued. But there is no agreement about beginning of the hypotensive therapy during pregnancy. Some authors recommend an early treatment, others give hypotensive drugs only for those women who show no fall of the blood pressure in the second trimester or when the blood pressure exceeds 170/110 mm. Hg. These controversial opinions result from our defective notice of the uteroplacental blood flow during a long-continued application of antihypertensive drugs and their dose-response. As hypotensive agents methyldopa, hydralazine and beta adrenergic substances are recommended, on part of internists also medicaments which are used in nonpregnant patients. In severe chronic hypertension premature induction of labor is necessary. In hypertension III degree and IV degree the pregnancy should be interrupted.
Delayed seizures have been reported with overdoses of bupropion extended-release (XL). This study systematically evaluates the frequency and timing of seizures and an association between other toxic effects (ie, agitation, tremors, and hallucinations) and seizures.
A 3-year multi-poison center observational study of hospitalized patients with ingestion of bupropion XL >or=600 mg in adults and >or=4 mg/kg in children was performed. Patients with coingestants or a medical history that could affect seizure occurrence were excluded. Data collection forms captured onset time of seizure(s), other symptoms, and treatment.
One hundred seventeen patients met inclusion criteria: median age of 22 years (range, 1.3-65 years) with 16 children <or= 3 years. Seizures occurred in 37 (31.6%) patients, with initial seizure at 0.5 to 24 hours after ingestion; 12 (32%) patients had initial seizure at > 8 hours. Subsequent seizures occurred in 49%. Children ages 1.3, 3, and 7 years, developed seizures. In patients >or= 13 years of age, median dose with seizures was 4350 mg (range, 600-54 000) compared to 2400 mg (range, 600-9000) in patients without seizures. Agitation, tremors, and hallucinations occurred in 29.7%, 40.5%, and 18.9% of patients with seizures, respectively, compared with 12.5 %, 17.5%, and 10% in patients without seizures. The neurologic effects agitation (P = .045) and tremors (P = .005) occurred more frequently.
Delayed seizure onset suggests a minimum observation period of 24 hours after bupropion XL overdose. Although patients experiencing agitation or tremors may be at greater risk, seizures can occur without preceding central nervous system toxicity.
It is generally held that altered areas, neoplastic nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) induced by mutagenic chemical carcinogens are resistant to the effects of hepatotoxins. This characteristic is attributed to the marked decrease in activating (phase I) enzymes and a several-fold increase in detoxifying (phase II) enzymes. In previous studies, we have shown that hepatic neoplastic lesions induced by non-mutagenic peroxisome proliferators differed from mutagenic carcinogen-induced lesions by lacking gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and the placental form of glutathione S-transferase. In this study we have examined ciprofibrate-induced HCC for phase I and phase II enzymes. These tumors showed a marked decrease in cytochrome P-450 (53%), cytochrome b5 (79%) and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (55%) activities compared to normal livers. Interestingly, activities of phase II enzymes in these tumors, such as UDP-glucuronyltransferases and sulfotransferases were decreased or remained the same as in the normal livers. In addition, the activity of epoxide hydrolase was also decreased markedly in all peroxisome proliferator-induced HCC. The decrease in the activity of various enzymes appears not to be due to the direct effect of ciprofibrate, since no inhibitory effect was observed after adding this compound in vitro. These findings further amplify the differences between the hepatic lesions induced by mutagenic hepatocarcinogens and non-mutagenic peroxisome proliferators suggesting a divergence in the mechanism by which peroxisome proliferators induce liver tumors.
The aim of study was to investigate pharmacological treatment for sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS).
SOS is associated with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy in patients with hepatic colorectal metastases. Patients with SOS have increased postoperative morbidity after major hepatectomy, but a method for effective prevention of SOS has not been established.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with cobalt protoporphyrin IX (CoPP) or olprinone (OLP), a phosphodiesterase III inhibitor, and hepatic HO-1 expression and HO enzymatic activity were determined. Monocrotaline (MCT) was given to rats to induce SOS, and blockage of SOS by CoPP or OLP-induced hepatic HO-1 was examined in these rats. Zinc protoporphyrin IX (ZnPP), a competitive HO inhibitor, was given to MCT-treated rats together with OLP to clarify the mechanism of protection against SOS. We also examined if OLP preserved remnant liver function after 70% hepatectomy in MCT-treated rats.
OLP up-regulated hepatic HO-1 protein expression and HO enzymatic activity, and activated Akt protein. Administration of ZnPP to OLP-treated rats resulted in inhibition of HO activity and inactivation of Akt. Induction of HO-1 by pretreatment with CoPP led to amelioration of SOS in histologic findings and blockage of elevation of serum liver enzymes. Pretreatment with OLP gave a similar result and preserved remnant liver function, as indicated by improved survival after hepatectomy. ZnPP completely abolished the protective effects of OLP.
Protection of the liver from drug-induced injury by prior up-regulation of HO-1 using OLP may have potential as a therapeutic strategy for prevention of SOS.
We investigated whether intrastriatal (i.s.) administration of 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) induces oxidative damage and whether behavioral alterations induced by i.s. administration of ALA could be affected by antioxidants. Unilateral injection of ALA (6 micromol/striatum) increased (approximately 30%) thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), but did not affect striatal content of total thiol groups. ALA-induced body asymmetry was not prevented by pretreatment with ascorbic acid (100 mg/kg, s.c.), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, 0.5 microl/striatum, i.s.) or ebselen (10 nmol/striatum, i.s.). ALA-induced convulsions were not prevented by ascorbic acid, but were partially prevented by DMSO and completely prevented by ebselen. Ebselen completely prevented the increase of striatal TBARS induced by ALA. Results obtained suggest the involvement of reactive species in ALA-induced convulsions and may be of value in understanding the physiopathology of neurological dysfunctions associated to ALA overload.
We report the specifics of 12 cases of severe hypertension after the intraoperative use of topical phenylephrine, submucosal epinephrine, or both. Ten of these 12 patients also developed severe pulmonary edema. Seven of the twelve were treated with beta blockers; 3 of whom suffered cardiac arrest. We propose a common mechanism: the vasoconstrictors caused systemic hypertension, increased left ventricular afterload, decreased left ventricular compliance, and decreased cardiac output. In those patients treated with beta blockers, decreased contractility and inability to increase heart rate further compromised cardiopulmonary function.
The purpose of this study was to examine a form of impulsive behavior (impaired inhibition) using cocaine or food reward in addiction-prone and addiction-resistant rats that were bred for high saccharin (HiS) or low saccharin (LoS) intake, respectively. A Go/No-go procedure was used to examine cocaine and food reinforcement (Go component) and the inhibition of responding during a subsequent period of nonreward (No-go component). Rats were initially trained to self-administer intravenous cocaine (0.4 mg/kg) under an FR 1 schedule during daily Go/No-go sessions consisting of three components of cocaine reinforcement (Go) alternating with two nonreward components (No-go), each signaled by different stimuli. Responding and drug intake were compared under three FR values (FR 1, FR 3, and FR 5) and three cocaine doses (0.2, 0.4, and 0.8 mg/kg). A similar Go/No-go procedure was used with food reinforcement and the same three FR conditions. During the Go components for intravenous cocaine, female rats self-administered more infusions at the 0.2 and 0.4 mg/kg doses than males, indicating a sex difference in cocaine intake. During the No-go periods under the cocaine condition, HiS rats and females responded significantly more than LoS rats and males, indicating phenotype and sex differences in impaired inhibition. During the Go components with food reward, males responded more and earned more pellets than females, but there were no phenotype or sex differences in No-go responding (impulsivity). The results indicate that HiS rats and females are more prone than LoS rats and males to impulsive drug-seeking behavior.
Smoke inhalation injury is a major comorbid factor in patients with thermal injury and occurs in about 30% of patients with major burns. In addition, inhalation injury reportedly accounts for 20%-84% of the mortality in burned individuals and is associated with higher mortality rates for every age and burn size category. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of simvastatin on lung damage with burn and cotton smoke inhalation.
Wistar rats were randomly assigned to three groups: saline treated control group, via an orogastric route (group 1, n = 6), burn (30%) and cotton smoke inhalated group (group 2, n = 6), and simvastatin treated (25 mg/kg/d, via an orogastric route) burn (30%) and cotton smoke inhalated group (group 3, n = 6). Rats were sacrificed at 48 h of the treatments and the trachea and lungs were removed completely. Tissue samples were taken for histopathologic, immunohistopathologic, and biochemical analyses. Univariate analysis of variance coupled with Duncan's post-hoc test was performed for statistical evaluation.
Lung parenchymal and tracheoepithelial damage was confirmed in group 2 by histopathologic examination. Lung malonedialdehyde (MDA) levels were significantly decreased (P < 0.001), while glutathione (GSH) concentration did not alter in group 2 compared with group 1. Also, immunopathologic data revealed that epithelial iNOS level was elevated, while no modulation was detected in the level of myeloperoxidase (MPO). Simvastatin administration resulted in decreasing the lung parenchymal and tracheoepithelial damage. Tissue MDA levels were decreased significantly (P < 0.001), whereas GSH concentrations were elevated in group 3 compared with group 1 and group 2 (P < 0.001). Simvastatin treatment caused a decrease in epithelial iNOS levels, while MPO levels were not modulated. In addition, simvastatin significantly reduced pulmonary apoptosis in lung injury.
Our results have indicated that simvastatin administration seems to play beneficial role in lung injury of rats promoted by combined burn and smoke inhalation. Thus, simvastatin may represent a potential approach to prevent smoke inhalation-associated lung dysfunction. However, the significant decrease in basal oxidant production may cause impairment in cellular signalling processes.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of the treatment with antipsychotic olanzapine in cocaine abuse methadone patients. The decrease or interruption of cocaine consume as well as the possible pharmacokinetic interaction between olanzapine and methadone were studied.
Patients (n= 21) include in a methadone maintenance program (14 months), with DSM-IV criteria for opioid and cocaine dependence and without schizophrenic diagnostic, were treated with olanzapine 5 to 10 mg/day. The therapeutic outcomes were assessed by personal interviews, cocaine consumption, changes of consumption patrons (via of administration) and secondary effects to olanzapine. Withdrawal symptoms were measured by means of the abbreviate version of the scale of Gossop. Cocaine used was measured by urine analysis (enzymoimmnuoassay). The possible pharmacokinetic interaction between olanzapine and methadone was measured in plasma before and during the treatment in 15 patients.
Olanzapine combined with methadone in cocaine abusers was well tolerated in an important proportion of patients. Moreover the consumption of cocaine was decreased or stopped in 53,2% of the patients. In addition, no withdrawal syndrome was observed in any patients. Furthermore the ratios of methadone plasma levels did not change in relation to the dose before and during the treatment, suggesting a lack of pharmacokinetic interaction between methadone and olanzapine.
In conclusion the results of this preliminary study, led us to advance that olanzapine could be a useful treatment for cocaine abuse at least in patients in a Methadone Maintenance Program, with the advantage of not to induce any pharmacokinetic interaction with methadone.
Warfarin is a well established oral anticoagulant for the treatment of thromboembolic disorders. Warfarin therapy is complicated by a narrow therapeutic index and marked inter-individual dose variability with therapeutic doses ranging from 1 mg to 10 mg/day. Recently genetic variation and resultant drug metabolizing polymorphisms have been found to contribute to warfarin dose variability with resultant hemorrhagic or thromboembolic complications. Cytochrome P4502C9 alters the rate of warfarin metabolism and clearance. A second enzyme, Vitamin K Epoxide Reductase Complex (VKORC) binds and reduces Vitamin K which is necessary for activation of clotting Factors II, VII, IX and X. The VKORC1 gene encodes for Vitamin K Epoxide Reductase Complex subunit 1, a key component of VKORC. The combination of physiologic factors (30%), CYP2C9 variations (20%) and VKORC1 variants (25%) accounts for approximately 75% of warfarin dose variability. This illustrative case report demonstrates the clinical importance of this new information. Clinicians need to incorporate these new genomic findings into appropriate management of warfarin dose anticoagulation.
Previous work suggested that methotrexate (MTX) may cause encephalopathy by inhibiting biosynthetic pathways for dopamine and serotonin in the brain. We examined this issue by measuring the neurotransmitter metabolites homovanillic acid and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the lumbar CSF of rhesus monkeys receiving continuous intracerebroventricular infusions of MTX or dichloromethotrexate. Infusion of the lowest dose (0.05 mg/day) produced a large (300%) rise in homovanillic acid levels and a modest elevation in 5-hydroxy-indoleacetic acid. During higher dose infusion, which was associated with clinical encephalopathy, the biogenic amine metabolites fell from their previous elevated levels. In one encephalopathic monkey, an injection of 1 mg of leucovorin produced a marked elevation in CSF monoamine metabolites within 1 hour and rapid clinical recovery. In contrast, leucovorin produced no change in monoamine metabolites in control animals. The data suggest that MTX may block egress of monoamine metabolites from CSF at the lower doses and suppress neurotransmitter turnover at toxic doses which cause encephalopathy. Serial measurements of CSF monoamine metabolites deserve further investigation as biochemical markers for toxic effects of MTX on neuronal metabolism in the CNS.
We recently showed that prenatal exposure to diesel exhaust (DE) disrupts spermatogenesis in mouse offspring. This study was undertaken to determine whether filtered DE in which 99.97% of diesel exhaust particles >0.3 microm in diameter were removed affects spermatogenesis in growing mice. After prenatal exposure to filtered DE for 2-16 days postcoitum, we examined daily sperm production (DSP), testicular histology, serum testosterone levels and mRNA expression of hormone synthesis process-related factors. In the filtered DE exposed group, DSP was markedly reduced at 12 weeks compared with the control group; clean air exposed group. Histological examination showed multinucleated giant cells and partial vacuolation in the seminiferous tubules of the exposed group. Testosterone was elevated significantly at 5 weeks. Moreover, luteinizing hormone receptor mRNA at 5 and 12 weeks, 17alpha-hydroxylase/C17-20-lyase and 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase mRNAs at 12 weeks were significantly elevated. These results suggest that filtered DE retains its toxic effects on the male reproductive system following prenatal exposure.
The use of beta blockers in congestive heart failure presents a therapeutic challenge for patients with acute episodes of decompensation. Such patients may be less responsive to positive inotropic agents, whereas the beneficial effects of nesiritide, which are not dependent on the beta-adrenergic receptor signal-transduction pathway, may be preserved. This analysis of the Vasodilation in the Management of Acute CHF trial evaluated the safety and efficacy of nesiritide in decompensated congestive heart failure patients receiving beta blockers. The Vasodilation in the Management of Acute CHF trial was a multicenter, randomized, controlled evaluation of nesiritide in 489 hospitalized patients with decompensated congestive heart failure. One hundred twenty-three patients were on chronic beta-blocker therapy at enrollment (31 randomized to placebo, 50 to nesiritide, and 42 to nitroglycerin). Primary end points included pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and dyspnea evaluation at 3 hours. Patients receiving nesiritide, but not IV nitroglycerin, had significantly reduced pulmonary capillary wedge pressure vs. placebo at 3 hours regardless of beta-blocker use. The use of beta blockers did not alter the beneficial effects of nesiritide on systemic blood pressure, heart rate, or dyspnea evaluation. In nesiritide-treated subjects, safety profiles were similar regardless of beta-blocker use. Thus, the clinical and hemodynamic benefits and safety of nesiritide are preserved in decompensated congestive heart failure patients receiving chronic beta blockade.
Loco-regional intra-arterial chemotherapy of hepatic metastases from colo-rectal cancer is one of the most effective non-surgical treatments in this clinical situation. In our experience of 58 cases treated during 3 years, in a non randomized study by either: 1) discontinuous perfusion of 5FU (using a subcutaneous access) or 2) by continuous infusion of FUDR (using an implantable pump), we observed an objective response rate of 52% and 53% with a 1 year survival of 73% and 90%, respectively. This technique, however, is limited in its application by loco-regional complications and in its long term efficacy by the development of extrahepatic metastases. The proof of its efficacy in terms of survival prolongation, is being studied within the framework of a prospective randomized trial with a control group.
Intrathecal ketamine produces a short period of analgesia with stable haemodynamics. Midazolam with bupivacaine prolongs the duration of analgesia when administered intrathecally but does not prevent hypotension. The objective of this study was to assess the effect of a combination of intrathecal bupivacaine, ketamine and midazolam on the duration of analgesia and haemodynamic parameters.
A prospective, randomized, double-blind study was carried out in 60 ASA I and II patients undergoing lower limb surgery under spinal anaesthesia. Patients were divided into three groups of 20 each. Patients in all the three groups received 3 mL of hyperbaric bupivacaine (0.5%) intrathecally. In addition, patients in Groups II and III received intrathecal ketamine (0.1 mg kg-1) and the same dose of ketamine along with midazolam (0.02 mg kg-1), respectively. All patients were evaluated for block characteristics, duration of pain-free period, total rescue analgesic requirement in the 24-h postoperative period, total dose of mephenteramine to treat hypotension and any central or neurological complication.
No patients in Group II required mephenteramine while 40% of patients in Group I and 10% in Group III required mephenteramine to maintain blood pressure after spinal anaesthesia. The mean +/- standard deviation duration of pain-free period was 331.5 +/- 89.9, 369.7 +/- 124.2 and 730.5 +/- 81.5 min in Group I, II and III, respectively. The pain-free interval was significantly greater in Group III compared to Groups I and II (P < 0.001). No patient had any complications.
A low dose of midazolam and ketamine with bupivacaine intrathecally results in prolonged analgesia and less haemodynamic fluctuations. However, the safety of this combination needs to be proved before its use in clinical practice.
To investigate the effect of Guizhi Tang and its active components on the fever induced by EP3 receptor agonist sulprostone in rats.
The rise in body temperature evoked by a LCV(lateral cerebroventricle)-injection of sulprostone was compared with that of sulprostone induced-fever rats pretreated with Guizgi Tang and its active compounds, cinnamaldehyde, cinnamic acid and total glucosides of paeony.
Pretreatments with Guizhi Tang and cinnamaldehyde inhibited the rise in body temperature induced by sulprostone, while cinnamic acid tended to augment the fever. The sulprostone-induced fever was blocked by an ip pretreatment of total glucosides of paeony even below the basement.
Present data suggest that interruption with the down-stream events of EP3 receptor may contribute to the antipyretic action of Guizhi Tang, cinnamaldehyde and the total glucosides of paeony, while cinnamic acid may have no such effect.
Lead (Pb) is a known neurotoxicant in humans and experimental animals. Numerous studies have provided evidence that humans, especially young children, and animals chronically intoxicated with low levels of Pb show learning and memory impairments. Unfortunately, Pb-poisoning cases continue to occur in many countries. Because the current treatment options are very limited, there is a need for alternative methods to attenuate Pb toxicity. In this study, the weaning (postnatal day 21, PND21) rats were randomly divided into five groups: the control group (AIN-93G diet, de-ionized water), the lead acetate (PbAC) group (AIN-93G diet, 2g/L PbAC in de-ionized water), the lead acetate+WR group (white rice diet, 2g/L PbAC in de-ionized water; PbAC+WR), the lead acetate+BR group (brown rice diet, 2g/L PbAC in de-ionized water; PbAC+BR) and the lead acetate+PR group (pre-germinated brown rice diet, 2g/L PbAC in de-ionized water; PbAC+PR). The animals received the different diets until PND60, and then the experiments were terminated. The protective effects of pre-germinated brown rice (PR) on Pb-induced learning and memory impairment in weaning rats were assessed by the Morris water maze and one-trial-learning passive avoidance test. The anti-oxidative effects of feeding a PR diet to Pb-exposed rats were evaluated. The levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were determined by flow cytometry. The levels of 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate were determined by HPLC. Our data showed that feeding a PR diet decreased the accumulation of lead and decreased Pb-induced learning and memory deficits in developing rats. The mechanisms might be related to the anti-oxidative effects and large amount of GABA in PR. Our study provides a regimen to reduce Pb-induced toxicity, especially future learning and memory deficits in the developing brain.
A toxic effect of highly toxic nervous agents is irreversible inhibition of vitally important enzyme acethylcholinesterase (AChE). Inhibition of AChE results in accumulation of acetylcholine (ACh) at the synaptic cleft of the cholinergic neurons, leading to overstimulation of cholinergic receptors. The highly toxic nature of tabun has been known for many years, but there are still serious limitations to the antidotal therapy. In this paper a bispyridinium compound K027 [1-(4-hydroxyiminomethylpyridinium)-3-(-4-carbamoylpyridinium) propane dibromide] was tested as potential antidote in tabun poisoned mice. Oxime TMB-4 was included for comparison. The therapeutic efficacy of applied antidotal regimens was tested as pretreatment given 15 min before tabun poisoning and/or as therapy given 1 min after tabun poisoning. Using oxime K027 (25% of its LD(50)) plus atropine as both, pretreatment and therapy, we showed that this combination can protect mice 8 times better than the therapy alone. Under these experimental conditions we confirmed good antidotal efficacy of K027. Moreover, its low acute toxicity is as much as beneficial effect in contrast to high toxicity of currently used TMB-4.
We report two cases of people from different states in India who developed polyneuropathy following intake of mefloquine for treatment of malaria. To the best of our knowledge this has not been reported before.
Cannabinoid signaling via the type 1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptor modulates the effects of drugs of abuse and the response to exposure to stressors. In addition, exposure to stressors can alter the effects of drugs of abuse. This study examined the effects of exposure to chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) in CB1 receptor knockout (CB1 KO) mice and their wild-type (WT) littermates, using cocaine-conditioned place preference (CPP) to compare their response to cocaine. Mice were untreated or exposed to 2 weeks of CUS. After this period, the acquisition of a cocaine CPP was examined with one of three doses (3.2, 10.0, or 17.0 mg/kg) of cocaine. Untreated CB1 KO and WT mice both acquired the cocaine CPP; however, exposure to CUS enhanced the acquisition of the cocaine CPP in CB1 KO mice, but did not significantly alter the effects of cocaine in WT mice. Taken together, these findings support earlier evidence suggesting a role for the CB1 receptor in the response to stress as well as in the effects of cocaine.
Whether intracoronary papaverine or adenosine leads to reductions in regional left ventricular function was tested.
Fifteen anaesthetised dogs were prepared to record aortic pressure, left ventricular pressure dP/dt, electrocardiogram, regional ventricular shortening, and phasic and mean left circumflex coronary blood flow, and to give intracoronary boluses of papaverine (2, 4, or 6 mg) or adenosine (0.37 and 1.87 mg).
Injected doses were chosen to mimic those given in the clinical setting. Papaverine (6 mg) reduced aortic pressure (mean 96(SD 17) to 89(18) mm Hg; p < 0.05), segmental shortening of the infused left circumflex zone (12(5) to 7(9)%; p < 0.05), and area of the pressure-length loop of the infused zone (120(71) to 53(47) mm.mm Hg; p < 0.05). Papaverine increased coronary blood flow (48(25) to 259(95) ml.min-1; p < 0.05), coronary vascular conductance (0.40(0.20) to 2.93(0.94) ml.mm Hg-1.min-1; p < 0.05), heart rate (88(27) to 100(28) beats.min-1; p < 0.05), and the segmental shortening (17(6) to 19(3)% p < 0.05) and area of the pressure-length loop (130(32) to 177(33) mm.mm Hg; p < 0.05) of the non-infused left anterior descending region. The hyperaemia elicited by papaverine was greater than that of reactive hyperaemia (p = 0.008). Papaverine also increased the QT interval corrected for heart rate (0.35(0.04) to 0.45(0.05) s; p < 0.05). When adenosine was given, coronary blood flow and coronary vascular conductance were increased to similar degrees as those during reactive hyperaemia (41(12) to 210(75) ml.min-1 and 0.46(0.14) to 2.43(0.83) mm Hg.ml-1.min-1, respectively; NS). No effects on segmental shortening or the area of the pressure-length loop in either zone were found. Also, adenosine had no effect on the QT interval.
These adverse effects of intracoronary papaverine have important implications in its use in patients, particularly in those in whom abnormal cardiac function already exists. Adenosine, on the other hand, seems to be without deleterious effects.
Background In a previous phase I to II trial, we have shown that the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) in 48-hour continuous infusion (CI) weekly was 3.5 gr/m2. In a subsequent confirmative phase II trial with 85 evaluable patients, a 38.5% response rate was obtained and the median survival reached was 12 months. These data were comparable to those achieved by biochemical modulation of 5-FU with Leucovorin. On this basis we tried to modulate high-dose 5-FU (3 gr/m2) with oral leucovorin (LV) but the regimen was too toxic and the dose had to be reduced. A new phase II trial with 2 g/m2/week plus oral leucovorin was planned. Patients received a median dose intensity of 5-FU of 1.6 g/m2/week (range 0.9-2). Three complete responses and 36 partial responses were observed. Overall response rate was 37.5% (95% CI, 28% to 46.8%). Median time to progression has been 7.4 months, and median survival 14.4 months. WHO grade 3 diarrhea was seen in 27 patients (24.5%). Grade 3 mucositis was also seen in 9 (8.1%) patients, and grade 4 was observed in one. Grade 3 nausea and vomiting was reported in 13 (11.7%) patients. Grade 3 hand-foot syndrome was detected in only 5 (4.5%) patients. Grade 4 leukopenia was observed in 1 case and grade 3 to 4 thrombocytopenia was observed in two cases, respectively. Oral leucovorin modulation of weekly 48-hour continuous infusion of 5-FU at 2 g/m2 is an active regimen, with diarrhea and mucositis as main limiting toxicities. Its antitumor activity does not seem superior to that obtained with a weekly 48 hour continuous infusion of 5-FU alone at a dose of 3.5 g/m2.
To evaluate the effects of metoclopramide on the frequency and severity of propofol-induced movements.
Randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Veterans Administration Medical Center.
One hundred thirty-seven consenting adults scheduled to receive general anesthesia with propofol induction.
Patients were randomized to receive either metoclopramide 10 mg intravenously (IV) or placebo (saline) 3 min before induction of general anesthesia. All patients received midazolam 1 to 2 mg IV, fentanyl 50 to 150 microg IV, and lidocaine 50 to 80 mg IV before induction of anesthesia.
Occurrence of spontaneous movements and severity during the observation period were recorded after propofol induction by observing movement in the hands/arms and feet/legs, as well as presence of a hiccup. The dosage of anesthetic medications administered was also recorded for each patient.
No differences were noted in the frequency and severity of spontaneous movement in the patients who had received metoclopramide and placebo. However, compared with the patients who did not move, patients who experienced movements received a significantly higher dose of propofol (P = 0.025) and a lower dose of fentanyl (P = 0.049).
Metoclopramide does not affect the frequency of propofol-induced movements, but propofol and fentanyl doses influence the frequency of movements during propofol induction.
Eugenol is commonly used as an analgesic agent during acute pulpitis and is a major component of root canal sealers. Despite the frequent applications of eugenol in the practice of dentistry, little is known about the role of eugenol under the status of inflammation. This study was aimed to investigate the influence of eugenol on human macrophages (U937) under the stimulation of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Eugenol was shown to block the release of the bone resorbing mediators, including interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and prostaglandin E2 from LPS-stimulated macrophages. In contrast, eugenol alone did not alter the expression levels of these proinflammatory mediators in macrophages. Consistent with downregulation of bone-resorbing mediators, eugenol suppressed the messenger RNA expression of LPS-induced IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and cyclooxygenase-2 in macrophages. The results suggest a potential anti-inflammatory effect of eugenol in the acute inflamed pulps and apical periodontitis.
The results of bicycle ergometry (BE) following administration of placebo, 80 mg propranolol (anaprilin), 30 mg nifedipine (corinfar) and a combination of 60 mg propranolol and 20 mg nifedipine were reviewed in coronary patients with angina pectoris of functional classes (FC) II-IV. Patients with FC-II angina showed the greatest increment in stress tolerance after nifedipine administration, and patients with FC-IV angina, after propranolol, apparently due to a predominance of the functional (coronaro-spastic) pathogenetic factor in the FC-II angina, and the organic factor, in angina of more severe functional classes. In patients belonging to FC-III, the two drugs had similar antianginal efficiency. Stress tolerance increased considerably after simultaneous administration of both drugs in all patients with angina of effort, irrespective of functional class.
Numerous studies support a role for the endogenous opioid system in cocaine-influenced behavior. Few of these studies, however, selectively delineate a role for the mu opioid receptor (MOR) in this regard. This investigation examined if the MOR modulates cocaine-induced behavior in mice using a 17-base antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (AS ODN) directed against the MOR coding sequence 16-32. Specifically, cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization and conditioned reward were investigated. For the sensitization study, C57BL/6J mice received eight intermittent i.c.v. infusions of saline, mismatch oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) (20 microg/4 microl) or AS ODN (20 microg/4 microl) over 20 days. Mice also received concomitant once daily i.p. injections of saline (4 ml/kg) or cocaine (15 mg/kg) for 10 days. There was a 7-day withdrawal period, after which all mice were challenged with cocaine (15 mg/kg) to test for behavioral sensitization. For the conditioned place preference (CPP) study, mice received five i.c.v. infusions of mismatch ODN or MOR AS ODN (days 1-5). An unbiased counterbalanced conditioning procedure was used where mice were conditioned with saline (4 ml/kg, i.p.) and cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) on alternate days for four sessions (days 3-6). Mice were tested on day 7 for CPP. Immediately following testing, [3H]DAMGO (D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly-ol5-enkephalin) receptor binding to brain homogenates was conducted. MOR AS attenuated cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization and conditioned reward. MOR AS ODN also reduced [3H]DAMGO binding. Collectively, these findings implicate the MOR as playing an important neuromodulatory role in the behavioral effects of cocaine in mice.
Patient prognosis and response to endocrine therapy in breast cancer correlate with protein expression of both estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR), with poorer outcome in patients with ER+/PR- compared to ER+/PR+ tumors.
To better understand the underlying biology of ER+/PR- tumors, we examined RNA expression (n > 1000 tumors) and DNA copy number profiles from five previously published studies of human breast cancers with clinically assigned hormone receptor status (ER+/PR+, ER+/PR-, and ER-/PR-).
We identified an expression "signature" of genes with either elevated or diminished RNA levels specifically in ER+/PR+ compared to ER-/PR- and ER+/PR- tumors. We similarly identified a gene signature specific to ER-/PR- tumors. ER+/PR- tumors, on the other hand, were a mixture of three different subtypes: tumors manifesting the ER+/PR+ signature, tumors manifesting the ER-/PR- signature, and tumors not associating with ER+/PR+ or ER-/PR- tumors (which we considered "true" ER+/PR-). In analyses of both tamoxifen-treated and untreated patients, ER+/PR- breast cancers defined by RNA profiling were associated with poor patient outcome, worse than those with pure ER+/PR+ patterns; these differences were not observed when using clinical assays to assign ER and PR status. ER+/PR- tumors also showed twice as many DNA copy number gains or losses compared to ER+/PR+ and ER-PR- tumors. Targets of transcriptional up-regulation by specific oncogenic pathways, including PI3 K/Akt/mTOR, were enriched in both ER+/PR- and ER-/PR- compared to ER+/PR+ tumors.
ER+/PR- tumors as defined by RNA profiling represent a distinct subset of breast cancer with aggressive features and poor outcome, despite being clinically ER+. Multigene assays derived from our gene signatures could conceivably provide an improved clinical assay for inferring PR status for prognostic and therapeutic purposes.
