Ketoconazole, an antifungal agent, has been recently used for the treatment of metastatic (Stage D) prostatic carcinoma. It acts by blocking the synthesis of androgens in the tests and adrenal glands. Its major side effects are gastrointestinal and hepatic. We describe a patient in whom severe mental disturbances developed following ketoconazole treatment. Symptoms improved after withdrawal of the drug.
To describe the incidence and risk factors for the development of indinavir-associated renal complications (IRC), and subsequent clinical outcome.
This was a retrospective cohort study based on two large HIV centres in London. Eligible patients received indinavir for at least 1 week between 1 December 1995 and 28 February 1999. Development of IRC was ascertained by case-note review. Multivariate logistic regression and Cox Proportional Hazard's model analysis were used to determine independent risk factors for the development of IRC.
781 patients were eligible. Median CD4 count and viral load at indinavir initiation were 117 x 10(6) cells/L and 47 332 copies/mL, respectively. Median indinavir exposure was 53 weeks (IQR: 20-83). Many patients received other potentially nephrotoxic drugs during indinavir treatment: co-trimoxazole (46%), aciclovir (33%) or both (20%). Overall IRC incidence was 7.3% (6.7 per 100 person-years indinavir exposure). Cases presented with loin pain (58%), renal colic (42%) or dysuria (19%). Identified precipitating events (26%) included fluid depletion or altered indinavir regimen. In the majority of cases indinavir therapy was continued and there was no progressive rise in creatinine levels. In the multivariate analysis, for indinavir treatment >74 weeks there was a reduced risk of developing IRC (OR = 0.23, 95% CI 0.09-0.57, P = 0.001). Concomitant aciclovir increased the IRC risk (OR = 1.99, 95% CI 1.14-3.51, P = 0.016). Factors not associated with outcome were age, gender, ethnicity, baseline CD4 count and viral load, concomitant co-trimoxazole, or use of specific antiretrovirals.
An overall IRC incidence of 7.3% was identified. Concomitant aciclovir doubled the risk of IRC and we therefore recommend careful monitoring when prescribing aciclovir with indinavir. A precipitating event was identified in 26% of IRC cases, many of which could have been avoided.
Topical 0.1% dexamethasone(50 microl) instilled QID in glaucomatous Beagles increased intraocular pressure (IOP) by about 5 mm Hg within the first seven to ten days in a four week test. The elevated levels of IOP persisted until drug instillations ceased. Both drug eye and placebo eye IOP levels were increased significantly over the predrug (control) IOPs. Comparisons of the IOP changes associated with topical dexamethasone in beagles bred for glaucoma and less than seven months of age to older glaucomatous Beagles did not detect any significant differences. The magnitude of elevation in IOP in both age groups was about 4.8 mmHg. During the week after cessation of the topical dexamethasone instillations, IOPs of both the drug and placebo eyes declined toward predrug levels. Primary open angle glaucoma in the Beagle exhibits a significant and rapid elevation in IOP following unilateral or bilateral 0.1% dexamethasone instilled QID.
trans-1,2-Cyclohexanediol, the major metabolite of the cilexetil moiety of candesartan cilexetil (CC), has been reported to have potent pro-arrhythmic effects in dogs with congestive heart failure (CHF), especially when co-administered with digoxin. To verify this and to clarify the clinical relevance and the underlying mechanisms, a series of in vivo and in vitro experiments was conducted. When CC up to 300 mg/kg was administered orally to intact dogs, no changes in the electrocardiograms (ECG) or the required cumulative doses of ouabain to induce ventricular arrhythmias were observed. In dogs with CHF, intravenous bolus administration of trans-1,2-cyclohexanediol at 4 mg/kg followed by continuous infusion at 0.1 mg x kg(-)(1) x min(-)(1) had no effects on the ECG parameters, the type, incidence, and onset time of digoxin-induced arrhythmias or the metabolism of digoxin. In an in vitro experiment using isolated guinea pig papillary muscle, trans-1,2-cyclohexanediol (1 - 100 micromol/L) showed no effects on any parameter of the action potentials. Because no effects were observed in these experiments where the exposure levels of trans-1,2-cyclohexanediol were extremely high compared to those in humans given the maximum therapeutic dose of CC, it is unlikely that CC would induce arrhythmias in clinical use even in patients treated with cardiac glycosides.
The use of aminoglycosides and cephalosporins is fairly often complicated by acute renal failure (ARF), particularly so if overdoses are used and baseline renal function is impaired. The course of ARF and outcome of treatment have been analyzed in 51 patients. ARF was caused by a nephrotoxic effect of aminoglycosides, cephalosporins or a combination thereof (ARF, type A) in 30 (58.8%) patients, and a combination with other factors (hypotension, arterial hypertension, sepsis) in 21 (41.2%) patients (ARF, type B). Nephrotoxic effect was more commonly produced by a ceporin-gentamicin combination (in 34 (66%) of 51 cases). Nineteen (55.8%) of the 34 patients died, in spite of extracorporeal detoxication treatment (peritoneal dialysis, hemodialysis), which way be attributed to a severe original condition (mostly, due to severe sepsis, original functional renal insufficiency, etc.) rather than the nephrotoxic effect of antibiotics. Hyperazotemia without marked oliguria is a specific feature of ARF, induced by nephrotoxic action of antibiotics. Preventive principles are proposed.
A case of dobutamine-induced ST-segment elevation in a patient with angina at rest and severe two-vessel disease is described. Coronary angiography performed during the ischaemic episode showed patency of coronary arteries; ST-segment elevation and chest pain regressed after propranolol administration. This case suggests that in the presence of severe coronary lesions dobutamine may produce transmural myocardial ischaemia by increasing myocardial oxygen demand and inducing myocardial blood flow maldistribution.
To assess the efficacy and tolerability of the catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor tolcapone in reducing "off/on" fluctuations in levodopa-treated parkinsonian patients.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study.
Fifteen Parkinson disease clinics.
Two hundred fifteen referred outpatients with Parkinson disease who showed predictable end-of-dose motor fluctuations that were not controlled by a stable levodopa-carbidopa (Sinemet) regimen of at least 4 weeks' duration.
In addition to their usual levodopa-carbidopa regimen, patients received placebo or tolcapone, 100 or 200 mg, 3 times daily orally for 6 weeks.
Change in daily off/on time.
Tolcapone, 100 and 200 mg 3 times daily, reduced off time by 2.0 and 2.5 hours per day, respectively, and increased on time by 2.1 and 2.3 hours per day, respectively (P<.001 vs placebo). Investigators' global measures of disease severity indicated that significantly more tolcapone-treated patients had reduced wearing off and symptom severity (P<.001 vs placebo). No significant change in quality-of-life measures occurred. Clinical improvements occurred despite a reduction in total daily levodopa dose of 185.5 mg (23%) in the tolcapone, 100 mg 3 times daily, group and 251.5 mg (29%) in the 200 mg 3 times daily group. Principal adverse events (mainly dyskinesia and nausea) were levodopa related, were not treatment limiting, and were seldom reported as reasons for withdrawal. The frequency of withdrawals because of adverse events was similar in all groups (3% to 7%).
Tolcapone was well tolerated and substantially increased on time and reduced off time in patients with fluctuating Parkinson disease. Additionally, levodopa requirements were significantly decreased.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a vascular growth factor more recently recognized as a neurotrophic factor (for review, see Storkebaum E, Lambrechts D, Carmeliet P. BioEssays 2004;26:943-54). We previously reported that endogenous VEGF protein is dramatically upregulated after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus in the rat, and that intra-hippocampal infusions of recombinant human VEGF significantly protected against the loss of hippocampal CA1 neurons in this model (Nicoletti JN, Shah SK, McCloskey DP, et al. Neuroscience 2008;151:232-41). We hypothesized that we would see a preservation of cognitive and emotional functioning with VEGF treatment accompanying the neuroprotection previously observed in this paradigm. Using the Morris water maze to evaluate learning and memory, and the light-dark task to assess anxiety, we found a selective profile of preservation. Specifically, VEGF completely preserved normal anxiety functioning and partially but significantly protected learning and memory after status epilepticus. To determine whether the ability of VEGF to attenuate behavioral deficits was accompanied by sustained preservation of hippocampal neurons, we stereologically estimated CA1 pyramidal neuron densities 4 weeks after status epilepticus. At this time point, we found no significant difference in neuronal densities between VEGF- and control-treated status epilepticus animals, suggesting that VEGF could have protected hippocampal functioning independent of its neuroprotective effect.
Adriamycin nephropathy is a model of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, characterized by proteinuria and progressive glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial damage. In this study, we examined the role of complement in the etiology of adriamycin nephropathy in mice. We used mice deficient in C1q, factor D, C3, and CD59, and compared them with strain-matched controls. C3 deposition occurred in the glomeruli of wild-type mice as early as 48 h following a single i.v. injection of adriamycin. C3-deficient mice developed significantly less proteinuria and less podocyte injury at day 3 postadriamycin than controls, suggesting that complement is important in mediating the early podocyte injury. At later time points, C3-deficient mice were protected from glomerulosclerosis, tubulointerstitial injury, and renal dysfunction. Factor D-deficient mice were also protected from renal disease, confirming the importance of alternative pathway activation in this model. In contrast, C1q-deficient mice developed similar disease to controls, indicating that the complement cascade was not activated via the classical pathway. CD59-deficient mice, which lack adequate control of C5b-9 formation, developed significantly worse histological and functional markers of renal disease than controls. Interestingly, although more C9 deposited in glomeruli of CD59-deficient mice than controls, in neither group was tubulointerstitial C9 staining apparent. We have demonstrated for the first time that alternative pathway activation of complement plays an important role in mediating the initial glomerular damage in this in vivo model of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. Lack of CD59, which regulates the membrane attack complex, led to greater glomerular and tubulointerstitial injury.
A case of pentazocine induced hallucinations which responded to treatment with Naloxone is reported.
The addition of cytokines, such as interferon alpha-2b and interleukin-2, to chemotherapy in metastatic melanoma has produced conflicting results in phase II and III trials. We report our experience with a chemoimmunotherapeutic regimen using subcutaneous cytokines. Twenty-eight patients with advanced melanoma (median age, 45 years; male to female ratio, 19 : 9) were treated. Doses were as follows: cisplatin, 20 mg/m intravenously (iv) days 1-4; vinblastine, 1.6 mg/m iv days 1-4; dacarbazine, 800 mg/m iv day 1; interferon alpha-2b, 5 MIU/m subcutaneously (sc) days 1-5; interleukin-2, 9 MIU/m sc days 1-5 and 8-12. Treatment was repeated every 3 weeks for a maximum of six cycles. The response was assessed after two cycles and toxicity at every cycle, according to World Health Organization (WHO) and National Cancer Institute (NCI) criteria, respectively. At a median follow-up of 8 months, only four patients (14%) were still alive. The overall response rate was 33%, with three (11%) complete responses lasting for 17, 14 and >24 months. There were six (22%) partial responses and three stable disease. Amongst the responders, three patients progressed at the level of the central nervous system. The median time to progression and overall survival were 3.5 and 9 months, respectively. The most common grade 3-4 toxicity was neutropenia, reported in 25 of the 28 patients (92%). Only two patients (7%) experienced neutropenic fever. Thrombocytopenia grade 3-4 occurred in seven of the 28 patients (25%), with only one patient needing transfusional support. One toxic death due to neutropenic fever occurred. It can be concluded that the chemoimmunotherapy schedule evaluated is active and may be considered for patients with metastatic melanoma who have a good performance status and a limited disease burden.
Two episodes of urinary retention occurred in a 15-year-old male following administration of clomipramine given for obsessive-compulsive disorder. Improvement of behavioral symptoms along with side effects was clearly correlated with clomipramine dosage. Severity of side effects, and their resistance to bethanechol and to phenoxybenzamine, necessitated a complete withdrawal of clomipramine. This case demonstrates that clomipramine-induced urinary retention is not limited to older individuals. Possible involvement of noncholinergic and nonadrenergic mechanisms in this adverse drug reaction is suggested.
Sirolimus is an alternative option for kidney transplant patients treated with calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) when renal function is deteriorating. However, the incidence of proteinuria following a switch from CNI to sirolimus has caused concern, and was therefore investigated here.
In a retrospective study, 68 renal transplant recipients were switched from CNI to sirolimus. Proteinuria was measured using 24-hour urine collection before the switch and collections 3, 6, 12, and 24 months thereafter. In addition, proteinuria was measured in patients who had to be switched back to CNI due to side effects. Survival analyses were performed.
Baseline proteinuria was 0.39+/-0.69 g/day in all 68 patients. It increased to a mean 1.44+/-1.90 g/day at 3 months (P<0.001) and remained elevated at 6, 12 and 24 months. When sirolimus was withdrawn after the CNI-sirolimus switch for 19 patients, proteinuria decreased from 1.95+/-2.06 g/day to 0.9+/-1.4 g/day (P<0.05). Proteinuria above 0.3 g/day before the CNI-sirolimus switch correlated significantly with the decrease of renal function thereafter.
CNI-treated kidney transplant recipients may develop reversible proteinuria when switched to sirolimus.
The responsibility of sirolimus (SRL) for postrenal transplant anemia has never been proven, because SRL is usually combined with myelotoxic drugs, and because of the high incidence of anemia in the posttransplant period.
We retrospectively analyzed anemia in 46 renal transplant recipients, who had been switched from calcineurin inhibitors to SRL for biopsy-proven chronic allograft nephropathy.
The mean decrease in hemoglobin (Hb) after SRL introduction was 2.8 g/dl. The 24 patients, whose Hb fell by >or=2 g/dl, displayed microcytic aregenerative anemia with low serum iron despite high ferritinemia, consistent with anemia of chronic inflammatory states. Fibrinogen and CRP levels increased in these patients after sirolimus introduction. We subsequently focused our study on eight patients without confounding factors of anemia. Anemia improved in all eight after SRL withdrawal. IL6 and TNFalpha at the nadir of anemia were significantly higher than before SRL introduction and after its withdrawal. Decreases in Hb correlated with increases in proinflammatory cytokine levels in a linear regression model. Unchanged serum IL10 levels measured at the nadir of anemia were discordant with the inflammatory state.
Late introduction of SRL may induce anemia and correlates with biochemical evidence of a chronic inflammatory state possibly due to defective IL10-dependent inflammatory autoregulation.
The magnitude of benefit on mortality of combined angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) and beta-blocker (BB) therapy for heart failure cannot be reliably assessed from prospective randomized trials of individual drugs with intent-to-treat analysis. The placebo arm of the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT) included patients who remained on background therapy with ACEIs, BBs, neither, or both. The outcomes in these four subgroups should provide a better guide to mortality benefit. Overall mortality (mean follow-up, 23 months) was 31.6% in those receiving neither neurohormonal blocker, 29% and 39% lower in those on ACEIs or BBs, respectively, and 62% lower (11.9% mortality) in those receiving both drugs. In the neither neurohormonal inhibitor group, 48% of the heart failure-related deaths were adjudicated as sudden, whereas in the group receiving ACEIs and BBs, 79% of the deaths were sudden, and pump failure mortality was only 1% per year. The combination of ACEIs and BBs exerts a greater mortality reduction than suggested from clinical trials and reduces pump failure mortality to 1% per year.
To determine whether pamidronate disodium can reduce vitamin D3-induced hypercalcemia in dogs and whether combination treatment with calcitonin is more effective than treatment with pamidronate alone.
20 clinically normal male Beagles.
All dogs were given 8 mg of cholecalciferol (CCF)/kg of body weight once orally, then were assigned randomly to 4 groups of 5 dogs each. Dogs were given 0.9% NaCl solution IV (group 1), calcitonin SC and 0.9% NaCl solution IV (group 2), pamidronate and 0.9% NaCl solution IV (group 3), or a combination of all 3 agents (group 4). Dogs were observed for 28 days, and serial blood and urine samples were collected for determination of serum biochemical, electrolyte, and 25(OH)D3 values, CBC, and urine mineral excretion. Samples of kidney, stomach, lung, aorta, liver, duodenum, and brain were evaluated by light microscopy and quantitative mineral analysis.
Two dogs in group 1 were euthanatized 4 days after CCF administration because of severe clinical signs of disease. Dogs in group 3 lost less weight and had significantly lower serum phosphorus, total and ionized calcium, and urinary zinc concentrations, compared with dogs in group 1. On day 4, serum urea nitrogen concentration was significantly lower in dogs of groups 3 and 4, compared with dogs in group 1. Mild to moderate mineralization of kidneys and stomach were observed in the 2 group-1 dogs euthanatized on day 4.
Pamidronate administration effectively prevents CCF-induced hypercalcemia and mineralization of soft tissues.
Pamidronate is a potentially useful antidote against CCF toxicosis in dogs.
A close correlation between the cytocidal effects of arsenic trioxide (ATO) and aquaporin-9 (AQP9) expression levels has been proposed, yet detailed studies are still needed to confirm this association. Thus, in the present study, the correlation between the expression levels of AQP9 and sensitivity to ATO was investigated using two acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cell lines, NB4 and HT93A, as well as primary APL cells from newly diagnosed and relapsed APL patients. A substantially higher sensitivity to ATO-mediated induction of apoptosis was observed in the NB4 cells when compared to that in the HT93A cells. In addition, markedly higher expression levels of AQP9, as assessed using flow cytometry, along with more intracellular arsenic accumulation, were observed in the NB4 cells. More importantly, similar to APL cell lines, the trend of expression levels of AQP9 correlated closely with the differential sensitivity to ATO-mediated induction of apoptosis in primary APL cells. In contrast, no correlation was observed between ATO sensitivity associated with AQP9 expression levels and the expression profiles of cell surface markers as well as chromosomal alterations. These results provide direct evidence that the expression levels of AQP9, rather than other biomarkers such as cell surface markers and chromosomal alterations, correlate closely with the sensitivity to ATO in both APL cell lines and primary blasts. These findings suggest that the AQP9 expression status of APL patients is a predictive marker for the successful outcome of ATO treatment, since AQP9 plays a pivotal role in various arsenite-mediated biological effects on normal and cancer cells. Moreover, flow cytometry may be a new convenient and valuable tool for analyzing the AQP9 status of APL patients compared to current methods such as western blotting.
Hypertrophic cardiomyocyte growth contributes substantially to the progression of heart failure. Activation of the plasma membrane Na+-H+ exchanger (NHE1) and Cl- -HCO3- exchanger (AE3) has emerged as a central point in the hypertrophic cascade. Both NHE1 and AE3 bind carbonic anhydrase (CA), which activates their transport flux, by providing H+ and HCO3-, their respective transport substrates. We examined the contribution of CA activity to the hypertrophic response of cultured neonatal and adult rodent cardiomyocytes. Phenylephrine (PE) increased cell size by 37 +/- 2% and increased expression of the hypertrophic marker, atrial natriuretic factor mRNA, twofold in cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes. Cell size was also increased in adult cardiomyocytes subjected to angiotensin II or PE treatment. These effects were associated with increased expression of cytosolic CAII protein and the membrane-anchored isoform, CAIV. The membrane-permeant CA inhibitor, 6-ethoxyzolamide (ETZ), both prevented and reversed PE-induced hypertrophy in a concentration-dependent manner in neonate cardiomyocytes (IC50=18 microm). ETZ and the related CA inhibitor methazolamide prevented hypertrophy in adult cardiomyocytes. In addition, ETZ inhibited transport activity of NHE1 and the AE isoform, AE3, with respective EC50 values of 1.2 +/- 0.3 microm and 2.7 +/- 0.3 microm. PE significantly increased neonatal cardiomyocyte Ca2+ transient frequency from 0.33 +/- 0.4 Hz to 0.77 +/- 0.04 Hz following 24 h treatment; these Ca2+ -handling abnormalities were completely prevented by ETZ (0.28 +/- 0.07 Hz). Our study demonstrates a novel role for CA in mediating the hypertrophic response of cardiac myocytes to PE and suggests that CA inhibition represents an effective therapeutic approach towards mitigation of the hypertrophic phenotype.
Across species, maternal stress during prenatal life (prenatal stress [PS]) increases the expression of health complications in the developing offspring. While numerous reports indicate that male rats with a history of PS are vulnerable to psychiatric disease-like symptoms and drugs of abuse, comparable studies with females have been more limited. Here, the effects of PS in male and female rats were compared with the use of two well-validated tests of drug abuse susceptibility--the acquisition of cocaine self-administration and the expression of sensitization to the drug's psychomotor-activating properties. When a low dose (0.2 mg/kg/infusion) was available for self-administration across 15 1-hour test sessions, drug-taking behaviors were unaffected by an individual's early-life stress history. On an escalating-doses regimen (0.3-0.5 mg/kg/infusion) of self-administration, however, exposure to PS selectively facilitated the rate of acquisition and overall drug intake of males. Conversely, cocaine-induced psychomotor sensitization was augmented by PS in females, but not males. We conclude that exposure to PS enhances the reinforcing and psychomotor-sensitizing properties of cocaine male and female rats, respectively, later in life. Thus, these results suggest that gestational stress is a sex-specific risk factor for different aspects of substance abuse.
The authors found a 60% incidence of difficulties in sexual functioning in 57 male patients who had taken thioridazine. Ejaculatory problems were the most frequent dysfunction; a third of these patients experienced retrograde ejaculation. The incidence of sexual difficulties in 64 patients who had taken other major tranquilizers was only 25%. None of the latter group experienced retrograde ejaculation-most had difficulty achieving and maintaining erection. The authors recommend consideration of the possibility of sexual dysfunction in patients given thioridazine.
The aim of our study was to investigate differences in restraint stress-response between normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and the consequences for tail-cuff (TC) blood pressure measurements. We therefore radiotelemetrically collected cardiovascular data from WKY and SHR that underwent TC procedures and measured plasma norepinephrine (NE) and angiotensin II (ATII) levels as well as gene expression of the adrenal and hypothalamic tyrosine-hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in NE synthesis. Furthermore, we determined the effects of antihypertensive therapy using the beta(1)-receptor antagonist metoprolol, the alpha(1)-receptor antagonist doxazosin and the AT(1)-receptor antagonist telmisartan as mono- or combination therapies during the TC procedure. Results show that the TC procedure induced a stress reaction characterised by greatly increasing heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) and elevating plasma norepinephrine and angiotensin II concentrations. Strain-dependent differences were found concerning stress reactions during rest (more pronounced effects) and activity of the two rat strains. In both strains, metoprolol inhibited the TC-induced increase in HR and doxazosin the TC-induced increase in BP. Telmisartan, in addition, reduced hypertension in SHR, slightly reduced the TC-induced increase of BP in SHR but had no effect in WKY. The cardiovascular data as well as those on NE, ATII and TH expression clearly show that SHR are less able to cope with stress-related mechanisms than the normotensive WKY. Since TC activates both the sympathetic as well as renin-angiotensin system this method is not appropriate to evaluate neither physiological nor drug-induced effects on BP and HR.
The author examined the incidence and severity of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) in 19 male psychotic outpatients receiving fluphenazine decanoate. Ten patients developed an EPS; only 3 had symptoms of the highest severity. The data suggest that neither prophylactic nor long-term use of antiparkinsonian agents is necessary for most patients receiving fluphenazine decanoate. On the basis of a comparison to a study of fluphenazine enanthate patients, the author concludes that fluphenazine decanoate is the drug of choice in terms of incidence and severity of EPS.
The long-term results of pediatric heart transplantation were evaluated in 53 patients, aged 0.25 to 18.94 years, who received transplants at Stanford University Medical Center between 1974 and 1989. Indications for transplantation were idiopathic cardiomyopathy (68%), congenital heart disease (21%), endocardial fibroelastosis (8%), and doxorubicin cardiomyopathy (3%). Immunosuppression was achieved with combinations of cyclosporine, prednisone, and azathioprine. Thirty-seven of 42 recipients leaving the hospital after transplantation were alive and in New York Heart Association class I at study's end. Cumulative survival was 79% at 1 year, 76% at 3 years, and 69% at 5 years. Fourteen recipients have survived more than 5 years (5.1 to 12.4 years). Hospital readmission for illness has been infrequent, decreasing from 6.8 days to 0.9 days per year over 5 years. Eleven patients have required no rehospitalization. Posttransplant deaths were due to infection (19%), rejection (4%), pulmonary hypertension (4%), coronary artery disease (2%), and lymphoproliferative disease (2%). Retransplantation was required for intractable rejection in 4 patients and advanced coronary artery disease in 2. Hypertension and elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels were common in individuals receiving cyclosporine. Growth was often impaired in prepubertal children receiving daily prednisone. Based on this 15-year experience, it is concluded that heart transplantation represents a reasonable alternative for selected young patients with end-stage cardiac disease.
We report the first case of nonconvulsive status epilepticus as a complication of chemotherapy with the nitrogen mustard derivative ifosfamide. Our patient developed encephalopathy, upper extremity myoclonus, and a periodic, triphasic electroencephalogic pattern that resolved acutely with intravenous diazepam treatment. Since significant morbidity and mortality is associated with unrecognized status epilepticus, electroencephalogic monitoring and a trial of diazepam is indicated in encephalopathic patients with rhythmic electroencephalogic patterns while receiving treatment with ifosfamide.
