Cytarabine (Ara-C) is commonly used for the treatment of acute leukemia. Incorporation of Ara-C into DNA is a key event in the mechanism of killing of proliferating leukemic cells. Previously, we demonstrated that Ara-C was cytotoxic to proliferating but not to resting (G(O)) malignant cells from patients with acute leukemia. In contrast, here we show unexpected apoptosis of G(O) B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells by Ara-C in a dose-dependent manner. In this study we analyzed which cellular processes were involved in Ara-C-mediated killing of G(O)-B-CLL cells.
Using primary B-CLL cells (>98% in G(O)), we examined the mechanisms of Ara-C-mediated apoptosis in resting G(O) cells. CFSE-based cytotoxicity assays combined with cell cycle analysis were used to perform a long-term analysis of Ara-C-mediated killing of B-CLL cells. The effects of Ara-C on DNA and RNA synthesis were studied using various 3H-incorporation experiments.
Ara-C-mediated cell death of B-CLL cells showed the characteristics of normal apoptosis, such as phosphatidyl serine exposure and caspase activation. The mechanism of killing of quiescent B-CLL cells by Ara-C was shown not to be dependent on DNA replication. In contrast, CD40L-activated B-CLL cells showed S-phase-specific depletion of proliferating CLL cells. We demonstrated that Ara-C was converted into its active triphosphate by G(O)-B-CLL cells, coinciding with a 30% inhibition of RNA synthesis.
In conclusion, our data indicate that Ara-C can induce apoptosis in resting G(O)-B-CLL cells using a mechanism independent of cell proliferation and DNA replication but associated with inhibition of RNA synthesis and downregulation of Mcl-1.
Brief or prolonged seizures induce various patterns of plasticity. Axonal or dendritic remodelling and development of ectopic granule cells have been described in the hilus and molecular layer of the adult rodent hippocampus. Hippocampal cell proliferation also occurs after seizures. However, whether the seizure-induced cell proliferation plays a pathological or reparative role in the epileptic brain is unknown. In this study, we attempted to suppress the seizure-induced cell proliferation with the antimitotic agent cytosine-b-D-arabinofuranoside (Ara-C) and to examine the development of spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS). Experimental status epilepticus was induced with pilocarpine, and Ara-C or vehicle alone was infused continuously with an osmotic minipump. SRS were video-monitored. BrdU immunohistochemistry was used for the spatial and temporal analysis of hippocampal cell proliferation, and double labelling with NeuN, calbindin and GFAP antibodies was performed for the differentiation of BrdU-positive cells. Timm staining was also performed for evaluation of mossy fibre sprouting (MFS). With continuous Ara-C infusion, the likelihood of developing SRS was decreased and, during the latent period, the development of ectopic granule cells in the hilus and new glia in the CA1 area was reduced when compared with the vehicle-infused group, while MFS was not altered. The results suggest that the hippocampal cell proliferation plays a pro-epileptogenic role rather than a compensatory role, and that the epileptogenic process may be associated with the generation of new glia in the CA1 area and/or new neurons in the dentate gyrus, particularly the ectopically located hilar granule cells.
We performed a sequential endoscopic examination of esophageal carcinogenesis induced by N-nitrosomethyl-benzylamine (NMBA) in F344 rats. The endoscopic findings were consistent with the histological changes observed in the specimens obtained by a biopsy and/or an autopsy. Seven-week-old male F344 rats received a weekly subcutaneous injection of 0.5 mg/kg NMBA for 15 weeks. The first endoscopic change that was detected was redness of the musosa due to the dilatation of the submucosal blood vessels. Subsequently, the mucosal redness became obscure, and we observed a focal loss of the visible blood vessel network due to hyperkeratosis, followed by the appearance of plaque-like elevated lesions due to acanthosis. Then, smooth and irregular polyps appeared as a result of the development of papilloma without or with dysplastic potential, respectively. Finally, rough elevation appeared as a result of carcinoma in situ and invasive squamous cell carcinoma. The present endoscopic findings correlated closely with the histological changes, indicating that sequential fiberscopic examination may be useful for monitoring esophageal carcinogenesis.
A patient with acute myelogenous leukemia in relapse developed reversible bilateral lateral rectus muscle palsy and cerebellar dysfunction after receiving chemotherapy with high-dose cytosine arabinoside and mitoxantrone. The differential diagnosis of this syndrome is reviewed.
To investigate the neurologic mechanisms of acidic local anesthetic-induced low back pain in humans, we administered bupivacaine and buffered saline at acidic or alkalinized pH at the L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of rats via a hole drilled through the transverse process covering the DRG. Behavioral changes were tested before and after bupivacaine or saline administration. Results indicate that acute single-dose infusion of the DRG with bupivacaine (0.5%) at acidic pH (5.5) induced ipsilateral mechanical hyperalgesia that lasted for 7 days. Acute infusion of alkalinized bupivacaine (pH 7.2), however, caused only minor hyperalgesia that lasted <3 days. Similar results were obtained when bupivacaine was replaced with saline. Alternatively, chronic delivery of acidic saline to the DRG via a subcutaneously implanted osmotic pump resulted in a significant decrease in the withdrawal threshold on the ipsilateral hind paw that lasted for 10 days. In rats receiving chronic treatment of the DRG with alkalinized saline, mechanical hyperalgesia lasted for only 3 days. The results demonstrated that acidic bupivacaine deposited at the DRG causes pain and hyperalgesia when the effects of the local anesthetic have dissipated. These findings may explain the limited therapeutic effects of some acidic local anesthetics used for management of cancer-related and chronic back pain.
Acidic bupivacaine administered at the L5 lumbar ganglion causes pain and hypersensitivity of the hind paw in the rat. These findings may explain the limited therapeutic effects of some acidic local anesthetics used for treatment of cancer-related and chronic back pain.
A nonsynonymous coding polymorphism, rs16969968, of the CHRNA5 gene that encodes the alpha-5 subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) has been found to be associated with nicotine dependence. The goal of this study was to examine the association of this variant with cocaine dependence.
Genetic association analysis was performed in two independent samples of unrelated case and control subjects: 1) 504 European Americans participating in the Family Study on Cocaine Dependence (FSCD) and 2) 814 European Americans participating in the Collaborative Study on the Genetics of Alcoholism (COGA).
In the FSCD, there was a significant association between the CHRNA5 variant and cocaine dependence (odds ratio = .67 per allele, p = .0045, assuming an additive genetic model), but in the reverse direction compared with that previously observed for nicotine dependence. In multivariate analyses that controlled for the effects of nicotine dependence, both the protective effect for cocaine dependence and the previously documented risk effect for nicotine dependence were statistically significant. The protective effect for cocaine dependence was replicated in the COGA sample. In COGA, effect sizes for habitual smoking, a proxy phenotype for nicotine dependence, were consistent with those observed in FSCD.
The minor (A) allele of rs16969968, relative to the major G allele, appears to be both a risk factor for nicotine dependence and a protective factor for cocaine dependence. The biological plausibility of such a bidirectional association stems from the involvement of nAChRs with both excitatory and inhibitory modulation of dopamine-mediated reward pathways.
Angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibition by captopril and enalapril may influence sodium and potassium homeostasis. In patients without cardiac failure and with normal renal function significant electrolyte disturbances rarely occur. We report on four patients who developed life-threatening electrolyte disturbances following treatment with enalapril for severe cardiac failure (NYHA-class II-IV). There were important concomitant factors in all four cases: in one case under additional medication with a thiazide diuretic and a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory, hyponatremia of 107 mmol/l occurred. In two further cases severe hyperkalemia of 7.4 and 7.3 mmol/l was observed in the presence of acute renal failure due to enalapril-induced hypotension and concomitant therapy with a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug respectively. In a fourth case the combination of enalapril with a potassium-sparing diuretic provoked severe hyperkalemia of 7.9 mmol/l.
The pharmacological profile of bethanechol (CAS 674-38-4), metoclopramide (CAS 364-62-5), trimebutine (CAS 39133-31-8) and cisapride (CAS 81098-60-4) was studied in a series of simple pharmacological tests in rats and dogs. Bethanechol stimulated both gastric emptying and intestinal propulsion but displayed also the well-known behavioral effects of a direct muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist. Metoclopramide showed the profile of a centrally active dopamine D2 antagonist. In addition, metoclopramide displayed a stimulant effect on spontaneous gastric emptying in rats, an effect that could not be related to dopamine D2 antagonism. The only effect observed with trimebutine was protection from castor oil diarrhea, probably due to its reported interaction with peripheral opiate receptors. Cisapride was a potent stimulant of gastric emptying in rats, 7 times more potent than metoclopramide. Cisapride was also a very specific gastrokinetic, over a large dose range (specificity ratio: greater than or equal to 20) devoid of effects indicative for direct interaction with dopamine or acetylcholine receptors. The relationship between the differential activity profiles of the compounds in the present study and differences in their mechanism of action and side-effect liability is discussed.
Arsenic trioxide induces differentiation and apoptosis of malignant cells in vitro and in vivo, but the mechanisms by which such effects occur have not been elucidated. In the present study we provide evidence that arsenic trioxide induces activation of the small G-protein Rac1 and the alpha and beta isoforms of the p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase in several leukemia cell lines. Such activation of Rac1 and p38-isoforms results in downstream engagement of the MAP kinase-activated protein kinase-2 and is enhanced by pre-treatment of cells with ascorbic acid. Interestingly, pharmacological inhibition of p38 potentiates arsenic-dependent apoptosis and suppression of growth of leukemia cell lines, suggesting that this signaling cascade negatively regulates induction of antileukemic responses by arsenic trioxide. Consistent with this, overexpression of a dominant-negative p38 mutant (p38betaAGF) enhances the antiproliferative effects of arsenic trioxide on target cells. To further define the relevance of activation of the Rac1/p38 MAP kinase pathway in the induction of arsenic-dependent antileukemic effects, studies were performed using bone marrows from patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia. Arsenic trioxide suppressed the growth of leukemic myeloid (CFU-GM) progenitors from such patients, whereas concomitant pharmacological inhibition of the p38 pathway enhanced its growth-suppressive effects. Altogether, these data provide evidence for a novel function of the p38 MAP kinase pathway, acting as a negative regulator of arsenic trioxide-induced apoptosis and inhibition of malignant cell growth.
A 49-year-old woman presented to hospital with an 18-month history of hyponatremic episodes, nausea, vomiting, anorexia and fatigue.
Physical examination, laboratory tests including full blood count, measurement of electrolytes, hormones, autoantibodies, thyroid and renal function, corticotropin-releasing-hormone stimulation test, 24 h urinalysis and abdominal ultrasonography.
Severe symptomatic hyponatremia in a patient with secondary adrenal insufficiency caused by treatment of lumbago with triamcinolone injections.
Hydrocortisone replacement therapy (15 mg daily) for 3 months, followed by a tapering schedule over 12-24 months.
To investigate the effect of chronic treatment of enbrel (EB), a TNF-alpha antagonist, in a well defined congestive heart failure (CHF) rat model and test the hypothesis that chronic treatment of EB in CHF rats may limit the progression of Left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and structure remodeling and decrease cardiac IL-1beta levels.
We measured cardiac conformation, contractile performance and cytokines level in 8 age-matched normal adult rats (control group) and 8 rats with isoproterenol (ISO)-induced Heart failure (ISO group) and 8 rats with ISO-induced lesion but received EB treatment (EB group).
LV end diastolic diameter and LV end systolic diameter in EB group were significantly less and LV fractional shortening was significantly larger than ISO group (9.2 +/- 0.3 mm vs 9.5 +/- 0.2 mm, 5.8 +/- 0.5 mm vs 6.5 +/- 0.3 mm, 0.37 +/- 0.03 vs 0.31 +/- 0.02, P < 0.05, P < 0.01, P < 0.01 respectively , but there was no significant difference of LV posterior wall thickness at end diastole between the two groups; LV end systolic pressure (P(ES)) dp/dt(max) in EB group were significantly greater than ISO group (104.8 +/- 4.6 mm Hg vs 98.4 +/- 4.9 mm Hg, 8395 +/- 940 mm Hg/s vs 6898 +/- 612 mm Hg, P < 0.05 P < 0.01 respectively), and LV end diastolic pressure (P(ED)) dp/dt(min), time constant of LV relaxation were significantly lower than ISO group (3.8 +/- 0.6 mm Hg vs 7.1 +/- 0.8 mm Hg, -5963 +/- 475 mm Hg/s vs-5030 +/- 316 mm Hg/s,15.4 +/- 0.8 ms vs 21.3 +/- 1.4 ms, P < 0.01, respectively . Although cardiac contractile performance in the EB group was greatly improved, there still was a big gap when compared with the control group. The ratio of LV weight to body weight in the EB group was significantly higher than control group 2.82 +/- 0.07 mg/g vs 2.28 +/- 0.08 mg/g, P < 0.01 but there was no significant difference when compared with the ISO group. There was no significant difference between the serum level of TNF-alpha in EB group and ISO group the it could not be detected in control group. TNF-alpha levels in LV of EB group was significantly higher than control group, 757.6 +/- 46.8 pg/g vs 367.5 +/- 22.7 pg/g, P < 0.01 but there was no significant difference when compared with ISO group. The IL-1beta level in LV of EB group was significantly lower than ISO group 356.2 +/- 28.5 pg/g vs 518.4 +/- 32.5 pg/g, P < 0.05 and it could not be detected in control group. The serum level of IL-1beta could not be detected in any rats.
EB administered as soon as possible when ISO induced myocardial necrosis occurs can greatly improve cardiac contraction, and the improvement may be partly due to a decrease in the IL-1beta level in LV, besides the direct blocking effect of EB on TNF-alpha. EB can alleviate cardiac remodeling by its effect on LVEDD.
The exchange between copper and seven transition metals is studied in a bovine brain obex homogenate according to the redox status of the medium. In reductive conditions, almost all the studied metals can substitute for copper when it is in the reduced form Cu+. This substitution is reversible, since copper uptake as Cu++ is restored in an oxidizing medium but only Co++, Ni++ and Mn++, in this decreasing order, can substitute perfectly for copper in bovine brain homogenate. To study free radical effects on bovine brain proteins, at first a copper substitution was processed in order to inhibit superoxide dismutase-like protective properties against free radicals in copper metalloproteins. Manganese was selected since a brain copper decrease correlated with a manganese increase is well-known in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. Results for bovine brain homogenate, initially negative in the Western blot Prionics test, indicate that the substitution of manganese for copper in a reducing medium and exposure to UVA-induced free radicals produce proteinase K resistant prion. These findings suggest that an impairment in brain metal homeostasis leading to oxidative abnormalities may be involved in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies.
A prospective, randomized, double-blind, concurrent, placebo-controlled clinical trial of intravenous ribavirin (loading dose of 33 mg/kg, 16 mg/kg every 6 h for 4 days, and 8 mg/kg every 8 h for 3 days) was conducted in 242 patients with serologically confirmed hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) in the People's Republic of China. Mortality was significantly reduced (sevenfold decrease in risk) among ribavirin-treated patients, when comparisons were adjusted for baseline risk estimators of mortality (P = .01; two-tailed). HFRS typically consists of five consecutive but frequently overlapping clinical phases. Only occurrence of oliguric phase and hemorrhage was associated with severity of clinical disease in the placebo group. Ribavirin therapy also resulted in a significant reduction in the risk of entering the oliguric phase and experiencing hemorrhage. The only ribavirin-related side effect was a well-recognized, fully reversible anemia after completion of therapy.
Minocycline has been shown to exert anti-inflammatory effects underlying its putative neuroprotective properties in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease and in the R6/2 mouse model of Huntington's disease (HD). However, contradictory results have recently been reported. We report deleterious effects of minocycline in two phenotypic (toxic) models of Parkinson's disease and HD in monkey and mouse. Of seven MPTP-intoxicated female cynomolgus monkeys (0.2 mg/kg, i.v. until day 15), three received minocycline (200 mg b.i.d.). While placebo-MPTP-treated animals displayed mild parkinsonism at day 15, the minocycline/MPTP-treated animals tended to be more affected (P = 0.057) and showed a greater loss of putaminal dopaminergic nerve endings (P < 0.0001). In the 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) mouse model of HD, minocycline (45 mg/kg i.p.) was administered 30 min before each i.p. injection of 3-NP (b.i.d., cumulated dose, 360 mg/kg in 5 days). Mice receiving minocycline exhibited a worsening of the mean motor score with a slower recovery slope, more impaired general activity and significantly deteriorated performances on the rotarod, pole test and beam-traversing tasks. The histopathological outcome demonstrated that minocycline-treated mice presented significantly more severe neuronal cell loss in the dorsal striatum. The effect of minocycline vs. 3-NP was also investigated on hippocampal and cortical cell cultures. minocycline blocked 3-NP-induced neurotoxicity at certain doses (1 mm cortical neurons) but not at higher doses (10 mm). Thus, minocycline may have variable and even deleterious effects in different species and models according to the mode of administration and dose.
We report a 35-year-old man who was referred to our hospital with generalized convulsion and mixed acidosis presumably caused by abuse of SS-BRON tablets, an over-the-counter (OTC) antitussive medication sold in Japan. These tablets contain dihydrocodeine phosphate, methylephedrine, chlorpheniramine, and caffeine. Although it is difficult to discern which component caused these symptoms, it seems that dihydrocodeine phosphate or methylephedrine was involved in the addiction to SS-BRON and chlorpheniramine may have caused the generalized convulsion. It should be recognized that an OTC antitussive, which is quite easy to obtain, can be abused and subsequently induce serious intoxication.
Fibric acid derivatives and statins have been increasingly recognized as causes of rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure. We report severe rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure associated to combination treatment with statin and fenofibrate in two patients with underlying coronary artery disease. Both patients developed rhabdomyolysis-induced acute renal failure after their hyperlipidemia treatment was changed from statin to statin plus fenofibrate. Both patients experienced intense muscle symptoms, hemoglobinuria, oliguria, and elevation of blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine. Their serum creatine kinase levels were markedly elevated (case 1; 97,392 IU/l and case 2; 96,639 IU/l). Rhabdomyolysis induced acute renal failure was diagnosed in both patients. Both patients were managed with cessation of the statin-fibrate combination, adequate fluid resuscitation and forced alkaline-mannitol diuresis. Although both patients required hemodialysis, their renal function recovered. Fenofibrate initiation is associated with an increased risk for rhabdomyolysis in patients receiving statin therapy. To prevent future events, it is crucial that clinicians recognize the interaction risk associated with concurrent use of statin and fenofibrate. We recommend careful monitoring when fenofibrate is given to patients receiving statin therapy.
Weaver syndrome comprises pre- and postnatal overgrowth, accelerated osseous maturation, characteristic craniofacial appearance and developmental delay; it is a generally sporadic disorder, although autosomal dominant inheritance has been reported. Some of the manifestations characterize both the Weaver and Sotos syndrome, and distinction between the two is mainly by clinical examination and molecular testing. Most of the patients with Sotos syndrome have NSD1 gene deletions or mutations; however, the molecular basis of most of the Weaver syndrome patients is unknown. Patients with overgrowth syndromes have an increased frequency of tumors; the risk in Sotos syndrome patients has been estimated to be about 2-3%, with leukemia and lymphoma accounting for 44% of the malignancies. We report on a 4(1/2)-year-old girl with typical Weaver syndrome who developed acute lymphoblastic leukemia, an association not previously reported, and review the reported cases of Weaver syndrome patients who developed malignancies. Malignancy in Weaver syndrome has been reported previously in six patients. While searching the literature for all reported cases with Weaver syndrome and counting the cases with malignancy, we found that the frequency of tumors or hematologic malignancy was 10.9%. This is likely to be an overestimate, biased by failure to report cases without tumors and by over-reporting cases with this rare association. While the presence of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in our patient might be incidental, we cannot exclude a possible causative association between Weaver syndrome and hematologic malignancy.
This cross-sectional survey investigates the frequency of adverse cocaine reactions and associated factors among regular cocaine misusers. A sample of 332 cocaine misusers from a range of treatment and nontreatment settings in São Paulo, Brazil, were interviewed using a questionnaire that includes the Severity of Dependence Scale (SDS), the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-28), the CAGE, and an eight-item questionnaire investigating the frequency of specific adverse cocaine reactions. The most commonly described reactions were hot flushes (84%), uncontrollable shaking (76%), and feeling ill (75%). The most severe symptoms and least common were convulsions or fits (18%) and passing out (21%). Frequency of adverse reactions to cocaine was positively associated with out-of-treatment status, severity of cocaine dependence, ever having injected cocaine, using tranquilisers with cocaine, and GHQ score. Adverse reactions to cocaine are common among regular cocaine users. Some of the adverse effects, especially those on the heart and central nervous system, are potentially fatal. Preventive strategies should be developed to reduce the risk of adverse cocaine reactions. The findings are discussed in relation to the type of interventions that might be developed and lines of future research.
Shenmai injection (SMI), one of the most popular herbal preparations, is widely used for the treatment of coronary atherosclerotic cardiopathy and viral myocarditis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of Shenmai injection (SMI) on the CYP3A-mediated metabolism of midazolam (MDZ). The present study demonstrated that SMI could significantly inhibit MDZ 4-hydroxylation but activate its 1'-hydroxylation in human liver microsomes (HLMs), rat liver microsomes (RLM) and recombinant human CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. The opposing effect of SMI was characterized by the kinetic change of increasing Vmax/Km for MDZ 1'-hydroxylation and decreasing Vmax/Km for MDZ 4-hydroxylation in HLM and RLM. The presence of SMI enhanced the inhibition of ketoconazole on MDZ 4-hydroxylation but weakened or reversed its inhibition on MDZ 1'-hydroxylation in HLM. After single or multiple pretreatment with SMI, the ratios of AUC(4-OH MDZ)/AUC(MDZ) in rats were significantly decreased, while the ratios of AUC(1'-OH MDZ)/AUC(MDZ) were increased. Among the major components in SMI, total ginsenoside (TG), ophiopogon total saponins (OTS), ophiopogon total flavone (OTF), ginsenoside Rd, ophiopogonin D and ophiopogonone A exhibited significant inhibition on both 4-hydroxylation and 1'-hydroxylation of MDZ in HLM and RLM, while no activation on MDZ metabolism was observed in the presence of these major constituents alone or together. To further explore the responsible components, 3 mL of SMI was loaded on a solid phase extraction (SPE) C18 cartridge and then separated by different concentrations of methanol. The fractions eluted with 60% and 90% methanol both showed significant activation on MDZ 1'-hydroxylation in HLM, but the fraction eluted with 30% methanol had no such effect. The results indicated that the activation of SMI on MDZ 1'-hydroxylation might be mainly resulted from the lipid-soluble components in SMI.
The great majority of patients with type III hyperlipidemia (type III HLP) are homozygous for the epsilon2 allele of the APOE gene. However, only about 10% of epsilon2 homozygotes develop type III HLP, and it has been proposed that additional genetic factors are required for the development of the condition. The frequency of two polymorphisms in the APOA5 gene, -1131T>C and S19W, has been determined in 72 hyperlipidemic patients with APOE2/2 genotype attending a lipid clinic. The frequency of both polymorphisms was significantly higher in APOE2/2 patients than in the normal population. Fifty-three percent of APOE2/2 patients were carriers of one of the polymorphisms compared to 19.7% of controls. Thus, genetic variation in the APOA5 gene is an important cofactor in the development of type III HLP.
It remains under dispute whether status epilepticus (SE) in the perinatal period or early childhood or the underlying neuropathology is the cause of functional impairment later in life. The present study examined whether SE induced by LiCl-pilocarpine in normal immature brain (at the age of 12 or 25 days; P12 or P25) causes cognitive decline and epileptogenesis, and the data were compared to those of rats undergoing SE as adults. Rats in the P12 group had impaired memory (repeated exposure to open-field paradigm) and emotional behaviour (lower proportion of open-arm entries and higher incidence of risk assessment period in elevated plus-maze) when assessed 3 months after SE, although not as severe as in the older age groups. Importantly, video-electroencephalography monitoring 3 months after SE demonstrated that 25% of rats in the P12 and 50% in P25 group developed spontaneous seizures. Only nonconvulsive seizures (ictal activity in hippocampus accompanied by automatisms) were recorded in the P12 group whereas rats in the P25 group exhibited clonic convulsions. The present findings indicate that SE is harmful to the immature brain as early as P12, which might be compared with early infancy in humans.
Ninety-seven patients with 118 sites infected with Neisseria gonorrhoeae were treated with a single dose of either procaine penicillin G (4.8 x 10(6) U) or cefotoxime (1.0 g) intramuscularly. Only the penicillin group took 1 g of probenecid orally. The numbers of infected sites in each treatment group were as follows: penicillin-urethra, 37; rectum, 9; cervix, 8; and pharynx, 4; cefotaxime-urethra, 42; rectum, 9; cervix, 5; and pharynx, 4. The cure rates in each treatment group were 100%. No adverse reactions were noted in either group. beta-Lactamase-positive N. gonorrhoeae strains were not found. Ninety-five percent of clinical isolates were inhibited by less than or equal to 0.007 micrograms of cefotaxime and less than or equal to 0.25 micrograms of penicillin per ml. In this study cefotaxime was as effective as procaine penicillin in the treatment of uncomplicated gonorrhea.
Refractive errors are the most common ocular disorders worldwide and may lead to blindness. Although this trait is highly heritable, identification of susceptibility genes has been challenging. We conducted a genome-wide association study for refractive error in 5,328 individuals from a Dutch population-based study with replication in four independent cohorts (combined 10,280 individuals in the replication stage). We identified a significant association at chromosome 15q14 (rs634990, P = 2.21 × 10⁻¹⁴). The odds ratio of myopia compared to hyperopia for the minor allele (minor allele frequency = 0.47) was 1.41 (95% CI 1.16-1.70) for individuals heterozygous for the allele and 1.83 (95% CI 1.42-2.36) for individuals homozygous for the allele. The associated locus is near two genes that are expressed in the retina, GJD2 and ACTC1, and appears to harbor regulatory elements which may influence transcription of these genes. Our data suggest that common variants at 15q14 influence susceptibility for refractive errors in the general population.
Evidence suggests that prenatal exposure to air pollution affects the ontogeny and development of the fetal immune system. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of maternal exposure to airborne particulate matter (PM) on immune function in postnatal offspring. Pregnant female ICR mice were intralaryngopharyngeally administered with 30 μl of phosphate buffered solution (the control group) or resuspended PM of Standard Reference Material 1649a at 0.09 (low), 0.28 (medium), 1.85 (high) or 6.92 (overdose) μg/μl once every three days from day 0 to 18 of pregnancy (n=8-10). Offspring were sacrificed on postnatal day 30. Interleukin-4 and interferon-γ levels in plasma and splenocytes, splenic lymphocyte proliferation, and expressions of GATA-3 and T-bet mRNA in the spleen were tested. The spleen and thymus were histopathologically examined. The offspring of the medium, high and overdose PM-exposed dams showed significantly suppressed splenocyte proliferation. Decreased interferon-γ and increased interleukin-4 levels in the blood and splenocytes, and lowered T-bet and elevated GATA-3 mRNA expressions were found in the spleen in the medium, high and overdose groups when compared with the control or low dose group (P<0.05). Histopathology revealed prominent tissue damage in the spleen and thymus in the overdose group. These results suggest that exposure of pregnant mice to PM modulates the fetal immune system, resulting in postnatal immune dysfunction by exacerbation of Thl/Th2 deviation. This deviation is associated with altered T-bet and GATA-3 gene expressions.
This work was initiated to determine the potential for the Tg.AC mouse model to identify chemical carcinogens by an oral route of administration. Tg.AC v-Ha-ras transgenic mice were exposed to dimethyvinyl chloride (DMVC; 1-chloro-2-methylpropene), a structural analog of the human carcinogen vinyl chloride. In the National Toxicology Program 2-yr bioassay, DMVC induced tumors in the oral, nasal, and gastric epithelia of rats and mice. Initial studies were performed in female Tg.AC mice to determine an appropriate oral dose of DMVC to evaluate the potential for stratified gastric or oral epithelia of Tg.AC mice to serve as a target tissue for a transgene-dependent induced tumorigenic response. DMVC was administered to 13- to14-wk-old Tg.AC mice by gavage at doses of 0, 50, 100, and 200 mg/kg five times a week for 20 wk. The forestomachs of DMVC-treated Tg.AC mice had an increasing number of papillomas, which were associated with an increase in the dose of DMVC. The average numbers of papillomas per mouse per dose were 2.4, 7.6, 14.1, and 12.6 for the 0, 50, 100, and 200-mg/kg dose groups, respectively. The optimum papillomagenic dose of 100 mg/kg DMVC was established and administered for 5, 10, and 15/wk to investigate the kinetics of papilloma induction in Tg.AC mice. The average numbers of papillomas per animal were 1.8, 8.8, and 19.0 at 5, 10, and 15 wk, respectively. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assays determined that the v-Ha-ras transgene was transcriptionally active in all tumor tissues but not in nontumor tissues. In situ hybridization assays performed in conjunction with bromodeoxyuridine in vivo labeling localized the transgene-expressing cells of the forestomach papillomas to the proliferating cellular component of the tumors, as previously seen in skin papillomas of Tg.AC mice. The present results confirm that DMVC is tumorigenic and that oral routes of administration can be used to rapidly elicit a transgene-associated tumor response in the forestomach of Tg.AC mice.
Myopia and hyperopia are at opposite ends of the continuum of refraction, the measure of the eye's ability to focus light, which is an important cause of visual impairment (when aberrant) and is a highly heritable trait. We conducted a genome-wide association study for refractive error in 4,270 individuals from the TwinsUK cohort. We identified SNPs on 15q25 associated with refractive error (rs8027411, P = 7.91 × 10⁻⁸). We replicated this association in six adult cohorts of European ancestry with a combined 13,414 individuals (combined P = 2.07 × 10⁻⁹). This locus overlaps the transcription initiation site of RASGRF1, which is highly expressed in neurons and retina and has previously been implicated in retinal function and memory consolidation. Rasgrf1(-/-) mice show a heavier average crystalline lens (P = 0.001). The identification of a susceptibility locus for refractive error on 15q25 will be important in characterizing the molecular mechanism responsible for the most common cause of visual impairment.
