A 73-year-old woman presented with acute pulmonary edema and hypotension less than 1 h after taking hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg, a reaction which has been reported as a rare but classic adverse drug response. Though prior cases have supported a noncardiogenic pulmonary edema syndrome, hemodynamic monitoring in this patient demonstrated a refractory low cardiac output state for more than 24 h. In the absence of other etiologies, this represents a new finding.
Methyl iodide (MeI) has been proposed as an alternative for methyl bromide in pre-plant soil fumigation applications that does not affect stratospheric ozone. Preliminary studies in rabbits noted fetal resorptions if the pregnant does were exposed to MeI during a critical period during gestation. In addition, abnormalities in thyroid hormone parameters were also observed in animals exposed to MeI. Since monodeiodination is the major metabolic pathway of the thyroid hormones, we examined the effect of MeI on deiodinase activity as a possible etiology for the alteration in thyroid hormone parameters and ultimate fetal demise. In vitro studies using tissue microsomes and cell culture showed that MeI has no effect on type I 5'-deiodinase (D1) or type II 5'-deiodinase (D2) at physiologically relevant concentrations. At high concentrations (>10 mM,>10,000 ppm), MeI caused a nonspecific inactivation of D1 and D2. Analysis of D1 and D2 activity in rats exposed by inhalation to increasing concentrations of MeI showed a significant decrease in enzyme activity at 100 ppm, while brain type III 5'-deiodinase (D3) was unaffected by MeI at the exposures studied. While the drop in D1 can be explained by the induction of a hypothyroid state in the exposed rats, there is no clear explanation for the fall in D2 levels. In the rabbit studies, there was a significant decrease in kidney D1 in the adult rabbits exposed to 20 ppm MeI. However, there was no effect on liver D1, brain D2, or placental D3 in the MeI-exposed rabbits. Similarly, there was no effect of MeI on fetal D1 or D2 activity. The lack of a significant direct effect of MeI on deiodinase activity and the absence of a change in placental or fetal deiodinase activity make it unlikely that alterations in deiodinase activity plays a role in the fetal resorptions in the MeI-exposed rabbits.
Short-acting nifedipine is still advocated for use in children with severe hypertension, but is no longer recommended for use in adults because of adverse effects from rapid blood pressure reduction. A 19 year-old adolescent with symptomatic, severe hypertension (blood pressure 180/120) received 10 mg of short-acting nifedipine sublingually for blood pressure reduction. Within minutes after the dose, the patient complained of palpitations. Tachycardia (heart rate 100 beats per minute) and bigeminy were noted on the cardiac monitor. The bigeminy resolved but premature ventricular contractions were noted for the duration of her hospital stay. We hypothesize that reflex sympathetic activation following an abrupt drop in blood pressure may cause arrhythmias because of elevated catecholamine levels. Given this, it may be more appropriate to treat severe hypertension in children with intravenous antihypertensive agents that can be titrated to produce controlled reductions in blood pressure.
For sumatriptan, tightness in the chest caused by an unknown mechanism has been reported in 3-5% of users. We describe a 47-year-old woman with an acute myocardial infarction after administration of sumatriptan 6 mg subcutaneously for cluster headache. The patient had no history of underlying ischaemic heart disease or Prinzmetal's angina. She recovered without complications.
Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) is considered a model of premature atherosclerosis with a strong genetic component. We have investigated the role of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE; EC 3.4.15.1) gene in 316 unrelated NIDDM individuals, 132 who had myocardial infarction or significant coronary stenoses and 184 with no history of coronary heart disease (CHD). A deletion-polymorphism in the ACE gene was recently reported to be associated with myocardial infarction especially in people classified as low risk. Here we report that the D allele of the ACE gene is a strong and independent risk factor for CHD in NIDDM patients. The D allele is associated with early-onset CHD in NIDDM, independently of hypertension and lipid values. A progressively increasing relative risk in individuals heterozygous and homozygous for the D allele was observed (odds ratios of 1.41 and 2.35, respectively; P < 0.007), suggesting a codominant effect on the cardiovascular risk. The percentage of CHD attributable to the ACE deletion allele was 24% in this NIDDM population. Identification of NIDDM patients carrying this putative CHD-susceptibility genotype would help early detection and treatment of CHD.
Following a case of torsades de pointe (TDP) after the injection of droperidol (D), the authors studied the electrocardiographic variations caused by the drug. Fifty five unselected patients under the same conditions (general anesthesia) were given D (0.25 mg/kg IV). Significant prolongation of the QT interval was seen in 70% of cases by the end of the first minute. QT interval and the ratio of QTm (measured) over QTt increased from 387 +/- 34 ms to 423 +/- 37 ms (p less than 0.0001) and from 1.06 +/- 0.08 to 1.28 +/- 0.1 (p less than 0.001) respectively. These changes could favourise the onset of TDP. Although exceptional in terms of the extensive use of the neuroleptic in question, this possibility indicates the need for monitoring of the duration of QT before and during treatment with droperidol and for prescription of the drug to be avoided in circumstances known to be propitious to this arrhythmia (bradycardia, hypokalemia, anti-arrhythmic drugs).
Heparanase and VEGF are related closely to angiogenesis in cancer. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the expression and correlation of heparanase and VEGF in hypoxia-induced retinal neovascularization.
C57BL/6 oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) mice and human retinal microvascular endothelial cells (HRECs) were treated with the hypoxia mimetic agent cobalt chloride (CoCl₂), and in the presence of the heparanase inhibitor phosphomannopentaose sulfate (Muparfostat, PI-88). Heparanase activity was assayed in HRECs, and the expression of heparanase, VEGF protein and mRNA were evaluated by immunofluorescence, ELISA, Western blot, and real-time PCR while retinal flat mounts were used to evaluate the area of neovascularization of mice retina.
HREC heparanase activity was increased by treatment with CoCl₂, but was decreased by PI-88. Immunofluorescence showed that heparanase and VEGF staining was intense in hypoxia-treated HRECs and OIR mice retina, while VEGF staining was faint in the normoxia and PI-88-treated ones. Western blot and real-time PCR results indicated that the expression of heparanase and VEGF was increased under hypoxic conditions, and the increase of VEGF was inhibited by PI-88. Retinal flat mounts showed that the area of new vessels in retina of OIR mice was increased compared to the normoxic mice, and this effect was inhibited by PI-88.
Heparanase is upregulated and associated with the VEGF expression in hypoxia-induced retinal diseases. Heparanase is involved in hypoxia-induced neovascularization through promoting VEGF expression and may be a new therapeutic target for hypoxia-induced neovascularization retinal diseases.
The toxic equivalency factor (TEF) approach recommended by the World Health Organization is used to quantify dioxin-like exposure concentrations for mixtures of polychlorinated dibenzo-dioxins, -furans, and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), including 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzofuran (TCDF) and 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126) relative to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Whole-genome microarrays were used to evaluate the hepatic gene expression potency of TCDF and PCB126 relative to TCDD with complementary histopathology, tissue level analysis, and ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) assay results. Immature ovariectomized C57BL/6 mice were gavaged with 0.001, 0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1, 3, 10, 30, 100, and 300 μg/kg TCDD and TEF-adjusted doses (TEF for TCDF and PCB126 is 0.1) of TCDF or PCB126 (1, 3, 10, 30, 100, 300, 1000, and 3000 μg/kg of TCDF or PCB126) or sesame oil vehicle and sacrificed 24 h post dose. In general, TCDD, TCDF, and PCB126 tissue levels, as well as histopathological effects, were comparable when comparing TEF-adjusted doses. Automated dose-response modeling (ToxResponse Modeler) of the microarray data identified 210 TCDF and 40 PCB126 genes that exhibited sigmoidal dose-response curves with comparable slopes when compared with TCDD. These similar responses were used to calculate a median TCDF gene expression relative potency (REP) of 0.06 and a median PCB126 gene expression REP of 0.02. REPs of 0.02 were also calculated for EROD induction for both compounds. Collectively, these data suggest that differences in the ability of the liganded aryl hydrocarbon receptor:AhR nuclear translocator complex to elicit differential hepatic gene expression, in addition to pharmacokinetic differences between ligands, influence their potency in immature ovariectomized C57BL/6 mice.
Mitochondrial compromise has been documented in infants born to women infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) who received nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) therapy during pregnancy. To model these human exposures, we examined mitochondrial integrity at birth and 1 year in brain cortex and liver from offspring of retroviral-free Erythrocebus patas dams-administered human-equivalent NRTI doses for the last half (10 weeks) of gestation. Additional infants, followed for 1 year, were given the same drugs as their mothers for the first 6 weeks of life. Exposures included: no drug, Zidovudine (AZT), Lamivudine (3TC), AZT/3TC, AZT/Didanosine (ddI), and Stavudine (d4T)/3TC. In brain and liver, oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) enzyme activities (complexes I, II, and IV) showed minimal differences between unexposed and NRTI-exposed offspring at both times. Brain and liver mitochondria from most NRTI-exposed patas, both at birth and 1 year of age, contained significant (p < 0.05) morphological damage observed by electron microscopy (EM), based on scoring of coded photomicrographs. Brain and liver mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) levels in NRTI-exposed patas were depleted significantly in the 3TC and d4T/3TC groups at birth and were depleted significantly (p < 0.05) at 1 year in all NRTI-exposed groups. In 1-year-old infants exposed in utero to NRTIs, mtDNA depletion was 28.8-51.8% in brain and 37.4-56.5% in liver. These investigations suggest that some NRTI-exposed human infants may sustain similar mitochondrial compromise in brain and liver and should be followed long term for cognitive integrity and liver function.
Cyclic changes in dissolved oxygen occur naturally in shallow estuarine systems, yet little is known about the adaptations and responses of estuarine organisms to cyclic hypoxia. Here we examine the responses of Palaemonetes pugio, a species of grass shrimp, to cyclic hypoxia (1.5-8 mg/l dissolved oxygen; 4.20-22.42 kPa) at both the molecular and organismal levels. We measured alterations in gene expression in hepatopancreas tissue of female grass shrimp using custom cDNA macroarrays. After short-term (3-d) exposure to cyclic hypoxia, mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) was upregulated and 70-kd heat shock proteins (HSP70) were downregulated. After 7-d exposure, nuclear genes encoding mitochondrial proteins (ribosomal protein S2, ATP synthase, very-long-chain specific acyl-CoA dehydrogenase [VLCAD]) were downregulated, whereas mitochondrial phosphoenol pyruvate carboxykinase (PEP Cbk) was upregulated. After 14 d, vitellogenin and apolipoprotein A1 were upregulated. Taken together, these changes suggest a shift in metabolism toward gluconeogenesis and lipid export. Long-term (77-d) exposure to hypoxia showed that profiles of gene expression returned to pre-exposure levels. These molecular responses differ markedly from those induced by chronic hypoxia. At the organismal level, cyclic hypoxia reduces the number of broods and eggs a female can produce. Demographic analysis showed a lower estimated rate of population growth in grass shrimp exposed to both continuous and short-term cyclic hypoxia, suggesting population-level impacts on grass shrimp.
T-cell Immunoglobulin and Mucin domain 2 (TIM2) belongs to the receptor family of cell surface molecules expressed on kidney, liver, and T cells. Previous studies have revealed that TIM2-deficient mice (TIM2(-/-)) are more susceptible to the Th2-mediated immune response in an airway inflammation model. Here, we investigated the phenotypic response of TIM2(-/-) mice to cisplatin-induced kidney toxicity. A lethality study in male BALB/c wild-type (TIM2(+/+)) and TIM2(-/-) mice, administered with 20 mg/kg cisplatin ip, resulted in 80% mortality of TIM2(-/-) mice as compared with 30% mortality in the TIM2(+/+) group by day 5. The TIM2(-/-) mice showed approximately fivefold higher injury as estimated by blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine at 48 h that was confirmed by significantly increased proximal tubular damage assessed histologically (H & E staining). A significantly higher expression of Th2-associated cytokines, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and TGFβ, with a significant reduction of Th1-associated cytokines, RANTES and MCP-1, by 72 h was observed in the TIM2(-/-) mice as compared with TIM2(+/+) mice. A higher baseline protein expression of caspase-3 (approximately twofold) coupled with an early onset of p53 protein activation by 48 h resulted in an increased apoptosis by 48-72 h in TIM2(-/-) compared with TIM2(+/+). In conclusion, the increased expression of the proinflammatory and proapoptotic genes, with a higher number of apoptotic cells, and a pronounced increase in injury and mortality of the TIM2-deficient mice collectively suggest a protective role of TIM2 in cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity.
An overdose of acetaminophen (APAP) causes hepatotoxicity due to its metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine. NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) is an important enzyme for detoxification, because it catabolizes endogenous/exogenous quinone to hydroquinone. Although various studies have suggested the possible involvement of NQO1 in APAP-induced hepatotoxicity, its precise role in this remains unclear. We investigated the role of NQO1 against APAP-induced hepatotoxicity using a genetically modified rodent model. NQO1 wild-type (WT) and knockout (KO) mice were treated with different doses of APAP, and we evaluated the mortality and toxicity markers for cell death caused by APAP. NQO1 KO mice showed high sensitivity to APAP-mediated hepatotoxicity (as indicated by a large necrotic region) as well as increased levels of nitrotyrosine adducts and reactive oxygen species. APAP-induced cell death in the livers and primary hepatocytes of NQO1 KO mice, which was accompanied by an extensive reduction in adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels. In accordance with this ATP depletion, cytosolic increases in mitochondrial proteins such as apoptosis-inducing factor, second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases/DIABLO, endonuclease G, and cytochrome c, which indicate severe mitochondrial dysfunction, were observed in NQO1 KO mice but not in WT mice after APAP exposure. Severe mitochondrial depolarization was also greater in hepatocytes isolated from NQO1 KO mice. Collectively, our data suggest that NQO1 plays a critical role in protection against energy depletion caused by APAP, and NQO1 may be useful in the development of therapeutic approaches to effectively diminish the hepatotoxicity caused by an APAP overdose.
We have identified a non-insulin-dependent diabetic patient with fasting hyperinsulinemia (90 microU/ml), an elevated insulin:C-peptide molar ratio (1.68; normal, 0.05-0.20), normal insulin counterregulatory hormone levels, and an adequate response to exogenously administered insulin. Insulin-binding antibodies were absent from serum, erythrocyte insulin receptor binding was normal, and greater than 90% of circulating immunoreactive insulin coeluted with 125I-labeled insulin on gel filtration. The patient's insulin diluted in parallel with a human standard in the insulin radioimmunoassay, confirming close molecular similarity. The patient's insulin was purified from serum and shown to possess both reduced binding and ability to stimulate glucose uptake and oxidation in vitro. Analysis of the patient's insulin by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) revealed two products: 7.3% of insulin immunoreactivity coeluted with the human standard, while the remaining 92.7% eluted as a single peak with increased hydrophobicity. Family studies confirmed the presence of hyperinsulinemia in four of five relatives in three generations, with secretion of an abnormal insulin documented by HPLC in the three tested. Leukocyte DNA was harvested from the propositus and the insulin gene cloned. One allele was normal, but the other displayed a thymine for guanine substitution at nucleotide position 1298 from the putative cap site, resulting in a leucine for valine substitution at position 3 of the insulin A chain. Insulin Wakayama is therefore identified as [LeuA3] insulin.
Zhao et al. [2007] in their "Unified Theory of Autism" hypothesized that incidence of autism in males could be explained by essentially two types of family structures: majority of autism cases are from low-risk autism families with de novo mutations, and a minority of cases are from high-risk multiplex families, where risk to male offspring approximates 50% consistent with a dominant model and high penetrance. Using the Autism Genetic Resource Exchange (AGRE) data set, Zhao et al. identified 86 high-risk families with likely dominant transmission. As genotype data are now available for many members of the AGRE resource, the objective of this manuscript was to determine if dominant linkage evidence for an autism predisposition gene exists in these 86 high-risk families. HumanHap550K Illumina SNP data were available for 92% of 455 total family members in these 86 high-risk families. We performed a linkage analysis using a pruned subset of markers where markers in high linkage disequilibrium were removed. We observed a single suggestive peak (maximum LOD 2.01, maximum HLOD 2.08) under a dominant model on chromosome Xp22.11-p21.2 that encompasses the IL1RAPL1 gene. Mutations or deletions in IL1RAPL1 have been previously reported in three families with autism. In our study, 11 families contributed nominally (P<0.05, HLOD>0.588) to the chromosome X peak. These results demonstrate that identification of a more homogeneous subset of autism cases, which was based on family structure in this study, may help to identify, localize and further our understanding of autism predisposition genes.
To date, only one study of chronic use of a leukotriene receptor antagonist in children has been published. The efficacy and safety of montelukast in children 6-14 years of age with asthma (n = 336) was studied during an 8-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. There was significantly greater improvement in forced expired volume in 1 sec (FEV(1)) from baseline for the montelukast group (8. 23%) compared to the placebo group (3.58%). There was a significant decrease in use of beta agonists for symptom relief and a significant decrease in the percentage of days and percentage of patients with asthma exacerbations. An asthma-specific quality of life questionnaire revealed significant overall improvement in quality of life and significant improvement in the quality of life domains for symptoms, activity, and emotions. Adverse effects were not significantly different for montelukast than for placebo, with the exception of allergic rhinitis which was more prevalent in the placebo group. A 6-month open follow-up of patients from the above study was undertaken. Effects of montelukast on FEV(1) were consistent over the 6 months, with the increase in FEV(1) not significantly different from a small control group treated with beclomethasone. Quality of life remained significantly improved throughout the open treatment period. In conclusion, leukotriene receptor antagonists are of value for the treatment of children with asthma.
Huntington's disease (HD) is characterized by progressive degeneration of neurons in the striatum, cortex and other parts of the brain, causing motor and cognitive dysfunction. 3-Nitropropionic acid (3-NP) is a well-known mycotoxin that significantly induces motor dysfunction in animals. Studies suggested the involvement of oxidative stress and nitric oxide mechanisms in HD pathogenesis. Clinical reports have also indicated the neuroprotective potential of antidepressants. Therefore, the present study has been designed to elucidate and compare the mechanistic role of different antidepressants (sertraline, venlafaxine, imipramine and trazodone) and their interaction with nitric oxide modulators if any, against 3-NP-induced neurotoxicity. Systemic 3-NP (10 mg/kg) administration for 14 days significantly reduced locomotor activity, body weight, motor coordination, oxidative defense and impaired mitochondrial complex enzyme activities in the striatum. Sertraline, venlafaxine, imipramine and trazodone treatments significantly improved behavioral, oxidative defense and mitochondrial complex enzyme activities as compared with the 3-NP-treated group. Systemic L-arginine (50 mg/kg) pretreatment with sub-effective dose of sertraline (10 mg/kg), venlafaxine (10 mg/kg), imipramine (10 mg/kg) and trazodone (10 mg/kg) for 14 days significantly attenuated their protective effect. Similarly, L-nitro-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (10 mg/kg) pretreatment with sub-effective dose of sertraline (10 mg/kg), venlafaxine (10 mg/kg), imipramine (10 mg/kg) and trazodone (10 mg/kg) for 14 days significantly potentiated their protective effects which were significant as compared with their effect alone, respectively. The results of the present study suggest that a nitric oxide mechanism might be involved in their protective effect against 3-NP-induced neurotoxicity.
Vincristine-sulfate-related vocal cord paralysis has been reported infrequently in the literature. The neurotoxicity of the vinca alkaloids is well-known; however, the potential for cranial nerve involvement is not widely recognized. Given the complexity of the typical patient receiving such a chemotherapeutic agent, the potential for misdiagnosis is high. Many patients have primary tumors or metastatic lesions in sites that could cause the clinician to overlook this reversible cause of neurologic dysfunction. This study describes the first three reported pediatric cases of vincristine-induced vocal cord paralysis. Two patients developed increasing stridor secondary to bilateral vocal cord paralysis; the third developed a unilateral vocal cord paralysis. All resolved spontaneously upon withdrawal of the vincristine. Vinca-alkaloid-induced vocal cord paralysis is a potentially dangerous but reversible lesion. Otolaryngologists should be aware of the association between these agents and cranial nerve neuropathies.
To investigate the effects and the protective mechanism of iridoid glycosides (IG) enriched from Folium syringae leaves on ulcerative colitis (UC) model induced by 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) in rats.
UC in rats was induced by colonic administration with TNBS. IG (80, 160 and 240 mg/kg) was administered for 2 weeks to experimental colitis rats. The inflammatory degree was assessed by macroscopic score, histology and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. Nitric oxide (NO) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were measured with biochemical methods. The protein expressions of nuclear factor-kappaBp65 (NF-κBp65) and mRNA expressions of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and NF-κBp65, were determined by immunohistochemistry and real-time quantitative PCR, respectively.
IG significantly ameliorated macroscopic damage and histological changes, reduced the activity of MPO, depressed MDA and NO levels and effectively inhibited the protein and mRNA expressions of NF-κBp65, TNF-α and IL-6 in the colon tissues of experimental colitis in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, the effects of IG (160 mg/kg and 240 mg/kg) were superior to salicylazosulfapyridine (150 mg/kg).
We demonstrated for the first time that IG possessed marked protective effects on experimental colitis through its antioxidation and inhibiting inflammatory mediators by down-regulation of the expressions of NF-κBp65.
This study investigated genetic influences on behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to cocaine sensitization. We used male and female rats of the inbred strains Lewis (LEW) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), which display genetic differences in stress-related responses. The influence of two quantitative trait loci (QTL; Ofil1 and Ofil2 on chromosomes 4 and 7), which modulate stress reactivity in rats, on the effects of cocaine was also investigated through the use of recombinant lines (derived from a LEW x SHR intercross) selected by their genotype at Ofil1 and Ofil2. Animals were given repeated cocaine or saline injections and tested for locomotion (induction of sensitization). Two weeks later, all animals were challenged with cocaine, and locomotion and corticosterone levels were measured (expression of sensitization). Results indicated that male SHR rats showed more behavioral sensitization than LEW rats, whereas no strain differences in sensitization were seen among females. When challenged with cocaine, LEW and SHR rats of both sexes pretreated with cocaine showed behavioral sensitization compared with saline pretreated animals; however, only LEW rats displayed an increase in the corticosterone levels. Ofil1 was found to influence the induction of sensitization in males and Ofil2 modulated the locomotor effect of cocaine in females. This study provides evidence of a genotype-dependent relationship between the induction and expression of cocaine sensitization, and between the behavioral and neuroendocrine responses induced by cocaine. Moreover, the Ofil1 and Ofil2 loci may contain one or more genes that control the behavioral effects of cocaine in rats.
Astrogliosis is a prominent finding in human temporal lobe epilepsy. Work in animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy, however, have mostly concentrated on the acute phases of the studied models or have failed to demonstrate reactive gliosis during the chronic phases of such models.
Here we used the pilocarpine model of chronic seizures and Cajal's gold sublimate technique for the staining reactive astrocytes to study this issue.
For half of the animals (nine of 17) subject to pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE), when assessed 60 days later, variable levels of reactive astrocytes were seen in many thalamic, hippocampal, amygdalar, and neocortical areas. For the remaining half of the animals, however (eight of 17), despite a similar SE induction, as well as for controls, we could not detect stained reactive astrocytes.
We hypothesize that these results might underlie possible differences in the frequency of recurrent spontaneous seizures.
The effects of a single and repeated administration of cocaine on GABA(B) receptor subunit mRNA was investigated in rat brain by in situ hybridization. Following a single administration of cocaine, no significant change was observed in any brain regions examined, neither 1 h nor 24 h after administration. During repeated administration of cocaine, behavioral sensitization with increased stereotyped behavior was observed. A significant increase in the level of GABA(B(1)) mRNA was observed in the nucleus accumbens (11.4%), CA1 field of the hippocampus (16.8%), and thalamus (16.5%) 1 day after repeated administrations of cocaine for 14 consecutive days. The level of mRNA returned to the basal level 1 week after the final injection of repeated cocaine treatment. The observed changes in the mRNA level after the repeated cocaine may imply changes of GABA(B(1)) subunit in molecular mechanisms which underlie development of behavioral sensitization.
The risk for developing acute liver failure after halothane exposition was calculated between 1:8,000 and 1:36,000. The case report given on a 22 year old man with halothane-induced hepatic failure is unusual, because the typical risk factors as age over 40, female sex, obesity, and previous exposure to halothane were not present. Two days after exposure to halothane the patient suffered acute liver failure with severe coagulopathy (factor V = 5% activity), and encephalopathy grade IV complicated by renal failure and respiratory insufficiency. Maximal increases of enzymes in blood were AST 3900 U/L, ALT 2570 U/L, LDH 10600 U/L. After six days the patient underwent liver transplantation with complete anuria and instable circulation. Explanted liver showed massive necrosis (70% of parenchyma) and fatty changes. The liver transplant had immediately a good function and renal failure resolved within three days. In the follow-up of 3 1/2 years the patient suffered no further complications. Culturing the patient's lymphocytes in the lymphocyte transformation test a strong reaction could be detected with a stimulatory index of 20. Maximal proliferation was observed when lymphocytes were incubated with plasma metabolites of a volunteer drawn 120 minutes after anesthesia with halothane was started.
Tolcapone is a potent, selective, and reversible inhibitor of cathecol-O-methyl-transferase (COMT). This enzyme plays a crucial role in the extraneural inactivation of catecholamine neurotransmitters. Tolcapone's ability to inhibit central COMT in humans at therapeutic concentrations is not yet clear. The aim was to determine the effect of tolcapone on central COMT activity in Parkinson's disease (PD) using (18)F-dopa positron emission tomography (PET). The study was a randomized two-way crossover study. Twelve PD patients were recruited. On the treatment days patients were given either tolcapone (200 mg) or placebo together with levodopa/carbidopa (100/125 mg) 1 h before the injection of (18)F-dopa. Data were acquired in 25 frames over 94 min for the first PET scan period. At the end of this period the patients were removed from the scanner for 90 min and subsequently repositioned and data acquired in six 10-min time frames over 60 min. Influx constants (Ki) were computed using a graphical approach with a plasma input function. Mean (18)F-dopa putamen Ki's for the first 30-90 min, primarily reflecting central dopa decarboxylase (DDC) activity, were similar in PD patients whether tolcapone was present (0.0078 +/- 0.0031 min(-1)) or absent (0.0078 +/- 0.0030 min(-1)). Mean putamen Ki values calculated 180-240 min after injection of (18)F-dopa, reflecting both central DDC and COMT activity, were unchanged from 30-90' values in the presence of tolcapone (0.0079 +/- 0.0030), implying blockade of central COMT, but were significantly reduced (0.0059 +/- 0.0028) in the absence of this drug. These findings are compatible with clinical doses of tolcapone having a significant blocking effect on peripheral and central COMT but not DDC activity in PD.
The thrombomodulin (TM) gene was ablated in mice in a cell type-restricted manner from vascular endothelium by Cre-recombinase-mediated excision controlled by the endothelial cell lineage-specific Tie2 promoter. Forty percent of mutant (TMLox-) mice display a distinct lethal embryonic phenotype not observed in completely TM-deficient embryos. The remaining 60% of TMLox mice survive beyond birth, but invariably succumb to a severe hypercoagulable state and massive thrombosis after 3 weeks, terminating in a lethal consumptive coagulopathy. The progression of thrombosis was age- and sex-dependent. Disruption of the TM/protein C pathway was not associated with a latent proinflammatory state. Disease onset and progression could be prevented by warfarin anticoagulation. These results show that in mice, loss of endothelial cell TM function causes spontaneous and fatal thrombosis in the arterial and venous circulation, resulting from unfettered activation of the coagulation system. The combination of complete disease penetrance, uniform disease onset at young age, large vessel thrombosis of the extremities and multiple organ systems, and consumptive coagulopathy as the disease end-point provides a unique mouse model of human thrombotic disease.
Primary pulmonary arterial hypertension is a rare lethal disease that typically presents radiographically with enlarged central pulmonary arteries, pruning of the peripheral vasculature, and cardiomegaly but clear lung fields. Although it is a disease of unknown etiology, primary PAH has been associated with anorexigen use. We present a case of pulmonary arterial hypertension in a woman with a history of fenfluramine and phentermine use who presented with diffuse micronodules on computed tomography scan. Lung biopsy confirmed the micronodules were radiographic manifestations of extensive diffuse plexogenic arterial lesions. This report represents an unusual radiographic presentation of anorexigen related pulmonary arterial hypertension, and to our knowledge, the first case reported as presenting with diffuse micronodules on high resolution computed tomography scan.
Stroke triggers a local and systemic inflammatory response leading to the production of cytokines that can influence blood vessel reactivity. In this study, we aimed to assess whether cerebral ischemia/reperfusion could affect vasoconstriction and vasodilatation on mesenteric resistance arteries (MRA) from Wistar Kyoto rats. The right middle cerebral artery was occluded (90 min) and reperfused (24 h). Sham-operated animals were used as controls. Plasma levels of interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1beta were measured at 24 h. Vasoconstrictor and vasodilator responses were recorded in a wire myograph. Protein expression was determined by Western blot and immunofluorescence, and superoxide anion (O(2)(.)) production was evaluated by ethidium fluorescence. In MRA, ischemia/reperfusion increased plasma levels of IL-6, O2. production, protein expression of cyclooxygenase-2, and protein tyrosine nitrosylation, but it impaired acetylcholine (ACh) vasodilatation without modifying the vasodilatations to sodium nitroprusside or the contractions to phenylephrine and KCl. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) and indomethacin reversed the impairment of ACh relaxation induced by ischemia/reperfusion. However, N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester affected similarly ACh-induced vasodilatations in MRA of ischemic and sham-operated rats. Protein expression of endothelial and inducible nitric-oxide synthase, copper/zinc SOD, manganese SOD, and extracellular SOD was similar in both groups of rats. Our results show MRA endothelial dysfunction 24 h after brain ischemia/reperfusion. Excessive production of O2. in MRA mediates endothelial dysfunction, and the increase in plasma cytokine levels after brain ischemia/reperfusion might be involved in this effect.
Antiemetic drugs, which are usually prescribed with opioids, occasionally induce extrapyramidal symptoms(EPS).
In 109 patients treated with our palliative care team, we retrospectively investigated the appearance of antiemetic-induced EPS; its incidence, latent period, onset age, symptoms, causing agents and clinical outcomes.
EPS were observed in 6 of 109 patients. Six EPS patients, 2 men and 4 women, were between the age of 53 and 66 years. Prochlorperazine was used in all EPS patients. Two EPS were induced with unnecessary antiemetic drugs. Onset of EPS was from 11 to 162 days after beginning of antiemetic drugs. There were 5 patients with slow movement or speech, 3 patients with expressionless face, 2 patients with akathisia, and one patient with dysphagia. Five EPS patients were improved by using biperiden and one patient was by changing prochlorperazine to perospirone.
EPS were found in 6 of 109 patients during palliative care. We concluded that it was important not to forget the appearance of antiemetic-induced EPS when prescribing antiemetic drugs in palliative
Toluene diisocyanate (TDI) is a leading cause of occupational asthma. Although considerable controversy remains regarding its pathogenesis, TDI-induced asthma is an inflammatory disease of the airways characterized by airway remodeling. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) has been shown to play a critical role in the control of airway inflammatory responses. However, no data are available on the role of PPARgamma in TDI-induced asthma. We have used a mouse model for TDI-induced asthma to determine the effect of PPARgamma agonist, rosiglitazone, or pioglitazone, and PPARgamma on TDI-induced bronchial inflammation and airway remodeling. This study with the TDI-induced model of asthma revealed the following typical pathophysiological features: increased numbers of inflammatory cells of the airways, airway hyperresponsiveness, increased levels of Th2 cytokines (IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13), adhesion molecules (ICAM-1 and VCAM-1), chemokines (RANTES and eotaxin), TGF-beta1, and NF-kappaB in nuclear protein extracts. In addition, the mice exposed to TDI developed features of airway remodeling, including thickening of the peribronchial smooth muscle layer, subepithelial collagen deposition, and increased airway mucus production. Administration of PPARgamma agonists or adenovirus carrying PPARgamma2 cDNA reduced the pathophysiological symptoms of asthma and decreased the increased levels of Th2 cytokines, adhesion molecules, chemokines, TGF-beta1, and NF-kappaB in nuclear protein extracts after TDI inhalation. In addition, inhibition of NF-kappaB activation decreased the increased levels of Th2 cytokines, adhesion molecules, chemokines, and TGF-beta1 after TDI inhalation. These findings demonstrate a protective role of PPARgamma in the pathogenesis of the TDI-induced asthma phenotype.
