Little is known regarding how cognitive strategies help to modulate neural responses of the human brain in ongoing pain syndromes to alleviate pain. Under pathological pain conditions, any self-elicited contact with usually non-painful stimuli may become painful. We examined whether the human brain is capable of dissociating self-controlled from externally administered thermal hyperalgesia in the experimental capsaicin model. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, 17 male subjects were investigated in a parametric design with heat stimuli at topically capsaicin-sensitized skin. In contrast to external stimulation, self-administered pain was controllable. For both conditions application trials without noticeable thermal stimulation were introduced and used as high-level baseline (HLB) to account for the capsaicin-induced ongoing pain and other covariables. Following subtraction of the HLB, the anterior insula and the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) but not the somatosensory cortices maintained parametric neural responses to thermal hyperalgesia. A stronger pain-related activity increase during self-administered stimuli was observed in the posterior insula. In contrast, prefrontal cortex showed stronger increases to uncontrollable external heat stimuli. In the state of ongoing pain (capsaicin), pain-intensity-encoding regions (anterior insula, ACC) but not those with sensory discriminative functions (SI, SII) showed graded, pain-intensity-related neural responses in thermal hyperalgesia. Some areas were able to dissociate between self- and externally administered stimuli in thermal hyperalgesia, which might be related to differences in perceived controllability. Thus, neural mechanisms maintain the ability to dissociate external from self-generated states of injury in thermal hyperalgesia. This may help to understand how cognitive strategies potentially alleviate chronic pain syndromes.
Radiation of the esophagus of C3H/HeNsd mice with 35 or 37 Gy of 6 MV X rays induces significantly increased RNA transcription for interleukin 1 (Il1), tumor necrosis factor alpha (Tnf), interferon gamma inducing factor (Ifngr), and interferon gamma (Ifng). These elevations are associated with DNA damage that is detectable by a comet assay of explanted esophageal cells, apoptosis of the esophageal basal lining layer cells in situ, and micro-ulceration leading to dehydration and death. The histopathology and time sequence of events are comparable to the esophagitis in humans that is associated with chemoradiotherapy of non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). Intraesophageal injection of clinical-grade manganese superoxide dismutase-plasmid/liposome (SOD2-PL) 24 h prior to irradiation produced an increase in SOD2 biochemical activity in explanted esophagus. An equivalent therapeutic plasmid weight of 10 microgram ALP plasmid in the same 500 microliter of liposomes, correlated to around 52-60% of alkaline phosphatase-positive cells in the squamous layer of the esophagus at 24 h. Administration of SOD2-PL prior to irradiation mediated a significant decrease in induction of cytokine mRNA by radiation and decreased apoptosis of squamous lining cells, micro-ulceration, and esophagitis. Groups of mice receiving 35 or 37 Gy esophageal irradiation by a technique protecting the lungs and treating only the central mediastinal area were followed to assess the long-term effects of radiation. SOD2-PL-treated irradiated mice demonstrated a significant decrease in esophageal wall thickness at day 100 compared to irradiated controls. Mice with orthotopic thoracic tumors composed of 32D-v-abl cells that received intraesophageal SOD2-PL treatment showed transgenic mRNA in the esophagus at 24 h, but no detectable human SOD2 transgene mRNA in explanted tumors by nested RT-PCR. These data provide support for translation of this strategy of SOD2-PL gene therapy to studies leading to a clinical trial in fractionated irradiation to decrease the acute and chronic side effects of radiation-induced damage to the esophagus.
There is increasing concern that the use of second-generation antipsychotic medications in schizophrenia is associated with the development of metabolic syndrome.
This study assessed the prevalence and clinical associations of metabolic syndrome among patients receiving clozapine within the catchment area of a mental health service in the west of Ireland.
A total of 84 patients (96% response rate) taking clozapine were interviewed and thoroughly investigated using physical assessments, comprehensive laboratory testing and review of medical records.
Of the patients, 46.4% taking clozapine fulfilled the criteria for metabolic syndrome. Male gender, high body mass index, high insulin level and receiving a concomitant antipsychotic medication were significantly associated with the presence of metabolic syndrome.
Almost half of the patients receiving clozapine have metabolic syndrome and are consequently at risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Such patients should be closely monitored in order to facilitate interventions, which could alleviate the adverse health consequences of this syndrome.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is associated with significant mortality due to lung hypoplasia and pulmonary hypertension. The role of embryonic pulmonary innervation in normal lung development and lung maldevelopment in CDH has not been defined. We hypothesize that developmental defects of intrapulmonary innervation, in particular autonomic innervation, occur in CDH. This abnormal embryonic pulmonary innervation may contribute to lung developmental defects and postnatal physiological derangement in CDH. To define patterns of pulmonary innervation in CDH, human CDH and control lung autopsy specimens were stained with the pan-neural marker S-100. To further characterize patterns of overall and autonomic pulmonary innervation during lung development in CDH, the murine nitrofen model of CDH was utilized. Immunostaining for protein gene product 9.5 (a pan-neuronal marker), tyrosine hydroxylase (a sympathetic marker), vesicular acetylcholine transporter (a parasympathetic marker), or VIP (a parasympathetic marker) was performed on lung whole mounts and analyzed via confocal microscopy and three-dimensional reconstruction. Peribronchial and perivascular neuronal staining pattern is less complex in human CDH than control lung. In mice, protein gene product 9.5 staining reveals less complex neuronal branching and decreased neural tissue in nitrofen-treated lungs from embryonic day 12.5 to 16.5 compared with controls. Furthermore, nitrofen-treated embryonic lungs exhibited altered autonomic innervation, with a relative increase in sympathetic nerve staining and a decrease in parasympathetic nerve staining compared with controls. These results suggest a primary defect in pulmonary neural developmental in CDH, resulting in less complex neural innervation and autonomic imbalance. Defective embryonic pulmonary innervation may contribute to lung developmental defects and postnatal physiological derangement in CDH.
We investigated the effect of interleukin 10 on the development of zymosan-induced multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) and on plasma concentrations and production capacity of tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha by peritoneal cells. Groups of C57BL/6 mice received a single intraperitoneal injection with zymosan, a cell wall component of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, at day 0. Daily doses of human recombinant interleukin 10 (IL-10: 10 or 50 microg/kg) were given intraperitoneally either starting directly before administration of zymosan (day 0), or 5 or 8 days after administration of zymosan. The animals were monitored for survival, condition, body weight and temperature. On day 12 all surviving animals were killed to obtain plasma, organs and peritoneal cells. Plasma concentrations of TNF-alpha and lipopolysaccharide-stimulated production of TNF-alpha by peritoneal cells were measured; organ weights were registered as an indicator for organ damage. IL-10 improves survival and clinical condition and also reduces organ damage, but only at the highest dose used and only when started simultaneously with the administration of zymosan. Circulating TNF-alpha concentrations 12 days after zymosan are not affected by any of the IL-10 schedules used. However, lipopolysaccharide-stimulated production of TNF-alpha by peritoneal cells is increased, in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. The anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 is able to attenuate the development of MODS in this model, but only when given simultaneously with zymosan, and in high dosages.
An increasing number of reports is challenging the notion that the antitumor potential of the selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib (Celebrex) is mediated primarily via the inhibition of COX-2. We have investigated this issue by applying two different analogs of celecoxib that differentially display COX-2-inhibitory activity: the first analog, called unmethylated celecoxib (UMC), inhibits COX-2 slightly more potently than its parental compound, whereas the second analog, 2,5-dimethyl-celecoxib (DMC), has lost the ability to inhibit COX-2.
With the use of glioblastoma and pancreatic carcinoma cell lines, we comparatively analyzed the effects of celecoxib, UMC, and DMC in various short-term (< or =48 hours) cellular and molecular studies, as well as in long-term (< or =3 months) focus formation assays. We found that DMC exhibited the most potent antitumor activity; celecoxib was somewhat less effective, and UMC clearly displayed the overall weakest antitumor potential in all aspects. The differential growth-inhibitory and apoptosis-stimulatory potency of these compounds in short-term assays did not at all correlate with their capacity to inhibit COX-2, but was closely aligned with their ability to trigger endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS), as indicated by the induction of the ERS marker CHOP/GADD153 and activation of the ERS-associated caspase 7. In addition, we found that these compounds were able to restore contact inhibition and block focus formation during long-term, chronic drug exposure of tumor cells, and this was achieved at sub-toxic concentrations in the absence of ERS or inhibition of COX-2.
The antitumor activity of celecoxib in vitro did not involve the inhibition of COX-2. Rather, the drug's ability to trigger ERS, a known effector of cell death, might provide an alternative explanation for its acute cytotoxicity. In addition, the newly discovered ability of this drug to restore contact inhibition and block focus formation during chronic drug exposure, which involved neither ERS nor COX-2, suggests a novel, as yet unrecognized mechanism of celecoxib action.
Primaquine, an 8-aminoquinoline, is the drug of choice for radical cure of relapsing malaria. Use of primaquine is limited due to its hemotoxicity, particularly in populations with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency [G6PD(-)]. Biotransformation appears to be central to the anti-infective and hematological toxicities of primaquine, but the mechanisms are still not well understood. Metabolic studies with primaquine have been hampered due to the reactive nature of potential hemotoxic metabolites. An in vitro metabolism-linked hemotoxicity assay has been developed. Co-incubation of the drug with normal or G6PD(-) erythrocytes, microsomes or recombinant cytochrome P(450) (CYP) isoforms has allowed in situ generation of potential hemotoxic metabolite(s), which interact with the erythrocytes to generate hemotoxicity. Methemoglobin formation, real-time generation of reactive oxygen intermediates (ROIs) and depletion of reactive thiols were monitored as multiple biochemical end points for hemotoxicity. Primaquine alone did not produce any hemotoxicity, while a robust increase was observed in methemoglobin formation and generation of ROIs by primaquine in the presence of human or mouse liver microsomes. Multiple CYP isoforms (CYP2E1, CYP2B6, CYP1A2, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4) variably contributed to the hemotoxicity of primaquine. This was further confirmed by significant inhibition of primaquine hemotoxicity by the selective CYP inhibitors, namely thiotepa (CYP2B6), fluoxetine (CYP2D6) and troleandomycin (CYP3A4). Primaquine caused similar methemoglobin formation in G6PD(-) and normal human erythrocytes. However, G6PD(-) erythrocytes suffered higher oxidative stress and depletion of thiols than normal erythrocytes due to primaquine toxicity. The results provide significant insights regarding CYP isoforms contributing to hemotoxicity and may be useful in controlling toxicity of primaquine to increase its therapeutic utility.
MIAMI is a prospective multicenter clinical study designed to investigate the relationship between changes in carotid intima-media thickness (C-IMT) and changes in circulating markers of inflammation, thrombosis and endothelial activation in stable coronary patients treated for 20+/-3.7 months with 20mg/day atorvastatin.
Eighty-five subjects had their C-IMT, blood lipids and soluble markers measured at baseline, at the 12th month and at the end of the study. Almost all soluble markers decreased upon treatment except for high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), interleukin-18 (IL-18), tissue factor pathway inhibitor-free (TFPI-free) and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecules-1 (sVCAM-1) which did not change significantly, and interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L) which increased. sCD40L, fibrinogen, tissue factor pathway inhibitor-total (TFPI-total), soluble intercellular adhesion molecules-1 (sICAM-1), sE-selectin, interleukin-8 (IL-8) and von Willebrand factor (vWF) changed significantly even after application of the Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons. Changes in lipids did not correlate with C-IMT regression either when considered singly or when combined in a lipid score. Changes in soluble markers correlated poorly with C-IMT regression when analyzed singly, but strongly when combined in relevant composite scores (inflammation/coagulation score, endothelial activation score, soluble markers score and total score).
In patients with stable coronary artery disease treated with moderate doses of atorvastatin, carotid IMT regression correlated with changes of inflammation, thrombosis and endothelial activation profiles.
We present the case of a 39-year-old woman who developed an ischemic cerebral infarction after using cocaine. Initially the patient was thought to suffer from a psychiatric disorder, and a computed tomography (CT) scan at the time of admission was entirely normal. Further evaluation of the patient by staff on the Psychiatric Unit led to the suspicion that she had suffered a stroke. A repeat CT scan on the third hospital day showed a large infarction in the left middle cerebral artery territory. We discuss the diagnosis of cerebral infarction with subtle presentations due to cocaine use.
Cardiac dysfunction is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide due to its complex pathogenesis. However, little is known about the mechanism of arsenic-induced cardiac abnormalities and the use of antioxidants as the possible protective agents in this pathophysiology. Conditionally essential amino acid, taurine, accounts for 25% to 50% of the amino acid pool in myocardium and possesses antioxidant properties. The present study has, therefore, been carried out to investigate the underlying mechanism of the beneficial role of taurine in arsenic-induced cardiac oxidative damage and cell death. Arsenic reduced cardiomyocyte viability, increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and intracellular calcium overload, and induced apoptotic cell death by mitochondrial dependent caspase-3 activation and poly-ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) cleavage. These changes due to arsenic exposure were found to be associated with increased IKK and NF-kappaB (p65) phosphorylation. Pre-exposure of myocytes to an IKK inhibitor (PS-1145) prevented As-induced caspase-3 and PARP cleavage. Arsenic also markedly increased the activity of p38 and JNK MAPKs, but not ERK to that extent. Pre-treatment with SP600125 (JNK inhibitor) and SB203580 (p38 MAPK inhibitor) attenuated NF-kappaB and IKK phosphorylation indicating that p38 and JNK MAPKs are mainly involved in arsenic-induced NF-kappaB activation. Taurine treatment suppressed these apoptotic actions, suggesting that its protective role in arsenic-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis is mediated by attenuation of p38 and JNK MAPK signaling pathways. Similarly, arsenic intoxication altered a number of biomarkers related to cardiac oxidative stress and other apoptotic indices in vivo and taurine supplementation could reduce it. Results suggest that taurine prevented arsenic-induced myocardial pathophysiology, attenuated NF-kappaB activation via IKK, p38 and JNK MAPK signaling pathways and could possibly provide a protection against As-induced cardiovascular burden.
Sideroblastic anaemia developed after lincomycin therapy in a 58-year-old woman. The anaemia proved completely reversible after termination of lincomycin therapy and the introduction of pyridoxine. The patient also had pseudomembranous enterocolitis, a well-known side effect of lincomycin.
Steroid therapy has become part of the adjunctive treatment for COPD patients in some settings. Emotional changes have been reported in some patients while on these medications, but whether these changes are associated with the pathophysiological state or a side effect of the medication is not known. In this study self-reports of depression and somatic complaints were compared between two groups of COPD patients, 20 not receiving steroids and 20 receiving steroids. Both groups demonstrated comparable levels of disease and somatic complaints. Mean FEV1 value for those not receiving steroids was 34% of predicted while the mean for those receiving steroids was 30% of predicted. Depression was found to be significantly higher (t = 11.21, df = 38, p less than 0.01) in the group receiving steroids when compared to those not receiving steroids using a Student's t test. The higher degree of depression among steroid treated COPD patients has implications for clinical practice. The emotional status of this group of patients needs to be monitored and interventions initiated when necessary.
Patients with chronic renal failure are often on multiple medications and are at risk for the development of adverse effects from drug interactions. Two cases of torsades de pointes that followed the initiation of clarithromycin therapy in patients receiving long-term cisapride therapy are being reported. Elevated cisapride levels while on this combination with return to therapeutic range while on cisapride only was documented in one of the patients. The role of the inhibition of cytochrome P-4503A4 in the occurrence of the arrhythmia is discussed.
Myotonia congenita (MC) is caused by a defect in the skeletal muscle chloride channel function, which may cause sustained membrane depolarisation. We describe a previously healthy 32-year-old woman who developed a life-threatening muscle spasm and secondary ventilation difficulties following a preoperative injection of suxamethonium. The muscle spasms disappeared spontaneously and the surgery proceeded without further problems. When subsequently questioned, she reported minor symptoms suggesting a myotonic condition. Myotonia was found on clinical examination and EMG. The diagnosis MC was confirmed genetically. Neither the patient nor the anaesthetist were aware of the diagnosis before this potentially lethal complication occurred. We give a brief overview of ion channel disorders including malignant hyperthermia and their anaesthetic considerations.
Systemic inhibition of complex I by rotenone in rats represents a model of Parkinson's disease (PD). The aim of this study was to elucidate whether neramexane (NMDA, nicotinic alpha9/alpha10 and 5-HT3 receptor antagonist), idazoxan (alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist) or 2-methyl-6-(phenyl-ethyl)-pyrimidine (MPEP, metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist) prevents rotenone-induced parkinsonian-like behaviours and neurochemical changes in rats. Rotenone (2.5 mg/kg i.p. daily) was administered over 60 days together with saline, neramexane (5 mg/kg i.p., b.i.d.), idazoxan (2.5 mg/kg i.p., b.i.d.) or MPEP (2.5 mg/kg i.p., b.i.d.). The same doses of neramexane, idazoxan and MPEP were administered to rats treated with vehicle instead of rotenone. Treatment-related effects on parkinsonian-like behaviours, such as hypokinesia/rigidity and locomotor activity, were evaluated. Moreover, concentrations of dopamine, serotonin and their metabolites were measured in rats from each experimental group. Over the 60-day treatment period, the rotenone+saline treated animals developed hypokinesia, expressed as an increase in the bar and grid descent latencies in the catalepsy test, and a decrease in locomotor activity. Neramexane and idazoxan partially prevented the development of catalepsy in rotenone-treated rats. Co-administration of MPEP with rotenone resulted only in a decrease in descent latency in the grid test on day 60. Chronic rotenone treatment reduced concentrations of dopamine and serotonin in the anterior striatum, which was blocked by co-treatment with neramexane or idazoxan but not with MPEP. Only neramexane treatment blocked the rotenone-induced decrease in dopamine levels in the substantia nigra pars compacta. In conclusion, neramexane and idazoxan counteracted to some extent the development of parkinsonian symptoms and neurochemical alterations in the rotenone model of Parkinson's disease.
The pesticide methoxychlor (MXC) is a reproductive toxicant that targets antral follicles of the mammalian ovary. Cytochrome P450 enzymes metabolize MXC to mono-OH MXC (1,1,1-trichloro-2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-(4-methoxyphenyl)ethane [mono-OH]) and bis-OH MXC (1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)ethane [HPTE]), two compounds that are proposed to be more toxic than the parent compound, can interact with the estrogen receptor (ER), and are proposed to be responsible for ovarian toxicity. Thus, this work tested the hypothesis that MXC metabolites may be responsible for inducing antral follicle-specific toxicities in the ovary and that this toxicity may be mediated through ER-regulated pathways. Mouse antral follicles were isolated and exposed to mono-OH (0.01-10 microg/ml), HPTE (0.01-10 microg/ml), or MXC (100 microg/ml) alone or in combination with ICI 182,780 (ICI; 1 microM) or 17beta-estradiol (E2; 10 and 50 nM) for 96 h. Follicle diameters were measured at 24-h intervals. After culture, follicles were morphologically evaluated for atresia. Both mono-OH and HPTE (10 microg/ml) inhibited follicle growth and increased follicle atresia. The antiestrogen, ICI, did not protect antral follicles from MXC or metabolite toxicity in regard to follicle growth or atresia, but E2 decreased MXC- and mono-OH-induced atresia in small antral follicles. These data suggest that MXC metabolites inhibit follicle growth and induce atresia and that ER-regulated pathways may mediate the ovarian toxicity of MXC and its metabolites.
We examined long-term influence of the angiotensin II type 1-receptor blocker irbesartan and the beta1-adrenergic receptor blocker atenolol on some neurohormonal systems implicated in the pathophysiology of cardiac hypertrophy. Thus, 115 hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy were randomized to receive double-blind irbesartan or atenolol, with additional therapy if needed. Neurohormone measurements and echocardiography were performed at weeks 0, 12, 24, and 48. Left ventricular mass was reduced more by irbesartan than by atenolol (-26 g/m2 versus -14 g/m2, P = 0.024), despite similar reductions in blood pressure. Plasma renin activity and angiotensin II increased (P < 0.001) by irbesartan (0.9 +/- 0.7 to 3.4 +/- 4.2 ng/mL x h, and 3.0 +/- 1.6 to 13.0 +/- 17.7 pmol/L), but decreased (P < 0.01) by atenolol (1.0 +/- 0.6 to 0.7 +/- 0.6 ng/mL x h, and 3.4 +/- 1.6 to 3.2 +/- 2.2 pmol/L). Serum aldosterone decreased (P < 0.05) by both irbesartan (346 +/- 140 to 325 +/- 87 pmol/L) and atenolol (315 +/- 115 to 283 +/- 77 pmol/L). Changes in left ventricular mass by irbesartan related inversely to changes in plasma renin activity, angiotensin II, and aldosterone (all P < 0.05). Plasma levels and 24-hour urinary excretions of catecholamines, plasma leptin, proinsulin, insulin and insulin sensitivity remained largely unchanged in both groups. Thus, the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system appears to be an important non-hemodynamic factor in the regulation of left ventricular mass.
We investigated the effect of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) antagonist scopolamine on eyeblink conditioning in glutamate receptor subunit 62 null mice, which have severe impairments in cerebellar long-term depression (LTD). Mice were injected intraperitoneally with scopolamine (0.5 mg/kg) or saline, and conditioned using a delay paradigm with tone and periorbital shock but with no overlap between them. The saline-injected mutant mice learned this paradigm normally, as predicted from our previous study. When scopolamine was injected, learning was impaired more severely in the mutant mice than in the wild type mice. Basic sensory and motor performances were not affected. These results suggest that eyeblink conditioning in cerebellar LTD deficient mice depends largely on neural functions susceptible to blocking of mAChRs.
The radiosensitivity of solid tumours in anaemic rats treated with recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO, epoetin beta) was studied. Anaemia was induced by a single dose of carboplatin (45 mg kg(-1) i.v.), resulting in a reduction in the haemoglobin concentration by 30%. In a second group, the development of anaemia was prevented by rhEPO (1000 IU kg(-1)) administered s.c. three times per week starting 6 days before the carboplatin application. Three days after carboplatin treatment, DS-sarcomas were implanted subcutaneously onto the hind foot dorsum. Neither carboplatin nor rhEPO treatment influenced tumour growth rate. Five days after implantation, tumours were irradiated with a single non-curative dose (10 Gy), resulting in a growth delay with a subsequent regrowth of the tumours. In the rhEPO-treated group, the growth delay lasted significantly longer (9.5 days vs. 4.5 days) and the regrowth was slower (6.0 days vs. 4.1 days) compared with the anaemic group. These data suggest that the correction of chemotherapy-induced anaemia by rhEPO (epoetin beta) treatment increases tumour radiosensitivity, presumably as a result of an improved oxygen supply to tumour tissue.
To evaluate the effects of diphenhydramine chloride (DPH) on mortality in a rat model of acute, severe organophosphate poisoning (OP).
Wistar rats (n = 40) were randomized to pretreatment with either normal saline (controls), 5 mg/kg atropine, 3 mg/kg DPH, 15 mg/kg DPH, or 30 mg/kg DPH given as a single intramuscular injection 5 minutes prior to a subcutaneous injection of 25 mg/kg dichlorvos (n = 8 per group). The primary endpoint was 10-minute survival. Survival at 24 hours was a secondary endpoint. Comparison of survival rates between groups was carried out by ANOVA and the Student-Newman-Keuls test.
Dichlorvos exposure resulted in profound fasciculations within 2 minutes of injection in all cohorts. In controls, fasciculations were followed by respiratory arrest within 10 minutes (0% survival). The rats receiving atropine pre-treatment exhibited similar fasciculations (nicotinic effects) without subsequent respiratory arrest, resulting in a significant improvement in survival (88%, p < 0.001). The DPH-treated rats exhibited a significant dose-dependent reduction in mortality, with the 3 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg, and 30 mg/kg groups demonstrating 0%, 25%, and 100% survival, respectively. There was no additional mortality between 10 minutes and 24 hours in any group. There was no significant difference in survival between the high-dose DPH and the atropine groups.
Diphenhydramine chloride significantly reduced mortality in rats with acute, severe dichlorvos exposure.
There are no drugs that have been shown to effectively treat the core social impairment of autism.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effectiveness and tolerability of memantine for social impairment in children and adolescents with pervasive developmental disorders (PDDs).
Medical records of 18 patients with PDDs consecutively treated with open-label memantine were retrospectively reviewed. The data reviewed included prospectively obtained assessments of severity (S) and improvement (I) using the Clinical Global Impressions Scale (CGI). Pretrial and follow-up parent ratings were also available on six patients using the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC).
Eighteen patients (15 male, 3 female; mean age=11.4 years, range 6-19 years) received memantine (mean dosage=10.1 mg/day, range 2.5-20 mg/day) over a mean duration of 19.3 weeks (range 1.5-56 weeks). Eleven of 18 (61%) patients were judged responders to memantine based on a rating of "much improved" or "very much improved" on the CGI-I. Significant improvement was also seen on the CGI-S. Improvement was primarily seen clinically in social withdrawal and inattention. Adverse effects occurred in 7 of 18 (39%) patients and led to drug discontinuation in 4 of 18 (22%) patients. Thirteen of 18 (72%) patients received stable doses of concomitant medications during the memantine trial.
In this open-label retrospective study, memantine was effective in a number of patients with PDDs. Controlled studies are warranted to further assess the efficacy and safety of memantine in PDDs.
In mild hyperthermic rats with acute hypertension induced by intravenous injection of adrenaline, changes in blood-brain barrier permeability to macromolecules were investigated using Evans blue as indicator. Evans blue albumin extravasation was determined macroscopically, and a quantitative estimation with spectrophotometer using homogenized brain to release the dye was also performed to evaluate the macroscopic findings. Four groups of rats were studied: group I: control normothermia; group II: acute exposure to heat; group III: normothermia + acute hypertension; group IV: acute exposure to heat + acute hypertension. The rats were anesthetized with diethyl-ether. Body temperature was increased by elevating ambient temperature in the vented box covered with a 3 mm thick black copper plate. The colonic temperature was increased to 39 +/- 0.5 degrees C. During adrenaline-induced acute hypertension the mean arterial blood pressure increased in both normothermic and mild hyperthermic animals. Mean values for Evans blue dye were found to be 0.20 +/- 0.04 mg% whole brain in normothermic control rats and 0.30 +/- 0.1 mg% in hyperthermic rats (p < 0.05). Mean values for Evans blue dye in the whole brain were found to be 0.63 +/- 0. 2 mg% in the normothermic rats and 0.40 +/- 0.2 mg% in the mild hyperthermic rats during adrenaline-induced hypertension (p < 0.05). Our results show that the extravasation of Evans blue albumin was less pronounced in the brains of mild hyperthermic rats compared to normothermic rats after adrenaline-induced acute hypertension.
We recently demonstrated that excision repair cross-complementing group 1 protein (ERCC1) is predictive of adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy benefit in resected non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Non-squamous cell carcinomas (non-SCCs) carry an increased risk of brain metastases (BMs). We hypothesised that there might be an increased incidence of BMs in ERCC1-negative non-SCCs when treated with adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
Incidence of BMs and histoclinical parameters were analysed in a population of 761 patients enrolled in the International Adjuvant Lung Cancer Trial. A subgroup analysis was carried out in patients with ERCC1-negative non-SCCs.
Of 761 patients, 98 developed BMs alone or in association with other metastatic sites, with a 5-year incidence rate of 18.0% (14.7%-21.8%). In the multivariate analysis, the clinical parameters associated with the occurrence of BMs were the nodal status (P = 0.02) and histological type [give hazard ratio (HR) for non-squamous to quantify introduction assertion, P = 0.002]. Chemotherapy had no effect on BMs [HR = 1.4 (0.90-2.1), P = 0.14]. In patients with non-SCC histology (n = 335), adjuvant chemotherapy was associated with an increased risk of BMs [HR = 2.1 (1.01-4.3), P = 0.04] for ERCC1-negative tumours, whereas there was no evidence of an effect on BMs for ERCC1-positive tumours [HR = 1.1 (0.38-3.0), P = 0.90]. Nevertheless, these two effects are not different (P = 0.30 for interaction) possibly due to a lack of power in this subgroup.
This study suggests that adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy is associated with an increased risk of BMs in patients with resected chemosensitive non-SCCs. If confirmed, these data could provide a rationale for new follow-up and/or prophylactic strategies.
An 82-year-old man developed progressive weakness of both legs 1 month prior to admission. He reported no previous history of trauma. Spine radiography revealed marked thoracic and lumbar spondylosis. Magnetic resonance imaging of the spine disclosed segmental stenosis with cord compression at T10-11 due to an extradural soft tissue lesion. Based on a diagnosis of thoracic spondylosis with cord compression, decompression laminectomy was performed. During the operation, fragile chalky-white material was noted over the epidural space, compressing the thoracic cord. The granular lesion was meticulously removed until the dura was identified and the cord was decompressed. Histologic examination of the surgical specimen revealed deposits of needle-like crystals that were consistent with monosodium urate, demonstrating that a gouty lesion of the thoracic spine had caused the cord compression. The patient had previously experienced several attacks of gouty arthritis of his feet. The postoperative serum uric acid concentration was 8.5 mg/dL. After surgery, he was treated with benzbromarone 100 mg per day. He was able to walk 3 months after the operation. A high index of suspicion of gouty involvement of the spine is necessary in patients with gout. Surgical decompression followed by regular administration of antigout drugs can provide satisfactory results.
Ischemia-reperfusion injury is an important risk factor for graft coronary artery disease (GCAD). We hypothesized that overexpression of SOD1 in donor hearts would suppress ischemia-reperfusion injury and thereby reduce GCAD.
In one series, donor hearts of C57BL/6 (H-2b) transgenic mice overexpressing human SOD1 or C57BL/6 wild-type mice were heterotopically transplanted into C57BL/6 recipients and procured after 4 hours of reperfusion (n=6 each). Superoxide, TNF-alpha, and MCP-1/CCL2 production were significantly reduced in the SOD1 transgenic donor heart recipients, and graft injury determined by serum CPK-MB levels was significantly decreased. Cardiomyocyte apoptosis and caspase-3 and caspase-9 activities were significantly decreased in these recipients; caspase-8 activity was unchanged. Fas ligand but not Fas expression was also reduced. In a second series, transgenic and wild-type hearts were transplanted into C-H-2bm12KhEg (H-2bm12) recipients, and then procured on day 56 (n=7 each). Cardiac graft beating was significantly better in the SOD1 transgenic donor heart recipients on days 28, 42, and 56 (but not day 14). Significant reduction in luminal narrowing, the intima/media ratio, and the percentage of diseased vessels was seen in the SOD1 transgenic donor heart recipients, and MCP-1/CCL2, ICAM-1, and VCAM-1 production were significantly reduced.
Overexpression of SOD1 attenuates both apoptosis and the inflammatory response during ischemia-reperfusion injury and therefore mitigates against the subsequent development of GCAD.
Exposure to dioxin and other aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) ligands results in multiple, specific developmental cardiovascular phenotypes including pericardial edema and circulatory failure in small aquarium fish models. Although phenotypes are well described, mechanistic underpinnings for such toxicities remain elusive. Here we suggest that AhR activation results in stimulation of inflammation and "eicosanoid" pathways, which contribute to the observed developmental, cardiovascular phenotypes. We demonstrate that medaka embryos exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) (0.05-1 ppb) during early development result in a dose-related increase in the prevalence of pericardial edema and that this phenotype correlates with an increase in cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) gene expression. Those individuals exhibiting the edema phenotype had significantly greater COX-2 mRNA than their nonedematous cohort. Selective pharmacological inhibition of COX-2, with NS-398, and genetic knock down of COX-2 with a translation initiation morpholino significantly attenuated prevalence and severity of edema phenotype. Subsequently, exposures of medaka embryos to arachidonic acid (AA) resulted in recapitulation of the pericardial edema phenotype and significantly increased COX-2 expression only in those individuals exhibiting the edema phenotype compared with their nonedematous cohort. AA exposure does not result in significant induction of cytochrome P450 1A expression, suggesting that pericardial edema can be induced independent of AhR/aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator/dioxin response element interactions. Results from this study demonstrate that developmental exposure to TCDD results in an induction of inflammatory mediators including COX-2, which contribute to the onset, and progression of heart dysmorphogenesis in the medaka model.
The effects of hypotension on systemic and renal hemodynamics, plasma renin activity (PRA), and renin secretion rate (RSR) were determined in dogs anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital plus chloralose. Renal blood flow (RBF) was determined with microspheres (15 micron) and with an electromagnetic flowmeter connected to an extra-corporeal circuit from the femoral artery to the renal artery. Hypotension was induced by nitroprusside infusion, which decreased peripheral resistance, and by hemorrhage, which reduced cardiac output. RSR increased in both forms of hypotension, but the increase following hemorrhage was greater than that after nitroprusside. Thus, when the mean arterial pressure (MAP) was reduced to 75 mmHg, RSR increased from 470 +/- 26 units/min to 990 +/- 12 units/min with nitroprusside and from 415 +/- 13 units/min to 1,509 +/- 21 units/min following hemorrhage. At MAP of 50 mmHg, RSR increased to 1,541 +/- 64 units/min with nitroprusside and to 2,254 +/- 98 units/min following hemorrhage. Nitroprusside increased renin secretion not only by an increase in sympathetic beta adrenergic activity through the baroreceptor reflex, but also by its direct vasolidatory effect in the renal circulation. In hemorrhagic hypotension, the increase in renin secretion was accompanied by renal vasoconstriction. The greater increase in RSR following hemorrhage than after nitroprusside at given levels of hypotension may be explained by a stronger beta adrenergic activation, the activation of prostaglandin and kallikrein systems, a lower microvascular pressure level, and/or smaller pulse pressure and lower sodium load in the macula densa. The comparison of renin secretion at the same degree of hypotension induced by different hemodynamic alterations serves to elucidate the mechanisms of renin secretion.
