Cellular prion protein (PrP(C)), a copper-binding glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored membrane protein that is expressed predominantly in neurons can be induced in ischemia/hypoxic brain tissues. It was also found to be overexpressed and conferred multidrug resistance, promoting cancer metastasis and inhibiting apoptosis in gastric cancer in our lab. In solid tumors, hypoxia can promote malignant progression and confer resistance to chemotherapy by altering gene expression. In present study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms and signaling pathway involved in the induction of the PrP(C) gene by hypoxia in cancer cell lines. PrP(C) was detected to be upregulated in several cancer cell lines at both mRNA and protein level, and then found to be induced by hypoxia in a time-dependent manner. After hypoxia treatment, gastric cancer MKN28 cells transfected with luciferase reporter constructs of the human PrP(C) promoter, which contained HSE, expressed higher luciferase activities (4.3-fold) than those cells transfected with the constructs containing no HSE. In addition, the upregulation of PrP(C) was reduced by MERK/ERK inhibitor (PD98059). siRNA knockdown of PrP(C) could make the cells more sensitive to hypoxia induced drug sensitivity. In conclusion, from these findings, we can propose that some transcriptional factors phosphorylated by ERK1/2, could in turn interact with HSE in the promoter of PrP(C) resulting in upregulation of PrP(C) in gastric cancer cell line MKN28 during hypoxia. Downregulation of PrP(C) makes gastric cancer cells more sensitive to hypoxia induced drug sensitivity. However, other mechanisms might also be responsible for hypoxia induced overexpression of PrP(C) in gastric cancer.
A randomised, double-blind controlled clinical trial was conducted in 90 women scheduled for major abdominal gynaecological oncology surgery to determine the effect of adding 0.1% plain bupivacaine to a thoracic epidural fentanyl infusion. Following combined epidural and general anaesthesia, patients were randomised to receive epidural fentanyl 10 micrograms/ml, with (group FB) or without (group F) bupivacaine. After an initial 50 micrograms bolus of fentanyl, infusion rate was adjusted according to need between 2 and 10 ml/hr for 48 hours. The two groups (n = 40) were similar with regard to age, weight and preoperative status. Analgesia both at rest and with movement were significantly better in group FB (P < 0.0001) during the first 24 hours postoperatively, the greatest difference occurring in the 4 to 16 hour period. There was no significant difference between groups from 24 to 48 hours postoperatively. Fentanyl utilisation was significantly lower in group FB (median 41 versus 53 micrograms/hr, P < 0.001), although clinically the fentanyl dose-sparing effect of bupivacaine was small and did not reduce opioid-induced side-effects. There was no significant difference between groups with respect to side-effects or lower limb weakness, although fewer patients in group FB could be mobilised on the morning of the first postoperative day (P < 0.01). Nevertheless, all study patients were ambulant by the same afternoon. We concluded that, in this patient population, the addition of 0.1% bupivacaine to a thoracic epidural fentanyl infusion was beneficial in the early postoperative period.
The ability of cardiomyocytes to synthesize DNA in response to experimentally induced cardiac hypertrophy was assessed in adult mice. Isoproterenol delivered by osmotic minipump implantation in adult C3Heb/FeJ mice resulted in a 46% increase in heart weight and a 19.3% increase in cardiomyocyte area. No DNA synthesis, as assessed by autoradiographic analysis of isolated cardiomyocytes, was observed in control or hypertrophic hearts. A survey of 15 independent inbred strains of mice revealed that ventricular cardiomyocyte nuclear number ranged from 3 to 13% mononucleate, suggesting that cardiomyocyte terminal differentiation is influenced directly or indirectly by genetic background. To determine whether the capacity for reactive DNA synthesis was also subject to genetic regulation, cardiac hypertrophy was induced in the strains of mice comprising the extremes of the nuclear number survey. These data indicate that adult mouse atrial and ventricular cardiomyocytes do not synthesize DNA in response to isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy.
To report ocular manifestations of eyes that developed interface fluid syndrome secondary to steroid-induced elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) after LASIK. The patients presented with similiar characteristics of diffuse lamellar keratitis (DLK).
Retrospective evaluation of four eyes of three patients with loss of vision, fluid in the lamellar interface, and IOP and topographic changes due to prolonged treatment with topical corticosteroids after LASIK.
Slit-lamp microscopy revealed an optically clear fluid-filled space between the flap and stromal bed. After early diagnosis, treatment with topical corticosteroids was stopped, resulting in quick and progressive cessation of symptoms.
A steroid-induced rise in IOP after LASIK can cause transudation of aqueous fluid across the endothelium that collects in the flap interface. It is important to make an early differential diagnosis of interface fluid syndrome in DLK-suspected cases, as continued treatment with corticosteroids can produce serious visual loss.
Several epidemiological studies suggest the involvement of aluminum (Al) in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). There is an increase in the levels of Abeta and ubiquitin in the pathological lesions of AD. Therefore, we have investigated whether aluminum (Al) treatment alters the levels of Abeta and ubiquitin in murine neuroblastoma (NBP2) and rat glioma (C-6) cell cultures. At a low concentration (10 microM), aluminum sulfate stimulated the level of immunoreactive Abeta and ubiquitin in NBP2 cells without changing the levels of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). However, at higher concentrations (100 and 500 microM), aluminum failed to elicit any significant effect on beta-amyloid, whereas ubiquitin levels continued to increase. No changes in the Abeta and ubiquitin content were found in the C-6 glioma cells following treatment with Al at any of the concentrations tested. Exposure of cells to aluminum salts did not alter the rate of proliferation in either of the two cell lines. These data suggest that one of the mechanisms by which Al may play a role in AD is by promoting the formation of Abeta and ubiquitin in neurons.
Depression is a common comorbid condition in patients with Tourette's disorder. While risperidone is not usually known to induce dysphoria or depression in patients treated for other psychiatric disorders, previous short-term 4- to 12-week trials of risperidone for Tourette's disorder have reported a 2.6% to 30.8% incidence of depression.
A retrospective study was carried out in 58 adult and adolescent patients with Tourette's disorder (Tourette Syndrome Classification Study Group diagnosis) who received risperidone between Jan. 1, 1993, and Dec. 31, 2000, at the Allan Memorial Institute, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Charts of all patients were examined for evidence of, and risk factors for, DSM-IV-defined major depressive disorder (MDD) or dysphoria.
Seventeen (29.3%) of 58 patients developed MDD, including 1 patient who later committed suicide and 13 patients (22.4%) who became dysphoric while taking risperidone. Nine of the 17 patients who developed MDD were relapses, i.e., patients with a history of depression prior to taking risperidone, while the remainder were new cases, i.e., patients with no previous history of depression. A positive personal history of MDD was the only factor to significantly (p <.001) predict the development of depression while taking risperidone. Seventy percent of those who developed MDD or dysphoria and discontinued risperidone did so specifically as a result of this adverse event.
MDD and dysphoria commonly occurred in this cohort of adult and adolescent Tourette's disorder patients treated with risperidone, particularly in patients with a previous history of depression. Depression and dysphoria were frequent reasons for risperidone discontinuation.
Pharmacological properties of buprenorphine were compared with those of morphine and pentazocine. Buprenorphine scarcely showed any effects on spontaneous EEGs and sleep-wakefulness cycles. Buprenorphine tended to depress the recruiting and augmenting responses and the spindle burst, and it also inhibited the hypothalamic arousal response. Buprenorphine had weaker emetic action than morphine and protected against apomorphine-induced emesis in the same manner as morphine. Buprenorphine scarcely affected respirations, blood pressure, heart rate, blood flow, ECG, cardiac contractile force, cornary flow, and intracranial pressure. However, morphine and pentazocine caused depressed respiration, decreased blood pressure, increased blood flow and cardiac contractile force, and elevated intracranial pressure. Buprenorphine, morphine, and pentazocine did not affect bile secretion, but produced contraction of the sphincter of Oddi. Buprenorphine had very little effect on renal function, but morphine and pentazocine reduced this function to depress urine flow. Buprenorphine and morphine inhibited carrageenin-induced edema. Buprenorphine had no effect on blood histamine level, but morphine increased the concentration of histamine. These results indicate that buprenorphine has little effect on the central nervous system, respiratory and cardiovascular system, and renal function.
65 chronic-schizophrenic outpatients were treated with fluphenazinedecanoate for 24 months. Hallucinations and delusions remitted between week 24 and 36, formal disturbances of thinking occurred in 50% of the patients up to the 24th week, mood disorders and disorders and schizophrenic changes in personality could only gradually be controlled. In the first 3 months of treatment the incidence and intensity of rigor grew up to the critical point after 24 weeks of treatment; by the 60th week of treatment it had completely vanished. Akathisia reached its peak after the first and the 36th week and two different populations could be distinguished. 8% of the patients showed dyskinetic reactions up to the 12th week; 20% of the patients showed hyper- and dyskinesia after 72 weeks of treatment. 30 to 40% of the patients required anticholinergics between the 12th and 48th weeks; after the 84th week this medication was no longer necessary.
Microangiopathies are rare complications during treatments with ticlopidine. We describe an atypical microangiopathy, affecting almost exclusively myocardium, and thrombocytopenia, shortly after onset of ticlopidine. The patient died a few days after. Autopsy showed no bleedings or large thrombi in most organs, but were compatible with microangiopathy in myocardial small vessels.
This study was performed to assess the utility of inhaled nitric oxide as a selective pulmonary vasodilator in patients with severe chronic heart failure and to compare its hemodynamic effects with those of nitroprusside, a nonselective vasodilator.
Preoperative pulmonary vascular resistance is a predictor of right heart failure after heart transplantation. Non-selective vasodilators administered preoperatively to assess the reversibility of pulmonary vasoconstriction cause systemic hypotension, limiting their utility.
Systemic and pulmonary hemodynamic measurement were made at baseline, during oxygen inhalation and with the addition of graded doses of inhaled nitric oxide or intravenous nitroprusside in 16 patients with New York Heart Association class III or IV heart failure referred for heart transplantation.
Pulmonary vascular resistance decreased to a greater extent with 80 ppm nitric oxide (mean +/- SEM 256 +/- 41 to 139 +/- 14 dynes.s.cm-5) than with the maximally tolerated dose of nitroprusside (264 +/- 49 to 169 +/- 30 dynes.s.cm-5, p < 0.05, nitric oxide vs. nitroprusside). Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure increased with 80 ppm nitric oxide (26 +/- 2 to 32 +/- 2 mm Hg, p < 0.05). Mean arterial pressure did not change with nitric oxide but decreased with nitroprusside. Seven of the 16 patients, including 1 patient who did not have an adequate decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance with nitroprusside but did with nitric oxide, have undergone successful heart transplantation.
Inhaled nitric oxide is a selective pulmonary vasodilator in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to left heart failure and may identify patients with reversible pulmonary vasoconstriction in whom agents such as nitroprusside cause systemic hypotension. Inhaled nitric oxide causes an increase in left ventricular filling pressure by an unknown mechanism.
Three patients with metastatic malignancy received streptozocin by hepatic artery infusion through a percutaneous transfemoral catheter. Two patients developed major arterial thrombosis, from which one died. The other suffered renal damage following displacement of the catheter tip. Possible avoidable risk factors are identified.
The case report concerns a male patient presenting oligophrenia and epilepsy of long duration, adequately prepared for anesthesia with anticonvulsants, sustaining generalized convulsion during anesthesia induction with Diprivan. On deepening Diprivan anesthesia, the convulsion subsides. The patient runs an uneventful postoperative course, free of convulsions. The issue of small doses Diprivan giving rise to convulsions is comprehensively discussed.
A case of linear scleroderma-like atrophy from local injections of triamcinolone acetonide is reported. The clinical picture resembled a true monomelic scleroderma. Spontaneous dis-appearance occurred after a year.
To demonstrate the association between ethambutol and optic neuropathy.
Thirteen patients who developed optic neuropathy after being treated with ethambutol for tuberculosis of the lung or lymph node at Siriraj Hospital between 1997 and 2001 were retrospectively reviewed. The clinical characteristics and initial and final visual acuity were analyzed to determine visual outcome.
All patients had optic neuropathy between 1 to 6 months (mean = 2.9 months) after starting ethambutol therapy at a dosage ranging from 13 to 20 mg/kg/day (mean = 17 mg/kg/day). Seven (54%) of the 13 patients experienced visual recovery after stopping the drug. Of 6 patients with irreversible visual impairment, 4 patients had diabetes mellitus, glaucoma and a history of heavy smoking.
Early recognition of optic neuropathy should be considered in patients with ethambutol therapy. A low dose and prompt discontinuation of the drug is recommended particularly in individuals with diabetes mellitus, glaucoma or who are heavy smokers.
Several clinical reports have indicated that autistic patients often show disturbance of the circadian rhythm, which may be related to dysfunction of the serotonergic system in the brain. Using rats exposed prenatally to valproic acid (VPA) as an animal model of autism, we examined locomotor activity and feeding under a reversed 12-h light/dark cycle, and found disturbance of the circadian rhythm characterized by frequent arousal during the light/sleep phase. In addition, measurement of brain serotonin (5-HT) level using in vivo microdialysis showed that the brain 5-HT level in VPA-exposed rats was significantly higher than that in control rats. These results suggest that a higher brain 5-HT level might be responsible for the irregular sleep/awake rhythm in autism.
Pulmonary hypertension in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in the absence of chronic parenchymal lung disease or pulmonary emboli is rare. We report such a case with an acute and rapidly progressive onset of symptoms in a patient who had started taking the contraceptive pill eight months previously.
This article presents a case of pulmonary hyptertension in systemic lupus erythematosus in the absence of chronic parenchymal lung disease or pulmonary emboli. The patient, a 22-year old woman, experienced a rapidly progressive onset of symptoms 9 months after beginning oral contraceptive (OC) use for the 1st time. The mechanism of this type of pulmonary hypertension in lupus patients is unclear, but it may be caused by sustained vasoconstriction. In this case, it seems likely that OC use initiated the hypertensive episode. Before commencing OC use, the patient completed a normal pregnancy; the right ventricular hypertrophy observed at presentation is considered to have developed shortly after starting the pill. There are no similar cases in the literature.
Myocardial infarction (MI) associated to cocaine use was originally reported in 1982 and cases are being encountered more frequently in our milieu. The literature regarding this diagnosis has included mostly cases of cocaine associated chest pain and MI without serious sequelae. A lesser number of reports however focus on the clinical presentation of severe myocardial dysfunction and severe pulmonary edema, with the mechanism for pulmonary edema still being debated. Although previously described individually, these manifestations are thought to be an uncommon complication of cocaine ingestion. In this article the subject is reviewed and we report our experience with two patients that presented to our care with severe pulmonary edema and concomitant severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction that resolved spontaneously with supportive therapy. It is felt that this clinical picture after cocaine use may be more common than expected. In this article we discuss the possible mechanisms associated to this presentation as well as review the literature regarding this subject.
Rilmenidine is one of the lead compounds of the second generation of centrally acting antihypertensive drugs. In the first part of this study, 2 routes of administration of chronic treatment (1 month) with rilmenidine were compared. In conscious and pentobarbital-anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), rilmenidine was delivered intraperitoneally either 250 microg/kg b.i.d. or 500 microg/kg/d infusion by means of minipumps. The possibility of rilmenidine-induced desensitization of central (brain cortex) and/or peripheral (kidney) alpha2-adrenoreceptors was studied in saturation experiments with the classic alpha2-adrenergic antagonist [H]rauwolscine. In the second part of this study, the cardiovascular and cardiac antihypertrophic effects of the most efficient procedure were investigated. The discontinuous administration of the drug was more effective than infusion. In rats treated with rilmenidine b.i.d., mean blood pressure was reduced by nearly 15% when no reduction occurred in SHRs treated with minipumps. With the first schedule of administration, plasma concentration of the drug reached a maximum of approximately 30 ng/ml when it was only 12 ng/ml with the continuous infusion of the same dose. Anesthesia with pentobarbital potentiated the antihypertensive effect of rilmenidine in rats treated discontinuously and unmasked an antihypertensive action in rats receiving the drug with minipumps. In saturation binding experiments, no significant changes in adrenergic receptors were observed in kidney membrane preparations. In contrast, in brain cortical membranes a reduction by about 50% of the Bmax of [H]rauwolscine value was observed in rats treated discontinuously with rilmenidine. In contrast, a 400% increase of the Bmax was observed in the brain of rats treated with minipumps. Over the one-month period of the second study, the discontinuous treatment with the 500 microg/kg/d dose of rilmenidine was still able to reduce blood pressure, at least at the peak concentration time, but did not induce any significant reduction of the ventricular mass. In conclusion, rilmenidine has only weak antihypertensive effects in conscious SHRs, even at doses higher than those that are active in rabbits and humans. As a consequence, it lacks significant cardiac antihypertrophic effects in this species. Pharmacokinetic data show that the rapid plasma withdrawal of this drug may explain this particular feature in rats.
Symptomatic end-stage arterial disease in coronary artery or peripheral arterial occlusive disease represents an increasing clinical problem as cardiovascular mortality in these patient groups has declined due to improved secondary prevention. While in peripheral arterial occlusive disease amputation with subsequent life-long physical disability is the major problem, patients with end-stage coronary artery disease and refractory angina pectoris repeatedly report to the emergency ward with the clinical symptoms of unstable coronary syndromes, but myocardial infarction is generally ruled out. For these patients long-term intermittent urokinase therapy has been developed as an alternative treatment modality. Potential mechanisms for clinical effectiveness include improvement of rheological blood properties, thrombolysis of non-occluding arterial thrombi and possibly plaque regression. In coronary artery disease urokinase is applied as an intravenous bolus injection of 500,000 IU urokinase three times a week over a period of 12 weeks. This leads to a marked reduction of fibrinogen by about 35% and of clinical symptoms by around 70% accompanied by a reduction of exercise-induced myocardial ischemia. In observational studies in patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease injections of 500,000 IU of urokinase were usually given daily for a shorter time period of three to four weeks with a clinical success rate, defined as a cessation or marked reduction of rest pain and/or salvage of a limb, of around 50%. Given the state of critical ischemia in both entities of atherosclerotic disease, long-term intermittent urokinase therapy represents a promising antiischemic approach. In particular in patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease randomized controlled trials with prolonged treatment periods, which are likely to improve clinical results, are warranted.
While cocaine-induced myocardial infarction has been frequently documented, the differential diagnosis of chest pain should include aortic pathology. The successful management of acute aortic dissection secondary to cocaine abuse has not been previously reported to our knowledge. In a 45-year-old man who presented with typical chest pain and wide mediastinum, the successful management of this disease included early and accurate diagnosis and replacement of the aortic valve as well as the torn portion of the ascending aorta.
A 54-year-old woman with metastatic breast cancer developed veno-occlusive disease of the liver following chemotherapy with mitomycin C and doxorubicin. The dose of mitomycin C received by this patient was much lower than that previously described to cause this complication. As both these drugs are used widely physicians should be aware of this complication.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a multifactorial disease, with immunological, genetical as well as environmental factors being implicated in its pathogenesis. Treatment of RA is based mainly on drugs modulating the course of the disease, e.g. methotrexate (MTX) or sulfasalazine (SL). The MDR1 gene product, P-glycoprotein (P-gp), is probably one of the most important and best defined transporters for drug delivery in humans. P-gp transports a wide range of substrates with diverse chemical structures, among them anticancer agents, cardiac drugs, and immunosuppressants. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of the 3435C>T MDR1 gene polymorphism on the efficacy of RA treatment with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, i.e. MTX plus methylprednisolone (MP), and SL.
The study was carried out on 255 patients with RA treated according to two regimes: (1) MTX (7.5-15.0 mg weekly) plus low doses of MP (n=174), (2) SL (1.5-3 g daily, n=81).
The probability of remission of RA symptoms after MTX plus MP therapy was 4.65-fold higher in carriers of the TT genotype compared to patients with CC genotype (P=0.003, OR 4.65, 95%CI 1.66-13.05), whereas the probability of remission of RA symptoms in patients treated with SL was 2-fold higher in carriers of TT genotype compared to patients with CC genotype, but did not reach statistical significance (P=0.358, OR=2.00 95% CI=0.58-6.87).
The results from the present study suggest that the 3435C>T MDR1 gene polymorphism may influence the efficacy of RA therapy with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs.
Atherosclerosis, the primary cause of heart disease and stroke is initiated in the vascular endothelium, and risk factors for its development include environmental exposure to persistent organic pollutants. Caveolae are membrane microdomains involved in regulation of many signaling pathways, and in particular in endothelial cells. We tested the hypothesis that intact caveolae are required for coplanar PCB77-induced up-regulation of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), an endothelium-derived chemokine that attracts monocytes into sub-endothelial space in early stages of the atherosclerosis development. Atherosclerosis-prone LDL-R(-/-) mice (control) or caveolin-1(-/-)/LDL-R(-/-) mice were treated with PCB77. PCB77 induced aortic mRNA expression and plasma protein levels of MCP-1 in control, but not caveolin-1(-/-)/LDL-R(-/-) mice. To study the mechanism of this effect, primary endothelial cells were used. PCB77 increased MCP-1 levels in endothelial cells in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. This effect was abolished by caveolin-1 silencing using siRNA. Also, MCP-1 up-regulation by PCB77 was prevented by inhibiting p38 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), but not ERK1/2, suggesting regulatory functions via p38 and JNK MAPK pathways. Finally, pre-treatment of endothelial cells with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) inhibitor alpha-naphthoflavone (alpha-NF) partially blocked MCP-1 up-regulation. Thus, our data demonstrate that coplanar PCB77 can induce MCP-1 expression by endothelial cells and that this effect is mediated by AhR, as well as p 38 and JNK MAPK pathways. Intact caveolae are required for these processes both in vivo and in vitro. This further supports a key role for caveolae in vascular inflammation induced by persistent organic pollutants.
Telomere signaling plays a role in regulating cardiomyocyte apoptosis during cardiac dysfunction. In this study, we investigated the effects of epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), the major component of polyphenols in green tea, on telomere dependent apoptotic signal in pressure overload cardiac hypertrophy.
Cardiac hypertrophy in rats was established by abdominal aortic constriction (AC). EGCG 50, 100 mg/kg, quercetin (Que) 100mg/kg, captopril (Cap) 50mg/kg, losartan (Los) 30 mg/kg and carvedilol (Carv) 30 mg/kg was intragastrically administered for 6 weeks. Three, five and 7 weeks after aortic constriction, the heart weight indices increased progressively. Malondialdehyde (MDA) contents progressively increased, while superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities decreased. Progressive cardiomyocyte apoptosis and telomere attrition were also found. Although no significant alteration of telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) mRNA was found till 7 weeks after aortic constriction, progressive upregulation of p53, c-myc and downregulation of bcl-2, telomere repeat-binding factor 2(TRF(2)) were seen. EGCG, quercetin, captopril, losartan and carvedilol markedly reduced heart weight indices and apoptotic cardiomyocyte in hypertrophic myocardium, but they had different effects on apoptotic related proteins bcl-2, p53 and c-myc. EGCG, quercetin and carvedilol, have potent antioxidant effects as evidenced by reduction of MDA contents and resumption of SOD activities. EGCG, quercetin and carvedilol could prevent telomere attrition and telomere repeat-binding factor 2 (TRF(2)) loss remarkably, whereas captopril and losartan had no effect on oxidative stress and telomere signal.
Pressure overload induced cardiac hypertrophy initiates oxidative stress, induces telomere repeat-binding factor 2 loss and accelerates telomere shortening in hypertrophic myocardium. EGCG, quercetin and carvedilol with potent antioxidant effect, may inhibit cardiac myocyte apoptosis by preventing telomere shortening and telomere repeat-binding factor 2 (TRF(2)) loss.
MIV-210 is a prodrug of 3'-fluoro-2',3'-dideoxyguanosine with high oral bioavailability in humans and potent activity against hepatitis B virus (HBV). Woodchucks infected with woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV) represent an accurate model of HBV infection that is utilized for evaluation of the efficacy and safety of novel anti-HBV agents. Oral administration of MIV-210 at 20 or 60 mg/kg of body weight/day induced a rapid virological response in chronically infected woodchucks, reducing serum WHV DNA levels by 4.75 log10 and 5.72 log10, respectively, in 2 weeks. A progressive decline in WHV viremia occurred throughout the 10-week therapy, giving final reductions of 7.23 log10 and 7.68 log10 in the 20- and 60-mg/kg/day groups, respectively. Further, a daily dose of 10 mg/kg decreased the serum WHV load 400-fold after 4 weeks of treatment, and a dose of 5 mg/kg/day was sufficient to maintain this antiviral effect during the following 6-week period. MIV-210 at 20 or 60 mg/kg/day reduced the liver WHV DNA load 200- to 2,500-fold from pretreatment levels and, importantly, led to a 2.0 log10 drop in the hepatic content of WHV covalently closed circular DNA. The treatment with 60 mg/kg/day was well tolerated. Liver biopsy specimens obtained after the 10-week treatment with 20 or 60 mg/kg/day and after the 10-week follow-up showed hepatocyte and mitochondrial ultrastructures comparable to those in the placebo-treated group. It was concluded that MIV-210 is highly effective against chronic WHV infection. These findings, together with the previously demonstrated inhibitory activity of MIV-210 against lamivudine-, adefovir-, and entecavir-resistant HBV variants, make MIV-210 a highly valuable candidate for further testing as an agent against chronic hepatitis B.
To evaluate whether proton pump inhibitors are more effective than H2-antagonists (H2-A) for the treatment of bleeding peptic ulcer.
PubMed database until January 2000.
Comparative randomized trials of proton pump inhibitors (omeprazole, lansoprazole, or pantoprazole) vs. H2-A (cimetidine, ranitidine or famotidine).
Meta-analysis combining the odds ratios (OR) of the individual studies in a global OR (Peto method). OUTCOMES EVALUATED: Persistent or recurrent bleeding, need for surgery, or mortality.
Eleven studies fulfilled the inclusion criteria and contained data for at least one of the planned comparisons. Persistent or recurrent bleeding was reported in 6.7% (95% CI: 4.9-8.6%) of the patients treated with proton pump inhibitors, and in 13.4% (95% CI: 10.8-16%) of those treated with H2-A (OR 0.4; 95% CI: 0.27-0.59) (chi2-homogeneity test, 18; P=0.09). Surgery was needed in 5.2% (95% CI: 3.4-6.9%) of the patients treated with proton pump inhibitors, and in 6.9% (95% CI: 4.9-8.9%) of the patients treated with H2-A (OR 0.7; 95% CI: 0.43-1.13). Respective percentages for mortality were 1.6% (95% CI: 0.9-2.9%) and 2.2% (95% CI: 1.3-3.7%) (OR 0.69; 95% CI: 0.31-1.57). SUB-ANALYSIS: Five studies evaluated the effect of both therapies given in bolus injections on persistent or recurrent bleeding rate, which was 6% (95% CI: 3.6-8.3%) and 8.1% (95% CI: 5.3-10.9%), respectively (OR, 0.57; 95% CI: 0.31-1.05). Persistent or recurrent bleeding in high risk patients (Forrest Ia, Ib and IIa) occurred in 13.2% (95% CI: 7.9-8%) of the patients treated with proton pump inhibitors and in 34.5% (27-42%) of those treated with H2-A (OR 0.28; 95% CI: 0.16-0.48). In patients not having endoscopic therapy, persistent or recurrent bleeding was reported, respectively, in 4.3% (95% CI: 2.7-6.7%) and in 12% (95% CI: 8.7-15%) (OR 0.24; 95% CI: 0.13-0.43). Less marked differences were observed in patients having adjunct endoscopic therapy: 10.3% (95% CI: 6.7-13.8%) and 15.2% (11.1-19.3%) (OR 0.59; 95% CI: 0.36-0.97). Moreover, the significance disappeared in this group when a single outlier study was excluded.
Proton pump inhibitors are more effective than H2-A in preventing persistent or recurrent bleeding from peptic ulcer, although this advantage seems to be more evident in patients not having adjunct sclerosis therapy. This beneficial effect seems to be similar or even more marked in patients with Forrest Ia, Ib or IIa ulcers. However, proton pump inhibitors are not more effective than H2-A for reducing surgery or mortality rates. Nevertheless, the data are too scarce and heterogeneous to draw definitive conclusions, and further comparative trials are clearly warranted.
