The aim of this study was to explore the usefulness of a human monocyte cell line in the development of in vitro models for predictive testing of contact sensitizers. Several studies have shown that contact sensitizers induce CD86 expression and enhanced internalization of MHC class II molecules in dendritic cells (DCs). We used THP-1, a human monocyte cell line, as a replacement for DCs for evaluation of these phenotypical alterations as predictive endpoints for contact sensitizers. Known sensitizers and irritants were evaluated. After 24-h exposure to samples, the expression of CD86 on THP-1 cells was measured by flow cytometry. Sensitizers such as dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB), 2-mercaptobenzothiazole (MBT), eugenol, p-phenylenediamine (PPDA) and ammonium tetrachloroplatinate (Pt) enhanced CD86 expression on THP-1 cells, while nickel sulfate, cobalt sulfate and irritants such as methylsalicylate (MS), sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) did not augment CD86 expression. A synergistic effect was observed when DNCB and IFN-alpha were added simultaneously to a culture of THP-1 cells. Furthermore, internalization of MHC class II molecules was observed when the cells were treated with some of sensitizers for 2 h. The inducing effects of chemicals on the two phenotypical alterations were the same. These results suggest that these test systems can be used to predict contact-sensitizing ability of chemicals as an in vitro sensitization assay.
Overexpression of the Yes-associated protein (YAP), and TP53 family members ΔNp63 and p73, have been independently detected in subsets of head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCCs). YAP may serve as a nuclear cofactor with ΔNp63 and p73, but the functional role of YAP and their potential relationship in HNSCCs are unknown. In this study, we show that in a subset of HNSCC lines and tumors, YAP expression is increased but localized in the cytoplasm in association with increased AKT and YAP phosphorylation, and with decreased expression of ΔNp63 and p73. In another subset, YAP expression is decreased but detectable in the nucleus in association with lower AKT and YAP phosphorylation, and with increased ΔNp63 and p73 expression. Inhibiting AKT decreased serine-127 phosphorylation and enhanced nuclear translocation of YAP. ΔNp63 bound to the YAP promoter and suppressed its expression. Transfection of a YAP-serine-127-alanine phosphoacceptor-site mutant or ΔNp63 knockdown significantly increased nuclear YAP and cell death. Conversely, YAP knockdown enhanced cell proliferation, survival, migration and cisplatin chemoresistance. Thus, YAP function as a tumor suppressor may alternatively be dysregulated by AKT phosphorylation at serine-127 and cytoplasmic sequestration, or by transcriptional repression by ΔNp63, in different subsets of HNSCC. AKT and/or ΔNp63 are potential targets for enhancing YAP-mediated apoptosis and chemosensitivity in HNSCCs.
Dioxins are a class of polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons that induce a wide spectrum of toxic responses in experimental animals. In this study, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorobenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) was exposed to two SD rat groups; one group for short-term exposure at a single dose of 1, 10, 20 and 50 mug/kg body weight (group 1) and the other for long-term exposure at daily and-low dose of 0.01, 0.1, 1 and 2.5 microg/kg body weight (group 2) for a month. Two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) was utilized to resolve the protein profile of rat liver exposed to TCDD at different doses. In the analysis of 2-DE of the group 1, two new-expressed spots and seven volume-increased spots were detected and identified by ESI-Q-TOF MS/MS; especially, proteasome subunit beta type 3 was increased in all doses. In addition, in the group 2, six volume-increased spots were screened; particularly, histidine triad nucleotide binding protein was increased in both 0.1 microg/kg dose and 1 microg/kg dose. The identified proteins were confirmed using Western blot. Among the identified proteins, apolipoprotein A-IV may protect lipid peroxidation and atherosclerosis induced by TCDD exposure and the expression level of phosphoglycerate mutase increases due to hyperthyroidism induced by TCDD exposure.
To study the effect of nimesulide (NIM) on the tumorigenesis of mammary tumors induced by dimethylbenzoic acid (DMBA), and to investigate possible mechanisms of NIM against tumors.
The studied rats were randomly divided into four groups: experimental control group, NIM group, diet and drug of NIM control group. The incidence of mammary tumor was observed. RT-PCR, Western blot were used to detect 8 cancerous tissues in every group, randomly. The expressions of cylooxygenase-2 (COX-2) were assessed by immunohistochemistry. The levels of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) in blood plasma and tumor tissues were determined by means of radio-immunity assay. The apoptosis index and the proliferation index were evaluated by TUNEL assay, immunohistochemical staining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), respectively.
The incidence of mammary tumor was 69.2% in experimental control group, 40.3% in NIM group. There was obviously decreased incidence in NIM group; The expressions of COX-2 mRNA and protein were significantly down-regulated in NIM group compared with experimental control group. The increased levels of PGE(2) synthesis in blood plasma and tumor tissues were significantly decreased by administering NIM (P < 0.05). The apoptosis index was obviously higher, the proliferation index was markedly less in NIM group than experimental control group.
Nimesulide could inhibit the tumorigenesis and development of DMBA-induced mammary tumors by inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis. COX-2 and COX-2-mediated PGE(2) synthesis may play an important role in rat DMBA-induced breast cancer.
Substantial evidence indicates that predisposition to diseases can be acquired during early stages of development and interactions between environmental and genetic factors may be implicated in the onset of many pathological conditions. We have shown that perinatal exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) at environmental dose level causes long-term anxiety-like behaviors in rats. The aim of this study was to examine epigenetic reprogramming effect of BPA on anxiety-related neurobehavior in the rat offspring. The results of real-time RT-PCR displayed that the overexpression of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) mRNA was accompanied by the reduction of glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67) mRNA level in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of postnatal day 45 BPA-exposed female rats. Chronic intro-BLA injection with 5-ada-CdR could rectify the GAD67 mRNA expression. Behavioral data showed that the anxiety-like behaviors in BPA-exposed rats were reversed by intro-BLA treatment with 5-ada-CdR which could be further blocked by PTX. Electrophysiological study revealed behavioral alterations were associated with the increase of postsynaptic neuronal excitability in the cortical-BLA pathway which appeared as multispike responses, paired-pulse facilitation instead of paired-pulse inhibition and long-term potentiation and 5-aza-CdR treatment restored the increased synaptic transmission in the BLA via improving GABAergic system. The above results suggest that the overexpression of DNMT1 in the BLA is responsible for the etiology of anxiety associated with BPA exposure via GABAergic disinhibition. In addition, we also find these long-term neurobehavioral effects of developmental BPA exposure are reversible in adolescent period.
Converging evidence suggests that disulfiram is a promising treatment for cocaine dependence. We study the cost-effectiveness of providing disulfiram to methadone-maintained opioid addicts in a randomized clinical trial setting. Our economic evaluation is based on a double blind clinical trial in which 67 cocaine-dependent methadone-maintained opioid-dependent subjects were randomized to get the additional treatment of disulfiram or placebo in a 12-week trial. Outcome measures used are the number of days of cocaine use and grams of cocaine per week. Cost measures used are the cost of providing standard methadone treatment and the incremental cost of adding disulfiram to the standard treatment. Cost measures of standard and disulfiram-enhanced treatment were collected retrospectively from the provider. Results from this cost-effectiveness analysis imply that, even though disulfiram increases slightly the cost of methadone treatment, its increase in effectiveness may be important enough to warrant its addition for treating cocaine dependence in methadone-maintained opiate addicts.
We describe four children with Kawasaki disease resistant to treatment with intravenously administered immune globulin who were treated with high doses of methylprednisolone. All four patients apparently responded with normalization of symptoms, and none had significant progression of coronary artery abnormalities or adverse events. We recommend pulse methylprednisolone therapy (30 mg/kg per day) during a 1- to 3-day period for patients with Kawasaki disease who do not respond to intravenous immune globulin therapy or who have recrudescent disease after adequate therapy.
Fermentation products of the fungus Monascus offer valuable therapeutic benefits and have been used extensively for centuries in Asia. The aim of this study is to investigate the inhibitory effect of the Monascus-fermented metabolite monascin (MS) on the molecular mechanism of ovalbumin (OVA)-induced inflammation in the human THP-1 monocyte cell line. We found that 1, 5, and 25 μM of MS significantly attenuated several proinflammatory mediators, including inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression as well as nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) formation caused by OVA stimulation. Further, 5 and 25 μM of MS significantly reduced the generation of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) at both the protein and mRNA levels. MS (5 and 25 μM) decreased OVA-induced phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK), but not that of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) or p38 kinase. We used the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-γ (PPAR-γ) antagonist GW9662 to show that MS inhibit JNK phosphorylation through increased expression of PPAR-γ. Thus, the metabolites from Monascus fermentation may serve as a dietary source of anti-inflammatory agents.
In a prospective study of quinidine syncope, 71 patients with atrial fibrillation/flutter were ECG monitored for four days after the start of quinidine therapy. Six patients developed ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation (VF) during the first 48 hours in sinus rhythm. Q-T prolongation was seen in most patients with and without VT/VF and was non-predictive in this respect. However, a diastolic wave (DW) of larger amplitude than the preceding T wave usually followed by a ventricular premature beat (VPB) appeared in five of the six VT/VF patients (13-185 min before the first event) and in none of the remaining 63 patients reaching sinus rhythm. For comparison, two of our own cases and nine from the literature with idiopathic long Q-T or alternating T wave syndromes were studied for these DW-VPBs. They were found in all ten cases with a VPB recording, but among 19 patients with acute myocardial infarction and VT/VF no such case was seen. As VT/VF was more common after large and VPB after small amplitude DWs, it is discussed whether the DW not only precedes but also initiates the ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
Oxidative stress (OS), inflammation and insulin resistance are among the mechanisms that have been recently implicated in pathogenesis of essential hypertension (EH). Peripheral polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNLs) are primed in EH patients, releasing uncontrolled superoxide anion contributing to OS and chronic low-grade inflammation in these patients. PMNL priming correlates with insulin resistance and with PMNL intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i). Recent studies have attributed additional anti-oxidative characteristics to the anti-hypertensive drug Lercanidipine (Vasodip), a third generation calcium-channel blocker.
To evaluate possible novel effects of two months of Lercanidipine treatment on systemic and PMNL-related inflammation and on insulin resistance in EH patients.
Fifteen non-smoking EH patients with untreated mild to moderate high blood pressure (BP) and age- and gender-matched healthy controls (HC) were included in the study. Low-grade inflammation was expressed by PMNL counts and apoptosis, by plasma fibrinogen, CRP and albumin (as a negative acute phase reactant) levels. Fasting serum insulin levels served as a marker of insulin resistance.
Inflammation parameters and insulin levels were higher in EH compared to HC. PMNL counts, fibrinogen and insulin levels positively correlated with mean arterial blood pressure values. Two months of Lercanidipine treatment showed a significant decrease in BP, PMNL counts and apoptosis, CRP and serum insulin levels and a significant increase in serum albumin levels.
The authors imply that the low-grade systemic inflammation and insulin resistance detected in EH patients may be attenuated by the use of Lercanidipine, adding new unknown anti-inflammatory properties to this calcium channel blocker.
Chronic arsenic toxicity is a widespread problem, not only in India and Bangladesh but also in various other regions of the world. Exposure to arsenic may occur from natural or industrial sources. The treatment that is in use at present employs administration of thiol chelators, such as meso 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) and sodium 2,3-dimercaptopropane 1-sulfonate (DMPS), which facilitate its excretion from the body. However, these chelating agents are compromised with number of limitations due to their lipophobic nature, particularly for their use in cases of chronic poisoning. During chronic exposure, arsenic gains access into the cell and it becomes mandatory for a drug to cross cell membrane to chelate intracellular arsenic. To address this problem, analogs of DMSA having lipophilic character, were examined against chronic arsenic poisoning in experimental animals. In the present study, therapeutic efficacy of meso 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA), sodium 2,3-dimercaptopropane 1-sulfonate (DMPS), monoisoamyl DMSA (MiADMSA) were compared in terms of reducing arsenic burden, as well as recovery in the altered biochemical variables particularly suggestive of oxidative stress. Adult male Wistar rats were given 100-ppm arsenic for 10 weeks followed by chelation therapy with the above chelating agents at a dose of 50 mg/Kg (orally) once daily for 5 consecutive days. Arsenic exposure resulted in marked elevation in reactive oxygen species (ROS) in blood, inhibition of ALAD activity and depletion of GSH. These changes were accompanied by significant decline in blood hemoglobin level. MiADMSA was the most effective chelator in reducing ROS in red blood cells, and in restoring blood ALAD compared to two other chelators. Brain superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) decreased, while ROS and TBARS increased significantly following arsenic exposure. There was a significant increase in the activity of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) with a corresponding decline in its substrate i.e. glutathione. Among all the three chelators, MiADMSA showed maximum reduction in the level of ROS in brain. Additionally, administration of MiADMSA was most effective in counteracting arsenic induced inhibition in brain ALAD, SOD and GPx activity. Based on these results and in particular higher metal decorporation from blood and brain, we suggest MiADMSA to be a potential drug of choice for the treatment of chronic arsenic poisoning. However, further studies are required for the choice of appropriate dose, duration of treatment and possible effects on other major organs.
A number of specific chromosomal abnormalities define the subgroups of multiple myeloma. In a meta-analysis of two genome-wide association studies of multiple myeloma including a total of 1,661 affected individuals, we investigated risk for developing a specific tumor karyotype. The t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation in which CCND1 is placed under the control of the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer was strongly associated with the CCND1 c.870G>A polymorphism (P = 7.96 × 10(-11)). These results provide a model in which a constitutive genetic factor is associated with risk of a specific chromosomal translocation.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most frequent leukemia in adults. We have analyzed exome sequencing data from 127 individuals with CLL and Sanger sequencing data from 214 additional affected individuals, identifying recurrent somatic mutations in POT1 (encoding protection of telomeres 1) in 3.5% of the cases, with the frequency reaching 9% when only individuals without IGHV@ mutations were considered. POT1 encodes a component of the shelterin complex and is the first member of this telomeric structure found to be mutated in human cancer. Somatic mutation of POT1 primarily occurs in gene regions encoding the two oligonucleotide-/oligosaccharide-binding (OB) folds and affects key residues required to bind telomeric DNA. POT1-mutated CLL cells have numerous telomeric and chromosomal abnormalities that suggest that POT1 mutations favor the acquisition of the malignant features of CLL cells. The identification of POT1 as a new frequently mutated gene in CLL may facilitate novel approaches for the clinical management of this disease.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare, severe disease resulting from progressive obliteration of small-caliber pulmonary arteries by proliferating vascular cells. PAH can occur without recognized etiology (idiopathic PAH), be associated with a systemic disease or occur as a heritable form, with BMPR2 mutated in approximately 80% of familial and 15% of idiopathic PAH cases. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) based on 2 independent case-control studies for idiopathic and familial PAH (without BMPR2 mutations), including a total of 625 cases and 1,525 healthy individuals. We detected a significant association at the CBLN2 locus mapping to 18q22.3, with the risk allele conferring an odds ratio for PAH of 1.97 (1.59-2.45; P = 7.47 × 10(-10)). CBLN2 is expressed in the lung, and its expression is higher in explanted lungs from individuals with PAH and in endothelial cells cultured from explanted PAH lungs.
Ozone (O(3)) is a respiratory irritant that leads to airway inflammation and pulmonary dysfunction. Animal studies show that neonates are more sensitive to O(3) inhalation than adults, and children represent a potentially susceptible population. This latter notion is not well established, and biological mechanisms underlying a predisposition to pollution-induced pulmonary effects are unknown. We examined age and strain as interactive factors affecting differential pulmonary responses to inhaled O(3). Male and female adult mice (15 weeks old) and neonates (15-16 days old) from eight genetically diverse inbred strains were exposed to 0.8 ppm O(3) for 5 h. Pulmonary injury and lung inflammation were quantified as total protein concentration and total polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) number in lavage fluid recovered 24-h postexposure. Dose-response and time-course curves were generated using SJL/J pups, and (18)O lung burden dose was assessed in additional mice. Interstrain differences in response to O(3) were seen in neonatal mice: Balb/cJ and SJL/J being most sensitive and A/J and 129x1/SvJ most resistant. The PMN response to O(3) was greater in neonates than in adults, specifically for SJL/J and C3H/HeJ strains, independent of dose. Small gender differences were also observed in adult mice. Variation in protein concentrations and PMN counts between adults and pups were strain dependent, suggesting that genetic determinants do play a role in age-related sensitivity to O(3). Further research will help to determine what genetic factors contribute to these heightened responses, and to quantify the relative contribution of genes vs. environment in O(3)-induced health effects.
We report two clinical cases of cardiac arrest, the former due to an adverse effect of intravenous (i.v.) propranolol in a patient with systemic sclerosis, the latter from a propranolol suicidal overdose. In both cases, conventional advanced life support (ALS) was ineffective but both patients eventually responded to the administration of enoximone, a phosphodiesterase III (PDE III) inhibitor. After the arrest, both patients regained consciousness and were discharged home. The chronotropic and inotropic effects of PDE III inhibitors are due to inhibition of intracellular PDEIII and are therefore unaffected by beta-blockers. These cases suggest that PDEIII inhibitors may be useful in restoring spontaneous circulation in cardiac arrest associated with beta-blocker administration when standard ALS is ineffective.
Despite the efficacy of the BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitor Imatinib mesylate for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), resistance has been observed in a proportion of cases, especially those with advanced stages of the disease. Point mutations within the ABL kinase domain are emerging as the most frequent mechanism for reactivation of kinase activity within the leukemic clone.
We developed a denaturing-HPLC (D-HPLC)-based assay for screening for ABL point mutations. For each sample, two partially overlapping fragments of 393 and 482 bp corresponding to the kinase domain were amplified by nested reverse transcription-PCR and analyzed under selected temperature and acetonitrile gradient conditions. Fifty-one bone marrow and/or peripheral blood specimens from 27 CML patients who showed cytogenetic resistance to Imatinib were screened in parallel by D-HPLC and by direct sequencing.
In 12 of 27 (44%) patients, D-HPLC showed an abnormal elution profile suggesting the presence of a nucleotide change. Direct sequencing confirmed the presence of a point mutation in all cases. Conversely, all samples scored as wild type by D-HPLC showed no evidence of mutations by direct sequencing. In two cases, novel amino acid substitutions at codons already known for being hot-spots of mutation were identified (F311I and E355D).
The proposed D-HPLC-based assay is highly specific and at least as sensitive as sequencing; with respect to the latter, it provides a much faster and less expensive semiautomated system for mutational screening. It may therefore potentially be a valuable tool for regular, large-scale testing of patients undergoing Imatinib treatment.
This case report discusses a young woman who developed systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) 4 weeks after the start of oral contraceptive therapy; she improved only with withdrawal of oral contraceptives. 16 months after cessation of oral contraceptives, she remains completely asymptomatic, has not needed therapy for 1 year, has completed a normal pregnancy, and is in the second month of her second pregnancy. This woman had a false positive serologic prenuptial syphilis test. She had been given Demulen (1 mgm of ethynodiol diacetate and 50 mcgm of ethynil estradiol).
Mechanisms of early neurologic deterioration after treatment with intravenous, recombinant, tissue-type plasminogen activator (IV rt-PA) include symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (SICH) and early recurrent ischemic stroke. We observed a number of cases of acute deterioration due to recurrent ischemic events.
We undertook a single-center, retrospective analysis of consecutive acute stroke patients treated with IV rt-PA between January 2006 and December 2008 to define the incidence of early neurologic deterioration (>or=4-point drop on the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale within 72 hours) and its mechanism. Deterioration was attributed to SICH when associated with a PH1 or PH2 hemorrhage on postdeterioration computed tomography scans, to recurrent ischemic stroke when there was clinical and radiologic evidence of a new territorial infarction or new vessel occlusion, and otherwise to evolution of the incident stroke.
Of 228 consecutive IV rt-PA-treated patients, 34 (15%) developed early neurologic deterioration, 18 (8%) secondary to incident strokes 10 (4.4%) due to SICH, and 6 (2.6%) due to early recurrent ischemic events, which were significantly associated with atrial fibrillation (present in 5 of 6 patients; 4 paroxysmal, 1 permanent). In 4 patients, sudden clinical deterioration developed during or shortly after IV rt-PA infusion, and in 2, deterioration developed 3 days later. All died 2 days to 2 weeks later. The single case without atrial fibrillation had a recurrent, contralateral, middle cerebral artery stroke during IV rt-PA infusion and multiple high-signal emboli detected by transcranial Doppler. Early recurrent ischemic stroke accounted for 5 of 12 (42%) cases of early neurologic deterioration in patients with atrial fibrillation.
In this single-center series, the incidence of early recurrent ischemic stroke after IV rt-PA was 2.6% and was associated with previous atrial fibrillation.
The electrophysiological examination was made to clarify the effect of ethambutol on the peripheral nervous system in 39 patients at tuberculous sanatorium. Abnormalities in the sensory nerve action potential (toe-ankle) were observed in about 10 percent of the patients treated with ethambutol, and these patients were mostly elderly and/or received the high dose of ethambutol. The mixed nerve conduction velocity (ankle-knee) showed a significant decrease compared with healthy subjects. The conduction velocity tended to decrease in the high ethambutol dosage (200 gm or more) group compared with the low dosage (200 gm or less) group. The tendency for the conduction velocity to decrease was also observed in the 18 patients treated with isoniazid but the abnormalities were mild compared with the ethambutol.
Clinical features including changes in the peripheral nerve conduction were analzyed in 10 cases with ethambutol neuropathy. There were abnormalities in the visual field in seven and optic atrophy in five of 10 cases. Seven of 10 cases complained of numbness in the lower limbs. The age of onset and dose of ethambutol the patients continue to take after the occurrence of visual impairment were found to be important in determining the severity of neurological symptoms. A functional disturbance was more conspicuous in ethambutol neuropathy, particularly in the sensory system than in the motor system so far as the peripheral nerve conduction was serially examined. Some cases still had serious optic disturbances even about seven years after the onset of the disease and the presence of irreversible lesions was suspected.
The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs), including Zellweger syndrome (ZS) and neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD), are autosomal recessive diseases caused by defects in peroxisome assembly, for which at least 10 complementation groups have been reported. We have isolated a human PEX1 cDNA (HsPEX1) by functional complementation of peroxisome deficiency of a mutant Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line, ZP107, transformed with peroxisome targeting signal type 1-tagged "enhanced" green fluorescent protein. This cDNA encodes a hydrophilic protein (Pex1p) comprising 1,283 amino acids, with high homology to the AAA-type ATPase family. A stable transformant of ZP107 with HsPEX1 was morphologically and biochemically restored for peroxisome biogenesis. HsPEX1 expression restored peroxisomal protein import in fibroblasts from three patients with ZS and NALD of complementation group I (CG-I), which is the highest-incidence PBD. A CG-I ZS patient (PBDE-04) possessed compound heterozygous, inactivating mutations: a missense point mutation resulting in Leu-664 --> Pro and a deletion of the sequence from Gly-634 to His-690 presumably caused by missplicing (splice site mutation). Both PBDE-04 PEX1 cDNAs were defective in peroxisome-restoring activity when expressed in the patient fibroblasts as well as in ZP107 cells. These results demonstrate that PEX1 is the causative gene for CG-I peroxisomal disorders.
Cardiotoxicity has been described in a group of pediatric patients receiving FK506 as a part of immunosuppression for orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). Information regarding the cardiac pathology related to this agent is limited.
Among the first 975 liver transplants at our institution (1985-1995), autopsy hearts were available for 19 patients (14 adults and 5 children) who received FK506 for a minimum of 1 week prior to death. Patients with excessive alcohol use, significant coronary artery disease, valvular disease, diabetes mellitus, or pretransplant hypertension were excluded from analysis. We compared heart weight (HW), heart weight-to-body weight ratio (HW/BW), ventricular septal (VS) thickness with left ventricular (LV) thickness ratio (VS/LV), and cardiac histologic findings of 12 OLT patients (7 adults, 5 children) who received FK506 with a group of 75 OLT patients (48 adults, 27 children) who received Cyclosporine (CsA) and 20 (10 adults, 10 children) age-comparable control patients without OLT.
All FK506 and CsA children and adults had cardiomegaly by HW, HW/BW (P(FK506 peds) <0.024, P(CsA peds)<0.028, P(FK506 adults) <0.017, P(CsA adults)<0.006) and increased VS/LV ratio 1.25(FK506) (P <0.006) and 1.23(CsA) (P <0.006)(pediatric) and 1.09(FK506) (P <0.0122) and 1.21(CsA) (P <0.0009)(adults), compared with control.
Cardiomegaly by HW, HW/BW, and histology was uniformly present in both FK506 and CsA adult and pediatric OLT patients at autopsy. A relatively greater VS hypertrophy than LV was present in both transplant groups. We found no gross or histologic cardiac finding that separated these FK506 from CsA OLT patients at autopsy.
This laboratory has shown that arsenite (As(+3)) exposure can cause the malignant transformation of the UROtsa human urothelial cell line. This single isolate formed subcutaneous tumors with a histology similar to human urothelial cell carcinoma. The tumors also displayed areas of squamous differentiation of the urothelial cells, an infrequent but known component of human bladder cancer. In the present study, five additional independent isolates of As(+3)-transformed urothelial cells were isolated and each was shown to produce subcutaneous urothelial cell tumors with a characteristic histology very similar to those described in the initial report. That there were underlying phenotypic differences in the six independent isolates was demonstrated when they were assessed for their ability to form tumors within the peritoneal cavity. It was shown that two isolates could form hundreds of small peritoneal tumor nodules, one isolate a moderate number of tumor nodules, and three isolates no or only one tumor nodule. The peritoneal tumors were also characterized for their degree of squamous differentiation of the urothelial cells and, while areas of squamous differentiation could be found, such differentiation was substantially reduced compared to subcutaneous tumors. Immunostaining for keratin 6 was tested as a potential marker for malignant urothelial cells that had undergone squamous differentiation. Keratin 6 was shown to consistently stain only cells having some evidence of squamous differentiation. Keratin 16 was shown to follow the staining pattern of keratin 6. The isolates and tumor heterotransplants were all examined for keratin 6, 16 and 17 mRNA and protein expression.
We previously demonstrated that the NC1[alpha3(IV)185-191] CNYYSNS peptide inhibited in vivo tumor progression. The YSNS motif formed a beta turn crucial for biological activity. The aim of the present study was to design a YSNSG cyclopeptide with a constrained beta turn on the YSNS residues more stable than CNYYSNS. By nuclear magnetic resonance and molecular modeling, we demonstrated that the YSNSG cyclopeptide actually adopted the expected beta-turn conformation. It promoted melanoma cell adhesion and prevented their adhesion to the native peptide. It inhibited in vitro cell proliferation and migration through Matrigel by downregulating proteolytic cascades. Moreover, intraperitoneal administration of the YSNSG cyclopeptide inhibited melanoma progression far more efficiently than the native peptide. The increased solubility and stability at low pH of the YSNSG cyclopeptide suggest this peptide as a potent antitumor therapeutic agent.
High levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha are associated with an increased risk of severe encephalopathy in acute liver failure, and experimental studies suggest that tumor necrosis factor-alpha plays a role in the development of acetaminophen (paracetamol)-induced liver injury and associated multiple organ failure. Inter-individual variations in the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha have been linked to genomic polymorphisms within the tumor necrosis factor-alpha locus. This study examined whether specific tumor necrosis factor polymorphisms are associated with variations in the severity of clinical features in acetaminophen-induced acute liver failure.
Genotypes at the -308 tumor necrosis factor A and tumor necrosis factor B Nco1 polymorphic sites were determined in 97 patients with severe acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity and 109 controls, using polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism. The relationship between liver injury, multiple organ failure and encephalopathy, determined retrospectively from clinical notes and genotype, was examined.
No significant association was found between either tumor necrosis factor A or B genotype and parameters for multiple organ failure or liver injury. The tumor necrosis factor B1B1 genotype was significantly under-represented in those patients developing severe encephalopathy (p=0.03) and a multivariate logistic regression analysis confirmed the influence of tumor necrosis factor B genotype (p<0.01). The association was independent of the HLA class II allele DRB1*03, which is closely linked to the TNFB locus.
The development of acute liver failure is unlikely to be primarily sepsis driven. However, the apparent protective effect of the tumor necrosis factor B1B1 genotype on the development of severe encephalopathy may be related to the effects of this genotype on tumor necrosis factor-alpha production in sepsis.
High-density lipoprotein (HDL) is implicated in the modulation of angiogenesis. In this study, we investigated whether the Niacin-mediated increase of HDL regulates angiogenesis and thereby improves functional outcome after stroke.
Adult male rats were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion and were treated with or without different doses (40 and 80 mg/kg) of Niaspan, starting 24 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion and daily for 14 days. Neurological functional tests were performed, and serum HDL level was measured. Angiogenesis and angiogenic factor expression were measured by immunohistochemistry, corneal neovascularization and capillary tube formation assay, and Western blot, respectively.
Niaspan significantly increased HDL level, promoted angiogenesis in the ischemic brain, and improved functional outcome after stroke. Niaspan also significantly increased corneal neovascularization compared with nontreatment control. Mechanisms underlying the Niaspan-induced vascular remodeling were investigated. Niaspan increased the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and angiopoietin-1 (Ang1), and phosphorylation of Akt, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (NOS), and Tie2 in the ischemic brain. Niacin upregulated Ang1 expression in cultured brain endothelial cells and increased vascular endothelial growth factor, Ang1, and endothelial NOS expression in cultured astrocytes, and dose-dependently increased capillary tube formation compared with nontreatment control. Inhibition of NOS partially decreased Niacin-induced capillary tube formation. Inhibition of phosphoinositide 3-kinase or knockdown of Tie2 substantially and significantly decreased Niacin-induced capillary tube formation.
Niacin increases HDL and promotes angiogenesis, which may contribute to improvement of functional outcome after stroke. The Ang1/Tie2, phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt, and endothelial NOS pathways appear to mediate Niacin-induced angiogenesis.
To document the psychological side effects of methotrexate (MTX) treatment in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) and to explore the usefulness of psychological therapy to ameliorate these side effects.
The patients included in this study consisted of 29 patients with JIA using MTX. Of these, ten were referred to a pediatric psychologist because of MTX side effects, and had behavioural therapy to cope with these side effects with a strong behavioural component (anticipatory nausea, anxiety). The behavioural therapy was adapted to age and used systemic desensitization (distraction in a positive atmosphere) or cognitive behavioural therapy (relaxation and overruling negative thoughts by positive ones). The parents of the 29 children were interviewed about MTX treatment and the side effects their child had developed. Parents of children referred to the psychologist were also interviewed for their impression of the results of the behavioural therapy.
Prior to the behavioural therapy, nine out of 10 children reported MTX related nausea. Six of these ten were nauseous even before the administration and developed anticipatory nausea. Nine out of ten patients also showed some sign of distress in anticipation of MTX treatment, either orally of via injections. The behavioural therapy they had fully abolished side effects in five children and decreased the severity of nausea and distress in two children. Of the remaining nineteen children, not referred to the pediatric psychologist, 11 reported nausea after MTX treatment and four of these developed anticipatory nausea. In addition, eight of these 18 developed behavioural distress in anticipation of the treatment.
This study showed that children with JIA who receive MTX treatment frequently develop psychological side effects, such as anticipatory nausea and behavioural distress in anticipation of treatment. This is true for patients selected for reported MTX side effects, as well as for randomly chosen JIA patients using MTX. As MTX is still the first choice in the treatment of severe JIA, more attention should be given to the treatment and prevention of side effects. Psychological intervention can be of help, but further studies are needed on the nature of the side effects, as well as on the prerequisites and efficacy of behavioural therapy.
