Zinc overload is known to cause the death of neural cells. Although the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) have been implicated in zinc-induced astrocyte death, the detailed mechanisms of their activation and upstream regulatory cascades are incompletely understood. Here, we report that protein kinase C (PKC)- and Src-related Ras/Raf/ERK cascades and ERK-associated cPLA(2) participate in astrocyte death caused by ZnCl(2). Sustained exposure to ZnCl(2) caused damage to astrocytes in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. The cell death caused by ZnCl(2) was accompanied by increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, PKC-α membrane association, Src phosphorylation, Ras membrane association, Raf phosphorylation, ERK phosphorylation, and cPLA(2) activation, and decreased protein phosphatase activity. Pharmacological studies revealed that these activations/inactivations all contributed to ZnCl(2)-induced astrocyte death. ROS, such as superoxide, appear to be a key trigger in response to ZnCl(2) treatment in astrocytes because of the attenuations in protein phosphatase inhibition, signaling activation, and cell death by antioxidant treatments. Mechanistic studies had suggested that ROS/PKC-α/Ras/Raf/ERK and ROS/Src/Ras/Raf/ERK were potential signals linking zinc and cPLA(2). These observations indicated that ROS/PKC-α/Ras/Raf/ERK and ROS/Src/Ras/Raf/ERK signaling and cPLA(2) were actively involved in zinc-induced astrocyte damage.
There is little comparative information on the qualitative similarity, relative potency and reinforcing effects of oral cocaine versus cocaine administered via other routes.
The present study used a within-subject, double-blind, double-dummy design to compare the physiological, subjective and reinforcing effects of placebo and oral (62.5, 125, 250 mg/70 kg) and intravenous (IV) (12.5, 25, 50 mg/70 kg) cocaine in volunteers with histories of cocaine abuse.
Cocaine produced dose-dependent increases on heart rate and blood pressure, with effects lasting longer after oral than IV cocaine. Subjective ratings (e.g., "rush," "drug effect," "liking") were qualitatively similar and dose-dependently increased after oral and IV administration, and the duration of effects was similar under both routes. On a money versus drug choice measure of reinforcement, the monetary amounts at which participants chose drug over money increased as a function of cocaine dose under both routes of administration. At doses that produced comparable subjective, physiological, and reinforcing effects, oral cocaine was not identified as cocaine as frequently as IV cocaine. Across measures, the data suggested that IV cocaine was approximately 10 times more potent than oral cocaine.
Overall, the results of this study support qualitatively similar effects of oral and IV cocaine and suggest that oral cocaine may be an effective tool for studying cocaine's effects in human laboratory studies.
Recently the idea of hormesis, a biphasic dose-response relationship in which a chemical exerts opposite effects dependent on the dose, has attracted interest in the field of carcinogenesis. With non-genotoxic agents there is considerable experimental evidence in support of hormesis and the present review highlights current knowledge of dose-response effects. In particular, several in vivo studies have provided support for the idea that non-genotoxic carcinogens may inhibit hepatocarcinogenesis at low doses. Here, we survey the examples and discuss possible mechanisms of hormesis using phenobarbital, 1,1-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-2,2,2-trichloroethane (DDT), alpha-benzene hexachloride (alpha-BHC) and other non-genotoxins. Furthermore, the effects of low and high doses of non-genotoxic and genotoxic compounds on carcinogenesis are compared, with especial attention to differences in mechanisms of action in animals and possible application of the dose-response concept to cancer risk assessment in humans. Epigenetic processes differentially can be affected by agents that impinge on oxidative stress, DNA repair, cell proliferation, apoptosis, intracellular communication and cell signaling. Non-genotoxic carcinogens may target nuclear receptors, cause aberrant DNA methylation at the genomic level and induce post-translational modifications at the protein level, thereby impacting on the stability or activity of key regulatory proteins, including oncoproteins and tumor suppressor proteins. Genotoxic agents, in contrast, cause genetic change by directly attacking DNA and inducing mutations, in addition to temporarily modulating the gene activity. Carcinogens can elicit a variety of changes via multiple genetic and epigenetic lesions, contributing to cellular carcinogenesis.
Although the commercial synthesis of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) has been banned in the United States for several decades, they are persistent in the environment with exposure mainly being through diet. The biologic and toxic effects of PCBs and their metabolites are due in part to their ability to interact with several cellular and nuclear receptors, thereby altering signaling pathways and gene transcription. These effects include endocrine modulation and disruption. Therefore, the natural history of cancer in tissues expressing these receptors may be modulated by PCB congeners, which are known to have estrogenic, antiestrogenic, and other hormonal effects. Several frameworks for grouping PCB congeners based on these interactions have been proposed. We conducted a hospital-based, case-control pilot study of 58 prostate cancer cases and 99 controls to evaluate the association between the proposed PCB groupings and the risk of prostate cancer. Serum samples were analyzed for a total of 30 PCBs. In multivariate analyses, the odds of prostate cancer among men with the highest concentrations of moderately chlorinated PCBs or PCBs with phenobarbital-like activities (constitutively active receptor (CAR) agonists) was over two times that among men with the lowest concentrations. Increasing trends in risk across the concentration levels were also observed. These results suggest that a higher burden of PCBs that are CAR agonists may be positively associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer and they encourage further research in this area.
Muscimol, a structural analog of GABA, significantly potentiated pilocarpine-induced analgesia in rats, but failed to alter pilocarpine-induced catalepsy. It also failed to affect pilocarpine-elicited increase in homovanillic acid levels in the striatum. These findings suggest that the potentiation of pilocarpine-induced analgesia by muscimol is unrelated to an interaction of the GABAergic system with the striatal cholinergic or dopaminergic systems.
This study was designed to identify the global pattern of differentially expressed genes in human varicose veins. Using suppressive subtractive hybridization, we identified overexpression of genes known to be associated with extracellular matrix remodeling, including collagen III, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases I, dermatopontin, matrix Gla protein (MGP) and tenascin C. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis confirmed the differential expression of these genes. The overexpression of MGP transcript was associated with increased MGP level in varicose veins, in particular the undercarboxylated form of the protein. Smooth muscle cells from varicose veins showed increased proliferation rate and enhanced matrix mineralization. This observation correlated with the presence of ectopic mineralization areas in the varicose vein walls. The use of warfarin, to inhibit MGP activity, or siRNA targeting MGP transcript induced a reduction in the exacerbated proliferation of varicose vein smooth muscle cells. Our results suggest that high expression of MGP in varicose veins may contribute to venous wall remodeling by affecting proliferation and mineralization processes probably through impaired carboxylation of MGP. In addition, suppressive subtractive hybridization results also produce a profile of differentially expressed genes in varicose veins, in particular extracellular matrix components. Further study of these genes will provide insights into their specific roles in the etiology of venous disease.
Doxorubicin is one of the most effective antineoplastic agents but its limited use is due to acute and chronic cardiotoxicity. These side-effects are irreversible and dose-dependent, occurring in one-third of the patients treated after a cumulative dose of 300 mg/m2. It has been suggested that the problem of acute and chronic cardiotoxicity may be prevented by using L-carnitine. Hence nine patients receiving a cumulative dose (200-490 mg/m2) of doxorubicin have been studied. Acute cardiotoxicity has been evaluated by creatine kinase---marsh bender (MB) serum levels before and 15 h after treatment. Data demonstrated no significant increase of isoenzyme-MB after doxorubicin administration. Chronic cardiotoxicity has been monitored studying the electrocardiograph and the left ventricular performance by computerized M-Mode echocardiography measuring the maximal velocity of circumferential fibre shortening (VCF Max) which is considered a reliable and very sensitive non-invasive parameter to evaluate myocardial contractility. The results show a decrease in VCF Max (measured in diameter/cardiac cycle) from 1.7 +/- 0.4 to 1.4 +/- 0.3 but still within normal values. So the systematic use of L-carnitine as adjuvant therapy is proposed during doxorubicin administration.
To assess the cardiac status of the long-term survivors and to estimate the incidence and the features of subclinical cardiotoxicity induced after conventional treatment with doxorubicin for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or Hodgkin's lymphoma.
We analyzed a group of patients who previously received doxorubicin-based chemotherapy for lymphoma. Echocardiograms were performed at least 5 years after therapy with anthracyclines. Clinical cardiomyopathy was defined by the presence of clinical signs of congestive heart failure (CHF). Subclinical cardiomyopathy was defined by decrease of left ventricular fractional shortening (FS) without clinical signs of CHF. Cumulative dose of doxorubicin, male sex, older age, relapse, radiotherapy (mediastinal or total-body irradiation), autologous stem-cell transplantation, high-dose cyclophosphamide, and cardiovascular risk factors (hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, familial history of cardiac disease, being overweight, and smoking history) were evaluated as potential risk factors for the development of cardiac dysfunction.
Of 141 assessable patients (median age, 54 years; median cumulative dose of doxorubicin, 300 mg/m(2)), only one developed CHF. Criteria of subclinical cardiomyopathy were found in 39 patients. In multivariate analysis, factors that contributed to decreased FS were male sex (P <.01), older age (P <.01), higher cumulative dose of doxorubicin or association with another anthracycline (P =.04), radiotherapy (P =.04), and being overweight (P =.04).
Cardiac abnormalities can occur in patients treated with doxorubicin for lymphoma in the absence of CHF, even in patients who received moderate anthracycline doses. Male sex, older age, higher dose of doxorubicin, radiotherapy, and being overweight were risk factors for the development of cardiomyopathy.
This study compared associations between methamphetamine use, drug use other than methamphetamine, and HIV transmission factors among men who have sex with men, attending an sexually transmitted disease clinic. Of 6435 participants, newly recognized HIV status (OR: 3.02 95% CI: 2.30, 3.99) was associated with methamphetamine use compared with nondrug users, an association not found among other club drug users.
Infective endocarditis (IE) is the fourth leading cause of life-threatening infection in the United States and imposes significant morbidity and mortality. The American Heart Association guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of IE do not address continuous-infusion (CI) oxacillin. This retrospective study compares outcomes between CI oxacillin and intermittent-infusion (II) oxacillin in the treatment of IE caused by methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA). A total of 709 medical records were reviewed for inpatients with definitive IE treated between 1 January 2000 and 31 December 2007. Continuous data were analyzed by Student's t test or the Wilcoxon rank sum test. The chi-square test or Fisher's exact test was used to compare nominal data. A multivariate logistic model was constructed. One hundred seven patients met eligibility criteria for inclusion into the study. Seventy-eight patients received CI oxacillin, whereas 28 received II oxacillin. CI and II groups were similar with respect to 30-day mortality (8% versus 10%, P = 0.7) and length of stay (20 versus 25 days, P = 0.4) but differed in 30-day microbiological cure (94% versus 79%, P = 0.03). Sixty-three patients received synergistic gentamicin, whereas 44 did not. The gentamicin and no-gentamicin groups were similar with respect to 30-day mortality (11% versus 4%, P = 0.2) and 30-day microbiological cure (90% versus 89%, P = 0.8); however, times to defervescence (4 versus 2 days, P = 0.02) were significantly different. CI oxacillin is an effective alternative to II oxacillin for the treatment of IE caused by MSSA and may improve microbiological cure. This convenient and pharmacodynamically optimized dosing regimen for oxacillin deserves consideration for patients with IE caused by MSSA.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a multi-factorial and multi-step process. However, the molecular mechanisms, which play a pivotal role during progressive development of HCC, are not known. Accordingly Sprague-Dawley rats were administered diethylnitrosamine (DEN) for one to three months in order to understand the molecular alterations during progressive development of liver tumor. In this study involvement of G1/S regulatory proteins, MAP kinases and cell survival factors were analyzed using RT-PCR, western blotting and in vitro kinase assays. The data showed overexpression of cyclin D1 and increased expression and activation of ERK1/2, p38 kinase and JNK1/2 with progression of tumor suggesting that MAP kinases play an important role during tumorigenesis. These molecular alterations were supported by Akt upregulation and increase in the levels of inactive GSK3beta with progression of liver tumor. Further, p21-actived kinase1 (Pak1) was found to be upregulated with tumor progression, which is a novel observation during progressive liver carcinogenesis. These results indicate that elevated levels of all the three MAP kinases (ERK1/2, p38 and JNK1/2), Akt/GSK3beta and Pak1 are associated with cyclin D1 upregulation, which helps in the disruption of the G1/S regulatory point of the cell cycle and leads to abnormal cell proliferation during progressive hepatocarcinogenesis.
Astrocytic tumors are the most common primary brain tumors. It has been reported that androgen receptor (AR), estrogen receptors alpha (ERα) and beta (ERβ) and their coactivator SRC-1 and SRC-3 are involved in the regulation of the growth and development of many tumors, but their expression profiles and significances in the astrocytic tumors remain largely unknown. In this study, the expression of AR, ERs, and SRCs, and the possible roles of them in astrocytic neoplasm were evaluated and compared to normal brain tissues by nickel-intensified immunohistochemistry with tissue microarrays. The results showed that there were no age- or gender-differences regarding to the levels of these receptors or coactivators in astrocytic or normal brain tissues. In the high-grade astrocytic tissue, the levels of AR, ERs and SRC-3 were significantly decreased when compared to the low-grade astrocytic tissues, but the levels of SRC-1 remain unchanged. Correlation analysis revealed that the levels of AR, ERs and SRC-3 were negatively correlated to tumor differentiation, and the levels of SRC-3 were positively correlated to that of ERα. Furthermore, the decreased levels of SRC-3 were associated with an increase of ERβ in astrocytic tumors when compared to that of normal brain tissues. These above results indicate a combination of decreased expression of ERs, AR and SRC-3 but not SRC-1 may be involved in the tumorigenesis of gliomas, ERα/SRC-3 axis may play central role in the regulation these tumors.
The authors retrospectively assessed the effectiveness and side effects of risperidone used to treat behavioral disturbances in elderly outpatients with dementia. In 41 patients treated with risperidone 1.8 +/- 1.4 mg/day, there was complete suppression of the target symptom in 15%, partial response in 41%, and no response in 44%. Risperidone appeared equally effective in treating agitation and psychosis. New or worsening extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) occurred in 32%, associated with longer duration of treatment and possibly with concomitant use of serotonergic anti-depressants. Risperidone was a useful adjunct in the treatment of agitation and psychosis in outpatients with dementia but was limited by EPS in about one-third of patients.
This case is about an HIV seropositive young woman referred for the treatment of severe menorrhagia causing anaemia due to adenomyosis where the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system (Mirena) proved useful in treating her heavy periods and also provided effective contraception without interference from the liver enzyme-inducing effects of antiretroviral medications.
Ciprofloxacin was tested in the acute and chronic experimental E.coli pyelonephritis in rats. Its therapeutic efficacy was compared with that of cefotaxime. In the acute pyelonephritis increasing doses resulted in increasing elimination of bacteria from the kidneys. Ciprofloxacin and cefotaxime showed no difference in the efficiency in therapy of the acute pyelonephritis. In chronic pyelonephritis ciprofloxacin proved to be more effective than cefotaxime in spite of identical in vitro activity. Pharmacokinetic data showed that ciprofloxacin was eliminated more slowly than cefotaxime. The long serum half-life and the high volume of distribution could be responsible for the high therapeutic efficacy and could outweigh the disadvantage of metabolic instability.
Although digoxin antibodies are the definitive treatment of cardiac arrhythmias due to digoxin toxicity, magnesium can also be effective especially with low serum magnesium levels. The case report describes a patient with digoxin toxicity, ventricular tachycardia and a slightly elevated serum magnesium. Two 10 mmol doses of intravenous magnesium sulfate were associated with a more stable junctional rhythm with bigeminy. Magnesium is known to suppress early after depolarizations, and in supraphysiological doses, may act as an indirect antagonist of digoxin at the sarcolemma Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase pump. Intravenous magnesium may be used to treat cardiac arrhythmias due to digoxin poisoning where there is likely to be a delay in the availability of digoxin antibodies, even in the presence of elevated serum magnesium.
Pulmonary hypertension is a common problem in patients with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). In a subset of these patients, pulmonary hypertension persists despite optimized ventilatory management and supportive care. Sildenafil, a phosphodiestrase V inhibitor, has been used in the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in adults and children. Cardiovascular effects of sildenafil in patients with CDH and pulmonary hypertension are not known.
To describe the changes in cardiovascular and respiratory parameters in newborn infants with CDH and persistent pulmonary hypertension refractory to inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) during the first 2 weeks of sildenafil administration.
Retrospective data analysis of seven patients with CDH (birth weight = 2,573 +/- 1,019 g; gestational age = 35.6 +/- 4.3 weeks) receiving oral sildenafil for pulmonary hypertension refractory to iNO. Findings of serial echocardiograms and data on cardiovascular and respiratory status were assessed.
Right cardiac output increased and left cardiac output tended to increase 1.5-4 h after initiation of sildenafil and the increase was sustained throughout the study. Echocardiographic indices of pulmonary hypertension showed an apparent reduction in abnormally high pulmonary vascular resistance. Systemic blood pressure tended to decrease. Shortening fraction did not change. Ventilatory index and the need for iNO tended to decrease in the five surviving infants.
These preliminary findings suggest that sildenafil may improve cardiac output by reducing pulmonary hypertension refractory to iNO in patients with CDH.
Pavlovian conditioning processes have been accorded an important role in maintaining persistent opiate administration. At least one locus for this contribution is during opiate withdrawal. These experiments studied the contribution of Pavlovian conditioning processes to morphine withdrawal.
To determine whether exposure to a distinctive context or odor paired with morphine withdrawal would provoke a withdrawal syndrome, defensive behaviors (e.g., freezing) and pain modulatory (e.g., hypoalgesia) responses similar to those produced by exposure to stimuli signaling other sources of aversive stimulation (e.g., footshock), or whether both withdrawal and fear-like responses would be provoked.
Rats were used in four experiments to study the effects on defensive behavior and pain sensitivity of naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal or exposure to a distinctive context or odor previously paired with such withdrawal.
Injection of 2.5 mg/kg naloxone in morphine-dependent rats precipitated a withdrawal syndrome characterized by whole body shaking, diarrhea, ptosis, and postural abnormalities (experiment 1). Exposure to either a distinctive context (experiment 2) or odor (experiments 3) previously paired with morphine withdrawal provoked the species-typical defense response of freezing but not signs of withdrawal. Exposure to an odor previously paired with morphine withdrawal also provoked hypoalgesia in the formalin test, which was mediated by activity at opioid receptors (experiment 4).
These results show that opiate withdrawal supports the conditioning of defensive and hypoalgesic responses consistent with the arousal of a fear motivational system. The emergence of fear in these experiments, and the relationship between the freezing observed here and the learned avoidance and suppression observed in other withdrawal conditioning preparations, is discussed with reference to dual representation accounts of Pavlovian conditioning.
A 29-year-old heavy smoker presented with an acute myocardial infarction and hematocrit of 70%. At immediate coronary angiography a complete occlusion of the right coronary artery was found. After intracoronary urokinase the coronary arteries were found to be completely normal. Causes for the erythrocytosis other than smoking could be excluded. We conclude that thrombotic coronary occlusion with acute myocardial infarction was caused by erythrocytosis due to heavy smoking.
Ifosfamide is an oxazophosphorine widely used in the treatment of cancer in children and adults. Nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity are major side effects. The aim of this study was to use high-resolution proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR) spectroscopy of urine to identify novel biochemical markers of ifosfamide-induced toxicity. Urine samples were collected from 10 nonencephalopathic patients (who had not previously received nephrotoxic chemotherapy) immediately prior to the first ifosfamide dose and at timed intervals for up to four treatment cycles. The findings were compared with those for urine samples collected from five patients during acute encephalopathic episodes. 1H NMR urinalysis identified a series of characteristic time-related changes in the excretion profiles of low molecular weight endogenous metabolites during ifosfamide therapy. These changes included a decreased excretion of hippurate and an increased excretion of glycine, histidine, glucose, lactate, and trimethylamine-N-oxide. Two nonencephalopathic patients had marked but transient glutaric or adipic aciduria during the second cycle of ifosfamide treatment. Urinary retinol-binding protein rose acutely after each treatment cycle but usually returned to baseline levels. Maximum renal toxicity was observed by the fourth treatment cycle. The ratio of the urinary excretion of the uroprotectant mesna (active form) to dimesna (inactive form) correlated with the degree of renal toxicity. For the encephalopathic patients, the ifosfamide-induced changes in the urinary low molecular weight metabolite profile were similar to those for the nonencephalopathic group. In contrast to previous reports, none of the encephalopathic group developed glutaric aciduria, and i.v. methylene blue did not reverse neurotoxicity in the two patients who received it. The results suggest that ifosfamide nephrotoxicity involves both cortical and medullary regions of the nephron and that the urinary mesna:dimesna ratio may be important in assessing the degree of cytoprotection. This study demonstrates that 1H NMR can provide novel biochemical information on ifosfamide-induced toxicity and will be of value in the optimization of ifosfamide therapy.
Trimodality therapy seems to be the best treatment for malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM). A large experience served to evaluate the efficacy of surgery followed by adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy. Trimodality therapy results have led us to test induction chemotherapy followed by EPP and adjuvant radiotherapy in stages I-III of MPM. The aim of our study was to evaluate the feasibility of this protocol and to estimate survival.
From 2000 to 2003, 21 patients with MPM (14 males and 7 females, median age 59 years) were enrolled in the prospective study. Induction chemotherapy consisted of Carboplatin (AUC 5mg/mL/min on Day 1) and Gemcitabine (1000mg/m(2) on Days 1, 8, 15) for three to four cycles. EPP was performed 3-5 weeks after induction therapy, while post-operative RT was given 4-6 weeks after operation.
Ten patients received three cycles of chemotherapy, 10 patients received four cycles and 1 patient had two cycles. Grades 3-4 haematological toxicity occurred in eight (38.1%) patients. Chemotherapy response rate was: complete 0%, partial 33.3% and stable disease 66.7%. Seventeen (80.9%) out of 21 patients underwent EPP with no intra or post-operative mortality with an overall major and minor morbidity rate at 52.4%. Median survival was 25.5 months, with an overall 1, 3 and 5-year survival rate of 71, 33 and 19%, respectively.
In MPM, the combined modality approach using the Carboplatin/Gemcitabine combination as induction chemotherapy is feasible, with good results in terms of survival and morbidity. Our results are similar to those of other studies using a heavier modality treatment.
Anabolic-androgenic steroids are synthetic derivatives of testosterone, which are increasingly abused by adolescent populations who also abuse psychoactive substances. All these compounds lead to complex behavioral syndromes and the effects of their interactions remain unclear. The main aim of the present study was to determine the influence of testosterone on the locomotor activity-promoting effect of cocaine on male mice in an open field. In the three experiments, animals received two injections: firstly, testosterone or peanut oil, and secondly, cocaine or saline solution. In Experiments 1 and 2, testosterone (or oil) and cocaine (or saline) were injected 45 and 10 min, respectively, prior to activity recording. In the first experiment, we studied the effects of testosterone (2 mg/kg) on locomotor activity induced by different doses of cocaine (2, 4, 8, 10 or 12 mg/kg). In Experiment 2, we explored the effects of supraphysiological doses of testosterone (2, 6, 10 or 14 mg/kg) on animals treated with 10 mg/kg cocaine. Finally, in the third experiment, 14 mg/kg testosterone or vehicle was administered 15, 30, 45 or 75 min before activity data collection to animals that received 10 mg/kg cocaine or saline. Testosterone itself had no effects on spontaneous locomotor activity and, as was expected, cocaine increased locomotor activity dose-dependently. Given together, testosterone enhanced the cocaine-induced hyperactivity although not dose-dependently, the highest effects being found 45 min after testosterone injection. The present study confirmed the existence of an interaction between testosterone and cocaine at the central nervous system.
To evaluate the expression of RAR-beta gene in cervical carcinoma cell lines SiHa, HeLa, C33A and Caski and to analyze the relation between their gene expression and the promoter methylation of RAR-beta DNA.
The expression of mRNA and protein of RAR-beta gene in the four cell lines were analyzed by RT-PCR, western blot and immunofluorescence, respectively. Methylation specific PCR (MSP) was used to check whether there was methylation in the promoter of RAR-beta gene. The demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-cdR) was used to treat methylated cell lines and the change of RAR-beta gene methylation and RAR-beta gene expression defects were observed. The cell proliferation was assayed with 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide method.
The mRNA and protein expression levels of RAR-beta in cell lines SiHa, HeLa, Caski and C33A were 0.25 +/- 0.08, 0, 0.60 +/- 0.19, 3.12 +/- 0.92 and 0.23 +/- 0.07, 0, 0.14 +/- 0.05, 0.68 +/- 0.21, respectively. The mRNA and protein expression of RAR-beta in SiHa, HeLa and Caski cell lines were decreased or silenced, whereas its expression increased in C33A cell line. MSP method showed that there were RAR-beta gene methylation in SiHa, HeLa and Caski cell lines, while there was no RAR-beta gene methylation in C33A cell line. After treated with 5-Aza-cdR, the mRNA and protein expression levels of RAR-beta in SiHa, HeLa, Caski and C33A cell lines were 1.82 +/- 0.59, 2.13 +/- 0.62, 1.67 +/- 0.43, 2.95 +/- 0.89 and 0.69 +/- 0.21, 0.83 +/- 0.29, 0.56 +/- 0.16, 0.64 +/- 0.20 respectively. The mRNA and protein levels of RAR-beta had a significant difference between before and after interference with 5-Aza-cdR in SiHa, HeLa, and Caski cell lines (P < 0.05). However, they had no significant difference between before and after interference with 5-Aza-cdR in C33A cell line (P > 0.05). The 5-Aza-cdR treatment could suppress cell proliferation.
The RAR-beta gene expression defects play an important role in the carcinogenesis of cervical cancer. Aberrant methylation in promotor region of RAR-beta gene may be an important mechanism for the loss of expression of RAR-beta gene.
L-Dopa induces dyskinesias during the treatment of Parkinson's disease and also in primates with nigrostriatal lesions produced by MPTP, but it is claimed that L-dopa does not provoke dyskinesia in humans or monkeys with an intact or mildly damaged nigrostriatal system.
This study assessed the behavioural and pharmacokinetic effects of chronic oral administration of L-dopa plus carbidopa alone, or with co-administration of the peripheral COMT inhibitor entacapone, to normal macaque monkeys. Repeated high dose L-dopa administration was shown to induce marked dyskinesias in monkeys with an intact nigrostriatal system, and the threshold for dyskinesia expression was increased by peripheral catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibition with entacapone.
Six groups of normal macaque monkeys (n=8 per group; Macaca fascicularis) were treated with L-dopa (20, 40 or 80 mg/kg) plus carbidopa (5, 10 or 20 mg/kg) with or without the catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor entacapone (20, 40 or 80 mg/kg), or with entacapone alone (80 mg/kg), by oral administration once daily for 13 weeks.
Eleven of 16 animals receiving high dose L-dopa (80 mg/kg plus carbidopa 20 mg/kg PO with or without entacapone 80 mg/kg PO for 13 weeks) gradually developed reproducible and idiosyncratic combinations of chorea, athetosis and dystonia maximal at 60-100 min after L-dopa administration, which progressively intensified over the course of the study. The dyskinesias observed were similar in type and distribution to L-dopa-induced dyskinesia observed in patients with Parkinson's disease and in MPTP-treated primates. The occurrence of dyskinesia correlated with plasma concentrations of L-dopa, with animals displaying the most severe dyskinesias having significantly higher plasma concentrations of L-dopa one hour after dosing than animals with mild or moderate dyskinesia or no dyskinesia. Co-administration of entacapone with L-dopa plus carbidopa significantly lowered peak plasma concentrations of L-dopa and this was reflected by a decrease in the severity of dyskinesias, with only one animal receiving entacapone and high dose L-dopa plus carbidopa showing severe dyskinesia, while four receiving high dose L-dopa plus carbidopa alone did so.
These results show for the first time that chronic oral L-dopa administration can provoke dyskinesias in primates independently of nigrostriatal damage, and that this effect is dose related.
DNA-reactive carcinogens and anticancer drugs induce many structurally distinct mutagenic and cytotoxic DNA lesions. The varying capability of normal and malignant cells to recognize and repair specific DNA lesions influences both cancer risk and the relative sensitivity or resistance of cancer cells towards cytotoxic agents. Using monoclonal antibody-based immunoanalytical assays, very low amounts of defined carcinogen-DNA adducts can be quantified in bulk genomic DNA, in individual genes, and in the nuclear DNA of single cells. DNA repair kinetics can, thus, be measured in a lesion-, gene-, and cell type-specific manner, and the DNA repair profiles of malignant cells can be monitored in individual patients. Even structurally very similar DNA lesions may be repaired with strongly differing efficiency. The miscoding DNA alkylation products O(6)-methylguanine and O(6)-ethylguanine, for example, differ only by one CH(2) group. These lesions are formed in DNA upon exposure to N-methyl-N-nitrosourea or N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea, both of which induce mammary adenocarcinomas in female rats at high yield. Unrepaired O(6)-alkylguanines in DNA cause G:C-->A:T transition mutations via mispairing during DNA replication. O(6)-methylguanines are repaired at a similar slow rate in both transcriptionally active (H-ras, beta-actin) and inactive genes (IgE heavy chain; bulk DNA) of the target mammary epithelia (which express the repair protein O(6)-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT) at a very low level). In contrast, O(6)-ethylguanines are repaired approximately 20 times faster than O(6)-methylguanines in both DNA strands of the transcribed genes selectively via an AGT-independent, as yet unclarified excision mechanism. Accordingly, G:C-->A:T transitions resulting from the misreplication of an O(6)-methylated guanine at the second position of codon 12 (GGA) of H-ras represent a frequent "signature" mutation in rat mammary adenocarcinomas that develop after exposure to N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. However, this mutation is not observed when these tumors are induced by N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea, due to the fast repair of O(6)-ethylguanines in the H-ras gene. The key importance of "conventional" and "conditional" gene knockout technology for resolving the intricacies of the complex network of DNA repair pathways is briefly discussed.
