Preliminary evidence suggests that a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), the val108/158met SNP, within the gene that codes for catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), a key enzyme involved in regulating dopamine (DA) transmission within the prefrontal cortex (PFC), is related to cognitive function in schizophrenia and cognitive improvement with atypical antipsychotic drugs (APDs). Specifically, several studies have identified an association between working memory and executive functions, and COMT val108/158met genotype in schizophrenia; although there have been several negative findings that are likely related to small sample sizes and, possibly, medication status of patients at the time of testing. The association between COMT val108/158met genotype, cognitive function, and cognitive improvement with clozapine was investigated in a relatively large prospective sample of patients with schizophrenia, most of whom were unmedicated at baseline. Patients were genotyped for the COMT val108/158met SNP after completing a cognitive battery consisting of tests of attention, working memory, verbal learning and memory, executive function, and verbal fluency at baseline and after 6 weeks and 6 months of treatment with clozapine. Consistent with several previous studies, an association between COMT genotype and tests of executive function and working memory was identified at baseline. In addition, a novel interaction between genotype and improvement on tests of attention and verbal fluency was identified. Specifically, met homozygous and val/met heterozygous patients demonstrated significantly greater improvement than val homozygous patients following 6 months of treatment with clozapine. The results are discussed in relation to previous cross-sectional studies and prospective investigations of the associations between COMT genotype, cognition, and cognitive improvement with atypical APDs in schizophrenia.
Dyslipidemia has been associated with hypertension. The present study explored if polymorphisms in genes encoding proteins in lipid metabolism could be used as predictors for the individual response to antihypertensive treatment.
Ten single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in genes related to lipid metabolism were analysed by a microarray based minisequencing system in DNA samples from ninety-seven hypertensive subjects randomised to treatment with either 150 mg of the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker irbesartan or 50 mg of the beta1-adrenergic receptor blocker atenolol for twelve weeks.
The reduction in blood pressure was similar in both treatment groups. The SNP C711T in the apolipoprotein B gene was associated with the blood pressure response to irbesartan with an average reduction of 19 mmHg in the individuals carrying the C-allele, but not to atenolol. The C16730T polymorphism in the low density lipoprotein receptor gene predicted the change in systolic blood pressure in the atenolol group with an average reduction of 14 mmHg in the individuals carrying the C-allele.
Polymorphisms in genes encoding proteins in the lipid metabolism are associated with the response to antihypertensive treatment in a drug specific pattern. These results highlight the potential use of pharmacogenetics as a guide for individualised antihypertensive treatment, and also the role of lipids in blood pressure control.
We report the clinical, MR imaging, and proton MR spectroscopy findings in a middle-aged woman with proved methadone-induced toxic leukoencephalopathy. The imaging characteristics of this unusual condition have been reported only rarely in the medical literature. We show that the imaging findings in methadone-induced toxic leukoencephalopathy are similar, though not identical, to previously reported cases of neurologic deterioration due to heroin inhalation.
To investigate the effect of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression on immune liver fibrosis induced by cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP) in rats.
An immune liver fibrosis model of rat was established by administering human serum albumin (HSA). The rats were divided into CoPP, liver fibrosis and normal control groups. Rats in the CoPP group received intraperitoneal CoPP concurrently with HSA. Expression of HO-1 protein was observed by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining was performed to assess fibrosis proliferation and distribution, proliferation extent of fibroblasts, and alterations in hepatocytes and inflammatory cells. Type I and III collagens were detected with Van Gieson's (VG) staining and Foot's reticular fiber staining, respectively. In addition, spindle-shaped cells existing at perisinusoidal locations beyond portal and septa areas were investigated with HE staining.
Western blotting and immunohistochemistry showed that the expression of HO-1 protein was higher in the CoPP group than in the liver fibrosis group (P < 0.05). Compared with the liver fibrosis group, the serological index of hepatic fibrosis in the CoPP group decreased significantly (P < 0.05). HE, VG and Foot's staining revealed that administration of CoPP reduced the extent of hepatic fibrosis. The levels of serological indicators and the number of spindle-shaped cells at perisinuous locations beyond the portal and septa areas were reduced in the CoPP group. Only a few inflammatory cells were seen around the portal areas and central veins in the CoPP group.
Increased endogenous HO-1 may suppress liver fibrosis by protecting liver cells, inhibiting inflammatory cell infiltration and hepatic stellate cell transformation.
Recently, an exogenous NADH-oxidase has been shown to be a source of oxygen derived toxic species in heart mitochondria. This enzyme uses NADH and oxygen to form superoxide radicals and hydrogen peroxide. Growing evidence suggests that oxygen radicals and hydrogen peroxide may contribute to cardiac damage during ischemia or hypoxia. The activity of the enzyme NADH-oxidase could play an important role in the damage caused by oxygen derived toxic species, especially since cellular defense mechanisms against free radicals are depleted under ischemic conditions. In this study, a cytochemical method was used to visualize hydrogen peroxide, the reaction product of NADH-oxidase activity, in normal and ischemic dog myocardium. The NADH-oxidase reaction product was present in weak amounts in mitochondria from normoxic myocardium. In viable ischemic areas a high degree of activity was observed in the mitochondria. In infarcted tissue mitochondria contained few or no reaction product at all. The results support the hypothesis that hydrogen peroxide and oxygen radicals produced in the mitochondria by a high NADH-oxidase activity may contribute to the mitochondrial damage observed during ischemia when NADH is no longer oxidized by the respiratory chain and cellular defense mechanisms are impaired.
We identified a marker in LINGO1 showing genome-wide significant association (P = 1.2 x 10(-9), odds ratio = 1.55) with essential tremor. LINGO1 has potent, negative regulatory influences on neuronal survival and is also important in regulating both central-nervous-system axon regeneration and oligodendrocyte maturation. Increased axon integrity observed in Lingo1 mouse [corrected] knockout models highlights the potential role of LINGO1 in the pathophysiology of ET [corrected]
The Clinical Effectiveness Group of the Medical Society for the Study of Venereal Diseases and the Association of Genitourinary Medicine published guidelines on the management of pelvic inflammatory disease in 1999. Subsequently, the use of ofloxacin has increased in our department. However, ofloxacin can cause serious psychiatric side effects, particularly in those with a past psychiatric history. This is of relevance to genitourinary medicine (GUM) physicians as there is a high prevalence of psychiatric illness amongst patients attending GUM clinics. We present two cases of ofloxacin causing severe psychiatric symptomatology, in one case causing an acute psychotic reaction. It is recommended a psychiatric history is taken prior to prescribing ofloxacin and that consideration is given to alternative therapy for those with previous psychiatric illness.
We report the discovery of a mutation in the THAP1 gene in three Amish-Mennonite families with mixed-onset primary torsion dystonia (also known as DYT6 dystonia). Another mutation in a German family with primary torsion dystonia suggests that THAP1 mutations also cause dystonia in other ancestry groups. We demonstrate that the missense mutation impairs DNA binding, suggesting that transcriptional dysregulation may contribute to the phenotype of DYT6 dystonia.
1. The aim of the present study was to determine the relationship between plasma concentrations of nitrite/nitrate (NO(x)) and endothelin (ET)-1 and non-invasive measures of peripheral vasodilator function in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). 2. Twenty-two patients with angiographic CAD underwent non-invasive measurement of peripheral vasodilator function in the brachial conduit artery (flow-mediated dilation (FMD) testing via ultrasound) and in the forearm resistance arteries (via venous occlusion plethysmography) during reactive hyperaemia after 5 min ischaemia. In addition, plasma NO(x) and ET-1 concentrations were determined. 3. The plasma concentration of NO(x) was related to the peak brachial FMD response when expressed as either the relative (%) or absolute (mm) change in diameter (r = 0.73, P < 0.001; and r = 0.64, P < 0.01, respectively). Moreover, plasma concentrations of NO(x) demonstrated a relationship with forearm vasodilation estimated by total forearm blood flow following 5 min ischaemia (r = 0.63, P < 0.01) and the flow debt repayment of the forearm (r = 0.54, P < 0.01). Finally, ET-1 concentrations were inversely related to FMD% (r = -0.45, P < 0.05). 4. The findings of the present study demonstrate a relationship between the plasma concentrations of NO(x) and measures of vascular reactivity in conduit and resistance arteries in patients with CAD. Therefore, measurement of plasma NO(x) may serve as a reliable marker for peripheral vasodilator dysfunction in patients with CAD.
Aristolochic acid I (AAI) is the major toxic component of aristolochic acid that causes aristolochic acid nephropathy and Balkan endemic nephropathy. Nitroreduction is an essential metabolic process for AAI rapid clearance in different species including humans. However, which enzyme participates in AAI nitroreduction in vivo and whether this metabolic process contributes to AAI nephrotoxicity are unclear. Here, we showed that NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) was highly expressed in mouse renal tubular epithelial cells. Inhibition of NQO1 activity by dicoumarol pretreatment significantly decreased renal aristolactam I (ALI) levels, a major reductive metabolite of AAI, whereas it increased renal AAI and its major oxidative metabolite 8-hydroxy-aristolochic acid I (AAIa) levels in male C57BL/6 mice. Similar changes in renal ALI, AAI, and AAIa levels were also observed in mice pretreated with another NQO1 inhibitor, phenindione. Consistent with higher levels of renal AAI and AAIa found in dicoumarol-pretreated mice, their serum clearance was much slower compared with vehicle-pretreated mice. The survival rate of mice pretreated with dicoumarol was markedly increased when higher doses of AAI were given. Similarly, pretreatment of mice with phenindione also attenuated AAI-induced nephrotoxicity. These results indicate that NQO1 plays an important role in renal AAI nitroreduction and may thus contribute to AAI-induced nephrotoxicity.
Full primitive streak stage chick embryos, cultured in vitro for 20 h in the presence of 10(-9) to 10(-7) moles of retinoic acid (retinol, all-trans), exhibit increasing extent of malformations. RA causes caudalization, suppression of telencephalon, formation of open and enlarged neural tube in the regions of midbrain, hindbrain and spinal cord, failure of fusion of heart tubes, and gives rise to winged or diffused, and even supernumerary somites. Extreme abnormalities include failure to form the head fold and foregut. Abnormal embryos were graded according to Rao and Chauhan (Teratology 4: 191-198, 1971), and we find that the larger the severity of malformation, the smaller the size of total cell population and blastoderm area. Concomitant to caudalization, retinoic acid suppresses the cell population growth.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that mediates the toxicity of a variety of environmental chemicals, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and dioxins. We hypothesized that polymorphisms of AHR may result in significant differences in sensitivity to toxic effects of PAHs or dioxins and contribute to susceptibility to male infertility. To address this possibility, we conducted a study including 580 idiopathic infertile subjects and 580 fertile controls to assess associations between the male infertility risk and six tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms of AHR gene. Additionally, correlations between AHR polymorphisms and sperm concentration, levels of DNA fragmentation, and benzo(a)pyrene diolepoxide (BPDE)-DNA adducts in sperm were determined in 420 patients. Genotypes were determined using the ABI OpenArray platform. Sperm DNA fragmentation was evaluated by terminal deoxyribonucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUDP nick-end labelling (TUNEL) assay, and sperm BPDE-DNA adducts were measured by immunofluorescent assay using flow cytometry. We found that the G variant of rs2158041 was associated with significantly increased risk of male infertility (adjusted odds ratio 1.53, 95% confidence interval 1.21-1.93; p = 6.0 x 10⁻⁶; GA/AA vs. GG genotypes). Furthermore, patients with rs2158041 AA genotype showed a reduced sperm concentration. In addition, a gradual increase of sperm DNA fragmentation and sperm BPDE-DNA adducts was found among the three rs2158041 subgroups (GG → GA → AA), though the differences were not statistically significant. These results suggested that the AHR polymorphism might be associated with individual risk of male infertility in the Chinese population study.
Cocaine is a widely abused psychostimulant that has both rewarding and aversive properties. While the mechanisms underlying cocaine's rewarding effects have been studied extensively, less attention has been paid to the unpleasant behavioral states induced by cocaine, such as anxiety.
In this study, we evaluated the performance of dopamine beta-hydroxylase knockout (Dbh -/-) mice, which lack norepinephrine (NE), in the elevated plus maze (EPM) to examine the contribution of noradrenergic signaling to cocaine-induced anxiety.
We found that cocaine dose-dependently increased anxiety-like behavior in control (Dbh +/-) mice, as measured by a decrease in open arm exploration. The Dbh -/- mice had normal baseline performance in the EPM but were completely resistant to the anxiogenic effects of cocaine. Cocaine-induced anxiety was also attenuated in Dbh +/- mice following administration of disulfiram, a dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) inhibitor. In experiments using specific adrenergic antagonists, we found that pretreatment with the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol blocked cocaine-induced anxiety-like behavior in Dbh +/- and wild-type C57BL6/J mice, while the alpha(1) antagonist prazosin and the alpha(2) antagonist yohimbine had no effect.
These results indicate that noradrenergic signaling via beta-adrenergic receptors is required for cocaine-induced anxiety in mice.
Variability in risk of developmental defects caused by dioxin-like compounds (DLCs) has been demonstrated within and among several vertebrate species. Beyond our knowledge of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and its role in mediating toxicity for this class of compounds, little else is known concerning precise downstream targets influencing this vulnerability. In the present study, zebrafish with divergent genetic backgrounds were screened for susceptibility to developmental cardiotoxicity caused by the prototypical DLC, 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126); a range up to ∼40-fold differences was observed. Differentially sensitive zebrafish were chosen for a genetic cross, and the recombinant generation was used for genome-wide quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping. Multiple QTLs were identified--several acting alone, one additively, and two others via epistatic interaction. Together, these QTLs account for 24% of the phenotypic variance observed in cardioteratogenicity resulting from PCB126 exposure (logarithm of the odds = 13.55, p = 1.89 × 10⁻¹⁰). Candidate genes in these QTL regions include the following: ahr2, bcor, and capn1 (Chr 22); e2f1 and pdyn (Chr 23); ctnnt2, plcg1, eno3, tgm1, and tgm2 (interacting on Chr 23); and vezf1 (Chr 15). These data demonstrate that DLC-induced cardiac teratogenicity is a multifactorial complex trait influenced by gene × gene and gene × environment interactions. The identified QTLs harbor many DLC-responsive genes critical to cardiovascular development and provide insight into the genetic basis of susceptibility to AHR-mediated developmental toxicity.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the trends in complete remission (CR) rate, disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival (OS) through 35 years of Grupo Argentino de Tratamiento de la Leucemia Aguda (GATLA) clinical trials. A total of 1,254 adult patients with Hodgkin's Lymphoma were evaluated according to seven consecutive protocols. This 35-year study was divided into three phases. The patients in the first phase (1968-1985) were treated with CVPP (cyclophosphamide/vinblastine/procarbazine/prednisone) plus involved-field radiotherapy (IFRT). In the CVPP regimen, cyclophosphamide and vinblastine were administered intravenously on day 1 and prednisone and procarbazine were administered orally on days 1-14 every 28 days. The second phase (1986-1996) used mainly reinforced CVPP with cyclophosphamide and vinblastine on days 1-8 plus IFRT. The third phase (1997-2003) used ABVD(doxorubicin/bleomycin/vinblastine/dacarbazine) plus IFRT. In clinical stage I/II, the CR rate was 86% in 252 patients treated in the first phase and DFS and OS were 57% and 78% at 5 years and 50% and 71% at 10 years. The second phase had 148 patients with clinical stage I/II disease, and the CR rate was 91%, 5-year DFS and OS were 78% and 90%, and 10-year DFS and OS were 70% and 83%. The third phase had 182 patients with clinical stage I/II disease, and the CR rate was 95%, 5-year DFS and OS were 87% and 96%, and 10-year DFS and OS were not reached. The statistical difference was P = 0.016 in terms of CR and P < 0.001 in terms of DFS and OS. In the first phase of 394 patients with clinical stage III/IV disease, the CR rate was 71%, DFS and OS at 5 years were 37% and 62%, and DFS and OS at 10 years were 32% and 53%. In the second phase of 164 patients with clinical stage III/IV disease, the CR rate was 84%, DFS and OS at 5 years were 66% and 80%, and DFS and OS at 10 years were 60% and 75%. In the third phase of 114 patients with clinical stage III/IV disease, the CR rate was 88% and DFS and OS at 5 years were 60% and 90%. The DFS and OS were not reached at 10 years. The differences among the 3 phases in CR, DFS and OS were highly significant (P < 0.001).
The objective of the present study was to investigate the effect of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), a polyunsaturated fatty acid (omega-3), on levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) in parkinsonian 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys.
We explored the effect of DHA in two paradigms. First, a group of MPTP monkeys was primed with levodopa for several months before introducing DHA. A second group of MPTP monkeys (de novo) was exposed to DHA before levodopa therapy.
DHA administration reduced LIDs in both paradigms without alteration of the anti-parkinsonian effect of levodopa indicating that DHA can reduce the severity or delay the development of LIDs in a nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.
These results suggest that DHA can reduce the severity or delay the development of LIDs in a nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease. DHA may represent a new approach to improve the quality of life of Parkinson's disease patients.
Promoting activities of sodium phenobarbital (PB) and sodium saccharin (SS), incorporated in a semisynthetic diet (AIN-76A), on 2-stage carcinogenesis initiated with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) or N,N-dibutylnitrosamine (DBN) in male F344 rats were investigated. For the first 4 weeks of the experiment, weanling male Fischer rats were fed Wayne diet containing 0.2% FANFT or drinking water containing 0.005% DBN. The control rats were given the basal diet and normal drinking water. Beginning at the fifth week, the rats were given the AIN-76A diet or this diet containing 0.05 or 0.15% PB or 5% SS. The experiment was terminated at the end of 100 weeks. PB significantly increased the incidence of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder of the rats that had been treated with FANFT (P = 0.027). PB also increased the incidence of bladder carcinoma of the rats that had been treated with DBN, but the increase was not significant (P = 0.081). SS in the AIN-76A diet increased the incidence of bladder carcinoma in the rats which had been treated with FANFT or DBN, but the increase was not significant (P = 0.059 and 0.327, respectively). Both high and low doses of PB, but not SS, significantly increased the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in the rats that had been treated with DBN. None of the control rats that had been fed the basal diet or the basal diet containing low or high PB or 5% SS developed either bladder or liver carcinoma. These results demonstrate that PB promotes urinary bladder carcinogenesis of rats initiated with FANFT but not with DBN. In contrast to incorporation in commercial rat chows, SS incorporated in the AIN-76A diet is very weak in promoting bladder carcinogenesis. On the other hand, PB, but not SS, promotes hepatocarcinogenesis initiated with DBN. Neither PB nor SS promoted DBN-induced carcinogenesis of esophagus or forestomach.
Myocardial ischemia results in altered left ventricular (LV) diastolic compliance, reflected by an abnormal mitral inflow pattern on Doppler echocardiography. To investigate the relationship of Doppler echocardiography and regional myocardial systolic function during dipyridamole infusion, we evaluated transmitral flow changes detected by pulsed Doppler technique during a high-dose dipyridamole echocardiography test (DET, two-dimensional echo monitoring with dipyridamole infusion, up to 0.84 mg/kg over 10 min). The DET response produced two groups: group 1 (34 patients) with negative DET, and group 2 (35 patients) with positive DET, defined as the development of a newly onset LV regional asynergy. The E/A values overlapped at baseline (1.07 +/- .32 vs .92 +/- .22; p = NS) but differed at peak changes (.92 +/- .26 vs. 75 +/- .25; p less than .01). Heart rate changes could not account for the observed Doppler changes, since the values of R-R interval were similar in the groups, both basally (.927 +/- .226 vs .867 +/- .143 s; p = NS) and at peak dipyridamole (.754 +/- .100 vs. 681 +/- .112; p = NS). Transient myocardial ischemia induced by dipyridamole administration is accompanied by changes in transmitral flow, which consist of an increase in the relative atrial contribution to LV filling, possibly owing to an acute impairment in LV relaxation.
A patient developed neurotoxicity after 2 years of treatment with a lithium-chlorpromazine combination. Symptoms consisted of confusion, extrapyramidal symptoms, and slow-wave EEG disturbances. The lithium ratio (red cell/plasma lithium) was consistently low. The possible mechanisms of this interaction are considered.
Dental enamel forms through the concerted activities of specialized extracellular matrix proteins, including amelogenin, enamelin, MMP20, and KLK4. Defects in the genes encoding these proteins cause non-syndromic inherited enamel malformations collectively designated as amelogenesis imperfecta (AI). These genes, however, account for only about a quarter of all AI cases. Recently we identified mutations in FAM83H that caused autosomal dominant hypocalcified amelogenesis imperfecta (ADHCAI). Unlike other genes that cause AI, FAM83 H does not encode an extracellular matrix protein. Its location inside the cell is completely unknown, as is its function. We here report novel FAM83H mutations in four kindreds with ADHCAI. All are nonsense mutations in the last exon (c.1243G>T, p.E415X; c.891T>A, p.Y297X; c.1380G>A, p.W460X; and c.2029C>T, p.Q677X). These mutations delete between 503 and 883 amino acids from the C-terminus of a protein normally comprised of 1179 residues. The reason these mutations cause such extreme defects in the enamel layer without affecting other parts of the body is not known yet. However it seems evident that the large C-terminal part of the protein is essential for proper enamel calcification.
The increased bronchial production of leukotriene C4 (LTC4) in asthma is assumed to derive from infiltrating eosinophils expressing LTC4-synthase (LTC4S). Multicolor immunohistofluorescence examination of bronchial cryosections from 30 treated, untreated, or bronchial antigen-provoked aspirin-tolerant individuals with asthma and nine control subjects revealed that the dominating LTC4S-expressing cells were mast cells (> 80%), and not eosinophils. Whereas 95% of the mast cells expressed high levels of LTC4S, only 8-27% of the eosinophils expressed low levels. Image analysis revealed a significantly higher LTC4S expression levels in mast cells than in eosinophils. The bronchial mRNA levels for LTC4S did not correlate with the densities of LTC4S-positive eosinophils or mast cells. Treated individuals with asthma with more than 12% reversibility had significantly higher density of LTC4S-positive mast cells than those with less reversibility, and it correlated significantly with reduction in lung function (FEV1-predicted), both before and after salbutamol inhalation. Thus, mucosal mast cells, and not eosinophils, were the dominating LTC4S-containing cells in both untreated and treated aspirin-tolerant asthma. The density of LTC4S-positive mast cells correlated, moreover, with both the reduction in lung function and the degree of reversibility in treated asthma.
Fetal growth restriction (FGR) describes newborns that were born small for gestational age. The etiology of FGR is unknown, but it is assumed that it is the consequences of both genetic and environmental factors, and that one of the important environmental factors is oxidative stress. In this study we used the Cohen diabetic (CD) rats (sensitive and resistant strains) and the original Sabra strain fed either high sucrose low copper diet-HSD or regular diet-RD to evaluate the genetic and environmental factors contributing to FGR. In addition, we treated the pregnant rats with antioxidants (vitamins C and E added to their food) to evaluate the effects of antioxidants in the prevention of FGR and in changing the redox state of the fetuses.
The study was performed on term 21-day-old fetuses of the three strains fed RD or HSD. Fetal and placental weight and fetal crown rump length were measured. Heart, kidneys, brain and liver were also weighted and studied. The fetal and placental redox status was investigated by studying the levels of Malondialdehyde (MDA) to determine the lipid peroxidation damage and by measuring the activity of catalase (CAT) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) enzymes. Similar studies were performed following the addition of 0.1% of vitamins C and E to the diet.
FGR in the Cohen diabetic rats is a consequence of genetic (6-20% reduction in fetal weight in the CDr and CDs compared to Sabra) and environmental (11-36% reduction in fetal weight while on HSD) factors, with greater susceptibility in the CDs diabetic rats. Increased lipid peroxidation was observed in some of the organs only in HSD, however not only in the sensitive strain. In each organ, different patterns of anti oxidant capacity were observed. The addition of antioxidants to the food significantly reduced the signs of enhanced oxidative stress in all animals but partially restored normal fetal growth only in the diabetic CDs rats. This may imply that in this model oxidative stress is apparently not a major contributor to FGR.
Cohen diabetic rats are a good model for the study of the interaction of genetic and environmental factors in the development of FGR. Maternal nutrition can influence the antioxidant capacity of the fetal organs which is modified by antioxidants. However, FGR in our model does not seem to result primarily from enhanced oxidative stress, as it is only partially affected by the antioxidant treatment. Thus, the repeated observations of oxidative stress in SGA infants may be a resulting metabolic alteration of FGR and not the main cause.
Co-administration of uracil and N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) to weanling female Fischer rats produced uracil stones in the bladder and significantly reduced the incidence of bladder tumors. Contrary to bladder tumors, the incidence of renal pelvic and ureteric tumors was increased by this regimen. Feeding of uracil alone produced bladder tumors, in addition to the hyperplasia of renal pelvis, ureter and bladder. The mechanism of uracil's effect on FANFT carcinogenesis is not known.
Puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis is a well-described model of human idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, but the mechanism of PAN's effect is not completely understood. Because PAN injection into rats results in retraction of glomerular epithelial cell foot processes and glomerular epithelial cell detachment, it was hypothesized that PAN might alter the contacts between these cells and the glomerular basement membrane. The major integrin expressed by glomerular epithelial cells is alpha3beta1, which mediates attachment of these cells to extracellular matrix proteins including type IV collagen. T-SV 40 immortalized human glomerular epithelial cells were used to study PAN's effects on alpha3beta1 expression, as well as that of podocalyxin and the slit diaphragm component ZO-1. Glomerular epithelial cells were seeded into plastic flasks and allowed to attach and proliferate for 48 h. The cells were then incubated for another 48 h in media containing 0, 0.5, or 5.0 microg/ml PAN. PAN exposure resulted in dose-dependent decreases in alpha3 and beta1 expression, both at the protein level and at the mRNA level. This was accompanied by a significant decrease in the adhesion of glomerular epithelial cells to type IV collagen. PAN did not affect ZO-1 protein expression. Treatment with PAN increased the expression of podocalyxin at the protein and mRNA levels. Reduced glomerular epithelial cell expression of alpha3beta1 integrins and impaired adhesion to type IV collagen may contribute to the glomerular epithelial cell detachment from glomerular basement membrane seen in the PAN nephrosis model.
