Examine the level of intra- and inter-limb coherency in non-dyskinetic and dyskinetic patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
Using a magnetic tracking system, whole-body 3D movements were assessed in 10 dyskinetic patients with clear monophasic peak-dose levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID), in 10 non-dyskinetic patients and in 10 control subjects, standing with their arms out. Patients were tested during their best ON period. Coherency in the kinematics of pairs of body segments was assessed by spectral analysis. For each pair examined, we calculated the highest coherency between 0.5 and 3.0Hz and the frequency at which this maximum coherency occurred.
Analysis of variance showed that for 34 out of the 44 (77.3%) comparisons we studied, there were significant differences between the means of coherencies of the groups. Typically, the control group had the highest coherency and the patients with LID had the lowest. Patients with LID also tended to have their maximum coherency at higher frequencies than the control and non-dyskinetic patient groups (30 out of 44 comparisons were significant). These trends appeared in all types of inter-segment comparisons, including bilaterally symmetric segments, biomechanically linked segments (in which coherencies were higher overall in all groups, but still different between groups) and in other comparisons, but the trends were not so clear for comparisons involving the feet.
LID is indeed incoherent in the frequency domain, suggesting that body segments may be driven by different neural outputs. The challenges of dealing with these incoherent involuntary movements when planning and executing voluntary movements must certainly play a role in motor difficulties observed in patients with LID. The fact that both dyskinetic and non-dyskinetic patients showed less coherency than controls suggests that levodopa may alter postural control by decreasing stiffness and increasing limb independence.
A case of severe hypertension during labor after Naloxone injection is described in a patient with previous mild hypertension. The interaction of andogenous opioids and opiate antagonists, and their role in the control of blood pressure is discussed. Opiate antagonists should be given with caution to obstetric patients with mild to moderate hypertension.
To examine the relation between antipsychotic drugs and myocarditis and cardiomyopathy.
Data mining using bayesian statistics implemented in a neural network architecture.
International database on adverse drug reactions run by the World Health Organization programme for international drug monitoring.
Reports mentioning antipsychotic drugs, cardiomyopathy, or myocarditis.
A strong signal existed for an association between clozapine and cardiomyopathy and myocarditis. An association was also seen with other antipsychotics as a group. The association was based on sufficient cases with adequate documentation and apparent lack of confounding to constitute a signal. Associations between myocarditis or cardiomyopathy and lithium, chlorpromazine, fluphenazine, haloperidol, and risperidone need further investigation.
Some antipsychotic drugs seem to be linked to cardiomyopathy and myocarditis. The study shows the potential of bayesian neural networks in analysing data on drug safety.
We hypothesized that abnormal fetal lung growth in experimental congenital diaphragmatic hernia after maternal nitrofen exposure alters lung structure due to impaired VEGF signaling, which can be reversed with VEGF or nitric oxide (NO) treatment. Timed-pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with nitrofen on embryonic day 9 (E9), and fetal lungs were harvested for explant culture on E15. Explants were maintained in 3% O2 for 3 days and were treated with NO gas or recombinant human VEGF protein for 3 days. To determine the effects of VEGF inhibition on lung structure, normal fetal lung explants were treated with SU-5416, a VEGF receptor inhibitor, with or without exogenous NO or VEGF. We found that nitrofen treatment impaired lung structure, as evidenced by decreased branching at day 0, but lung structure was not different from controls after 3 days in culture. Nitrofen reduced lung VEGF but not endothelial NO synthase protein level. Treatment with NO enhanced lung growth in control and nitrofen-exposed lungs; however, the response to NO in the nitrofen-treated lungs was reduced when compared with controls. VEGF treatment did not cause a further increase in lung complexity after nitrofen exposure. SU-5416 treatment altered lung structure, which improved with NO but not VEGF treatment. Both nitrofen and SU-5416 treatment increased apoptosis in the mesenchyme of fetal lung explants. We conclude that nitrofen exposure increased apoptosis, decreased lung growth and reduced VEGF expression, and that exogenous NO but not VEGF treatment enhances lung growth. Disruption of lung architecture after VEGF receptor blockade was similar to nitrofen-induced changes but was more responsive to NO.
Tamoxifen is being used successfully in breast cancer patients as adjuvant hormonal therapy. The aim of this retrospective cohort study is to evaluate the impact of tamoxifen on gallstone formation in postmenopausal breast cancer patients. A total of 3165 patients who were treated for invasive breast cancer between 1990 and 1997 were reviewed. The data were collected from four university hospitals in a population-based registry. Among these patients, 2462 were excluded from the study owing to improper follow-up and other reasons. Premenopausal patients were also excluded. Of the 703 patients included in the study, 457 had received adjuvant therapy including tamoxifen, and the other 246 had not. Gallstone formation was assessed by annual abdominal ultrasonography. The mean follow-up period was 4.6 years (range 1-7 years). There were no significant differences between the groups of breast cancer patients treated with or without tamoxifen regarding the age of the patients at the time of breast cancer diagnosis, the age at menopause, the duration between the onset of menopause and the time the breast cancer was diagnosed, the presence of diabetes, and the body mass index. At the end of 5 years the incidence of gallstone formation in tamoxifen-treated patients was 37.4%, whereas it was 2.0% in patients who did not receive tamoxifen ( p < 0.0001). The incidences of gallstones being detected in 171 tamoxifen-treated patients were 0.4%, 3.7%, 24.4%, 33.1%, and 37.4% cumulatively during the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth years, respectively. Hence adjuvant tamoxifen therapy leads to gallstone formation in postmenopausal breast cancer patients and is most apparent after 3 years of treatment.
The authors present a case of proximal myopathy secondary to epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) administration. This well recognized entity does not occur immediately after institution of therapy, but follows a delay of several days and a cumulative dose. Its consequences include a spectrum of symptoms from myalgias to severe myopathy with rhabdomyolysis, myoglobinuria, and acute tubular necrosis. A presenting symptom of calf pain in a patient receiving EACA should not automatically imply deep vein thrombosis. Serial creatine phosphokinase measurements are essential in monitoring a patient undergoing EACA therapy, especially after 2 weeks of treatment and a total dose of greater than 500 gm.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate immunomodulator ginsan, a polysaccharide extracted from Panax ginseng, on carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced liver injury. BALB/c mice were injected i.p. with ginsan 24 h prior to CCl(4) administration. Serum liver enzyme levels, histology, expression of antioxidant enzymes, and several cytokines/chemokines were subsequently evaluated. Ginsan treatment markedly suppressed the serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels, and hepatic histological necrosis increased by CCl(4) treatment. Ginsan inhibited CCl(4) induced lipid peroxidation through the cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) downregulation. The hepatoprotective effect of ginsan was attributed to induction of anti-oxidant protein contents, such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) as well as restoration of the hepatic glutathione (GSH) concentration. The marked increase of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IFN-gamma) and chemokines (MCP-1, MIP-2beta, KC) in CCl(4) treated mice was additionally attenuated by ginsan, thereby preventing leukocyte infiltration and local inflammation. Our results suggest that ginsan effectively prevent liver injury, mainly through downregulation of oxidative stress and inflammatory response.
Ethanolic extract of Hydrastis canadensis has been tested for its possible anti-cancer potentials against p-dimethylaminoazobenzene (p-DAB) induced hepatocarcinogenesis in mice. Mice were chronically fed p-dimethylaminoazobenzene (p-DAB) and phenobarbital (PB), two hepato-carcinogens for 1, 2, 3 and 4 months, respectively, and were divided into sub-groups: i) fed normal low protein diet (Gr. I, normal control); ii) fed diet mixed with 0.06% p-DAB at a daily dose of 165 mg/kg b.w. per mouse plus 0.05% PB plus 0.06 ml 90% alcohol (vehicle of the crude extract) (Gr. II, carcinogen treated); iii) fed diet mixed with p-DAB and PB at the same daily dose plus crude extract of Hydrastis canadensis (Gr. III, drug treated). Several biochemical parameters like acid and alkaline phosphatases, alanine amino-, aspartate amino-, and gamma glutamyl-transferases, lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione content, lactate dehydrogenase, catalase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activities and electron microscopy of liver in different groups of treated and control mice were studied. A critical analysis of results of these studies suggested anti-cancer potentials of the drug suitable for use as a supportive complementary medicine in liver cancer.
Various epidemiological studies have shown that obesity increases the risk of liver disease, but the precise mechanisms through which this occurs are poorly understood. In the present study, we hypothesized that osteopontin (OPN), an extracellular matrix and proinflammatory cytokine, has an important role in making obese mice more susceptible to inflammatory liver injury. After exposure of genetically obese ob/ob and db/db mice to a single dose of d-galactosamine (GalN), the plasma liver enzyme levels, histology and expression levels of cytokines and OPN were evaluated. The ob/ob and db/db mice, which were more sensitive to GalN-induced inflammatory liver injury compared with wild-type mice, had significantly higher plasma and hepatic OPN expression levels. Increased OPN expression was mainly found in hepatocytes and inflammatory cells and was correlated with markedly up-regulated interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-18 levels. Furthermore, pretreatment with a neutralizing OPN (nOPN) antibody attenuated the GalN-induced inflammatory liver injury in ob/ob and db/db mice, which was accompanied by significantly reduced macrophages recruitment and IL-12 and IL-18 productions. Taken together, these results suggest that up-regulated OPN expression is a contributing factor to increased susceptibility of genetically obese mice to GalN-induced liver injury by promoting inflammation and modulating immune response.
Authors evaluated the safety of intramuscular ziprasidone for use in acute agitation in an elderly population.
Medical records were reviewed retrospectively to identify consecutive patients who were admitted to our neuropsychiatry service with the presenting complaint of dementia (DSM-IV) with agitation and who were given intramuscular ziprasidone and then administered an electrocardiogram (ECG) (N = 23). Some patients also had a baseline ECG (N = 14). QTc intervals were recorded, and significance was defined as a QTc of > or =450 ms or a 10% prolongation from baseline. A paired-samples t test was performed to compare the baseline and postmedication QTc intervals. Confounding factors were examined, and cardiac events (torsades de pointes, cardiac arrest) were recorded.
There was no significant difference in the QTc interval between the baseline and the post-ziprasidone values. One patient had a QTc greater than 500 ms and 25% over baseline, and therefore the medication was discontinued. The mean prolongation of the QTc interval was only 0.5 ms. There were no episodes of torsades de pointes. Other medications that the patients were taking did not appear to affect the QTc interval in an expected manner.
Larger studies need to be done to evaluate the safety of intramuscular ziprasidone in agitated elderly patients, a population with an increased risk of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes because of their age, comorbid conditions, and concomitant use of multiple medications.
We studied effects of bretylium tosylate (6 mg X kg-1, injected intravenously over 60s) on ventricular refractoriness and its inhomogeneity, and ventricular fibrillation threshold (VFT) in canine hearts with quinidine-induced long QT interval. In 3 anaesthetised open chest dogs, 30 mg X kg-1 of quinidine sulphate was injected intravenously over 5 min to produce QT prolongation. Effective refractory period (ERP) was determined at 8 test points of the right ventricle using extrastimuli. Temporal dispersion as an expression of inhomogeneity of ventricular refractoriness was estimated as the difference between the longest and the shortest ERP. VFT was determined using a train of pulses, 4 ms in duration and at 10 ms intervals. Effects of bretylium were determined from 30 to 60 min after injection. Quinidine-induced long QT interval did not change after bretylium (358 +/- 37 vs 348 +/- 26 ms) when transiently elevated blood pressure returned to the pre-bretylium level. Bretylium shortened ERP slightly (278 +/- 16 vs 268 +/- 14 ms, p less than 0.02) but did not shorten ERP after premature depolarisation (209 +/- 14 vs 209 +/- 15). However, temporal dispersion was significantly decreased by bretylium. VFT, which was lowered by quinidine (14.5 +/- 5.0 vs 8.5 +/- 2.9 mA, p less than 0.01), was elevated significantly by bretylium (21.9 +/- 6.9, p less than 0.001). These effects of bretylium might be attributed to the combination of its direct electrophysiology and indirect adrenergic actions.
This is the third case, reported in the literature, of transient cortical blindness that occurred during treatment of testicular carcinoma with cisplatinum, vinblastine and bleomycin. The presence of transiently pathological computerized tomography and brain scan suggests that this alarming event may not only be a toxic side effect of chemotherapy, but also a symptom related to eradicable subclinical metastases.
Exposure to tobacco smoke as well as environmental and occupational factors is the major cause of lung cancer. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the major histological type. Genes in pathways affecting inflammation, cellular stress and apoptosis are important, and the extent of inflammation in the lung could be affected by polymorphisms modifying these responses. In the present study we have investigated whether a combination of potential functional polymorphisms in genes related to inflammation may modulate risk of NSCLC. Eleven functional polymorphisms in nine genes were analyzed for association with risk of NSCLC in 882 subjects from the Norwegian population. The results showed that individuals carrying combination of three functional polymorphisms in the caspase-8, matrix metalloproteinase-1, seleno-protein S1, and interleukin-10 genes had two-fold increased risk of NSCLC (OR 2.06 (95% CI, 1.19-3.47) whereas individuals with four risk genotypes had 4.62-fold increased risk (OR 4.62, 95% CI, 1.69-12.63). These results highlight the need to investigate the combinatory effects of multiple SNPs in the carcinogenesis of the lung.
The corpus luteum (CL) plays a central role in the maintenance of pregnancy in rodents, mainly by secreting progesterone. Female mice lacking prolactin (PRL) receptor (R) are sterile due to a failure of embryo implantation, which is a consequence of decreased luteinizing hormone (LH) receptor expression in the CL and inadequate levels of progesterone. We attempted to treat PRLR(-/-) females with human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) and showed a de novo expression of LHR mRNA in the corpora lutea. Binding analysis confirmed that the LHR in hCG-treated PRLR(-/-) animals was functional. This was accompanied with increased expression of steroidogenic enzymes involved in progesterone synthesis. Despite these effects, no embryo implantation was observed because of high expression of 20alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. To better appreciate the molecular mechanisms underlying maintenance of the CL, a series of mRNA expression-profiling experiments was performed on isolated corpora lutea of PRLR(-/-) and hCG-treated PRLR(-/-) mice. This approach revealed several novel candidate genes with potentially pivotal roles in ovarian function, among them, p27, VE-cadherin, Pten, and sFRP-4, a member of the Wnt/frizzled family. This study showed the differential role of PRL and LH in CL function and identified new targets of these hormones in luteal cells.
Two patients with intractable epilepsy who had been treated with various combinations of anticonvulsant drugs developed phenytoin encephalopathy. In both patients choreo-athetoid involuntary movements were prominent. Blood phenytoin concentrations were above 30 mug/ml. When phenytoin was given in smaller doses and its level in the blood fell the involuntary movements and other clinical manifestations disappeared.
Type I IFNs (IFN-alpha/beta) have shown significant antitumor activity in preclinical models but limited efficacy and significant toxicity in clinical trials. We hypothesized that the antitumor activity of type I IFNs could be enhanced by chronic, low-dose systemic delivery and sought to test this in murine neuroblastoma models.
Continuous liver-generated expression of human IFN-beta (hINF-beta) was achieved through a gene therapy-mediated approach using adeno-associated virus vectors encoding hIFN-beta (AAV hINF-beta). Orthotopic localized retroperitoneal and disseminated models of neuroblastoma were established using three different xenografts. Immunohistochemical analysis and ELISA were used to evaluate the antiangiogenic effect of therapy.
The development of both localized orthotopic (retroperitoneal) and disseminated neuroblastoma was prevented in all mice expressing hINF-beta. Continued growth of established retroperitoneal tumors, treated with AAV hINF-beta as monotherapy, was significantly restricted, and survival for mice with established, disseminated disease was significantly prolonged following administration of AAV hINF-beta. Analysis of treated tumors revealed a significant antiangiogenic effect. Mean intratumoral vessel density was diminished and expression of the angiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor were both decreased. Finally, combination therapy in which AAV hIFN-beta was used together with low-dose cyclophosphamide resulted in regression of both established retroperitoneal and disseminated disease.
AAV-mediated delivery of hIFN-beta when used as monotherapy was able to restrict neuroblastoma growth due in part to inhibition of angiogenesis. When used in combination with conventional chemotherapy, AAV hIFN-beta was able to effect complete tumor regression.
The possible role of folate supplementation in reducing hyperhomocysteinemia in dialysis patients has been reported in several recent papers. However, scant data are available for peritoneal dialysis patients; besides, none of these studies investigated either the role of intraerythrocyte folate concentration or the presence of side effects caused by folate administration. Sixty-six peritoneal dialysis patients with hyperhomocysteinemia (>15 micromol/l) and normal folate status (as assessed by erythrocyte folate level >600 nmol/l) were randomly allocated to receive either oral folate (5 mg/day) or no vitamin supplementation. After 2 months of therapy, patients were requested to answer a questionnaire investigating the occurrence of symptoms possibly related to folate supplementation. Twenty-nine treated patients and 30 untreated controls completed the study. In the treated patients, serum and erythrocyte folate increased significantly (p < 0.0001) (respectively from 10.6 +/- 4.9 to 237 +/- 231 nmol/l and from 1,201 +/- 297 to 2,881 +/- 294 nmol/l) to levels at the uppermost limit of detection by laboratory methods. Serum vitamin B(12) levels did not change. Plasma homocysteine levels decreased from 54 +/- 32 to 23 +/- 14 micromol/l after folate supplementation and remained unchanged in the control group. After 4 months of folate therapy, homocysteine concentration was within the normal range in 5 patients (17%) and below 30 micromol/l in the other 21 (72%). Folate therapy resulted in a decrease in homocysteine of more than 50% in 45% of the patients and decrease of more than 20% in a further 38%. No significant symptoms were reported. Thus, serum and erythrocyte folate increase confirms that normal folate levels are inadequate in dialysis patients, even if serum and erythrocyte levels before folate supplementation cannot predict the effect on homocysteine plasma levels.
Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) is required for the recognition of numerous molecular components of bacteria, fungi and protozoa. The breadth of the ligand repertoire seems unusual, even if one considers that TLR2 may form heteromers with TLRs 1 and 6 (ref. 12), and it is likely that additional proteins serve as adapters for TLR2 activation. Here we show that an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced nonsense mutation of Cd36 (oblivious) causes a recessive immunodeficiency phenotype in which macrophages are insensitive to the R-enantiomer of MALP-2 (a diacylated bacterial lipopeptide) and to lipoteichoic acid. Homozygous mice are hypersusceptible to Staphylococcus aureus infection. Cd36(obl) macrophages readily detect S-MALP-2, PAM(2)CSK(4), PAM(3)CSK(4) and zymosan, revealing that some--but not all--TLR2 ligands are dependent on CD36. Already known as a receptor for endogenous molecules, CD36 is also a selective and nonredundant sensor of microbial diacylglycerides that signal via the TLR2/6 heterodimer.
To report the results of repeated electrophysiological and visual field examinations in patients with vigabatrin-associated visual field loss (VGB-VFL) and the relationship between these electrophysiological findings, the cumulative dose of vigabatrin and the extent of visual field loss.
Twenty-two eyes of 11 patients with VGB-VFL were studied. All patients underwent surgery for therapy-resistant epilepsy. Repeated electro-oculograms (EOGs) and flash electroretinograms (ERGs) were made and the cumulative dose of vigabatrin and the visual field loss were recorded after a period of 37-47 months.
The visual field loss was stable in patients who had stopped vigabatrin at the time of the first examination. There was a slight increase in VFL in patients who continued vigabatrin. During the second EOG and ERG, abnormalities in scotopic and photopic a-wave latencies and in scotopic b-wave amplitude were found in more than 50% of patients. Only b-wave latency became normal, while EOG, a-wave latency, a-wave amplitude and b-wave amplitude stayed abnormal. The amount of VFL and the cumulative dose of vigabatrin were statistically correlated with the b-wave amplitude, mainly photopic, found during the first and second examinations.
After 4 years, EOG, flash ERG and visual field loss had not improved in patients with VGB-VFL. The statistically significant correlation found during the first examination between the amount of VFL and the cumulative dose of vigabatrin with the (mainly photopic) b-wave amplitude remained constant.
The current epidemics of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and Alzheimer's disease (AD) all represent insulin-resistance diseases. Previous studies showed that streptozotocin, a nitrosamine-related com-pound, causes insulin resistance diseases including, T2DM, NASH, and AD-type neurodegeneration. We hypothesize that chronic human exposure to nitrosamine compounds, which are widely present in processed foods, contributes to the pathogenesis of T2DM, NASH, and AD. Long Evans rat pups were treated with N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) by i.p. (x3) or i.c. (x1) injection, and 2-4 weeks later, they were evaluated for cognitive-motor dysfunction, insulin resistance, and neurodegeneration using behavioral, biochemical, and molecular approaches. NDEA treatment caused T2DM, NASH, deficits in motor function and spatial learning, and neurodegeneration characterized by insulin resistance and deficiency, lipid peroxidation, cell loss, increased levels of amyloid-beta protein precursor/amyloid-beta, phospho-tau, and ubiquitin immunoreactivities, and upregulated expression of pro-inflammatory cytokine and pro-ceramide genes, which together promote insulin resistance. In conclusion, environmental and food contaminant exposures to nitrosamines play critical roles in the pathogenesis of major insulin resistance diseases including T2DM, NASH, and AD. Improved detection and prevention of human exposures to nitrosamines will lead to earlier treatments and eventual quelling of these costly and devastating epidemics.
Low-flow postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is associated with increased plasma angiotensin II (ANG II) and reduced neuronal nitric oxide (NO), which decreases NO-dependent vasodilation. We tested whether the ANG II type 1 receptor (AT(1)R) antagonist losartan would improve NO-dependent vasodilation in POTS patients. Furthermore, if the action of ANG II is dependent on NO, then the NO synthase inhibitor nitro-L-arginine (NLA) would reverse this improvement. We used local heating of the skin of the left calf to 42 degrees C and laser-Doppler flowmetry to assess NO-dependent conductance [percent maximum cutaneous vascular conductance (%CVC(max))] in 12 low-flow POTS patients aged 22.5 +/- 0.8 yr and in 15 control subjects aged 22.0 +/- 1.3 yr. After measuring the baseline local heating response at three separate sites, we perfused individual intradermal microdialysis catheters at those sites with 2 microg/l losartan, 10 mM NLA, or losartan + NLA. The predrug heat response was reduced in POTS, particularly the plateau phase reflecting NO-dependent vasodilation (50 +/- 5 vs. 91 +/- 7 %CVC(max); P < 0.001 vs. control). Losartan increased baseline flow in both POTS and control subjects (from 6 +/- 1 to 21 +/- 3 vs. from 10 +/- 1 to 21 +/- 2 %CVC(max); P < 0.05 compared with predrug). The baseline increase was blunted by NLA. Losartan increased the POTS heat response to equal the control subject response (79 +/- 7 vs. 88 +/- 6 %CVC(max); P = 0.48). NLA decreased both POTS and control subject heat responses to similar conductances (38 +/- 4 vs. 38 +/- 3 %CVC(max); P < 0.05 compared with predrug). The addition of NLA to losartan reduced POTS and control subject conductances compared with losartan alone (48 +/- 3 vs. 53 +/- 2 %CVC(max)). The data suggest that the reduction in cutaneous NO-dependent vasodilation in low-flow POTS is corrected by AT(1)R blockade.
Amiodarone is recommended for the cardioversion of atrial fibrillation and prevention of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in patients with structural heart disease, coronary artery disease or left ventricular dysfunction. It has well-recognised side-effects on the skin, lungs, liver, thyroid and eyes. Neurological side-effects, including ataxia and neuropathy, also occur, and may be more prevalent in older patients. These side-effects are reversible after cessation of amiodarone. Monitoring of amiodarone therapy should include assessment of the central and peripheral nervous system especially in older patients.
Thrombomodulin is an endothelial cell surface receptor that transforms the procoagulant thrombin into an anticoagulant. A mutation in the thrombomodulin gene is a potential risk factor for venous and arterial thrombosis. We screened a region within the coding sequence of the thrombomodulin gene by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis (SSCP) in a pilot study of 104 patients with myocardial infarction and 104 age, sex and race matched controls. We identified a 127G to A mutation in the gene, which predicts an Ala25Thr substitution, in 2 out of 104 patients (1 man and 1 woman) with myocardial infarction but in no controls. We assessed the risk of myocardial infarction associated with the mutation in a larger "Study of Myocardial Infarctions Leiden" (SMILE). Among 560 men with a first myocardial infarction before the age of 70, 12 were carriers of the Ala25Thr substitution. In a control group of 646 men, frequency-matched for age, seven were carriers of the Ala25Thr substitution. The allelic frequencies were 1.07% among patients and 0.54% among controls suggesting risk associated with the mutation [odds ratio (OR) 2.0, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.8-5.1]. In patients aged below 50, the predicted risk was almost seven times increased (OR 6.5, CI 0.8-54.2). In the presence of additional risk factors, such as smoking and a metabolic risk factor, the predicted risk increased to 9-fold (OR 8.8. CI 1.8-42.2) and 4-fold (OR 4.4, CI 0.9-21.3), respectively. While not conclusive, these results strongly suggest that the Ala25Thr substitution is a risk factor for myocardial infarction, especially in young men, and when in the presence of additional risk factors.
Subtype 5 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR5) are abundant in the basal ganglia, amygdala, septum, hippocampus, peripheral sensory neurones and dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Thus, mGluR5 has been implicated in central processes underlying movement control, emotion, learning, and nociception. Different negative allosteric modulators (NAMs) of mGluR5 were repeatedly shown to be efficacious in models of L: -DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID), anxiety, and some forms of pain. MRZ-8676 (6,6-dimethyl-2-phenylethynyl-7,8-dihydro-6H-quinolin-5-one) is a novel proprietary, selective, orally bioavailable mGluR5 NAM. MRZ-8676 (8.33, 25 and 75 mg/kg) showed a high efficacy in the rat model of LID, with the maximal effect size reaching ~80%. The antidyskinetic effects of MRZ-8676 (75 mg/kg) did not show tolerance as assessed after repetitive (6 days) treatment. MRZ-8676 (25 or 75 mg/kg) demonstrated moderate efficacy in two rat models of anxiety-contextual fear conditioning and the elevated plus maze. MRZ-8676 (25 mg/kg) was also effective in the formalin test, a rat model of persistent pain. The efficacious doses of MRZ-8676 did not produce any detrimental effects on motor performance of rats as determined by means of automated open field and rotarod. However, high doses of MRZ-8676 (75 or 150 mg/kg) disrupted learning in an aversive learning paradigm of the contextual fear conditioning test. In conclusion, MRZ-8676 is a new investigational agent with an efficacy profile similar to the widely published reference mGluR5 NAMs. The drug was demonstrated to possess a superior antidyskinetic efficacy with a sufficient therapeutic window. MRZ-8676 has also therapeutic potential as an anxiolytic and analgesic drug.
Of 26,294 consecutive patients monitored in a comprehensive drug surveillance program, 1067 (4 per cent) received methyldopa for treatment of hypertension. Adverse reactions attributed to methyldopa were reported in 149 patients (14 per cent), the most frequent being hypotension. Life-threatening adverse effects were reported in nine patients (6 per cent of reactors)--the major problems being hypotension associated in several patients with signs of cardiac or cerebral ischemia. Hypotension attributed to methyldopa was more frequent in younger patients, in those with uremia, in lighter subjects, and in those receiving a high daily dose. Marked interaction between these factors was demonstrated and eightfold differences in the frequency of hypotension were observed in different sub-groups of methyldopa recipients. Adverse effects other than hypotension were reported infrequently and did not correlate well with the previously mentioned factors. The findings suggest that methyldopa therapy should be commenced cautiously in younger patients, in the non-obese, and in those with impairment of renal function as manifest by elevated blood urea nitrogen levels.
