The goal of this study was to analyze long-term consequences of ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity on growth and renal function in children treated for cancer.
In a retrospective study, departments for pediatric oncology and nephrology in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland were asked to report patients with serious long-term nephrotoxicity after ifosfamide-treatment. Data at first appearance of renal dysfunction and at the last renal examination were collected using a standardized questionnaire.
Fifty-nine patients with tubulopathy (35 severe, 24 moderate) following ifosfamide therapy were eligible for analysis of long-term outcome (median follow-up 4 years, range 1.1 to 12.9). Median height standard deviation score was significantly reduced at renal diagnosis, and at last renal examination (-1.7 and -2.1 respectively, P < 0.01 at each point in time). Patients with tubulopathy also had stunted growth in comparison with a control group of cancer patients without renal disease (mean difference at last examination: 7.3 cm (95% confidence interval: 2.5 to 12.1 cm). In patients with severe tubulopathy, glomerular filtration rate deteriorated significantly over time. End-stage renal disease was reported in one patient only, not solely caused by ifosfamide.
Depending on the extent of tubular dysfunction, patients with ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity experienced significant growth impairment and a slow decline in glomerular filtration rate.
The extent of cerebral injury and edema was determined in isoflurane-anesthetized rats (n = 32) after 180 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and 120 min of reperfusion. One of the following was employed during the occlusion period only: 1) control, mean arterial pressure [MAP = 131 +/- 7 (SD) mmHg] and hematocrit (43 +/- 2%) were not manipulated; 2) hemodilution, the hematocrit was reduced to 30% with 5% albumin (MAP = 104 +/- 19 mmHg); 3) hemodilution-normotension, hemodilution was established, and MAP was maintained at 131 +/- 9 mmHg with phenylephrine; 4) hemodilution-hypertension, hemodilution was established, and MAP increased to 161 +/- 2 mmHg with phenylephrine. Brain injury was determined with 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride, and cerebral edema was assessed by microgravimetry. Brain injury and cerebral edema were less in both phenylephrine groups, compared with the control and hemodilution groups (P less than 0.05). These results are consistent with the premise that if normotension is maintained, hemodilution reduces ischemic brain injury and edema. They also indicate that the addition of phenylephrine-induced hypertension to hemodilution therapy results in a further reduction of ischemic injury without exacerbating cerebral edema.
The effects of various anticonvulsants on local anaesthetics procaine- and lidocaine-induced convulsions were investigated in rats. Pretreatment with diazepam (2.5-5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) and clonazepam (5-10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) completely protected the rats against both local anaesthetic-induced convulsions. Phenobarbital (12.5-50 mg/kg, subcutaneously) also significantly decreased the incidence of both convulsions and prolonged their latencies. Carbabazepine (10-40 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) did not completely repress both convulsions, but it prolonged their latencies. Phenytoin (5-20 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) and primidone (30-60 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) markedly enhanced both local anaesthetic-induced convulsions, as shown by shortening of latency and increase in mortality. Valproate (100-200 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) produced a protective effect against procaine-induced convulsions, while it strongly enhanced lidocaine-induced convulsions. These results suggest that the benzodiazepines are effective drugs to prevent neurotoxicity induced by local anaesthetics, while phenytoin and primidone potentiate them.
Postoperative nausea and vomiting are observed in increased frequency after laparoscopic surgery. This study was performed in order to compare the efficacy of two 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonists, ondansetron and tropisetron, in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) after laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
Using a randomized, double-blind study design, 87 ASA I and II patients scheduled for laparoscopic cholecystectomy were randomly assigned to receive 4 mg ondansetron (Group A, n = 29), 5 mg tropisetron (Group B, n = 31), or placebo (Group C, n = 27) intravenously (IV) before induction of anesthesia. The end points evaluated were frequency of nausea, nausea intensity rated on a scale from 1 (mild) to 5 (most severe), frequency of vomiting, and need for rescue antiemetics. These parameters were measured immediately after surgery (0 h), at 3 h, 6 h, and 12 h postoperatively.
The frequency of nausea was significantly higher in group A (31.2%) compared to group B (14%) at 12 h postoperatively (p <0.01). However, patients of group A had significantly lower nausea scores at 3 h postoperatively compared to group B. Postoperative vomiting occurred in 13.8% of patients in group A and 9.6% of patients in group B throughout the whole study period (p = n.s.). The need for rescue antiemetics was similar between groups A and B. Both groups were superior to placebo concerning all studied parameters.
Our results show that ondansetron may be more effective in controlling nausea intensity during the first 3 h after laparoscopic cholecystectomy, while tropisetron has a longer-acting activity, with a major impact on nausea frequency at 12 h postoperatively.
A 24-year-old woman with Graves' disease treated with methimazole for 4 years, developed recalcitrant ulcers on the lower legs. Histological studies demonstrated vasculitis in deep dermal vessels accompanied by C3 deposition. Laboratory investigation revealed lupus-like abnormalities (leucocytopenia, positive antinuclear and antidouble strand (ds) DNA antibodies, and positive ANCA). The leg ulcers dramatically improved after methimazole was withdrawn. In addition, leucocytopenia and the immunological abnormalities soon faded. Although lupus-like syndrome is well known to be induced by antithyroid drugs, vasculitis is a rare complication. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report describing ANCA-associated vasculitis caused by methimazole.
The antihypertensive efficacy of nebivolol and amlodipine and their tolerability were compared in a multicentre, randomized, active-controlled, double-blind parallel-group trial in elderly patients with mild to moderate essential arterial hypertension. One hundred and eighty-four subjects aged > or = 65 years were screened. After a run-in phase of 4 weeks, only 168 of these were randomized with either nebivolol 2.5-5 mg daily (n = 81) or amlodipine 5-10 mg daily (n = 87) over a period of 12 weeks. The response rate to treatment and the changes of sitting diastolic blood pressure (BP) at week 12 were similar between the two groups. A lower sitting systolic BP (SBP) was detected with amlodipine at week 4 (p < 0.05) and at week 8 (p < 0.05). Standing BP showed no changes between the two groups; only SBP was lower with amlodipine at week 8 (p < 0.05). Heart rate was lower at all treatment visits with nebivolol (p < 0.001). The incidence of adverse events was no different between the two groups; however the incidence of headache and ankle oedema was significantly higher with amlodipine (p < 0.05). In elderly subjects with essential hypertension, the antihypertensive efficacy of nebivolol and amlodipine was similar. Both drugs were well tolerated, although amlodipine was accompanied by higher incidence of drug-related adverse events.
FK506 can show efficacy in transplant rejection even after other immunosuppressive drugs have been ineffective. However, the lack of a suitable animal model has hindered the study of FK nephrotoxicity, which has been noted as a common adverse effect in human trials. In this paper, we report a model of chronic FK nephrotoxicity in which renal structure and function are worsened by sodium depletion. Pair-fed male Sprague-Dawley rats were given FK (6 mg/kg p.o.) or vehicle for 21 days on a low-salt or normal diet. There was no significant difference in body weight between FK and vehicle groups. The FK whole-blood trough levels (3-10 ng/ml) in rats are similar to those in FK treated transplant patients. In sodium-depleted rats, FK clearly decreased GFR (0.09 +/- 0.03 ml/min/100 g vs. 0.94 +/- 0.06 ml/min/100 g in the vehicle group, P < 0.01), urinary osmolarity (UOsm, P < 0.01) and plasma magnesium (P < 0.01) and increased plasma creatinine (Pcr, P < 0.01), fractional excretion of magnesium (P < 0.01), urine volume (P < 0.01), plasma renin activity (PRA, P < 0.05), and alanine aminopeptidase (AAP, P < 0.05) as compared with those in the vehicle group. Salt depletion significantly potentiated these functional changes as compared with those in the normal salt group (GFR, UOsm, Pcr, PRA, and AAP of the low salt group vs. those of the normal salt group, P < 0.05 by ANOVA). In the sodium-depleted rats, the main lesion in the rat kidneys was focal collapse and vacuolization in proximal tubules, but there was also significant interstitial fibrosis. In contrast, no injury was observed in the sodium-replete rat kidneys. In conclusion, an experimental model of FK nephrotoxicity in sodium-depleted rats has been developed that is characterized by reduced GFR and structural damage to the proximal tubule accompanied by interstitial fibrosis. Sodium depletion appears to potentiate these changes at blood levels similar to those achieved in patients receiving FK.
To investigate the effect of treatment with the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug Sulindac on the early vascular pathology of diabetic retinopathy in the dog, and it's effect on recognised biochemical indices of hyperglycaemia-related pathophysiology.
Experimental diabetes (streptozotocin/alloxan) was induced in 22 male beagle dogs and 12 of the animals were assigned at random to receive oral Sulindac (10 mg/kg daily). Age- and sex-matched control animals were maintained as non-diabetic controls. After 4 years, several morphological parameters were quantified in the retinal microvasculature of each animal group using an established stereological method. Also, the following diabetes-associated biochemical parameters were analysed: accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), red blood cell polyol levels and antioxidant status.
Diabetes increased red blood cell sorbitol levels when compared to non-diabetic controls (p< or =0.05), however, there was no difference in sorbitol levels between the untreated and the treated diabetic animals. No significant differences were found in red blood cell myoinositol levels between the three groups of animals. Pentosidine and other AGEs were increased two- to three-fold in the diabetic animals (p< or =0.001) although treatment with Sulindac did not affect their accumulation in diabetic skin collagen or alter diabetes-induced rises in plasma malondialdehyde. Retinal capillary basement membrane volume was significantly increased in the untreated diabetic dogs compared to non-diabetic controls or Sulindac-treated diabetic animals (p< or =0.0001).
This study has confirmed the beneficial effect of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug on the early vascular pathology of diabetic retinopathy. However the treatment benefit was not dependent on inhibition of polyol pathway activity, advanced glycation, or oxidative stress.
Opitz-Kaveggia syndrome (also known as FG syndrome) is an X-linked disorder characterized by mental retardation, relative macrocephaly, hypotonia and constipation. We report here that the original family for whom the condition is named and five other families have a recurrent mutation (2881C>T, leading to R961W) in MED12 (also called TRAP230 or HOPA), a gene located at Xq13 that functions as a thyroid receptor-associated protein in the Mediator complex.
Clinically, perturbations in the semaphorin signaling system have been associated with autism and epilepsy. The semaphorins have been implicated in guidance, migration, differentiation, and synaptic plasticity of neurons. The semaphorin 3F (Sema3F) ligand and its receptor, neuropilin 2 (NPN2) are highly expressed within limbic areas. NPN2 signaling may intimately direct the apposition of presynaptic and postsynaptic locations, facilitating the development and maturity of hippocampal synaptic function. To further understand the role of NPN2 signaling in central nevous system (CNS) plasticity, structural and functional alterations were assessed in NPN2 deficient mice.
In NPN2 deficient mice, we measured seizure susceptibility after kainic acid or pentylenetetrazol, neuronal excitability and synaptic throughput in slice preparations, principal and interneuron cell counts with immunocytochemical protocols, synaptosomal protein levels with immunoblots, and dendritic morphology with Golgi-staining.
NPN2 deficient mice had shorter seizure latencies, increased vulnerability to seizure-related death, were more likely to develop spontaneous recurrent seizure activity after chemical challenge, and had an increased slope on input/output curves. Principal cell counts were unchanged, but GABA, parvalbumin, and neuropeptide Y interneuron cell counts were significantly reduced. Synaptosomal NPN2 protein levels and total number of GABAergic synapses were decreased in a gene dose-dependent fashion. CA1 pyramidal cells showed reduced dendritic length and complexity, as well as an increased number of dendritic spines.
These data suggest the novel hypothesis that the Sema 3F signaling system's role in appropriate placement of subsets of hippocampal interneurons has critical downstream consequences for hippocampal function, resulting in a more seizure susceptible phenotype.
In the adjuvant setting, taxanes modestly improve clinical outcome and survival. The goal of the present study was to define the efficacy of neoadjuvant docetaxel in treatment-naïve large, locally advanced breast cancers and to better understand docetaxel's mechanism of action by evaluating biomarker modulation in response to treatment.
Fifty-one patients were enrolled. Patients received four cycles of docetaxel (100 mg/m2 q3weeks) followed by surgery and four cycles of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (60/600 mg/m2 q3weeks). Radiation and hormonal therapy were given if clinically indicated. Clinical responses were assessed at completion of neoadjuvant docetaxel. Pathological responses were considered complete (pCR) if no tumor cells were identified in the surgical specimen or near complete (npCR) if only occasional scattered tumor cells were seen. Proliferation (Ki-67) and apoptosis (cleaved caspase-3) were measured by IHC in tissue obtained at baseline and at surgery.
The median tumor size was 9 cm (range 4-30 cm). Objective response rate was 75% with clinical complete response in 27%, partial response in 48%, and stable disease in 25% of the patients. pCR/npCR was reported in 20% of patients. With a median follow up of 28 months, 98 and 78% of the patients were alive at 12 and 24 months, respectively. Overall survival at 24 months was significantly better in patients who achieved a clinical response, 85 versus 51%, p = 0.008, but pCR/npCR was not a significant predictor of outcome. Apoptosis was induced in clinical responders (p = 0.002), while the proliferation index did not change significantly. In patients who had no clinical response to docetaxel, neither apoptosis nor proliferation changed significantly.
Neoadjuvant single agent docetaxel is effective in treating patients with large locally advanced breast cancer and clinical response is associated with improved survival. Docetaxel acts therapeutically by inducing apoptosis and this can be used as a marker of response.
To report a case of metastatic leiomyosarcoma, in which a patient developed chest pain accompanied by acute left bundle-branch block (LBBB) after gemcitabine infusion.
A 59-year-old woman admitted with bilateral pulmonary nodules had classic risk factors for coronary heart disease and coronary stenosis as demonstrated by previous coronary angiography. She was treated with gemcitabine infusion, and 30 min later she experienced severe chest pain accompanied by acute LBBB confirmed by ECG. We suspected gemcitabine-induced coronary vasospasm exacerbated by the preexisting coronary artery disease as the cause of the acute coronary syndrome. The patient was subsequently treated with antianginal therapy and percutaneous coronary intervention. Her chest pain resolved and LBBB disappeared. She was discharged 2 days later without any further cardiac events. No additional cancer therapy was given and she died 5 months later, due to disease progression.
This case showed that chemotherapeutic agents must be administered with intensive cardiac monitoring especially in patients with cardiac disease and well-known risk factors to prevent the development of cardiac complications, despite an agent not being known to be 'cardiotoxic'.
Resveratrol, a constituent of red wine, is important for cardioprotection. MicroRNAs are known regulators for genes involved in resveratrol-mediated cardiac remodeling and the regulatory pathway involving microRNA has not been studied so far.
We explored the cardioprotection by resveratrol in ischemia/reperfusion model of rat and determined cardiac functions. miRNA profile was determined from isolated RNA using quantitative Real-time PCR based array. Systemic analyses of miRNA array and theirs targets were determined using a number of computational approaches.
Cardioprotection by resveratrol and its derivative in ischemia/reperfusion [I/R] rat model was examined with miRNA expression profile. Unique expression pattern were found for each sample, particularly with resveratrol [pure compound] and longevinex [commercial resveratrol formulation] pretreated hearts. Longevinex and resveratrol pretreatment modulates the expression pattern of miRNAs close to the control level based on PCA analyses. Differential expression was observed in over 25 miRNAs, some of them, such as miR-21 were previously implicated in cardiac remodeling. The target genes for the differentially expressed miRNA include genes of various molecular function such as metal ion binding, sodium-potassium ion, transcription factors, which may play key role in reducing I/R injury.
Rats pretreated with resveratrol for 3 weeks leads to significant cardioprotection against ischemia/reperfusion injury. A unique signature of miRNA profile is observed in control heart pretreated with resveratrol or longevinex. We have determined specific group of miRNA in heart that have altered during IR injuries. Most of those altered microRNA expressions modulated close to their basal level in resveratrol or longevinex treated I/R mice.
Proarrhythmia in the form of Torsade de Pointes tachycardia (TdP) is a well-known complication of sotalol treatment. It most often occurs in the setting of sotalol overdosing, renal impairment, bradycardia, hypokalaemia, hypomagnesiaemia or lengthening of the QT-interval due to other drugs. TdP is reported without these predisposing factors. In the described case, TdP might be facilitated by bradycardia and by potassium depletion without concomitant hypokalaemia after diuretic treatment.
Sequential 28-day and 90-day oral toxicity studies were performed in male and female rats with ammonium perfluorobutyrate (NH(4)(+)PFBA) at doses up to 150 and 30mg/kg-d, respectively. Ammonium perfluorooctanoate was used as a comparator at a dose of 30mg/kg-d in the 28-day study. Female rats were unaffected by NH(4)(+)PFBA. Effects in males included: increased liver weight, slight to minimal hepatocellular hypertrophy; decreased serum total cholesterol; and reduced serum thyroxin with no change in serum thyrotropin. During recovery, liver weight, histological, and cholesterol effects were resolved. Results of RT-qPCR were consistent with increased transcriptional expression of the xenosensor nuclear receptors PPARα and CAR as well as the thyroid receptor, and decreased expression of Cyp1A1 (Ah receptor-regulated). No observable adverse effect levels (NOAELs) were 6 and >150mg/kg-d for male and female rats in the 28-day study and 6 and >30mg/kg-d in the 90-dat study, respectively.
Hexavalent chromium (CrVI) is a transition element utilized in many fields of modern industries. CrVI is a reproductive metal toxicant that can traverse the placental barrier and cause a wide range of fetal effects. Therefore, the present study was carried out to determine the CrVI-induced utero-toxicity. In the present study, lactating rats received drinking water containing CrVI (50 mg/L and 200 mg/L) from postnatal days (PND) 1-21. During PND 1-21, the pups received CrVI via the mother's milk. Pups from both control and treatment groups were continued on regular diet and water from PND-21 onwards and euthanized on PND-45 and -65. Specific activities antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) were estimated. Hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂), lipid peroxidation (LPO) and serum gonadotropins viz. Luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) were also assayed. Specific activities of SOD, CAT, GPX, GR and GST and serum testosterone and progesterone were significantly decreased, while H₂O₂, LPO and serum FSH was increased in 50-parts per million (ppm) and 200 ppm-treated rats in an age-dependent manner. These results suggest that lactational CrVI exposure induces oxidative stress in rat uterus by decreasing antioxidant enzymes, which were associated with delayed puberty and altered steroids and gonadotrophin levels.
To investigate the effects and molecular mechanisms of recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) on protecting liver function and alleviating portal hypertension of liver cirrhotic rats.
Liver cirrhosis of male Sprague-Dawley rats was induced by administration of thioacetamide. The rats with or without liver cirrhosis were randomly divided into four groups. Group A consisted of the normal rats was treated with normal saline (NS), group B consisted of the normal rats was treated with rhGH, group C consisted of cirrhotic rats was treated with NS, and group D consisted of cirrhotic rats was treated with rhGH. The rats of different groups were subcutaneously injected with 0.5 mL of NS or 333 ng/kg of rhGH daily for 7 d. After treatments, the following parameters were examined, including GH-binding capacity (R(T)) by (125)I-hGH binding, growth hormone receptor mRNA(GHR mRNA) expression by RT-PCR, relative content of collagen (RCC) by histomorphomertry, and level of malon-dialdehyde (MDA) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) in liver tissue by thiobarbituric acid reaction and pyrogallic acid self-oxidation, respectively. Serum albumin (ALB), alanine transaminase (ALT) and portal vein pressure (PVP) were also examined.
rhGH up-regulated both the GH-binding capacity (R(T)) and the expression of GHR mRNA in vivo. R(T) in group A (72+/-12 fmol/mg protein) was significantly higher than that in group C (31+/-4 fmol/mg protein) (P<0.05). R(T) in group B (80+/-9 fmol/mg protein) increased markedly compared to group A (P<0.05). R(T) in group D (40+/-7 fmol/mg protein) raised remarkably compared with group C (P<0.05), but less than that in group A, and there was no significant GH binding affinity contrast (Kd) change. The GHR mRNA level (iOD, pixel) in group A (29+/-3) was significantly higher than that in group C (23+/-3) (P<0.05). GHR mRNA levels were significantly raised in group B (56+/-4) and group D (42+/-8) compared with groups A and C (29+/-3 and 23+/-3, respectively) (P<0.05). Compared with the normal liver, MDA level was higher and SOD level was lower in cirrhotic livers. After rhGH treatment, MDA level was significantly declined to 12.0+/-2.2 nmol/mg protein and SOD was raised to 1 029+/-76 U/mg protein in group D (P<0.05). ALB levels in groups B and D (42+/-7 g/L and 37+/-7 g/L, respectively) were significantly raised compared with those in groups A and C (35+/-5 g/L and 29+/-4 g/L, respectively) (P<0.05). ALT level was markedly lower in group D (69+/-7 U/L) compared to group C (89+/-15 U/L) (P<0.05), and close to group A (61+/-10 U/L). RCC in group C (22.30+/-3.86%) was significantly higher than that in group A (1.14+/-0.21%) and group D (14.70+/-2.07%) (P<0.05). In addition, rhGH markedly alleviated portal hypertension in liver cirrhotic rats (group D vs C, 9.3+/-1.5 cmH(2)O vs 14.4+/-2.0 cmH(2)O) (P<0.05).
Pharmacological doses of rhGH can increase R(T) and GHR mRNA expression, ameliorate liver functions, repress fibrosis and decline portal hypertension, suggesting it has potentially clinical usage as a hepatotropic factor.
Paradoxically, stimulation of 5-HT(1B) receptors (5-HT(1B)Rs) enhances sensitivity to the reinforcing effects of cocaine but attenuates incentive motivation for cocaine as measured using the extinction/reinstatement model. We revisited this issue by examining the effects of a 5-HT(1B)R agonist, CP94253, on cocaine reinforcement and cocaine-primed reinstatement, predicting that CP94253 would enhance cocaine-seeking behavior reinstated by a low priming dose, similar to its effect on cocaine reinforcement. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.75 mg/kg, i.v.) paired with light and tone cues. For reinstatement experiments, they then underwent daily extinction training to reduce cocaine-seeking behavior (operant responses without cocaine reinforcement). Next, they were pre-treated with CP94253 (3-10 mg/kg, s.c.) and either tested for cocaine-primed (10 or 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or cue-elicited reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior. For reinforcement, effects of CP94253 (5.6 mg/kg) across a range of self-administered cocaine doses (0-1.5 mg/kg, i.v.) were examined. Cocaine dose-dependently reinstated cocaine-seeking behavior, but contrary to our prediction, CP94253 reduced reinstatement with both priming doses. Similarly, CP94253 reduced cue-elicited reinstatement. In contrast, CP94253 shifted the self-administration dose-effect curve leftward, consistent with enhanced cocaine reinforcement. When saline was substituted for cocaine, CP94253 reduced response rates (i.e. cocaine-seeking behavior). In subsequent control experiments, CP94253 decreased open-arm exploration in an elevated plus-maze suggesting an anxiogenic effect, but had no effect on locomotion or sucrose reinforcement. These results provide strong evidence that stimulation of 5-HT(1B)Rs produces opposite effects on cocaine reinforcement and cocaine-seeking behavior, and further suggest that 5-HT(1B)Rs may be a novel target for developing medications for cocaine dependence.
A large hypertensive population of patients in general practice was used to assess the tolerability of nifedipine in previously untreated patients and was compared with other antihypertensive drugs in previously treated patients. A total of 3972 patients with a sitting diastolic blood pressure between 95 and 115 mmHg were treated with 20 mg nifedipine twice daily for 1 month. In non-responders the dose was increased to 40 mg twice daily for a second month; responders continued to take 20 mg twice daily. A total of 2772 patients had been previously untreated for hypertension, whereas 857 had previously been treated with beta-blockers alone or in combination and 346 had received diuretics alone or in combination. Adverse events were recorded for 28 days prior to treatment being initiated with or changed to nifedipine and for two 28-day nifedipine treatment periods. Flushing and headache, which diminished with time, occurred during nifedipine treatment. Ankle oedema did not diminish with time. Reductions were seen in occurrences of dyspnoea, impotence, lethargy and cold extremities.
We assessed the effectiveness of sildenafil administration during ischemic period in a rat model of testicular torsion/detorsion (T/D).
Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups (n = 10). In those animals that underwent T/D, right testes were rotated 720 degrees for 1 h. Base line group was for basal normal values. Sham operated group was served as a control group. T/D group underwent 1 h testicular torsion. Sildenafil group received sildenafil (0.7 mg/kg) intraperitoneally 30 min after initiation of ischemic period. For measurement of lipid peroxidation and antioxidant enzyme activities, right testes of five animals in each group were excised after 4-h reperfusion. Germ cell apoptosis indices were determined 24 h following detorsion in right testes of remaining five animals in each group.
Malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in T/D group were significantly higher versus control and base line groups. Moreover, testicular MDA values in sildenafil group were significantly lower than T/D. There were also significant decreases in catalase and superxide dismutase activities in T/D group compared with control and base line groups. These values were significantly higher in sildenafil group versus T/D. Germ cell apoptosis indices were significantly higher in both groups that experienced T/D in comparison to control and base line groups; however, sildenafil treatment significantly reduced the apoptosis in sildenafil group compared with T/D group.
Sildenafil administration during testicular torsion decreased ischemia/reperfusion cellular damage. The results of biochemical studies suggest that, reduction of oxidative stress by sildenafil may have a major role in its cytoprotective effects.
Physostigmine is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and can produce fasciculations, seizures, bradycardia, and asystole. gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) increases acetylcholine levels in the central nervous system and can decrease heart rate. Despite this, physostigmine has been proposed as an arousal agent to treat coma from overdoses of GHB. The authors hypothesized that in the setting of severe GHB intoxication, physostigmine would reverse sedation without producing adverse effects such as a decrease in heart rate, seizures, and fasciculations.
GHB intoxication was induced in 20 rats by intraperitoneal injection of 700 mg/kg of the GHB precursor gamma-butyrolactone. One hour later, rats were randomly assigned to receive either physostigmine (0.06 mg/kg) intraperitoneally or an equivalent volume of saline. After administration of physostigmine, rats were continuously monitored by a blinded observer for arousal (return of righting reflex), fasciculations, and seizures. Heart rate and respiratory rate were recorded at 0, 5, 15, and 60 minutes after administration of physostigmine. Data were analyzed using repeated-measures analysis of variance and chi-square test. A pretest sample size calculation determined that 10 rats per group would detect a change in arousal from 0% to 50% and a 10% change in heart rate.
No rats in either group had arousal within one hour (p = 1.0); however, ten of ten physostigmine-treated rats developed signs of physostigmine toxicity (fasciculations, 7; seizures, 3), while no controls developed signs of physostigmine toxicity (p = 0.00). The authors were unable to detect a decrease in heart rate.
Physostigmine did not produce a 50% change in arousal as measured by a return of righting reflex but did produce physostigmine toxicity (fasciculations and seizures) in this rat model of severe GHB intoxication.
The entity of cerebrovascular diseases associated with the use of oral contraceptives is well known but quite rare in Japan in contrast to Western countries. We recently encountered a 38 years old female with cerebral venous thrombosis considered to be caused by oral contraception. This patient took oral contraceptives for 17 days following therapeutic abortion, and was transferred to our hospital because of disturbed consciousness. CT scans disclosed a right temporo-occipital subcortical hemorrhagic infarction and bilateral thalamic infarction. Cerebral angiograms showed non-filling of cortical veins in the same area. The internal cerebral vein, vein of Galen and right transverse sinus were not visualized either. The hematoma and necrotic tissue were removed to avoid farther neurological deterioration. The brain was swollen and hyperemic, and thrombosed cortical veins were clearly recognized at operation. Twelve cases, including ours, of cerebrovascular diseases associated with oral contraception were reported up to now in Japan, and only 3 of them were diagnosed objectively as venous or sinus thrombosis. The average age of these 12 cases was 34 years old and many of them experienced abortion or therapeutic abortion. There was no relationship between the dose of estrogen and the onset of cerebrovascular diseases. We believe that the onset of this pathological state is based on gynecological hypercoagulable state, and the oral contraception may play a role of a trigger. Oral contraception should be contraindicated in patients with gynecological hypercoagulable state, hypertension and/or smoking habit.
The entity of cerebrovascular diseases associated with the use of oral contraceptives (OCs) is well-known but quite rare in Japan in contrast to the Western countries. The authors recently encountered a 38 year old female with cerebral venous thrombosis considered to be the result of OCs. This patient took OCs for 17 days following therapeutic abortion and was transferred to the study hospital because of disturbed consciousness. CT scans disclosed a right tempro-occipital subcortical hemorrhagic infarction and bilateral thalamic infarction. Cerebral angiograms showed nonfilling of cortical veins in the same area. The internal cerebral vein, vein of Galen, and right transverse sinus were not visualized either. The hematoma and necrotic tissue were removed to avoid further neurological deterioration. The brain was swollen and hyperemic and thrombosed cortical veins were clearly recognized at the time of operation. 12 such cases of OC-related cerebrovascular disease, in including this 1 have now been reported in Japan, and only 3 of them were diagnosed objectively as nous or sinus thrombosis. The average age for these 12 cases was 34 years old, and many of these women experienced abortion or therapeutic abortion. There was no relationship between the dosage of estrogen and the onset of cerebrovascular disease. The authors believe that the onset of this pathological state is the result of a gynecological hypercoagulable state and OCs may have served as a catalyst. OCs are contraindicated in patients with gynecological hypercoagulability, hypertension, or who smoke. (author's modified)
The effectiveness of antiparkinson medication for the prevention of drug induced dystonias has remained a question. Forty patients with acute psychosis who received high potency oral antipsychotic drugs were interviewed to determine the incidence of acute dystonia. An eleven-fold increase in dystonia was found in patients who received no prophylactic medication. Such prophylaxis appears effective in preventing acute dystonia.
Individual differences in responding to a novel environment predict behavioral and neurochemical responses to psychostimulant drugs. Rats with a high locomotor response to a novel environment (HRs) exhibit enhanced self-administration (SA) behavior, sensitization, and basal or drug-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens compared with rats with a low response to the novel context (LRs). In this study, we determined whether such differences in vulnerability to drug addiction might be related to differences in dopamine (DA) neuron activity. Rats were divided into HRs and LRs according to their response to a novel environment and then tested for acquisition of cocaine SA. HRs rapidly acquired cocaine SA (175 microg/kg per infusion), whereas LRs did not. Differences in cocaine SA were not caused by differences in exploratory behavior or sampling because these behaviors did not differ in HRs and LRs self-administering a saline solution. In a separate experiment, we used extracellular single-unit recordings and found that HRs exhibit higher basal firing rates and bursting activity of DA neurons in the ventral tegmental area and, to a lesser extent, in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The greater activity of midbrain DA cells in HRs was accompanied by reduced sensitivity to the inhibitory effects of a DA D2-class receptor agonist, indicating possible subsensitivity of impulse-regulating DA autoreceptors. These results demonstrate that differences in the basal activity of DA neurons may be critically involved in determining individual vulnerability to drugs of abuse.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effectiveness and safety of enalapril in elderly people. A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial was carried out in 32 subjects aged from 75 to 97 years (mean: 86 years) with blood pressure values equal or superior to 160/90 mmHg. After 8 weeks of treatment with enalapril in doses of 20 to 40 mg/day, the systolic pressure was lowered from 190 +/- 16 to 151 +/- 19 mmHg (P less than 0.0001) and the diastolic pressure from 102 +/- 7 to 85 +/- 11 mmHg (P less than 0.0001). Systolic and diastolic pressures were also significantly reduced in subjects under placebo (from 183 +/- 16 to 165 +/- 21 mmHg, P less than 0.001; and from 101 +/- 9 to 91 +/- 13 mmHg, P less than 0.001, respectively), but the degree of reduction was significantly superior with enalapril (systolic: 39 +/- 25 vs 18 +/- 19 mmHg, P less than 0.005; diastolic: 17 +/- 13 vs 11 +/- 12, P less than 0.001); blood pressure was inferior to 160/90 mmHg in 67% of the subjects treated, as against 35% of those under placebo. Two patients under enalapril died: one on the 27th, the other on the 47th day of treatment. No relation could be established between these deaths and the drug, and this figure of 2 is not significantly different for the number of deaths expected over the same period in a population of that age-group. Among the patients under placebo, one had pulmonary embolism on the 34th day and another had a sudden increase in blood pressure on the 6th day, requiring discontinuation of treatment. It is concluded that enalapril administered alone is effective and well tolerated. Long-term studies are needed to find out whether this angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor is superior to a diuretic as initial treatment of arterial hypertension.
Beta2-sympathomimetics are the most powerful inhibitors of uterine contraction used in order to prevent threatening fetal asphyxia. These drugs, however, can cause harmful interactions with anaesthetics during caesarean section. Our patient-material consists of parturients, who were given a beta2-sympathomimetic, ritodrine, immediately before caesarean section performed under combined general anaesthesia. These patients showed significantly more marked tachycardia, hypotonia and abundant haemorrhage during operation as a consequence of poor uterine contractility than did the control group. Rapid variations in the circulation of the mother may also be disadvantageous to the wellfare of the fetus. These side-effects can best be minimized by omitting atropine-premedication and by expanding the blood volume of the mother before caesarean section with adequate infusion of Ringer-type.
