Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR alpha) mediates the effects of foreign chemical peroxisome proliferators on liver and kidney, including the induction of peroxisomal, mitochondrial, and microsomal enzymes involved in beta-oxidation of fatty acids. However, the role of this receptor in the peroxisome proliferative effects of the endogenous steroid dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is not known. DHEA-3 beta-sulfate fd(DHEA-S) is shown to induce a liver peroxisome proliferative response in rats in vivo at a dose at which DHEA is much less active, which is consistent with cultured hepatocyte studies indicating a requirement for sulfation for the activation of DHEA. Transient transfection experiments demonstrated that in contrast to the prototypic foreign chemical peroxisome proliferator pirinixic acid, DHEA-S and its 17 beta-reduced metabolite, 5-androstene-3 beta, 17 beta-diol-3 beta-sulfate, are inactive in mediating trans-activation by PPAR alpha in COS-1 cells. Two other mammalian PPAR isoforms, gamma and delta/Nucl, were also inactive with respect to DHEA-S trans-activation. To test whether PPAR alpha mediates peroxisomal gene induction by DHEA-S in intact animals, we administered DHEA-S or clofibrate to mice lacking a functional PPAR alpha gene. Both peroxisome proliferators markedly increased hepatic expression of two microsomal cytochrome P450 4A proteins as well as six mRNAs known to be associated with the peroxisomal proliferative response in wild-type mice. In contrast, neither DHEA-S nor clofibrate induced these hepatic proteins and mRNAs in PPAR alpha-deficient mice. Clofibrate-induced expression of kidney CYP4A mRNAs was also blocked in the PPAR alpha gene knockout mice. Thus, despite its unresponsiveness to steroidal peroxisome proliferators in transfection assays, PPAR alpha is obligatory for DHEA-S-stimulated hepatic peroxisomal gene induction. DHEA-S, or one of its metabolites, may thus serve as an important endogenous regulator of liver peroxisomal enzyme expression via a PPAR alpha-mediated pathway.
Metabolic enzymes involved in benzene activation or detoxification, including cytochrome P-450 1A1 (CYP1A1), cytochrome P-450 2D6 (CYP2D6), UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A6 (UGT1A6), UDP-glucuronosyltransferase1A7 (UGT1A7), and sulfotransferase 1A1 (SULT1A1), were studied for their roles in human susceptibility to benzene poisoning. All 304 subjects were investigated with a unitary questionnaire and their DNA was isolated from blood samples by a routine phenol-chloroform extraction. The study included 152 benzene poisoning patients, and 152 control workers occupationally exposed to benzene in South China. The genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction-restricted fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) technique with genomic DNA. No individuals had the CYP 2D6 c.212 G>A variant alleles in this study. There is no association between the UGT1A6 c.181 T>A, UGT1A7 c.208 Trp>Arg, and SULT1A1 c.638 G>A genotypes and increased risk of benzene-induced carcinogenesis. Although most of the CYP2D6 haplotypes did not show any significant difference, the CYP2D6 haplotype CYP2D6 c.188 C/C, C/T, and c.4268 C/C was significantly overrepresented in the case group (OR 4.02, 95% CI: 2.53-6.39) compared with in controls. Overall, our data suggested that individuals with CYP1A1 c.5639 T/T, CYP2D6 c.188 C/C, C/T, and CYP2D6 c.4268 C/C genotypes tend to be more susceptible to benzene toxicity.
Although clinical trials of the efficacy of antihypertensive treatment have demonstrated impressive reductions in the incidence of stroke, the reduction in coronary artery disease mortality has been less impressive. It may be that the antihypertensive drugs used in these trials induced metabolic disturbances, or produced inadequate regression of left ventricular hypertrophy, thus blunting the reduction in risk of coronary artery disease expected with blood pressure-lowering. Isradipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist known to be an effective antihypertensive agent, has also displayed pronounced antiatherogenic effects in animals. Thus, a reasonable hypothesis could be that isradipine not only reduces the level of blood pressure, but also may have a positive effect on the evolution of atherosclerotic plaque in coronary and carotid arteries, thereby leading to prevention of clinical sequelae of atherosclerosis. On this basis, a 3-year clinical trial is being carried out in the United States--the Multicenter Isradipine/Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study (MIDAS)--to establish the efficacy of isradipine in inhibiting atherogenesis and retarding the progression of atherosclerosis in carotid arteries of hypertensive patients. The primary end point of the study is intima-media thickness and the extent of atherosclerotic plaque in the carotid arteries, as measured by B-mode ultrasonography.
Congestive heart failure (CHF) is the most devastating cardiac sequella of long-standing hypertension. Recent data from the Antihypertensive and Lipid Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) have shown the risk of CHF to be twice as high with doxazosin than with chlorthalidone. Although some questions remain regarding the diagnosis and mortality of CHF in the doxazosin arm and regarding the risk of dying from malignancy in the diuretic arm of ALLHAT, drugs used to treat hypertension should lower the CHF risk. Therefore, until ironclad safety data are provided, doxazosin, and probably all alpha-blockers, should no longer be used as first-line antihypertensive therapy.
20R 14 beta-amino 3 beta-rhamnosyl 5 beta-pregnan 20 beta-ol (LND 623, CAS 90520-42-6) was investigated and compared to digoxin in anesthetized dogs. The hemodynamic profiles showed: a) a pure positive inotropic action of LND-623; b) its potency was four-fold higher than that of digoxin and more marked in heart failure; c) its duration of action was maintained for at least 6 h. The onset and reversal of the inotropic effects of a single dose (3.3 nmol.kg-1.min-1) were faster with LND-623 than those of digoxin. This reversal is consistent with the faster dissociation profile observed at the level of the high affinity cardiac Na+,K(+)-ATPase receptor form. The advantage of LND-623 over digoxin resides in its larger therapeutic index (ratio of arrhythmogenic to inotropic responses) in anesthetized dogs with propranolol-induced heart failure. This index was 6 for LND-623 and 2 for digoxin.
Although an uncommon disease, male breast cancer (MBC) will be responsible for 300 deaths in 1993 in the United States. Because of the high rate of estrogen receptor positivity in males, adjuvant hormonal therapy with tamoxifen in the adjuvant setting has been used widely. Little is known about the side effects of this estrogen receptor blocker in males.
The authors evaluated the side effects of adjuvant tamoxifen treatment in 24 patients (19 of whom were estrogen receptor positive) treated at the authors' institution between 1990 and 1993.
Fifteen (62.5%) patients reported at least one side effect. The most common side effect was a decrease in libido, which occurred in 7 (29.2%) patients; followed by weight gain, which occurred in 6 (25%) patients; hot flashes, which occurred in 5 (20.8%); mood alterations, which occurred in 5 (20.8%); depression, which occurred in 4 (16.6%); insomnia, which occurred in 3 (12.5%); and deep venous thrombosis, which occurred in 1 (4.2%). Five (20.8%) patients terminated treatment with tamoxifen in less than 1 year because of these side effects. Two of these patients had decreased libido, two had hot flashes, and one suffered deep venous thrombosis.
In contrast to female breast cancer patients, who have a 4% attrition rate to adjuvant tamoxifen treatment, MBC patients have a 20.8% attrition rate related to side effects of tamoxifen treatment.
The central nervous system rewarding properties of ethanol, cocaine, and heroin may activate a common catecholaminergic reward system in the mesolimbic circuitry of the brain. Driving-under-the-influence (DUI) offenders with either alcohol- or cocaine-related problems were studied. The neuronutrients SAAVE and Tropamine significantly reduced relapse rates and enhanced recovery in these DUI outpatient offenders over a 10-week period. Follow-up on both the SAAVE and Tropamine groups after 10 months revealed a 73% and a 53% overall recovery rate, respectively. These clinical results favor the use of these neuronutrients as adjuncts to psychological therapeutic modalities.
Ultrastructural alterations of podocytes are closely associated with loss of glomerular filtration function. In the present study, we explored changes at the proteome level that paralleled the disturbances of podocyte architecture in the early stages of puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) nephrosis in vivo. Using two-dimensional fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis and vacuum matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry combined with postsource decay fragment ion analysis and high-energy collision-induced dissociation tandem mass spectrometry, 23 differentially expressed protein spots, corresponding to 16 glomerular proteins that are involved in various cellular functions, were unambiguously identified, and a subset was corroborated by Western blot analysis. The majority of these proteins were primarily related to fatty acid metabolism and redox regulation. Key enzymes of the mitochondrial beta-oxidation pathway and antioxidant enzymes were consistently down-regulated in PA nephrosis. These changes were paralleled by increased expression levels of CD36. PA treatment of murine podocytes in culture resembled these specific protein changes in vitro. In this cell system, the modulatory effects of albumin-bound fatty acids on the expression levels of Mn-superoxide dismutase in response to PA were demonstrated as well. Taken together, these results indicate that a disrupted fatty acid metabolism in concert with an impaired antioxidant defense mechanism in podocytes may play a role in the early stages of PA-induced lesions in podocytes.
Multiple doses of the dietary supplement L-ephedrine can cause severe hyperthermia and modest dopamine depletions in the rat brain. Since D-amphetamine treatment can result in neurodegeneration, the potential of L-ephedrine to produce similar types of degeneration was investigated. Adult male rats, some implanted in the caudate/putamen (CPu) for microdialysis, were given four doses of 25 mg/kg L-ephedrine or 5 mg/kg D-amphetamine (2 h between doses) at an ambient temperature of 23 degrees C. L-ephedrine-induced degeneration in the forebrain was dependent on the degree of hyperthermia. Layer IV of the parietal cortex was the most sensitive to L-ephedrine treatment with peak body temperatures of at most 40.0 degrees C necessary to produce degeneration. Extensive neurodegeneration in the parietal cortex after L-ephedrine treatment was as pronounced as that previously described for D-amphetamine treatment and also occurred in the intralaminar, ventromedial and ventrolateral thalamic nuclei in rats with severe hyperthermia (peak body temperatures>41.0 degrees C). The neurodegeneration induced by L-ephedrine may have resulted in part from excitotoxic mechanisms involving the indirect pathways of the basal ganglia and related areas. No differences were observed between microdialysis and non-implanted rats with respect to degree of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) loss in the CPu after either D-amphetamine or L-ephedrine treatment. However, neurodegeneration resulting from D-amphetamine and L-ephedrine was reduced in the microdialysis animals in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the probe, which raises concerns when using the technique of in vivo microdialysis to evaluate neurodegeneration. The results of this study, in conjunction with human clinical evaluation of ephedrine neurotoxicity, indicate that regionally specific damage may occur in the cortex of some humans exposed to ephedrine in the absence of stroke or hemorrhage.
To evaluate the efficacy of the transdermal nicotine patch as an aid to smoking cessation when used as an adjunct to a cognitive-behavioural group intervention and to assess the effectiveness of the patch in ameliorating withdrawal symptoms.
Double-blind placebo-controlled randomised trial with six months' follow-up of those who returned to the hospital-based outpatients smoking cessation clinic.
Three hundred and thirteen smokers recruited from the local community. Mean age was 42 years, 48% were male, mean cigarette consumption was 29 per day and mean duration of smoking was 24 years.
Cognitive-behavioural intervention delivered in a group context, two hours once a week over five weeks, self-help manual, and 24-hour daily nicotine patch treatment for 10 weeks.
Point prevalence abstinence at three and six months, and sustained cessation from end of treatment to six months, with biochemical validation (expired carbon monoxide). We examined the effectiveness of the nicotine patch in ameliorating specific withdrawal symptoms by self-report of degree of severity.
The active nicotine patch resulted in significantly higher biochemically confirmed abstinence rates when compared with placebo at three months (48% v. 21%) and at six months (33% v. 14%). Six-months' continuous abstinence rates were also significantly higher among the active nicotine group (25%) compared with placebo (12%). The most common adverse events among active patch users were sleep disturbance and local skin irritation. The nicotine patch reduced the severity of some withdrawal symptoms. A low level of dependence was the strongest predictor of three and six months' abstinence.
The transdermal nicotine patch is effective when used as an adjunct to a group cognitive-behavioural intervention and it provides relief from withdrawal symptoms associated with nicotine dependence.
To determine the incidence of psychiatric adverse events associated with vigabatrin therapy, we reviewed data from US and non-US double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of vigabatrin as add-on therapy for treatment-refractory partial epilepsy.
"Verbatim" terms from investigators' reports had been translated into standard "preferred" terms using an adverse event dictionary. Terms for psychiatric events were then combined into categories for analysis of rates during vigabatrin versus placebo treatment.
Compared with placebo, vigabatrin subjects had a higher incidence of events coded as depression (12.1% versus 3.5%, p < 0.001) and psychosis (2.5% versus 0.3%, p = 0.028); there were no significant differences between treatment groups for aggressive reaction, manic symptoms, agitation, emotional lability, anxiety, or suicide attempt. Although depression and psychosis were typically observed during the first 3 months, most studies were 12 to 18 weeks long, so that definitive conclusions could not be reached about timing of events. Psychosis was generally transient and reported to be responsive to reduction or discontinuation of vigabatrin or to neuroleptic treatment. Depression was typically mild. Serious depression, defined as discontinued from the study, hospitalized, or suicide attempt, or coded as psychotic depression, occurred in only 9 of the 49 vigabatrin-treated patients with depression.
Vigabatrin use in treatment-refractory partial epilepsy is associated with increased occurrence of depression and of psychosis, although the frequency of psychosis is apparently lower than previously reported. Clinical experience suggests that these adverse events respond to reduction of vigabatrin dose or to counteractive psychotropic treatment.
The myocardium contains a fibrillar collagen matrix that consists primarily of type I and type III collagens. There is a marked alteration in the ratio and amount of collagen phenotypes in myocardial hypertrophy due to pressure overload. The purpose of the present study is (1) to study the effect of antihypertensive therapy on collagen phenotypes, if instituted before development of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), and continued into adult life and (2) to study the effects of dissociation of hypertension from hypertrophy, on collagen phenotypes in SHRs. The present study shows the effect of two antihypertensive drugs, hydralazine and captopril, on collagen phenotypes in SHRs. Both hydralazine and captopril effectively controlled blood pressure in SHRs, but only captopril regressed hypertrophy and corrected the altered distribution of myocardial collagen phenotypes I and III. Untreated SHRs had a collagen type I:III ratio of 10.19 +/- 0.27, compared with that of 6.41 +/- 0.30 in normotensive WKY (P < 0.001). Captopril-treated SHRs had a collagen type I:III ratio of 6.75 +/- 0.37, which did not differ significantly from that in normotensive WKY. Hydralazine-treated SHRs had a collagen I:III ratio of 10.07 +/- 0.39, which is similar to the ratio in untreated SHRs. In normotensive rats, neither captopril nor hydralazine significantly altered collagen content or the ratio of type I:III collagen. Thus captopril, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, not only regressed hypertrophy but also reversed the altered distribution of type I and type III collagen whereas hydralazine which effectively controlled blood pressure, did not regress hypertrophy and did not correct the altered distribution in collagen phenotypes. These studies suggest that alteration of collagen phenotypes during hypertensive hypertrophy is independent of blood pressure control and myocardial mass.
Tardive dystonia is a syndrome of sustained muscle contractions, frequently causing twisting and repetitive movements or abnormal postures, associated with prolonged exposure to antipsychotics. We report a case of a 35-year-old patient with schizophrenia who developed a generalized form of tardive dystonia after switching of clozapine to risperidone treatment that persisted after switch to olanzapine and during the period while treatment with an antipsychotic was discontinued. It was successfully managed with reintroduction of clozapine. The case may represent the first report of generalized tardive dystonia while taking risperidone. The possible pathophysiological bases of the disorder are discussed. The goal of our report is to emphasize that an adequate trial of clozapine is a worthwhile option in the cases of tardive dystonia, even where discontinuation of antipsychotics was unsuccesful.
Postoperative atrial fibrillation following cardiothoracic surgery is common and frequently managed with intravenous (IV) amiodarone. Phlebitis is the most common complication with peripheral infusion of this agent. Current practice guidelines for peripheral IV administration of <2 mg/mL amiodarone were established to reduce the risk of phlebitis. The present study examines the incidence of phlebitis in a postoperative patient population given current dose recommendations. A total of 273 patient charts were reviewed. The incidence of phlebitis in patients given IV amiodarone (n = 36) was 13.9% (95% confidence interval, 2.6-25.2%; p = 0.001). Logistic regression analysis with backward elimination of other therapeutic risk factors suggests that the odds ratio for phlebitis using current dose regimens without IV filters is 19-fold greater than baseline risk in this population. Phlebitis remains a significant complication associated with peripheral infusion of amiodarone within recommended dosing limits.
Retinol is a cosmetic ingredient that is structurally similar to all-trans-retinoic acid, which has been shown to be effective in the treatment of photodamage. Since skin keratinocytes are reported to metabolize retinol to retinoic acid, investigators have hypothesized that retinol may also be helpful in improving skin photodamage. In this eight-week, double-blind, split-face, randomized clinical study, a stabilized 0.1% retinol-containing moisturizer was tested (36 subjects) against the vehicle (28 subjects) in women with moderate facial photodamage. Each product was applied once daily to the designated half side of the face. Subjects were evaluated at baseline and after four and eight weeks of treatment using a 0-9 scale for photoaging parameters. The results showed that, after eight weeks, the retinol moisturizer was significantly more efficacious than the vehicle in improving lines and wrinkles, pigmentation, elasticity, firmness and overall photodamage. Many of these differences were significant at week 4, with a progressive improvement to week 8. This study demonstrates that a formulation containing stabilized retinol is safe and effective to ameliorate the appearance of photoaged skin.
Hyperzincaemia and hypercalprotectinaemia with systemic inflammation, recurrent infections, hepatosplenomegaly, arthritis, anemia, cutaneous inflammation, and failure to thrive is an extremely rare disease and no therapy is reported.
To evaluated the effects of cyclosporine A in hyperzincaemia and hypercalprotectinaemia in terms of serum cytokine level changes before and after treatment.
A 10-year-old girl was admitted suffering from pyoderma gangrenosum, hepatosplenomegaly, anemia that was unresponsive to iron supplementation, persistent inflammation, arthritis, and increased serum zinc. The level of serum calprotectin was extremely high; therefore, we diagnosed hyperzincaemia and hypercalprotectinaemia and started cyclosporine A treatment. Twelve cytokines in serum were measured before and one year after treatment.
Cyclosporine A was very effective. Her skin lesion and joint pain were alleviated and quality of life was markedly improved. C-reactive protein had decreased and anemia had improved. While zinc levels had fallen, calprotectin remained at an extremely high level. Of the cytokines examined, interleukin -6 serum levels had fallen and interleukin -8 showed a marked reduction after treatment.
Cyclosporine A is effective for hyperzincaemia and hypercalprotectinaemia. Serum interleukin -8 may be useful in assessing the therapeutic effects of cyclosporine A in hyperzincaemia and hypercalprotectinaemia.
A case of teratogenesis in a 16-year-old pregnant patient is described. She had been using 60 mg Ro-Accutane daily till the 16th week of gestation. Sonography showed no cephalic skull up to the frontal bone of the fetus. A central lagostroma was also detected.
Methamphetamine is a stimulant widely abused in the United States. The objective of this study was to demonstrate an association of methamphetamine use and ischemic stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and intracerebral hemorrhage and to further reveal the underlying vascular pathology using neuroimaging and pathology.
This was a retrospective study based on medical chart review of admissions to the neurovascular service of a tertiary care medical center from January 2003 to July 2007. Cases included patients who used methamphetamine as documented by history or urine toxicology screening.
From 1,574 records, 30 cases were identified. The mean age of patients was 43 years and the discharge diagnoses included ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, and subarachnoid hemorrhage. All subarachnoid hemorrhages were aneurysmal with the majority of the aneurysms located in the anterior circulation. The majority of strokes were located in the anterior circulation. In many cases, radiologic imaging confirmed arterial stenoses in the vascular distribution of the stroke. One patient who presented with ischemic stroke had severe atherosclerosis of bilateral common, internal, and external carotid arteries. On pathology, there was no evidence of inflammation or necrosis to suggest vasculitis as a possible etiology.
Methamphetamine use is associated with ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, and subarachnoid hemorrhage, especially among young patients. We showed no evidence that the ischemic stroke associated with methamphetamine use is due to an inflammatory etiology but may be due to a process of accelerated atherosclerosis.
To determine the effect of antibiotic-induced nephrotoxicity on the renal accumulation of gallium, groups of ten Sprague-Dawley rats were given intraperitoneal injections of gentamycin, amphotericin, or neomycin for a period of 16--21 days. In all cases, mild to moderate nephrotoxicity was documented by one or more of the following parameters: serum creatinine, renal weight, urine volume (renal concentrating ability), light microscopy, and electron microscopy. In none of these cases was the renal accumulation of gallium increased over control values. Consequently, diffuse renal accumulation of gallium in patients with subclinical or mild nephrotoxicity is unlikely to be related to short-term treatment with aminoglycosides or amphotericin. In such cases, the physician should seek some other clinical explanation, such as infection.
Glucagon is considered the drug of choice for treating bradycardia and hypotension encountered during beta-blocker poisoning. Its potential usefulness in reversing adverse effects encountered during therapeutic dosing with beta-blockers has not been well characterized. We present a case of sotalol-induced bradycardia reversed by glucagon.
Theophylline has been widely used to treat asthma, but recent studies have revealed that the possible risks for seizure may result in the revision of the therapeutic guidelines.
An 8-month-old boy who had been treated with oral sustained-release theophylline and additional aminophylline suppository was hospitalized. A combination of diazepam, lidocaine and thiopental was required to stop his convulsion.
The pharmacokinetic study indicated that the usage of a sustained-release formula should not usually be over 15 mg/ml, but the additional use of an aminophylline suppository elevated the concentration to over 20 mg/ml and resulted in the severe adverse effects.
The parents of children and also physicians should be educated to ensure the proper use of the suppository formula.
Four longterm murine bladder tumor cell lines were established in vitro. The 4 lines were initiated from primary N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT) induced murine bladder tumors arising in C3H/He mice. Each was maintained as a solid tumor in syngeneic mice for at least 30 generations before initiation in tissue culture. The cell lines MBT-2, MBT-8, MBT-409 and MBT-683, have been subcultured over 75 times in vitro for 18 months. They are all epithelial, grow in islands on plastic Petri dishes before confluent growth and form colonies in soft agar suspension culture. Morphologic studies indicate that all 4 lines have epithelial characteristics and karyotypic studies indicate that all lines have polyploidy and marker chromosomes. Population doubling times range from 10 to 26 hours and are consistent for each line.
A rare case of halothane-induced fulminant hepatic failure is reported in a 22 years old male, who developed fever, jaundice, coma and deranged coagulation profile, 2 days after undergoing laparotomy under halothane anaesthesia. Despite all supportive care, he died of fulminant hepatic failure, 6 days after surgery. Postmortem liver biopsy revealed massive predominantly centrilobular hepatic necrosis.
The maintained production of extreme reductions in core temperature (20-22 degrees C) or poikilothermia can be reliably produced by the synergistic interaction of limbic seizures (induced by lithium and pilocarpine), postseizure administration of a single injection of acepromazine, and physical restraint. Administration of the specific and nonspecific dopamine antagonists haloperidol, chlorpromazine, SCH23390, or clozapine did not simulate the effect at clinically effective dosages. Single injections of phentolamine and prazosin but not of propranolol instead of acepromazine following the seizures produced the poikilothermia. This effect was also reproduced by reducing the amount of the rats' adipose weight before the induction of the seizures and physical restraint. Rats that had been restrained or not restrained and displayed either euthermia or hypothermia exhibited significantly different patterns in brain damage within limbic and thalamic structures.
Ribavirin administration for chronic hepatitis C is associated with the development of haemolytic anaemia, which affects treatment efficacy and tolerability. In a pilot study, the exogenous administration of erythropoietin has been shown to be beneficial, reducing the rate of ribavirin dose reduction. How ribavirin administration affects normal erythropoietin production has not been determined.
To investigate the endogenous erythropoietin response in hepatitis C patients with ribavirin-induced anaemia.
Serum erythropoietin was measured before and during interferon-ribavirin treatment in 18 HCV-positive subjects. Mathematical analysis and modelling were applied to compare the degree of erythropoietin increase in HCV-positive and in otherwise healthy anaemic patients, and estimate the endogenous excess erythropoietin production in response to ribavirin-induced anaemia.
Erythropoietin concentration increased significantly in response to anaemia caused by ribavirin. The physiological erythropoietin response to the ribavirin-induced anaemia was as adequate in HCV-positive subjects as it is in anaemic subjects without liver disease. The recommended exogenous erythropoietin dose appears three-times greater than the endogenous erythropoietin boost.
Chronic liver damage by HCV does not affect the physiological erythropoietin response to ribavirin-induced anaemia. While the rationale for erythropoietin treatment of ribavirin-induced anaemia is not straightforward, the currently recommended dosing regimen should be reassessed.
To study the toxic effects of norfloxacin (Nor) on EEG and ultrastructure of the brain.
EEG was recorded in the sensorimotor area of rat cortex after Nor 150 and 300 micrograms.kg-1 were injected into the right ventricle of the brain.
Spike waves occurred, first at the ipsilateral side and then bilaterally. The seizure spike appeared at 168 +/- 129, 51 +/- 35 s, and 276 +/- 138, 118 +/- 65 s in the right and left cerebral cortices in 150 and 300 micrograms.kg-1 groups, respectively. The wave forms were variable, the wave amplitude and frequency increased gradually, accompanied with limb twitching. Neuron degeneration was seen in both cerebral hemispheres, hippocampus, and cerebellum 120 min after the i.c.v. of Nor 300 micrograms.kg-1: myeloid degeneration of Golgi complex, rough endoplasmic reticulum, and neuropils; swelling of cytoplasm; dissolution of nuclears and chromatin; necrosis of gliocytes and the appearance of changes in both the light and dark neurons, especially the dark ones.
Rat brain was widely damaged after the kindling by Nor.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a commonly employed chemotherapeutic agent. Among the various toxicities associated with 5-FU, cardiovascular toxicity, consisting principally of acute myocardial ischemia and/or myocardial infarction, has been reported in up to 8.5% of patients treated with this drug. While 5-FU-induced coronary vasospasm has been considered as a potential basis for such clinical toxicity, this hypothesis remains unsubstantiated by laboratory investigation. Accordingly, the present study was designed to investigate the hypothesis that 5-FU induces reversible vasoconstriction of vascular smooth muscle and to study the cellular mechanisms of such vasomotor alterations. To investigate the effects of 5-FU on the vasoreactivity of vascular smooth muscle, 479 exposures were performed in 105 rings of aorta freshly isolated from 23 New Zealand white rabbits. Vasoconstriction was documented in 20 of 86 (23%) rings exposed to 5-FU at 7 x 10(-5) M, 45 of 83 (54%) rings exposed to 5-FU at 7 x 10(-4) M, and 41 of 49 (84%) rings exposed to 5-FU at 7 x 10(-3) M. In each case, 5-FU-induced vasoconstriction was endothelium independent. Pretreatment of rings with 10(-9) M staurosporine, a protein kinase C (PK-C) inhibitor, reduced 5-FU-induced vasoconstriction from 25.0 +/- 6.5 to 2.5 +/- 1.7 mg; staurosporine at a concentration of 10(-8) M abolished 5-FU-induced vasoconstriction. Pretreatment of rings with 10(-7) M phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate, an activator of PK-C, increased the magnitude of 5-FU-induced vasoconstriction 23-fold, from 49.7 +/- 11.1 mg before to 1163.6 +/- 276.4 mg after phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (P = 0.0002). Neomycin, an inhibitor of phosphoinositide turnover, did not alter the magnitude of 5-FU-induced vasoconstriction. Membrane receptor blockers, including the alpha-adrenergic receptor blocker phentolamine, the beta-adrenergic receptor blocker propranolol, the H1 receptor inhibitor diphenhydramine, the H2 receptor inhibitor cimetidine, the Ca2+ channel blockers verapamil and diltiazem, and the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin all failed to alter the magnitude of 5-FU-induced vasoconstriction. Furthermore, the 5-FU-related compounds uracil and floxuridine did not produce vasoconstriction. Finally, 5-FU-induced vasoconstriction was abolished by nitroglycerin. These results indicate that (a) 5-FU causes direct, endothelium-independent vasoconstriction of vascular smooth muscle in vitro, (b) this vasomotor response involves activation of PK-C, and (c) this response is independent of vasoactive cell membrane receptors, phosphoinositide turnover, or activation of the cyclooxygenase pathway.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves are described as being protective against gastric inflammation; their destruction leads to an exacerbation of inflammatory processes. However, these nerves have been shown to exert a pro-inflammatory action on stress-induced gastritis in rats. Our study aimed to investigate the role of capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves in different experimental models of gastritis in rats. Functional ablation of sensory nerves was achieved by systemic capsaicin treatment (100 mg/kg). Gastritis was induced by mild (iodoacetamide, diquat, surgical duodeno-gastric reflux [DGR]) and strong (70% ethanol, indomethacin) inflammatory agents. Antagonists of the CGRP1 and NK1 receptors, hCGRP8-37 and SR140333, were administered in rats treated with iodoacetamide and ethanol. Macroscopic damage scores (MDS), myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration were evaluated after sacrifice. Macroscopic lesions appeared only in ethanol and indomethacin gastritis and were enhanced by capsaicin treatment. Gastric MPO activity was significantly increased by all agents compared to controls. Capsaicin treatment did not have any effect on MPO activity in indomethacin-treated rats or in rats submitted to surgery for duodeno-gastric reflux. However, it abolished the increase in MPO induced by iodoacetamide and diquat, and significantly enhanced that induced by ethanol. hCGRP8-37 and SR140333 abolished the increase in MPO activity and MDA concentration in iodoacetamide treated rats. In ethanol-treated rats, SR140333 diminished MPO activity. These results indicate that, depending upon the nature and duration of the experimental inflammation, capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves may act differently to control gastric inflammatory processes, suggesting the involvement of a neurogenic component in some forms of gastric inflammation.
Resveratrol protects against organ injury caused by trauma-hemorrhage, although the mechanism remains unknown. We have previously shown that it exerts protective effects in the liver via estrogen receptors and their signaling. Thus, we set out to determine whether resveratrol-mediated estrogen receptor-dependent p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/heme oxygenase 1 activation protects the intestine after trauma-hemorrhage. To study this, male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent trauma-hemorrhage (mean blood pressure, ~ 40 mmHg for 90 min) followed by fluid resuscitation. Animals were pretreated with an estrogen receptor antagonist (ICI 182,780), a specific p38 MAPK inhibitor (SB-203580), or a heme oxygenase enzyme antagonist (chromium-mesoporphyrin) 30 min before vehicle or resveratrol (30 mg/kg) administration, followed by resuscitation, and were killed 2 h thereafter. Intestinal water content, myeloperoxidase activity, and TNF-α, IL-6, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant (CINC) 1, and CINC-3 levels and edema of the lung were measured. Mean arterial blood pressure, cardiac output, positive maximal pressure of left ventricular increase (+dP/dtmax), and negative maximal pressure of left ventricular decrease (-dP/dtmax) were also determined. Intestinal p38 MAPK activity and heme oxygenase 1 expression were also determined. Trauma-hemorrhage led to an increase in intestinal water content, myeloperoxidase activity, and TNF-α, IL-6, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, CINC-1, and CINC-3 levels. This was accompanied by a decrease in intestinal p38 MAPK activity. Administration of resveratrol improved all of the above parameters. Resveratrol treatment also increased intestinal heme oxygenase 1 expression as compared with vehicle-treated trauma-hemorrhaged rats. Administration of ICI 182,780, SB-203850, or chromium-mesoporphyrin with resveratrol abolished the resveratrol-mediated improvement of the above parameters. Resveratrol administration also attenuated trauma-hemorrhage-induced cardiac dysfunction and edema of the lung. These results suggest that estrogen receptor-dependent upregulation of the p38 MAPK/heme oxygenase 1 pathway plays a critical role in mediating the salutary effects of resveratrol on shock-induced intestinal injury.
