The plasma membrane glycoprotein sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) is crucial for thyroid hormone biosynthesis and mediates the iodide uptake of thyrocytes. It has been shown that retinoic acid (RA) alters NIS gene expression in thyroid carcinoma lines and stimulates their iodide uptake. Here, we generated an ARO human thyroidal cancer cell line that expresses the NIS gene (ARO-NIS) and found that its baseline 125I uptake was threefold higher than that of its parental ARO cells. However, a 1-microM all-trans retinoic acid (tRA) treatment significantly increased this 125I uptake up to approximately approximately 6.5-fold on Day 3. tRA also elevated NIS mRNA expression in ARO-NIS cells, with peaks of expression being observed on Day 3. To investigate the underlying genomic mechanisms involved in these tRA-induced phenotypic changes, we subjected tRA-treated and untreated ARO-NIS cells to cDNA microarray analysis. Of 1152, genes spotted onto the microarray membrane, 18 were up-regulated (z ratio>2.0) and 33 were down-regulated (z ratio<-2.0) in ARO-NIS cells after 3 days of tRA treatment. More specifically, tRA increased the expression of BCL3, CSRP3, v-fos, and CDK5 genes and decreased the expression of the FGF12 and IGFBP6 genes. Thus, tRA treatment of human anaplastic thyroid carcinoma cells stably expressing the NIS gene significantly elevates their NIS-mediated radioiodine uptake and alters the expression of many genes involved in cell growth and cellular differentiation. Therefore, tRA treatment and NIS gene transfection are potential tools for the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid cancer.
Two laboratory studies were conducted to examine the effects of acute psychological stress on craving and stress reactivity in cocaine abusers. In the first preliminary study, we examined the effects of a speech stressor task and a personalized stress imagery task on self-reported craving and emotional state in ten cocaine abusers. Both stressors led to significant decreases in neutral and joy states, and significant increases in fear ratings as compared to baseline ratings. In addition, the stress imagery condition led to significant increases in cocaine craving and sadness and anger ratings, as compared to baseline. Thus, the personalized stress imagery task appeared to be more effective than the speech stress task in inducing craving in the laboratory. The second study examined the effects of stress imagery as compared to neutral imagery on cocaine craving, subjective anxiety and physiological responses in a second group of ten cocaine abusers. The stress imagery task once again produced significant increases in cocaine craving along with increases in heart rate, salivary cortisol and subjective anxiety ratings. These data are the first to document that acute psychological stress consistently increases craving for cocaine in cocaine abusers. The studies also provide a promising method for examining the association between stress and drug craving in the laboratory.
Sudden cardiac arrest associated with major spasm of three coronary arteries was observed about 10 hours after Taxus stent insertion in a three vessel lesion and was successfully treated by intracoronary glyceryl trinitrate infusion. This case illustrates a potential risk associated with drug eluting stent and alerts clinicians to the life threatening risk of spasm when stenting multiple vessels with drug eluting stent (especially the Taxus stent).
Studies concerning with pathogenesis of gastric hemorrhage and mucosal ulceration produced in atherosclerotic rats are lacking. The aim of this study is to examine the role of gastric acid back-diffusion, mast cell histamine release, lipid peroxide (LPO) generation and mucosal microvascular permeability in modulating gastric hemorrhage and ulcer in rats with atherosclerosis induced by coadministration of vitamin D2 and cholesterol. Additionally, the protective effect of verapamil on this ulcer model was evaluated. Male Wistar rats were challenged intragastrically once daily for 9 days with 1.0 ml/kg of corn oil containing vitamin D2 and cholesterol to induce atherosclerosis. Control rats received corn oil only. After gastric surgery, rat stomachs were irrigated for 3 h with either simulated gastric juice or normal saline. Gastric acid back-diffusion, mucosal LPO generation, histamine concentration, microvascular permeability, luminal hemoglobin content and ulcer areas were determined. Elevated atherosclerotic parameters, such as serum calcium, total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein concentration were obtained in atherosclerotic rats. Severe gastric ulcers accompanied with increased ulcerogenic factors, including gastric acid back-diffusion, histamine release, LPO generation and luminal hemoglobin content were also observed in these rats. Moreover, a positive correlation of histamine to gastric hemorrhage and to ulcer was found in those atherosclerotic rats. This hemorrhagic ulcer and various ulcerogenic parameters were dose-dependently ameliorated by daily intragastric verapamil. Atherosclerosis could produce gastric hemorrhagic ulcer via aggravation of gastric acid back-diffusion, LPO generation, histamine release and microvascular permeability that could be ameliorated by verapamil in rats.
We have reported that rebamipide, a gastroprotective drug, suppresses indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury in humans and rats. However, the mechanisms of the cytoprotective actions of rebamipide have not been fully addressed. In the present study, we determined mRNA expression profile of the gastric mucosa treated with indomethacin in rats, and investigated the cytoprotective effects of rebamipide against indomethacin-induced injury with a high-density oligonucleotide array (Rat Toxicology U34 GeneChip array). Gastric epithelial cells were obtained by laser-assisted microdissection. Data analysis was performed with a GeneChip Operating Software, GeneSpring software 7.0, and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. Among 1,031 probes, the expression of 160 probes (15.5%) showed at least 2.0-fold up-regulation (158 probes) and down-regulation (2 probes) 2 h after indomethacin administration in comparison with the vehicle-treated rats. The pathway analysis of the up-regulated 123 probes identified the network with a highly significant score, which consisted of known clusters of cell death, cancer, and endocrine system disorders. We succeeded in listing 10 genes that were up-regulated by the treatment with indomethacin and that were down-regulated by rebamipide, including growth arrest and DNA damage-induced 45alpha. In conclusion, we demonstrated that cell death, especially apoptosis, pathway is involved in the pathogenesis of indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury, and that inhibition of apoptosis-related genes is possibly important for the cytoprotective effect of rebamipide against this injury.
Lobeline has high affinity for nicotinic receptors and alters presynaptic dopamine storage and release in brain. Moreover, lobeline decreases the reinforcing and locomotor-activating properties of methamphetamine, suggesting that lobeline may be a pharmacotherapy for psychostimulant abuse. This study determined if lobeline alters cocaine-induced hyperactivity and if lobeline alters the induction and/or expression of sensitization to cocaine. On Days 1-12, male rats were administered lobeline (0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg) or saline, placed in an automated activity monitor for 20 min, administered cocaine (10, 20 or 30 mg/kg) or saline and returned to the monitor for 60 min. On Day 13, the effect of lobeline on the induction and expression of sensitization to cocaine was determined. Lobeline did not alter the effect of cocaine after acute injection. However, 1.0 mg/kg lobeline attenuated cocaine (10 and 20 mg/kg)-induced hyperactivity after repeated administration and prevented the development of sensitization to these cocaine doses. Interestingly, 0.3 mg/kg lobeline augmented cocaine (10 mg/kg)-induced hyperactivity after repeated administration. Lobeline did not alter the effect of 30 mg/kg cocaine. The present results indicate a complex interaction of lobeline with cocaine and support other research indicating a role for nicotinic receptors in the development of sensitization to psychostimulants.
Several studies suggest an association between the use of third-generation oral contraceptives (OCs) containing either desogestrel or gestodene and an increased risk of venous thromboembolism. Current users of third-generation OCs faced about a two-fold increased risk of thromboembolism than users of other OCs, even after researchers controlled for possible confounding factors that increase the risk for thromboembolism, e.g., smoking. These latest findings suggest that these OCs actually induce the increased risk of thromboembolism. One study showed that body mass index did not account for the added risk of thromboembolism to users of third-generation OCs. Another study found that family history of venous thrombosis did not increase the risk in third-generation OC users. It did find that nulligravidity and the factor V Leiden mutation contributed to the increased risk of venous thromboembolism in third-generation OC users. Health professionals should consider the size of both risks and benefits linked to various OCs when advising women to discontinue or not to begin using third-generation OCs. The increased risk of venous thromboembolism linked to a third generation OC, beyond that linked to the use of an earlier OC, is 10-15/100,000 woman-years of use. Assuming a typical case fatality rate of around 1%, the increased rate of fatal thromboembolism would range from 1 to 1.5/million woman-years. One study found that mortality from vascular diseases among current users of third-generation OCs is essentially the same as that of users of other OCs. No studies have examined any possible benefits from third-generation OC use in terms of incidence and mortality related to myocardial infarction or diabetes mellitus. Women and their health providers need to make their decision by weighing an increase, albeit small, in thromboembolism-related death against a possible decrease in the risk of other serious conditions.
Astins (including astin B) are a class of halogenated cyclic pentapeptides isolated from the medicinal herb of Aster tataricus. However, our previous works showed that the herbal medicine was hepatotoxic in vivo, and a toxicity-guided isolation method led to the identification of a cyclopeptide astin B. Astin B is structurally similar to cyclochlorotine, a well-known hepatotoxic mycotoxin. Thus, the aim of this study was to determine the potential cytotoxic effects and the underlying mechanism of astin B on human normal liver L-02 cells. We found that astin B has hepatotoxic effects in vitro and in vivo and that hepatic injury was primarily mediated by apoptosis in a mitochondria/caspase-dependent manner. Astin B provoked oxidative stress-associated inflammation in hepatocytes as evidenced by increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), reduced contents of intracellular glutathione (GSH), and enhanced phosphorylation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Furthermore, the mitochondria-dependent apoptosis was evidenced by the depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane potential, the release of cytochrome c into cytosol, the increased ratio of Bax/Bcl-2, and the increased activities of caspases-9 and -3. Interestingly, astin B treatment also induces autophagy in L-02 cells, characterized by acidic-vesicle fluorescence, increased LC3-II and decreased p62 expression. Autophagy is a protective mechanism that is used to protect cells from apoptosis. The presence of autophagy is further supported by the increased cytotoxicity and the enhanced cleaved caspase-3 after co-treatment of cells with an autophagy inhibitor, also by increased LC3-II and decreased p62 after co-treatment with a caspase inhibitor. Taken together, astin B, most likely together with other members of astins, is the substance that is primarily responsible for the hepatotoxicity of A.tataricus.
Embolic complications are very common in patients with atrial fibrillation. Patients over 60 years with organic heart disease, arterial hypertension, diabetes mellitus and previous embolic complications are prone to embolic complications. In these high risk groups anticoagulation should be introduced when no contraindications exist. Long term anticoagulation therapy should be evaluated for each patient individually balancing pro and contra. For patients with a low risk of embolism aspirin is a valuable alternative to anticoagulation. Patients below 60 years without heart disease and without additional risks do not need any therapy.
A multinational hospital-based case-control study of the risk of venous thromboembolic disease associated with combined oral contraceptives (OCs) done in 1989-93 prompted a separate inquiry comparing the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) associated with low oestrogen (< 35 micrograms ethinyloestradiol) OCs containing levonorgestrel with risks in low oestrogen preparations containing the third-generation progestagens desogestrel or gestodene. This analysis of data from 9 countries, involved 769 cases and 1979 age matched hospital controls and, in one centre, 246 community controls matched on age and general practice. 137 cases and 203 controls were current users of levonorgestrel (odds ratio [OR with 95% confidence interval] 3.5 [2.6-4.7]), with non-users as the reference; 35 cases and 28 controls were current users of desogestrel (9.1 [4.9-17.0]), and 36 cases and 28 controls were current users of gestodene (9.1 [4.9-16.7]). The ratios of these risks, compared with levonorgestrel, were 2.6 (1.4-4.8) for both products separately. Risk estimates adjusted for body mass index (BMI) were 3.4, 7.3, and 10.2 for levonorgestrel, desogestrel, and gestodene, respectively, compared with non-users, and 2.2 and 3.0 for desogestrel and gestodene, respectively, compared with levonorgestrel. 48 (68%) cases and 48 (86%) controls exposed to desogestrel or gestodene were from the UK (Oxford region). In this centre risk estimates compared with non-users, adjusted for BMI, were 2.6, 5.3, and 5.7 for levonorgestrel, desogestrel, and gestodene, respectively. Current users of low oestrogen dose combined OCs containing desogestrel or gestodene appear to be at higher risk of VTE than users of combined OCs containing levonorgestrel. The possibility that these unexpected results on a secondary study objective are due to chance, bias, or residual confounding cannot be excluded entirely and the results need to be confirmed by independent studies. They are at variance with the apparently more favourable metabolic effects of the newer progestagens. Whether the new progestagens are associated with lower risk of arterial disease (stroke and myocardial infarction) must be evaluated further.
Eighteen consecutive cases of encephalopathy occurring after ifosfamide/mesna chemotherapy were prospectively assessed. No relationship was found with tumour type or chemotherapy response. Onset was from 12 to 146 (mean 46) h after the start of the infusion and median duration was 3 days (range 1-12). In two patients recovery was incomplete. A confusional state and agitation were the major clinical features. Plasma potassium fell from a mean of 4.12 mmol/l before chemotherapy to 2.94 mmol/l at the onset of encephalopathy (P less than 0.001) with plasma potassium less than 3.0 mmol/l in 10 patients. Duration of hypokalaemia was not related to duration of encephalopathy. Median survival following encephalopathy was 25 days. The incidence of encephalopathy in 82 patients treated on two protocols was 11% and the sensitivity of a published nomogram was 18%. It is concluded that ifosfamide/mesna encephalopathy is a serious complication which may be irreversible and remains difficult to predict.
Oxidative stress-mediated destruction of normal parenchymal cells during hepatic inflammatory responses contributes to the pathogenesis of immune-mediated hepatitis and is implicated in the progression of acute inflammatory liver injury to chronic inflammatory liver disease. The transcription factor NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) regulates the expression of a battery of antioxidative enzymes and Nrf2 signaling can be activated by small-molecule drugs that disrupt Keap1-mediated repression of Nrf2 signaling. Therefore, genetic and pharmacologic approaches were used to activate Nrf2 signaling to assess protection against inflammatory liver injury. Profound increases in indicators of cell death were observed in both Nrf2 wild-type (Nrf2-WT) mice and Nrf2-disrupted (Nrf2-KO) mice 24 h following intravenous injection of concanavalin A (12.5 mg/kg, ConA), a model for T cell-mediated acute inflammatory liver injury. However, hepatocyte-specific conditional Keap1 null (Alb-Cre:Keap1(flox/-), cKeap1-KO) mice with constitutively enhanced expression of Nrf2-regulated antioxidative genes as well as Nrf2-WT mice but not Nrf2-KO mice pretreated with three daily doses of a triterpenoid that potently activates Nrf2 (30 mumol/kg, cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9(11)-dien-28-oyl-imidazolide [CDDO-Im]) were highly resistant to ConA-mediated inflammatory liver injury. CDDO-Im pretreatment of both Nrf2-WT and Nrf2-KO mice resulted in equivalent suppression of serum proinflammatory soluble proteins suggesting that the hepatoprotection afforded by CDDO-Im pretreatment of Nrf2-WT mice but not Nrf2-KO mice was not due to suppression of systemic proinflammatory signaling, but instead was due to activation of Nrf2 signaling in the liver. Enhanced hepatic expression of Nrf2-regulated antioxidative genes inhibited inflammation-mediated oxidative stress, thereby preventing hepatocyte necrosis. Attenuation of hepatocyte death in cKeap1-KO mice and CDDO-Im pretreated Nrf2-WT mice resulted in decreased late-phase proinflammatory gene expression in the liver thereby diminishing the sustained influx of inflammatory cells initially stimulated by the ConA challenge. Taken together, these results clearly illustrate that targeted cytoprotection of hepatocytes through Nrf2 signaling during inflammation prevents the amplification of inflammatory responses in the liver.
According to the literature, electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is the most effective treatment for lethal catatonia. This article describes a patient with lethal catatonia: treatment by ECT alone was ineffective, whereas continued treatment with ECT in combination with dantrolene sodium led to improvement.
To understand genetic instability in relation to tumorigenesis, experimental animal models have proven very useful. The DNA mismatch repair (MMR) machinery safeguards genomic integrity by repairing mismatches, insertion or deletion loops and responding to genotoxic agents. Here, we describe the functional characterization of a novel rat mutant model in which the MMR gene Msh6 has been genetically inactivated by N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-driven target-selected mutagenesis. This model shows a robust mutator phenotype that is reflected by microsatellite instability and an increased germ line point mutation frequency. Consequently, these rats develop a spectrum of tumors with a high similarity to atypical hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer in humans. The MSH6 knockout rat complements existing models for studying genetic instable tumorigenesis as it provides experimental opportunities that are not available or suboptimal in current models.
There are several kinds of adverse reactions to the administration of local anaesthetics (LAs): hypersensitivity, which causes reproducible symptoms or signs, initiated by exposure to a defined stimulus at a dose tolerated by normal subjects; toxic reactions - caused by overdose or inappropriate administration; and allergy - when an immunologic mechanism can be shown to be important.The most serious adverse reaction is anaphylaxis, which can be of allergic or non-allergic (anaphylactoid) origin. We analysed clinical adverse reactions to local anaesthetic agents that occurred in the Silesian region.
Thirty-two patients, aged 22-56 years, in whom significant reactions had occurred after administration of an LA, were investigated in our institution. The investigation was based on skin prick, intradermal injections and patch testing. In every patient, the concentration of latex IgE antibodies was measured.
True allergic reactions were confirmed in three patients. The allergens were: lidocaine in all three cases, additionally: nickel - in one person and preservative (paraben) - in one patient. No latex allergy was diagnosed.
The results showed that real allergic reactions to LA agents are rare and that most of the reported reactions were caused by hypersensitivity. Nevertheless, in each case of adverse reaction, careful review of the history, and testing of immediate and late allergic reactions not only to LA but also to latex and preservatives, should be mandatory.
A "longevity " gene, sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), can attenuate age-dependent induction of left ventricular dysfunction. This study aimed to characterize the role of SIRT1 in the tolerance of aged heart to ischemic insults. Male C57BL/6 young (4-6 mo) and aged (24-26 mo) mice were used to determine the role of SIRT1 in myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) tolerance. SIRT1 localization was assessed by confocal microscopy. Immunoblotting was used to evaluate SIRT1 expression and translocation. The results demonstrated that SIRT1 is expressed predominantly as a sumoylated form in cardiomyocyte nuclei. Moreover, cardiac overexpression of desumoylase, sentrin-specific protease 2 (SENP2), significantly reduces nuclear sumoylated SIRT1 levels (P<0.05). Interestingly, I/R stress leads to desumoylation and translocation of nuclear SIRT1 into the cytoplasm in aged but not in young hearts. SIRT1 activity in ischemic young hearts was 3.2-fold higher than that seen in ischemic aged hearts, which suggests that aging causes impaired nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and activation of SIRT1 during ischemic stress. The infarct size in aged and Sirt1(+/-) knockout hearts was higher than that observed in young and Sirt1(+/+) WT littermate hearts, respectively (all P<0.05). SIRT1 agonist, SRT1720, reduced myocardial infarction in both aged and Sirt1(+/-) hearts. Therefore, impaired cardiac SIRT1 activity plays a critical role in the observed increase in susceptibility of the aged heart to I/R injury. SIRT1 agonist can restore this aging-related loss of cardioprotection.
Recent studies have demonstrated that podocyte injury, which results in proteinuria, leads to tubulointerstitial fibrosis. Although some studies have revealed that vitamin D administration protects renal structure and function in mesangial cell proliferative and/or excessive matrix productive models, the effects of vitamin D on podocyte injury have remained uncertain.
In this study, we examined whether administration of active vitamin D (calcitriol) or its analogue, 22-oxacalcitriol (maxacalcitol), is preventative in podocyte injury using the puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis model with neither mesangial proliferation nor matrix accumulation.
Before the onset of proteinuria, renal 1alpha-hydroxylase and 24-hydroxylase were markedly down-regulated and up-regulated, respectively, leading to impaired vitamin D activation. Thereafter, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D decreased along with the increased excretion of vitamin D-binding protein in urine. After confirming that podocytes express vitamin D receptor and all retinoid X receptors (RXRs) except RXR-alpha, we found that daily administration of calcitriol or its analogue 22-oxacalcitriol ameliorated the nephrotic state by protecting podocytes, as shown by the reduced staining of desmin (podocyte injury marker) and the upregulation of nephrin and podocin. These data suggest that the impairment of the vitamin D system plays a role in increasing proteinuria in podocyte injury.
We demonstrated the breakdown of the vitamin D activation system in podocyte injury, and established a preventative role for vitamin D in podocyte injury.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is one of the major risk factors for liver cancer globally. A recent study showed that sulforaphane (SF), a potent inducer of phase II enzymes that occurs naturally in widely consumed vegetables, effectively induces hepatic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and reduces levels of hepatic AFB1-DNA adducts in AFB1-exposed Sprague Dawley rats. The present study characterized the effects of SF pre-treatment on global gene expression in the livers of similarly treated male rats. Combined treatment with AFB1 and SF caused reprogramming of a network of genes involved in signal transduction and transcription. Changes in gene regulation were observable 4h after AFB1 administration in SF-pretreated animals and may reflect regeneration of cells in the wake of AFB1-induced hepatotoxicity. At 24h after AFB1 administration, significant induction of genes that play roles in cellular lipid metabolism and acetyl-CoA biosynthesis was detected in SF-pretreated AFB1-dosed rats. Induction of this group of genes may indicate a metabolic shift toward glycolysis and fatty acid synthesis to generate and maintain pools of intermediate molecules required for tissue repair, cell growth and compensatory hepatic cell proliferation. Collectively, gene expression data from this study provide insights into molecular mechanisms underlying the protective effects of SF against AFB1 hepatotoxicity and hepatocarcinogenicity, in addition to the chemopreventive activity of this compound as a GST inducer.
Measles virus normally causes disease in human beings, and the host range of this virus may be determined by a specific receptor on the surface of primate cells. Human-rodent somatic cell hybrids were tested for their ability to bind measles virus, and only cells that contained human chromosome 1 were capable of binding virus. A study of lymphocyte markers suggested that the complement regulator known either as membrane cofactor protein or CD46 was the measles virus receptor. We proved this hypothesis by demonstrating that hamster cell lines that expressed human CD46 could subsequently bind virus. Furthermore, infected CD46+ cells produced syncytia and viral proteins. Finally, polyclonal antisera against CD46 inhibited virus binding and infection. These results prove that human CD46 permits cells both to bind measles virus and to support infection.
Autism [MIM 209850] is a neurodevelopmental disorder exhibiting a complex genetic etiology with clinical and locus heterogeneity. Chromosome 15q11-q13 has been proposed to harbor a gene for autism susceptibility based on (1) maternal-specific chromosomal duplications seen in autism and (2) positive evidence for linkage disequilibrium (LD) at 15q markers in chromosomally normal autism families. To investigate and localize a potential susceptibility variant, we developed a dense single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) map of the maternal expression domain in proximal 15q. We analyzed 29 SNPs spanning the two known imprinted, maternally expressed genes in the interval (UBE3A and ATP10C) and putative imprinting control regions. With a marker coverage of 1/10 kb in coding regions and 1/15 kb in large 5' introns, this map was employed to thoroughly dissect LD in autism families. Two SNPs within ATP10C demonstrated evidence for preferential allelic transmission to affected offspring. The signal detected at these SNPs was stronger in singleton families, and an adjacent SNP demonstrated transmission distortion in this subset. All SNPs showing allelic association lie within islands of sequence homology between human and mouse genomes that may be part of an ancestral haplotype containing a functional susceptibility allele. The region was further explored for recombination hot spots and haplotype blocks to evaluate haplotype transmission. Five haplotype blocks were defined within this region. One haplotype within ATP10C displayed suggestive evidence for preferential transmission. Interpretation of these data will require replication across data sets, evaluation of potential functional effects of associated alleles, and a thorough assessment of haplotype transmission within ATP10C and neighboring genes. Nevertheless, these findings are consistent with the presence of an autism susceptibility locus in 15q11-q13.
To evaluate the effect of ACE inhibitor enalapril, AR blocker candesartan and their combination on left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and content of biochemical markers of collagen balance in patients with hypertensive LV hypertrophy. MATERIAL AND METHODS. A total of 66 patients with arterial hypertension with LV hypertrophy were divided into two groups. Group 1 (n = 33) received candesartan (8-16 mg/day), group 2 (n = 33) received enalapril (10-20 mg/day). In effective hypotensive response to the initial treatment, it was continued for 6 months. If in two months of monotherapy the effect was unsatisfactory, the other drug was added. At baseline and upon 6 months of treatment all the patients were examined for myocardial mass index (MMI), matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (THMP-1) in the blood.
In effective initial treatment with candesartan 6-month treatment lowered LV MMI by 13.9%, while in enalapril group--only by 1.5%. In addition of the second drug in ineffective initial therapy the reduction was 5.1%. THMP-1 did not change during the trial.
In patients with hypertensive LVH candesartan more effectively treated LVH. The addition of the second RAS blocker in insufficient efficacy of the initial one significantly reduces LV MMI. A significant antifibrotic effect was achieved only in case of simultaneous use of two RAS blockers.
To investigate the apoptosis of implanted primary gastric cancer cells in nude mice induced by resveratrol and the relation between this apoptosis and expression of bcl-2 and bax.
A transplanted tumor model was established by injecting human primary gastric cancer cells into subcutaneous tissue of nude mice. Resveratrol (500 mg/kg, 1,000 mg/kg and 1,500 mg/kg) was directly injected beside tumor body 6 times at an interval of 2 d. Then changes of tumor volume were measured continuously and tumor inhibition rate of each group was calculated. We observed the morphologic alterations by electron microscope, measured the apoptotic rate by TUNEL staining method, detected the expression of apoptosis-regulated genes bcl-2 and bax by immunohistochemical staining and PT-PCR.
Resveratrol could significantly inhibit carcinoma growth when it was injected near the carcinoma. An inhibitory effect was observed in all therapeutic groups and the inhibition rate of resveratrol at the dose of 500 mg/kg, 1,000 mg/kg and 1,500 mg/kg was 10.58%, 29.68% and 39.14%, respectively. Resveratrol induced implanted tumor cells to undergo apoptosis with apoptotic characteristics, including morphological changes of chromatin condensation, chromatin crescent formation, nucleus fragmentation. The inhibition rate of 0.2 mL of normal saline solution, 1,500 mg/kg DMSO, 500 mg/kg resveratrol, 1 000 mg/kg resveratrol, and 1 500 mg/kg resveratrol was 13.68+/-0.37%, 13.8+/-0.43%, 48.7+/-1.07%, 56.44+/-1.39% and 67+/-0.96%, respectively. The positive rate of bcl-2 protein of each group was 29.48+/-0.51%, 27.56+/-1.40%, 11.86+/-0.97%, 5.7+/-0.84% and 3.92+/-0.85%, respectively by immunohistochemical staining. The positive rate of bax protein of each group was 19.34+/-0.35%, 20.88+/-0.91%, 40.02+/-1.20%, 45.72+/-0.88% and 52.3+/-1.54%, respectively by immunohistochemical staining. The density of bcl-2 mRNA in 0.2 mL normal saline solution, 1,500 mg/kg DMSO, 500 mg/kg resveratrol, 1,000 mg/kg resveratrol, and 1,500 mg/kg resveratrol decreased progressively and the density of bax mRNA in 0.2 mL normal saline solution, 1,500 mg/kg DMSO, 500 mg/kg resveratrol, 1,000 mg/kg resveratrol, and 1,500 mg/kg increased progressively with elongation of time by RT-PCR.
Resveratrol is able to induce apoptosis of transplanted tumor cells. This apoptosis may be mediated by down-regulating apoptosis-regulated gene bcl-2 and up-regulating the expression of apoptosis-regulated gene bax.
Vasodilatation and increased capillary permeability have been proposed to be involved in the pathogenesis of acute and chronic form of hepatic encephalopathy. Prostacyclin (PGI2) and nitric oxide (NO) are important contributors to hyperdynamic circulation in portal hypertensive states. Our previous study showed that chronic inhibition of NO had detrimental effects on the severity of encephalopathy in thioacetamide (TAA)-treated rats due to aggravation of liver damage. To date, there are no detailed data concerning the effects of PGI2 inhibition on the severity of hepatic encephalopathy during fulminant hepatic failure.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 300-350 g were used. Fulminant hepatic failure was induced by intraperitoneal injection of TAA (350 mg/(kg.d) for 3 d. Rats were divided into two groups to receive intraperitoneal injection of indomethacin (5 mg/(kg.d), n = 20) or normal saline (N/S, n = 20) for 5 d, starting 2 d before TAA administration. Severity of encephalopathy was assessed by the counts of motor activity measured with Opto-Varimex animal activity meter. Plasma tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha, an index of liver injury) and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) (a metabolite of PGI2) levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
As compared with N/S-treated rats, the mortality rate was significantly higher in rats receiving indomethacin (20% vs 5%, P<0.01). Inhibition of PGI2 created detrimental effects on total movement counts (indomethacin vs N/S: 438+/-102 vs 841+/-145 counts/30 min, P<0.05). Rats treated with indomethacin had significant higher plasma levels of TNF-alpha (indomethacin vs N/S: 22+/-5 vs 10+/-1 pg/mL, P<0.05) and lower plasma levels of 6-keto-PGF1alpha (P<0.001), but not total bilirubin or creatinine (P>0.05), as compared with rats treated with N/S.
Chronic indomethacin administration has detrimental effects on the severity of encephalopathy in TAA-treated rats and this phenomenon may be attributed to the aggravation of liver injury. This study suggests that PGI2 may provide a protective role in the development of fulminant hepatic failure.
A 78-year-old with healed septal necrosis suffered a recurrent myocardial infarction of the anterior wall following the administration of isosorbide dinitrate 5 mg sublingually. After detailing the course of events, we discuss the role of paradoxical coronary spasm and hypotension-mediated myocardial ischemia occurring downstream to significant coronary arterial stenosis in the pathophysiology of acute coronary insufficiency.
Recent studies have indicated that targeting glutathione-S-transferase (GST) isoenzymes may be a promising novel strategy to improve the efficacy of conventional chemotherapy in the three most common musculoskeletal tumours: osteosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma. By using a panel of 15 drug-sensitive and drug-resistant human osteosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma cell lines, the efficay of the GST-targeting agent 6-(7-nitro-2,1,3-benzoxadiazol-4-ylthio)hexanol (NBDHEX) has been assessed and related to GST isoenzymes expression (namely GSTP1, GSTA1, GSTM1, and MGST). NBDHEX showed a relevant in vitro activity on all cell lines, including the drug-resistant ones and those with higher GSTs levels. The in vitro activity of NBDHEX was mostly related to cytostatic effects, with a less evident apoptotic induction. NBDHEX positively interacted with doxorubicin, vincristine, cisplatin but showed antagonistic effects with methotrexate. In vivo studies confirmed the cytostatic efficay of NBDHEX and its positive interaction with vincristine in Ewing's sarcoma cells, and also indicated a positive effect against the metastatisation of osteosarcoma cells. The whole body of evidence found in this study indicated that targeting GSTs in osteosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma may be an interesting new therapeutic option, which can be considered for patients who are scarcely responsive to conventional regimens.
Benign intracranial hypertension with papilloedema developed in a 18-year-old woman following Minocycline administration. Tetracycline therapy was prescribed for acne vulgaris. One month after the beginning of the treatment, she presented with headache, nausea and vomiting; there were no visual symptoms. Visual acuity and visual field were normal, fundus examination showed bilateral papilloedema. After Minocycline was discontinued and steroid therapy was administrated, symptoms rapidly resolved and papilloedema disappeared. Minocycline is known to penetrate into the central nervous system more effectively and to have a greater lipoid solubility than the other antibiotics of the same group. However the pathogenesis of benign intracranial hypertension after Minocycline therapy remains unknown.
A 55-year-old man demonstrated typical reflux esophagitis, not esophageal spasm, by esophageal manometry, although he demonstrated classic migraine, positive Raynaud's scan, and proven coronary artery spasm. He suffered from severe chest pain by medication of ergotamine tartrate. Ergot alkaloids should be avoided in patients with symptomatic coronary artery spasm.
The fate of inspired mercury vapour (Hg0) is critical in the central nervous system (CNS) where it can circumvent the blood-brain barrier (BBB) at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and accumulate indefinitely in motor neurons by retrograde transport. The detoxification of systemic Hg0 by lung and liver requires investigation. We exposed 129/Sv wild-type (Wt) and 129/Sv MT-I, II double knockout (KO) mice to 500 microg Hg0/m3 for 4 hours to investigate the expression of MT in the lung, liver, and spinal cord following Hg0 exposure using unexposed groups as controls. There were congestive changes in liver and lung of both Wt and MT-KO groups of Hg0-treated mice; these changes appeared more pronounced in the MT-KO group. Motor neurons in the spinal cord did not show any pathological changes. Based on expression of MT, liver appears to have a major role in trapping and stabilising mercury. In the spinal cord, MT was expressed in all white matter astrocytes and in some grey matter astrocytes. Notably, motor neurons did not express MT, and the presence of MT could not be demonstrated in the axons of the ventral root. The absence of MT expression in motor neurons and their axons suggests the dependence of the motor system on the detoxifying capacity of liver MTs.
