Although vitamin A has been reported to be essential to brain homeostasis, some central nervous system (CNS)-associated deleterious effects may be induced by vitamin A or by its metabolites. In this work, we investigated the effects of acute and chronic vitamin A supplementation at therapeutic (1,000 or 2,500 IU/kg/day) or excessive (4,500 or 9,000 IU/kg/day) doses on the redox state of the rat striatum. We found a 1.8- to 2.7-fold increase of lipid peroxidation in the striatum after acute or chronic supplementation (TBARS method). Therapeutic doses induced a 1.6- to 2.2-fold increase of protein carbonylation (dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) derivatization). Vitamin A supplementation induced a 1.2- to 1.4-fold decrease of protein thiol content acutely and chronically. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, assessed through the inhibition of epinephrine's autoxidation, was increased in a dose-dependent manner chronically. Acutely, both therapeutic and excessive vitamin A doses induced a 1.8- to 2.2-fold decrease of catalase (CAT) activity, as determined through the rate of decrease of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity did not change in this experimental model. Some vitamin A doses decreased the non-protein thiol content only chronically. Vitamin A supplementation decreased the striatal non-enzymatic antioxidant defenses (TRAP assay). Furthermore, our results show that vitamin A supplementation impaired the SOD/CAT ratio. Moreover, we observed a 1.6- to 2.0-fold decrease of locomotion and exploration in an open field after vitamin A supplementation. Therefore, our results suggest that vitamin A supplementation induces oxidative stress in the rat striatum and that it may be related to a metabolic impairment in such brain area.
Organophosphate (OP) poisoning causes a cholinergic crisis with a wide range of clinical effects including central apnea, pulmonary bronchoconstriction and secretions, seizures, and muscle weakness. The morbidity and mortality from acute OP poisoning is attributed to respiratory failure but the relative contributions of the central and peripheral effects in producing collapse of the respiratory system are unclear. In this study we used a novel adult rat model of acute OP poisoning to analyze the pathophysiology of acute OP poisoning. We found that poisoning caused rapidly lethal central apnea. In animals sustained with mechanical ventilation, we found that following central apnea there ensued progressive pulmonary insufficiency that was variable in timing and severity. Our findings support the hypothesis that OP poisoning in this animal model causes a sequential "two hit" insult, with rapid central apnea followed by delayed impairment of pulmonary gas exchange with prominent airway secretions.
This case report describes a 63 year old woman with a nineteen year history of Huntington's Chorea who had been successfully treated with tetrabenazine for 9 years. During a hospital admission for an unrelated medical illness, she was given two doses of chlorpromazine 25 mg for a vascular headache and within hours became mute, extremely rigid, and unable to move or swallow. The consultation psychiatrist confirmed the diagnosis of severe drug-induced parkinsonism by intramuscular injection of benztropine mesylate which resulted in a dramatic immediate improvement. Both chlorpromazine and tetrabenazine were discontinued and the patient's severe parkinsonian symptoms completely abated on oral benztropine mesylate. Tetrabenazine alone, was restarted after 48 hours to control her Huntington's Chorea and there was no recurrence of parkinsonism. (Past history revealed the patient to have tolerated the same doses of chlorpromazine and tetrabenazine when given separately.) Previous literature reports concurrent safe use of antipsychotics with tetrabenazine, but this case report would suggest caution, and early discontinuance in the event of parkinsonism.
This study aimed at investigating the change and significance of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in cardiomyopathy induced by adriamycin (ADR) in rats.
Sixty male Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups: control, ADR and ADR + pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) groups. After 30-day experiment, myocardial histopathological observation was performed. Location and distribution of NF-kappaB p50 was examined by immunohistochemical assay. Expression of NF-kappaB p50 protein was examined by immunobolt assay. Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay examined activity of NF-kappaB; Myocardium p53 gene expression was examined by RT-PCR analysis.
The myocardial lesions of rats were less pronounced in ADR + PDTC group than in ADR group. Compared with control group, there were many myocardium nucleuses, which expressed NF-kappaB p50 and distribute under epicardium. Expression of NF-kappaB p50 protein in nucleus increased significantly in ADR group. The NF-kappaB binding activity increased significantly in ADR group. Myocardium expressions of p53 mRNA increased in ADR group.
The NF-kappaB binding activity increased significantly in cardiomyopathy induced by ADR in rats. Moreover, NF-kappaB plays an important role in causing degeneration of myocardial tissue and regulating expression of related-apoptosis genes.
Although it has been known that a morphine abstinence syndrome can be induced by naloxone administered centrally or peripherally, data on a detailed qualitative and quantitative comparison are not available. In the present study morphine pellets were implanted into rats and naloxone was administered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) or subcutaneously (s.c.) 72 h later. A full array of abstinence signs with similar latency, duration, and intensity was seen in morphine-dependent rats following naloxone by either route. There were no major differences in the spectrum of withdrawal signs or in the proportion of rats showing the individual signs. In terms of body weight and temperature, the highest doses tested by each route produced similar quantitative effects. Our results demonstrate that naloxone given i.c.v. can precipitate the full morphine abstinence syndrome in rats at about 1/3 the dose needed for comparable effects when the antagonist is administered s.c.
Arginine and large doses of glutamate (greater than 500 mg/kg) were found to reduce ammonia toxicity transiently in mice. Smaller doses of glutamate (greater than or equal to 200 mg/kg) were effective when administered with glucose. Cysteic acid, homocysteine and methionine, but not taurine reduced ammonia toxicity. All 4 amino acids reduced the number of convulsions induced by methionine sulphoximine. It is proposed that taurine has a general anticonvulsant action and that cysteic acid, homocysteine and methionine may have a specific effect on the action of ammonia on the central nervous system.
Activated macrophages mediate inflammation, as they release nitric oxide and pro-inflammatory cytokines in various inflammatory diseases. Suppressing macrophage activation may alleviate inflammatory processes. Here, we report that (E)-3-(3,4-dihydroxy-2-methoxyphenyl)-1-(2,4-dihydroxyphenyl)prop-2-en-1-one (DDP), a novel licochalcone B derivative compound, inhibits inflammatory reactions in macrophages and protects mice from endotoxin shock. In vitro experiments showed that DDP suppressed the generation of nitric oxide and pro-inflammatory cytokines by suppressing the activation of nuclear factor-κB and activator protein-1 and simultaneously inhibited its upstream inflammatory signaling cascades in lipopolysaccharide in RAW264.7 cells. In an animal model, DDP protected BALB/c mice from lipopolysaccharide-induced endotoxin shock, possibly through inhibition of the production of inflammatory cytokines. DDP inhibited the production of inflammatory mediators and may be a potential target for treatment of various inflammatory diseases.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of Cassia occidentalis (CO) seeds on the transcriptional expression patterns of mRNAs in rat liver by microarray analysis. The results indicated that exposure of CO (0.5%) seeds in diet to rats differentially regulated 60 transcripts belonging to various metabolic pathways including, oxidative stress, xenobiotic metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, cell cycle, apoptosis etc. The expression of AKT1, CAT, SOD1, CYP1A1, CYP2B1, TGF-β, BAX, CREB1, JNK1 and IL-6 were validated by the qRT-PCR. In addition, involvement of oxidative stress was observed due to marked depletion of glutathione, increase in lipid peroxidation and modulation of antioxidant enzymes in hepatic tissue of rats treated with 0.5-2.0% CO in diet. Furthermore, significant decrease in the levels of Phase 1 (EROD, MROD and PROD) and Phase 2 (QR and GST) enzymes following 0.5-2.0% CO exposure indicates the impairment of xenobiotic metabolism and possible accumulation of toxic ingredients of the seeds in liver. Overall, the study predicts the involvement of multiple pathways and related biomolecules in CO induced hepatotoxicity and the data may be useful in formulating strategies for therapeutic interventions of suspected CO poisoning study cases.
Goniothalamin (GTN), a styryl-lactone, is a secondary metabolite naturally found in its enantiomeric form (R) in plants of the genus Goniothalamus (Annonaceae). The antiproliferative activity against human tumor cell lines reported in several studies suggest that the α,β-unsaturated δ-lactone moiety emerges as a key Michael acceptor for cysteine residues or other nucleophilic biological molecules. Our group reported on the in vivo activity of (R)- and (S)-GTN as well as its racemic form (rac-GTN) in both Ehrlich solid tumor and carrageenan-induced paw edema in mice, without side effects in the effective doses. Despite the rich body of data on the in vitro GTN biological activity, much less is known about its in vivo pharmacological action. Herein we describe the gastroprotective activity of rac-GTN on chemical-induced gastric ulcers models in rats. GTN has a potent gastroprotective effect on ethanol-induced ulcers (effective dose50=18mg/kg) and this activity is dependent on sulfhydryl compounds and prostaglandins generation, but independent of nitric oxide (NO), gastric secretion and mucus production. We hypothesize that goniothalamin may act as a mild irritant, inducing the production of sulfhydryl compounds and prostaglandins, in a process known as adaptive cytoprotection. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that Michael acceptors are the most potent inducers of antioxidant response (as activation of Nrf2 pathway) through generation of mild oxidative stress and that gastroprotective activity of goniothalamin is inhibited after pre-treatment with NEM (N-ethylmaleimide) and NSAID (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs), highlighting the importance of sulfhydryl compounds and prostaglandins on GTN activity.
The effect of a pungent ingredient of red pepper, capsaicin, on oxidative stress induced changes in the antioxidant defense system by benzo(a)pyrene in the lungs of mice was studied. Oral gavage administration of benzo(a)pyrene (50 mg/kg body weight) to mice led to a marked increase in oxidative stress indicated by alterations in pulmonary lipid peroxidation, enzymic antioxidants (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glutathione-S-transferase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase) and non-enzymic antioxidants (reduced glutathione, vitamin C, vitamin E and vitamin A). Pre-co-treatment with capsaicin (10 mg/kg body weight i.p.) restored cellular normalcy, highlighting the antioxidant potential of capsaicin in mitigating the oxidative stress mediated damage produced during benzo(a)pyrene-induced lung cancer.
Bladder cancer (BC) is the fifth most common non-cutaneous malignancy and the most common form of BC in Western countries is transitional cell carcinoma. Resiniferatoxin (RTX) has found therapeutic usefulness for the treatment of bladder dysfunction but no data are available on its use as chemotherapeutic agent. The aim of this work is to evaluate the use of RTX as new anti-cancer drug in BC therapy. The effects of RTX on cell viability and cell death were evaluated on T24 and 5637 BC cell lines by MTT assay, cell cycle analysis, Annexin-V/PI staining and agarose gel electrophoresis of DNA. Mitochondrial depolarization and ROS production were assessed by flow cytometry. ADP/ATP ratio was measured by bioluminescence and caspase 3 cleavage by Western blot. For in vivo experiments, athymic nude mice, xenografted with T24 cells, received subcutaneous administrations of RTX. Tumor volumes were measured and immunohistochemistry was performed on tumor sections. Our data demonstrated that RTX influences cell cycle and induces necrotic cell death of BC cells by altering mitochondrial function, leading to depolarization, increase in ADP/ATP ratio and ROS production. Moreover, RTX is able to reduce tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model. Overall, we demonstrated that RTX induces necrotic cell death of BC cells and reduces tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model of BC, suggesting RTX as a new potential anti-cancer drug in BC chemotherapy.
It has been reported that icariin protects neurons against ischemia/reperfusion injury. In this study, we found that icariin could enhance neuronal viability and suppress neuronal death after oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD). Further study showed that neuroprotection by icariin was through the induction of Sirtuin type 1 (SIRT1), an effect that was reversed by SIRT1 inhibitor III and P38 inhibitor SB203580. SIRT1 is an endogenous gene of longevity, which increased neuronal viability and could be activated by stimulating the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. However, this study found that icariin activated the MAPK/P38 pathway, not the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) or c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (MAPK/JNK) to regulate SIRT1 expression. The results suggest that icariin may be developed into a neuroprotectant for ischemia-related brain injury.
Intravenous inotropic agents promote increased myocardial contractility via elevation of myocyte calcium concentrations, a mechanism that is also known to promote the development of cardiac arrhythmias. The purpose of this article is to review the electrophysiologic effects and relative potential for proarrhythmia associated with dobutamine, dopamine, and the phosphodiesterase inhibitors amrinone and milrinone. Dobutamine increases sinoatrial node automaticity and decreases atrial and atrioventricular (AV) node refractoriness and AV nodal conduction time. The drug also decreases ventricular refractoriness in both healthy and ischemic myocardium. Dobutamine has been shown to increase heart rate in a dose-related fashion in animals and in humans. In humans, dobutamine has been reported to induce ventricular ectopic activity (VEA) in 3% to 15% of patients, although VEAs are often asymptomatic, requiring no intervention. Ventricular tachycardia (VT) associated with dobutamine appears to occur rarely. Patients with underlying arrhythmias or heart failure or those receiving excessive doses of dobutamine are at greatest risk for proarrhythmia. Dopamine increases automaticity in Purkinje fibers and has a biphasic effect on action potential duration. Dopamine has been reported to induce atrial or ventricular arrhythmias in animals. In humans, dopamine may be associated with dose-related sinus tachycardia but has also been reported to cause VEA, which is usually asymptomatic. Dopamine-associated VT appears to occur rarely. Dopamine produces greater elevations in heart rate or frequency of ventricular premature beats at a given value of cardiac index than does dobutamine. The phosphodiesterase inhibitors amrinone and milrinone increase conduction through the AV node and decrease atrial refractoriness. Intravenous administration of these drugs may result in sinus tachycardia in some patients and has been reported to cause VEA, which is often asymptomatic, in up to 17% of patients. VT has also been reported in association with short-term use of intravenous phosphodiesterase inhibitors. In summary, intravenous inotropic agents may be associated with proarrhythmic effects in some patients. The primary arrhythmias reported are sinus tachycardia and VEA, although other supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias have been reported less commonly. However, clinically significant proarrhythmic effects associated with these agents appear to occur rarely, and, at conventional doses, intravenous inotropic agents are relatively safe with respect to proarrhythmic effects.
Cocaine can cause myocardial ischemia or infarction. The incidence of these events, and the influence of specific dosing routes or regimens on their occurrence is not established. In the current study, we obtained frequent 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) and continuous 2 or 3 channel ECGs from 20 subjects participating in a behavioral study of smoked cocaine. Subjects received 10 or 11 doses of cocaine 0.4 mg/kg per dose, or 10 doses of 35 mg per dose at 30 min intervals (range 233-408 mg total dose per session). ECGs were also recorded on control days on which subjects received no cocaine. The mean peak plasma cocaine concentration on cocaine days was 640 +/- 262 ng/ml. There were no changes in digitized ST segment amplitude on 12-lead ECGs obtained during cocaine administration (P = 0.098). Of 17 subjects who had technically satisfactory continuous ECGs, four had significant ST segment depression (> 1 mm below the PR segment); two on cocaine days and two on control days (P > 0.5). One subject had frequent premature beats on both cocaine and control days. One subject had an asymptomatic run of 4 ventricular beats 30 s after cocaine administration that could have been due to cocaine. All episodes of ST depression or premature beats were asymptomatic. No evidence of either symptomatic or subclinical cardiac ischemia related to cocaine administration was found. Thus no clinically important adverse events were found as a result of smoked cocaine administered by this dosing regimen to healthy males with a history of heavy cocaine use. Additional study with larger numbers of subjects will be helpful in further assessing the safety of administering smoked cocaine to research subjects.
We report 5 patients with repeated episodes of meningitis related to intake of trimethoprim containing compounds. On at least one occasion the patients received pure trimethoprim prior to reaction. Autoimmune disease was established in 3 of the patients. A close temporal relationship between drug intake and reaction was noted: symptoms appeared often within minutes. No evidence of infections was found. Lumbar puncture after recovery revealed normal values in 2 patients. This aseptic meningitis is most likely an adverse drug reaction and associated with trimethoprim intake. The reaction is infrequently reported in relation to drug sales but its incidence has probably been underestimated.
We present the clinicopathological features of two siblings from a consanguineous marriage who presented with respiratory hypoventilation and died 10 days and 4 years later, respectively. This disorder showed extensive tau neuropathology, and both had a novel homozygous S352L tau gene mutation. This is the first description of a pathologically proved young-onset tauopathy with apparent recessive inheritance.
An 18-year-old schizophrenic female was recently treated after overdosing on trihexyphenidyl, thioridazine and an unknown antidepressant. On presentation to a local hospital, she was cyanotic with dilatated pupils and in acute respiratory failure. She was intubated prior to transfer. While in our Emergency Department, she exhibited occasional premature ventricular contractions which later became intermittent torsade de pointes. As this was an anticholinergic overdose we infused sodium bicarbonate in an attempt to increase protein binding, hoping to decrease the concentration of toxic metabolites. We also tried to suppress the dysrhythmia by infusing magnesium. The potassium level was borderline low so a supplemental infusion was initiated. Defibrillation was attempted. To try to shorten the action potential duration by activating the K+ channel, an isuprel infusion was also attempted. All methods failed. The patient fluctuated between an irregular sinus rhythm with prolonged QT interval and pulseless torsade de pointes for almost 24 hours. At all times, she responded appropriately to pain. Finally we attempted blockade of the calcium channel using verapamil with dramatic results. Each single bolus (0.1 mg/kg) successfully converted the patient back to sinus rhythm for some 15-20 minutes before the torsade recurred. After the initiation of a continuous verapamil infusion (0.005 mg/kg/hr), the patient remained in stable sinus rhythm. Verapamil proved highly effective in this patient with an anticholinergic overdose induced dysrhythmia.
It is not clear how the blocking effect of angiotensin II receptors by olmesartan affects the functional recovery of pressure-overload hypertrophied heart. Hypertrophied heart was created by abdominal aortic banding above the celiac artery in Wistar rats at the age of eight weeks. Hypertrophied heart was excised and studied at 10 and 16 weeks after the operation (HT groups). For the last four weeks before the experiment, olmesartan (0.2 mg/kg per day) was administered subcutaneously by osmotic minipumps (Olm groups). Left ventricular function was measured by Langendorff perfusion. The levels of mRNA for angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), ACE2 and extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) in myocardium were analyzed by RT-PCR. Left ventricular systolic (+dP/dt(max), left ventricular systolic pressure) and diastolic functions (-dP/dt(max), tau) were impaired in HT groups, while in Olm groups they were significantly improved. The left ventricle to body weight (LV/BW) ratio increased significantly in HT groups, but in Olm groups the LV/BW ratio decreased significantly in comparison with HT groups. The ACE2 mRNA level was significantly higher in Olm groups as compared with HT groups. Plasma angiotensin II and the ERK mRNA level in HT groups increased significantly, but decreased in Olm groups in comparison with HT groups significantly. Olmesartan improved left ventricular function and hypertrophy through the increase of the ACE2 mRNA and decrease of both angiotensin II and ERK mRNA in pressure-overload rat heart.
A rare state of acquired hypercoagulability known as heparin-associated or heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HATT, HITT) exists. It appears to be caused by an antibody reaction with heparin-platelet factor 4 complexes. A mild and severe form exist, but both varieties occur after exposure to heparin. The authors describe a fatal neonatal case of hypercoagulability on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, and their evaluation that determined the etiology as type II HATT. They discuss the pathophysiology of HATT as well as possible alternative anticoagulation approaches.
This study compared rebound coagulation in patients with acute coronary syndrome patients after discontinuation of unfractionated heparin (UFH) or low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH).
Up to a quarter of patients hospitalized for unstable angina experience recurrent ischemia after discontinuation of UFH or LMWH therapy, which may be the result of rebound coagulation activation and subsequent thrombosis. It is unknown whether UFH and LMWH differ in this respect.
We randomized 71 patients admitted with unstable angina to intravenous UFH or subcutaneous LMWH (dalteparin) and measured plasma markers of coagulation before, during, and after treatment.
A complete series of measurements was obtained in 59 patients. Plasma prothrombin fragment 1+2 (F(1+2)) levels decreased in both groups during treatment. After loss of therapeutic plasma drug levels, F(1+2) increased (within 3 h) to a maximum level at 12 to 24 h that was higher than before or during treatment in both groups (p < 0.0001). In both groups, F(1+2) levels remained higher than pretreatment up to 24 h after discontinuation. Similarly, thrombin-antithrombin (TAT) levels exceeded treatment and pretreatment levels, at a slower rate after dalteparin than after UFH. However, after dalteparin a higher peak value of TAT was observed.
Rebound coagulation activation occurs within hours after discontinuation of both UFH and dalteparin. With both drugs, thrombin generation is significantly greater after treatment than before or during treatment. A longer duration or weaning of treatment, or continuation with another anticoagulant treatment, may reduce rebound coagulation activation and ischemic events.
Hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) mainly develop from liver cirrhosis and severe liver fibrosis that are established with long-lasting inflammation of the liver. Silencing of the suppressor of the cytokine signaling-1 (SOCS1) gene, a negative regulator of cytokine signaling, by DNA methylation has been implicated in development or progress of HCC. However, how SOCS1 contributes to HCC is unknown. We examined SOCS1 gene methylation in >200 patients with chronic liver disease and found that the severity of liver fibrosis is strongly correlated with SOCS1 gene methylation. In murine liver fibrosis models using dimethylnitrosamine, mice with haploinsufficiency of the SOCS1 gene (SOCS1(-/+) mice) developed more severe liver fibrosis than did wild-type littermates (SOCS1(+/+) mice). Moreover, carcinogen-induced HCC development was also enhanced by heterozygous deletion of the SOCS1 gene. These findings suggest that SOCS1 contributes to protection against hepatic injury and fibrosis, and may also protect against hepatocarcinogenesis.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) increases insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) production in fetal rat osteoblasts in vitro, suggesting that stimulation of sensory neurons might increase IGF-I production, thereby preventing apoptosis. We examined whether stimulation of sensory neurons by capsaicin might reduce reperfusion-induced hepatic apoptosis by increasing IGF-I production. Administration of capsaicin increased tissue levels of IGF-I and IGF-I mRNA in various organs in wild-type (WT) mice, but not in CGRP-knock-out (CGRP-/-) mice. Administration of CGRP increased tissue levels of IGF-I and IGF-I mRNA in both WT and CGRP-/- mice. Increases in hepatic tissue levels of TNF, serum levels of transaminases, hepatic apoptosis and hepatic tissue levels of caspase-3 after hepatic ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) were more marked in CGRP-/- mice than in WT mice. Hepatic IGF-I levels were increased in WT mice after reperfusion, while they were not changed in CGRP-/- mice. Although administration of capsaicin enhanced increases in IGF-I levels and reduced reperfusion-induced events in WT mice, it had no effect in CGRP-/- mice. Administration of CGRP and IGF-I reduced reperfusion-induced effects in both strains of mice. These observations suggested that capsaicin-induced sensory neuron activation, which leads to release of CGRP, might increase IGF-I production, thereby reducing reperfusion-induced liver injury by reducing apoptosis.
Although introduced more than 50 years ago, topical glucocorticoids are still the first line therapy for many inflammatory skin disorders such as atopic eczema, contact dermatitis and many others. Recently, significant improvements have been made to optimize the ratio of desired to unwanted effects. While with early compounds such as triamcinolone, topical side effects such as skin atrophy and telangiectasias can be observed rather frequently, newer drugs such as methylprednisolone aceponate or mometasone furoate have a significantly improved therapeutic index. The present study compared these two modern topical glucocorticoids, which possess the highest therapeutic index currently found, in terms of nuclear receptor selectivity in vitro and induction of the most important local side effects (skin atrophy and telangiectasias) in a relevant rodent model in vivo. We demonstrate that methylprednisolone aceponate displays higher specificity in nuclear receptor binding compared with mometasone furoate. Methylprednisolone aceponate was also markedly superior in terms of minimizing induction of skin atrophy or telangiectasias when compared with mometasone furoate. Based on these observations, methylprednisolone aceponate is expected to have a greater therapeutic index as compared with mometasone furoate, at least in the test systems used here. The degree to which this observation may translate into a clinical setting requires confirmation.
The aim of this study was to determine the effect of chromium (Cr)- enriched yeast on blood glucose and insulin variables, blood lipids, and blood markers of oxidative stress in persons with type 2 diabetes mellitus (median duration: 3.0 yr). Thirty-six subjects (9 men, 27 women; mean age: 61.3 yr; mean body mass index: 34.33 kg/m2) were supplemented with 400 microg Cr/d as Cr-enriched yeast (n = 19) or placebo (n = 17) for 12 wk in a randomized, double-blind study. The most interesting results were obtained by comparison of the change in the placebo group to the change in the Cr group. The Cr group showed a significantly greater increase in serum Cr compared to the placebo group (p < 0.05). Supplementation with Cr-enriched yeast was associated with a significant decrease in fasting serum glucose compared to placebo (p < 0.01). Blood markers of oxidative stress glutathione peroxidase activity and levels of reduced glutathione were essentially unchanged in the Cr group after 12 wk, but decreased significantly in the placebo group (p < 0.05, p < 0.01, respectively). Serum HbA1c and glycated protein (fructosamine) were essentially unchanged in the Cr group, whereas HbA1c tended to increase in the placebo group (from 6.94% to 7.11%). Fasting serum insulin decreased in both groups, with a greater tendency in the Cr group (-16.5% vs -9.5%). These data suggest that supplementation of well-controlled type 2 diabetics with Cr-enriched yeast is safe and can result in improvements in blood glucose variables and oxidative stress.
Prostate carcinomas are androgen-dependent neoplasms which progress toward a hormone-independent phenotype during hormone-deprivation therapy. We evaluated nevirapine, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor, as a new treatment in hormone-refractory prostate carcinoma cells with the aim of restoring the androgen-dependency of tumor cells, the rationale being that endogenous reverse transcriptase is up-regulated in transformed cells and reverse transcriptase inhibitors exert a differentiating activity in human tumors.
Nevirapine induced extensive reprogramming of gene expression in vitro with up-regulation of genes that might be silenced during prostate tumor progression (i.e., K18, PSA and androgen receptor) and down-regulation of genes involved in the progression toward an androgen-independent phenotype (i.e., K5, EGFR1, EGF and VEGF-A). Furthermore, nevirapine down-regulated the growth of prostate carcinoma xenografts in athymic mice and induced a differentiated phenotype in vivo with increased K18 expression. Interestingly, the drug restored androgen signaling by enhancing the ability of tumor cells to respond to dihydrotestosterone stimulation and to the antiproliferative activity of the androgen receptor blocker bicalutamide. Finally, nevirapine pretreatment increased the susceptibility of tumor cells to docetaxel, by enhancing their ability to undergo apoptosis.
These data suggest that nevirapine may be clinically tested in human hormone-refractory prostate carcinoma to restore the susceptibility to androgen deprivation therapy or to docetaxel.
The hemodynamic effects of nitroglycerin ointment were studied in 22 patients with acute myocardial infarction. Control measurements were obtained and observations were made over the ensuing 240 minutes. There was no change in heart rate, cardiac index or stroke index. Ninety minutes after application of the ointment, peak decrements were evident in mean arterial pressure (from 100 to 88 mm Hg) (P less than 0.001), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (from 19 to 13 mm Hg) (P less than 0.001), right atrial pressure (from 8 to 5 mm Hg) (P less than 0.001) and heart X systolic blood pressure (from 1,155 to 1,044 mm Hg/min X 10(-1) (P less than 0.02); significant changes were still present at 240 minutes. Total peripheral resistance decreased maximally from 19.8 to 17.2 units (P less than 0.02); the transmyocardial gradient (arterial diastolic -- pulmonary capillary wedge pressure) did not decrease during the study. These data indicate that nitroglycerin ointment improves cardiac performance in patients with acute myocardial infarction while reducing the determinants of myocardial oxygen consumption and preserving the transmyocardial gradient for coronary blood flow.
