The efficacy and toxicity of two regimens of antimony, 28 and 40 days of 20 mg of antimony/kg/day, were compared in the treatment of culture-positive mucosal leishmaniasis involving more than one anatomic site. Forty consecutive eligible Peruvians with infiltrative or ulcerative mucosal disease of the lips, nose, palate-uvula-pharynx, or larynx-epiglottis were randomized to receive either 28 days (P28) or 40 days (P40) of sodium stibogluconate (Pentostam). Treatment was prematurely terminated due to thrombocytopenia in three patients and two patients did not complete six months of follow-up. At one month post-treatment, 13% (2 of 16) of the P28 patients and 16% (3 of 19) of the P40 patients no longer had infiltrates or ulcers and were initially considered cured. During a further 11 months of follow-up, infiltrated lesions healed in eight more P28 patients and in 10 more P40 patients. The cure rate after 12 months of follow-up was therefore 63% for both groups (10 of 16 in the P28 group and 12 of 19 in the P40 group). The total of 13 patients who had infiltrates or ulcers at the 9-12-month follow-up were considered failures. All seven patients (three in the P28 group and four in the P40 group) whose lesions were culture-positive for Leishmania at some point in the 12 months after treatment, and who were thereby parasitologic failures, were also clinical failures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We investigated the effects of arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) as a possible approach for preventing airway remodeling in a murine model of bronchial asthma induced by ovalbumin (OVA) challenge. Forty Balb/c mice were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 groups (10 mice/group) as follows: controls (challenged with sterile saline inhalation only); OVA-challenged, no treatment; OVA-challenged, treated with dexamethasone; and OVA-challenged, treated with As(2)O(3). All mice were sensitized by intraperitoneal injection with 10% OVA at 2 weeks prior to saline or OVA inhalation challenge. Challenges were for 8 weeks. After OVA challenge, typical asthma-like morphology changes in the bronchi and lung tissues were observed by hematoxylin-eosin staining and pulmonary function indices were reduced compared with controls. Changes in pulmonary indices and lung tissues were similar in the dexamethasone and As(2)O(3) groups and were in between those of the untreated and control groups. Compared with the untreated group, transforming growth factor β1, vascular endothelial growth factor, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 protein levels and mRNA expression were decreased in lung tissues of the dexamethasone and As(2)O(3) groups. Our results suggest that steroids and As(2)O(3) can inhibit airway remodeling in chronic asthma by mechanisms related to inhibiting the expression of the 3 aforementioned mediators.
X-linked ichthyosis (XLI) is a relatively common genetic disorder that occurs in about one in every 2000-6000 male births. Clinically, XLI is characterized by a generalized scaling of the skin, with large, polygonal, dark brown scale, and more prominent on the extensor aspects of the limbs. It is known that an undetectable maternal serum, unconjugated estriol, associated with placental steroid sulfatase (STS) deficiency, may be the cause of cause of XLI. In most case, STS deficiency is caused by a complete or partial deletion of the STS gene mapped on chromosome Xp22.3. We describe here the prenatal detection of a male fetus affected with STS deficiency as a result of an undetectable unconjugated estriol in the second-trimester maternal serum screening. Microdeletion of the STS gene was confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of cultured amniotic fluid.
The role of Kupffer cells in CCl(4)-induced fibrosis was investigated in vivo. Male Wistar rats were treated with phenobarbital and CCl(4) for 9 wk, and a group of rats were injected with the Kupffer cell toxicant gadolinium chloride (GdCl(3)) or were fed glycine, which inactivates Kupffer cells. After CCl(4) alone, the fibrosis score was 3.0 +/- 0.1 and collagen protein and mRNA expression were elevated, but GdCl(3) or glycine blunted these parameters. Glycine did not alter cytochrome P-450 2E1, making it unlikely that glycine affects CCl(4) metabolism. Treatment with GdCl(3) or glycine prevented CCl(4)-induced increases in transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta 1 protein levels and expression. CCl(4) treatment increased alpha-smooth muscle actin staining (score 3.0 +/- 0.2), whereas treatment with GdCl(3) and glycine during CCl(4) exposure blocked this effect (1.2 +/- 0.5); there was no staining with glycine treatment. These results support previous in vitro data and demonstrate that treatment of rats with the selective Kupffer cell toxicant GdCl(3) prevents stellate cell activation and the development of fibrosis.
The serotonin4 (5-HT4) receptor agonists cisapride and/or metoclopramide have been shown to stimulate cortisol secretion in some patients with ACTH-independent bilateral macronodular adrenal hyperplasias (AIMAH) causing Cushing's syndrome. In the present study, we have investigated quantitatively and qualitatively the expression of the 5-HT4 receptor in both normal adrenal cortex and tissues removed from six patients (P1-P6) with cisapride-responsive AIMAH and Cushing's syndrome. Real-time quantitative PCR assay revealed that the 5-HT4 receptor was overexpressed in four of the six hyperplasias studied when compared with normal adrenal cortex. In these tissues, 5-HT4 receptor mRNA expression was 3 to 16 times higher than in normal glands, likely explaining the abnormal in vivo cortisol response to cisapride. Characterization of 5-HT4 receptor splice variants by RT-PCR in both hyperplastic and normal adrenals showed that the variants present in the two hyperplasias that did not overexpress the 5-HT4 receptor, i.e. P2 and P5, could also be detected in the normal adrenal tissue. In addition, sequencing of the full-length cDNAs encoding 5-HT4 receptors in hyperplasias P2 and P5 did not reveal any mutation. Taken together, our results show an overexpression of the 5-HT4 receptor in cisapride-responsive AIMAH. However, in two cases, the level of expression of the receptor in the hyperplastic adrenal cortex was similar to that of normal adrenal gland. The enhanced sensitivity of these two tissues to 5-HT4 receptor agonists was not due to ectopic expression of 5-HT4 receptor isoforms or to the occurrence of somatic gain-of-function mutation of the receptor.
A patient suffering from heparin-associated thrombocytopenia (HAT), recurrent arteriothromboses, and acute renal failure after treatment with standard heparin is described. He failed to improve when therapy was continued with low-molecular-weight (LMW) heparin (Fragmin, Kabi Pfrimmer, Erlangen, FRG). By means of the in vitro heparin-induced platelet activation (HIPA) assay it was shown that standard heparin and the LMW heparins Fragmin and Fraxiparin (Sanofi Labaz, Munich, FRG), as well as the enoxaparine Clexane (Nattermann, Cologne, FRG), all induced platelet activation with the patient's serum. In contrast, the LMW heparinoid Org 10172 (Organon, Oss, The Netherlands) did not cause platelet activation. When the patient was subsequently treated by parenteral administration of Org 10172 as anticoagulant over a period of several weeks the number of platelets rapidly increased and the patient almost completely recovered. This case shows that strong in vivo and in vitro cross-reactivity between standard heparin and LMW heparins may occur, but can be avoided by the use of a novel heparinoid, Org 10172. The HIPA assay provides a simple and sensitive laboratory method for the choice of an innocuous heparin or heparinoid for continued parenteral anticoagulation.
Amiodarone, 600 mg orally daily, was used in an attempt to control supraventricular tachyarrhythmias in a patient with the sick sinus syndrome. Twenty days from the onset of therapy the Q-T interval lengthened. Episodes of ventricular flutter, ventricular fibrillation and self-terminating ventricular tachyarrhythmia (torsade de pointes) developed on the 28th day of amiodarone therapy. Temporary cardiac pacing prevented further episodes of ventricular fibrillation. Despite the suggestion that this drug may be given in large doses for long periods of time since it has a wide safety margin, we feel that the risk of lethal arrhythmias is such that caution is required in its use.
To assess the relationship between low-dose tamoxifen, usage and endometrial cancer in breast cancer patients.
In this case-control study, the records of the 1017 patients treated at Wilford Hall Medical Center for primary breast cancer between 1978 and 1989 were reviewed. Dose and duration of tamoxifen therapy were recorded as well as the presence of a uterus. Potential confounding variables including diabetes mellitus, hypertension, age, weight, tobacco use, and family history of breast or gynecologic cancer were recorded.
Of the 1017 patients in the study, 56 had inadequate records and 375 had undergone a prior hysterectomy and these patients were excluded from the study, leaving 586 eligible patients. Of these 586 women with primary breast cancer and no previous hysterectomy, 108 patients had received tamoxifen, 10 mg twice a day for greater than 1 year. Four of the 108 patients subsequently developed endometrial adenocarcinoma. Four hundred seventy-eight breast cancer patients did not receive tamoxifen and 4 later developed endometrial adenocarcinoma. The odds ratio for the development of endometrial cancer when exposed to tamoxifen was 15.2 with a 95% confidence interval of 2.8-84.4. The patients exposed and not exposed to tamoxifen were compared for potential confounding variables and after controlling for the potential confounders, tamoxifen was found to be an independent risk factor for the development of endometrial cancer.
Low-dose tamoxifen when given for greater than 1 year is associated with secondary endometrial cancer in patients with primary breast cancer.
To quantify changes of elbow spasticity over time after botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) injection in the upper extremity of stroke patients.
Before-after trial in which the therapeutic effects were followed up at 2, 6, and 9 weeks after the BTX-A injection (Botox).
Hospital.
Chronic stroke patients (N=8) with upper-limb spasticity.
BTX-A was injected in upper-limb muscles, including the biceps brachii.
Treatment effects were quantified as the changes in the velocity and the length dependence of hyperexcitable stretch reflexes. Manual sinusoid stretches of the elbow joint at 4 frequencies (1/3, 1/2, 1, 3/2Hz) over a movement range of 60 degrees were performed on patients by using a portable device. The Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS), biomechanic viscosity, and the reflexive electromyography threshold (RET) of the biceps brachii were used to evaluate the degree of hypertonia.
The statistical analyses of the MAS score, biomechanic viscosity, and RET revealed a significant decrease in spasticity after the injection (all P<.05). Moreover, our quantitative parameters (biomechanic viscosity, RET) revealed small changes in spasticity after the BTX-A injection that could not be observed from clinical MAS evaluations. Five of 8 subjects showed a maximal reduction in spasticity (in terms of biomechanic viscosity value) within 6 weeks after the injection, whereas it was notable that all subjects exhibited peak RET values at either 2 or 6 weeks after the injection with variable degrees of relapse of spasticity.
Early relapse of spasticity (within 9 weeks of the injection) can be detected from biomechanic and neurophysiologic assessments in a clinical setup. These quantitative indices provide valuable information for clinicians when making decisions to perform additional rehabilitation interventions or another BTX-A injection in the early stages of treatment.
In chronic heart failure and acute myocardial infarction, the tissue level of endothelin (ET)-1 in the heart, as well as its plasma level, has been reported to increase markedly. There is, however, little information about what in these pathologic conditions leads to increased production of ET-1, and which type of cell in the heart produces ET-1. We examined the mRNA and peptide expression of ET-1 using cultured rat neonatal cardiomyocytes, in which mitochondrial dysfunction was induced by rotenone, a mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I inhibitor, because one of the common features in failing or ischemic hearts is an alteration in energy metabolism due to mitochondrial dysfunction. Rotenone increased glucose use by the culture cells within 12 h of addition without affecting cell viability, and depressed the mitochondrial membrane potential after 72 h, indicating the induction of mitochondrial dysfunction in cardiomyocytes. Rotenone induced significant increase in the expression level of mRNA for ET-1 within 1 h of addition. In accordance with this finding, immunoreactive ET-1 in culture medium increased 3 times after 24 h of incubation, suggesting active secretion of ET-1 from cultured cells treated with rotenone. Immunocytochemical analysis verified significant increase of ET-1 peptide in cardiomyocytes, confirming the production of ET-1 by cardiomyocytes. These results suggest that derangement of mitochondrial function in cardiomyocytes itself could lead to the increased production of ET-1 in cardiomyocytes, and that this mechanism may contribute to the increased production of ET-1 in failing and ischemic hearts.
Delayed onset ocular ethambutol toxicity is usually considered to be reversible following prompt withdrawal of the drug. However, in a series of seven consecutive patients with severe visual deficit due to ethambutol toxicity, only 42.2% (3 of the 7 patients) achieved a visual recovery of better than 20/200 after an average follow-up of 8.3 +/- 2.1 months after stoppage of the drug. On fluorescein angiography, three cases (42.2%) progressed to optic atrophy during the follow-up with permanent visual damage. There were no predisposing or risk factors to contribute toward the poor visual gain. In this background, we recommend discontinuation of ethambutol from the antituberculous regimen. As an additional sidelight, the value of visually evoked potential in the monitoring of patients on ethambutol, especially in cases with early periaxial neuritis, has been emphasised.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect on the induction of interleukin-8 of particulate matter (PM) from fir and beech pellets burnt in domestic appliances on two human cells lines, namely the lung epithelial cell line A549 and the promyelocytic cell line THP-1. The effects of PM2.5 obtained from combustion of beech and fir pellets were compared to reference diesel exhaust particulates (DEP). In parallel, wood smoke PM-induced genotoxicity and oxidative stress were also investigated in A549 cells. Cells were treated for different times (3-72 h) with increasing concentrations of PM2.5 obtained from sequential combustions of fir and beech pellets or reference DEP. Cell viability was assessed by lactate dehydrogenase leakage, and the release of interleukin-8 or CXCL8 (IL-8) was measured to evaluate the pro-inflammatory effect. Oxidative stress was evaluated by the 5(6)-carboxy-2',7'dichlorofluorescein diacetate (DCFH-DA) assay and DNA damage by the alkaline comet assay and micronucleus frequency by flow cytometry. Both A549 and THP-1 cells responded in a dose- and time-related manner to wood smoke PM2.5 with IL-8 release, particles obtained from late combustions being the most active. THP-1 cells were more sensitive than A549 cells. On a mass base, similar effects were observed for both fir and beech PM2.5. However, the combustion of beech pellets generated approximately three times more PM2.5 than fir pellets. Regarding the mechanism of PM2.5 uptake, in both THP-1 and A549 cells, cytochalasin D prevented PM2.5-induced IL-8 mRNA expression and cytokine release, indicating a key role for actin polymerization in particles uptake and that the production of IL-8 correlated with particle phagocytosis. As signal transduction pathway involvement, in both THP-1 and A549 cells, PM2.5-induced IL-8 release could be completely blocked by the selective inhibitor SB203580, indicating a role of p38 MAPK activation. PM2.5 from both fir and beech pellets also induced modest DNA lesions dose related, measured as strand breaks, whereas no increase in the number of micronucleus was observed. Similar effects were observed with DEP, arguing against less dangerous effects of wood smoke particles than other categories of combustion-derived particles in the same size range. Overall, results suggest that combustion conditions can significantly affect the characteristics of particles and the consequent toxicity, and that different woods can generate different amounts of PM2.5.
Methotrexate (MTX) is a cornerstone in the treatment of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). Although associated with many mild adverse effects, the short and long-term safety of MTX in JIA has been excellent. While many JIA children treated with MTX develop liver enzyme abnormalities, no cases of irreversible liver damage or of severe non-infectious hepatitis with Reye-like features have been reported in non-systemic JIA. We report a 2-year-old girl with oligoarthritis whose liver enzyme increased to greater than 45 times the upper limit of normal, and developed hypoglycemia and hyperammonemia after 10 months of MTX and naproxen therapy. An infectious and metabolic work-up for other causes was unremarkable. She recovered completely after folinic acid therapy; MTX and naproxen was not restarted. While very rare in JIA, MTX in synergism with naproxen can induce severe liver toxicity and it is important to screen children for liver enzyme abnormalities.
Thalidomide is effective in the treatment of such disabling dermatologic diseases as aphthosis, discoid lupus erythematosus, and prurigo nodularis, in which other drugs fail. However, its use can induce neuropathy necessitating caution in its administration. It was found in this electrophysiologic study of 13 patients that the data best revealing neuropathy, even when clinical abnormalities were not apparent, were reduction of sensory nerve action potential amplitude on the sural nerve, increase of somatosensory evoked potential latency following sural nerve stimulation, and reduction of sensory action potential amplitude on stimulating the median nerve at the wrist. In two patients, electrophysiologic abnormalities had increased after withdrawal, suggesting a prolonged action of thalidomide. Timely reduction of dosage, after detection of changes indicating the onset of side effects, could reduce the risk of the sometimes rapid emergence of clinical symptoms.
Non-syndromic cleft lip and palate (NS CLP) is a complex birth defect resulting from multiple genetic and environmental factors. We have previously reported the sequencing of the coding region of genes in the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling pathway, in which missense and non-sense mutations contribute to approximately 5%-6% NS CLP cases. In this article we report the sequencing of conserved non-coding elements (CNEs) in and around 11 of the FGF and FGFR genes, which identified 55 novel variants. Seven of variants are highly conserved among >/=8 species and 31 variants alter transcription factor binding sites, 8 of which are important for craniofacial development. Additionally, 15 NS CLP patients had a combination of coding mutations and CNE variants, suggesting that an accumulation of variants in the FGF signaling pathway may contribute to clefting.
To describe cases of fusidic acid-associated sideroblastic anaemia from the French Pharmacovigilance database.
Six cases of sideroblastic anaemia associated with oral fusidic acid treatment were retrieved. Four females and two males (mean age 65.3 yr) developed severe anaemia (mean haemoglobin level: 6.9 g/dL) within 32-190 d (mean: 81 d) of treatment. Bone marrow aspirates showed dyserythropoiesis and ringed sideroblasts in all patients. Four patients required repeated blood transfusions. After fusidic acid discontinuation in five patients, complete recovery was obtained. In one patient, rechallenge with fusidic acid resulted in recurrence of anaemia that resolved after definitive discontinuation of the drug.
Our data indicate that fusidic acid should be added to the list of drugs that can cause sideroblastic anaemia.
To report the apparent development of endstage liver disease secondary to nitrofurantoin administration.
A 40-year-old woman developed hepatic failure after receiving nitrofurantoin 200 mg po bid for one month for prophylaxis against urinary-tract infections. Symptoms first occurred after two weeks of nitrofurantoin therapy. Other causes of hepatic failure (e.g., viral infection, autoimmune disorder, concomitant medications, cancer, Wilson's disease, ethanol abuse, pregnancy) were ruled out.
Acute and chronic hepatic injury has previously been reported with the use of nitrofurantoin. The proposed mechanism may be immunoallergic or metabolic in origin. On evaluating concomitant diseases and medications in our patient as well as the temporal sequence of her signs and symptoms, it appears that she developed hepatic failure secondary to the use of nitrofurantoin, ultimately necessitating orthotopic liver transplantation. The potential for the development of such a severe adverse reaction warrants careful evaluation of symptoms that may potentially be caused by hepatic damage as well as immediate discontinuation of nitrofurantoin in patients presenting with jaundice.
Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) hydrolyses the neuromuscular blocking agents, succinylcholine and mivacurium used during general anaesthesia. Hereditary low BChE activity may result in an extensively prolonged duration of action of these drugs, especially in patients who are homozygous for the atypical or silent variants. We present three novel mutations in the butyrylcholinesterase gene (BCHE) identified in three families in which a member had experienced severely prolonged duration of action of succinylcholine.
As the phenotypes of the three probands could not be established with certainty using conventional biochemical tests, DNA samples were collected from two of the probands and four relatives. Genotypes were determined using complete nucleotide sequencing.
Three novel mutations were identified: BCHE*FS126, BCHE*I3E4-14C and BCHE*328D. The proband in family 1 was genotyped as BCHE*115D*I3E4-14C/BCHE*FS126, whereas the proband in family 3 was compound heterozygous for BCHE*328D and BCHE*142M. In both patients, BChE activity was below detection limit, and they experienced an extensively prolonged duration of action of succinylcholine. The proband in family 2 was not sequenced, but a relative was heterozygous for BCHE*FS126. BCHE*I3E4-14C was in linkage with a known silent variant.
Two novel variants of BCHE are silencing the enzyme function. BCHE*FS126 results in a truncated protein lacking the active site and is therefore inactive. The second variant is BCHE*328D, also resulting in an inactive protein, as this change in amino acid is radical and furthermore situated in the gorge harbouring the active site. These variants result in extensively prolonged duration of action of succinylcholine.
A relationship between the indices of efficacy of the muscarinic antagonists in preventing the haloperidol catalepsy and their activity in the tests characterizing the interaction of these ligands with various subtypes of m-cholinoreceptors was studied in rats. A mathematical model was formulated that confirmed the previous conclusion concerning the role of of the m1- and m2-cholinoreceptor blockade in the antiparkinsonian activity of muscarinic antagonists. It was established that blocking of the m3-cholinoreceptors decreases the anticataleptic activity of m-cholinoblockers with respect to haloperidol. It is suggested that the high antihaloperidol activity of pentiphine (an acetyleneamine alcohol) is explained by its dopaminomimetic properties rather than by the anticholinergic activity.
Conventional amphotericin B (c-AmB) remains the empirical antifungal treatment of choice for neutropenic patients with persistent fever of unknown origin (FUO). Unfortunately, empirical treatment with c-AmB is hampered by its safety profile, with frequent infusion-related adverse events (IRAEs) and renal toxicity. Amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC) has been investigated for this indication due to its low toxicity profile. The recommended dose of ABLC is 5 mg/kg/d, which is five to seven times higher than the recommended dose of c-AmB.
This randomized, controlled trial includes 105 adult patients with hematologic malignancies and with FUO after receiving chemotherapy or autologous stem cell transplantation. Patients were randomly allocated to receive ABLC at 1 mg/kg/d or c-AmB at 0.6 mg/kg/d for empirical antifungal therapy.
The incidence of renal toxicity was significantly lower in the ABLC group, compared with c-AmB group: 8% vs. 32%, respectively (P = 0.003). The rates of IRAEs were similar in both groups (73% for ABLC vs. 77% for c-AmB). The overall response rate was 72% for ABLC compared with 48% for c-AmB (P = 0.018). This difference was mainly due to the significantly higher renal toxicity in the c-AmB group. The number of emergent fungal infections and overall mortality were similar in both groups.
This randomized trial suggests that ABLC at 1 mg/kg/d produces less nephrotoxicity than c-AmB, without differences in the incidence of IRAEs and with similar efficacy.
Administration of the beta-adrenergic receptor blocker carvedilol to patients with chronic heart failure leads to clinically significant benefits, including improvement in left ventricular systolic function in some, but not all, patients. We sought to determine the basis of the variable effect obtained with carvedilol in patients with heart failure. Carvedilol blocks both beta1-adrenergic and beta2-adrenergic receptors, and both receptors exist as polymorphisms. We aimed to determine whether these polymorphisms contribute to variability in response to carvedilol in patients with chronic heart failure.
We retrospectively and prospectively investigated 135 patients with nonischemic cardiomyopathy and chronic stable heart failure (New York Heart Association class II, III) treated with carvedilol. Baseline echocardiography was obtained before introduction of carvedilol and repeated after stabilization of a maximally tolerated dose of carvedilol (50-100 mg/day) for at least 1 year. Polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis were used to genotype beta1-adrenergic and beta2-adrenergic receptor polymorphisms.
When grouped according to receptor polymorphisms patients were well matched for severity of heart failure, comorbidity and treatment. No significant difference was observed in baseline left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) between groups (P>0.05). After 1.5 years of treatment with carvedilol patients with Arg389Arg-beta1-adrenergic receptors had a significantly greater improvement in LVEF compared with Gly389 carriers (Arg389Arg 18.8%; Arg389Gly 9.4%; Gly389Gly 6.0%; P<0.001) whereas there were no differences attributable to other beta1-adrenergic and beta2-adrenergic receptor polymorphisms (P>0.05).
In patients with nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy, carvedilol leads to a significantly greater improvement in LVEF in patients with the Arg389Arg-beta1 adrenergic receptor phenotype.
To evaluate the effects of nicotine and cigarette smoke exposure on mice submitted to 7,12-dimethylbenzanthracene (DMBA) model of pancreatic carcinogenesis.
One hundred fourteen male mice were divided into the DMBA-n and DMBA-s groups: the DMBA-n group was given 2 mg/kg per dose of nicotine ([3-(1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)pyridine]) subcutaneously for 45 days, and the DMBA-s group was exposed to 100 mg/m of cigarette smoke. At day 16, 1 mg of DMBA crystals was implanted in the pancreatic head of both groups. Euthanasia was performed in all mice 30 days after the surgery. The specimens were evaluated according to the following criteria: normal ducts, reactive hyperplasia, pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasm 3 (PanIN-3), and carcinoma. For statistical analysis, DMBA-exclusive ([DMBA-e] historical control group) was included.
The frequency of PanIN in the 3 groups was almost the same when considering the higher-grade lesions: DMBA-e (16 [66.7%]), DMBA-s (20 [66.7%]), and DMBA-n (12 [44.4%]). Pancreatic adenocarcinoma has a higher frequency in the DMBA-n group (14 [51.9%]) than in the DMBA-e (4 [16.7%]) and DMBA-s (4, 13.3%) groups. The DMBA-s group has the highest score of PanIN-3 (40%). The differences among the groups were statistically significant (P = 0.05, Fisher exact test).
Nicotine but not cigarette smoke promotes pancreatic DMBA carcinogenesis in mice. Pancreatic adenocarcinomas and PanINs have the same phenotypic appearance as those that occur in humans.
Recent evidence indicates that both intraneuronal Abeta and Cu are involved in the pathological processes in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This perspective shows a possible interrelation of these factors. AbetaPP, the precursor of Abeta which represents the main constituent of amyloid plaques, is involved in Cu homeostasis in mammals. In vitro observations and in vivo data obtained from AbetaPP mouse models provide strong evidence that AbetaPP and the resulting Abeta overproduction facilitate intracellular Cu to leave the cell. An increased Cu efflux seems to lead to Cu deficiency and, subsequently, reduced SOD-1 activity. The Cu-dependent SOD-1 activity is the main enzyme involved in detoxifying free radicals. Several reports have shown that oxidative stress is an invariable age-dependent feature in the brain of AD patients. Increased oxidative stress leads to an increase in intraneuronal Abeta accumulation, which has been shown to be the main trigger for neuronal loss in transgenic mouse models. Thus, we conclude that bioavailability of Cu is a crucial point for the pathogenesis of AD.
This study examined whether carnitine deficiency is a risk factor and should be viewed as a mechanism during the development of gentamicin (GM)-induced ARF as well as exploring if carnitine supplementation could offer protection against this toxicity.
Adult male Wistar albino rats were assigned to one of six treatment groups: group 1 (control) rats were given daily intraperitoneal (I.P.) injections of normal saline for 8 consecutive days; groups 2, 3 and 4 rats were given GM (80 mg/kg/day, I.P.), l-carnitine (200 mg/kg/day, I.P.) and d-carnitine (250 mg/kg/day, I.P.), respectively, for 8 consecutive days. Rats of group 5 (GM plus d-carnitine) received a daily I.P. injection of d-carnitine (250 mg/kg/day) 1 h before GM (80 mg/kg/day) for 8 consecutive days. Rats of group 6 (GM plus l-carnitine) received a daily I.P. injection of l-carnitine (200 mg/kg/day) 1 h before GM (80 mg/kg/day) for 8 consecutive days.
GM significantly increased serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), urinary carnitine excretion, intramitochondrial acetyl-CoA and total nitrate/nitrite (NOx) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in kidney tissues and significantly decreased total carnitine, intramitochondrial CoA-SH, ATP, ATP/ADP and reduced glutathione (GSH) in kidney tissues. In carnitine-depleted rats, GM caused a progressive increase in serum creatinine, BUN and urinary carnitine excretion and a progressive decrease in total carnitine, intamitochondrial CoA-SH and ATP. Interestingly, l-carnitine supplementation resulted in a complete reversal of the increase in serum creatinine, BUN, urinary carnitine excretion and the decrease in total carnitine, intramitochondrial CoA-SH and ATP, induced by GM, to the control values. Moreover, the histopathological examination of kidney tissues confirmed the biochemical data, where l-carnitine prevents and d-carnitine aggravates GM-induced ARF.
(i) GM-induced nephrotoxicity leads to increased urinary losses of carnitine; (ii) carnitine deficiency is a risk factor and should be viewed as a mechanism during the development of GM-induced ARF; and (iii) carnitine supplementation ameliorates the severity of GM-induced kidney dysfunction by increasing the intramitochondrial CoA-SH/acetyl-CoA ratio and ATP production.
A long Q-T interval syndrome is described, followed by "torsade de pointe" and by irriducible ventricular fibrillation that is ascribed to a badly conducted therapy with amiodarone, in a patient affected by mitral valve disease, microcitaemia and hemolitic intercurrent moderate jaundice.
Long-term treatment with haloperidol, a typical neuroleptic, induces neurodegeneration caused by excitotoxicity and oxidative stress, which play an important role in the development of orofacial dyskinesia. In the present investigation, an attempt has been made to examine the effect of a concomitant treatment of methanol extract of Morus alba Linn. (Moraceae) leaves (100-300 mg/kg, i.p.) and haloperidol (1 mg/kg, i.p.) on an animal model of tardive dyskinesia. Rats were treated for 21 days with haloperidol and Morus alba extract; vacuous chewing movements and tongue protrusions were counted. The extract attenuated the increase in vacuous chewing movements and tongue protrusions induced by haloperidol, which were quantified on day 22. The extract showed a marked effect on behavioral parameters altered by haloperidol treatment. Similar treatment with extract attenuated haloperidol-induced lipid peroxidation and nitrite and normalized superoxide dismutase, catalase, and protein in comparison to the control group. The results suggest a protective effect of Morus alba extract against haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia and oxidative stress.
The genetic basis for clear-cell renal carcinomas has been established in familial and many sporadic forms. Whether the latter can be induced by environmental carcinogens remains controversial, with concern over solvents such as trichloroethylene (TCE). To study this putative relationship, we analyzed the VHL gene from a patient with long-term TCE exposure.
PCR amplification and sequencing of VHL exons 1 - 3 were performed on peripheral blood and tumor tissue.
The tumor alone had a previously undescribed mutation in exon 1 of the VHL gene: deletion of a cytidine residue at position 291 relative to the first ATG start codon of the wild-type sequence. This deletion causes a frameshift and predicts an altered protein sequence from position 98 onwards.
The affected amino acids are in the functionally important beta-domain of the VHL protein that is implicated in substrate binding for ubiquitylation, and we hypothesize the mutation lowers that affinity. There is loss of suppressor function when substrates such as hypoxia-inducible factor have impaired degradation: they accumulate and ultimately cause uncontrolled cell turnover. This association of a proposed occupational cause and occurrence of renal-cell carcinoma emphasizes the availability and use of VHL sequencing for both studying the pathophysiology of malignant transformation and potentially playing a clinical role in genetic counseling or risk assessment.
To investigate cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA expression in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and the effect of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) on it, in order to explore the mechanism of COX-2 in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) carcinogenesis and the ability of NSAID to prevent or treat ESCC. Frozen specimens of human ESCC and adjacent normal esophageal squamous epithelium pairs (n = 22) were examined for COX-2 mRNA expression by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). After incubation with aspirin (a non-selective COX inhibitor) or Nimesulide (a selective COX-2 inhibitor), the proliferation status of two human esophageal squamous cancer cell lines, EC-9706 and EC-109, was quantified by 3-(4,5-dimethyl-thiazol-2yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. The expression of COX-2 mRNA in these cells was detected by RT-PCR. COX-2 mRNA was expressed in 12 of 22 (54.5%) ESCC tissue samples, but it was undetectable in all the specimens of adjacent normal esophageal squamous epithelium COX-2 mRNA expression. Both aspirin (5-20 mmol/L) and Nimesulide (0.1-0.8 mmol/L) inhibited EC-9706 cell line proliferation and suppressed its COX-2 mRNA expression dose-dependently. However, only aspirin (5-20 mmol/L) could inhibit proliferation in the EC-109 cell line and suppress COX-2 mRNA expression. Nimesulide (0.1-0.8 mmol/L) could neither inhibit EC-109 cell growth nor suppress COX-2 mRNA expression. COX-2 mRNA expression is a frequent phenomenon in human ESCC tissue samples and plays an important role in the carcinogenesis of ESCC. NSAID may be useful in the chemoprevention and therapy of human ESCC and its effects are likely to be mediated by modulating COX-2 activity.
