We present a case of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus that occurred after on-pump coronary artery bypass grafting in a patient taking long-term lithium carbonate. Lithium toxicity (2.79 mmol/L) was identified on postoperative day 9. Serum sodium peaked at 175 mmol/L on postoperative day 21. Serum osmolality peaked at 384 mOsm/kg H2O, with a urinary osmolality of 403 mOsm/kg H2O. The patient was ultimately managed with hemofiltration and high-dose 1-desamino-8-D-arginine-vasopressin. Recommendations are made based on our experience of this case. In patients on long-term lithium therapy, the potentially life-threatening complication of lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus should be specifically anticipated and managed.
The beta-blocker, carvedilol has an additional endothelium-dependent vasodilating properties in patients with hypertension or heart failure. Whether carvedilol can improve endothelium-dependent relaxation in a diabetic animal model and its mechanism of action are unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of carvedilol on the endothelial-response of aortas from diabetic rats and the underlying mechanism. Acetylcholine-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation, sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-induced endothelium-independent relaxation, and expression of nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3) mRNA were measured in aortas isolated from both non-diabetic and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. The level of NO in serum was also measured 5 weeks after carvedilol administration (1 or 10 mg/kg/day). Endothelium-dependent relaxation declined along with the decrease of serum NO level in aortas from diabetic rats. Treatment with carvedilol for 5 weeks prevented the inhibition of endothelium-dependent relaxation and the decrease of serum NO levels caused by diabetes. The expression of NOS3 mRNA, protein expression and NOS3 phosphorylation at Ser1177 in diabetic rat aorta was very low in untreated diabetic aortas compared with the healthy group. Administration of carvedilol not only significantly increased the expression of NOS3 mRNA but also protein expression and NOS3 phosphorylation at Ser1177 in the healthy and diabetic groups. In conclusion, chronic carvedilol administration significantly ameliorated the endothelial dysfunction in diabetic rat aortas, in which increased NO level, up-regulated NOS3 mRNA and phosphorylation at Ser1177 may be involved.
Pefloxacin has been in clinical use in France since 1985. During this period of time, the Rhone-Poulenc Drug Safety Department has received 213 spontaneous reports concerning patients who experienced a total of 316 adverse events. The level of such spontaneous reporting from physicians depends upon the frequency and the clinical significance of the events. Skin, musculoskeletal and CNS problems were the events most frequently reported. Thrombocytopenia was the most frequently reported laboratory abnormality, use of heparin being associated with this in many cases. From these data, pefloxacin in routine clinical use appears to be well tolerated. For the agent to be used in children in the future, its safety in this population should first be carefully investigated. At present it is contraindicated in children under 15 years of age.
In the present study, the chemopreventive effect of topical application of perillyl alcohol (POH) on 9,10-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA)-initiated and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-promoted skin tumorigenesis and its possible mechanisms of action in Swiss albino mice were investigated. We evaluated the effect of pretreatment of POH (6 and 12 mg/kg body weight) on TPA (2 microg/200 microl of acetone)-induced skin edema, hyperplasia, peroxidase damage and modulation in activities of catalase, glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-S-transferase and reduced glutathione contents. Application of POH 30 min prior to TPA treatment, showed a protective effect in almost all the investigated parameters. Additionally, pretreatment with POH showed a significant inhibition of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and [(3)H] thymidine incorporation into epidermal DNA. In promotion phase, a significant reduction was found in tumor incidence and tumor burden in mice pretreated with POH (12 mg/kg body weight) with extension of the latency period from 4 to 8 weeks as compared to those treated with TPA alone. POH significantly suppressed the Ras/Raf/ERK pathway and induced apoptosis in Swiss albino mice skin. Our findings suggested that the chemopreventive efficacy of POH is probably due to the inhibition of oxidative stress responses, inhibition of the Ras cell proliferation pathway and induction of apoptosis in murine skin tumor promotion phase.
It has been reported that time to peptic ulcer healing is shorter with proton pump inhibitors (PPI) than with H2-receptor antagonists (H2-RA). This study was designed to examine the difference in the healing process between gastric ulcers treated with PPI and those treated with H2-RA.
The healing of deep gastric ulcers treated with PPI (n = 11) or H2-RA (n = 13) was evaluated with endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). Every 2 weeks during treatment EUS variables such as the width and the depth of the ulcer crater, the thickness and size of the low echoic area of the ulcer base, and the distance of the disrupted muscularis propria were measured. The contraction rates of EUS variables, the ratios of the contraction rate of the depth to that of the width of the ulcer crater (D/W ratio) and the contraction rate of the distance of the disrupted muscularis propria layer to that of the width of the ulcer crater (Dm/W ratio) were calculated.
Only at week 2 were the D/W ratio and Dm/W ratio significantly higher in the group receiving PPI (D/W ratio, 1.79 +/- 0.701; Dm/W ratio, 0.938 +/- 0.207) than in the group receiving H2-RA (D/W ratio, 1.10 +/- 0.559; Dm/W ratio, 0.641 +/- 0.166).
This study demonstrated that PPI therapy is associated with more rapid and stronger healing than obtained with H2-RA during the early treatment period.
Activation-induced deaminase (AID), a cytidine deaminase, can accelerate the acquisition of BCR-ABL1 kinase domain mutations in human CML. In the present study, we investigated the expression of AID and Bcr-Abl in CML cells derived from 35 clinical patients. We found that both AID and Bcr-Abl were correlatively over-expressed in CML-LBC (lymphoid blast crisis) cells as compared with those in CML-CP (chronic phase) cells. AID expression was significantly decreased in CML-LBC cells after treated with arsenic trioxide, especially together with imatinib. We also observed satisfied therapy effects of As(2)O(3) and imatinib on patients with CML blast crisis. These data suggest that decreasing AID expression in CML-LBC by As(2)O(3) may be a promising approach to CML treatment.
To evaluate the effect of pretreatment with the mixed alpha- and beta-adrenergic blocker, labetalol, on blood pressure instability during surgical resection of pheochromocytoma.
Blood pressure stability and surgical results were compared between patients in the saline (n = 11) and labetalol (n = 15) groups. Anesthesia was induced with fentanyl, sodium thiopental and atracurium, and maintained with isoflurane in a 50% oxygen/nitrous oxide mixture. Intravenous labetalol was administered in the labetalol group before surgical incision, with the maximal dose being 1.2 mg/kg, while normal saline was administered to patients in the control, saline, group. Supplemental intravenous sodium nitroprusside (SNP) infusion was administered whenever systolic blood pressure exceeded 180 mmHg. The number of patients with intraoperative hypertension or hypotension, dosage of SNP administered, number of intraoperative hypertension episodes, use of fluid and blood transfusion, and heart rate (defined as the mean of heart rate every 5 minutes throughout the operation) were compared between these two groups.
The number of patients with intraoperative hypertension, number of patients receiving SNP, dose of SNP administered, and number of hypertension episodes were significantly lower in patients who received labetalol pretreatment than in control patients.
This study has demonstrated that labetalol pretreatment (1.2 mg/kg) with supplemental SNP provides more favorable blood pressure control during surgical resection of pheochromocytoma than with SNP alone.
The present experiments were performed in order to ascertain whether the long-term antagonistic effect of caerulein on amphetamine-induced hyperactivity is produced in the central nervous system. In the vagotomized rats, animals treated with a combination of caerulein and haloperidol and exposed to amphetamine on the 1st day became less sensitive to amphetamine for 24 hr to 1 week when their ambulatory activities were measured in an open field apparatus. The same results were also observed in the experiments where caerulein was applied directly into the lateral ventricle. However, the animals given caerulein in the nucleus accumbens showed no reduced susceptibility to amphetamine. Thus, the present results suggest that caerulein may indirectly modulate some dopaminergic activity in the central nervous system. One possible mechanism involved in the antagonistic effect of caerulein on amphetamine-induced hyperactivity is changes in activities of endocrine systems.
Experience with 100 patients who used intracavernous injection therapy with a combination of papaverine with or without phentolamine for 29 months is analyzed in detail. The largest group of patients had vasculogenic erectile failure (56%). At the end of followup 50% of the patients were no longer performing injection. Those who discontinued injection therapy were slightly older and had more vasculogenic erectile failure. The nonfibrotic complications were mild in all instances and did not result in discontinuation of injection therapy. These complications consisted of small hematomas in 20.9% of the patients, mild discomfort in 13.6% and mild liver enzyme abnormalities in 9.8%. No episode of priapism or infection occurred during therapy. Fibrotic complications consisted of nodules or plaques, and correlated significantly with the number of months on injection and the number of injections. At 12 months the fibrotic complication rate was 31 +/- 8.6%. Our study suggests caution regarding the long-term complication rate of intracavernous injection therapy with these compounds and underscores the importance of routine followup examinations. While injection therapy is an effective form of treatment for erectile failure, it is not a satisfactory alternative for many patients and is associated with a significant fibrotic complication rate.
Effects of indapamide, trichlormethiazide and hydralazine on isolated, perfused dog mesenteric vasculature and helical strips of the dog mesenteric artery were compared. It appears that indapamide-induced hypotension is associated with a direct relaxant action on arterial and arteriolar smooth muscle, whereas hydralazine acts exclusively on resistance vessels.
To obtain information on the effects of nongenotoxic carcinogens at low doses for human cancer risk assessment, the carcinogenic potential of the organochlorine insecticide, 1,1-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-2,2,2-trichloroethane (DDT), in the liver was assessed in F344 rats. In experiment 1, 240 male animals, 21 days old, were administered 0, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 5.0, 20, 100 and 500 ppm DDT in the diet for 16 weeks. Experiment 2 was conducted to elucidate the carcinogenic potential of DDT at lower levels using 180 rats given doses of 0, 0.005, 0.01, 0.1, 0.2 and 0.5 ppm. The livers of all animals were immunohistochemically examined for expression of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P), putative preneoplastic lesions. Quantitative values for GST-P-positive foci in the liver were increased dose-dependently in rats given 20 ppm DDT and above with statistical significance as compared with the concurrent control value. In contrast, doses of 0.005 and 0.01 ppm were associated with a tendency for decrease below the control value, although not significantly. Western blotting analysis show that cytochrome P-450 3A2 (CYP3A2) protein expression tended to decrease at 0.005 and 0.01 ppm, a good correlation being observed with the change in the number of GST-P-positive foci. These findings suggest that a DDT hepatocarcinogenicity may show nonlinear response, that is, hormetic response at low doses. Furthermore, since CYP3A2 protein expression appears to be important for the effects of phenobarbital and the alpha-isomer of benzene hexachloride, mRNAs for IL-1 receptor type 1 (IL-1R1) and TNF-alpha receptor type 1 (TNFR1) whose ligands have roles not only in downregulating CYP3A2 expression but also in inducing antiproliferative effect or apoptosis in hepatocyte were examined. Increase was observed at low doses of DDT. Oxidative stress in liver DNA, assessed in terms of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine as a marker, was also decreased. These findings suggest that the possible hormetic effect that was observed in our detailed low-dose study of DDT carcinogenesis, although not statistically significant, may be linked to levels of oxidative stress and proinflammatory cytokines.
Posterior reversible leukoencephalopathy (PRLE) is a neurological disorder caused by a variety of pathological conditions such as high doses or long-term low-doses of immunosuppressive therapy. PRLE associated with methotrexate (MTX) is well known but it was rarely observed in adult patients submitted to long-term low-dose administration via the oral route. Here we report the case of a patient affected by psoriasis, treated by chronic oral low-dose of MTX, who presented with limb ideomotor apraxia. Magnetic resonance (MRI) of the brain showed, on T2-weighted images, a diffuse hyperintensity involving bilaterally the white matter of the occipital, parietal and frontal lobes. MTX treatment was stopped and, at the 6-month follow-up, the neuropsychological performances was improved. Two years later, the neuropsychological profile was normal and MRI showed a regression of the white matter abnormalities.
A 32 year old woman with untreated primary adenocortical insufficiency presented with prominent depressive symptoms. Upon treatment with physiological doses of glucocorticoids she developed a self-limiting acute manic illness. We suggest that up-regulation of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors as a consequence of prolonged hypocortisolaemia resulted in increased cerebral sensitivity to exogenous corticosteroids, which are known to precipitate manic symptoms in some normal individuals when given in supraphysiological doses.
Oral sumatriptan in a dose of 100 mg aborts about 60% of migraine attacks within 2 h, but the headache may recur within 24 h. We investigated: (i) the incidence of headache recurrence after oral sumatriptan (ii) whether a second tablet of sumatriptan at 2 h increases initial efficacy and/or (iii) prevents headache recurrence and (iv) whether a further tablet of sumatriptan treats headache recurrence. In a randomized parallel-group clinical trial, 1246 patients treated one to three migraine attacks (with or without aura), with 100 mg oral sumatriptan. Two hours later they all took a double-blind randomized second table of sumatriptan (group I) or placebo (group II). Patients who initially improved, but then experienced headache recurrence took a further double-blind randomized tablet of sumatriptan or placebo. Proportions of patients who improved from moderate/severe headache to mild/none were similar in groups I and III at 2 h (55 vs 56%) and 4 h (80 vs 77%). Incidences of headache recurrence (moderate/severe-any grade of headache) and median times to headache recurrence were also similar: 22-32% at 16 h in group I and 25-33% at 16.5 h in group II. Sumatriptan was superior to placebo in treating headache recurrence: 74 vs 49% (p = 0.017) in group I and 70 vs 30% (p = 0.0001) in group II. Thus, one-fourth of patients experience headache recurrence at about 16 h after successful treatment of a migraine attack with 100 mg oral sumatriptan. A second tablet of sumatriptan at 2 h does not increase initial efficacy and neither prevents nor delays headache recurrence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
LY 300164 [7-acetyl-3-(4-aminophenyl)-8,9-dihydro-8-methyl-7H-1,3-dioxazolo[4,5-h][2,3]-benzodiazepine], a novel AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist, administered intraperitoneally protected mice against aminophylline-induced seizures. At doses up to 0.5 mg/kg, which did not significantly affect the convulsant activity of aminophylline, it potentiated the protective activity of diazepam. On the other hand, LY 300164 used at the lowest protective dose of 1.0 mg/kg enhanced anticonvulsant activity of all antiepileptic drugs tested in this seizure model. However, LY 300164 neither alone nor combined with antiepileptic drugs, reduced aminophylline-induced mortality.
The dose-limiting toxicity in two separate phase I trials of the high-dose single agents ifosfamide and carboplatin was renal insufficiency at 18 g/m2 and hepatic and ototoxicity at 2,400 mg/m2, respectively. In this phase I study, 16 adults were treated with ifosfamide at 75% of the single-agent maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) (12 g/m2) and escalating doses of carboplatin (400 to 1,600 mg/m2) to determine the nonhematologic dose-limiting toxicity and the maximum-tolerated dose of the combination. Both drugs as well as mesna for uroprotection were given by continuous infusion over 4 days with an additional day of mesna (total dose per course, 15 g/m2). Autologous bone marrow support was stipulated for subsequent dose levels once granulocytes remained less than 500/microL for more than 14 days in two of three to five patients entered at a given dose level. Autologous bone marrow support was used at doses above the 400 mg/m2 carboplatin dose level. At the maximum-tolerated dose level of 1,600 mg/m2 of carboplatin, renal toxicity precluded further dose escalation. Of the five patients entered at this dose level, reversible creatinine elevation greater than 2 mg/dL (median peak, 2.6 mg/dL) was observed in three patients, and irreversible renal failure occurred in an additional patient (peak creatinine, 6.9 mg/dL. Transient gross hematuria appeared more common with the combination than with ifosfamide alone. Two patients developed severe somnolence and confusion associated with a rising creatinine. There were two complete (CRs) and four partial responses (PRs) in 14 heavily pretreated assessable patients (including four partial or complete responses in eight assessable patients with advanced refractory sarcoma, and one CR in two patients with germ cell carcinoma). Carboplatin and ifosfamide appear to have overlapping renal toxicity. Nevertheless, carboplatin and ifosfamide can be combined at 80% and 75% of the single-agent maximum-tolerated doses, respectively, with acceptable nonhematologic toxicity. Ifosfamide and carboplatin are an attractive core combination for further studies in the treatment of sarcoma, germ cell, ovarian, and lung carcinomas.
A case of severe macroglossia and angioedema in a child with Burkitt lymphoma who was treated with two dihydropyridine calcium-channel blockers is reported.
An eight-year-old white boy arrived at the pediatric emergency department with complaints of abdominal pain and distention after an episode of mild abdominal trauma. Physical examination results were significant for diffuse abdominal tenderness and distention, with a large palpable mass in the right quadrants. Computed tomography revealed a large abdominal mass, and a biopsy confirmed a diagnosis of Burkitt lymphoma. Before initiation of chemotherapy, the child developed tumor lysis syndrome, with subsequent renal failure and cardiorespiratory compromise. Once the patient was stabilized and sedated on mechanical ventilation, tumor-directed chemotherapy was initiated, and rapid tumor regression ensued. To control episodes of hypertension, nicardipine was initiated and titrated to achieve the blood pressure goals. Three days after initiation of nicardipine therapy, the child developed facial swelling and significant, protruding macroglossia. Eight days after nicardipine initiation, a tracheotomy was required due to upper airway obstruction; at that time, the patient was converted to amlodipine administered via nasogastric tube for continued blood pressure control. The boy's macroglossia persisted for another 18 days, until a multi-disciplinary drug therapy review resulted in the discontinuation of amlodipine. Within one week of the withdrawal of amlodipine, the child's macroglossia was completely resolved.
An eight-year-old boy with Burkitt lymphoma developed severe macroglossia and angioedema when treated with nicardipine. The reaction persisted throughout treatment with amlodipine and resolved quickly after amlodipine was withdrawn.
We describe the case report of a migraine sufferer who developed ergotamine-induced headache and subsequently replaced ergotamine with daily sumatriptan (100 mg p.o.). The features of the headache were unchanged except for the presence of superimposed migraine-like headaches that occurred every 24 h.
Hepatic uroporphyria can be readily induced by a variety of treatments in mice of the C57BL strains, whereas DBA/2 mice are almost completely resistant. However, feeding of the protoporphyrinogen oxidase-inhibiting herbicide fomesafen (0.25% in the diet for 18 weeks) induced hepatic uroporphyria in male DBA/2N mice (liver porphyrin content up to 150 nmol/g, control animals 1 nmol/g), whereas fomesafen-treated male C57BL/6N mice displayed only a slight elevation of liver porphyrins (approximately 5 nmol/g). The profile of accumulated hepatic porphyrins in fomesafen-treated DBA/2N mice resembled the well-characterised uroporphyria induced by polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons, while histological examination confirmed the presence of uroporphyria-specific cytoplasmic inclusions in the hepatocytes. Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase activity decreased to about 30% of control values in fomesafen-treated DBA/2N mice; microsomal methoxyresorufin O-dealkylase activity was slightly reduced. The amount of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 mRNA, as determined by real-time PCR, was not significantly changed; mRNA encoding the housekeeping 5-aminolevulinic acid synthase was elevated 10-fold. Total liver iron was slightly increased. A similar uroporphyria was induced by the herbicide formulation Blazer, containing a structurally related herbicide acifluorfen, when fed to DBA/2N mice at a dose corresponding to 0.25% of acifluorfen in the diet. Since DBA/2 mice are almost completely resistant to all well-characterised porphyrogenic chemicals, the results suggest the possible existence of a yet unknown mechanism of uroporphyria induction, to which the DBA/2 mouse strain is more sensitive than the C57BL strain.
We report the identification of the mutations in the only known case of L-3-phosphoserine phosphatase deficiency, a recessively inherited condition. The two mutations correspond to the replacement of the semiconserved Asp32 residue by an asparagine and of the extremely conserved Met52 by a threonine. The effects of both mutations were studied on the human recombinant enzyme, expressed in Escherichia coli. Met52Thr almost abolished the enzymatic activity, whereas the Asp32Asn mutation caused a 50% decrease in Vmax. In addition, L-serine, which inhibits the conversion of [(14)C] phosphoserine to serine when catalysed by the wild-type enzyme, had a lesser inhibitory effect on the Asp32Asn mutant, indicating a reduction in the rate of phosphoenzyme hydrolysis. These modifications in the properties of the enzyme are consistent with the modification in the kinetic properties observed in fibroblasts from the patient.
A personal experience is reported with hepatic artery infusion (HAI) chemotherapy of 57 patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma confined to the liver. Fifty-seven percent of the 54 patients who received more than 2 weeks of infusion had objective regressions documented on hepatic scans. The response rate with fluorouracil and mitomycin C (75%) was higher than for fluorouracil alone (52.5%). The median survival of treated patients was 15 months with the longest survivor living 3 years 8 months, and responders had a median survival 3 months longer than nonresponders. Complications included one case of hemolytic uremic syndrome after HAI with mitomycin C. Survival after HAI was 9 months longer than that of comparable historical controls who received no treatment, but survival after HAI with fluorouracil alone was not superior to that of comparable patients treated with intravenous fluorouracil. HAI produces a high frequency of tumor regression, but superior survival has yet to be demonstrated.
The effect of nitroglycerin, methoxamine, and the combination of both drugs were studied in anaesthetized dogs, during the acute phase of experimental myocardial infarction. Different haemodynamic and electrophysiological parameters were measured during the first three minutes of occluding the left descending coronary artery, while each drug or the combination were being infused. After stopping infusions, new occlusions were performed periodically in order to assess the persistence of drug effects. Nitroglycerin alone provoked hypotension and reduced the development of the ischaemic area, while methoxamine did not modify the measured variables. A long-lasting favourable effect on the ischaemic area was recorded when methoxamine prevented hypotension induced by nitroglycerin.
Preclinical studies have demonstrated enhanced cytotoxic effects of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) when given in conjunction with N-phosphonacetyl-L-aspartate (PALA) or thymidine in several murine systems. Early clinical studies have demonstrated significant delayed depletion of pyrimidine nucleotides in tumor biopsy specimens following systemic PALA administration and prolonged serum levels of 5-FU after thymidine administration. Each of these biochemical effects would be anticipated to augment the cytotoxic activity of 5-FU. A phase II trial of a timed sequential administration schedule of PALA, thymidine, and 5-FU was conducted in 37 patients with advanced measurable colorectal cancer. Ten of 37 patients (27%) experienced objective tumor responses with a median response duration of 22 weeks, and 18 patients (49%) had stable disease for a median duration of 20 weeks. Six of 13 patients (46%) with anaplastic histology and/or rapidly progressive tumors experienced high-quality tumor responses. Leukopenia and neurologic side effects were the primary toxicities, including one death caused by sepsis. This regimen has demonstrated striking alteration in the 5-FU dose-effect relationship and definite antitumor activity in patients with advanced colorectal cancer. Further trials in patients with anaplastic carcinomas of the colon or other anatomic sites should be considered.
From October, 1981, to July, 1983, 225 patients were evaluated for premature labor at Forsyth Memorial Hospital. Sixty-five of these patients were considered to be candidates for intravenous ritodrine treatment. Of this group, 24 patients were successfully treated and had pregnancy prolongation ranging from 1 to 17 weeks. Forty-one patients did not respond to maximal intravenous ritodrine therapy (300 to 350 micrograms/min). Eleven patients subsequently delivered within 24 to 48 hours of treatment initiation. The remaining 30 patients received intravenous magnesium sulfate (1 to 3 gm/hr) in addition to intravenous ritodrine. Eighteen patients responded favorably to this combination treatment and had pregnancy prolongation ranging from 1 to 11 weeks. Twelve patients delivered within 1 week from treatment initiation. In all cases where pregnancy prolongation was achieved, birth weight and neonatal outcome were significantly improved compared to patients who did not respond to either intravenous ritodrine alone or intravenous ritodrine and magnesium sulfate combination. Treatment related maternal/fetal complications were not significantly different in the various groups examined. From the foregoing we conclude that, in a select group of patients in premature labor not responding to conventional ritodrine therapy, magnesium supplementation in pharmacologic doses could have a beneficial effect with respect to pregnancy outcome.
To investigate the protective effects and the possible mechanisms of garlic oil (GO) against N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA)-induced hepatocarcinoma in rats, Wistar rats were gavaged with GO (20 or 40 mg/kg) for 1 week, and then were gavaged with GO and NDEA (10 mg/kg) for the next 20 weeks. The changes of morphology, histology, the biochemical indices of serum, and DNA oxidative damage of liver were examined to assess the protective effects. Lipid peroxidation (LPO), antioxidant defense system, and apoptosis-related proteins were measured to investigate potential mechanisms. At the end of the study (21 weeks), GO administration significantly inhibited the increase of the nodule incidence and average nodule number per nodule-bearing liver induced by NDEA, improved hepatocellular architecture, and dramatically inhibited NDEA-induced elevation of serum biochemical indices (alanine aminotransferase , aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase) and hepatic 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels in a dose-dependent manner. The mechanistic studies demonstrated that GO counteracted NDEA-induced oxidative stress in rats illustrated by the restoration of glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) levels, and the reduction of the malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in liver. Furthermore, the mRNA and protein levels of Bcl-2, Bcl-xl, andβ-arrestin-2 were significantly decreased whereas those of Bax and caspase-3 were significantly increased. These data suggest that GO exhibited significant protection against NDEA-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, which might be related with the enhancement of the antioxidant activity and the induction of apoptosis.
Irritable mood during mood elevation is common in bipolar disorder. The progesterone metabolite allopregnanolone (ALLO) has been implicated in other disorders presenting with irritability. This study aimed to test whether a history of manic/hypomanic irritability is associated with low serum progesterone levels; and whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in gene coding for steroidogenetic enzymes (HSD3B2, SRD5A1 and AKR1C4 were coupled to previous manic irritability and/or with serum progesterone concentrations.
Morning serum progesterone concentrations during euthymic phase of bipolar illness types 1 and 2 were assessed in 71 males and 107 females. Previous manic/hypomanic irritability was assessed using the Affective Disorders Evaluation. Selected SNPs were analyzed: i) aldoketoreductase-type-4 (AKR1C4 - rs17306779, rs3829125, rs10904440, rs12762017, and rs11253048), ii) 3-β-hydroxysteroid-dehydrogenase (HSD3B2 - rs4659174, rs2854964, and rs3765948), iii) steroid-5-α-reductase (SRD5A1 - rs8192139, rs181807, rs3822430, and rs3736316).
In males, progesterone concentrations were lower in those who had shown manic/hypomanic irritability compared with nonirritable (F=7.05, p=0.0099). SNPs rs17306779, rs3829125, and rs10904440 were associated with manic/hypomanic irritability. A cystine to serine change at position 145 in AKR1C4 (rs3829125) was associated with lower serum progesterone (F=6.34, p=0.014). There were no associations in females.
Relatively small sample sizes.
Low progesterone levels and a cystine to serine change at position 145 in AKR1C4 gene are associated with manic/hypomanic irritability in males. Given that the enzyme AKR1C4 has both dehydrogenating and reductive activities in the steroidogenetic pathway, a missense variation in the gene may predispose to manic/hypomanic irritability by altering the relationship between progesterone and ALLO concentrations in the brain.
The effect of 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol (BMP) on reproduction in Swiss CD-1 mice was evaluated by use of a continuous breeding protocol. BMP was administered in the feed at 0.1, 0.2, and 0.4% concentrations. Both male and female F0 mice (20 pairs per treatment group, 40 pairs of control animals) were dosed 7 days prior to and during a 98-day cohabitation period. Although the fertility index was unchanged in the high-dose group, BMP exposure significantly decreased the numbers of litters per pair, pups born alive per litter, and pup weight when adjusted for litter size. Crossover mating between treated and control F0 animals indicated a specific effect only on female reproductive capacity. At the highest dose, BMP caused a body weight decrease in the F0 animals of both sexes with no effect on relative organ weights. Sperm concentration, motility, morphology, and estrual cyclicity were unaffected by BMP exposure. Histopathology in the F0 animals revealed specific kidney lesions in both sexes; males were more sensitive than females. The last litter born in the 98-day breeding phase was reared to age 74 days and then mated to nonsiblings of the same treatment group. The effect of high-dose BMP exposure on F1 fertility, body and organ weights, sperm parameters, and estrual cyclicity was the same as that for the F0 animals, with the exception of the lack of renal lesions seen in the F1 females. These data show that BMP impaired fertility in female mice in both generations in the absence of an effect on reproductive organ weights and estrual cyclicity.
