To study the effects of Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) on dexamethasone (DEX)-induced ocular hypertension.
Rabbits aged 7 weeks received topical TobraDEX (Alcon Labs, Hünenberg, Switzerland) and/or 5 microg of GBE four times daily for 14 days. Intraocular pressure (IOP) was recorded every 3 days. After enucleation, trabecular meshwork (TM) cellularity and extracellular matrix deposition were graded. The effect of GBE on apoptosis and expression of myocilin and cell stress-related genes in DEX-treated human TM cells were studied by immunofluorescence, Western blotting, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction.
Ginkgo biloba extract suppressed DEX-induced IOP elevation in rabbits. It reduced the DEX-associated accumulation of extracellular materials within the cribriform layers of the TM and achieved better TM cellularity. In cultured human TM cells, GBE substantially attenuated anti-Fas ligand-induced apoptosis and reduced DEX-induced myocilin expression. Ginkgo biloba extract modulated the expression of alphaB-crystallin and heat-shock proteins 70 and 90alpha but not other stress-related genes. Furthermore, changes associated with DEX were found less in GBE-treated or GBE-primed TM cells.
We showed that GBE, a nontoxic, antiapoptotic, herbal compound significantly suppressed steroid-induced IOP elevation in rabbits and it seems to prevent the adverse effects of DEX on TM cells.
Ginkgo biloba extract could be a therapeutic agent or dietary supplement to prevent steroid-induced ocular hypertension.
This study evaluated the effectiveness, safety, and quality of life (Qol) offered by olanzapine in first-episode schizophrenia.
One hundred and eighty-two patients with first-episode schizophrenia (ICD-10) drawn from a larger, naturalistic, study were evaluated after 6 months of treatment with olanzapine, risperidone, or conventional antipsychotics (CA). Clinical status was assessed using the Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S) and Global Assessment of Function (GAF). AWAD and EuroQol scales were used to evaluate patients' attitude towards medication and Qol, respectively.
Subjects treated with olanzapine, risperidone, and CA showed similar improvements on CGI-S and GAF. Treatment-emergent, extrapyramidal symptoms were significantly lower in olanzapine-treated patients (17.8%) than in the risperidone (46.4%) and CA (62.2%) groups. Compared to CA, olanzapine and risperidone showed significantly greater improvement on the visual analog scale of EuroQol. Olanzapine-treated patients also showed significantly improved AWAD scores.
In first-episode schizophrenia, atypical antipsychotics were effective, and improved Qol. Olanzapine had a lower incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms and better subjective acceptance of medication.
The addition of intrathecal methotrexate to treatment protocols has increased survival rates in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia but is also associated with varying degrees of neurotoxicity. We describe a 15-year-old female patient diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia presenting with status epilepticus after receiving intrathecal methotrexate. Magnetic resonance imaging showed reversible cortical and subcortical changes consisting of high-intensity lesions on T2-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery sequences with postgadolinium enhancement, low signal intensity on diffusion-weighted imaging and increased apparent diffusion coefficient. These findings were consistent with the posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome. We report our conventional magnetic resonance and diffusion-weighted imaging findings and briefly discuss the pathophysiology of the syndrome.
To investigate the efficacy and safety of weekly paclitaxel plus 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin for patients with advanced or recurrent inoperable gastric cancer.
The eligibility criteria included histologically confirmed advanced gastric cancer or recurrent inoperable gastric cancer. Patients were treated with weekly paclitaxel 60 mg/m(2) on the 1st, 8th and 15th days combined with 5-fluorouracil 500 mg/m(2) by a continuous intravenous infusion from the 1st to the 5th day, and a cisplatin 75 mg/m(2) intravenous infusion for 3 days. The cycles were repeated every 4 weeks.
Forty-six patients were assessed for response and toxicity. Three patients achieved complete responses, and 20 patients achieved partial responses; the overall response rate was 50.0% (95% confidence interval [CI], 34.9-65.1%). With a median follow-up of 20 months, the median progression-free and overall survivals were 24 and 46 weeks, respectively, with a 1-year survival rate of 41.3% (95% CI, 27.0-56.8%). The most common hematological toxicity was myelosuppression, which included neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia; the grade 3 toxicity rate was 26.1% (12/46), and only 1 patient was observed with a grade 4 neutropenia. The nonhematological toxicities included anorexia, diarrhea, nausea/vomiting, stomatitis/mucositis, alopecia, dizziness, skin rash, neurotoxicity, and infection; the grade 3 toxicity rate was 34.8% (16/46), but no grade 4 nonhematologic toxicity was observed.
The combination chemotherapy consisting of weekly paclitaxel plus 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin was effective and well tolerated in patients with advanced and recurrent inoperable gastric cancers.
Daunorubicin is an anthracycline anti-tumor agent; anthracycline chemotherapy in cancer can cause severe cardiomyopathy leading to a frequently fatal congestive heart failure; the first-line treatment is diuretics and digoxin. Recently, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been shown to be effective in the treatment of such toxicity. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of angiotensin II type-1 receptor antagonist (candesartan) in a rat model of daunorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
Rats were treated with a cumulative dose of 9 mg/kg body weight daunorubicin (i.v.). 28 days later, after the development of cardiomyopathy, animals were randomly assigned to candesartan-treated (5 mg/kg/day, p.o.) or vehicle-treated groups; age-matched normal rats were used as the control group. Candesartan treatment was continued for 28 days. Hemodynamic and echocardiographic parameters were measured, cardiac protein and mRNA were analyzed, and histopathological analyses of myocardial fibrosis, cell size and apoptosis were conducted.
Following cardiomyopathy, left ventricular end diastolic pressure and left ventricular systolic dimension were significantly elevated; while % fractional shortening and Doppler E/A ratio were significantly reduced. Cardiomyopathic hearts showed significant increases in % fibrosis, % apoptosis, and myocyte diameter/body weight ratio; candesartan treatment reversed these changes. Fas-L protein overexpression in myopathic hearts was significantly suppressed by treatment with candesartan. Moreover, SERCA2 mRNA and protein expression were both down-regulated in myopathic hearts and restored to normal by candesartan treatment, significantly.
Our findings suggest that candesartan treatment significantly improved the left ventricular function and reversed the myocardial pathological changes investigated in this model of daunorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy; suggesting its potentials in limiting daunorubicin cardiotoxicity.
1. Prenatal exposure to morphine induces long-term alterations in seizure susceptibility, which are age-, sex-, and seizure model-specific. 2. Adult male and female rats exposed prenatally to morphine show decreased susceptibility to GABA-regulated seizures. 3. Prenatally morphine-exposed, adult male rats are more sensitive to excitatory amino acid receptor-mediated seizures than control males, control females, or morphine-exposed females.
Tramadol, as a centrally-acting, opioid-like analgesic with serotonin reuptake inhibition property, is one of the most prescribed analgesics in the world. We assessed the incidence of seizure, as it is one of the most important adverse effects.
In a cross-sectional study, 215 cases of tramadol users or abusers who were admitted to Loghman-Hakim Hospital Poisoning Center (LHHPC) in Tehran during a 5-month period, from April 2007 to September 2007, were assessed to evaluate the occurrence of seizure. Patients with positive history of co-ingestion of other drugs, addiction, convulsive disorders, renal diseases, or head trauma with abnormal electroencephalography (EEG) or computerized tomography (CT) scan of the brain were excluded, thus 132 patients were included in the study. For patients who had seizure, CT scan of the brain and EEG were performed, and frequency and type of seizure were identified. Mean tramadol dose was compared between patients with and without seizure.
Among the patients, 97 (73.5%) were male. Seizure occurred in 61 patients (46.2%) within 24 hours after tramadol ingestion. The majority of patients who had seizure were male (male, 83.6% vs. female, 16.4%). Mean tramadol dose was lower among females than males (males, 2413 mg vs. females, 1706 mg), but the difference was not statistically significant. Of 35 patients with documented seizure type, all showed generalized tonic-clonic seizure and 12 patients had abnormal EEG (35.3%). No statistically significant difference was observed in mean tramadol intake between patients with or without seizure. Analysis of patients with seizure, according to tramadol intake, indicated that most patients used tramadol in the dose range of 500-1000 mg followed in occurrence by 1500-2000 mg, then 100-500 mg, 2500-3000 mg, and 3500-4000 mg.
Mean tramadol intake does not differ between patients with and without seizure, and the most common dose range in those with seizure is 500-1000 mg. We thus conclude that the incidence of seizure with tramadol is not dose dependent.
Nifedipine was administered to 21 patients with angina pectoris which was refractory to conventional medication. In no case had coronary artery spasm been demonstrated. The condition of 13 patients (62%) improved with nifedipine, and eight patients (38%) had a long-term response. Nitrate-type side effects were reported by seven patients (33%), all of whom were being treated concurrently with isosorbide dinitrate. We conclude that nifedipine is a promising drug in the management of angina pectoris, even in the absence of documented coronary spasm.
Aceruloplasminemia is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease associated with brain and liver iron accumulation which typically presents with movement disorders, retinal degeneration, and diabetes mellitus. Ceruloplasmin is a multi-copper ferroxidase that is secreted into plasma and facilitates cellular iron export and iron binding to transferrin.
A novel homozygous ceruloplasmin gene mutation, c.2554+1G>T, was identified as the cause of aceruloplasminemia in three affected siblings. Two siblings presented with movement disorders and diabetes. Complementary DNA sequencing showed that this mutation causes skipping of exon 14 and deletion of amino acids 809-852 while preserving the open reading frame. Western blotting of liver extracts and sera of affected patients showed retention of the abnormal protein in the liver. Aceruloplasminemia was associated with severe brain and liver iron overload, where hepatic mRNA expression of the iron hormone hepcidin was increased, corresponding to the degree of iron overload. Hepatic iron concentration normalized after 3 and 5months of iron chelation therapy with deferasirox, which was also associated with reduced insulin demands. During short term treatment there was no clinical or imaging evidence for significant effects on brain iron overload.
Aceruloplasminemia can show an incomplete clinical penetrance but is invariably associated with iron accumulation in the liver and in the brain. Iron accumulation in aceruloplasminemia is a result of defective cellular iron export, where hepcidin regulation is appropriate for the degree of iron overload. Iron chelation with deferasirox was effective in mobilizing hepatic iron but has no effect on brain iron.
Although methotrexate (MTX) is used in the effective treatment of inflammatory disorders, its use is hampered by the risk of liver fibrosis. Non-invasive methods for the diagnosis of liver fibrosis, such as transient elastography (FibroScan) and FibroTest could be useful for monitoring MTX-liver toxicity. The aim of this case-control study was to determine factors associated with liver fibrosis in a large cohort of patients requiring MTX.
Consecutive adults with various benign inflammatory diseases were prospectively assessed using FibroScan and FibroTest when they were treated with MTX (cases) or before beginning treatment (controls).
Among 518 included patients, 44 patients (8.5%) had FibroScan and/or FibroTest results suggesting severe liver fibrosis. In a multivariate analysis, factors associated with abnormal markers of liver fibrosis were the body mass index >28 kg/m(2) and high alcohol consumption. Neither long MTX duration nor cumulative doses were associated with elevated FibroScan or FibroTest results.
Severe liver fibrosis is a rare event in patients treated with MTX and is probably unrelated to the total dose. Patients with other risk factors for liver disease should be closely monitored with non-invasive methods before and during MTX treatment.
Somnambulism, a previously unreported side effect of quetiapine, is described in two cases. Both cases involved individuals who had no prior or family history of somnambulism and had attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. The possible significance of this will also be discussed. Somnambulism is a common parasomnia that reflects an impairment in the normal mechanisms of arousal from sleep in which motor behaviors are activated without full consciousness. Motor behaviors are initiated during deep non-rapid eye movement or slow-wave sleep (stages 3-4), and may be limited to relatively simple manifestations, such as sitting up, fumbling with objects or bedclothes, or mumbling.
Because succinylcholine has obvious advantages for facilitating endotracheal intubation in the ambulatory setting (e.g., low cost, fast onset, and no need for reversal of neuromuscular block), it is important to determine whether this muscle relaxant is indeed associated with an increased incidence of postoperative myalgias, compared with alternative but more expensive nondepolarizing muscle relaxants. We studied 119 outpatients undergoing endoscopic nasal sinus surgery or septoplasty. The anesthetic technique consisted of propofol/lidocaine for induction, followed by isoflurane/nitrous oxide/oxygen for maintenance. Oral tracheal intubation was performed by using a fiberscope. Patients were randomly assigned to one of two muscle relaxant groups. Group 1 patients received d-tubocurarine 3 mg followed by succinylcholine 1.5 mg/kg. Group 2 patients received mivacurium 0.2 mg/kg. After recovery from anesthesia, patients were asked whether they had any muscle pain and/or stiffness. Pain was categorized by location and quantified by using a verbal scale (from 0 to 10). Analgesic usage and myalgias limiting ambulation were recorded. After discharge from the ambulatory surgery unit, patients were contacted by telephone on Postoperative Day 1. If patients complained of myalgias, they were contacted by telephone on Days 2 and 3. Only one patient (in the mivacurium-treated group) reported myalgia as a limiting factor in ambulation or resumption of normal activity. There were no differences between groups with respect to the incidence (21% in the succinylcholine-treated group and 18% in the mivacurium-treated group), location, or severity of myalgia. In conclusion, succinylcholine (preceded by pretreatment with d-tubocurarine and lidocaine) is not associated with an increased incidence of myalgias, compared with mivacurium, when used to facilitate tracheal intubation in patients undergoing ambulatory nasal surgery.
The results of this study show that the frequency of muscle pains after surgery in outpatients is approximately 20%, regardless of whether succinylcholine (after precurarization) or mivacurium is used to assist in insertion of the breathing tube.
Recent evidence indicated that an alpha 1 blocker, doxazosin, induces prostate apoptosis in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). In this study, to determine whether this apoptotic response was mediated by alpha 1 adrenoceptor-dependent mechanism or was specific to doxazosin, we examined the effect of another alpha 1 blocker, terazosin, in addition to doxazosin, on the dynamics of prostate cell growth.
Cell proliferation and apoptosis were evaluated in BPH patients, an untreated (control) group (n = 31), and men treated with terazosin (n = 42) and doxazosin (n = 61) for the relief of the obstructive symptoms. Terazosin (1 to 10 mg./day) and doxazosin (2 to 8 mg./day) treatment varied from 1 week to 3 years. Ki-67 immunostaining and the TUNEL assay were used to evaluate the proliferative and apoptotic indices, respectively, in both the epithelial and stromal components of prostate (biopsy and prostatectomy) specimens. The smooth muscle cell content of the prostatic stroma was identified on the basis of smooth muscle alpha-actin immunoreactivity.
A significant induction of apoptosis was observed in both the prostatic epithelial and stromal cells within the first month of terazosin and doxazosin therapy, as compared with untreated controls (p < 0.05). Furthermore, the marked induction of prostatic stroma apoptosis in response to both alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonists was paralleled by a significant decrease in the smooth muscle alpha-actin expression. This loss of prostatic smooth muscle cells correlated with morphological stromal regression (as detected by trichrome staining) and BPH symptom improvement. Neither terazosin nor doxazosin therapy resulted in significant changes in prostate cell proliferation.
These findings demonstrate that alpha-blockers as a class may regulate prostate growth by inducing apoptosis in both the epithelial and stromal cells, with little effect on cell proliferation. Apoptosis-mediated prostate stromal regression appears as a molecular mechanism underlying the therapeutic response to alpha 1 blockade in the treatment of BPH.
Large doses of glucocorticoids can alter muscle physiology and susceptibility to neuromuscular blocking drugs by mechanisms not clearly understood. We investigated the effects of moderate and large doses of prednisolone on muscle function and pharmacology, and their relationship to changes in muscle size and acetylcholine receptor (AChR) expression. With institutional approval, 35 Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly allocated to receive daily subcutaneous doses of 10 mg/kg prednisolone (P10 group), 100 mg/kg prednisolone (P100 group), or an equal volume of saline (S group) for 7 days. A fourth group of rats was pair fed (food restricted) with the P100 rats for 7 days (FR group). On Day 8, the nerve-evoked peak twitch tensions, tetanic tensions, and fatigability, and the dose-response curves of d-tubocurarine in the tibialis cranialis muscle were measured in vivo and related to muscle mass or expression of AChRs. Rate of body weight gain was depressed in the P100, FR, and P10 groups compared with the S group. Tibialis muscle mass was smaller in the P100 group than in the P10 or S groups. The evoked peak twitch and tetanic tensions were less in the P100 group than in the P10 or S groups, however, tension per milligram of muscle mass was greater in the P100 group than in the S group. The 50% effective dose of d-tubocurarine (microg/kg) in the tibialis muscle was smaller in the P10 (33.6 +/- 5.4) than in the S (61.9 +/- 5.0) or the P100 (71.3 +/- 9.6) groups. AChR expression was less in the P10 group than in the S group. The evoked tensions correlated with muscle mass (r(2) = 0.32, P < 0.001), however, not with expression of AChR. The 50% effective dose of d-tubocurarine did not correlate with muscle mass or AChR expression. Our results suggest that the neuromuscular dysfunction after prednisolone is dose-dependent, and derives primarily from muscle atrophy and derives less so from changes in AChR expression.
The mechanisms by which chronic glucocorticoid therapy alters neuromuscular physiology and pharmacology are unclear. We suggest that the observed effects are dose-dependent and derive primarily from muscle atrophy and derive less from changes in acetylcholine receptor expression.
The authors sought to determine whether different responsiveness to seizures induced by aminophylline existed between the genetically epilepsy-prone and normal rats. It was found that the seizure latency was consistently shorter in the genetically epilepsy-prone rats than in normal ones. A different pattern of response was observed in the progression to tonic seizures. In addition, seizures appeared to be more marked in genetically epilepsy-prone than in normal rats. A pretreatment with some quinolones (nalidixic acid, pipemidic acid, ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, ofloxacin and enoxacin) significantly increased the convulsant properties of aminophylline. These studies demonstrated that the order of proconvulsant activity was ciprofloxacin greater than enoxacin greater than ofloxacin greater than norfloxacin greater than nalidixic acid greater than pipemidic acid. In addition, the present results showed that quinolones, having a fluorine atom showed the most marked proconvulsant activity.
Neutrophils are implicated in the physiopathologic alterations of hemorrhagic cystitis (HC). Thus, we decided to test the antiinflammatory activity of glucose-mannose binding lectins extracted from D. violacea and D. guianensis seeds, which showed an inhibitory effect upon neutrophil migration in a model of rat peritonitis based on HC experimentally induced by cyclophosphamide (CYP).
Mice were treated with mesna (40 mg./kg., i.p.), lectins (1 and 10 mg./kg., i.v.) and 0.1 M of alpha-D-methyl-mannoside (alpha-CH3) or alpha-D-galactose (alpha-D-gal). The HC was induced by CYP (200 mg./kg., i.p.). The results were evaluated 12 hours after HC induction, based on the following parameters: vesical edema measurements, macroscopic and microscopic analysis of the bladders (Gray's analysis). The vesical edema was quantified either by the increase in bladder wet weight or by the determination of vesical vascular permeability (Evans' blue leakage).
CYP-induced vesical edema was prevented by mesna and lectin treatment. The lectin effects were dose-dependent, and at the highest dose were similar to that achieved by mesna treatment. alpha-CH3 selectively reversed the lectin inhibitory effect. Histopathological analysis corroborated these findings and showed an intense reduction of leukocyte infiltration and tissue damage by lectin treatment. The bladders from the mesna-treated group showed a nearly normal histological pattern. However, differently from this group, none of the lectins abolished CYP-induced hemorrhage.
The glucose-mannose binding lectins showed strong antiinflammatory activity in the mouse model of HC induced by CYP. As lectins mainly affected leukocyte vesical infiltration, we suggest a competitive blockage of glucosylated (mannose-glucose) selectin binding sites by lectins.
4,4'-Methylenedianiline (MDA) is widely used in the manufacturing of polyurethane foam, epoxy resins, and polymers. Exposure to MDA induces liver damage in humans and rats. MDA undergoes N-acetylation catalyzed by N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) and 2 (NAT2) in the liver. Both human and rat NAT2 are polymorphic, and human NAT2 genetic polymorphism modifies the frequency and/or severity of drug and xenobiotic toxicity in human populations. Recombinant expression of rat Nats in Escherichia coli showed that MDA was acetylated by both recombinant rat Nat1 and Nat2 and was catalyzed at substantially higher rates by rapid acetylator Nat2 compared with slow acetylator Nat2. Rapid acetylator F344 rat liver cytosols catalyzed the N-acetylation of MDA at significantly higher rates than those from slow acetylator Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) inbred rats. To test the effect of NAT2 genetic polymorphism on hepatotoxicity from acute MDA exposure, we compared hepatotoxicity in rapid (F344) and slow (WKY) Nat2 acetylator inbred rats that were administered MDA. Based on the results of dose-response studies ranging up to 150 mg/kg MDA administered by intragastric gavage, the effect of a moderately hepatotoxic dose (37.5 mg/kg) was compared in rapid versus slow acetylator rats. Plasma alanine transaminase enzyme activities were approximately 5-fold higher (p < 0.05) in rapid versus slow acetylator rats after MDA treatment, and necrotizing hepatitis with portal damage consisting of bile ductular necrosis, portal expansion, and inflammation was clearly more prominent. These results suggest that acetylator phenotype is an important factor for susceptibility toward MDA hepatotoxicity.
5-aminolaevlinic acid methylester (MAL) and 5-aminolaevulinic acid (ALA) photodynamic therapy (PDT) are both effective treatment options for actinic keratosis (AK). While MAL is significantly more expensive than ALA, no studies have directly compared their efficacy in the treatment of extensive scalp AK.
To compare the efficacy and adverse effects of MAL-PDT with ALA-PDT in the treatment of scalp AK.
Sixteen male patients aged 59-87 years with extensive scalp AK were randomized into a double-blind, split-scalp prospective study. Two treatment fields were defined (right and left frontoparietal scalp) and treated 2 weeks apart. These fields were randomized to receive either MAL or ALA as first or second treatment. MAL cream was applied for 3 h; 20% ALA cream was applied for 5 h. A blinded observer assessed efficacy comparing AK counts before and 1 month after treatment. Pain was assessed using a visual analogue scale at 3, 6, 12 and 16 min.
Fifteen patients completed treatment to both fields. There was a mean reduction from baseline in AK counts with the use of ALA-PDT of 6.2 +/- 1.9 compared with 5.6 +/- 3.2 with MAL-PDT (P = 0.588). All patients experienced pain which was of greater intensity in the ALA-treated side at all time points: 3 min (P = 0.151), 6 min (P = 0.085), 12 min (P = 0.012) and 16 min (P = 0.029). Similarly, duration of discomfort post-procedure persisted for longer following treatment with ALA when compared with MAL-PDT (P = 0.044).
This study demonstrates that both ALA-PDT and MAL-PDT result in a significant reduction in scalp AK. There is no significant difference in efficacy. However, ALA-PDT is more painful than MAL-PDT in the treatment of extensive scalp AK.
In animal models of reduced dopamine transmission, such as haloperidol-induced catalepsy or monoamine-depleted animals, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) 5-HT(1A) agonists appear to enhance motor activity. However, the exact mechanism remains unclear.
The objective of the present study was to demonstrate that 5-HT(1A) agonists can increase locomotor activity by activation of postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) heteroreceptors without the involvement of somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors which are known to regulate 5-HT neuronal activity.
The effects of the 5-HT(1A) full agonist R-(+)-8-hydroxy-2-(di- n-propylamino)tertralin ( R-(+)-8-OHDPAT) on locomotor activity in reserpinized (i.e., monoamine-depleted) rats were studied.
The present data demonstrate that R-(+)-8-OHDPAT significantly increased locomotor activity in monoamine-depleted animals at a dose as low as 0.01 mg/kg. The partial 5-HT(1A) agonist/D(2) antagonist buspirone (3 mg/kg) also elevated locomotor activity. The effects of these 5-HT(1A) compounds were found to be similar to the locomotor-stimulating effect of the dopamine precursor 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (150 mg/kg, 15 min after 50 mg/kg benserazide). The 5-HT(1A) antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinyl-cyclohexanecarboxamide maleate (WAY 100635; 0.2 mg/kg) blocked the R-(+)-8-OHDPAT (0.03 mg/kg)-mediated increase in locomotion. Blockade of 5-HT synthesis with DL- p-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA), a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor, prior to reserpinization did not affect R-(+)-8-OHDPAT-induced locomotion.
The present data indicate that R-(+)-8-OHDPAT can increase motor activity in monoamine-depleted rats through postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors and not necessarily through 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor-mediated alterations in 5-HT synthesis and release. A potential mechanism of 5-HT(1A)-mediated modulation of non-monoaminergic motor circuits in the brain is discussed. Taken together, the results suggest that 5-HT(1A) agonists would provide a novel approach to the amelioration of antipsychotic-induced side effects and the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease.
The extrapyramidal-motorical side effects of neuroleptic drugs are preceded by subtle symptoms, the assessment of which is dependent on the methods used. For the evaluation of several such methods of assessment we compared the results of the handwriting test (Haase, 1969) with EMG-measurements of the silent period and psychometric measurement of aiming-, tapping-, and reaction-time-tests. Twenty normal subjects were tested four times in a double blind study in order to control the short- and long-term effects of a low dosage of perphenacine. Slight but significant drug-dependent changes were found, such as decreases of steadiness and of the speed of arm-hand-movements. From the theoretical point of view these results support a dimensional approach rather than an explanation in terms of a categorial approach as it is suggested by the commonly used notion "neuroleptic threshold".
Ataxia with vitamin E deficiency (AVED) is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder due to mutations in the alpha-tocopherol transfer protein (TTPA) gene on chromosome 8q13. AVED patients have progressive spinocerebellar symptoms and markedly reduced plasma levels of vitamin E. We studied neurological phenotype at diagnosis, and long-term effect of vitamin E supplementation in 16 patients from 12 Italian families. The most common mutations were the 744delA and 513insTT. Two novel TTPA mutations were identified: a severe truncating mutation (219insAT) in a homozygous patient, and a Gly246Arg missense mutation (G246R) in a compound heterozygous patient. The missense mutation was associated with a mild and slowly progressive form of the disease. Vitamin E supplementation therapy allowed a stabilization of the neurological conditions in most of the patients. However, development of spasticity and retinitis pigmentosa was noted in a few patients during therapy. Prompt genetic characterization of AVED patients may allow an effective early treatment and an adequate genetic counseling.
Properdin type I deficiency is characterised by complete absence of extracellular properdin, a positive regulator of the alternative pathway of complement activation. Properdin deficiency is associated with increased susceptibility to severe meningococcal disease. We have identified the genetic defect in 10 Dutch families. Six different mutations and one sequence polymorphism in the properdin gene were found. All amino acid substitutions were limited to conserved amino acids in exons 7 and 8 in contrast to the premature stops that were found in other exons. The missense mutations may alter the protein conformation in such a way that properdin will not be secreted and therefore catabolised intracellularly. The decreased properdin levels found in some healthy females carrying one mutated properdin gene were studied for X-inactivation. Most carriers with extreme low or high properdin levels showed preferential X-inactivation for the normal or mutated X chromosome, respectively. We observed some exceptions, suggesting additional regulation of properdin excretion apart from X-inactivation.
More than 50 years after the introduction of corticosteroids, few studies have focused on corticosteroid-induced adverse events after long-term systemic therapy.
To assess the frequency, risk factors and patient's opinion regarding clinical adverse events occurring early during prednisone therapy.
We conducted a cohort study in two French centres. All consecutive patients starting long-term (> oir = 3 months), high dosage (> or = 20 mg day(-1)) prednisone therapy were enrolled. The main clinical adverse events attributable to corticosteroids were assessed after 3 months of therapy, by comparison with baseline status. The patient's opinion regarding the disability induced by these adverse events was recorded. Risk factors of frequently observed adverse effects were identified by using logistic regression.
Eighty-eight patients were enrolled and 80 were monitored for at least 3 months (women 76%; mean age 59.1 +/- 18.7 years; giant cell arteritis 39%; mean baseline prednisone dosage 54 +/- 17 mg day(-1)). Lipodystrophy was the most frequent adverse event [63.0% (51.0-73.1)], was considered the most distressing by the patients and was most frequent in women and young patients. Neuropsychiatric disorders occurred in 42 patients [52.5% (41.0-63.8)], necessitating hospitalization in five cases. Skin disorders were noted by 37 patients [46.2% (35.0-57.7)] and were more frequent in women. Muscle cramp and proximal muscle weakness were reported by 32.5% (22.5-43.9) and 15% (8.0-24.7) of patients, respectively. Newly developed hypertension occurred in 8.7% (2.9-20.3) of patients. Lastly, 39% (19.7-61.4) of the premenopausal women reported menstrual disorders.
Lipodystrophy and neuropsychiatric disorders are common adverse events of long-term prednisone therapy and are particularly distressing for the patients concerned. The impact of these adverse events on adherence to corticosteroid therapy is not known.
Rifampicin is an effective drug against pruritus in intrahepatic cholestasis. However, there is no specific hepatic disease in which its use could cause undoubtedly biochemical improvement. The aim of this study was to describe patients with complete remission of cholestatic symptoms after rifampicin therapy.
We reported three female patients with intrahepatic cholestasis with no evidence of viral, metabolic, or autoimmune liver diseases. Total bilirubin levels ranged from 13.2 to 27.2 mg/dl (before the first treatment with rifampicin), and in all of them gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase values were within the normal range or slightly increased. Rifampicin therapy was administered orally, without any concomitant drug, with an effective dosage of 5-17 mg/kg/day.
In all patients, pruritus ceased completely and bilirubin returned to normal values. The symptoms recurred after rifampicin withdrawal on, at least, three occasions in each patient, and these symptoms were always eliminated after its reintroduction. The patients had a total of 16 cholestatic episodes during a follow-up of 8 yr, with a complete clinical recovery in all of them. Undergoing therapy with a suitable dosage of rifampicin, none of the patients had a cholestatic crisis even during a period for as long as 12 months. The diagnosis of two patients was consistent with benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis, and it was not well defined in the remaining.
Rifampicin may induce clinical remission, and perhaps prevent clinical relapses of intrahepatic cholestasis with normal or slightly increased levels of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase.
Several cannabinoids elicit systemic vasodilation, mainly via CB1 cannabinoid and vanilloid receptors. However, effects in the pulmonary circulation are unknown. Using the isolated, ventilated, buffer-perfused rabbit lung, we have shown that the endocannabinoids arachidonyl ethanolamide (anandamide) and 2-arachidonyl glycerol (2-AG) dose-dependently increase pulmonary arterial pressure (+19.9 +/- 3.4 mmHg, 5 microM, and +39.5 +/- 10.8 mmHg, 0.4 microM, respectively). 2-AG induced lung edema. The CB1 receptor antagonist AM-251 (0.1 and 5 microM) and the VR1 vanilloid receptor antagonist capsazepine (10 microM) failed to reduce anandamide's effects. The metabolically stable anandamide and 2-AG analogs R-methanandamide and noladin ether, Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol, and the synthetic cannabinoid HU-210, which is no arachidonic acid product, were without effect. The unspecific cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor aspirin (100 microM, P < 0.001) and the specific COX-2 inhibitor nimesulide (10 microM, P < 0.01) completely prevented pulmonary hypertension after 5 microM anandamide. COX-2 RNA was detected in rabbit lungs. The synthetic thromboxane receptor antagonist SQ 29,548 was without effect, but the specific EP1 prostanoid receptor antagonist SC-19220 (100 microM) inhibited the pressure increase after anandamide (P < 0.05). PCR analysis detected fatty acid amidohydrolase (FAAH), an enzyme that degrades endocannabinoids, in rabbit lung tissue. Furthermore, the specific FAAH inhibitor methyl arachidonyl fluorophosphonate (0.1 microM) blocked pressure effects of anandamide (P < 0.01). Finally, anandamide (99 +/- 55 pmol/g) and 2-AG (19.6 +/- 8.4 nmol/g) were found in native lungs. We conclude that anandamide increases pulmonary arterial pressure via COX-2 metabolites following enzymatic degradation by FAAH into arachidonic acid products.
Docetaxel is a new antimicrotubule agent that induces a predominantly sensory neuropathy that is mild in most patients. This prospective study was performed to determine if corticosteroid co-medication reduces the incidence and severity of docetaxel-induced neuropathy. Two groups of patients treated with docetaxel in subsequent cohorts were prospectively analyzed for neurotoxicity. Group A consisted of 38 patients with a variety of solid tumors, who were treated in studies before corticosteroid co-medication was recommended, while 49 female patients in group B with metastatic breast cancer were treated after co-medication with corticosteroids was introduced as a routine. Neuropathy was evaluated by a clinical sum-score for symptoms and signs, and by measurement of the vibration perception threshold (VPT). The severity of neuropathy was graded according to NCI Common Toxicity Criteria. In 42% of patients of group A and in 65% of patients of group B a mainly mild neuropathy was documented. There was no statistically significant difference in neurotoxicity between group A and B. The cumulative dose of docetaxel showed a significant correlation with post-treatment scores of VPT, sensory sum-score, grade of paresthesias, and grade of neurosensory and neuromotor toxicity. Corticosteroid co-medication does not reduce the development of docetaxel-related neuropathy.
