African American Men are 65% more likely to develop prostate cancer and are twice as likely to die of prostate cancer, than are Caucasian American Males. The explanation for this glaring health disparity is still unknown; although a number of different plausible factors have been offered including genetic susceptibility and gene-environment interactions. We favor the hypothesis that altered gene expression plays a major role in the disparity observed in prostate cancer incidence and mortality between African American and Caucasian American Males. To discover genes or gene expression pattern(s) unique to African American or to Caucasian American Males that explain the observed prostate cancer health disparity in African American males, we conducted a micro array pilot project study that used prostate tumors with a Gleason score of 6. We compared gene expression profiling in tumors from African-American Males to prostate tumors in Caucasian American Males. A comparison of case-matched ratios revealed at least 67 statistically significant genes that met filtering criteria of at least +/- 4.0 fold change and p < 0.0001. Gene ontology terms prevalent in African American prostate tumor/normal ratios relative to Caucasian American prostate tumor/normal ratios included interleukins, progesterone signaling, Chromatin-mediated maintenance and myeloid dendritic cell proliferation. Functional in vitro assays are underway to determine roles that selected genes in these onotologies play in contributing to prostate cancer development and health disparity.
Tetracycline induces microvesicular steatosis, which has a poor long-term prognosis and a higher risk of steatohepatitis development compared with macrovesicular steatosis. Recent gene expression studies indicated that tetracycline treatment affects the expression of many genes associated with fatty acid transport and esterification. In this study, we investigated the role of fatty acid transport and esterification in tetracycline-induced steatosis. Intracellular lipid accumulation and the protein expression of fatty acid translocase (FAT or CD36) and diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) 2 were increased in both mouse liver and HepG2 cells treated with tetracycline at 50 mg/kg (intraperitoneal injection, i.p.) and 100 μM, respectively. Tetracycline increased the cellular uptake of boron-dipyrromethene-labeled C16 fatty acid, which was abolished by CD36 RNA interference. Oleate-induced cellular lipid accumulation was further enhanced by co-incubation with tetracycline. Tetracycline downregulated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation, which negatively regulated DGAT2 expression. U0126, a specific ERK inhibitor, also increased DGAT2 expression and cellular lipid accumulation. DGAT1 and 2 knock-down with specific small interfering (si)-RNA completely abrogated the steatogenic effect of tetracycline in HepG2 cells. Taken together, our data showed that tetracycline induces lipid accumulation by facilitating fatty acid transport and triglyceride esterification by upregulating CD36 and DGAT2, respectively.
Angiogenesis and signaling through the RAF/mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) kinase (MEK)/ERK cascade have been reported to play important roles in the development of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC). Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006, Nexavar) is a multikinase inhibitor with activity against Raf kinase and several receptor tyrosine kinases, including vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2), platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR), FLT3, Ret, and c-Kit. In this study, we investigated the in vitro effects of sorafenib on PLC/PRF/5 and HepG2 HCC cells and the in vivo antitumor efficacy and mechanism of action on PLC/PRF/5 human tumor xenografts in severe combined immunodeficient mice. Sorafenib inhibited the phosphorylation of MEK and ERK and down-regulated cyclin D1 levels in these two cell lines. Sorafenib also reduced the phosphorylation level of eIF4E and down-regulated the antiapoptotic protein Mcl-1 in a MEK/ERK-independent manner. Consistent with the effects on both MEK/ERK-dependent and MEK/ERK-independent signaling pathways, sorafenib inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis in both HCC cell lines. In the PLC/PRF/5 xenograft model, sorafenib tosylate dosed at 10 mg/kg inhibited tumor growth by 49%. At 30 mg/kg, sorafenib tosylate produced complete tumor growth inhibition. A dose of 100 mg/kg produced partial tumor regressions in 50% of the mice. In mechanism of action studies, sorafenib inhibited the phosphorylation of both ERK and eIF4E, reduced the microvessel area (assessed by CD34 immunohistochemistry), and induced tumor cell apoptosis (assessed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling) in PLC/PRF/5 tumor xenografts. These results suggest that the antitumor activity of sorafenib in HCC models may be attributed to inhibition of tumor angiogenesis (VEGFR and PDGFR) and direct effects on tumor cell proliferation/survival (Raf kinase signaling-dependent and signaling-independent mechanisms).
The action of adrenaline on the pharmacokinetics of bupivacaine has been tested during two successive interscalene brachial plexus blocks in 10 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The mean venous serum Cmax of bupivacaine after using it with or without adrenaline 1:200000 were 1.49 +/- 0.41 micrograms ml-1 and 2.46 +/- 0.85 micrograms ml-1, respectively. In spite of relatively high total serum concentrations, we could not detect any evidence of toxicity from bupivacaine. Significant tachycardia was seen after bupivacaine with adrenaline, but systolic and diastolic arterial pressures did not change significantly in any session. Marked subjective side effects were noticed only after bupivacaine with adrenaline (shivering twice and palpitations once). The serum protein bound fraction of bupivacaine was higher in rheumatic patients than in our healthy controls: 97.1 +/- 2.4% and 91.3 +/- 3.6%, respectively. Thus bupivacaine as a local anaesthetic agent seems to be even safer in patients with rheumatoid arthritis than in normal healthy volunteers, because of lower free fraction in the former.
Intermittent oral or rectal administration of diazepam for the prophylactic treatment of febrile convulsions has given results comparable to the continuous use of phenobarbital while limiting side effects and risks of toxicity. Since we believe that nitrazepam is a better anticonvulsant than diazepam, we performed a study to evaluate the effectiveness of this medication in the prophylactic treatment of febrile convulsions. Nitrazepam was given only when the children had fever and almost exclusively in children with a high risk of recurrence (less than 12 months of age at first convulsion; atypical convulsion; one or several previous convulsions). Thirty one children with a high risk of recurrence received nitrazepam. The rate of recurrence in this group was 19.3% after a follow-up of 16 months, compared to 45.8% in 24 children who also had a high risk of recurrence but in whom the parents refused the medication or gave it inadequately (p less than 0.05). Fifty one children with a low risk of recurrence also were evaluated and followed for at least 12 months (mean 15.4 months). Six were treated with nitrazepam, mostly because of parental anxiety, and none had a recurrence; of the 45 untreated children in this group, 6 (13.6%) had another convulsion. These results show the efficiency of nitrazepam in the prophylactic treatment of febrile convulsions.
We report a case of symptomatic Torsades de pointes due to QTc prolongation by Mibefradil, which potentially explains unexpected deaths related to this drug. Multiple episodes of Torsades de pointes were documented in a 76-year-old woman with significant QTc prolongation of 0.53 s. After discontinuation of Mibefradil QTc intervals normalized and no further ventricular tachyarrythmias were observed. We conclude that Mibefradil can cause QTc prolongation and life threatening ventricular dysrhythmias.
The cellular uptake of vitamin A from its RBP4-bound circulating form (holo-RBP4) is a homeostatic process that evidently depends on the multidomain membrane protein STRA6. In humans, mutations in STRA6 are associated with Matthew-Wood syndrome, manifested by multisystem developmental malformations. Here we addressed the metabolic basis of this inherited disease. STRA6-dependent transfer of retinol from RBP4 into cultured NIH 3T3 fibroblasts was enhanced by lecithin:retinol acyltransferase (LRAT). The retinol transfer was bidirectional, strongly suggesting that STRA6 acts as a retinol channel/transporter. Loss-of-function analysis in zebrafish embryos revealed that Stra6 deficiency caused vitamin A deprivation of the developing eyes. We provide evidence that, in the absence of Stra6, holo-Rbp4 provokes nonspecific vitamin A excess in several embryonic tissues, impairing retinoic acid receptor signaling and gene regulation. These fatal consequences of Stra6 deficiency, including craniofacial and cardiac defects and microphthalmia, were largely alleviated by reducing embryonic Rbp4 levels by morpholino oligonucleotide or pharmacological treatments.
Nedocromil sodium (Tilade) is an effective therapeutic agent against asthma and has been shown to exhibit antiinflammatory activity in vitro; however, its mode of action is yet to be described fully. Using an in vitro assay designed to mimic the extravasation of neutrophils from the peripheral circulation through cellular barriers to sites of inflammation, the effect of nedocromil sodium on chemoattractant-stimulated neutrophil migration was examined. We also examined the effects of WEB 2086, a platelet-activating factor (PAF) receptor antagonist, in parallel. Neutrophils and the cellular barrier were pretreated and/or co-incubated with nedocromil or WEB 2086 and the effects on neutrophil chemotaxis measured. In all treatments, nedocromil did not significantly affect chemotaxis through cellular or noncellular barriers to N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (FMLP), leukotriene B4 (LTB4), or PAF. In contrast, WEB 2086 inhibited PAF-induced neutrophil migration through both naked filters and endothelial and epithelial monolayers cultured on these filters. We conclude that while nedocromil has been shown to have inhibitory effects on neutrophils and is an effective therapeutic agent for asthma and inflammatory conditions, its activity is not primarily mediated by inhibition of neutrophil chemotaxis. Platelet-activating factor antagonists may partially be effective in asthma through inhibitory effects on neutrophil chemotaxis.
Proteinuria in aminonucleoside of puromycin (PAN) nephrosis is due to an alteration of the glomerular charge- and size-selective barrier. Heparan sulfate seems to play a role in glomerular charge permeability to plasma proteins. We report a quantitative analysis and metabolism of glomerular basement membrane (GBM) heparan sulfate in PAN nephrosis. Studies were performed 5 and 10 days post-PAN administration (15 mg/100 g) to Sprague-Dawley rats. GBM heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan was measured using the dimethylmethylene blue test after chromatographic separation of the digested GBM. Sulfate-35 uptake by GBM and catabolism of GBM-sulfated compounds were studied using glomerular cultures. The heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycans concentration on day 5 (1.42 micrograms/mg GBM protein) was within the normal range (1.17 +/- 0.25), but the concentration on day 10 was below the limit of detection (0.57 micrograms/mg). The sulfate-35 incorporated in the GBM glycosaminoglycan on day 5 (158 cpm/micrograms glycosaminoglycan) was lower than the uptake of control GBM (270 cpm/micrograms glycosaminoglycan), and markedly lower than the uptake on day 10 (1,590 cpm/micrograms glycosaminoglycan). The catabolism of the GBM sulfated compounds on day 5 and 10 was not different than the one seen in controls. These data suggest that PAN administration is associated with a decrease in synthesis of GBM-sulfated compounds on day 5 and a decrease in GBM heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan on day 10. However, on day 10, an increased compensatory synthesis is observed. This may subsequently normalize the GBM heparan sulfate concentration and explain the resolution of the proteinuria.
Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) is a severe fibrosing disorder occurring in patients with renal insufficiency. The majority of patients with this disorder have documented exposure to magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents containing Gd. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid bismethylamide (Gd[DTPA-BMA]; Omniscan) as compared with Gd-DTPA and GdCl3 on the expression and production of cytokines and growth factors by normal human peripheral blood monocytes in vitro and to examine whether conditioned media from Gd-exposed peripheral blood monocytes could induce a profibrotic phenotype in dermal fibroblasts.
Normal human peripheral blood monocytes isolated by Ficoll-Hypaque gradient centrifugation and plastic adherence were incubated with various concentrations of Gd[DTPA-BMA], Gd-DTPA, or GdCl3. Gene expression of interleukins 4, 6, and 13, interferon-gamma, tumor necrosis factor alpha, transforming growth factor beta, connective tissue growth factor, and vascular endothelial growth factor were assessed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. Production and secretion of cytokines and growth factors by Gd compound-exposed monocytes was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay proteome multiplex arrays. The effects of conditioned media from the Gd compound-exposed monocytes on the phenotype of normal human dermal fibroblasts were examined by real-time PCR and Western blotting.
The 3 Gd-containing compounds stimulated the expression and production of numerous cytokines and growth factors by normal human peripheral blood monocytes. Conditioned media from these cells induced a profibrotic phenotype in normal human dermal fibroblasts.
The 3 Gd-containing compounds studied induce potent cellular responses in normal human peripheral blood monocytes, which may participate in the development of tissue fibrosis in NSF.
Enrofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic has been used widely in humans and domestic animals, including dogs, because of its broad-spectrum activity and relative safety. The side effects of fluoroquinolone, induced tendinopathy, tendonitis, spontaneous tendon rupture and cartilage damage, remain incompletely understood. In the present study, we investigated the in vitro effects of enrofloxacin on cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis in canine Achilles tendon cells and chondrocytes. Cell growth and proliferation after treating with enrofloxacin for 2-6 days was quantified by a colorimetric 2,3-bis(2-methoxy-4-nitro-5-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium-5-carboxyanilide inner salt (XTT) assay. The results showed that enrofloxacin could inhibit the proliferation of canine tendon cells and chondrocytes at increasing concentrations (10-200 microg/ml). The inhibition of proliferation of canine tendon cells and chondrocytes after exposure to enrofloxacin were associated with induction of apoptosis, as evidenced by the typical nuclear apoptotic condensed nuclei found using Hoechst 33258 staining. It was demonstrated that canine tendon cells and chondrocytes treated with 200 microg/ml enrofloxacin for 4 days exhibited apoptotic features and fragmentation of DNA. Enrofloxacin also increased the apoptosis of canine tendon cells and chondrocytes in a dose and time-dependent manner. The results indicate that enrofloxacin inhibits cell proliferation, induces apoptosis and DNA fragmentation, which might explain enrofloxacin-induced tendinopathy and cartilage damage.
Given the limited range of effective drug treatments for patients with schizophrenia, increasing numbers of patients, often termed 'treatment-resistant' are prescribed clozapine. While the induction of neutropenia or agranulocytosis by clozapine is well appreciated, other rare potentially fatal adverse reactions may also occur including acute interstitial nephritis as reported in this case.
A 57-year-old Caucasian woman with treatment-resistant chronic schizophrenia developed acute renal failure following initiation of treatment with clozapine. The adverse reaction occurred after only four doses of the drug had been administered (titrated from 12.5 to 25 mg per day). After clozapine had been withdrawn, the patient's renal function returned to normal with no other changes to medication. The patient had been exposed to clozapine about 4 years previously when she had developed a similar reaction.
Renal reactions to clozapine are extremely rare but, if not recognized promptly, may prove fatal. Psychiatrists need to be aware of this possible complication when clozapine is initiated.
In an attempt to induce in mice the cardiomyopathy associated with daunomycin treatment and to ameliorate this disorder by a protective pretreatment with ICRF-159 (razoxane), young male BDF 1 mice were injected with daunomycin, 6 mg/kg, in multiple doses. A second group of mice were pretreated by injection with razoxane, 200 mg/kg, 24 hours before each daunomycin administration. Within three weeks of the third daunomycin injection one half of the unprotected mice were moribund and were sacrificed. Mice pretreated with razoxane survived the length of the experiment without exhibiting any disabilities. Myocardial tissue of all mice was processed for light and electron microscopic examination. The myocardial ultrastructure of daunomycin-toxic mice showed foci of incipient changes, characterized by sarcoplasmic translucency, vacuolation of membrane-limited components, degeneration of mitochondria and lysosomal aggregates. Evaluation of mice pretreated with razoxane either failed to reveal ultrastructural alterations or demonstrated only minimal changes in the myocardium.
We showed previously that the peroxisome proliferators di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP), clofibrate, and 4-chloro-6-(2,3 xylidino)-2-pyrimidinylthio (N-beta-hydroxyl)acetamide (BR931) alter hepatic sex steroid metabolism and receptor expression during induction of hepatic hyperplasia and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in rats. The aim of this study was to identify metabolic changes associated with cell growth during hyperplasia and HCC.
Hepatic hyperplasia was induced in male rats by a diet containing DEHP and clofibrate for 3-60 days. HCC was induced by feeding a diet containing BR931, a more potent hepatocarcinogen, for 10 months.
Cholesterol biosynthesis was depressed in hyperplastic livers but increased in HCC. Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) activity was inhibited in hyperplastic liver as well as in HCC, whereas malic enzyme activity increased severalfold. Protein and messenger RNA (mRNA) levels for both G6PD and malic enzyme increased in hyperplastic livers and HCC. mRNA levels for 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase decreased in hyperplasia and increased in HCC, whereas low-density lipoprotein receptor mRNA increased in hyperplasia and decreased in HCC.
Neoplastic cells acquire a growth advantage by their capacity to synthesize cholesterol and obtain reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate by the malic enzyme pathway when G6PD activity is inhibited by peroxisome proliferators.
Formaldehyde (FA) is an indoor and outdoor pollutant widely used by many industries, and its exposure is associated with inflammation and oxidative stress in the airways. Our previous studies have demonstrated the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in lung inflammation induced by FA inhalation but did not identify source of the ROS. In the present study, we investigate the effects of FA on the activities and gene expression of glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione S-transferase (GST), superoxide dismutase (SOD) 1 and 2, catalase (CAT), nitric oxide synthase (iNOS and cNOS) and cyclooxygenase (COX) 1 and 2. The hypothesized link between NADPH-oxidase, nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase, the lung inflammation after FA inhalation was also investigated. For experiments, male Wistar rats were submitted to FA inhalation (1%, 90 min daily) for 3 consecutive days. The treatments with apocynin and indomethacin before the FA exposure reduced the number of neutrophils recruited into the lung. Moreover, the treatments with apocynin and indomethacin blunted the effect of FA on the generation of IL-1β, while the treatments with L-NAME and apocynin reduced the generation of IL-6 by lung explants when compared to the untreated group. FA inhalation increased the levels of NO and hydrogen peroxide by BAL cells cultured and the treatments with apocynin and l-NAME reduced these generations. FA inhalation did not modify the activities of GPX, GR, GST and CAT but reduced the activity of SOD when compared to the naïve group. Significant increases in SOD-1 and -2, CAT, iNOS, cNOS and COX-1 expression were observed in the FA group compared to the naïve group. The treatments with apocynin, indomethacin and L-NAME reduced the gene expression of antioxidant and oxidant enzymes. In conclusion, our results indicate that FA causes a disruption of the physiological balance between oxidant and antioxidant enzymes in lung tissue, most likely favoring the oxidant pathways and thus positively modulating lung inflammation.
In order to assess age-dependence of susceptibility to acrylamide (ACR)-induced neural and testicular toxicity, 3- and 7-week-old male SD rats were given ACR at 0, 50, 100, or 200 ppm in the drinking water for 4 weeks, and the nervous and male reproductive systems were examined histopathologically. Testicular genotoxicity was evaluated with the comet assay and the micronucleus (MN) test. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity and glutathione (GSH) content in the liver and testis were also measured. In both young and adult animals, neurotoxicity was evident from 100 ppm and increased in proportion to ACR intake per body weight. In the testis, marked degeneration and exfoliation, mainly of spermatids, were observed from 100 ppm limited to young animals. The comet assay revealed ACR to significantly induce DNA damage from 100 ppm in both life stages, while MNs were found only in young rats from 100 ppm. The level of GST activity in the testis of young rats at the end of experiment was significantly lower than that of adult animals, regardless of the ACR treatment. There were no life stage-related differences in GSH contents in the liver and testis. These results suggest that susceptibility to neurotoxicity might not differ between young and adult rats when exposure levels are adjusted for body weight. Regarding testicular toxicity, young animals around puberty proved more susceptible than adult animals, possibly due to their lower level of testicular GST activity than that in adult animals.
COPD has been reported in workers exposed to particulates, and there is increasing evidence that high levels of ambient particulate pollutants may also be associated with COPD. The studies here investigate the hypothesis that particulates, including air pollution particles, can induce airway wall fibrosis, a process that can lead to COPD.
Rat tracheal explants were exposed to various occupationally encountered dusts, air pollution particles, and model air pollution particles. In some experiments, iron was loaded onto the particle surface. Gene expression and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB activation were measured after 7 days of air culture. Adhesion to and uptake of dusts by the tracheal epithelium were also evaluated.
Known fibrogenic dusts such as amosite asbestos produced increased gene expression of procollagen, transforming growth factor-beta, and platelet-derived growth factor, and increased hydroxyproline in the explants, and the addition of iron increased these effects. The addition of iron also converted nonfibrogenic TiO2 into a fibrogenic dust. Dusts with surface complexed iron activated NF-kappaB via an oxidant mechanism. However, an ultrafine TiO2 with very low iron was also fibrogenic. In separate experiments, exogenous tumor necrosis factor-alpha increased dust adhesion to, and exogenous ozone increased dust uptake by, tracheal epithelial cells.
Mineral dusts can directly induce fibrosis in the airway wall. Exogenous inflammatory cells and exogenous agents are not required, but they probably exaggerate the fibrogenic effects. An iron-mediated oxidant mechanism underlies the fibrogenic effects of some, but not all, of these dusts. Particle-induced airway wall fibrosis may lead to COPD.
The short-term benefit of risperidone in ameliorating severe disruptive behavior in pediatric patients with autism spectrum disorders is well established; however, only one placebo-controlled, long-term study of efficacy is available.
Thirty-six children with an autism spectrum disorder (5-17 years old) accompanied by severe tantrums, aggression, or self-injurious behavior, started 8-week open-label treatment with risperidone. Responders (n = 26) continued treatment for another 16 weeks, followed by a double-blind discontinuation (n = 24; two patients discontinued treatment because of weight gain) consisting of either 3 weeks of taper and 5 weeks of placebo only or continuing use of risperidone. Relapse was defined as a significant deterioration of symptoms based on clinical judgment and a parent questionnaire.
Risperidone was superior to placebo in preventing relapse: this occurred in 3 of 12 patients continuing on risperidone versus 8 of 12 who switched to placebo (p = .049). Weight gain, increased appetite, anxiety, and fatigue were the most frequently reported side effects.
This study indicates the effectiveness of risperidone during a period of several months, reducing disruptive behavior in about half of the children with autism spectrum disorders. The results provide a rationale for the continuing use of risperidone beyond 6 months, although considerable weight gain can limit the use of this agent.
Angiopoietins were thought to be endothelial cell-specific via the tie2 receptor. We showed that angiopoietin-1 (ang1) also interacts with integrins on cardiac myocytes (CMs) to increase survival. Because ang1 monomers bind and activate integrins (not tie2), we determined their function in vivo. We examined monomer and multimer expressions during physiological and pathological cardiac remodeling and overexpressed ang1 monomers in phenylephrine-induced cardiac hypertrophy. Cardiac ang1 levels (mRNA, protein) increased during postnatal development and decreased with phenylephrine-induced cardiac hypertrophy, whereas tie2 phosphorylations were unchanged. We found that most or all of the changes during cardiac remodeling were in monomers, offering an explanation for unchanged tie2 activity. Heart tissue contains abundant ang1 monomers and few multimers (Western blotting). We generated plasmids that produce ang1 monomers (ang1-256), injected them into mice, and confirmed cardiac expression (immunohistochemistry, RT-PCR). Ang1 monomers localize to CMs, smooth muscle cells, and endothelial cells. In phenylephrine-induced cardiac hypertrophy, ang1-256 reduced left ventricle (LV)/tibia ratios, fetal gene expressions (atrial and brain natriuretic peptides, skeletal actin, beta-myosin heavy chain), and fibrosis (collagen III), and increased LV prosurvival signaling (akt, MAPK(p42/44)), and AMPK(T172). However, tie2 phosphorylations were unchanged. Ang1-256 increased integrin-linked kinase, a key regulator of integrin signaling and cardiac health. Collectively, these results suggest a role for ang1 monomers in cardiac remodeling.
Glucocorticoid receptor (GR) agonist dexamethasone (Dex) induces hepatic steatosis and enhances constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) expression in the liver. CAR is known to worsen hepatic injury in nonalcoholic hepatic steatosis. Because transcription coactivator MED1/PPARBP gene is required for GR- and CAR-mediated transcriptional activation, we hypothesized that disruption of MED1/PPARBP gene in liver cells would result in the attenuation of Dex-induced hepatic steatosis. Here we show that liver-specific disruption of MED1 gene (MED1(delta Liv)) improves Dex-induced steatotic phenotype in the liver. In wild-type mice Dex induced severe hepatic steatosis and caused reduction in medium- and short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenases that are responsible for mitochondrial beta-oxidation. In contrast, Dex did not induce hepatic steatosis in mice conditionally null for hepatic MED1, as it failed to inhibit fatty acid oxidation enzymes in the liver. MED1(delta Liv) livers had lower levels of GR-regulated CAR mRNA compared to wild-type mouse livers. Microarray gene expression profiling showed that absence of MED1 affects the expression of the GR-regulated genes responsible for energy metabolism in the liver. These results establish that absence of MED1 in the liver diminishes Dex-induced hepatic steatosis by altering the GR- and CAR-dependent gene functions.
An investigation was performed to compare the cerebral protective properties of etomidate, isoflurane, and thiopental. In separate groups of spontaneously hypertensive rats, etomidate, isoflurane, or thiopental was administered to achieve and maintain burst-suppression of the electroencephalogram (3-5 bursts/min) for the duration of the experiment. A fourth group received 1.2 minimal alveolar concentration halothane. All groups underwent 3 hours of middle cerebral artery occlusion and then 2 hours of reperfusion. Thereafter, the animals were killed and the volume of injured brain was determined by staining with 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium. Physiological parameters did not differ among the four groups during the investigation, with the exception that hemolysis occurred in the etomidate group (free hemoglobin levels, approximately 0.4 g.dl-1). The volume of injured brain in the thiopental group (56 +/- 10 mm3) was significantly smaller than that in the halothane control group (99 +/- 13 mm3). The volumes of injured brain in the etomidate and isoflurane groups (145 +/- 11 mm3 and 139 +/- 14 mm3, respectively) were significantly larger than those in the control and thiopental groups. We speculate that the apparently detrimental effect of etomidate may be the result of the binding of nitric oxide of cerebral endothelial origin by the iron component of free hemoglobin. Intracranial pressure was not recorded, and in the isoflurane group, there may have been adverse effects on cerebral perfusion pressure associated with vasodilation caused by high concentrations of isoflurane. The results are consistent with a protective effect by barbiturates.
The aim of this experimental study was to investigate the effects of erdosteine, an antioxidant agent, on doxorubicin (DXR)-induced cardio-toxicity through nitric oxide (NO) levels, collagen synthesis, xanthine oxidase (XO) and adenosine deaminase (ADA) activities in rats. Rats were treated with erdosteine (10 mg/kg b.wt. per day, orally) or saline starting 2 days before administrating a single dose of DXR (20 mg/kg i.p.) or saline. At the 10th day of the DXR administration, hearts were removed under anesthesia for biochemical measurements. Enzyme activities as well as OH-proline and NO levels were found to be significantly increased in DXR group compared with the control group. All of the parameters studied except ADA activity were decreased significantly approximating to the control levels upon erdosteine administration. In conclusion, erdosteine seems to be an alternative agent for protection of cardiac tissue against DXR-induced cardio-toxicity through its regulatory effect on XO activity and NO level.
Inhibition of type IV phosphodiesterase activity is beneficial in various inflammation mediated by its function to suppress the production of inflammatory cytokines in inflammatory cells. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as indomethacin are well known to develop gastric mucosal lesion. As pathogenesis of indomethacin induced gastric mucosal lesion, activation of neutrophils and inflammatory cytokine production play critical roles. However, the effect of phosphodiesterase inhibitors on development of gastric mucosal lesion has not been reported. In the present study, we examined the effect of specific type IV phosphodiesterase inhibitor (rolipram) on NSAIDs-induced gastric mucosal lesion. Also, we examined the effect of rolipram on tissue prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production. Indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury was produced by the intragastric administration of indomethacin (30 mg/kg). Rolipram was injected to the rats intraperitoneally 30 min before the indomethacin administration. Ulcer index and tissue myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity of the gastric mucosa was evaluated. The gastric concentration of PGE2 was determined by RIA. Gastric mucosal lesion induced by indomethacin was significantly inhibited with treatment of rolipram. Mucosal MPO activity was also suppressed by administration of rolipram. Gastric mucosal PGE2 concentration was not affected by intraperitoneal injection of rolipram. Based on these data, the beneficial effects of rolipram on indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury may be attributed to its anti-inflammatory properties.
Trigeminal neuralgia or tic douloureux is a disease affecting older individuals, and thus, office-based "minimally invasive" therapy is inherently attractive. The author sought to determine whether injection of peripheral trigeminal branches with neurolytic solutions offers a simple, less invasive therapy, with low risk for patients with one- or two-division trigeminal neuralgia that is unresponsive to pharmacotherapy.
This retrospective study focused on a review of case charts from 18 patients treated for tic douloureux. Sixty injections of 10% phenol in glycerol were given to the 18 patients, six of whom had undergone other neurosurgical procedures. The median patient age was 74 years, ranging from 36 to 94 years. There were nine women and nine men. Forty-six injections were administered into the infraorbital nerve in its canal in the midface, 11 percutaneous injections were administered into the mandibular nerve just proximal to the mandibular canal in the ramus of the jaw, and three injections were administered into supraorbital nerves. Eighty-seven percent of injections brought marked or total relief initially. Of those injections that provided initial relief, 37% still provided relief after 1 year and 30% after 2 years, with relief lasting for a median of 9 months after each injection. Most patients whose pain recurred after months of relief requested a repeated procedure, rather than undergo a ganglion nerve block procedure or open surgery. There were no serious complications or dysesthetic pain. Facial sensory loss generally recovered within 6 months and was well tolerated.
Office-based injection of trigeminal branches is a useful technique for neurosurgeons who treat trigeminal neuralgia. It is easily repeated and can provide immediate pain relief of intermediate duration.
Zinc is an essential nutrient with a wide range of functions and closely involved in a variety of enzymatic processes of importance in glucose, protein and lipid metabolism. Ghrelin is the endogenous ligand of the G protein coupled growth hormone secretagogue receptor. The regulatory mechanism that explain the biosynthesis and secretion of ghrelin in the gastrointestinal tract has not been clarified. This study was undertaken to examine the effect of zinc supplementation on the streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats, which exhibits ghrelin production and secretion, and lipid metabolism on the gastrointestinal tract. The animals were divided into four groups. Group I: Non-diabetic untreated animals. Group II: Zinc-treated non-diabetic rats. Group III: STZ-induced diabetic untreated animals. Group IV: Zinc-treated diabetic animals. Zinc sulfate was given to some of the experimental animals by gavage at a dose of 100 mg/kg body weight every day for 60 days. In the zinc-treated diabetic group, the blood glucose levels decreased and body weight increased as compared to the diabetic untreated group. Zinc supplementation to STZ-diabetic rats revealed the protective effect of zinc on lipids parameters such as total lipid, cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol and atherogenic index. There is no statistically change in ghrelin-immunoreactive cells in gastrointestinal tissue. But, it has found that zinc supplementation caused a significant reduction in densities of ghrelin-producing cells of fundic mucosa of zinc-treated diabetic animals as compared to untreated, non-diabetic controls. Zinc supplementation may contribute to prevent some complications of diabetic rats, biochemically.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is widely used for the therapy of liver dysfunction. In this study, we investigated the protective effect of UDCA in concanavalin A-induced mouse liver injury. The treatment with UDCA at oral doses of 50 and 150 mg/kg at 2 h before concanavalin A injection significantly reduced the elevated plasma levels of aminotransferases and the incidence of liver necrosis compared with concanavalin A-injected control group without affecting the concentrations of liver hydrophobic bile acids. UDCA significantly inhibited elevated levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2), and interleukin 6 (IL-6) in blood of concanavalin A-injected mice. To clarify the influence of UDCA on production of cytokines, we examined intrahepatic mRNA expressions and the protein levels of TNF-alpha, MIP-2, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), IL-4, IL-6, and IL-10 at 1 h after concanavalin A injection. The treatment with UDCA significantly decreased the intrahepatic levels of TNF- alpha and MIP-2, whereas this compound showed no clear effect on IFN-gamma, IL-4, IL-6, or IL-10. Furthermore, UDCA significantly decreased myeloperoxidase activity as well as MIP-2 level in the liver and histological examination of liver tissue revealed that intrasinusoidal accumulation of neutrophils was decreased markedly by UDCA. In addition, UDCA significantly inhibited the production of TNF-alpha and MIP-2 when cultured with nonparenchymal and lymph node cells. In conclusion, these findings suggest that UDCA protects concanavalin A-induced liver injury in mice by inhibiting intrahepatic productions of TNF-alpha and MIP-2, and the infiltration of neutrophils into the liver.
The dose-limiting toxicity of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) is palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE). Some physicians are reluctant to use this drug in overweight patients, postulating that larger size increases the likelihood of PPE. We sought to determine whether a correlation exists between body mass index (BMI) and the frequency or severity of skin reactions during PLD chemotherapy.
The records of all patients receiving PLD chemotherapy for gynecologic malignancy at our institution were reviewed for chemotherapy history, BMI at start of treatment, dose, infusion time, and adverse outcomes. Skin reaction sites, grade, and treatments were recorded. Possible predisposing factors were extracted, as well as the reason for drug discontinuation.
Over 7 years, 103 patients were treated with PLD for gynecologic malignancies. 429 cycles were given, and PPE occurred in 36% of patients treated. Of those with PPE, reactions were grades 1, 2, or 3 in 54%, 32%, and 14% of patients, respectively. The BMI of patients with PPE (29.0) was not significantly different from that of patients without PPE (28.8). Analysis using finer subsets of weight also revealed no association. Finally, logistic regression revealed no relationship between BMI and rash grade.
Elevated BMI does not appear to correlate with occurrence of PPE in our population. Of interest, among patients discontinuing PLD due to skin toxicity, 25% had clinical evidence of response. The identification of predisposing risk factors may help guide treatment decisions; however, elevated BMI does not appear to be such a risk factor.
