Bipolar disorder is associated with the highest substance abuse rates of any psychiatric illness. Therefore, treatments that stabilize mood and decrease drug use or cravings are of great interest. Open-label lamotrigine was examined in 30 outpatients with DSM-IV bipolar disorder and cocaine dependence. Lamotrigine was either added to existing medication regimens or used as monotherapy.
Lamotrigine was started at a dose of 25 mg/day (12.5 mg/day in those taking valproic acid) and titrated to a maximum dose of 300 mg/day. Subjects received a baseline evaluation including a structured clinical interview and weekly assessments for 12 weeks with the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D), Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), and Cocaine Craving Questionnaire (CCQ). At each appointment, a urine sample was obtained, and participants reported drug use during the previous week. The subjects consisted of 13 men and 17 women with cocaine dependence and bipolar I disorder (N = 22), bipolar II disorder (N = 7), or bipolar disorder not otherwise specified (N = 1), with a mean +/- SD age of 35.4 +/- 7.2 years. Data were analyzed using the last observation carried forward on all subjects who completed the baseline evaluation and at least 1 postbaseline assessment.
Significant improvement was observed in HAM-D, YMRS, and BPRS scores (p < or =.02). Cravings also significantly decreased as measured by the CCQ (p <.001). Dollar amount spent on drugs decreased nonsignificantly. Lamotrigine was well tolerated, with no subjects discontinuing due to side effects.
Lamotrigine treatment was well tolerated in this sample and associated with statistically significant improvement in mood and drug cravings but not drug use. The findings suggest that larger controlled trials of lamotrigine are needed in this population.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPAR-alpha) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of ligand-dependent transcription factors related to retinoid, steroid, and thyroid hormone receptors. The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of endogenous and exogenous the PPAR-alpha ligand on the development of lung injury caused by bleomycin administration. Lung injury was induced in PPAR-alpha wild-type (WT) mice and PPAR-alpha knockout (KO) mice by intratracheal administration of bleomycin. An increase of immunoreactivity to poly-ADP-ribose, TNF-alpha, and IL-1 beta, as well as a significant loss of body weight and mortality was observed in the lung of bleomycin-treated PPAR-alpha WT mice. The absence of a functional PPAR-alpha gene in PPAR-alpha KO mice resulted in a significant augmentation of all the above-described parameters. On the contrary, the treatment of PPAR-alpha WT with WY-14643 (1 mg/kg daily) significantly reduced the degree of lung injury, the rise in myeloperoxidase activity, and the increase in staining (immunohistochemistry) for poly-ADP-ribose, TNF-alpha, and IL-1 beta caused by bleomycin administration. Thus, endogenous and exogenous PPAR-alpha ligands reduce the degree of lung injury induced by bleomycin in the mice. Therefore, we propose that the PPAR-alpha ligand may be useful in the treatment of lung injury.
1. The effects of the ACE inhibitor, captopril, on collagen metabolism in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with cardiac hypertrophy was examined. Captopril (100 mg/kg per day) was administered in drinking water to 20 week old male SHR for 12 weeks. Collagen concentration was calculated from hydroxyproline content, and relative proportions of types I, III and V collagen were determined by non-interrupted SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). These parameters were examined in age and sex matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, as well as in non-treated SHR, and compared with those of captopril-treated SHR. 2. Captopril significantly reduced both blood pressure (191 +/- 12.1 vs 146 +/- 11.2 mmHg, P < 0.01), and the ratio of left ventricular (LV) weight to bodyweight (BW; 2.38 +/- 0.17 vs 2.05 +/- 0.12 mg/g, P < 0.01). There were no significant differences in collagen concentration among WKY rats, captopril-treated SHR and non-treated 32 week old SHR. However, total collagen content in captopril-treated SHR reduced significantly compared with non-treated 32 week old SHR (16.8 +/- 2.0 vs 21.3 +/- 0.8 mg, P < 0.01). The relative proportion of type V collagen was significantly higher in both captopril-treated (58.6 +/- 3.4 vs 46.8 +/- 1.3%, P < 0.01) and non-treated 32 week old SHR (59.9 +/- 3.1 vs 46.8 +/- 1.3%, P < 0.01) compared with WKY rats. However, there were no significant differences between captopril-treated SHR and non-treated 32 week old SHR.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. The effect of continuous intravenous administration of 1 microgram/h atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) for 4 days was studied in normal male Sprague-Dawley rats and rats made nephrotic with puromycin aminonucleoside (PA). 2. ANP infusion significantly increased urinary sodium and potassium excretion by 3 days of infusion in control rats but not in PA-treated rats. ANP infusion significantly increased glomerular filtration rate in PA-treated rats, while effective renal plasma flow was similarly decreased compared with non-infused nephrotic rats. 3. Plasma high density lipoproteins (HDL) were significantly decreased and low density lipoproteins (LDL) were increased in PA-treated rats that received ANP; HDL were increased in normal rats infused with ANP. 4. Competitive binding studies demonstrated a lower density of specific ANP receptors in glomerular membranes from rats injected with PA, while binding affinity was unchanged. 5. Infusion with exogenous ANP did not promote natriuresis in PA nephrosis despite an enhancement of glomerular filtration rate (GFR), thus suggesting that sodium retention in this model is due to a post-glomerular defect. Plasma lipoprotein composition in both normal and nephrotic rats may be affected by ANP.
Two rare cases of aplastic anemia after prolonged ingestion of indomethacin are described. One patient recovered spontaneously within several weeks following discontinuation of the drug while the second one died. The aplastic anemia may be related to the inhibitory effect of indomethacin on prostaglandins and cyclic nucleotides which have a regulatory role in erythropoiesis and myelopoiesis.
Chest pain is the most common medical complaint among cocaine-using emergency department (ED) patients. Correlates of substance abuse treatment seeking were examined using 3-month post-discharge surveys from 170 ED patients admitted with cocaine-related chest pain. Four treatment categories were specified as the dependent variable in an ordered logistic regression: no treatment (74.7%), informal treatment only (7.1%), formal treatment only (5.9%), and both formal and informal treatment (12.4%). The following variables were found to be positively associated with a higher treatment category: frequency of cocaine use (OR = 1.07, CI(95) = 1.01-1.15, p = 0.03), global severity index (OR = 2.26, CI(95) = 1.04-4.90, p = 0.04), number of endorsed stigma barriers (OR = 4.40, CI(95) = 1.41-13.78, p = 0.01), interpersonal consequences (OR = 1.41, CI(95) = 1.01-1.88, p = 0.02), and pre-baseline informal treatment (OR = 6.69, CI(95) = 1.58-28.36, p = 0.01). Physical consequences were found to be negatively associated with a higher treatment category (OR = 0.63, CI(95) = 0.47-0.85, p < 0.01). ED visits for cocaine-related chest pain represent missed opportunities to link patients to substance abuse treatment, and interventions are needed to motivate patients to seek care.
A case of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) revealed by prolonged apnea following the administration of pancuronium during surgery for squamous cell carcinoma of the lung is reported. The postoperative respiratory failure allowed the correct interpretation of a poor clinical picture:slight weakness of the lower limbs and no other signs of neuromuscular disease. In the authors' opinion prolonged apnea always requires accurate neurophysiological investigation in order to detect latent neuromuscular transmission defects which are frequently underevaluated.
We report 4 clinical cases of hyperammonemic encephalopathy (HE) associated with valproate acid (VPA) and review the literature on its pathophysiology. In all four cases, hepatic function was normal and valproic levels were within the therapeutic range. Elevated ammonium levels were found as the only biochemical abnormality. Patients showed decreased level of consciousness, confusion, ataxia and seizures. In 1 case the EEG showed diffused triphasic waves with frontal predominance. After suppression of treatment with VPA there was remission of clinical manifestations, and ammonium levels returned to normal. In order to obtain the correct diagnosis of HE, in all patients treated with either VPA mono or polytherapy, ammonium levels should be considered.
Ifosfamide given to 42 patients iv at 2-2.5 g/m2/day X 4 resulted in partial responses in ten of 28 (36%) evaluable patients with adult soft tissue sarcomas, including two of two with chondrosarcoma; none of nine with pediatric sarcomas (Ewing's sarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, or rhabdomyosarcoma) achieved partial response. All of the pediatric patients had failed to respond to complicated three- to six-drug regimens of up to 18 months in duration. The response rates in patients with and without prior cyclophosphamide (32%; seven responses among 22 patients; and 20%, three responses among 15 patients) were not significantly different, supporting in vitro evidence of a lack of cross-resistance between the two related compounds. Myelosuppression was dose-limiting. Hemorrhagic cystitis was not observed in patients treated with 400-500 mg of mesna iv every 4 hours during ifosfamide treatment. Nausea and vomiting were generally mild or moderate. Alopecia was universal but reversible. Of the first 11 patients, five became somnolent or developed visual hallucinations (during six of the 12 total courses administered to the five patients). Only one patient had two episodes of neurotoxicity. After reduction of the use of iv antiemetics and major narcotics, single episodes of neurotoxicity were seen in five of the next 27 patients. An asymptomatic acidosis developed in most patients, requiring bicarbonate replacement in one. Ifosfamide appears to be active in previously treated patients with sarcomas and should be evaluated in patients with less extensive prior treatment.
We investigated the efficacy and adverse effects of aminophylline and caffeine citrate in 180 premature neonates for 10 days and nights. Aminophylline (n = 98) and caffeine citrate (n = 82) were equally effective in preventing apnea and bradycardia. The caffeine citrate group had a lower median heart rate on day 3, fewer neonates with tachycardia and a smaller amount of gastric aspirate on day 7. The need for mononasal continuous positive airway pressure and respirator therapy was similar in both groups. We conclude that caffeine citrate is the drug of choice for apnea and bradycardia prophylaxis in premature neonates with a gestational age < or = 33 full weeks.
It has been reported that the imbalance of anticholinergic and antidopaminergic activity of each neuroleptic drug correlates with the capacity to produce neuroleptic-induced acute dystonia (NAD) and the major focus of NAD is thought to be the striatum. Anticholinergic drugs are highly effective on NAD, but they are partially effective on neuroleptic-induced tardive dystonia and their effect on idiopathic dystonia is disappointing. Recently, it has been reported that the unilateral microinjection of sigma (sigma) ligands into the red nucleus induces torticollis of rats. This animal model appears to be a model of dystonia, but it is not clear whether it is suitable for NAD in man. To clarify this issue, we investigated the effect of an anticholinergic drug, biperiden hydrochlorate (BH), on this animal model. This study revealed that BH dose-dependently ameliorated dystonia of rats induced by two sigma ligands, whether each sigma ligand had dopaminergic affinity or not. This animal model of dystonia appears to be a model of NAD in man from the viewpoint of treatment-response. The results also suggest that not only dopaminergic and cholinergic systems but also sigma system, and not only the striatum but also the red nucleus, may play an important role in the pathophysiology of NAD.
To investigate the protective effect of total flavonoid of Herba Pyrolae (TFHP) on acute myocardial ischemic injury induced by isoproterenol in rats and the primary mechanisms.
Acute myocardial ischemic models were established by i. s. of isoproterenol. ECG of the rats were recorded, activities of creatine phosphokinase (CK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and the superoxide dismutase (SOD), and the levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), NO and FFA in rat serum were determined, heart index were measured and histopathological changes of myocardium were observed.
In comparison with model group, TFHP raised the height of T wave, reduced CK, LDH activities and FFA levels in serum, decreased heart index and relieved myocardial ischemic injury. The primary study of its mechanism showed that TFHP decreased MDA level, increased SOD activity and NO levels in the rat serum.
TFHP has protective effect on acute myocardial ischemic injury possibly via antioxidation and increasing the release and production of NO.
Frontometaphyseal dysplasia (FMD) belongs to a group of overlapping skeletal dysplasias, the common molecular basis of which are mutations of FLNA, the gene encoding filamin A. The nature of the mutation has been considered the major determinant of the phenotype within this group that comprises the otopalatodigital syndromes (OPD1, OPD2) and Melnick-Needles syndrome besides FMD. However, to date the molecular pathomechanisms are not well understood. In FMD only few FLNA mutations have been reported which do not cluster in a specific region of the protein. We report on a novel de novo mutation 5182G --> T in exon 31 of the FLNA gene in a girl with manifestations of FMD and OPD1. This mutation is predicted to lead to the exchange of a highly conserved glycine residue at position 1,728 by cysteine (G1728C) in repeat 15 of the filamin A rod domain. In a second family with FMD, we identified a known mutation (S1186L) in a mother and her son. In contrast to most previous reports on manifesting females or carriers of the FLNA-related skeletal dysplasias, the affected females presented here showed only mild to moderate skewing of X-inactivation against the mutant allele. Our data may indicate that in females, genotype-phenotype correlation between certain FLNA mutations and OPD1 and FMD, respectively, is less strict than previously assumed. We propose that X-inactivation is an important epigenetic modifier of the phenotype in females with the FLNA-related skeletal dysplasias.
Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) balances the pool of folate coenzymes in one-carbon metabolism for DNA synthesis and methylation, both are implicated in carcinogenesis. Two common variants in the MTHFR gene (C677T and A1298C) have been associated with reduced enzyme activity, thereby making MTHFR polymorphisms a potential candidate cancer-predisposing factor. To evaluate the C677T and A1298C functional polymorphisms in the MTHFR gene and their associations with breast cancer risk, as well as the potential modifying effect by plasma folate status on the MTHFR-associated risk, a hospital-based case-control study was conducted on a Taiwanese population consisting of 146 histologically confirmed incident breast cancer cases and their 285 age-matched controls without a history of cancer. A PCR-RFLP method was used for MTHFR polymorphism genotyping and RIA was used to measure the plasma folate. Statistical evaluations were performed using logistic regression analysis. The plasma folate level was inversely associated with breast cancer risk with an adjusted odds ratio (OR) of 0.52 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.26-1.05] observed among women who were in the highest plasma folate tertile. The MTHFR 677T and 1298C variant alleles were associated with decreased risk for breast cancer [adjusted ORs were 0.81 (95% CI: 0.54-1.21) and 0.57 (95% CI: 0.36-0.89) for 677CT + TT genotypes and 1298AC + CC genotypes, respectively]. Furthermore, compound heterozygote and homozygote variants (677CT + TT and 1298AC + CC) had greater reduced risk (adjusted OR: 0.11, 95% CI: 0.03-0.43) among women with lower plasma folate levels. These results provide support for the important role of folate metabolism in breast tumorigenesis. Further mechanistic studies are warranted to investigate how MTHFR combined genotypes exert their effect on cancer susceptibility.
Autosomal recessive proximal renal tubular acidosis is caused by mutations in the SLC4A4 gene encoding the electrogenic sodium bicarbonate cotransporter NBCe1-A. The mutations that have been characterized thus far result in premature truncation, mistargeting, or decreased function of the cotransporter. Despite bicarbonate treatment to correct the metabolic acidosis, extrarenal manifestations persist, including glaucoma, cataracts, corneal opacification, and mental retardation. Currently, there are no known therapeutic approaches that can specifically target mutant NBCe1-A proteins. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the NBCe1-A-Q29X mutation can be rescued in vitro by treatment with aminoglycoside antibiotics, which are known for their ability to suppress premature stop codons. As a model system, we cloned the NBCe1-A-Q29X mutant into a vector lacking an aminoglycoside resistance gene and transfected the mutant cotransporter in HEK293-H cells. Cells transfected with the NBCe1-A-Q29X mutant failed to express the cotransporter because of the premature stop codon. Treatment of the cells with G418 significantly increased the expression of the full-length cotransporter, as assessed by immunoblot analysis. Furthermore, immunocytochemical studies demonstrated that G418 treatment induced cotransporter expression on the plasma membrane whereas in the absence of G418, NBCe1-A-Q29X was not expressed. In HEK293-H cells transfected with the NBCe1-A-Q29X mutant not treated with G418, NBCe1-A-mediated flux was not detectable. In contrast, in cells transfected with the NBCe1-A-Q29X mutant, G418 treatment induced Na(+)- and HCO(3)(-)-dependent transport that did not differ from wild-type NBCe1-A function. G418 treatment in mock-transfected cells was without effect. In conclusion, G418 induces ribosomal read-through of the NBCe1-A-Q29X mutation in HEK293-H cells. These findings represent the first evidence that in the presence of the NBCe1-A-Q29X mutation that causes proximal renal tubular acidosis, full-length functional NBCe1-A protein can be produced. Our results provide the first demonstration of a mutation in NBCe1-A that has been treated in a targeted and specific manner.
We have investigated the effect of misonidazole (MISO) on the pharmacokinetics of 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (CCNU) in mice. CCNU and its monohydroxylated metabolites were measured using a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method. In the absence of MISO the plasma disappearance of CCNU was biphasic with a t 1/2 alpha of 2.3 min and a t 1/2 beta of 53 min. The monohydroxylated metabolites of CCNU also followed biphasic clearance kinetics. A large single dose of MISO (0.5 mg g-1), given i.p. 30 min prior to CCNU, prolonged the t 1/2 alpha by a factor of 2.6 but had no effect on t 1/2 beta. In addition, the apparent volume of distribution was decreased by a factor of 1.6. Consequently, the plasma area under the curve (AUC0 - infinity) was increased by a factor of 1.7 for CCNU and by a factor of 2.0 for total nitrosourea (CCNU + monohydroxylated metabolites). The effects of MISO on CCNU kinetics were dependent on MISO dose and plasma concentration and on the interval between MISO and CCNU administration. The concentration of CCNU was measured in 4 tumours: the KHT, RIF-1 and EMT6 mouse tumours, and the HT29 xenograft. For all 4 tumours, 0.5 mg g-1 MISO raised the tumour concentrations of CCNU and total nitrosourea by a considerable amount (2-2.5 times). More detailed studies in the KHT tumour demonstrated that there was a significant lag period before peak tumour CCNU concentrations were reached, and that MISO increased the peak concentrations by a factor of about 2.4. In contrast, there was no such lag period for the plasma and MISO did not increase the plasma peak CCNU concentrations. These data strongly suggest that modification of the pharmacokinetics may be a major contributory factor in the enhancement of CCNU cytotoxicity by large single doses of MISO in vivo.
Myoclonus can occur in association with lithium therapy at toxic and therapeutic dosages, and can be a predominant and disabling adverse effect. Moreover, myoclonus has been reported when lithium has been combined with cyclic antidepressants and with the neuroleptic clozapine. Although clinical case reports exist, no electrophysiologic data are available that provide a source or a neurophysiological mechanism for the myoclonus seen in lithium therapy.
To describe the electrophysiologic characteristics and source of the myoclonus associated with lithium therapy.
We retrospectively analyzed 5 cases of myoclonus during lithium therapy. We reviewed the clinical features and results of previous electrophysiologic testing. Four patients received lithium monotherapy; and 1, sertraline hydrochloride and nefazodone hydrochloride in addition to lithium. The electrophysiologic data that had been gathered included multichannel surface electromyographic (EMG) recordings with simultaneous electroencephalography (EEG), somatosensory evoked potentials, and elicitation of long-latency EMG reflexes to median and digital nerve stimulation.
All 5 patients showed multifocal action myoclonus without reflex activation and only rare occurrence at rest. In each case, back-averaging created a focal EEG transient over the contralateral sensorimotor area preceding the myoclonus EMG discharge. In 2 of the patients receiving lithium monotherapy, the therapy was discontinued and the myoclonus disappeared.
Lithium, by itself, can be associated with prominent clinical myoclonus, short-duration (<50-millisecond) myoclonus EMG discharges and cortical action myoclonus without the presence of epileptiform abnormalities on the routine EEG. This myoclonus is different from the most common form that is well documented to occur with tricyclic antidepressant therapy by clinical and electrophysiologic means.
MIF-1, a synthetic tripeptide with MSH-release inhibitory properties, has been reported to improve symptoms of Parkinson's disease, attenuate levodopa-related dyskinesias and diminish the dyskinetic movements of Tardive dyskinesia. More recently, MIF-1 has been reported partially to protect against the nigro-striatal dopamine depleting effects of MPTP in mice, raising the possibility that it may exert protective effects against the development of Parkinson's disease. There is evidence to suggest that MIF-1 increases nigro-striatal dopaminergic activity, but its ability to improve symptoms in patients with Parkinson's disease, levodopa-related dyskinesias and Tardive dyskinesia cannot be explained solely on the basis of the drug's effect on striatal dopaminergic neurons. MIF-1 has been reported to potentiate the melanocyte-lightening effect of melatonin in rats and its effects in patients with Parkinson's disease and Tardive dyskinesia are associated with marked mood elevation. It is, therefore, possible that the effects of MIF-1 in movement disorders are associated with increased melatonin secretion. Thus, hypothalamic MIF may modulate nigro-striatal dopaminergic functions in part via pineal melatonin. Such an interaction represents a novel mechanism by which hypothalamic peptides act to modulate the expression of movement disorders.
Patients with acute myocardial ischaemic pain would benefit from rapid pain relief. The clinical usefulness of alfentanil, which has a rapid onset of action, was therefore assessed as the initial pain relieving opioid in patients suffering from acute myocardial ischaemic pain. The effects of alfentanil were compared with those of morphine in the prehospital treatment of 40 haemodynamically stable patients suffering from acute ischaemic-type chest pain. After initial assessment, the patients were given either 0.5 mg alfentanil or 5 mg morphine intravenously in a randomized double-blind fashion. The dose was repeated 2 minutes later if severe pain persisted. Arterial pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and pain expressed on a visual analogue scale was measured before and at 2, 4, 6, 10 and 15 minutes after administration of drugs. After randomization, four patients were excluded. Sixteen patients received alfentanil and 20 patients morphine. Pain relief was faster (p < 0.005) in the alfentanil group than in the morphine group. Alfentanil was found to provide effective analgesia during the follow-up period of 15 minutes. No haemodynamic or respiratory side effects occurred. It is concluded that alfentanil is an effective analgesic in the prehospital treatment of myocardial ischaemic pain.
The prevention of doxorubicin (DXR)-induced cardiotoxicity may be helpful to improve future DXR therapy. The aim of this study was to investigate the cardio-protective effects of caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), an antioxidant agent, on DXR-induced cardiotoxicity. Rats were divided into three groups and treated with saline, DXR and DXR + CAPE. Rats were treated with CAPE (10 micromol x kg(-1) day(-1) i.p.) or saline starting 2 days before a single dose of DXR (20 mg x kg(-1) i.p.). Ten days later, haemodynamic measurements were performed and the hearts were excised for biochemical analyses and microscopic examination. The heart rate and mean blood pressure were higher and the pulse pressure was lower in the DXR group than in the other two groups. The administration of DXR alone resulted in higher myeloperoxidase activity, lipid peroxidation and protein carbonyl content than in the other groups. The activities of superoxide dismutase and catalase were higher in DXR and DXR + CAPE groups than in the saline group. Rats in the DXR + CAPE group had increased catalase activity in comparison with the DXR group and high glutathione peroxidase activity in comparison with the other two groups. There was severe disruption of mitochondrial fi ne structure in the electron microscopy of the DXR group. In contrast, myocardial microscopy appeared nearly normal in the DXR + CAPE group (as de fi ned at the electron microscopic level). In light of these in vivo haemodynamic, enzymatic and morphological results, we conclude that CAPE pretreatment significantly attenuated DXR-induced cardiac injury, possibly with its antioxidant effects.
Using a mouse brain cDNA microarray consisting of 2688 gene sequences, which include unknown sequences with the empirical possibility of expression in the brain, the effects of repeated toxic doses of intraperitoneal (i.p.) cocaine (40 mg x kg(-1), 4 days) on the expression pro fi le of the cerebral genes were investigated. The modifications in this pro file caused by buprenorphine (BUP) (0.25 mg x kg(-1) i.p., 4 days), a protective drug against cocaine, were also examined. In the cocaine group, the expression levels reached the recommended increased levels (>or=2 times the control value in the saline-treated control group) in 24.0% of the genes but were equal to or less than the recommended attenuation levels (<or=0.5 times the control value) in 14.0% of the genes. In the cocaine-BUP group, the expression levels of the other 15.4% of the total genes were increased and those of the other 18.2% of the total genes were attenuated. However, corresponding to the BUP-attenuated mortality rate and severity of seizures, the expression levels of 80.1% of the cocaine-modified genes with above-background levels recovered to the recommended normal levels (>0.5 and <2 times the control value). Although statistically significant modifications in the expression of cocaine- or BUP-related brain-region-specific genes were not proved using whole cerebrums, including many unknown genes, our results suggest that the expression of genes related to neuronal cell damage, including non-peculiar genes related to the damage accompanying convulsive seizures and malignant tumors, were normalized and the genes related to the protection of neural cells were induced by BUP.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) are thought to be important in breast cancer promotion and progression. We evaluated genetic variation in BMP-related genes and breast cancer risk among Hispanic (2,111 cases, 2,597 controls) and non-Hispanic White (NHW) (1,481 cases, 1,586 controls) women who participated in the 4-Corner's Breast Cancer Study, the Mexico Breast Cancer Study and the San Francisco Bay Area Breast Cancer Study. BMP genes and their receptors evaluated include ACVR1, AVCR2A, ACVR2B, ACVRL1, BMP1, BMP2, BMP4, BMP6, BMP7, BMPR1A, BMPR1B, BMPR2, MSTN and GDF10. Additionally, 104 ancestral informative markers were assessed to discriminate between European and native American ancestry. The importance of estrogen on BMP-related associations was suggested through unique associations by menopausal status and estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PR) receptor status of tumors. After adjustment for multiple comparisons ACVR1 (8 SNPs) was modestly associated with ER+PR+ tumors [odds ratios (ORs) between 1.18 and 1.39 padj < 0.05]. ACVR1 (3 SNPs) and BMP4 (3 SNPs) were associated with ER+PR- tumors (ORs 0.59-2.07; padj < 0.05). BMPR2 was associated with ER-PR+ tumors (OR 4.20; 95% CI 1.62, 10.91; padj < 0.05) as was GDF10 (2 SNPs; ORs 3.62 and 3.85; padj < 0.05). After adjustment for multiple comparisons several SNPs remained associated with ER-PR- tumors (padj < 0.05) including ACVR1 BMP4 and GDF10 (ORs between 0.53 and 2.12). Differences in association also were observed by percentage of native ancestry and menopausal status. Results support the hypothesis that genetic variation in BMPs is associated with breast cancer in this admixed population.
