Renal ischemia followed by reperfusion leads to acute renal failure in both native kidneys and renal allografts. Cyclosporine has known nephrotoxic effects. Thus, cyclosporine therapy subsequent to ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury may further exacerbate graft dysfunction. Rapamycin is a newer agent that suppresses the immune system by a different mechanism. In the present study, the effects of Cyclosporine and rapamycin at low and higher concentrations were investigated in an I/R-induced injury model.
Cyclosporine (100 mg/kg or 50 mg/kg), rapamycin (3 mg/kg per day or 1.5 mg/kg), or both were administered to mice before being subjected to 45 minutes of ischemia. Blood and kidney samples were collected at 24, 48, and 120 hours after surgery. We quantified acute tubular necrosis and tubular regeneration.
Animals subjected to I/R showed impaired renal function that peaked at 24 hours (2.05 +/- 0.23 mg/dL), decreasing thereafter. Treatment with higher concentrations of cyclosporine or rapamycin caused even more renal dysfunction at 48 hours, which was sustained up to 120 hours after reperfusion (1.53 +/- 0.6 mg/dL), when compared to the low concentrations of cyclosporine or rapamycin (1.08 +/- 0.19 mg/dL; 0.99 +/- 0.14 mg/dL, P < .05, respectively). Cyclosporine delayed tubular regeneration, which was higher in controls at day 5 (67.0% vs 37.6%, P < .05).
These results demonstrated that cyclosporine or rapamycin might further aggravate ischemically injured organs, negatively affecting posttransplantation recovery in a concentration-dependent fashion.
Midazolam has GABAergic effects in children that may modify propofol-induced involuntary movements, yet delay recovery. In a double-blind, randomized study, 24 children (2-7 yr of age, ASA physical status I or II) undergoing short surgical procedures received midazolam 0.5 mg/kg (Group M) or placebo (Group P) per os 20-30 min before propofol anesthesia (5 mg/kg intravenously followed by an infusion). Blind observers scored sedation and anxiety levels (scale 1-4) before premedication, at separation from parents, and at induction of anesthesia. Induction and emergence were videotaped, and body movements were recorded. During recovery, times to eye opening and maximum Steward (SS = 6) and Vancouver Sedative Recovery (VSRS = 22) scores were noted. Parents were questioned about side effects that may have occurred during the following week. Both groups were similar in age, sex, weight, timing of premedication, propofol dose, and duration of surgery. The incidence of involuntary movements did not differ between groups but was higher at induction (79%) than on emergence (25%) (P < 0.05). Anxiety and sedation scores were similar in Group P and Group M, but recovery took longer after midazolam, with eye opening (mean +/- SD) 24 +/- 7 vs 43 +/- 18 min, maximum SS (median and range) 27 (13-37) vs 55 (24-138) min, and maximum VSRS 51 (30-100) vs 80 (50-130) min. Children returned to normal activity in 1 (0-5) day, and none exhibited neurological complications. We conclude that an oral premedicant dose of midazolam prolongs recovery from anesthesia in children without affecting dystonic movements after propofol.
Recent antihypertensive treatment guidelines recommend greater use of combination therapies.
The primary objective of this study was to determine whether combination therapy with valsartan 160 mg plus hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 25 mg OD would be more effective than monotherapy with amlodipine 10 mg OD in reducing systolic blood pressure (SBP) in patients with moderate (stage II) hypertension and > or =1 other cardiovascular risk factor or concomitant condition. A secondary objective was to assess the effects of the study treatments on circulating markers of endothelial dysfunction and vascular inflammation.
This was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, 24-week study. After a 2-week, single-blind, placebo run-in period, patients were randomized to 3 groups, 2 of them receiving valsartan 160 mg OD and 1 receiving amlodipine 5 mg OD. At week 4, HCTZ 12.5 mg OD was added to valsartan in one of the treatment groups (V+HCTZ12.5), HCTZ 25 mg OD was added to the other (V+HCTZ25), and the amlodipine dose was force-titrated to 10 mg OD (A10). The primary efficacy variable was change in mean sitting SBP at week 24. Other variables were changes in mean sitting diastolic blood pressure (DBP) and mean pulse pressure (PP) from baseline, and response rate (systolic response defined as mean sitting SBP <140 mm Hg or a reduction in mean sitting SBP of > or =20 mm Hg from baseline; diastolic response defined as mean sitting DBP <90 mm Hg or a reduction in mean sitting DBP of > or =10 mm Hg from baseline). Changes in the following markers of endothelial dysfunction were determined at baseline and weeks 4, 12, and 24 in all randomized patients from the participating European and South African centers: high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), vascular tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) antigen, and oxidized low-density lipoprotein (LDL).
The study enrolled 1088 patients with moderate hypertension (mean age, 61 years; 82% white; 53% women). The intent-to-treat population consisted of 1079 patients: 357 in the V+HCTZ12.5 group, 363 in the V+HCTZ25 group, and 359 in the A10 group. At baseline, the groups were comparable in terms of blood pressure and most other characteristics; the only statistically significant difference between groups was in the proportion of patients aged > or =65 years, which was lower in the amlodipine group (P = 0.01). At the end of the study, the least squares mean (SD) changes from baseline in mean sitting SBP were 27.1 (13.7), 29.7 (13.7), and 27.6 (13.8) mm Hg in the V+HCTZ12.5, V+HCTZ25, and A10 groups, respectively, with corresponding percent changes of 16%, 18%, and 17% (P < 0.05, V+HCTZ25 vs A10). The changes in mean sitting DBP did not differ significantly between groups. The reductions in PP were 17.5 (11.3), 18.7 (11.3), and 16.9 (11.3) mm Hg, with percent changes of 24%, 26%, and 23% (P < 0.05, V+HCTZ25 vs A10). Significant reductions in t-PA antigen were observed in both combination-therapy groups compared with the amlodipine monotherapy group at week 12 (P < 0.05); the reductions remained significant through the end of the study in the V+HCTZ12.5 group. There was a significant reduction in IL-6 and hs-CRP at week 12 with V+HCTZ25 compared with A10 (P < 0.05). Oxidized LDL values were reduced by approximately 10% with all treatments. Rates of total adverse events were significantly lower with the valsartan-based treatments compared with amlodipine monotherapy (49.7%, 49.6%, and 67.5% with V+HCTZ12.5, V+HCTZ25, and A10, respectively; P < 0.05). Rates of total discontinuations were a respective 10.1%, 9.0%, and 24.5%, and discontinuation rates due to AEs were 4.2%, 3.5%, and 18.2%. Leg edema was more common with amlodipine monotherapy than with the valsartan-based combinations (P < 0.05).
In this group of patients with moderate hypertension and > or =1 other cardiovascular risk factor or concomitant condition, similar and greater antihypertensive effects were seen with the fixed-dose combinations of valsartan 160 mg and HCTZ 12.5 and 25 mg OD, respectively, compared with amlodipine 10 mg OD, with significantly lower rates of treatment-related adverse events and possible beneficial effects on vascular markers.
To compare the risk of extrapyramidal syndromes (EPS) between patients using risperidone and those using low-potency conventional antipsychotic drugs (APDs) in outpatient clinical practice, as measured by the use of anticholinergic medication. We tried to replicate results from previous clinical trials that compared risperidone with high-potency APDs.
Data was obtained from the PHARMO database containing filled prescriptions of 450,000 community-dwelling people in The Netherlands from 1986 to 1998. From the patients aged 15-54 years who had been newly treated with APDs, we defined mutually exclusive cohorts according to the APD first prescribed to a patient. APD exposure was followed until the first prescription of anticholinergic medication and was censored when APD prescribing was interrupted or switched. We estimated relative risks between risperidone and commonly used low-potency and high-potency APDs using Cox proportional hazards models, adjusting for age, gender, dose and other potential confounders.
In 4094 patients who had been newly prescribed antipsychotic drugs, the overall incidence rate of anticholinergic drug therapy was 556 per 1000 person-years, which was dose dependent. Prescribed doses of all antipsychotics were low. While, in accordance with previous trials, risperidone showed a lower risk of EPS than the high potency APDs such as haloperidol (RR 0.26; 95% CI 0.10-0.64), we did not observe a lower EPS rate than low-potency APDs (risperidone vs thioridazine RR 1.73, 95% CI 0.49-6.13; risperidone vs pipamperone RR 2.50, 95% CI 0.78-8.04).
The reduced EPS rates observed when comparing risperidone with high-potency antipsychotics such as haloperidol may not apply to comparisons with low-potency drugs.
This report describes a 57-year-old female patient with chronic lumbago, who died from the sequelae of acute liver failure induced by nimesulide medication. Nimesulide is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) which preferentially inhibits cyclo-oxygenase 2 and has been associated with a total of 13 reported cases of severe liver injury including our case. On the basis of the literature reports, the following features of nimesulide-associated hepatotoxicity were identified: female sex (84% of cases), age (mean age 62 years), jaundice as a primary manifestation (90%) and the absence of peripheral blood eosinophilia. The average duration of therapy of the published cases was 62 days (range 7-180 days). Based on spontaneous reports to the World Health Organization, nimesulide induces a high proportion of severe adverse hepatic reactions compared with other NSAIDs registered in Switzerland. Hepatotoxicity thus represents an important risk factor of nimesulide usage.
Pain on injection is still a major problem with propofol used for general anesthesia. A number of techniques for reducing propofol-induced pain on injection have been tried, with variable results. Flurbiprofen axetil, a prodrug of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug flurbiprofen, has been used for postoperative pain management but has not been studied for managing pain on injection of propofol when preceded with venous occlusion.
The present study was undertaken to examine the efficacy of flurbiprofen axetil for reducing pain on propofol injection in Japanese adult surgical patients.
This prospective, randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, dose-finding study was conducted at the Department of Anesthesiology, University of Tsukuba Institute of Clinical Medicine, Tsukuba, Japan. Japanese patients aged 18 to 65 years scheduled to undergo elective surgery were eligible. Patients were randomized to receive flurbiprofen axetil IV at 1 of 3 doses (25, 50, or 75 mg), or vehicle (control group), preceded by manual venous occlusion with a rubber tourniquet for 2 minutes and followed by administration of 25% of the total calculated dose of propofol (2 mg/kg), injected into the largest vein of the hand through a 20-gauge IV cannula. During propofol injection, a researcher who was blinded to treatment assignment asked each patient about his or her pain at the injection site. Responses were scored on a 4-point scale (0 = none, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, 3 = severe). Median pain intensity scores in each group were determined. Adverse effects (AEs) at the injection site (pain, edema, wheal, or inflammation) were monitored for up to 24 hours after surgery.
A total of 120 patients (62 men, 58 women; mean [SD] age, 41 [12] years, mean [SD] height, 162 [8] cm; mean [SD] body weight, 58 [10] kg) were enrolled. Each treatment group comprised 30 patients. No significant between-group differences in demographic characteristics were found. A significantly higher proportion of patients in the control group (77%) experienced pain compared with the flurbiprofen axetil 50- and 75-mg groups (47% and 43%, respectively; both, P < 0.01). The median pain intensity scores were significantly lower in the flurbiprofen axetil 50- and 75-mg groups (both, 0 [no pain]) compared with controls (2 [moderate]; both, P < 0.01). The incidence and intensity of propofol-induced pain were statistically similar between the flurbiprofen axetil 25-mg and control groups. The incidence and intensity of pain associated with the injection of propofol were significantly lower in the flurbiprofen axetil 50- and 75-mg groups compared with the 25-mg group (incidence, 70% [both, P < 0.05]; median pain intensity score, 1 [mild] [both, P < 0.01]). No AEs were observed.
In this study of Japanese adult surgical patients, flurbiprofen axetil at doses of 50 and 75 mg, preceded by venous occlusion for 2 minutes, was found to be effective in reducing propofol-induced pain on injection.
Arsenic injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) during early organogenesis to small pregnant laboratory rodents (mouse, rat, and hamster) induces several congenital defects in the progeny. Among those abnormalities consistently and predominantly observed are exencephaly and encephalocele. These severe defects of the central nervous system originate from a corrupted process of neurulation and are better known as neural tube defects (NTDs). In order to understand the mechanism of arsenate-induced NTDs, we designed studies in which highly sensitive Folr2 nullizygous mice were injected intraperitoneally with sodium arsenate at the beginning of the neural tube formation process. This specific knockout mouse and the arsenic exposure conditions were chosen as they were known to provide a high incidence of exencephaly in exposed embryos. We have applied gene expression technology to the anterior neural tube. This allowed us to study arsenic-induced changes in patterns of gene expression that may contribute to the development of neural tube defects in these mice. Using extensive data analysis approaches including hierarchical clustering and gene ontology analysis, we identified several candidate genes as well as important ontology groups that may be responsible for arsenic's teratogenicity. Changes in the expression of several genes in response to arsenic treatment in our model had previously been demonstrated by other investigators to also induce NTDs in murine model systems. These include: engrailed 1 (En-1), platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha (Pdgfralpha) and ephrinA7 (EphA7). We also found several gene ontology groups that could be implicated in arsenic's underlying teratogenicity: morphogenesis, oxidative phosporylation, redox response, and regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB cascade. Additionally, we revealed new target genes which may be responsible for arsenic disrupted oxidative phosphorylation.
This study aims to investigate excessive tearfulness as a sign to help determine the etiology of depressive symptoms.
Clinicians were instructed to document the occurrence of excessive tearfulness in all patients seen in the Psychiatric Emergency Service. Excessive tearfulness was defined as crying to the severity that at least 1 tear drops off the face. A comparison group was formed from the general population of the Psychiatric Emergency Service.
Excessive tearfulness was documented in 36 different patients. The prevalence of the sign in the general population was 1.9%. Patients with excessive tearfulness were more likely to have cocaine in their urine (P < .0001, chi(2) test), receive a substance-related primary diagnosis (P < .0001, chi(2) test), and be admitted for psychiatric hospitalization (P < .001 chi(2) test). Patients with excessive tearfulness had significantly shorter voluntary hospital stays (P < .05, t test).
Excessive tearfulness could be a useful clinical sign of cocaine-induced depression.
We examined the effect of a selenium-deficient diet on two experimental models of glomerular disease, the puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrotic syndrome, a model of minimal change disease, and passive Heymann nephritis, a complement-dependent and neutrophil-independent model that resembles membranous nephropathy. The specific activity of selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase was markedly reduced in the liver, the kidney cortex, and in glomeruli in weanling male Sprague-Dawley rats placed on a selenium-deficient diet for 6 wk compared with rats fed a selenium-replete diet, with no significant differences in the specific activities of superoxide dismutase or catalase. PAN-injected selenium-deficient rats had a marked and significantly greater proteinuria throughout the course of the experiment compared with PAN-injected selenium-replete rats with no significant histological differences. In the passive Heymann nephritis model induced by injecting anti-Fx1A immunoglobulin G, rats fed a selenium-deficient diet had significantly higher urinary protein (day 5: 91 +/- 16 mg/24 h, n = 10) compared with rats fed a selenium-replete diet (52 +/- 5 mg/24 h, n = 11) with no differences in the amount of antibody deposited in the kidney. The most likely explanation for the effect of a selenium-deficient diet is that selenium deficiency resulted in a marked reduction of glutathione peroxidase, thus indicating an important role of glutathione peroxidase in these models of glomerular injury.
We describe a bullous-hemorrhagic reaction of the ear lobes in a child with nephrosis after levamisole intake. This drug is used in children as an alternative treatment of corticosteroid-responsive nephrotic syndrome. Histologic evaluation of a lesion revealed necrotizing vasculitis involving mainly the large vessels of the deep plexus. The lesions disappeared 25 days after discontinuation of treatment.
To determine the frequency of rebound anginal symptoms on abrupt withdrawal of calcium channel blocking agents, anginal symptoms were retrospectively examined in patients with Prinzmetal's variant angina abruptly withdrawn from diltiazem therapy as part of the design of a placebo-controlled multiple crossover trial. Rebound was defined as a return of anginal symptoms to levels exceeding those of the pretreatment baseline state. Values for daily frequency of angina were compared (after subtracting corresponding baseline values) between placebo periods following diltiazem periods and placebo periods following placebo periods. No intergroup differences existed between mean changes in daily frequency of angina from baseline value (-0.61 for placebo following diltiazem versus -1.10 for placebo following placebo) (p greater than 0.4). Furthermore, in 13 (28%) of 46 occurrences when placebo followed placebo, daily frequency of angina exceeded baseline value in the immediate 3 day period following placebo compared with 17 (21%) of 80 occurrences when placebo followed diltiazem. There was no increased rebound occurrence comparing high dose (240 mg/day) with low dose (120 mg/day) diltiazem therapy. No significant symptoms such as myocardial infarction or unstable angina occurred after withdrawal of diltiazem or placebo. The lack of difference in rebound after diltiazem or placebo withdrawal was consistent using paired and unpaired analyses. In conclusion, there appears to be no evidence that abrupt withdrawal of therapy with diltiazem results in rebound anginal symptoms.
We describe a 33-yr-old pregnant woman in whom a primary biliary cirrhosis-like syndrome developed after 2 wk of chlorpromazine therapy. The clinical course was characterized by severe jaundice lasting 22 mo, intense pruritus, fever, steatorrhea, high alkaline phosphatase levels and hypercholesterolemia. Jaundice resolved with initiation of ursodeoxycholic acid therapy, but subclinical cholestasis and low-level inflammatory activity persisted and ultimately evolved into biliary cirrhosis. The pathological substrate of this severe and prolonged cholestatic reaction was found to be the vanishing bile duct syndrome with a marked transient pseudoxanthomatosis.
Lofexidine is an analogue of clonidine, an agonist at the alpha 2 noradrenergic receptor. Reports from preliminary open studies have suggested that it may be at least as effective as clonidine in the management of opiate withdrawal, and without the same limitation of postural hypotension. We report on a randomised double-blind comparison of lofexidine versus clonidine in the treatment of heroin withdrawal. A total of 80 hospitalized heroin addicts were randomly assigned to treatment with lofexidine or clonidine during in-patient opiate withdrawal. Maximum daily doses were 1.6 mg for lofexidine and 0.6 mg for clonidine. There was marked diurnal variation of withdrawal symptoms with severity being greatest at the daytime reading at 16.00 h and being markedly less at the night-time reading (recorded at 08.00 h). Lofexidine and clonidine were equally effective in treating the withdrawal syndrome. However, significantly more problems relating to hypotension were encountered with subjects on clonidine, with twice as many instances of withholding medication due to hypotension in the clonidine group. Better treatment retention rates were seen in the lofexidine group, although no difference was found in the proportion who had reached minimal symptom severity by the time of their discharge. We conclude that lofexidine and clonidine are equally effective, but with significantly fewer hypotensive problems with lofexidine. Further benefit from lofexidine may be possible with revised dosing regimens. Outpatient studies of lofexidine are now indicated.
Experiments were carried out in conscious dexamethasone-treated cynomolgus monkeys in an attempt to determine if losartan (DuP753) inhibited endogenous as well as exogenous angiotensin II stimulation of angiotensin receptors in vivo. Arterial blood pressure and heart rate were monitored via a radiotelemetry system and blood samples were obtained via vascular access ports for determination of plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone (PA). Intravenous infusions of angiotensin II elicited reproducible pressor responses and increases in PA. The elevations of blood pressure and PA were completely blocked by losartan (10 mg/kg i.v.). Studies with normal monkeys showed that losartan (10 mg/kg i.v.) elicited a modest hypotension and hyper-reninemia without significantly altering PA. In contrast, studies with sodium-depleted monkeys showed that losartan (1 and 10 mg/kg i.v.) elicited hypotension, a decrease in PA and hyper-reninemia in a dose-related manner. Losartan did not significantly alter heart rate in either the normal or the sodium-depleted monkeys. These results were consistent with the conclusion that losartan was an inhibitor of endogenous as well as exogenous angiotensin II stimulation of vascular smooth muscle and adrenal cortical receptors.
Epidemiological and clinical data implicate that in patients with cancer, continued smoking causes progression of cancer growth and resistance to therapy. The carcinogens possess the ability to block apoptosis, an important mechanism in the development of tumors and resistance to chemotherapy. We previously showed that nicotine enhances growth and proliferation in lung cancer. However, the effects of nicotine, a tobacco carcinogen that inhibits apoptosis, have not been studied before in nasal epithelial carcinoma (NC). In this study, we sought to determine the effects of nicotine on chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in human NC.
Primary human NC cells were grown per protocol, treated with combination chemotherapy, and the apoptosis was assessed by TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labeling) and DNA fragmentation assays. The regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and protein kinase B (AKT) signal transduction pathway was examined by real time quantitative polymerized chain reaction, and immunofluorescent staining assays.
Combination chemotherapy with cisplatin (35 microM) plus etoposide (20 microM) caused a significant increase in NC apoptosis compared with single agent alone, and nicotine, in part, inhibited chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in NC. Furthermore, nicotine induced activation of AKT and MAPK pathways, while inhibition of MAPK using U0126 and AKT by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor, LY294002, in part, blocked the antiapoptotic effects of nicotine against cisplatin and etoposide-induced apoptosis in NC.
Nicotine inhibits chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in NC via the AKT and MAPK-mediated signaling pathways. We speculate that nicotine may play a role in oncogenesis and resistance to cancer therapy in NC.
Up to 60 million people working indoors experience symptoms such as eye, nose and throat irritation, headache, and fatigue. Investigations into these complaints have ascribed the effects to volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted from building materials, cleaning formulations, or other consumer products. New compounds can result when the VOCs react with hydroxyl or nitrate radicals or ozone present in indoor environments. Several oxygenated organic compounds, such as glyoxal, methylglyoxal, glycolaldehyde, and diacetyl, have been identified as possible reaction products of indoor environment chemistry. Although research has previously identified diacetyl and glyoxal as sensitizers, additional experiments were conducted in these studies to further classify their sensitization potential. Sensitization potential of these four compounds was assessed using quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) programs. Derek for Windows and National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health logistic regression predicted all compounds to be sensitizers, while TOPKAT 6.2 predicted all compounds except for methylglyoxal. All compounds were tested in a combined irritancy and local lymph node assay (LLNA). All compounds except for glyoxal were found to be irritants and all tested positive in the LLNA with EC3 values ranging from 0.42 to 1.9%. Methylglyoxal significantly increased both the B220(+) and IgE(+)B220(+) cell populations in the draining lymph nodes and total serum IgE levels. The four compounds generated by indoor air chemistry were predicted by QSAR and animal modeling to be sensitizers, with the potential for methylglyoxal to induce IgE. The identification of these compounds as sensitizers may help to explain some of the health effects associated with indoor air complaints.
A 69 year old man complained of general myalgia, arthralgia and muscle weakness in two weeks after he started to take 10 mg per day pravastatin. Symptoms progressed at least for 3 months after withdrawal of the medication. The muscle weakness was more in distal upper extremities and the iliopsoas muscle. Serum CK was 943IU/L. The anti-nuclear and Jo-1 antibody were positive. EMG examinations disclosed fibrillation potentials at rest and myopathic discharges by a voluntary contractor. Symptoms as well as serum CK values improved promptly by treatment with prednisolone. From these clinical and laboratory results, it was speculated that this patient suffered from subacute polymyositis, although pathological studies were not performed. Because of continuing hypercholesterolemia, the patient was retreated with atorvastatin, presenting similar, but less serious symptoms. So far, three cases of statin-associated polymyositis or dermatomyositis were reported. Statins could influence the immune system, but it is still unsettled if statins cause autoimmune polymyositis. This problem warrants further study.
The aim of this phase II trial was to investigate the efficacy of bortezomib plus dexamethasone (Vel-Dex) as induction therapy in patients with multiple myeloma (MM) and to define the role of intensification before transplantation. Fifty-seven patients were treated with four courses of Vel-Dex, two cycles of dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide, etoposide and cisplatin (DCEP), and a single autologous transplant. Fourteen patients (25%) went off-study: seven after Vel-Dex, seven after DCEP. All patients yielded high numbers of stem cells (median CD34+ cells 7.5 x 106/kg); 54 of the 57 patients (94%) collected > or =4 x 106/kg CD34+ cells, 60% with a single leukapheresis. The overall response rate (ORR) after Vel-Dex was 86% (70% had a very good partial response [VGPR] or better) regardless of cytogenetic abnormalities and International Staging System stage (ISS). The response at the end of the two DCEP cycles remained unchanged in 35 patients (70%), worsened in 15 (20%), and improved in 5 (10%). Because of the consistent drop-out, the ORR in intention-to-treat analysis decreased significantly from 86% after Vel-Dex to 76% after DCEP, and 73% after transplantation. However, when considering the subset of 43 patients who completed the program, the ORR was 96% (complete response 39%, VGPR 41%, partial response 16%). In conclusion, Vel-Dex produces high response rates, improves stem cell collection, and overcomes the need for intensification before autologous transplantation.
The objective of this study was to determine the effect of intravesically applied, recombinant, galactoside specific mistletoe lectin (rML) on chemically induced tumor development in the urinary bladder of rats.
For tumor induction, rats were treated with four biweekly 1.5 mg doses of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (NMU) intravesically (Weeks 0, 2, 4, and 6). The control group (n = 39 + 17 rats) received no other treatment. The four therapy groups also received rML twice weekly according to one of the following instillation regimens: 1) 30 ng rML per instillation from Week 8 to Week 13 (Group a: n = 14 rats), 2) 150 ng rML per instillation from Week 8 to Week 13 (Group b: n = 23 + 15 rats), 3) 30 ng rML per instillation from Week 14 to Week 19 (Group c: n = 22 rats), and 4) 150 ng rML per instillation from Week 14 to Week 19 (Group d: n = 19 rats). After the rats were asphyxiated at Week 21, the urinary bladders were excised in toto and examined histopathologically. To study the immunomodulatory effects of intravesically applied rML, 17 animals from the control group and 15 animals from Group b were asphyxiated at Week 13, and urinary bladder tissue was analyzed by semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis for mRNA expression of interferon-gamma, interleukin-10, and Fas ligand.
By Week 21, atypical hyperplasia and neoplastic transformation were found in 82% of the animals in the control group. In contrast, in all four cohorts that were treated with rML, significantly lower rates of atypical hyperplasia and neoplastic transformation were found (Group a, 50%; Group b, 52%; Group c, 45%; and Group d, 42%). By Week 13, in the bladder tissue of 15 rML-treated animals from Group b, lower expression of interleukin-10 mRNA was measured, whereas the expression levels of interferon-gamma mRNA and Fas ligand mRNA were comparable to those of 17 animals from the control group.
The current data provide evidence for an inhibitory effect of rML on experimental urothelial carcinogenesis that does not seem to be due to interferon-gamma and/or interleukin-10 dependent mechanisms.
Cerebral microbleeds are hemosiderin deposits in the brain that are indicative of microangiopathy. Microbleeds in strictly lobar brain locations have been related to cerebral amyloid angiopathy, a bleeding-prone disease state.
To investigate the relation between antithrombotic drug use and the presence of cerebral microbleeds, especially those in strictly lobar locations.
A population-based, cross-sectional analysis that used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to assess the presence and location of microbleeds. Complete information on outpatient use of platelet aggregation inhibitors and anticoagulant drugs before MRI was obtained from automated pharmacy records.
The Rotterdam Scan Study, a population-based imaging study in a general elderly community in the Netherlands.
A population-based sample of 1062 persons from a longitudinal cohort, 60 years and older, free of dementia, who underwent MRI examinations between August 15, 2005, and November 22, 2006.
Presence of cerebral microbleeds on MRI.
Compared with nonusers of antithrombotic drugs, cerebral microbleeds were more prevalent among users of platelet aggregation inhibitors (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 1.71; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.21-2.41). We did not find a significant association for anticoagulant drugs and microbleed presence (OR, 1.49; 95% CI, 0.82-2.71). Strictly lobar microbleeds were more prevalent among aspirin users (adjusted OR compared with nonusers, 2.70; 95% CI, 1.45-5.04) than among persons using carbasalate calcium (adjusted OR, 1.16; 95% CI, 0.66-2.02). This difference was even more pronounced when comparing persons who had used similar dosages of both drugs.
This cross-sectional study shows that use of platelet aggregation inhibitors is related to the presence of cerebral microbleeds. Furthermore, aspirin and carbasalate calcium use may differently relate to the presence of strictly lobar microbleeds.
Continuous IV adenosine triphosphate administration has been used during surgery in the expectation of analgesic and vasodilative effects. Because adenosine triphosphate inhibits neuromuscular transmission, we investigated whether the neuromuscular effect of vecuronium was enhanced by IV adenosine triphosphate in 29 patients randomly given either continuous IV adenosine triphosphate 0.1 mg.kg(-1).min(-1) or 0.9% NaCl when undergoing elective minor surgery. Anesthesia was induced and maintained with propofol. Neuromuscular monitoring was recorded from the adductor pollicis muscle using electromyography with train-of-four stimulation of the ulnar nerve. Vecuronium 25, 30, or 40 microg/kg was given and lag time, onset time, and maximum block were recorded. ED50 and ED95 values for each group were derived from least squares linear regression analysis. ED50 and ED95 values were 29 microg/kg and 44 microg/kg, respectively, for the adenosine triphosphate group and 26 microg/kg and 46 microg/kg, respectively, for the controls. Differences in lag time, onset time, and neuromuscular responses between the two groups were not statistically significant. A significantly larger number of patients in the adenosine triphosphate group showed hypotension (systolic blood pressure <80 mm Hg). Our results demonstrated that adenosine triphosphate 0.1 mg.kg(-1).min(-1) did not enhance the neuromuscular block induced by vecuronium.
In addition to protective effects within the adult central nervous system (CNS), in vivo application of N-methyl-d-aspartate inhibitors such as (+) MK-801 have been shown to induce neurodegeneration in neonatal rats over a specific developmental period. We have systematically mapped the nature and extent of MK-801-induced neurodegeneration throughout the neonatal murine brain in order to genetically dissect the mechanism of these effects. Highest levels of MK-801-induced neurodegeneration are seen in the cerebellar external germinal layer; while mature neurons of the internal granule layer are unaffected by MK-801 treatment. Examination of external germinal layer neurons by electron microscopy, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling, and caspase-3 activation demonstrate that these neurons die through the process of programmed cell death soon after they exit from the cell cycle. Significantly, ablation of caspase-3 activity completely inhibited the MK-801-induced (and developmental) programmed cell death of external germinal layer neurons. Similar to caspase-3, inactivation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in vivo using scopolamine inhibited MK-801-induced programmed cell death. By contrast, the GABAergic agonist diazepam, either alone or in combination with MK-801, enhanced programmed cell death within external germinal layer neurons. These data demonstrate that, in vivo, cerebellar granule neurons undergo a dramatic change in intracellular signaling in response to molecules present in the local cellular milieu during their first 24 h following exit from the cell cycle.
Dopamine (DA) receptor agonists disrupt the prepulse inhibition (PPI) in rats which is considered to model PPI deficits observed in schizophrenic patients. Many laboratories have demonstrated that both "typical" and "atypical" antipsychotics reverse the disruptive effect of DA agonists on PPI in rats. These results are based on acute treatment with antipsychotics, which is different from clinical observations since humans receive treatment for months and the effects of antipsychotics only emerge after weeks of treatment.
We aimed to investigate the effect of chronic treatment with "typical" and "atypical" antipsychotics on the PPI model in rats.
We investigated the effect of acute versus sub-chronic (3 days) and chronic (21 days) treatment with haloperidol or two "atypical" antipsychotics (olanzapine; sertindole) on d-amphetamine-disrupted PPI in rats.
We observed that all three antipsychotics dose-dependently reversed the disruptive effect of d-amphetamine after acute or sub-chronic treatment, but that this reversal effect disappeared after chronic treatment. We confirmed this effect in the same model using oral administration instead of mini-pumps, and in an additional model predictive of antipsychotic action, i.e. d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in rats.
The d-amphetamine-disrupted PPI model highlighted a modification in the effects of antipsychotics after chronic treatment when compared to their acute effects, but only the acute treatment can be considered predictive of antipsychotic action in clinic.
Phentolamine, dihydroergocristine and isoxsuprine were compared for their effects on the blood pressure in anaesthetized normotensive rats, in rats made hypotensive by ganglionic blockade or by pithing and in rats with noradrenaline-induced hypertension. Their ability to inhibit pressor responses elicited by electrical stimulation of the posterior hypothalamus and of the sympathetic outflow from the spinal cord was also investigated. All three drugs appeared very potent in inhibiting noradrenaline-induced hypertension and caused a dose-dependent fall in blood pressure in normotensive rats, which however was less pronounced with dihydroergocristine than with phentolamine and isoxsuprine. In hypotensive rats, dihydroergocristine caused a rise in blood pressure. At higher doses than those required to block noradrenaline-induced hypertension, the three drugs inhibited pressor responses elicited by electrical stimulation and were equally active on peripherally- and centrally-evoked responses. Simultaneous recording of heart rate and blood pressure, both in anaesthetized and in pithed rats, indicated a reflex origin for phentolamine-induced tachycardia and a direct cardiac stimulation for isoxsuprine. Reflex changes of heart rate were not observed with dihydroergocristine.
We report these cases of high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss and tinnitus, following malaria prophylaxis with mefloquine (Lariam). Only one patient had partial remission of hearing loss after suspension of the treatment. In the remaining two cases the symptomatology remained unchanged. None of the patients reported improvement of tinnitus. Our experience suggests that a routine audiologic evaluation, before and after prophylactic use of antimalarial drugs, is important to monitor potential hearing deficit.
