While several reports have documented immunosuppressant-induced osteoporosis, the exact mechanism of the pathological change of the joint remains to be clarified. In the present study, we have demonstrated the pathological change of the articular cartilage in the mandibular head of five Sprague-Dawley rats administered with the immunosuppressant FK 506 for 28 days. Three-dimensional micro-computed tomography of the mandibular heads in treated rats showed a significant decrease in trabecular bone volume compared to control rats. Histological observation revealed atrophic change of the articular cartilage. Immunohistological observation using anti-proliferative cell nuclear antibody (PCNA), type I, II, and type X collagen antibodies showed significantly decreased proliferation and differentiation of chondrocytes in the articular cartilage compared with the control group (p<0.05). Tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) staining revealed no significant difference in the numbers of osteoclasts at the chondro-osseous junction. Thus, FK 506 administration inhibited chondrogenic cell proliferation and differentiation and might cause osteoporotic change of subcartilage trabecular bone that subsequently forms in the mandibular head.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a rare coagulation disorder characterized by microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and acute uremia. Reports have described this fatal syndrome in association with cytotoxic agents. To our knowledge, no case reports of HUS in ovarian cancer patients receiving treatment with combination gemcitabine and pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) have been reported.
Three patients with recurrent ovarian carcinoma each developed profound hypertension and peripheral edema while receiving combination gemcitabine and PLD. The first patient had rapid hemolysis, thrombocytopenia, renal failure and respiratory distress. The other patients experienced slowly progressive renal failure and mild hematologic abnormalities. Two of the three patients had favorable outcomes.
The reported incidence of gemcitabine-induced HUS is rare. Clinicians should suspect HUS if blood pressure elevation or peripheral edema develop.
Cardiac tolerance to digital subtraction angiography by venous route (DSAV) was evaluated during a prospective study of a continuous series of 100 patients of both sexes investigated for various arterial diseases, and classified previously as "cardiac" and "non-cardiac". A permanent 12 lead ECE recording by sequences of 3 allowed study of ischemic and rhythmic changes provoked by randomly allocated injections of contrast media, Ioxaglate or Iopamidol. Major cardiac complications were not observed in the 98 patients studied (2 excluded), but in 32.6% auricular extrasystoles (AES) and/or ventricular extrasystoles (VES) were noted and in 19.4% a painless widening of the ST segment of 0.5 mm or more. The and ST widening were more frequent in the VES 40 patients classed as "cardiac" than in the 58 "non cardiac" (35% against 8.6%, p less than 0.01 and 37.5% against 6.9%, p less than 0.001 respectively). The two products did not differ with respect to their effect on frequency of repolarization anomalies, whereas Ioxaglate provoked more VES than Iopamidol (30% against 8%, p less than 0.02). It is concluded that cardiac tolerance to DSAV is good, but that the frequency of VES and painless repolarization ischemic disorders observed, even with only weakly hypertonic contrast media of non ionic type, suggests that their indications be limited and that certain precautions are necessary in cardiac patients.
Recent years have seen significant advances in our understanding of the peripheral and spinal mechanisms through which prostaglandins contribute to nociceptive sensitization. By contrast, the possibility of a supraspinal contribution of these compounds to facilitated pain states has received relatively little attention. One possible mechanism through which prostaglandins could act supraspinally to facilitate nociception would be by recruitment of descending facilitation from brainstem pain-modulating systems. The rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) is now known to contribute to enhanced responding in a variety of inflammatory and nerve injury models. Its major supraspinal input, the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG), expresses prostanoid receptors and synthetic enzymes. The aim of the present study was to determine whether direct application of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) within the ventrolateral PAG is sufficient to produce hyperalgesia, and whether any hyperalgesia could be mediated by recruiting nociceptive modulating neurons in the RVM. We determined the effects of focal application of PGE(2) in the PAG on paw withdrawal latency and activity of identified nociceptive modulating neurons in the RVM of lightly anesthetized rats. Microinjection of PGE(2) (50 fg in 200 nl) into the PAG produced a significant decrease in paw withdrawal latency. The PGE(2) microinjection activated on-cells, RVM neurons thought to facilitate nociception, and suppressed the firing of off-cells, RVM neurons believed to have an inhibitory effect on nociception. These data demonstrate a prostaglandin-sensitive descending facilitation from the PAG, and suggest that this is mediated by on- and off-cells in the RVM.
Relatively little is known about the clinical course of symptoms in patients with a substance-induced psychosis (SIP) compared with those with a primary psychotic disorder (PPD). In this study, symptoms associated with psychosis were monitored across admission in two groups of patients: those with SIP (amphetamines or cannabis; n = 47) and those with PPD (n = 51). Sixty-two percent of patients were first admissions, 23% had one previous admission, and a further 14% had had two previous admissions. Symptoms were monitored using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. Scores on the positive symptoms scale, negative symptoms scale, manic excitement, and negative mood were reported as was the extent of observed disturbed behavior at admission and then at Days 4/5, 8/9, 15/16, 22/23, 29/30, 36/37, 43/44, and 50/51. Patients with a SIP experienced more severe mania and disturbed behavior at admission than those with a PPD. However, these symptoms abated more rapidly for the SIP group during admission. Although positive symptom scores were equally high at admission for both groups, there was a more rapid abatement of these symptoms in the SIP group. Finally, negative symptoms were lower in the SIP group at admission and at Days 50/51, although the decline in symptoms was comparable in both groups.
Since long-term hyperexcitability of nociceptive neurons in the spinal cord has been suggested to be caused and maintained by changes of protein expression we assessed protein patterns in lumbar spinal cord during a zymosan induced paw inflammation employing two-dimensional (2D) gel electrophoresis. 2D PAGE revealed a time-dependent breakdown of scaffolding proteins one of which was neurofilament light chain (NFL) protein, which has been previously found to be important for axonal architecture and transport. Nociception induced breakdown of NFL in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglias was prevented by pretreatment of the animals with a single dose of the specific inhibitor of the protease calpain (MDL-28170) which has been shown to be the primary protease involved in neurofilament degradation in neurodegenerative diseases. Treatment with the calpain inhibitor also provided anti-inflammatory and anti-hyperalgesic effects in the zymosan-induced paw inflammation model irrespective of whether the drug was administered systemically (i.p.) or delivered onto the lumbar spinal cord. This suggests that the activation of calpain is involved in the sensitization of nociceptive neurons what is partly due to neurofilament breakdown but cleavage of other calpain substrates may also be involved. Our results indicate that inhibition of pathological calpain activity may present an interesting novel drug target in the treatment of pain and inflammation.
Methylprednisolone sodium succinate and metoclopramide were compared for their efficacy, tolerance, and safety in the prevention of nausea and vomiting induced by moderately emetogenic chemotherapy in patients with cancer. Previously untreated patients about to receive at least 2 cycles of identical chemotherapy were entered into a study using a randomized, double-blind, crossover design. Patients were given either 250 mg of methylprednisolone or 10 mg of metoclopramide intravenously before the first cycle of chemotherapy and were then crossed over to receive the alternate medication before the second cycle of chemotherapy. Prochlorperazine was prescribed in both cycles for postchemotherapy nausea and vomiting. After each treatment cycle patients recorded the degree of nausea, drowsiness and anxiety, the number of episodes of vomiting experienced, and the amount of prochlorperazine taken. After the second treatment cycle patients recorded their preference for either the first or the second antiemetic medication with respect to nausea, vomiting, and overall effectiveness. Of 157 patients entered into the study, 115 were fully appraisable. Methylprednisolone was superior to metoclopramide in preventing nausea and vomiting and in decreasing anxiety and the amount of prochlorperazine used. A majority of the patients expressing a preference preferred methylprednisolone to metoclopramide for control of nausea (p = 0.003), control of vomiting (p = 0.0006), and overall effectiveness (p = 0.00004). There were few side-effects. We conclude that methylprednisolone may have some utility as an antiemetic in patients receiving moderately emetogenic chemotherapy, and who are treated as outpatients.
Midazolam differs from diazepam in that midazolam is water-soluble, more potent and has a shorter elimination half-life (t1/2). To date, it has been used primarily for induction of anesthesia and as an anesthetic supplement. Diazepam has been shown to decrease the catecholamine response to perioperative stress. This study determined the extent to which midazolam influences the physiological and hormonal responses that are evoked by a nitroprusside-induced hypotensive challenge. Plasma levels of epinephrine, norepinephrine (NE), cortisol, and renin activity, as well as hemodynamic performance were measured in dogs anesthetized with enflurane-nitrous oxide-oxygen. Midazolam 0.2 mg/kg i.v. administered prior to a 30% decrease in mean blood pressure statistically attentuates the increase in plasma catecholamines. The cortisol and renin increases that occurred in response to the hypotension were not affected appreciably by midazolam. Hemodynamic changes due to midazolam were minimal, with only a transient 8-10% decrease in mean blood pressure observed. The findings of this study demonstrate that midazolam, like diazepam and fentanyl, can reduce the physiological and hormonal response to hypotensive episodes that occurred during the course of anesthesia and surgery.
Late complications after pharmacological stress echocardiography are infrequent but potentially dreadful events. We report the case of a 80-year-old woman admitted to hospital for rest chest pain with trivial troponin increase, normal left ventricular function and no significant ECG changes. A dobutamine stress echocardiography was performed for diagnostic purpose, with a negative result. About 30 min after the end of dobutamine infusion, she developed ST-segment elevation in inferior leads associated with chest pain and left ventricular dyssynergy, promptly resolved by sublingual nitrates. Subsequently, angiography documented the absence of significant coronary stenoses. The following clinical course was uneventful. Transient myocardial ischemia was likely due to dobutamine-induced coronary spasm. The case emphasizes the utility of routine, long-lasting monitoring of patients after stress echocardiography, even if negative, to counteract possible late life-threatening complications.
Mercury intoxication has been associated with male reproductive toxicity in experimental animals and mercury may have the potential to produce adverse effects on fertility in men. Vitamin E may protect against toxic effects of mercury in the liver and other tissues. To investigate the protective role of vitamin E against mercuric chloride toxicity for the testis, epididymis, and vas deferens of adult male mice, animals were treated with either mercuric chloride 1.25 mg/kg/day, vitamin E 2 mg/kg/kg, or a combination of the two treatments. Control animals were treated with water. Treatments were administered by daily gavage for 45 days. An additional group of animals treated with mercuric chloride were permitted to recover for 45 days after mercuric chloride treatments. Parameters studied included serum testosterone, epididymal sperm count, motility, and morphology, epididymal and vas deferens adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase), phosphorylase, sialic acid, glycogen and protein, testicular succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), phosphatases, cholesterol, ascorbic acid, and glutathione. Fertility was evaluated by sperm positive vaginal smears after overnight cohabitation with a female. Mercuric chloride produced a reduction in epididymal sperm count, sperm motility, and sperm viability, and there were no sperm-positive smears in this group. Biochemical tests from the male reproductive organs were also altered by mercuric chloride treatment. Coadministration of vitamin E with mercuric chloride prevented the changes in sperm and biochemical parameters and was associated with control rates of sperm positive smears after cohabitation. Animals given vitamin E with mercuric chloride also had lower concentrations of mercury in the testis, epididimyis, and vas deferens. Permitting animals to recover for 45 days after mercuric chloride treatment resulted in partial recovery of sperm and biochemical parameters. Vitamin E cotreatment has a protective role against mercury-induced male reproductive toxicity.
Seventy two patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit following ingestion of organophosphorus compounds were studied prospectively with two different doses of pralidoxime (PAM). One group received 1 gm immediately after admission and no further PAM and the other group received infusion of PAM, 1 gm 8 hourly for four days (total 12 gms). The incidence of type II paralysis or intermediate syndrome was 47%. We observed a higher incidence in the 4 days of infusion of PAM group (61%) (20 patients) as compared to the single Bolus dose group (39%) (13 patients). Relative risk 1.48 (confidence interval = 0.9-2.4).
The maintenance of the mechanical integrity of the skeleton depends on bone remodeling, the well-coordinated balance between bone formation by osteoblasts and bone resorption by osteoclasts. The coupled action of osteoblasts and osteoclasts is regulated by the action of many local and circulating hormones and factors as well as central regulation by a neurological mechanism. We have previously shown that lactoferrin can promote bone growth. At physiological concentrations, lactoferrin potently stimulates the proliferation and differentiation of primary osteoblasts and acts as a survival factor. Lactoferrin also affects osteoclasts, potently inhibiting their formation. In vivo, local injection of lactoferrin results in substantial increases in bone formation and bone area. In a critical bone-defect model in vivo, lactoferrin was also seen to promote bone growth. The mitogenic effect of lactoferrin in osteoblast-like cells is mediated mainly through low-density lipoprotein-receptor protein-1 (LRP1), a member of the low-density lipoprotein-receptor-related proteins that are primarily known as endocytic receptors; however, LRP1 is not necessary for the anti-apoptotic actions of lactoferrin. Lactoferrin also induces the activation of p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling and the PI3-kinase-dependent phosphorylation of Akt in osteoblasts. In this study, we examined other properties of lactoferrin and the way they affect osteogenic activity. The degree of glycosylation, iron-binding, and the structure-activity relationships indicate that lactoferrin maintains osteogenic activity in deglycosylated, holo, and apo forms, and in with various small fragments of the molecule. These data suggest that lactoferrin signals through more than 1 membrane-bound receptor to produce its anabolic skeletal effects, and that it signals through diverse pathways. We conclude that lactoferrin might have a physiological role in bone growth and healing and a potential therapeutic role as an anabolic factor in osteoporosis.
To evaluate the effects of losartan on ventricular remodeling and on survival after myocardial infarction in rats.
After surgical occlusion of left coronary artery, 84 surviving male Wistar rats were divided into two groups: LO treated with losartan (20mg/kg/day, n=33</u></b>) and NT (n=51</u></b>), without medication. After 3 months, we analyzed mortality; ventricular to body mass ratio (VM /BM</u></b>); myocardial hydroxyproline concentration (HOP); isovolumetric pressure, +dp/dt</u></b></u></b>, -dp/dt</u></b></u></b>, and diastolic volume/left</u></b> ventricle mass ratio (VO/LV</u></b>).
</u></b> Mortality was: LO = 22 %</u></b>, and NT = 47 %</u></b> (p<0.05). Ventricular mass,(VM/BM</u></b>, mg/g</u></b>) was 4.14 +/- 0.76 and 3.54+/-0.48, in the NT and LO groups, respectively (p<0.05). HOP (median) was 4.92 upsilong/mg in the LO and 5.54 upsilong/g in the NT group (p>0.05). The V0/LV values (median) were 0.24 mL/g in group LO and 0.31 mL/g in group NT (p<0.05) compared to NT group. There were no differences between the groups for +dp/dt</u></b></u></b> and -dp/dt</u></b></u></b> parameters.
1. The use of losartan myocardial infarction causes an attenuation of ventricular remodeling, bringing about an increased survival, an attenuation of ventricular hypertrophy and dilation, and an improvement of the isovolumetric pressure; 2. the treatment does not modify the myocardial collagen concentration.
In Wistar rats, maternal exposure to nicotine was shown to impair the inhibitory function of perivascular adipose tissue on vascular contractility in the aorta of the offspring. It is not known whether an impairment of perivascular adipose tissue function occurs in smaller arteries, and whether the control of blood pressure is affected. Here we studied the blood pressure effects and the alteration of perivascular adipose tissue function in mesenteric arteries of the offspring born to Wistar-Kyoto rat (WKY) dams exposed to nicotine. Nulliparous female WKY rats were given either nicotine bitartrate (1 mg/kg/day) or saline (vehicle) by subcutaneous injection 2 weeks prior to mating, during pregnancy and until weaning. Blood pressure of the offspring and functional studies with mesenteric arteries were conducted. Tissue samples (thoracic aorta, mesenteric arteries, and kidneys) were collected for morphological and immunohistochemical examinations. Blood pressure increased from 14 weeks of age onwards in the offspring born to nicotine-exposed dams. Nicotine-exposed offspring showed a significant increase in the number of brown adipocytes in aortic perivascular adipose tissue relative to control offspring. In mesenteric arteries from control offspring, contractile responses induced by phenylephrine, serotonin, and 9,11-dideoxy-11alpha, 9alpha-epoxymethanoprostaglandin F(2)alpha (U44619) were significantly attenuated in the presence of perivascular adipose tissue, an effect not observed in the nicotine-exposed tissues. Endothelium-dependent relaxation responses to carbachol, kidney weight, the total number of nephrons and glomerulus' size were comparable in nicotine and saline groups. We conclude that fetal and neonatal exposure to nicotine caused blood pressure elevation. Alterations in perivascular adipose tissue composition and modulatory function are some of the mechanisms associated with this blood pressure increase.
We report two cases of acute pulmonary edema occurring in healthy patients during vitreoretinal surgery. The adverse systemic effects of conjunctival phenylephrine are discussed, along with constraints on its clinical use and the concentration that should be used.
The present study was aimed at developing a new cell-permeant peptide inhibitor (MK2i) of the kinase that phosphorylates and activates heat-shock protein (HSP)27 (MAPKAP kinase II), and evaluating the ability of this peptide to inhibit HSP27 phosphorylation and intimal thickening.
The ability of MK2i to reduce HSP27 phosphorylation and cell migration was evaluated in A7R5 cells stimulated with arsenite or lysophosphatidic acid. Stable isotopic labeling using amino acids in cell culture, in combination with liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, was used to characterize the effect of MK2i on global protein expression in fibroblasts. The effect of MK2i on intimal thickening and connective tissue growth factor expression was evaluated in human saphenous vein (HSV) rings maintained with 30% fetal bovine serum for 14 days by light microscopy and immunoblotting.
Pretreatment of cells with MK2i (10 μM) prior to arsenite or lysophosphatidic acid stimulation decreased phosphorylation of HSP27 (36% ± 9% and 33% ± 10%, respectively) compared with control (not pretreated) cells. MK2i also inhibited A7R5 migration, and downregulated the transforming growth factor-induced expression of collagen and fibronectin in keloid cells, two major matrix proteins involved in the development of intimal hyperplasia. Treatment of HSV segments with MK2i enhanced relaxation, reduced HSP27 phosphorylation (40% ± 17%), connective tissue growth factor expression (17% ± 5%), and intimal thickness (48.2% ± 10.5%) compared with untreated segments. On the other hand, treatment with a recombinant fusion protein containing a cell-permeant peptide attached to the HSP27 sequence increased intimal thickness of HSV segments by 48% ± 14%.
Our results suggest that HSP27 may play a role in the development of processes leading to intimal hyperplasia in HSV, and reduction of HSP27 phosphorylation by MK2i may be a potential strategy to inhibit the development of intimal hyperplasia in HSV to prevent the autologous vascular graft failure.
Heart and heart-lung transplant recipients at Stanford (Calif) University Medical Center were routinely prescribed long-term calcium carbonate antacid therapy to aid in the prevention of peptic ulcer disease and osteoporosis associated with glucocorticoid immunosuppressive therapy. Patients consumed 4 to more than 10 g/d of elemental calcium. Since calcium carbonate also provides the essential ingredients for the development of the milk-alkali syndrome, the laboratory flow sheets of 297 heart and heart-lung transplant recipients were reviewed to examine the incidence of hypercalcemia. Sixty-five patients developed significant hypercalcemia after transplantation. Thirty-one patients were alkalotic at the time of hypercalcemia; 37 had impairment in renal function. It is likely that most of these patients had the milk-alkali syndrome. While most patients became eucalcemic by discontinuing calcium carbonate therapy, intravenous hydration and forced diuresis were used to treat severe cases. It is possible that the incidence of the milk-alkali syndrome will increase with the current popularity of prescribing calcium carbonate for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis.
An association between dopamine-replacement therapies and impulse control disorders (ICDs) in Parkinson disease (PD) has been suggested in preliminary studies.
To ascertain point prevalence estimates of 4 ICDs in PD and examine their associations with dopamine-replacement therapies and other clinical characteristics.
Cross-sectional study using an a priori established sampling procedure for subject recruitment and raters blinded to PD medication status.
Three thousand ninety patients with treated idiopathic PD receiving routine clinical care at 46 movement disorder centers in the United States and Canada.
The Massachusetts Gambling Screen score for current problem/pathological gambling, the Minnesota Impulsive Disorders Interview score for compulsive sexual behavior and buying, and Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders research criteria for binge-eating disorder.
An ICD was identified in 13.6% of patients (gambling in 5.0%, compulsive sexual behavior in 3.5%, compulsive buying in 5.7%, and binge-eating disorder in 4.3%), and 3.9% had 2 or more ICDs. Impulse control disorders were more common in patients treated with a dopamine agonist than in patients not taking a dopamine agonist (17.1% vs 6.9%; odds ratio [OR], 2.72; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.08-3.54; P < .001). Impulse control disorder frequency was similar for pramipexole and ropinirole (17.7% vs 15.5%; OR, 1.22; 95% CI, 0.94-1.57; P = .14). Additional variables independently associated with ICDs were levodopa use, living in the United States, younger age, being unmarried, current cigarette smoking, and a family history of gambling problems.
Dopamine agonist treatment in PD is associated with 2- to 3.5-fold increased odds of having an ICD. This association represents a drug class relationship across ICDs. The association of other demographic and clinical variables with ICDs suggests a complex relationship that requires additional investigation to optimize prevention and treatment strategies.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00617019.
Purified Fab fragments of ovine anti-digoxin antibodies (Wellcome Foundation) were used to treat a patient who attempted suicide by absorbing 10 mg of digitoxin (serum concentration 265 micrograms/l). The poor prognosis, as assessed clinically and from serum potassium levels (7.5 mEq/l), seemed to warrant such a treatment. The weak (6.85%) cross-reactivity elicited in vitro between the anti-digoxin antibodies and digitoxin was compensated by increasing the doses, but improvement was observed with 3.6 g, i.e. about half the effective dosage initially considered. The criteria of effectiveness were clinical, electrocardiographic (reversal of the ventricular fibrillation), biochemical (simultaneous and opposite changes in extra- and intracellular potassium levels, suggesting that ATPase inhibition by digitalis is a reversible process) and toxicological: there was an increase in digitoxin serum levels suggesting displacement of the drug from tissue sites to plasma and other extracellular compartments where the Fab fragments are distributed, and Fab-bound digitoxin appeared fairly rapidly in the urine, which suggested shunting of the normal hepatic metabolic pathway.
Isoflurane was used to treat a patient with status asthmaticus refractive to standard therapeutic measures. The patient developed a significant withdrawal syndrome when the isoflurane was weaned. A case is reported here where this withdrawal syndrome was treated successfully by using a weakening dose neuromuscular blockade with cisatracurium.
Case report.
Pediatric critical care unit.
A 4-yr-old girl with severe reactive airways disease.
The use of weakening doses of cisatracurium to assist in weaning from mechanical ventilation in the setting of withdrawal symptoms following the extended use of inhaled isoflurane.
Despite treatment with mechanical ventilation, intravenous corticosteroids, and bronchodilators for status asthmaticus, the patient required inhaled isoflurane. She became tolerant to isoflurane over an extended period of time; her tolerance was associated with a specific withdrawal syndrome, with the development of choreoathetoid movements resulting in poor pulmonary coordination and agitation. Conventional medical treatment of withdrawal failed. Finally, by using an infusion of cisatracurium at weakening doses to assist in the control of these choreoathetoid movements, the isoflurane and ventilator support were weaned.
Weakening doses of cisatracurium may be used safely to control unpleasant motor symptoms secondary to tolerance of isoflurane. This may have a use in other circumstances where agitation in mechanically ventilated patients is not due to pain or anxiety.
Etoricoxib is a highly selective COX-2 inhibitor which was evaluated for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Double-blind, randomized, placebo and active comparator-controlled, 12-week study conducted at 67 sites in 28 countries. Eligible patients were chronic NSAID users who demonstrated a clinical worsening of arthritis upon withdrawal of prestudy NSAIDs. Patients received either placebo, etoricoxib 90 mg once daily, or naproxen 500 mg twice daily (2:2:1 allocation ratio). Primary efficacy measures included direct assessment of arthritis by counts of tender and swollen joints, and patient and investigator global assessments of disease activity. Key secondary measures included the Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire, patient global assessment of pain, and the percentage of patients who achieved ACR20 responder criteria response (a composite of pain, inflammation, function, and global assessments). Tolerability was assessed by adverse events and routine laboratory evaluations.
1171 patients were screened, 891 patients were randomized (N = 357 for placebo, N = 353 for etoricoxib, and N = 181 for naproxen), and 687 completed 12 weeks of treatment (N = 242 for placebo, N = 294 for etoricoxib, and N = 151 for naproxen). Compared with patients receiving placebo, patients receiving etoricoxib and naproxen showed significant improvements in all efficacy endpoints (p<0.05). Treatment responses were similar between the etoricoxib and naproxen groups for all endpoints. The percentage of patients who achieved ACR20 responder criteria response was 41% in the placebo group, 59% in the etoricoxib group, and 58% in the naproxen group. Etoricoxib and naproxen were both generally well tolerated.
In this study, etoricoxib 90 mg once daily was more effective than placebo and similar in efficacy to naproxen 500 mg twice daily for treating patients with RA over 12 weeks. Etoricoxib 90 mg was generally well tolerated in RA patients.
Hypoxia inducible factor (HIF)-1α-mediated gene activation in the renal medulla in response to high salt intake plays an important role in the control of salt sensitivity of blood pressure. High salt-induced activation of HIF-1α in the renal medulla is blunted in Dahl S rats. The present study determined whether the impairment of the renal medullary HIF-1α pathway was responsible for salt sensitive hypertension in Dahl S rats. Renal medullary HIF-1α levels were induced by either transfection of HIF-1α expression plasmid or chronic infusion of CoCl₂ into the renal medulla, which was accompanied by increased expressions of anti-hypertensive genes, cyclooxygenase-2 and heme oxygenase-1. Overexpression of HIF-1α transgenes in the renal medulla enhanced the pressure natriuresis, promoted the sodium excretion and reduced sodium retention after salt overload. As a result, hypertension induced by 2-week high salt was significantly attenuated in rats treated with HIF-1α plasmid or CoCl₂. These results suggest that an abnormal HIF-1α in the renal medulla may represent a novel mechanism mediating salt-sensitive hypertension in Dahl S rats and that induction of HIF-1α levels in the renal medulla could be a therapeutic approach for the treatment of salt-sensitive hypertension.
Liver cirrhosis (LC) is a chronic disease with high mortality rate and its pathophysiology includes hepatic parenchymal cell destruction, connective tissue formation, and nodular regeneration. Colchicine has been used in liver diseases as an anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic drug. However, there is controversy over the beneficial effects of colchicine in LC treatment. In the present study, we injected rats with multiple doses of dimethylnitrosamine for 4 weeks and used rats with severe LC to determine whether colchicine treatment improved liver functions and resolved cirrhotic nodules. Colchicine (30-150microg/kg per day, i.p., for 4 weeks) failed to significantly increase the survival rate of LC rats. Animals were subjected to blood biochemical, liver histopathological and immunochemical analyses. The plasma albumin level, decreased in cirrhotic rats, was restored by colchicine treatment along with reduction of ascites. Colchicine decreased the accumulated extracellular matrix and the multiple fibrotic nodules formed in cirrhotic liver, and eliminated alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA)-positive cells. In activated stellate cells, colchicine inhibited alpha-SMA and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGFbeta1) expression. The results of the present study showed that colchicine resolves cirrhotic nodules and accumulated fibers in the liver of LC rats, but failed to significantly improve the survival rate of LC animals, and that the beneficial effects of colchicine in cirrhotic animals result from stellate cell inactivation and inhibition of TGFbeta1 expression.
We report the case of a young anorexic woman who suffered a sudden loss of consciousness with convulsions, diagnosed as epilepsy associated with a migrational disorder, as documented at MRI. Standard 12-lead ECG showed a prolonged QT interval. Biochemical tests revealed a severe hypokalemia. Continuous 24-h ECG recording detected a ventricular tachycardia in torsades de pointes inducing a syncopal convulsive attack that seemed to be related to oral Cisapride assumption for dyspepsia. Discontinuation of cisapride and normalization of kalemia caused disappearance of both ECG abnormalities and loss of consciousness episodes. Syncope is a condition often misdiagnosed as epileptic seizures.
