Sulfur mustard (SM) is a strong bifunctional alkylating agent that produces severe tissue injuries characterized by erythema, edema, subepidermal blisters and a delayed inflammatory response after cutaneous exposure. However, despite its long history, SM remains a threat because of the lack of effective medical countermeasures as the molecular mechanisms of these events remain unclear. This limited number of therapeutic options results in part of an absence of appropriate animal models. We propose here to use SKH-1 hairless mouse as the appropriate model for the design of therapeutic strategies against SM-induced skin toxicity. In the present study particular emphasis was placed on histopathological changes associated with inflammatory responses after topical exposure of dorsal skin to three different doses of SM (0.6, 6 and 60mg/kg) corresponding to a superficial, a second-degree and a third-degree burn. Firstly, clinical evaluation of SM-induced skin lesions using non invasive bioengineering methods showed that erythema and impairment of skin barrier increased in a dose-dependent manner. Histological evaluation of skin sections exposed to SM revealed that the time to onset and the severity of symptoms including disorganization of epidermal basal cells, number of pyknotic nuclei, activation of mast cells and neutrophils dermal invasion were dose-dependent. These histopathological changes were associated with a dose- and time-dependent increase in expression of specific mRNA for inflammatory mediators such as interleukins (IL1β and IL6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, cycloxygenase-2 (COX-2), macrophage inflammatory proteins (MIP-1α, MIP-2 and MIP-1αR) and keratinocyte chemoattractant (KC also called CXCL1) as well as adhesion molecules (L-selectin and vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM)) and growth factor (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (Csf3)). A dose-dependent increase was also noted after SM exposure for mRNA of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP9) and laminin-γ2 which are associated with SM-induced blisters formation. Taken together, our results show that SM-induced skin histopathological changes related to inflammation is similar in SKH-1 hairless mice and humans. SKH-1 mouse is thus a reliable animal model for investigating the SM-induced skin toxicity and to develop efficient treatment against SM-induced inflammatory skin lesions.
In three prospective randomized studies six substances for intramuscular premedication were investigated and compared to placebo (NaCl 0.9%): diazepam (10-20 mg), flunitrazepam (1-2 mg), droperidol (2.5-5 mg), triflupromazin (10-20 mg), pethidin (50-100 mg) and buprenorphin (0.15-0.3 mg). The effects on preoperative stress were evaluated with psychometrical methods (ESB), heart rate, blood pressure and plasma-cortisol levels. Degree of sedation and side effects were recorded. Good effects on anxiety were found after flunitrazepam, diazepam and triflupromazin. The worst effects were found after droperidol and pethidin. Good effects on depression were found after pethidin, buprenorphin, diazepam and triflupromazin. The worst effects were found after droperidol. Asthenic patients were improved with diazepam and flunitrazepam, but deteriorated after placebo, pethidin, triflupromazin and droperidol. The physiological stress parameters were positively influenced by diazepam and flunitrazepam, but not after placebo and droperidol. Nausea and vomitus were found after buprenorphin, pethidin and droperidol; psychological and neurological problems occurred after droperidol. The highest degree of sedation was found after flunitrazepam, diazepam and droperidol. The day after surgery the patients found placebo, flunitrazepam, diazepam and triflupromazin to be the best premedications, pethidin and buprenorphin were inferior and droperidol was the poorest premedication.
Phytochemicals such as indole-3-carbinol (I3C) and sulforaphane are components of cruciferous vegetables which exhibit antitumorigenic activity associated with altered carcinogen metabolism and detoxification. Diindolylmethane (DIM) is a major acid-catalyzed metabolite of I3C formed in the gut that binds to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and treatment of MCF-7 human breast cancer cells with 10-50 microM DIM resulted in rapid formation of the nuclear AhR complex and induction of CYP1A1 gene expression was observed at concentrations >50 microM. Previous studies have demonstrated that 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), a high affinity AhR ligand, inhibits 17beta-estradiol (E2)-induced responses in MCF-7 cells and growth of E2-dependent 7,12-dimethylbenzanthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary tumors in female Sprague-Dawley rats. Results of this study show that like TCDD, DIM inhibits E2-induced proliferation of MCF-7 cells, reporter gene activity in cells transiently transfected with an E2-responsive plasmid (containing a frog vitellogenin A2 gene promoter insert) and down-regulates the nuclear estrogen receptor. Moreover, DIM (5 mg/kg every other day) also inhibits DMBA-induced mammary tumor growth in Sprague-Dawley rats and this was not accompanied by induction of hepatic CYP1A1-dependent activity. Thus, DIM represents a new class of relatively non-toxic AhR-based antiestrogens that inhibit E2-dependent tumor growth in rodents and current studies are focused on development of analogs for clinical treatment of breast cancer.
Using transgenic mice expressing human cystatin C (encoded by CST3), we show that cystatin C binds soluble amyloid-beta peptide and inhibits cerebral amyloid deposition in amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice. Cystatin C expression twice that of the endogenous mouse cystatin C was sufficient to substantially diminish amyloid-beta deposition. Thus, cystatin C has a protective role in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis, and modulation of cystatin C concentrations may have therapeutic implications for the disease.
Blood pressure control is the main influential variable in reducing microalbuminuria in patients with type 2 diabetes. In this subanalysis of the Natrilix SR versus Enalapril Study in hypertensive Type 2 diabetics with micrOalbuminuRia (NESTOR) study, we have compared the effectiveness of indapamide sustained release (SR) and enalapril in reducing blood pressure and microalbuminuria in patients > or =65 years of age.
Of the 570 hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes and persistent microalbuminuria in the NESTOR study, 187 (33%) individuals > or =65 years of age were included in this analysis. Of these, 95 patients received indapamide SR 1.5 mg and 92 patients received enalapril 10 mg, taken once daily in both cases. Adjunctive amlodipine and/or atenolol was added if required.
The urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio decreased by 46% in the indapamide SR group and 47% in the enalapril group. Noninferiority of indapamide SR over enalapril was demonstrated (P = .0236; 35% limit of noninferiority) with a ratio of 0.95 (95% CI: 0.68, 1.34). Mean arterial pressure decreased by 18 mm Hg and 15 mm Hg in the indapamide SR and the enalapril groups, respectively (P = .1136). The effects of both treatments seen in these elderly patients were similar to those observed in the main population, although the extent of the reduction in microalbuminuria was slightly higher. Both treatments were well tolerated, and no difference between groups was observed regarding glucose or lipid profiles.
Indapamide SR is not less effective than enalapril in reducing microalbuminuria and blood pressure in patients aged >65 years of age with type 2 diabetes and hypertension.
The molecular mechanisms responsible for the progression of malignant transformation in Barrett's esophagus (BE) are still poorly understood. This study was undertaken (1) to investigate the gene and protein expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma), interleukin-8 (IL-8), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), gastrin, and its receptor (CCK-2) in the Barrett's epithelium; (2) to analyze the activity of NFkappaB in Barrett's esophagus with low-grade dysplasia; and (3) to assess the effects of PPARgamma ligand (ciglitazone) and gastrin on cell proliferation in the cell line derived from esophageal adenocarcinoma (OE-33). COX-2, PPARgamma, IL-8, HGF, gastrin, and CCK-2 expression levels relative to the control gene encoding GAPDH were analyzed by RT-PCR and Western blot in specimens of BE with low-grade dysplasia (n = 20) and compared with that in the normal squamous esophageal mucosa from the middle portion of the esophagus (n = 20). In vitro experiments included the incubation of cell line OE-33 with ciglitazone (1-15 microM) and gastrin (100 nM). NFkappaB activity in biopsies specimens was measured by highly sensitive ELISA. COX-2, PPARgamma, IL-8, HGF, gastrin, and CCK-2 expressions were significantly increased in BE compared with normal squamous esophageal mucosa. NFkappaB activity was significantly upregulated in BE. Ciglitazone inhibited cell proliferation of OE-33 cells as assessed by BrdU and this effect was attenuated partly by gastrin. (1) COX-2, PPARgamma, HGF, gastrin, and its receptor are significantly upregulated in BE, suggesting a possible role for these factors in Barrett's carcinogenesis; (2) the increased NFkappaB activity is probably linked to increased IL-8 and COX-2 expression; and (3) PPARgamma ligands might be useful as a new therapeutic option in the prevention and treatment of Barrett's carcinoma.
Careful observation of blood pressure and heart rate in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage during therapy with nimodipine showed that blood pressure decreases mainly in hypertensive patients during the first hours of therapy or when treatment is started immediately with 2 mg per hour instead of the recommended initial dose of 1 mg per hour. Predominantly mild or moderate reversible falls in blood pressure were reported as side effects in 21/421 patients (5%). Electrocardiographic abnormalities such as tachycardia, bradycardia, arrhythmia or extrasystoles were reported as side effects during treatment with nimodipine in 18 patients (4,3%). Since the association of ECG abnormalities with subarachnoid hemorrhage has been known for many years it is likely that these abnormalities are not typical side effects of nimodipine but belong to the natural course of the disease.
Long-term administration of methotrexate (MTX) for management of chronic inflammatory diseases is associated with risk of liver damage. In this study, we examined the transcriptional profiles of livers from patients treated with MTX. The possibility that expression signatures correlate with grade of fibrosis or underlying rheumatic disease was evaluated. Twenty-seven patients taking MTX were accrued for this study. Ten non-MTX-exposed normal liver specimens were used as controls. Global mRNA expression was assayed using oligonucleotide arrays. A total of 205 genes were significantly altered in MTX-exposed livers. Six of these genes were validated by qPCR. Two genes, CLN8 and ANKH that map to chromosomal locations previously associated with rheumatoid arthritis, were found to be elevated in MTX-exposed samples. Subsequent pathway analysis indicates that MTX exposure is associated with the following key alterations: (1) upregulation of lipid biosynthetic genes, consistent with MTX-induced steatosis, (2) downregulation of proinflammatory chemokines, consistent with the anti-inflammatory effects of MTX, and (3) elevation of complement pathway gene expression. Complement 5, shown earlier to be correlated with liver fibrosis in mice, was found to be elevated (twofold) in MTX-exposed livers. In conclusion, we have found the expression of a number of genes associated with rheumatic disease and/or MTX exposure to be significantly different. Differences in complement expression provide the rationale for future correlative studies between MTX-induced liver fibrosis and C5 alleles in order to identify patients with increased risk for fibrosis.
Immunotherapy is often effective only for small tumor burdens and, in many cases, is restricted to subcutaneous tumors. Here, we investigated the antitumor effects of combination therapy with GM-CSF and IL-12 on orthotopic liver tumors with intermediate or large tumor volumes, or on chemically-induced multifocal liver tumors in animals. Adenoviruses encoding GM-CSF or IL-12 were injected intratumorally to animals bearing transplanted tumors, or injected via intrahepatic artery in animals with primary multifocal liver tumors induced by diethylnitrosamine. Our results demonstrated that IL-12, but not GM-CSF, monotherapy displayed significant therapeutic effects, whereas combination therapy with both cytokines displayed synergistic antitumor effects not only on transplanted tumor models with intermediate or large tumor loads, but also on carcinogen-induced multifocal liver tumors. Effector cell analyses, revealed by in vivo cell subset depletion, flow cytometry analysis, and immunohistochemical staining of tumor infiltrates, indicated that NK cells were the prominent antitumor effectors for the IL-12-mediated antitumor activity, whereas CD8+ T cells, NKT cells, and macrophages were more important than NK cells in the combination therapy-mediated antitumor effects. Both IL-12 monotherapy and combination therapy could induce various types of effectors and high levels of IFN-gamma; however, the latter induced much higher levels than the former, which may explain why combination therapy is superior to IL-12 monotherapy.
Combination therapy with GM-CSF and IL-12 represents a promising immunotherapy strategy for treating orthotopic, widespread liver tumors.
The carcinogenic effects in male and female F344 rats of four nitrosodialkylureas containing methyl or ethyl groups have been compared by two modes of administration, gavage in oil solution or dissolved in drinking water. Weekly doses of 20 and 40 mumol were given to each rat by either route and treatment lasted usually 30 wk, resulting in a total dose per rat of 0.6 or 1.2 mmol. Nitrosodimethylurea and nitroso-1-methyl-3-ethylurea gave rise primarily to tumors of the nervous system, whereas nitrosodiethylurea and nitroso-1-ethyl-3-methylurea gave rise to tumors of the mammary gland, lung, intestinal tract, nervous system, and testicular mesotheliomas. The effect of nitrosodimethylurea was weaker than that of the other three compounds, as measured by rate of mortality with tumors. Drinking water treatment was less effective than treatment by gavage, by the same criterion. The tumorigenic effects paralleled those of the corresponding monoalkylnitrosourea, suggesting the presence in the target organs of receptors for which ethylnitrosoureas or methylnitrosoureas, respectively, have affinity.
Exposure to plasticizers di(n-butyl) phthalate (DBP) and diethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) during sexual differentiation causes male reproductive tract malformations in rats and rabbits. In the fetal male rat, these two phthalate esters decrease testosterone (T) production and insulin-like peptide 3 (insl3) gene expression, a hormone critical for gubernacular ligament development. We hypothesized that coadministered DBP and DEHP would act in a cumulative dose-additive fashion to induce reproductive malformations, inhibit fetal steroid hormone production, and suppress the expression of insl3 and genes responsible for steroid production. Pregnant Sprague Dawley rats were gavaged on gestation days (GD) 14-18 with vehicle control, 500 mg/kg DBP, 500 mg/kg DEHP, or a combination of DBP and DEHP (500 mg/kg each chemical; DBP+DEHP); the dose of each individual phthalate was one-half of the effective dose predicted to cause a 50% incidence of epididymal agenesis. In experiment one, adult male offspring were necropsied, and reproductive malformations and androgen-dependent organ weights were recorded. In experiment two, GD18 testes were incubated for T production and processed for gene expression by quantitative real-time PCR. The DBP+DEHP dose increased the incidence of many reproductive malformations by >or=50%, including epididymal agenesis, and reduced androgen-dependent organ weights in cumulative, dose-additive manner. Fetal T and expression of insl3 and cyp11a were cumulatively decreased by the DBP+DEHP dose. These data indicate that individual phthalates with a similar mechanism of action, but with different active metabolites (monobutyl phthalate versus monoethylhexyl phthalate), can elicit dose-additive effects when administered as a mixture.
Erythropoietin (Epo) is widely used clinically to treat anemia associated with various clinical conditions including cancer. Data from several clinical trials suggest significant adverse effect of Epo treatment on cancer patient survival. However, controversy exists whether Epo receptor (EpoR) is functional in cancer cells. In this study, we demonstrated that EpoR mRNA expression was detectable in 90.1% of 65 melanoma cell lines, and increased copy number of the Epo and EpoR loci occurred in 30 and 24.6% of 130 primary melanomas, respectively. EpoR knockdown in melanoma cells resulted in diminished ERK phosphorylation in response to Epo stimulation, decreased cell proliferation and increased response to the inhibitory effect of hypoxia and cisplatin in vitro. EpoR knockdown significantly decreased melanoma xenograft size and tumor invasion in vivo. On the contrary, constitutive activation of EpoR activated cell proliferation pathways in melanoma cells and resulted in increased cell proliferation and resistance to hypoxia and cisplatin treatment in vitro. EpoR activation resulted in significantly larger xenografts with increased tumor invasion of surrounding tissue in vivo. Daily administration of recombinant Epo fails to stimulate melanoma growth in vivo, but the treatment increased vascular size in the xenografts. Increased local recurrence after excision of the primary tumors was observed after Epo treatment. Epo induced angiogenesis in Matrigel plug assays, and neutralization of Epo secreted by melanoma cells results in decreased angiogenesis. These data support that EpoR is functional in melanoma and EpoR activation may promote melanoma progression, and suggest that Epo may stimulate angiogenesis and increase survival of melanoma cells under hypoxic condition in vivo.
Paraquat is a toxic herbicide that induces severe acute lung injury (ALI) and pulmonary hypertension in humans. Although vascular disorders are present and contribute to increased mortality in ALI patients, there is little data available on vascular responsiveness after toxic exposure to paraquat. We aimed to evaluate the vascular response of isolated pulmonary arteries from rats treated with a dose of paraquat that induces ALI. Paraquat treatment did not modify the relaxant response of pulmonary artery to acetylcholine, but greatly reduced phenylephrine-induced contraction. Removal of the endothelium, inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) with L-NAME or selective inhibition of inducible NOS (iNOS) with L-NIL, restored contraction of vessels from paraquat poisoned rats to the same level as those not exposed to paraquat. The basal production of NO and expression of iNOS were increased in endothelium-intact but not in endothelium-denuded vessels from paraquat-poisoned rats. Expression of endothelial NOS was not modified. Our findings suggest that paraquat poisoning increases endothelial iNOS expression and basal NO production decreasing responsiveness of pulmonary artery to vasoconstrictors. Thus, our results do not support the hypothesis that pulmonary hypertension in paraquat-induced ALI is mediated by a reduction in endothelial NO production or increased contractility of pulmonary artery.
The abundance of mRNAs encoding various subunits of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor was examined in different regions of the brain of Long-Evans Cinnamon (LEC) rats, an animal model of Wilson's disease (WD). The measurements were performed at two different stages of disease: at 9 weeks of age, when no symptoms are evident, and at 15 weeks of age, when 90% of the animals develop jaundice. The amounts of the gamma2L and gamma2S subunit mRNAs in the striatum, cerebellum, and cerebral cortex of LEC rats at 9 weeks of age were increased (+25 to +35%) compared with those in LE rats of the same age; these differences were no longer apparent in 15-week old animals. The amount of alpha1 subunit mRNA was also significantly increased (+30%) in the cerebellum of LEC rats at 9 weeks of age; although a smaller increase (+20%) was still evident at 15 weeks of age, this was not statistically significant. The amount of beta2 subunit mRNA was increased in the cerebellum (+32%) and hippocampus (+21%) of LEC rats at 9 weeks of age, but no differences with LE rats were apparent at 15 weeks. The onset of isoniazid-induced seizures in LEC rats at 9 weeks of age was significantly delayed compared with that in LE rats. These results demonstrate abnormal expression of GABAA receptor subunit genes in the brain of LEC rats, and they suggest that this altered expression is associated with an increase in GABAergic tone.
Chronic consumption of alcohol leads to liver injury. Ethanol-inducible Cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) plays a critical role in alcohol mediated oxidative stress due to its ability to metabolize ethanol. In the present study, using the recombinant human hepatoma cell line VL-17A that over-expresses the alcohol metabolizing enzymes-alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and CYP2E1; and control HepG2 cells, the mechanism and mode of cell death due to chronic ethanol exposure were studied. Untreated VL-17A cells exhibited apoptosis and oxidative stress when compared with untreated HepG2 cells. Chronic alcohol exposure, i.e., 100 mM ethanol treatment for 72 h caused a significant decrease in viability (47%) in VL-17A cells but not in HepG2 cells. Chronic ethanol mediated cell death in VL-17A cells was predominantly apoptotic, with increased oxidative stress as the underlying mechanism. Chronic ethanol exposure of VL-17A cells resulted in 1.1- to 2.5-fold increased levels of ADH and CYP2E1. Interestingly, the level of the antioxidant GSH was found to be 3-fold upregulated in VL-17A cells treated with ethanol, which may be a metabolic adaptation to the persistent and overwhelming oxidative stress. In conclusion, the increased GSH level may not be sufficient enough to protect VL-17A cells from chronic alcohol mediated oxidative stress and resultant apoptosis.
The introduction of drugs that could induce hypotension with different pharmacological actions would be advantageous because side effects unique to a specific drug could be minimized by selecting appropriate therapy. Specific dopamine-1, (DA1) and dopamine-2 (DA2) receptor agonists are now under clinical investigation. Fenoldopam mesylate is a specific DA1 receptor agonist that lowers blood pressure by vasodilatation. The hypothesis that fenoldopam could be used to induce hypotension and preserve blood flow to the kidney was tested. Systemic aortic blood pressure and renal blood flow were measured continuously with a carotid arterial catheter and an electromagnetic flow probe respectively, in order to compare the cardiovascular and renal vascular effects of fenoldopam and sodium nitroprusside in ten dogs under halothane general anaesthesia. Mean arterial pressure was decreased 30 +/- 8 per cent from control with infusion of fenoldopam (3.4 +/- 2.0 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) and 34 +/- 4 per cent with infusion of sodium nitroprusside (5.9 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) (NS). Renal blood flow (RBF) increased during fenoldopam-induced hypotension 11 +/- 7 per cent and decreased 21 +/- 8 per cent during sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension (P less than 0.01). Sodium nitroprusside is a non-selective arteriolar and venous vasodilator that can produce redistribution of blood flow away from the kidney during induced hypotension. Fenoldopam is a selective dopamine-1 (DA1) receptor agonist that causes vasodilatation to the kidney and other organs with DA1 receptors and preserves blood flow to the kidney during induced hypotension.
The authors report the occurrence of apathy, indifference, inattention, and perseveration in an obsessive compulsive patient taking high doses of fluoxetine. These changes were associated with a decrease in cerebral blood flow in the frontal lobes and changes in neuropsychological tests generally associated with frontal lobe impairment. These clinical manifestations disappeared 4 weeks after discontinuation of fluoxetine.
In this paper we describe a murine experimental model of autoimmune hemolytic anemia induced with multiple injections or oral feeding of levodopa. Strain A mice were intraperitoneally injected or fed with levodopa, at a dose equivalent to the one used in human therapy, and subsequently they developed cycles of IgM, IgG and IgA anti-mouse red blood cells (MRBC) autoantibody responses. Levodopa injection induced serum IgM and IgG anti-MRBC responses and levodopa feeding enhanced the serum anti-MRBC IgA response. The appearance of autoantibodies in the serum was followed by binding of the autoantibodies to mice erythrocytes and three phases of anemia. Red cell bound IgM and IgG autoantibodies were predominant in levodopa-injected mice whereas red cell bound IgA autoantibodies were predominant in levodopa-fed mice. The specificity of the serum IgA autoantibody was not restricted since it interacted with erythrocytes of various species.
Objectives were to assess and estimate an association between exposure to ground-level ozone and emergency department (ED) visits for cellulitis. All ED visits for cellulitis in Edmonton, Canada, in the period April 1992-March 2002 (N = 69,547) were examined. Case-crossover design was applied to estimate odds ratio (OR, and 95% confidence interval) per one interquartile range (IQR) increase in ozone concentration (IQR = 14.0 ppb). Delay of ED visit relating to exposure was probed using 0- to 5-day exposure lags. For all patients in the all months (January-December) and lags 0 to 2 days, OR = 1.05 (1.02, 1.07). For male patients during the cold months (October-March): OR = 1.05 (1.02, 1.09) for lags 0 and 2 and OR = 1.06 (1.02, 1.10) for lag 3. For female patients in the warm months (April-September): OR = 1.12 (1.06, 1.18) for lags 1 and 2. Cellulitis developing on uncovered (more exposed) skin was analyzed separately, observed effects being stronger. Cellulitis may be associated with exposure to ambient ground level ozone; the exposure may facilitate cellulitis infection and aggravate acute symptoms.
A total of 120 patients who met DSM-III criteria for unipolar major depressive episode were equally randomized to fluoxetine a.m. or fluoxetine p.m. treatment groups, such that 30 patients were in each group at each of two sites. Patients received 20 to 80 mg of fluoxetine every day for 5 weeks; the dose was based on clinical response. Highly significant within-treatment improvement was reflected by changes in mean scores on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (total score and factors), the Raskin Depression Scale, the Covi Anxiety Scale, the Clinical Global Impressions Scale for Severity, and the Clinical Global Impressions Scale for Improvement. No significant differences occurred between the a.m. and p.m. groups for any efficacy variable. Evaluation of adverse events and vital signs indicated no clinically significant differences between the two treatment groups. The data indicate that fluoxetine is equally efficacious and well tolerated regardless of the time of day it is administered and suggest that fluoxetine may be administered at either time of day without affecting clinical course.
A patient is presented whose electrocardiogram became remarkably abnormal and who developed hypotension while receiving disopyramide and potassium. This report documents a potassium-disopyramide synergism leading to life-threatening toxicity. These abnormalities were corrected by glucose, insulin and bicarbonate therapy, suggesting that serious disopyramide toxicity may be enhanced by hyperkalemia and reversed by lowering the serum potassium.
In addition to the low risk of agranulocytosis, several more frequent side effects are associated with clozapine therapy. We tried to estimate the incidence of these side effects. We analysed 391 treatments in 315 inpatients, who received clozapine alone or combined with other neuroleptic and antidepressant drugs. Two thirds were combined treatments, one third were treatments with clozapine alone (i.e., no other neuroleptic, antidepressant or anticonvulsive drugs were allowed). The numbers in brackets show the incidence based on the analysis of the treatments with clozapine alone. In 49% (61%) of the treatments a rise in the liver enzyme values was observed. However, counting only the cases in which a two-fold increase over the normal values was observed, the incidence was reduced to 20% (31%). Increase in temperature was observed in 4% (6%) and leukopenia (leukocyte count under 3500/microliters) was recorded in 2% (2%). Hypotensive dysregulation (systolic blood pressure under 90 mm Hg) was observed in 25% of all treatments and pharmacogenic delirium in 8%. No cases of agranulocytosis were observed. Mean treatment duration was 56 days, mean daily dosage 257 mg. The mean age of the patients was 34 years. In the overall evaluation 71% of the treatments were classified as successful; clozapine therapy was continued after discharge in 68% of the treatments. Adverse reactions (delirium, rise in temperature, hypotension, fatigue, rise in liver enzymes) necessitated a change of medication in 17% of the treatments. Changeover to another neuroleptic drug due to ineffectiveness of clozapine was necessary in 7% of the treatments.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of a high fat diet on progression of minimal cancerous lesions to manifest ones were investigated using a chemo-endocrine carcinogenesis model of rat prostate. Male Fischer 344 rats were alternatively given a diet containing 0.75 ppm of ethinyl estradiol (EE) for 3 weeks and the basal diet without EE for the following 2 weeks, and subcutaneously administered with 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) at 50 mg/kg body weight 2 days after the diet with EE was changed to the basal one. This sequential treatment was repeated 10 times in 50 weeks, and the animals were fed with either normal fat diet (NF) or high fat diet (HF) during the following 30 weeks. At week 80, all the rats were sacrificed for histological examination of the prostate. Atypical hyperplasia and adenocarcinoma were induced in 15.4% (4/26) and 34.6% (9/26) in the rats fed NF and 44.8% (13/29) and 20.7% (6/29) in those group fed HF, respectively. The incidence of adenocarcinoma was significantly higher in the group fed NF than in the other. However, the number of rats with either atypical hyperplasia or adenocarcinoma was not significantly different between the two groups. These observations provided no supporting evidence that high fat content in diet has enhancing effects on prostatic carcinogenesis. Using different species or strain of rats, C3H/He mice and ACI/Seg rats, additional experiments were also conducted by a slightly modified protocol without changing on fat contents. Although ACI/Seg rats were known to spontaneously develop prostate cancer, the histopathological examinations revealed atypical hyperplasia at 25% (16/64) in mice and microadenocarcinoma at 8.1% (6/74) in rats. Apparently further studies are needed until a more useful and efficient model of prostate carcinogenesis is established.
We have developed an experimental mouse model to study the effect of daily cocaine administration on the immune system during an acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). Mice were infected with LP-BM5 murine leukemia virus, a retrovirus which causes immunosuppression with the development of functional murine AIDS. Increasing doses of cocaine given by daily intraperitoneal injection for 11 weeks reduced body weight. A daily cocaine injection in some mice as well as a saline injection in others showed a decrease in the percentage of Thy 1.2+, CD4+ and CD8+ cells, while both treatments increased the percentage and absolute numbers of B-cells per spleen. Saline and cocaine treatment induced an increase in gamma-IFN and TNF-alpha production by splenocytes. Cocaine treatment favored a decrease in sIL-2R secretion. Saline and cocaine treatment had slightly different effects on the splenocytes of protein-malnourished mice. Cocaine treatment induced an increase in the percentage of CD8+ cells. Saline and cocaine treatments decreased the number of Mac 1+ cells in the spleen. Moreover, saline- and cocaine-treated protein-malnourished mice splenocytes did not present the increase in gamma-IFN production as well-nourished mice splenocytes showed. Retrovirus-infected mice showed a decrease in the percentage of Thy 1.2+ and CD8+ cells and an increase in the percentage and absolute numbers of CD4+, IL-2R+, Mac 1+ and B-cells. Cocaine partially prevented the enlargement of lymphoid organs due to lymphoid cell proliferation induced by murine retrovirus infection, but had little effect on the elevated percentage of CD4+ cells or B-cells or the depressed numbers of CD8+ cells associated with virus infection. However, cocaine did reduce the number of activated IL-2R+ cells and macrophages (Mac 1+) in addition to reducing the total number of cells per spleen in all subsets in retrovirus-infected mice, but not in uninfected controls. Cocaine treatment and retrovirus infection alone or in combination suppressed the release of sIL-2R into supernatant fluid during in vitro culture of splenocytes. These data illustrate that cocaine treatment modulates cell proliferation in retrovirus-infected mice and thus modifies the absolute number of cells in those subsets already altered by retrovirus infection. Retrovirus-infected and retrovirus-infected cocaine-treated protein-malnourished mice showed similar results.
A 37-year-old female with a history of hypertension for 5 years was brought to the emergency room with swelling of the tongue and neck after the second dose of enalapril. After administration of hydrocortisone by her physician, she went to the emergency room. Her dyspnea and dysarthria were relieved. However, she experienced recurrence of the symptoms followed by respiratory arrest. She suffered severe anoxic brain damage and died three days later. Although angioedema is a rare occurrence with the use of enalapril, it is potentially life threatening.
