Methamphetamine (METH)-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity is associated with hyperthermia. We investigated the effect of several neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitors on METH-induced hyperthermia and striatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity. Administration of METH (5 mg/kg; q. 3 h x 3) to Swiss Webster mice produced marked hyperthermia and 50-60% depletion of striatal dopaminergic markers 72 h after METH administration. Pretreatment with the nNOS inhibitors S-methylthiocitrulline (SMTC; 10 mg/kg) or 3-bromo-7-nitroindazole (3-Br-7-NI; 20 mg/kg) before each METH injection did not affect the persistent hyperthermia produced by METH, but afforded protection against the depletion of dopaminergic markers. A low dose (25 mg/kg) of the nNOS inhibitor 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) did not affect METH-induced hyperthermia, but a high dose (50 mg/kg) produced significant hypothermia. These findings indicate that low dose of selective nNOS inhibitors protect against METH-induced neurotoxicity with no effect on body temperature and support the hypothesis that nitric oxide (NO) and peroxynitrite have a major role in METH-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity.
A 14-year-old girl developed acute renal failure after 3 years therapy with propylthiouracil (PTU) for Grave's disease. Serologic evaluation showed antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) directed against proteinase 3 and myeloperoxidase. Renal biopsy showed a crescentic glomerulonephritis (GN) as well as evidence of IgA nephropathy (IgAN). PTU was discontinued and the patient was treated with prednisone and cyclophosphamide. ANCA became negative and renal function improved, but did not normalize. A second biopsy showed evidence of IgA nephropathy only. Propylthiouracil use has been associated with ANCA positive pauci-immune glomerulonephritis, but not with IgA nephropathy. An overlap syndrome between IgAN and ANCA-positive GN, however, has been described. This patient may have had a preexisting IgAN, with acute pauci-immune GN secondary to PTU, or this may be the first description of an overlap syndrome of IgAN and ANCA vasculitis all caused by PTU therapy.
To test whether calcium channel blockade plays a similar role in the coronary vasomotion of patients with syndrome X (n = 29) and patients with Prinzmetal's angina pectoris (n = 12), quantitative angiography was used to evaluate the effect of nifedipine (10 mg, sublingually) on the lumen diameter of proximal, mid and distal thirds of normal epicardial branches. The main differences in the coronary vasomotor reaction were uniform vasodilatation in Prinzmetal's angina and a variable response to syndrome X, and a greater increase in the coronary lumen in patients with Prinzmetal's angina as compared with those with syndrome X who showed vasodilatation. The variable response in syndrome X was not related to changes in diastolic pressure and cardiac output. Patients showing coronary constriction were those who responded to nifedipine with a higher degree of tachycardia, which might suggest a neural participation in the paradoxic reaction to this drug. In the Prinzmetal group, on the contrary, at a similar heart rate increase the pattern was invariably vasodilatation. Thus, calcium ions appear to have a different role in the coronary smooth muscle contractility of the 2 series of patients; in fact, in Prinzmetal's angina nifedipine relaxed the coronary arteries to a greater degree and made them unresponsive to stimuli that were still able to cause vasoconstriction in patients with syndrome X.
The Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway plays an integral role in the patterning and development of diverse structures in the vertebrate embryo. Aberrations in Hh signaling are associated with a range of developmental defects including failure of interhemispheric division of the embryonic forebrain as well as midline facial dysmorphia including cleft lip/palate and cyclopia, collectively termed holoprosencephaly (HPE). Postnatally, Hh signaling has been postulated to play a pivotal role in healing and repair processes and inappropriate Hh pathway activation has been implicated in several types of cancers. The Veratrum alkaloid cyclopamine is a potent inhibitor of Hh signaling and causes HPE-like defects in diverse species including sheep, hamster, mouse, and zebra fish. Using murine cell-based assays, we have determined that a number of dietary alkaloids similar in structure to cyclopamine also inhibit Hh signaling but with significantly lower potency. We found that these dietary compounds act additively through a mechanism similar to cyclopamine, downstream of Ptc1 and upstream of Gli1. Using an embryonic zebra fish developmental assay, we found that while cyclopamine exposure caused HPE-like defects, exposure to one of these dietary compounds, solanidine, did not.
Extended release (ER)-niacin therapy, which has been associated with reduced glucose tolerance in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-seronegative individuals, has not been evaluated in the HIV-infected population.
This open, prospective trial evaluated the safety and efficacy of ER-niacin therapy for antiretroviral therapy-associated dyslipidemia. Fourteen individuals received ER-niacin at maximum doses of 2000 mg per day for 14 weeks.
Significant reductions in serum levels of triglycerides (P=.02), total cholesterol (P=.005), and non-HDL cholesterol (P=.04) were seen after ER-niacin therapy. Seven of 11 subjects were glucose intolerant after ER-niacin therapy; for 3 of these subjects, this was a new finding. Beta-cell sensitivity to basal glucose levels increased significantly without concomitant increase in overall glucose disposition indices. The values for the homeostasis model of insulin resistance index increased significantly (P=.005).
ER-niacin's role in the treatment of antiretroviral therapy-associated dyslipidemia requires further evaluation, but the results of this pilot study indicate that it is safe and tolerated and provides a valuable treatment option.
Selenium (Se) is an essential trace element with a narrow margin between beneficial and toxic effects. As a promising chemopreventive agent, its use requires consumption over the long term, so the toxicity of Se is always a crucial concern. Based on clinical findings and recent studies in selenoprotein gene-modified mice, it is likely that the antioxidant function of one or more selenoproteins is responsible for the chemopreventive effect of Se. Furthermore, upregulation of phase 2 enzymes by Se has been implicated as a possible chemopreventive mechanism at supranutritional dietary levels. Se-methylselenocysteine (SeMSC), a naturally occurring organic Se product, is considered as one of the most effective chemopreventive selenocompounds. The present study revealed that, as compared with SeMSC, elemental Se at nano size (Nano-Se) possessed equal efficacy in increasing the activities of glutathione peroxidase, thioredoxin reductase, and glutathione S-transferase, but had much lower toxicity as indicated by median lethal dose, acute liver injury, survival rate, and short-term toxicity. Our results suggest that Nano-Se can serve as a potential chemopreventive agent with reduced risk of Se toxicity.
We report the case of a patient with carbamazepine-induced cholestasis in whom histologic examination showed acute cholangitis. This type of lesion broadens the spectrum of carbamazepine-induced liver injury which also includes granuloma and hepatocellular necrosis. Its association with marked hypereosinophilia suggests that carbamazepine may cause acute cholangitis through an immunoallergic mechanism.
The trace metals are frequently encountered as mixtures of essential and non-essential elements. Therefore, evaluation of their toxic effects individually does not offer a realistic estimate of their impact on biological processes. We studied effects of a mixture of four essential and toxic metals (Cu, Cd, Fe and Ni) on biochemical and morphological characteristics of the gills of a biomarker freshwater fish Channa punctata (Bloch) using environmentally relevant concentrations. Fish were exposed to metal mixture through tank water for 7, 15 and 30 days. Biochemical studies as well as light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) revealed significant metal exposure-induced alterations in gills. Besides ultastructural changes, activities of antioxidant enzymes such catalase (CAT), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were significantly altered in the gills of exposed fish. The reduced glutathione (GSH) was significantly (p<0.001) decreased, while lipid peroxidation (LPO) was significantly (p<0.001) increased. The main alterations in general morphology of fish gills included spiking and fusion of secondary lamellae, formation of club-shaped filaments, and vacuolization and necrosis of filament epithelium in the interlamellar regions. SEM studies showed gradual increase of the density and apical surface area of the chloride cells and transformation of the surface structure of the pavement cells. The results of this study indicate adaptive as well a toxic responses in fish gills exposed to mixture of trace metals. Low concentrations of trace metal appear to compromise the antioxidant defense of gills. Lesions in the gill morphology caused by the effect of low concentrations of trace metals could lead to functional alterations and interference with fundamental processes such as maintenance of osmoregulation, gas exchange and xenobiotic metabolism in the exposed fish populations.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) is widely used in the treatment of cancer and non-malignant disease states such as rheumatoid arthritis. Hemorrhagic cystitis is a major dose-limiting side effect of CP. The incidence of this side effect is related to the dosage and can be as high as 75%. Elimination of the side effects of CP can lead to better tolerance of the drug, and a more efficient therapy can be achieved for patients in need of CP treatment. Several studies have demonstrated that oxidative stress and neutrophil infiltration play important roles in CP-induced bladder damage. Glutamine is utilized under clinical conditions for preventing chemotherapeutic drug-induced side effects, based on its ability to attenuate oxidative stress. The aim of the study is to verify whether glutamine prevents CP-induced oxidative stress and bladder damage using a rat model. Adult male rats were administered 150 mg/kg body weight of CP intraperitoneally. Glutamine pretreated rats were administered 1 g/kg body weight of glutamine orally 2 h before the administration of CP. Vehicle/glutamine-treated rats served as controls. All the rats were killed 16 h after the dose of CP/vehicle. The urinary bladders were removed and used for light microscopic and biochemical studies. The markers of oxidative stress including malondialdehyde content, protein carbonyl content, protein thiol, and myeloperoxidase activity, a marker of neutrophil infiltration, were measured in bladder homogenates. CP treatment induced hemorrhagic cystitis in the rats. Pretreatment with glutamine significantly reduced CP-induced lipid peroxidation (p < 0.01), protein oxidation (p < 0.01), and increase in myeloperoxidase activity (p < 0.05). However, it did not prevent CP-induced bladder damage. The results of the present study show that glutamine pretreatment does not attenuate CP-induced hemorrhagic cystitis, although it prevents CP-induced oxidative stress and neutrophil infiltration significantly. It is therefore necessary to clarify the utility of glutamine as a chemoprotective agent before it is recommended in the market as a nutrient supplement.
A number of otoprotective agents are currently being investigated. Various types of agents have been found in animal studies to protect against hearing loss induced by cisplatin, carboplatin, aminoglycosides, or noise exposure. For over a decade we have been investigating D-methionine (D-met) as an otoprotective agent. Studies in our laboratory and others around the world have documented D-met's otoprotective action, in a variety of species, against a variety of ototoxic insults including cisplatin-, carboplatin-, aminoglycoside- and noise-induced auditory threshold elevations and cochlear hair cell loss. For cisplatin-induced ototoxicity, protection of the stria vascularis has also been documented. Further D-met has an excellent safety profile. D-met may act as both a direct and indirect antioxidant. In this report, we provide the results of three experiments, expanding findings in D-met protection in three of our translational research areas: protection from platinum based chemotherapy-, aminoglycoside- and noise-induced hearing loss. These experiments demonstrate oral D-met protection against cisplatin-induced ototoxicity, D-met protection against amikacin-induced ototoxicity, and D-met rescue from permanent noise-induced hearing loss when D-met is initiated 1h after noise exposure. These studies demonstrate some of the animal experiments needed as steps to translate a protective agent from bench to bedside.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are endopeptidases that degrade the proteins of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Expression and activity of the MMPs are essential for embryogenesis, where MMPs participate in the normal ECM remodeling that occurs during tissue morphogenesis and development. Studies have demonstrated that MMP gene expression is inhibited by glucocorticoids in mammalian cell culture systems and that exposure to glucocorticoids causes developmental abnormalities in several species. Therefore, we proposed that glucocorticoids impede normal development through alteration of MMP expression. Zebra fish (Danio rerio) were used as a model to study MMP-13 expression both during normal embryogenesis and following acute exposure to two glucocorticoids, dexamethasone, and hydrocortisone. MMP-13 is one of three collagenases identified in vertebrates that catalyzes the degradation of type I collagens at neutral pH. MMP-13 expression varied during zebra fish development, with peak expression at 48 h post-fertilization (hpf). Morpholino knockdown studies showed that MMP-13 expression is necessary for normal zebra fish embryogenesis. Acute exposure to dexamethasone and hydrocortisone resulted in abnormal zebra fish development including craniofacial abnormalities, altered somitogenesis, blood pooling and pericardial and yolk sac edema as well as increased MMP-13 mRNA and activity at 72 hpf. In situ hybridization experiments were used to confirm the increase in MMP-13 expression following glucocorticoid treatment and showed elevated MMP-13 expression in the rostral trunk, brain, eye, heart, and anterior kidney of treated embryos. These data demonstrate that normal zebra fish embryogenesis requires MMP-13 and that dexamethasone and hydrocortisone modulate the expression of this gene, leading to increased activity and potentially contributing to subsequent dysmorphogenesis.
The antidiuretic and urinary cyclic AMP response to supramaximal vasopressin infusion was studied in normal rats and in rats with lithium-polyuria. The animals were anaesthetized and then infused with a solution designed to produce excessive water diuresis and to lower basal cyclic AMP excretion. In 6 control animals not infused with vasopressin (1) urinary cyclic AMP excretion decreased during the infusion period. Vasopressin infusion (300 muU/min.) consistantly induced antidiuresis in all of 13 control rats (II); but the urinary cyclic AMP response varied individually from a significant increase in 6 animals to either no change or to a decrease in the remaining animals. The antidiuretic response to vasopressin was inhibited by 85% in 10 animals with marked polyuria induced by lithium administration (III). None of the animals in this group showed a significant increase of cyclic AMP excretion in response to vasopressin. The average rate of cyclic AMP excretion, which was equal in the two groups before vasopressin, was signifimantly lower in group III than in group II during vasopressin infusion. It is suggested that the increase in cyclic AMP excretion during vasopressin antidiuresis, although not consistant, most likely reflects hormone-induced changes of intracellular cyclic AMP levels in the renal medulla. Thus, the data suggest that the nephrogenic diabetes insipidus syndrome produced by lithium is associated with a defect in the renal formation of cyclic AMP in response to vasopressin.
The pathogenesis of nephrotic syndrome is not clear. In this study, we used electron spin resonance (ESR) to evaluate levels of reactive oxygen species in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis. Twenty-six Wistar rats were divided into four groups: (1) PAN treated, (2) PAN treated and alpha-tocopherol supplemented, (3) supplemented with alpha-tocopherol only, (4) control. On day 9, urinary protein excretion was measured. On day 10, all animals were sacrificed with retrograde perfusion via the aorta to obtain renal venous perfusates. The signal intensities of ascorbate radicals in the perfusates were determined by ESR. After perfusion, the kidneys were isolated and sieved to obtain glomeruli for determination of glomerular thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBArs) and alpha-tocopherol. Urinary protein excretion by PAN-treated rats increased significantly on day 9 and was reduced by alpha-tocopherol supplementation. The ascorbate radical intensity and glomerular TBArs level were higher in PAN-treated than in control rats and were both suppressed to control levels by alpha-tocopherol supplementation. There were positive correlations between ascorbate radical intensity and the daily urinary protein, as well as between ascorbate radical intensity and the glomerular TBArs level. Hence, it is possible to quantify oxidative stress due to PAN nephrosis by ESR. Our findings suggest that lipid peroxidation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of proteinuria in PAN-treated rats.
1,25-dihydroxy-22-ovavitamin D(3) (22-oxacalcitriol, OCT) was recently introduced commercially as an analogue of 1,25 (OH)(2) vitamin D(3), but one which has less pronounced calcemic activity.
To examine the efficacy and tolerability of OCT, 46 hemodialysis patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism were randomly assigned to receive either intravenous OCT or oral calcitriol pulse therapies. The patients were monitored for serum calcium, phosphate, intact parathyroid hormone (PTH), and bone alkaline phosphatase (BAP) for 24 weeks. The efficacy of intravenous OCT was also examined in 24 additional patients who were refractory to oral calcitriol pulse therapy.
In the randomized trial, intact PTH levels were significantly suppressed within 4 weeks after the initiation of each therapy, and this effect was well maintained thereafter in both treatment groups. While intact PTH was significantly lower at 4 weeks in the calcitriol pulse group than in the OCT group (P = 0.02), no statistical differences were observed during later treatment periods. BAP was reduced equally by each treatment. At 4 weeks (P = 0.02) and thereafter (P = 0.06), serum calcium was higher among calcitriol-treated patients than among those who received OCT treatment. Eight of 24 patients who were refractory to oral calcitriol pulse therapy responded to intravenous OCT. The patients who responded tended to have lower serum intact PTH and phosphorus levels and smaller parathyroid glands at the start of OCT treatment than nonresponders.
OCT is as effective as oral calcitriol pulse therapy in suppressing intact PTH and BAP in chronic hemodialysis patients. It was confirmed that OCT exhibits less calcemic activity than calcitriol. Moreover, under certain conditions, switching to OCT may help in the treatment of hyperparathyroidism, which is refractory to conventional oral calcitriol pulse therapy.
This study has been performed to assess the effect of methyldopa (MD) therapy in pregnancy hypertension on the neonatal adaptation. Infants born to mothers on MD for several weeks prior to delivery and presenting with excessive tremor and irritability were evaluated according to the dose of maternal MD. Pregnancy hypertension and high dose MD was associated with impaired placental perfusion, compromised function of fetoplacental unit and more frequent surgical delivery. Infants of mothers on high (1.25-2.0 g/day) or low (less than 1 g/day) MD had gestational age, head circumference, acid-base balance, Apgar score and blood pressure similar to those born to healthy control mothers. The birth weight of infants of the high MD group, however, were significantly lower than in the low-dose or control groups. MD therapy resulted in a dose-dependent increase in plasma levels of prolactin, thyrotropin and triiodthyronine indicating decreased dopaminergic inhibition of pituitary hormone release. Plasma thyroxine concentration, however, decreased significantly. Cerebrospinal fluid noradrenaline was found to be markedly depressed after maternal MD showing disturbed central nervous system monoamine metabolism. It is suggested that MD administration to mothers presenting with pregnancy hypertension interferes with cerebral monoamine metabolism of the neonate and induces alterations in some endocrine functions under dopaminergic control. The possible role of chronic fetal distress frequently associated with pregnancy hypertension should also be considered.
In a 7-week-old female infant a prolonged QTc interval, up to 485 ms, was measured and attributed to the use of the prokinetic agent cisapride. The girl was born at 32 1/7 weeks of gestational age, started to use cisapride (0.8 mg/kg/day) at the age of 7 weeks because of gastro-oesophageal reflux. After cessation of cisapride therapy, the QTc interval returned to normal. A normal QTc interval had also been observed before the use of cisapride. Because of the risk of QTc prolongation and possibly cardiac arrhythmias during the use of cisapride by newborn infants, electrocardiography should be performed before and during cisapride therapy; they should also be checked for possible risk factors like electrolyte disturbances and congenital QTc prolongation. Prudence is called for in case of patients with pre-existing disorders which could result in QT prolongation like electrolyte disturbances, congenital QT prolongation, and the concomitant use of medication associated with QT prolongation.
In a prospective multicenter study, 244 men with highly or moderately differentiated prostatic cancer in stage I, II or III (VACURG) were consecutively randomized to three groups of treatment: Group A (77 patients) received polyestradiol phosphate (Estradurin, Leo) 80 mg i.m. every fourth week + ethinyl estradiol (Etivex, Leo) 150 micrograms daily, group B (72 patients) estramustine phosphate (Estracyt, Leo) 280 mg twice daily, and group C (76 patients) no therapy. Only men without current or previous other malignancy and without cardiovascular disease were admitted to the study. After 4 1/2 years 125 of the 244 patients had left the study, 9 because of cancer progression (stage IV, VACURG). The most serious complications were cardiovascular, including ischemic heart disease, cardiac decompensation, cerebral ischemia and venous thromboembolism, which occurred in 24 patients from group A and 9 from group B as compared to only one patient in group C. The subgroup superficial or deep venous thrombosis comprised 11 group A and 2 group B patients. Estrogens (E + e) offered as palliative treatment to patients with non-generalized prostatic carcinoma is burdened with a high incidence of serious cardiovascular complications.
The beta 2-Mg (beta 2-microglobulin) and GAG (glycosaminogyclan) excretions in 107 patients with bipolar disorder who had been on lithium treatment for 1-15 years were compared with 29 matched psychiatric control patients. 24-h urine volume, urine beta 2-Mg, GAG values were significantly higher, and maximal urinary osmolality was significantly lower in patients on lithium than in controls. No relationship was found between creatinine clearances and duration of illness, duration of lithium treatment and daily lithium dosages. Duration of lithium treatment was not related to the concentrating capacity. The beta 2-Mg excretion rates were significantly higher in patients with manifest polyuria and with severe concentration defect.
The aim of this study was to determine the contribution of alpha 2- and alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist activity of the formamidine, amitraz, on peripheral circulation in the dog. Intra-arterial injections of amitraz (0.25-5.0 micrograms/kg) produced a dose-dependent increase in perfusion pressure in the autoperfused hind limbs of methoxyflurane-anaesthetized dogs. A constant blood flow to the hind limbs was maintained using a peristaltic pump. Intravenous phentolamine (0.5 mg/kg), prazosin (35 micrograms/kg) and yohimbine (10 micrograms/kg) in separate experiments antagonized the vasoconstrictor actions of amitraz and produced a parallel shift to the right of the amitraz dose-response curve. Cumulative doses of amitraz (0.5-15 micrograms/kg) given by intracisterna magna (i.c.m.) injections reduced mean arterial pressure and heart rate in a dose-dependent manner. Similar responses were produced by intravenous amitraz but at much higher doses. In separate experiments amitraz-induced hypotension (doses up to 25 micrograms/kg i.c.m.) was prevented by pre-treatment with yohimbine (30 micrograms/kg i.c.m.) but not prazosin (20 micrograms/kg i.c.m.). Both antagonists partially inhibited the bradycardia produced by amitraz. It is concluded that amitraz stimulates alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors to produce vascular constriction. The central hypotensive action of amitraz appears to be mediated by alpha 2-adrenoceptors; however, both receptor subtypes appear to be stimulated to produce bradycardia.
Two patients with oliguric acute renal failure (ARF) attributed to crystalluria and nephrolithiasis with obstructive uropathy caused by the human immunodeficiency virus protease inhibitor indinavir are described. In both patients, ARF resolved with administration of intravenous fluids. One patient required urologic intervention to relieve bilateral ureteral obstruction.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) p38alpha controls inflammatory responses and cell proliferation. Using mice carrying conditional Mapk14 (also known as p38alpha) alleles, we investigated its function in postnatal development and tumorigenesis. When we specifically deleted Mapk14 in the mouse embryo, fetuses developed to term but died shortly after birth, probably owing to lung dysfunction. Fetal hematopoietic cells and embryonic fibroblasts deficient in p38alpha showed increased proliferation resulting from sustained activation of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)-c-Jun pathway. Notably, in chemical-induced liver cancer development, mice with liver-specific deletion of Mapk14 showed enhanced hepatocyte proliferation and tumor development that correlated with upregulation of the JNK-c-Jun pathway. Furthermore, inactivation of JNK or c-Jun suppressed the increased proliferation of Mapk14-deficient hepatocytes and tumor cells. These results demonstrate a new mechanism whereby p38alpha negatively regulates cell proliferation by antagonizing the JNK-c-Jun pathway in multiple cell types and in liver cancer development.
We performed a high-throughput retroviral insertional mutagenesis screen in mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV)-induced mammary tumors and identified 33 common insertion sites, of which 17 genes were previously not known to be associated with mammary cancer and 13 had not previously been linked to cancer in general. Although members of the Wnt and fibroblast growth factors (Fgf) families were frequently tagged, our exhaustive screening for MMTV insertion sites uncovered a new repertoire of candidate breast cancer oncogenes. We validated one of these genes, Rspo3, as an oncogene by overexpression in a p53-deficient mammary epithelial cell line. The human orthologs of the candidate oncogenes were frequently deregulated in human breast cancers and associated with several tumor parameters. Computational analysis of all MMTV-tagged genes uncovered specific gene families not previously associated with cancer and showed a significant overrepresentation of protein domains and signaling pathways mainly associated with development and growth factor signaling. Comparison of all tagged genes in MMTV and Moloney murine leukemia virus-induced malignancies showed that both viruses target mostly different genes that act predominantly in distinct pathways.
Stem cell function is central for the maintenance of normal tissue homeostasis. Here we show that deletion of p38alpha mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase in adult mice results in increased proliferation and defective differentiation of lung stem and progenitor cells both in vivo and in vitro. We found that p38alpha positively regulates factors such as CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein that are required for lung cell differentiation. In addition, p38alpha controls self-renewal of the lung stem and progenitor cell population by inhibiting proliferation-inducing signals, most notably epidermal growth factor receptor. As a consequence, the inactivation of p38alpha leads to an immature and hyperproliferative lung epithelium that is highly sensitized to K-Ras(G12V)-induced tumorigenesis. Our results indicate that by coordinating proliferation and differentiation signals in lung stem and progenitor cells, p38alpha has a key role in the regulation of lung cell renewal and tumorigenesis.
Jeune asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy, an autosomal recessive chondrodysplasia, often leads to death in infancy because of a severely constricted thoracic cage and respiratory insufficiency; retinal degeneration, cystic renal disease and polydactyly may be complicating features. We show that IFT80 mutations underlie a subset of Jeune asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy cases, establishing the first association of a defective intraflagellar transport (IFT) protein with human disease. Knockdown of ift80 in zebrafish resulted in cystic kidneys, and knockdown in Tetrahymena thermophila produced shortened or absent cilia.
