Mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is a severe neurological condition of unknown pathogenesis for which several animal models have been developed. To obtain a better understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms and identify potential biomarkers of lesion progression, we used a rat kainic acid (KA) treatment model of MTLE coupled with global gene expression analysis to examine temporal (four hours, days 3, 14, or 28) gene regulation relative to hippocampal histopathological changes. The authors recommend reviewing the companion histopathology paper (Sharma et al. 2008) to get a better understanding of the work presented here. Analysis of filtered gene expression data using Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (Ingenuity Systems, http://www.ingenuity.com) revealed that a number of genes pertaining to neuronal plasticity (RhoA, Rac1, Cdc42, BDNF, and Trk), neurodegeneration (Caspase3, Calpain 1, Bax, a Cytochrome c, and Smac/Diablo), and inflammation/immune-response pathways (TNF-alpha, CCL2, Cox2) were modulated in a temporal fashion after KA treatment. Expression changes for selected genes known to have a role in neuronal plasticity were subsequently validated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Notably, canonical pathway analysis revealed that a number of genes within the axon guidance signaling canonical pathway were up-regulated from Days 3 to 28, which correlated with aberrant mossy fiber (MF) sprouting observed histologically beginning at Day 6. Importantly, analysis of the gene expression data also identified potential biomarkers for monitoring neurodegeneration (Cox2) and neuronal/synaptic plasticity (Kalrn).
Alloxan-induced diabetic rats frequently exhibit proliferative lesions of squamous hyperplasia accompanied by chronic inflammation and Candida albicans infection in the forestomach, and some lesions progress to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Candida infection causes not only hyperplastic changes with inflammation but might also lead to SCC in human oral mucosa. Thus, the present study was conducted to examine the effects of the antifungal agent itraconazole (ITCZ) on proliferative and inflammatory changes of the forestomach in alloxan-induced diabetic WBN/Kob rats. Diabetes was induced by alloxan at fifteen weeks of age. Rats were allocated to three groups at forty-five weeks of age and were given ITCZ by gavage 0 (vehicle control), 5, and 10 mg/kg/day for four weeks, and they were sacrificed at the sixty-fifth week of age. Mucosal hyperplastic changes were consistently accompanied by inflammation and Candida infections in the 0 mg/kg group. These lesions were reduced by ITCZ (0 mg/kg; 100%, 5 mg/kg; 53.5%, 10 mg/kg; 61.5%). Squamous cell carcinoma was detected in three rats from the 0 mg/kg, but only one rat from the 10 mg/kg dose groups in this study. Itraconazole reduced the degree of mucosal hyperplasia, inflammatory changes, and Candida infection. Therefore, C. albicans infection was an important factor in pathogenesis of mucosal proliferation and inflammation.
Lichens are a known source of approximately 800 unique secondary metabolites, many of which play important ecological roles, including regulating the equilibrium between symbionts. However, only a few of these compounds have been assessed for their effectiveness against various in vitro cancer models. Moreover, the mechanisms of biological activity of lichen secondary metabolites on living cells (including cancer cells) are still almost entirely unknown. In the present study, we investigated the mechanisms of cytotoxicity of four lichen secondary metabolites (parietin, atranorin, usnic acid and gyrophoric acid) on A2780 and HT-29 cancer cell lines. We found that usnic acid and atranorin were more effective anti-cancer compounds when compared to parietin and gyrophoric acid. Usnic acid and atranorin were capable of inducing a massive loss in the mitochondrial membrane potential, along with caspase-3 activation (only in HT-29 cells) and phosphatidylserine externalization in both tested cell lines. Induction of both ROS and especially RNS may be responsible, at least in part, for the cytotoxic effects of the tested compounds. Based on the detection of protein expression (PARP, p53, Bcl-2/Bcl-xL, Bax, p38, pp38) we found that usnic acid and atranorin are activators of programmed cell death in A2780 and HT-29, probably through the mitochondrial pathway.
Special complications due to intermittent rifampicin administration have been well documented, specially for the treatment of tuberculosis. Multi-drug therapy recommended for the treatment of leprosy by W.H.O. (1982) advocates the administration of rifampicin at monthly interval and at this level of infrequent administration, complications linked with intermittent therapy are seldom noted. An adult male put on W.H.O. regimen for the treatment of lepromatous leprosy developed acute renal failure at the time of second and third monthly doses of rifampicin therapy, but recovered completely due to prompt treatment.
A previous study has reported evidence of a strong linkage, but no association, between paired box gene 6 (PAX6) and myopia. We attempted to replicate these findings and to conduct a candidate gene and locus evaluation of genetic involvement in common forms of myopia.
Samples were collected from 517 individuals in 123 families with a myopic child participating in the Orinda Longitudinal Study of Myopia or the Contact Lens and Myopia Progression Study. Myopia in the proband children was defined as -0.75 D or more and as being present in both meridians on cycloplegic autorefraction (1% tropicamide). Affected status in parents and siblings was determined by survey. After DNA was extracted from buccal mucosal cells and genotyped using assays for microsatellite markers and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), DNA was analyzed for linkage disequilibrium. Markers on chromosomes 12 and 18 were selected as regions previously associated with pathological myopia. SNPs were also analyzed in genes where their expression pattern or their association with syndromes conveys myopia as part of the phenotype (FGF2, BDNF, COL2A1, COL18A1, and PAX6).
The SNP rs1635529 for COL2A1 on 12q13.11 showed highly significant over-transmission to affected individuals (p=0.00007). No SNP for FGF2, BDNF, COL18A1, or PAX6 showed significant over-transmission to affected individuals after correction for multiple comparisons. Markers on chromosome 12 and 18 previously associated with pathological myopia also showed no significant associations with the more common form of myopia in this study.
As reported previously by others, PAX6 showed no association with myopia. Associations in the current analysis are suggestive of involvement of COL2A1. Future studies should focus on replication in other samples and in genome-wide approaches.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is a highly lethal disease, which is usually diagnosed in an advanced stage. We have established transgenic rats carrying a mutated K-ras gene controlled by Cre/loxP activation. The animals develop PDA which is histopathologically similar to that in humans. Previously, we reported that serum levels of N-ERC/mesothelin were significantly higher in rats bearing PDA than in controls. In the present study, to determine whether serum levels of N-ERC/mesothelin correlated with tumor size, we measured N-ERC/mesothelin levels in rats bearing PDA. Increased serum levels of N-ERC/mesothelin correlated with increased tumor size. This result indicates an interrelationship between the serum level of N-ERC/mesothelin and tumor size. We next investigated the effect of chemotherapy on serum N-ERC/mesothelin levels. Rat pancreatic cancer cells were implanted subcutaneously into the flank of NOD-SCID mice. In the mice treated with 200 mg/kg gemcitabine, tumor weight and the serum level of N-ERC/mesothelin were significantly decreased compared to controls. These results suggest that serum N-ERC/mesothelin measurements might be useful for monitoring response to therapy.
Changes in cerebral hemodynamics and oxygenation patterns in cerebral vasospasm might be underestimated if transcranial doppler sonography and angiography findings are considered singularly. This report describes preliminary findings in further development of a noninvasive method that estimates regional cerebral oxygenation and perfusion. A 50-year-old patient suffering from cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage before and after superselective papaverine infusion was examined. Measurements were taken by using a technique combining indocyaningreen dye dilution and near infrared spectroscopy. Our first results suggest that the technique could be suitable for estimation of cerebral hemodynamics. This noninvasive technique can be performed at the bedside and in special environments, such as neurocritical care units. It seems to be safe, easy to perform, and less time-consuming than conventional techniques. Combination of indocyaningreen dye dilution and near infrared spectroscopy might become a powerful tool in the detection and treatment of cerebral vasospasm causing delayed cerebral ischemic deficit. Further larger-scale investigations are necessary to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of this technique. Our preliminary observations however, based on measurements before and after superselective papaverine infusion in vasospastic vessels, helped to clarify the influence of extracerebral contamination on the cerebral near infrared spectroscopy signal in the adult head.
Recent studies have reported that bisphenol A (BPA) influences brain development in fetal exposure to mice. The X-chromosome codes many neurodevelopment-related genes leading to abnormal development, such as mental retardation and intellectual deficiency. For females, most of expressions of X-linked genes are regulated by X-chromosome inactivation (XCI), which occurs during fetal period, and this mechanism is regulated by Xist and its antisense, Tsix. To clarify the possibility of X-mediated effect as a mechanism of neurodevelopmental disorders by BPA, pregnant ICR mice were orally administered 0.02 or 50 mg/kg of BPA on gestational days 6 and 15. Postnatally at days 2, 4 and weeks 3 and 7, mRNA expression of XCI-regulating factors (Xist and Tsix), X-linked neurodevelopment-related genes (Fmr1, Gdi1, Nlgn3, Pak3 and Ophn1), and sexual differentiation-related genes (ERα, ERβ and AR) were examined in cerebrums of female pups. Anogenital distance (AGD) and serum estradiol were also examined. In the 50 mg/kg exposed-group, reduced Xist, Fmr1, Gdi1, Nlgn3, and Pak3 and increased Tsix were observed simultaneously. Moderately reduced Xist, Gdi1, Nlgn3 and Pak3 were observed at 0.02 mg/kg BPA. ERα, ERβ and AR expression changes, shortened AGDs and reduced estradiol levels were observed in each exposure group. Fetal exposure to BPA changed expression of XCI-regulating factors and may alter the expression levels of X-linked neurodevelopment-related genes disrupting the XCI mechanism and function. This X-mediated effect is considered one of the mechanisms of various BPA-induced neurodevelopmental disorders.
We evaluated the cardioprotection against myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury induced by sevoflurane postconditioning (SpostC) in chronically-infarcted rat hearts, and investigated the roles of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B/Akt (PKB/Akt), mitogen-activated extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 (MEK 1/2)-extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK 1/2), and mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP). Left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery was ligated to induce myocardial infarction in rats. Six weeks later, chronically-infarcted hearts were isolated and subjected to 30 min of global ischemia, followed by 1 h of reperfusion with Krebs-Henseleit (K-H) buffer. SpostC was administered by perfusing the hearts with K-H buffer saturated with 3% sevoflurane during the first 15 min of reperfusion. To evaluate the role of PI3K-PKB/Akt and MEK 1/2-ERK 1/2 in SpostC, PI3K inhibitor LY294002 (15 microM) and MEK 1/2 inhibitor PD98059 (20 microM) were administered alone or together with sevoflurane during the first 15 min of reperfusion. We found that exposure of 3% sevoflurane during early reperfusion significantly improved functional recovery (improved left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP), +/-dp/dt, CF, HR and reduced left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP)), decreased myocardial infarct size and reduced LDH and CK-MB release, when compared with unprotected hearts. However, these protective effects were abolished in the presence of either LY294002 or PD98059, which was accompanied by the prevention of PKB/Akt and ERK 1/2 phosphorylation, and reduction of myocardial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) content. These findings suggest that sevoflurane postconditioning protects chronically-infarcted rat hearts against ischemia-reperfusion injury by inhibiting mPTP opening via recruitment of PKB/Akt and ERK 1/2.
The in vitro effects of 2 representative mycotoxins, T-2 toxin and deoxynivalenol (DON), of trichothecene group on the electron transport system (ETS) of mitochondria in rat cardiomyocytes were investigated by measuring oxygen consumption rates (OCR). The ATP-linked OCR and the reserve capacity (RC) of the mitochondria ETS were quantified by a "mitochondria stress test" which was estimated by the OCR responses to oligomycin and carbonyl cyanide-p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone, with an extracellular flux analyzer. The basal OCR was significantly inhibited by the application of T-2 toxin at concentrations of 6 × 10⁻¹ to 6 × 10⁻⁵ μM and DON at concentrations of 0.78 to 100 μM for 24 hr. The threshold of cardiomyocyte toxicity was estimated to be between 6.0 × 10⁻⁶ and 6.0 × 10⁻⁵ μM for T-2 toxicity on both ATP-linked OCR and RC and between 0.39 and 0.78 μM on ATP-linked OCR or between 1.56 and 3.13 μM on RC for DON. The decrease in OCR of cardiomyocytes exposed to T-2 toxin with a concentration of 6.0 × 10⁻³ and 6.0 × 10⁻⁴ μM was significantly inhibited by antioxidants, catalase and vitamin C. In conclusion, the present study demonstrated, through the direct and real-time measurement of respiratory function in mitochondria, that a marked inhibition of mitochondrial ETS function in cardiomyocytes was induced by T-2 toxin and DON and that the mitochondrial dysfunction by T-2 toxin was largely associated with oxidative stress.
The analgesic syndrome, comprising renal disease, hypertension, peptic ulcer, anaemia and recurrent headache, accounts for wide-spread morbidity and mortality especially in Queensland and New South Wales. Epidemiological and clinical evidence gathered from many Western societies implicates unsupervised consumption of compound analgesic preparations, particularly those containing phenacetin, in the causation of the majority of cases. Laboratory experiments so far have failed to produce an entirely satisfactory model of clinical analgesic nephropathy. In small animals, papillary necrosis results from prolonged feeding with large doses of aspirin and a number of other anti-inflammatory agents more readily than when phenacetin, paracetamol or phenazone is given alone. The apparently conflicting deductive and experimental data may be reconciled if, as indicated by preliminary observations, salicylates enhance the toxicity of phenacetin derivatives. In planning a programme of prevention for the analgesic syndrome, the central aetiological role of non-narcotic drug dependency must be recognized. As the analgesics to which addiction commonly occurs are the compound powders and tablets, or those containing a stimulant, these preparations should be available only in circumstances where their use can be monitored. Suspected unsupervised and unwarranted consumption of analgesics should be checked by urinary testing for drug metabolites. Because the underlying problem of analgesic dependency is behavioural and environmental in origin rather than medical, the physician must combine forces with the social engineer to devise a definitive solution for this condition.
In this study, we investigated the regulation of FOXM1 expression by estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) and its role in hormonal therapy and endocrine resistance. FOXM1 protein and mRNA expression was regulated by ER-ligands, including estrogen, tamoxifen (OHT) and fulvestrant (ICI182780; ICI) in breast carcinoma cell lines. Depletion of ERalpha by RNA interference (RNAi) in MCF-7 cells downregulated FOXM1 expression. Reporter gene assays showed that ERalpha activates FOXM1 transcription through an estrogen-response element (ERE) located within the proximal promoter region. The direct binding of ERalpha to the FOXM1 promoter was confirmed in vitro by mobility shift and DNA pull-down assays and in vivo by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analysis. Our data also revealed that upon OHT treatment ERalpha recruits histone deacetylases to the ERE site of the FOXM1 promoter, which is associated with a decrease in histone acetylation and transcription activity. Importantly, silencing of FOXM1 by RNAi abolished estrogen-induced MCF-7 cell proliferation and overcame acquired tamoxifen resistance. Conversely, ectopic expression of FOXM1 abrogated the cell cycle arrest mediated by the anti-estrogen OHT. OHT repressed FOXM1 expression in endocrine sensitive but not resistant breast carcinoma cell lines. Furthermore, qRT-PCR analysis of breast cancer patient samples revealed that there was a strong and significant positive correlation between ERalpha and FOXM1 mRNA expression. Collectively, these results show FOXM1 to be a key mediator of the mitogenic functions of ERalpha and estrogen in breast cancer cells, and also suggest that the deregulation of FOXM1 may contribute to anti-estrogen insensitivity.
During a nine-month period we have treated 46 patients with status epilepticus with intravenous application of diazepam or midazolam. The initial doze od diazepam was 10 mg (rate: 2-5 mg/min) and of midazolam 15 mg (rate: 5 mg/min). Diazepam was effective in 26 and ineffective in 15 patients. Midazolam stopped status in 4 out of 7 patients. Both drugs were more effective when they were administered at the beginning of status. After the initial termination of status and recovering of consciousness, seizures returned in 10 patients (22%). In the group treated with diazepam, 4 patients had sudden apnea and 6 respiratory depression (totally 10 out of 41). In the group treated with midazolam, 3 had apnea and 2 respiratory depression (totally 5 out of 7). All patients with apnea or respiratory depression received higher doses of both drugs at the higher rates than the others. We conclude that the efficacy of the therapy is moderate while the frequency of serious complications is high. In status epilepticus, where the life of patient is in danger, drugs with such activity are of limited value.
Systemic injection of pilocarpine (380 mg/kg) results in the development of motor limbic seizures in rats. Olfactory bulbectomy performed 7 days prior to pilocarpine administration has a strong protective effect against the seizures. Neuropathological changes which normally occur in this seizure model do not develop in the brains of bulbectomized animals.
Mutations of the FGD1 gene are responsible for a significant proportion of patients with Aarskog-Scott syndrome (AAS), an X-linked disorder characterized by short stature, brachydactyly, urogenital abnormalities, and a typical dysmorphic facial appearance. Although mental retardation does not occur significantly in AAS, this condition has been described associated with various degrees of mental impairment and/or behavioral disorders in some patients. In particular, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is reported as a common characteristic of AAS. However, AAS/ADHD reported patients have been only clinically described, and diagnosis never has been confirmed on molecular basis. We present here a unique case of a 16-years-old patient presenting with ADHD, lower intelligence quotient, and dysmorphic features. Although the clinical features were not completely typical of AAS, genetic analysis demonstrated a novel FGD1 missense mutation (R408Q). The case we report confirms the highly variable expressivity of AAS and first documents that the FGD1 gene may play a role in ADHD susceptibility. We suggest that FGD1 analysis may be adequate in ADHD patients who exhibit dysmorphic features suggestive of AAS, also in the absence of the full phenotypical spectrum.
To report the third published case, as of April 8, 2006, of methylprednisolone-induced toxic hepatitis.
A 47-year-old woman was admitted to our clinic with weakness, fatigue, pruritus, and scleral icterus that had developed 10 days prior to presentation. She had been taking topiramate for one year for treatment of chronic isolated central nervous system vasculitis. One week before her symptoms developed, she had completed a self-prescribed 7 day course of oral methylprednisolone for treatment of left arm weakness. She believed that methylprednisolone was appropriate since it had been used previously for acute episodes of vasculitis. Results of liver function tests performed on admission were alanine aminotransferase 2478 U/L, aspartate aminotransferase 1600 U/L, total bilirubin 10 mg/dL, direct bilirubin 8 mg/dL, alkaline phosphatase 138 U/L, and gamma-glutamyl transferase 242 U/L. Topiramate and methylprednisolone were the only drugs she had been taking before admission, and no other causes of liver dysfunction (eg, infection, ischemia, systemic disease) were identified. Topiramate was stopped, and enzyme levels decreased to normal values within 45 days without treatment. There had been no increase in enzyme levels during hospitalization upon the accidental use of topiramate. Based on the history and laboratory findings, the final diagnosis was mixed hepatocellular and cholestatic liver injury caused by methylprednisolone.
Steroids have rarely been associated with hepatotoxicity; moreover, they are the treatment of choice for severe hepatitis. To date, only 2 cases of methylprednisolone-induced hepatotoxicity have previously been reported. Our case is similar to those with regard to mixed hepatocellular and cholestatic liver injury. Resolution of the hepatotoxicity occurred after discontinuation of the drug, with conservative treatment measures. An objective causality assessment based on the Naranjo scale suggests that hepatotoxicity was probably related to methylprednisolone.
Although rare, hepatotoxicity related to methylprednisolone should be considered in patients who develop elevated enzyme levels while receiving this steroid.
Pseudoaneurysms in the coronary circulation are an uncommon occurrence that can develop spontaneously in the setting of atherosclerosis or can develop after catheter-based coronary interventions. The natural history, clinical outcome, and optimal therapy for pseudoaneurysms in the coronary circulation are not clearly established. Recent advances in the techniques and technologies used for endovascular treatment of intracranial aneurysms may be applicable to the management of coronary aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms. We present a case of spontaneous coronary pseudoaneurysm formation after paclitaxel drug-eluting stent implantation and a case of pseudoaneurysm formation in a saphenous vein graft that were both successfully treated with stent-assisted detachable coil embolization.
Podocyte or endothelial cell VEGF-A knockout causes thrombotic microangiopathy in adult mice. To study the mechanism involved in acute and local injury caused by low podocyte VEGF-A we developed an inducible, podocyte-specific VEGF-A knockdown mouse, and we generated an immortalized podocyte cell line (VEGF(KD)) that downregulates VEGF-A upon doxycycline exposure. Tet-O-siVEGF:podocin-rtTA mice express VEGF shRNA in podocytes in a doxycycline-regulated manner, decreasing VEGF-A mRNA and VEGF-A protein levels in isolated glomeruli to ~20% of non-induced controls and urine VEGF-A to ~30% of control values a week after doxycycline induction. Induced tet-O-siVEGF:podocin-rtTA mice developed acute renal failure and proteinuria, associated with mesangiolysis and microaneurisms. Glomerular ultrastructure revealed endothelial cell swelling, GBM lamination and podocyte effacement. VEGF knockdown decreased podocyte fibronectin and glomerular endothelial alpha(V)beta(3) integrin in vivo. VEGF receptor-2 (VEGFR2) interacts with beta(3) integrin and neuropilin-1 in the kidney in vivo and in VEGF(KD) podocytes. Podocyte VEGF knockdown disrupts alpha(V)beta(3) integrin activation in glomeruli, detected by WOW1-Fab. VEGF silencing in cultured VEGF(KD) podocytes downregulates fibronectin and disrupts alpha(V)beta(3) integrin activation cell-autonomously. Collectively, these studies indicate that podocyte VEGF-A regulates alpha(V)beta(3) integrin signaling in the glomerulus, and that podocyte VEGF knockdown disrupts alpha(V)beta(3) integrin activity via decreased VEGFR2 signaling, thereby damaging the three layers of the glomerular filtration barrier, causing proteinuria and acute renal failure.
The objectives of this study were to develop a preclinical rodent model that produces migraine-like behaviors based on International Headache Society diagnostic criteria, to determine whether sex differences are present, and to determine whether expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and the genes encoding its receptor in trigeminal ganglion or medulla correlates with those behaviors.
Few animal studies of migraine have tested behaviors associated with migraine diagnostic criteria. In this study, changes in activity and in mechanical sensitivity of facial regions following application of inflammatory soup (IS) or vehicle (phosphate-buffered saline [PBS]) to the dura were measured to model changes in routine activity and allodynia. CGRP, an important mediator of migraine pathogenesis, and the 3 components of its receptor, calcitonin-like receptor (CLR), receptor activity-modifying protein 1 (RAMP1), and receptor component protein (RCP) mRNAs were quantified in the trigeminal ganglion and medulla to identify baseline sex differences and changes associated with application of IS or PBS to the dura.
Male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with a dural cannula. Groups of rats were treated with 10 or 20 µL volumes of IS or PBS. Baseline behavioral testing was conducted prior to surgery and again at 7 days postsurgery, and dural application of IS or PBS was performed repeatedly for a total of 8 applications. Locomotor activity was assessed using force plate actimetry during and following application to provide information on distance traveled, bouts of low mobility, spatial confinement, and focused energy. Periorbital and perimasseter sensory testing was performed 20 minutes post-application to measure allodynia. The rats were sacrificed 30 minutes following the final dural treatment, tissue was dissected and total RNAs were isolated from ipsilateral trigeminal ganglia and ipsilateral medulla. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reactions were used to measure the expression of amplified constructs using gene-specific primers for CGRP, RAMP1, CLR, and RCP.
Both males and females showed behavioral effects of IS application, but there were pronounced sex differences. Females showed effects at the lower dose, and activity changes were present for a longer duration, but males required fewer applications of IS to exhibit behavioral changes. Females showed increased withdrawal responses for periorbital and perimasseter mechanical testing (10 µL IS groups), and males showed increased perimasseter withdrawal responses (20 µL IS group). In the trigeminal ganglion, there were no baseline sex differences in CGRP-encoding mRNA, but females had lower baseline expression of RAMP1, CLR, and RCP-encoding mRNAs. In the medulla, females had higher baseline levels of CGRP-encoding mRNAs and lower baseline levels of RAMP1, CLR, and RCP-encoding mRNAs than males. Both IS and PBS increased expression of mRNAs encoding CGRP, RAMP1, RCP, and CLR in the trigeminal ganglion in males, but in females, only CLR and RCP were increased. In the medulla both IS and PBS increased expression of CGRP, CLR in males and CLR and RCP in females. Thus, expression of CGRP-related genes did not mirror the behavioral differences between IS and PBS groups. Instead, CGRP-related genes were upregulated by both IS and PBS applications.
This study demonstrates significant changes in locomotor activity and facial allodynia associated with application of IS to the dura as well as significant sex differences, demonstrating that International Headache Society diagnostic criteria can be used to design a rodent behavioral model of migraine. In addition, there were prominent baseline sex differences in expression of CGRP and its receptor in both the trigeminal ganglion and medulla, but the majority of changes in expression of CGRP and its receptor were present in both the IS and PBS treated rats. This suggests that the CGRP pathway responds to changes in intracranial pressure or meningeal stretch, while migraine-like behaviors occur after meningeal inflammation.
To determine the cardiac status in children 15 years (yrs) or more after a solid tumour treatment.
Of the 447 patients, 229 were fully studied and 218 were not. The following cardiac evaluation was proposed to all the 447 consecutive patients: (1) cardiac Doppler US by one of two expert cardiologists; (2) cardiac rhythm and conduction abnormalities including 24-h holter ECG; (3) (131)I-mIBG myocardial scintigraphy; (4) serum brain natriuretic peptide levels at rest; (5) an exercise test with VO(2)max measurement. The radiation dose delivered to 7 points in the heart was estimated for all patients who had received radiotherapy.
Cardiac disorder was diagnosed in 89 evaluated patients (39%) including 24 heart failures and 65 other asymptomatic cardiac diseases. When adjusting on potential confounders, cardiac disorder and cardiac failure risks were respectively linear (ERR at 1 Gy: 26%) and linear-quadratic (ERR at 1 Gy: 19%) functions of the average radiation dose received to the heart. No interaction between cumulative dose of adriamycin and average radiation dose was evidenced for cardiac disorders, but the ERR/Gy of cardiac failure was higher for patients receiving less than 350 mg/m(2) of Adriamycin.
Long term heart pathologies are probably one of the major iatrogenic risks encored by patients who survived a childhood cancer. This study strongly emphasizes the need to limit the heart irradiation during radiotherapy, particularly, for patients who also received or were susceptible to later received adriamycin.
The carcinogenic potential of naveglitazar, a gamma-dominant peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha/gamma dual agonist, was evaluated in a two-year study in F344 rats (0, 0.3, 1.0, or 3.0 mg/kg, males; 0, 0.1, 0.3, or 1.0 mg/kg, females). Increased mortality in male rats of the high-dose group was related to cardiac-associated lesions, neoplasms, and undetermined causes. Degeneration and hypertrophy of the myocardium occurred with dose-responsive increased incidence and severity. Neoplasms with increased incidence included sarcomas in male rats and urinary bladder neoplasms in female rats. Most sarcomas in male rats occurred in the adipose tissue of the subcutis and were diagnosed as fibrosarcomas, with fewer liposarcomas and other histologic types. Non-neoplastic changes in adipose tissue included expansion of adipose tissue in multiple sites, alterations in cytoplasmic vesicular pattern in brown and white fat, increases in stroma and mesenchymal cells, and fibrosis. The severity of chronic progressive nephropathy was decreased in a dose-responsive manner in males, and hyperplasia and neoplasia of the mammary gland were decreased in incidence in females. The adverse effects of cardiotoxicity and increased incidence of neoplasms occurred with dose-responsive incidence and/or severity, and a no-effect level for these effects was not achieved in this study.
Neuroblastoma (NB), the most common extracranial tumor during childhood arises from the embryonic sympathetic nervous system. Remarkably, NB can spontaneously regress, even after metastasis, leading to complete remission. Subpopulations of neuroblastic (N-type) and nonneuronal cells coexist in NB. Expression of the high-affinity nerve growth factor (NGF) TrkA receptor in NB is correlated with good prognosis, while MYCN amplification is associated with advanced stages of disease. N-type cells undergo differentiation when treated with different compounds, such as retinoids, phorbol esters, growth and neurotrophic NGF and neuropeptides, especially vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). These substances stabilize proliferation, leading to a more mature neuronal phenotype, neurite outgrowth and induction of expression of sympathetic neuronal markers. Therefore, receptors for these substances and their associated signalling pathways, appear like promising targets for the development of novel NB therapeutics. The aim of the present review is to summarize the quite considerable array of data, concerning production of VIP and related peptides, expression of their receptors in NB and the key regulation exerted by the VIP-receptor system in the control of NB cell behaviour.
Morphological analysis of brains from rats receiving a convulsant dose of the muscarinic cholinergic agonist, pilocarpine hydrochloride (380 mg/kg), revealed a widespread damage to the forebrain as assessed by light microscopy 5-7 days after seizures. The substantia nigra, olfactory cortex, amygdala, hippocampus, septum, temporal cortex and thalamus underwent prominent morphological injury and cell loss. A concurrent assessment of the activity of L-glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), the gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA) synthesizing enzyme, demonstrated marked deficits in GAD activity in the brain regions undergoing morphological insult. Diazepam, 10 mg/kg, and scopolamine hydrochloride, 10 mg/kg, administered 30 min prior to the injection of pilocarpine, 380 mg/kg, prevented acute behavioral and electrographic, and long-term morphological and biochemical sequelae of seizures. These findings suggest that the muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine, and the anticonvulsant benzodiazepine, diazepam, may aid in preventing extensive brain damage related to pathological muscarinic cholinergic overactivity. The similarity of the topography of the damage and deficits in the GAD activity in brains of rats treated with pilocarpine indicates that GABAergic neurons are lost in the subregions of the brain preferentially sensitive to the convulsant action of pilocarpine.
The aim of the study was to present general and haemorrhagic complications in 164 patients with acute DVT in ilio-femoral segment treated with different methods of pharmacological (heparins, streptokinase) and surgical (venous thrombectomy with temporary arterio-venous fistulae) therapy. There were no fatal complications in 48 UH or LMWH treated patients. One patient bled from stress stomach, one developed intramuscular haematoma, one mild pulmonary embolism and one rise of body. Among 84 patients treated with SK five fatal bleeding complications were recorded. From other non fatal complications we recorded one GI bleeding, one splenic rupture and three massive intramuscular haematoma. Three patients died in the early post thrombectomy period. Non fatal complications included one wound haematoma, two wound infection and one with marginal necrosis. The use of LMWH or UH treatment in acute ilio-femoral venous thrombosis is save as the frequency of massive bleeding and serious general complications is rather low. Fatal haemorrhagic episodes are the major hazards of thrombolytic therapy. Venous thrombectomy with temporary arterio-venous fistula may provide a good chance for treatment of acute proximal DVT associated with complete occlusion of the lumen of affected veins in patients with severe ischemic venous thrombosis or with contraindications to heparin treatment.
The authors investigated the importance of the neuropeptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), in epithelial injury, repair, and neutrophil emigration after ozone exposure. Wistar rats were administered either a CGRP-receptor antagonist (CGRP(8-37)) or saline and exposed to 8 hours of 1-ppm ozone or filtered air with an 8-hour postexposure period. Immediately after exposure, ethidium homodimer was instilled into lungs as a marker of necrotic airway epithelial cells. After fixation, airway dissected lung lobes were stained for 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine, a marker of epithelial proliferation. Positive epithelial cells were quantified in specific airway generations. Rats treated with CGRP(8-37) had significantly reduced epithelial injury in terminal bronchioles and reduced epithelial proliferation in proximal airways and terminal bronchioles. Bronchoalveolar lavage and sections of terminal bronchioles showed no significant difference in the number of neutrophils emigrating into airways in CGRP(8-37)-treated rats. The airway epithelial cell line, HBE-1, showed no difference in the number of oxidant stress positive cells during exposure to hydrogen peroxide and a range of CGRP(8-37) doses, demonstrating no antioxidant effect of CGRP(8-37). We conclude that activation of CGRP receptors during ozone inhalation contributes to airway epithelial injury and subsequent epithelial proliferation, a critical component of repair, but does not influence neutrophil emigration into airways.
