Repeated doses of direct or indirect CNS stimulants are known to cause behavioral hypersensitivity. The biochemical basis for hypersensitization remains unclear. Since the dopaminergic system uses a large storage pool that is only slowly mobilized to releasable sites, a change in this relationship may underlie the biochemical changes leading to increased responsiveness to stimulants. To test this hypothesis, rats were first tested with low doses of 2.5 mg/kg amphetamine or 1.0 mg/kg amfonelic acid (AFA) for their locomotor response, then 5.0 mg/kg amphetamine or 2.5 mg/kg AFA were injected daily for 7 days and the rats retested with the lower doses of amphetamine or AFA, respectively. Both drugs produced hypersensitivity, but the cataleptic response to acute dopamine (DA) receptor blockade by haloperidol was unaltered. The ability of haloperidol to increase DA metabolism was unaltered and the ability of acute AFA to synergize with haloperidol was similar in the striatum of stimulant and saline treated rats, but reduced in the medial prefrontal cortex of both AFA and d-amphetamine treated rats. Additional rats had DA2 receptor sensitivity measured in the striatum and frontal cortex, but no significant differences were found. Only amphetamine caused a significant decrease in frontal cortex serotonin type 2 receptors. Since there was no alteration in the ability of AFA to increase neurogenic release of DA in the striatum and a decrease occurred in prefrontal cortex, an increase in the storage to functional pool exchange in the nigrostriatal and mesocortical DA containing neurons seems unlikely. In contrast, both the amphetamine and AFA treatment groups had their brain 5HT and 5HIAA levels reduced by about 50%. This suggests that changes in other transmitter systems may have a permissive effect allowing exaggerated responses to excessive DA release.
FATE/BJ-HCC-2 is a newly identified cancer/testis (CT) antigen, which was detected in tumor tissues and testis. As previous studies of FATE/BJ-HCC-2 expression pattern were mainly based on messenger RNA (mRNA) analysis, it is necessary to investigate its actual protein expression pattern in tumor tissues for the evaluation of its application value. In this study, we produced specific polyclonal antibody (pAb) to the recombinant FATE/BJ-HCC-2 protein and analyzed the FATE/BJ-HCC-2 antigen expression in normal and malignant tissues by the immunohistochemical approach. The results showed that there was no detectable FATE/BJ-HCC-2 antigen expressed in normal tissues except testis. In hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissues, the FATE/BJ-HCC-2 antigen was detected in 20% (7/35) specimens. All samples that expressed the FATE/BJ-HCC-2 antigen were of poorly or moderately differentiated HCC. The stained antigen was located in the cytoplasm and the staining pattern showed heterogeneity from focal to more than 40% of the tumor cells. The FATE/BJ-HCC-2 antigen was also expressed in other tumor tissues. The results of [3H]thymidine incorporation showed that FATE/BJ-HCC-2 protein enhanced tumor cell proliferation after transfection of FATE/BJ-HCC-2 gene in HCC cell line (P<0.01). This effect could be specifically blocked by anti-FATE/BJ-HCC-2 pAb. Serological screening showed that the antibody specific to the FATE/BJ-HCC-2 antigen was detected in 7.7% (4/52) patients. Notably, the four positive patients bore poorly or moderately differentiated HCC. FATE/BJ-HCC-2 mRNA transcript was detected in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 46.67% patients whose resected HCC tissue samples were positive for FATE/BJ-HCC-2 mRNA, which implicated tumor cell dissemination in blood circulation and may relate to the metastasis of HCC. Thus, FATE/BJ-HCC-2 may be a valuable candidate CT antigen for polyvalent vaccines in tumor immunotherapy and an assisting diagnostic marker for prognosis of the disease.
High red meat intake has been linked with an increased risk of colorectal cancer and adenomas. During high temperature cooking of red meats, heterocyclic amines (HCAs) are generated; however, to be carcinogenic, they must be metabolized by enzymes including cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) and N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) and/or N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2). We have conducted a clinic-based case-control study of colorectal adenomas that focused on assessment of exposure to HCAs (estimated by use of a HCA database and meat cooking module) and modification of these exposures by genetic factors. We have previously reported that intake of MeIQx was associated with an increased risk of colorectal adenomas [overall association at 80th percentile, > 27.00 ng/day: odds ratio (OR) = 2.68, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.58-4.55]. Here, we report our evaluation of whether variation in CYP1A2, NAT1 and/or NAT2 modify the association between HCAs and colorectal adenoma formation in 146 cases and 228 frequency-matched controls. The NAT1*10 allele was associated with a nonsignificant increased risk of colorectal adenomas (OR = 1.43; 95% CI 0.86-2.36). Further, when we analysed 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) intake as a categorical variable, we observed a six-fold increase in adenoma risk among rapid NAT1 acetylators who consumed more than 27 ng a day (OR = 6.50; 95% CI 2.16-19.7), whereas among slow NAT1 acetylators, the increase in risk was two-fold (OR = 2.32; 95% CI 1.12-4.81). While suggestive, the results were not significantly different from each other on either an additive or multiplicative scale. In contrast, NAT2 genotype and CYP1A2 and NAT2 hepatic activity measured by caffeine urinary metabolites were not associated with adenoma risk, although an increase in risk with rapid CYP1A2 activity could not be ruled out (OR = 1.46; 95% CI 0.76-2.81). Moreover, there was no evidence that the effect of MeIQx was enhanced among subjects in any subgroup defined by variation in these measures. These results are compatible with the hypothesis that high HCA exposure is associated with an increased risk of colorectal adenomas, particularly in genetically susceptible subgroups. Further study of larger populations is needed to confirm and extend these observations.
Studies with the gemcitabine/vinorelbine (GV) or the gemcitabine/docetaxel (GD) combinations have shown similar efficacy and less toxicity compared to platinum-based chemotherapies, in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The present trial was designed to test the efficacy and safety of both, GV and GD, combinations. Chemotherapy-naïve patients (n=39)<or=75 years of age, KPS>or=60% and adequate hematological, renal and hepatic function were randomly assigned to receive G 1,000 mg/m2+either V 25 mg/m2 or D 35 mg/m2 (all of which were administered i.v.) on days 1 and 8 every 21 days. Baseline characteristics were comparable in GV (n=20) and GD (n=19) groups. Results indicated objective response of 7 (35%) vs 6 (31%) patients and median time-to-treatment failure of 120 versus 90 days in the GV and GD arms, respectively. The most common non-hematological toxicities were (GV vs GD): grade 2-4 pulmonary toxicity in 1 (5%) vs 7 (37%); grade 2-3 diarrhea 0 versus 4 (21%) and edema 1 (5%) vs 3 (16%); grade 3-4 hematological toxicities occurred in 3 (15%) vs 1 (5%) patients. Our results indicate that the combination of gemcitabine/docetaxel does not have a favorable safety profile with this schedule of administration, particularly in terms of pulmonary toxicity.
Several studies have reported on neuropsychological status as an important contributing variable in drug abuse rehabilitation outcomes. However, few studies have dealt with cognitive impairment in methadone maintenance patients (MMP), despite the fact that methadone is the most frequently used opioid substitution treatment in European countries. The objective of the present study is to contrast the neuropsychological performance of MMP with that of abstinent heroin abusers (AHA). Participants were matched with respect to age, education, pre-morbid IQ, employment status and lifetime drug abuse, and they underwent a set of tests aimed at assessing visuo-spatial attention, processing speed and executive functions. Although processing speed and attention deficits have previously been the focus of studies with MMP, executive functions have not received a similar degree of attention. The purpose of comparing matched MMP and AHA is two-fold: firstly, to test the differential effects of current opioid consumption and past opioid abuse on cognitive-executive performance and secondly, to assess the potential consequences of opioid-related neuropsychological deficits. Results showed a significantly slower performance by MMP on processing speed, visuo-spatial attention, and cognitive flexibility tests (Five Digit Test (FDT) parts 1 and 3; Oral Trails (OT) parts 1, 2; Interference 2-1), and less accuracy in working memory and analogical reasoning tests extracted from the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS III). Effect sizes for significant comparisons ranged from 0.67 to 1. These results seem to suggest that methadone consumption by itself induces significant cognitive impairments that could compromise drug-treatment outcomes in MMP.
Thymidylate synthase [TS, (EC 2.1.1.45)] is the target enzyme in 5-fluorouracil treatment. Recently, the DNA polymorphism of this gene has been found to affect TS protein (pTS) expression. However, no prospective studies have been performed to evaluate the influence of this polymorphism on the clinical efficacy of 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy for colorectal cancer (CRC). In this study, we investigated the genotype of TS and immunopathological findings of pTS in 161 colon cancer specimens from patients who were registered in a prospective adjuvant immunochemotherapy clinical trial. The clinical course and prognosis of these patients were checked after the study had been completed. This study comprised 11 (6.8%) cases of 2R/2R, 40 (24.8%) of 2R/3R, and 110 (68.3%) of 3R/3R genotypes. All of the 2R/2R cases were still alive at the time of analysis although this finding was not statistically significant. In this prospective examination on a randomized controlled trial, the patients with colon cancer of the 2R/2R TS genotype may be good responders to 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy. Furthermore, differences in the proportions of the TS genotypes can account for the interracial differences in the adverse effects of 5-FU-based chemotherapy.
Isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy in mice has been used in a number of studies to model human cardiac disease. In this study, we compared the transcriptional response of the heart in this model to other animal models of heart failure, as well as to the transcriptional response of human hearts suffering heart failure.
We performed microarray analyses on RNA from mice with isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy and mice with exercise-induced physiological hypertrophy and identified 865 and 2,534 genes that were significantly altered in pathological and physiological cardiac hypertrophy models, respectively. We compared our results to 18 different microarray data sets (318 individual arrays) representing various other animal models and four human cardiac diseases and identified a canonical set of 64 genes that are generally altered in failing hearts. We also produced a pairwise similarity matrix to illustrate relatedness of animal models with human heart disease and identified ischemia as the human condition that most resembles isoproterenol treatment.
The overall patterns of gene expression are consistent with observed structural and molecular differences between normal and maladaptive cardiac hypertrophy and support a role for the immune system (or immune cell infiltration) in the pathology of stress-induced hypertrophy. Cross-study comparisons such as the results presented here provide targets for further research of cardiac disease that might generally apply to maladaptive cardiac stresses and are also a means of identifying which animal models best recapitulate human disease at the transcriptional level.
Hydrocodone (HYD) is a mu opioid agonist. Hydrocodone/acetaminophen HYD/ACET compounds are both widely prescribed and abused prescription painkillers in the United States. In the present study, we profiled the subjective, psychomotor, and physiological effects of the compound. It was of particular interest to determine if HYD/ACET had abuse liability-related subjective effects in a population of recreational drug users.
Eighteen volunteers participated in a crossover, randomized, double-blind study in which they received, all p.o., placebo; 5 mg HYD/500 mg ACET; 10mg HYD/500 mg ACET; 20 mg HYD/1000 mg ACET; 40 mg morphine (MOR) sulfate; and 1000 mg ACET. Measures were assessed before and for 300 min after drug administration.
HYD/ACET produced effects that were dose-related, and the highest dose produced a similar magnitude of effect to that of MOR. There were some abuse liability-related subjective effects produced by 20 mg HYD/ACET and MOR, but there were also unpleasant effects. Some unpleasant subjective effects were experienced only by females. Overall liking and "take again" ratings assessed 24 h post-session were not significant, but several subjects had elevated liking and "take again" ratings at this time in one or more of the HYD/ACET conditions and/or in the MOR condition. Both 20 mg HYD/1000 mg ACET and MOR impaired psychomotor performance. HYD/ACET and MOR produced miosis.
HYD/ACET produced some abuse liability-related subjective effects in recreational drug users, which is consistent with the widespread non-medical use and abuse of this product.
Organophosphorus-induced delayed polyneuropathy (OPIDP) is thought to result from organophosphorylation of neuropathy target esterase (NTE; formerly known as neurotoxic esterase), followed by an "aging" of the phosphorylated NTE. Protection against OPIDP should thus be achieved by production of an inhibited but "nonaging" NTE. Inhibited NTE produced in vitro by interaction with any of the four resolved isomers of soman aged negligibly (M. K. Johnson, D. J. Read, and H. P. Benschop, 1985a, Biochem. Pharmacol., 34, 1945-1951). Therefore both unresolved soman and the most inhibitory isomer (C(-)P(+)) were tested in adult hens for effects on NTE and for ability to produce OPIDP. With improved prophylaxis and therapy of acute intoxication, birds survived greater than 100 X LD50 of unresolved soman and did not develop OPIDP. One day after dosing, about half of brain and spinal cord NTE was in an unmodified (unaged) inhibited form; at this time eight survivors were challenged with a neuropathic dose of diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate (DFP). No neuropathy developed in four out of eight birds and mild to moderate signs were seen in the other four. Nine challenge control birds receiving DFP after solvent all developed severe neuropathy. Partial protection was seen in three out of three birds dosed prior to DFP challenge with sufficient C(-)P(+) isomer of soman (1.2 mg/kg sc) to convert about half of the spinal cord NTE to unaged inhibited form. Protection was not related to cholinergic shock. Two birds which survived out of eight pretreated with tabun (12 mg/kg sc) had about as much NTE inhibited as after soman administration but it was all in the modified (aged) inhibited form; these birds were not protected against DFP-induced neuropathy. A limited histopathologic examination showed that typical neurodegenerative lesions were seen only in birds with clear clinical neuropathy.
The nephrological department of Copenhagen University Hospital Herlev experienced an epidemic accumulation of patients developing nephrogenic systemic fibrosis in the period 2002-2006. Systematic studies of these patients revealed that they all had a gadodiamide-enhanced magnetic resonance examination prior to their symptoms, and that they all had severe renal insufficiency (chronic kidney disease stage 5) at the time of their exposure to gadodiamide. Besides exposure to gadodiamide, our analyses indicated that increasing cumulative gadodiamide exposure (i.e. repeated exposures), and higher serum concentrations of ionized calcium and phosphate were cofactors that raised the risk of developing nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. Higher cumulative gadodiamide exposure, higher prescribed erythropoietin dosage at exposure, and being hemodialysis patient were three factors associated with nephrogenic systemic fibrosis in its most severe form. Retrospective reviews of patients records and patient interviews revealed the large variability in symptoms and clinical course of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis, but also highlighted that the typical initial symptoms were symmetric swelling, discoloration and pain of lower legs, whereas the typical late symptoms of severely affected patients were skin thickening, stiffness, contractures, and debilitating disabilities. In conclusion, nephrogenic systemic fibrosis is a serious iatrogenic disease of patients with renal insufficiency caused by some Gd-containing contrast agents, in particular gadodiamide. Unfortunately, there is no proven curative treatment. It is therefore essential that future cases of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis are prevented.
To determine whether selective 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) inhibition decreases expression of adhesion molecules (beta2 integrins) on systemic neutrophils, decreases neutrophil infiltration in ischemic flap tissue, and improves flap survival.
A randomized, controlled study of 91 adult female Hartley guinea pigs divided into 3 survival groups, 4 neutrophil assay groups, 1 sham group, and 1 control group. Ischemia of varying duration and reperfusion was induced in island flank skin flaps. The treated groups received zileuton, a 5-LO inhibitor, orally during flap ischemia. After reperfusion, systemic neutrophil receptor expression, neutrophil infiltration, and flap survival were measured. Surface receptor molecules on neutrophils from whole blood samples obtained via transcardiac puncture were analyzed using monoclonal antibodies and cell-associated fluorescence. Neutrophil infiltration into a distal 1 cm2 of flap tissue was assessed using myeloperoxidase antibodies. Flap survival was determined within 7 days of surgery.
Untreated flaps with 10 hours of ischemia underwent total necrosis. Treated 2- and 10-hour ischemic flaps survived intact. A significant main effect of the drug treatment was detected using analysis of variance (P<.001). Neutrophil receptor detection in the untreated groups undergoing 2 and 10 hours of ischemia was significantly increased compared with that in the treated groups with the same ischemia times. Skin neutrophil infiltration was significantly decreased in the treated groups.
Systemic administration of a 5-LO inhibitor is effective in reducing ischemia-reperfusion injury in flap tissue. Our data indicate that there is a significant reduction in neutrophil receptor expression with administration of 5-LO, reducing the priming of systemic neutrophils from circulating cytokines.
The effects of aspirin on N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide (FANFT) -induced urinary bladder lesions, endogenous bladder prostaglandin E2 synthesis, and the metabolism of FANFT by bladder epithelial microsomes were examined. Rats were fed 0.5% aspirin and/or a diet containing 0.1% or 0.2% FANFT. Bladder lesions were observed with light and scanning electron microscopy, and the prostaglandin E2 content of rat bladder was measured by radioimmunoassay. Metabolism of FANFT was measured by decreased absorbance at 400 nm. Aspirin inhibited the appearance of hyperplastic lesions induced by feeding 0.1% or 0.2% FANFT for 6 or 12 weeks. Aspirin reduced bladder prostaglandin E2 content at 1, 2, 6, and 13 weeks compared to corresponding control values. Rat and rabbit microsomal metabolism of FANFT were dependent upon specific fatty acid substrate and prevented by specific inhibitors (including aspirin) of prostaglandin endoperoxide synthetase. Other inhibitor and substrate specificity studies suggest that FANFT was not metabolized by xanthine oxidase, lipoxygenase, lipid peroxidation, or mixed-function oxidases. These results suggest that the metabolism of FANFT by prostaglandin endoperoxide synthetase may be involved in the metabolic activation of FANFT necessary for the induction of bladder cancer in rats.
The amino acid intermediate homocysteine (Hcy) is formed during the metabolism of methionine to cysteine. Hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy) is recognized as an independent risk factor for coronary atherosclerosis. The circulating levels of total Hcy (tHcy) can increase due to intake of foods rich in methionine or deficiencies of vitamins such as folate, pyridoxine and cyanocobalamin, which are required for the metabolism of Hcy. In addition, mutations in the genes coding for Hcy metabolizing enzymes can contribute to an increase in tHcy levels. Clinical and epidemiological studies have shown that an elevated level of tHcy measured in serum or plasma is a strong predictor of cardiovascular disease risk, which appears to be greatest in patients who have HHcy following a methionine load. Intimal hyperplasia (IH) (intima/media [I/M] ratio) is the universal response of a vessel to injury and may result in vasoconstriction when left unattended. The effect of dietary HHcy on balloon catheter-injured carotid artery and its modulation (if any) by the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor agonist gamma rosiglitazone was evaluated in 12-week-old female Sprague-Dawley rats fed either a control diet or a diet containing 1% L-methionine. Once the rats were established on the diet, the group that was fed 1% L-methionine was further subdivided and either given an aqueous preparation of 3 mg/kg/day rosiglitazone or the vehicle via oral gavage for one week. This was followed by surgically injuring the left carotid artery using a Maverick Over-The-Wire catheter (2.0 mm x 20 mm, 3.2F; Boston Scientific, USA). The rats were continued on their respective diets and drug regimen for 21 days postsurgery. On day 22 of the procedure, the rats were sacrificed for collection of blood, the carotid arteries and liver for biochemical and histological evaluation. Compared with controls there was a significant increase in both tHcy levels and I/M ratio in the rats fed 1% L-methionine (5.4+/-0.28 muM versus 32.8+/-3.01 muM, P<0.002; and 0.175+/-0.05 versus 1.05+/-0.23, P<0.005, respectively). The effect of rosiglitazone in rats fed the control diet was not prominent. On the other hand, administration of rosiglitazone to the rats on the 1% L-methionine diet significantly reduced the levels of serum tHcy (16.6+/-2.1 muM versus 32.8+/-3.01 muM, P<0.001); however, the tHcy levels remained significantly elevated compared with animals on the control diet (P<0.002). The group receiving the L-methionine diet plus rosiglitazone had an inhibition in the development of IH compared with those receiving the L-methionine diet alone (I/M of 0.278+/-0.041 versus 1.05+/-0.23, P<0.01). Moreover, the development of IH in the group receiving the L-methionine diet plus rosiglitazone treatment was not significantly different from that observed in the group on the control diet without rosiglitazone (0.278+/-0.041 versus 0.175+/-0.05, respectively). These findings may have important implications in deciphering the molecular mechanisms involved in the augmentation of IH in HHcy and modulation of this process by rosiglitazone.
(1) AIN is the most frequent pattern of drug-induced immunologically mediated renal injury. A number of drugs may be responsible for AIN, namely methicillin and other penicillin derivatives, rifampicin, phenindione and sulfonamides. Particular clinical and pathological features often suggest an immune pathogenetic mechanism. IgG anti-TBM and IgE antibodies have been found in only a few cases and it is likely that antibody-mediated and cell-mediated injury may operate in the same patient. (2) Only few examples of drug-induced vasculitis and glomerulonephritis are known, and the pathophysiology of this kind of renal damage is poorly understood.
Seventeen patients with cancer or aplastic anemia received demeclocycline as treatment for hyponatremia. Prior to demeclocycline therapy no patients showed clinical signs of fluid overload or saline depletion. In all patients inappropriately concentrated urine (mean urine osmolality = 548 mOSM/kg H2O) or increased urine content of sodium (mean urine sodium = 91 mEq/L) were documented prior to demeclocycline therapy. No patient had developed hyponatremia in association with antineoplastic drug therapy. The average serum sodium (NaS) at the time of initiation of therapy was 121 mEq/L. NaS increased in all patients despite the simultaneous administration of generous volumes of fluid. NaS exceeded 130 mEq/L and average of 3.5 days following institution of demeclocycline. Patients lost an average of 2.3 kg during demeclocycline. The toxicity noted following demeclocycline was azotemia and increased serum creatinine. Eight patients developed serum urea nitrogen (SUN) in excess of 25 mg/dl; average maximum creatinine in these eight patients was 1.9 mg/dl. Average peak creatinine in eight patients who did not develop azotemia was 0.87 mg/dl. Azotemia seemed to be correlated with simultaneous administration of other nephrotoxic agents and with administration of higher doses (1200 mg/day) of demeclocycline.
To investigate the association among XRCC1 polymorphisms, smoking, drinking and the risk of prostate cancer (PCa) in men from Han, Southern China.
In a case-control study of 207 patients with PCa and 235 cancer-free controls, frequency-matched by age, we genotyped three XRCC1 polymorphisms (codons 194, 280 and 399) using the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RELP) method.
Among the three polymorphisms, we found that the XRCC1 Arg399Gln variant allele was associated with increased PCa risk (adjusted odd ratio [OR]: 1.67, 95% confident interval [CI]: 1.11-2.51), but the XRCC1 Arg194Trp variant allele had a 38% reduction in risk of PCa (adjusted OR: 0.62, 95% CI: 0.41-0.93). However, there was no significant risk of PCa associated with Arg280His polymorphism. When we evaluated the three polymorphisms together, we found that the individuals with 194Arg/Arg wild-type genotype, Arg280His and Arg399Gln variant genotypes had a significantly higher risk of PCa (adjusted OR: 4.31; 95% CI: 1.24-14.99) than those with three wild-type genotypes. In addition, we found that Arg399Gln variant genotypes had a significant risk of PCa among heavy smokers (adjusted OR: 2.04; 95% CI: 1.03-4.05).
These results suggest that polymorphisms of XRCC1 appear to influence the risk of PCa and may modify risks attributable to environmental exposure.
Many postsynaptic density proteins carrying postsynaptic density-95/discs large/zone occludens-1 (PDZ) domain(s) interact with glutamate receptors to control receptor dynamics and synaptic plasticity. Here we examined the expression of PDZ proteins, synapse-associated protein (SAP) 97, postsynaptic density (PSD)-95, chapsyn-110, GRIP1 and SAP102, in post-mortem brains of schizophrenic patients and control subjects, and evaluated their contribution to schizophrenic pathology. Among these PDZ proteins, SAP97 exhibited the most marked change: SAP97 protein levels were decreased to less than half that of the control levels specifically in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic patients. In parallel, its binding partner, GluR1, similarly decreased in the same brain region. The correlation between SAP97 and GluR1 levels in control subjects was, however, altered in schizophrenic patients. SAP102 levels were also significantly reduced in the hippocampus of schizophrenic patients, but this reduction was correlated with sample storage time and post-mortem interval. There were no changes in the levels of the other PDZ proteins in any of the regions examined. In addition, neuroleptic treatment failed to mimic the SAP97 change. These findings suggest that a phenotypic loss of SAP97 is associated with the postsynaptic impairment in prefrontal excitatory circuits of schizophrenic patients.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) has been described following the administration of multiple antineoplastic agents, most notably mitomycin C. More recently, several cases of gemcitabine-induced HUS have been observed with the overall incidence of gemcitabine-induced HUS estimated at 0.015-0.25%. We here report on four patients who developed HUS following gemcitabine therapy at our institution within the last year (incidence 1.4%). All these patients had advanced-stage disease, were heavily pretreated, and received prolonged gemcitabine application, suggesting that in this subgroup of patients HUS may be more frequently encountered than documented so far.
Hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] is a human carcinogen that results in the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and a variety of DNA lesions leading to cell death. Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), the major polyphenol present in green tea, possesses potent antioxidative activity capable of protecting normal cells from various stimuli-induced oxidative stress and cell death. Here we demonstrated that co-treatment with EGCG protected human normal bronchial epithelial BEAS-2B cells from Cr(VI)-induced cell death in a dose-dependent manner. Cr(VI) induces apoptosis as the primary mode of cell death. Co-treatment of BEAS-2B cells with EGCG dose-dependently suppressed Cr(VI)-induced apoptosis. Fluorescence microscopic analyses and quantitative measurement revealed that EGCG significantly decreased intracellular levels of ROS induced by Cr(VI) exposure. Using a well-established K(+)/SDS precipitation assay, we further showed that EGCG was able to dose-dependently reduce DNA-protein cross-links (DPC), lesions that could be partially attributed to Cr(VI)-induced oxidative stress. Finally, analyses of Affymetrix microarray containing 28,869 well-annotated genes revealed that, among the 3412 genes changed more than 1.5-fold by Cr(VI) treatment, changes of 2404 genes (70%) were inhibited by pretreatment of EGCG. Real-time PCR confirmed the induction of 3 genes involved in cell death and apoptosis by Cr(VI), which was eliminated by EGCG. In contrast, Cr(VI) reduced the expression of 3 genes related to cellular defense, and this reduction was inhibited by EGCG. Our results indicate that EGCG protects BEAS-2B cells from Cr(VI)-induced cytotoxicity presumably by scavenging ROS and modulating a subset of genes. EGCG, therefore, might serve as a potential chemopreventive agent against Cr(VI) carcinogenesis.
Altered sympathetic nervous system activity has been implicated often in hypertension. We examined short-term potentiation [posttetanic potentiation (PTP)] and long-term potentiation (LTP) in the isolated superior cervical ganglia (SCG) from Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats given vehicle, digoxin, or ouabain by subcutaneous implants as well as in animals with ouabain-induced hypertension (OHR), and inbred Baltimore ouabain-resistant (BOR) and Baltimore ouabain-sensitive (BOS) strains of rats. Postganglionic compound action potentials (CAP) were used to determine PTP and LTP following a tetanic stimulus (20 Hz, 20 s). Baseline CAP magnitude was greater in ganglia from OHR than in vehicle-treated SD rats before tetanus, but the decay time constant of PTP was significantly decreased in OHR and in rats infused with digoxin that were normotensive. In hypertensive BOS and OHR, the time constants for the decay of both PTP and LTP (t(L)) were increased and correlated with blood pressure (slope = 0.15 min/mmHg, r = 0.52, P < 0.047 and 6.7 min/mmHg, r = 0.906, P < 0.0001, respectively). In BOS and OHR, t(L) (minutes) was 492 +/- 40 (n = 7) and 539 +/- 41 (n = 5), respectively, and differed (P < 0.05) from BOR (257 +/- 48, n = 4), SD vehicle rats (240 +/- 18, n = 4), and captopril-treated OHR (370 +/- 52, n = 5). After the tetanus, the CAP at 90 min in BOS and OHR SCG declined less rapidly vs. SD vehicle rats or BOR. Captopril normalized blood pressure and t(L) in OHR. We conclude that the duration of ganglionic LTP and blood pressure are tightly linked in ouabain-dependent hypertension. Our results favor the possibility that enhanced duration of LTP in sympathetic neurons contributes to the increase in sympathetic nerve activity in ouabain-dependent hypertension and suggest that a captopril-sensitive step mediates the link of ouabain with LTP.
FBXW7 has been reported to be a candidate tumor suppressor gene on 4q31. Three isoforms (alpha-form, beta-form, and gamma-form) of FBXW7 are produced from mRNAs with distinct 5' exons. Our previous study identified the specific suppression of the mRNA expression of the FBXW7 beta-form in human gliomas. Because this form is the major FBXW7 isoform in the human brain, we elucidated the silencing mechanisms for the FBXW7 beta-form in gliomas. No genetic alterations were found in the whole FBXW7 gene including putative promoter region of the beta-form. Treatments with 5-azacytidine and trichostatin A did not induce re-expression. A sodium bisulfite-modification assay indicated that CpG sequences in the promoter of FBXW7 beta-form were not methylated in glioma cells. Meanwhile we searched for the expression of FBXW7 and the sodium bisulfite sequences in normal human peripheral blood cells, and we surprisingly found that the mRNA expression of the FBXW7 beta-form was highly suppressed and the CpG sequences in the promoter region of the FBXW7 beta-form were heavily methylated. Our data suggest that the inactivation of the FBXW7 beta-form plays an important role in the pathogenesis of gliomas and that an unknown mechanism(s) other than mutation and methylation is the major cause of the suppression of the FBXW7 beta-form in gliomas.
We assessed in real-life practice the impact of age, cardiovascular comorbidity and co-medication on the tolerability and efficacy of 10 mg alfuzosin OD in men with lower urinary tract symptoms suggestive of benign prostatic obstruction.
A total of 6,523 men with a mean age of 64.7 years were enrolled in a 6-month open label study of 10 mg alfuzosin OD. They were stratified by age quartile (younger than 60, 60 to 64, 65 to 70 and older than 70 years), comorbidity (hypertension, ischemic heart disease and diabetes) and antihypertensive co-medication (diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II inhibitors and calcium channel antagonists).
Alfuzosin was effective and well tolerated. Despite an increased prevalence of cardiovascular comorbidity and antihypertensive co-medication with age changes in blood pressure did not significantly differ among age groups. In controls, ie those with no cardiovascular comorbidity or co-medication, alfuzosin produced minimal decreases in sitting systolic (mean -2.6 to -2.8 mm Hg) and diastolic (mean -1.7 to -1.8 mm Hg) blood pressure. In men with cardiovascular comorbidity mean decreases in systolic (-3.5 to 5.8 mm Hg) and diastolic (-2.0 to -3.3 mm Hg) blood pressure remained marginal. Of the 6,523 exposed patients 19.3% withdrew from the study, mainly for adverse events (6.4%) or a lack of efficacy (5.3%), while 229 (3.5%) experienced serious adverse events and 1,558 (23.9%) reported at least 1 treatment emergent adverse event. The most commonly reported adverse event was dizziness/postural dizziness (4.8%). Hypotension/postural hypotension was uncommon (0.7%). Age, cardiovascular comorbidity and antihypertensive co-medication had no impact on the safety profile of 10 mg alfuzosin OD.
Alfuzosin (10 mg) OD is effective and well tolerated, and it has marginal effects on blood pressure, including in elderly patients and those with hypertension, ischemic heart disease or diabetes and those receiving antihypertensive agents.
The active form of vitamin D, 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) [1,25(OH)(2)D(3)], binds to the vitamin D receptor (VDR) and regulates various physiological and pharmacological processes. Secondary bile acids, such as lithocholic acid (LCA), also act as endogenous VDR ligands. The molecular basis of ligand-selective VDR action remains largely unknown. Hairless (HR) acts as a coregulator of VDR through a direct interaction. HR mutations confer an alopecia phenotype similar to VDR mutations in mice and humans, but the underlying molecular mechanisms have not been elucidated. We examined the effect of HR on VDR activation induced by 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) and LCA. HR repressed VDR transactivation induced by both 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) and LCA. HR also repressed transactivation of VDR E269A and R391A mutants, but less effectively than that of wild-type VDR. These residues are involved in retinoid X receptor (RXR) heterodimer allosteric communication, through which information from ligands is transmitted to dimer and coactivator interfaces. In the presence of HR cotransfection, LCA activated these VDR mutants more effectively than wild-type VDR. In mammalian two-hybrid assays, HR enhanced the association of VDR with a corepressor, nuclear receptor corepressor. These findings indicate that HR affects VDR-RXR heterodimer allosteric communication and corepressor complex formation. Interestingly, HR knockdown in keratinocyte-derived HaCaT cells increased ligand-induced cytochrome P450, family 24, subfamily A, polypeptide 1 (CYP24A1) expression but suppressed expression of cathelicidin antimicrobial peptide, indicating that HR acts not only as a corepressor but also as a coactivator. HR may be a VDR modulator that affects the RXR allosteric communication network in order to regulate transcription in a gene-selective manner.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is a sensor for DNA strand breaks and some unusual DNA structures and catalyzes poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation of nuclear proteins with NAD(+) serving as substrate. PARP-1 is involved in the regulation of genomic integrity, transcription, inflammation, and cell death. Due to its versatile role, PARP-1 is discussed both as a longevity factor and as an aging-promoting factor. Recently, we generated a mouse model with ectopic integration of full-length hPARP-1 [Mangerich, A., Scherthan, H., Diefenbach, J., Kloz, U., van der Hoeven, F., Beneke, S. and Bürkle, A., 2009. A caveat in mouse genetic engineering: ectopic gene targeting in ES cells by bidirectional extension of the homology arms of a gene replacement vector carrying human PARP-1. Transgenic Res. 18, 261-279]. Here, we show that hPARP-1 mice exhibit impaired survival rates accompanied by reduced hair growth and premature development of several inflammation and age-associated pathologies, such as adiposity, kyphosis, nephropathy, dermatitis, pneumonitis, cardiomyopathy, hepatitis, and anemia. Moreover, mutant male mice showed impaired glucose tolerance, yet without developing manifest diabetes. Overall tumor burden was comparable in wild-type and hPARP-1 mice, but tumor spectrum was shifted in mutant mice, showing lower incidence of sarcomas, but increased incidence of carcinomas. Furthermore, DNA repair was delayed in splenocytes of hPARP-1 mice, and gene expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines was dysregulated. Our results suggest that in hPARP-1 mice impaired DNA repair, accompanied by a continuous low-level increase in pro-inflammatory stimuli, causes development of chronic diseases leading to impaired survival.
The polyphenolic alcohol resveratrol has demonstrated promising activities for the prevention and treatment of cancer. Different modes of action have been described for resveratrol including the activation of sirtuins, which represent the class III histone deacetylases (HDACs). However, little is known about the activity of resveratrol on the classical HDACs of class I, II and IV, although these classes are involved in cancer development or progression and inhibitors of HDACs (HDACi) are currently under investigation as promising novel anticancer drugs. We could show by in silico docking studies that resveratrol has the chemical structure to inhibit the activity of different human HDAC enzymes. In vitro analyses of overall HDAC inhibition and a detailed HDAC profiling showed that resveratrol inhibited all eleven human HDACs of class I, II and IV in a dose-dependent manner. Transferring this molecular mechanism into cancer therapy strategies, resveratrol treatment was analyzed on solid tumor cell lines. Despite the fact that hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is known to be particularly resistant against conventional chemotherapeutics, treatment of HCC with established HDACi already has shown promising results. Testing of resveratrol on hepatoma cell lines HepG2, Hep3B and HuH7 revealed a dose-dependent antiproliferative effect on all cell lines. Interestingly, only for HepG2 cells a specific inhibition of HDACs and in turn a histone hyperacetylation caused by resveratrol was detected. Additional testing of human blood samples demonstrated a HDACi activity by resveratrol ex vivo. Concluding toxicity studies showed that primary human hepatocytes tolerated resveratrol, whereas in vivo chicken embryotoxicity assays demonstrated severe toxicity at high concentrations. Taken together, this novel pan-HDACi activity opens up a new perspective of resveratrol for cancer therapy alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutics. Moreover, resveratrol may serve as a lead structure for chemical optimization of bioavailability, pharmacology or HDAC inhibition.
The functional status of the globus pallidus internal segment (GPi) plays a key role in mediating the effects of antiparkinsonian drugs. During long-term levodopa therapy, patients develop abnormal movements, dyskinesias, the pathophysiological basis of which is poorly understood. We recorded single cells in the GPi of parkinsonian monkeys continuously through the "off" and "on" states, and 10 to 15 minutes later during "on with or without dyskinesias," depending on two doses of levodopa. The transition from the "off" to the "on" state was characterized by a decrease (most cells), no change, or an increase in firing rate of individual cells. During dyskinesias, firing rates declined profoundly in almost all cells, with decrements as low as 97% in individual cells. These changes occurred only when dyskinesias were present. The difference in GPi activity between "on" and "on with dyskinesias" suggests that normal motor function in Parkinson's disease critically depends on fine tuning of the basal ganglia output. Dyskinesias result from an imbalanced low GPi discharge, a circumstance that may be susceptible to development of new therapeutic approaches.
It has previously been shown that in migraine sufferers infusion of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) and histamine causes an immediate headache during the infusion and a genuine migraine attack one to several hours after the infusion. This identical time profile indicates a common mechanism of action. To evaluate whether GTN causes headache via liberation of histamine, we studied the effect of GTN 0.5 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 for 20 min in seven migraine sufferers, once after pretreatment with the histamine-1 (H1)-receptor blocker mepyramine (0.5 mg.kg-1) and once without pretreatment. This mepyramine dose is known to completely abolish histamine-induced headache. After pretreatment with mepyramine five patients experienced migraine, and without pretreatment six patients did so. The median peak headache score was 7 on a 0-10 scale with and without mepyramine pretreatment. The arterial responses, evaluated with transcranial Doppler, were also unaffected by the mepyramine pretreatment. Our results demonstrate that neither headache nor arterial dilatation due to GTN infusion is caused by histamine release. In all likelihood the common mediator of migraine induction by GTN and histamine is nitric oxide.
