Two patients who received vincristine therapy for lymphoma suffered marked impairment of ability to sing as a consequence of neurotoxicity. Slow recovery occurred on drug withdrawal.
Cell culture experiments indicated that activation of the retinoic acid signaling system is involved in axonal regeneration. This hypothesis was tested with sciatic nerve injury in the rat. Since the effect of retinoic acid is mediated via retinoic acid receptors and retinoid X receptors, we investigated mRNA and protein expression of these receptors during injury-induced degeneration and regeneration. Seven days after crush injury, transcript concentrations of all retinoic acid receptors and of retinoid X receptor alpha were significantly higher than in non-lesioned nerves. Protein levels of retinoic acid receptor alpha, retinoic acid receptor beta and retinoid X receptor alpha were upregulated 4, 7 and 14 days after injury. In degenerating nerves a significant increase of retinoic acid receptor alpha was detected 7 and 14 days, and of retinoic acid receptor beta 14 and 21 days after complete transection. Immunohistochemical staining of retinoid receptors revealed their expression in Schwann cells and macrophages. In addition, we observed that retinoic acid receptor alpha and retinoid X receptor alpha appeared in the cell nuclei of macrophages during the lesion-induced inflammatory reaction, and that retinoid X receptor alpha-staining co-localized with some regenerating axons. Experiments with Schwann cell primary cultures revealed an effect of retinoic acid on the expression of the neuregulin receptor ErbB3, suggesting that one function of retinoic acid consists in the regulation of neuroglial interactions after peripheral nerve injury.
Nickel (Ni), a major environmental pollutant, is known for its wide toxic manifestations. In the present study caffeic acid (CA), one of the most commonly occurring phenolic acids in fruits, grains and dietary supplements, was evaluated for its protective effect against the Ni induced oxidative damage in liver. In this investigation, Ni (20 mg/kg body weight) was administered intraperitoneally for 20 days to induce toxicity. CA was administered orally (15, 30 and 60 mg/kg body weight) for 20 days with intraperitoneal administration of Ni. Ni induced liver damage was clearly shown by the increased activities of serum hepatic enzymes namely aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) along with increased elevation of lipid peroxidation indices (thiobarbituric reactive acid substances (TBARS) and lipid hydroperoxides). The toxic effect of Ni was also indicated by significantly decreased levels of enzymatic (superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione S-transferase (GST)) and non-enzymatic antioxidants (glutathione (GSH), vitamin C and vitamin E). CA administered at a dose of 60 mg/kg body weight significantly reversed the activities of hepatic marker enzymes to their near normal levels when compared with other two doses. In addition, CA significantly reduced lipid peroxidation and restored the levels of antioxidant defense in the liver. All these changes were supported by histological observations. The results indicate that CA may be beneficial in ameliorating the Ni induced oxidative damage in the liver of rats.
Serotonin has been implicated in the regulation of feeding and growth in vertebrates. However, the mechanisms through which serotonin mediates its anorectic effects are only partially understood. In this study we measured food intake and difference in weight gain in sexually regressed female goldfish intraperitionally injected with fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). The experiment was conducted in July, a period in which female goldfish show maximum body growth rates. After an acclimation period of one week, goldfish were injected every 3 d with 5 microg/g body weight fluoxetine for 13 d. Fluoxetine injections resulted in a significant decrease in food intake, as well as a significant decrease in weight gain. To investigate potential mechanisms, neuropeptide gene expression in the hypothalamus and telencephalon was determined using real-time RT-PCR. We found a 2.3-fold up-regulation of both CRF1 (p<0.03) and NPY mRNAs (p<0.04) in the hypothalamus. In the telencephalon there was a 2.3-fold decrease (p<0.02) of NPY mRNA and a 3.2-fold increase (p<0.02) in CART-1 mRNA. No changes in tachykinin mRNA were observed in either hypothalamus or telencephalon. In contrast, brain somatostatin-2 and serum GH levels were unaffected by fluoxetine. These results indicate that alteration of central serotoninergic tone reduces food intake and weight gain and increases the expression of potent inhibitory feeding neuropeptides. However, expression of the orexigenic neuropeptide NPY was increased in the hypothalamus. The results are discussed in the context of fluoxetine as a pharmaceutical of concern in the aquatic environment.
Gatifloxacin, a fluoroquinolone with extended gram-positive activity, has become extensively used in both the community and hospital environments. Unfortunately, concerns have been raised about the use of certain fluoroquinolones because of adverse drug reactions. A 44-year-old woman developed acute hepatitis while receiving gatifloxacin for chronic sinusitis. After 5 days of receiving antibiotics, the patient developed nausea, lethargy, and abdominal pain, all of which progressed over the next few days. Liver function tests were elevated, with bilirubin peaking at 9.4 mg/dl. The patient also became jaundiced. A percutaneous liver biopsy showed acute hepatitis with eosinophilic infiltrates consistent with drug-induced hepatitis. All other drugs and disease processes were ruled out as likely causes of the patient's hepatitis. Clinicians should be alerted to the possibility that hepatitis may occur with gatifloxacin administration.
The present randomized, double-blind, placebo and active-drug controlled, crossover study assessed residual sedation after zaleplon 10 mg, flurazepam 30 mg (as an active control), and placebo, taken during a nocturnal awakening in patients with sleep maintenance insomnia. Twenty-two healthy sleep maintenance insomniacs (11 men; mean age, 42 y) received zaleplon, flurazepam, or placebo after an experimental awakening 3.5 hours after bedtime on two consecutive nights in each of three conditions. Residual sedation was measured with sleep latency testing (5 and 6.5 h postdrug), digit symbol substitution, symbol copying, and subjective sleepiness by visual analog scale, each twice each morning. Zaleplon did not differ from placebo on any measure of residual sedation; flurazepam showed significant sedation on all measures. No residual sedative effects were detected 5 or 6.5 hours after ingestion of zaleplon during the middle of the night by sleep maintenance insomniacs.
To determine if enterally administered methadone can facilitate fentanyl discontinuation and prevent withdrawal in children at high risk for opioid abstinence syndrome.
Retrospective analysis.
Pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) in a tertiary care children's hospital.
Twenty-two children (aged 6.1 +/- 5.4 yrs) who received continuous fentanyl infusion for 9 days or longer.
Guidelines for initiating enteral methadone, rapidly tapering and discontinuing fentanyl infusions, and tapering methadone were implemented in the PICU. Development of opioid abstinence syndrome was evaluated during fentanyl and methadone dosage reductions and for 72 hours thereafter.
Children received fentanyl by continuous infusion for 17.8 +/- 8.4 days. Peak fentanyl infusion rate was 5.9 +/- 3.8 microg/kg/hour, and the median cumulative dose was 1302 microg/kg (range 354-7535 microg/kg). Methadone 0.50 +/- 0.22 mg/kg/day was begun 1.6 +/- 1.9 days before tapering fentanyl. The fentanyl infusion rate on starting the taper was 5.0 +/- 3.6 microg/kg/hour. Fentanyl was tapered and discontinued in a median of 2.6 days (range 0-11.9 days). Twenty-one patients had no opioid abstinence syndrome during or after fentanyl taper. One patient experienced significant opioid withdrawal after fentanyl discontinuation, which resolved after reinstitution of fentanyl and increasing the dosage of methadone to 0.3 mg/kg every 6 hours. Overall, methadone was tapered and discontinued in 18.2 +/- 11.9 days without precipitating opioid abstinence syndrome.
Enteral administration of methadone may expedite fentanyl discontinuation and reduce the risk of withdrawal in critically ill children at high risk for opioid abstinence syndrome.
Nitric oxide is an important neurotransmitter mediating internal anal sphincter relaxation. Patients suffering from fissure-in-ano were treated with topical nitroglycerine. The clinical evidence for therapeutic adequacy was examined in a prospective, randomized study.
The study included 35 patients with acute and chronic anal fissures. In Group A, including 20 patients with the clinical diagnosis of acute (12 patients) and chronic (8 patients) anal fissures, treatment consisted of topical nitroglycerine. Group B, consisting of 15 patients (10 acute and 5 chronic fissures), received topical anesthetic gel during therapy. Manometry was performed before and on days 14 and 28 in the course of topical application of either 0.2 percent glyceryl trinitrate ointment or anesthetic gel (lignocaine). Anal pressures were documented by recording the maximum resting and squeeze pressures.
In 60 percent of cases treated with topical nitroglycerine (Group A, 11 acute (91.6 percent) and 1 chronic (12.5 percent)), anal fissure healed within 14 days, in contrast to Group B in which no healing was observed. The healing rate after one month was 80 percent (11 acute (91.6 percent); 5 chronic (62.5 percent)) in Group A and was significantly superior to Group B (healing rate, 40 percent: 5 acute (50 percent); 1 chronic (20 percent)).
Previously increased maximum resting pressures decreased from a mean value of 110 to 87 cm H2O. This represents a mean reduction of 20 percent (P = 0.0022). We also noted a significant decrease in squeeze pressures (from 177.8 to 157.9 cm H2O (11 percent)). However, anal pressures did not decrease significantly in the four chronic fissure patients from Group A, whose fissures only healed after 28 days. Similarly to these Group A chronic fissure patients, no significant anal pressure reduction was observed in any Group B patients. Except for mild headache (20 percent), no side effects of treatment were reported.
Topical application of nitroglycerine represents a new, easily handled, and effective alternative in the treatment of anal fissures. All of our patients reported a dramatic reduction in acute anal pain. However, it should be noted that a lack of sphincter tone reduction is a likely reason for the great tendency of chronic anal fissures to recur.
The TP53, a transcriptional regulator and tumor suppressor, is functionally important in spermatogenesis. MDM2 is a key regulator of the p53 pathway and modulates p53 activity. Both proteins have been functionally linked to germ cell apoptosis, which may affect human infertility, but very little is known on how common polymorphisms in these genes may influence germ cell apoptosis and the risk of male infertility. Thus, this study was designed to test whether three previously described polymorphisms 72Arg>Pro (rs1042522) and the Ex2+19C>T (rs2287498) in TP53, and the 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) 309T>G (rs937283) in MDM2, are associated with idiopathic male infertility in a Chinese population. The three polymorphisms were genotyped using OpenArray assay in a hospital-based case-control study, including 580 infertile patients and 580 fertile controls. Our analyses revealed that TP53 Ex2+19C>T and MDM2 309T>G polymorphisms are associated with male infertility. Furthermore, we detected a nearly statistically significant additive interaction between TP53 rs2287498 and MDM2 rs937283 for the development of male infertility (P(interaction)=0.055). In summary, this study found preliminary evidence, demonstrating that genetic variants in genes of the TP53 pathway are risk factors for male infertility.
Of 89 patients receiving nightly subcutaneous deferoxamine for transfusion-dependent thalassemia major or Diamond-Blackfan anemia, 13 presented with visual loss or deafness of acute onset or both. Detailed ophthalmologic, audiologic, and evoked-potential studies uncovered abnormalities caused by neurotoxicity in 27 more. Four patients with visual loss had optic neuropathy, with a marked decrease in acuity, loss of color vision, and delayed visual evoked potentials. Five asymptomatic patients had changes in the pigment of the retinal epithelium. The hearing loss was characterized by a high-frequency sensorineural deficit, which necessitated hearing aids in six patients. When deferoxamine was stopped, recovery of vision was complete in 2 patients and partial in 2, and in 22 patients with abnormal audiograms, reversal of the hearing deficit was complete in 4 and partial in 1. An analysis of the clinical data showed that members of the affected group were younger, had lower serum ferritin values, and were self-administering higher doses of deferoxamine per kilogram of body weight. Significantly lower doses of deferoxamine were being taken by patients without abnormalities than by those with visual symptoms, abnormal audiograms, or prolonged evoked potentials (P less than 0.001, less than 0.006, and less than 0.04, respectively). The data implicate high-dose deferoxamine as a central factor in the pathogenesis of the neurotoxicity. We strongly recommend careful regulation of the deferoxamine dosage and serial audiovisual monitoring in all patients receiving the drug.
A 26-year-old man was treated with piperacillin-tazobactam because of suspected cholangitis and a 77-year-old man was given ciprofloxacin because of an infected knee-prosthesis. They both developed symptoms of an interstitial nephritis: malaise and laboratory deviations. The symptoms disappeared after the antibiotics were withdrawn. No other explanation for the renal function disorders could be found in either patient. Piperacillin-tazobactam and ciprofloxacin are considered to be relatively safe and serious adverse effects are rare. Acute interstitial nephritis may, however, occur and its clinical presentation may not be very informative. Withdrawal of the culprit usually leads to recovery.
To investigate the effect of adding midazolam to continuous epidural infusion of bupivacaine for postoperative analgesia in children.
Prospective, randomized, double-blind, controlled study.
Tertiary-care center.
44 ASA physical status I and II children in age groups of two to 10 years, undergoing elective upper abdominal and flank surgery.
At the end of surgery, patients were randomly allocated to receive epidural infusion of 0.125% bupivacaine alone (Group B) or with 20 microg/kg/hr midazolam (Group BM) for 12 hours at the rate of 0.2 mL/kg/hr.
Pain, motor block, and sedation were assessed at predetermined times over 24 hours. Intravenous fentanyl was used as rescue analgesic for the first 12 hours, and tramadol for next 12 hours. Patients were followed at one week, one month, and one year for any neurological deficits.
The number of patients requiring rescue analgesia during infusion was significantly lower in Group BM (7 vs. 17 in Group B; P < 0.001). Time to first rescue analgesia was significantly prolonged in Group BM compared with Group B (P < 0.001). Frequency of fentanyl (P < 0.001) and tramadol (P = 0.001) administration as rescue analgesia was significantly less in Group BM. Significantly lower median pain scores were obtained in Group BM than Group B at all time intervals (P < 0.05). Greater sedation scores were noted in Group BM at all time intervals postoperatively except at 4 hours (P < 0.05). No motor block was observed in any child during the study. No neurological deficit was reported in any child in the one year of follow-up.
Addition of 20 microg/kg/hr of midazolam to postoperative continuous epidural infusion of 0.125% bupivacaine reduces the requirement for rescue analgesia in children following upper abdominal and flank surgery.
Children with nephrotic syndrome who are either steroid dependent or resistant are difficult to manage. Ten children (age 8-14 years, mean 13.2 years) with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (5 steroid dependent, 5 steroid resistant) formed the study group. All of them had received a course of cyclophosphamide at least six months previously and were now given pefloxacin in the dose of 200mg to 400mg twice daily (mean dose 2-4.6mg/kg/daily) for 4 to 8 weeks. They did not get steroid along with pefloxacin. After a mean follow up period of 18 weeks (12-20 weeks), 7 patients were in remission (2 complete, 5 partial), while 2 patients did not show any response; one patient discontinued pefloxacin within 2 weeks of start of therapy due to nausea and vomiting. One patient developed arthralgia and another discoloration of nails. There was a significant reduction in proteinuria after pefloxacin therapy (pre-3.6+/-2.02gm/24h; post 1.9+/-1.8gm/24h, p<0.006), and side effects were minimal and reversible. Thus for the subgroup of idiopathic nephrotic children who are steroid dependent or resistant and do not respond to a course of cyclophosphamide, pefloxacin could be helpful in inducing remission.
To compare the clinical efficacy of theoretically equipotent doses of fentanyl and sufentanil, each in combination with bupivacaine, for patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA) for labor.
Single-blinded, randomized study.
University hospital.
48 ASA physical status I and II term parturients in active labor, with cervical dilatation equal to or less than 5 cm, and requesting epidural analgesia.
Patients received a loading dose of 10 mL of 0.125% bupivacaine with either 30 microg of fentanyl or 5 microg of sufentanil. PCEA was maintained with 0.0625% bupivacaine with either fentanyl two microg/mL or sufentanil 0.35 microg/mL. The PCEA settings were: bolus 5 mL, lockout 10 minutes, infusion 10 mL/hr, and maximum dose 40 mL/hr. Standardized rescue doses of bupivacaine were administered as necessary.
The bupivacaine requirement in mg/hr was calculated from the time of initiation of the epidural until the patient had had 4 to 6 hours of PCEA. The hourly pain score, sensory and motor block, and side effects were documented. Overall patient satisfaction was assessed at the end of the study.
The mean (standard deviation) bupivacaine requirement was 12.4 mg/hr (3.2) and 11.0 mg/hr (2.4) for the fentanyl and sufentanil groups, respectively (P = 0.08). There was evidence of higher maternal satisfaction (P = 0.01), and weak evidence of lower pain scores (P = 0.10) in the sufentanil group. The side effects were similar in both groups.
At the assumed equipotent sufentanil to fentanyl ratio of 6:1, there is some evidence that sufentanil is clinically superior to fentanyl as an adjunct to bupivacaine in labor epidurals, although the advantages are subtle.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with a prothrombotic state, which is related to endothelial damage/dysfunction. Plasma levels of soluble E-selectin (sE-sel), von Willebrand factor (vWf), and soluble thrombomodulin (sTM) have been used as indexes of endothelial activation, damage/dysfunction, and endothelial damage, respectively. Nitric oxide is also made by a healthy endothelium, and a total body nitrate/nitrite product (NOx) is used as a measure of endothelial nitric oxide production. We hypothesized that the levels of these markers of endothelial function would be abnormal in patients with paroxysmal, persistent, and permanent AF.
We studied 145 AF patients (paroxysmal AF, 35 patients; permanent AF, 50 patients; persistent AF, 60 patients) and 35 patients with "lone" AF. Plasma levels of sE-sel, vWf, and sTM (measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) and NOx (measured by a colorimetric assay based on the Griess reaction) were compared to 40 age-matched healthy control subjects in sinus rhythm.
Patients with AF had significantly higher plasma levels of vWf (p < 0.001) and sE-sel (p = 0.005) compared with control subjects, but sTM and NOx levels were not significantly different. Levels did not differ significantly among the clinical subgroups of patients with paroxysmal, persistent, and permanent AF. Patients with lone AF had significantly higher vWF levels (p = 0.003) and significantly lower sTM levels (p = 0.0361) compared to control subjects, but sE-sel and NOx levels were not significantly different. There were no significant differences in the AF study population in vWF, sE-sel or sTM levels after 4 weeks of warfarin treatment.
Endothelial perturbation exists in all clinical subgroups of patients with AF, including those with lone AF, which may contribute to the prothrombotic state seen in these patients.
The antinociceptive, anti-inflammatory and gastric effects of trimetazidine (2,3,4-trimethoxybenzyl-piperazine dihydrochloride), a novel anti-ischaemic compound, were evaluated in various animal models. In acute pain models, namely acetic acid-induced writhing, hot-plate assay, tail electric stimulation test, capsaicin-induced pain and the formalin test, trimetazidine (1.8-7.2 mg/kg, i.p.) showed marked antinociceptive effects. Trimetazidine did not produce any behavioural impairment as revealed by the mouse rotarod. The inhibition of writhing response by trimetazidine was reduced by yohimbine, theophylline (and to a certain extent by sulpiride) but not by prazosin, guanethidine, naloxone, atropine, propranolol, haloperidol, domperidone, clozapine, glibenclamide or caffeine. The carrageenan-evoked acute paw oedema was reduced by 19.2-21.2 and 17-18.6% by 3.6 and 7.2 mg/kg trimetazidine, respectively. The drug did not alter the oedema-suppressive effect of indomethacin or dexamethasone, but reduced that of rofecoxib. Trimetazidine at 7.2 mg/kg reduced immobility time in Porsolt's forced-swimming test by 28.9%. The acute gastric mucosal lesions evoked by indomethacin in the rat were inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by co-administration of trimetazidine. In anesthetized rats, trimetazidine potentiated the gastric acid secretory response. This study indicates that trimetazidine possesses antinociceptive and gastric protective properties. The antinociceptive properties of trimetazidine are likely to be centrally mediated, but do not involve opioid pathways.
Molecules of central functional significance for the glomerular podocytes are rapidly emerging and have been shown to be distinctly involved in diseases with altered glomerular filtration barrier. Here we used the puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) nephrosis model in the rat to study some key proteins associated with the maintenance of the functional glomerular filtration barrier in vivo. The molecules studied included the filtration slit component nephrin, the hairpin-like membrane protein podocin, the basolateral adhesion molecules beta1 integrin and alpha-dystroglycan, and the cytoskeleton-linking intermediary beta-catenin and the actin-associated alpha-actinin-4. The results showed diminished protein levels of podocin and nephrin in the PA-treated group. beta-catenin showed distinct down-regulation at 3 days of induction, and the control level was reached at 10 days. beta1 integrin was markedly up-regulated during induction. alpha-actinin-4 was not changed at the studied time points. The results show distinct differences in the different domains of podocytes during PA-induced proteinuria.
We report two patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) who were entered into the current MRC adult ALL trial (UKALL XII) in whom unusually severe vincristine induced neurotoxicity developed. This appeared to be the result of an interaction with itraconazole suspension.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the antinociceptive potential of the acetylenic thiophene and furan derivatives: 3-(furan-2-il) prop-2-yn-1-ol 1, 1-(thiofen-2-il) pent-1yn-3-ol 2 and 4-(thiofen-2-il)-2-metilbut-3-yn-2-ol 3 on three different pain models in mice. The pain models evaluated were the acetic acid-induced writhing, capsaicin-induced pain and the tail immersion test. The possible mechanisms involved in the antinociceptive effect of these compounds were also investigated. Thus, the acetylenic thiophene and furan derivatives presented antinociceptive effect in the pain tests caused by chemical agents. Statistical analysis showed that compounds 1 and 3 increased the latency for tail withdrawal in the tail immersion test (phasic pain). Besides, the role of the opioidergic, muscarinic cholinergic and dopaminergic systems in the acetic acid-induced writhing was examined. The antinociceptive effect of compounds 2 and 3 was prevented by pretreatment with naloxone (1 mg/kg, s.c), but not by atropine (5 mg/kg, s.c) or metoclopramide (1 mg/kg, s.c). Neither naloxone nor metoclopramide prevented the antinociceptive effect caused by compound 1, while the pretreatment with atropine antagonized the antinociceptive action of this compound. The compounds 1-3 used in this study did not reveal any motor impairment to mice in the open field. The results suggest that compounds 2 and 3 induced antinociception in the abdominal writhing test and that their effects are mediated by opiodergic receptors, while the antinociceptive effect of compound 1 may involve muscarinic cholinergic receptors.
Anti-cancer drug development involves enormous expenditure and risk. For rapid and economical identification of novel, bioavailable anti-tumour chemicals, the use of appropriate in vivo tumour models suitable for large-scale screening is key. Using a Drosophila Ras-driven tumour model, we demonstrate that tumour overgrowth can be curtailed by feeding larvae with chemicals that have the in vivo pharmacokinetics essential for drug development and known efficacy against human tumour cells. We then develop an in vivo 96-well plate chemical screening platform to carry out large-scale chemical screening with the tumour model. In a proof-of-principle pilot screen of 2000 compounds, we identify the glutamine analogue, acivicin, a chemical with known activity against human tumour cells, as a potent and specific inhibitor of Drosophila tumour formation. RNAi-mediated knockdown of candidate acivicin target genes implicates an enzyme involved in pyrimidine biosynthesis, CTP synthase, as a possible crucial target of acivicin-mediated inhibition. Thus, the pilot screen has revealed that Drosophila tumours are glutamine-dependent, which is an emerging feature of many human cancers, and has validated the platform as a powerful and economical tool for in vivo chemical screening. The platform can also be adapted for use with other disease models, thus offering widespread applications in drug development.
Ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation is necessary for both increased ventricular mass and survival signaling for compensated hypertrophy in pressure-overloaded (PO) myocardium. Another molecular keystone involved in the hypertrophic growth process is the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), which forms two distinct functional complexes: mTORC1 that activates p70S6 kinase-1 to enhance protein synthesis and mTORC2 that activates Akt to promote cell survival. Independent studies in animal models show that rapamycin treatment that alters mTOR complexes also reduces hypertrophic growth and increases lifespan by an unknown mechanism. We tested whether the ubiquitin-mediated regulation of growth and survival in hypertrophic myocardium is linked to the mTOR pathway. For in vivo studies, right ventricle PO in rats was conducted by pulmonary artery banding; the normally loaded left ventricle served as an internal control. Rapamycin (0.75 mg/kg per day) or vehicle alone was administered intraperitoneally for 3 days or 2 wk. Immunoblot and immunofluorescence imaging showed that the level of ubiquitylated proteins in cardiomyocytes that increased following 48 h of PO was enhanced by rapamycin. Rapamycin pretreatment also significantly increased PO-induced Akt phosphorylation at S473, a finding confirmed in cardiomyocytes in vitro to be downstream of mTORC2. Analysis of prosurvival signaling in vivo showed that rapamycin increased PO-induced degradation of phosphorylated inhibitor of κB, enhanced expression of cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein 1, and decreased active caspase-3. Long-term rapamycin treatment in 2-wk PO myocardium blunted hypertrophy, improved contractile function, and reduced caspase-3 and calpain activation. These data indicate potential cardioprotective benefits of rapamycin in PO hypertrophy.
We report the case of a patient with postherpetic neuralgia who developed asterixis while being treated with gabapentin. We discuss the possible mechanism of asterixis in this patient.
Leukotriene receptor antagonists have been shown to attenuate physiologic changes in the upper and lower airways induced by allergen challenge. However, it is unknown whether these drugs modulate airway inflammation after exposure to allergen in a natural setting.
To determine the effects of the oral leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast upon symptoms, changes in pulmonary function, and indices of inflammation in the upper and lower airways induced by natural exposure to cats.
Zafirlukast, 20 mg twice daily, or placebo was administered to 18 cat-allergic asthmatic patients in this randomized, double-blind, crossover study. Cat room challenges were performed after a 1-week period of each treatment. Upper and lower airway symptoms were measured and spirometry performed before and at regular intervals during each challenge. Nasal lavage and sputum induction were performed 24 hours before and after each challenge.
Zafirlukast significantly improved the prechallenge baseline FEV1 (P = 0.001) and attenuated the decrease in FEV1 induced by cat challenge (P = 0.019). Zafirlukast also significantly reduced lower airway symptoms associated with cat challenge (P = 0.005) but had no effects on nasal symptoms. Although zafirlukast did not significantly differ from placebo in its effects on sputum inflammatory cells or eosinophil cationic protein, it significantly reduced the absolute counts of total white cells, lymphocytes, neutrophils, and basophils in nasal lavage fluid.
Zafirlukast, 20 mg twice daily for 1 week, demonstrated a significant protective effect on symptoms of asthma and alterations in pulmonary function induced by natural cat exposure, whereas nasal symptoms and markers of sputum inflammation were not affected by the medication.
The natural plant products turmeric, beta-carotene, catechin, and betel leaf extract were evaluated for their antitumor effects on mammary tumorigenesis in murine mammary tumor expressing C3H (Jax) mice and in Wistar rats treated with the chemical carcinogen 7-12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA). Administration of turmeric through the diet and of beta-carotene, catechin, and betel leaf extract through the drinking water to virgin female C3H mice resulted in decreased tumor incidence and tumor burden. Administering 5% turmeric in the diet from 2 months of age showed suppression of mammary tumor virus-related reverse transcriptase activity and of preneoplastic changes in the mammary glands. Furthermore, feeding turmeric from 6 months of age resulted in a 100% inhibition of mammary tumors. In the DMBA model of rat mammary tumorigenesis, administration of turmeric, catechin, and betel leaf extract resulted in decreased tumor burden and tumor incidence, and a delay in the onset of mammary tumors.
Preclinical and clinical research shows that the cannabinoid brain receptor type 1 (CB(1)) modulates alcohol- and nicotine-related behaviors. Throughout the nicotine-induced relapse to alcohol, the rats were pre-treated for 10 days with the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist rimonabant (0, 0.03, 0.3 and 3.0 mg/kg i.p.). In this condition, a long-lasting nicotine-induced relapse to alcohol was observed, and this effect was reversed in a dose-dependent manner with rimonabant. Surprisingly, rats that were not exposed to nicotine developed tolerance to the effects of rimonabant from the sixth day. Also, 3.0 mg/kg of rimonabant reduced the responses for sucrose. Evaluation in the Elevated Plus-Maze after nicotine treatment did not reveal anxiogenic effects. Finally, at the conclusion of rimonabant treatment, a rapid reinstatement of alcohol consumption was detected. These results suggest that rimonabant can prevent the relapse to alcohol, even when an interaction with nicotine exists-the most frequent situation in human alcohol abuse.
In a 53-year-old woman an acute allergic thrombocytopenia (acute Werlhf's disease) occurred after treatment with D-penicillamine for one month which led to death. In two further patients transitory platelet deficiencies were observed after six and two months which regressed completely in six months and four weeks, respectively. One of the patients had nephrotic syndrome and a retrobulbar neuritis at the same time. Both symptoms were equally transitory and could not be demonstrated five weeks after cessation of therapy. In a further case a lethal Lyell syndrome developed three weeks after therapy was started. These observations show that during D-penicillamine treatment weekly, and later fornightly, blood counts should be performed. In the occurence of thrombocytopenia, leucopenia or anaemia treatments should be stopped; Signs of drug intolerance together with exanthemata should also led to a critical review of the indications and the dosage. D-Penicillamine should not be used when hypersensitivity to penicillin exists or when cell deficiencies have occurred after anti-reheumatic medication. The development of proteinuria should also result in withdrawal of the drug. Therapy with D-penicillamine requires conscientious follow-up urinalyses and blood counts as well as attention to allergic rashes.
