Although patients have more problems using metered dose inhalers, clinical comparisons suggest they provide similar control to dry powder inhalers. Using real-life situations this study was designed to evaluate asthma control in outpatients with moderate to severe persistent asthma and to compare efficacy of fixed combinations of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and long acting beta-agonists (LABA).
This real-life study had a cross-sectional design. Patients using fixed combinations of ICS and LABA had their asthma control and spirometry assessed during regular visits.
111 patients were analyzed: 53 (47.7%) received maintenance therapy of extrafine beclomethasone-formoterol (BDP/F) pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI), 25 (22.5%) fluticasone-salmeterol (FP/S) dry powder inhaler (DPI), and 33 (29.7%) budesonide-formoterol (BUD/F) DPI. Severity of asthma at time of diagnosis, assessed by the treating physician, was comparable among groups. Asthma control was achieved by 45.9% of patients; 38.7% were partially controlled and 15.3% were uncontrolled. In the extrafine BDF/F group, asthma control total score, daytime symptom score and rescue medication use score were significantly better than those using fixed DPI combinations (5.8±6.2 vs. 8.5±6.8; 1.4±1.8 vs. 2.3±2.1; 1.8±2.2 vs. 2.6±2.2; p=0.0160; p=0.012 and p=0.025, respectively) and the mean daily ICS dose were significantly lower.
pMDI extrafine BDP/F combination demonstrated better asthma control compared to DPIs formulated with larger particles. This could be due to the improved lung deposition of the dose or less reliance on the optimal inhalation technique or both.
Inhibitory actions of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) have been described on cellular/vascular inflammatory components, but there are few data concerning its role in neurogenic inflammation. In this study we measured PACAP-like immunoreactivity with radioimmunoassay in the rat plasma and showed a two-fold elevation in response to systemic stimulation of capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves by resiniferatoxin, but not after local excitation of cutaneous afferents. Neurogenic plasma extravasation in the plantar skin induced by intraplantar capsaicin or resiniferatoxin, as well as carrageenan-induced paw edema were significantly diminished by intraperitoneal PACAP-38. In summary, these results demonstrate that PACAP is released from activated capsaicin-sensitive afferents into the systemic circulation. It diminishes acute pure neurogenic and mixed-type inflammatory reactions via inhibiting pro-inflammatory mediator release and/or by acting at post-junctional targets on the vascular endothelium.
A 27-year-old woman with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) had an episode of generalized tonic-clonic seizure after therapy with intrathecal and intravenous methotrexate (MTX). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of her head showed meningeal, cortical and subcortical enhancement that was new when compared to a study done prior to therapy. Subsequent imaging 10 days later showed partial resolution of these findings. The association of seizures and MTX in ALL and the corresponding MRI changes are discussed.
The selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and 5-lipoxygenase (LOX) inhibitors might inhibit prostaglandin synthesis and reduce proteinuria. The present study was designed to investigate the anti-proteinuric effects of nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA) as compared with celecoxib in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis rats. Fifty five male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into 4 groups; A, normal control; B, PAN group; C, PAN+COX-2 inhibitor (celecoxib) group; and D, PAN+5-LOX inhibitor (NDGA) group. After induction of PAN nephrosis through repeated injections of PAN (7.5 and 15 mg/100 g body weight), rats were treated with celecoxib, NDGA, or vehicle for 2 weeks. Twenty four hour urine protein excretions were significantly lower in PAN+celecoxib and PAN+NDGA groups than in PAN group. Serum creatinine (SCr) concentrations and 24 hr urine creatinine clearances (CCr) were not significantly different in the four groups. Electron microscopy showed that podocyte morphology was changed after the induction of PAN nephrosis and was recovered after celecoxib or NDGA administration. Celecoxib significantly recovered the expressions of nephrin, CD2AP, COX-2, and TGF-beta. NDGA also recovered TGF-beta expression, but did not alter the expressions of nephrin, CD2AP and COX-2. The present study suggested that celecoxib and NDGA might effectively reduce proteinuria in nephrotic syndrome without impairing renal function.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonists are used in clinical anesthesia and are being developed as therapeutic agents for preventing neurodegeneration in stroke, epilepsy, and brain trauma. However, the ability of these agents to produce neurotoxicity in adult rats and psychosis in adult humans compromises their clinical usefulness. In addition, an NMDA receptor hypofunction (NRHypo) state might play a role in neurodegenerative and psychotic disorders, like Alzheimer's disease, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Thus, developing pharmacological means of preventing these NRHypo-induced effects could have significant clinically relevant benefits. NRHypo neurotoxicity appears to be mediated by a complex disinhibition mechanism that results in the excessive stimulation of certain vulnerable neurons. Here we report our findings that five agents (phenytoin, carbamazepine, valproic acid, lamotrigine, and riluzole), thought to possess anticonvulsant activity because they inhibit voltage-gated sodium channels, prevent NRHypo neurotoxicity. The ability of tetrodotoxin, a highly selective inhibitor of voltage-gated sodium channels, to prevent the same neurotoxicity suggests that inhibition of this ion channel is the likely mechanism of action of these five agents. We also found that three other anticonvulsants (felbamate, gabapentin and ethosuximide), whose mechanism is less clear, also prevent NRHypo neurotoxicity, suggesting that inhibition of voltage-gated sodium channels is not the only mechanism via which anticonvulsants can act to prevent NRHypo neurotoxicity. Several of these agents have been found to be of clinical use in bipolar disorder. It would be of interest to determine whether these agents might have therapeutic benefits for conditions in which a NRHypo state may exist.
The ability of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA), a potent inducer of mammary tumors, to mimic short term effects of estradiol (17 beta-E2) on the anterior pituitary, was tested in vitro. Incubation of anterior pituitaries from ovariectomized rats with DMBA resulted in a marked depletion of membrane dopamine receptors (labeled with [3H] spiperone) and a parallel stimulation of prolactin (PRL) release. Maximal receptor depletion and PRL release were obtained after 15-30 min of incubation with 10(-8) M DMBA. These effects were reversible and already significant after a 5-min incubation. Their magnitude, dose dependency, and time course were identical to those reported for 17 beta-E2. A structurally related noncarcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, phenanthrene, had no effect on [3H]spiperone binding or PRL release. When DMBA and 17 beta-E2, at suboptimal concentrations, were simultaneously added to the culture medium, no synergistic effect could be observed. When 10(-8) M of both compounds were introduced simultaneously, the decrease in dopamine receptors and the increase in PRL release were not greater than those observed in the presence of 10(-8) M of only one compound, indicating that the same mechanism(s) can be involved. These data suggest that DMBA in desensitizing lactotrophs to dopamine and in releasing PRL, by direct estrogen-like actions on anterior pituitary, may provide a hormonal state conducive to tumor development.
Four patients who developed coronary artery spasm in response to their first intracoronary injection of a non-ionic contrast agent, either iopamidol or iohexol, are described. It is suggested that this idiosyncratic reaction may be related to the non-ionic character of these contrast media.
Under controlled conditions, infant rats emit ultrasonic vocalizations during extreme cold exposure and after administration of the alpha(2) adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine. Previous investigations have determined that, in response to clonidine, ultrasound production increases through the 2nd-week postpartum and decreases thereafter. Given that sympathetic neural dominance exhibits a similar developmental pattern, and given that clonidine induces sympathetic withdrawal and bradycardia, we hypothesized that clonidine's developmental effects on cardiac rate and ultrasound production would mirror each other. Therefore, in the present experiment, the effects of clonidine administration (0.5 mg/kg) on cardiac rate and ultrasound production were examined in 2-, 8-, 15-, and 20-day-old rats. Age-related changes in ultrasound production corresponded with changes in cardiovascular variables, including baseline cardiac rate and clonidine-induced bradycardia. This experiment is discussed with regard to the hypothesis that ultrasound production is the acoustic by-product of a physiological maneuver that compensates for clonidine's detrimental effects on cardiovascular function.
It is proposed that to achieve a therapeutic effect in schizophrenia patients, dopamine D(2)-receptor occupancy by antipsychotics within the striatum must exceed 60-65%. However, at high levels of D(2)-receptor occupancy, the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) is increased. Following oral dosing of antipsychotics, peaks and troughs in plasma drug concentrations may be mirrored by fluctuations in D(2)-receptor occupancy. Paliperidone, a novel antipsychotic available as extended-release tablets (paliperidone ER), is the major active metabolite of risperidone and exhibits a plasma pharmacokinetic profile with reduced peak-trough fluctuations and consistent D(2)-receptor occupancy compared with conventional oral antipsychotic formulations. Using formulations that resemble those in clinical practice, this study provides a preclinical evaluation of the pharmacological properties of paliperidone ER and risperidone immediate-release formulation in terms of consistent antipsychotic efficacy over time and extrapyramidal symptom liability. Significant fluctuations in inhibition of d-amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion were observed for repeated subcutaneous (SC) risperidone injections, whereas stable inhibitory efficacy was demonstrated during continuous SC paliperidone infusion. Similarly, significant fluctuations in latency on-bar were observed with repeated SC risperidone injections, whereas significantly lower latency on-bar was demonstrated following continuous SC paliperidone infusion. These results in an animal model suggest that although risperidone and paliperidone demonstrate similar pharmacologic effects, continuous administration of paliperidone achieves more stable antipsychotic efficacy with reduced motor impairment, akin to the effects observed with paliperidone ER in clinical studies.
Paclitaxel induced apoptosis has been reported in many cancer cell lines, but the relationship between G2/M phase arrest and apoptosis is not clear. We have reported that low dose (10 nM) paclitaxel induced apoptosis in gastric cancer cells without G2/M phase arrest. In this study, SC-M1 gastric cancer cells were synchronized at early G1, late G1, S and G2/M phases by staurosporine, mimosine, hydroxyurea and berberine, respectively. We have found that paclitaxel could not induce apoptosis of gastric cancer cells in late G1, S and G2/M phases; however, paclitaxel induced apoptosis in the early G1 phase. Our results suggest that cells arrested at G2/M phase by paclitaxel eventually entered the early G1 phase then proceeded to apoptosis.
Nickel compounds are prime inducers of contact allergy reactions in humans. To identify the signal transduction pathways mediating the cellular responses to nickel and to elucidate their hierarchy, we performed Affymetrix gene profiling using human primary endothelial cells, which strongly respond to nickel stimulation. Overall, we found 258 significantly modulated transcripts, comprising 140 up-regulated and 118 down-regulated genes. The bulk of those genes were identified as targets of two distinct signaling cascades, the IKK2/NF-kappaB pathway and a proangiogenic pathway mediated by HIF-1alpha, which accumulates upon exposure to nickel. Using dominant-interfering mutants and retroviral RNA interference technology, we demonstrate that both pathways act independently to regulate expression of nonoverlapping gene pools. NF-kappaB activation mediates most of the proinflammatory responses to nickel. Nickel-dependent HIF-1alpha activation primarily modulates expression of genes involved in proliferation, survival, metabolism, and signaling, albeit the induction of some proinflammatory nickel-response genes, most prominently IL-6, which we identified as novel bona fide HIF-1alpha target in this study, is also critically dependent on this pathway. Furthermore, we provide evidence that transactivation of both transcription factors partially depends on p38 MAPK activation that contributes to the intensity of at least some target genes. Taken together, our data provide mechanistic insight into the complex network of nickel-induced cellular events and identify IKK2/NF-kappaB and HIF-1alpha as important pathways involved in processes such as delivery of "second signals" in contact hypersensitivity reactions to nickel.
Metabolic cleavage of the CO-S bond of some thioesters RCOSR' with the formation of RCOOH requires a monooxygenase-dependent oxidative activation of this bond. The nature of the S-containing product(s) resulting from this cleavage remains unclear in most cases. This communication provides the first evidence for the formation of sulfenic acid intermediates 4a and 4b during the oxidative cleavage of the CO-S bond of thiolactone metabolites 2a and 2b of antithrombotic prodrugs, ticlopidine and clopidogrel, by rat and human liver microsomes. These intermediates have been trapped by dimedone, and the corresponding adducts 5a and 5b have been characterized by mass spectrometry (MS) and (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopy. Their formation is monooxygenase-dependent and almost completely inhibited by microsomal cytochrome P450 inhibitors. Moreover, they were also formed upon incubation with microsomes containing recombinant human P450 3A4, 3A5, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, or 1A2. In the presence of thiols such as mercaptoethanol, N-acetylcysteine, or glutathione, microsomal incubations of 2a led to mixed disulfides that have been characterized by MS and should result from reaction of 4a with these thiols. At high thiol concentrations, one observed in HPLC-MS the formation of a product exhibiting the MS expected for the previously described thiol metabolite 3a, a reduction product of 4a that has been reported as the pharmacologically active metabolite of ticlopidine. These data provide the first evidence for the formation of sulfenic acid reactive metabolites upon P450-catalyzed oxidative cleavage of thioesters. They also provide a first detailed mechanism for the previously described formation of pharmacologically active thiols such as 3a upon oxidative metabolism of ticlopidine and clopidogrel.
Ceruletide (CLT: 160 micrograms/kg, SC) produced a relatively long-lasting inhibition of haloperidol (HPD: 2 mg/kg, PO) catalepsy in rats. Neither bilateral vagotomies nor hypophysectomy abolished the anticataleptic effect of CLT. However, (-)-L-364,718 and proglumide blocked the effect of CLT. CLT (160 micrograms/kg) significantly inhibited HPD (2 mg/kg)-induced increase in dopamine (DA) release from the rat striatum. This effect of CLT was also antagonized by proglumide. These results suggest that CLT (160 micrograms/kg) primarily acts on cholecystokinin-A receptor in the brain, exerts some modulatory influence on HPD binding to striatal DA receptors via unknown neural pathways and, consequently, inhibits HPD catalepsy.
We report four cases of severe delayed cholestatic hepatitis induced by flucloxacillin. All patients presented with deep jaundice and pruritus which developed soon after ceasing flucloxacillin. Liver function tests were abnormal in all patients with markedly elevated serum bilirubin concentration, alkaline phosphatase and aspartate transaminase levels. Extrahepatic biliary obstruction and infective hepatitis were excluded in all cases. Liver biopsies showed centrilobular cholestasis with portal and lobular inflammation and eosinophil infiltration. Although symptoms resolved within six weeks in all patients, cholestatic liver function tests have persisted in two patients for more than six months. With the increasing usage of this drug and the delayed presentation of cholestasis, flucloxacillin needs to be considered in the differential diagnosis of all patients presenting with cholestatic jaundice.
Werner syndrome (WS) results from defects in the RecQ helicase (WRN) and is characterized by premature aging and accelerated tumorigenesis. Contradictorily, WRN deficient human fibroblasts derived from WS patients show a characteristically slower cell proliferation rate, as do primary fibroblasts and human cancer cell lines with WRN depletion. Previous studies reported that WRN silencing in combination with deficiency in other genes led to significantly accelerated cellular proliferation and tumorigenesis. The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of silencing WRN in p53 deficient HL60 and p53 wild-type TK6 hematopoietic cells, in order to further the understanding of WRN-associated tumorigenesis.
We found that silencing WRN accelerated the proliferation of HL60 cells and decreased the cell growth rate of TK6 cells. Loss of WRN increased DNA damage in both cell types as measured by COMET assay, but elicited different responses in each cell line. In HL60 cells, but not in TK6 cells, the loss of WRN led to significant increases in levels of phosphorylated RB and numbers of cells progressing from G1 phase to S phase as shown by cell cycle analysis. Moreover, WRN depletion in HL60 cells led to the hyper-activation of homologous recombination repair via up-regulation of RAD51 and BLM protein levels. This resulted in DNA damage disrepair, apparent by the increased frequencies of both spontaneous and chemically induced structural chromosomal aberrations and sister chromatid exchanges.
Together, our data suggest that the effects of WRN silencing on cell proliferation and genomic instability are modulated probably by other genetic factors, including p53, which might play a role in the carcinogenesis induced by WRN deficiency.
Prior studies have demonstrated inefficacy among dopamine receptor antagonists for treating cocaine dependence. An alternative approach would be to investigate the ability of indirect inhibitors of cortico-mesolimbic dopamine release, such as the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist ondansetron, to reduce cocaine's reinforcing effects. We hypothesized that ondansetron might be more efficacious than placebo at reducing cocaine intake and promoting abstinence in cocaine-dependent individuals. In a pilot randomized, double-blind, 10-week controlled trial, 63 treatment-seeking, cocaine-dependent men and women received ondansetron (0.25 mg, 1.0 mg, or 4.0 mg twice daily) or placebo. Up to three times per week, participants were assessed on several measures of cocaine use, including urine benzoylecgonine. Cognitive behavioral therapy was administered weekly. Ondansetron was well tolerated, causing no serious adverse events. The ondansetron 4.0 mg group had the lowest dropout rate among all treatment groups and a greater rate of improvement in percentage of participants with a cocaine-free week compared with the placebo group (p = 0.02), whereas the ondansetron 1.0 mg group had a lower rate of improvement in percentage of weekly mean non-use days than did placebo recipients (p = 0.04). These results suggest the possibility of a non-linear dose-response function, with evidence supporting efficacy for the 4.0 mg group.
We report a 68-year-old man who developed torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia induced by combined use of mosapride and flecainide. He had a permanent pacemaker (DDD mode) implanted because of sick sinus syndrome (bradytachy syndrome) 6 years earlier. The patient had started taking mosapride for upper abdominal discomfort 2 weeks earlier. On admission, ECG showed prolongation of the QTc interval from 0.48 to 0.56 seconds and self-terminating torsades de pointes occurred. We considered that this proarrhythmia was induced by mosapride in combination with antiarrhythmic agents.
There has been a growing interest in hypoglycemic agents from natural products, particularly those derived from plants. Flavonoids are naturally occurring phenolic compounds with a broad range of biological activities and the beneficial effects of flavonoids have been studied in relation to diabetes mellitus, either through their capacity to avoid glucose absorption or to improve glucose tolerance. The purpose of this study was to investigate the mechanism of action of the stimulatory effect of apigenin-6-C-(2''-O-alpha-L-rhamnopyranosyl)-beta-L-fucopyranoside (1), isolated from Averrhoa carambola L. (Oxalidaceae) leaves, on (14)C-glucose uptake. This compound (1) was found to have an acute effect on blood glucose lowering in diabetic rats and stimulated glucose-induced insulin secretion after oral treatment in hyperglycemic rats. A significant stimulatory effect of compound 1 on (14)C-glucose uptake was observed at 50 and 100 microM. The effect of compound 1 on glucose uptake was completely nullified by wortmannin, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), RO318220, an inhibitor of protein kinase C (PKC), PD98059, a specific inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK), cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, and colchicine, a microtubule-depolymerizing agent. Compound 1 (100 microM) and insulin (10 nM) did not show any synergistic effect on glucose uptake. These results suggest that the flavonoid may have a dual target of action, as an insulin-secretagogue and also as an insulin-mimetic agent.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with exaggerated oscillatory synchrony in the basal ganglia at frequencies over 8-35 Hz. Studies have demonstrated a suppression of local field potential (LFP) activity in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) upon treatment with the dopamine prodrug, levodopa, with the degree of suppression of power in the 8-35 Hz band correlating with the improvement in combined measures of bradykinesia and rigidity. However, these studies do not explicitly address the question of what is more important in predicting clinical change - synchronisation of neuronal activity or the specific frequency within the 8-35 Hz band over which the latter occurs. In addition, they have not demonstrated a relationship between treatment-induced changes in synchronisation and changes in bradykinesia or rigidity on their own. To this end, we collected and analysed LFP and clinical data in 30 patients with PD. We found significant correlations between levodopa-induced power suppression and rigidity and bradykinesia, when these clinical features were considered separately, but only when power suppression profiles were re-aligned to the frequency of peak synchronisation. Under these circumstances correlations with rigidity persisted despite partialising out the effect of bradykinesia and vice versa. These data suggest that levodopa-induced improvements in both rigidity and bradykinesia scale with the degree of suppression of oscillatory power in the STN LFP, and that this is true irrespective of the frequency at which synchronisation occurs across a broad band from 8-35 Hz.
As the demographic of pregnant women continues to change, anesthesiologists will need to continue to find new ways to prevent morbidity and mortality. In this article several new and emerging strategies to meet this challenge are discussed.
Emergence and recovery are now the most common times for airway loss. The proportion of liability claims involving neuraxial anesthesia have increased. Ultrasound can assist in spinal or epidural anesthesia. The most effective antiseptic is 0.5% chlorhexidine in 80% ethanol, which is generally accepted for use in neuraxial techniques. An animal study indicates that bupivacaine-induced cardiac arrest is more effectively treated by intravenous lipid emulsion than by epinephrine. In obstetric hemorrhage, consideration should be given to 1 : 1 FFP :PRBC transfusion, and in severe cases, rFVIIa.
Over the past 50 years, the field of anesthesiology has reduced the rates of anesthesia-related maternal mortality and major morbidity considerably. As the obstetric demographic becomes older and more obese, new technologies and strategies can assist in keeping maternal death and major morbidity vanishingly rare.
Oxidative renal tubular injuries and carcinogenesis induced by Fe(III)-nitrilotriacetate (NTA) and Fe(III)-ethylenediamine-N,N'-diacetate (EDDA) have been reported in rodent kidneys, but the identity of iron coordination structure essential for renal carcinogenesis, remains to be clarified. We compared renal tubular injuries caused by various low molecular weight aminocarboxylate type chelators with injuries due to NTA and EDDA. We found that Fe(III)-iminodiacetate (IDA), a novel iron-chelator, induced acute tubular injuries and lipid peroxidation to the same extent. We also prepared Fe(III)-IDA solutions at different pHs, and studied resultant oxidative injuries and physicochemical properties. The use of Fe(III)-IDA at pH 5.2, 6.2, and 7.2 resulted in renal tubular necrosis and apoptotic cell death, but neither tubular necrosis nor apoptosis was observed at pH 8.2. Spectrophotometric data suggested that Fe(III)-IDA had the same dimer structure from pH 6.2 to 7.2 as Fe(III)-NTA; but at a higher pH, iron polymerized and formed clusters. Fe(III)-IDA was crystallized, and this was confirmed by X-ray analysis and magnetic susceptibility measurements. These data indicated that Fe(III)-IDA possessed a linear mu-oxo bridged dinuclear iron (III) around neutral pH.
Lead is known to induce a broad range of physiological, biochemical, and behavioral dysfunctions in laboratory animals and humans. This includes age-specific variations in absorption, retention, and tissue distribution of lead. This study was carried out to investigate the effects of chronic exposure to lead (50 mg/L) on liver and kidneys of two different age groups of male rats treated with lead from delivery until puberty period (40 days) and postpuberty period (65 days). For this purpose, the concentrations of thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS), total thiol groups (SH), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were measured in the liver and kidney of rats. Renal function was analyzed by determining creatinine, acid uric, and urea. Plasma activities of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and albumin were determined spectrophotometrically to evaluate hepatic function. These markers of damage were determined to assess the level of toxicity in these animals. Our results clearly show that the administration of lead produces oxidative damage in liver and kidney, as strongly suggested by the significant increase in TBARS, decrease in total SH, and the alteration of SOD activity. In young lead-exposed animals, lead-induced perturbations on the synthetic function of the liver and the kidney were more pronounced. However, nephropathy is evident for adult lead-exposed animals. It is concluded that lead induces severe hepatic and renal toxicity, which depends on the age of the animals and the target organ.
The development of tolerance to analgesic effects of ethanol and ketamine, development of cross-tolerance between those drugs, and the effects of ketamine on the symptoms of ethanol abstinence were investigated in mice and rats. The analgesic action of ethanol (2.8 g/kg in rats, 5 g/kg in mice) was significantly reduced in the animals chronically treated with ethanol. Chronic treatment with ketamine (100 mg/kg in rats, 160 mg/kg in mice twice daily for 7 days) resulted in development of tolerance to the analgesic effects of ketamine. Cross-tolerance developed to the analgesic action of ketamine in mice and rats receiving ethanol chronically. A chronic treatment with ketamine resulted in development of significant cross-tolerance to the antinociceptive action of ethanol. Ketamine significantly attenuated the symptoms of ethanol abstinence (head shakes) in mice (20 mg/kg) and rats (25 mg/kg). Naloxone pretreatment (2 mg/kg) antagonized the inhibitory action of ketamine on the ethanol abstinence in rats. Doses of 12.5-75 mg/kg of ketamine abolished or significantly inhibited the ethanol abstinence symptoms (audiogenic seizures) in rats. The results demonstrate some similarities of the action of ketamine and ethanol and suggest a possibility that the endogenous opioid system participates in the mechanisms of action of the investigated compounds.
Mechanisms of benzo(a)pyrene (BaP)-mediated toxicity and chemopreventative potential of quercetin in prostate cancer are poorly understood. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis was used to map the differences in protein expression in BaP (1 microM)- and quercetin (5 microM)-treated 22Rv1 human prostate cancer cells. As compared to DMSO, 26 proteins in BaP and 41 proteins in quercetin were found to be differentially expressed (+/-2-fold). Western blots confirmed that BaP increased peroxiredoxin (Prx) Prx I and decreased Prx II in 22Rv1 cells. Similar results were found in PrEC normal prostate epithelial cells. Quercetin (up to 10 microM) upregulated Prx II without altering Prx I levels in 22Rv1 cells whereas in PrEC cells, it did not alter the constitutive protein expression of Prx I or II. The lack of quercetin-mediated changes in Prx expression suggests that quercetin does not interfere with H(2)O(2) levels, and thus may have no deleterious effect in normal prostate cells. Quercetin inhibited both BaP-mediated effects on Prx I and II in 22Rv1 cells. In PrEC cells, quercetin inhibited BaP-mediated upregulation of Prx I and had tendency to neutralize BaP-mediated downregulation of Prx II. Quercetin also inhibited BaP-induced concentrations of reactive oxygen species in both 22Rv1 and PrEC cells. These results suggest that Prx I and II may be involved in BaP-mediated toxicity and the potential chemopreventative mechanisms of quercetin.
