Two kinds of cancer can be induced in rat male accessory sex organs, one a non-invasive carcinoma arising in the ventral lobe and the other an invasive lesion which develops in the dorsolateral and anterior lobe as well as the seminal vesicles. In the present study, one group of male rats were given biweekly s.c. injections of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) for 20 weeks for induction of non-invasive carcinomas and the other group received DMAB with 40-week testosterone propionate for induction of invasive carcinomas. Half of the animals in each group were then subjected to bilateral orchiectomy at week 41 to remove testicular androgen, in order to examine the androgen dependence of both types of carcinomas as well as precancerous lesions. Animals were killed at weeks 41, 46 and 60. All parts of the prostate complex showed involution and significant weight reduction after castration, with a complete disappearance of atypical hyperplasias and carcinomas of the ventral prostate. However, in spite of suppression of development of atypical hyperplasias in the anterior prostate and seminal vesicles, the incidence of invasive carcinomas was not changed. Normal epithelial cells and atypical hyperplasias of all parts of the prostate and seminal vesicles and carcinomas of the ventral prostate were immunohistochemically positive for nuclear androgen receptor, while invasive carcinomas that developed in either castrated or non-castrated animals were negative. These findings suggest that in the ventral prostate, both precancerous and cancerous lesions are androgen-dependent, but in the anterior and seminal vesicles, cancerous lesions (invasive carcinomas) are androgen-independent while precancerous lesions are hormone-dependent.
Pain that accompanies neuropathy is difficult to treat. Analgesics administered as monotherapies possess low activities in relieving this kind of pain. The effect of the simultaneous administration of indomethacin (a preferential inhibitor of cyclooxygenase-1; COX-1) or celecoxib (a relatively selective inhibitor of cyclooxygenase-2; COX-2), with selective antagonists of bradykinin(2) (B(2)) bradykinin(1) (B(1)) receptors (HOE 140 or des-Arg(10)-HOE 140) on the alleviation of diabetic and toxic neuropathic pain was investigated. Pretreatment with indomethacin (0.1 mg/kg, sc) increased the antihyperalgesic activity of low daily doses of HOE 140 or des-Arg(10)HOE 140 (70 nmol/kg, ip) in a diabetic (streptozotocin(STZ)-induced) neuropathy/hyperalgesia experimental model. Premedication with celecoxib before HOE 140 or des-Arg(10)HOE 140 administration resulted in a gradual reduction of STZ hyperalgesia. Furthermore, on days 23-24, almost complete abolishment of STZ hyperalgesia was observed. After cessation of drug administration, hyperalgesia quickly returned to the baseline threshold. The results of this study suggest that inhibitors of cyclooxygenases can increase the antihyperalgesic activity of selective antagonists of B(2) and B(1) receptors in diabetic and toxic neuropathic pain models. These observations may be clinically relevant.
The incidence of pulmonary embolism (PE) rises markedly with age, and only a few cases have been reported in younger adults. Thrombophilia has been reported as one of the predisposing factors for PE in younger adults. Here we report an extraordinary case of PE complicated with dysplasminogenemia, a rare genetic disorder resulting in hypercoagulability, in a young male. An 18-yr-old male visited an emergency room in the United States complaining chest discomfort. He was diagnosed as PE with deep vein thrombosis without apparent risk factors. Anticoagulation therapy with warfarin had been initiated and discontinued after 6 months of treatment. After returning to Korea he was tested for thrombophilia which revealed decreased activity of plasminogen and subsequent analysis of PLG gene showed heterozygous Ala620Thr mutation. He was diagnosed with PE complicated with dysplasminogenemia. Life-long anticoagulation therapy was initiated. He is currently under follow-up without clinical events for 2 yr.
A patient is reported who was on prolonged treatment with dantrolene for spastic paraplegia; he developed a malignant lymphoma which led to his death.
We examined the effects of rosiglitazone: 1) on glucose homeostasis, insulin action, beta-cell function, and plasma adiponectin and TNF-alpha (TNF-alpha) levels; and 2) the expression of adipose tissue TNF-alpha and adiponectin mRNA in African Americans with parental history of type 2 diabetes and with varying degrees of glucose intolerance.
The study groups comprised 11 African Americans with normal glucose tolerance and six with diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance. The glucose-intolerant subjects received rosiglitazone (4-8 mg/day) every morning for 12 weeks. They underwent oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and subcutaneous adipose tissue biopsy (under local anesthesia) before and after 12 weeks of rosiglitazone therapy. Beta cell function and insulin resistance were calculated by using homeostasis model assessment (HOMA). Adipose tissue gene expression (mRNA) was measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction in both groups.
Rosiglitazone monotherapy improved both fasting and two-hour serum glucose levels during OGTT in the glucose-intolerant group. However, mean serum insulin and C-peptide levels did not change when compared with baseline. Rosiglitazone monotherapy improved insulin resistance but not overall beta-cell secretion. Mean adiponectin levels at fasting and two hours after oral glucose ingestion were significantly (50%) lower in the glucose-intolerant group than in the control group. Rosiglitazone monotherapy significantly increased plasma adiponectin levels at fasting and two hours after oral challenge by two-fold in the glucose-intolerant group. Mean plasma TNF-alpha levels were not significantly different at fasting and after two hours during OGTT. Rosiglitazone had no significant effect on plasma TNF-alpha levels during OGTT. No significant differences were seen in the expression of adipose tissue TNF-alpha and adiponectin mRNA in the groups at baseline. Rosiglitazone did not significantly change the adipose tissue adiponectin and TNF-alpha mRNA. Rosiglitazone was well tolerated, without experiencing weight gain, edema, and liver function test abnormality in the glucose intolerant subjects.
Rosiglitazone improved glucose homeostasis and insulin resistance in high-risk African Americans. We found that adiponectin was lower in the glucose-intolerant group, while TNF-alpha was similar. While rosiglitazone increased plasma adiponectin, it had no effect on adipose tissue adiponectin mRNA. In addition, rosiglitazone had no effect on plasma TNF-alpha and adipose tissue TNF-alpha mRNA. We conclude that the metabolic effects of rosiglitazone could be mediated by adiponectin but not TNF-alpha in African Americans with glucose intolerance. Our study demonstrates that: 1) the role of adipocytokines in the etiology of type 2 diabetes in African Americans is complex; and 2) that adiponectin, but not TNF-alpha, could mediate the metabolic benefits of thiazolidinediones in African Americans with glucose intolerance.
Evidence suggests that vascular and inflammatory factors may be important in the etiology of Alzheimer disease (AD). The Glu/Glu genotype at the Glu298Asp variant of the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (NOS3) gene has been tested for association with AD in several Caucasian and Asian populations, with conflicting results. We tested the Glu298Asp variant for association in African American and Caucasian AD patients, unaffected siblings, and unrelated controls from the MIRAGE Study. To explore whether the inconsistent results in previous studies might be due to linkage disequilibrium with a polymorphism or haplotype not previously tested, we genotyped 10 additional NOS3 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) spanning 25.3 kb. Finally, we compiled results of previous studies of Glu298Asp using meta-analysis, to determine whether the aggregate studies support an association between Glu298Asp and AD. We found that the Glu298 allele was associated with higher risk of AD in the MIRAGE African American (p = 0.002) but not Caucasian (p = 0.9) groups. None of the additional SNPs were associated with AD in the Caucasians, whereas two showed evidence for association in the African Americans. The meta-analysis showed a small effect of the Glu298Asp GG genotype on AD risk across all studies (summary odds ratio = 1.15, 95% confidence interval: 0.97-1.35) and significant heterogeneity of this association among studies (p = 0.02).
The delayed functional cardiotoxic effects of repeated treatment with the new disaccharide anthracycline MEN 10755 and doxorubicin (1.5 mg/kg, i.v., once a week for 5 consecutive weeks) were investigated in the rat. Changes were assessed (2 days and 4 and 13 weeks after the last treatment) in ECG morphology, hemodynamics, in vivo left ventricular contractile responses to beta-adrenergic stimulation, and histopathology of both atria and ventricles. Doxorubicin induced significant and progressive prolongation of the QalphaT interval starting 2 days after suspension of treatment. At 4 and 13 weeks after the last treatment, the ECG showed a further progressive and significant impairment. MEN 10755 induced alterations similar in nature but of lesser severity compared with doxorubicin. In addition, MEN 10755-induced prolongation of the QalphaT interval was not progressive, being similar at 4 and 13 weeks after the last treatment. Although the hemodynamics were only slightly affected by both anthracyclines, a nearly complete ablation of isoprenaline-induced enhancement of ventricular function was observed 4 and 13 weeks after the last treatment with doxorubicin, whereas only mild, if any, reduction was detected in rats receiving MEN 10755. Histopathologic investigations indicated that both anthracyclines produced qualitatively similar alterations in ventricular myocytes. However, only with doxorubicin did these changes show a progression with a further significant worsening at 13 weeks as compared with 4 weeks after the last treatment. In addition, atrial lesions were evident in doxorubicin-treated rats, but not in rats receiving MEN 10755. In conclusion, an equimyelotoxic regimen of MEN 10755 produced, as compared with doxorubicin, lesser ECG alterations, smaller impairment of the ventricular response to adrenergic stimulation, and less severe myocyte lesions. Unlike doxorubicin, the histologic and functional cardiotoxic effects induced by MEN 10755 were not progressive. Further investigations are warranted to define the pharmacodynamic and/or pharmacokinetic mechanism(s) underlying the different cardiotoxic profile exhibited by the two anthracyclines.
We have investigated the effects of estrogens and prolactin on nigro-striatal dopaminergic function. In this regard, apomorphine-induced hyperactivity has been evaluated in hyperprolactinemic rats. Results obtained suggest the possibility that hyperprolactinemia potentiates nigro-striatal dopaminergic transmission inducing, in chronic, charges in dopamine receptor sensitivity. As a neurochemical parameter of the extrapyramidal motor system, we have investigated the activity of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamate decarboxylase (GAD, EC 4.1.1.15) in corpus striatum and substantia nigra. Hyperprolactinemia induced by anterior pituitary homograft under the kidney capsule or systemic sulpiride injection significantly increases GAD activity. In contrast, estrogen treatment decreases nigral GAD activity even though increases plasma prolactin levels. From a clinical point of view, preliminary data indicating a good therapeutical efficacy of estrogens and progesterone in psychiatric patients are reported.
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study compared the effects of high-dose (100 mg/d) naltrexone versus placebo in a sample of 87 randomized subjects with both cocaine and alcohol dependence. Medication conditions were crossed with two behavioral therapy platforms that examined whether adding contingency management (CM) that targeted cocaine abstinence would enhance naltrexone effects compared to cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) without CM. Primary outcome measures for cocaine (urine screens) and alcohol use (timeline followback) were collected thrice-weekly during 12 weeks of treatment. Retention in treatment and medication compliance rates were low. Rates of cocaine use and drinks per day did not differ between treatment groups; however naltrexone did reduce frequency of heavy drinking days, as did CBT without CM. Notably, adding CM to CBT did not enhance treatment outcomes. These weak findings suggest that pharmacological and behavioral interventions that have shown efficacy in the treatment of a single drug dependence disorder may not provide the coverage needed when targeting dual drug dependence.
Chronic use of cocaine is associated with a variety of behavioral symptoms. The current report describes the assessment of cocaine-related behavioral symptoms (CRB) using the Scale for Assessment of Positive Symptoms of Cocaine-Induced Psychosis (SAPS-CIP). The CRB section, one of the three domains in the SAPS-CIP, consists of sub-domains, including Aggressive/Agitated Behavior, Repetitive/Stereotyped Behavior, and Unusual Social or Sexual Behavior. Severity scores are assigned according to operational criteria, and range from 0 (not present) to 5 (severe). We interviewed 261 unrelated cocaine-abusing adults using the SAPS-CIP, and 243 of them met criteria for inclusion in the study. The proportion of subjects endorsing different classes of CRBs varied across categories, with 109 of 243 (44.9%) subjects reporting aggressive and agitated behaviors, 180 subjects (74.1%) repetitive/stereotyped behaviors, and 192 (79.0%) unusual social/sexual behaviors. A substantial minority of the subjects (10.3-25.1%) reported that they experienced marked-to-severe behavioral symptoms associated with cocaine use. The proportions of subjects endorsing CRB did not differ by ethnic/racial group or by sex. Correlations among the different domains of CRB were strong, but behaviors rated in the CRB section were less well correlated with psychotic symptoms, which were rated in the hallucination and delusion sections of the instrument. A variety of CRBs are common in cocaine-dependent subjects, and many of these are highly intercorrelated. CRBs also correlate with hallucinations and delusions induced by cocaine, but to a lesser degree. Our findings suggest that there may be some common vulnerability factors that contribute to both cocaine-induced psychosis and CRBs.
Phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride is an amphetamine-like substance that is found in 64 different over-the-counter preparations for colds and appetite suppression. It is also found in numerous prescription drugs. Recently, it has been reported to cause symptoms of sympathomimetic-like effects, such as severe hypertension, hypertensive crisis, and possible renal failure. Also, several cases of psychotic episodes while taking phenylpropanolamine have been reported. This is the report of seven patients who have experienced acute CNS effects. These effects range from stimulation of the medullary respiratory center to tremor, restlessness, increased motor activity, agitation, and hallucinations.
We investigated the mechanism of the antiatherosclerotic effect of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, ramipril, in the apolipoprotein (apo) E-deficient mice. Mice that received a high dose (5 mg/kg/day) of ramipril supplemented in their drinking water for 10 weeks showed reduced aortic lesion size by 75% compared with placebo-treated mice. At this dosage, ramipril significantly reduced blood pressure from 95+/-5 mm Hg before treatment to 68+/-4 mm Hg at the end of the treatment period. Ramipril also increased the resistance of the mouse low-density lipoprotein (LDL) to CuSO4-induced oxidation, as shown by a prolongation of the lag time required for the initiation of LDL oxidation from 90 min in the placebo-treated mice to >180 min in the ramipril-treated mice. Similarly, a reduction in the maximal LDL-associated conjugated dienes after 180 min of oxidation by 250% in comparison with placebo-treated mice was noted. Ramipril (1 mg/kg/day) that was still adequate to reduce their plasma ACE activity and LDL propensity to lipid peroxidation was insufficient to reduce their blood pressure. This dosage also inhibited the progression of atherosclerosis in the apo E-deficient mice by 74%. The contribution of bradykinin potentiation to the ACE-inhibitor action was assessed by cotreatment of ramipril with the bradykinin B2-receptor antagonist, icatibant (HOE-140, 0.5 mg/kg given subcutaneously twice a day) for a period of 10 weeks. HOE-140 had no effects on ACE activity, LDL lipid peroxidation, blood pressure, or atherosclerosis. In combination with ramipril, no additional effect of HOE-140 on LDL oxidation or on atherosclerosis was noted in comparison with ramipril treatment alone. We thus conclude that the antiatherogenic effect of ramipril in E(0) mice is independent of blood pressure reduction and is not mediated by bradykinin. It seems, therefore, that most of its antiatherosclerotic and antioxidative effects are mediated through the inhibition of angiotensin II production.
Acetylcysteine is an antidote used to prevent liver failure after acetaminophen overdose. We report the development of liver failure despite administration of intravenous acetylcysteine in a patient with massive ingestion of an acetaminophen and diphenhydramine combination product. An atypical, delayed, bimodal peak in the serum acetaminophen concentration was observed. This case suggests that individualized dosing of antidotal therapy may be needed for preparations of acetaminophen that result in delayed absorption or after massive overdose.
The authors studied the effect of topical mitomycin-C administration on the maintenance of filter function and intraocular pressure (IOP) following laser sclerostomy.
Twenty-six patients with a presumed high risk of episcleral scarring were treated intraoperatively with topical mitomycin-C (0.5 mg/ml) for 3 to 5 minutes. Their IOPs were monitored for at least 2 years. The IOP data of these patients were compared with the results for 46 patients who underwent the identical procedure without antimetabolite.
IOPs below 23 mm Hg were achieved in 70% of the mitomycin-C-treated patients. Compared with the non-mitomycin-C group, the rate and duration of early postoperative hypotony was significantly increased in the mitomycin-C-treated group.
Mitomycin-C is useful for maintaining successful filter function in patients with unfavorable prognoses. However, severe and persistent hypotony may occur.
The high metabolic requirements of the mammalian central nervous system require specialized structures for the facilitated transport of nutrients across the blood-brain barrier. Stereospecific high-capacity carriers, including those that recognize glucose, are key components of this barrier, which also protects the brain against noxious substances. Facilitated glucose transport in vertebrates is catalyzed by a family of carriers consisting of at least five functional isoforms with distinct tissue distributions, subcellular localizations and transport kinetics. Several of these transporters are expressed in the mammalian brain. GLUT-1, whose sequence was originally deduced from cDNAs cloned from human hepatoma and rat brain, is present at high levels in primate erythrocytes and brain endothelial cells. GLUT1 has been cloned and positionally mapped to the short arm of chromosome 1 (1p35-p31.3; refs 6-8). Despite substantial metabolic requirements of the central nervous system, no genetic disease caused by dysfunctional blood-brain barrier transport has been identified. Several years ago, we described two patients with infantile seizures, delayed development and acquired microcephaly who have normal circulating blood glucose, low-to-normal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) lactate, but persistent hypoglycorrachia (low CSF glucose) and diminished transport of hexose into isolated red blood cells (RBC). These symptoms suggested the existence of a defect in glucose transport across the blood brain barrier. We now report two distinct classes of mutations as the molecular basis for the functional defect of glucose transport: hemizygosity of GLUT1 and nonsense mutations resulting in truncation of the GLUT-1 protein.
Both humans and experimental animals demonstrate gender differences in response to cocaine. However, the mechanisms underlying these differences remain unclear. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether ovarian steroid hormones play a role in the locomotor response to cocaine in rats. Initial assessments of locomotor activity measured using photobeam monitors verified the robust gender difference in response to cocaine in our experimental paradigm. Subsequently, cocaine (5.0, 7.5, and 10.0 mg/kg) was shown to increase total horizontal activity in a dose-dependent manner in independent groups of intact females; the 5.0 mg/kg dose was selected for use in additional studies to determine the effect of estrogen (E) and progesterone (P) on the response to cocaine. Mature female rats were ovariectomized (OVX) or OVX and implanted with hormone-filled (E or P) Silastic capsules. Three to 4 weeks later, automated and observational measures of behavior were recorded after the administration of 5 mg/kg cocaine. Hormone replacement with E or E + P (but not P alone) resulted in greater cocaine-evoked hyperactivity than was observed in OVX animals. On measurement in normally cycling rats, hyperactivity induced by 5 mg/kg cocaine was greater during proestrus and estrus than during diestrus 2. The results of this series of experiments demonstrate that E significantly influences the responsiveness of female rats to cocaine. The enhanced response to cocaine was demonstrated in the presence of pharmacologically administered E as well as correlated with the normal estrous cycle.
Bromocriptine (Parlodel) has attracted widespread controversy for its use for postpartum lactation suppression because of recent reports of cerebral and cardiovascular complications. This case describes a maternal death in which bromocriptine therapy may have triggered myocardial infarction in a patient with asymptomatic coronary artery disease. We suggest its use with caution, especially in patients with identifiable risk factors of coronary artery disease or arteriovascular disease.
Isolated lungs from male Wistar rats (250-350 g) were perfused at a constant flow rate (10 ml/min, non-recirculating) with Krebs-Ringer-bicarbonate buffer containing 4.5 % bovine serum albumin, and were ventilated at a positive pressure (60 breaths/min). Pulmonary arterial pressure and lung weight (as a measure of edema formation) were recorded continuously. After an equilibration period of 20 minutes the various test compounds were added to the perfusion fluid and experimental recording was continued for another 60 minutes. The effects of the stable PGI2-mimetic, iloprost, of PGE1, and of the biologically active PGE1-metabolite, 13,14-dihydro-PGE1, were evaluated in this model (n = 6). Iloprost showed slight, but not significant vasodilation; however, lung weight remained unchanged. PGE1 and 13, 14-dihydro-PGE1 also caused slight vasodilation, but in contrast to iloprost these compounds induced distinct pulmonary edema. The lung weight gain was discernible at concentrations of 2.8 x 10(-6) mol/l (significant at 2.8 x 10(-5) mol/l; p < or = 0.05) and was accompanied by increases in the wet-weight to dry-weight ratios. These findings were duplicated in a second set of experiments (n = 6) from which the same results were obtained. The results indicate that at high concentrations PGE1 (and 13,14-dihydro-PGE1), but not iloprost, can induce pulmonary edema in rats probably by increasing the permeability of the pulmonary vasculature.
Five patients are described in whom only gentamicin sulfate appeared responsible for acute renal failure. Subjects received 1.2 to 2.88 gm over 12 to 18 days. All were over 45 years of age, and premorbid kidney abnormalities may have enhanced susceptibility to toxic effects of the drug. Renal failure appeared 8 to 17 days after beginning gentamicin therapy and was characterized by creatinine clearances 4 to 10 ml/min, urine to plasma creatinine ratios less than 20, urinary sodium concentrations 16 to 60 mEq/liter, proteinuria, and cylindruria. Oliguria was not observed and this feature may impair recognition of kidney damage. Clinical recovery required an average of 42 days and was complete in four of five patients. Gentamicin alone may be nephrotoxic and should be given with particular caution to the elderly and those with even mild kidney abnormalities.
As a screening test for renal function, urine concentration was measured following a 12-hour overnight fast in 54 outpatients taking lithium carbonate and 19 patients receiving antidepressant drugs. A significantly greater percentage of lithium patients failed to achieve a maximum urine concentration of 600 mOsm/kg (63% versus 33% in the antidepressant group, p less than .001). This level, a compromise between the sensitivity and specificity of the test, is viewed as a cutoff point for further testing. It is concluded that urine concentration testing is a feasible first-line screen for renal function among lithium-treated patients. Other preliminary studies include routine urinalysis, serum creatinine determination, and estimated creatinine clearance. Second-line testing includes a repeated dehydration test and administration of DDAVP.
An adequate propranolol dose to reduce 25% the initial heart rate was searched in 19 children with portal hypertension. 13 were pre-hepatic and 6 hepatic hypertension, mean age: 6.96 +/- 3.48 years, range: 2-14 years. Treatment was started with 0.5 mg/kg/day increasing 0.25 mg/kg/day every third day, needing an average of 26 +/- 13 days (range: 6-54 days) to obtain the response. Daily dose ranged from 1 to 5.25 mg/kg/day (mean: 2.69 +/- 1.16). The highest daily dose was 175 mg, the lowest 23.4 mg (mean: 58.27 +/- 36.6 mg/day). Some parameters were evaluated before and after achieving the dose. There was a significant reduction of mean blood pressure (p < 0.01) and peripheral venous pressure (p < 0.05) in 68.4% of patients. A significant elevation (p < 0.001) of 24 hour urinary catecholamine levels occurred in 94.7%. Side effects were minimal. Propranolol could be considered a safe pharmacological option in these patients.
To compare the analgesic efficacy and tolerability of intravenous (IV) ketorolac tromethamine with IV meperidine in the treatment of biliary colic, a prospective, randomized, double blind study was carried out upon a convenience sample of patients at a large inner city facility. Patients between the ages of 18 and 65 years of age with a history and physical examination consistent with biliary colic were enrolled over a 2-year period. Patients were randomly assigned to receive ketorolac 30 mg IV or meperidine 50 mg IV. Pain was quantified using a 4-point verbal rating system (VRS) as well as a visual analog scale (VAS). Patients were queried about their pain at times 0, 12 h, 1 h, and 2 h after administration of the study medication. Adverse effects were also recorded. A total of 324 patients completed the study protocol with 175 patients receiving ketorolac and 149 receiving meperidine. Patient demographics were similar for both groups with mean age for the ketorolac group of 36.1 years and for the meperidine group of 34.6 years. Both groups were predominantly Latino and over 80% of patients in both groups were female. No significant difference in pain control was found between ketorolac and meperidine in either the VAS or VRS for any time interval studied. The mean change in the VAS at time 2 h was 6.2 cm +/- 3.6 cm for the ketorolac group, compared with 6.7 cm +/- 3.6 cm for the meperidine group (p = 0.25). Although no significant difference was found in overall drug tolerability, patients receiving meperidine reported higher incidences of nausea and of dizziness than those receiving ketorolac (p = 0.009 and 0.003, respectively). Ketorolac tromethamine is a well-tolerated, effective medication in the treatment of acute biliary colic. It showed similar efficacy to meperidine with a decreased number of adverse effects.
We report a case of the nephrotic syndrome occurring in a patient with procainamide induced LE. It was associated with bilateral pleural effusions, pericarditis, fever, positive LE cell preparation and a high titer of antinuclear antibodies. No anti-DNA antibodies were found. Renal biopsy showed mesangial proliferation with few IgM and C3 deposits and interstitial infiltrates; electron microscopy revealed subendothelial deposits. Clinical improvement occured after steroid therapy and there was no recurrence 24 months after withdrawal of prednisone.
