We performed ocular examinations on 58 corticosteroid-treated pediatric patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and on 58 age-matched controls. Posterior subcapsular cataracts (PSC) were detected in 12 of the 58 treated patients (20.7%) and in none of the controls. The difference in mean intraocular pressure (IOP) between the treated patients (15.89 +/- 4.11 mm Hg) and control subjects (13.63 +/- 2.35 mm Hg) was significant statistically (P < 0.001). Twenty-one patients (36.2%) were characterized as "IOP responders" (IOP > or = 20 mm Hg, change in IOP > or = 6 mm Hg between visits, or a difference in IOP > or = 6 mm Hg between the two eyes). Formation of PSC was not correlated significantly (P > 0.05) with the total dose of prednisone, duration of treatment, average daily dose, or number of days on high doses (> or = 25 mg). Raised IOP was correlated (P = 0.005) only with average daily dose (12.4 +/- 10.9 mg/day; range, 0-47 mg/day) 30 days before examination. When the dose of corticosteroid was reduced to < 10 mg/day, 2 patients manifested regression of PSC, and 12 IOP responders showed a decrease in IOP to within 2 SD of the mean control IOP. Only 3 of the 58 treated patients (5.2%) manifested both PSC and raised IOP. A significant inverse correlation (P = 0.02) was established between IOP at first examination and formation of PSC. We propose that the mechanisms for steroid-induced lens opacities and raised IOP do not share the same genetic basis. Because 52% of these children developed either PSC or raised IOP with prednisone therapy, we advocate careful ophthalmologic monitoring of pediatric patients receiving corticosteroids for IBD or any other condition.
Rifampicin is a well-known hepatotoxicant, but little is known about the mechanism of rifampicin-induced hepatotoxicity. The aim of this study was to characterize the expression and localization of hepatocyte tight junctions in rifampicin-induced cholestasis in mice. Cholestasis was induced by administration of rifampicin (200 mg/kg) for 7 consecutive days or treatment with a single dose of rifampicin (200 mg/kg) by gastric intubation. The expression of mRNA for hepatic zonula occludens (ZO)-1, ZO-2, ZO-3, occludin and claudin-1 was determined using RT-PCR. Localization of ZO-1 and occludin was detected using immunofluorescence. Results showed that there was an 82-fold increase in the conjugated bilirubin in serum in rifampicin-treated mice. In addition, an 8-fold increase in total bile acid in serum was observed after a seven-day administration of rifampicin. The integrity of hepatocyte ZO-1 and occludin was altered by a seven-day administration of rifampicin. Importantly, the integrity and intensity of hepatocyte tight junctions were altered as early as 30 min after a single dose of rifampicin. The expression of hepatic ZO-1 and ZO-2 mRNA was significantly decreased, beginning as early as 30 min and remaining a lower level 12 h after a single dose of rifampicin. Taken together, these results suggest that the altered integrity and internalization of hepatocyte tight junctions are associated with rifampicin-induced cholestasis.
The widely used fungicide mancozeb has been shown to cause hypothyroxinemia and other adverse effects on the thyroid hormone system in adult experimental animals. In humans, hypothyroxinemia early in pregnancy is associated with adverse effects on the developing nervous system and can lead to impaired cognitive function and motor development in children. The aim of the present study was therefore to assess whether perinatal mancozeb exposure would cause developmental neurotoxicity in rats. Groups of 9-21 time-mated Wistar rats were dosed with 0, 50, 100, or 150 mg mancozeb/kg body weight (bw)/day by gavage from gestation day (GD) 7 to postnatal day (PND) 16, and total thyroxine (T(4)) levels were measured in dams during gestation. On PND 16, hormone levels and several organ weights were measured in the offspring, whereas motor activity, startle response, and cognitive function were assessed in the adult offspring. The dose of 150 mg/kg/day caused neurotoxicity in the pregnant dams and was therefore reduced to 100 mg/kg bw/day in mid study. T(4) levels showed a dose-dependent and significant decrease in dams from all three dose groups on GD 15, whereas offspring T(4) levels, thyroid weights, and histology were unaffected on PND 16. No effects on reproductive organ weights were seen, and no behavioral changes were observed. Taken together, these results indicate that in rats, moderate maternal hypothyroxinemia during gestation does not necessarily lead to hyperactivity or reduced special learning abilities in the offspring. Mancozeb exposure did, however, reduce T(4) levels in dams and may therefore still be a potential contributor to thyroid disruption in humans and in result adversely affects the developing brain.
Axonal degeneration is a major contributor to non-remitting deficits in multiple sclerosis, and there is thus considerable current interest in the development of strategies that might prevent axonal loss in neuroinflammatory disease. Dysregulation of sodium ion homeostasis has been implicated in mechanisms leading to axonal degeneration, and several studies have shown that blockade of sodium channels can ameliorate axon damage following anoxic, traumatic and nitric oxide-induced CNS injury. Two sodium channel blockers, phenytoin and flecainide, have been reported to protect axons in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) for 30 days, but long-term protective effects have not been studied. We demonstrate here that oral administration of phenytoin provides long-term (up to 180 days) protection for spinal cord corticospinal tract (CST) and dorsal column (DC) axons in both monophasic (C57/BL6 mice) and chronic-relapsing (Biozzi mice) murine EAE. Untreated C57/BL6 mice exhibit a 40-50% loss of CST and DF axons at 90 and 180 days post-EAE induction via myelin-oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) injection. In contrast, only 4% of DF axons are lost at 90 days, and only 8% are lost at 180 days in phenytoin-treated C57/BL6 mice with EAE; only 21-29% of CST axons are lost at 90 and 180 days in phenytoin-treated C57/BL6 mice with EAE. Attenuation of dorsal column compound action potentials was ameliorated and clinical status was also significantly enhanced with phenytoin treatment at 90 and 180 days in this model. In addition, inflammatory cell infiltration into the dorsal columns was reduced in phenytoin-treated mice with EAE compared with untreated mice with EAE. Similar results were obtained in Biozzi mice with chronic-relapsing EAE followed for 120 days post-injection. These observations demonstrate that phenytoin provides long-term protection of CNS axons and improves clinical status in both monophasic and chronic-relapsing models of neuroinflammation.
Angiosarcoma of the scalp is a rare but highly aggressive malignant tumor that differentiates toward vascular endothelial cells and shows a tendency for diffuse, often clinically occult spread.
A 65-year-old Caucasian man presented with multiple erythematous skin lesions at the right scalp hemisphere and a prominent forehead edema that had developed during a period of 2 months. The clinical diagnosis of angiosarcoma was confirmed by histopathology. Because of the advanced local progression of the tumor and the unilateral localization on the right side of the scalp, we initiated an intra-arterial chemotherapy using pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Caelyx) (8 mg/cycle every 4 weeks by an A. carotis externa port system). In addition, the patient received pegylated interferon alfa (50 microg/wk) by a percutaneous intralesional injection route. After 2 months, the tumor showed a marked regression; after 4 months, only one nodule located at the margins of the area perfused by the A. carotis externa persisted but regressed after focal irradiation. At 30 months after diagnosis, the patient shows no recurrence of tumor growth.
In combination with intralesional interferon alfa, intra-arterial doxorubicin may be a promising innovative therapeutic option for localized scalp angiosarcoma, a hitherto poorly manageable and aggressive malignant tumor.
The present study has been designed to investigate the effect of sodium cromoglycate and ketotifen, mast cell stabilizers in hyperhomocysteinemia-induced cardiac hypertrophy in rats.
Rats were administered L-methionine (1.7 g/kg/day PO) for 8 weeks to produce hyperhomocysteinemia. Sodium cromoglycate (24 mg/kg/day IP) and ketotifen (1mg/kg/day IP) treatments were started from first day of administration of L-methionine and continued for 8 weeks. The development of cardiac hypertrophy was assessed in terms of measuring mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), ratio of left ventricular (LV) weight to body weight (LVW/BW), LV wall thickness (LVWT), LV protein content, and LV collagen content. Further, the oxidative stress in heart was assessed by measuring lipid peroxidation, superoxide anion generation, and reduced glutathione (GSH). Moreover, the cardiomyocyte diameter and LV mast cell density were determined using hematoxylin-eosin and toluidine blue staining, respectively.
The L-methionine administration produced hyperhomocysteinemia, which significantly increased MABP, oxidative stress, and density of mast cells and consequently produced cardiac hypertrophy by increasing cardiomyocyte diameter, LVW/BW, LVWT, LV protein and collagen content. However, sodium cromoglycate and ketotifen treatments significantly attenuated hyperhomocysteinemia-induced oxidative stress and pathological cardiac hypertrophy without significantly altering MABP. Moreover, sodium cromoglycate and ketotifen treatments did not affect serum homocysteine levels.
Thus, it may be concluded that hyperhomocysteinemia-induced cardiac hypertrophy is associated with an increase in oxidative stress and density of mast cells in heart. Sodium cromoglycate and ketotifen may have attenuated hyperhomocysteinemia-induced pathological cardiac hypertrophy, possibly by reducing oxidative stress and preventing the degranulation and increase in density of mast cells.
To establish a new therapeutic method to treat bladder carcinoma, we investigated the therapeutic potential of doxorubicin hydrochloride (DXR) combined with hemagglutinating virus of Japan-envelope vector (HVJ-E) in an orthotropic mouse bladder cancer model.
DXR and/or HVJ-E were instilled into the bladder after implantation of MB49 cells. Antitumor effects of combination therapy were evaluated by histological analysis of the bladder on day 14 after tumor implantation. The survival rate of MB49-disseminated mice was examined for 60 days after single or double administration of DXR alone or DXR/HVJ-E. The surviving mice were re-challenged with intravesical injection of MB49 cells, and the bladder was observed after 3 weeks.
Combined intravesical instillation of HVJ-E and DXR resulted in a significantly higher rate of tumor-free mice (11/21) compared with mice treated using DXR alone (3/19, P<0.05). Median survival was >60 days for intravesical instillation of HVJ-E and DXR, compared with the 29 days for DXR instillation alone (P<0.05). After combination therapy, surviving mice formed no tumors in the bladder following intravesical re-instillation of MB49.
HVJ-E increased antitumor effects in combination with chemotherapeutic agent (DXR). Antitumor immunity appeared to be enhanced using HVJ-E.
Atrial fibrillation (AF), the most commonly encountered cardiac rhythm disorder, affects approximately 1% of the general population and is associated with serious complications, most notably ischemic stroke. AF-associated stroke occurs at an annual rate of 4.5%. Anticoagulation therapy with warfarin has been demonstrated in randomized controlled trials to reduce the risk for AF-related stroke by two thirds, but warfarin therapy is markedly underused in clinical practice because of its narrow therapeutic window and its implications on quality of life. This article reviews the present knowledge and potential future research avenues for the role of antiplatelet therapy in AF as an alternative to anticoagulation with warfarin for prevention of AF-associated stroke. Antiplatelet therapy recently has been shown to be protective against thrombotic events related to blood stasis. There is ample evidence from experimental and clinical studies that a combination of different antiplatelet agents may increase antithrombotic efficacy compared to monotherapy. Accordingly, a series of randomized controlled trials (ACTIVE [Atrial fibrillation Clopidogrel Trial with Irbesartan for prevention of Vascular Events]) has been designed to vigorously examine the role of combined antithrombotic therapy for prevention of vascular events, including stroke in high-risk AF patients. The ACTIVE program began patient enrollment in spring 2003.
Slow, rhythmic oscillations (<5 Hz) in the sleep electroencephalogram may be a sign of synaptic plasticity occurring during sleep. The oscillations, referred to as slow-wave activity (SWA), reflect sleep need and sleep intensity. The amount of SWA is homeostatically regulated. It is enhanced after sleep loss and declines during sleep. Animal studies suggested that sleep need is genetically controlled, yet the physiological mechanisms remain unknown. Here we show in humans that a genetic variant of adenosine deaminase, which is associated with the reduced metabolism of adenosine to inosine, specifically enhances deep sleep and SWA during sleep. In contrast, a distinct polymorphism of the adenosine A(2A) receptor gene, which was associated with interindividual differences in anxiety symptoms after caffeine intake in healthy volunteers, affects the electroencephalogram during sleep and wakefulness in a non-state-specific manner. Our findings indicate a direct role of adenosine in human sleep homeostasis. Moreover, our data suggest that genetic variability in the adenosinergic system contributes to the interindividual variability in brain electrical activity during sleep and wakefulness.
The hemolytic anemia which frequently accompanies treatment of individuals with dapsone and other arylamine drugs is believed to be caused not by the parent drugs per se, but rather by metabolites which are formed during the clearance of the drugs in vivo. To determine whether the N-hydroxyarylamine metabolites of dapsone could be responsible for dapsone-induced hemolysis, dapsone, dapsone hydroxylamine (DDS-NOH) and monoacetyldapsone hydroxylamine were administered to rats which had previously received 51Cr-labeled red blood cells. All three compounds caused an increase in the rate of disappearance of radioactivity from the blood as compared with saline-treated controls. In parallel in vitro studies, incubation of 51Cr-labeled red blood cells with DDS-NOH, but not dapsone or monoacetyldapsone, induced a decrease in survival time of the radiolabeled cells when they were reintroduced into isologous rats. The disappearance of radioactivity from the blood was matched by its selective uptake into the spleen. The amount of damage (as measured by decreased red cell survival in vivo) was proportional to both concentration and time of exposure to DDS-NOH. The area under the blood concentration vs. time curve for total arylhydroxylamines (DDS-NOH + monacetyldapsone hydroxylamine) in rats given a hemotoxic dose of dapsone was similar to that of rats given an equitoxic dose of DDS-NOH. Collectively, these data indicate that the hydroxylamine metabolites of dapsone are direct acting hemolytic agents that are formed from dapsone in sufficient amounts to account for their being the sole mediators of dapsone-induced hemolytic anemia in the rat.
Chronic ergot toxicity is a rare cause of lower extremity ischemia. The cornerstone of therapy in ergot toxicity is to discontinue the use of caffeine, cigarettes, and all ergot-containing medications. Although multiple different therapies have been recommended for acute toxicity, no specific treatment is uniformly recommended in chronic toxicity. We present a case of long-term ergot use for migraine headaches in a woman who had severe chronic lower extremity claudication. This case demonstrates the unique features associated with the diagnosis and management of chronic ergot toxicity. We recommend a conservative approach consisting of observation, antiplatelet agents, and the discontinuance of ergots. If symptoms progress to rest pain or gangrene, surgical treatment should be considered.
A randomized, double-blind, left-right, vehicle-controlled study to assess the therapeutic efficacy and safety of twice daily application of 15 micrograms/g calcitriol ointment for a period of 6 weeks was performed in 32 patients suffering from bilateral, symmetrical, severe chronic plaque psoriasis. Twice daily 15 micrograms/g calcitriol ointment significantly improved erythema, induration, scaling and global severity of psoriatic plaques, and was much more effective than vehicle ointment. The difference in overall clinical efficacy between calcitriol and vehicle was statistically significant from week 1 onwards, and was maintained over the entire study. On completion of the study, clearance of psoriatic lesions was found in 47% of calcitriol-treated sides and in 13% of vehicle-treated sides. Skin histopathology of calcitriol-treated sides revealed a return to normal keratinization, with decreased inflammatory cell infiltration in the dermis and disappearance of the inflammatory infiltrate from the epidermis. Three patients had asymptomatic hypercalcaemia during the study. Mean serum levels of total calcium, albumin-adjusted total calcium, phosphorus, 25-hydroxyvitamin D and calcitriol did not show statistically significant changes in the baseline/end-point comparisons.
Vindesine at a dose of 3 mg/m2 i.v. once a week failed to produce responses in 24 adequately treated patients with measurable advanced renal carcinoma. Leukopenia and peripheral neurotoxicity were the most often observed side-effects. On the basis of the negative result, the application of vindesine in this disease is not recommended.
The potential involvement of mu-opioid receptors in mediating the changes of toxic signs and muscarinic receptor bindings after acute administration of irreversible antiacetylcholinesterase diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) was investigated. DFP-induced chewing movement and tremors were monitored for a period of 180 min in mu-opioid receptor knockout and wild-type mice. The autoradiographic studies of total, M1, and M2 muscarinic receptors were conducted using [(3)H]quinuclidinyl benzilate, [(3)H]pirenzepine, and [(3)H]AF-DX384 as ligands, respectively. Saline-treated mu-opioid receptor knockout and wild-type mice did not show chewing movement or tremors. Although DFP (1, 2, or 3 mg/kg, subcutaneous injection, s.c.)-induced chewing movement and tremors were shown in a dose-dependent manner, there were no significant differences in tremors induced by 1 or 2 mg/kg of DFP between mu-opioid receptor knockout and wild-type mice. There were also no significant differences in chewing movement induced by all doses of DFP between mu-opioid receptor knockout and wild-type mice. However, DFP (3 mg/kg)-induced tremors in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice were significantly increased over those in wild-type controls. Acetylcholinesterase activity in the striatum of saline-treated mu-opioid receptor knockout mice was significantly higher than that of the wild-type controls. After administration of DFP, acetylcholinesterase activity in the striatum of both mu-opioid receptor knockout and wild-type mice was significantly decreased (more than 36%, 58%, and 94% reduced at the doses of 1, 2, and 3 mg/kg, respectively) than that of their respective saline controls. M2 muscarinic receptor binding in saline-treated mu-opioid receptor knockout mice was significantly lower than that of the wild-type controls in the striatum. However, there were no significant differences in total, M1, or M2 muscarinic receptor binding in the cortex, striatum, or hippocampus of mu-opioid receptor knockout and wild-type mice after DFP administration. Our data show increased DFP-induced tremors, compensatory up-regulation of acetylcholinesterase activity, and compensatory down-regulation of M2 muscarinic receptors in the striatum of mice lacking mu-opioid receptor gene. These results suggest that the enhancement of DFP-induced tremors may be associated with the compensatory up-regulation of acetylcholinesterase activity and compensatory down-regulation of M2 muscarinic receptors in the striatum of mu-opioid receptor knockout mice.
Multidrug and toxin extrusion 1 (MATE1/solute carrier 47A1) mediates cellular transport of a variety of structurally diverse compounds. Paraquat (PQ), which has been characterized in vitro as a MATE1 substrate, is a widely used herbicide and can cause severe toxicity to humans after exposure. However, the contribution of MATE1 to PQ disposition in vivo has not been determined. In the present study, we generated Mate1-deficient (Mate1-/-) mice and performed toxicokinetic analyses of PQ in Mate1-/- and wild-type (Mate1+/+) mice. After a single intravenous administration of PQ (50 mg/kg), Mate1-/- mice exhibited significantly higher plasma PQ concentrations than Mate1+/+ mice. The renal PQ concentration was markedly increased in Mate1-/- mice compared with Mate1+/+ mice. The subsequent nephrotoxicity of PQ were examined in these mice. Three days after intraperitoneal administration of PQ (20 mg/kg), the transcript levels of N-acetyl-β-D-glucosaminidase (Lcn2) and kidney injury molecule-1 (Kim-1) in the kidney were remarkably enhanced in the Mate1-/- mice. This was accompanied by apparent difference in renal histology between Mate1-/- and Mate1+/+ mice. In conclusion, we demonstrated that Mate1 is responsible for renal elimination of PQ in vivo and the deficiency of Mate1 function confers deteriorated kidney injury caused by PQ in mice.
Curcumin (Cur), a component of turmeric (Curcuma longa), has been reported to exhibit antimetastatic activities, but the mechanisms remain unclear. Other curcuminoids present in turmeric, demethoxycurcumin (DMC) and bisdemethoxycurcumin (BDMC) have not been investigated whether they exhibit antimetastatic activity to the same extent as curcumin. The regulation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) play important role in cancer cell invasion by cleavage of extracellular matrix (ECM). In this line, we comparatively examined the influence of Cur, DMC and BDMC on the expressions of uPA, MMP-2, MMP-9, membrane Type 1 MMP (MT1-MMP), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMP-2), and in vitro invasiveness of human fibrosarcoma cells. The results indicate that the differential potency for inhibition of cancer cell invasion was BDMC> or =DMC>Cur, whereas the cell migration was not affected. Zymography analysis exhibited that curcumin, DMC and BDMC significantly decreased uPA, active-MMP-2 and MMP-9 but not pro-MMP-2 secretion from the cells in a dose-dependent manner, in which BDMC and DMC show higher potency than curcumin. The suppression of active MMP-2 level correlated with inhibition of MT1-MMP and TIMP-2 protein levels involved in pro-MMP-2 activation. Importantly, BDMC and DMC at 10 microM reduced MT1-MMP and TIMP-2 protein expression, but curcumin slightly reduced only MT1-MMP but not TIMP-2. In addition, three forms of curcuminoids significantly inhibited collagenase, MMP-2, and MMP-9 but not uPA activity. In summary, these data demonstrated that DMC and BDMC show higher antimetastasis potency than curcumin by the differentially down-regulation of ECM degradation enzymes.
Renal tubulointerstitial lesions in mercuric chloride(HgCl2)-treated Brown Norway rats were investigated focusing on the kinetics of transforming growth factor-beta1(TGF-beta1) and extracellular matrix (ECM). Rats were injected with 1 mg/kg b.w. of HgCl2 at days 0, 2, and 4, and 5 rats were killed at days 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 20, respectively. TGF-beta1 mRNA expression in the renal cortex measured by competitive RT-PCR method reached a peak at day 6, mildly decreased at days 8 and 10, and increased again toward day 20. Signals of TGF-beta1 mRNA examined by in situ hybridization method were recognized in the regenerative tubular epithelium at day 6, and in both tubular epithelium and infiltrated mononuclear cells at day 20. After tubular injury, strong immunoreactivity to TGF-beta1 protein was found in desquamated tubular epithelial cells. Then, positive staining was found in the regenerative tubular epithelial cells. Later, infiltrated mononuclear cells also became positive for TGF-beta1 protein. In the ECM, deposition of fibronectin was prominent throughout the experimental period. In conclusion, this strongly suggests that TGF-beta1 derived from tubular epithelial cells and some macrophages might be related to the development of renal interstitial fibrosis in HgCl2-treated BN rats.
A 56-year-old-man presented with syncope and torsades de pointes secondary to methadone-induced QT prolongation. After transition from methadone to buprenorphine, a partial mu-opiate-receptor agonist and a kappa-opiate-receptor antagonist, the QT normalized and ventricular arrhythmias resolved. Buprenorphine should be used for opiate dependence and chronic pain in patients with methadone-induced QT prolongation and as first line therapy in patients with risk factors for torsades de pointes.
The goals were to compare early school-age neurodevelopmental and respiratory outcomes for children who were treated with either early (<3 days) or delayed selective (>15 days) postnatal corticosteroid therapy and to compare systemic dexamethasone treatment with inhaled budesonide treatment.
One hundred twenty-seven (84%) of 152 survivors from the United Kingdom and Ireland who were recruited to the Open Study of Early Corticosteroid Treatment, a randomized trial of inhaled and systemic corticosteroid therapy to prevent chronic lung disease, were traced and assessed at a median age of 7 years. Outcome measures were level of disability, presence of cerebral palsy, cognitive ability, behavioral difficulties and competencies, growth, and respiratory symptoms. Results were adjusted for potential confounding variables (gestational age, birth weight, gender, prenatal steroid therapy, method of delivery, Apgar score at 5 minutes, and Clinical Risk Index for Babies score).
There were no significant differences among the treatment groups in cognitive ability, behavioral competencies or difficulties, overall disability rates, cerebral palsy, combined outcomes of death or cerebral palsy and death or moderate/severe disability, growth, respiratory morbidity, or diastolic blood pressure. Those assigned to dexamethasone were more likely to have high systolic blood pressure and to have a diagnosis of asthma than were those assigned to budesonide.
Although postnatal steroid therapy has been associated with poor long-term outcomes, this study failed to show significant differences in cognitive function between dexamethasone- and budesonide-allocated groups. There may be increased systolic blood pressure and a greater likelihood of developing asthma in childhood after postnatal dexamethasone treatment.
Elevated activities of the sympathetic nerve and renin-angiotensin systems are common features of heart failure. This study was designed to investigate the roles of the AT1 receptor in cardiac hypertrophy and oxidative stress during excessive beta-adrenoceptor stimulation using an AT1 receptor antagonist (ARB) and AT1a receptor-deficient (AT1aR(-/-)) mice. Isoproterenol (ISO) was given to C57BL mice with or without ARB (olmesartan) treatment and to AT1aR(-/-) mice by a subcutaneously implanted osmotic mini-pump for 11 days at a rate of 15 mg/kg/day. Chronic ISO infusion to C57BL mice caused concentric cardiac hypertrophy (sham; 4.1+/-0.1, ISO; 5.2+/-0.2 mg/g heart to body weight ratio), accompanied by enhancement of cardiac collagen accumulation, lipid peroxidation, superoxide generation and NADPH oxidase activity. The AT1a and beta-1,2 receptor mRNA expressions were down-regulated in the heart of ISO-infused mice. Olmesartan markedly suppressed cardiac mass enlargement as well as increases of oxidative indicators without any effects on heart rate. Olmesartan did not affect the cardiac angiotensin and beta-adrenergic receptor mRNA expression patterns. The AT1a receptor contribution to ISO-induced cardiac hypertrophy was reproduced in AT1aR(-/-) mice. These data suggest that the AT1 receptor plays a crucial role in the development of cardiac hypertrophy and oxidative stress under excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation, and that ARB treatment is beneficial for sympatho-excitatory cardiac hypertrophy and failure in mice.
The Hedgehog (Hh) pathway is activated in some human cancers, including medulloblastoma. The glioma-associated oncogene homolog (GLI) transcription factors are critical mediators of the activated Hh pathway, and their expression may be elevated in some tumors independent of upstream Hh signaling. Thus, therapies targeting GLI transcription factors may benefit a wide spectrum of patients with mutations at different nodal points of the Hh pathway. In this study, we present evidence that arsenic trioxide (ATO) suppresses human cancer cell growth and tumor development in mice by inhibiting GLI1. Mechanistically, ATO directly bound to GLI1 protein, inhibited its transcriptional activity, and decreased expression of endogenous GLI target genes. Consistent with this, ATO inhibited the growth of human cancer cell lines that depended on upregulated GLI expression in vitro and in vivo in a xenograft model of Ewing sarcoma. Furthermore, ATO improved survival of a clinically relevant spontaneous mouse model of medulloblastoma with activated Hh pathway signaling. Our results establish ATO as a Hh pathway inhibitor acting at the level of GLI1 both in vitro and in vivo. These results warrant the clinical investigation of ATO for tumors with activated Hh/GLI signaling, in particular patients who develop resistance to current therapies targeting the Hh pathway upstream of GLI.
Reports of the chronic toxicity of dispersed crude oil to early life stages of fish perpetuate uncertainty about dispersant use. However, realistic exposures to dispersed oil in the water column are thought to be much briefer than exposures associated with chronic toxicity testing. To address this issue, the toxicity of dispersed weathered oil to early life stages of Atlantic herring (Clupea harengus) was tested for short exposure durations, ranging from 1 to 144 h. Toxicity was a function of concentration and duration of exposure, as well as of the life stage exposed. Medium South American crude oil dispersed with Corexit 9500 caused blue sac disease in embryos, but not in free-swimming embryos. The age of embryos was negatively correlated with their sensitivity to oil; those freshly fertilized were most sensitive. Sensitivity increased after hatch, with free-swimming embryos showing signs of narcosis. Gametes were also tested; dispersed oil dramatically impaired fertilization success. For exposures of less than 24 h, gametes and free-swimming embryos were the most sensitive life stages. For those of more than 24 h, young embryos (<1 d old) were most sensitive. The results are presented as statistical models that could assist decisions about dispersant use in the vicinity of fish spawning habitats.
There are previous reports of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB), a debilitating blistering skin disorder. The pathogenesis of DCM in RDEB remains uncertain, although dietary deficiency of selenium and carnitine have been implicated. A 6 year old girl with RDEB who died of DCM is reported; attention is drawn to the possible role of two potentially cardiotoxic drugs, amitriptyline and cisapride.
The anti-excitotoxic efficacy of the pineal hormone melatonin was investigated in kainate-injured brains of rats. Kainate (a glutamate-receptor agonist, 2.5 nmol in 1 microl) was directly injected to unilateral striatum. Melatonin (10 mg/kg) was administrated intraperitoneally 1 h before and 1, 3, and 5 h after intrastriatal kainate injection in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Three days after kainate injection, a significant neuronal damage was found, as determined by Nissl staining and the TUNEL method, not only in the injected striatum, but also in the ipsilateral neighboring cortex. The kainate-induced cortical apoptotic neuronal death was significantly attenuated by treatment with melatonin compared with the vehicle control group. However, no detectable changes were observed in the contralateral side of the brain in either vehicle- or melatonin-treated rats. Moreover, the biochemical results indicated that kainate can indeed induce oxidative stress, such as a decrease in the content of total glutathione (GSH), oxidized glutathione (GSSG), and an increase in the ratio of GSSG/GSH in the striatum and cortex compared with the contralateral brain regions. In the kainate-injected striatum, melatonin did not reduce the oxidative stress, but in the neighborhood of injected area-cortex, kainate-induced oxidative stress was significantly reduced by melatonin. Enhancement of glutathione-peroxidase activity was induced by intrastriatal kainate injection, not only in the cortical area of control and melatonin-treated rats, but also in striatum of control rats. However, a large elevation was found in the melatonin-treated cortex. Taking the morphological and biochemical data together, the present results suggest that melatonin functions as an antioxidant by upregulating the glutathione antioxidative defense system, thereby reducing neuronal death caused by excitotoxicity and preventing the kainate-induced damage from spreading to adjacent brain regions.
We previously reported a lower risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) associated with high consumption of vitamin B6 and methionine, dietary determinants of one-carbon metabolism. Evidence has linked genetic variants involved in one-carbon metabolism to NHL. We investigated 30 polymorphisms in 18 genes for their main effect on NHL among 1141 incident cases and 949 population-based controls and examined gene-nutrient interactions in a subgroup of 386 cases and 319 controls who provided detailed food-frequency information. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were adjusted for age, sex, and race. We observed a decreased risk of NHL over-all with BHMTEx8+453A>T and increased risk with CBS Ex13+41C>T, FPGS Ex15-263T>C, and SHMT1 Ex12+138C>T and Ex12+236C>T. Furthermore, significant gene-nutrient interactions limited the protective association comparing high versus low vitamin B6 to FPGS Ex15-263T>C CC (OR = 0.22; 95% CL = 0.10-0.52), MTHFS IVS2-1411T>G TT/TG (OR = 0.54; 95% CI = 0.36-0.81), and MTR Ex26-20A>G AA (OR = 0.55; 95% CI = 0.35-0.86) genotypes, and the protective association of methionine to FTHFD Ex10-40G>TGG (OR = 0.63; 95% CI = 0.44-0.91), MTHFR Ex8-62A>C CC (OR = 0.13; 95% CI = 0.04-0.39), and MTRR Ex5+136T>CTT (OR = 0.67; 95% CI = 0.47-0.97) genotypes. Warranting replication, our finding of gene-nutrient interactions in one-carbon metabolism supports their etiologic involvement in lymphomagenesis.
