Valve regurgitation has been associated with dexfenfluramine, but its prevalence and severity are uncertain. Additional factors that may contribute to valve regurgitation in patients exposed to this drug are poorly understood.
Echocardiography was performed on subjects recruited from 26 prescribing sites in 15 states. The total sample of 412 subjects included 172 dexfenfluramine patients and 172 unexposed controls matched for age, sex, and body mass index and 68 unmatched subjects meeting the same entry criteria (51 dexfenfluramine patients and 17 controls). Mean treatment duration was 6.9 months; mean interval from treatment discontinuation to echocardiogram was 8.5 months. Each echocardiogram was interpreted independently by 3 echocardiographers. FDA-grade regurgitation (at least mild aortic regurgitation or at least moderate mitral regurgitation) was significantly more frequent in dexfenfluramine patients (7.6% versus 2.1% for controls; P=0.01; odds ratio, 3.82). This difference was primarily due to more frequent mild aortic regurgitation in dexfenfluramine patients (6.3% versus 1.6% in controls; P<0.02; odds ratio, 4.15). No differences were found in sclerosis or mobility for either the aortic or mitral valve. Factors independently related to FDA-grade regurgitation or any grade of aortic regurgitation were older age, higher diastolic blood pressure at the time of echocardiography, and shorter time from drug discontinuation to echocardiogram.
Dexfenfluramine use is associated with an increase in the prevalence of abnormal valve regurgitation. Age and blood pressure may also affect the prevalence of regurgitation. Dexfenfluramine-related valve regurgitation may regress after drug discontinuation.
Biopharmacological evaluations of the protective effects of L-carnitine (a naturally occurring quaternary ammonium compound) against doxorubicin-induced metabolic damage were carried out in isolated cardiac myocytes and in isolated rat heart mitochondria. Perfusion of the heart with DOX (0.5 mM) caused a significant 70% inhibition of palmitate oxidation in cardiac myocytes, while L-carnitine (5 mM) perfusion caused stimulation which accounted for 37%. Perfusion of the heart with L-carnitine after 10-min perfusion with DOX (0.5 mM) caused 88% reversal of DOX-induced inhibition of palmitate oxidation in cardiac cells. In rat heart mitochondria, DOX has no effect on either palmitate oxidation or acyl-CoA synthetase activity, whereas Enoximone (c-AMP-dependent phosphodiesterase inhibitor), caused a significant inhibition of palmitate oxidation and acyl-CoA activity (40 and 27%, respectively). The oxidation of palmitoyl-CoA, an index of carnitine palmitoyltransferse reaction was significantly inhibited by DOX as a function of DOX concentration. Preincubation of mitochondria with L-carnitine caused reversal of DOX-induced inhibition of palmitoyl-CoA oxidation depending on the concentration of L-carnitine. Moreover, L-carnitine treatment did not interfere with the cytotoxic effect of doxorubicin against the growth of solid Ehrlich carcinoma. The findings of this study may suggest that inhibition of fatty acid oxidation in the heart is at least a part of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity and that L-carnitine can be used to prevent the doxorubcin-induced cardiac metabolic damage without interfering with its antitumour activities.
Cutaneous applications are gaining popularity in the treatment of cutaneous pain and of painful disorders in joints and muscle. The low pH-pain model in human skin has previously been able to demonstrate the effects of NSAIDs in dose-dependent manner and to establish time-effect relationships. We examined the analgesic action of ibuprofen after cutaneous application and compared the effects with oral administration. The two studies (with n = 12 subjects each) were performed in a double-blind, randomized fashion with a 1-week cross-over interval. In study 1 volunteers received intradermal infusions with phosphate buffered saline solution of pH 5.2 and received either 800 mg ibuprofen per os and topical placebo, or 4 g of a 5% commercial ibuprofen gel topically applied and oral placebo capsules, respectively. In study 2 the same protocol was applied with painful intramuscular infusion of stronger, isotonic phosphate buffer (pH 5.2). The flow rate of the pH-infusion was individually adjusted to induce pain with a magnitude of 20% on a visual analogue scale (ranging from 'no' (0%) to 'unbearable pain' (100%)). Ibuprofen (S-, R-) plasma levels after oral administrations were measured with HPLC, and after topical applications, by gas chromatography combined with mass spectroscopy to determine plasma levels in the range of ng/ml. In the cutaneous model pain ratings decreased to zero after topical verum gel within 45 min of the observation period of 55 min. Pain reduction after peroral ibuprofen was of the same magnitude, but was achieved within only 30 min. In the muscle model, the commercial ibuprofen gel did not reduce the pain in the acidic muscle. The peroral ibuprofen was less effective in the muscle compared to the skin pain model, although there was a significant progressive pain reduction within 55 min. Reasons for the differential susceptibility of cutaneous vs muscular acidosis pain to ibuprofen remain to be established.
The onset or worsening of sexual dysfunction is a common treatment-emergent side effect of antidepressant medications. Post hoc analyses of pooled data from placebo-controlled studies were utilized to assess sexual functioning in patients receiving duloxetine or paroxetine.
Acute-phase data were obtained from four 8-week, double-blind, placebo- and paroxetine-controlled trials of similar design in which patients meeting DSM-IV criteria for major depressive disorder were randomly assigned to receive placebo (N = 371), duloxetine (40-120 mg/day; N = 736), or paroxetine (20 mg/day; N = 359). Pooling of data from these studies was anticipated during study design. This represented all available data from duloxetine studies in which the Arizona Sexual Experience Scale (ASEX) was administered both at baseline and endpoint. Long-term data were available from extension phases in 2 of these trials in which acute treatment responders received placebo (N = 129), duloxetine (80-120 mg/day; N = 297), or paroxetine (20 mg/day; N = 140) for an additional 26 weeks. Data were collected between March 2000 and July 2002.
The incidence of acute treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction was significantly lower among duloxetine-treated patients compared with those receiving paroxetine (p = .015), although both rates were significantly higher than placebo (p = .007 and p < .001 for duloxetine and paroxetine, respectively). Treatment group differences in the incidence of treatment-emergent dysfunction did not vary significantly by gender. In female patients, acute treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction was significantly lower in the duloxetine treatment group compared with the paroxetine treatment group (p = .032), with both rates being significantly higher than placebo (p = .049 and p < .001 for duloxetine and paroxetine, respectively). In the somewhat smaller group of male patients, acute treatment-emergent dysfunction did not differ significantly between duloxetine and placebo treatment groups, but the incidence was significantly higher in paroxetine-treated male patients compared with male placebo patients (p = .012). The long-term incidence of treatment-emergent dysfunction did not differ significantly between duloxetine-, paroxetine-, and placebo-treated patients.
In this analysis of pooled data, patients receiving duloxetine (40-120 mg/day) or paroxetine (20 mg/day) had a significantly higher incidence of acute treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction when compared with placebo patients. However, the incidence of acute treatment-emergent dysfunction for duloxetine was significantly lower than that observed for paroxetine.
Lithium has been reported to induce polyuria in up to 35% of patients receiving it. It has been suggested that polyuria may be reduced by using single rather than multiple daily dosing. However, this information is based on non-randomized studies, which used higher serum lithium levels than are currently used. In fact, the incidence of polyuria may be lower at currently used lithium levels, and the benefits of a single daily dose regimen on urine volume at these levels have not been assessed. We conducted a prospective randomized study to test the hypothesis that switching patients from multiple daily dose lithium to single daily dose lithium would significantly lower urine volume. Twenty-four patients previously stabilized on multiple daily dosing were randomly allocated to either single or multiple daily dose lithium. Twenty-four-hour urine volume, serum creatinine, creatinine clearance and serum lithium were measured at study entry and completion. Switching to single daily dose lithium did not significantly reduce the 24-h urine volume.
Clopidogrel is a prodrug requiring metabolism by cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) isoenzymes, including CYP3A5, in order to be active. It is controversial whether clopidogrel interacts with CYP3A inhibitors. We investigated the influence of CYP3A5 polymorphism on the drug interaction of clopidogrel.
In phase 1 of the study, we administered clopidogrel to 16 healthy volunteers who had the CYP3A5 non-expressor genotype (*3 allele) and 16 who had the CYP3A5 expressor genotype (*1 allele) with and without pretreatment with itraconazole, a potent CYP3A inhibitor. A platelet aggregation test was performed at baseline, 4 hours, 24 hours and 6 days after clopidogrel administration. In phase 2, we compared clinical outcomes of 348 patients treated with clopidogrel after successful coronary angioplasty with bare-metal stent implantation according to their CYP3A5 genotype; the primary end point was a composite of atherothrombotic events (cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction and non-hemorrhagic stroke) within 1 and 6 months after stent implantation.
In phase 1, the change in platelet aggregation after clopidogrel administration and pretreatment with itraconazole was greater among the subjects with the CYP3A5 expressor genotype than among those with the non-expressor genotype: 24.9% (standard deviation [SD] 13.9%) v. 6.2% (SD 13.5%) at 4 hours (p < 0.001); 27.7% (SD 16.5%) v. 2.5% (SD 8.3%) at 24 hours (p < 0.001); and 33.5% (SD 18.6%) v. 17.8% (SD 13.8%) at day 7 (p < 0.01). In phase 2, atherothrombotic events occurred more frequently within 6 months after stent implantation among the patients with the non-expressor genotype than among those with the expressor genotype (14/193 v. 3/155; p = 0.023). Multivariable analysis showed that the CYP3A5 polymorphism was a predictor of atherothrombotic events in clopidogrel users.
People with the CYP3A5 non-expressor genotype are vulnerable to drug interactions between clopidogrel and CYP3A inhibitors. This phenomenon may be associated with worse outcomes in patients with the non-expressor genotype who are given clopidogrel after coronary angioplasty and implantation of bare-metal stents.
Metabolic abnormalities in patients with bipolar disorder may be secondary to obesity, aspects of the disorder or its treatment. To investigate this further, the purpose the present study was to compare insulin resistance, components of the metabolic syndrome and adiponectin levels in a group of overweight bipolar patients taking sodium valproate and a group of non-psychiatric control subjects.
Data were collected from 60 overweight bipolar patients who had experienced clinically significant weight gain thought to be related to sodium valproate treatment and from 60 control subjects without psychiatric illness matched for age, gender, body mass index and ethnicity.
The frequency of the metabolic syndrome was high in both groups (50% and 32%, respectively), although not significantly different between groups (p = 0.06). Similar frequencies of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), abdominal obesity, hypertriglyceridaemia, hypertension and fasting hyperglycaemia were found in both groups. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were lower in patients (p = 0.006), while adiponectin was unexpectedly higher than in control subjects (9.6+/-5.9 microg mL(-1) vs 7.4+/-4.3 microg mL(-1), p = 0.03). The frequencies of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), the metabolic syndrome and its individual components were not significantly different in patients taking atypical antipsychotic medication and patients not on these medications.
Frequencies of insulin resistance and the metabolic syndrome were similar in bipolar patients taking sodium valproate and matched control subjects, but dyslipidaemia was more frequent. Adiponectin levels were higher in patients. Further research is required to clarify the reasons for these findings.
The opiate withdrawal induced by administration of naloxone to morphine-dependent mice correlates with an increment of calcium- dependent nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity in the cerebellum. L-NAME, an irreversible competitive inhibitor of NOS (0.5, 5, 25, 50 mg/kg) injected sc. 45 min. prior to naloxone significantly reduced the number of escape jumps and other motor symptoms of abstinence. In addition, L-NAME also decreased NOS activity in cerebellum. L-arginine, but not D-arginine, when coadministered with L-NAME, prevented both the inhibition of NOS activity and the reduction of withdrawal symptoms induced by L-NAME in morphine-withdrawn animals. These results demonstrate a hyperactivity of the L-arginine: NO pathway in opiate withdrawal and suggests the possibility of a therapeutic use of NOS inhibitors in this state.
Drug-induced dyskinesias in dopamine-denervated animals are known to depend on both pre- and postsynaptic changes of the nigrostriatal circuitry. In lesion models used thus far, changes occur in both of these compartments and, therefore, it has not been possible to dissect the individual contribution of each compartment in the pathophysiology of dyskinesias. Here we silenced the nigrostriatal dopamine neurotransmission without affecting the anatomical integrity of the presynaptic terminals using a short-hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown of tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme (shTH). This treatment resulted in significant reduction (by about 70%) in extracellular dopamine concentration in the striatum as measured by on-line microdialysis. Under these conditions, the animals remained nondyskinetic after chronic L-DOPA treatment, whereas partial intrastriatal 6-hydoxydopamine lesioned rats with comparable reduction in extracellular dopamine levels developed dyskinesias. On the other hand, apomorphine caused moderate to severe dyskinesias in both groups. Importantly, single-dose L-DOPA challenge in apomorphine-primed shTH animals failed to activate the already established abnormal postsynaptic responses. Taken together, these data provide direct evidence that the status of the presynaptic, DA releasing compartment is a critical determinant of both the induction and maintenance of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias.
Despite relevant progress, the impact of chemotherapy on advanced gastric cancer patients' survival is still unsatisfactory. Thus, the key objective of our efforts should be palliation of the symptoms and the maintenance of an adequate quality of life. In this phase-II study, we evaluated toxicity and efficacy of the combination of cisplatin, fluorofolates and mitomycin C. Thirty-one advanced gastric cancer patients received cisplatin (15 mg/m2) and 5-fluorouracil (350 mg/m2), both for 5 consecutive days every 4 weeks; 5-fluorouracil infusion was preceded by a rapid i.v. injection of 100 mg/m2 leucovorin, while mitomycin-C (10 mg/m2) was administered on day 1 of odd cycles. Cycles were repeated every 4 weeks until disease progression. We recorded 16 objective responses (51.6%, 95% confidence interval: 42.63-60.57); furthermore, such a response rate was coupled with a moderate degree of toxicity and an extremely good tolerance. In particular, alopecia, a frequent and distressing side-effect in patients, especially women, in our series occurred only in two patients. This treatment appears to be an active and tolerable therapeutic option for patients with advanced gastric carcinoma.
The dopamine precursor levodopa has shown some, albeit relatively weak, promise in treating cocaine dependence. This study sought to identify the most appropriate behavioral therapy platform for levodopa pharmacotherapy by evaluating its effect when administered in combination with behavioral platforms of varying intensities.
A total of 161 treatment-seeking cocaine dependent subjects received sustained release levodopa/carbidopa (400/100mg bid, Sinemet) or placebo delivered in combination with Clinical Management (ClinMan); ClinMan+cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT); or ClinMan+CBT+voucher-based reinforcement therapy (VBRT) in a 12-week randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind (for medication condition) trial. Medication compliance was monitored with riboflavin (100mg/capsule) and the Medication Event Monitoring System. Protocol compliance was addressed in weekly, 10-min nurse-delivered ClinMan sessions. Weekly, 1-h CBT sessions focused on coping skills training. VBRT (with escalating reinforcer value) provided cash-valued vouchers contingent on cocaine-negative urine toxicology results. Urine benzoylecgonine assays collected thrice-weekly were analyzed by intention-to-treat criteria using generalized linear mixed models.
Levodopa main effects were found on all outcome measures of cocaine use. Contrasts testing the levodopa-placebo difference within each behavioral platform found reliable effects, favoring levodopa, only in the VBRT platform. Levodopa treatment with vouchers produced higher proportions of cocaine-negative urines and longer periods of consecutive abstinence compared to other treatment combinations.
This is the first study to find a significant treatment effect for levodopa and, in doing so, to demonstrate that the magnitude of this effect is dependent upon conditions of the behavioral therapy platform. The data support use of levodopa with abstinence-based reinforcement therapy as one efficacious combination in cocaine dependence disorder treatment.
Transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) is a key mediator of fibrogenesis. TGFβ is overexpressed and activated in fibrotic diseases, regulates fibroblast differentiation into myofibroblasts and induces extracellular matrix deposition. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) is also a regulator of fibrogenesis. Some studies showed a link between TGFβ and PDGF in certain fibrotic diseases. TGFβ induces PDGF receptor alpha expression in scleroderma fibroblasts. PDGF-C and -D are the most recently discovered ligands and also play a role in fibrosis. In this study, we report the first link between TGFβ and PDGF-D and -C ligands. In normal fibroblasts, TGFβ down-regulated PDGF-D expression and up-regulated PDGF-C expression at the mRNA and protein levels. This phenomenon is not limited to TGFβ since other growth factors implicated in fibrosis, such as FGF, EGF and PDGF-B, also regulated PDGF-D and PDGF-C expression. Among different kinase inhibitors, only TGFβ receptor inhibitors and the IκB kinase (IKK) inhibitor BMS-345541 blocked the effect of TGFβ. However, activation of the classical NF-κB pathway was not involved. Interestingly, in a model of lung fibrosis induced by either bleomycin or silica, PDGF-D was down-regulated, which correlates with the production of TGFβ and other fibrotic growth factors. In conclusion, the down-regulation of PDGF-D by TGFβ and other growth factors may serve as a negative feedback in the network of cytokines that control fibrosis.
A 56-year-old man was hospitalized for evaluation of left neck tumor. The biopsy of neck lymph node showed a squamous cell carcinoma. Since no primary lesion was detected, the diagnosis was primary unknown neck lymph node metastasis. The first course of our chemotherapeutic regimen consisted of CDDP, 5-FU, MTX and LV. After MTX infusion, the level of serum creatinine increased. Based on laboratory data, we diagnosed acute renal failure caused by MTX and added the infusion of Ringer and LV. The serum creatinine level decreased to the level before chemotherapy. In the second course, chemotherapy with only CDDP and 5-FU was administered, and the level of serum creatinine did not increase. In the present case, suitable intravenous drip infusion of Ringer's injection prevented irreversible renal dysfunction. Since the laboratory data did not show dysfunction of uriniferous tubule and renal glomerulus, we considered allergic nephritis as a possibility.
When selecting the appropriate long-acting opioid to treat cancer pain, both analgesic efficacy and safety need consideration. Generally, opioids are well tolerated. However, of opioid-typical adverse events, respiratory depression is especially important because of the risk of a fatal outcome. Although all potent opioid analgesics act via the micro-opioid receptor system, they differ in how they affect respiratory control. Recently, the respiratory effects of fentanyl (1 7 microg/kg) and buprenorphine (0.7-9 microg g/kg) were compared in healthy opioid-naïve volunteers. Fentanyl produced dose-dependent depression of respiration with apnoea at doses > or = 3 microg/kg, while buprenorphine caused depression that levelled at approximately 50% of baseline with doses > or = 2 microg/kg. These findings indicate the occurrence of a ceiling in the respiratory depression induced by buprenorphine but not by fentanyl. Surprisingly few studies have addressed the clinically important ability to reverse the respiratory effects of opioids. A recent assessment of the naloxone dose required to reverse 0.2 mg intravenous buprenorphine-induced respiratory depression in healthy opioid-naïve volunteers, found that the accumulated naloxone dose causing 50% reversal of respiratory depression was 1.20 +/- 0.32 mg/70 kg (given in 30 min); 80% reversal was observed at 2.50 +/- 0.60 mg/70 kg (given in 30 min). At greater buprenorphine doses, full reversal is observed when the duration of naloxone infusion is increased. These findings indicate the need for a continuous rather than bolus administration of naloxone to reverse the respiratory effects of buprenorphine. In conclusion, buprenorphine is more favourable compared with fentanyl in respect to ventilatory control. Buprenorphine causes limited respiratory depression with a ceiling effect at higher doses, while fentanyl causes dose-dependent respiratory depression with apnoea at high dose levels. In the rare instance of respiratory depression, reversal is possible with a sufficient and continuous infusion of naloxone.
We applied nonlinear analysis to the results of electroencephalography (EEG) in a pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) model to characterize nonlinear dynamics according to SE phase. Nine male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 150-250 g were used. EEG was classified into four phases in addition to baseline EEG (phase 0) as follows: phase 1, discrete seizures; phase 2, continuous ictal discharges; phase 3, early periodic epileptiform discharges (PEDs); and phase 4, late PEDs. High-dose diazepam was administered at phase 4 to terminate SE. Diazepam controlled SE in five rats (group 1), while it failed to stop SE in the rest (group 2). The presence of nonlinearity was determined by time reversal asymmetry statistics using a surrogate data set. The correlation dimension (D(2)) was calculated to characterize the dimensional complexity of each phase of SE. EEG of later phases of SE showed strong nonlinearity, whereas no or only weak nonlinearity was noted at phases 0 and 1. D(2) showed the highest value at phase 0 and decreased progressively. Considering therapeutic responsiveness, D(2) showed significant differences between the two groups at phases 2 and 4. These results suggest that nonlinear dynamic changes in the later SE phases reflect underlying pathophysiological changes that contribute to determining therapeutic responsiveness in the pilocarpine-induced SE model.
The triple combination of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), vitamin A and radiation (FAR therapy) has been effectively used to treat head and neck cancer. The biological anti-tumor effect of 5-FU depends on the activity of its metabolizing enzyme, dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD). TS-1 is a novel oral DPD inhibitory fluoropyrimidine (DIF). To improve the anti-tumor effect of FAR therapy, we have applied TS-1 in place of 5-FU injection in the combination of Vitamin A and radiation (TAR therapy). In this study, we have examined the appropriate duration of TS-1 medication and the clinical efficacy and safety of TAR therapy. TS-1 was administered orally at a dose of 65 mg/m2 twice a day. Vitamin A (Retinol Palmitate: 50,000 U/day) was administered intra-musculary on each day of radiation. Radiation was given (1.5-2 Gy/day: 5 days/week) for 30-40 Gy. The levels were divided according to the length of TS-1 application as follows: level 1, 2 weeks; level 2, 3 weeks; level 4, 4 weeks. Grade 4 toxicity of anorexia was observed in one case of level 3. We decided that level 2 (3 weeks of TS-1 administration) was the appropriate length of TS-1 application. TAR therapy is a useful concurrent chemo-radiotherapy which might improve the response rate and QOL of patients with HNSCC.
The aim of this cross-sectional study was to investigate the degree and frequency of prolactin (PRL) elevation and related symptoms in patients treated with 3 different atypical antipsychotics: clozapine, olanzapine, and risperidone.
Twenty-eight patients receiving clozapine, 29 patients receiving olanzapine, and 18 patients receiving risperidone (all meeting DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia, schizophreni-form disorder, or schizoaffective disorder) were studied. The median daily dose was 400 mg of clozapine, 10 mg of olanzapine, and 3 mg of risperidone. Fasting morning blood samples were analyzed for PRL, and the occurrence of hyper-prolactinemic symptoms in the patients was evaluated.
Elevated PRL levels were found in 16 (89%) of the patients receiving risperidone and in 7 (24%) of the patients receiving olanzapine, but in none of the patients receiving clozapine. In addition, there was a significant difference in median PRL level among the treatment groups (p < .0001), in that the PRL level was higher both in the patients treated with risperidone and in the patients treated with olanzapine, compared to those treated with clozapine. Moreover, hyperpro-lactinemic symptoms-menstrual disturbances, galactorrhea, impotence, oligospermia, and decreased libido-were reported in 8 (44%) of the risperidone-treated patients and in 1 (3%) of the olanzapine-treated patients, but in none of the clozapine-treated patients.
Treatment with risperidone was frequently associated with hyperprolactinemia and related symptoms, whereas the occurrence of PRL elevation and related symptoms was modest in patients receiving olanzapine and nonexistent in those receiving clozapine. Thus, atypical anti-psychotics in therapeutic doses differ with regard to effect on PRL secretion.
A sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic method with fluorescence detection for determining methamphetamine and its major metabolite, amphetamine, in abusers' hair segments was developed. Methamphetamine and amphetamine in hair samples collected from addicts were extracted into acidified methanol, derivatized with 4-(4,5-diphenyl-1H-imidazol-2-yl)benzoyl chloride, separated isocratically on an ODS column using TRIS-HCl buffer (0.1 mol dm-3, pH 7.0)-methanol (30 + 70 v/v) as the mobile phase and the derivatives were detected fluorimetrically at 440 nm (lambda ex 330 nm). Calibration curves obtained by using control human hair spiked with standard solutions were linear (r > or = 0.999) up to at least 676.1 ng mg-1 for amphetamine and 746.1 ng mg-1 for methamphetamine. The detection limits at a signal-to-noise ratio of 3 were 51.4 and 74.6 pg mg-1 hair for amphetamine and methamphetamine, respectively. Using control hair spiked with standard solutions, the intra- and inter-day relative standard deviations (n = 5) were < or = 8.6% for both the target compounds. The method was successfully applied to the segmental analyses of methamphetamine abusers' hair samples.
To study the effect of extract of Ginkgo biloba (Egb761) on doxorubicin-associated cardiotoxicity in patients with breast cancer (BC).
Sixty BC patients in stage IV were randomly assigned to two groups, the control group was treated with chemotherapy, using 4 cycles of PA protocol alone and the treated group with the same chemotherapy and Egb761. Changes in electrocardiogram (ECG), myocardial enzyme spectrum (MES) and ultrasono-cardiogram (USCG) before and after treatment were observed.
After treatment, the incidence of abnormal ECG was lower in the treated group than in the control group (6.7% vs 30.0%); significant differences were found between the two groups in the parameters of MES (P< 0.05); USCG showed significant difference between the two groups in left ventricular diastolic diameter (LVDd), left ventricular systolic diameter (LVDs), ratio of early and late diastolic transmitral peak flow velocity (E/A) and fractional shortening (FS), while there was no significant difference in ejection fraction (EF).
Egb761 is an ideal drug for preventing and reducing the acute doxorbincin-induced cardiotoxicity; it could also be helpful for alleviating the chronic cardiotoxicity.
Hepatic complications are a major cause of death in patients with congenital anaemia and chronic hepatitis C. Ribavirin is usually contraindicated in patients with haemolytic anaemia. This pilot study evaluated the efficacy and safety of antiviral treatment in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) or beta-thalassaemia major (TM).
Eleven consecutive SCD and TM patients were included. Interferon monotherapy was administrated in the two first thalassaemic patients. Other patients received combination therapy with full dose of pegylated interferon 2b and increasing doses of ribavirin, starting with a low dose of ribavirin (400 mg/day).
Hepatitis C virus genotypes were 1 or 4 in nine cases. A sustained virological response achieved in five of 11 patients despite unfavourable factors to response (genotypes, nonresponders to an earlier treatment). Haemoglobin level at the end of treatment was higher than baseline levels in five of six SCD patients. No SCD patient needed a transfusion during and after treatment period, neither presented vasoocclusive crisis. The mean increase in transfusion requirements was 32.5% in the thalassaemic group.
A sustained virological response can be obtained in SCD and TM patients. No earlier study of excellent haematological tolerance among SCD patients under ribavirin has been reported to date. The results of this study suggest that full dose ribavirin could be used from the start of treatment in SCD patients.
We evaluated six boys who had developed isolated masseter muscle spasm following intravenous succinylcholine. All were receiving halothane by inhalation.l In vitro muscle contracture tests utilizing halothane and caffeine were performed. Four of the six boys had contracture response similar to those of malignant hyperthermia susceptible patients. Rigidity following succinylcholine should prompt the clinician to consider malignant hyperthermia but has been associated with other myopathic conditions as discussed.
Effects of subanesthetic doses of ketamine (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) on memory, cognition, psychomotor function, subjective moods, and incidence of adverse reactions were investigated in 34 healthy young volunteers. The drug caused impairment of immediate and delayed recall. Most of the impairment was due to interference with retrieval processes. Recovery was virtually complete 60 minutes after administration. The incidence of adverse reactions was high. Benzodiazepines need to be administered even when ketamine is used in subanesthetic doses.
5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) used for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease is known to induce chronic interstitial nephritis (CIN). However, the frequency of occurrence and the spectrum of severity of 5-ASA-induced CIN are not known. In this paper, we report a new case of CIN induced by 5-ASA in a patient treated for about 7 years for a Crohn disease. After that 5-ASA was discontinued and prednisone therapy started, renal function improved partially. About 30 observations of CIN induced by the use of 5-ASA in patients treated for inflammatory bowel disease have already been published. None were published in patients treated for other diseases such as arthritis rheumatism. The review of the literature suggests that the prognosis is poor and correlates with the duration of treatment, the cumulative dose and the level of renal impairment at diagnostic. We believe that the control of the renal function in patients treated by 5-ASA must be regular and prolonged.
The prevalence of neurobehavioral symptoms (NBS) and depression has been investigated in premenopausal rural women of West Bengal, India enrolled from arsenic (As) endemic (groundwater As 11-50 μg/L; n = 342) and control areas (As level ≤ 10 μg/L; n = 312). The subjective symptoms questionnaire and Beck's 21-point depression inventory-II were used for the detection of NBS and depression, respectively. Platelet P-selectin expression was measured by flow cytometry, plasma neurotransmitter activity with high performance liquid chromatography and groundwater As level by atomic absorption spectroscopy. The As level in groundwater was 2.72 ± 1.18 μg/L in control and 28.3 ± 13.51 μg/L in endemic areas (p < 0.0001). Women residing in endemic areas demonstrated a higher prevalence of depressive symptoms (39.8 vs. 19.9%, p < 0.001) and anxiety (43.3 vs. 18.0% in control, p < 0.001), fatigue (68.4 vs. 23.4%, p < 0.0001), reduced sense of taste (15.8 vs. 4.5%, p<0.0001) and smell (14.9 vs. 5.8%, p < 0.001); burning sensation (36.8 vs. 5.4%, p < 0.0001) and tingling or numbness in the extremities (25.1 vs. 5.1%, p < 0.0001); and transient loss of memory (69.9 vs. 28.2%, p < 0.001). As-exposed women had 1.6-times more plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine (p < 0.05), 1.8-times higher level plasma serotonin with 28.9% lower intraplatelet serotonin (p < 0.05 for both), but their plasma dopamine level was not significantly different (p>0.05) from that of controls. Moreover, women from endemic areas had 2.3-times more P-selectin-expressing platelets in their circulation (p < 0.001). After controlling the potential confounders, chronic low level As (11-50 μg/L) exposure showed a positive association with the prevalence of neurobehavioral symptoms and depression among Indian women in their child-bearing age.
The aim of the paper is to give a review of jet-lag (Time Zone Change Syndrome) with regard to aetiology, symptomatology and pathophysiology. Furthermore we give recommendations on treatment of jet-lag. The literature has focused intensely on the potential benefit of phototherapy and/or use of melatonin as treatment modalities for jet-lag. Both phototherapy and melatonin have the capability to accelerate reentrainment of the circadian rhythm after flights across multiple time zones, thereby reducing jet-lag. We stress the importance of correct timing of phototherapy and use of melatonin and suggest that the traveller adapts to the "social" rhythm at the flight destination as well.
