Concentrations of ambient air pollution and pollutants in China have changed considerably during the last decade. However, few studies have evaluated the effects of current ambient air pollution on the health of kindergarten children.
We studied 6730 Chinese children (age, 3-7 years) from 50 kindergartens in 7 cities of Northeast China in 2009. Parents or guardians completed questionnaires that asked about the children's histories of respiratory symptoms and risk factors. Three-year concentrations of particles with an aerodynamic diameter ≤10 µm (PM10), sulfur dioxide (SO2), and nitrogen dioxides (NO2) were calculated at monitoring stations in 25 study districts. A 2-stage regression approach was used in data analyses.
The prevalence of respiratory symptoms was higher among children living near a busy road, those living near chimneys or a factory, those having a coal-burning device, those living with smokers, and those living in a home that had been recently renovated. Among girls, PM10 was associated with persistent cough (odds ratio [OR]PM10 = 1.44; 95% CI, 1.18-1.77), persistent phlegm (ORPM10 = 1.36; 95% CI, 1.02-1.81), and wheezing (ORPM10 = 1.31; 95% CI, 1.04-1.65). NO2 concentration was associated with increased prevalence of allergic rhinitis (OR = 1.96; 95% CI, 1.27-3.02) among girls. In contrast, associations of respiratory symptoms with concentrations of PM10, SO2, and NO2 were not statistically significant among boys.
Air pollution is particularly important in the development of respiratory morbidity among children. Girls may be more susceptible than boys to air pollution.
We investigated the peptic ulcer recurrence rates during maintenance therapy with H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) following first-line therapy with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Patients with gastric ulcer (GU) or duodenal ulcer (DU) were enrolled in this study; 583 eligible patients (GU, 325; DU, 258) were administered lansoprazole (30 mg/day for 8 weeks for GU, and the same dosage for 6 weeks for DU) as first-line therapy, and a half dose of H2RA as maintenance therapy for 12 months. Endoscopic photographs were taken before administration and after 8 (GU) and 6 (DU) weeks of lansoprazole administration. Ulcer stage was evaluated using the classification of Sakita and Miwa. Endoscopic examinations were performed 6 months or 12 months after the start of maintenance therapy or when a recurrence was suspected because of the appearance of subjective symptoms. The healing rates for GU and DU patients after completion of lansoprazole therapy were 79% in both groups, while the S2-stage healing rates were 18% and 31%, respectively. At 1 year after the start of maintenance therapy, the recurrence rates were 25% for GU and 39% for DU patients. In DU patients, the recurrence rates from S1-stage and S2-stage were 49% and 20%, respectively (P = 0.004), but no significant difference was found between these rates in GU patients. The recurrence rates in H. pylori-positive patients before lansoprazole administration were 27% for GU and 43% for DU patients. We concluded that the maintenance therapy with a half-dose of H2RA following PPI therapy was insufficient to prevent recurrences of GU and DU.
Twenty-eight patients with radiolucent biliary duct stones without cholangitis and jaundice were randomly allocated into two treatment groups receiving ursodeoxycholic acid 12 mg/kg (group A) or placebo (group B) in three daily doses for 24 months. In group A stones disappeared completely in seven patients and partially in one; placebo administration had no effect on stone size and three patients of group B (only one of group A) went to surgery for complications. Ursodeoxycholic acid treatment did not adversely affect liver function tests, and alkaline phosphatase decreased. Abdominal and biliary colics also became less frequent in the first six months of therapy in group A, but not in the placebo group. The bile was supersaturated with cholesterol in both groups, but decreased significantly only in patients receiving ursodeoxycholic acid even though the lithogenic index remained high. Cholesterol saturation of bile does not seem to be the only factor determining the dissolution of biliary duct stones which sometimes contain cholesterol as the main component.
Magnesium sulfate (MgSO(4)) is widely used for the treatment and prevention of convulsions associated with preeclampsia. The aim of this study was to determine whether it alters the dose of bupivacaine required to produce convulsions in awake pregnant rats.
Twelve pregnant rats were pretreated with an intravenous infusion of either MgSO(4) or saline. Following 2 h of the pretreatment, bupivacaine was concomitantly infused in all animals until the onset of convulsions. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) were monitored throughout. Serial arterial samples were obtained during the infusion. At the onset of convulsions, fetuses were delivered and maternal and fetal blood, as well as various tissue samples, were obtained. All samples were assayed for bupivacaine and magnesium concentrations.
Maternal MAP and HR decreased significantly shortly after the initiation of MgSO(4), while saline did not affect these measurements. Baseline concentrations of magnesium in plasma were similar in both MgSO(4) and saline groups; magnesium increased significantly during the infusion of MgSO(4). The dose (mean+/-SD) of bupivacaine required to produce convulsions in the animals receiving MgSO(4) was significantly larger (10.2+/-1.9 mg/kg) than that in the saline group (5.9+/-1.0 mg/kg) (P<0.05). As a consequence, bupivacaine concentrations in the brain and liver at the onset of convulsions were greater in animals receiving MgSO(4) (16.0+/-8.4 and 18.2+/-4.3 microg/g wet weight, respectively) than in those given saline (12.1+/-2.2 and 9.9+/-2.0 microg/g wet weight, respectively). Fetal bupivacaine concentrations at the onset of convulsions in the MgSO(4) group were also higher than those in saline group. However, the rate of placental transfer of this drug was similar between MgSO(4) and saline animals.
This study demonstrates that the clinically used concentration of magnesium sulfate increased the threshold of bupivacaine-induced convulsions in awake rats.
The haemodynamic responses after application of 100-200 mg falipamil (5,6-dimethoxy-2-(3-((alpha (3,4-dimethoxy)-phenylethyl) methylamino)propyl)phthalimidine, AQ-A 39) a new calcium channel blocker with specific action on the sinus node, was studied in 11 patients with perioperative sinus tachycardia (greater than 120/min). A drop in the heart rate of at least 10% could be observed in all patients. In 8 patients 100 mg falipamil decreased the mean heart rate from 130 +/- 19 to 97 +/- 8/min 5 min after the application (p less than 0.001). In the resting 3 patients a second dose of falipamil was injected because of insufficient clinical response. In these patients the mean heart rate dropped from 162 +/- 27 to 125 +/- 40/min 10 min after the second dose. No significant changes of the blood pressure could be observed. Falipamil may become a valuable drug for the therapy of sinus tachycardia due to catecholamines during the perioperative period.
Exposure to dioxin and dioxin-like compounds (DLCs) has been connected to the induction of chloracne in humans and animals. 3,3',4,4'-Tetrachloroazobenzene (TCAB) is an environmental contaminant that induces chloracne in humans. TCAB has been studied only to a limited extent in laboratory animals. While performing a 2-year gavage study in B6C3F1 mice to evaluate the toxic and carcinogenic effects of TCAB, we also explored potential chloracnegenic properties. Groups of 50 male and 50 female B6C3F1 mice were exposed by gavage to TCAB at dose levels of 0, 3, 10 and 30 mg/kg for 5 days a week for 2 years. The animals developed treatment-related gross inflammatory skin lesions, which were characterized histologically by inflammation, fibrosis, hyperplasia, and ulcers. Additionally, many of the animals developed follicular dilatation and sebaceous gland atrophy, consistent with chloracne-like lesions. This current 2-year study supports recently published papers showing susceptibility to chloracne in mouse strains other than hairless mice. The chloracne-like lesions were not clinically evident; therefore, our study highlights the need for careful examination of the skin in order to identify subtle lesions consistent with chloracne-like changes in rodents exposed to dioxin and DLCs. Since previous short-term studies did not demonstrate any skin lesions, we suggest that reliable assessment of all safety issues involving dioxin and DLCs requires evaluation following chronic exposure. Such studies in animal models will help to elucidate the mechanisms of dioxin-related health hazards.
Orexin-expressing neurons are present in hypothalamic nuclei and send projections toward mesolimbic regions such as the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain region implicated in the processing of the motivational significance of reinforcers. Recent evidence found that activation of the orexin system can lead to a state of hyperarousal that may facilitate drug craving or contribute to vulnerability to drug relapse. This study aimed at assessing the effects of the orexin-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 [1-(2-methylbenzoxazol-6-yl)-3-[1,5]naphthyridin-4-yl-urea hydrochloride] on amphetamine-induced dopamine (DA) release in the shell subregion of the NAc by means of in vivo microdialysis in freely moving rats. Since behavioral sensitization is thought to play a role in the maintenance of compulsive drug use, we also tested the effect of SB-334867 on the expression of sensitization to the locomotor activating effects of amphetamine. Acute administration of SB-334867 (30 mg/kg SC) significantly reduced the acute effects of amphetamine (1 mg/kg IP) on extracellular DA levels in the NAc shell. The expression of amphetamine sensitization was also significantly reduced by acute SB-334867 treatment. Altogether our findings show that selective orexin-1 antagonism both reduces the acute effects of amphetamine on DA outflow in the NAc shell and decreases the expression of locomotor sensitization to the repeated, intermittent administration of amphetamine.
The effect of cyclosporin (CS) on intrinsic glomerular level of antioxidants in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis was examined. A single intravenous dose of PAN (50 mg/kg body weight) given to Sprague-Dawley rats resulted in marked proteinuria. Ten days after PAN injection, the rats were treated with daily intraperitoneal injection of CS (10 mg/kg body weight/day) for 10 days. PAN-treated rats without CS treatment (PAN rats) had significantly lower activities of glomerular superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) than normal rats (p < 0.05, respectively). When compared with PAN rats, CS-treated PAN rats had significantly less proteinuria and higher activities of glomerular SOD and CAT (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively). Significant elevation of glomerular malondialdehyde (MDA) level characteristic of PAN rats was absent in CS-treated PAN rats. Moreover, segmental sclerosis with capsular adhesion, hyalinosis, epithelial cell foot process fusion and microvillous transformation seen in PAN rats were apparently attenuated in CS-treated PAN rats. When compared with normal rats, rats receiving CS only had a significantly higher CAT activity and MDA level (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively). Assessment of glomerular reduced glutathione revealed no significant differences among PAN rats, CS-treated PAN rats, normal rats, and rats receiving only CS. These data indicate that glomerular antioxidant enzyme activities are modulated by CS.
Twenty-six patients with idiopathic Raynaud's phenomenon participated in a double-blind, crossover clinical trial comparing the clinical effect of nifedipine with that of placebo. Four patients discontinued the study because of side effects and one patient defaulted at the return visit. Nifedipine significantly reduced frequency and severity of attacks (p less than 0.01). In an overall evaluation of drug effectiveness, 19 of 21 patients preferred nifedipine to placebo (p less than 0.01). Nifedipine proved to be effective in the treatment of idiopathic Raynaud's phenomenon, but side effects should be expected in some 30%.
Cocaine and a number of 3beta-phenyltropane cocaine analogs were investigated for their potential to block various pharmacological effects of nicotine in animals. They blocked the antinociceptive effect of nicotine in the tail-flick test after systemic administration in a dose-dependent manner. Similarly, cocaine was also able to block nicotine-induced motor impairment in mice. Furthermore, cocaine blocked nicotine-induced seizures at a lower potency than for antinociception, but failed to block nicotine's effect on body temperature and drug discrimination. The antagonistic potencies of the 3beta-phenyltropane cocaine analogs were not correlated with their affinity for monoamines transporters. Additionally, bupropion, nomifensin, GBR 12909, and nisoxetine, but not methylphenidate and fluoxetine, blocked nicotine-induced antinociception; however, their antagonistic potencies were unrelated to their affinities for the transporters. Taken together, these results suggest that the mechanism of cocaine's antagonistic activity is not related to its binding and uptake of inhibition on monoamine neurotransporters. The failure of lidocaine and procaine to antagonize nicotine's effects in the tail-flick assay rules out local anesthetic effects. In addition, cocaine blocked differentially the response of nicotine in the oocyte receptor expression system for the alpha4beta2 and alpha3beta2 subtypes in a dose-dependent manner. Our results suggest that cocaine is a noncompetitive nicotinic antagonist with some selectivity for neuronal nicotinic receptor subtypes. Our studies also demonstrate that 3beta-phenyltropane analogs constitute a new class of nicotinic antagonists. Elucidation of the mechanism of action of this new class of antagonists may provide an explanation for the effectiveness of agents such as bupropion for the treatment of smoking cessation.
Depression has been identified as a disorder of clinical significance among cocaine users. Even so, its prevalence in cocaine-abusing populations is uncertain. This research employed a cross-sectional design to determine the prevalence of current depressive symptomatology among a sample of 430 not-in-treatment crack-cocaine users. Depression was assessed with the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). The mean BDI score was 19.1. Overall, 80% of the sample had BDI scores that suggested more than minimal depression, and 55% had symptoms of moderate to severe depression. The results of a cumulative logistic regression analysis showed that men, African-Americans, and individuals with some college education were less likely to be depressed. Individuals with higher Addiction Severity Index composite scores for family/social, medical, legal, and alcohol problems had a greater likelihood of reporting symptoms of depression. Frequency of cocaine use and perceived need for treatment were also positively associated with higher BDI scores. The results suggest that the prevalence of depression among crack users is higher than has been previously reported. Treatment programs should routinely screen crack-cocaine users for depression. The BDI may be a suitable tool for such efforts since it has an acceptable level of internal consistency when employed with crack users (a = 0.89).
Diethylstilbestrol (DES) causes DNA adducts resulting in breast cancer, whereas diallyl sulfide (DAS) inhibits cancer formation. We hypothesize that DAS induces the expression of nucleotide excision repair genes. To test this hypothesis, female ACI rats were treated for 4 days with corn oil, DES, DAS, and DAS/DES (50mg/kg). The expression of P53, Gadd45a, PCNA, and DNA polymerase delta was analyzed by real-time PCR. DES decreased the expression of P53, Gadd45a and PCNA. DAS and DAS/DES increased the expression of all four genes. These results suggest that DAS enhances the ability of breast tissue to repair DNA damage thus preventing cancer.
Recent findings have shown that SLIT2 appears to function as a novel tumor suppressor gene. In addition, hypermethylation of its promoter region has been detected in various cancers, including breast and lung cancer, colorectal carcinoma, and gliomas. Here, we report for the first time that there is epigenetic silencing of SLIT2 in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Downregulation of SLIT2 was detected in 6 of 8 (75%) HCC cell lines by quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR), and the downregulation of SLIT2 was generally dependent on the degree of methylation at the promoter region. Furthermore, expression of SLIT2 was restored in relatively low-expressing cell lines after treatment with 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-dC). Downregulation of SLIT2 expression was also detected in 45 of 54 primary HCC samples (83.3%), and the decrease in expression was significantly correlated with CpG island hypermethylation. This decrease of SLIT2 expression was also associated with lymph node metastasis in HCC. Moreover, overexpression of SLIT2 in SMMC-7721 cells induced by recombinant adenovirus suppressed cell growth, migration, and invasion, These results suggest that epigenetic inactivation of SLIT2 in HCC may be important in the development and progression of HCC. Thus, SLIT2 may be useful as a therapeutic target in the treatment of HCC.
Disruption of the intestinal homeostasis and tolerance towards the resident microbiota is a major mechanism involved in the development of inflammatory bowel disease. While some bacteria are inducers of disease, others, known as probiotics, are able to reduce inflammation. Because dendritic cells (DCs) play a central role in regulating immune responses and in inducing tolerance, we investigated their role in the anti-inflammatory potential of probiotic lactic acid bacteria.
Selected LAB strains, while efficiently taken up by DCs in vitro, induced a partial maturation of the cells. Transfer of probiotic-treated DCs conferred protection against 2, 4, 6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis. Protection was associated with a reduction of inflammatory scores and colonic expression of pro-inflammatory genes, while a high local expression of the immunoregulatory enzyme indolamine 2, 3 dioxgenase (IDO) was observed. The preventive effect of probiotic-pulsed DCs required not only MyD88-, TLR2- and NOD2-dependent signaling but also the induction of CD4+ CD25+ regulatory cells in an IL-10-independent pathway.
Altogether, these results suggest that selected probiotics can stimulate DC regulatory functions by targeting specific pattern-recognition receptors and pathways. The results not only emphasize the role of DCs in probiotic immune interactions, but indicate a possible role in immune-intervention therapy for IBD.
Eight cases of hepatitis induced by amineptine chlorhydrate, a new tricyclic antidepressant are reported. Jaundice and/or biological changes occurred 16 to 75 days after the onset of treatment and with a total oral dose of 3,8 to 26 grams. Biologically, cholestasis and cytolysis have been observed simultaneously in 4 cases, cholestasis alone in 2 cases, and prevalent cytolysis in 2 others. After withdrawal of amineptine, clinical improvement was achieved within 10 to 21 days, whereas biological changes of hepatic function tests lasted for as long as 3 to 12 weeks. Physiopathology of such disorders is not clear : toxicity, enzyme induction, immunoallergy, may be considered as possible mechanisms.
Electromechanical dissociation (EMD) occurred in a 20-year-old woman 48 hours after an overdose of atenolol, despite intensive treatment of the beta-blocker poisoning (gastric lavage, charcoal, glucagon, epinephrine, atropine, correction of electrolyte abnormalities, administration of fluids, cardiac pacing, and mechanical ventilation). Administration of calcium chloride during EMD repeatedly restored blood pressure. Therefore it may have a role to play in management of atenolol overdose.
Pimozide, a potent neuroleptic which inhibits the release of pituitary releasing factors and is an effective dopamine antagonist, was administered to 30 patients with previously treated metastatic melanoma. Six patients were inevaluable because of poor drug tolerance (two), disease progression within 1 week and death within 2 weeks (three), and death from other causes (one). Among the 24 evaluable patients, two had complete response, two had partial response, and two had disease stabilization. Responses were observed in soft tissue, lymph nodes, liver, and lung. Toxic effects consisted of extrapyramidal manifestations in nine patients and malaise in seven. Pimozide has activity in patients with previously treated metastatic melanoma (17% response rate in evaluable patients) and merits consideration of further study in combination regimens.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is an effective antineoplastic agent whose use has been limited by its cardiotoxic side effects. Recent studies have established that erythropoietin (EPO), a cytokine essential for red blood cell production, protects against ischemic injury in the heart and other organs. The purpose of this study was to assess whether EPO protects the heart against cardiotoxicity induced by DOX. We found that DOX-induced apoptosis and impaired heart function in mice were largely prevented by EPO administration. To investigate the mechanism of protection by EPO, cultured neonatal mouse ventricular myocytes were treated with EPO at therapeutic levels (i.e., 1 U/ml), before application of DOX (0.1-1.0 microM). EPO protected against DOX-induced cardiomyocyte death (by approximately 50%) and apoptosis assessed by annexin-V labeling, DNA fragmentation, and caspase-3 activity. DOX-mediated increases in reactive oxygen species, which trigger cardiotoxicity, were also reversed by preconditioning with EPO. These functional effects of EPO correlated with increased Akt/protein kinase B ( approximately 2-fold) and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3; approximately 1.3-fold) phosphorylations, suggesting protection by EPO was mediated by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activation. Indeed, preventing Akt and GSK-3beta phosphorylations by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibition abolished protection by EPO against cardiomyocyte loss, apoptosis, and oxidative stress. Thus, pretreatment with therapeutic levels of EPO can protect the myocardium against DOX-induced impaired heart function and cardiomyocyte apoptosis by activating PI3K-Akt cell survival pathways.
Checkpoint genes, activated in response to DNA damage and other stresses, are frequently targeted for alteration in cancer. Checkpoint kinase 2 (CHK2, CDS1, RAD53) is activated by ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) in response to gamma irradiation. Activated CHK2 stabilizes TP53, and acts on other cell cycle and stress regulators. These findings place CHK2 in the middle of a pathway frequently targeted in cancer. Because of this, and the observation that CHK2 mutations are inherited in some Li-Fraumeni cancer syndrome families, we decided to examine the role of CHK2 mutations in sporadic cancers. Exploiting the genomic sequence of chromosome 22, we looked for mutations in the exons and intron junctions of the CHK2 gene in DNA samples from 170 patients (57 osteosarcomas, 25 other sarcomas, 35 nonsmall-cell lung, 20 ovarian, and 33 breast cancers). Missense mutations affecting the forkhead and kinase domains were detected in four osteosarcomas and in one ovarian and one lung cancer. These findings of CHK2 gene mutations are consistent with osteosarcoma being a defining tumor of Li-Fraumeni syndrome. The occurrence of CHK2 mutations in sporadic cancers emphasizes the importance of the stress pathway which includes TP53.
Hydroquinone (HQ) is the main oxidative substance in cigarette smoke and a toxic product of benzene biotransformation. Although the respiratory tract is an inlet pathway of HQ exposure, its effect on airway muscle responsiveness has not been assessed. We thus investigated the effects of low dose in vivo HQ-exposure on tracheal responsiveness to a muscarinic receptor agonist. Male Swiss mice were exposed to aerosolised 5% ethanol/saline solution (HQ vehicle; control) or 0.04 ppm HQ (1h/day for 5 days) and tracheal rings were collected 1h after the last exposure. HQ exposure caused tracheal hyperresponsiveness to methacholine (MCh), which was abolished by mechanical removal of the epithelium. This hyperresponsiveness was not dependent on neutrophil infiltration, but on tumour necrosis factor (TNF) secretion by epithelial cells. This conclusion was based on the following data: (1) trachea from HQ-exposed mice presented a higher amount of TNF, which was abrogated following removal of the epithelium; (2) the trachea hyperresponsiveness and TNF levels were attenuated by in vivo chlorpromazine (CPZ) treatment, an inhibitor of TNF synthesis. The involvement of HQ-induced TNF secretion in trachea mast cell degranulation was also demonstrated by the partial reversion of tracheal hyperresponsiveness in sodium cromoglicate-treated animals, and the in vivo HQ-exposure-induced degranulation of trachea connective tissue and mucosal mast cells, which was reversed by CPZ treatment. Our data show that in vivo HQ exposure indirectly exacerbates the parasympathetic-induced contraction of airway smooth muscle cells, mediated by TNF secreted by tracheal epithelial cells, clearly showing the link between environmental HQ exposure and the reactivity of airways.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress refers to a condition of accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER lumen, which is known to activate an intracellular stress signaling termed Unfolded Protein Response (UPR). A number of pharmacologic reagents or pathophysiologic stimuli can induce ER stress and activation of the UPR signaling, leading to alteration of cell physiology that is associated with the initiation and progression of a variety of diseases. Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), characterized by hepatic steatosis and inflammation, has been considered the precursor or the hepatic manifestation of metabolic disease. In this study, we delineated the toxic effect and molecular basis by which pharmacologic ER stress, induced by a bacterial nucleoside antibiotic tunicamycin (TM), promotes NASH in an animal model. Mice of C57BL/6J strain background were challenged with pharmacologic ER stress by intraperitoneal injection of TM. Upon TM injection, mice exhibited a quick NASH state characterized by hepatic steatosis and inflammation. An increase in hepatic triglycerides (TG) and a decrease in plasma lipids, including plasma TG, plasma cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and low-density lipoprotein (LDL), were observed in the TM-treated mice. In response to TM challenge, cleavage of sterol responsive binding protein (SREBP)-1a and SREBP-1c, the key trans-activators for lipid and sterol biosynthesis, was dramatically increased in the liver. Consistent with the hepatic steatosis phenotype, expression of some key regulators and enzymes in de novo lipogenesis and lipid droplet formation was up-regulated, while expression of those involved in lipolysis and fatty acid oxidation was down-regulated in the liver of mice challenged with TM. Moreover, TM treatment significantly increased phosphorylation of NF-κB inhibitors (IκB), leading to the activation of NF-κB-mediated inflammatory pathway in the liver. Our study not only confirmed that pharmacologic ER stress is a strong "hit" that triggers NASH, but also demonstrated crucial molecular links between ER stress, lipid metabolism, and inflammation in the liver in vivo.
Transient Receptor Potential Melastatin-8 (TRPM8), a recently identified member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family of ion channels, is activated by mild cooling and by chemical compounds such as the supercooling agent, icilin. Since cooling, possibly involving TRPM8 stimulation, diminishes injury-induced peripheral inflammation, we hypothesized that TRPM8 activation may also attenuate systemic inflammation. We thus studied the involvement of TRPM8 in regulating colonic inflammation using two mouse models of chemically induced colitis. TRPM8 expression, localized immunohistochemically in transgenic TRPM8(GFP) mouse colon, was up-regulated in both human- and murine-inflamed colon samples, as measured by real-time PCR. Wild-type mice (but not TRPM8-nulls) treated systemically with the TRPM8 agonist, icilin showed an attenuation of chemically induced colitis, as reflected by a decrease in macroscopic and microscopic damage scores, bowel thickness, and myeloperoxidase activity compared with untreated animals. Furthermore, icilin treatment reduced the 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced increase in levels of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in the colon. In comparison with wild-type mice, Dextran Sodium Sulfate (DSS)-treated TRPM8 knockout mice showed elevated colonic levels of the inflammatory neuropeptide calcitonin-gene-related peptide, although inflammatory indices were equivalent for both groups. Further, TRPM8 activation by icilin blocked capsaicin-triggered calcitonin-gene-related peptide release from colon tissue ex vivo and blocked capsaicin-triggered calcium signaling in Transient Receptor Potential Vaniloid-1 (TRPV1) and TRPM8 transfected HEK cells. Our data document an anti-inflammatory role for TRPM8 activation, in part due to an inhibiton of neuropeptide release, pointing to a novel therapeutic target for colitis and other inflammatory diseases.
Hepatitis C is a major cause of liver-related morbidity and mortality. A high proportion of patients never experience symptoms. Peginterferon plus ribavirin is the recommended treatment for chronic hepatitis C. However, ribavirin monotherapy may be considered for some patients.
To assess the beneficial and harmful effects of ribavirin monotherapy for patients with chronic hepatitis C.
We identified trials through electronic databases, manual searches of bibliographies and journals, authors of trials, and pharmaceutical companies until March 2009.
We included all randomised trials irrespective of blinding, language, or publication status comparing ribavirin versus no intervention, placebo, or interferon for chronic hepatitis C.
The primary outcome measures were serum sustained virological response (loss of hepatitis C virus RNA at least six months after treatment), liver-related morbidity plus all-cause mortality, and adverse events. Secondary outcome measures were end of treatment virological response, biochemical response (transaminase activity), and histological response. Randomisation methods, blinding, data handling, and funding were extracted as measures of bias control. Random-effects and fixed-effect meta-analyses were performed for all outcomes. We only present the results of the fixed-effect model if both models provide the same result regarding statistical significance. We present data as risk difference (RD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI).
We included 14 randomised trials with 657 patients. The majority of trials had unclear control of bias. Compared with placebo or no intervention, ribavirin had no significant effect on the sustained virological response (RD 0%, 95% CI -2% to 3%, five trials) or end of treatment virological response (RD 0% 95% CI -3% to 3%, ten trials). Ribavirin had no significant effect on liver-related morbidity plus mortality (RD 0%, 95% CI -2% to 3%, 11 trials). Ribavirin significantly increased the risk of adverse reactions, including anaemia. Ribavirin significantly improved end of treatment biochemical and histological response but not the sustained biochemical response. Ribavirin was significantly inferior to interferon regarding virological and biochemical responses (five trials).
Ribavirin seems without beneficial effects on serum virological response and liver-related morbidity or mortality, and significantly increased the risk of adverse reactions. Ribavirin monotherapy seems significantly inferior to interferon monotherapy. The total number of included patients is small, and more trials are perhaps needed. The use of ribavirin monotherapy for chronic hepatitis C cannot be recommended outside randomised trials.
Viability of polyploid organisms in lower vertebrates including fish provides an additional tool to investigate genetic mechanisms of neoplastic transformation caused by carcinogens. Here we present data on differential sensitivity of diploid and triploid zebrafish (Danio rerio) to N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) induced hepatocarcinogenesis. The effect of the carcinogen was studied in 100 diploid and 120 triploid zebrafish. Zebrafish, age 5-6 weeks, were exposed to 50 ppm NDMA for 8 weeks and then were transferred into fresh carcinogen-free water until necropsy. At the necropsy performed 24 weeks after beginning the treatment, cholangiolar tumors (cholangiocarcinomas and cholangiomas) were essentially observed in diploid zebrafish only, while the incidence of hepatocellular tumors (hepatocellular carcinomas and adenomas) was similar in diploid and triploid zebrafish, 7.7% and 9.5%, respectively. By contrast, 36 weeks after beginning the treatment, the incidence of hepatocellular tumors was significantly lower in diploid animals as compared to triploid ones, 10.3% and 33.8%, respectively. The incidence of cholangiolar tumors in diploid and triploid zebrafish was not significantly different, 10.3% and 14.9%, respectively. Therefore, the increase of ploidy appeared to have a differential effect on the induction of these 2 types of liver tumors in zebrafish. This finding suggests a difference in genetic mechanisms of the tumor development revealed by utilization of triploid animals in this study. However, triploid zebrafish demonstrated an overall increase in latency period in the development of both types of hepatic tumors, a finding that can be interpreted as an increased resistance of triploid animals to the carcinogenic effect of NDMA.
Class IC antiarrhythmic agents such as flecainide are known to have potentially significant ventricular proarrhythmic actions, but the underlying mechanisms are incompletely understood. While some studies have reported proarrhythmia in both healthy dogs and dogs that previously have had a myocardial infarction (MI), there are no published, controlled studies comparing proarrhythmia in healthy dogs vs in dogs with MI. In addition, the concentration dependence of proarrhythmia is unknown and the electrophysiological changes associated with proarrhythmia are not well established.
We administered successive loading and maintenance infusions of flecainide until ventricular tachyarrhythmia or death occurred in 13 healthy dogs and 19 dogs with 72-hour-old MIs (MI dogs). Ventricular proarrhythmia, defined as reproducible ventricular tachycardia absent under control conditions and occurring in the presence of flecainide, was observed in 4 of 13 healthy dogs (31%) and 15 of 19 MI dogs (79%, P = .02), and drug-induced spontaneous ventricular tachycardia occurred in 8 of 19 MI dogs but in no healthy dogs (P = .007). Activation data at the time of proarrhythmia were available for 11 MI dogs and provided evidence for reentry in 9, with a complete epicardial reentry circuit identified in 4 dogs and a partial circuit in 5. While flecainide slowed ventricular conduction in both the longitudinal and transverse directions, there were no significant differences between overall drug-induced conduction changes in MI dogs compared with healthy dogs. However, in 7 MI dogs for whom activation data were available during ventricular pacing at concentrations comparable to those causing proarrhythmia, flecainide induced a new arc of block in 6 of 7, whereas an arc of block was never observed in the absence of proarrhythmia. Conduction block was induced transverse to fiber orientation in a rate-dependent fashion and was caused by a regionally-specific effect of the drug. No differences were noted between refractory periods proximal and distal to the site of block.
Prior MI strongly predisposes dogs to flecainide proarrhythmia, which occurs in the majority of such dogs in a concentration-related way. In most cases, activation data suggest that anisotropic reentry around a localized arc of rate-dependent transverse conduction block underlies proarrhythmia. These results provide insights into the conditions and mechanisms underlying the ability of flecainide to promote the occurrence of ventricular tachycardia.
Cardiac disorders are observed when excessive plasma concentrations of local anaesthetics are reached, following for instance intravascular accidental injection for epidural anaesthesia or brachial plexus block. Bupivacaine particularly, which is one of the most used local anaesthetics, adversely affects intraventricular conduction and cardiac contractile strength from the 3.0-4.0 micrograms/ml blood levels. Depression of conduction is especially to be feared, for it can result in reentrant arrhythmias likely to degenerate into often fatal ventricular fibrillation. Such accidents may sometimes occur at far lower concentrations, subsequent to diffusion into systemic circulation from the injection site (0.4-1.2 micrograms/ml). These accidents were probably due to various factors which concomitantly intervene during the anaesthesia. We could identify a number of these factors by associating them to an intravenous infusion of bupivacaine (0.04 mg/kg/min after a loading dose of 1.00 mg/kg) in animals (dogs and pigs) under electrocardiographic monitoring, in which conduction time, monophasic action potential duration, effective refractory period and electrical fibrillation threshold were determined in the ventricular fibres. The electrophysiological changes due to bupivacaine may be enhanced by 1) dilution hyponatremia (115-110 mmol/l) induced by a short (5 min) intravenous 10 ml/kg/min infusion of hypotonic solution and/or hyperkalemia (7-8 mmol/l) induced by 0.05 mmol/kg/min infusion of potassium chloride; 2) the acceleration of cardiac contractions (180-210 beats/min) induced by ventricular pacing; 3) mild hypothermia (35-34 degrees C) induced by blood cooling in an extracorporeal circuit; 4) myocardial ischaemia induced by complete temporary occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery near its origin. The risk of cardiac accidents, possibly severe, is therefore enhanced by each of these factors capable of lowering the concentration required for their triggering and, of course, the combination of two or several of them. On the contrary, the knowledge of these factors should allow to prevent most of cardiac accidents of locoregional anaesthesia.
