Convergence spasm has frequently been reported as a hysterical manifestation. A case presenting with this sign and diphenylhydantoin intoxication is described. Other previously reported organic associations are discussed. Convergence spasm may be seen in association with significant organic disease of the nervous system affecting the cerebral hemispheres, the brain-stem, or both.
To determine the fate of newborn dentate granule cells (DGCs) after lithium-pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) in an immature rat.
Postnatal day 20 (P20) rats were injected with lithium and pilocarpine to induce SE, and then with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) 4, 6, and 8 days later (P24, 26, and 28), and killed 1 day (P29), 1 week (P34), and 3 weeks (P50) after the last dose of BrdU for cell counts. Immunohistochemistry and TUNEL staining were performed to assess the fate of newborn DGCs.
Pilocarpine-treated animals had significantly more BrdU-labeled DGCs than did littermate controls at all times. The day after the final BrdU injection (P29), sixfold more cells were found in pilocarpine-treated animals than in controls, which was reduced to threefold, 3 weeks later. A decrease in the BrdU-labeled cell density was noted from P29 to P50 in the control and pilocarpine-treated animals. Evidence of DGC cell death was seen in pilocarpine and control animals, with threefold more TUNEL-positive cells in the pilocarpine-treated than in the control animals at P29. The surviving newborn DGCs became mature neurons; expressing the neuronal marker NeuN in both control and pilocarpine-treated animals.
These findings suggest that SE during postnatal development increases the birth and death of DGCs. A subset of the newborn DGCs survive and mature into dentate granule neurons, resulting in an increased population of immature DGCs after SE that may affect hippocampal physiology.
The clinical and electrophysiological findings in 2 men who had developed a myasthenic syndrome after taking penicillamine for rheumatoid arthritis will be described. The symptoms began with dysfunction of the eye muscles following a generalised muscle weakness. Course of illness after withdrawal of penicillamine was not uniform. In one of the patients a complete remission occurred within a year. The other became steadily worse and required continuous treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors. Electrophysiological examinations showed neuromuscular blockade, posttetanic exhaustion, posttetanic potentiation was found in one patient only. An immunopharmacological block of acetylcholine receptors induced by penicillamine is discussed from a pathogenetical point of view.
Adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL) deficiency (MIM 103050) is an autosomal recessive inborn error of purine synthesis characterized by the accumulation in body fluids of succinylaminoimidazolecarboxamide (SAICA) riboside and succinyladenosine (S-Ado), the dephosphorylated derivatives of the two substrates of the enzyme. Because ADSL-deficient patients display widely variable degrees of psychomotor retardation, we have expressed eight mutated ADSL enzymes as thioredoxin fusions and compared their properties with the clinical and biochemical characteristics of 10 patients. Three expressed mutated ADSL enzymes (M26L, R426H and T450S) were thermolabile, four (A2V, R141W, R303C and S395R) were thermostable and one (del206-218), was inactive. Thermolabile mutations decreased activities with SAICA ribotide (SAICAR) and adenylosuccinate (S-AMP) in parallel, or more with SAICAR than with S-AMP. Patients homozygous for one of these mutations, R426H, displayed similarly decreased ADSL activities in their fibroblasts, S-Ado:SAICA riboside ratios of approximately 1 in their cerebrospinal fluid and were profoundly retarded. With the exception of A2V, thermostable mutations decreased activity with S-AMP to a much more marked extent than with SAICAR. Two unrelated patients homozygous for one of the thermostable mutations, R303C, also displayed a much more marked decrease in the activity of fibroblast ADSL with S-AMP than with SAICAR, had S-Ado:SAICA riboside ratios between 3 and 4 in their cerebrospinal fluid and were mildly retarded. These results suggest that, in some cases, the genetic lesion of ADSL determines the ratio of its activities with S-AMP versus SAICAR, which in turn defines the S-Ado:SAICA riboside ratio and the patients' mental status.
We have previously demonstrated that diverse carotenoids inhibit chemically induced neoplastic transformation in 10T1/2 cells. To address their mechanism of action, the effects of six diverse carotenoids, with or without provitamin A activity, on gap junctional communication and lipid peroxidation have been investigated. beta-Carotene, canthaxanthin, lutein, lycopene and alpha-carotene increased gap junctional intercellular communication in a dose-dependent manner in the above order of potency, whereas m-bixin was inactive at concentrations up to 10(-5) M. alpha-Tocopherol, a potent chain-breaking antioxidant, caused a marginal enhancement of junctional communication. The enhancement of junctional communication by diverse carotenoids showed a strong statistical correlation with their previously determined ability to inhibit methylcholanthrene-induced neoplastic transformation (r = -0.75). All carotenoids tested inhibited lipid peroxidation, but with differing potencies. alpha-Tocopherol was the most active inhibitor followed by m-bixin. The capacity of carotenoids or alpha-tocopherol to inhibit lipid peroxidation was neither consistent with their ability to inhibit neoplastic transformation (r = 0.30) nor to increase junctional communication (r = 0.12). Since junctional communication appears to play an important role in cell growth control and carcinogenesis, we propose that in this system carotenoid-enhanced intercellular communication provides a mechanistic basis for the cancer chemopreventive action of carotenoids. These data also imply that carotenoids function in a manner analogous to retinoids in the 10T1/2 assay system. Interestingly this activity appears independent of their provitamin A status.
Bradycardia during propofol anesthesia is well known, but bradycardia after propofol anesthesia has not been studied well. We compared perioperative heart rates in patients who had undergone gynecological surgery under lumbar epidural anesthesia supplemented with light general anesthesia using isoflurane and nitrous oxide in oxygen (Group Iso, n = 25) with those who had received lumbar epidural anesthesia supplemented with propofol (Group Prop, n = 25). The heart rates for the Group Prop were significantly lower (P < 0.05) than those for the Group Iso after the induction of anesthesia up to 2 hours after surgery. Two patients in the Group Prop developed bradycardia below 50 bpm 1 and 2 hours after surgery. In one of them intravenous atropine was necessary to treat bradycardia. We conclude that more attention should be paid to postoperative as well as intraoperative bradycardia in patients who receive propofol.
Severe bradycardia and hypotension associated with the administration of organic nitrates or nitrites has been observed in patients with ischaemic heart disease and hypertension. Experiments were performed on rats to elucidate the mechanism by which these vasodilators may effect their anomalous bradycardia-hypotensive effect. In sodium pentobarbital (50 mg.kg-1, ip) anaesthetised rats of the Wistar strain, hypotension and a paradoxical bradycardia were observed following the intra-arterial injection of 10 microgram.kg-1 sodium nitroprusside or 1 mg.kg-1 arachidonic acid. Bilateral vagotomy abolished the bradycardia to both sodium nitroprusside and arachidonic acid but did not eliminate their hypotensive effects. Indomethacin (5 mg.kg-1) abolished the blood pressure and heart rate responses to arachidonic acid. However, indomethacin abolished only the bradycardia to sodium nitroprusside without reducing its effect on blood pressure. These data suggest that in the rat sodium nitroprusside can stimulate prostaglandin biosynthesis which then initiates a reflex bradycardia.
Intracerebroventricular (ICV) streptozotocin (STZ) has been shown to cause cognitive impairment, which is associated with increased oxidative stress in the brain of rats. In the present study, we investigated the effect of both the isoforms of vitamin E, alpha-tocopherol and tocotrienol against ICV STZ-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative-nitrosative stress in rats. Adult male Wistar rats were injected with ICV STZ (3 mg/kg) bilaterally. The learning and memory behavior was assessed using Morris water maze and elevated plus maze. The rats were sacrificed on day 21 and parameters of oxidative stress, nitrite levels and acetylcholinesterase activity were measured in brain homogenate. alpha-Tocopherol as well as tocotrienol treated groups showed significantly less cognitive impairment in both the behavioral paradigms but the effect was more potent with tocotrienol. Both isoforms of vitamin E effectively attenuated the reduction in glutathione and catalase and reduced the malonaldehyde, nitrite as well as cholinesterase activity in the brains of ICV STZ rats in a dose dependent manner. The study demonstrates the effectiveness of vitamin E isoforms, of which tocotrienol being more potent in preventing the cognitive deficits caused by ICV STZ in rats and suggests its potential in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
Minoxidil is a potent orally administered vasodilator under investigation for use in severe hypertension. Fifteen patients with moderate to severe hypertension refractory to conventional antihypertensive drugs were treated with minoxidil on an outpatient basis. Propranolol and furosemide were administered concomitantly to control reflex tachycardia and fluid retention. Good blood pressure control was achieved in all but one patient with the average supine mean arterial blood pressure falling from 140 mm Hg with conventional drugs to 106 mm Hg with minoxidil (P less than 0.0005). The major side effects of fluid retention (9/15), hirsutism (15/15), and tachycardia were adequately controlled in all but one patient. We conclude that minoxidil will be a valuable drug in the outpatient management of refractory hypertension.
Recent metabolic studies have demonstrated the importance of reactive intermediates like quinones or semiquinone radicals in the covalent binding of halobenzenes to liver protein. The current studies were designed to examine if quinone intermediates are involved in the toxicity of hepatotoxic halobenzenes, bromobenzene (BB) and 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB). Two-electron reduction of the quinone intermediates by DT-diaphorase is considered to be a detoxication pathway since the resulting hydroquinone may be readily conjugated and excreted. Mice were pretreated with butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA; 0.5% in the diet, for 3 days), an inducer of DT-diaphorase, or dicoumarol (0.3 mmol/kg, p.o.), an inhibitor of this enzyme. The mice were then given BB (2.5 or 3.5 mmol/kg, i.p.) or 1,2,4-TCB (0.75 or 1.5 mmol/kg, i.p.). Dietary BHA markedly suppressed the hepatotoxicity caused by both BB and 1,2,4-TCB while dicoumarol significantly enhanced it, as judged by serum alanine aminotransferase activity. When mice were treated with BB at different times after the end of dietary BHA exposure, the degree of the protection against the hepatotoxicity appears to correlate to the extent of the induction of DT-diaphorase activity by BHA pretreatment. BHA pretreatment failed to protect against carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatotoxicity. These results seem to provide evidence for the involvement of the quinone metabolites in BB- and 1,2,4-TCB-induced hepatotoxicity and for the protective role of DT-diaphorase against the toxicity.
Successful therapy for chronic diseases must normalize a targeted aspect of metabolism without disrupting the regulation of other metabolic pathways essential for maintaining health. Use of a limited number of single molecule surrogates for disease, or biomarkers, to monitor the efficacy of a therapy may fail to predict undesirable side effects. In this study, a comprehensive metabolomic assessment of lipid metabolites was employed to determine the specific effects of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) agonist rosiglitazone on structural lipid metabolism in a new mouse model of Type 2 diabetes. Dietary supplementation with rosiglitazone (200 mg/kg diet) suppressed Type 2 diabetes in obese (NZO x NON)F1 male mice, but chronic treatment markedly exacerbated hepatic steatosis. The metabolomic data revealed that rosiglitazone i) induced hypolipidemia (by dysregulating liver-plasma lipid exchange), ii) induced de novo fatty acid synthesis, iii) decreased the biosynthesis of lipids within the peroxisome, iv) substantially altered free fatty acid and cardiolipin metabolism in heart, and v) elicited an unusual accumulation of polyunsaturated fatty acids within adipose tissue. These observations suggest that the phenotypes induced by rosiglitazone are mediated by multiple tissue-specific metabolic variables. Because many of the effects of rosiglitazone on tissue metabolism were reflected in the plasma lipid metabolome, metabolomics has excellent potential for developing clinical assessments of metabolic response to drug therapy.
Diisononyl phthalate (DINP) is a synthetic material that has been widely used as a substitute for other plasticizers prohibited due to reproductive toxicity in consumer products. Some phthalates have been associated with testicular dysgenesis syndrome in male fetus when female pregnant dams were exposed to them. The present study investigated effects of DINP on fetal Leydig cell function and testis development. Female pregnant Sprague Dawley rats received control vehicle (corn oil) or DINP (10, 100, 500, and 1000 mg/kg) by oral gavage from gestational day (GD) 12 to 21. At GD 21.5, testicular testosterone production, fetal Leydig cell numbers and distribution, testicular gene and protein expression levels were examined. DINP showed dose-dependent increase of fetal Leydig cell aggregation with the low observed adverse-effect level (LOAEL) of 10 mg/kg and multinucleated gonocyte with LOAEL of 100 mg/kg. At 10 mg/kg, DINP also significantly increased fetal Leydig cell size, but inhibited insulin-like 3 and 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase gene expression and protein levels. DINP inhibited testicular testosterone levels at 1000 mg/kg. The results indicate that in utero exposure to DINP affects the expression levels of some fetal Leydig cell steroidogenic genes, gonocyte multinucleation and Leydig cell aggregation.
Biomarkers are being developed that can aid in the evaluation of cancer therapeutic and chemopreventive drugs. Two suggested biomarkers found in mouse lung tumors are DNA hypomethylation and alterations in mRNA expression of genes, such as 18S RNA, caspase 3, cyclin B2, cyclin E1, iNOS and survivin. Budesonide is very efficacious in preventing lung tumors in mice, so that its ability to modulate biomarkers in lung tumors was determined. Lung tumors were induced by vinyl carbamate in female strain A/J mice. Budesonide (2.0 mg/kg diet) was administered for 2, 7 and 21 days or for 14 days followed by a 7-days' holding period prior to the killing of the mice at week 27. After 2 days of budesonide treatment, the size of the lung tumors was reduced. Tumor size continued to decrease during the 21 days of treatment. In the tumors, 2 days of treatment resulted in (i) increased methylation of DNA, reversing DNA hypomethylation, (ii) increased expression of 18S RNA and (iii) decreased mRNA expression of caspase 3, cyclin B2, cyclin E1, iNOS and survivin. Termination of budesonide treatment at 7 days prior to killing did not affect the size of the tumors, but did result in increased mRNA expression of the 5 genes, approaching the expression level in tumors from control mice. Hence, budesonide rapidly decreased the size of lung tumors, reversed DNA hypomethylation and modulated mRNA expression of genes; with the molecular alterations requiring continued treatment with the drug for maintenance.
1. Three families with a form of myotonia (muscle stiffness due to membrane hyperexcitability) clinically distinct from previously classified myotonias were examined. The severity of the disease greatly differed among the families. 2. Three dominant point mutations were discovered at the same nucleotide position of the SCN4A gene encoding the adult skeletal muscle Na+ channel alpha-subunit. They predict the substitution of either glutamic acid, valine or alanine for glycine1306, a highly conserved residue within the supposed inactivation gate. Additional SCN4A mutations were excluded. 3. Electrophysiological studies were performed on biopsied muscle specimens obtained for each mutation. Patch clamp recordings on sarcolemmal blebs revealed an increase in the time constant of fast Na+ channel inactivation, tau h, and in late channel openings as compared to normal controls. tau h was increased from 1.2 to 1.6-2.1 ms and the average late currents from 0.4 to 1-6% of the peak early current. 4. Intracellular recordings on resealed fibre segments revealed an abnormal tetrodotoxin-sensitive steady-state inward current, and repetitive action potentials. Since K+ and Cl- conductances were normal, only the increase in the number of non-inactivating Na+ channels has to be responsible for the membrane hyperexcitability. 5. Length, ramification and charge of the side-chains of the substitutions correlated well with the Na+ channel dysfunction and the severity of myotonia, with alanine as the most benign and glutamic acid as the substitution with a major steric effect. 6. Our electrophysiological and molecular genetic studies strongly suggest that these Na+ channel mutations cause myotonia. The naturally occurring mutants allowed us to gain further insight into the mechanism of Na+ channel inactivation.
Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is an angioproliferative disease characterized by proliferation of spindle-shaped cells predominantly of endothelial cell origin, neoangiogenesis, inflammatory cell infiltration, and edema. At least in early stage, KS behaves as a reactive lesion sustained by the action of inflammatory cytokines and growth factors, has a polyclonal nature, and can regress. However, in time it can become monoclonal, especially in the nodular stage, evolving into a true sarcoma, likely in association with the increased expression of antiapoptotic oncogenes. We have recently demonstrated by immunohistochemical analysis that Bcl-2, a proto-oncogene known to prolong cellular viability and to antagonize apoptosis, is highly expressed in spindle cells and vessels of both AIDS-KS and classical KS lesions and that its expression increases with lesion stage. Paclitaxel, a microtubule-stabilizing drug known to inhibit Bcl-2 antiapoptotic activity and to be highly effective in the treatment of certain neoplasms, has recently been found to be active also in patients with advanced HIV-associated KS. In this report we investigated the mechanism(s) of paclitaxel activity in KS. By using a model of experimental KS induced by the inoculation of KS-derived spindle cells in nude mice and primary cultures of KS spindle cells, we found that paclitaxel promotes regression of KS lesions in vivo and that it blocks the growth, migration, and invasion of KS cells in vitro. Furthermore, paclitaxel treatment promoted apoptosis and down-regulated Bcl-2 protein expression in KS cells in vitro and in KS-like lesions in mice. Our results suggest that paclitaxel interferes with KS by down-regulating Bcl-2 antiapoptotic effect.
Bacopa monnieri (L.) Wettest. (Scrophulariaceae) is a well-known medicinal herb. In the Indian system of medicine it is known as Brahmi (Sanskrit) and Indian water hyssop. Methanolic extract of Bacopa monnieri and its isolated constituent Bacoside-A were screened for wound healing activity. Bacoside-A was screened for wound healing activity by excision, incision and dead space wound on Swiss albino rats. Significant wound healing activity was observed in both extract and the Bacoside-A treated groups. The SDS-PAGE caseinolytic zymogram analysis of inhibition of matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) enzyme from the excision wound by Bacoside-A, an isolated constituent, was done with the concentrations 100 and 200 micromg/ml. In Bacoside-A treated groups, epithelialization of the excision wound was faster with a high rate (18.30 +/- 0.01 days) of wound contraction. The tensile strength of the incision wound was increased (538.47 +/- 0.14 g) in the Bacoside-A treated group. In the dead space wound model, the weight of the granuloma was also increased (89.15 +/- 0.08 g). The histological examination of the granuloma tissue of the Bacoside-A treated group showed increased cross-linking of collagen fibers and absence of monocytes. The wound healing activity of Bacoside-A was more effective in various wound models compared to the standard skin ointment Nitrofurazone.
The aim of this study was to investigate for the effects of valpromide on heart rate circadian rhythm in remitted recurrent unipolar and bipolar disorders (DSM-III-R). It consisted of a comparative, randomized, double-blind, repeated cross-over study of valpromide versus placebo over four four-week periods. The primary evaluation criteria was heart rate (HR). Secondary criteria comprised motor activity (MA) and the Bech and Rafaelsen mania assessment scale, Horne and Ostberg questionnaire, Montgomery and Asberg depression rating scale, Spiegel questionnaire, a sleep diary, and Clinical Global Impression. Fifteen patients were included, giving 60 one-month periods (30 valpromide periods and 30 placebo periods). Cosinor analysis of HR and MA data revealed a difference in amplitude (P = 0.037, analysis of variance, one-tailed test). The clinical sleep study shows that the duration of sleep was greater with valpromide than with placebo (P = 0.007, one-tailed test). Similarly, evaluation of the quality of sleep by patients themselves showed valpromide to be superior to placebo (P = 0.045, one-tailed test). The results of analysis of the Spiegel questionnaire also confirm the superiority of valpromide over placebo. Safety and compliance were comparable for the active drug and the placebo. In conclusion, the relatively small sample size requires cautious interpretation of this study. Nevertheless, these initial results show a definite effect of valpromide on a biological rhythm that leads one to suppose that it may be effective through a 'synchronizing' effect.
The incidence of depression in acne patients using isotretinoin was assessed in 100 patients with moderate and nodulocystic acne. All patients received 0.75-1.00 mg/kg/day of isotretinoin for 20-28 weeks after acne was assessed. All patients' acne lesions were improved at the end of the treatment period. Psychological state was evaluated at baseline, at Month 3, and Month 6 by a psychiatrist using a Turkish version of the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale. Only one patient's score increased to the clinical level of depression at Month 3 of treatment and declined to subclinical levels at Month 6. Although Hamilton scores increased at Month 3 over baseline scores, except for one patient, others' scores remained below the subclinical level for depression. At the end of Month 6, the mean score decreased below that at Month 3. These changes in means might be related to the onset of clinical effect of isotretinoin.
Persistence of liver injury alters the internal milieu, promotes deregulation of inflammatory factors, and leads to dysplastic lesions like fibrosis, cirrhosis to hepatocellular carcinoma. Our previous study revealed that leishmanial lipid (pLLD) exerts potential anti-inflammatory activity in sepsis associated hepatic injury. We now show that pLLD gives protection against chemical induced hepatotoxicity in murine system. The beneficial effect of treatment with pLLD on such hepatic injury in mice was analyzed using different assays including ELISA, FACS, western blot and immunohistochemical analysis. pLLD significantly suppressed serum enzymes and rectified the histopathological alteration to induce the antioxidant level in CCl4 intoxicated liver. Levels of several growth factors including TGF-β, HGF, and EGF were significantly improved in serum and hepatic tissue with consequent reduction of caspase activities and expressions of Bad, Bax, p53, and NF-κBp65. Moreover, pLLD modulated inflammatory responses by decreasing the production of several cytokines and chemokines, thus preventing the infiltration of immune cells to the damaged area. It accelerated the repair process in liver damage with modulation of signalling cascade via alteration of apoptotic factors. Our experimental approaches suggest that pLLD effectively prevents liver injury mainly through down regulation of oxidative stress and inflammatory response towards anti-apoptotic changes.
Dicationic carbazoles have been found to be highly active against a rat model of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP). Unfortunately, amidoxime derivatives, designed as prodrugs, were inactive against PCP even though the corresponding amidines were highly active. In the present work, a series of 2,8- and 3,7-bis cationic dibenzothiophenes was synthesized and assayed for anti-PCP activity. Three of the compounds proved to be more potent and less toxic than a standard anti-PCP drug (pentamidine) when given intravenously. Unlike the carbazoles, a dibenzothiophene amidoxime prodrug given orally reduced the parasite load by more than 99%. While no quantitative correlation was seen between anti-PCP activity and DNA binding, a strong level of DNA binding was found to be necessary for antimicrobial activity.
We report a case of 2 months old female (born to a cocaine abuser mother) having respiratory dysfunction attributed to pneumonia. Autopsy, following a sudden, unexpected death, revealed a double aortic arch which was compressing the trachea and the esophagus. Health care professionals should conduct a detailed cardiac assessment on all cocaine-exposed infants at the time of birth and during infancy. Double aortic arch should be considered as a possible complication of intrauterine cocaine exposure and may present as sudden death.
This study was designed to assess whether exposure to the estrogenic pesticide methoxychlor (MXC) during pregnancy would affect reproductive parameters not only in female offspring exposed prenatally, but also in those of a subsequent litter. Mice were exposed via oral gavage to 7.5, 5.0, or 2.5 mg technical grade MXC (50%) or 0.025 mg estradiol-17 beta (E-17 beta) from days 6 to 15 of pregnancy. Following delivery, female offspring (F1a) were cross-fostered and sacrificed at 8 weeks of age. Mothers exposed during their first pregnancy were allowed to mate again and their second set of offspring (F1b) were similarly evaluated to detect any latent effects from the initial exposure. Mice exposed to 7.5 mg MXC were unable to carry their litters to term. Results revealed a significant increase in the length of gestation of mice exposed to both E-17 beta and 5.0 mg MXC. A larger percentage of atretic follicles appeared in the ovaries of F1a females exposed prenatally to 5.0 mg MXC when compared to controls. Females from the F1b litter displayed a significant advance in time of vaginal opening, an apparent residual effect of MXC from a mother exposed during a previous pregnancy.
Abnormalities in fatty acid (FA) metabolism underlie the development of insulin resistance and alterations in glucose metabolism, features characteristic of the metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes that can result in an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. We present pharmacodynamic effects of AZ 242, a novel peroxisome proliferator activated receptor (PPAR)alpha/gamma agonist. AZ 242 dose-dependently reduced the hypertriglyceridemia, hyperinsulinemia, and hyperglycemia of ob/ob diabetic mice. Euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp studies showed that treatment with AZ 242 (1 micromol/kg/d) restored insulin sensitivity of obese Zucker rats and decreased insulin secretion. In vitro, in reporter gene assays, AZ 242 activated human PPARalpha and PPARgamma with EC(50) in the micro molar range. It also induced differentiation in 3T3-L1 cells, an established PPARgamma effect, and caused up-regulation of liver fatty acid binding protein in HepG-2 cells, a PPARalpha-mediated effect. PPARalpha-mediated effects of AZ 242 in vivo were documented by induction of hepatic cytochrome P 450-4A in mice. The results indicate that the dual PPARalpha/gamma agonism of AZ 242 reduces insulin resistance and has beneficial effects on FA and glucose metabolism. This effect profile could provide a suitable therapeutic approach to the treatment of type 2 diabetes, metabolic syndrome, and associated vascular risk factors.
The antiviral activity versus flaviviruses of artemisinin, a safe drug obtained from Artemisia annua and commonly used to treat malaria, has been investigated using as an IN VITRO model bovine epithelial cells from embryonic trachea (EBTr) infected with the cytopathic strain Oregon C24V, of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), which is a member of the Flaviviridae family. Antiviral activity was estimated by the degree of protection against the cytopathic effect of BVDV on host cells and by the reduction in BVDV-RNA release to the culture medium. To induce an intermediate cytopathic effect in non-treated cells, EBTr cells were first exposed to BVDV for 48 h and then incubated with virus-free medium for 72 h. Ribavirin and artemisinin (up to 100 microM) induced no toxicity in host cells, whereas a slight degree of toxicity was observed for IFN-alpha at concentrations above 10 U/mL up to 100 U/mL. Treatment of infected cells with IFN-alpha, ribavirin and artemisinin markedly reduced BVDV-induced cell death. A combination of these drugs resulted in an additive protective effect. These drugs induced a significant reduction in the production/release of BVDV virions by infected EBTr cells; there was also an additive effect when combinations of them were assayed. These results suggest a potential usefulness of artemisinin in combination with current pharmacological therapy for the treatment of human and veterinary infections by flaviviruses.
