Recent data have shown the protective effect of thiol groups on the progression of adriamycin-induced experimental nephropathy, in which reactive oxygen metabolites have been postulated to play an important role. To gain greater insight in the role of glutathione (GSH) in adriamycin-induced nephrosis, we studied changes in reduced GSH level and its associated enzymes in kidney tissue of rats undergoing chronic renal failure produced by i.v. infections of adriamycin (2 x 2 mg/kg b.w.). Kidney damage was characterized by increases in relative kidney weight and BUN levels. The results obtained revealed a 15% drop in renal GSH level in adriamycin-treated animals associated by a similar decrease in the gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase activity. The activities of kidney glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione peroxiase (GSH-Px) which are critical constituents of GSH-redox cycle, were significantly decreased (23 an 26%, respectively) in response to adriamycin treatment. Rat kidney glutathione-S transferase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activities were not affected in adriamycin induced nephrosis. We propose that the impairment of renal antioxidant defense, characterized by combined drop in GSH, GR and GSH-Px levels, could permit enhanced free radical induced kidney damage in adriamycin-induced nephropathy.
The effects of captopril on morphologic changes and clinical course of adriamycin (ADR) nephropathy in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were examined. After ADR infections rats were divided into two groups: ADR-C group (n = 20) given captopril (60 mg/kg per day) and ADR group (n = 19) receiving no antihypertensive treatment. SHR were examined every 6 weeks. Captopril normalized systemic blood pressure, but failed to prevent proteinuria. It slowed down renal function deterioration in the early stage of ADR nephropathy (weeks 6 and 12), but at the end of the study both groups had the same degree of renal failure irrespectively of whether blood pressure was well controlled with captopril or hypertension persisted. Captopril slowed down mesangial expansion in the early stages of ADR nephropathy, but at the end of the study there was no statistically significant difference between these two groups. Treatment with captopril also reduced the development of glomerular sclerosis.
FK506-induced polyneuropathies are rarely encountered. We report a case of axonal sensorimotor polyneuropathy in a lung transplant recipient that occurred during a FK506 overdosage. Onset was acute in the form of severe areflexic tetraparesis and resolution was observed after reduction of dosage. Because of increasing use of FK506 in solid organ transplantation, caution should be paid with FK506 dosage monitoring in cases of peripheral nervous system symptoms.
Purpose. The aim of this study was to assess the safety and tolerability of motesanib (an orally administered small-molecule antagonist of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1, 2, and 3, platelet-derived growth factor receptor, and Kit) when administered in combination with panitumumab, gemcitabine, and cisplatin. Methods. This was an open-label, multicenter phase 1b study in patients with advanced solid tumors with an ECOG performance status ≤1 and for whom a gemcitabine/cisplatin regimen was indicated. Patients received motesanib (0 mg [control], 50 mg once daily [QD], 75 mg QD, 100 mg QD, 125 mg QD, or 75 mg twice daily [BID]) with panitumumab (9 mg/kg), gemcitabine (1250 mg/m(2)) and cisplatin (75 mg/m(2)) in 21-day cycles. The primary endpoint was the incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs). Results. Forty-one patients were enrolled and received treatment (including 8 control patients). One of eight patients in the 50 mg QD cohort and 5/11 patients in the 125 mg QD cohort experienced DLTs. The maximum tolerated dose was established as 100 mg QD. Among patients who received motesanib (n = 33), 29 had motesanib-related adverse events. Fourteen patients had serious motesanib-related events. Ten patients had motesanib-related venous thromboembolic events and three had motesanib-related arterial thromboembolic events, two of which were considered serious. One patient had a complete response and nine had partial responses as their best objective response. Conclusions. The combination of motesanib, panitumumab, and gemcitabine/cisplatin could not be administered consistently and, at the described doses and schedule, may be intolerable. However, encouraging antitumor activity was noted in some cases.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is increased in prevalence in patients with arterial hypertension. Whether upregulation of heme oxygenase (HO) expression could improve penile erection has been unknown.
To correlate altered expression profiles of HO-1 and soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) in penile tissues with low intracavernosal pressure (ICP) in adult spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR); and to investigate therapeutic effect of hemin-induced upregulation of HO-1 in penile tissues on ED developed in adult SHR.
Intracavernosal pressure changes after electrical stimulation were monitored in adult SHR and age-matched normotensive Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats after chronic administration of either hemin or hydralazine. Expression levels of HO-1, HO-2, sGC, and phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) were examined with Western blot.
Frequency-dependent ICP changes were reduced in adult SHR. Three weeks after hemin treatment, high blood pressure of SHR was normalized and ICP responses to electrical stimulations in SHR were significantly increased to the level of normotensive rats. Hydralazine-treated SHR had normalized blood pressure but unaltered low ICP response. Expression of HO-1 and sGC was upregulated and that of PDE5 downregulated in hemin-treated, but not hydralazine-treated, SHR.
Decreased erectile responses in adult SHR can be improved through chronic hemin treatment. Prolonged upregulation of HO-1 and sGC as well as lowered expression of PDE5 may at least partially explain the effect of hemin treatment on ICP. Upregulation of HO-1 may represent a novel therapeutic approach to treat ED.
New fluoroquinolones have generally been well tolerated. In a double-blind evaluation of oral fleroxacin, using 400, 600, or 800 mg once daily for 7 days in an ambulatory setting for treatment of uncomplicated genital infections, we encountered unexpectedly high rates of adverse reactions. The objective of this analysis was to determine whether any factors in addition to dose could be found to account for our observations. Adverse reactions developed in 66 (84%) of 79 individuals, and severe reactions arose in 38 (48%). Most frequent were central nervous system reactions (70%), with insomnia being especially frequent (49%); gastrointestinal reactions (39%) and photosensitivity reactions (10%) were also common. Development of any reaction (central nervous system reactions, insomnia, and severe intestinal reactions) was dose related. Development of photosensitivity reactions correlated with an outdoor occupation. No other factors, including usual daily caffeine use, correlated with the development of adverse reactions. In our study, fleroxacin taken as a single daily 600- or 800-mg dose was associated with an unacceptably high rate of adverse reactions. Other studies are required to determine whether this problem is unique to fleroxacin or will occur with higher doses of other fluoroquinolones possessing similar chemical modifications and/or good tissue penetration and very long half-lives.
Gallic acid (GA) induces apoptosis in various cancer cell lines. In this study, we investigated the apoptotic activity induced by GA on chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) cell line-K562 and the underlying mechanism. GA reduced the viability of K562 cells in a dose and time dependent manner. GA led to G0/G1 phase arrest in K562 cells by promoting p21 and p27 and inhibiting the levels of cyclin D and cyclin E. Further studies indicated apoptosis with impaired mitochondrial function as a result of deranged Bcl-2/Bax ratio, leakage of cytochrome c and PARP cleavage along with DNA fragmentation and by up-regulating the expression of caspase-3. GA also activated the protein expressions of fatty acid synthase ligand and caspase-8. GA is more effective in imatinib resistant-K562 (IR-K562) cells (IC50 4 μM) than on K562 cells (IC50 33 μM). GA inhibited cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in K562 as well as IR-K562 cells appears to be COX-2 involved in the suppression of growth. Interestingly, GA also inhibited BCR/ABL tyrosine kinase and NF-κB. In conclusion, GA induced apoptosis in K562 cells involves death receptor and mitochondrial-mediated pathways by inhibiting BCR/ABL kinase, NF-κB activity and COX-2.
A functional single nucleotide polymorphism in the 5 genomic region of CD14 (CD14/-159) is one of the most widely tested genetic variations in relation to asthma and associated traits. The results of these studies have shown a remarkable, statistically significant heterogeneity, with some studies indicating the T-allele as a risk factor, others the C-allele, and others finding no association. Recent studies in which exposure to house-dust endotoxin or to domestic sources of microbial exposure were assessed concomitantly with CD14/-159 have shown a consistent, replicable gene-environment interaction. Specifically, results suggest that the C-allele is a risk factor for allergic phenotypes at low levels of exposure, whereas the T-allele is a risk factor at high levels of exposure. This finding seems to be explained by a genetically-determined heterogeneity for the protective effect of microbial exposure on allergic phenotypes, with homozygotes for the C-allele showing a much stronger negative association between exposure and allergic outcomes than carries of the other two genotypes. These results suggest that the often encountered, limited replicability of genetic associations may, at least in part, be due to complex interactions between genes and environment in determining asthma-related outcomes.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the common neurodegenerative diseases. Increase of labile copper pool plays an important role in the pathogenesis of AD. Nrf2(NF-E2-related factor-2)-ARE (antioxidant response element) signaling is an important intracellular manner to defend against oxidative stress. In this study, we used SH-SY5Y cells as a model of neuron to test the effect of chitooligosaccharides (COSs) on Cu(2+)-induced oxidative damage. SH-SY5Y cells were treated with different concentrations of COSs (100-800 mg/L) before incubated with Cu(2+). Cell viability and cell damage and apoptosis were assessed. Both extracellular H(2)O(2) and intracellular ROS were measured and the relative levels of Nrf2, phosphorylated Nrf2, and HO-1 were analyzed by Western blotting, and further HO-1 mRNA was relatively quantified by real-time quantitative PCR. The results indicated that Cu(2+)-induced decrease of cell viability and increase of LDH release. In cell-free solution, COSs alone or with Cu(2+) cannot scavenge O(2)(-); however, COSs downregulate the levels of cellular oxidative stress and activated Caspase-3 induced by Cu(2+). Further, the levels of pSer40-Nrf2 protein and both the transcription and the translation of HO-1 gene are dramatically increased in COSs-protective group compared with Cu(2+) damage group. Therefore, these results indicate that Nrf2 activation might be involved in the protection of COSs against Cu(2+)-induced cellular oxidative damage. COSs contribute to the attenuation of oxidative damage and could be used as a nutritional agent for AD treatment.
Male Wistar rats with streptozotocin induced diabetes were treated every third day with 10 mg/kg (13 rats) of cyclosporine A (CyA) for 20 weeks. At sacrifice, 7 of 13 rats (53.8%) demonstrated renal tumors. By contrast, only 2 of 16 streptozotocin diabetic rats (12.5%) without CyA demonstrated renal tumors. No tumors were noted in 10 non-diabetic control rats. These studies suggest that CyA potentiates renal tumorigenicity in streptozotocin diabetic rats.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of ligand-dependent transcription factors related to retinoid, steroid, and thyroid hormone receptors. The thiazolidinedione rosiglitazone is a PPARgamma ligand that modulates the transcription of target genes. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of rosiglitazone on the inflammatory response in mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA).
CIA was induced in DBA/1J mice by an intradermal injection of 100 microl of an emulsion of bovine type II collagen (CII; 100 microg) in Freund's complete adjuvant (CFA) at the base of the tail. On day 21, a second injection of CII in CFA was administered. Rosiglitazone (10 mg/kg/day) or vehicle (10% DMSO) was administered beginning on day 25 (arthritis onset) until day 35. Clinical, radiographic, histopathologic, and laboratory assessments were performed.
Mice immunized with CII in CFA developed erosive arthritis of the hind paws. Macroscopic evidence of CIA first appeared as periarticular erythema and edema of the hind paws. The incidence of CIA was 100% by day 27 in the CII-challenged mice, and the severity progressed over the 35-day study period. Radiographic evaluation revealed focal resorption of bone. Histopathologic features of CIA included erosion of cartilage at the joint margins. Rosiglitazone treatment ameliorated the clinical signs on days 26-35 and improved the histologic findings in the joint and paw. The degree of oxidative and nitrosative damage was significantly reduced in rosiglitazone-treated mice, as indicated by elevation of malondialdehyde levels, formation of nitrotyrosine, and activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Plasma levels of the proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1beta, and interleukin-6 were also significantly reduced by rosiglitazone treatment.
These data demonstrate that rosiglitazone exerts an antiinflammatory effect on chronic inflammation and is able to ameliorate the tissue damage associated with CIA.
Overexpression of the p185/HER2 protein is seen in 20%-25% of primary breast cancers and is associated with poor prognosis. Recent phase II and III clinical trials demonstrate that trastuzumab is active against breast tumors, both as a single agent and in combination with chemotherapy. In patients with HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer, use of trastuzumab in combination with chemotherapy is associated with a 20% reduction in relative risk of death and an increase in median survival from 20.3 to 25.1 months compared to chemotherapy alone. Side effects include fever and chills and an unexpected increase in doxorubicin/trastuzumab-associated cardiomyopathy. Clinical development is now focused on trastuzumab in combination with chemotherapy regimens that do not contain an anthracycline. Trastuzumab in combination with docetaxel is synergistic in vitro. Data from ongoing clinical trials are consistent with this finding. Preliminary data from 3 phase II studies suggest a 44%-63% response rate when the combination is used first or second line in HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer. The combination of docetaxel with trastuzumab is well tolerated and has not been associated with significant cardiotoxicity. Given in vitro evidence that platinum salts act synergistically with trastuzumab and docetaxel, and phase II data suggesting clinical efficacy and good tolerability, the combination of platinum salt plus trastuzumab and docetaxel is now being assessed in adjuvant trials
Danazol, an inhibitor of pituitary gonadotropin, has been proposed in the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). We report the case of a female patient with SLE in whom a hepatocellular carcinoma was discovered after 4 years of treatment with danazol. Except for 3 days of hypochondrium pain, there were neither clinical signs of liver tumor nor biological abnormalities. An ultrasonography showed 2 tumors of the liver. At histological examination after surgery, one of the tumors was found to be a benign adenoma, while the other was a well differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. When longterm danazol therapy is required, ultrasonography may be useful for early tumor detection.
Polymorphism at the pi class glutathione-S-transferase locus (GSTP1) is associated with allergen-induced asthma and related phenotypes.
We sought to determine whether GSTP1 polymorphism influences susceptibility to asthma induced by toluene diisocyanate (TDI).
The role of GSTP1 was assessed in 131 workers exposed to TDI, 92 with TDI-induced asthma and 39 asymptomatic subjects. The phenotype of the disease was characterized by using detailed clinical history, lung volumes, airway responsiveness to methacholine, and airway responsiveness to TDI. GST genotypes were determined by using PCR-based assays.
In patients exposed to TDI for 10 or more years, the frequency of the GSTP1 Val/Val genotype was lower in subjects who had asthma (odds ratio, 0.23; 95% confidence interval, 0.05-1.13; P =.074). Similarly, the frequency of this genotype was significantly lower in subjects with evidence of moderate-to-severe airway hyperresponsiveness to methacholine compared with the frequency in subjects with normal or mild hyperresponsiveness (P =.033).
These data suggest that homozygosity for the GSTP1*Val allele confers protection against TDI-induced asthma and airway hyperresponsiveness. This view is supported by the finding that the protective effect increases in proportion to the duration of exposure to TDI.
We have investigated the role of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in myocardial infarction (MI) and ischaemia in rabbits subjected to isoprenaline (ISP) a potent beta-adrenergic agonist. The acute phases of MI and repair mimicked those which occurred in humans. MI after induction with ISP was monitored by following increases seen in the levels of serum enzymes, Troponin I and Creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) in rabbits before and after ISP induced MI. Electrocardiographic (ECG) changes showed typical ST elevation and q-wave development. Histochemical studies of the rabbit heart on 2nd day after ISP injection showed changes of coagulation necrosis. Day 4 total coagulation with the loss of nuclear and striation associated with heavy interstitial infiltrate of neutrophils was found. Day 8 after infarction showed collagen deposition with capillary channels in between the remaining islands of myocytes in the infarcted area on the 16th day scarring was complete. Coronary perfusion rates (CPR) of the infarcted and nimesulide (a COX-2 inhibitor) treated rabbits displayed significant improvement on each corresponding day after infarction as compared to the infarcted and saline treated rabbits (P<0.01). These results suggest that nimesulide, a COX-2 inhibitor exhibit cardioprotective effects in MI.
Fifty-six patients with cardiac disease participated in a study to determine the effect of site placement on patient reports of headache and flushing after topical nitroglycerin ointment placement. Nitroglycerin was placed on the upper arm, chest, and pelvis in random order. Approximately 30 minutes after application, patients were asked to evaluate their headache and flushing using a visual analogue scale. No significant difference in the severity of side effects was found when the three sites were compared by multivariate analysis of variance with repeated measures. The clinical practice of instructing patients to vary the site placement of nitroglycerin ointment to avoid side effects was not supported.
Ampicillin-cefotaxime was tested as initial therapy of presumptive bacterial meningitis in 55 children greater than or equal to 2 months of age at our hospital. During the first year of this ongoing trial, 11 patients, 10 whose CSF yielded ampicillin-resistant Haemophilus influenzae type b (MIC greater than 16 mg/l, beta-lactamase +) and one, indole-negative proteus (MIC 4 mg/l), were begun on ampicillin-cefotaxime and then continued on cefotaxime alone. All did well clinically except one who convulsed briefly but recovered without sequelae. The cefotaxime MICs/MBCs of the beta-lactamase-positive H. influenzae isolates (less than or equal to 0.007 to 0.03/less than or equal to 0.007 to 0.12) and the proteus isolate (0.03/0.12) were significantly lower than chloramphenicol MICs/MBCs (0.25 to 1.0/0.5 to 1.0 and 8/greater than 16). We followed 44 other children with meningitis due to ampicillin-sensitive organisms who were treated with ampicillin or penicillin after 1 or 2 days of ampicillin-cefotaxime. Aetiological agents included ampicillin-sensitive H. influenzae (25), pneumococci (9), meningococci (8), Strept. MG (1) and Listeria monocytogenes (1). 40/44 recovered uneventfully. There were 4 neurological complications: the streptococcal meningitis sustained a brain abscess and the three others were motor incoordination (sensitive haemophilus), hearing loss and subdural effusion (2 pneumococci). There were no deaths. 18/48 children managed initially with ampicillin-chloramphenicol during the same 12-month period one year earlier had significant neurological complications and/or sequelae and there was one death; aetiological agents included sensitive H. influenzae (30), pneumococci (9), ampicillin-resistant haemophilus (5), meningococci (3) and pneumococci plus strept. MG (1). The two groups were comparable except for the number of resistant haemophilus and meningococcal strains and underlying disease more frequent in the ampicillin-cefotaxime group. A significant reduction of neurological morbidity (5/55 or 9.1% vs. 18/48 or 37.5%:P less than 0.001) was therefore associated with the ampicillin-cefotaxime schedule in the initial treatment of proven bacterial meningitis. A prolonged hospitalization (greater than 15 days) was less frequent (P less than 0.01) in the ampicillin-cefotaxime group (3/55 or 5.5% vs. 13/48 or 27.1%). The results of the trial to date are considered to be very promising.
The aim was to substantiate the putative significance of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) (insertion/deletion) I/D polymorphism on prostate cancer risk, BTPSA-A TPSA (before treatment-after treatment prostate-specific antigen) levels and tumor development.
48 prostate cancer patients and 51 healthy volunteers were included. The ACE I/D genotypes were determined by PCR (polymerase chain reaction) and RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphism) techniques.
The DD genotype may have detrimental and the II genotype may have protective effect on prostate cancer (p = 0.03). The highest before treatment PSA (BTPSA) values were found in the patient group having the DD genotype (p = 0.017). PSA-AT levels were higher in homozygous mutant DD than homozygous II and the decrease in PSA-AT level was found to be statistically significant in each genotype (p = 0.000). Patients with the D allele showed a higher prevalence of late stage prostate carcinoma when compared to the patients with II genotype (p = 0.022) and the detrimental effects of the D allele, both in lymph node metastases and distant metastasis were observed.
The risk of prostate cancer development, the PSA level and tumor metastasis may be associated with genetic variation in the ACE I/D genotypes which may be used as an important biomarker for further studies.
Some patients with irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D) have intestinal hyperpermeability, which contributes to their diarrhea and abdominal pain. MicroRNA 29 (MIR29) regulates intestinal permeability in patients with IBS-D. We investigated and searched for targets of MIR29 and investigated the effects of disrupting Mir29 in mice.
We investigated expression MIR29A and B in intestinal biopsies collected during endoscopy from patients with IBS (n = 183) and without IBS (controls) (n = 36). Levels were correlated with disease phenotype. We also generated and studied Mir29(-/-) mice, in which expression of Mir29a and b, but not c, is lost. Colitis was induced by administration of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; intestinal tissues were collected and permeability was assessed. Microarray analysis was performed using tissues from Mir29(-/-) mice. Changes in levels of target genes were measured in human colonic epithelial cells and small intestinal epithelial cells after knockdown of MIR29 with anti-MIRs.
Intestinal tissues from patients with IBS-D (but not IBS with constipation or controls) had increased levels of MIR29A and B, but reduced levels of Claudin-1 (CLDN1) and nuclear factor-κB-repressing factor (NKRF). Induction of colitis and water avoidance stress increased levels of Mir29a and Mir29b and intestinal permeability in wild-type mice; these increased intestinal permeability in colons of far fewer Mir29(-/-) mice. In microarray and knockdown experiments, MIR29A and B were found to reduce levels of NKRF and CLDN1 messenger RNA, and alter levels of other messenger RNAs that regulate intestinal permeability.
Based on experiments in knockout mice and analyses of intestinal tissue samples from patients with IBS-D, MIR29 targets and reduces expression of CLDN1 and NKRF to increase intestinal permeability. Strategies to block MIR29 might be developed to restore intestinal permeability in patients with IBS-D.
Studies were undertaken in mice and rats on the neurotoxic effects of methamphetamine on dopaminergic and 5-hydroxytryptaminergic neurones in the brain and the neuroprotective action of chlormethiazole. In initial studies, mice were injected with methamphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) at 2 hr intervals, to a total of 4 times. This procedure produced a 66% loss of striatal dopamine and a 50% loss of tyrosine hydroxylase activity 3 days later. Chlormethiazole (50 mg/kg, i.p.), given 15 min before each dose of methamphetamine, totally prevented the methamphetamine-induced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase activity and partly prevented the loss of dopamine. Phencyclidine (20 mg/kg, i.p.), given in place of chlormethiazole, also prevented the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase. Administration to rats of 4 doses of methamphetamine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) at 3 hr intervals resulted in a 75% loss of striatal dopamine 3 days later and a similar loss of 5-HT and 5-HIAA in cortex and hippocampus. Chlormethiazole (50 mg/kg, i.p.), given 15 min before each injection of methamphetamine, protected against the loss of dopamine and indoleamine content, in the respective regions. Pentobarbital (25 mg/kg, i.p.) also provided substantial protection but diazepam (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) was without effect. Confirming earlier studies, dizocilpine (1 mg/kg) also provided substantial protection against the methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. Preliminary data indicated that chlormethiazole was not neuroprotective because of a hypothermic action. These data therefore demonstrate that chlormethiazole is an effective neuroprotective agent against methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity and extend the evidence for the possible value of this drug in preventing neurodegeneration.
Drug administration may be responsible for side effects including hemolytic anemia. The list of drugs which can be associated with hemolysis is long, but real responsibility has only been established for about 30 different classes of drugs. Methyldopa and antibiotics were first identified as inducers of auto-immune hemolytic anemia. More recently, diclofenac, second and third generation cephalosporins were recognized as drugs which can produce immune hemolytic anemia. Fludarabine treatment was frequently associated to hemolytic anemia in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Hemolytic-uremic syndrome can be provoked by different drugs including immunodulators but the mechanism provoking hemolysis remains unclear.
To investigate the effects of isoflurane-induced hypotension on the hemodynamics and the changes of plasma beta 2 microglobulins and creatine during cerebral aneurysm operation.
Thirty-two cerebral anuerysm patients were operated under general anesthesia. Anesthesia was induced with droperidol, fentayl, sodium pentothal and pavolon intravenously. After tracheal intubation, the isoflurane was inhalated to maintain anesthesia. The concentration of isoflurane was elevated to reduce MAP by 30%-40% during dissection and occlusion of tumor and the level maintained for 30-45 min. Hemodynamic values were measured with Swan-Ganz technique. The hemodynamic parameters(CO, CI, SV, SI, SVR, LVSWI, RVSWI, CVP, CPP, RPP and HR) which were measured with Swan-Ganz technique before, during and after isoflurane-induced hypotension were compared. Blood samples were drawn in given time intervals to determine the concentration of plasma beta 2 Microglobulins(beta 2 MG) by radioimmunoassay. Changes in hemodynamics and the plasma beta 2 MG and creatinine (Cr) after deliberate hypotension of isoflurane were recorded at the same time.
No significant changes of CO, CI, SV, SI, RVSWI, CVP, HR and ECG tracing were observed during hypotension (P > 0.05). SVR, PVR, LVSWI, Cpp and Rpp were significantly decreased during hypotension (P < 0.05), but the risk of myocardial ischemia and deoxygenation was not increased. No effect was found on the plasma beta 2 MG and Cr during isoflurane-induced hypotension in patients undergoing cerebral aneurysm cling operation.
Hypotension induced by isoflurane during cerebral aneurysm operation is able to keep a good balance of myocardial oxygen delivery and consumption, and keep a good myocardial function.
Metallothionein (MT) has been shown to be an effective protector against DOX-induced cardiomyopathy, however the involved precise mechanisms are still unknown. The present study was undertaken to clarify whether the inhibition of superoxide generation and related nitrosative damage were involved in the metallothionein attenuation of DOX-induced cardiac injury. MT-I/II null (MT-/-) mice and corresponding wild-type mice (MT+/+) were pretreated with either saline or zinc (300 micromol/kg, s.c., once a day for 2 days) prior to a single dose of DOX (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or equal volume of saline. Animals were sacrificed on the 4th day after DOX administration and samples were collected for further analyses. DOX caused remarkable cardiac damage in both MT+/+ and MT-/- mice as demonstrated by biochemical and histopathological alterations. Zinc pretreatment significantly increased the cardiac MT levels and therefore inhibited the cardiac toxic effects of DOX only in MT+/+ mice, but not in MT-/- mice. Furthermore, elevated formation of superoxide and peroxynitrite were obviously observed after DOX treatment, while these elevation were prevented by MT induction by zinc in MT+/+ mice, but not in MT-/- mice. These findings suggest that metallothionein induction by zinc exhibits protective effects on the cardiac toxicology of DOX, which might be mediated through the prevention of superoxide generation and related nitrosative impairment.
Airway obstruction induced by physical exercise is a common feature in asthma, and conventional treatments do not offer optimal protection. There is thus a need for additional therapies for optimal control of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB).
The influence of treatment with the antihistamine loratadine and the antileukotriene zafirlukast alone and in combination on EIB was investigated. This combination has previously shown beneficial additive effects in allergen-induced bronchoconstriction.
In a double-blind cross-over study loratadine (10 mg twice daily) and zafirlukast (80 mg twice daily) were evaluated alone and in combination in 16 nonsmoking patients with mild asthma, previously documented EIB, and airways hyperresponsiveness to histamine.
The mean +/- SE maximum decrease in FEV1 after a standardized exercise provocation was 21.6% +/- 3% after placebo, 22.8% +/- 3% after loratadine, 13.9% +/- 2% after zafirlukast (P <.05 vs placebo), and 10.3% +/- 2% after the combination of loratadine and zafirlukast (P <.05 vs placebo). Expressed as the area under the FEV1 percentage change versus time curve, the mean protection produced by zafirlukast and the combination of zafirlukast and loratadine was 57% and 65%, respectively, whereas loratadine alone had no significant protective effect. There was also no significant difference between the effect of zafirlukast alone or in combination with loratadine.
The study confirmed the beneficial effect of a leukotriene receptor antagonist in EIB but failed to obtain evidence that H1-receptor antagonism alone or together with the cysteinyl-leukotriene 1 receptor antagonist zafirlukast offers a protective effect.
