Levodopa, the gold standard for Parkinson's disease treatment, is associated with debilitating abnormal involuntary movements or dyskinesias, for which few treatments are currently available. Studies have implicated numerous neurotransmitters in the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias. However, the cholinergic system has received little attention despite an extensive overlap between dopaminergic terminals and cholinergic interneurons in the striatum and the well-known ability of nicotine to stimulate striatal dopamine release. Our objective, therefore, was to determine whether nicotine treatment reduced levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
The effect of nicotine (provided in the drinking water) was determined on dyskinesias induced by levodopa (5 mg/kg twice daily by oral gavage) in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys.
Nicotine pretreatment reduced peak and total levodopa-induced dyskinesias in levodopa-naive monkeys over an 8-week period, with a decrease in total dyskinesias of about 50%. A crossover study was then done in which levodopa-treated monkeys originally receiving vehicle were administered nicotine, whereas the levodopa-treated animals initially receiving nicotine were placed on vehicle. Nicotine treatment to levodopa-primed monkeys led to an approximately 35% reduction in total dyskinesias that lasted for at least 8 weeks, at which time the study was ended. In contrast, a significant increase in levodopa-induced dyskinesias was observed in the group of animals that had previously received nicotine and were then switched to vehicle. Nicotine treatment did not appear to affect the antiparkinsonian action of levodopa.
These data suggest that nicotine or selective nicotinic agonists may represent a useful treatment strategy to reduce levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
Heparan sulphate-associated anionic sites in the glomerular basement membrane were studied in rats 8 months after induction of diabetes by streptozotocin and in age- adn sex-matched control rats, employing the cationic dye cuprolinic blue. Morphometric analysis at the ultrastructural level was performed using a computerized image processor. The heparan sulphate specificity of the cuprolinic blue staining was demonstrated by glycosaminoglycan-degrading enzymes, showing that pretreatment of the sections with heparitinase abolished all staining, whereas chondroitinase ABC had no effect. The majority of anionic sites (74% in diabetic and 81% in control rats) were found within the lamina rara externa of the glomerular basement membrane. A minority of anionic sites were scattered throughout the lamina densa and lamina rara interna, and were significantly smaller than those in the lamina rara externa of the glomerular basement membrane (p<0.001 and p<0.01 for diabetic and control rats, respectively). Diabetic rats progressively developed albuminuria reaching 40.3 (32.2-62.0) mg/24 h after 8 months in contrast to the control animals (0.8 (0.2-0.9) mg/24 h, p<0.002). At the same time, the number of heparan sulphate anionic sites and the total anionic site surface (number of anionic sites x mean anionic site surface) in the lamina rara externa of the glomerular basement membrane was reduced by 19% (p<0.021) and by 26% (p<0.02), respectively. Number and total anionic site surface in the remaining part of the glomerular basement membrane (lamina densa and lamina rara interna) were not significantly changed. We conclude that in streptozotocin-diabetic rats with an increased urinary albumin excretion, a reduced heparan sulphate charge barrier/density is found at the lamina rara externa of the glomerular basement membrane.
Resveratrol has been shown to attenuate reactive oxygen species formation and protect against ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. However, the effects of resveratrol against subacute intestinal I/R injury are not clearly elucidated. Therefore, this study was designed to investigate the effects and possible protective mechanisms of resveratrol on subacute intestinal I/R injury in mice.
BALB/c mice were subjected to 1 h ischemia by occluding the superior mesenteric artery and 24 h reperfusion. Histologic injury; myeloperoxidase, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase activity; malondialdehyde level; inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), Ac-NF-κBp65, and sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) expression; NF-κB translocation; and nitric oxide (NO) production were examined in treated with or without resveratrol in the absence or presence of pharmacologic inhibitors.
Resveratrol significantly ameliorated subacute intestinal I/R injury accompanied with the decrease of NO production as well as iNOS expression. In addition, resveratrol obviously upregulated the expression of SIRT1 and inhibited the activity of NF-κB. After application of iNOS inhibitor S-methylisothiourea and NF-κB inhibitor pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, the protective effect of resveratrol was significantly augmented by attenuating iNOS and NO production, indicating that resveratrol exerted its protective effect on intestinal I/R injury via NF-κB-mediated iNOS pathway. Furthermore, the protective effect of resveratrol was correlated with SIRT1, because application of SIRT1 inhibitor nicotinamide strikingly weakened the protective effect of resveratrol.
Taken together, our findings showed that resveratrol protects intestinal subacute I/R injury via the SIRT1-NF-κB pathway in an iNOS-NO-dependent manner. Therefore, resveratrol has a potential clinical prospect for further development of anti-injury therapy.
The PI3K-AKT pathway and Aurora kinase play essential roles in such cellular processes as cell survival, angiogenesis, and differentiation, and are usually expressed at maximum levels during cancer cell proliferation. The present study investigated the effect of the natural compound, 16-hydroxycleroda-3,13-dien-15,16-olide (PL3), on regulating the PI3K-AKT pathway and Aurora B, which led to cancer cell apoptosis. PL3 acts as a PI3K inhibitor by influencing cell survival, signaling transduction, and cell cycle progression. It was observed that PL3 targeted and induced dephosphorylation of the PI3K pathway, degradation of Aurora B and mitotic-related gene expressions, and sequentially shut down the cell cycle. This eventually resulted in cell death. As Aurora B was downregulated, spindle dysfunction and destruction of the G₂/M phase checkpoint resulted in DNA-damaged cells undergoing apoptosis. Moreover, PL3 also resensitized T315I-mutated Bcr-ABL+ BA/F3 cells to improve the cytotoxicity of Imatinib in Imatinib-resistant cell line. Taken together, PL3 can perturb the PI3K-AKT pathway and Aurora B resulting in gene silencing and cell cycle disturbance. It was demonstrated that PL3 acted like a novel small-molecule PI3K modulator, thereby potentially contributing to cancer chemotherapy and combination medication.
To assess and characterise the risk of bladder cancer, and its relation to cyclophosphamide, in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis.
In the population based, nationwide Swedish Inpatient Register a cohort of 1065 patients with Wegener's granulomatosis, 1969-95, was identified. Through linkage with the Swedish Cancer Register, all subjects in this cohort diagnosed with bladder cancer were identified. Nested within the cohort, a matched case-control study was performed to estimate the association between cyclophosphamide and bladder cancer using odds ratios (ORs) as relative risk. In the cohort the cumulative risk of bladder cancer after Wegener's granulomatosis, and the relative prevalence of a history of bladder cancer at the time of diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis, were also estimated.
The median cumulative doses of cyclophosphamide among cases (n = 11) and controls (n = 25) were 113 g and 25 g, respectively. The risk of bladder cancer doubled for every 10 g increment in cyclophosphamide (OR = 2.0, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.8 to 4.9). Treatment duration longer than 1 year was associated with an eightfold increased risk (OR = 7.7, 95% CI 0.9 to 69). The absolute risk for bladder cancer in the cohort reached 10% 16 years after diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis, and a history of bladder cancer was (non-significantly) twice as common as expected at the time of diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis.
The results indicate a dose-response relationship between cyclophosphamide and the risk of bladder cancer, high cumulative risks in the entire cohort, and also the possibility of risk factors operating even before Wegener's granulomatosis.
A single-blind trial was carried out in 36 people with mild to moderate hypertension to compare the efficacy and tolerance of long-term treatment with furosemide and chlorthalidone. After a 30-day wash-out period, patients were treated for 6 months with a single daily dose of either 25 mg furosemide or 50 mg chlorthalidone. They were then crossed over to the alternative drug, after a 15-day wash-out period, for a further 6 months. Results from the 25 patients who completed the study period showed that both treatments were successful in reducing systolic and diastolic blood pressure significantly after 1 month and blood pressure was controlled at the lower level for the remainder of the study period. There was no statistically significant difference between the two treatments at the end of the trial in respect of their antihypertensive efficacy. However, patients on chlorthalidone showed a marked, significant decrease in serum potassium levels from 1 month onwards compared to patients treated with furosemide and at the end of 6 months 10 (25%) were considered to be hypokalaemic whereas only 2 (8%) of the furosemide-treated patients had serum potassium levels lower than 3.5 mmol/l. Few side-effects were reported and patient compliance was good in both treatment groups.
The Timolol Myocardial Infarction Study was a completely randomized program of 1884 survivors of myocardial infarction comparing timolol maleate, 10 mg twice daily, with placebo for the secondary prevention of sudden death and reinfarction. In that study, timolol maleate reduced total mortality (152 placebo vs 98 timolol) and the incidence of first nonfatal reinfarctions (131 placebo vs 90 timolol). This report evaluates the effect of timolol in selected categories--age, sex, infarction site, heart size, transmural infarction, diabetes, smoking, multiple reinfarctions and pulse. These data document two important facts. First, the effects of timolol in the total sample were also seen in different subpopulations, and there were no major subgroups for which this positive effect would not be expected. Second, the consistency of the effects observed with respect to pulse, transmural infarction, age and infarct site are in contrast to some previous studies with practolol, propranolol, and alprenolol. Thus, beta blockers may not be identical with respect to reducing the mortality and morbidity associated with acute myocardial infarction.
Research suggests that ecstasy users exhibit psychobiological changes relative to nonusers such as altered sleep patterns and cognitive deficits. In turn, it has been suggested that sleep quality may be a mediator of such cognitive deficits in ecstasy users. The present study sought to investigate this proposed relationship.
Aspects of cognitive functioning in 104 ecstasy users and 103 nonusers obtained from our previous studies were reanalysed to explore the extent to which ecstasy-related group differences were attributable to differences in sleep quality. Cognitive function was assessed via the computation span test, consonant updating, paired associate learning, syllogistic reasoning and word fluency. Sleep quality was measured via the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), and the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale (KSS).
Ecstasy users performed worse than nonusers on all cognitive measures. While no differences were observed on the ESS, ecstasy users reported greater tiredness at the beginning of testing than nonusers. When the sleep variables were included as covariates, the effects of ecstasy on all cognitive measures remained significant.
The results of the present study suggest little evidence for the mediating effects of sleep on cognitive function in ecstasy users.
Sperm utilize glycolysis to generate ATP required for motility, and several spermatogenic cell-specific glycolytic isozymes are associated with the fibrous sheath (FS) in the principal piece of the sperm flagellum. We used proteomics and molecular biology approaches to confirm earlier reports that a novel enolase is present in mouse sperm. We then found that a pan-enolase antibody, but not antibodies to ENO2 and ENO3, recognized a protein in the principal piece of the mouse sperm flagellum. Database analyses identified two previously uncharacterized enolase family-like candidate genes, 64306537H0Rik and Gm5506. Northern analysis indicated that 64306537H0Rik (renamed Eno4) was transcribed in testes of mice by Postnatal Day 12. To determine the role of ENO4, we generated mice using embryonic stem cells in which an Eno4 allele was disrupted by a gene trap containing a beta galactosidase (beta-gal) reporter (Eno4(+/Gt)). Expression of beta-gal occurred in the testis, and male mice homozygous for the gene trap allele (Eno4(Gt/Gt)) were infertile. Epididymal sperm numbers were 2-fold lower and sperm motility was reduced substantially in Eno4(Gt/Gt) mice compared to wild-type mice. Sperm from Eno4(Gt/Gt) mice had a coiled flagellum and a disorganized FS. The Gm5506 gene encodes a protein identical to ENO1 and also is transcribed at a low level in testis. We conclude that ENO4 is required for normal assembly of the FS and provides most of the enolase activity in sperm and that Eno1 and/or Gm5506 may encode a minor portion of the enolase activity in sperm.
There is some structural similarity between the androgen receptor antagonist, flutamide (Flut) and benzodiazepines (BZDs). We evaluated the possible anticonvulsant effect and interaction of Flut with BZD receptors in common seizure models.
(a) Different groups of mice each were pretreated i.p. with Flut, and after 0.5 h, they received chemoconvulsants [pentylenetetrazole (PTZ), bicuculline, aminophylline, strychnine or kainic acid]. Latency and incidence of a clonic seizure were recorded. (b) Mice were pretreated i.p. with Flut, and after 0.5 h, transauricular electroshock was applied. Occurrence of a tonic seizure was observed. (c) Amygdala-kindled rats were pretreated i.p. with Flut, and 0.5, 1, or 2 h later, they were stimulated at afterdischarge threshold. Then the seizure parameters (afterdischarge duration, seizure severity, and stage 5 duration) were recorded. (d) The effect of Flut on clonic seizure threshold was determined by i.v. infusion of bicuculline or PTZ to different groups of Flut-receiving mice. To determine the possible interaction of Flut with BZD receptors, the flumazenil (FMZ)+Flut effect on clonic seizure threshold was compared with the effect of Flut. (e) Neurotoxicity of Flut was evaluated by rotarod test at 30 min after administration.
Flut produced a dose-dependent anticonvulsant effect against PTZ-induced seizures [median effective dose (ED50), 67.0 mg/kg]. Moreover, Flut elevated the clonic seizure threshold induced by bicuculline or PTZ. FMZ reversed the effect of Flut on the threshold of PTZ seizures. A median toxic dose (TD50) value of 124.8 mg/kg was obtained for Flut.
Flut both blocks PTZ-induced clonic seizures and elevates the threshold of PTZ or bicuculline-induced clonic seizures, through interaction with BZD receptors.
1 The cardiovascular effects of intravenous and intracisternal administration of neurohypophysial peptides were compared in dogs anaesthetized with chloralose. 2 Intravenous lysine-vasopressin (0.1 to 100 mu/kg) induced a dose-dependent increase in blood pressure and a decrease in heart rate. In contrast, intracisternal lysine-vasopressin (0.01 to 10 mu/kg induced a dose-related decrease in blood pressure and did not change heart rate. 3 Intracisternal oxytocin (1 and 10 mu/kg) increased blood pressure and did not change heart rate, whereas the same doses injected intravenously were inactive. 4 Pretreatment with guanethidine (15 mg/kg i.v. 24 h beforehand) abolished the hypotensive responses to intracisternal vasopressin but not the pressor action of intravenous vasopressin. 5 The pressor responses to central injections of oxytocin were not modified by guanethidine. 6 Hypotension elicited by intracisternal vasopressin was probably due to a decrease in sympathetic tone whereas the hypertension induced by intracisternal oxytocin was independent of variations in sympathetic tone.
The effects of magnesium deficiency on epinephrine-induced ventricular tachyarrhythmia were investigated in adult rats. Forty-two adult Wistar rats were fed a magnesium-deficient diet while 30 rats were fed a standard diet for 20 days. The plasma magnesium concentration was lower in the magnesium-deficient rats (0.22+/-0.01 mmol/l) than in the control rats (0.76+/-0.03 mmol/l, P < 0.001). Using a telemetry system, electrocardiograms and arterial blood pressure were recorded on a polygraph in an unrestrained condition. Epinephrine was infused intravenously starting at 5 microg/kg per minute. The QT interval was prolonged to 50+/-1 ms in the magnesium-deficient rats compared with 44+/-1 ms in the control rats (P < 0.001). Before the administration of epinephrine, no ventricular tachyarrhythmias or seizures were found in either the control or the magnesium-deficient rats. The incidence of epinephrine-induced sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) was higher in the magnesium-deficient rats (86%) than in the control rats (43%, P < 0.01). However, this VT did not result in sudden death. Seizures always preceded death in both the magnesium-deficient and control rats while the arrhythmias observed immediately before death were mainly bradyarrhythmias. The present study in an adult rat magnesium-deficient model revealed that magnesium deficiency enhances the susceptibility to epinephrine-induced ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
Treatment of chronic hepatitis C with pegylated interferon (peginterferon) and ribavirin can cause or exacerbate depression but its effects on cognitive function are largely unknown. The aim of this study was to determine whether treatment with peginterferon and ribavirin adversely impacts cognitive function in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Prior nonresponders to interferon were retreated with peginterferon alfa-2a and ribavirin for 24 (n=177) or 48 weeks (n=57) in the Hepatitis C Antiviral Long-term Treatment Against Cirrhosis trial. Cognitive function was prospectively assessed using a battery of 10 standardized neuropsychological tests at weeks 0, 24, 48, and 72. Cognitive impairment was defined based upon a global deficit score. The Beck Depression Inventory and Brief Symptom Inventory were used to assess mood status. The 57 subjects who completed 48 weeks of antiviral therapy reported significant increases in difficulty concentrating, emotional distress, and symptoms of depression, all of which improved after cessation of therapy [P<0.0001, analysis of variance (ANOVA)]. Nonetheless, the frequency of cognitive impairment did not increase during the first 24 weeks of treatment in 177 patients (34% versus 32%, P=0.64) nor in the 57 patients completing 48 weeks of treatment (P=0.48, ANOVA).
Retreatment of prior non-responders with peginterferon and ribavirin was not associated with objective evidence of cognitive impairment as measured by a comprehensive battery of neuropsychological tests. The lack of cognitive impairment is reassuring and suggests that self-reported symptoms of cognitive dysfunction are more likely related to the systemic and psychiatric side effects of antiviral treatment rather than measurable changes in cognition.
Groups of male and female inbred Leeds strain rats were fed diets containing either 0.5% or 1.0% paracetamol by weight for up to 18 months. At the 1.0% dosage level, 20% of rats of both sexes developed neoplastic nodules of the liver, a statistically significant incidence. These rats also showed gross enlargement of their livers and an increase in foci of cellular alteration, the latter also being observed in the low dosage male rats. Papillomas of the transitional epithelium of the bladder developed in all paracetamol-treated groups, and three rats bore bladder carcinomas. However, significant yields of bladder tumours were only obtained from low dosage females and high dosage males. Additionally, 20 to 25% of paracetamol-treated rats developed hyperplasia of the bladder epithelium, which was not coincident with the presence of bladder calculi. A low yield of tumours at various other sites also arose following paracetamol feeding. An electron microscope study of the livers of paracetamol-treated rats revealed ultrastructural changes in the hepatocytes that resemble those that result from exposure to a variety of known hepatocarcinogens.
The usefulness of daunorubicin (DAUNO) and doxorubicin, members of the anthracycline class of anticancer drugs, is limited by their cardiotoxicity. The purpose of our echocardiographic study was to assess the left ventricular (LV) function in long-term pediatric cancer survivors who had received DAUNO and dox as part of their therapy.
Seventy patients and 70 age, sex, and body surface area matched healthy controls were evaluated. Among the patients, the mean cumulative anthracycline dose was 321.6 (range, 150 to 868 mg/m); the mean interval from cancer diagnosis to evaluation was 13.9 years (range, 7 to 30 y).
Fifteen of the 70 (21.4%) patients had a reduced ejection fraction (EF). Compared with the healthy controls, the mean EF and E/A were decreased to low normal levels in the patients, whereas deceleration time and isovolumetric relaxation time were prolonged. The E/A and deceleration time were significantly different for the females but not the males. The Tissue Doppler Index was normal but the Myocardial Performance Index was prolonged and correlated with EF (r=-0.499, P<0.001). There was a correlation between EF with cumulative anthracycline dose (r=-0.306; P=0.010) and time off therapy (r=-0.281; P=0.019). Diastolic indices suggested a tendency toward abnormal LV relaxation. Myocardial Performance Index seems to be a good index for monitoring LV status, because it was prolonged as EF decreased.
This study suggests that long-term survivors who received doxorubicin and DAUNO may be found to have subclinical features of myocardial dysfunction when evaluated years after the completion of therapy.
Electrocardiographic changes after dipyridamole infusion (0.568 mg/kg/4 min) were studied in 41 patients with coronary artery disease and compared with those after submaximal treadmill exercise by use of the body surface mapping technique. Patients were divided into three groups; 19 patients without myocardial infarction (non-MI group), 14 with anterior infarction (ANT-MI) and eight with inferior infarction (INF-MI). Eighty-seven unipolar electrocardiograms (ECGs) distributed over the entire thoracic surface were simultaneously recorded. After dipyridamole, ischemic ST-segment depression (0.05 mV or more) was observed in 84% of the non-MI group, 29% of the ANT-MI group, 63% of the INF-MI group and 61% of the total population. Exercise-induced ST depression was observed in 84% of the non-MI group, 43% of the ANT-MI group, 38% of the INF-MI group and 61% of the total. For individual patients, there were no obvious differences between the body surface distribution of ST depression in both tests. The increase in pressure rate product after dipyridamole was significantly less than that during the treadmill exercise. The data suggest that the dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischemia is caused by the inhomogenous distribution of myocardial blood flow. We conclude that the dipyridamole ECG test is as useful as the exercise ECG test for the assessment of coronary artery disease.
It is now recognised that progesterone plays a protective role for diseases of the central nervous system. In the Wobbler mouse, a model of motoneurone degeneration, progesterone treatment prevents spinal cord neuropathology and clinical progression of the disease. However, neuropathological and functional abnormalities have also been discovered in the brain of Wobbler mice and patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The present study examined the hippocampus of control and afflicted Wobbler mice and the changes in response to progesterone treatment. Mice received either a single progesterone implant (20 mg for 18 days). We found that the hippocampal pathology of the untreated Wobblers involved a decreased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA, decreased astrogliosis in the stratum lucidum, stratum radiatum and stratum lacunosum-moleculare, decreased doublecortin (DCX)-positive neuroblasts in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus and a decreased density of GABA immunoreactive hippocampal interneurones and granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Although progesterone did not change the normal parameters of control mice, it attenuated several hippocampal abnormalities in Wobblers. Thus, progesterone increased hippocampal BDNF mRNA expression, decreased glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes and increased the number of GABAergic interneurones and granule cells. The number of DCX expressing neuroblasts and immature neurones remained impaired in both progesterone-treated and untreated Wobblers. In conclusion, progesterone treatment exerted beneficial effects on some aspects of hippocampal neuropathology, suggesting its neuroprotective role in the brain, in agreement with previous data obtained in the spinal cord of Wobbler mice.
The possible effects of lithium on myocardial morphology were studied at the light-microscopic level in three different rat models: (i) rats with chronic renal failure due to lithium administration for 8-16 weeks after birth, (ii) normal, adult rats treated with lithium for 16 weeks, and (iii) new-born rats exposed to lithium in their prenatal life. Morphological changes were found in 57% of the male rats with lithium-induced uraemia after lithium administration for 16 weeks postnatally. The changes comprised myocytic degeneration and necrosis associated with infiltration of lymphocytes, histiocytes and plasma cells. This morphological picture is different from the myocardial changes associated with chronic renal failure. Male rats with chronic uraemia after withdrawal of lithium 8 weeks postnatally showed no myocardial changes after 16 weeks. Also, male rats with normal renal function had no myocardial changes after 16 weeks on lithium, but these rats had a significantly lower plasma level of lithium than the lithium-uraemic rats (0.8 vs. 1.4 mmol/l). It is suggested that myocarditis was a consequence of persistent high plasma levels of lithium maintained in the lithium-uraemic rats and that cardiotoxic effects of lithium may be potentiated by concomitant renal failure.
Quetiapine, a second-generation antipsychotic, acts at multiple brain neurotransmitter receptors and has the potential for serious complications. Although seizures have been described in the literature, delayed seizure onset has not been reported. We report the first case of delayed seizures after a significant quetiapine overdose.
A 27-year-old female presented to the emergency department following an overdose of approximately 30 g of quetiapine. Twenty-four hours after arrival, the patient had 2 seizures. The patient was then intubated and remained in the ICU for four days. EEG was negative for epileptiform activity. The serum quetiapine levels (MedTox, St. Paul, MN) were 8.67 mg/L on hospital day one and 3.28 mg/L on hospital day three.
Quetiapine poisoning, with serum levels, associated with seizures has been reported in one prior case. Our case report represents late-onset seizures with serum levels above therapeutic range (>1 mg/L). The serum concentrations of quetiapine in this case were consistent with those in postmortem case reports.
The occurrence of myoclonus associated with continuous i.v. infusion of dobutamine in a patient with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is described.
A 65-year-old Caucasian man was admitted to the hospital on January 26, 2006, for worsening congestive heart failure (CHF). He had been receiving dobutamine 3 mug/kg/min by intermittent i.v. infusion over four hours once weekly as an outpatient. His medical history included ischemic cardiomyopathy, pacemaker placement, ESRD, carotid artery disease, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Along with receiving multiple other drugs, the patient was started on a continuous i.v. infusion of dobutamine 3 mug/kg/min. On January 29, the patient began having myoclonic muscle spasms. Clonazepam was given as needed, and the patient was discharged on February 1 with myoclonus that soon subsided. On March 13 the patient was again admitted for worsening CHF and was started on continuous dobutamine infusion. He was discharged on March 15; myoclonic muscle spasms began that afternoon. Myoclonic movements were noted when the patient arrived at the outpatient infusion center to begin his intermittent dobutamine infusion, and he was sent to the emergency department, where he was treated with calcium gluconate, regular insulin, and lorazepam and was instructed to stop his potassium supplements; he then received his dobutamine infusion. The myoclonic symptoms continued until March 18, when they subsided.
A patient with CHF and ESRD developed myoclonic muscle spasms after receiving dobutamine by continuous i.v. infusion.
Twelve essential hypertensive patients with normal renal function were treated once daily with a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril maleate, for about two months. In all patients, the drug-induced changes in blood pressure (BP), systemic and renal hemodynamics, plasma renin activity (PRA), and urine aldosterone (UA) were evaluated. Mean arterial pressure was significantly lowered. No significant changes in cardiac index, heart rate, and stroke index were observed, while peripheral vascular resistance index was significantly decreased. Plasma and blood volumes were not significantly altered. The effects on renal hemodynamics consisted of a significant increase in renal plasma flow (RPF), a decrease in renal vascular resistance, and no change in glomerular filtration rate (GFR). UA excretion was significantly reduced during enalapril therapy. The drug was well tolerated, and no side effects were observed. In summary, enalapril is able to reduce blood pressure through a vasodilatatory effect without change in cardiac output. It increases renal blood flow with no change in glomerular filtration rate.
Recently, mice made deficient in growth arrest-specific gene 6 product (Gas6) or in which Gas6 gene expression was inhibited were shown to have platelet dysfunction and to be less susceptible to thrombosis. The aim of this study was to define and characterize the relevant Gas6 receptor or receptors involved in platelet function.
Using RT-PCR and Western blot analysis we found that mer was the predominantly expressed subtype in mouse and human platelets, whereas axl and rse were not detected. We generated mer-deficient mice by targeted disruption of the mer receptor gene. Platelets derived from mer-deficient mice had decreased platelet aggregation in responses to low concentrations of collagen, U46619, and PAR4 thrombin receptor agonist peptide in vitro. However, the response to ADP was not different from wild-type platelets. Knockout of the mer gene protected mice from collagen/epinephrine-induced pulmonary thromoembolism and inhibited ferric chloride-induced thrombosis in vivo. Tail bleeding times, coagulation parameters, and peripheral blood cell counts in mer-deficient mice were similar to wild-type mice.
Our data provide the first evidence that mer, presumably through activation by its ligand Gas6, participates in regulation of platelet function in vitro and platelet-dependent thrombosis in vivo.
Atypical antipsychotic drugs, in particular clozapine and olanzapine, influence cellular lipogenesis and are associated with metabolic side effects including weight gain. Insulin induced gene 2 (INSIG2) mediates feedback control of lipid synthesis and polymorphisms in the gene (rs17587100, rs10490624 and rs17047764) have been associated with antipsychotic induced weight gain. In this study we intended to replicate these findings in an independent patient population.
All three polymorphisms as well as an additional polymorphism (rs7566605) were genotyped in 154 patients who underwent treatment for chronic schizophrenia with one of four antipsychotics (clozapine, olanzapine, haloperidol or risperidone). Patients were evaluated for antipsychotic induced weight gain during treatment for up to 14 weeks.
We did not observe any significant allelic, genotypic or haplotypic association of the polymorphisms with antipsychotic induced weight gain in the patients of European ancestry (p > 0.05). In the patients of African ancestry, no haplotypic association was observed but a trend of allelic association with the C allele of rs7566605 and genotypic association with the 'GC' genotype in rs17047764 was observed (p = 0.02; p(Bonferroni) = 0.225).
We were unable to replicate significant associations in patients of European ancestry. However, we observed a marginal effect of the rs17047764 and rs7566605 in the African-American sample. Since the latter observations were generated in a relatively small sample set, further replication studies are warranted.
We have developed an animal model of learning and memory impairment associated with activation of microglia in the mouse brain. Injection of lipopolysaccharide into the CA1 region of the mouse hippocampus resulted in an increased production of inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1β. Immunostaining for interleukin-1β revealed an increase in the signal at 6 hr after lipopolysaccharide injection. Immunopositive cells for interleukin-1β were colocalized with those immunopositive for CD11b. When subacute lipopolysaccharide treatment (20 μg/2 μl/injection, bilaterally for 5 consecutive days) was performed, long-term activation of microglia and learning and memory deficits as evaluated using a step-through passive avoidance test were observed in the wild-type mice. Gene expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor NR1 and NR2A subunits was also decreased by the lipopolysaccharide treatment. In contrast, activation of microglia and the associated behavioral deficits were not observed in mice lacking interleukin-1α and -1β following the subacute lipopolysaccharide treatment, together with little change in the gene expression of NR1 and NR2A subunits. However, the subacute lipopolysaccharide treatment produced almost similar changes in those parameters in the tumor necrosis factor-α knockout mice as in the wild-type animals. The injection of interleukin-1β neutralizing antibody with lipopolysaccharide for 5 consecutive days resulted in the improvement of lipopolysaccharide-induced learning and memory deficits. These findings suggest that the expression of interleukin-1 plays an important role in lipopolysaccharide-induced activation of microglia and the associated functional deficits in learning and memory.
