Doxorubicin is a frequently used anticancer drug, but its therapeutic benefit is limited by acute and chronic cardiotoxicity, often leading to heart failure. The mechanisms underlying doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity remain unclear. It was previously shown in men that doxorubicin leads to increased endothelin-1 plasma levels. In addition, cardiac-specific overexpression of endothelin-1 in mice resulted in a cardiomyopathy resembling the phenotype following doxorubicin administration. We therefore hypothesized that endothelin-1 is involved in the pathogenesis of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. In mice (C57Bl/10), we found that doxorubicin (20 mg/kg body weight, i.p.) impaired cardiac function with decreased ejection fraction, diminished cardiac output, and decreased end-systolic pressure points recorded by a microconductance catheter. This impaired function was accompanied by the up-regulation of endothelin-1 expression on mRNA and protein level. In vitro investigations confirmed the regulation of endothelin-1 by doxorubicin and indicated that the doxorubicin-mediated increase of endothelin-1 expression involves epidermal growth factor receptor signaling via the MEK1/2-ERK1/2 cascade, which was further confirmed by immunoblotting studies in the left ventricle of treated animals. Pretreatment of mice with the endothelin receptor antagonist bosentan (100 mg/kg body weight, p.o.) strikingly inhibited doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity with preserved indices of contractility. Moreover, bosentan pretreatment resulted in reduced tumor necrosis factor-alpha content, lipid peroxidation, and Bax expression, as well as increased GATA-4 expression. Thus, endothelin-1 plays a key role in mediating the cardiotoxic effects of doxorubicin and its inhibition may be of therapeutic benefit for patients receiving doxorubicin.
Higher doses of inhaled albuterol have been shown to cause slightly more bronchodilatation than standard doses from a metered-dose inhaler in patients with severe chronic airflow limitation. Higher doses, however, carry an increased risk of side effects, and the optimum dose balancing benefit and adverse effects have yet to be established. We have therefore looked at objective and subjective evidence of beneficial and adverse effects after 4 doses of albuterol in 30 patients with chronic bronchitis, severe airflow limitation, and less than 200 ml increase in FEV1 after 200 micrograms inhaled albuterol. Subjects were given placebo, 400 micrograms, 1 mg, 2 mg, and 4 mg albuterol by dry powder inhaler in random order on separate days in a double-blind study, and FEV1, relaxed VC, PEFR, 12-min walk distance, finger tremor, oxygen saturation, heart rate, and arrhythmias were measured at intervals over 6 h. With increasing doses of albuterol, there was a significant dose-related increase in FEV1, VC, and PEFR, the maximal mean changes being 196 ml, 480 ml, and 50 L/min, respectively. The duration of effect was longer with the higher doses. There was a dose-related increase in heart rate, tremor amplitude, and supraventricular ectopic beats and a dose-related fall in oxygen saturation. There was no drug-related effect on the frequency of ventricular ectopic beats either at rest or during the walk tests. The largest increases in walk distance occurred after the 1 and 2 mg doses and the least after the 4 mg dose.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A case of an older patient with the Angelman syndrome due to a deletion at the 15q11-q13 region is presented. The patient demonstrated generalized prolonged myoclonus severe enough to produce temperatures of 41.4 degrees C and CPK elevations to 7281 U/l. This myoclonus was unresponsive to benztropine, clonazepam and worsened with bromocriptine. It resolved with sleep induced by either lorazepam or diphenhydramine and during treatment with reserpine. Once discharged from the hospital and treated with reserpine, there were much less frequent recurrences of the myoclonus that responded well to concomitant treatment with clonazepam. Later attempts to reduce the reserpine resulted in worsening of the myoclonus. Older patients with Angelman syndrome may display a wide variety of neurologic syndromes. This severe myoclonus in this patient worsened with dopamine agonist treatment and initially improved with dopamine depletion therapy while in the long-term responding best to a combination of clonazepam and reserpine.
Chordoma is a rare malignant bone tumor that expresses the transcription factor T. We conducted an association study of 40 individuals with chordoma and 358 ancestry-matched controls, with replication in an independent cohort. Whole-exome and Sanger sequencing of T exons showed strong association of the common nonsynonymous SNP rs2305089 with chordoma risk (allelic odds ratio (OR) = 6.1, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 3.1-12.1; P = 4.4 × 10(-9)), a finding that is exceptional in cancers with a non-Mendelian mode of inheritance.
The authors investigated several features of polydrug use in rats. Heroin and cocaine were self-administered following responses on different levers, with only 1 drug and 1 lever available on alternate days of training. Four doses of each drug (heroin: 25, 50, 100, and 200 microg/kg/infusion; cocaine: 0.25, 0.5, 1, and 2 mg/kg/infusion) were tested, and each rat was exposed to a single dose combination. Rats readily developed drug-specific and dose-related responding. During extinction, rats displayed a significant bias for responding on the cocaine- associated lever. Priming injections of either cocaine (20 mg/kg) or heroin (0.25 mg/kg) reinstated responding that was selective for the lever previously associated with each drug. These results suggest that in this type of polydrug use, drugs have the capacity to activate drug-seeking behavior selectively oriented toward stimuli previously associated with their administration.
The recurrence of depression following smoking cessation has been documented among smokers with a history of depression. This report examines the development of major depression following smoking cessation among three women without notable histories of depression. Shortly after smoking cessation, these women developed significant depressive symptoms requiring psychiatric intervention. These cases seem to support the hypothesis that some smokers may self-treat negative affect with nicotine and underscore the importance of monitoring depressive symptoms in patients undergoing smoking-cessation treatment.
Two patients with rheumatoid arthritis (two women, 58 and 62 years old) developed reversible penicillamine-induced ocular myasthenia gravis. Both had the HLA-DR1 antigen, unlike most patients with idiopathic myasthenia gravis who show HLA-DR3, suggesting that penicillamine-induced myasthenia gravis and its idiopathic counterpart occur in patients with different genetic backgrounds. In both cases, cessation of drug treatment led to resolution of the symptoms.
Sulfur mustard (HD) is a vesicating agent that has been used as a chemical warfare agent in a number of conflicts, posing a major threat in both military conflict and chemical terrorism situations. Currently, we lack effective therapies to rescue skin injuries by HD, in part, due to the lack of appropriate animal models, which are required for conducting laboratory studies to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of promising agents that could potentially be translated in to real HD-caused skin injury. To address this challenge, the present study was designed to assess whether microvesication could be achieved in mouse skin by an HD analog 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES) exposure; notably, microvesication is a key component of HD skin injury in humans. We found that skin exposure of male SKH-1 hairless mice to CEES caused epidermal-dermal separation indicating microvesication. In other studies, CEES exposure also caused an increase in skin bi-fold thickness, wet/dry weight ratio, epidermal thickness, apoptotic cell death, cell proliferation, and infiltration of macrophages, mast cells and neutrophils in male SKH-1 hairless mouse skin. Taken together, these results establish CEES-induced microvesication and inflammation-related histopathological changes in mouse skin, providing a potentially relevant laboratory model for developing effective countermeasures against HD skin injury in humans.
β-naphthoflavone (BNF) is a strong inducer of cytochrome P450 1A enzymes, and exerts liver tumor-promoting activity through enhancement of oxidative stress responses in rats. This study investigated the role of the tissue environment surrounding hepatocellular preneoplastic lesions in the early tumor-promotion stage by BNF, using enzymatically modified isoquercitrin (EMIQ) as an anti-oxidative chemopreventive agent. Male F344 rats were fed a diet containing BNF (0.5%) for 6 weeks, with or without EMIQ (0.2%) in the drinking water, 2 weeks after initiation with N-diethylnitrosamine, and were subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy 1 week after starting BNF-promotion. BNF-treatment increased concentrations of liver thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, single liver cells expressing glutathione S-transferase placental form or heme oxygenase (HO)-1, and concomitant apoptosis and proliferation of liver cells. Transcript upregulation of anti-oxidative enzymes (Aldh1a1 and Nqo1), cell cycle-related molecules (Cdc20 and Cdkn2b) and inflammation-related molecules including proinflammatory cytokines (Ccl2, Col1a1, Il6, Nos2 and Serpine1) was also evident. Furthermore, BNF increased HO-1-expressing Kupffer cells and liver cells expressing tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1) and the TNFR1-associated death domain. Most of these BNF-induced fluctuations disappeared or were suppressed by EMIQ in conjunction with suppression of tumor-promotion. Tnf transcript levels with BNF were also suppressed by EMIQ. These results suggest that BNF-induced oxidative stress causes single liver cell toxicity, allowing subsequent concomitant apoptosis and regeneration involving inflammatory responses including TNFα-signaling, contributing to tumor promotion. Kupffer cells may act to protect against inflammatory stimuli induced as a result of oxidative cellular stress by BNF, causing proinflammatory cytokine level fluctuations.
Palmoplantar keratodermas (PPKs) are a group of disorders that are diagnostically and therapeutically problematic in dermatogenetics. Punctate PPKs are characterized by circumscribed hyperkeratotic lesions on the palms and soles with considerable heterogeneity. In 18 families with autosomal dominant punctate PPK, we report heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in AAGAB, encoding α- and γ-adaptin-binding protein p34, located at a previously linked locus at 15q22. α- and γ-adaptin-binding protein p34, a cytosolic protein with a Rab-like GTPase domain, was shown to bind both clathrin adaptor protein complexes, indicating a role in membrane trafficking. Ultrastructurally, lesional epidermis showed abnormalities in intracellular vesicle biology. Immunohistochemistry showed hyperproliferation within the punctate lesions. Knockdown of AAGAB in keratinocytes led to increased cell division, which was linked to greatly elevated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) protein expression and tyrosine phosphorylation. We hypothesize that p34 deficiency may impair endocytic recycling of growth factor receptors such as EGFR, leading to increased signaling and cellular proliferation.
Wogonin, a naturally occurring monoflavonoid extracted from Scutellariae radix, has been shown to possess tumor therapeutic potential in vitro and in vivo. However, the effects of wogonin on tumor cells invasion remains poorly understood. In this study, we performed in vitro experiments to investigate the anti-invasive and anti-metastatic activity of wogonin in MDA-MB-231 human breast carcinoma cells. Wogonin caused a concentration-dependent suppression of cell migration, adhesion and invasion. The mechanism revealed that wogonin significantly inhibited the expression and activity of both endogenous and phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA)-induced matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) potentially associating with the suppression of translocation of protein kinase C (PKC) δ and phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2). These results suggested that wogonin could inhibit the invasion of tumor cells by downregulating the expression and activity of MMP-9, the possible targets may be PKCδ and ERK1/2.
A critical need for combating the effects of organophosphate (OP) anticholinesterases, such as nerve agents, is the current lack of an effective oxime reactivator which can penetrate the blood-brain barrier (BBB), and therefore reactivate inhibited acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in the brain. Our laboratories have synthesized and have initiated testing of novel phenoxyalkyl pyridinium oximes (patent pending) that are more lipophilic than currently approved oximes. This is a preliminary report on these novel oximes which have been tested in vitro in rat brain homogenates with highly relevant surrogates for sarin (phthalimidyl isopropyl methylphosphonate; PIMP) and VX (nitrophenyl ethyl methylphosphonate; NEMP). The oximes demonstrated a range of 14-76% reactivation of rat brain AChE in vitro. An in vivo testing paradigm was developed in which the novel oxime was administered at the time of maximal brain AChE inhibition (about 80%) (1h) elicited by nitrophenyl isopropyl methylphosphonate (NIMP; sarin surrogate). This paradigm, with delayed administration of oxime to a time when brain AChE was starting to recover, was designed to minimize reactivation/reinhibition of peripheral AChE during the reactivation period which would decrease the availability of the surrogate for entry into the brain; this paradigm will allow proof of concept of BBB penetrability. The initial studies of these oximes in vivo with the sarin surrogate NIMP have indicated reactivation of up to about 25% at 30 min after oxime administration and substantial attenuation of seizure behavior from some of the oximes. Therefore these novel oximes have considerable potential as brain-protecting therapeutics for anticholinesterases.
Organophosphorus nerve agents are irreversible inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase. Current treatment of nerve agent poisoning has limited efficacy and more efficient medical countermeasures need to be developed. A promising approach is to design chemical scavengers more stable during storage and less immunogenic than bioscavengers. Furthermore, they could be produced at lowest production costs. Cyclodextrins are attractive cyclic oligosaccharides that can be used to develop chemical scavengers of organophosphorus nerve agents. Their abilities to form inclusion and non-inclusion complexes with organic substrates are useful to trap chemical warfare agents. Selective introduction of an α-nucleophile residue on the secondary face of β-cyclodextrin allowed to obtain supramolecular derivatives active against organophosphorus compounds. The degradation activity of these monosubstituted cyclodextrins was determined against paraoxon and chemical warfare agents. These tests showed that the structure of the scavengers mainly influences the interaction between the organophosphorus substrate, or its reaction products, and the cyclodextrin moiety. All the tested G-type agents were efficiently degraded. According to the binding modes of cyclosarin, some oligosaccharidic scavengers led to an enantioselective degradation of this nerve agent. These promising derivatives open the way to further investigations of new structural modifications to reach more sophisticated and efficient scavengers for prophylactic and curative medical applications.
It has been previously reported that aspirin inhibited the development of diabetic retinopathy in diabetic animals, raising the possibility that anti-inflammatory drugs may have beneficial effects on diabetic retinopathy. To further explore this, we compared effects of oral consumption of three different salicylate-based drugs (aspirin, sodium salicylate, and sulfasalazine) on the development of early stages of diabetic retinopathy in rats. These three drugs differ in their ability to inhibit cyclooxygenase but share an ability to inhibit nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Diabetes of 9-10 months duration significantly increased the number of TUNEL (transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling)-positive capillary cells and acellular (degenerate) capillaries in the retinal vasculature, and all three salicylate-based drugs inhibited this cell death and formation of acellular capillaries without altering the severity of hyperglycemia. In short-term diabetes (2-4 months), all three salicylates inhibited the diabetes-induced loss of neuronal cells from the ganglion cell layer. Oral aspirin (as a representative of the salicylate family) inhibited diabetes-induced increase in NF-kappaB DNA-binding affinity in electrophoretic mobility shift assay and transcription factor array in nuclear extract isolated from whole retina. All three salicylates inhibited the diabetes-induced translocation of p50 (a subunit of NF-kappaB) into nuclei of retinal vascular endothelial cells of the isolated retinal vasculature, as well as of p50 and p65 into nuclei of cells in the ganglion cell layer and inner nuclear layer on whole-retinal sections. Sulfasalazine (also as a representative of the salicylates) inhibited the diabetes-induced upregulation of several inflammatory gene products, which are regulated by NF-kappaB, including vascular cell adhesion molecule, intracellular adhesion molecule-1, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and cyclooxygenase-2 in whole-retinal lysate. Salicylates, in doses administrated in our experiments, inhibited NF-kappaB and perhaps other transcription factors in the retina, were well tolerated, and offered new tools to investigate and inhibit the development of diabetic retinopathy.
Methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is the key enzyme in folate metabolism. We examined whether single nucleotide 677 C-->T mutation in the MTHFR gene could affect the occurrence of skin lesions in endemic arsenic poisoning.
Fifty individuals with arsenic-induced skin lesions were identified as cases, and 35 individuals without skin lesions from the same village were selected as controls. The MTHFR C677T polymorphism was analyzed by PCR-RFLP method, serum folic acid and Vitamin B12 were determined by microbiological assay and the electrochemiluminescence immunoassay, respectively.
The frequencies of TT genotype and T allele in case group were 34.0% and 56.0%, respectively, and were not significantly different from those in controls. There was no significant difference between case and control group in the levels of folic acid and Vitamin B12 in serum. Compared to subjects carrying the CC genotype and having the level of folic acid above 10.5 nmol/L, other subjects were at elevated risk of skin lesions, but the 95% CI of both crude OR and adjusted OR (controlled for age, gender, smoking and arsenic level in drinking water) include 1.
This study did not find the relationship between MTHFR gene (677C-->T) mutation and skin lesions in endemic arsenic poisoning.
Modification of clonidine-induced cardiovascular effects by endothelin-1 (ET-1) was studied in male Sprague-Dawley rats. A dose-dependent decrease in blood pressure and heart rate was produced by clonidine (100, 250 and 500 micrograms/kg i.v.). Lower doses produced only a fall in blood pressure (through central alpha-adrenoceptors) while higher doses of clonidine produced an initial hypertensive response (through peripheral alpha-adrenoceptors) and subsequent longer lasting hypotension and bradycardia. The hypotension and bradycardia induced by 100 and 250 micrograms/kg i.v. dose of clonidine were completely blocked by ET-1 (100 ng/kg i.v.) pretreatment. Conversely, the hypertensive response induced by high dose of clonidine (500 micrograms/kg i.v.) was significantly potentiated by ET-1 pretreatment. In cervical sectioned rats, i.v. administered clonidine failed to produce any hypotensive effect, indicating lack of central effect of clonidine. ET-1 significantly (P < 0.0005) potentiated the hypertensive response of a low dose (50 micrograms/kg i.v.) of clonidine in cervical-sectioned rats. I.c.v. administration of clonidine (1, 2, 4 and 6 micrograms) produced a dose-dependent decrease in blood pressure and heart rate. ET-1 pretreatment (25 ng i.c.v.) transiently blocked the clonidine-induced decrease in blood pressure and heart rate for about 10 min but the hypotension and bradycardia was observed subsequently. Since the major site of action of clonidine is the ventral surface of medulla, clonidine was applied directly to the ventral surface of medulla and produced a decrease in blood pressure and heart rate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Some members of the arylamine family of compounds, specifically 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP), 2-naphthylamine, and benzidine, are established human bladder carcinogens. Cigarette smoking and use of permanent hair dye contribute substantially to current arylamine exposure. Low levels of 4-ABP exposure have been associated with non-smoking-related bladder cancer. Other arylamine compounds coming from as yet unidentified environmental sources may also be human bladder carcinogens.
We conducted a population-based case-control study in Los Angeles County, California, involving 298 case subjects with bladder cancer and 308 control subjects, who were matched on age, sex, race/ethnicity, and neighborhood of residence. In-person interviews provided information on tobacco smoking and other potential risk factors for bladder cancer. To assess arylamine exposure, levels of arylamine-hemoglobin adducts of nine selected alkylanilines (2,3-dimethylaniline [2,3-DMA], 2,4-DMA, 2,5-DMA, 2,6-DMA, 3,4-DMA, 3,5-DMA, 2-ethylaniline [2-EA], 3-EA, 4-EA) were measured in peripheral blood collected from study subjects. Analysis of covariance and conditional logistic regression methods were used to analyze the relationship between arylamine-hemoglobin adducts and bladder cancer risk. All statistical tests were two-sided.
Levels of all arylamine-hemoglobin adducts, with the exception of 2,6-DMA, were higher in smokers than in nonsmokers, and levels of all arylamine-hemoglobin adducts were higher in case subjects than in control subjects. Arylamine-hemoglobin adducts of 2,6-DMA, 3,5-DMA, and 3-EA were all independently, statistically significantly (all P<.001) associated with bladder cancer risk after adjusting for cigarette smoking at the time of blood collection, lifetime smoking history, and other potential risk factors. These adducts were also independently associated with bladder cancer risk when only nonsmokers at time of blood draw were considered (highest quartile versus lowest quartile: 2,6-DMA, relative risk [RR] of bladder cancer = 8.1, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 3.6 to 18.0; 3,5-DMA, RR = 2.7, 95% CI = 1.2 to 6.0; 3-EA, RR = 4.3, 95% CI = 1.6 to 11.6).
Diverse arylamine exposures are strongly associated with bladder cancer risk among nonsmokers. Because arylamines may account for a substantial proportion of bladder cancers among the general population, identification of environmental sources of these compounds is needed.
Bone morphogenic protein (BMP)-7 is a member of the BMP family which are structurally and functionally related, and part of the TGFbeta super family of growth factors. BMP-7 has been reported to inhibit renal fibrosis and TGFbeta1-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), in part through negative interactions with TGFbeta1 induced Smad 2/3 activation. We utilized in vivo bleomycin-induced fibrosis models in the skin and lung to determine the potential therapeutic effect of BMP-7. We then determined the effect of BMP-7 on TGFbeta1-induced EMT in lung epithelial cells and collagen production by human lung fibroblasts. We show that BMP-7 did not affect bleomycin-induced fibrosis in either the lung or skin in vivo; had no effect on expression of pro-fibrotic genes by human lung fibroblasts, either at rest or following exposure to TGFbeta1; and did not modulate TGFbeta1-induced EMT in human lung epithelial cells. Taken together our data indicates that BMP-7 has no anti-fibrotic effect in lung or skin fibrosis either in vivo or in vitro. This suggests that the therapeutic options for BMP-7 may be confined to the renal compartment.
Previous reports have described prolonged paralysis after treatment with neuromuscular junction blocking agents in critically ill patients. The purpose of this study was to further describe a group of patients who developed prolonged weakness after treatment with these agents.
Clinical information, electrodiagnostic and muscle pathology results are described in this group of patients. Clinical information includes diagnoses, dosage of neuromuscular junction blocker, other medications affecting the neuromuscular system, and neuromuscular examination and clinical course.
All patients were seen in the ICUs of three local hospitals.
Included were critically ill patients with a variety of diagnoses, all of whom developed severe weakness after discontinuation of neuromuscular junction blocking agents.
Electrodiagnostic studies and muscle biopsies were performed on several of the patients.
All patients had pronounced weakness without sensory loss. Electrodiagnostic and muscle pathology findings were consistent with failed neuromuscular transmission. Although many patients had disorders or were taking medications that can injure the neuromuscular system, no disorder or medication was common to all. Recovery of strength often took several months and most patients were slow to wean from mechanical ventilator support.
Although alternative explanations cannot be excluded with certainty, the use of neuromuscular junction blocking agents may lead to neurogenic atrophy and care must be taken when using them.
Despite the recent approval of lamivudine for the treatment of children with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, there is insufficient information on the kinetics of HBV clearance and the factors that predict a favorable treatment response to lamivudine in this population. In a small retrospective study of 16 HBV-infected children treated with lamivudine, we examined changes in virus load and other factors associated with hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) clearance. High pretherapy alanine aminotransferase level, low serum HBV DNA load, and age at the start of treatment were independently associated with HBeAg clearance. HBeAg clearance was also associated with the achievement of specific levels of virus suppression, and failure to achieve those levels was associated with the development of lamivudine resistance. Additional studies are necessary to provide better indications and guidelines for the treatment of children with chronic HBV infection.
Organophosphate (OP) pesticides are neurotoxic compounds that are widely used in agriculture. Classical methods for monitoring OP exposure comprise the measurement of intact OP, its metabolites or cholinesterase activity. Newly developed methods focus on the analysis of the OP adduct bound to proteins such as butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) and albumin. These adducts can be analyzed by means of fluoride reactivation or by analysis with LC-MS/MS of the pepsin or pronase digest of butyrylcholinesterase and albumin, respectively. The utility of these methods is illustrated through the analysis of plasma samples obtained from patients taken 1-49 days after ingestion of the organophosphate pesticides chlorpyrifos and/or diazinon. Thus, in this particular case several independent methodologies were applied to the biomedical samples, all pointing to the same exposure.
New treatment options are urgently needed for patients with relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who fail to respond to currently available therapies or cannot achieve a sustained response. Moreover, targeted agents with less myelotoxicity are necessary to treat patients with multiple comorbidities who would otherwise be unable to tolerate standard regimens. Ibrutinib, a Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitor, has shown highly encouraging results in phase I/II trials in patients with treatment-naive, relapsed and refractory CLL even in the presence of high risk disease or poor prognostic markers. In phase I/II trials, ibrutinib 420 mg or 840 mg - given continuously as single agent or at a dose of 420 mg daily in combination with a monoclonal antibody or chemoimmunotherapy - has been associated with high response rates and durable clinical remissions. Phase II and III trials are currently under way for treatment-naive patients, relapsed/refractory patients, and for those patients harboring a 17p deletion.
The neuropathologic mechanisms after exposure to lethal doses of nerve agent are complex and involve multiple biochemical pathways. Effective treatment requires drugs that can simultaneously protect by reversible binding to the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and blocking cascades of seizure related brain damage, inflammation, neuronal degeneration as well as promoting induction of neuroregeneration. [-]-Huperzine A ([-]-Hup A), is a naturally occurring potent reversible AChE inhibitor that penetrates the blood-brain barrier. It also has several neuroprotective effects including modification of beta-amyloid peptide, reduction of oxidative stress, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic and induction and regulation of nerve growth factor. Toxicities at higher doses restrict the neuroporotective ability of [-]-Hup A for treatment. The synthetic stereoisomer, [+]-Hup A, is less toxic due to poor AChE inhibition and is suitable for both pre-/post-exposure treatments of nerve agent toxicity. [+]-Hup A block the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced seizure in rats, reduce excitatory amino acid induced neurotoxicity and also prevent soman induced toxicity with minimum performance decrement. Unique combinations of two stereo-isomers of Hup A may provide an excellent pre/post-treatment drug for the nerve agent induced seizure/status epilepticus. We investigated a combination of [+]-Hup A with a small dose of [-]-Hup A ([+] and [-]-Hup A) against soman toxicity. Our data showed that pretreatment with a combination [+] and [-]-Hup A significantly increased the survival rate and reduced behavioral abnormalities after exposure to 1.2 × LD(50) soman compared to [+]-Hup A in guinea pigs. In addition, [+] and [-]-Hup A pretreatment inhibited the development of high power of EEG better than [+]-Hup A pretreatment alone. These data suggest that a combination of [+] and [-]-Hup A offers better protection than [+]-Hup A and serves as a potent medical countermeasure against lethal dose nerve agent toxicity in guinea pigs.
Most drug-induced extrapyramidal symptoms are due to blockade of dopaminergic receptors and are treated with anticholinergic drugs. We report a patient with severe postoperative extrapyramidal symptoms which responded to physostigmine and indicated a different aetiology. A young, healthy female outpatient developed severe extrapyramidal symptoms after an uneventful 50 min anaesthetic with thiopentone, fentanyl (100 micrograms), enflurane, and nitrous oxide. Although the trachea was not extubated until she obeyed commands, the patient developed opisthotonus, which resolved initially after treatment with thiopentone (40 mg), diazepam (5 mg), and diphenhydramine (50 mg). The opisthotonus recurred approximately 25 min later, in association with torticollis, obtundation, and periodic apnoea. A tentative diagnosis of central anticholinergic syndrome was proposed, and fentanyl was considered to have been responsible. Naloxone (0.4 mg) induced no improvement, but physostigmine (2 mg) reversed the dystonic symptoms and periodic apnoea and improved her mental status. The response to physostigmine may have been due specifically to increased levels of acetylcholine at the cholinergic receptors, or to a nonspecific analeptic effect.
Paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy (PN) can be a significant problem for patients receiving chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of breast, ovarian, and lung cancer as PN can influence the quality of life and survivorship in these patients. To begin to understand the cellular changes that occur within the peripheral and central nervous system as PN develops, we intravenously infused rats with clinically relevant doses of paclitaxel. Ten days later, behavioral changes indicative of PN became evident that included mechanical allodynia, cold hyperalgesia, and deficits in ambulation/coordination. These behaviors were accompanied by increased expression of activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3; a marker of cellular injury) in a population of large>medium>small diameter sensory neurons, a population of satellite cells in the lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and in myelinating Schwann cells in the sciatic nerve. In addition, there was an increase in the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in DRG satellite cells and an increase in the number of CD68 positive activated macrophages within the DRG and peripheral nerve. Within lamina III-IV of the lumbar spinal cord, there was an increase in OX42 positive microglia. These data suggest that intravenous infusion of paclitaxel induces a peripheral neuropathy characterized by injury of neuronal and non-neuronal cells in the peripheral nervous system, macrophage activation in both the DRG and peripheral nerve, and microglial activation within the spinal cord. An understanding of the factors involved in the development and maintenance of PN may lead to mechanism based therapies that prevent/treat PN and thus improve the survival and quality of life of patients receiving chemotherapy.
Ahr activation is known to be associated with synovitis and exacerbated rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but its contributions to bone loss have not been completely elucidated. Osteoblast proliferation and differentiation are abnormal at the erosion site in RA. Here, we reported that the expression of Ahr was increased in the hind paws' bone upon collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice, and the levels of Ahr were negatively correlated with bone mineral density (BMD). In addition, immunofluorescent staining showed that the high expression of Ahr was mainly localized in osteoblasts from the CIA mice compared to normal controls. Moreover, the luciferase intensity of Ahr in the nucleus increased by 12.5% in CIA osteoblasts compared to that in normal controls. In addition, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) activation of the Ahr inhibited pre-osteoblast MC3T3-E1 cellular proliferation and differentiation in a dose-dependent manner. Interestingly, the levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) mRNA expression in the osteoblasts of CIA mice were reduced compared to normal controls. In contrast, decreased ALP expression by activated Ahr was completely reversed after pretreatment with an Ahr inhibitor (CH-223191) in MC3T3-E1 cell lines and primary osteoblasts on day 5. Our data further showed that activation of Ahr promoted the phosphorylation of ERK after 5days. Moreover, Ahr-dependent activation of the ERK signaling pathway decreased the levels of proliferation cells and inhibited ALP activity in MC3T3-E1 cells. These results demonstrated that the high expression of Ahr may suppress osteoblast proliferation and differentiation through activation of the ERK signaling pathway, further enabling bone erosion in CIA mice.
Nitric oxide (NO) produced by the enzyme nitric oxide synthase (NOS) is critically involved in the cardiopulmonary transition from fetal to neonatal life. In congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) this transition often does not occur normally, resulting in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN). We sought to determine if pulmonary NOS expression is altered in a rat model of CDH induced by maternal ingestion of the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenyl-p-nitrophenyl ether (Nitrofen) on day 9 of gestation (term = 22 days). Sixty-three percent of Nitrofen-exposed fetuses developed CDH. Endothelial NOS (eNOS) and neuronal NOS (nNOS) protein expression were assessed in ipsilateral CDH lungs and in control lungs (Nitrofen-treated, no hernia) at 20 d gestation using immunoblot analyses. eNOS and nNOS have been immunohistochemically localized to rat pulmonary endothelium and bronchiolar epithelium, respectively, and we have previously demonstrated that their expression normally increases during late gestation to be maximal near term. eNOS protein expression was decreased in CDH versus control lung (58 +/- 6 versus 100 +/- 6% of control, n = 5). In contrast, nNOS protein abundance was similar. Factor VIII-associated antigen expression was comparable in CDH and control lung, indicating that the change in eNOS is not related to differences in endothelial cell density. eNOS mRNA abundance was evaluated in semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assays. Paralleling the decline in eNOS protein expression, eNOS mRNA was decreased in CDH versus control lung (22 +/- 8 versus 100 +/- 31% of control, n = 4).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The incidence of convulsions in patients receiving tricyclic antidepressants or bupropion was reviewed. For both types of drug, the risk of a seizure was dose-dependent and was higher in patients with predisposing factors, e.g., a history of seizures. Patients without a predisposing factor had a convulsion incidence of approximately 0.6%-0.9% (6-9/1,000 patients) when receiving imipramine at doses of greater than 200 mg/day or bupropion at doses greater than 450 mg/day. At lower doses, the frequency of seizures dropped to about 1/1,000 (or less) for imipramine and bupropion. Thus, the risk of a seizure in patients receiving equally therapeutic doses of imipramine and bupropion appears to be comparable.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is a major enzyme that is responsible for the detoxification of reactive oxygen species in the mitochondria. Mitochondrial DNA damage may contribute to carcinogenesis as an important risk factor. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between prostate cancer and MnSOD Ala-9Val polymorphism in Turkish men with prostate cancer.
Fifty patients with prostate cancer and 50 healthy controls were included in this study. Gene polymorphism was determined using a PCR-RFLP method.
The Ala/Ala genotype and the Ala allele were found at statistically higher frequencies in patients with prostate cancer as compared to controls (p < 0.05). The patients suffering from prostate cancer were divided into two groups according to Gleason score: aggressive prostate cancer and non-aggressive prostate cancer. It was observed that carrying the Ala/Ala genotype or the Ala allele resulted in an insignificant increase in the frequency of aggressive prostate cancer compared to nonaggressive prostate cancer. It was concluded that MnSOD Ala allele might be the cause of prostate cancer risk among alcohol users.
The results of our study of Turkish prostate cancer patients suggest that mutation of the MnSOD gene may be an important risk factor for prostate cancer.
