We describe the long-term follow-up of severe lupus nephritis treated with cyclophosphamide, with emphasis on the incidence of relapses after therapy withdrawal. From a cohort of SLE patients followed over a period of twelve years, we review the charts of the eleven with histologic evidence of class IV nephritis who reached complete remission with cyclophosphamide and who were followed for more than four years after the discontinuation. In all patients, cyclophosphamide was maintained for longer than two years after complete remission. Four patients relapsed following therapy withdrawal (36%). Sequential biopsies were taken in eight patients after remission or relapse and show a good histologic correlation with clinical renal data. Clinical remission with re-induction therapy could not be achieved in two patients after relapse. We conclude that relapse is frequently observed following cyclophosphamide withdrawal in lupus patients with diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis initially responsive to this therapy. Studies are needed to determine the influence of different regimes of maintenance therapy on the rate of relapses.
Estrogen receptors (ESR) 1 and 2 are expressed in the normal and atherosclerotic arteries mediating the atheroprotective action of estrogen to artery wall cells. Whether variants of these receptor genes associate with autopsy-verified coronary artery wall atherosclerosis is not known. This study investigated whether variants of the ESR1 gene are associated with autopsy-verified coronary artery wall atherosclerosis and thrombosis. Coronary arteries were taken from 300 white Finnish male autopsy cases aged 33-69 years included in the Helsinki Sudden Death Study. Areas of coronary wall covered with fatty streaks, fibrotic, calcified, and complicated lesions were measured using computer-assisted planimetry and related to ESR1 PvuII genotypes (P/P, P/p, and p/p) determined by PCR. The mean area of complicated lesions of three major coronaries and the presence of coronary thrombosis were significantly associated with the ESR1 genotype in men aged 53 years or older (median age as a cut off point). No such association was found in men aged under 53 years. After adjusting for age and body mass index the men aged 53 years or over with P/p and P/P genotype had areas of complicated lesions on average two- and fivefold larger than subjects with the p/p genotype. The age and body mass index adjusted odds ratios for coronary thrombosis were 6.2 for P/p and 10.6 for P/P compared to men with the p/p genotype. After additional adjustment for diabetes and hypertension the ESR1 genotype persisted as an independent predictor of complicated lesions ( P=0.007) and coronary thrombosis. In conclusion, the ESR1 gene is a potential candidate behind the pathogenesis of acute coronary events.
The organophosphates trichlorfon, dichlorvos, dimethoate, soman, triortho-cresyl phosphate (TOCP), and the diethoxy-analogue of trichlorfon (O,O-diethyl 2,2,2-trichloro-1-hydroxyethylphosphonate, ethyl-trichlorfon), were administered to guinea pigs between day 42 and 46 of gestation. When the offsprings were examined at birth, there was a severe reduction in brain weight in the case of trichlorfon and dichlorvos, but not after treatment with the other organophosphates. The reduction in weight was most pronounced for cerebellum, medulla oblongata, thalamus/hypothalamus and quadrigemina. The effect was less marked for cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Since soman, a potent anticholinesterase, and TOCP, an inhibitor of neuropathy target esterase, did not show any effects, this excludes that the brain hypoplasia can be caused by inhibition of these two enzymes. Further, the lack of effect with ethyl-trichlorfon has shed some light on the part of the trichlorfon molecule which could be involved in the formation of the hypoplasia. It is suggested that alkylation of DNA may be involved in the development of the lesion. The possible consequences for a teratogenic effect of trichlorfon and dichlorvos on humans are discussed.
Hyperplasia and, ultimately, neoplasia of bladder epithelium were produced by feeding 0.2% N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) to weaning male Fischer rats. Hyperplasia induced by FANFT feeding for 2, 4, or 6 weeks, followed by feeding control diet until the end of the 84-week experiment, was reversible, and at the end of the experiment bladder epithelium in these animals was normal by light and scanning electron microscopy. Hyperplasia produced by 8 or more weeks of FANFT feeding was irreversible and by 84 weeks had resulted in bladder tumors in all animals fed FANFT for 12 or more weeks and in 4 of 5 and 6 of 7 animals fed FANFT for 8 and 10 weeks, respectively. The epithelial changes after 6 and 8 weeks of FANFT were similar by light microscopy but different by scanning electron microscopy. Pleomorphic microvilli seen with scanning electron microscopy are the hallmark of irreversible, and possibly progressive, epithelial proliferative change.
Severe adverse reactions to neuroleptic medications are not uncommon and include the neuroleptic malignant syndrome, rhabdomyolysis, and acute renal failure. The neuroleptic malignant syndrome consists of hyperthermia, diaphoresis, tachycardia, tachypnea, abnormal blood pressure, alteration of consciousness, and extrapyramidal rigidity. Rhabdomyolysis--which might be due to hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, and/or metabolic changes in skeletal muscle function--results in acute renal failure. We report a patient with rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure that developed after large doses of haloperidol were given, but without muscle rigidity or hyperthermia. This patient's presentation illustrates that high-dose haloperidol therapy might cause rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure without significant rigidity or hyperthermia.
The influence of four potassium channel agonists i.e. diazoxide (D), levcromakalim (L), nicorandil (N) and pinacidil (P) on bupivacaine-induced acute toxicity was evaluated by measuring the convulsant activity, the time of latency to convulse and the mortality rate. Four different dosages (i.e. 0.1, 1, 10 and 100 mg/kg/i.p. for D, N and P and 0.01, 0.1, 1 and 5 mg/kg/i.p. for L) were injected to a total of 200 male NMRI adult mice: 16 groups of 10 mice each were previously treated by a single i.p. dose of each potassium channel agonist while controls (n = 40) received saline injection. Thus, 15 minutes later, all groups were injected with a 50 mg/kg/i.p. single dose of bupivacaine. The convulsant activity of bupivacaine was significantly modified by only high doses of L in a dose-dependent manner. Compared to the controls, the period of latency was significantly increased for most of the doses of P, N, D and L in a dose dependent manner for L and P. The anesthetic-induced mortality (47.5% for controls) was not significantly modified by D, but decreased by N and increased by high doses of L and P which is probably related to a delayed mortality.
At lumbar diskography, intradiskal lidocaine can eliminate or reduce provoked diskogenic pain. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the postdiskogram CT features of lidocaine-sensitive and lidocaine-insensitive severely painful disks.
Intradiskal lidocaine was injected at 182 severely painful levels in 111 patients. Clinical records/imaging studies were reviewed for response to intradiskal lidocaine (complete/substantial, partial, and no pain improvement), evidence of diskographic contrast leakage (fluoroscopic/CT images), and the overall postdiskogram CT appearance in these severely painful disks. The assessed traditional Dallas grade (degeneration/radial tear [RT]) was supplemented by identified postdiskogram CT features of annular derangement (annular gap [AG], RT into peripheral annular tear [PAT], isolated PAT, lamellar annular tear, free/attached annular fragments, bucket-handle tear, and peripheral annular pocket).
Isolated degenerative changes (40%) and radial defects with or without degeneration (60%) subsets were noted. Dallas grade 3 degeneration was most commonly observed (69%) with increased features of annular derangement in disks with a worsening Dallas grade. Complete/substantial versus no pain improvement was significantly associated with disk state (diskographic leakage, contained), radial defect (none, RT, or AG), and "RT-into-PAT" and were statistically significant in univariate models (P < .001). The associations remained significant in multivariate models. Higher Dallas degenerative grade and presence of free annular fragments were associated with a greater chance of no pain relief.
Severely painful disks demonstrated complex annular derangement with both radial defects (RTs and AGs) or degenerative changes present, alone or in combination. Complete/substantial pain improvement after lidocaine administration is associated with disk state, radial defect (RT and AG), and RT-into-PAT.
A case of delayed respiratory arrest in the combined spinal-epidural anesthesia (CSEA) is described. This event was likely due to morphine injected through the epidural catheter, unintentionally entering into the subarachnoid space through the hole in the dura that was made previously by the spinal needle in the needle-through-needle technique.
The CSEA is a popular new regional anesthesia that combines the benefits of the spinal and epidural injections. The needle-through-needle technique, which is only one of the various techniques to accomplish CSEA, may increase the risk of unintentionally allowing the entry of the epidural catheter into the subarachnoid space because the spinal needle and epidural catheter have the same pathway.
This is the second case report of this event with the needle-through-needle technique. The FDA has recently approved this needle-through-needle technique.
Careful attention to technique is necessary with utilization of CSEA.
The behavioral and electroencephalographic effects of alprazolam and its metabolites were investigated in mice, rats and rabbits, and compared with the data on diazepam, lorazepam and nitrazepam. Locomotor activity of mice in an open-field situation was increased with smaller doses of alprazolam and nitrazepam but not with diazepam and lorazepam. Alprazolam increased the hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine in mice. The anticonflict effects of alprazolam in rats were more potent than those of diazepam and lorazepam. In suppressing hyperemotionality and muricide of olfactory bulbectomized rats, alprazolam was more potent than diazepam and fairly equal to that of lorazepam. Muricide of raphe-lesioned rats was markedly inhibited by alprazolam. Mescaline-induced head-twitches in mice were more markedly increased with alprazolam than with nitrazepam and diazepam. Alprazolam, diazepam and lorazepam prevented both maximal electroshock and pentetrazol convulsions in mice. Alprazolam was more potent than diazepam and lorazepam in potentiating thiopental, ether and ethanol anesthesia in mice. In the impaired rotarod performance, alprazolam was more potent than diazepam and lorazepam in mice, but was much less potent than diazepam and lorazepam in mice, but was much less potent than lorazepam in rats. In conscious rabbits with chronically implanted electrodes, alprazolam induced a drowsy EEG pattern and depressed the EEG arousal response not only to auditory stimulation but also to mesencephalic reticular stimulation. The EEG effect of alprazolam was approx. twice that of diazepam. The pharmacological activity of alpha-hydroxyalprazolam was approx. one third that of alprazolam. However, 5-chloro-2-(3-hydromethyl-5-methyl-4H-1, 2,4-triazolo-4-yl) benzophenone showed no pharmacological activity. These results indicate that alprazolam possesses pharmacologic properties characteristic to benzodiazepines and that the activity is more potent than diazepam. In addition, alprazolam seems to have a specific effect on the central serotonergic mechanisms.
Report of a patient with the hydrocephalic and meningoencephalitic form of neurocysticercosis who simultaneously developed polyradiculoneuropathy and intracranial hypertension syndrome during the first week of treatment with albendazole. Etiologic agents associated with polyradiculoneuropathy related in the literature are cited. Some comments about the possible physiopathogeny of this entity in the presence of cysticercosis are also done. It is mentioned another case who presented polyradiculoneuropathy as the only manifestation of a probable cysticercosis of the nervous system. In this presented case, including the neurocysticercosis and even a mere coincidence of facts, some factors can have a relationship with the appearance of polyradiculoneuropathy as the surgical stress, the stress due to the severity of the clinical picture and the possible side effect of albendazole.
Telmisartan (Micardis (R)) is a new, orally active, long-acting angio-tensin (Ang) II receptor antagonist that is effective in the treatment of hypertension. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) has emerged as an important method for evaluating the consistency of the antihypertensive effects of a drug throughout the dosing interval. ABPM was used to evaluate the antihypertensive efficacy of telmisartan in several placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter studies. Patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension were allocated randomly to groups to receive telmisartan 40 or 80 mg, losartan 50 mg, or placebo, once daily in a 6-week, fixed-dose study, or telmisartan 40-120 mg, amlodipine 5-10 mg, or placebo, once daily in a 12-week, dose-titration study. Patients treated with telmisartan 40 and 80 mg or placebo in a separate 4-week, fixed-dose study were included in an additional analysis. Telmisartan 40 and 80 mg significantly decreased mean ambulatory systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) relative to placebo for the entire 24 h period and in the following intervals: day (6 a.m. to 10 p.m.), morning (6 a.m. to noon), night (10 p.m. to 6 a.m), and the last 4 h of the dosing interval (P<0.01). Notably, telmisartan 40 or 80 mg was more effective than losartan, especially during the last 4-6 h of the dosing interval (P<0.05). Telmisartan 40- 120 mg tended to be more effective than amlodipine 5-10 mg in reducing SBP and DBP in each time interval, with significant differences between treatments noted for DBP in the last 4 h of the dosing interval and in the morning (P < 0.05). ABPM also revealed that the magnitude of the blood pressure decreasing effect with telmisartan was consistent throughout the dosing interval. These results demonstrate that telmisartan maintains a normal circadian blood pressure pattern and provides full 24 h blood pressure control with once-daily dosing.
The leukotrienes are potent inflammatory mediators, which may have a role in inflammatory diseases such as allergic rhinitis, inflammatory bowl disease and asthma. Zafirlukast, a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor antagonist, is claimed to be effective in asthma. However, it is not known whether these leukotrienes are involved in nociceptive and peripheral inflammation. The present study aimed to assess the role of cysteinyl leukotrienes in nociceptive and inflammatory conditions in experimental animals. Central nociception was assessed with tail-flick and hot-plate methods and peripheral nociception was assessed by acetic acid-induced chemonociception in mice. Local administration (intraplantar) of carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia and inflammation, measured by paw withdrawal latency and paw volumes, respectively. Zafirlukast (2.5--20 mg/kg, p.o.) produced a significant and dose-dependent antinociceptive and antiinflammatory effect against acetic acid-induced chemonociception in mice and carrageenan-induced paw oedema in rats, respectively. Zafirlukast (2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg, p.o.) also attenuated the carrageenan-provoked hyperalgesia but did not alter the pain threshold in central nociception up to 20 mg/kg. Zafirlukast (5 and 10 mg/kg ) significantly inhibited exudate formation and migration of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in carrageenan-induced pleurisy. Further, zafirlukast (5 mg/kg) also reduced myeloperoxidase activity in carrageenan-treated paw. When nimesulide (2 mg/kg, p.o.) was co-administered with zafirlukast, the antinociceptive, antihyperalgesic and antiinflammatory effects of nimesulide were significantly increased as compared to the per se effect. The results indicate that cysteinyl leukotrienes are involved in nociceptive/inflammatory conditions. It is expected that combination of cysteinyl leukotriene receptor antagonist with cyclooxygenase inhibitor would prove to be a novel approach to treat complex inflammatory conditions.
A 9-year-old female spayed Shetland Sheepdog was presented to the Kansas State University Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital for evaluation following a 3-week history of left rear limb lameness that had progressed to generalized ataxia. Multifocal or diffuse brain lesions were suspected based on physical examination findings. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) contained 52 nucleated cells/μL composed of mixed inflammatory cells. Treatment with prednisone and cyclosporine was initiated based on a presumptive diagnosis of granulomatous meningoencephalitis. Thirteen days later the dog was nonambulatory and mentally obtunded. Repeat CSF analysis revealed 298 nucleated cells/μL with 61% eosinophils. Rare protozoal tachyzoites consistent with Neospora caninum, Toxoplasma gondii, or Sarcocystis spp. were found extracellularly and within macrophages and an eosinophil. Despite cessation of prednisone and cyclosporine therapy and provision of supportive care, the dog died 6 days later. Examination of brain tissue sections revealed multifocally extensive, necrotizing, histiocytic, and lymphoplasmacytic meningoencephalitis with numerous protozoal zoites and cysts. Immunohistochemical analysis of brain tissue using a monoclonal antibody specific for N. caninum confirmed the diagnosis of neosporosis. Similar but less severe lesions were noted in the spinal cord, although organisms were not found. This case emphasizes the value of repeated CSF analysis when therapy is ineffective and the importance of excluding infectious causes of meningoencephalitis before commencement of immunosuppressive therapy.
Cap43 has been identified as a nickel- and calcium-induced gene, and is also known as N-myc downstream-regulated gene 1 (NDRG1), Drg-1 and rit42. It is also reported that overexpression of Cap43 suppresses metastasis of some malignancies, but its precise role remains unclear. In this study, we asked how Cap43 could modulate the tumor growth of pancreatic cancer. Stable Cap43 cDNA transfectants of pancreatic cancer cells with Cap43 overexpression showed similar growth rates in culture as their control counterparts with low Cap43 protein level. By contrast, Cap43 overexpression showed a marked decrease in tumor growth rates in vivo. Moreover, a marked reduction in tumor-induced angiogenesis was observed. Gelatinolytic activity by matrix metalloproteinase-9 and invasive ability in Matrigel invasion activity were markedly decreased in pancreatic cancer cell lines with high Cap43 expression. Cellular expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 and two major angiogenic factors, vascular endothelial growth factor and interleukin-8, were also significantly decreased in cell lines with Cap43 overexpression as compared with their parental counterparts. Immunohistochemical analysis of specimens from 65 patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma showed a significant association between Cap43 expression and tumor microvascular density (P = 0.0001) as well as depth of invasion (P = 0.0003), histopathologic grading (P = 0.0244), and overall survival rates for patients with pancreatic cancer (P = 0.0062). Thus, Cap43 could play a key role in the angiogenic on- or off-switch of tumor stroma in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
We describe 2 cases of mild botulism in patients who inhaled cocaine. Botulism, though rare, is increasing in incidence among illicit drug users. To our knowledge, these are the first cases of botulism in illicit drug users in France. Clinicians should be aware of this phenomenon; botulism should be considered in illicit drug users with neurological symptoms.
Intravenous haloperidol is the agent of choice for controlling severe agitated delirium in seriously ill cardiac patients in many institutions. Prior reports have proposed that high-dose intravenous haloperidol may be without untoward effects in these patients. Recently, however, a few reports of significant QTc prolongation and torsade de pointes as complications of high-dose intravenous haloperidol therapy have appeared. The present report describes three patients with definite haloperidol-induced QTc prolongation and torsade. In each case, QTc prolongation preceded the arrhythmia and disappeared following the discontinuation of haloperidol. Neither electrolyte imbalance, therapy with other cardiac drugs, bradycardia, ischemia, left ventricular dysfunction, nor other known cause of torsade was present in these patients. It is hypothesized that QTc prolongation and torsade likely are idiosyncratic, unpredictable reactions to high-dose haloperidol in select patients. Careful serial electrocardiographic monitoring and prompt discontinuation of the drug should suffice to prevent this relatively uncommon, life-threatening complication of high-dose intravenous haloperidol.
From as early as the 1970s methotrexate has been associated with disseminated necrotizing leukoencephalopathy and other neurotoxic sequelae. Yet, a clear mechanism for methotrexate-induced neurotoxicity has not been established. The authors describe the case of a 12-year-old male with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and a homozygous methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase C677T mutation, who developed subacute methotrexate-induced toxicity and cerebral venous thrombosis after receiving intrathecal methotrexate. The role of homocysteine as a possible mediator in methotrexate-induced neurotoxicity via direct endothelial injury is discussed.
We examined the association between antenatal indomethacin exposure and adverse neonatal outcome in a matched retrospective cohort study of infants born to 72 mothers at less than 31 weeks' gestation. Indomethacin-exposed mothers were matched to controls by gestational age at delivery, antenatal corticosteroid exposure, prolonged spontaneous rupture of membranes, multiple pregnancy, thyrotrophin releasing hormone (TRH) exposure, and neonatal sex. Periventricular haemorrhage was significantly increased for infants delivered within 48 hours of maternal indomethacin exposure (Grade 1 and 2 19% versus 6%, and Grades 3 and 4 28% versus 3% (p<0.03)). Persistent patent ductus arteriosus was more common in those infants delivered within 48 hours of maternal indomethacin exposure (40% versus 20% (p<0.04)). More neonates exposed to antenatal indomethacin failed to respond to postnatal indomethacin to close a patent ductus arteriosus, 60% versus 0% (p<0.04). There were no adverse effects demonstrated of indomethacin administered greater than 48 hours from delivery. We have confirmed a probable association between antenatal indomethacin administration and an increased incidence of neonatal periventricular haemorrhage, patent ductus arteriosus, and impaired renal function. The adverse neonatal effects appear to be greatest when indomethacin is administered within 48 hours of delivery. We recommend that indomethacin should be used with caution as a tocolytic agent for the treatment of preterm labour at gestations less than 31 weeks.
This study was conducted to prospectively examine the effect of switching from risperidone to olanzapine on female schizophrenia patients who experienced menstrual disturbances, galactorrhea, and/or sexual dysfunction.
Twenty female patients with DSM-IV schizophrenia who were taking risperidone and were suffering from menstrual disturbances, galactorrhea, and/or sexual dysfunction were enrolled. Patients were switched from risperidone to olanzapine over a 2-week period, then treated with olanzapine for 8 additional weeks. The serum prolactin concentrations were examined every 2 weeks. The Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS), Simpson-Angus Scale for Extrapyramidal Symptoms (SAS), and questions from the Dickson-Glazer Sexual Functioning Scale were administered to evaluate efficacy, extrapyramidal side effects, and sexual and reproductive functioning at baseline and the endpoint of 10 weeks.
Serum prolactin levels decreased significantly (p < .01) following the switch from risperidone to olanzapine. Scores of PANSS, AIMS, and SAS at the endpoint were also significantly decreased (p < .01) compared to those of baseline. Patients experienced improvements in menstrual functioning and perceptions of sexual side effects.
Olanzapine reversed hyperprolactinemia in risperidone-treated female schizophrenic patients. This was associated with a decrease in amenorrhea, improved cycle regularity, and a decrease in sexual side effects that the women attributed to antipsychotic medication. This study suggests that switching to olanzapine is a safe and effective alternative method for patients with antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia associated sexual and/or reproductive dysfunction. Long-term follow-up studies are warranted, with particular attention to the course of sexual and reproductive dysfunction.
Eight patients with metastatic urothelial carcinoma received high-dose (HD)-MVAC therapy, which consisted of methotrexate (30 mg/m2) on day 1, vinblastine (3 mg/m2) on day 2, doxorubicin (30 mg/m2) on day 2 and cisplatin (70 mg/m2) on day 2 (14-day cycle). Patients were treated with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) (100 microg) subcutaneously from day 4 to 10. For comparison, 7 patients with metastatic urothelial carcinoma who received conventional (C)-MVAC (28-day cycle) were enrolled in this study. Overall survival in the HD-MVAC group was significantly better than that in the C-MVAC group (p = 0.012, log rank test). The overall response rate for measurable metastatic lesions was similar in both groups (HD-MVAC, 62.5% vs. C-MVAC, 57.1%, p =0.622). The patients in the HD-MVAC group were able to receive significantly more courses than the C-MVAC group (HD-MVAC, median 3 courses vs. C-MVAC, 2 courses, p=0.045, Student's t test). The frequency of grade 3/4 toxicities was not statistically different between the 2 groups. HD-MVAC therapy rather than C-MVAC therapy may be advocated as a first-line chemotherapy for metastatic patients, since HD-MVAC is associated with a shorter period required for each course, a lower frequency of dose reduction and a possible benefit in terms of overall survival.
DNA hypermethylated gene promoter sequences are extremely promising cancer markers. Their use for risk assessment, early diagnosis, or prognosis depends on the timing of this gene change during tumor progression. We studied this for the proapoptotic gene ASC/TMS1 in lung cancer and used the findings to develop a sputum marker. ASC/TMS1 protein levels are reduced in all lung cancer types (30 of 40; 75%) but not in 10 preinvasive lesions. Hypermethylation of ASC/TMS1 is also associated with invasive cancers (41 of 152 or 27.0% of all lung cancer types) with variation in incidence between histopathologic types including 32.1% (26 of 81) of adenocarcinomas, 13.2% (7 of 53) of squamous cell carcinomas, 38.5% (5 of 13) of large-cell carcinomas, and 60% (3 of 5) of small-cell lung cancers. The hypermethylation is particularly correlated with late tumor stages being present in only 14% of stage I but 60% of later-stage tumors. The incidence of ASC/TMS1 hypermethylation in sputum DNA fully mimics the tissue findings being present in only 2% (2 of 85) of high-risk, cancer-free smokers, 15% (3 of 18) of patients with stage I non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but 41% of patients with stage III NSCLC (18 of 44), including 56% (10 of 18) of those with adenocarcinoma. Importantly, sputum is positive for this marker in 24% (10 of 42) of very high risk, clinically cancer-free individuals previously resected for stage I NSCLC. Thus, hypermethylation of ASC/TMS1 is a marker for late-stage lung cancer and, in sputum, could predict prognosis in patients resected for early-stage disease.
We describe here a patient with accelerated phase Philadelphia chromosome (Ph1) negative chronic myelogenous leukemia without BCR gene rearrangement, who received an allogeneic bone marrow transplant following a conditioning regimen consisting of busulfan (BU) and cyclophosphamide (CY). Hematopoiesis was restored following splenectomy performed 1 month post-transplant. There were no distinguishing cytogenetic differences between donor and host. Five years post-transplant the patient relapsed with the original disease. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) studies performed at that time exhibited host specific DNA markers suggesting recurrent leukemia of host origin. RFLP analysis of the cells cryopreserved immediately post-transplant also revealed all cells to be of host origin. This patient experienced 5 years of remission with autologous hematopoietic recovery from an aggressive myeloproliferative disorder after high dose BU and CY without engraftment of donor hematopoietic cells.
Overactive bladder can be associated with a hyperexcitability of bladder afferent C-fibres. Several studies have suggested that nitric oxide (NO) or its downstream signalling could modulate the micturition reflex (MR) by reducing the excitability of bladder afferents.
To evaluate the role of the NO/cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) signalling pathway on the MR in a model of bladder hyperactivity (BHA) associated with C-fibre activation in the rat.
Adult female Sprague Dawley rats were used.
Cystometry was performed in anaesthetised rats. The effects of 0.1 mg/kg of sodium nitroprusside (SNP), an NO donor; 10 mg/kg of 8Br-cGMP, a cGMP analogue; 3 mg/kg of sildenafil and 1 mg/kg of vardenafil, two phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (PDE5-I); 10 mg/ml of L-N(G)-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME), an NO synthase inhibitor; and 1 mg/kg of LY-83583, a guanylate cyclase inhibitor, were investigated on BHA during intravesical capsaicin (30 micromol/l) instillation. All drugs were delivered intravenously except for L-NAME, which was intravesically administered.
SNP, 8Br-cGMP, and PDE5-I increased the intercontraction interval (ICI), while SNP and PDE5-I increased the micturition pressure threshold (MPT). L-NAME and LY-83583 decreased MPT, and L-NAME decreased ICI. 8Br-cGMP decreased the maximum intravesical pressure (MP), contrary to L-NAME and LY-83583. SNP and PDE5-I had no effect on MP. SNP increased the voided volume (VV). PDE5-I and 8Br-cGMP also increased VV, although not significantly. In contrast, L-NAME tended to decrease VV. Although 8Br-cGMP decreased the baseline intravesical pressure, LY-83583 increased it. Neither SNP nor PDE5-I nor L-NAME had any effect on baseline pressure.
Compounds activating the NO/cGMP pathway inhibited BHA, whereas compounds inhibiting the NO/cGMP pathway increased it. These results indicate that the NO/cGMP signalling pathway is involved in the regulation of the MR, with an action that seems more predominant on the sensory rather on the motor component of the MR in a rat model of BHA associated with C-fibre afferent activation.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a nonspecific inflammatory disorder characterized by oxidative and nitrosative stress, leucocyte infiltration and up-regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), such as the p38 and the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) modulate the transcription of many genes involved in the inflammatory process. Curcumin is a polyphenol derived from Curcuma longa, which is known to have anti-inflammatory activity. The aim of this study was to study the effects and mechanisms of action of curcumin, on chronic colitis in rats. Inflammation response was assessed by histology and myeloperoxidase activity (MPO). We determined the production of Th1 and Th2 cytokines and nitrites in colon mucosa, as well as the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclo-oxygenase(COX)-1 and-2 by western blotting and inmmunohistochemistry. Finally, we studied the involvement of MAPKs signaling in the protective effect of curcumin in chronic colonic inflammation. Curcumin (50-100 mg/kg/day) were administered by oral gavage 24 h after trinitrobenzensulfonic acid (TNBS) instillation, and daily during 2 weeks before sacrifice. Curcumin significantly attenuated the damage and caused substantial reductions of the rise in MPO activity and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF)-alpha. Also curcumine was able to reduce nitrites colonic levels and induced down-regulation of COX-2 and iNOS expression, and a reduction in the activation of p38 MAPK; however, no changes in the activation of JNK could be observed. In conclusion, we suggest that inhibition of p38 MAPK signaling by curcumin could explain the reduced COX-2 and iNOS immunosignals and the nitrite production in colonic mucosa reducing the development of chronic experimental colitis.
The effect of mexiletine, a new antiarrhythmic drug, was studied by oral (600 to 1200 mg/day) or intravenous (250 mg in 10 minutes) route in 45 patients; most of them had coronary insufficiency. Our results show that mexiletine is a potent ventricular antiarrhythmic drug which is efficient on several types of xylocaine resistant ventricular arrhythmias. In our experience, mexiletine is reliable when administered intravenously; there are frequent and sometimes severe side-effects when given orally.
