The hemodynamic and myocardial metabolic effects of enoximone (phosphodiesterase III inhibitor), alone or in combination with metoprolol (beta-adrenergic blocker), were studied in patients with congestive heart failure. Ten patients (New York Heart Association Class III-IV) underwent right heart and coronary sinus catheterization, and parameters were assessed at basal condition, at peak enoximone response (mean intravenous loading dose = 2.2 mg/kg), and after the combination with metoprolol (mean intravenous dose = 8.5 mg). Heart rate tended to increase during enoximone administration (from 102 +/- 16 to 107 +/- 16 min-1, ns) and was reduced during enoximone plus metoprolol (to 88 +/- 15 min-1, p < 0.05 vs. basal). Cardiac index was increased during enoximone (from 2.2 +/- 0.2 to 3.8 +/- 0.5 1/min/m2, p < 0.05) and decreased during enoximone plus metoprolol (to 2.8 +/- 0.5 1/min/m2, p < 0.05 vs. enoximone). Mean pulmonary wedge pressure fell during enoximone and remained reduced during enoximone plus metoprolol (from 27 +/- 9 to 9 +/- 3 and to 13 +/- 4 mmHg, respectively, both p < 0.05). Myocardial oxygen consumption did not change during enoximone (from 27 +/- 8 to 25 +/- 13 ml/min, ns) and was reduced during enoximone plus metoprolol (to 19 +/- 8 ml/min, p < 0.05 vs. basal). Myocardial lactate extraction tended to be lower during enoximone and during enoximone plus metoprolol conditions (from 38 +/- 17% to 26 +/- 20% and to 29 +/- 24%, respectively), but no statistical significance was found. Myocardial efficiency was increased during enoximone and during enoximone plus metoprolol (from 9 +/- 3% to 15 +/- 6% and to 14 +/- 6%, respectively, both p < 0.05). Thus in patients with congestive heart failure enoximone improves hemodynamics and, in most cases, it does not influence energetics. The addition of metoprolol to enoximone reduces heart rate, cardiac index, and myocardial oxygen consumption without any other major changes, producing a more physiologic hemodynamic and metabolic profile.
Copper is an essential co-factor for several key metabolic processes. This requirement in humans is underscored by Menkes disease, an X-linked copper deficiency disorder caused by mutations in the copper transporting P-type ATPase, MNK. MNK is located in the trans-Golgi network where it transports copper to secreted cuproenzymes. Increases in copper concentration stimulate the trafficking of MNK to the plasma membrane where it effluxes copper. In this study, a Menkes disease mutation, G1019D, located in the large cytoplasmic loop of MNK, was characterized in transfected cultured cells. In copper-limiting conditions the G1019D mutant protein was retained in the endoplasmic reticulum. However, this mislocalization was corrected by the addition of copper to cells via a process that was dependent upon the copper binding sites at the N-terminal region of MNK. Reduced growth temperature and the chemical chaperone, glycerol, were found to correct the mislocalization of the G1019D mutant, suggesting this mutation interferes with protein folding in the secretory pathway. These findings identify G1019D as the first conditional mutation associated with Menkes disease and demonstrate correction of the mislocalized protein by copper supplementation. Our findings provide a molecular framework for understanding how mutations that affect the proper folding of the MNK transporter in Menkes patients may be responsive to parenteral copper therapy.
Recent evidence revealed a crucial role of direct striatal pathway pathophysiological over-activation in the pathogenesis of l-dopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). In order to explore the potential mechanism(s) involved in the over-activation of direct striatal pathways, this study was designed to examine changes in prodynorphin (PDyn) gene expression as well as phosphorylation of dopamine and 32 kDa cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32) in rats with LID using in situ hybridization and immunoblotting. Our data demonstrated significantly increased levels of PDyn mRNA and phospho-Thr-34 DARPP-32 and significantly decreased phospho-Thr-75 DARPP-32 in LID rats compared with control and l-dopa treated groups. Following treatment of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801), the LID-induced changes in PDyn mRNA, phospho-Thr-34 DARPP-32 and phospho-Thr-75 DARPP-32 were largely reversed. Collectively, these findings suggested that changes of the DARPP-32 phosphorylation state may be important for over-activation of the direct pathway.
Because macrophages are considered to be possible effectors of disease in Adriamycin (ADR) nephrosis, we hypothesized that depletion of macrophages might protect against the initiation of renal injury. In the present study, a monoclonal antibody (ED7) directed against CD11b/CD18 integrin, which is expressed by macrophages, was used to investigate the pathogenetic effects of macrophages in ADR nephropathy.
Male Wistar rats were treated with ED7 antibody, starting 1 day prior to ADR (7.5 mg/kg) treatment, or 7 days post-ADR when overt proteinuria was established.
Circulating ED7-positive cells were reduced by approximately 30% in rats with ADR nephrosis by the ED7 antibody, while the number of macrophages in the renal cortex of ADR rats was reduced by nearly 50% with the ED7 treatment, whether administered before or after ADR. Creatinine clearance was significantly ameliorated by ED7 when commenced pre-ADR (P < 0.05), but not when commenced post-ADR (P = NS) in comparison to untreated ADR rats. However, proteinuria was not alleviated by either ED7 treatment. Morphometric analysis showed less glomerular sclerosis when ED7 was commenced pre-ADR compared with ADR alone (P < 0.01), but not when commenced post-ADR (P = NS). Tubular atrophy was reduced by ED7 when it was commenced pre-ADR (tubular cell height and tubular diameter: P < 0.01 and P < 0.001, respectively), as was interstitial expansion (P < 0.01) compared with ADR alone. Cortical macrophage infiltration was reduced by 50% compared with ADR alone by the ED7 commenced before or after ADR. The number of cortical CD4+ T cells fell with ED7 starting pre-ADR, but not with the ED7 treatment commencing after ADR.
Partial macrophage depletion starting before but not after ADR protected both renal function and structure in this model of chronic proteinuric renal disease.
The mutation fragilitas ossium (fro) was discovered in a random-bred stock of mice during an experiment aimed at detecting recessive lethal mutations after treatment of the postmeiotic germ cells of male mice with tris (1-aziridinyl)phosphine sulphide. The affected mice were moderately runted and had deformities in all four limbs. The radiological and histological findings indicate that the mutant is similar to human osteogenesis imperfecta. The ash content of long bones was lower in the mutant. A defect of type I collagen could not be detected. The electrophoretic patterns of alpha bands of type I and V collagen and CB derived peptides of type I collagen from bone and skin showed no abnormalities. The total collagen synthesis and secretion in cultures of dermal fibroblasts, as well as the gel electrophoresis of procollagen and collagen chains synthesized, and of their CB peptides, were the same as those found in the controls. The percentage of type I and type V collagen synthesized was similar; that of type III was lower in the mutants. Bone osteonectin was found to be decreased by 30% and bone sialoprotein by 5%. The mRNA level for osteonectin was decreased in the fibroblasts of the mutant by about 50%. Whether the defective expression of the osteonectin in fro/fro mice is due to a mutation in the gene itself or its regulatory site(s), or is secondary to other factors remains to be established. The fro/fro mouse may represent a model for some forms of human bone fragility without collagen abnormalities.
Veno-occlusive disease (VOD) of the liver, also termed as sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, constitutes a well-known complication of high-dose cytoreductive chemotherapy prior to allogeneic or autologous bone marrow transplantation and is associated with the intensity of treatment [1]. On the contrary, there is only one report of VOD during induction therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia in a patient with Marfan syndrome, who was successfully treated with defibrotide [2]. In this article, we present the first fatal case of VOD during induction therapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
To evaluate the anti-angiogenetic effect of the combination of low-dose cyclophosphamide(CTX) and ginsenoside Rg3 in mice with Lewis lung carcinoma, and to observe the anti-tumor effect, toxicity, adverse reaction of the treatment and survival time of the tumor bearing mice.
Holland C57/ BL6 Lewis lung carcinoma mice were taken as the model and randomly divided into 5 groups, i.e. the low-dose CTX (LDCTX) group, the maximum tolerable dose CTX (MTDCTX) group, the ginsenoside Rg3 (Rg3) group, the low-dose CTX combined with ginsenoside Rg3 group (LDCTX + Rg3), and the model group. Tumor volume, weight of mice, peripheral white blood cell counts and survival time of mice were observed, tumor microvascular density (MVD) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene expression were determined during the therapeutic course.
In the LDCTX group, tumor grew comparatively slow, no significant decrease in body weight or peripheral white blood cells, and survival time was prolonged. In the LDCTX + Rg3 group, the tumor inhibitory effect was more persistent and steady without any increase of toxicity or adverse reaction. Besides, the survival time of mice was prolonged (P < 0.01). MVD was lower in the LDCTX group than that in the MTDCTX group (P< 0. 05). Compared with the model group, MVD and VEGF expression were lower in the LDCTX and the Rg3 group, and the lowering action was more significant when the two drugs were used in combination (P < 0.05).
The combination of low-dose CTX and Rg3 has obvious synergetic action of anti-angiogenesis, it shows significant and persistent tumor inhibitory effect, with less toxic and adverse reaction, and could induce longer survival time than treatment of CTX or Rg3 alone.
Several large cohorts of patients treated with alkylating agents served as a means to review the clinical and pathologic features of 55 cases of myelopathic disorders that resulted. The incidence was 1.8% overall and consisted of five patients (9.9%) who developed bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia, 15 (27.2%) who developed a myelodysplastic syndrome, and 35 cases of acute myeloid leukemia (62.9%). The median time to recognition of MPD was 14 months, following cessation of chemotherapy. The distribution of the treatment-related MDS cases was different than "de novo" MDS with a high percentage of RAEB-T, and with the treatment related AMLs, there were a higher percentage of patients with FAB M6 (erythroleukemia), and no cases of FAB M3 (hypergranular promyelocytic). The median survival of all patients was very brief.
Iroquois homeobox (Irx) genes have been implicated in the early lung morphogenesis of vertebrates. Irx1-3 and Irx5 gene expression is seen in fetal lung in rodents up to day (D) 18.5 of gestation. Fetal lung in Irx knockdown mice shows loss of mesenchyme and dilated airspaces, whereas nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung displays thickened mesenchyme and diminished airspaces. We hypothesized that the Irx genes are up-regulated during early lung morphogenesis in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung.
Pregnant rats were exposed either to olive oil or nitrofen on D9. Fetal lungs harvested on D15 were divided into control and nitrofen groups; and the lungs harvested on D18 were divided into control, nitrofen without congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH[-]), and nitrofen with CDH (CDH[+]). Irx gene expression levels were analyzed by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemistry was performed to evaluate protein expression of Irx family.
Pulmonary Irx1-3 and Irx5 messenger RNA expression levels were significantly up-regulated in nitrofen group compared with controls at D15. On D15, Irx immunoreactivity was increased in nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung compared with controls.
Overexpression of Irx genes in the early lung development may cause pulmonary hypoplasia in the nitrofen CDH model by inducing lung dysmorphogenesis with thickened mesenchyme and diminished airspaces.
Escitalopram is the most selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI) antidepressant available. Venlafaxine is a non-selective SRI that also inhibits noradrenergic re-uptake. This study compared escitalopram and venlafaxine extended release (XR) in depressed outpatients at the highest doses recommended in the United States.
In this randomized trial, patients (diagnosis of DSM-IV-defined major depressive disorder; baseline Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression score of >/= 20) received 1 week of single-blind placebo treatment, followed by 8 weeks of double-blind, fixed-dose treatment with either escitalopram or venlafaxine XR (rapidly titrated to 20 mg/day and 225 mg/day, respectively, in accordance with prescribing information). The primary efficacy variable was change from baseline to week 8 in Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) total score. Data were collected from May to December 2002.
Mean baseline MADRS scores for the escitalopram (N = 97) and venlafaxine XR (N = 98) groups were 30.7 and 30.0, respectively. There were no significant differences in measures of efficacy between the 2 antidepressants. Mean changes from baseline to endpoint in MADRS total score for escitalopram and venlafaxine XR were -15.9 and -13.6, respectively. Remission (MADRS score of </= 10) rates at endpoint were 41.2% for escitalopram and 36.7% for venlafaxine XR. Response (>/= 50% reduction from baseline MADRS score) rates for the escitalopram and venlafaxine XR groups were 58.8% and 48.0%, respectively. Tolerability measures favored escitalopram over venlafaxine XR treatment. The venlafaxine XR group had a higher incidence than the escitalopram group of treatment-emergent adverse events (85.0% vs. 68.4%) and discontinuation due to adverse events (16.0% vs. 4.1%; p <.01).
Results of this study indicate that, when titrated rapidly to their maximum recommended doses, escitalopram is at least as effective as venlafaxine XR and significantly better tolerated. These results do not support the hypothesis that nonselective SRIs have greater efficacy than selective SRIs.
Clozapine-induced obsessive/compulsive symptoms (OCS) have been reported by many authors. This study investigated the incidence of these side effects, together with the relation between these side effects and the plasma concentration (Cps) of clozapine and its metabolites norclozapine and clozapine-N-oxide in schizophrenic patients. One hundred and two schizophrenic patients treated with clozapine were interviewed and screened with questionnaires testing for OCS during a 1-year study period. Cps of clozapine and the metabolites were monitored using reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection. Thirty-nine patients (38.2%) presented with OCS, and, of these, 29 patients (28.4%) were classified as clozapine-induced, with an average latent period of 39.8+/-22.5 months. The Cps of clozapine and norclozapine were significantly higher in patients with OCS than in those without (595.1+/-364.9 vs. 433.5+/-252.8 ng/mL, P=0.001 and 266.4+/-144.4 vs. 203.1+/-119.8 ng/mL) OCS. Clozapine-induced OCS were not uncommon side effects. The authors suggest that the emergence of these side effects may be related to higher Cps of clozapine and clinicians should routinely check for and manage these side effects.
The biological functions of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) can be delineated into dioxin response element (DRE)-dependent or -independent activities. Ligands exhibiting either full or partial agonist activity, e.g., 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin and α-naphthoflavone, have been demonstrated to potentiate both DRE-dependent and -independent AHR function. In contrast, the recently identified selective AHR modulators (SAhRMs), e.g., 1-allyl-3-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-7-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-indazole (SGA360), bias AHR toward DRE-independent functionality while displaying antagonism with regard to ligand-induced DRE-dependent transcription. Recent studies have expanded the physiological role of AHR to include modulation of hematopoietic progenitor expansion and immunoregulation. It remains to be established whether such physiological roles are mediated through DRE-dependent or -independent pathways. Here, we present evidence for a third class of AHR ligand, "pure" or complete antagonists with the capacity to suppress both DRE-dependent and -independent AHR functions, which may facilitate dissection of physiological AHR function with regard to DRE or non-DRE-mediated signaling. Competitive ligand binding assays together with in silico modeling identify N-(2-(1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl)-9-isopropyl-2-(5-methylpyridin-3-yl)-9H-purin-6-amine (GNF351) as a high-affinity AHR ligand. DRE-dependent reporter assays, in conjunction with quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis of AHR targets, reveal GNF351 as a potent AHR antagonist that demonstrates efficacy in the nanomolar range. Furthermore, unlike many currently used AHR antagonists, e.g., α-naphthoflavone, GNF351 is devoid of partial agonist potential. It is noteworthy that in a model of AHR-mediated DRE-independent function, i.e., suppression of cytokine-induced acute-phase gene expression, GNF351 has the capacity to antagonize agonist and SAhRM-mediated suppression of SAA1. Such data indicate that GNF351 is a pure antagonist with the capacity to inhibit both DRE-dependent and -independent activity.
Multiple myeloma (MM) cells are extremely resistant to drug-induced apoptosis due to both intrinsic- and bone marrow (BM) microenvironment-dependent drug resistance particularly supported by bone cells. Growing evidence suggest that the osteoclast inhibitor zoledronic acid (ZOL) exerts both indirect and direct anti-tumoral effects, including an in vitro proapoptotic effect on MM cells, although this property has not yet been clearly observed in MM patients.
In this study, we attempt to better define the cytotoxic effect of ZOL on MM cells in order to identify novel drug combinations able to potentiate its proapoptotic effect.
Our data shows that ZOL at concentrations ranging from 10 to 100 μM was able to induce MM cell apoptosis overcoming the prosurvival effect of both stromal cells and osteoclasts and independent of the intrinsic bortezomib resistance of MM cells. Interestingly, we found that the capacity of ZOL to induce apoptosis in bortezomib-resistant cells was associated with a downregulation of the proapoptotic molecule myeloid cell leukemia-1. A transcriptional analysis by microarray was also performed to identify genes specifically modulated by ZOL in bortezomib-resistant MM cells. Finally, we show an additive effect of arsenic trioxide on apoptosis when used in combination with ZOL.
Our in vitro data suggest that the use of ZOL at appropriate doses could be explored clinically in bortezomib-resistant MM patients and combined with arsenic trioxide to increase its proapoptotic effect.
A case of severe polyuria elicited by intravenous administration of a normal pharmacological dose of dexamethasone is reported. The polyuria did not respond to treatment with vasopressin. A 15-year-old girl with a brain tumour was referred for surgery. After induction of anaesthesia she received dexamethasone 4 mg i.v., and developed a massive polyuria with hourly diuresis of up to 1250 ml. There was no response to treatment with vasopressin in doses well above those normally used. The patient did not fulfil any known cause of diabetes insipidus, and to our best knowledge, this case is the first with glucocorticoid-induced and vasopressin-resistant polyuria ever reported in man.
Ulcerative colitis is a chronic, relapsing inflammatory condition of the gastrointestinal tract with a complex genetic and environmental etiology. In an effort to identify genetic variation underlying ulcerative colitis risk, we present two distinct genome-wide association studies of ulcerative colitis and their joint analysis with a previously published scan, comprising, in aggregate, 2,693 individuals with ulcerative colitis and 6,791 control subjects. Fifty-nine SNPs from 14 independent loci attained an association significance of P < 10(-5). Seven of these loci exceeded genome-wide significance (P < 5 x 10(-8)). After testing an independent cohort of 2,009 cases of ulcerative colitis and 1,580 controls, we identified 13 loci that were significantly associated with ulcerative colitis (P < 5 x 10(-8)), including the immunoglobulin receptor gene FCGR2A, 5p15, 2p16 and ORMDL3 (orosomucoid1-like 3). We confirmed association with 14 previously identified ulcerative colitis susceptibility loci, and an analysis of acknowledged Crohn's disease loci showed that roughly half of the known Crohn's disease associations are shared with ulcerative colitis. These data implicate approximately 30 loci in ulcerative colitis, thereby providing insight into disease pathogenesis.
Abuse of 4-propyloxy-4-phenyl-N-methylpiperidine, a meperidine congener, produced parkinsonism in a 23-year-old man. Unlike other drug-induced motor disturbances, the syndrome persisted for 18 months and responded to drugs that stimulate dopamine receptors. Biogenic amines and metabolites in the cerebrospinal fluid and microscopic evaluation of the brain at necropsy were consistent with damage to aminergic neurons in the substantia nigra.
Adenosine A(2A) receptors (A(2A)R) have received increasing attention for the treatment of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson disease. In the present study, A(2A)R messenger RNA (mRNA) and receptor-specific binding in the brain of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) monkeys were studied after treatment with L-DOPA and a selective NR1A/2B NMDA receptor antagonist, CI-1041. Four MPTP monkeys received L-DOPA/benserazide and all developed dyskinesias, whereas among the four MPTP monkeys who additionally received CI-1041, only one developed mild dyskinesias. Four normal monkeys and four MPTP-treated monkeys were also studied. All MPTP monkeys had similar striatal dopamine (DA) denervation. A(2A)R mRNA levels, measured by in situ hybridization, were increased in the rostral lateral caudate and putamen of saline-treated MPTP monkeys as well as in the caudal lateral and medial putamen when compared with those of controls. A(2A)R mRNA levels remained elevated in the rostral caudate and putamen of L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys when compared with those of controls. A(2A)R mRNA levels of L-DOPA + CI-1041-treated monkeys were at control levels and decreased in the lateral rostral caudate and caudal putamen when compared with those of L-DOPA-treated and saline-treated MPTP monkeys respectively. No change was measured in the caudal medial putamen and caudate nucleus. A(2A)Rs labeled by autoradiography with [(3)H]SCH-58261 had lower level in the L-DOPA + CI-1041-treated MPTP monkeys compared with saline- or L-DOPA-treated MPTP and control monkeys in the rostral lateral and medial caudate and the putamen. No effect of lesion or L-DOPA treatment was measured on [(3)H]SCH-58261-specific binding. These findings suggest that blockade of NMDA receptors could prevent the development of dyskinesias by altering A(2A)Rs.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is the most common renal neoplasm in adults. Considering that chemoresistance is a typical feature of RCC, every effort should be made in order to identify mechanisms of drug resistance. We used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry to study changes in protein expression levels that occur in primary resistant LN78 RCC cells when treated with therapeutic concentrations of cisplatin. Expression differences of selected proteins were confirmed by immunoblot. Up-regulation of heat-shock proteins can block apoptosis indirectly by altered protein folding and by direct interaction with apoptosis regulatory proteins. Cyclophilin A and stratifin can modify cell cycle control and enable tumor cells to escape and further proliferate despite DNA damage caused by cisplatin. Increased activity of glycolytic enzymes reflect metabolic adaptations to increased energy requirements as well as converting to alternative energy sources because of cisplatin-induced disturbed mitochondrial oxidation. Changes in cytoskeletal proteins may change the handling of cisplatin by altering transport and increasing cellular efflux of the drug. Repression of vimentin and disturbance of antioxidative mechanisms may represent vulnerable points in tumor cellular defense against cisplatin. The involvement of these proteins in cisplatin resistance and their potential as therapeutic targets requires further evaluation.
Meperidine is frequently used in general anesthesia and perioperative analgesia. In addition to its opioid action, meperidine possesses some local anesthetic properties. A preliminary study using the tourniquet venous retention technique found meperidine to be more effective in reducing propofol injection pain than fentanyl or morphine, both of which were slightly better than placebo. This study was undertaken to evaluate whether this peripheral analgesic effect of meperidine is affected by naloxone.
In a randomized, double-blind manner, after venous occlusion with a tourniquet, meperidine 40 mg was given intravenously to patients in group A (n = 31), meperidine 40 mg followed by naloxone 0.04 mg to group B (n = 32), meperidine 40 mg followed by naloxone 0.2 mg to group C (n = 30), and normal saline placebo to group D (n = 30). The venous retention of drug(s) was maintained for 1 minute, followed by tourniquet release and intravenous administration of propofol 100 mg. Pain assessment was made immediately after the propofol injection.
All three groups given meperidine had significantly less propofol injection pain (P < .01 ) than the group given saline placebo, and there was no difference among groups A, B, and C.
The peripheral analgesic effect of meperidine in reducing propofol injection pain is not mediated by its opioid activity.
The present study was undertaken to evaluate the potential of the rhizomes of the Indian medicinal plant, Picrorhiza kurroa in healing indomethacin-induced acute stomach ulceration in mice and examine its capacity to modulate oxidative stress and the levels of prostaglandin (PGE2) and EGF during the process.
Male swiss albino mice, ulcerated with indomethacin (18 mg/kg, p. o., single dose) were treated up to 7 days with different doses of the methanol extract of P. kurroa rhizomes (designated as PK). The healing capacity of the most effective dose of PK (20 mg/kg, p. o. x 3 d) was compared with that of omeprazole (Omez) (3 mg/kg, p. o. x 3 d). The effects of the drug-treatment for one and three days on the biochemical parameters were assessed by comparing the results with that of untreated mice of the 1st and 3rd day of ulceration. The stomach tissues of the mice were used for the biochemical analysis.
The macroscopic indices revealed maximum ulceration on the 3rd day after indomethacin administration, which was effectively healed by PK. Under the optimized treatment regime, PK and Omez reduced the ulcer indices by 45.1% (P < 0.01), and 76.3% respectively (P < 0.001), compared to the untreated ulcerated mice. Compared to the ulcerated untreated mice, those treated with PK for 3 days showed decreased the levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) (32.7%, P < 0.05) and protein carbonyl (37.7%, P < 0.001), and increased mucin (42.2%, P < 0.01), mucosal PGE2 (21.4%, P < 0.05), and expressions of COX-1 and 2 (26.9% and 18.5%, P < 0.05), EGF (149.0%, P < 0.001) and VEGF (56.9%, P < 0.01). Omez reduced the TBARS (29.4%, P < 0.05), and protein carbonyl (38.9%, P < 0.001), and increased mucin (38.3%, P < 0.01), without altering the other parameters significantly.
PK (20 mg/kg, p. o. x 3 days) could effectively heal indomethacin-induced stomach ulceration in mice by reducing oxidative stress, and promoting mucin secretion, prostaglandin synthesis and augmenting expressions of cyclooxygenase enzymes and growth factors.
