Excessive generation of reactive oxygen intermediates can induce changes in the cellular antioxidant defence system. In this study we examine the antioxidant enzyme status and the expression of fibrosis-related marker proteins in the Adriamycin model of chronic renal failure in the rat. Twenty weeks after Adriamycin treatment, rats have overt nephrotic syndrome and renal failure with development of tubulo-interstitial fibrosis and glomerulosclerosis. Lipids accumulate in blood and in both glomeruli and tubulo-interstitial tissue. Desmin and alpha-smooth muscle actin expression increases in glomeruli and in the tubulo-interstitial area. Renal cortex antioxidant enzyme activities are decreased 20 weeks after Adriamycin injection (to 41% for catalase, to 56% for total superoxide dismutase and to 69% for glutathione peroxidase). The mRNA levels of catalase, Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase-1 evaluated by Northern blot are decreased by more than 50% for catalase, Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase-1. We conclude that in the rat Adriamycin-induced model of chronic renal failure with fibrosis, the combination of decreased antioxidant enzyme status in renal cortex with high concentrations of lipids in blood and renal tissue facilitates oxidative damage. Development of fibrosis is paralleled by increased expression of desmin and alpha-smooth muscle actin.
We examined the changes in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) after intraplantar administration of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in rats. In addition, we investigated whether different analgesic drugs orally administered at antihyperalgesic doses were able to prevent the changes in PGE2 and TNF-alpha spinal levels associated with hindpaw inflammation.
The Randall-Selitto paw-withdrawal test was used to measure inflammatory hyperalgesia. Tramadol (7.5 mg/kg), paracetamol (65 mg/kg), tramadol plus paracetamol and nimesulide (5 mg/kg) were administered orally twice a day, starting from the first day after the CFA injection. PGE2 in the CSF was measured by enzyme immunoassay, and TNF-alpha by ELISA. Behavioral and biochemical parameters were measured on Day 7 after intraplantar injection of CFA or saline.
Withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimuli decreased markedly in the CFA-treated paw. In these animals the quantification of proinflammatory mediators in the CSF revealed a significant increase in both PGE2 and TNF-alpha concentrations. All the pharmacological treatments prevented the development of the hyperalgesia as well as the PGE2 increase in the CSF. Conversely, a prevention of the increase in TNF-alpha levels was observed only in rats treated with nimesulide or tramadol and paracetamol in combination.
Our results demonstrate that peripheral inflammatory hyperalgesia is associated with significant changes of proinflammatory mediators in the CSF. It is important to note, however, that spinal PGE2 and TNF-alpha proved to be differently affected by pharmacological treatments able to fully abolish the hyperalgesia.
Although appetite suppressants have been implicated in the development of valvular heart disease, the exact level of risk is still uncertain. Initial studies suggested that as many as 1 in 3 exposed patients were affected, but subsequent research has yielded substantially different figures. Our objective was to systematically assess the risk of valvular heart disease with appetite suppressants.
We accepted studies involving obese patients treated with any of the following appetite suppressants: fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine, and phentermine. Three types of studies were reviewed: controlled and uncontrolled observational studies, and randomized controlled trials. Outcomes of interest were echocardiographically detectable aortic regurgitation of mild or greater severity, or mitral regurgitation of moderate or greater severity.
Of the 1279 patients evaluated in seven uncontrolled cohort studies, 236 (18%) and 60 (5%) were found to have aortic and mitral regurgitation, respectively. Pooled data from six controlled cohort studies yielded, for aortic regurgitation, a relative risk ratio of 2.32 (95% confidence intervals 1.79 to 3.01, p < 0.00001) and an attributable rate of 4.9%, and for mitral regurgitation, a relative risk ratio of 1.55 (95% confidence intervals 1.06 to 2.25, p = 0.02) with an attributable rate of 1.0%. Only one case of valvular heart disease was detected in 57 randomized controlled trials, but this was judged unrelated to drug therapy.
The risk of valvular heart disease is significantly increased by the appetite suppressants reviewed here. Nevertheless, when considering all the evidence, valvulopathy is much less common than suggested by the initial, less methodologically rigorous studies.
The effects of pretreatment with pertussis toxin on pentylenetetrazole-, bicuculline-, aminophylline- and pilocarpine-induced seizures were investigated in mice. In animals treated intracerebroventricularly with pertussis toxin (0.5 microgram animal-1 120 h prior to testing), the CD50 (convulsive dose in 50%) values were considerably decreased in comparison with the CD50 in sham-treated animals. CD50 values of pentylenetetrazole, bicuculline, pilocarpine and aminophylline were calculated to be 39.9, 2.0, 262 and 141 mg kg-1, whereas they were calculated to be 57.7, 2.7, 324 and 230 mg kg-1 in sham-treated animals. The observations suggest that the enhanced sensitivity to a number of chemical convulsants irrespective of their mode of action possibly results from a functional suppression of inhibitory transmission at receptors coupled to pertussis toxin sensitive G proteins, rather than a direct action on G protein linked excitatory neurotransmission. Pertussis toxin significantly decreased the protective action of carbamazepine, increasing its ED50 (effective dose in 50%) from 14.8 to 20.1 mg kg-1 in a maximal electroshock convulsive test. It influenced the ED50 of neither diphenylhydantoin nor diazepam. The diminution of carbamazepine's efficacy might result from a summation effect of adenosine receptor antagonist properties of the drug and a suppression of transmission at adenosine receptors coupled to G proteins sensitive to pertussis toxin. Pertussis toxin pretreatment remained without any significant influence on the total plasma levels of carbamazepine, diphenylhydantoin and diazepam. This may lead to the conclusion that the interaction between pertussis toxin and carbamazepine does not seem to be of a pharmacokinetic nature and occurs probably at neuronal level.
Metformin belongs to a class of drugs known as the biguanides that are widely used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Its association with lactic acidosis is well established, although rare. Metformin-associated lactic acidosis is recognized as a potentially lethal condition that can occur in patients with contraindications to the drug, such as renal dysfunction, liver diseases, alcoholism, and cardiopulmonary diseases. In these cases, the plasma concentration of metformin is not necessarily abnormally high. We describe a 75-year-old diabetic woman with acute renal failure and life-threatening lactic acidosis due to metformin intoxication. Clinical manifestations included vomiting, diarrhea, hypothermia, hypotension and transitory blindness. Her initial renal function was recovered after hemodialysis and she was discharged 3 months after admission.
Retinoids regulate elastin synthesis by alveolar myofibroblasts and affect angiogenesis pathways, both of which are processes critical for alveolar development. Retinoids accelerate alveolarization in rodents and are now used therapeutically in premature infants at risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). This study examined the effects of retinoid supplementation on alveolar elastin expression and deposition and angiogenesis-related signaling in a primate model of BPD. Premature baboons delivered at 125 d of gestation after maternal steroid treatment were given surfactant and ventilated with minimal supplemental oxygen for 14 d with (n = 5) and without (n = 5) supplemental vitamin A (5000 U/kg/d) and compared with 140-d unventilated controls. Ventilatory efficiency index (VEI) and oxygenation index (OI) were not statistically different between ventilated treatment groups. Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), fms-related tyrosine kinase 1 (Flt-1), and tyrosine kinase with immunoglobulin-like and EGF-like domains 1 (TIE-1) was repressed by premature delivery and mechanical ventilation and was not altered by retinoid supplementation. Retinoid supplementation did not enhance alveolar angiogenesis. Elastin expression was repressed by premature delivery and extended ventilation, and retinoid supplementation increased elastin expression specifically in alveolar myofibroblasts within alveolar walls. These results suggest that the small decrease in mortality among premature infants receiving retinoid supplementation may not be mediated through enhanced alveolar development.
Therapeutic splenectomy in myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia (MMM) may result in extreme thrombocytosis and leukocytosis and accelerated hepatomegaly. We previously described initial palliative benefit from 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (2-CdA) in such instances. The purpose of this study is to provide long-term follow-up on the durability of response in the initial cohort and in additional subsequent cases.
We retrospectively identified patients with histologically confirmed MMM who had palliative therapy with 2-CdA. Clinical characteristics and information on subsequent clinical course were abstracted at the time of diagnosis of MMM and at initiation of 2-CdA therapy until death.
To date, we have used 2-CdA as palliative therapy in 14 patients with MMM. After a median of four cycles of therapy, responses for hepatomegaly occurred in 56% of patients, thrombocytosis 50%, leukocytosis 55%, and anemia 40%. Cytopenias were frequent but usually transient and without clinical consequence. Responses occurred usually by the second cycle; median duration of response was 6 months (range, 2-19) after completion of 2-CdA therapy.
This study confirmed relevant and frequently durable palliation of symptoms in about half the patients. 2-CdA is a reasonable palliative option in postsplenectomy patients with MMM who have problematic myeloproliferation.
Previous studies have suggested that, different types of unmyelinated bladder afferent C-fibres, such as capsaicin-sensitive and capsaicin-resistant mediate the voiding reflex in overactive bladder (OAB). Considering its polymodal features, we explored the urodynamic effect of primary afferent neurons modulation on detrusor activity in normal and OAB rats. Experiments were performed on 48 female rats. OAB was induced by intraperitoneal administration of cyclophosphamide. All the surgical procedures and urodynamic studies were performed under urethane anaesthesia. Cystometry was done after a 1 h recovery period from the surgical procedure. All animals were randomly divided into six groups: control, chronic OAB, chronic OAB after capsaicin or lidocaine instillation, control capsaicin or lidocaine instillation. The measurements represent the average of five bladder micturition cycles. We analyzed: basal, threshold, micturition voiding pressure; intercontraction interval; compliance; functional bladder capacity; motility index; detrusor overactivity index. We used chronic cyclophosphamide OAB model for further investigations. In healthy rats, intravesical instillation of capsaicin caused complete inhibition of detrusor contractility preventing from proper voiding function of the bladder. Contrary, lidocaine has no influence on micturition cycles in intact animals. Also, intravesical instillation of capsaicin and lidocaine reduced the severity of detrusor overactivity of OAB rats leading to improvement of cystometric parameters.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that pentoxifylline attenuate the oxidative stress signaling in patients undergoing nephrolithotomy.
Thirty two patients who considered for selective nephrolithotomy were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups of 16 each; a single dose of IV PTX 500 mg bolus followed by IV infusion of PTX 700 mg for two hours or normal saline as placebo. Blood samples were obtained on the day before and the day after surgery and of C-reactive protein (CRP), creatine phosphokinase (CPK) and total antioxidant status (TAS) and catecholamines. Cortisol concentrations were also measured in 24-h urine samples.
At 24 h after surgery, CRP, epinephrine, norepinephrine, CPK, urine cortisol and TAS were significantly increased (P<0.001) in both groups. The serum epinephrine at 6 and 24 hour (P<0.001), norepinephrine at 24 hour (P=0.004) and CPK at 24 hour (P<0.001) was significantly lower in PTX group compared with placebo-receivers. At 24 hour, TAS was significantly lower in PTX group in comparing with control group (P<0.001). There was no significant difference in surgery time, length of hospital stay and fever after operation during in-hospital follow-up. However, 5 (31.2%) of treatment patients developed nausea and vomiting.
A single dose of intravenous pentoxifylline which is administered pre-incisionally could be applied to reduce surgical stress changes (i.e., catecholamines and CPK) in patients undergoing nephrolithotomy; and, it cause no serious side effects.
A teenage girl with crescentic glomerulonephritis had antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) detected after she had received propylthiouracil (PTU) for hyperthyroidism without cutaneous vasculitis. ANCA was detected on admission; renal biopsy showed crescentic glomerulonephritis with focal necrotizing glomerulonephritis but no immune deposits. Administration of steroid and decreasing the dose of PTU produced a good clinical response and the ANCA disappeared. It was concluded that ANCA is closely related to the pathogenesis of crescentic glomerulonephritis and that treatment with PTU appeared to induce ANCA.
Retigeric acid B (RB), a naturally occurring pentacyclic triterpenic acid, has been noted for its antifungal properties in vitro. Here, we observed that RB inhibited prostate cancer cell proliferation and induced cell death in a dose-dependent manner, but exerted very little inhibitory effect on noncancerous prostate epithelial cell viability. Treatment of androgen-independent PC-3 cells with RB caused a moderate increase in p21(Cip1), and enforced the cell cycle arrest in the S phase. A block of S phase was accompanied with decreases in cyclin B, and increases in cyclin E and cyclin A proteins and phosphorylated retinoblastoma protein (pRb), whereas the expression of cdk2 remained almost unchanged in PC-3 cells exposed to RB. Moreover, RB significantly inhibited DNA synthesis with a dose-dependent reduction in the incorporation of BrdU into DNA, and enhanced apoptosis of PC-3 cells with induction of a higher ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 proteins, and activation of caspase-3 which, in turn, promoted the cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). However, pretreatment with the pan-caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk only partially alleviated RB-triggered apoptosis in PC-3 cells, suggesting the involvement of both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent pathways. Additionally, treatment of androgen-sensitive LNCaP cells with RB led to a reduction in the expression of androgen receptor (AR), and subsequently decreased the transactivity of AR. These observations help to support the search for promising candidates to treat prostate cancer.
We report a 29 years old male, with a history of cocaine abuse and excessive alcohol intake, who was admitted to the hospital with an acute peritonitis. The patient was operated and multiple perforations of the cecum were found. A right hemicolectomy was performed and the pathological study of the surgical piece showed an ischemic colitis. A literature review reveals 22 reported cases of ischemic colitis associated to cocaine abuse.
The authors' previous studies have shown that in nicotine-induced seizures sensitivity was decreased and blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption was prevented as a consequence of nicotine pretreatment. This study aimed to investigate the possible protective actions of nicotine on cerebrovascular permeability and seizures induced by pentylentetrazol (PTZ) injection. Cerebrovascular effects of nicotine were evaluated by measuring the permeability changes of BBB using Evans-Blue (EB) dye and specific gravity (SG), which indicates brain water and protein content. The experiments were carried out on Wistar rats. Animals were randomly divided into two groups. Convulsions were induced by injection of PTZ (80 mg/kg i.v.) in rats either pretreated with nicotine daily with a low dose of 0.8 mg/kg day for 21 days or injected with a single dose of 6 mg/kg mecamylamine. The same procedures were followed in control rats with the exception that they were injected only with saline. PTZ injection caused tonic-clonic convulsions and increased the EB dye leakage and specific gravity values in saline-injected control rat brains. Daily injection of nicotine lessened the intensity of seizures. These were accompanied by marked decreases in both the leakage of EB and brain water content. Acute administration of a nAChR antagonist mecamylamine significantly increased seizure latency and decreased the duration of seizures. Thereby, mecamylamine reduced the EB leakage and water content in most brain regions. These results indicate that development of tolerance to PTZ convulsions can be produced by chronic nicotine administration in rats. The mechanism for this effect currently needs clarification. Moreover, the data also suggest that cholinergic activity may account for occurrence of PTZ-induced convulsions.
Hypertensive emergency is an acute, perilous state connected with a marked increase of peripheral vascular resistance and the decrease of tissue perfusion. Its development depends on the rate of blood pressure elevation, on the severity of developed hypertension and the state of the vascular system. Although hypertensive emergencies can be grouped also on symptomatological and etiological basis, regarding the therapeutic measures to be taken, they appear in two well distinguishable forms. In case of hypertensive crisis treatment has to be started without delay, possibly in a few minutes, in states involving the risk of hypertensive crisis treatment has to be initiated within a few hours to avoid extensive damage of the vital organs or fatal outcome. The acute, but controlled reduction of blood pressure must not surpass 15-25% of the medium value. In hypertensive crisis, if possible, parenteral medication--as first aid--urapidil, verapamil, in states with endangering hypertensive crisis sublingual nifedipine, captopril, nitroglycerin may be applied, however in the different emergency states therapeutic intervention has to be individually determined.
Prajmaline is not a relatively well known and frequently used antiarrhythmic belonging to Class IA group of antiarrhythmics, which was administered to a young male with metoprolol for the treatment of parasystole. The patient took in 120 mgs prajmaline and 600 mgs metoprolol during the day of the case, which leads to cardiogenic shock, ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. The patient's parameters were normalized after successful resuscitation, temporary pacemaker and two days long Dopamin therapy. Therapy was not regarded to be necessary for a few ventricular premature beats detected during a week observation period. The patient is without complaints now, and significant ventricular arrhythmias, or malignant ventricular ectopy hasn't been proved with ECG tests and Holter monitoring for more than three months. Due to adverse effect profile of prajmaline, even at commonly used doses it should be administered carefully and other agents should probably be considered first before beginning long term treatment with prajmaline.
Recent investigations suggest that proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-6 and IL-8 are involved in the development of colorectal cancer (CRC), whereas statins, primarily used to decrease high levels of blood cholesterol, exhibit pleiotropic effects on carcinogenesis. In the present study we compared the expression of IL-8 and IL-6 in tissue samples of tumor and adjacent normal colon mucosa obtained from patients with advanced colorectal cancer (CRC). The analysis of mRNAs expression for these proinflammatory cytokines determined by RT-PCR showed a higher level of IL-8-mRNA in tumor tissue than in normal mucosa, while IL-6 was similarly expressed in tumor and normal tissue. The mean values of serum levels of both IL-6 and IL-8 were significantly higher in CRC patients than in healthy volunteers. Surgical removal of the tumor resulted in a prompt decrease of serum level of IL-8 already on the third day, whereas IL-6 level was transiently increased to become lower only after 7-10 days. Treatment of CRC with simvastatin (80 mg/day for 14 days) led to a significant decrease of serum IL-6, while the IL-8 level was less affected. The in vitro experiments on colorectal cancer-derived cell lines (HT-29 and Caco-2) demonstrated that application of simvastatin decreased generation of both IL-6 and IL-8. The differences in response of serum levels of IL-6 and IL-8 after tumor removal and treatment with simvastatin are novel observations suggesting distinct pathological roles of the two cytokines in CRC development. We conclude that 1) colorectal carcinogenesis is accompanied by increased synthesis and release of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-6 and IL-8; 2) simvastatin therapy results in a decrease in serum level of proinflammatory cytokines, especially IL-6 in CRC and 3) simvastatin inhibits release of IL-8 and IL-6 from colorectal cell lines.
Dyslipidemia frequently complicates chronic nephropathies and increases the risk of renal and cardiovascular events. This might be ameliorated by drugs, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, which effectively reduce proteinuria.
In this longitudinal study, we evaluated the extent to which uptitration of the ACE inhibitor lisinopril to maximum tolerated doses (median [range]: 30 [10 to 40] mg/d) ameliorated proteinuria and dyslipidemia in 28 patients with nondiabetic chronic nephropathies. Maximum lisinopril doses significantly and safely reduced proteinuria, serum total, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides without substantially affecting serum HDL and renal hemodynamics. Proteinuria already decreased at 10 mg/d. Serum lipids progressively and dose-dependently decreased during uptitration to maximum doses. Reduction in total and LDL cholesterol correlated with increases in serum albumin/total protein concentration and oncotic pressure, peaked at lisinopril maximum doses, and persisted after treatment withdrawal. Despite less proteinuria reduction, hypercholesterolemia decreased more (and reflected the increase in serum albumin) in hypoalbuminemic than in normoalbuminemic patients who, despite more proteinuria reduction, had less decrease in cholesterol and no changes in serum albumin. Changes in serum triglycerides were independent of changes in serum proteins, were strongly correlated with lisinopril doses (r=-0.89, P=0.003) and recovered promptly after treatment withdrawal. Lisinopril was well tolerated, did not affect renal hemodynamics, and caused symptomatic, reversible hypotension in only two patients.
In chronic nephropathies, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor uptitration to maximum tolerated doses safely ameliorated hypertriglyceridemia by a direct, dose-dependent effect, and hypercholesterolemia through amelioration of the nephrotic syndrome, particularly in patients with more severe hypoalbuminemia.
Fenoprofen, a compound with analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and antipyretic properties in animals, has been compared with placebo in a double-blind cross-over trial in 60 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. There was a statistically highly significant reduction in pain, duration of morning stiffness, analgesic requirements, and articular index, with increase in grip strength. There was no significant reduction in joint size or temperature. In a subsequent double-blind group-comparative study fenoprofen proved to be as effective as aspirin in relieving the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, with strikingly fewer side effects. Almost half of the patients taking aspirin were unable to tolerate the drug in adequate dosage for six months. The remainder were able to take on average only 4 g daily, and at this dose almost half still complained of tinnitus and deafness.Fenoprofen is likely to be useful for patients who cannot tolerate aspirin and other more toxic anti-inflammatory drugs or whose disease is not of sufficient severity to justify their use.
13 patients with endogenous depression, who had failed to obtain a lasting response to other antidepressant drugs or to electroconvulsive therapy, were treated with zimelidine. 3 showed a marked, and 3 a mild improvement. Side effects were minimal.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a broad-spectrum anticancer drug with dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. Probucol has been reported to completely prevent DOX-induced cardiomyopathy. The aim of the present study was to determine the possible effect of probucol pretreatment on the pharmacokinetics of DOX and its role in cardioprotection as well as the possible contribution of the lipid-lowering effect of probucol on the disposition of DOX in cardiac tissue.
Two groups of male albino rats were given either probucol (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or corn oil daily for 12 days followed by a single dose of DOX (15 mg/kg, i.p.). The concentration-time profile of DOX in plasma and its concentration in different tissues, and plasma and myocardial lipids were determined.
A rapid and significant increase in plasma DOX clearance was observed in rats pretreated with probucol. Probucol induced a significant increase in DOX concentration in both liver and kidney tissues and a significant decrease in DOX concentration in the spleen. However, heart and lung DOX concentrations were not affected. Also, probucol pretreatment resulted in a significant reduction in cardiotoxicity indices including peak serum creatine kinase (CK) concentration and the area under the CK concentration-time curve. Moreover, probucol pretreatment not only counteracted significantly the decrease in the ATP/ADP ratio induced by DOX, but also induced a significant increase as compared with the control group. In addition, probucol significantly reduced plasma total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein, but it did not induce any significant changes in myocardial lipids.
The present study demonstrated, for the first time, that probucol pretreatment alters the pharmacokinetics of DOX. Besides its antioxidant properties, the cardioprotective effect of probucol may be related to its enhancing action on the ATP/ADP ratio.
Eighty-five patients with rheumatoid disease were treated with penicillamine, and 69 completed more than one year's treatment. The main reason for discontinuing penicillamine in the 16 patients who withdrew was adverse reaction. The number of adverse reactions, however, declined when patients were given lower maintenance doses of penicillamine. In those who tolerated the drug the results of treatment were good. To prevent side effects the drug should be introduced gradually and maintenance doses should be the lowest which produce a satisfactory response. Urine should be monitored for protein and blood for changes in platelet and white cell counts at frequent intervals throughout treatment.
Pheochromocytoma is a rare disease that may occur during pregnancy. Antenatal diagnosis is essential to improve fetal and maternal mortality and morbidity, but is difficult. A hypertensive crisis was induced by metoclopramide, a widely used anti-emetic, in a pregnant normotensive woman. Biochemical measurements of plasma and urine catecholamines and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) established the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma. She was medically treated with prazocin and electively delivered by cesarean section simultaneously with tumor resection.
To determine whether riluzole is associated with blood pressure elevations in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
Though previously reported, hypertension is not considered a frequent adverse effect of riluzole.
We reviewed data from 35 consecutive ALS patients on riluzole, and 88 randomly selected controls without and 20 patients with ALS who were not on riluzole.
A significantly greater number of ALS patients on riluzole had blood pressure elevations (28 of 35 patients) compared to controls (26 of 88, p<0.001; 8 of 20, p = 0. 007). Median systolic and diastolic blood pressures were both significantly higher in riluzole-treated (140/86 mm Hg) than in control patients without ALS (120/70 mm Hg, p<0.001). Systolic, but not diastolic, blood pressures were significantly higher in riluzole-treated patients than in controls with ALS (126 mm Hg, p = 0.002).
Riluzole treatment may be associated with mild blood pressure elevations. Future prospective trials of riluzole should closely assess hypertension.
Individuals on methadone maintenance for the treatment of addiction (MM) are demonstrated to be hyperalgesic to cold-pressor pain in comparison to matched controls and ex-opioid addicts, a finding described as clinical evidence of opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH). Interestingly, opioids induce hyperalgesia via many of the same neuro-inflammatory and central sensitization processes that occur with the development of neuropathic pain. Evaluated in this study was the efficacy of a key pharmacotherapy for neuropathic pain, gabapentin (GPN), to reverse OIH in MM patients. Utilizing a clinical trial design and double blind conditions, changes in cold-pressor pain threshold and tolerance following a 5-week trial of GPN (titrated to 2400mg/day) were evaluated at peak and trough methadone plasma levels in a well-characterized MM sample. Drug abstinence was encouraged via an escalating payment schedule, and compliance monitored via pill counts and GPN plasma levels; entered into the analyses were only those subjects compliant and abstinent throughout the study (approximately 45%). Utilizing change scores from baseline, significant improvements in cold-pressor pain threshold and pain tolerance were observed at both peak and trough methadone levels (p<0.05). Notably, drop-out rates due to medication side effects were low (2%) and the medication was well-tolerated. These results support that GPN, as prescribed for the treatment of neuropathic pain, is effective in decreasing OIH in patients who are abstinent and stable in methadone treatment.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is common among cocaine abusers seeking treatment. This open trial was carried out to assess the efficacy of sustained-release methylphenidate for the treatment of cocaine abuse among individuals with ADHD.
Twelve patients who met DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for adult ADHD and cocaine dependence were entered into a 12-week trial of divided daily doses of sustained-release methylphenidate ranging from 40 to 80 mg. In addition to the pharmacotherapy, patients also received individual weekly relapse prevention therapy. Individuals were assessed weekly for ADHD symptoms; vital signs and urine toxicologies were obtained 3 times a week.
Of the 12 patients entered, 10 completed at least 8 weeks of the study and 8 completed the entire study. Using both a semistructured clinical interview and a self-report assessment, patients reported reductions in attention difficulties, hyperactivity, and impulsivity. Self-reported cocaine use and craving decreased significantly. More importantly, cocaine use, confirmed by urine toxicologies, also decreased significantly.
These preliminary data suggest that under close supervision, the combined intervention of sustained-release methylphenidate and relapse prevention therapy may be effective in treating individuals with both adult ADHD and cocaine dependence.
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of mirtazapine and fluoxetine in depressed inpatients and outpatients.
Patients with a major depressive episode (DSM-III-R), a baseline score of > or=21 on the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D), and > or=2 on HAM-D Item 1 (depressed mood) were randomly assigned to a 6-week treatment with either mirtazapine (N=66, 15-60 mg/day) or fluoxetine (N=67, 20-40 mg/day). The upper limit of the mirtazapine dose range was above the dose range approved in the United States (15-45 mg/day). Efficacy was evaluated by the HAM-D, Clinical Global Impressions, the Visual Analogue Mood Rating Scale (VAMRS), and the Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire (QLESQ). The efficacy analyses were performed on the intent-to-treat group using the last-observation-carried-forward method.
Mean total 17-item HAM-D scores at baseline were 26.0 for the mirtazapine- and 26.1 for the fluoxetine-treated group. The decrease from baseline on the HAM-D was larger in the mirtazapine than in the fluoxetine group throughout the treatment period, reaching statistical significance at days 21 and 28. At assessments from day 21 and onward, the absolute difference between the 2 study groups favoring mirtazapine ranged from 3.7 to 4.2 points, the magnitude of difference usually seen between an efficacious antidepressant drug and placebo. Mean dosages at weeks 1-4 were 36.5 mg/day for mirtazapine and 19.6 mg/day for fluoxetine; the respective dosages at weeks 5-6 were 56.3 mg and 35.8 mg. Similar numbers of patients dropped out due to adverse events; tolerability profiles were comparable except for changes in body weight from baseline which were statistically significantly more pronounced in the mirtazapine group compared to the fluoxetine group.
We found that mirtazapine was as well tolerated as fluoxetine and significantly more effective after 3 and 4 weeks of therapy.
