The effect of cobalt on the cardiovascular system is one of many aspects of cobalt metabolism in humans. Elastin and collagen are the main proteins of the vascular wall. The aims of this study were: 1) to determine serum cobalt concentrations in children with hypertension; and 2) to study the correlation between serum cobalt and some biological markers of the extracellular matrix of the vascular wall, i.e., anti-elastin and anti-collagen type IV antibodies. Patients showed statistically significant higher levels of systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and significantly lower serum cobalt concentrations, than controls. Children with hypertension showed significantly higher levels of total cholesterol (P = 0.0003) and collagen type IV IgM (P = 0.04). Collagen type IV IgG levels (P = 0.027) were lower than in controls. Serum cobalt in patients showed a correlation with systolic blood pressure (r = -0.44, P = 0.05), elastin IgM (r = 0.60, P = 0.007), and collagen type IV IgG (r = -0.46, P = 0.04). Our data suggest the existence of a correlation between changes in levels of serum cobalt, total cholesterol, anti-collagen type IV antibodies, and essential hypertension in children. This is the first study of serum cobalt in children with essential hypertension.
Dilevalol, the R-R1 isomer of labetalol, has been shown in animal studies to be a non-selective beta-adrenoceptor antagonist with beta 2-agonist activity and minimal alpha-antagonist activity. This paper describes the results of studies in man which have investigated the dose dependency and selectivity of dilevalol as an adrenoceptor antagonist and demonstrated its lack of alpha-antagonist activity. It also describes the results of studies which have investigated the magnitude of its partial agonist activity and demonstrated the selectivity of the partial agonist activity for the beta 2-adrenoceptor. Oral dilevalol 200 mg reduces an exercise tachycardia by about 25% and 400 mg does not increase the effect. Dilevalol 200 mg had no effect on the rise in blood pressure induced by infusions of phenylephrine, demonstrating its lack of alpha-antagonist activity. The increases in heart rate, systolic blood pressure, forearm blood flow and finger tremor induced by infusions of salbutamol are inhibited by dilevalol 200 and 400 mg and propranolol 80 mg to a similar degree indicating the lack of selectivity of the beta-antagonist activity of dilevalol. The effects of increasing oral doses of dilevalol on sleeping heart rate were used to assess the magnitude of its partial agonist activity. Heart rate four hours after dilevalol 200 and 400 mg was seven beats per minute higher than after placebo. Dilevalol 200 and 400 mg did not alter daytime supine heart rate, blood pressure or cardiac output but did increase forearm blood flow and finger tremor indicating that the partial agonist activity is mainly at the beta 2-adrenoceptor.
Activation of D1-like (D1, D5) or D2-like (D1, D3, D4) dopamine receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell is sufficient to reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior in rats. The goal of these experiments was to assess whether cooperative activation of D1-like and D2-like dopamine receptors in the accumbens shell is required to promote cocaine reinstatement. Rats were initially trained to self-administer cocaine (0.25 mg, i.v.) using a fixed-ratio schedule of reinforcement for approximately 21 days. Animals subsequently underwent an extinction phase during which saline was substituted for cocaine. Once cocaine self-administration behavior was extinguished (defined as <15% of the total responses maintained during self-administration), dopamine receptor agonist-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking was assessed. Administration of the selective D1/5 agonist R-(+)-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide (SKF-81297) (1.0 microg) or the D2/3 receptor agonist trans-(-)-(4aR)-4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-g]quinoline hydrochloride (quinpirole) (3.0 microg) directly into the nucleus accumbens shell promoted reinstatement of cocaine seeking. In order to determine if endogenous dopamine tone in the accumbens shell is required for dopamine receptor agonist-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking, D1/5 or D2/3 dopamine receptor antagonists were administered into the nucleus accumbens shell prior to a selective dopamine receptor agonist. Microinfusion of the D2/3 dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride ((S)-5-aminosulfonyl-N-[(1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]-2-methoxybenzamide) (1.0 microg) into the nucleus accumbens shell 10 minutes prior to SKF-81297 (1.0 microg) blocked the ability of this D1-like dopamine receptor agonist to reinstate cocaine seeking. Similarly, administration of the selective D1/5 dopamine receptor antagonist R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH-23390) (1.0 microg) into the nucleus accumbens shell prior to quinpirole (3.0 microg) blocked reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior elicited by this D2/3 dopamine receptor agonist. Moreover, intra-accumbal shell co-administration of subthreshold doses of quinpirole (1.5 microg) and SKF-81297 (0.1 microg) promoted cocaine-seeking behavior. Collectively, these results indicate that cooperative activation of D1-like and D2-like dopamine receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell is necessary to reinstate cocaine seeking in rats.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease in which the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system plays an important role. Evidence indicate that the angiotensin type 1 receptor blockers can suppress atherogenesis, but the exact mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. The study was undertaken to investigate the potential effects and molecular mechanisms of an angiotensin type 1 receptor blocker irbesartan on atherogenesis in high cholesterol-diet apolipoprotein E knock-out mice.
Adult male apolipoprotein E knock-out mice were given normal diet or high cholesterol-diet and randomized to receive no treatment or irbesartan 10 mg kg(-1) d(-1) for 12 weeks. The apolipoprotein E knock-out mice with high cholesterol-diet were associated with a marked increase in atherosclerotic lesion area, plasma lipid and angiotensin II levels, as well as the expressions of angiotensin type 1 receptor in the aorta. High cholesterol-diet feeding increases the activity of NADPH oxidase subunits (p47(phox) and Rac), extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2, janus kinase 2, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3, nuclear factor-kappaB and the expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin 6, monocyte chemoattactant protein-1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 in the aortas. These changes were suppressed in mice that were treated with irbesartan 10 mg kg(-1) d(-1), with no significant change in systolic blood pressure and plasma lipid levels.
The results suggest that irbesartan can attenuate atherosclerosis, and this effect is partly related to the inhibition of oxidative stress and inflammatory signal transduction pathways which eventually leads to the decrease in the expression of inflammatory cytokines.
In continuation to our studies toward the identification of direct anti-cancer targets, here we showed that destruxin B (DB) from Metarhizium anisopliae suppressed the proliferation and induced cell cycle arrest in human colorectal cancer (CRC) HT29, SW480 and HCT116 cells. Additionally, DB induced apoptosis in HT29 cells by decreased expression level of anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL while increased pro-apoptotic Bax. On the other hand, DB attenuated Wnt-signaling by downregulation of β-catenin, Tcf4 and β-catenin/Tcf4 transcriptional activity, concomitantly with decreased expression of β-catenin target genes cyclin D1, c-myc and survivin. Furthermore, DB affected the migratory and invasive ability of HT29 cells through suppressed MMPs-2 and -9 enzymatic activities. We also found that DB targeted the MAPK and/or PI3K/Akt pathway by reduced expression of Akt, IKK-α, JNK, NF-κB, c-Jun and c-Fos while increased that of IκBα. Finally, we demonstrated that DB inhibited tumorigenesis in HT29 xenograft mice using non-invasive bioluminescence technique. Consistently, tumor samples from DB-treated mice demonstrated suppressed expression of β-catenin, cyclin D1, survivin, and endothelial marker CD31 while increased caspase-3 expression. Collectively, our data supports DB as an inhibitor of Wnt/β-catenin/Tcf signaling pathway that may be beneficial in the CRC management.
Spontaneous reversion to sinus rhythm is a frequent occurrence in recent-onset atrial fibrillation (AF). In a randomized, double-blind, controlled study, intravenous flecainide (2 mg/kg, maximum dose 150 mg) was compared with placebo in the treatment of recent-onset AF (present for greater than or equal to 30 minutes and less than or equal to 72 hours' duration and a ventricular response greater than or equal to 120 beats/min). Intravenous digoxin (500 micrograms) was administered concurrently to all patients in both groups who had not previously taken digoxin. The trial medication was administered over 30 minutes. Exclusion criteria included hemodynamic instability, severe heart failure, recent antiarrhythmic therapy, hypokalemia and pacemaker dependence. One hundred two consecutive patients with recent-onset AF were enrolled in the study. All patients underwent continuous electrocardiographic monitoring in the intensive care or coronary care unit. Twenty-nine (57%) patients given flecainide and digoxin, but only 7 (14%) given placebo and digoxin, reverted to sinus rhythm in less than or equal to 1 hour after starting the trial medication infusion and remained in stable sinus rhythm (chi-square 18.9, p = 0.000013; odds ratio 8.3, 95% confidence interval 2.9 to 24.8). At the end of the 6-hour monitoring period, 34 patients (67%) in the flecainide-digoxin group were in stable sinus rhythm, whereas only 18 patients (35%) in the placebo-digoxin group had reverted (chi-square 8.83, p = 0.003; odds ratio 3.67, 95% confidence interval 1.5 to 9.1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To identify genes whose expression is most characteristic of chronic rhinosinusitis and aspirin-sensitive asthma through genome-wide transcriptional profiling of nasal polyp tissue.
Prospective, controlled study conducted at a tertiary care institution.
Thirty genome-wide expression microarrays were used to compare nasal polyp tissue from patients with chronic rhinosinusitis alone (CRS, n = 10) or chronic rhinosinusitis and a history of aspirin-sensitive asthma (ASA, n = 10) to normal sinonasal mucosa from patients who underwent surgery for non-sinus related conditions (controls, n = 10). Genes found to be most characteristic of each polyp phenotype, as determined from bioinformatic analyses, were validated using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry in different patient sets.
The transcriptional signature of the control mucosa was distinctly different from that of either polyp phenotype. Genes most characteristic of the CRS phenotype included two upregulated genes--met proto-oncogene (MET) and protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 9B (PPP1R9B)-and two downregulated genes--prolactin-induced protein (PIP) and zinc alpha2-glycoprotein (AZGP1). The gene most characteristic of the ASA phenotype was periostin (POSTN), which was upregulated relative to controls. Differences between the CRS and ASA phenotypes were associated with alterations in the 6p22, 22q13, and 1q23 chromosomal regions.
Nasal polyps appear to have characteristic transcriptional signatures compared to normal sinonasal mucosa. The five genes identified in this study likely play roles in the pathogenesis of polyps associated with CRS and ASA, and are therefore attractive targets for novel medical therapies for these common debilitating diseases.
Naringin (NG), a flavonoid in grapefruit and citrus, has been reported to exhibit antioxidant effects and pharmacological actions. Recently, we have reported that NG suppressed the cytotoxicity and apoptosis induced by H(2)O(2), a typical pro-oxidant, in mouse leukemia P388 cells. Cytosine arabinoside (1-beta-d-arabinofuranosylcytosine; Ara-C) is the most important antimetabolite chemotherapeutic drug used for acute leukemia. It has been suggested that Ara-C-induced cytotoxicity is caused by apoptosis, which is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this study, we examined the effect of NG on the cytotoxicity and apoptosis in mouse leukemia P388 cells treated with Ara-C. Ara-C caused cytotoxicity in a concentration and time-dependent manner in the cells. N-Acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), cystamine (CysA) or a reduced form of glutathione (GSH), typical antioxidants significantly blocked Ara-C-induced cytotoxicity. Similarly, Ara-C-induced cell death was completely prevented by NG. NG strongly reduced ROS production caused by Ara-C in the cells. NG slightly increased the activities of antioxidant enzymes, catalase and glutathione peroxidase. Ara-C caused apoptosis with nuclear morphological change and DNA fragmentation. NG remarkably attenuated the Ara-C-induced apoptosis. NG completely blocked the DNA damage caused by Ara-C treatment at 6 h using the Comet assay. Our data suggest that NG reduces Ara-C-induced oxidative stress through both an inhibition of the generation of ROS production and an increase in antioxidant enzyme activities. Consequently, NG blocked apoptosis caused by Ara-C-induced oxidative stress, resulting in the inhibition of the cytotoxicity of Ara-C.
Dopamine D(2) receptor antagonism contributes to the therapeutic action of antipsychotic drugs (APDs) but also produces undesirable side effects, including extrapyramidal motor deficits, cognitive dulling, and prolactinemia. The introduction of atypical APDs was a significant advancement in the treatment of schizophrenia. Whereas these agents are D(2) receptor antagonists, they are also potent 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(2A) receptor inverse agonists, a feature that may explain their improved efficacy and tolerability. Recently, we reported that N-(4-fluorophenylmethyl)-N-(1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)-N'-(4-(2-methylpropyloxy)phenylmethyl) carbamide (2R,3R)-dihydroxybutanedioate (2:1) (ACP-103), a novel selective 5-HT(2A) receptor inverse agonist that fails to bind D(2) receptors, is active in several models predictive of antipsychotic activity. Using ACP-103, we tested the hypothesis that combining high levels of 5-HT(2A) inverse agonism with low levels of D(2) antagonism would result in a favorable interaction, such that antipsychotic efficacy could be achieved with reduced D(2) receptor-related adverse effects. Here we show that ACP-103 1) potently inhibited head-twitching produced by the 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor agonist (+/-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine, 2) increased the potency of haloperidol against amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, 3) interacted synergistically with haloperidol or risperidone to suppress hyperactivity induced by the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist (5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate (MK-801), and, by contrast, 4) attenuated haloperido-l- or risperidone-induced prolactinemia. ACP-103 also attenuated catalepsy produced by haloperidol or risperidone. However, the doses that were required for this effect were higher than would be expected for a 5-HT(2A) receptor-mediated mechanism. These data indicate that utilizing ACP-103 as an adjunctive therapy to currently used APDs may result in enhanced antipsychotic efficacy while reducing adverse effects including those attributable to D(2) receptor antagonism.
The risk of a newly diagnosed episode of upper gastrointestinal bleeding, acute liver and renal failure, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, severe skin disorders, and anaphylaxis was examined within 30 days after the first prescription for a low dose of diclofenac, naproxen, or ibuprofen in a cohort in the United Kingdom. We identified 22,146 persons using diclofenac (< or = 75 mg), 46,919 using naproxen (< or = 750 mg), and 54,830 using ibuprofen (< or = 1200 mg). Age, gender, and comorbidity were similar in the three cohorts. Overall 64 potential cases were identified, and 20 were confirmed by medical record review. Incidence rates (95% CI) of upper gastrointestinal bleeding/10,000 people using diclofenac, naproxen, and ibuprofen were 1.8 (0.5-4.6), 2.3 (1.2-4.2), and 0.4 (0.04-1.3), respectively. There were three cases of hepatic injury, one with naproxen and two with ibuprofen. Although low, the incidence of gastrointestinal toxicity remains the main serious adverse event for all study drugs.
The mechanisms underlying menopausal hot flushes are poorly understood, although it is generally assumed they result from disturbances of thermoregulatory centres in the hypothalamus. 8-Prenylnaringenin (8-PN) has been identified as a potent phytoestrogen in hops (Humulus lupulus) and there are claims that hop-containing preparations can reduce hot flushes. We have investigated the site of action of 8-PN in a rat model of menopausal hot flushes, in which the tail skin temperature (TST) is increased after oestrogen withdrawal induced by ovariectomy. Daily s.c. administration of either 17beta-oestradiol (E2; 4 microg/kg) or 8-PN (400 microg/kg) significantly reduced the elevated TST after 2 days of treatment. Subcutaneous co-administration of either E2 or 8-PN with the oestrogen receptor (ER) antagonist, ICI 182,780 (200 microg/kg), which is thought not to cross the blood-brain barrier, completely blocked the effect of E2 and 8-PN on TST. The ERalpha- and ERbeta-specific agonists, 4,4',4''-(4-propyl-[1H]-pyrazole-1,3,5-triyl)trisphenol (100 microg/kg) and 2,3-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-propionitrile (60 microg/kg) respectively, both significantly reversed the raised TST in ovariectomised rats. These observations suggest that the regulation of the vasomotor response by oestrogens and phytoestrogens is mediated, at least in part, by peripheral mechanisms involving both ERalpha and ERbeta.
The main side effects of 7921 hospitalized patients taken clozapine from July in 1980 to October in 1988 were investigated. In these cases, there were 600 patients with the main side effects caused by clozapine. They included 312 patients with leukocytosis (52.0%), 114 patients with leukopenia (19.0%), (included 16 patients with agranulocytosis), 53 patients with EEG abnormal (8.9%), 35 patients with fever (5.9%), 32 patients with EKG abnormal (5.3%), 14 patients with rash (2.3%), 12 patients with epileptic seizure (2.0%), 11 patients with posture hypotension (1.8%), 8 patients with paralytic intestinal obstruction (1.3%), 6 patients with SGPT raised (1.0%) and 3 patients with conscious disturbances (0.5%). The causes and treatments of the main side effects mentioned above were discussed.
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of olanzapines and haloperidol in treating patients with amphetamine psychosis.
Fifty-eight patients experiencing episode of amphetamine psychosis were randomly assigned to olanzapine (N=29) or haloperidol (N=29) in 1:1 (olanzapine: haloperidol) ratio. All patients started with 5-10 mg/day of the study drug; after each 7-day period, the study drug could be adjusted in 5-mg increments or decrements within the allowed dose range of 5-20 mg/day during the 4-week double-blind period.
Clinical response was seen in both treatment groups since the first week. Ninety three percent of the olanzapine patients (N=27 of 29) and 79.3% of the haloperidol patients (N=23 of 27) were clinically improved at endpoint. These differences were not statistically significant (p=0.25). The Simpson-Angus total score change from baseline to endpoint reflected no extrapyramidal symptoms among the olanzapine-treated patients (median=0.0, range=0.0). In contrast, worsening occurred among the haloperidol-treated patients (median=0.2, range=0.0-3.1). The differences of mean change in Simpson Angus Scale significantly favored olanzapine (p<0.01). Change to endpoint on the Barnes Akathisia Scale showed that olanzapine-treated patients' scores were close to the baseline (median=0.0, range=-1.0-0.0), whereas haloperidol-treated patients' scores worsened from the baseline (median=0.0, range=-1.0-3.0). This difference was statistically significant (p=0.02).
Both olanzapine and haloperidol were efficacious in the treatment of patients with amphetamine psychosis. Olanzapine was superior to conventional neuroleptic haloperidol in treatment safety with lower frequency and severity of extrapyramidal symptoms.
Cobalt chromium (CoCr) alloy is widely used in orthopedic implants but its functional longevity is susceptible to inflammation related complications. Reduction of the development of chronic inflammation on the biomaterial surface would enhance direct bone-implant bonding and improve implant survival and long-term results. The BMP-7 peptide was derived from the knuckle epitope of bone morphogenic protein-7 (BMP-7) and was conjugated via a cysteine amino acid at the N-terminus. Mouse RAW 264.7 monocytes/macrophages were seeded on the CoCr substrates and inflammation was induced via lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. The effects of BMP-7 peptide on inflammation were evaluated by measuring the expression of inflammatory markers like toll-like receptor-4 (TLR-4), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1). ELISA and qPCR assays were used to study the inflammatory signals. BMP-7 signaling pathway activation was shown by the presence of phosphorylation of Smad1/5/8. Utilizing the reactivity of polydopamine films to immobilize BMP-7 peptide onto metal substrates may provide a promising approach for applications in situations where reduction of inflammation around implants would be beneficial in improving surgical outcome, bone healing, and implant integration.
To evaluate the short- and long-term safety and efficacy of pergolide therapy for restless legs syndrome (RLS) in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial (Pergolide European Australian RLS [PEARLS] study).
We randomized 100 patients with idiopathic RLS were randomized to pergolide, 0.25 to 0.75 mg, in the evening or placebo for 6 weeks (phase 1); thereafter, patients with response on the Patient Global Impression (PGI) scale continued on double-blind pergolide or placebo, and nonresponders received open-label pergolide up to 1.5 mg/d for 12 months of treatment (phase 2). Sleep efficiency (SE) and periodic limb movements during sleep (PLMS) arousal index were monitored by centrally evaluated polysomnography (PSG). The severity of RLS was assessed using the validated International RLS Scale (IRLS).
In phase 1 (change from baseline to week 6), pergolide reduced PLMS arousal index vs placebo (mean +/- SD, -12.6 +/- 10.0 vs -3.6 +/- 15.9; p = 0.004), and SE did not improve (mean +/- SD, +11.3 +/- 11.9% vs +6.1 +/- 18.6%; p = 0.196). Pergolide improved RLS severity score (-12.2 +/- 9.9 vs -1.8 +/- 7.5 placebo; p < 0.001) and was associated with a higher PGI response (68.1% vs 15.1%; p < 0.001) and improvements in periodic limb movements (PLM) index, PGI improvement scale, Clinical Global Impression improvement, and IRLS (all p < 0.001), patient-reported SE (p = 0.019), and quality of sleep (p < 0.001). After 12 months (phase 2), double-blind pergolide maintained improvements in PLMS arousal index and PLM index. Placebo patients switched to open-label pergolide in phase 2 exhibited marked improvements in these measures that were maintained at 12 months. Pooled results from the blinded and open-label pergolide groups demonstrated improvements at 12 months in the PLMS arousal index (p = 0.028) and PLM index (p < 0.0001) compared with placebo. Nausea and headache were more frequent with pergolide than with placebo treatment.
Pergolide substantially improves periodic limb movement measures and subjective sleep disturbance associated with restless legs syndrome. Low-dose pergolide was well tolerated and maintained its efficacy in the long term.
A 52-year-old Indian woman with underlying diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemia, presented with generalized musculoskeletal pain and oliguria for three days. The patient was taking 80 mg of simvastatin initiated 20 days earlier after cardiac catheterization for an inferior myocardial infarction. Laboratory investigations revealed the following serum levels: creatine kinase 81,620 U/L, aspartate aminotransferase 2497 U/L, alanine aminotransferase 1304 U/L, blood urea nitrogen 21.7 mmol/L, creatinine 447 micromol/L, Free T4 12.6 pmol/L, and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) 22.7 microIU/L. Simvastatin was discontinued and the patient received forced alkaline diuresis. Her hypothyroidism was treated with thyroxin, which was continued upon discharge, and her renal function recovered within two months. This case report discusses the incidence of rhabdomyolysis in a patient with primary hypothyroidism receiving large doses of simvastatin.
Locomotor hyperactivity was induced in rats by bilateral injection of picrotoxin (PIC) into the nucleus accumbens (NAC) followed by intraperitoneal (IP) or intra-accumbens (IA) injection of agents affecting dopamine (DA), acetylcholine, serotonin, or GABA receptors. IP injection of haloperidol and diazepam attenuated PIC-induced hypermotility in a dose-dependent manner. Low (sedative) doses of the DA agonists apomorphine (APO) and lisuride, or pretreatment with reserpine abolished PIC-induced hypermotility. Independent of a preceding IA injection of PIC, higher IP doses of APO produced the well-known locomotor effect. LSD, and the atypical neuroleptic, sulpiride, potentiated PIC-induced hypermotility strongly whereas clozapine was ineffective. IA injection of carbachol or haloperidol, in doses which antagonized hypermotility induced by APO IP, did not influence PIC-induced hypermotility. The atypical neuroleptics, clozapine and sulpiride, and the benzodiazepine, diazepam, inhibited PIC-induced hypermotility. The results suggest that there is a complex involvement of GABA, DA and serotonin functions in the effectuation of PIC-induced hypermotility and that PIC-induced hypermotility may be affected by DA-sensitive structures situated outside the NAC.
Perinatal and juvenile oral treatment of rats with the insecticide, methoxychlor (MXC), reduced testicular size and other reproductive indices including the number of epididymal spermatozoa in those animals as adults 161. The objective was to determine if these males exposed during development had fewer Sertoli cells which might explain these testicular effects. Rat dams were gavaged with MXC at 0, 5, 50, or 150 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1) for the week before and after they gave birth. Resulting male pups (15/group) then were dosed directly from postnatal day 7 to 42. Testes were fixed in Bouin's and in OsO4, embedded in Epon and sectioned at 0.5 microm, stained with toluidine blue, and evaluated stereologically or cut at 20 microm to measure Sertoli cell nuclei with Nomarski optics. Sertoli cell number was calculated as the volume density of the nucleus times the parenchymal weight (90% of testicular weight) divided by the volume of a single Sertoli cell nucleus. Across dose groups, there were no changes in the nuclear volume density, the volume of a single nucleus, or the number of Sertoli cells per g parenchyma. There were highly significant dose-related changes in the volume of Sertoli cell nuclei per testis and the number of Sertoli cells per testis. Reduced testicular weight (r = 0.94) and reduced numbers of epididymal spermatozoa (r = 0.43) were significantly (p < 0.01) correlated to reduced number of Sertoli cells per testis. Hence, perinatal and juvenile oral exposure to MXC can reduce spermatogenic potential of males as adults by reducing their number of Sertoli cells.
Heart failure due to a variety of causes is accompanied by an upregulation of cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). Adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy (AIC) and heart failure is an important clinical problem. The current study investigated the expression of these cytokines in AIC and heart failure in rats. Both early and late stages of AIC was produced in rats. Myocardial gene expressions for TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 were examined with DNA microarrays and RT-PCR. Protein levels of these cytokines in both the plasma and the myocardium were also examined by ELISA. In the early stage, myocardial mRNA expression of IL-1beta showed significant increase at 4 and 24 h, peaking at 4 h, while TNF-alpha did not change and IL-6 was undetectable. The protein levels of these three genes did not show any upregulation in the plasma or the heart. In the late stage, heart failure was confirmed by clinical signs as well as homodynamic changes. In this stage, plasma protein levels for TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 were not changed. However, myocardial TNF-alpha mRNA expression and protein levels were significantly decreased, while both IL-1beta mRNA and protein levels were not different compared to the control group. IL-6 mRNA expression was undetectable in both normal and adriamycin-treated hearts while its protein level was not changed by adriamycin. Positive control using lipopolysaccharides (LPS) treatment (0.5 mg/kg body weight) for 2 h resulted in a significant increase in these three cytokines in the heart and plasma. These data suggest that an upregulation of cytokines may not be involved in AIC. Heart failure may in fact be accentuated by a downregulation of myocardial TNF-alpha.
The term myofibrillar myopathy (MFM) is a noncommittal term for a pathologic pattern of myofibrillar dissolution associated with accumulation of myofibrillar degradation products and ectopic expression of multiple proteins. Ultrastructural studies implicate the Z-disk as the site of the initial pathologic change, and mutations in two Z-disk-related proteins, desmin and alphaB-crystallin, have been identified in a minority of patients with MFM. The authors' objective was to determine whether mutations in myotilin, a key Z-disk component and the disease protein in limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) 1A, are another cause of MFM.
The authors used histochemical, immunocytochemical, ultrastructural, and mutation analysis.
The authors detected four missense mutations in 6 of 57 patients with MFM in the serine-rich exon 2 of MYOT, where the two previously identified LGMD1A mutations are located. Three mutations were novel, and one had been previously identified in LGMD1A. Each patient had evidence for neuropathy, and at least three kinships had associated cardiomyopathy. Distal weakness greater than proximal weakness was present in three patients. Except for minor differences, the morphologic features were similar to those in other patients with MFM.
1) Mutations in myotilin cause MFM; 2) exon 2 of MYOT is a hotspot for mutations; 3) peripheral neuropathy, cardiomyopathy, and distal weakness greater than proximal weakness are part of the spectrum of myotilinopathy; 4) not all cases of myotilinopathy have a limb-girdle phenotype; and 5) the molecular basis of the majority of MFM cases remains to be discovered.
Recent research has revealed several useful urinary biomarkers of renal dysfunction such as acute kidney injury (AKI). For adequate evaluation of altered urinary biomarkers, it is necessary to consider the influence of varied urine flow rate (UFR). Calculation of the excretion rate of a urinary biomarker (UFR-correction) is the gold standard for the correction of UFR variation. An alternative method that is widely used is to calculate the ratio of the biomarker level to urinary creatinine (Ucr-correction). To date, the equivalence between these two methods has been examined only in a steady state situation such as diabetic nephropathy, and the urinary biomarkers examined have been limited to proteinuria and albuminuria. Therefore, we comprehensively addressed the relationship between Ucr-correction and UFR-correction of ten urinary biomarkers N-acetyl-β-d-glucosaminidase (NAG), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), total protein, albumin, kidney injury molecule-1, neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, clusterin, β(2)-microglobulin, cystatin-c and glutathione S-transferase-α in non-steady state situations such as AKI. All ten urinary biomarkers showed larger amplitude increases in AKI by Ucr-correction than by UFR-correction in linear regression analysis. Moreover, receiver operating characteristic curves analysis suggested that, at least for the biomarkers NAG and LDH, Ucr-correction had higher diagnostic power than UFR-correction. We observed a decrease in the Ucr excretion in AKI that was accompanied by a reduction in creatinine clearance and reduced mRNA expression of the renal organic cation transporter-2, which is known to function as a transporter for creatinine. These results may provide a mechanistic explanation for the phenomena obtained in Ucr-correction. In conclusion, while Ucr-correction could overestimate the degree of AKI, it could also provide higher diagnostic power for AKI than UFR-correction. We should take into consideration of these backgrounds when using the Ucr-correction.
To investigate the hypothesis that weight reduction with orlistat plus mild caloric restriction leads to better blood pressure control than diet alone in obese individuals with inadequately controlled hypertension. DESIGN This was a 1-year, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial of orlistat plus diet versus placebo plus diet in obese hypertensives.
Participants were randomized to receive either orlistat or placebo; all received a 600 kcal deficient diet with no more than 30% of calories from fat. Weight and blood pressure, lipid levels and fasting glucose and insulin levels were followed.
Patients on orlistat experienced greater weight loss (-5.4 +/- 6.4 versus -2.7 +/- 6.4 kg, P< 0.001) and greater reduction in body mass index (-1.9 +/- 2.3 versus -0.9 +/- 2.2 kg/m2, P<0.001). Target weight loss, defined as > or= 5% body weight (BW), was obtained in more orlistat-treated patients than in the placebo group (46 versus 23%, P<0.001). Diastolic BP decreased more in orlistat-treated patients than in the placebo group (-11.4 +/- 8.3 versus -9.2 +/- 8.4 mmHg, P = 0.002). A greater percentage of orlistat-treated patients reached goal diastolic blood pressure (BP), defined as final diastolic BP< 90 mmHg or a reduction of at least 10 mmHg (67 versus 53%, P< 0.001). The orlistat-treated group had significantly greater reductions in total cholesterol ( P<0.001), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (P = 0.001) and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (P< 0.005) and target 30% cardiovascular risk reduction was obtained in more orlistat-treated patients (36.1 versus 24.0%, P< 0.04).
A weight-loss program with orlistat is more effective than diet alone to lower blood pressure and results in greater cardiovascular risk reduction.
A case of iatrogenic full-thickness chemical burns from monochloroacetic acid (MCA) crystal application is described, followed by a brief review of the relevant literature and discussion of both local and systemic problems that may be encountered with absorption of this chemical. We believe this to be the first reported case of full-thickness burns in association with MCA. The degree of injury and systemic side effects encountered as a procedure complication highlights the importance of using this chemical with care in any clinical setting. In addition, an apparent predilection of MCA for the germinal matrix as found in this case may further complicate reconstructive options for associated injuries.
To assess the antioxidant effects of atorvastatin (atorva) on dexamethasone (dex)-induced hypertension, 60 male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with atorva 30 mg/kg/day or tap water for 15 days. Dex increased systolic blood pressure (SBP) from 109 +/- 1.8 to 135 +/- 0.6 mmHg and plasma superoxide (5711 +/- 284.9 saline, 7931 +/- 392.8 U/ml dex, P < 0.001). In this prevention study, SBP in the atorva + dex group was increased from 115 +/- 0.4 to 124 +/- 1.5 mmHg, but this was significantly lower than in the dex-only group (P' < 0.05). Atorva reversed dex-induced hypertension (129 +/- 0.6 mmHg, vs. 135 +/- 0.6 mmHg P' < 0.05) and decreased plasma superoxide (7931 +/- 392.8 dex, 1187 +/- 441.2 atorva + dex, P < 0.0001). Plasma nitrate/nitrite (NOx) was decreased in dex-treated rats compared to saline-treated rats (11.2 +/- 1.08 microm, 15.3 +/- 1.17 microm, respectively, P < 0.05). Atorva affected neither plasma NOx nor thymus weight. Thus, atorvastatin prevented and reversed dexamethasone-induced hypertension in the rat.
A case of psoriasis presented with sudden simultaneous bilateral sudden sensorineural hearing loss after taking oral acitretin. Audiogram showed bilateral symmetrical sensorineural hearing loss. Her symptom improved after a short course of prednisolone. It is suggested that acitretin may affect hearing acuity.
The folic acid analog methotrexate (MTX), a competitive inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), is used to treat a variety of cancers and autoimmune disorders. However, MTX also causes a wide range of toxic effects in healthy cells and is an established teratogen. Efforts to "rescue" the defects caused by MTX by administering a folate analog or by transgenic expression of a DHFR with an altered affinity for MTX have been attempted in a variety of mammals but limited protection was conferred. As a result, our understanding of the effect of MTX at the molecular genetic level remains incomplete and, in addition, continued mammalian sacrifice is not ideal. Due to the similarity of teratogenic effects produced by MTX in Drosophila melanogaster these insects were transformed with DHFR alleles to determine if rescue could be achieved. The resulting "MTX-resistant" flies were subsequently used to investigate changes in gene expression in response to MTX using semiquantitative reverse transcription PCR. The majority (12/14) of key transcripts that were affected in MTX-exposed females including transcripts involved in cell cycle, defense response, and transport were "rescued" in the "MTX-resistant" transgenic flies. These studies illustrate the utility of this invertebrate model for the investigation of molecular effects of MTX-induced teratogenicity, MTX-resistant DHFRs for gene therapy techniques, and teratogenic protection.
