Cyclosporine (CYA) reduces the renal synthesis of prostaglandins of the E series (PGE). Analogue of PGE1 have been shown to mitigate the vasoconstriction and abnormal renal function of experimental acute CYA nephrotoxicity. We examined the hypothesis that the orally bioavailable PGE analogue enisoprost (EP) would improve renal function in renal transplant recipients chronically exposed to CYA. In a randomized double-blind study, 40 patients at two centers who were being monitored for 3 to 30 months after renal transplantation, were allocated to receive either EP 100 micrograms orally four times daily or placebo (P) for 2 weeks. CYA dosing was fixed at existing levels. There could be no evidence of concurrent acute renal injury, including that of acute rejection. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was measured by the clearance of radiolabeled DTPA, while effective renal plasma flow (ERPF) was measured as the clearance of p-aminohippuric acid (PAH). The acute effects of EP were examined twice, by comparing immediate postdose to predose values for GFR and ERPF on day 1 and again on day 14. Chronic effects were examined by comparing baseline (predose) values only for GFR and ERPF between days 1 and 14 and by an examination of creatinine clearances (CCR) on days 0, 14, and 21. At enrollment, patients were well matched for renal function (CCR:EP 47 +/- 5 v P 49 +/- 4 mL/min/1.73 m2; P = NS). Baseline demographics were similar, although patients treated with EP were older (46 +/- 2 v 36 +/- 3 years, mean +/- SEM, P = 0.003). CYA doses and blood levels did not change significantly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Torsades de pointes (TdP) has not been previously reported with loratadine. A 73-year old woman on chronic treatment with amiodarone for atrial fibrillation received loratadine and presented with syncope and multiple episodes of TdP. We suggest that QT interval should be monitored whenever loratadine is co-administered with drugs that may potentially prolong QT.
The evolution of symptoms and therapeutic response in a group of have been followed parkinsonian patients 81 for a period of 4 years. Hoehn and Yahr, and Webster's scales have been used. In addition CT scan, EEG, ECG, blood and urine analyses have been carried out. Treatment was carried out with L-Dopa and decarboxylase inhibitor (benserazide for 50% of cases and carbidopa for the other 50%). Anticholinergics (esp. metixene) were often required. The initial response was satisfactory for all patients except one who had hydrocephalus (with normal pressure). Four years later, the initial improvement diminished by about 1/3. Side effects occurred in 80.24% of cases in the beginning, and in 82.50% of cases after 4 years. Dyskinesias, confusional state and "on-off" phenomenon increased with time, whereas gastric trouble diminished. CT scan were obtained in all patients and atrophic changes were found in 82.7%. There were no correlations between localization and severity of anatomical lesions on the one hand, and therapeutic response and side-effects on the other. It is suggested that the severity of the disease depends mainly on the degree of neurochemical integrity in the affected area rather then to the extent of anatomical lesions.
Thalidomide was administered as a therapeutic agent for chronic graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in a patient with breast cancer. Although side effects of thalidomide have been described earlier, this is the first instance of perioral neuropathy associated with thalidomide treatment. Awareness of this specific side effect may contribute to early diagnosis and appropriate treatment.
It is generally accepted that short-term (4 weeks) inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) of young spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) in their prehypertensive phase confers long-lasting protection from fully hypertensive levels in adulthood. However, there is very little data pertaining to the effects of such treatment in adult SHR with established hypertension. Therefore, we determined the relative effects of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition (perindopril), AT1 receptor blockade (candesartan cilexetil) and RAS-independent vasodilatation (hydralazine) and their withdrawal in adult SHR, on blood pressure measured by radiotelemetry, as well as on cardiac and vascular structure.
Adult male SHR were instrumented with radiotelemetry probes to measure blood pressure and heart rate continuously. SHR were given either vehicle, perindopril (1 mg/kg per day), candesartan cilexetil (2 mg/ kg per day) or hydralazine (30 mg/kg per day) at equieffective depressor doses for 4 weeks (treatment study). Separate groups of animals were also given identical treatments but were then monitored for a further 8 weeks after drug withdrawal (withdrawal study). An indirect in-vivo assessment of whole body vascular hypertrophy (mean arterial pressure during maximum vasoconstriction) was made during and after drug withdrawal, as was the pressor activity evoked by angiotensin I and angiotensin II. The effect of antihypertensive treatment on microalbuminuria was also assessed during and after drug withdrawal. Finally, left ventricular: body weight (Iv: bw) and mesenteric media: lumen ratios were determined either immediately after 4-week treatment (treatment study) or 8 weeks later (withdrawal study).
Perindopril persistently lowered blood pressure in adult SHR whereas blood pressure returned to vehicle levels within approximately 4 and 15 days after withdrawal of hydralazine and candesartan cilexetil, respectively. Cardiac hypertrophy was reduced by all three treatments, but to a lesser extent by hydralazine (treatment study), and this regression of cardiac hypertrophy persisted only with both types of RAS inhibition (withdrawal study). Vascular hypertrophy, measured indirectly and directly, was also reduced by all three treatments, with perindopril and candesartan cilexetil causing hypotrophic and eutrophic remodelling, respectively (treatment study), although these changes were generally not maintained after drug withdrawal (withdrawal study). Angiotensin I-induced pressor responses were equally inhibited during treatment with either candesaran cilexetil or perindopril (and were unaffected by hydralazine) but normalized rapidly in both groups (within approximately 2-4 days) after withdrawal of RAS inhibition. In addition, there was a small age-related increase in microalbuminuria over the study period, which was not significantly affected by any treatment.
Following 4-week treatment, candesartan cilexetil, perindopril and hydralazine caused similar antihypertensive effects; however, only perindopril persistently reduced blood pressure following drug withdrawal. Both types of RAS inhibition and hydralazine caused marked cardiac and vascular remodelling during treatment, whereas only the RAS inhibitors persistently regressed cardiac hypertrophy 8 weeks later. Collectively, these results indicate the importance of the RAS for the maintenance of hypertension and cardiovascular hypertrophy in adult SHR, as well as identifying differential effects of ACE inhibition and AT1 receptor blockade on persistent blood pressure reduction.
The post-thrombotic syndrome is a chronic, poorly understood complication of deep venous thrombosis (DVT).
To evaluate predictors of the post-thrombotic syndrome, including intensity of long-term anticoagulation, and to assess the impact of the post-thrombotic syndrome on quality of life.
The setting was 13 Canadian hospitals and one US hospital. One hundred and forty-five patients with an unprovoked episode of proximal DVT who were initially treated with 3 months of conventional-intensity warfarin [target International Normalized Ratio (INR) of 2.5] then participated in a trial comparing two intensities of long-term warfarin therapy (target INR 2.5 vs. INR 1.7). Post-thrombotic syndrome was assessed at the end of the trial using a validated clinical scale. Generic and venous disease-specific quality of life was compared in patients with and without the post-thrombotic syndrome. Multivariable regression analyses were performed to identify predictors of the post-thrombotic syndrome and of its severity.
After an average follow-up of 2.2 years, the prevalence of post-thrombotic syndrome was 37% and of severe post-thrombotic syndrome was 4%. Quality of life was worse in patients with the post-thrombotic syndrome compared with patients who did not have it. The presence of factor (F)V Leiden or the prothrombin gene mutation was an independent predictor of both a lower risk (P = 0.006) and reduced severity (P = 0.045) of the post-thrombotic syndrome. Intensity of anticoagulation did not influence the risk of developing the post-thrombotic syndrome.
The post-thrombotic syndrome is a frequent and burdensome complication of proximal DVT, even among patients maintained on long-term oral anticoagulation. While the presence of FV Leiden or prothrombin gene mutation appears to be associated with a reduced risk of post-thrombotic syndrome, this finding requires further evaluation in prospective studies.
Gas6 (encoded by growth arrest-specific gene 6) is a vitamin-K dependent protein highly homologous to coagulation protein S that is secreted from platelet alpha-granules and has recently been demonstrated to participate in platelet thrombus formation. The current study evaluated the contribution of each of the three known Gas6 receptors (Axl, Sky and Mer) in human and mouse platelet function. Flow cytometry analyses confirmed that all three receptors are present on both human and mouse platelets. Pre-incubation of human platelets with either an anti-Gas6 antibody or blocking antibodies to Sky or Mer inhibited platelet aggregation and degranulation responses to both ADP and the PAR-1 activating peptide, SFLLRN, by more than 80%. In contrast, a stimulatory anti-Axl antibody increased activation responses to these agonists, suggesting a potentiating role for Gas6 in platelet activation. Moreover, in a mouse model of thrombosis, administration of Gas6 or Sky blocking antibodies resulted in a decrease in thrombus weight similar to clopidogrel but, unlike clopidogrel, produced no increase in template bleeding. Thus, Gas6 enhances platelet degranulation and aggregation responses through its known receptors, promoting platelet activation and mediating thrombus formation such that its inhibition prevents thrombosis without increasing bleeding.
A novel series of potent, peripherally selective, and long-acting inhibitors of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) has been synthesized. The introduction and nature of heteroatom-containing substituents to the side-chain of the nitrocatechol pharmacophore was found to have a profound effect on both peripheral selectivity and duration of COMT inhibition in the mouse. This approach led to the discovery of 1-(3,4-dihydroxy-5-nitrophenyl)-3-[4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1-piperazinyl]-1-propanone hydrochloride 35 (BIA 3-335), which was found to possess a superior inhibitory profile in vivo over both the nonselective inhibitor tolcapone 1 and the peripherally selective but short-acting entacapone 2. In this model, 35 retained 75% inhibition of peripheral COMT at 6 h after oral administration, yet significantly, only a minor reduction of central (cerebral) COMT activity was observed. Molecular modeling techniques were applied to review the analysis of the ternary enzyme-inhibitor complex previously determined by X-ray crystallography and to provide a deeper understanding of the structure-activity relationships within this novel series. Furthermore, a computational approach was applied in an effort to elucidate the particular structural factors relevant to the poor blood-brain permeability of 35. In conclusion, the improved biological properties herein reported reveal 35 as a candidate for clinical studies as an adjunct to L-DOPA therapy for Parkinson's disease.
Nitrofurantoin is a widely prescribed antibiotic used to treat uncomplicated lower urinary tract infections. Unknown in the obstetric and gynecologic literature is the complication of peripheral neuropathy as an adverse effect.
We describe a patient who developed a severe sensory neuropathy after taking nitrofurantoin intermittently and then continuously over a 7-year period. She recovered almost completely after its discontinuation.
Peripheral neuropathy is a rare and potentially reversible adverse effect, unreported in the obstetric and gynecologic literature, and commonly unrecognized by physicians who prescribe it.
The effect of acute arterial hypertension on blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability was studied in streptozocin-induced diabetic rats using Evans blue as a barrier tracer. Four groups of rats were studied: Group 1, normotensive normoglycemia; Group II, normotensive+diabetes mellitus; Group III, arterial hypertension+diabetes mellitus; Group IV, arterial-hypertension+normoglycemia. During adrenaline-induced acute arterial hypertension the mean arterial blood pressure increased in both non-diabetic and diabetic animals. Changes in BBB permeability were observed in 52% of the non-diabetic rats, and in 72% of the diabetic rats after adrenaline-induced acute arterial hypertension. Mean levels of Evans blue in the whole brain were found to be 0.63 +/- 0.1 mg% in non-diabetic and 0.90 +/- 0.2 mg% in diabetic rats. The difference between the non-diabetic and the diabetic rats was found to be statistically significant (P < 0.01). From these results it was suggested that the extravasation of Evans blue albumin is more pronounced in the brains of diabetic rats in comparison with non-diabetic rats after adrenaline-induced acute hypertension, which is indicative of changes in BBB permeability due to diabetes mellitus.
The FDA revised the labels of amiodarone and simvastatin in 2002 to warn of increased risk of rhabdomyolysis, the most severe form of myopathy, when the 2 drugs are taken concomitantly in doses greater than 20 milligrams (mg) per day of simvastatin. The FDA reissued the warning in 2008 after receiving reports of 52 cases of rhabdomyolysis in the Adverse Event Reporting System (AERS) after the label changes in 2002 and suggested use of an alternative statin for patients receiving amiodarone who require more than 20 mg simvastatin to attain lipid goals.
To (a) assess the prevalence of concomitant amiodarone and simvastatin in doses greater than 20 mg per day and the frequency of additional risk factors for myopathy in these patients, and (b) implement and evaluate a protocol to convert patients receiving this combination to alternative statins.
A review was conducted of all patients with active prescriptions for both simvastatin at doses greater than 20 mg per day and amiodarone from a Veterans Affairs (VA) medical center as of November 1, 2008. Data collected included demographics, duration of therapy, baseline lipid and aminotransferase values, and risk factors for myopathy (i.e., aged 80 years or older; female sex; small body frame; hypothyroidism; hepatic or renal insufficiency; diabetes; alcohol abuse; and use of medications, such as gemfibrozil and nicotinic acid, that may increase the risk of myopathy). Patients were converted to either pravastatin or rosuvastatin based on baseline simvastatin dose, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level, and renal function. The conversion protocol was developed to maintain LDL-C lowering with potentially safer statins. Follow-up lipid and aminotransferase values were collected as customary clinical markers of efficacy and safety, respectively, for patients converted per the protocol. Because creatine kinase values are not routinely assessed in clinical practice, they were not available as part of the current protocol.
Of the 48,612 patients who accessed the pharmacy in this VA medical center, 17,760 (36.5%) had an active order for simvastatin 40 mg or 80 mg per day, and 92 of these patients (0.52%) also had an active order for amiodarone. These patients were prescribed simvastatin primarily for secondary prevention (88 [95.7%] with coronary artery disease [CAD] as the indication for statin therapy), and were highly controlled with mean (SD) baseline LDL-C of 71 (21) mg per deciliter. The mean (median) duration of therapy on the combination of amiodarone plus simvastatin 40 mg or more per day was 43 (37) months. Of the 92 patients, 26 (28.3%), 35 (38.0%), and 18 (19.6%) patients had 1, 2, or 3 or more additional risk factors for myopathy, respectively. 16 patients were not converted per protocol to an alternate statin (4 were taken off amiodarone, 2 were taken off statin therapy, 6 had the simvastatin dose reduced to 20 mg per day or less, and 4 were converted to an alternate statin off-protocol), and 14 patients did not have follow-up laboratory values. For the 62 patients converted per protocol and with follow-up laboratory values, there were no statistically significant changes in mean lipid or aminotransferase values after conversion. One patient reported symptoms of myalgia after conversion to rosuvastatin; however, the conversion protocol did not require obtaining creatine kinase values.
0.19% of patients (n=92) with pharmacy dispensing records in this VA facility in 2008 received amiodarone in combination with simvastatin in doses greater than 20 mg per day, and the majority of patients had additional risk factors for myopathy. There were no significant changes in mean laboratory values for lipids or aminotransferase for the 62 patients (67%) who were converted and who had baseline and follow-up values; there was 1 case of self-reported myalgia in a patient converted to rosuvastatin.
Doxorubicin (D) (Adriamycin) is a potent and efficacious chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of various forms of cancer, but its use has been limited by the development of cardiac toxicity. Historically, D-induced cardiomyopathy (CMP) has been refractory to therapy. We report our experience with this form of CMP at the University of Alabama at Birmingham.
Twenty-five patients (20 women, 5 men) with a clinical diagnosis of D-CMP were referred to our program from 1990 to 2003. Patient data were extracted from office charts.
Patients were followed-up for 71 +/- 58 months. On presentation, the average left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 26 +/- 9.2%, and 88% of patients were New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III or IV. Patients were treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi; n = 23) or angiotensin-receptor blocker (ARB; n = 2), and 15 were treated with a combination of ACEi and beta-blockers (BB). With medical therapy, LVEF improved significantly (26 +/- 9.2% vs 35 +/- 16.5%, p = 0.022), as did the NYHA class (p < 0.003). All survivors (n = 19) were NYHA Class I or II with medical therapy, with 10 (53%) being Class I. In the group of patients treated with ACEi + BB, there was a statistically significant improvement in LVEF (26 +/- 10.0% vs 37 +/- 17.6%, p = 0.028), which not seen in the ACEi group, with a strong trend toward normalization of LV function (47% vs 10%, p = 0.054).
In the current era of management of heart failure, D-CMP carries a better prognosis than previously described. Early addition of BB may further improve LVEF.
The authors describe three cases of reflex sympathetic dystrophy of the upper extremity associated with barbiturate therapy and evidence their common clinical aspects and differences. The most recent knowledge and the most important literature relating to this subject are also reported. On the basis of these, personal observations are discussed and some pathogenetic hypotheses formulated.
The ability of an endocrine disruptor exposure during gonadal sex determination to promote a transgenerational prostate disease phenotype was investigated in the current study.
Exposure of an F0 gestating female rat to the endocrine disruptor vinclozolin during F1 embryo gonadal sex determination promoted a transgenerational adult onset prostate disease phenotype. The prostate disease phenotype and physiological parameters were determined for males from F1 to F4 generations and the prostate transcriptome was assessed in the F3 generation.
Although the prostate in prepubertal animals develops normally, abnormalities involving epithelial cell atrophy, glandular dysgenesis, prostatitis, and hyperplasia of the ventral prostate develop in older animals. The ventral prostate phenotype was transmitted for four generations (F1-F4). Analysis of the ventral prostate transcriptome demonstrated 954 genes had significantly altered expression between control and vinclozolin F3 generation animals. Analysis of isolated ventral prostate epithelial cells identified 259 genes with significantly altered expression between control and vinclozolin F3 generation animals. Characterization of regulated genes demonstrated several cellular pathways were influenced, including calcium and WNT. A number of genes identified have been shown to be associated with prostate disease and cancer, including beta-microseminoprotein (Msp) and tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily 6 (Fadd).
The ability of an endocrine disruptor to promote transgenerational prostate abnormalities appears to involve an epigenetic transgenerational alteration in the prostate transcriptome and male germ-line. Potential epigenetic transgenerational alteration of prostate gene expression by environmental compounds may be important to consider in the etiology of adult onset prostate disease.
Prolonged ouabain administration to normal rats causes sustained blood pressure (BP) elevation. This ouabain-induced hypertension (OH) has been attributed, in part, to the narrowing of third-order resistance arteries (approximately 320 microm internal diameter) as a result of collagen deposition in the artery media. Here we describe the structural and functional properties of fourth-order mesenteric small arteries from control and OH rats, including the effect of low-dose ouabain on myogenic tone in these arteries. Systolic BP in OH rats was 138 +/- 3 versus 124 +/- 4 mmHg in controls (P < 0.01). Pressurized (70 mmHg) control and OH arteries, with only a single layer of myocytes, both had approximately 165-microm internal diameters and approximately 20-microm wall thicknesses. Even after fixation, despite vasoconstriction, the diameters and wall thicknesses did not differ between control and OH fourth-order arteries, whereas in third-order arteries, both parameters were significantly smaller in OH than in controls. Myogenic reactivity was significantly augmented in OH fourth-order arteries. Nevertheless, phenylephrine- (1 microM) and high K(+)-induced vasoconstrictions and acetylcholine-induced vasodilation were comparable in control and OH arteries. Vasoconstrictions induced by 5 microM phenylephrine and by 10 mM caffeine in Ca(2+)-free media indicated that releasable sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) stores were normal in OH arteries. Importantly, 100 nM ouabain constricted both control and OH arteries by approximately 26 microm, indicating that this response was not downregulated in OH rats. This maximal ouabain-induced constriction corresponds to a approximately 90% increase in resistance to flow in these small arteries; thus ouabain at EC(50) of approximately 0.66 nM should raise resistance by approximately 35%. We conclude that dynamic constriction in response to circulating nanomolar ouabain in small arteries likely makes a major contribution to the increased vascular tone and BP in OH rats.
The development of severe tardive dystonia after short-term use of low-dose Fluspirilen is described. A 39-year-old woman was treated with Fluspirilen IM by her family doctor for reactive depression. She did received no other neuroleptic agents and no risk factors for the development of tardive dyskinesia (e.g. old age or organic brain damage) were present. For the first time a relation between short-term monotherapy with Fluspirilen and tardive dyskinesia appears highly probable. The use of Fluspirilen for the treatment of psychogenic disturbances should therefore be considered carefully.
Exposure to environmental toxic chemicals in utero during the neural tube development period can cause developmental disorders. To evaluate the disruption of neural tube development programming, the murine neural tube defects (NTDs) model was induced by interrupting folate metabolism using methotrexate in our previous study. The present study aimed to examine the effects of dNTP deficiency induced by hydroxyurea (HU), a specific ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) inhibitor, during murine neural tube development. Pregnant C57BL/6J mice were intraperitoneally injected with various doses of HU on gestation day (GD) 7.5, and the embryos were checked on GD 11.5. RNR activity and deoxynucleoside triphosphate (dNTP) levels were measured in the optimal dose. Additionally, DNA damage was examined by comet analysis and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) assay. Cellular behaviors in NTDs embryos were evaluated with phosphorylation of histone H3 (PH-3) and caspase-3 using immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis. The results showed that NTDs were observed mostly with HU treatment at an optimal dose of 225 mg/kg b/w. RNR activity was inhibited and dNTP levels were decreased in HU-treated embryos with NTDs. Additionally, increased DNA damage, decreased proliferation, and increased caspase-3 were significant in NTDs embryos compared to the controls. Results indicated that HU induced murine NTDs model by disturbing dNTP metabolism and further led to the abnormal cell balance between proliferation and apoptosis.
Changes in peripheral blood platelet counts associated with the onset of symptomatic erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL) were studied by comparing, in each patient, the value obtained on the day thalidomide therapy commenced with the average of the three preceding values. In the 11 patients studied, the mean platelet count rose from 235 to 322 x 10(3)/mm3, p < 0.001. In 3, the platelet count was above the normal limit, qualifying as thrombocytosis, in 7 the rise was appreciable, and in 2 it was negligible. In the 3 patients studied 1-2 weeks after beginning thalidomide, the mean count was 414 x 10(3)/mm3. Counts obtained after 3 or more weeks of thalidomide therapy were within normal limits. This study provided no direct evidence as to the mechanism responsible for the elevated platelet count, but mediation by interleukin-6 (IL-6) was concluded to be an attractive hypothesis, consistent with prior studies of IL-6 in reactive thrombocytosis and of IL-6 in ENL.
Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disorder of the nervous system typically mediated by antibodies against the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction. Treatment of myasthenia gravis frequently involves the use of cholinesterase inhibitors such as pyridostigmine. Treatment with these agents has been associated with bradycardia and syncope requiring pacemaker implantation. We report a case of a 60-year-old man with a 1-year history of myasthenia gravis treated with pyridostigmine who presented with syncope due to high degree AV block. Before committing the patient to a permanent pacemaker, a trial of medical therapy with hyoscyamine was attempted. Hyoscyamine is a muscarinic antagonist commonly used to block cholinergic side effects associated with pyridostigmine without reducing its efficacy at the neuromuscular junction. Treatment with hyoscyamine resulted in complete resolution of AV block, thereby avoiding pacemaker implantation.
The synthetic retinoid isotretinoin is an effective treatment option for severe forms of acne vulgaris. However, several reports indicate that some patients experience altered central nervous system functions in association with treatment. We present here the first description of the onset of Kleine-Levin Syndrome (KLS), a rare disorder characterised by periodic hypersomnia and cognitive and behavioural symptoms, in close temporal relation to the start of isotretinoin treatment. We also discuss the biological potential of retinoids to affect sleep.
In light of a documented potential of retinoids to modulate sleep-wake regulation, the present case suggests that isotretinoin may rarely trigger the onset of KLS.
The effects of chronic nitric oxide deficiency on prostacyclin and thromboxane A(2) production in vivo are unknown. Therefore, we treated rats with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), and used losartan and high calcium diet as antihypertensive treatments. Forty eight Wistar rats were divided into six groups: control; losartan (20mgkg(-1)day(-1)); high calcium diet (dietary calcium elevated from 1.1% to 3%); L-NAME (20mgkg(-1)day(-1)); losartan+L-NAME and high calcium diet+L-NAME. Prostacyclin and thromboxane A(2) production were measured after eight weeks as urinary 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF(1alpha) and 11-dehydro-TXB(2), respectively. Both the high calcium diet and losartan reduced blood pressure in L-NAME hypertension. Chronic nitric oxide deficiency did not modulate prostacyclin production but it nearly doubled thromboxane A(2) production in vivo. This effect was not influenced by lowering of blood pressure by blockade of angiotensin II type 1 receptors. Independent of the level of blood pressure and blockade of nitric oxide synthesis the high calcium diet decreased prostacyclin production by one third and increased thromboxane A(2) production almost two-fold in vivo.
Three founder mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 contribute to the risk of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer in Ashkenazi Jews (AJ). They are observed at increased frequency in the AJ compared to other BRCA mutations in Caucasian non-Jews (CNJ). Several authors have proposed that elevated allele frequencies in the surrounding genomic regions reflect adaptive or balancing selection. Such proposals predict long-range linkage disequilibrium (LD) resulting from a selective sweep, although genetic drift in a founder population may also act to create long-distance LD. To date, few studies have used the tools of statistical genomics to examine the likelihood of long-range LD at a deleterious locus in a population that faced a genetic bottleneck. We studied the genotypes of hundreds of women from a large international consortium of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers and found that AJ women exhibited long-range haplotypes compared to CNJ women. More than 50% of the AJ chromosomes with the BRCA1 185delAG mutation share an identical 2.1 Mb haplotype and nearly 16% of AJ chromosomes carrying the BRCA2 6174delT mutation share a 1.4 Mb haplotype. Simulations based on the best inference of Ashkenazi population demography indicate that long-range haplotypes are expected in the context of a genome-wide survey. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that a local bottleneck effect from population size constriction events could by chance have resulted in the large haplotype blocks observed at high frequency in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 regions of Ashkenazi Jews.
In this study, we investigated the effects of oestrogen on nitric oxide synthase activity and nitric oxide production using the cirrhotic rat liver.
Cirrhosis was induced by dimethylnitrosamine. Estradiol valerate was subcutaneously injected twice at week 4 after dimethylnitrosamine treatment. Furthermore, subcutaneous injection of an oestrogen receptor antagonist, ICI-182.780, was performed 2 days before administration of estradiol valerate. Portal pressure and hepatic blood flow were measured. Nitric oxide synthase activity was assessed by l-citrulline generation. Sinusoidal endothelial cells were isolated from the cirrhotic rat liver and cultured. The cells were incubated with estradiol and/or ICI-182.780 for 24 h. Images for nitric oxide in sinusoidal endothelial cells were obtained using diaminofluorescein-2 diacetate.
Cirrhotic rats treated with estradiol valerate showed a significant decrease in portal pressure and a significant increase in hepatic blood flow compared with those of control cirrhosis rats. However, in cirrhotic rats treated with ICI-182.780, the reduction of portal pressure and elevation of hepatic blood flow were completely inhibited. In cirrhotic rats treated with estradiol valerate, nitric oxide synthase activity was increased compared with that in control cirrhotic rats. The fluorescent level of intracellular nitric oxide in estradiol-stimulated, cultured, sinusoidal endothelial cells was higher than that in nontreated sinusoidal endothelial cells.
The present study indicated that oestrogen plays an important role in the enhancement of nitric oxide production in sinusoidal endothelial cells of cirrhotic liver and reduces the portal pressure in cirrhotic rats.
Fifty-five cases of ketoconazole-associated hepatic injury, reported to the Netherlands Centre for Monitoring of Adverse Reactions to Drugs, were analysed in detail. In 50 cases a causal relationship was considered likely, i.e. 'probable' (27 cases) or 'possible' (23 cases). Eighty-four % of individuals were women. Forty-six % of patients were over 50 years of age which suggests that, considering the lower prescription rate in this age group, the elderly are more vulnerable to ketoconazole. In 60% of all cases hepatic injury appeared within the first 6 weeks of therapy but in the group of 'probable'-cases the onset was mostly later. Jaundice was present in 44% of all cases but in 63% of the group of 'probable'-cases. Eosinophilia (10%), fever (6%) and rash (2%) were uncommon. Biochemically the pattern was hepatocellular in 54%, cholestatic in 16% and mixed cholestatic-hepatocellular in 30%. Histology (14 cases) showed a predominantly hepatocellular pattern in 57% with extensive centrilobular necrosis and mild to moderate bridging. In 43% cholestasis predominated. None of the cases had a fatal course. The incidence of symptomatic hepatic injury may be estimated at approximately 1:2000 but is probably higher. The mechanism of ketoconazole-induced hepatic injury seems to be based on metabolic idiosyncrasy although it is not excluded that in some patients an immunoallergic mechanism is causative.
The efficacy and safety of nisoldipine CC and felodipine were compared in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, trial in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension (n = 229). Following a two-week placebo run-in period, patients were randomised to 16 weeks' active treatment with nisoldipine coat core (CC) 20-40 mg or felodipine 5-10 mg once daily. At week 16, a higher proportion of patients in the nisoldipine CC group were on low-dose therapy (51% vs 36%, p = 0.07). The proportion of treatment responders was 77.8% with nisoldipine CC and 66.5% with felodipine. The mean change from baseline in systolic/diastolic blood pressure was -18.8/-13.6 mmHg with nisoldipine CC and -17.4/-11.3 mmHg with felodipine. The most common adverse events included peripheral oedema and headache; neither treatment affected heart rate. Thus, nisoldipine CC and felodipine provide comparable antihypertensive efficacy. The adverse effects of both drugs are related to their vasodilator properties and are common to the class.
