Primaquine is an important antimalarial agent because of its activity against exoerythrocytic forms of Plasmodium spp. However, methemoglobinemia and hemolytic anemia are dose-limiting side effects of primaquine therapy that limit its efficacy. These hemotoxicities are thought to be mediated by metabolites; however, the identity of the toxic species has remained unclear. Since N-hydroxy metabolites are known to mediate the hemotoxicity of several arylamines, the present studies were undertaken to determine whether 6-methoxy-8-aminoquinoline (6-MAQ), a known human metabolite of primaquine, could undergo N-hydroxylation to form a hemotoxic metabolite. When 6-MAQ was incubated with rat and human liver microsomes, a single metabolite was detected by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection. This metabolite was identified as 6-methoxy-8-hydroxylaminoquinoline (MAQ-NOH) by HPLC and mass spectral analyses. As measured by decreased survival of (51)Cr-labeled erythrocytes in rats, MAQ-NOH was hemolytic in vivo. Furthermore, in vitro exposure of (51)Cr-labeled erythrocytes to MAQ-NOH caused a concentration-dependent decrease in erythrocyte survival (EC(50) of 350 microM) when the exposed cells were returned to the circulation of isologous rats. MAQ-NOH also induced the formation of methemoglobin when incubated with suspensions of rat erythrocytes. These data indicate that 6-MAQ can be metabolized to MAQ-NOH by both rat and human liver microsomes and that MAQ-NOH has the requisite properties to be a hemotoxic metabolite of primaquine. The contribution of MAQ-NOH to the hemotoxicity of primaquine in vivo remains to be assessed.
Hypertensive emergencies are a diverse group of disorders characterized by a marked elevation of systemic arterial pressure that is associated with acute end-organ dysfunction. The efficacy and safety of sublingual nifedipine were evaluated in 16 men and 14 women (mean age 65 +/- 14 years) who had hypertensive emergencies. Before treatment, mean systolic blood pressure was 224 +/- 23 mm Hg, mean diastolic blood pressure was 125 +/- 18 mm Hg, and the average mean arterial pressure was 158 +/- 16 mm Hg. Administration of 10 or 20 mg of sublingual nifedipine initiated a smooth and predictable decline in blood pressure values within five minutes and produced a peak effect between 30 and 60 minutes. At 30 minutes, the decreases in the systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and mean arterial pressure for the group were 49 +/- 24 mm Hg, 31 +/- 17 mm Hg, and 39 +/- 20 mm Hg, respectively, all of which were highly significant (p less than 0.001). By 60 minutes, nifedipine had decreased the diastolic blood pressure to less than 120 mm Hg in 97 percent of patients, less than 110 mm Hg in 93 percent, and less than 100 mm Hg in 67 percent. Fourteen patients required other antihypertensive medications within the first 12 hours for the antihypertensive effect to be maintained. In this group, the systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressures were significantly lower than baseline values (p less than 0.001) at the time that the other drugs were started (which occurred at a mean of 4.3 +/- 3.2 hours after entry into the study). The response to nifedipine correlated with the blood pressure value prior to treatment, but did not correlate with age, gender, value prior to treatment, but did not correlate with age, gender, or the type of hypertensive emergency. Twenty mg of nifedipine produced a significantly greater antihypertensive effect than did 10 mg during the first 20 minutes (176 +/- 15 mm Hg versus 201 +/- 18 mm Hg systolic; p = 0.009) and appeared to be more efficacious clinically. In only two of 30 patients (7 percent) was the blood pressure response considered inadequate, and all 10 patients with pulmonary edema or myocardial ischemia showed clinical improvement within 60 minutes of treatment. In one patient, flushing and another symptom suggestive of transient symptomatic hypotension developed after treatment with nifedipine. These results suggest that sublingual nifedipine is a safe, effective, and practical agent for treating patients with hypertensive emergencies.
Stimulant drugs are often associated with increased seizure susceptibility. Inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and excitatory N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) systems play a role in the effect of stimulants in the genesis of epileptic seizures. Our previous studies showed that prenatal methamphetamine (MA) exposure induced long-term changes in seizure susceptibility. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of cross-fostering on the prenatal and postnatal MA-exposed rats, respectively, on their seizures in adulthood. Bicuculline (GABA(A) receptor antagonist), NMDA (NMDA receptor agonist) and flurothyl (a convulsant gas) were used to induce seizures in adult male offsprings. Female dams were injected with MA (5 mg/kg daily) or physiological saline (S) for approx. 9 week [about 3 week prior to impregnation, for the entire gestation period (22 days) and in preweaning period (21 days)]. Absolute controls (C) did not receive any injections. On postnatal day 1, pups were cross-fostered so that each mother received pups from all three treatments. Thus, nine groups (based on the prenatal and postnatal drug exposure) of adult male rats were tested in each seizure test: C/C; C/S; C/MA; S/C; S/S; S/MA; MA/C; MA/S; MA/MA. The present study demonstrates that the effect of prenatal and/or postnatal MA exposure is seizure model specific. In addition, our data show that there is an effect of cross-fostering on seizures; particularly, the effect of prenatal MA exposure shown in animals fostered by control mothers is no longer apparent in animals fostered postnatally by MA-treated mothers. Such effect of postnatal treatment is not manifested in prenatal controls. In summary, it seems that: (1) prenatal MA exposure alters seizure susceptibility more than postnatal MA exposure; (2) especially in seizures induced by chemicals that affect GABAergic system (bicuculline, flurothyl) notable effect of adoption (cross-fostering) is apparent; (3) in seizure models that are associated with NMDA system (NMDA, flurothyl), effect of prenatal stress seems to play a role.
The Nb rat prostate adenocarcinoma occurs spontaneously. The frequency of occurrence is increased by hormone induction. Tumors are classified as autonomous or estrogen or androgen dependent, based on their response to hormone manipulation. These rats provide a unique animal model for the evaluation of biological activity, hormone dependency, and the screening of therapeutic modalities. This report evaluates the use of cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin and methotrexate on the autonomous Pr-90 tumor. Methotrexate and Adriamycin were evaluated at two different concentrations, which demonstrated statistically significant results. Cyclophosphamide treatment resulted in complete tumor regression in eight of 12 tumors. Evidence of Adriamycin cardiotoxicity was found at autopsy.
A case is presented of Torsade de Pointes (TDP) with T wave alternans in a 31-year-old female receiving a moderate dose of chlorpromazine. She was treated in an another hospital for schizophrenia with chlorpromazine (100 mg daily) for several years and admitted to Fujisawa city hospital for numerous episodes of syncope. The electrocardiogram immediately after admission revealed a marked QTc prolongation to 0.81 seconds, T wave alternation without any obvious change in morphology of the QRS complex, and recurrent ventricular tachycardia called TDP. The T wave alternans and TDP were easily abolished by intravenous administration of a bolus of 50 mg lidocaine infusion. The QT interval however, remained prolonged. Physical examination, including cardiac examination, was normal. Serum potassium was 3.6/mEq. Chlorpromazine was discontinued immediately after admission and no further episodes of TDP were seen after the first day. After the QT interval returned to almost normal, chlorpromazine (50 mg daily) was re-administered. Two days after the re-administration, the electrocardiogram revealed marked QT interval prolongation with prominent T waves. Psychotropic drugs, such as chlorpromazine, prolong the QT interval and cause TDP. Chlorpromazine appears to have been responsible for TDP and the T wave alternans in this case. TDP caused by a moderate dose of chlorpromazine has not been previously reported. Lone T wave alternans unaccompanied by changes in the QRS complex is a rare phenomenon and the mechanism underlying T wave alternans remains unknown.
This is the first placebo-controlled trial evaluating the efficacy of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), escitalopram, in the treatment of premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD). Women with PMDD (intention-to-treat population, n = 151) were treated intermittently for 3 months, during luteal phases only, with 10 mg/d escitalopram, 20 mg/d escitalopram, or placebo. Escitalopram was found to exert a marked and a dose-dependent symptom-reducing effect, 20 mg/d being clearly superior to 10 mg/d. Although the primary outcome parameter, that is, the sum of the symptoms irritability, depressed mood, tension, and affective lability, was decreased by 90% with 20 mg/d escitalopram, the effect of active treatment on breast tenderness, food craving, and lack of energy was more modest and not significantly different from that of placebo; this outcome supports our previous assumption that the former symptoms are more inclined to respond to intermittent administration of an SSRI than are the latter. Although the placebo response was high, the difference between the placebo group and the 20-mg/d escitalopram group with respect to the percentage of subjects displaying 80% or greater reduction in the rating of the cardinal symptom of PMDD, that is, irritability, was considerable: 30% versus 80%. Adverse events were those normally reported in SSRI trials, such as nausea and reduced libido, and were not more common in patients given 20 mg/d of escitalopram than in patients given the lower dose. This study supports the usefulness of escitalopram for the treatment of PMDD and sheds further light on how different components of this syndrome are differently influenced by intermittent administration of an SSRI.
The possible physiological role of testicular opioid peptides in the control of testicular functions has been studied. In neonatal rats intratesticular administration of opiate receptor antagonists (naloxone, nalmefene) stimulates Sertoli cell proliferation and secretion. Both in adult and neonatal rats local injection of the testis with opiate receptor antagonists or with beta-endorphin antiserum results in a decrease in steroidogenesis in long-term studies. Treatment of neonatal testis with an enkephalin analogue induces a short-term suppression of testosterone secretion. Further studies were carried out to investigate whether the above described local effects of opiate agonist or antagonist on testicular function are under the regulatory control of testicular nerves. Partial denervation of the testis was performed by testicular injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (a neurotoxin degenerating sympathetic neural structures) or by vasectomy (cutting the inferior spermatic nerve). If testicular administration of opioid agonist or antagonist was combined with partial denervation of the testis, the effects of pharmacological agents influencing testicular opioid level were not evident. The data indicate that opioid peptides synthesized in the testis are components of the intratesticular regulatory system and that local opioid actions are modulated by testicular nerves.
Daunomycin-induced regenerative and plastic insufficiency of the myocardium was accompanied by accumulation of cardiomyocytes with unstable mitochondrial membranes containing enlarged mitochondria with lightened matrix and fragmented cristae. Total destabilization of mitochondrial membranes was found in cardiomyocytes with most pronounced ultrastructural signs of impaired protein synthesis. These changes in mitochondria were permanent, which suggested that swelling and destruction of cristae were related to intravital decrease in mitochondrial membrane stability.
The monaminergic properties of second generation antipsychotics are prompting research on their use to treat cocaine dependence, with inconclusive results to date. In preliminary reports, the atypical antipsychotic quetiapine has shown promise for the treatment of substance abuse disorders. The primary objective of the current study was to assess the efficacy of quetiapine in reducing cocaine cravings and use in nonpsychotic subjects with cocaine dependence over 6 weeks of open-label treatment. Twenty-two cocaine-dependent, nonpsychotic men were initiated to open-label treatment with quetiapine (300-600 mg/d). The primary outcome measure was weekly self-report of cocaine cravings as assessed with the Brief Substance Craving Scale. Cocaine use was captured with a self-report Timeline Follow-back calendar, administered every 2 weeks. Side effect monitoring was conducted weekly, and movement disorders were assessed every 2 weeks. Intent-to-treat regression analyses (n = 22) indicated that the Brief Substance Craving Scale total score decreased significantly overtime (P < 0.001). Self-reports also suggested decreased cocaine use. There was no treatment-related increase in movement disorders, and most side effects were mild. However, all subjects did experience sedation, and several subjects dropped out because of it. What is more, weight increased significantly over time (P < 0.001). Open-label quetiapine treatment reduced cravings and improved some aspects of cocaine dependence in nonpsychotic individuals. Additional research is needed to confirm the current findings and to further delineate the role quetiapine may play in the treatment of cocaine use disorders.
Memantine, an antiglutamatergic drug, has been proposed as a treatment for tinnitus.
The purpose of this study was to determine if memantine would prevent salicylate-induced tinnitus. Local field potentials were also recorded from auditory cortex to determine what effect salicylate, memantine, and the combination of both drugs would have on evoked potential amplitudes.
Schedule induced polydipsia-avoidance conditioning was used to identify the doses of salicylate or quinine that reliably induced tinnitus in rats. Rats were trained to lick for water during quiet intervals and avoid licking during sound intervals.
Rats injected with saline or a low dose of sodium salicylate or quinine failed to develop tinnitus-like behaviors. However, high doses of salicylate (150-300 mg/kg/day) or quinine (100-150 mg/kg/day) greatly reduced licks-in-quiet, behavior consistent with the presence of tinnitus. Licks-in-quiet increased slightly when memantine (1.5 or 3 mg/kg/day) was co-administered with salicylate; however, the effect was not statistically significant or dose-dependent. These results indicate that memantine does not completely suppress salicylate-induced tinnitus. Cortical auditory evoked potential amplitude increased after salicylate treatment; co-administration of memantine failed to block this salicylate-induced increase.
The retinoic acid induced 1 (RAI1) gene when deleted or mutated results in Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS), while duplication of 17p11.2, including RAI1, results in the dup(17)(p11.2) syndrome characterized by mental retardation, growth and developmental delays, and hyperactivity. Mouse models for these human syndromes may help define critical roles for RAI1 in mammalian development and homeostasis that otherwise cannot be deduced from patient studies. A mouse model for duplication, Dp(11)17+, involving Rai1 has been reported. However, this mutant was engineered on a mixed genetic background confounding phenotypic effects due to possible modifier genes. We have therefore created and evaluated mice with a graded series of four (hemizygous) and six (homozygous) copies of Rai1, and overexpressing Rai1>1.5-fold and >2-fold, respectively. Data show that Rai1-transgenic mice have growth retardation, increased locomotor activity, and abnormal anxiety-related behavior compared to wild-type littermates. Rai1-transgenic mice also have an altered gait with short strides and long sways, impaired ability on a cage-top hang test, decreased forelimb grip strength, and a dominant social behavior. Further, analyses of homozygous transgenic mice revealed a dosage-dependent exacerbation of the phenotype, including extreme growth retardation, severe neurological deficits, and increased hyperactivity. Our results show that Rai1 dosage has major consequences on molecular processes involved in growth, development, and neurological and behavioral functions, thus providing evidence for several dosage-thresholds for phenotypic manifestations causing dup(17)(p11.2) syndrome or SMS in humans.
Skeletal muscle AMP deaminase (AMPD: E.C. 3.5.4.6) deficiency is one of the most common inherited defects in the Caucasians, but not in Asians. Although a diagnosis of AMPD1 deficiency is indeed based on the reduced enzymatic activity, its clinical significance is still rather controversial since most subjects are asymptomatic. Alternative splicing of exon 2 in individuals who have inherited this defect is thought to provide a mechanism for phenotypic rescue that may explain the variability of clinical symptoms as we reported earlier. In this report we present the first case with a detectable defect of the AMPD1 gene in a Japanese patient with myopathy. Two missense mutations (R388W and R425H) in exon 9 and exon 10 of the AMPD1 gene were found. Prokaryotic expression showed a comparable amount of the AMPD1 peptides and undetectable AMPD activity in the constructs with these mutations. From this study, we have concluded that this patient is a compound heterozygote for AMPD1 mutant allele. This study also demonstrates the first reported instance of detectable dysfunction of the AMPD1 gene product, suggesting that AMPD1 indeed has a key role in muscle metabolism and function.
Monitoring contrast medium wash-in kinetics in hyperemic myocardium by magnetic resonance (MR) allows for the detection of stenosed coronary arteries. In this prospective study, the quality of a multislice MR approach with respect to the detection and sizing of compromised myocardium was determined and compared with positron emission tomography (PET) and quantitative coronary angiography.
A total of 48 patients and healthy subjects were studied by MR using a multislice hybrid echo-planar pulse sequence for monitoring the myocardial first pass kinetics of gadolinium-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid bismethylamide (Omniscan; 0.1 mmol/kg injected at 3 mL/s IV) during hyperemia (dipyridamole 0.56 mg/kg). Signal intensity upslope as a measure of myocardial perfusion was calculated in 32 sectors per heart from pixelwise parametric maps in the subendocardial layer and for full wall thickness. Before coronary angiography, coronary flow reserve (hyperemia induced by dipyridamole 0.56 mg/kg) was determined in corresponding sectors by (13)N-ammonia PET. Receiver-operator characteristic analysis of subendocardial upslope data revealed a sensitivity and specificity of 91% and 94%, respectively, for the detection of coronary artery disease as defined by PET (mean coronary flow reserve minus 2SD of controls) and a sensitivity and specificity of 87% and 85%, respectively, in comparison with quantitative coronary angiography (diameter stenosis >/=50%). The number of pathological sectors per patient on PET and MR studies correlated linearly (slope, 0.94; r=0.76; P<0.0001).
The presented MR approach reliably identifies patients with coronary artery stenoses and provides information on the amount of compromised myocardium, even when perfusion abnormalities are confined to the subendocardial layer. This modality may qualify for its clinical application in the management of coronary artery disease.
A randomized, controlled, crossover clinical study compared 14-night treatment with 15 mg temazepam, 50 mg diphenhydramine, and placebo in elderly individuals with insomnia (mean age, 73.9 years; range, 70-89 years). Primary outcome measures were subjective assessments of sleep recorded on sleep diaries. Secondary measures were the morning-after psychomotor impairment, using the digit symbol substitution task and the manual tracking task, and the morning-after memory impairment, using a free-recall procedure. Results showed sleep improvements with 15 mg temazepam compared with placebo-sleep quality (mean score, 3.3 +/- 0.9 vs 2.9 +/- 0.8; P = 0.03), total sleep time (6.9 +/- 1.0 hours vs 6.3 +/-1.3 hours; P = 0.02), number of awakenings (1.5 +/- 1.3 vs 2.0 +/- 1.2; P < 0.001), and sleep-onset latency (25 +/- 22 minutes vs 37 +/- 25 minutes; P = 0.03). Improvements were seen with diphenhydramine treatment compared with placebo on the number of awakenings only (mean, 1.7 +/- 1.1 vs 2.0 +/- 1.2; P < 0.05). Numbers of adverse events reported were similar after all treatments, although there was 1 fall during temazepam treatment. Findings indicate that temazepam is more effective than diphenhydramine when compared with placebo at the doses tested, although this advantage is mitigated by the risk of falls associated with temazepam use. The choice of agent to use in the elderly must consider these relative benefits and risks.
The present study examined the effects of buprenorphine (BUP), a mixed opioid agonist-antagonist, on the behaviors accompanying cocaine (COCA) and combined cocaine-ethanol (EtOH) toxicity in the surviving mice. Using the activity-counting instrument Supermex, the relationship between the toxic signs and the corresponding behavioral alterations could be assessed. In the COCA-only group, a prolonged increase in the activity counts was caused by a high dose of COCA (75 mg/kg ip). Furthermore, this COCA-induced hyperactivity included ataxic behaviors that were accompanied by visible toxic signs, which were not observed in the mice with no drug treatment. A depressive dose of EtOH (3 g/kg ip) did not significantly modify the mortality rate in the COCA-only group in spite of its anticonvulsant effects. However, the peak activity counts in the survivors were attenuated in the COCA-EtOH group as compared to the COCA-only group. BUP attenuated the mortality rate in both COCA and COCA-EtOH groups, even without any anticonvulsant effects, but the most effective dose differed between the COCA (BUP: 0.25 mg/kg ip) and COCA-EtOH (BUP: 0.5 mg/kg ip) groups. At these BUP doses, the prolonged suppression of the morbid hyperactivity in the COCA-BUP group and the restoration of normal behavior in the COCA-EtOH-BUP group both seemed to be correlated with a good prognosis in the survivors; there was an early recovery from an increased blood pressure (BP), increased heart rate (HR) and decreased respiratory rate (RR) in the COCA-BUP group, and an early recovery from a decreased BP, decreased HR and decreased RR in the COCA-EtOH-BUP group.
Tranexamic acid (t-AMCA) has been shown to cause severe convulsions in humans and cats when applied topically to the central nervous system. We wanted to determine whether pure t-AMCA or fibrin sealant (FS) containing t-AMCA would induce similar effects when applied to the spinal cord in a rat model.
Following low-thoracic laminectomy, the dura was incised to expose the dorsal surface of the lumbar enlargement. Rats were allocated to one of the following treatments: 1) t-AMCA (10 mg/ml), 2) vehicle (phosphate buffered saline), 3) FS containing t-AMCA, 4) FS containing aprotinin. The response of the rats was evaluated based on neurological and behavioral observations. Additionally, motor function was scored in the rats that had received FS.
Application of either 10 mg/ml t-AMCA or FS containing t-AMCA caused severe hind limb spasms that developed into spontaneous generalized convulsions. Two of the three rats that had received FS containing t-AMCA died of respiratory failure. In contrast, application of vehicle or FS containing aprotinin did not cause any abnormal conditions of the animals.
Tranexamic acid may cause severe complications when used in the central nervous system. Thus, fibrin sealants containing t-AMCA should not be used in neurosurgery.
Plasma immunoreactive prostaglandin E (iPGE) levels during PGE1 infusion for controlling systemic blood pressure were investigated. Differences in systemic blood pressure changes between halothane-nitrous oxide-oxygen (GOF) anesthesia groups and a neuroleptanesthesia (NLA) group during infusion in hypertensive surgical patients were compared. Plasma iPGE concentration increased from 200 +/- 30 pg/ml to 408 +/- 55 pg/ml within 5 minutes at the beginning of PGE1 infusion. After the cessation of PGE1 infusion, iPGE levels quickly returned to pre-infusion levels, but blood pressure had not recovered to pre-infusion levels within 30 minutes. Blood pressure was well controlled with PGE1 infusion, but the pressure changes in GOF anesthesia group were significantly larger than those in the NLA group. The results suggest that the long anti-hypertensive action of PGE1 could be effective to control blood pressure in hypertensive surgical patients during and after surgery.
To investigate whether a drug interaction exists between bortezomib and the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 inhibitor itraconazole and/or the CYP2C19 inhibitor lansoprazole that results in increased severity of bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy and thrombocytopenia.
Retrospective medical record review.
Hematology-oncology ward of a university-affiliated hospital in Japan.
Six adults with relapsed multiple myeloma who received intravenous bortezomib plus oral dexamethasone as the first course of a 21-day cycle between July 2007 and December 2008. Four of the six patients were treated concomitantly with itraconazole or lansoprazole: two with itraconazole, one with lansoprazole, and one with both itraconazole and lansoprazole.
Using the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, we identified the presence and graded the severity of peripheral neuropathy and thrombocytopenia before and during each patient's first 21-day course of bortezomib plus dexamethasone therapy. All three patients who received itraconazole experienced new or worsening peripheral neuropathy; they also experienced grade 4 thrombocytopenia. The patient who received lansoprazole alone, as well as the two patients who did not receive itraconazole or lansoprazole, had no changes in either adverse effect. We also evaluated the relationship between peripheral neuropathy and bortezomib plus dexamethasone therapy by using the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale, and a probable relationship was found. We further assessed whether a drug interaction between bortezomib and itraconazole and/or lansoprazole had occurred involving the CYP3A4 and/or the CYP2C19 pathways, respectively-resulting in increased severity of the bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy and thrombocytopenia-by using the Horn drug interaction probability scale. We found that the occurrence of this drug interaction was strongly supported.
Itraconazole appears to exacerbate peripheral neuropathy and thrombocytopenia induced by bortezomib; however, the mechanism of this drug interaction is unknown. Clinicians should closely monitor for bortezomib-induced adverse effects when itraconazole, or any other potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, is administered concomitantly with bortezomib.
We examined the expression profile of the members of the pancreatitis associated proteins/regenerating gene family in the bladder and in the primary afferent neurons of dorsal root ganglia using an animal model of cystitis.
We examined the expression of pancreatitis-associated protein-I and pancreatitis-associated protein-III in the bladder and the dorsal root ganglia of female rats 4 hours, 48 hours or 10 days after cyclophosphamide (Sigma) injection using immunohistochemistry and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction.
No pancreatitis-associated protein-III immunoreactivity was identified in control bladders but prominent expression was observed in the urothelium of animals with chronic cystitis. Cells expressing pancreatitis-associated protein-I were seen in the dorsal root ganglia but not in the bladder. In normal dorsal root ganglia pancreatitis-associated protein-I was expressed in a minor population of small diameter neurons (2.4%) that were also positive for isolectin-B4. However, by 10 days following the onset of cystitis the number of pancreatitis-associated protein-I positive neurons was increased (7.6%) and pancreatitis-associated protein-I immunoreactivity was further observed in a slightly larger group of neurons and tyrosine kinase A positive small neurons.
The current results suggest that pancreatitis-associated protein-III is associated with bladder inflammation and they implicate pancreatitis-associated protein-I in the abnormal sensation in cystitis.
To evaluate the morphological changes in murine cornea upon metoclopramide-induced hyperprolactinemia during the proestrous phase or pregnancy.
Forty adult mice were divided into two groups: (control) CTR1 and (treated with metoclopramide (MET1). After fifty days, half of the mice were sacrificed. The remaining animals were mated, and then labeled as pregnant controls (CTR2). Part of these animals were treated with metoclopramide and constituted the metoclopramide-treated pregnant (MET2) group. The groups CTR2 and MET2 were sacrificed on the 6th day of pregnancy. The hormonal levels were assessed by chemioluminescence and radioimmunoassay methods and the cornea was removed for the histomorphometric study.
The epithelial, stromal, endothelial and total thickness in the experimental group was: MET1 and MET2 were higher than one in the control group: CTR1 and CTR2. There was a significant reduction of the hormonal level in the animals that received metoclopramide as compared to controls (CTR1: estradiol = 156.6 +/- 42.2 pg/ml; progesterone = 39.4 +/- 5.1 ng/ml; prolactin = 130.4 +/- 26.2 ng/ml; MET1: estradiol = 108.0 +/- 33.1 pg/ml; progesterone = 28.0 +/- 6.4 ng/ml; prolactin = 551.5 +/- 23.3 ng/ml; CTR2: estradiol = 354.0 +/- 56.0 pg/ml; progesterone = 251.0 +/- 56.0 ng/ml; prolactin = 423.2 +/- 28.1 ng/ml; MET2: estradiol = 293.0 +/- 43.0 pg/ml; progesterone = 184.0 +/- 33.0 ng/ml; prolactin = 823.1 +/- 51.1 ng/ml).
The metoclopramide-induced hyperprolactinemia may increase corneal layers, mainly in pregnant mice. Possibly, this effect is related to reduction in estrogen and progesterone production.
Fifty patients with liver metastases from colorectal primaries underwent hepatic intraarterial chemotherapy using 5-fluoro-2-deoxyuridine as an antitumour agent. Repeated computed tomography and angiography of the liver was performed during a follow-up period of a year. Following six months of regional chemotherapy, arterial perfusion abnormalities of the liver were detected in 40 of the total of 50 patients. After one year of intraarterial chemotherapy normal arterial liver perfusion was found in only two patients. Histology revealed thrombotic occlusion or narrowing of hepatic arteries, respectively.
In order to evaluate the preventive efficacy, safety and usefulness of mesna (Sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate) against ifosfamide-induced urinary disorders, a placebo-controlled double-blind comparative study was performed. Ifosfamide was administered by intravenous drip infusion at a daily dose of 2 g/m2 for 5 consecutive days, and mesna was intravenously administered at 20% of the ifosfamide dose, three times daily for 5 consecutive days. The results obtained are as follows. (a) Of 101 accrued patients, 91 patients were evaluated consisting of 45 for the mesna group and 46 for the placebo group. There was no intergroup difference in the number of the evaluated cases and patient characteristics. (b) Micturition pain and feeling of residual urine graded as moderate or severe were not observed for the mesna group, but were observed for the placebo group with incidences of 19.6% (9/46) for micturition pain and 15.2% (7/46) for feeling of residual urine; the intergroup differences in the appearance of these urinary symptoms were statistically significant (P = 0.0003 for micturition pain; P = 0.0009 for feeling of residual urine). The incidence of hematuria graded as moderate or severe was 6.7% (3/45) in the mesna group, which was significantly lower than the 32.6% (15/46) in the placebo group (P = 0.0008). (c) No side-effect attributable to mesna was observed. (d) A judgment of "useful" was obtained in 80.0% (36/45) of the patients treated with mesna, which was significantly higher than the 34.8% (16/46) of the patients treated with placebo (P = near 0). On the basis of the above results, we conclude that the preventive efficacy, safety and usefulness of mesna against ifosfamide-induced urinary disorders have been well demonstrated in this study.
Changes in hepatic plasma flow (HPF) during sodium nitroprusside (SNP) induced hypotension were studied in 14 patients undergoing intracranial aneurysm surgery under neurolept anesthesia. Patients were monitored with the use of a radial artery catheter and a thermistor-tipped Swan-Ganz catheter. Hypotension was induced with incremental increases in the rate of SNP infusion until a stable mean arterial pressure (MAP) 35-55 mmHg had been achieved. In one group (Group A) of 10 patients, indocyanine green (ICG) clearance was determined simultaneously with hemodynamic variables, before and during SNP hypotension. In a second group (Group B) of four patients, a catheter was inserted into a hepatic vein to determine the ICG hepatic extraction (HE) coefficient. In Group A, MAP decreased from 73 +/- 10 (SD) to 41 +/- 9 mmHg, while cardiac index (CI) decreased in six patients and increased in four patients. However, the mean value of CI did not change significantly. The mean value of ICG clearance was not significantly affected by SNP hypotension. Nevertheless, a positive linear correlation existed between individual variation in CI and ICG clearance (r = 0.96). On the other hand, no correlation was noted between the change in MAP and ICG clearance. In Group B patients, the ICG HE coefficient remained unchanged during SNP hypotension, suggesting that ICG clearance varies only according to the variation in HPF. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that HPF did not decrease, despite a range of 20-60% decrease in blood pressure when CI is maintained during SNP hypotension.
Gene therapy is considered one of the most promising approaches to develop an effective treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). The existence of blood-brain barrier (BBB) significantly limits its development. In this study, lactoferrin (Lf)-modified nanoparticles (NPs) were used as a potential non-viral gene vector due to its brain-targeting and BBB-crossing ability.
The neuroprotective effects were examined in a rotenone-induced chronic rat model of PD after treatment with NPs encapsulating human glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor gene (hGDNF) via a regimen of multiple dosing intravenous administration. The results showed that multiple injections of Lf-modified NPs obtained higher GDNF expression and this gene expression was maintained for a longer time than the one with a single injection. Multiple dosing intravenous administration of Lf-modified NPs could significantly improve locomotor activity, reduce dopaminergic neuronal loss, and enhance monoamine neurotransmitter levels on rotenone-induced PD rats, which indicates its powerful neuroprotective effects.
The findings may have implications for long-term non-invasive gene therapy for neurodegenerative diseases in general.
As(2)O(3) cures acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) by initiating PML/RARA oncoprotein degradation, through sumoylation of its PML moiety. However, how As(2)O(3) initiates PML sumoylation has remained largely unexplained. As(2)O(3) binds vicinal cysteines and increases reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. We demonstrate that upon As(2)O(3) exposure, PML undergoes ROS-initiated intermolecular disulfide formation and binds arsenic directly. Disulfide-linked PML or PML/RARA multimers form nuclear matrix-associated nuclear bodies (NBs), become sumoylated and are degraded. Hematopoietic progenitors transformed by an As(2)O(3)-binding PML/RARA mutant exhibit defective As(2)O(3) response. Conversely, nonarsenical oxidants elicit PML/RARA multimerization, NB-association, degradation, and leukemia response in vivo, but do not affect PLZF/RARA-driven APLs. Thus, PML oxidation regulates NB-biogenesis, while oxidation-enforced PML/RARA multimerization and direct arsenic-binding cooperate to enforce APL's exquisite As(2)O(3) sensitivity.
To evaluate the diagnostic value of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of myocardial perfusion in the assessment of flow-limiting epicardial stenosis in a head-to-head comparison with abnormal thallium-201 ((201)TI) single photon emission tomography (SPECT) studies in patients with predominantly known coronary artery disease (CAD).
Twenty-one patients (mean age 65 +/- 10 years) with reversible myocardial perfusion defects on (201)TI-SPECT images during dipyridamole-stimulated hyperemia were recruited for study purpose. Within 5 days of the (201)TI-SPECT study, myocardial perfusion was studied again with MRI during dipyridamole stimulation and at rest. Overall, (201)TI-SPECT identified 30 reversible regional perfusion defects. The sensitivity to detect hypoperfused segments was 70% (21/30) with the GRE-MRI perfusion analysis with (201)TI-SPECT as reference. When patients were subgrouped according to the extent of regional reversible perfusion defects on (201)TI-SPECT, mild- (SDS: 2-4), moderate- (SDS: 5-8), and severe- (SDS > 8) perfusion defects were also identified by GRE-MRI perfusion analysis in 75% (6/8), in 56% (9/16) and 100% (6/6), respectively.
GRE-MRI first-pass stress perfusion imaging may not identify up to 30% of mild-to-moderate perfusion defects in a group of preselected patients with predominantly known CAD and abnormal (201)TI-SPECT studies.
