A 42-year-old man developed acute myocardial infarction 20 minutes following transnasal inhalation of amphetamine. To our knowledge, no cases of amphetamine-induced myocardial infarction by transnasal inhalation have ever been reported. Consequently its pharmacological effects on the cardiovascular system are discussed.
Treatment options are scarce in pretreated advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. RAD001, an oral inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), has shown phase I efficacy in NSCLC.
Stage IIIb or IV NSCLC patients, with two or fewer prior chemotherapy regimens, one platinum based (stratum 1) or both chemotherapy and epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (stratum 2), received RAD001 10 mg/day until progression or unacceptable toxicity. Primary objective was overall response rate (ORR). Analyses of markers associated with the mTOR pathway were carried out on archival tumor from a subgroup using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and direct mutation sequencing.
Eighty-five patients were enrolled, 42 in stratum 1 and 43 in stratum. ORR was 4.7% (7.1% stratum 1; 2.3% stratum 2). Overall disease control rate was 47.1%. Median progression-free survivals (PFSs) were 2.6 (stratum 1) and 2.7 months (stratum 2). Common > or =grade 3 events were fatigue, dyspnea, stomatitis, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. Pneumonitis, probably or possibly related, mainly grade 1/2, occurred in 25%. Cox regression analysis of IHC scores found that only phospho AKT (pAKT) was a significant independent predictor of worse PFS.
RAD001 10 mg/day was well tolerated, showing modest clinical activity in pretreated NSCLC. Evaluation of RAD001 plus standard therapy for metastatic NSCLC continues.
The arrhythmogenic action of antiarrhythmic agents, especially the class I antiarrhythmic drugs, is well known. However till now only few such side effects were reported for propafenone in comparison with other class I antiarrhythmic drugs. We report a case of asymptomatic monomorphic ventricular tachycardia occurring during propafenone therapy with normal plasma level. Stopping this drug was quickly followed by recovery of sinus rhythm.
Cardiotoxicity is a well-known side effect of several cytotoxic drugs, especially of the anthracyclines and can lead to long term morbidity. The mechanism of anthracycline induced cardiotoxicity seems to involve the formation of free radicals leading to oxidative stress. This may cause apoptosis of cardiac cells or immunologic reactions. However, alternative mechanisms may play a role in anthracycline induced cardiotoxicity. Cardiac protection can be achieved by limitation of the cumulative dose. Furthermore, addition of the antioxidant and iron chelator dexrazoxane to anthracycline therapy has shown to be effective in lowering the incidence of anthracycline induced cardiotoxicity. Other cytotoxic drugs such as 5-fluorouracil, cyclophosphamide and the taxoids are associated with cardiotoxicity as well, although little is known about the possible mechanisms. Recently, it appeared that some novel cytotoxic drugs such as trastuzumab and cyclopentenyl cytosine also show cardiotoxic side effects.
The accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), S100A12, and high mobility group box chromosomal protein 1 has been associated with joint inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This study was undertaken to determine the induction of the receptor for these proteins, termed receptor for AGEs (RAGE), in synovial tissue (ST) macrophages from RA patients.
RAGE and CD68 expression in ST were determined by 2-color immunofluorescence labeling. Cell surface and messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of RAGE were examined by flow cytometry and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or real-time PCR, respectively.
CD68+ lining macrophages, like the vasculature, expressed high levels of RAGE in inflamed ST from RA patients. RAGE mRNA expression was significantly higher in RA ST than in ST from patients with osteoarthritis. RAGE mRNA levels were significantly higher in ST macrophages and normal endothelial cells than in ST CD4+ T cells and synovial fibroblasts stimulated with tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta). Cell surface RAGE was highly induced on normal monocytes after a 24-hour incubation with a 20% concentration of RA ST cell culture supernatants. RAGE mRNA expression in adherent monocytes was augmented by various cytokines, most potently by IL-1beta.
These results indicate that RAGE overexpression in lining macrophages may be induced, at least in part, by cytokines such as IL-1, leading to the amplification of inflammatory responses mediated by RAGE ligands that are abundant in RA joints.
We evaluated alterations of substrate utilization in a rat model of adriamycin cardiomyopathy with deteriorating left ventricular function. Rats were treated with adriamycin (2 mg/kg), once a week for 6, 8, 9 and 10 wk. Fluorine-18-F-deoxyglucose (18F-FDG) and 125I-beta-methyl-branched fatty acid (125I-BMIPP) were used as tracers of glucose and fatty acid metabolism and 99mTc-hexakis (2-methoxyisobutyl-isonitrile) (99mTc-MIBI) was used as a myocardial blood flow tracer. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) calculated from gated blood pool images was used as an indicator of cardiac function. LVEF was normal in the 6-wk group (78.0% +/- 4.8%), abruptly decreased in the 8-wk group (43.1% +/- 10.1%) and further deteriorated in the 9-wk group (27.6% +/- 13.4%). Accumulation of 18F-FDG (%kgID/g) in the hearts of adriamycin treated animals progressively decreased compared to controls (2.19% +/- 0.38%); 1.47% +/- 0.42% (p < 0.01) at 6 wk, 1.22% +/- 0.27% (p < 0.001) at 8 wk, 0.69% +/- 0.56% (p < 0.001) at 9 wk and 0.50% +/- 0.08% (p < 0.001) at 10 wk. This decrease occurred earlier than the deterioration in LVEF. Myocardial accumulation of 125I-BMIPP decreased in the advanced stages of adriamycin cardiomyopathy and was well correlated with the decrease in 18F-FDG accumulation. However, the decrease was less profound than for 18F-FDG; 53.7% +/- 9.8% versus 31.6% +/- 25.4% of control at 9 wk (p = NS), 49.5% +/- 15.3% versus 22.6% +/- 3.5% of control at 10 wk (p < 0.05). Accumulation of 99mTc-MIBI did not differ between controls and the adriamycin treated groups. There were no differences in blood glucose levels between controls and adriamycin treatment groups. Both glucose and fatty acid utilization are decreased in adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy and these critical impairments in energy metabolism are associated with heart failure. Impaired myocardial glucose utilization measured with 18F-FDG may be a particularly sensitive marker of adriamycin cardiomyopathy.
The aim of our work was to study the hemodynamic effects of dynamic cardiomyoplasty on an acute animal model of atrial fibrillated heart failure. Eight anesthetized open chest dogs suffering from atrial fibrillation and heart failure, obtained by topic acetylcholine and propranolol, were treated by a cardiomyoplasty procedure performed with an electrostimulated latissimus dorsi muscle flap (LDMF). Values considered for analysis during LDMF stimulation were selected from cardiac cycles with R-R intervals similar to those when the LDMF was not stimulated (+/- 20 ms). Atrial fibrillated heart failure showed a significant increase of systemic vascular resistance, end diastolic left ventricular pressure (EDLVP) and right atrial pressure (p < 0.05), and a significant decrease in cardiac output, systolic left ventricular pressure (SLVP), and mean aortic pressure (p < 0.05) compared with control values. LDMF stimulation in atrial fibrillated heart failure resulted in a significant increase of SLVP, cardiac output, and mean aortic pressure (p < 0.05) and a significant decrease of systemic vascular resistance, EDLVP, and right atrial pressure (p < 0.05) compared with nonstimulated values. The highest LVP values were obtained with R-R intervals long enough to allow an adequate LV filling. We conclude that dynamic cardiomyoplasty provides an appropriate recovery in this animal model of atrial fibrillated heart failure. Cardiomyoplasty is an appropriate procedure for cardiac assist when R-R intervals allow an adequate LV filling.
Angiotensin Converting Enzyme inhibitors (ACEi's) confer significant mortality and morbidity benefits in all functional grades of chronic heart failure (CHF). However, physicians' concerns regarding the possible occurrence of first-dose hypotension appear to be a contributing factor to their under-utilisation in both hospital and primary care settings. We investigated whether long-acting and short-acting ACEi's differ in their haemodynamic responses to the first-dose in patients with CHF.
This was a multicentre, randomised, open, two-parallel-group study of captopril 6.25 mg and perindopril 2 mg. 240 patients with CHF, age 68.9 +/- 8.9 years, of whom 66% were male, NYHA II-IV, with average blood pressure baseline values of 132.2 +/- 16.2/78.5 +/- 10.5 mmHg for systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 31.3 +/- 7.4% received either captopril (n = 124) or perindopril (n = 116). Blood pressure was continuously monitored during the 8 h following drug intake. Minimum levels and maximum decreases in systolic, diastolic and mean arterial pressures were measured, along with the incidence of hypotensive episodes defined as mean blood pressure (MBP) fall > 20 mmHg, whether symptomatic or not. Subgroups of patients distributed according to age, baseline blood pressure (BP) and LVEF were subsequently analysed.
Overall, a statistically significant treatment effect in favour of perindopril was observed. First-dose hypotension was observed more frequently following captopril than perindopril administration, with lower MAP minimal levels (78.0 +/- 8.9 vs. 84.5 +/- 10.1 mmHg, p < 0.0001), greater maximum falls (17.6 +/- 8.3 vs. 12.8 +/- 7.3 mmHg, p < 0.0001) and more frequent hypotensive episodes (42% vs. 15%, p < 0.0001). The incidence of at least one symptomatic episode was also significantly higher with captopril (10 patients vs. one patient, p = 0.029). Subgroup analyses according to age (< or = 70 years or > 70 years) or LVEF (< or = 30% or > 30%) reflected the main result.
Initiation of treatment with ACE inhibitors is associated with different haemodynamic and clinical tolerances in CHF patients, regardless of their risk for hypotension, with possible clinical implications.
Tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role in oncogenesis. Although tyrosine kinase inhibitors as sunitinib malate are used in cancer therapy, emerging studies report compromised cytotoxicity when used as monotherapy and thus combinations with other anti-cancer agents is recommended. Chloroquine is a clinically available anti-malarial agent which has been shown to exhibit anti-cancer activity. In the current study, we questioned whether chloroquine can modulate sunitinib cytotoxicity. We found that chloroquine synergistically augmented sunitinib cytotoxicity on human breast (MCF-7 and T-47D), cervical (Hela), colorectal (Caco-2 and HCT116), hepatocellular (HepG2), laryngeal (HEp-2) and prostate (PC3) cancer cell lines as indicated by combination and concentration reduction indices. These results were also consistent with that of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC) Swiss albino mice models as confirmed by tumor volume, weight, histopathological examination and PCNA expression. Sunitinib induced autophagy via upregulating beclin-1 expression which was blocked by chloroquine as evidenced by accumulated SQTSM1/p62 level. Furthermore, chloroquine augmented sunitinib-induced apoptosis by decreasing survivin level and increasing caspase 3 activity. Chloroquine also enhanced the antiangiogenic capacity of sunitinib as indicated by decreased CD34 expression and peritoneal/skin angiogenesis. Sunitinib when combined with chloroquine also increased reactive nitrogen species production via increasing inducible nitric oxide synthase expression and nitric oxide level whilst reduced reactive oxygen species production by increasing GSH level, activities of glutathione peroxidase and catalase and reducing lipid peroxides compared to sunitinib-only treated group. Taken together, these findings suggest that chloroquine enhanced sunitinib cytotoxicity in a synergistic manner via inducing apoptosis while switching off autophagic and angiogenic machineries. Nevertheless, further studies are required to elucidate the efficacy and safety profile of such combination.
Excess GH and IGF-I in acromegaly are associated with reduced life expectancy due to cardiovascular complications.
The objective of the study was to investigate the prevalence, incidence, and severity of cardiac valve regurgitation before and after somatostatin-analog treatment in acromegaly.
This was a prospective, observer-blinded, multicenter, 12-month study.
The study was conducted at 33 specialist centers.
The study population consisted of 225 adult patients with acromegaly without significant cardiac valve abnormalities or prior valve-replacement surgery, matched for age, sex, and center/country/study.
Interventions included initiation/continuation of lanreotide (n = 107) or octreotide treatment (n = 118), tailored for optimal disease control.
Relative risk of new/worsening regurgitation in any valve at 12 months compared with baseline, was measured.
At baseline, almost 80% of patients had some degree of cardiac valve regurgitation, although none was severe. The risk of developing new/worsening regurgitation in any valve at 12 months was nonsignificant and similar for the cohorts [adjusted odds ratio 0.86; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.41-1.82; P = 0.694; relative risk 1.04; 95% CI 0.67-1.60; risk difference 0.01; 95% CI -0.13 to 0.16]. For 54% of patients, the severity of regurgitation stayed the same during the study. At baseline, significant valve regurgitation occurred in 18% of patients (lanreotide cohort) and 13% (octreotide cohort) and at 12 months in 18% of each cohort.
The incidence of valve regurgitation did not change over 12 months of treatment with somatostatin analogs, and most cases were physiologic or mild in severity. There was no significant difference between somatostatin analogs in the risk of developing new/worsening valve regurgitation or significant regurgitation after 1 yr.
A case of acute immune hemolytic anemia associated with non-traumatic rhabdomyolysis (NTR) induced by streptomycin (SM) reinjection, which developed acute renal failure, has been reported. A 70-year-old female was admitted to our hospital because of sudden macroscopic hematuria after reinjection of 1g. SM. Laboratory findings on admission were as follows; hemoglobin and myoglobin were positive in urine. RBC 129 x 10(4)/microliters, Hb 4.9g/dl, Ht 11.1%, reticulocytes 52/1000, serum indirect billirubin 3.8g/dl, LDH 9, 230 WU, BUN 149mg/dl, Cr 7.9mg/dl, myoglobin 1, 400ng/ml and haptoglobin 10.6mg/dl. The drug lymphocyte stimulating test of SM was positive (215%). A direct antiglobulin test was also positive. An indirect antiglobulin test was negative, but became positive after incubation with SM. These observations made the diagnosis of SM-induced hemolytic anemia associated with NTR. On the second hospital day she developed anuria, and was put on hemodialysis treatment. Two months after the acute hemolytic episode and acute renal failure she recovered and is presently in good health without recurrence.
Cimetidine is a histamine H2-receptor antagonist. Widely it is prescribed, and then various side effects have been increasingly recognized. Acute renal failure as a result of acute interstitial nephritis is one of the most important adverse effect. We report a case of biopsy-proven acute interstitial nephritis following cimetidine therapy. Farther more, we review other reported cases of cimetidine-induced acute interstitial nephritis, and discuss the clinical features and a role of immunological mechanisms of these cimetidine-induced disorders. A 52-year-old woman was admitted because of fever and protenuria. A month before admission, she developed gastric ulcer and was given cimetidine 600mg orally a day by a near physician. Laboratory data on admission included the following: white blood cell count, 14700/microliters; eosinophils, 6%; BUN, 50.7mg/dl; Cr, 7.6mg/dl; CRP, 34.0mg/dl. All drugs were discontinued because we suspected drug-induced acute renal failure, especially by cimetidine. Renal biopsy performed on day 3 showed interstitial nephritis with lymphocyte infiltration which was composed mainly of T cell. T4/T8 ratio was determined to be 1. There was neither predominance of helper nor cytotoxic cells in T cell subpopulation. We reviewed 22 cases reported and discussed the features of cimetidine-induced interstitial nephritis. The most important thing is to monitor renal function periodically with the suspicion of this disorder. On the detection of abnormality of laboratory data, cimetidine should be discontinued.
The data presented represent cardiovascular parameters collected from one site of a larger, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 6-week outpatient efficacy study of the serotonin uptake inhibitor fluvoxamine in depressed outpatients.
In this smaller study, we compared fluvoxamine (N = 17) to the prototypic antidepressant, imipramine (N = 14), and to placebo (N = 15). Specific parameters investigated were drug effects on postural pulse and blood pressure changes and ECG parameters including PR, QRS, and QTc intervals and ventricular heart rate.
Fluvoxamine had few effects on measured parameters. Imipramine produced statistically significant changes on all measures; placebo had no effects on cardiac measures.
Our data support that fluvoxamine, in a sample of healthy depressed outpatients, has little effect on cardiovascular function. Further study and clinical experience with this drug will be necessary before the full extent of its cardiac profile is known.
Treatment of hypertension in the elderly decreases cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. We hypothesized that nitrendipine would be efficacious in the treatment of hypertension in the elderly. We evaluated potential differences between nitrendipine and the commonly used drug hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ).
The study was conducted as a double-blind randomized clinical trial of nitrendipine or HCTZ. Thirty hypertensive subjects over age 60 with a median sitting blood pressure greater than or equal to 95 mm of Hg were recruited into the study. A diastolic blood pressure with treatment of less than 95 mm Hg with a 5 mm Hg or greater decrease from baseline was considered a successful response.
Nitrendipine decreased mean (+/- SEM) blood pressure from 163 +/- 3/102 +/- 1 to 142 +/- 2/89 +/- 2 mm Hg, and HCTZ decreased it from 164 +/- 4/102 +/- 1 to 143 +/- 5/91 +/- 2 mm Hg. A greater proportion of patients had a successful response with nitrendipine (81 percent) than with HCTZ (64 percent). The antihypertensive effect of nitrendipine twice daily appeared to be sustained for 24 hours. Blood pressure response to exercise was attenuated with both drugs. HCTZ caused gout, leg pains, muscle aches, hypokalemia, increased uric acid levels, and increased total cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Nitrendipine caused edema and tachycardia.
Nitrendipine significantly reduces blood pressure with few side effects and no adverse metabolic effects, and offers a reasonable alternative for treating hypertension in the elderly.
We report on a mother and son with Cowden syndrome and a PTEN mutation. The boy also exhibits autistic behavior and mental retardation, while his mother has a normal intelligence and social interaction pattern. We review the scanty literature data on the association of Cowden syndrome and autism and emphasize that the association of progressive macrocephaly and pervasive developmental disorder seems to be an indication for screening for PTEN mutations.
Hyperdynamic circulation and mesenteric hyperaemia are found in cirrhosis. To delineate the role of endocannabinoids in these changes, we examined the cardiovascular effects of anandamide, AM251 (CB(1) antagonist), AM630 (CB(2) antagonist) and capsazepine (VR1 antagonist), in a rat model of cirrhosis.
Cirrhosis was induced by bile duct ligation. Controls underwent sham operation. Four weeks later, diameters of mesenteric arteriole and venule (intravital microscopy), arterial pressure, cardiac output, systemic vascular resistance and superior mesenteric artery (SMA) flow were measured after anandamide, AM251 (with or without anandamide), AM630 and capsazepine administration. CB(1), CB(2) and VR1 receptor expression in SMA was assessed by western blot and RT-PCR.
Anandamide increased mesenteric vessel diameter and flow, and cardiac output in cirrhotic rats, but did not affect controls. Anandamide induced a triphasic arterial pressure response in controls, but this pattern differed markedly in cirrhotic rats. Pre-administration of AM251 blocked the effects of anandamide. AM251 (without anandamide) increased arterial pressure and systemic vascular resistance, constricted mesenteric arterioles, decreased SMA flow and changed cardiac output in a time-dependent fashion in cirrhotic rats. Capsazepine decreased cardiac output and mesenteric arteriolar diameter and flow, and increased systemic vascular resistance in cirrhotic rats, but lacked effect in controls. Expression of CB(1) and VR1 receptor proteins were increased in cirrhotic rats. AM630 did not affect any cardiovascular parameter in either group.
These data suggest that endocannabinoids contribute to hyperdynamic circulation and mesenteric hyperaemia in cirrhosis, via CB(1)- and VR1-mediated mechanisms.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated as a contributing factor in epileptic seizures. Present studies were carried out to decipher seizure-dependent changes in mitochondrial function and ultrastructure in the chronic condition of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) induced by pilocarpine in rat hippocampus. Enzyme assay revealed significant depression of the activity of mitochondrial- and nuclear-encoded cytochrome oxidase (COX). Conversely, the activity of nuclear-encoded succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) remained unchanged. Discernible mitochondrial ultrastructural damage, varying from swelling to disruption of membrane, was observed in the hippocampus. Quantitative real-time PCR and Western blotting showed the expression of mitochondrial-encoded COX subunit III (COXIII) dropped significantly during the chronic seizure activity; the corresponding expression of COX subunit IV (COXIV) displayed no significant change. Most likely, our results suggest that dysfunction of mitochondrial COX respiratory enzyme and mitochondrial ultrastructural damage in the hippocampus are associated with prolonged seizure during experimental TLE and mitochondria are more vulnerable to epilepsy.
Targeted therapy for metastatic diseases relies on the identification of functionally important metastasis genes from a large number of random genetic alterations. Here we use a computational algorithm to map minimal recurrent genomic alterations associated with poor-prognosis breast cancer. 8q22 genomic gain was identified by this approach and validated in an extensive collection of breast tumor samples. Regional gain of 8q22 elevates expression of the metastasis gene metadherin (MTDH), which is overexpressed in more than 40% of breast cancers and is associated with poor clinical outcomes. Functional characterization of MTDH revealed its dual role in promoting metastatic seeding and enhancing chemoresistance. These findings establish MTDH as an important therapeutic target for simultaneously enhancing chemotherapy efficacy and reducing metastasis risk.
Non-receptor protein tyrosine kinases (NRPTKs)-dependent inflammatory signal transduction cascades play key roles in immunoregulation. However, drug intervention through NRPTKs-involved immunoregulation mechanism in microglia (the major immune cells of the central nervous system) has not been widely investigated. A main aim of the present study is to elucidate the contribution of two major NRPTKs (Syk and Jak2) in neuroinflammation suppression by a bioactive sesquiterpene dimmer (DSF-27). We found that LPS-stimulated BV-2 cells activated Syk and further initiated Akt/NF-κB inflammatory pathway. This Syk-dependent Akt/NF-κB inflammatory pathway can be effectively ameliorated by DSF-27. Moreover, Jak2 was activated by LPS, which was followed by transcriptional factor Stat3 activation. The Jak2/Stat3 signal was suppressed by DSF-27 through inhibition of Jak2 and Stat3 phosphorylation, promotion of Jak/Stat3 inhibitory factors PIAS3 expression, and down-regulation of ERK and p38 MAPK phosphorylation. Furthermore, DSF-27 protected cortical and mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons against neuroinflammatory injury. Taken together, our findings indicate NRPTK signaling pathways including Syk/NF-κB and Jak2/Stat3 cascades are potential anti-neuroinflammatory targets in microglia, and may also set the basis for the use of sesquiterpene dimmer as a therapeutic approach for neuroinflammation via interruption of these pathways.
Thromboprophylaxis during pregnancy can be challenging when heparin is contraindicated. Limited data exist regarding alternative anticoagulants in the setting of pregnancy.
We present a patient with antiphospholipid syndrome who developed heparin-induced thrombosis in the third trimester of pregnancy. She was treated with therapeutic doses of intravenous lepirudin until delivery. Induction of labor, regional anesthesia, and forceps-assisted vaginal delivery were performed with no fetal, neonatal, or maternal complications. Postpartum, the patient was transitioned to warfarin therapy, and at 6 weeks postdelivery neither the patient nor her infant had developed any new problems.
Intravenous lepirudin use at therapeutic doses in late gestation as an alternative to heparin was accomplished with minimal maternal and fetal morbidity.
The neurotoxic effects of methylmercury (MeHg) have been demonstrated in both human and animal studies. Both adult and fetal brains are susceptible to the effects of MeHg toxicity. However, the specific effects of adult exposures have been less well-documented than those of children with prenatal exposures. This is largely because few studies of MeHg exposures in adults have used sensitive neurological endpoints. The present study reports on the results of neuropsychological testing and hair mercury concentrations in adults (>17 yrs) living in fishing communities of Baixada Cuiabana (Mato Grosso) in the Pantanal region of Brazil.
A cross-sectional study was conducted in six villages on the Cuiaba River. Participants included 129 men and women older than 17 years of age. They were randomly selected in proportion to the age range and number of inhabitants in each village. Questionnaire information was collected on demographic variables, including education, occupation, and residence history. Mercury exposure was determined by analysis of hair using flameless atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The neurocognitive screening battery included tests from the Wechsler Memory Scale and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Concentrated Attention Test of the Toulouse-Pierron Factorial Battery, the Manual Ability Subtests of the Tests of Mechanical Ability, and the Profile of Mood States.
Mercury exposures in this population were associated with fish consumption. The hair mercury concentration in the 129 subjects ranged from 0.56 to 13.6 microg/g; the mean concentration was 4.2 +/- 2.4 micrograms/g and the median was 3.7 microg/g. Hair mercury levels were associated with detectable alterations in performance on tests of fine motor speed and dexterity, and concentration. Some aspects of verbal learning and memory were also disrupted by mercury exposure. The magnitude of the effects increased with hair mercury concentration, consistent with a dose-dependent effect.
This study suggests that adults exposed to MeHg may be at risk for deficits in neurocognitive function. The functions disrupted in adults, namely attention, fine-motor function and verbal memory, are similar to some of those previously reported in children with prenatal exposures.
Currently, the severity of veno-occlusive disease (VOD) is graded retrospectively on the basis of the evolution of clinical and biological criteria. The objective of this study was to describe a noninvasive method capable of predicting the severity of this disease at the time of the diagnosis.
Seventy-one children who developed VOD after intensive myeloablative therapy with busulfan before hematopoietic stem cell transplantation were included in this study. Sixty-four patients underwent baseline ultrasonography (US) and Doppler examination before transplantation. All patients had posttransplantation US and Doppler examinations at the time of the clinical and biological diagnosis of VOD. Seven US morphological criteria and seven Doppler criteria were studied that yielded three individual scores: a US score, a Doppler score, and a total Doppler ultrasonography (DUS) score.
In the univariate analysis, three of 7 US criteria, three of 7 Doppler criteria, and the three scores were correlated with the severity of VOD after transplantation and at the time of the diagnosis. In the multivariate analysis, two US criteria (splenomegaly and ascites) and one Doppler criterion (flow recorded in para-umbilical vein) were correlated with the severity of VOD. The multivariate analysis of the pooled US and Doppler criteria showed that the flow recorded in the para-umbilical vein was the only criterion significantly associated with the grade of VOD (P=0.0001). All patients with a US-Doppler score >9 developed grade 2 or 3 VOD.
Postgraft US and Doppler examinations have a prognostic significance according to the grade of VOD.
The interference of penicillamine with collagen and elastin cross-linking can lead to wrinkling and anetoderma-like lesions in flexural areas as well as fragility and hemorrhagic blisters in pressure areas. These changes are seen primarily in patients with Wilson's disease or cystinuria who are on long-term therapy. This is a report of a patient with cystinuria on long-term, high-dose penicillamine who developed pseudoxanthoma-elasticum-like lesions. Coalescent yellow papules with a 'plucked-chicken skin' appearance were seen in the axillae and on the neck while redundant skin folds were noted in the anterior axillary line and lower buttocks. By light and electron microscopy, involved and uninvolved skin demonstrated 'lumpy-bumpy' dermal elastic fibers with no calcium deposition. These histologic changes are similar to those previously described in patients with penicillamine-induced skin lesions.
