Within 30 months the diagnosis of drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis was made in ten patients with acute onset of renal failure of clinically unknown cause. Allergenic substances were discovered to be antibiotics, pyrazol and indol derivatives, piromidic acid and chlorazanil. In contrast to the known course of methicillin nephritis the clinical signs were undramatic. Non-oliguric renal failure predominated, sometimes with leucocyturia, microhaematuria and moderate proteinuria. Intermittent haemodialysis was necessary in half the cases. Renal function developed favourably without further specific treatment, however, plasma creatinine did not return to normal levels in most cases. Percutaneous renal biopsy was the definitive diagnostic step. Indications for biopsy in cases of unclear acute renal failure should thus be handled liberally in order to prevent continued drug exposure with the danger of irreversible renal failure.
Voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSC) are important determinants of neuronal excitability which are implicated in the pathogenesis of epilepsy. Ankyrin-G contributes to the distribution and regulation of VGSC. Here we investigated the alterations of the two alpha-subunits SCN8A and SCN1A and their adapter ankyrin-G in the hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) of rats after pilocarpine induced status epilepticus (PISE), compared to the sham-control group (C1) and blank-control group (C2). Significant increase of SCN8A mRNA (41.08% increase compared to C1, P<0.001; 30.88% increase compared to C2, P=0.011) was detected 60 days after PISE. At D1 SCN8A mRNA reduced but no significant changes were detected when compared to controls (one-way ANOVA, F=1.232, P=0.276). After measuring the optical density of Western blot, we detected significant differences between the levels of SCN8A protein in different groups but no difference between the protein levels of SCN1A at D1 and D60 after pilocarpine treatment compared to the control. At D60 the relative copies of ankyrin-G mRNA on internal control beta-actin in PISE group increased significantly compared to C1 and C2 (one-way ANOVA, F=16.537, P<0.001). Significantly increase of ankyrin-G immunoreactivity in Western blot from the PISE group 1 day and 60 days after PISE was observed, compared to the controls (one-way ANOVA, F=24.255 at D1, P<0.001; F=29.280 at D60, P<0.001). After analyzing the double-stained cells counting, we detected significant differences between the numbers of SCN8A+/ankyrin-G+ immunoreactive cells in different groups in acute and chronic period following PISE (two way-ANOVA, F(group)=37.905, P<0.001; F(day)=45.310, P<0.001). The data revealed that both SCN8A and ankyrin-G increased significantly in the CA1 subfield of the rat hippocampus 60 days following pilocarpine induced status epilepticus and co-localized with each other.
Procainamide is probably the most common offending drug responsible for the drug-induced lupus erythematosus syndrome today. Pericarditis has been reported to occur in from 14 to 18 per cent of the cases of procainamide-induced lupus erythematosus, and occasional reports of massive pericardial effusion, pericardial tamponade and constrictive pericarditis have appeared in the literature. We describe a patient who presented with features of procainamide-induced lupus erythematosus without any clinical evidence of pericarditis. He underwent coronary bypass surgery 12 days after administration of the drug was stopped and was found to have a significant pericardial effusion at the time of surgery; histologic examination of pericardial tissue and pericardial fluid confirmed that the pericardial effusion was related to the procainamide-induced lupus syndrome. The incidence of pericarditis in procainamide-induced lupus erythematosus may be higher than presently accepted figures would indicate. Symptoms and signs related to procainamide-induced lupus pericarditis may cause diagnostic confusion with common postoperative bypass complications; the full implications of this disease entity to the patient undergoing coronary bypass are unknown.
Dopamine is known as the main neurotransmitter modulating the activation of the reward system of the brain. The DRD2 TaqIA polymorphism is associated with dopamine D2 receptor density which plays an important role in the context of reward. Persons carrying an A1 allele have a lower D2 receptor density and a higher risk to show substance abuse. The present study was designed to investigate the influence of the DRD2 TaqIA polymorphism and the selective D2 receptor agonist bromociptine on the activation of the reward system by means of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In a double-blind crossover study with 24 participants we found an increase of reward system activation from placebo to bromocriptine only in subjects carrying the A1 allele. Furthermore, only A1 carrier showed an increase of performance under bromocriptine. The results are interpreted as reflecting a specific sensitivity for dopamine agonists in persons carrying an A1 allele and may complement actual data and theories of the development of addiction disorders postulating a higher genetic risk for substance abuse in carrier of the A1 allele.
Subcutaneous injections of isoprenaline sulphate in dogs (1-3 mg/kg) resulted in myocardial injury. Good correlation was observed between abnormal ECG recordings, serum enzyme concentrations and myocardial lesions in the acute phase of injury. However, in cases where less extensive myocardial injury was produced due to lower doses of isoprenaline or in cases of the reparative phase of the isoprenaline-induced myocardial injury, serum enzymes were not useful indicators of the change. Similary, ECG recordings taken peripherally also did not show alteration in the reparative phase of the injury in spite of extensive myocardial lesions.
The effects of the AMPA receptor antagonist GYKI 52466 (1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine HCl) on haloperidol-induced catalepsy were tested in drug-naive rats and in rats pretreated with the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGP 37849 (DL-(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid). CGP 37849 (4 mg/kg i.p.) given alone significantly reversed haloperidol-induced catalepsy (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) while GYKI 52466 (4.8 mg/kg i.p.) given alone was without effect. Administration of GYKI 52466 to rats pretreated with CGP 37849 abolished the anticataleptic effects of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist seen following single administration. Thus the AMPA receptor antagonist prevents behavioural effects induced by a NMDA receptor antagonist in this behavioural model.
A monkey whose unilateral striatum was extensively destroyed exhibited no choreic movement after administering L-DOPA, whereas another monkey whose unilateral striatum was partially (especially the dorsolateral part) destroyed showed 'choreic' movements exclusively on the contralateral extremities after the L-DOPA doses. Biochemical analysis disclosed a markedly increased activity of tyrosine hydroxylase in the unaffected (ventromedial) striatal area on the lesioned side when compared to the intact side of the choreic monkey, but not in the non-choreic monkey. Therefore, choreic movements in a monkey were suggested to be generated by the hyperfunction of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons that innervate the unaffected part of the striatum.
MicroRNA deregulation is involved in tumor initiation and progression. The aim of this study was to identify and validate the microRNA candidates that contribute to the metastasis of oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma (OTSCC). Using microarrays, a panel of differentially expressed microRNAs was identified in paired OTSCC cell lines with different metastatic potential. Selected microRNA candidates (including hsa-miR-222) were further validated using quantitative PCR approach. Functional analysis indicated that hsa-miR-222 inhibits OTSCC cell invasion. Ectopic transfection of hsa-miR-222 reduced the expression of MMP1 and SOD2 in OTSCC cell lines. Direct targeting of hsa-miR-222 to specific sequences located in the 3'-untranslated regions of both MMP1 and SOD2 mRNAs were confirmed using luciferase reporter gene assays. Furthermore, SOD2 knockdown by siRNA led to the downregulation of MMP1 expression. Taken together, these results suggested that hsa-miR-222 regulates the MMP1 expression through both direct cis-regulatory mechanism (targeting MMP1 mRNA) and indirect trans-regulatory mechanism (indirect controlling of MMP1 gene expression by targeting SOD2). Our results indicate that hsa-miR-222 plays an important role in OTSCC invasion, and may serve as a novel therapeutic target for OTSCC patients at risk of metastatic disease.
The purpose of this study was to identify the genes induced early in murine oral carcinogenesis. Murine tongue tumors induced by the carcinogen, 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4-NQO), and paired non-tumor tissues were subjected to microarray analysis. Hierarchical clustering of upregulated genes in the tumor tissues revealed an association of induced genes with inflammation. Cytokines/cytokine receptors induced early were subsequently identified, clearly indicating their involvement in oral carcinogenesis. Hierarchical clustering also showed that cytokine-mediated inflammation was possibly linked with Mapk6. Cox2 exhibited the greatest extent (9-18 fold) of induction in the microarray data, and its early induction was observed in a 2h painting experiment by RT-PCR. MetaCore analysis showed that overexpressed Cox2 may interact with p53 and transcriptionally inhibit expression of several downstream genes. A painting experiment in transgenic mice also demonstrated that NF-κB activates early independently of Cox2 induction. MetaCore analysis revealed the most striking metabolic alterations in tumor tissues, especially in lipid metabolism resulting from the reduction of Pparα and Rxrg. Reduced expression of Mapk12 was noted, and MetaCore analysis established its relationship with decreased efficiency of Pparα phosphorylation. In conclusion, in addition to cytokines/cytokine receptors, the early induction of Cox2 and NF-κB activation is involved in murine oral carcinogenesis.
We sought to determine whether cyclooxygenase-1 (PTGS1) genotype is associated with the ability of aspirin to inhibit platelet aggregation in patients at risk for stroke.
Blood and urine samples were collected from 60 subjects, including 28 African Americans, who were taking aspirin for primary or secondary stroke prevention. Samples were analyzed for the PTGS1 A-707G, PTGS1 P17L, and glycoprotein IIIa (ITGB3)P1(A1/A2) genotypes, ex-vivo platelet aggregation, serum cholesterol, plasma salicylate levels, and urinary 11-dehydrothromboxane B(2) (11-dhTxB(2)) concentrations. The association between PTGS1 A-707G and P17L genotypes and aspirin response, as assessed by ex vivo studies and 11-dhTxB(2) concentrations, was evaluated by statistical testing and nonlinear mapping.
Salicylate concentrations, ITGB3 genotype distribution and 11-dhTxB(2) concentrations were similar among PTGS1 genotype groups. More subjects with the PTGS1 17PP versus PL genotype had incomplete ex-vivo inhibition of platelet aggregation by aspirin (57 vs. 20%; p = 0.04). Fifty-nine percent of subjects homozygous for both the PTGS -707A and 17P alleles, but none with both the PTGS1 -707G and 17L alleles had incomplete inhibition with aspirin; p = 0.04. Similarly, nonlinear mapping showed a direct relationship between the PTGS1 17P allele and decreased aspirin response. When analyzed separately by ethnicity, the association with the P17L genotype and aspirin response persisted in African Americans, but not Caucasians.
Our data suggest that the PTGS1 P17L genotype contributes to response to aspirin as assessed by ex-vivo platelet aggregation. Our data further suggest that the association between PTGS1 genotype and aspirin response might vary by ethnicity.
Chronic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) leads to debilitating involuntary movements, termed L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Striatofugal medium spiny neurons (MSN) lose their dendritic spines and cortico-striatal glutamatergic synapses in PD and in experimental models of DA depletion. This loss of connectivity is triggered by a dysregulation of intraspine Cav1.3 L-type Ca2+ channels. Here we address the possible implication of DA denervation-induced spine pruning in the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
The L-type Ca2+ antagonist, isradipine was subcutaneously delivered to rats at the doses of .05, .1, or .2 mg/kg/day, for 4 weeks, starting the day after a unilateral nigrostriatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion. Fourteen days later, L-DOPA treatment was initiated.
Isradipine-treated animals displayed a dose-dependent reduction in L-DOPA-induced rotational behavior and abnormal involuntary movements. Dendritic spine counting at electron microscopy level showed that isradipine (.2 mg/kg/day) prevented the 6-OHDA-induced spine loss and normalized preproenkephalin-A messenger RNA expression. Involuntary movements were not reduced when isradipine treatment was started concomitantly with L-DOPA.
These results indicate that isradipine, at a therapeutically relevant dose, might represent a treatment option for preventing L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in PD.
Eosinophils are considered essential in the pathogenesis of allergy. Reduced eosinophil apoptosis is considered to be a key element in the formation of eosinophilia in allergic conditions. Antihistamines are widely used in the treatment of allergic disorders, but their effects on eosinophil apoptosis are poorly understood. The histamine H1-receptor antagonist, ketotifen, is available orally and as eye drops for the treatment of allergic symptoms. The aim of our study was to investigate the possible effect of ketotifen on constitutive eosinophil apoptosis and on interleukin (IL)-5-mediated eosinophil survival. Isolated peripheral blood eosinophils were cultured with or without the survival-prolonging cytokine IL-5 and ketotifen. Apoptosis was assessed by measuring the relative DNA content and by morphological analysis. Ketotifen was found to reverse eosinophil survival induced by interleukin-5. However, the flow cytometry histogram of DNA in propidium iodide-stained cells was not typical to apoptosis. Morphological analysis of the eosinophils by bright-field microscopy suggested that the effect of ketotifen was due to the induction of primary necrosis rather than apoptosis. Histological assessment of eosinophil ultrastructure by transmission electron microscopy confirmed signs of advanced necrosis. In summary, our results suggest that at clinically relevant drug concentrations, ketotifen induces primary necrosis in IL-5-treated human eosinophils.
An 80-year-old woman developed acute hepatitis following her first exposure to nifedipine. This adverse effect was characterised by fever, chills, anorexia, nausea, liver tenderness, hepatitic liver function tests and peripheral blood eosinophilia. On liver biopsy the portal tracts were expanded with a mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate rich in eosinophils. The potential for the occurrence of this adverse effect must increase with the current expansion of indications for the use of nifedipine.
The traditional treatments for fibrosarcoma have limited efficacy. Therefore, new therapeutic strategies and/or new adjuvant drugs still need to be explored. Accumulating evidence indicates that programmed cell death (PCD) is closely related to anticancer therapy. Many studies have shown that tumor cells treated with anticancer drugs experience the induction of type I PCD, apoptosis, and type II PCD, autophagy. In the present study, we investigated the anticancer effects of ionizing radiation (IR) combined with arsenic trioxide (ATO) in human fibrosarcoma cells in vitro and in xenograft tumors in SCID mice in vivo. We found that IR increased the population of HT1080 cells in the G2/M phase in a time-dependent manner within 9 h. IR treatment combined with ATO at this time point induced a significantly prolonged G2/M arrest and consequently enhanced cell death. Furthermore, damage of mitochondria membrane potential could be involved in the underlying mechanisms. The enhanced cytotoxic effect of combined treatment occurred due to the increased induction of more autophagy and apoptosis through the inhibition of Akt and the activation of ERK1/2 signaling pathways in HT1080 cells. The combined treatment of HT1080 cells pretreated with Z-VAD or 3-MA resulted in a significant reduction in AO-positive cells, apoptotic cells and cytotoxicity. In in vivo studies, the combination of IR and ATO significantly reduced the tumor volume in SCID mice that had received a subcutaneous injection of HT1080 cells. The data suggest that a combination of IR and ATO could be a new potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of fibrosarcoma.
In a 33-year-old man with Wilson's disease a nephrotic syndrome appeared as a severe complication under penicillamine therapy. Under strong observation and exact controls of protein in the urine, leucocytes, differential blood picture and thrombocytes after interruption of the medication and retrogression of the side-effects a retarding new stabilisation of penicillamine can take place. Other side-effects of penicillamine observed as well as control measures under a long-term treatment with penicillamine are briefly discussed.
Use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors has long been associated with angioedema. Increased levels of bradykinin caused by the inhibition of angiotensin converting enzyme have been thought to be responsible for this side effect. Angiotensin II receptor antagonists (AT2 blockers), such as losartan potassium (Cozaar; Merck & Co., West Point, PA), are a new class of antihypertensives developed in part to eliminate cough and angioedema associated with ACE inhibitors. These agents act by selectively binding to angiotensin II receptor sites, thereby eliminating the hypertensive effects of angiotensin without affecting local and systemic bradykinin levels. We present three cases of AT2 receptor antagonist-induced angioedema, and examine its significance in the treatment of angioedema and its proposed etiology.
A retrospective chart review and review of the literature.
Three patients taking the AT2 blocker losartan presented with mucosal swelling in the head and neck clinically consistent with angioedema. All three patients had prior episodes of angioedema while on losartan. Two patients presented with involvement of the anterior tongue and face that resolved within 12 hours of discontinuation of the losartan and a course of intravenous steroids. The third patient experienced recurring episodes of angioedema that eventually required a tracheotomy for airway compromise. After discontinuing the losartan and receiving a course of intravenous steroids, the angioedema resolved in 5 days. The patient was decannulated 10 days after onset of symptoms.
Angioedema is a potentially life-threatening condition commonly associated with ACE inhibitor use. AT2 blockers bind to angiotensin II receptor sites and have no demonstrable effect on local or systemic bradykinin levels. We present three cases that demonstrate AT2 blocker-induced angioedema. They were all complicated by the fact that the inciting agent, losartan, was not discontinued after the initial episode and resulted in recurrent episodes of angioedema, one of which required surgical airway intervention. The incidence of AT2 blocker-induced angioedema brings into question prior theories on the etiology of angioedema and bradykinin's role in its pathogenesis.
We tested the hypotheses that (1) maternal betamethasone (betaM) treatment over the range of clinical doses for prevention of prematurity-related pathologies from day 15 to 21 of rat gestation would produce growth retardation, and (2) the lowest betaM dose to produce growth retardation would result in hypertension in adult offspring. In experiment 1, pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were administered betaM (0, 50, 100, 200, 400, or 600 microg/kg per day, subcutaneously) on days 15-21 of pregnancy and necropsied on day 21.5, with fetal lung and placental weights recorded. In experiment 2, two more groups of rats (0 or 100 microg/kg per day, subcutaneously) were allowed to deliver, and offspring were instrumented at 100 +/- 4 days of postnatal life with indwelling left carotid arterial catheters. After 48 hours of recovery, blood pressure was recorded continuously for 24 hours. In experiment 1, all newborn rats treated with betaM, and their placentas, except those receiving 50 microg/kg per day, were growth retarded in comparison with controls (P <.05). All treated lungs were smaller than those of controls (P <.05). In experiment 2, no differences were found in the mean arterial blood pressure of adult offspring given the lowest effective dose of betaM (100 microg/kg per day) compared with controls (114.2 +/- 5.3 mmHg versus 114.6 +/- 3.4 mmHg, respectively). These data suggest that glucocorticoids given in the last week of rat pregnancy in the lowest human clinical dose do not cause hypertension and somatic growth retardation. However, the presence of lung growth restriction at this dose argues for more studies on the efficacy of even lower concentrations for their ability to improve lung and other organ and tissue function while avoiding unwanted side effects.
1. The haemodynamic and metabolic effects of oral intake of approximately 30 mg/kg per day N-nitro-L-arginine (NOLA) were examined in sham and adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH, 0.5 mg/kg per day) treated conscious Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 33). 2. NOLA administration produced an increase in systolic blood pressure of 24 +/- 6 mmHg (P < 0.001), but did not alter food or water intake, urine volume or electrolyte excretion in rats not treated with ACTH. 3. Compared with sham injection, ACTH-treated rats demonstrated an increase in systolic blood pressure (water + sham, 3 +/- 1 mmHg; water + ACTH, 16 +/- 3 mmHg; P < 0.001), loss of bodyweight, and increases in water intake and urine volume. 4. The magnitude of the blood pressure rise in ACTH-treated rats was greater in those receiving NOLA than in those drinking water only (water + ACTH, 16 +/- 3 mmHg; NOLA + ACTH, 37 +/- 3 mmHg; P < 0.05). Metabolic changes were similar. 5. Inhibition of nitric oxide is unlikely to be a major determinant of ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat, since NOLA increased blood pressure whether or not ACTH was administered, indicating an additive effect of ACTH and NOLA administration.
Experiments were performed on male Wistar rats with the aim to study effects exerted by microinjections of somatostatin and neurotensin into lateral ventricle, amygdala, hippocampus and substantia nigra pars reticulata in case of epileptic activity. It was established that the mentioned neuropeptides exerted antiepileptic effect during seizures induced by corazol and picrotoxin, which was expressed by substantial elongation of the seizure latency and a decreasing of seizure intensity. It was shown that antiseizure activity of somatostatin and neurotensin was higher under conditions of picrotoxin-induced epileptic activity, than under conditions of that induced by corazol. A conclusion is made that somatostatin and neurotensin take part in epileptic activity regulation.
We present a three-stage analysis of genome-wide SNP data in 1,222 German individuals with myocardial infarction and 1,298 controls, in silico replication in three additional genome-wide datasets of coronary artery disease (CAD) and subsequent replication in approximately 25,000 subjects. We identified one new CAD risk locus on 3q22.3 in MRAS (P = 7.44 x 10(-13); OR = 1.15, 95% CI = 1.11-1.19), and suggestive association with a locus on 12q24.31 near HNF1A-C12orf43 (P = 4.81 x 10(-7); OR = 1.08, 95% CI = 1.05-1.11).
The aim of this work was to study the effect of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) on rat hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and investgate on the mechanisms of its antitumor effect. HCC was induced by chemocarcinogen diethylnitrosamine (DEN) in Wistar rats, that were then treated with As2O3 intraperitoneally in three different concentrations once a day for two weeks, and twice a week for another two weeks. The histological and ultrastructural changes in liver tissue were observed under microscope and electronic microscope on the 7th, 14th and 28th day after drug administration. The apoptosis and cellular dynamic parameters of tumor cells were observed by flow cytometry. The expression of bcl-2, bax, and proliferation cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) of rat liver cancer cells on the 7th day after drug administration was determined by using immunohistochemical technique. Treatment with As2O3 caused HCC cells death via both apoptotic and non-apoptotic mechanisms when the dose was high (5 mg.kg(-1)), while necrosis was rare and apoptosis was common when the dose was appropriate (1 mg.kg(-1)). This effect was obviously accompanied with accumulation of cells in G2/M phases (G2/M restriction). Many apoptotic cells were also found in G2/M phases. The expression intensity of bcl-2 or bax varied depending on the dose administrated. Downregulation of bcl-2/bax was observed, accompanied with upregulation of apoptosis. However, the ratio of bcl-2/bax and the percentage of apoptosis were not the utmost when the dose administered was the highest. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that As2O3 induces apoptosis of rat HCC cells, and it is closely associated with G2/M restriction when apoptosis reaches the top. Apoptosis can be observed in all three phases of cell cycle, but it is more common in G2/M phase when the dose is appropriate. It is suggested that arsenic trioxide may be an atypical cell cycle specific agent. Apoptosis of tumor cells is closely associated with down-regulation of the ratio of bcl-2/bax, but that may not be the only dominant factor.
Eosinophils are pleiotropic multifunctional leukocytes involved in initiation and propagation of inflammatory responses and thus have important roles in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases. Here we describe a genome-wide association scan for sequence variants affecting eosinophil counts in blood of 9,392 Icelanders. The most significant SNPs were studied further in 12,118 Europeans and 5,212 East Asians. SNPs at 2q12 (rs1420101), 2q13 (rs12619285), 3q21 (rs4857855), 5q31 (rs4143832) and 12q24 (rs3184504) reached genome-wide significance (P = 5.3 x 10(-14), 5.4 x 10(-10), 8.6 x 10(-17), 1.2 x 10(-10) and 6.5 x 10(-19), respectively). A SNP at IL1RL1 associated with asthma (P = 5.5 x 10(-12)) in a collection of ten different populations (7,996 cases and 44,890 controls). SNPs at WDR36, IL33 and MYB that showed suggestive association with eosinophil counts were also associated with atopic asthma (P = 4.2 x 10(-6), 2.2 x 10(-5) and 2.4 x 10(-4), respectively). We also found that a nonsynonymous SNP at 12q24, in SH2B3, associated significantly (P = 8.6 x 10(-8)) with myocardial infarction in six different populations (6,650 cases and 40,621 controls).
Asymptomatic ventricular arrhythmias in patients with congestive heart failure are associated with increased rates of overall mortality and sudden death. Amiodarone is now used widely to prevent ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation. We conducted a trial to determine whether amiodarone can reduce overall mortality in patients with congestive heart failure and asymptomatic ventricular arrhythmias.
We used a double-blind, placebo-controlled protocol in which 674 patients with symptoms of congestive heart failure, cardiac enlargement, 10 or more premature ventricular contractions per hour, and a left ventricular ejection fraction of 40 percent or less were randomly assigned to receive amiodarone (336 patients) or placebo (338 patients). The primary end point was overall mortality, and the median follow-up was 45 months (range, 0 to 54).
There was no significant difference in overall mortality between the two treatment groups (P = 0.6). The two-year actuarial survival rate was 69.4 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 64.2 to 74.6) for the patients in the amiodarone group and 70.8 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 65.7 to 75.9) for those in the placebo group. At two years, the rate of sudden death was 15 percent in the amiodarone group and 19 percent in the placebo group (P = 0.43). There was a trend toward a reduction in overall mortality among the patients with nonischemic cardiomyopathy who received amiodarone (P = 0.07). Amiodarone was significantly more effective in suppressing ventricular arrhythmias and increased the left ventricular ejection fraction by 42 percent at two years.
Although amiodarone was effective in suppressing ventricular arrhythmias and improving ventricular function, it did not reduce the incidence of sudden death or prolong survival among patients with heart failure, except for a trend toward reduced mortality among those with nonischemic cardiomyopathy.
To study the dynamic changes of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in the liver of rat during experimental hepatocarcinogenesis.
Immunohistochemistry, gelatin zymography, and reverse transcriptase-PCR were used for detection of latent and active forms and mRNA of MMPs in each phases of carcinogenic stages.
MMPs expression was detected in normal and cirrhotic liver, which was most obvious in the cancer cells after the development of hepatic carcinoma. Normal tissue showed only low levels of MMPs expression, which kept increasing in the course of hepatocarcinogenesis, as was also the case with the corresponding mRNA.
Transcription and expression of MMPs keep increasing throughout the the process of hepatocarcinogenesis.
We conducted a genome-wide association study testing single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and copy number variants (CNVs) for association with early-onset myocardial infarction in 2,967 cases and 3,075 controls. We carried out replication in an independent sample with an effective sample size of up to 19,492. SNPs at nine loci reached genome-wide significance: three are newly identified (21q22 near MRPS6-SLC5A3-KCNE2, 6p24 in PHACTR1 and 2q33 in WDR12) and six replicated prior observations (9p21, 1p13 near CELSR2-PSRC1-SORT1, 10q11 near CXCL12, 1q41 in MIA3, 19p13 near LDLR and 1p32 near PCSK9). We tested 554 common copy number polymorphisms (>1% allele frequency) and none met the pre-specified threshold for replication (P < 10(-3)). We identified 8,065 rare CNVs but did not detect a greater CNV burden in cases compared to controls, in genes compared to the genome as a whole, or at any individual locus. SNPs at nine loci were reproducibly associated with myocardial infarction, but tests of common and rare CNVs failed to identify additional associations with myocardial infarction risk.
Two independent techniques were used in anesthetized rats in an attempt to locate the nephron site of the reduced tubular calcium reabsorption accompanying acute gentamicin infusion. The first technique was that of lithium clearance used to assess proximal sodium (and secondarily calcium) handling. Observations that lithium clearance was comparable in control and gentamicin-treated animals (1.83 +/- 0.39 vs. 1.46 +/- 0.14 ml.min-1 for first experimental period) suggests a lack of proximal effect of the drug. The second technique was that of tracer microinjection whereby superficial nephrons were injected with 45Ca and tubule calcium transport was assessed from the recovery of radioactivity in the final urine. 45Ca recovery values from distal microinjections were comparable in control and gentamicin-treated groups (81.1 +/- 2.0 vs. 77.7 +/- 4.6%). However, 45Ca recovery values from proximal microinjections were significantly higher in the gentamicin group (9.4 +/- 1.0 vs. 3.5 +/- 0.8%; P < .001). These data suggest that the effects of gentamicin on renal calcium handling are mediated at a nephron site proximal to the distal tubule (i.e., loop of Henle or proximal tubule itself). Closer examination of individual proximal micropuncture data may point to an effect occurring predominantly in the pars recta of the proximal tubule or loop of Henle. Taken together, the results of both parts of the present study suggest that the early physiological effects of gentamicin on the kidney occur in a different nephron segment from any subsequent nephrotoxicity.
Myocardial infarction is a common disease and among the leading causes of death in the world. We previously reported association of variants in LGALS2, encoding galectin-2, with myocardial infarction susceptibility in a case-control association study in a Japanese population. Here we identify BRAP (BRCA1-associated protein) as a galectin-2-binding protein. We report an association of SNPs in BRAP with myocardial infarction risk in a large Japanese cohort (P = 3.0 x 10(-18), OR = 1.48, 2,475 cases and 2,778 controls), with replication in additional Japanese and Taiwanese cohorts (P = 4.4 x 10(-6), 862 cases and 1,113 controls and P = 4.7 x 10(-3), 349 cases and 994 controls, respectively). BRAP expression was observed in smooth muscle cells (SMCs) and macrophages in human atherosclerotic lesions. BRAP knockdown by siRNA using cultured coronary endothelial cells suppressed activation of NF-kappaB, a central mediator of inflammation.
Among 54 patients attending a hospital hypertension clinic and receiving the fixed-combination diuretic Moduretic (hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg, amiloride 5 mg), there was a 44.4% incidence of hypokalaemia. The mean drop in plasma potassium level was 0.69 mmol/L (P less than 0.0001), the mean low level being 2.81 mmol/L. Seventy-four per cent of falls occurred within 52 weeks of the start of therapy, 19.5 weeks being the average period between a normal and a low plasma potassium level. There was no difference in the fall in potassium level between male and female subjects, and beta-blockers were not obviously protective, although there was a statistically significant smaller fall in potassium level in females treated with them. The clinical significance of the unexpected hypokalaemia is uncertain; but even with fixed-combination diuretics, it remains necessary to monitor the plasma potassium level regularly in order to avoid complicating situations. The results of the present study would cast doubt on the efficacy of 5 mg of amiloride with 50 mg of hydrochlorothiazide in fixed-combination form in preventing hypokalaemia in this clinical situation.
