Hepcidin is a proposed mammalian host defense peptide that was identified on the basis of its antimicrobial activity, but it was later shown to be a crucial regulator of iron homeostasis and a mediator of the anemia of chronic inflammation. Hepcidin and stainable iron expression in biliary atresia (BA) were investigated in this study. Fresh liver tissues were obtained from 10 patients in the early stage of BA when they underwent Kasai's procedure, 9 in the late stage of BA when they received liver transplantation and 5 controls receiving liver resection for benign lesions other than cholestasis or fibrosis. Real-time quantitative reverse-transcription PCR (QRT-PCR), immunohistochemical staining and ELISA were performed to gauge hepcidin mRNA and protein expression in liver and plasma. Archival liver specimens from patients in the early and late stages of BA were treated with Perls' acid ferrocyanide technique for hepatic stainable iron. The results demonstrated that liver hepcidin mRNA expression was 100-fold lower in late-stage BA than in the early stage by QRT-PCR. Significantly weaker liver hepcidin immunostaining and lower plasma hepcidin levels were found in late-stage BA than in the early stage. There was also significantly lower stainable iron in the liver of late-stage BA. The major site of stainable iron was in Kupffer cells. The results support a role for hepcidin as a key regulator of mammalian iron metabolism and chronic inflammation, whose expression correlates with the degree of stainable iron in BA.
A recent large-scale analysis of nonsynonymous coding polymorphisms showed strong evidence that an alanine to threonine amino acid change at codon 946 of the interferon-induced helicase (IFIH1) gene (SNP ID rs1990760) was associated with type 1 diabetes. Previous investigations have also demonstrated that an intronic polymorphism (termed PD1.3; SNP ID rs11568821) in the programmed cell death (PDCD1) gene was associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis.
We sought to replicate these genetic associations in Graves' disease and autoimmune Addison's disease patient cohorts.
A total of 602 Graves' disease subjects, 214 Addison's disease subjects, and 446 healthy controls were genotyped for the IFIH1 and PDCD1 single-nucleotide polymorphisms using mass spectrometer analysis of primer extension products (Sequenom).
The alanine-carrying allele at the IFIH1 codon 946 polymorphism was present in 796 of 1204 (66%) Graves' disease patient alleles compared with 508 of 892 (57%) control subject alleles [odds ratio 1.47 (5-95% confidence interval, 1.23-1.76); P = 1.9 x 10(-5)]. In contrast, there was no association of alleles at this marker in autoimmune Addison's disease. Neither was there evidence for association in either patient cohort at the PD1.3 polymorphism.
We confirm a significant contribution of the Ala946Thr IFIH1 polymorphism to organ-specific autoimmune diseases, extending the range of conditions associated with this variant to include Graves' disease. This polymorphism may also contribute to several other autoimmune disorders.
Terbinafine is an allylamine antifungal agent, effective in the treatment of dermatomycoses. Many cutaneous adverse reactions have been reported (in about 3% of treated patients). Furthermore terbinafine has been associated with pustular eruptions, as well as the induction and exacerbation of pre-existing psoriasis and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). AGEP is an uncommon aseptic pustular eruption, classified for many years as a pustular psoriasis, that usually follows recent administration of oral or parenteral drugs. The disease is most frequently triggered by antibiotics, most of all aminopenicillins and macrolides. Characteristic AGEP features include the sudden onset of fever above 38 C with widespread erythematous eruption, rapidly progressing to a fine, non-follicular, micropustular rash. Leucocytosis is generally present, sometimes associated with eosinophilia. The illness usually resolves spontaneously with the fever and the pustulation clearing within 15 days, sometimes followed by desquamation. Hystopathology shows non-follicular spongiotic pustules in the epidermis filled with neutrophils, a mixed perivascular infiltrate of neutrophils and occasional eosinophils with papillary dermal oedema. On this subject, Sideroff et al. recently elaborated a validation score based on morphology, histological criteria, and disease course. The pathogenetic mechanism which leads to the induction of AGEP by some medicines has still not been clarified, but T cells seem to play a crucial role. The authors report a case of a patient with terbinafine-induced AGEP and a review of the literature about this topic. The case illustrates once again the role of terbinafine in AGEP and reminds us that early diagnosis of AGEP is important to avoid unnecessary investigations and/or the administration of antibiotics.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis and progression of various hepatic disorders and hence screening for a good hepatoprotective and antioxidant agent is the need of the hour. The present study was aimed to investigate the hepatoprotective and antioxidant property of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) against dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) induced oxidative stress and hepatocellular damage in male Wistar albino rats. Administration of single dose of DMN (5mg/kg b.w.; i.p.) resulted in significant elevation in the levels of serum aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase, indicating hepatocellular damage. Oxidative stress induced by DMN treatment was confirmed by an elevation in the status of lipid peroxidation (LPO) and reduction in the activities of enzymic antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and glutathione-S-transferase and in the levels of non-enzymic antioxidants, reduced glutathione, vitamin-C and vitamin-E in the liver tissue. DMN induced oxidative stress and hepatocellular membrane instability was further substantiated by a decline in the status of the membrane bound ATPases in the liver tissue. Post-treatment with NAC (50mg/kg b.w.; p.o.) for 7days effectively protected against the DMN induced insult to liver by preventing the elevation in the status of the serum marker enzymes and LPO, and restoring the activities of both the enzymic and non-enzymic antioxidants and membrane bound ATPases towards normalcy. These results demonstrate that NAC acts as a good hepatoprotective and antioxidant agent in attenuating DMN induced oxidative stress and hepatocellular damage.
Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) has been implicated in the process of hepatic fibrosis, and stimulates production of extracellular matrix in hepatic stellate cells, which play a major role in the process. It has been recently reported that blockage of TGF-beta signaling prevents hepatic fibrosis. We evaluated a strategy for anti-TGF-beta gene therapy for hepatic fibrosis by transfecting plasmids expressing an entire extracellular domain of human TGF-beta type II [soluble type II TGF-beta receptor (sTGF-betaIIR)] into skeletal muscle in a rat experimental model of dimethylnitrosamine- (DMN-) induced fibrosis. sTGF-betaIIR treatment decreased significantly the occurrence of DMN-induced hepatic fibrosis, evaluated by computed image analysis and by measurement of hydroxyproline content of the liver, and reduced the expression of collagen and alpha-smooth muscle actin. The treatment also caused a significant decrease in hepatic levels of interleukin- (IL-) 12 (Th1 cytokine) and an increase in those of IL-10 (Th2 cytokine), indicating a change in the Th1/Th2 cytokine balance in the liver. In conclusion, blockade of TGF-beta after intramuscular transfer of the soluble type II TGF-beta receptor gene suppressed hepatic fibrosis, suggesting that this strategy may be useful for gene therapy of hepatic fibrosis.
Benoxaprofen (BNX), a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that was withdrawn because of hepatotoxicity, is more toxic than its structural analog flunoxaprofen (FLX) in humans and rats. Acyl glucuronides have been hypothesized to be reactive metabolites and may be associated with toxicity. Both time- and concentration-dependent glucuronidation and covalent binding of BNX, FLX, and ibuprofen (IBP) were determined by exposing sandwich-cultured rat hepatocytes to each NSAID. The levels of glucuronide and covalent protein adduct measured in cells followed the order BNX > FLX > IBP. These results indicate that 1) BNX-glucuronide (G) is more reactive than FLX-G, and 2) IBP-G is the least reactive metabolite, which support previous in vivo studies in rats. The proportional increases of protein adduct formation for BNX, FLX, and IBP as acyl glucuronidation increased also support the hypothesis that part of the covalent binding of all three NSAIDs to hepatic proteins is acyl glucuronide-dependent. Moreover, theses studies confirmed the feasibility of using sandwich-cultured rat hepatocytes for studying glucuronidation and covalent binding to hepatocellular proteins. These studies also showed that these in vitro methods can be applied using human tissues for the study of acyl glucuronide reactivity. More BNX-protein adduct was formed in sandwich-cultured human hepatocytes than FLX-protein adduct, which not only agreed with its relative toxicity in humans but also was consistent with the in vitro findings using rat hepatocyte cultures. These data support the use of sandwich-cultured human hepatocytes as an in vitro screening model of acyl glucuronide exposure and reactivity.
The blood pressure response to the first dose of captopril (6.25 mg, 12.5 mg, or 25 mg) was measured in 65 treated, severely hypertensive patients. Mean supine blood pressure was 187/108 mm Hg immediately before captopril was given. Twenty one patients experienced a fall in supine systolic pressure greater than 50 mm Hg, including five whose pressure fell more than 100 mm Hg and two whose pressure fell more than 150 mm Hg. Six patients developed symptoms of acute hypotension, including dizziness, stupor, dysphasia, and hemiparesis. Percentage reductions in blood pressure were greatest in those with secondary hypertension (p less than 0.05), high pretreatment blood pressure (p less than 0.05), and high concentrations of plasma renin and angiotensin II (p less than 0.01). No significant correlation was found between fall in blood pressure and serum sodium concentration, age, renal function, and the dose of captopril given. A severe first dose effect cannot be consistently predicted in individual patients who have received other antihypertensive drugs for severe hypertension. Such patients should have close medical supervision for at least three hours after the first dose of captopril.
Preclinical schedule dependency suggests that prolonged maintenance of low plasma levels of topotecan, a specific inhibitor of the nuclear enzyme topoisomerase I, results in optimal antitumor activity. The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of topotecan, administered as single agent in second-line therapy as a continuous low-dose infusion for 21 days, were evaluated in nine patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Topotecan was administered i.v. as a 21 day continuous infusion every 28 days via an ambulatory pump. Dosages ranged from 0.4 to 0.6 mg/m2/day. Plasma levels of topotecan, the sum of topotecan, and its hydroxy acid congener and the N-desmethyl metabolite were determined at 1, 7, 14 and 21 days during infusion, using a validated high-performance liquid chromatography method with fluorescence detection. Myelosuppression was the most important toxicity. All patients experienced anemia, being severe (grade 3/4) in 55% of all courses. Other adverse effects were relatively mild and reversible, and included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and fatigue. Three patients achieved a partial response. Mean steady-state concentrations of topotecan (C(ss)) in the first course were 0.46+/-0.17 and 0.47+/-0.19 ng/ml after doses of 0.4 and 0.5 mg/m2/day, respectively. Steady-state levels of the total of topotecan and hydroxy acid (C(ss,tot)) were 1.28+/-0.25 (range 0.93-1.58) and 1.57+/-0.19 (range 1.43-1.70) ng/ml at doses of 0.4 and 0.5 mg/m2/day, respectively. The percentage of the administered topotecan dose excreted in the urine within 24 h was 40+/-14 and 1.2+/-1.0% for total topotecan and N-desmethyltopotecan, respectively. During the second course, C(ss,tot) was significantly higher (p=0.032, paired t-test), which suggests altered topotecan disposition. A sigmoidal relationship was found between C(ss,tot) and the percent decrease in platelets (r=0.76, p=0.018). We conclude that topotecan administered as a 21 day continuous low-dose infusion has activity as single-agent, second-line therapy in patients with SCLC. There was considerable interpatient and intrapatient variability in systemic exposure to topotecan. Differences in organ function might contribute to this variation. Serum aspartate aminotransferase and albumin levels were predictive of topotecan pharmacokinetics.
Testosterone replacement therapy is the mainstay of treatment in male patients with isolated hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (HH) to achieve virilisation. However, responsiveness of pilosebaceous unit (PSU) to testosterone replacement therapy in these patients is quite variable. Androgen action is inversely proportional to the number of CAG repeats in exon 1 of androgen receptor gene; therefore, we hypothesised that CAG repeat length contributes to testosterone responsiveness in patients with HH. The CAG repeat length in 21 well-virilised men (hair score > 30, responders) and 25 poorly virilised men (hair score ≤ 30, non-responders) with HH on optimal testosterone replacement therapy at least for a period of 1 year was analysed. Serum LH, FSH, testosterone and 17 β oestradiol were estimated. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of exon 1 of androgen receptor gene was performed from genomic DNA, and these PCR-amplified products were sequenced for the number of CAG repeats. The difference between number of CAG repeats in responders and non-responders was statistically significant (19.19 ± 3.25 and 22.24 ± 2.65, P = 0.001) and showed a strong negative correlation with total body hair score (r = -0.538 and P = 0.0001). In conclusion, these results suggest that the number of CAG repeats influences the responsiveness of PSU to testosterone treatment in patients with HH.
The presence of circulating plasma factors (PF) altering renal permeability to proteins has been previously described in patients with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). Since these patients show reduced nephrin and podocin expression at renal biopsy, we evaluated the effect of serum and PF from patients with FSGS on nephrin and podocin expression in human podocytes. We studied 7 sera from patients with steroid-resistant FSGS, 3 from patients with nephrotic syndrome caused by non-immune disease, and 6 from healthy subjects. PF was prepared from plasmapheresis eluates of 2 patients with post-transplant recurrence of FSGS. Purification procedure was based on protein A Sepharose chromatography and differential precipitation in ammonium sulphate. Nephrin and podocin expression was semi-quantitatively evaluated by immunofluorescence. We found that serum and PF from FSGS patients rapidly induced redistribution and loss of nephrin in podocytes. This effect was associated with cytoskeleton redistribution and inhibited by cytochalasin B and sodium azide. On the contrary, podocin expression was unchanged after incubation with serum and PF from FSGS patients for short periods, but markedly reduced at 24 h. Our results demonstrate that serum and PF from FSGS patients may directly affect nephrin and podocin in human podocytes, thus providing new insights into the mechanisms causing proteinuria in FSGS.
We have previously shown that the male sex steroid testosterone inhibits slightly, but the female sex steroid 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) potentiates dramatically, the capsaicin receptor-mediated current in rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Here, we used pharmacological methods and the nociceptive behavioral test to determine whether there is a sex difference in capsaicin-induced acute pain in rats in vivo and what mechanism underlies this sex difference. Results revealed that intradermal injection of capsaicin induced a dose-dependent nocifensive response in males and females, with the dose required to produce a comparable level of nociception being approximately 3- to 4-fold higher in males than in females. In addition, females during the proestrus stage exhibited significantly greater capsaicin-induced nocifensive responses compared with the estrus stage. Moreover, the female's enhanced sensitivity to the capsaicin-induced nocifensive response was completely reversed by ovariectomy 6 weeks before capsaicin injection. It is noteworthy that intradermal coinjection of E(2) but not progesterone with capsaicin potentiated the capsaicin-induced nocifensive response in ovariectomized rats. Likewise, intradermal E(2) injection dose-dependently potentiated the capsaicin-induced nocifensive response in male rats. Furthermore, potentiation by E(2) of the capsaicin-induced nocifensive response in male rats was not significantly reduced by a selective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor or by a selective protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor, indicating that neither PKC nor PKA was involved in the effect of E(2). These data demonstrate that E(2) mediates the female's enhanced sensitivity to capsaicin-induced acute pain, consistent with potentiation by E(2) of the capsaicin receptor-mediated current in rat DRG neurons.
Androgens influence important central and peripheral mechanisms of the erectile system. The relevance of a moderate decrease of serum testosterone level for erectile dysfunction (ED) has not been clarified so far. The aim of our study was to offer an easy transcutaneous method of androgen application. A previous study on the pharmacokinetic profile of the testosterone gel applied, showed marked elevation of the serum levels of testosterone. In our study, 46 hypogonadal patients with ED and total lack of vaginal penetration applied testosterone gel (4 mg/day; supplied by Azupharma, Germany) to the penile skin twice a day over 6-8 weeks, after a run-in period with placebo gel of 2 weeks. All patients showed decreased testosterone serum levels (<3 ng/ml) in at least two morning samples over a period of 3 weeks before treatment. Psychogenic etiology was excluded by a sexual psychologist. Patient age was 37-69 years (mean 53.5). Three patients (6.5%) responded to placebo in the run-in phase and were withdrawn from further treatment. Fifteen patients (32.6%) showed improved erection, allowing penetration and sexual intercourse. Twenty-eight patients (60.9%) did not respond to therapy. Local genital skin irritation was not observed. Elevation of peripheral testosterone was not correlated to a positive therapy response. A success-rate of 32.6% in this group of patients after exclusion of psychogenic patients and placebo-responders seems to justify further investigations. A medication period of 6-8 weeks is most probably too short to induce imaginable regenerative effects of testosterone on the erectile system. We therefore suggest that future double-blind and placebo-controlled studies should be designed for a minimum of 3 months. Testosterone gel may be a cost effective form of androgen administration.
Acetaminophen is found to be potentially hepatotoxic drug. Both, acute acetaminophen intoxication (dose >10 g) and therapeutic dose administration in the case of glutathion depletion (chronic alcohol abuse) hepatotoxic effect may occur. Late N-acetylcysteine (NAC) administration does not prevent liver injury. Molecular Adsorbents Recirculating System (MARS) is useful liver support device based on albumin dialysis for saving time for spontaneous liver regeneration or bridging technique to liver transplantation.
Two cases admitted to the Department in 19 and 20 hour post-ingestion of hepatotoxic paracetamol doses as confirmed by toxiocological examination (serum paracetamol concentration). Despite of NAC administration the signs of the liver injury (progressive encephalopathy and jaundice, decreased prothrombin activity) developed. On day four post exposure according to King's College of Medicine London criteria both cases were qualified to MARS therapy. Albumin dialysis of 8 hour duration was performed in both cases and a full recovery with normalization of the liver function was noted. Patient three: patient with the liver and the kidney insufficiency due to alcohol-paracetamol syndrome admitted to the Department of Clinical Toxicology for MARS therapy. Five performed dialysis resulted in the liver function improvement. The patient was disqualified from the liver transplant because of heart failure, pneumonia, hyperthyroidism and alcoholism. Patient died because of heart failure.
Oral premedication with enalapril, 0.1 mg/kg was compared with placebo in 22 patients subjected to craniotomy and ligation of an intracranial aneurysm or extirpation of an arteriovenous malformation. Balanced hypotensive anesthesia was used with sodium nitroprusside (SNP) as the main hypotensive agent. The hypertensive response to laryngoscopy and tracheal intubation was significantly attenuated by enalapril (p = 0.020). The mean blood pressure was lower and more stable in the intensive care unit after enalapril than after placebo (p = 0.044). The median SNP dose rate tended to be lower in the enalapril-pretreated patients [0.6 (range of 0-3.5) micrograms/kg/min] compared to the placebo group [1.4 (0.4-5.8) micrograms/kg/min] (p = 0.12). Concentrations of plasma catecholamines, vasopressin, and endothelin as well as serum osmolality, arterial blood gases, and plasma electrolytes and level of consciousness were repeatedly measured. Enalapril had no significant effects on these variables. Plasma renin activity was increased and serum angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity was reduced in the expected manner by enalapril. We found premedication with an ACE inhibitor favorable for hypotensive anesthesia in neurovascular patients as assessed by the circulatory responses.
A multicenter, open-label, compassionate-use trial studied the antiemetic efficacy and tolerability of granisetron in patients who had failed other antiemetic therapies in previous cycles of cytostatic chemotherapy. The antiemetics that had been used previously included metoclopramide, dexamethasone and ondansetron. A total of 517 patients, 456 of whom had failed other antiemetics, were treated in up to 15 successive cycles of chemotherapy. The numbers of patients treated in the first six of these cycles were large enough to allow the drawing of meaningful conclusions from the results. During that period, a complete response was achieved in 53-60% of patients. In addition, antiemetic efficacy was sustained throughout these six repeated treatment cycles. Granisetron was less effective against high-dose cisplatin chemotherapy than against other cytostatic regimens. The treatment was well tolerated--the main adverse events reported were headache and constipation; no serious adverse events were considered to be attributable to the drug. It is concluded that granisetron treatment was effective and well tolerated in patients who had previously failed other antiemetic therapies, including treatment with 5-hydroxytryptamine3 antagonists.
These studies examined changes in the expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP) in lumbosacral (L6-S1) micturition reflex pathways, following chronic cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide (CYP). In control Wistar rats, CGRP- or SP-immunoreactivity (IR) was expressed in fibers in the superficial dorsal horn in all segmental levels examined (L4-S1). Bladder afferent cells in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG; L6, S1) from control animals also exhibited CGRP- (41-55%) or SP-IR (2-3%). Following chronic, CYP-induced cystitis, CGRP- and SP-IR were dramatically increased in spinal segments and DRG (L6, S1) involved in micturition reflexes. The density of CGRP- and SP-IR was increased in the superficial laminae (I-II) of the L6 and S1 spinal segments. No changes in CGRP- or SP-IR were observed in the L4-L5 segments. Staining was also dramatically increased in a fiber bundle extending ventrally from Lissauer's tract in lamina I along the lateral edge of the DH to the sacral parasympathetic nucleus in the L6-S1 spinal segments. Following chronic cystitis, CGRP- and SP-IR in cells in the L6 and S1 DRG significantly (P< or =0.05) increased and the percentage of bladder afferent cells expressing CGRP- (76%) or SP-IR (11-18%) also significantly (P< or =0.001) increased. No changes were observed in the L4-L5 DRG. These studies suggest that the neuropeptides, CGRP and SP, may play a role in urinary bladder afferent pathways, following chronic urinary bladder inflammation. Changes in CGRP or SP expression following cystitis may contribute to the altered visceral sensation (allodynia) and/or urinary bladder hyperreflexia in the clinical syndrome, interstitial cystitis.
This double-blind, double-dummy, randomized study compared the 24 h efficacy and safety of granisetron alone (3 mg i.v. over 30 s) or in combination with methylprednisolone (250 mg i.v. twice daily) in preventing nausea and vomiting in 308 patients (254 males) receiving high-dose cisplatin (100 mg/m2 or above) for mainly lung, and head and neck cancers. All patients received oral follow-on therapy comprising oral granisetron and methylprednisolone during the following 6 days. Primary efficacy variables were the proportions of complete responses (CR; no vomiting, no worse than mild nausea, no rescue and no withdrawal), no vomiting and no nausea over the first 24 h following initiation of the cisplatin infusion. The two treatment groups were well matched for demographics, cancer site, cisplatin dose and duration of infusion. Granisetron plus methylprednisolone was significantly more effective than granisetron alone for all primary efficacy variables: CR 78 versus 59% (p<0.001), no vomiting 80 versus 61% (p<0.001) and no nausea 74 versus 57% (p<0.002). Significantly more patients receiving the combination were free of any emetic symptoms (74 versus 54%, p<0.001). Significantly fewer patients receiving combination therapy also required rescue therapy with i.v. granisetron (12.2 versus 21.7%, p=0.026). During the follow-on period, complete response rates varied day by day from 50 to 71%. Both treatments were well tolerated, with constipation, abdominal pain and headache as the most frequent adverse events.
A 70-year-old male with optic disc pallor and visual field constriction up to 35 degrees bilaterally was previously treated with vigabatrin. The cumulative dosage was 3.7 kg. The b-wave was reduced in photopic and scotopic electroretinography and the patient had delayed visual evoked potentials. The retinal nerve fiber thickness was pathologically reduced in the Heidelberg retinal tomography (HRT) and the retinal nerve fiber layer analyzer (GDx).
Vigabatrin is an antiepileptic drug and may increase the intraretinal GABA level due to an inhibition of the enzyme GABA-transaminase and may induce an ascending simple optic nerve atrophy. Vigabatrin-associated visual field defects may be irreversible. A visual field control is recommended before starting the treatment with vigabatrin and at regular 6-month intervals thereafter. In cases of visual field constriction, the therapy should be stopped. If the cumulative dosage is more than 3 kg of vigabatrin, the visual field controls should be performed more frequently because of the dosage-toxicity relationship.
Autism is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder with genetic and environmental etiologies. Recent genetic linkage studies implicate Reelin glycoprotein in causation of autism. To further investigate these studies, brain levels of Reelin protein and mRNA and mRNAs for VLDLR, Dab-1, and GSK3 were investigated.
Postmortem superior frontal, parietal, and cerebellar cortices of age, gender, and postmortem interval-matched autistic and control subjects were subjected to SDS-PAGE and Western blotting of Reelin protein. Quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis of Reelin, VLDL-R, Dab-1, and GSK3 mRNA species in superior frontal and cerebellar cortices of autistic and control subjects were also performed.
Reelin 410, 330, and 180 kDa/beta-actin values were reduced significantly in frontal and cerebellar, and nonsignificantly in parietal, areas of autistic brains versus control subjects, respectively. The mRNAs for Reln and Dab-1 were reduced significantly whereas the mRNA for Reln receptor VLDLR was elevated significantly in superior frontal and cerebellar areas of autistic brains versus control brains, respectively.
Reductions in Reelin protein and mRNA and Dab 1 mRNA and elevations in Reln receptor VLDLR mRNA demonstrate impairments in the Reelin signaling system in autism, accounting for some of the brain structural and cognitive deficits observed in the disorder.
Chloroquine myopathy is a drug poisoning disease involving rimmed vacuole formation. By Western blot analysis, we investigated posttranslational modification of LC3 in cultured cells with a high concentration of chloroquine, and found that the autophagosome membrane-bound form of LC3 increased dose-dependently. We also constructed a disease model by excessive chloroquine injection into rats and unusual immunohistochemical alteration was chased using anti-LC3 antibodies. With chloroquine treatment, muscle atrophy occurred predominantly in soleus muscle and unusual autophagosomes were accumulated. Therefore, we concluded that autophagy plays an important role in rimmed vacuole formation in certain muscular atrophies.
Unexpected hepatotoxicity is one of the major reasons of drugs failing in clinical trials. This emphasizes the need for new screening methods that address toxicological hazards early in the drug discovery process. Here, proteomics techniques were used to gain further insight into the mechanistic processes of the hepatotoxic compounds. Drug-induced hepatotoxicity is mainly divided in hepatic steatosis, cholestasis, or necrosis. For each class, a compound was selected, respectively amiodarone, cyclosporin A, and acetaminophen. The changes in protein expressions in HepG2, after exposure to these test compounds, were studied using quantitative two-dimensional differential gel electrophoresis. Identification of differentially expressed proteins was performed by Maldi-TOF/TOF MS and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. In this study, 254 differentially expressed protein spots were detected in a two-dimensional proteome map from which 86 were identified, showing that the proteome of HepG2 cells is responsive to hepatotoxic compounds. cyclosporin A treatment was responsible for most differentially expressed proteins and could be discriminated in the hierarchical clustering analysis. The identified differential proteins show that cyclosporin A may induce endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and disturbs the ER-Golgi transport, with an altered vesicle-mediated transport and protein secretion as result. Moreover, the differential protein pattern seen after cyclosporin A treatment can be related to cholestatic mechanisms. Therefore, our findings indicate that the HepG2 in vitro cell system has distinctive characteristics enabling the assessment of cholestatic properties of novel compounds at an early stage of drug discovery.
Ifosfamide was administered to 21 patients with recurrent or disseminated lung cancer at a dose of 4.0 gm/M2 iv every 3 weeks. The response rate was 33% with an additional 14% showing no response or stable disease. At a dose of 1.2 gm/M2 daily for 5 days every 4 weeks, 57% of 14 patients responded with 35% showing no response or stable disease. The majority of the patients (28) had epidermoid carcinoma. Two (7%) had complete response with 9 (32%) showing partial responses. Other responses included 1/2 oat cell carcinomas and 3/6 large cell undifferentiated carcinomas. Toxicity was equal in both regimens for nausea, vomiting, increased serum LDH and neutropenia but the 5 day program had significantly less hemorrhagic cystitis. Survival was greatly influenced by response. There was no statistical difference in overall length of response between responders and the non responding/stable disease patients. But these two groups had a very significant survival advantage when compared to those patients with increasing disease. Similarly, there was a significant improvement in response duration for the low dosage regimen. Therefore, the low dose 5 day regimen is recommended because of its response rate, it has less hemorrhagic cystitis and it has better patient acceptance in that it can be given as an outpatient and does not require a Foley catheter.
Intravenous (IV) ketamine has gained widespread use in the emergency department (ED) for procedural sedation. The most commonly recommended starting dose is 1.5 mg/kg. We examined whether lower doses of ketamine in the range of 0.5 to 1.0 mg/kg could successfully sedate pediatric patients.
We retrospectively reviewed quality assurance data of patients sedated with IV ketamine in a pediatric ED. Patients were administered 0.02 mg/kg of IV atropine, 0.05 mg/kg of IV midazolam, and then 0.5 mg/kg of IV ketamine. Additional aliquots of 0.25 to 0.5 mg/kg of ketamine were given as necessary, to a maximum of 2.0 mg/kg. Efficacy of sedation was assessed after every dose by pediatric emergency medicine attendings or fellows.
Seventy-two patients had quality assurance forms completed. The total ketamine dose administered ranged from 0.5 to 2 mg/kg. Adequate procedural sedation was obtained for 70 (97%) of 72 patients. Forty-four percent of patients required 0.75 mg/kg or less of ketamine to obtain adequate initial sedation; 25% of subjects required only 0.5 mg/kg; 43% of patients required 1.0 mg/kg of IV ketamine. We found that 88% of our patients could be successfully sedated at initial doses of 1 mg/kg or less.
Our study suggests a potential role for low-dose IV ketamine in the range of 0.5 to 1.0 mg/kg for pediatric procedural sedation. Most pediatric ED patients can be successfully sedated with 1 mg/kg of ketamine.
The integrin-linked kinase (ILK) signaling pathway contributes to regulation of cellular adhesion, migration, and differentiation, and to apoptotic cell death after a variety of cell death stimuli. We have reported that overexpression of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) reduces apoptotic cell death by promoting the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K)/Akt survival pathway after transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI). However, the role of the ILK pathway after tFCI and the role of oxygen free radicals in regulation of apoptosis remain unclear.
To clarify these issues, we used an in vivo tFCI model with SOD1 transgenic mice and wild-type mice. We administered the PI3-K inhibitor, LY294002, into mouse brains after tFCI and examined the role of PI3-K in the ILK pathway and expression of the ILK/Akt complex by immunohistochemistry, Western blot analysis, and coimmunoprecipitation.
A transient increase in ILK was detected early after tFCI and was prevented by treatment with LY294002, but promoted by SOD1. Coimmunoprecipitation revealed that the direct reaction of ILK/Akt transiently increased concurrent with the increase in ILK after tFCI. Moreover, the ILK/Akt complex was prevented by LY294002, but promoted by SOD1.
These results suggest that the ILK pathway mediated by PI3-K is affected by tFCI and by SOD1.
Intravenous injection of morphine evokes, in the rat, a vagal chemoreflex resulting in bradycardia, hypotension and transient apnea. The morphine ED50 for producing bradycardia was utilized here as an index of the sensitivity to opioid stimulation of the organism. The potency of morphine for producing bradycardia can be modified by dynorphin (1-13), Leu- and Met-enkephalin. Both dynorphin (1-13) and Leu-enkephalin administered s.c. to normal and morphine-tolerant rats, 30 min before blood vessel cannulation and testing, lowered the morphine ED50 for bradycardia. Dynorphin (1-13) was 3 times more potent than Leu-enkephalin. Under the same test conditions, Met-enkephalin, given s.c. (0.45-0.9 mumol/kg) 30 min before morphine challenge, produced only desensitization to morphine-evoked bradycardia. The effects of dynorphin (1-13) were biphasic with respect to time of injection. When dynorphin (1-13) (0.3 mumol/kg s.c.) was injected s.c. 2 hr before morphine challenge, animals were desensitized to morphine by 2.5 times. Dynorphin (1-13) (0.19-0.77 nmol/hr s.c.) co-infused with morphine (74 nmol/hr s.c.) for 2 days accelerated tolerance development to morphine bradycardia. These results confirm previous studies which suggest that opioid peptides having Leu- or Met-enkephalin at its N-terminus manifest different pharmacological properties in vivo.
Previous studies reported that the HBV DNA level in maternal serum is an important risk factor for intrauterine infection. Two antiviral drugs, lamivudine (3TC) and interferon alpha (IFNalpha), are used extensively clinically to reduce maternal HBV DNA level, However, because of a lack of evidence on the efficacy and safety of these drugs during pregnancy, they are categorized as grade C which prevents their use during pregnancy. This study provides new data on the efficacy and safety of lamivudine and IFNalpha in HBV positive transgenic pregnant mice. In this study, transgenic mice with high titers of hepatitis B virus (HBV) were employed to study the antiviral effects of 3TC and IFNalpha during different gestation periods. The study also examined changes in several serological HBV markers, the effects of perinatal exposure to antiviral drugs on the mother and offspring, drug efficacy in reducing the level of HBV DNA in maternal blood, and the safety to both the mother and offspring. The main conclusion of the study is that a significant decrease in HBV DNA level can be obtained after treatment with lamivudine but not with IFNalpha. No adverse effects were observed in the maternal mice and the offsprings. This finding may provide a rationale for the potential use of lamivudine for the treatment of pregnant women as a safe and effective measure to reduce the level of maternal viremia.
