Fincoal type fluorosis has only been reported from China, but its pathogenesis is unclear. Many people believe that fluorosis is associated with oxidative stress. Oxidative stress can be reduced at higher selenium (Se) level. Heat shock protein (HSP70) is the most conserved and induced against different stressors. The aim of this study is to detect the expression of HSP70 in fluorosis patients and explore the role of Se in fluorosis protection. The subjects were divided into four groups: "High Se + F group" (n = 50), "High F group" (n = 50), "High Se group" (n = 20) and "Control group" (n = 46). Expression of HSP70 was evaluated by Western blotting and real-time PCR techniques. The concentration of fluoride, content of Se in hair, activity of antioxidant enzymes (GSH-Px, SOD, CAT) and content of malondialdehyde (MDA) were determined. The relative amount of HSP70 gene transcription was significantly higher in "High Se + F group" than the other groups. The same results were found for expression of HSP70 protein to beta-actin ratio. There was a significant difference between "High Se + F group" and "High F group" regarding MDA content and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activity. These results suggest that oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of the Fincoal type fluorosis and it can be reduced at higher Se level.
We recently demonstrated the incidence and multiplicity of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU)-induced mammary tumors to be increased by administration of acrylamide (AA) in post-initiation in rats. In the present study, to clarify the mechanisms of enhancement, H-ras gene mutations in mammary tumors induced in MNU-initiated rats with or without subsequent AA administration were investigated. Frequencies of mutations in codon 12 from GGA to GAA were significantly (p < 0.05) higher in rats with AA administration (82%, 23 out of 28 tumors) as compared to those without AA (50%, 9 out of 18 tumors), but the latency and volume of H-ras mutation-harboring tumors were similar to those of the mutation-lacking tumors. No mutations in codons 13 or 61 were detected in either treatment groups. The results thus indicate that H-ras gene mutations in codon 12 play a pivotal role in initiation of carcinogenesis and it appears possible that AA administration may selectively co-stimulate and/or maintain initiated cells via other genomic or non-genomic events in MNU-treated rats.
The pentavalent antimonial compounds Glucantime and Pentostam are the first line drugs used in anti-Leishmania treatment. However, no in vivo studies have compared the efficacy and toxicity of these drugs where host variability has been controlled. Biochemical studies of Leishmania have detected differences between the two drugs with regard to DNA topoisomerase I inhibition, a phenomenon that possibly impacts treatment efficacy. To evaluate the clinical efficacy, hamsters were infected intradermally in the right hind foot with 10(6) promastigotes of a wild type or luciferase-transfected Leishmania panamensis. At three weeks post-inoculation, the animals were treated intramuscularly with either Glucantime or Pentostam (30, 60 or 120 mg SbV/kg per day for 20 days). To evaluate parasitological efficacy a luminometry assay was standardized for quantitation of amastigotes in hamster tissues. To evaluate toxicity, hamsters were treated intramuscularly with Glucantime or Pentostam (120, 160 or 240 mg SbV/kg per day for 20 days). Animals inoculated with either of the parasite strains and treated with either drug, showed a similar rate of lesion reduction, as compared to untreated controls (p<0.01). Parasite burden was also comparable, and no significant differences were found in the cure rate. No renal or hepatic alterations occurred as evidenced by normal serum levels of creatinine, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase and amylase. Hamsters treated with 120 mg SbV/kg per day for 20 days or higher doses of Pentostam showed macro- and microscopic signs of inflammation at the site of injection. These effects were absent in the animals treated with Glucantime. The results confirmed clinical observations regarding the similar efficacy of the two drugs, as well as the higher local toxicity of Pentostam.
To elucidate the mechanisms underlying peripheral neuropathic pain in the context of HIV infection and antiretroviral therapy, we measured gene expression in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of rats subjected to systemic treatment with the anti-retroviral agent, ddC (Zalcitabine) and concomitant delivery of HIV-gp120 to the rat sciatic nerve. L4 and L5 DRGs were collected at day 14 (time of peak behavioural change) and changes in gene expression were measured using Affymetrix whole genome rat arrays. Conventional analysis of this data set and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was performed to discover biological processes altered in this model. Transcripts associated with G protein coupled receptor signalling and cell adhesion were enriched in the treated animals, while ribosomal proteins and proteasome pathways were associated with gene down-regulation. To identify genes that are directly relevant to neuropathic mechanical hypersensitivity, as opposed to epiphenomena associated with other aspects of the response to a sciatic nerve lesion, we compared the gp120+ddC-evoked gene expression with that observed in a model of traumatic neuropathic pain (L5 spinal nerve transection), where hypersensitivity to a static mechanical stimulus is also observed. We identified 39 genes/expressed sequence tags that are differentially expressed in the same direction in both models. Most of these have not previously been implicated in mechanical hypersensitivity and may represent novel targets for therapeutic intervention. As an external control, the RNA expression of three genes was examined by RT-PCR, while the protein levels of two were studied using western blot analysis.
Formosanin C (FC) isolated from Rhizoma Paridis, showed pro-apoptosis and immunoregulation with antitumor activity in cultured cells and animal systems. However, there is no report about its anti-metastatic effect on cancer cells. This research used the wound healing and the migration assay to detect the anti-invasive effect of FC on LA795 cells. Through the gelatin zymography assay and immunofluorescence analysis, FC showed suppression of enzyme activity of MMP-2 and MMP-9, and protein expression of MMP-1, -2, -3, -9 and -14 excreted from LA795 cells. Finally, FC exhibited much more effective inhibition of tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis in T739 mice than cisplatin did. Overall, the strong inhibition of MMP expression by FC might provide a potential therapeutic modality for lung tumors.
DNA from seven unrelated patients with hyperkalemic periodic paralysis (HYPP) was examined for mutations in the adult skeletal muscle sodium channel gene (SCN4A) known to be genetically linked to the disorder. Single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis revealed aberrant bands that were unique to three of these seven patients. All three had prominent fixed muscle weakness, while the remaining four did not. Sequencing the aberrant bands demonstrated the same C to T transition in all three unrelated patients, predicting substitution of a highly conserved threonine residue with a methionine in a membrane-spanning segment of this sodium channel protein. The observation of a distinct mutation that cosegregates with HYPP in two families and appears as a de novo mutation in a third establishes SCN4A as the HYPP gene. Furthermore, this mutation is associated with a form of HYPP in which fixed muscle weakness is seen.
In a phase I trial of stavudine in AIDS or AIDS-related complex (ARC), antiviral effects and safety were assessed in 41 patients treated with dosages of 0.5-12.0 mg/kg/day. Among evaluable patients, 10% increases in CD4 lymphocyte counts were sustained in 24 (60%) of 40 during treatment; an NAUC response (normalized area under the CD4 cell count-versus-time curve > 1.0) was observed in 31 (91%) of 34 at 10 weeks and in 20 (80%) of 25 at 24 weeks; 15 (83%) of 18 had decreases in p24 antigenemia; and 24 (60%) of 40 gained > or = 2.5 kg body weight. Median CD4 lymphocyte levels remained above baseline for 6 months in patients receiving > 0.5 mg/kg/day. Median serum p24 antigen levels remained below baseline for > or = 1 year in patients with p24 antigen responses. The principal toxicity was peripheral neuropathy, which generally resolved after drug discontinuation but limited the dosage to < or = 2.0 mg/kg/day. Additional trials assessing the effect of stavudine on overall morbidity and mortality are ongoing.
Many medicines exist which can cause pruritus (itching) as "serious adverse events." Many severe pruritic conditions respond poorly to histamine H1 receptor antagonists; there is no generally accepted antipruritic treatment. Recently described histamine H4 receptors are expressed in haematopoietic cells and have been linked to the pathology of allergy and asthma. We previously reported their expression in human dermal fibroblasts; in this study we have investigated H4 receptor expression in human epidermal tissue and found it to be greater in keratinocytes in the epidermal upper layer than in the lower layer. We have also investigated the effect of histamine H4 receptor antagonists on histamine H1 receptor antagonist-resistant pruritus using a mouse model. Scratching behavior was induced by histamine (300 nmol) or substance P (100 nmol) injected intradermally into the rostral part of the back of each mouse. Fexofenadine, a histamine H1 receptor antagonist, reduced scratching induced by histamine but not by substance P, whereas JNJ7777120, a histamine H4 receptor antagonist, significantly reduced both histamine- and substance P-induced scratching. These results suggest that H4 receptor antagonists may be useful for treatment of H1 receptor antagonist-resistant pruritus.
In a multicenter, randomized, open-label, dose-ranging study to determine the relative effects of three dose levels of stavudine on CD4 lymphocyte count, weight gain, and hematologic variables in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), 152 patients with CD4 lymphocyte counts < or = 600/mm3 received stavudine at 0.1 mg/kg/day (n = 51), 0.5 mg/kg/day (n = 53), or 2.0 mg/kg/day (n = 48). The study was designed to evaluate the activity of stavudine after 10 weeks of therapy and permitted extended dosing and follow-up for long-term safety. A significant dose effect on increases in CD4 lymphocyte counts and declines in HIV titer in peripheral blood mononuclear cells was observed. Stavudine was well-tolerated; the only dose-related, dose-limiting adverse event was peripheral neuropathy, which usually was reversible. In this trial, the most favorable therapeutic index was seen at 0.5 mg/kg/day.
Data on the biologic effects and safety of stavudine in patients with AIDS and AIDS-related complex represent results of two phase I trials (n = 84), another phase I study of patients with hematologic intolerance to zidovudine (n = 23), and a phase II trial (n = 152). The daily doses of stavudine ranged from 0.1 to 12.0 mg/kg. Increases in CD4 cell count, declines in serum p24 antigen, and weight gain were all related to the dose of stavudine. Doses of < or = 2 mg/kg/day (n = 216) were well-tolerated, with a median duration of therapy of > or = 48 weeks in the phase I studies and > or = 79 weeks in the phase II study. The predominant dose-limiting toxicity was peripheral neuropathy, which was related to both the dose and duration of treatment with stavudine. Elevations of liver enzymes were seen in some patients but appeared to be related to underlying disease rather than treatment. There was no evidence of dose-related hematologic toxicity.
Dynamic and static factors cause infravesical obstruction in men with BPH. The dynamic component is determined by alpha 1-adrenoceptor-mediated contractions of the prostate smooth muscle and bladder neck. Using alpha-receptor-blockers will relieve bladder outlet obstruction, improving urinary flow rates and obstructive and irritative symptoms as well as the physician's global assessment. This study was performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of alpha 1 blockers (terazosin and alfuzosin) in ambulatory patients (n = 20) with BPH. After 24 weeks of therapy, the peak flow rate increased 54% from a baseline average of 8.5 ml/s to 13.1 ml/s (p < 0.01). The mean flow rate increased 49%, from a baseline of 4.61 ml/s to 6.9 ml/s (p < 0.01); residual volume decreased 74% from 48.3 ml to 12.5 ml (p < 0.001). Mean systolic blood pressure decreased significantly (p < 0.05) from baseline, but this change wasn't clinically important. The clinical experience with alpha-blockers in BPH indicates that these drugs increase urinary flow rates, decrease obstructive and irritative symptoms, without serious side effects.
We have shown that a single "binge" dose of methamphetamine (Meth) in mice has long-lasting effects on open-field behavior dependent on mouse strain and age. Here we further investigated the impact of genotype and age on tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) loss and dopamine (DA) metabolism due to a high binge dose of Meth (4 × 5 mg/kg × 2 h × 2 days). Administration of high dose Meth or saline (Sal) to adolescent (PND 40) and adult (PND 80) C57BL/6 (B6), DBA/2 (DBA), and 129S6SvEv/Tac (129) mice was followed by a 1mg/kg Meth or Sal (control) challenge 40 days later. Striatal and prefrontal cortex tissues were collected 1h following the challenge. Meth-pretreated adolescent B6 and DBA mice exhibited losses in striatal DA concentrations; DBA adolescents also showed losses in striatal 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and increased DA turnover. Pre-exposed B6 and 129 adults demonstrated significant decreases in striatal DA, DOPAC, and increased DA turnover; DBA adults showed significant losses in striatal DA and increased DA turnover. 129 and DBA adults exhibited increases and decreases, respectively, in prefrontal cortex DA. Adult pretreated B6 mice produced significant losses in striatal TH. The results again show age and genotype dependent differences in Meth-induced DA alterations.
Members of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta superfamily, including TGF-betas and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), are essential for the maintenance of tissue homeostasis and regeneration after injury. We have observed that the BMP antagonist, gremlin, is highly up-regulated in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
To investigate the role of gremlin in the regulation of BMP signaling in pulmonary fibrosis.
Progressive asbestos-induced fibrosis in the mouse was used as a model of human IPF. TGF-beta and BMP expression and signaling activities were measured from murine and human fibrotic lungs. The mechanism of gremlin induction was analyzed in cultured lung epithelial cells. In addition, the possible therapeutic role of gremlin inhibition was tested by administration of BMP-7 to mice after asbestos exposure.
Gremlin mRNA levels were up-regulated in the asbestos-exposed mouse lungs, which is in agreement with the human IPF biopsy data. Down-regulation of BMP signaling was demonstrated by reduced levels of Smad1/5/8 and enhanced Smad2 phosphorylation in asbestos-treated lungs. Accordingly, analyses of cultured human bronchial epithelial cells indicated that asbestos-induced gremlin expression could be prevented by inhibitors of the TGF-beta receptor and also by inhibitors of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase pathways. BMP-7 treatment significantly reduced hydroxyproline contents in the asbestos-treated mice.
The TGF-beta and BMP signaling balance is important for lung regenerative events and is significantly perturbed in pulmonary fibrosis. Rescue of BMP signaling activity may represent a potential beneficial strategy for treating human pulmonary fibrosis.
Confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) is rapidly emerging as a valuable tool for gastrointestinal endoscopic imaging. Fluorescent contrast agents are used to optimize imaging with CLE, and intravenous fluorescein is the most widely used contrast agent. Fluorescein is FDA-cleared for diagnostic angiography of the retina. For these indications, the safety profile of fluorescein has been well-documented; however, to date, fluorescein is not cleared for use with CLE.
To estimate the rate of serious and total adverse events attributable to intravenous fluorescein when used for gastrointestinal CLE.
We performed a cross sectional survey of 16 International Academic Medical Centres with active research protocols in CLE that involved intravenous fluorescein. Centres using i.v. fluorescein for CLE who were actively monitored for adverse events were included.
Sixteen centres performed 2272 gastrointestinal CLE procedures. The most common dose of contrast agent was 2.5-5 mL of 10% sodium fluorescein. No serious adverse events were reported. Mild adverse events occurred in 1.4% of individuals, including nausea/vomiting, transient hypotension without shock, injection site erythema, diffuse rash and mild epigastric pain. The limitation is that only immediate post procedure events were actively monitored.
Use of intravenous fluorescein for gastrointestinal CLE appears to be safe with few acute complications.
This study was aimed to evaluate the preventive role of S-allylcysteine (SAC) on creatine kinase-MB, iron, iron binding capacity, uric acid, total protein, membrane-bound enzymes such as sodium potassium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase, calcium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase and magnesium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase, and glycoproteins such as hexose, hexosamine, fucose and sialic acid in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. Male albino Wistar rats were pre-treated with SAC (50, 100 and 150 mg/kg) daily for a period of 45 days. After the treatment period, isoproterenol (150 mg/kg) was subcutaneously injected in rats at an interval of 24 hr for 2 days. Isoproterenol-induced rats showed significantly (P < 0.05) increased activities of serum creatine kinase-MB and calcium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase and magnesium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase in the heart, and the levels of iron and uric acid in serum and significantly (P < 0.05) decreased the levels of plasma iron binding capacity, plasma total protein, plasma albumin/globulin ratio and activity of sodium potassium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase in the heart. Isoproterenol induction also showed a significant increase in the levels of glycoproteins in serum and the heart. Pre-treatment with SAC (100 and 150 mg/kg) daily for a period of 45 days exhibited significant (P < 0.05) effect and altered these biochemical parameters positively. SAC (50, 100 and 150 mg/kg) treatment to normal rats did not exhibit any significant effect in any of the parameters studied. Thus, our study shows that SAC has a protective role in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. The observed effects might be due to the free radical scavenging, antioxidant and membrane stabilizing properties of SAC.
In mice, cocaine is detoxified to inactive products by butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) and carboxylesterase. In human beings, cocaine detoxification is primarily by BChE. The focus of this investigation was to elucidate the importance of BChE in reducing pathophysiological effects following cocaine exposure. Previous studies examining the effects of cocaine on BChE deficient animals relied on chemical inhibition of BChE with tetraisopropyl pyrophosphoramide (iso-OMPA). The creation of the BChE knockout mouse has provided a model for studying pathological effects of cocaine in mice free of chemical confounders. We hypothesized that mice with low or no BChE activity would have reduced cocaine metabolism, leading to hepatotoxicity and cardiomyopathy. A high-resolution in vivo imaging system recorded cardiac and respiratory function following treatment with a carboxylesterase inhibitor and a high dose of cocaine (100 mg/kg, intraperitoneally). The BChE-/- mice demonstrated depressed respiration through 12 hr after dosing and abnormal respiratory patterns consisting of a pause at full inspiration (apneusis), whereas BChE+/+ mice had recovered normal respiration rates by 30 min. after dosing and exhibited no apneusis. Liver and cardiac histology sections were analysed following a 20 mg/kg intraperitoneally dose of cocaine administered daily for 7 days. BChE-/- mice treated for 7 days with the chronic low dose showed significant hepatotoxicity and cardiac perivascular fibrosis compared to BChE+/+ mice. The observed functional changes following acute high-dose and chronic low-dose cocaine in BChE-/- and +/- mice warrants further investigation into the possibility of increased cocaine toxicity in human beings with BChE deficiency.
To determine whether visual functions are decreased in children with infantile spasms and vigabatrin-attributed retinal toxicity.
Contrast sensitivity and grating acuity were measured by using sweep visual evoked potential (VEP) testing in 42 children with infantile spasms (mean age, 29.23 +/- 18.31 months). All children had been exposed to vigabatrin (VGB) for a minimum of 1 month. These children were divided into retinal toxicity and no toxicity groupings based on 30-Hz flicker amplitude reductions on the full-field electroretinogram. A multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) compared visual functions between children with and without retinal toxicity.
The MANOVA showed that visual function was significantly affected by VGB retinal toxicity. Further univariate analysis revealed that grating acuity was significantly reduced in children with toxicity. No differences in contrast sensitivity were found between children with toxicity and those without.
Reduced visual functions from VGB-attributed retinal toxicity can be detected in children with infantile spasms with the sweep VEP.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer mortality in the United States and worldwide. The identification of key regulatory and molecular mechanisms involved in lung tumorigenesis is therefore critical to increase our understanding of this disease and could ultimately lead to targeted therapies to improve prevention and treatment. Induction of members of the activator protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor family has been described in human non-small cell lung carcinoma. Activation of AP-1 can either stimulate or repress transcription of multiple gene targets, ultimately leading to increased cell proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis. In the present study, we show induction of AP-1 in carcinogen-induced mouse lung tumors compared with surrounding normal lung tissue. We then used a transgenic mouse model directing conditional expression of the dominant-negative c-jun mutant TAM67 in lung epithelial cells to determine the effect of AP-1 inhibition on mouse lung tumorigenesis. Consistent with low AP-1 activity in normal lung tissue, TAM67 expression had no observed effects in adult mouse lung. TAM67 decreased tumor number and overall lung tumor burden in chemically induced mouse lung tumor models. The most significant inhibitory effect was observed on carcinoma burden compared with lower-grade lesions. Our results support the concept that AP-1 is a key regulator of mouse lung tumorigenesis, and identify AP-1-dependent transcription as a potential target to prevent lung tumor progression.
Inflammation is a common mechanism of many gastrointestinal diseases. Therefore, it is interesting to know, whether complex phytopharmaceuticals known to modulate gastrointestinal motor function reveal also anti-inflammatory properties. We tested the fixed herbal combination product STW 5 (Iberogast((R))) and its main component Iberis amara fresh plant extract (STW 6) to characterize their protective potential in an experimental inflammation model in vitro. The test system consisted of ileum/jejunum segments from male Wistar rats. Inflammation was evoked by intraluminal instillation of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) for 30min. Preincubation of TNBS together with STW 5 and STW 6 prevented the TNBS-induced inhibition of ACh-induced contractions. No differences were found between water-dissolved and ethanol-dissolved extracts. STW 5 and STW 6 reduced morphological changes induced by TNBS in mucosal and muscle layers. The IL-10 mRNA measured by qRT-PCR was not influenced by TNBS but increased by STW 5 and STW 6. The TNBS-induced increase in the TNFalpha-mRNA expression was suppressed by STW 5 but not by STW 6. Additionally, STW 5 decreased TNFalpha release in LPS-stimulated human monocytes. STW 6 influenced neither the TNFalpha-mRNA nor the TNFalpha release. These findings demonstrate that STW 5 reduced inflammation-induced alterations in ileum/jejunum segments. The effects were associated with a restoration of the disturbed ACh-induced contraction, pathohistological protection and inhibition of TNFalpha. STW 6 may contribute to the protective effect of STW 5 mainly by increasing IL-10 pathway but not by influencing TNFalpha.
To examine the effects of frequency of prenatal maternal cocaine use on infant neurobehavioral outcome beyond the immediate postpartum period, controlling for other substance use.
At 2 weeks postpartum, the Brazelton Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale (BNBAS) was administered to infants (N = 55) and their mothers were asked about their prenatal drug use. Mother/infant dyads were placed in one of two groups based on the number of days of reported cocaine use during pregnancy: high frequency (n = 23, > 75th percentile reported days of use) or low frequency (n = 32, < 75th percentile).
Infants in the high frequency cocaine group had worse BNBAS excitability scores than infants in the low frequency cocaine group, when other substance use was controlled statistically.
High frequency of maternal cocaine use during pregnancy is associated with poorer infant neurobehavioral outcome beyond the early postpartum period, when other substance use is controlled.
Retinal microvascular cells play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy. The endothelial effects of cloricromene, a novel coumarin derivative, on diabetic retinopathy induced by streptozotocin (STZ) in the rat were investigated.
Cloricromene (10 mg/kg intraperitoneally) was administered daily in diabetic rats, and 60 days later eyes were enucleated for localization of nitrotyrosine, ICAM-1, VEGF, ZO-1, occludin, claudin-5, and VE-cadherin by immunohistochemical analysis. The effect of treatment was also evaluated by TNFalpha, ICAM-1, VEGF, and eNOS protein levels measurement in the retina with the respective ELISA kits. Blood-retinal barrier (BRB) integrity was also evaluated by Evans blue.
Increased amounts of cytokines, adhesion molecule, and nitric oxide synthase were observed in retina. Cloricromene treatment significantly lowered retinal TNFalpha, ICAM-1, VEGF, and eNOS. Furthermore, immunohistochemical analysis for VEGF, ICAM-1, nitrotyrosine (a marker of peroxynitrite), and tight junctions revealed positive staining in the retina from STZ-treated rats. The degree of staining for VEGF, ICAM-1, nitrotyrosine, and tight junctions was markedly reduced in tissue sections obtained from diabetic rats treated with cloricromene. Treatment with cloricromene suppressed diabetes-related BRB breakdown by 45%.
This study provides the first evidence that the new coumarin derivative cloricromene attenuates the degree of inflammation preserving the BRB in diabetic rats.
Human esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) develops in a sequence from gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), columnar-lined esophagus (CLE), dysplasia, and eventually to EAC. We established a rat surgical EAC model with esophagogastroduodenal anastomosis (EGDA) to mimic the staged process of esophageal adenocarcinogenesis. Profiling of the AA metabolites with mass spectrometry showed that prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), leukotriene B4 (LTB4), 15-hydroeicosatetraenoic acid (HETE), 12-HETE, 8-HETE and 5-HETE all increased at the esophagoduodenal junction after EGDA as compared with the proximal esophagus, with PGE2 as the major metabolite. Consistent with this profile, cyclooxygenase 2 (Cox2) was overexpressed in the basal cell layer of esophageal squamous epithelium, CLE cells and EAC tumor cells of the EGDA rats, as compared with the normal esophageal epithelium. Sulindac (a Cox inhibitor), nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA, a lipoxygenase inhibitor) and alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO, an ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor) were tested for their possible inhibitory actions against the formation of EAC in the rat EGDA model. In a short-term study (for 4 weeks after surgery), dietary administration of both sulindac (300 and 600 p.p.m.) and NDGA (100 p.p.m.) effectively reduced the EGDA-induced inflammation. In a long-term chemoprevention study (for 40 weeks after surgery), 300 p.p.m. sulindac, alone or in combination with 100 p.p.m. NDGA or 0.5% DFMO, decreased the tumor incidence from 57.7 to 26.9%, or 16.7 or 20%, respectively (P < 0.05). NDGA alone (100 and 200 p.p.m.) slightly decreased the tumor incidence to 52.4 and 37%, respectively, although the difference was not statistically significant. DFMO alone did not show significant effects on tumor incidence. Inhibition of tumor formation by sulindac was correlated with lowered levels of PGE2. In conclusion, sulindac exerted its chemopreventive effect against the formation of EAC in the rat EGDA model possibly through its inhibition of Cox.
Giardia lamblia is a pathogenic protozoan presenting as the main characteristic, the trophozoite capacity to adhere in host intestinal epithelium, infecting mammals, including humans. The clinical treatment of this disease is based on metronidazole (Mz) that acts as an alternative electron acceptor, and its reduction promotes DNA impairment. In veterinary treatment, one of the best options is pyrantel pamoate (Pm), which the mode of action has not elucidated yet. Different strategies for Giardia treatment have been explored to avoid side effects to the host. In this context, the efficiency of treatment combining drugs raise as an interesting alternative for protozoan diseases. Here, we evaluated in vitro synergic effect of Mz and Pm on trophozoites and on its adherence to IEC-6 cells. The treatment with Mz or Pm was effective on trophozoites, with IC(50)/24h values of 5.3±0.9 μM and 13.8±1.4 μM, respectively. The treatment of trophozoites with different combinations of Mz and Pm were also evaluated, as showed by fractional inhibitory concentration index (FICI) under 0.5 in all conditions tested, corresponding to the synergic effect. This synergic activity was also observed when the combinations of 5.3 μM Mz+0.4 μM Pm and 13.8 μM Pm+0.1 μM Mz induced a remarkable reduction in % adhesion (85-90% and 52-59%, respectively) and in number of adhered parasites per 100 cells. The low cytotoxicity to the host cells of the combinations, associated to the strong synergic potential of the combination, encourage us to further investigate its effect in in vivo models.
In a 47-year-old man suffering from sick-sinus syndrome the sinus node recovery time was determined. During rapid atrial stimulation a supraventricular tachycardia occurred. The intravenous administration of 10 mg Verapamil was followed by total electrical standstill of the heart lasting for more than 24 hours and requiring pacemaker therapy. This case demonstrates that the intravenous administration of Verapamil may be harmful.
To describe American cutaneous leishmaniasis of the eyelids and highlight the main clinical and diagnostic features of lesions, which are rare in this location.
Retrospective, noncomparative case series
Leishmanin skin test, touch preparations, histopathologic analysis, and culture in appropriate media were used for clinical confirmation and parasitologic diagnosis. Positive cultures were identified by the iso-enzymes technique. All patients were treated with pentavalent antimony applied intramuscularly.
Leishmanin skin test was positive in all five patients. Touch preparations, histopathologic analysis, and culture were performed in four patients. Touch preparations were positive (presence of Leishman's bodies) in two patients; histopathologic analysis showed a granulomatous infiltrate in four patients and parasite was present in two patients; culture was positive in three patients, and in two the parasite was identified as Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis. Therapy was effective for all patients.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis of the eyelids is uncommon in the Americas. The disease may present diagnostic difficulties when appearing in nonendemic areas. The clues for diagnosis are the clinical aspect of lesions, the epidemiologic data, and a positive Leishmanin skin test. Demonstration of parasite is not always possible. Pentavalent antimonial compounds are the therapy of choice. Formerly, transmission of leishmaniasis occurred only when humans penetrated forested areas and became an incidental host. Now, eyelid lesions are part of the changing pattern in the transmission of the disease. With the increase in ecotourism, these lesions may begin to be seen in air travelers returning to other parts of the world.
XAF1 is a newly identified candidate tumour-suppressor gene that can antagonise XIAP and sensitise cells to cell death triggers. This study was undertaken to study the effect of 5-azacytidine (AZA) on XAF1 expression in myeloma cells and efficacy of 5-AZA and arsenic trioxide (ATO) combination treatment in myeloma in vivo and in vitro. XAF1 expression was analysed by semi-quantitative PCR and western blotting. Methylation specific PCR was used to detect methylation status of XAF1 promoter CpG islands. RPMI 8226 and XG-7 cells were treated with various concentrations of 5-AZA and ATO. Expression of XAF1 mRNA variants were confirmed by gel electrophoresis and sequencing. Untreated RPMI 8226 cell expresses two variants of XAF1 mRNA. Untreated XG-7 cell has no expression of XAF1. Hypermethylation of XAF1 promoter CpG islands was detected in both cell lines. Both cell lines express full-length XAF1 transcript after treated with 2.5 mumol/L 5-AZA for 72 h. Our studies demonstrated that 5-AZA exhibits anti-myeloma synergy with ATO. In addition, ATO alone, 5-AZA alone, or combination of 5-AZA and ATO was effective in slowing myeloma growth and prolonging survival of myeloma-loaded nude mice. The findings suggested that 5-AZA and ATO may be an effective combination in the therapy of myeloma patients.
Mercuric chloride (HgCl2) induces acute renal failure associated to tubular impairment in experimental animals and humans. Stress proteins are a superfamily of proteins, comprising heat- shock proteins (HSP) and glucose-regulated proteins (GRP), enhanced or induced in the kidney in response to stress. They act as molecular chaperones that protect organelles and repair essential proteins which have been denatured during adverse conditions. The involvement of stress proteins in mercury-nephrotoxicity has not yet been well clarified. This study was undertaken to detect the tubular distribution of four stress proteins (HSP25, HSP60, GRP75, HSP72) in the rat kidney injected with HgCl2 and to quantify lysosomal and mitochondrial changes in straight proximal tubules, the main mercury target. Sprague-Dawley rats were administered i.p. with progressive sublethal doses of HgCl2 (0.25 mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg and 3.5 mg/kg) or saline (as controls) and sacrificed after 24 h. In dosages over 0.50 mg/kg, stress proteins increased and changed localization in a dose-dependent manner. HSP25 was focally expressed in altered proximal tubules at 1 mg/kg but in the macula densa it was at 3.5 mg/kg. HSP60 and GRP75 were intense in the nucleus and cytoplasm of proximal tubules but moderate in distal tubules. HSP72 was induced in distal tubules after low exposures but in proximal tubules it happened at the highest dose. Moreover, a significant increase in lysosomal and total mitochondria (normal and with broken cristae) area and density were progressively found after HgCl2 treatments. Stress proteins could represent sensitive biomarkers that strongly correlate with the degree of oxidative injury induced by HgCl2 in the rat proximal tubules.
Eighteen patients with serious Bacteroides infections were treated with systemic clindamycin-2-phosphate. Sixteen patients recovered without complications while two patients died. Few side effects were noted. The infections treated included septic abortion, posthysterectomy infections, pelvic inflammatory disease, perforation of the bowel, postoperative complications of abdominal surgery and pancreatic abscess. The clinical usefulness of this drug in treating Bacteroides infection is confirmed.
To investigate the association between M235T variant of angiotensinogen (AGT) gene and the blood pressure response to benazepril in a hypertensive cohort.
Benazepril (10-20 mg/day) was administered for 6 weeks to 251 essential hypertensives. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) combined with restriction enzyme digestion was used to detect the polymorphism and the patients were classified as MM, MT or TT genotype. The changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP) were analyzed for association with genotypes at the AGT gene locus.
The MM genotype was observed in 23 patients (9.2%), the MT genotype in 104 patients (41.4%) and the TT genotype in 124 patients (49.4%). There was no association between these polymorphisms and the blood pressure responses in the total 251 patients. But based on the analysis stratified by age, the association between these polymorphism and the DBP responses was found in the old patients (> or = 60 years old) subgroup, the reduction in DBP was significantly greater in patients carrying the MM compared to MT or TT genotypes (14.8 +/- 4.8 mm Hg vs. 7.9 +/- 7.7 mm Hg or 9.8 +/- 6.4 mm Hg respectively; ANOVA, P = 0.034).
The M235T polymorphism of the AGT gene was shown to influence the responses to benazepril in old hypertensive patients (> or = 60 years old). Thus, specific genotypes might predict the response to specific antihypertensive treatment.
