Myelosuppression occurs in up to 50% of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) who are treated with imatinib and > or = Grade 3 myelosuppression is reported in approximately 10% of patients.
The authors investigated the prognostic significance of anemia occurring during therapy with imatinib in patients with CML in chronic phase.
Of 338 patients treated with imatinib (150 patients after interferon failure and 188 patients with newly diagnosed CML), 230 (68%) developed anemia. In a multivariate analysis, factors associated with an increased probability of developing anemia were a starting hemoglobin level < 12 g/dL, age > or = 60 years, female gender, higher imatinib dose, and intermediate or high Sokal risk group. Of these 230 patients, 102 patients received treatment with 40,000 U of recombinant human erythropoietin administered subcutaneously once weekly. An increase in the hemoglobin level of > or = 2 g/dL was achieved in 69 patients (68%) and 22 patients (22%) had an increase of 1-1.9 g/dL. Patients who developed anemia had a trend toward a lower probability of complete cytogenetic remission compared with patients without anemia (68% vs. 77%; P = 0.14), as well as a trend for inferior survival. Patients with anemia and other manifestations of myelosuppression were found to have a significantly worse outcome than those with isolated anemia.
The authors concluded that erythropoietin is safe and effective in patients in chronic-phase CML who develop anemia with imatinib therapy.
Isolated downbeat nystagmus was observed in 2 patients on multiple anticonvulsant regimens. The nystagmus disappeared when phenytoin dosage was reduced. Electrooculographic analysis revealed impaired downward tracking, supporting the concept of "pursuit" nystagmus.
Leptin, detected recently in the stomach, is a product of the ob gene released by cholecystokinin (CCK) and plays an important role in the control of food intake but its influence on gastroprotection against the damage caused by noxious agents has not been studied. This study was designed to compare the effects of leptin and cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) on gastric mucosal lesions induced by topical application of 75% ethanol or acidified aspirin. Four series of Wistar rats (A, B, C and D) were used to determine the effects of: (A) suppression of prostaglandin biosynthesis by indomethacin (5 mg/kg i.p.); (B) inhibition of nitric oxide (NO)-synthase by nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (5 mg/kg i.v.); (C) blockade of sensory nerves by capsaicin (125 mg/kg s.c.) and (D) bilateral vagotomy, on the gastric lesions induced by intragastric (i.g.) application of ethanol with or without pretreatment with CCK-8, a known gastroprotective substance or leptin. CCK-8 (1-100 microg/kg i.p.) and leptin (0.1-50 microg/kg i.p.) dose dependently attenuated gastric lesions induced by 75% ethanol; the dose reducing these lesions by 50% being about 10 microg/kg and 8 microg/kg, respectively. The protective effects of CCK-8 and leptin were accompanied by a significant rise in gastric blood flow (GBF) and luminal NO concentration. Leptin was also effective to attenuate aspirin-induced damage and the accompanying fall in the GBF, whereas CCK-8 dose dependently worsened aspirin damage and failed to influence GBF. CCK (1-100 microg/kg i.p.), given in graded doses, produced a dose-dependent increase in the plasma leptin level and a rise of the expression of ob messenger RNA (mRNA) in gastric mucosa, the maximum being reached at a dose of 100 microg/kg. Pretreatment with CCK-8 (10 microg/kg i.p.) or with 8% peptone, that is known to stimulate CCK release, also produced a significant rise in plasma leptin levels and up-regulation of ob mRNA while reducing significantly the gastric lesions induced by 75% ethanol to the same extent as that induced by exogenous leptin (10 microg/kg i.p.). Indomethacin, which suppressed prostaglandin generation by approximately 90%, failed to influence leptin- or CCK-8-induced protection against ethanol, whereas L-NAME attenuated significantly CCK-8- and leptin-induced protection and hyperemia but addition to L-NAME of L-arginine, but not D-arginine, restored the protective and hyperemic effects of both hormones. The ob mRNA was detected as a weak signal in the intact gastric mucosa and in that exposed to ethanol alone but this was further enhanced after treatment with graded doses of CCK-8 or peptone meal applied prior to ethanol. We conclude that: (1) exogenous leptin or that released endogenously by CCK or meal exerts a potent gastroprotective action depending upon vagal activity, and involving hyperemia probably mediated by NO and sensory nerves but unrelated to endogenous prostaglandins; (2) leptin mimics the gastroprotective effect of CCK and probably mediates the protective and hyperemic actions of CCK in the rat stomach.
The ability of galantamine hydrobromide (GAL HBr) treatment to antagonize O-ethyl-S-(2-diisopropylaminoethyl) methylphosphonothiolate (VX)-induced lethality, impairment of muscle tension, and electroencephalographic (EEG) changes was assessed in guinea pigs. Guinea pigs were challenged with 16.8 microg/kg VX (2LD50). One min after challenge, animals were administered 0.5 mg/kg atropine sulfate (ATR) and 25 mg/kg pyridine-2-aldoxime methochloride (2-PAM). In addition, guinea pigs were given 0, 1, 2, 4, 8 or 10 mg/kg GAL as a post-exposure treatment immediately prior to ATR and 2-PAM. Animals were either monitored for 24-h survival, scheduled for electroencephalography (EEG) recording, or euthanized 60 min later for measurement of indirectly-elicited muscle tension in the hemidiaphragm. Post-exposure GAL therapy produced a dose-dependent increase in survival from lethal VX challenge. Optimal clinical benefits were observed in the presence of 10 mg/kg GAL, which led to 100% survival of VX-challenged guinea pigs. Based on muscle physiology studies, GAL post-exposure treatment protected the guinea pig diaphragm, the major effector muscle of respiration, from fatigue, tetanic fade, and muscular paralysis. Protection against the paralyzing effects of VX was dose-dependent. In EEG studies, GAL did not alter seizure onset for all doses tested. At the highest dose tested (10 mg/kg), GAL decreased seizure duration when administered as a post-exposure treatment 1 min after VX. GAL also reduced the high correlation associated between seizure activity and lethality after 2LD50 VX challenge. GAL may have additional benefits both centrally and peripherally that are unrelated to its established mechanism as a reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI).
1. The effect of systemic administration of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) on the antihypertensive effects of the angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist, GR138950, the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, enalapril, or hydralazine has been evaluated in unrestrained, conscious renal artery ligated hypertensive (RALH) rats. The effect of the phosphodiesterase type V inhibitor, zaprinast on the antihypertensive effect of GR138950 in RALH rats was also examined. The effect of GR138950 on blood pressure, and plasma and urine cyclic GMP levels was compared to that of zaprinast in conscious RALH rats. 2. GR138950, enalapril or hydralazine caused marked reductions in blood pressure associated with immediate tachycardia in conscious RALH rats. L-NAME pretreatment attenuated the antihypertensive effects of GR138950 or enalapril but not that of hydralazine in conscious RALH rats. The initial tachycardia caused by GR138950 or enalapril but not hydralazine was attenuated by L-NAME pretreatment. L-NAME alone caused a transient (20 min) pressor response and a prolonged (6 h) bradycardia in conscious RALH rats. 3. Pretreatment with indomethacin did not affect the cardiovascular effect of GR138950 in conscious RALH rats. Indomethacin alone did not significantly change basal blood pressure or heart rate in RALH rats. 4. Zaprinast pretreatment did not affect the antihypertensive effect of GR138950 in conscious RALH rats but potentiated the depressor response to sodium nitroprusside. Zaprinast alone caused a small reduction in basal blood pressure but did not change basal heart rate in RALH rats. 5. The antihypertensive effect of GR138950 was not associated with an increase in plasma or urine cyclic GMP levels in conscious RALH rats, whereas zaprinast caused a small fall in blood pressure associated with increases in plasma and urine cyclic GMP. 6. The ability of L-NAME to inhibit the antihypertensive action of GR138950 or enalapril suggests that these agents release nitric oxide (NO) and/or enhance the cardiovascular effects of NO as part of their mechanism of action. However, the inability of zaprinast to potentiate the antihypertensive effects of GR138950 and the finding that GR138950 did not increase urine and plasma cyclic GMP levels are not consistent with this view. Attenuation of the response to GR138950 or enalapril, but not hydralazine, suggests a selective interaction between L-NAME and inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin system, although the nature of this interaction is unknown.
This study was designed to investigate the effect of low-dose nesiritide on renal function and major cardiac events in patients with acute decompensated heart failure following acute myocardial infarction. Sixty patients were randomized into nesiritide (loading dose 0.5 microg/kg, maintenance dose 0.0075 microg/kg/min) and nitroprusside groups. Compared with the nitroprusside group, the nesiritide group had a greater heart rate reduction (P < 0.05), higher 24 h urine volume (P < 0.001), and more significant alleviation in dyspnea (P < 0.001). The prevalence of hypotension in the nesiritide group was lower than in the nitroprusside group (7.4% vs 28.5%, P < 0.05). The nesiritide group had a greater reduction in serum noradrenaline, angiotensin II, aldosterone, endothelin, and N-terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide (all P < 0.01). The mean serum creatinine in the nesiritide group was reduced (109.4 +/- 26.6 vs 102.8 +/- 21.6 micromol/l, P < 0.01), whereas it remained unchanged in the nitroprusside group (106.8 +/- 20 vs 106.0 +/- 19.2 micromol/l, P > 0.05). The rehospitalization or mortality rate was similar between the two groups 3 months after the therapy (P > 0.05). We conclude that low-dose nesiritide is more effective in suppressing the activation of the sympathetic and renin-angiotensin systems. It also improves the clinical symptoms and enhances renal function, but its effect on hospital readmission or mortality rate needs further investigation.
The incidence of muscle pains and changes in serum concentrations of potassium, calcium and creatine kinase following suxamethonium were investigated after no pretreatment or pretreatment with intravenous tubocurarine 0.05 mg.kg-1, intravenous chlorpromazine 0.1 mg.kg-1, alphatocopherol (vitamin E) 600 mg in three divided doses orally, aspirin 600 mg orally or intravenous calcium chloride 5 mg.kg-1 in groups of 20 patients each. The incidence of myalgia was reduced significantly by tubocurarine, chlorpromazine and alphatocopherol. However, the increase in creatine kinase was attenuated only in the groups of patients who received tubocurarine and chlorpromazine. The changes in serum potassium and calcium concentrations were within acceptable limits. The intubating conditions were not as good in the patients who received tubocurarine as in the other groups. Effectiveness of chlorpromazine in preventing both the myalgia and the biochemical changes suggests the involvement of phospholipases in the pathogenesis of suxamethonium-induced muscle damage.
The therapeutic management of multiple myeloma (MM) for the last several decades has mainly involved regimens based on use of glucocorticoids and cytotoxic chemotherapeutics. Despite progress in delineating the activity of such regimens, at either conventional or high doses, MM has remained an incurable disease, without substantial improvement in the median overall survival. This has sparked major interest in the development of novel therapies that in part capitalize on recent advances in our understanding of the biology of MM, including the molecular mechanisms by which MM cell-host bone marrow (BM) interactions regulate tumor-cell growth, survival, and drug resistance in the BM milieu. The development of in vitro and in vivo models of MM-stromal interactions has allowed not only for better characterization of these molecular phenomena but also for identification of specific therapeutic strategies to overcome these interactions and achieve an enhanced anti-MM effect, even against MM resistant to conventional therapies. Herein, we review the latest progress in the development of these novel anti-MM therapies, with major focus on therapies which have translated from preclinical evaluation to clinical application, including thalidomide and its more potent immunomodulatory (IMiD) derivatives, the first-in-class proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (formerly known as PS-341), and arsenic trioxide (As2O3).
Hypertension may be associated with an increase in oxidative stress as a possible mechanism for the increased vascular tone and organ injury. Previously, we reported an increased production of reactive oxygen species and endothelial cell death in the microcirculation of hypertensive rats. We hypothesize that xanthine oxidase (XO) may be a potential source of oxidants induced by glucocorticoid-induced hypertension. Male Wistar rats were administered dexamethasone (0.5 mg/kg/day) for 5 days to induce hypertension. After general anesthesia, cremaster muscle was collected for analysis of XO and xanthine dehydrogenase (XDH) activities. The mean blood pressure and XO levels in cremaster muscle were significantly increased in the dexamethasone-treated rats compared with controls. There was a strong age-dependent rise in total XO + XDH activity in all groups. To inhibit XO, we administered allopurinol (ALLO, 0.4 mg/mL) in the drinking water to a subset of control and dexamethasone-treated rats during a 5-day treatment. The ALLO significantly reduced the mean arterial blood pressure in the dexamethasone-treated rats. Although in the cremaster muscle the total XO + XDH levels were not completely reduced with ALLO, the XO levels of the dexamethasone-treated + ALLO rats were reduced to levels of the control + ALLO group. These results suggest that dexamethasone induces an elevated level of XO activity in the cremaster muscle. The enhanced XO activity can be attenuated by chronic allopurinol treatment.
Large doses of intravenous opioids may cause severe rigidity and prevent spontaneous or controlled ventilation. The mechanism of this effect appears to be neuraxis dopamine antagonism. Rigidity after analgesic doses of fentanyl has not been reported previously.
A pregnant woman receiving haloperidol for multiple psychiatric conditions presented for evaluation of vaginal bleeding. Intravenous fentanyl was administered to facilitate vaginal examination. Severe rigidity of the extremities and truncal region occurred, which prevented spontaneous or assisted ventilation.
Opioid administration may result in rigidity and respiratory embarrassment. Decreased analgesic requirements in pregnancy and concomitant butyrophenone administration may predispose to opioid-induced rigidity.
Forty-nine patients, with ages ranging from eighteen to seventy years and with mild to moderate primary hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure of greater than or equal to 95 mmgH and less than or equal to 115 mmHg) were randomized into a twenty-one-week, double-blind, prospective study to determine the effects of monotherapy of nifedipine GITS (gastrointestinal therapeutic system) versus atenolol on serum lipids, lipid subfractions, apolipoproteins, (apo), and blood pressure (BP). Nifedipine GITS and atenolol significantly reduced blood pressure, but nifedipine GITS reduced sitting and standing systolic BP significantly more than atenolol (p = .001). Sitting and standing heart rate decreased significantly (p = 0.001) during atenolol therapy but did not change significantly during nifedipine GITS therapy. Atenolol increased weight (mean change + 2.2 lb; p = 0.011), but nifedipine GITS decreased weight (mean change - 2.4 lb; p = 0.07). Nifedipine GITS had a more favorable effect on the lipid profile. High density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and HDL2 subfractions were increased significantly (p = .001) as were apo A1 (p = 0.037) and apo A2 (p = 0.025). Nifedipine GITS increased HDL3 (NS), reduced triglycerides (TG) (NS), and had no significant effect on total cholesterol (TC) low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and apo B. Atenolol significantly increased serum total cholesterol (p = 0.039) and HDL-C and HDL2 (p = 0.049 and 0.048 respectively). Atenolol increased TG (NS) and apo B (NS) with little change in apo A1 and apo A2. It is concluded that nifedipine GITS had equal or better antihypertensive efficacy than atenolol and had a more favorable effect on the lipid profile. These effects may offer advantages in reducing CHD risk.
We present a case of acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (ATIN) that developed in a 63-year-old man who had been taking cimetidine for treatment of a gastric ulcer. The constellation of clinical, laboratory, and histopathologic findings suggested drug-induced ATIN. Of interest, the patient had antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) in his sera, reactive with myeloperoxidase, elastase, and lactoferrin. Prominent renal histological features included marked plasmacyte infiltration into the renal interstitium. Withdrawal of cimetidine resulted in complete resolution of renal findings, and the titers of ANCA concomitantly declined. Thus, cimetidine may have played a causative role in the development of ANCA-associated ATIN.
This study examined the effect of prenatal perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) administration on pre- and postnatal development using peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα)-humanized mice to determine if species differences in receptor activity might influence the developmental effects induced by PFOA. Pregnant mice were treated daily with water or PFOA (3mg/kg) by po gavage from gestation day 1 (GD1) until GD17 and then either euthanized on GD18 or allowed to give birth and then euthanized on postnatal day 20 (PND20). No changes in average fetal weight, crown-to-rump length, or placental weight were observed on GD18. Expression of mRNA encoding the PPARα target genes acyl CoA oxidase (Acox1) and cytochrome P450 4a10 (Cyp4a10) in maternal and fetal liver was increased on GD18 in wild-type and PPARα-humanized mice but not in Pparα-null mice. On PND20, relative liver weight was higher in wild-type mice but not in Pparα-null mice or PPARα-humanized mice. Hepatic expression of Acox1 and Cyp4a10 mRNA was higher in wild-type mice but not in Pparα-null mice or PPARα-humanized mice on PND20. The percentage of mice surviving postnatally was lower in wild-type litters but not in litters from Pparα-null mice or PPARα-humanized mice. No changes in pup weight gain, onset of eye opening, or mammary gland development were found in any genotype. Results from these studies demonstrate that the developmental/postnatal effects resulting from prenatal PFOA exposure in mice are differentially mediated by mouse and human PPARα.
Tri-ortho-tolyl phosphate (TOTP), 360 mg/kg, po, and 0,0'-diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate (DFP), 1 mg/kg sc, were administered to adult White Leghorn chickens 24 hr after they were placed on diets containing 0 to 300 ppm corticosterone. Supplemented diets were continued until clinical signs and lesions of delayed neuropathy appeared. Although low concentrations (less than or equal to 50 ppm) of corticosterone had beneficial effects on TOTP-induced neuropathy, greater than or equal to 200 ppm exacerbated clinical signs in chickens given either TOTP or DFP. Neurotoxic esterase activities 24 hr after TOTP or DFP were less than 20% of values measured in chickens not given organophosphorous compounds. Chickens given 200 ppm corticosterone without TOTP or DFP had significantly elevated activity of plasma cholinesterase and significantly inhibited activity of liver carboxylesterase. Degenerating myelinated fibers were also evident in distal levels of the peripheral nerves of chickens given TOTP or DFP.
Doxorubicin causes a chronic cardiomyopathy in which reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulate over time and are associated with genetic and functional lesions of mitochondria. Dexrazoxane is a cardioprotective iron chelator that interferes with ROS production. We aim to analyze the effects of dexrazoxane on mitochondria in the prevention of doxorubicin-induced chronic myocardial lesions.
Wistar rats (11 weeks of age) were injected with intravenous doxorubicin (0.8 mg kg(-1) weekly for 7 weeks) with or without simultaneous dexrazoxane (8 mg kg(-1)). Animals were killed at 48 weeks. Cardiomyopathy was scored clinically and histologically and cardiac mitochondria were analyzed.
Compared to control rats receiving saline, rats treated with doxorubicin alone developed a clinical, macroscopic, histological and ultrastructural cardiomyopathy with low cytochrome c-oxidase (COX) activity (26% of controls). The expression of the mtDNA-encoded COX II subunit was reduced (64% of controls). Myocardia exhibited a high production of ROS (malondialdehyde 338% and superoxide 787% of controls). Mitochondria were depleted of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA copy number 46% of controls) and contained elevated levels of mtDNA deletions. Dexrazoxane co-administration prevented all these effects of doxorubicin on mitochondria, except that hearts co-exposed to doxorubicin and dexrazoxane had a slightly lower mtDNA content (81% of controls) and mtDNA deletions at low frequency.
Dexrazoxane prevented doxorubicin induced late-onset cardiomyopathy and also protected the cardiac mitochondria from acquired ultrastructural, genetic and functional damage.
Puromycin aminonucleoside (PA)-nephrotic rats have a high plasma renin activity (PRA) and low angiotensinogen levels. We measured proteinuria, urine renin, and urine angiotensinogen daily, for 11 days after PA injection. Proteinuria and urine angiotensinogen were evident on day 5, and urine renin on day 6. Peak levels of urine renin and angiotensinogen were attained on day 8. These data suggest that angiotensinogen urine excretion may contribute to its low plasma levels, and urine renin loss may limit a further increase in PRA.
Although the benefits of beta-blocker therapy for patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) are independent of pretreatment heart rate, patients with chronic systolic heart failure and low resting heart rates are often excluded from beta-blocker therapy. We investigated the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of prophylactic pacemaker insertion to facilitate beta-blocker use in these patients.
A Markov model simulated the natural history of a cohort of clinically stable patients with CHF (ejection fraction < or = 35%, mean age 60 years) with resting heart rates of < 68 beat/min. Two strategies were evaluated: (1) conventional therapy (conventional)-the risks for death and hospitalization were derived from the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor arm of the SOLVD treatment trial; and (2) pacemaker insertion with atrial pacing and carvedilol therapy (pacemaker-carvedilol)-risk reductions for death and CHF-related hospitalizations for carvedilol compared with conventional therapy were derived from the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Study. We assumed full carvedilol benefits for 2 years, declining benefits for the next 3 and no additional benefits after 5 years, whereas pacemaker-related adverse events persisted.
In the base case, the pacemaker-carvedilol strategy increased mean survival by 1.3 years at an incremental cost of $7800, for an incremental cost-effectiveness of $6100 per year of life saved. Results were most sensitive to theoretical pacing-induced harm, changes in hospitalization cost, and reductions in beta-blocker benefits.
Prophylactic pacemaker insertion to facilitate beta-blocker treatment in patients with CHF with low resting heart rates has the potential to produce clinical benefits in a highly cost-effective manner.
We report the cases of two adult patients in whom fulminant hepatitis developed after 17 and 103 days of ketoconazole administration. Histologic administration showed massive, predominantly centrilobular necrosis. Clinical manifestations of hypersensitivity and eosinophilia were absent in both patients, which suggests that ketoconazole hepatotoxicity is not mediated through an immunoallergic mechanism.
Various doses of dibromobenzene isomers (1,2-dBB, 1,3-dBB, 1,4-dBB) were administered (i.p.) to BALB mice. The levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in the liver, and glutamate-pyruvate transaminase (GPT) (EC.2.6.1.2) gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) (EC.2.3.2.2) and triglycerides (TG) in the serum were estimated. A considerable decrease of GSH was observed between 2 and 12 h after administration of the compounds. Increases in serum GPT activity (up to 100-fold) and gamma-GT (three-to fivefold) were observed after treatment using 1,2- and 1,3-dibromobenzenes; TG decreased in concentration initially and then slightly increased. Histopathological examination confirmed the strong necrotic effect of 1,2- and 1,3-dBB isomers. No such changes (elevation of serum GPT activity and necrosis) were noticed after 1,4-dBB.
A 20-year-old woman in status asthmaticus who failed to respond to conventional therapy and ventilation of the lungs with 0.5-2.0% halothane, was cooled to 30 degrees C for almost 5 days as the arterial carbon dioxide tension rose above 15 kPa. Halothane was not of immediate value, contrary to other reports. A reduction in carbon dioxide production by controlled hypothermia permitted more suitable ventilation parameters, but extensive muscle weakness caused by a steroid-induced myopathy complicated weaning from respiratory support. Prospective measurement of serum creatinine phosphokinase concentration in patients given high dose corticosteroids may herald the onset of a myopathy.
Critical ischemia leads to the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) at concentrations exceeding the body's antioxidant capacity, causing inflammation and necrosis in ischemic tissues. The protein CO group content is presently the most general indicator and commonly used marker of protein oxidation. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the concentration of serum CO groups as an effect of protein oxidative damage, and relate it to the activity of ceruloplasmin (Cp).
The study group consisted of 12 patients, males 43-73 years of age, with chronic arterial occlusion of the lower limbs (AO). Serum carbonyl groups were measured using reaction with dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH), leading to the formation of stable hydrazone products. The oxidase activity of ceruloplasmin in serum was measured according to the spectrophotometric method of Schosinsky by using o-dianisidine dihydrochloride as a substrate.
The average value of concentration of CO groups in subjects with AO was found to be significantly higher than in the control group. The changes in the concentration of CO groups during postoperative treatment were negatively and significantly correlated with the value found before surgery. The average oxidase activity of Cp was found to be significantly higher than in the controls.
Prolonged ischemia of the lower limbs of patients with chronic arterial occlusion causes increased concentration of protein CO groups in serum, as the result of the oxidative modification of protein side chains, and in the oxidase activity of Cp, due to acute phase reaction.
Phosgene gas is a lower respiratory tract irritant. As such, it stimulates nociceptive vagal C-fiber-related reflexes in a dose-rate and concentration × exposure duration (C × t)-dependent manner. In rats, this reflex is characterized by extended apnea time periods, bradycardia, and hypothermia. Although inhalation exposures at nonlethal C × t products show rapid reversibility of reflexively induced changes in respiratory patterns, lethal C × t products seem to cause prolonged stimulation after discontinued exposure to phosgene. This observation has been taken as indirect evidence that phosgene-induced lethal lung edema is likely to be associated with a dysfunctional neurogenic control of cardiopulmonary and microvascular physiology. In order to verify this hypothesis, data from respiratory function measurements during and after the inhalation exposure to phosgene gas were compared with time-course measurements of cardiac function over 20 h post-phosgene exposure. These data were complemented by time-course analyses of nitric oxide (NO(e)) and carbon dioxide in exhaled breath, including time-dependent changes of extravasated protein in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and hemoglobin in blood. The nitric oxidase synthetase inhibitors L-NAME and L-NIL were used to further elucidate the role of NO(e) in this type of acute lung injury and whether its analysis can serve as an early biomarker of pulmonary injury. Collectively, the sequence and time course of pathological events in phosgene-induced lung edema appear to suggest that overstimulated, continued sensorimotor vagal reflexes affect cardiopulmonary hemodynamics. A continued parasympathetic tone appears to be involved in this etiopathology.
Direct additions of acetaminophen (APAP), 3,5-dimethylacetaminophen, 3-hydroxyacetaminophen or 3-methoxyacetaminophen to the medium of cultured embryos each produced an increased incidence of morphologically similar, abnormally open anterior neuropores. Approximate concentrations required to produce an equal incidence were 0.5 mM, 1.0 mM, 0.1 mM and 0.75 mM, respectively. In contrast, 2.6-dimethylacetaminophen and N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine failed to produce elevated incidences of abnormal neurulation unaccompanied by marked growth retardation. However, with intra-amniotic microinjections, 3-hydroxyacetaminophen and N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine were roughly equipotent for eliciting abnormal neurulation, whereas 3-methoxyacetaminophen required greater than 30-fold higher concentrations. This suggests that N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine does not readily transit the visceral yolk sac and would likely not be a major factor in APAP-elicited neural tube abnormalities unless generated in target tissues. The differential effects produced by two dimethylated (2.6 and 3.5) APAP analogs further suggest that sulfhydryl oxidation is associated more closely than sulfhydryl conjugation with the neurulation defect. Intra-amniotic microinjections of large quantities (3500 ng) of 7-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene (7-OH-AAF) or APAP failed to produce the specific neurulation defect. Microinjections of 7-OH-AAF into the exocoelomic cavity effected the characteristic abnormal neurulation. Conversion by conceptal homogenates of 7-OH-AAF was roughly 7- to 8-fold more rapid than conversion of APAP to respective catechol metabolites, and specific activities in yolk sac tissues were greater than those in the embryo. Rates of conceptal conversion to the quinoneimine were approximately 2- to 3-fold lower than catechol generation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Normal rats as well as rats with bladder hypertrophy secondary to outflow obstruction were investigated cystometrically before and after administration of the potassium channel openers pinacidil or cromakalim one mg./kg. orally. In normal rats cromakalim decreased micturition pressure by 15 +/- 6%. A diminished micturition pressure was also seen after pinacidil (by 18 +/- 8%) but this did not achieve statistical significance. Further, no clear-cut effects on bladder capacity, residual volume, basal bladder pressure, threshold pressure, bladder compliance or on bladder wall tension were seen in this group of rats neither in the presence of pinacidil nor cromakalim. Rats with bladder hypertrophy exhibited a significant bladder instability during cystometrical investigations. The mean amplitude of the spontaneous bladder contraction exceeded 20 cm. H2O prior to micturition. Administration of pinacidil and cromakalin decreased the spontaneous contractions to 26 +/- 12% and 22 +/- 7%, respectively, of that seen in the absence of the drugs. Furthermore, pinacidil decreased micturition pressure by 61 +/- 12%. Also cromakalim decreased micturition pressure (by 27 +/- 13%) but this effect did not achieve statistical significance. After both pinacidil and cromakalim these rats tended to develop residual urine. In accordance with the results in normal rats pinacidil and cromakalim showed no effects on bladder capacity, basal bladder pressure, threshold pressure, bladder compliance or on bladder wall tension in rats with bladder hypertrophy. The findings of an almost complete disappearance of spontaneous bladder contractions in rats with bladder instability and a remaining voiding ability after administration of pinacidil or cromakalim suggest that potassium channel openers may be a therapeutic alternative in the treatment of bladder instability associated with outflow obstruction.
Intracellular accumulation of phospholipids may be a consequence of inherited or acquired metabolic disorders. In Fabry disease, deficiency of alpha-galactosidase A results in storage of globotriasylceramide in numerous cells including endothelium, striated muscle (skeletal, cardiac), smooth muscle, and renal epithelium among others; the ultrastructural appearance of the inclusions is of whorled layers of alternating dense and pale material ('zebra bodies' or myeline figures). Chloroquine therapy may result in storage of biochemically and ultrastructurally similar inclusions in many of the same cells as Fabry disease and often results in similar clinical manifestations. We report a 56-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis treated with chloroquine, who developed muscle weakness and renal insufficiency; information regarding therapy was not emphasized at the time of renal biopsy, leading to initial erroneous interpretation of Fabry disease. Following muscle biopsy, genetic and enzyme evaluation, and additional studies on the kidney biopsy, a diagnosis of chloroquine toxicity was established. One year following cessation of chloroquine, renal and muscle dysfunction greatly improved. In chloroquine toxicity, inclusions in glomeruli are not only in visceral epithelial, endothelial and mesangial cells but are in infiltrating monocytes/macrophages, which are most commonly present in the mesangium. Curvilinear bodies, the ultrastructural features of chloroquine toxicity in striated muscle, are not present in renal cells. This report documents differences in appearance, cells affected and morphological differential diagnostic features to distinguish these two entities.
The results of antiviral therapy for hepatitis C virus (HCV) have improved recently with the use of pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN)/ribavirin (RBV) combination therapy. At this point, most patients with chronic HCV remain untreated. Thus, it is anticipated that therapy will be more appealing and prescribed more broadly than in the past, including in patients considered marginal.
To examine the effects of PEG-IFN-based antiviral therapy in elderly patients with chronic HCV.
The charts of patients treated with chronic HCV were reviewed. Patients were defined as elderly if they were 60 years of age or older. The control group consisted of patients younger than 60 years of age who were matched to the treated elderly patients based on sex, treating physician, prescribed treatment and intended prescribed treatment duration. The data recorded included end of treatment response, sustained virological response (SVR), adverse events, dose modification and withdrawal of therapy.
Thirty of 147 (20.4%) elderly patients attending a hepatitis C clinic were treated. The average age of the elderly patients was 65+/-4 years. Forty-three per cent were men and 57% were women. Ten per cent received IFN monotherapy, 70% received a combination of IFN/RBV therapy and 20% received a combination of PEG-IFN/RBV therapy. The overall response rates in the elderly patients compared with the younger patients was 46.7% versus 65.8% (P=0.11) for end of treatment response and 33.3% versus 51.2% (P=0.13) for SVR. The rate of dose modification was 50% in the elderly patients compared with 29% in the control group (P=0.08). Therapy was discontinued in 53% of the elderly compared with 34% of younger patients (P=0.17). The younger patients reported more side effects than elderly patients; although, there were more laboratory abnormalities (anemia, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia) in the elderly patients during therapy than in the younger group (0.93 per patient versus 0.49 per patient, P=0.01).
Elderly patients with chronic HCV can be treated successfully. However, they are more at risk to develop cytopenias while on treatment. In such patients, the close monitoring of blood counts is necessary. Larger studies are needed to confirm these findings and to determine whether SVR differs in this population.
The authors report the case of a 47-year-old woman in whom a systemic illness developed characterized by fever, malaise, abnormal liver function results, and acute renal failure after treatment for presumed urinary tract infection with levofloxacin. Because of suspicion of an allergic drug reaction, all medications were discontinued, but the patient remained febrile with renal failure for 18 days. Complete workup for presumed vasculitis, autoimmune illness, or infectious etiologies was negative, and the patient underwent both renal and liver biopsy. Liver biopsy results showed nonspecific changes. Renal biopsy disclosed extensive granulomatous interstitial nephritis with associated granulomatous vasculitis. The patient was begun on oral steroids with rapid defervescence of fever and progressive normalization of renal function. The authors discuss the association of granulomatous nephritis with drugs and review the known nephrotoxicity of fluoroquinolones.
