A two-part experimental and clinical study was conducted to determine the effects of administration of a pre-induction dose of suxamethonium, and to see whether the symptoms produced could form the basis of a test dose, to determine sensitivity to suxamethonium prior to administration of a full intubation dose. Suxamethonium was shown to produce distinctive clinical features characterised by signs of both extraocular muscle contraction and paresis, manifest by symptoms of eye and eyelid heaviness without generalised paresis. The dose response was determined in individuals with normal plasma cholinesterase, to a test dose of suxamethonium chloride of between 20 and 1 micrograms/kg. Individuals with abnormal plasma cholinesterase were shown to exhibit sensitivity to these low doses and were easily distinguished from those with normal enzyme. A protocol is suggested which can conveniently establish, prior to induction, those individuals with a reduced ability to hydrolyse suxamethonium.
Twenty digitalized elderly patients with chronic atrial fibrillation were randomized into a double-blind cross-over study. None was in overt heart failure and all were taking < 80 mg frusemide daily. They received xamoterol 200 mg b.d. for 2 months with their usual dose of digoxin for 1 month and placebo digoxin for the other month. Twenty-four-hour heart rate analysis was done at baseline and at the end of each treatment period. Compared with baseline digoxin, xamoterol alone significantly increased nocturnal minimum heart rate [85 +/- 17 vs. 62 +/- 9 (mean +/- SD), p < 0.0001] without affecting daytime maximum heart rate (132 +/- 18 vs. 122 +/- 20, p = NS). Compared with baseline digoxin, xamoterol plus digoxin significantly increased nocturnal minimum heart rate (68 +/- 8, p < 0.05) and reduced daytime heart rate (114 +/- 17, p < 0.05). The mean number of pauses > 1.5 s was significantly reduced by xamoterol alone. Walking distance in 6 minutes was 406.1 +/- 27.1 m (mean +/- SE) at baseline and improved significantly on both treatments (450.3 +/- 19.8 on xamoterol; p < 0.02 and 453.7 +/- 19.2 on xamoterol plus digoxin; p < 0.01). No significant change was found in subjective measurements of palpitations, breathlessness and well-being using visual analogue scales. Xamoterol combined with digoxin improves effort tolerance and heart-rate control by reducing diurnal tachycardia and nocturnal bradycardia and pauses.
Several molecular changes in colorectal adenomas provide the basis of the adenoma-carcinoma sequence. We investigated the expression of xenobiotic ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters in humans and in ApcMin mice and conducted functional studies estimating the importance of the expression changes. Twenty-nine adenomas from 21 patients and eight adenomas from four ApcMin mice were analyzed using Western blotting and quantitative Real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Adjacent healthy tissue served as control for each polyp. Breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) was significantly downregulated in human colorectal adenomas (to 28 ± 35% of adjacent healthy tissue). This was in line with data from ApcMin mice adenomas, where downregulation was significant as well (to 58 ± 34%). In parallel, quantitative RT-PCR showed BCRP mRNA downregulation in human adenomas (to 17 ± 31%). Basal multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 expression was low and did not change in adenomas; multidrug resistance transporter 1 expression also did not differ between adenomas and healthy tissue. In a functional study, ApcMin mice received radioactively labelled 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-β] pyridine (PhIP), a food colon carcinogen and substrate of BCRP, by oral gavage with analysis of PhIP accumulation and DNA adduct formation 48 hr later. In this setting, we could demonstrate a higher carcinogen concentration in adenomas of ApcMin mice (181 ± 113% of normal tissue) including immunohistochemical detection of PhIP-DNA adducts. We conclude that significant transcriptional downregulation of BCRP/Bcrp leads to higher carcinogen concentrations in colorectal adenomas of mice and men. This might promote the adenoma-carcinoma sequence by higher genotoxic effects. The results indicate a possible role of transporter deficiencies in susceptibility for colon carcinoma.
3 weeks after commencing treatment with estramustine phosphate, typical manifestations of hemolytic-uremic syndrome occurred in a 66-year-old patient with prostate cancer. Urinary tract obstructions were excluded and no renal damage could be identified. An improvement in renal function was achieved by stopping estramustine phosphate and infusing adequate amounts of fluids and electrolytes. Anemia and thrombocytopenia also progressively improved after the discontinuation of chemotherapy. Nausea and vomiting, hepatotoxicity, impotence, reduced libido and hypercalcemia are major side effects of estramustine phosphate, and would be difficult to explain our observations without considering the role played by estramustine phosphate. Our observations suggest that estramustine phosphate might play either a direct role or produce a side effect within the context of latent paraneoplastic syndrome. The improvement in renal function which occurred when treatment stopped might confirm our hypothesis.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a major role in causing mitochondrial changes linked to cancer and metastasis. Uptake of antioxidants by tissue to reduce the ROS production could be instrumental in controlling cancer. Tamoxifen (TAM), a nonsteroidal anti-estrogen drug most used in the chemotherapy and chemoprevention of breast cancer. Riboflavin, niacin and coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) are proved to be potent antioxidants and protective agents against many diseases including cancer. The objective of this research is to determine the therapeutic efficacy of combinatorial therapy on mammary carcinoma bearing rats in terms of the mitochondrial lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status especially MnSOD. Female albino rats of Sprague-Dawley strain were selected for the investigation. Mammary carcinoma was induced with 7,12-dimethyl benz(a)anthracene (DMBA: 25 mg), and the treatment was started by the oral administration of TAM (10 mg/kg body weight/day) along with riboflavin (45 mg/kg body weight/day), niacin (100 mg/kg body weight/day) and CoQ10 (40 mg/kg body weight/day) for 28 days. The levels of lipid peroxides, activities of enzymic and non-enzymic antioxidants were measured in the mitochondria isolated from the mammary gland and liver of control and experimental rats. Rats treated with DMBA showed an increase in mitochondrial lipid peroxidation (mammary gland 52.3%; liver 25.1%) accompanied by high malondialdehyde levels along with lowered activities of mitochondrial enzymic antioxidants [superoxide dismutase (mammary gland 19.9%; liver 24.8%), catalase (mammary gland 50%; liver 19.7%), glutathione peroxidase (mammary gland 47.8%; liver 31.1%)] and non-enzymic antioxidants [reduced glutathione (mammary gland 14.3%; liver 13.3%), Vitamin C (mammary gland 6.49%; liver 21.4%) and E (mammary gland 20.3%; liver 22.2%)]. Administration of combinatorial therapy restored lipid peroxide level and the activities of enzymic and non-enzymic antioxidants to near normalcy. In addition, antitumour activity was also found to be enhanced which is evident from the increased expression of tumour suppressor gene MnSOD thereby preventing cancer cell proliferation. These results suggested that TAM treatment is the most effective during co-administration of riboflavin, niacin and CoQ10 in terms of mitochondrial antioxidant and antitumour activity.
Octreotide inhibits gall bladder emptying and prolongs intestinal transit. This leads to increases in the proportion of deoxycholic acid in, and cholesterol saturation of, gall bladder bile, factors that contribute to the pathogenesis of octreotide induced gall stones.
To see if an intestinal prokinetic, cisapride, could overcome these adverse effects of octreotide and if so, be considered as a candidate prophylactic drug for preventing iatrogenic gall bladder stones.
A randomised, double blind, placebo controlled, crossover design was used to examine the effects of cisapride (10 mg four times daily) on gall bladder emptying, mouth to caecum and large bowel transit times, and the proportions of deoxycholic acid and other bile acids, in fasting serum from: (i) control subjects (n=6), (ii) acromegalic patients not treated with octreotide (n=6), (iii) acromegalics on long term octreotide (n=8), and (iv) patients with constipation (n=8).
Cisapride had no prokinetic effect on the gall bladder. In fact, it significantly increased both fasting and postprandial gall bladder volumes. However, it shortened mouth to caecum (from 176 (13) to 113 (11) minutes; p<0.001) and large bowel (from 50 (3.0) to 31 (3.4) h; p<0.001) transit times. It also reduced the proportion of deoxycholic acid in serum from 26 (2.3) to 15 (1.8)% (p<0.001), with a reciprocal increase in the proportion of cholic acid from 40 (3.5) to 51 (3.8)% (p<0.01). There were significant linear relationships between large bowel transit time and the proportions of deoxycholic acid (r=0.81; p<0.001) and cholic acid (r=-0.53; p<0.001) in fasting serum. INTERPRETATION/SUMMARY: Cisapride failed to overcome the adverse effects of octreotide on gall bladder emptying but it countered octreotide induced prolongation of small and large bowel transit. Therefore, if changes in intestinal transit contribute to the development of octreotide induced gall bladder stones, enterokinetics such as cisapride may prevent their formation.
The neurotoxicity of meropenem was much lower than that of both imipenem and panipenem after intraventricular administration to mice. To clarify the major structural features responsible for the induction of convulsions by carbapenem antibiotics, the structure-activity relationship on convulsant activity was investigated in N-acetyl-2-pyrroline and cyclopentene derivatives which correspond to the 5-membered ring containing the C-2 side chain of carbapenem antibiotics. Among these derivatives, compounds with strong basicity in the side chain showed convulsant activity similar to that of the parent carbapenem compounds. In addition to the strength of the basicity of the amino group, the distance from the carboxyl to the amino group and steric crowding around the amino group also appeared to play an important role in the induction of convulsions. The results of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptor binding assays indicated that the induction of convulsions was caused predominantly by the inhibition of GABAA-mediated inhibitory transmission. However, the in vivo convulsant activity of some of these compounds did not correlate with their in vitro inhibitory effect on GABAA receptor binding.
Electroporation (EP)-assisted DNA vaccination has been proven effective as an approach to the treatment of cancer. Although heparanase (HPA) is a potential target for patients with advanced tumor diseases, the efficacy of immunotherapeutic strategies targeting HPA has never been evaluated. In this study, humoral immunity was elicited using genetic vaccinations between C57BL/6J mice and Macaca fascicularis. The immunized serum neutralized HPA activity and attenuated the invasion of B16 cells in vitro. In addition, T lymphocytes from the splenic cells of the immunized mice induced HPA-specific cytotoxic lymphocytes (CTLs), which verified cytoimmunity. Prophylactic vaccination significantly suppressed tumor growth and metastasis in vivo and prolonged the survival rate in tumor-bearing murine models. In addition, RT-PCR and Western blot analyses of the primary tumors indicated less proliferation and angiogenesis and more apoptosis in the HPA-immunization immunotherapy groups. Simultaneously, the levels of IL-2, IL-4, and IFN-γ were not significantly greater in the HPA-immunized group than in PBS controls. Thus, we conclude that the combination of an anti-HPA antibody and a CTL response in HPA-immunization gene therapy is enough to attenuate tumor growth and metastasis. This is the first time that a DNA vaccine targeting HPA immunization assisted by EP has induced humoral immunity and cytoimmunity in vivo. This provides a basis for the continued development of DNA vaccines targeting HPA and the use of such vaccines in clinical settings.
This paper will examine how cerebral perfusion deficits in cocaine abusers may be a target for pharmacotherapy. The review covers five areas: (1) cerebral ischemia and neuropsychological impairment in cocaine abusers, (2) neuroimaging evidence for cerebral perfusion defects in cocaine abusers, (3) mechanisms for cocaine induced cerebral thrombosis, (4) neurotoxicity from cerebral ischemia and excitatory amino acids, (5) glutamate antagonists as potential treatment agents for cocaine induced neurotoxicity. Several pharmacotherapies are suggested including antiplatelet agents and excitatory amino acid (EAA) antagonists such as lamotrigine. Clinical trials in cocaine abusers with cerebral perfusion defects are indicated and EAA antagonists hold promise as they are developed for stroke treatment.
Hemorrhagic cystitis and diffuse inflammation of the bladder, common side effects of cyclophosphamide (CY) treatment, have been linked to the generation of acrolein derived from CY metabolism. Metabolic removal of acrolein involves multiple pathways, which include reduction, oxidation, and conjugation with glutathione. Herein, we tested the hypothesis that glutathione S-transferase P (GSTP), the GST isoform that displays high catalytic efficiency with acrolein, protects against CY-induced urotoxicity by detoxifying acrolein. Treatment of wild-type (WT) and mGstP1/P2 null (GSTP-null) mice with CY caused hemorrhagic cystitis, edema, albumin extravasation, and sloughing of bladder epithelium; however, CY-induced bladder ulcerations of the lamina propria were more numerous and more severe in GSTP-null mice. CY treatment also led to greater accumulation of myeloperoxidase-positive cells and specific protein-acrolein adducts in the bladder of GSTP-null than WT mice. There was no difference in hepatic microsomal production of acrolein from CY or urinary hydroxypropyl mercapturic acid output between WT and GSTP-null mice, but CY induced greater c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) and c-Jun, but not extracellular signal-regulated kinase or p38, activation in GSTP-null than in WT mice. Pretreatment with mesna (2-mercaptoethane sulfonate sodium) abolished CY toxicity and JNK activation in GSTP-null mice. Taken together, these data support the view that GSTP prevents CY-induced bladder toxicity, in part by detoxifying acrolein. Because polymorphisms in human GSTP gene code for protein variants differing significantly in their catalytic efficiency toward acrolein, it is likely that GSTP polymorphisms influence CY urotoxicity. In addition, pretreatment with dietary or nutrient inducers of GSTP may be of use in minimizing bladder injury in patients undergoing CY therapy.
The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a pivotal cellular process during which epithelial polarized cells become motile mesenchymal-appearing cells, which, in turn, promotes the metastatic potential of cancer. Ginseng is a perennial plant belonging to the genus Panax that exhibits a wide range of pharmacological and physiological activities. Ginsenosides 20-Rg3, which is the active component of ginseng, has various medical effects, such as anti-tumorigenic, anti-angiogenesis, and anti-fatiguing activities. In addition, ginsenosides 20(S)-Rg3 and 20(R)-Rg3 are epimers, and this epimerization is produced by steaming. However, the possible role of 20(S)-Rg3 and 20(R)-Rg3 in the EMT is unclear. We investigated the effect of 20(S)-Rg3 and 20(R)-Rg3 on the EMT. Transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) induces the EMT to promote lung adenocarcinoma migration, invasion, and anoikis resistance. To understand the repressive role of 20(S)-Rg3 and 20(R)-Rg3 in lung cancer migration, invasion, and anoikis resistance, we investigated the potential use of 20(S)-Rg3 and 20(R)-Rg3 as inhibitors of TGF-β1-induced EMT development in A549 lung cancer cells in vitro. Here, we show that 20(R)-Rg3, but not 20(S)-Rg3, markedly increased expression of the epithelial marker E-cadherin and repressed Snail upregulation and expression of the mesenchymal marker vimentin during initiation of the TGF-β1-induced EMT. 20(R)-Rg3 also inhibited the TGF-β1-induced increase in cell migration, invasion, and anoikis resistance of A549 lung cancer cells. Additionally, 20(R)-Rg3 markedly inhibited TGF-β1-regulated matrix metalloproteinase-2 and activation of Smad2 and p38 mitogen activated protein kinase. Taken together, our findings provide new evidence that 20(R)-Rg3 suppresses lung cancer migration, invasion, and anoikis resistance in vitro by inhibiting the TGF-β1-induced EMT.
Prior transcranial magnetic stimulation studies showed that resting motor threshold is elevated in abstinent cocaine-dependent patients, suggesting a decrease in axonal excitability. In contrast, the increased incidence of seizures and psychosis in this group suggests increased excitability or decreased inhibition. Here, we studied long-interval intracortical facilitation and long-interval intracortical inhibition, paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation measures that are more directly linked to glutamatergic cortical facilitation and GABAergic inhibition, respectively. Ten cocaine-dependent and 10 healthy controls were examined. Resting motor threshold, long-interval intracortical facilitation and long-interval intracortical inhibition were tested from the left motor cortex. The cocaine group showed an elevated resting motor threshold and an increased long-interval intracortical facilitation, whereas long-interval intracortical inhibition was normal. Although the increase in long-interval intracortical facilitation suggests exaggerated cortical glutamatergic excitability, the increase in resting motor threshold may signify a protective mechanism against seizures and psychosis.
Large doses of the cephalosporin antibiotic, cephaloridine, produce acute proximal tubular necrosis in humans and in laboratory animals. Cephaloridine is actively transported into the proximal tubular cell by an organic anion transport system while transport across the lumenal membrane into tubular fluid appears restricted. High intracellular concentrations of cephaloridine are attained in the proximal tubular cell which are critical to the development of nephrotoxicity. There is substantial evidence indicating that oxidative stress plays a major role in cephaloridine nephrotoxicity. Cephaloridine depletes reduced glutathione, increases oxidized glutathione and induces lipid peroxidation in renal cortical tissue. The molecular mechanisms mediating cephaloridine-induced oxidative stress are not well understood. Inhibition in gluconeogenesis is a relatively early biochemical effect of cephaloridine and is independent of lipid peroxidation. Furthermore, cephaloridine inhibits gluconeogenesis in both target (kidney) and non-target (liver) organs of cephaloridine toxicity. Since glucose is not a major fuel of proximal tubular cells, it is unlikely that cephaloridine-induced tubular necrosis is mediated by the effects of this drug on glucose synthesis.
Although widely prescribed for their potent antiinflammatory actions, glucocorticoid drugs (e.g., dexamethasone) cause undesirable side effects that are features of the metabolic syndrome, including hyperglycemia, fatty liver, insulin resistance, and type II diabetes. Liver x receptors (LXRs) are nuclear receptors that respond to cholesterol metabolites and regulate the expression of a subset of glucocorticoid target genes. Here, we show LXRβ is required to mediate many of the negative side effects of glucocorticoids. Mice lacking LXRβ (but not LXRα) were resistant to dexamethasone-induced hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and hepatic steatosis, but remained sensitive to dexamethasone-dependent repression of the immune system. In vivo, LXRα/β knockout mice demonstrated reduced dexamethasone-induced expression of the key hepatic gluconeogenic gene, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK). In perfused liver and primary mouse hepatocytes, LXRβ was required for glucocorticoid-induced recruitment of the glucocorticoid receptor to the PEPCK promoter. These findings suggest a new avenue for the design of safer glucocorticoid drugs through a mechanism of selective glucocorticoid receptor transactivation.
Plasma concentrations and side effects were followed in 52 adults treated with tobramycin for 4-39 days (mean 12.2 days). In order to obtain 1-h peak levels above the recommended 4 microgram/ml in patients with normal renal function, loading doses of 160 mg followed by 100-120 mg every 8 h were usually necessary. Both the leading dose and the mean daily dose of 304 mg were higher than usually recommended. Great individual variations in doses required were found and nomograms were of little value. Reduced maintenance doses were given to patients with impaired renal function. Adequate treatment required plasma level determinations 2-3 times a week. The high dose of tobramycin regimen used in this study implied that 30% of the trough levels exceeded 2 microgram/ml. The frequency of clinically significant side effects were, however, low and the treatment was only interrupted once because of a decrease in renal function. Temporary reduction in renal function probably related to tobramycin was found in 6 patients, and 5 patients got temporary disturbances of vestibular function. One patient experienced a temporary hearing loss and 2 patients a permanent hearing loss, which might have been caused by simultaneous treatment with furosemide and tobramycin.
To study adverse reactions associated with intravenous administration of fusidic acid 6 patients were treated with fusidic acid intravenously in association with a major large bowl operation, and 9 patients were treated in the same way because of staphylococcal infections. The main adverse reaction was thrombophlebitis, which occurred in as many as 12 of 14 patients who were treated for 2 days or longer. Three surgical patients developed postoperative hyperbilirubinaemia, but studies of liver function before and during treatment in 6 of the patients with staphylococcal disease revealed no adverse liver reactions. Intravenous administration of fusidic acid into a peripheral vein for 24 h or more involves an extremely high risk of developing thrombophlebitis.
To describe a case of systemic lidocaine toxicity from the simultaneous use of transdermal patches and a heating pad.
Case report and discussion.
The focus of this case report are the interesting neuro-otologic signs of central lidocaine toxicity that occurred after a patient fell asleep on a heating pad with his Lidoderm patches in place. Hearing improvement, tinnitus reduction, and severe dizziness and ataxia were present for approximately 48 hours before spontaneous resolution. Based upon his symptoms we estimate an 11-fold increase in plasma concentrations of lidocaine.
Transdermal delivery of medication affords ease of application, ability to provide continuous pharmacological therapy, and ability to supply medication to the affected site. Due to the superficial application of these medications, external environmental factors may influence the pharmacokinetics of drug delivery. This case highlights the complications that can arise from the combination of heating pads and transdermal pain therapies.
We report a patient with focal epilepsy and latent hereditary coproporphyria who had exacerbation of clinical symptoms of porphyria under treatment with valproate and primidone and was then treated with levetiracetam without exacerbation of clinically latent porphyria.
Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), a variety of serine/threonine-protein kinase, has been reported to play important roles in malignant transformation. The purpose of this study was to investigate the clinicopathological significance of PLK1 expression in malignant glioma. A semi-quantitative RT-PCR assay was performed to detect the expression of PLK1 mRNA in 68 cases of glioma tissues and corresponding non-cancerous brain tissues. Additionally, the correlation of PLK1 mRNA expression with clinicopathological factors or prognosis of glioma patients was statistically analyzed. Multivariate analysis of prognostic factors was performed using the Cox proportional hazard model. Small interfering RNA was used to knockdown PLK1 expression in a glioma cell line and analyze the effects of PLK1 inhibition on growth, cell cycle, apoptosis and chemo- or radiosensitivity of glioma cells. Results showed that the expression of PLK1 mRNA was significantly higher in glioma tissues than in corresponding normal brain tissues. The expression of PLK1 mRNA was closely correlated with WHO grade, KPS and tumor recurrence of glioma patients (P=0.022, 0.030 and 0.041, respectively). Meanwhile, the disease-free and overall survival rates of patients with high PLK1 mRNA expression were obviously lower than those of patients with low PLK1 mRNA expression. Multivariate analysis showed that high PLK1 mRNA expression was a poor prognostic factor for glioma patients (P=0.028). The expression of PLK1 mRNA and protein was significantly down-regulated in stably transfected U251-S cells. PLK1 down-regulation could inhibit growth, induce cell arrest in G2/M phase of cell cycle and apoptosis enhancement in glioma cells. Further, PLK1 down-regulation could enhance the sensitivity of glioma cells to cisplatin or irradiation. Thus, the status of PLK1 mRNA expression might be an independent prognostic factor for glioma patients and targeting PLK1 could be a novel strategy for chemo- or radiosensitization of human malignant gliomas.
Bromfenvinphos [0,0-diethyl-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-2-bromovinyl phosphate], (BrV), 12.33 mg/kg/day alone and in combination with methoxychlor [1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)ethane], (MeOCl), 24.66 mg/kg/day were administered daily per os (intragastrically) in pure olive-oil for 6 weeks to male laboratory mice. The activity of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGTP), ceruloplasmin (CRP), and cholesterol in the blood plasma were determined. The hematocrit value, the erythrocyte count and the weights of the liver, spleen, heart, kidney and gonads were also measured after the end of treatment. BrV and BrV + MeOCl increased the activity of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase. The activity of ceruloplasmin and the level of cholesterol in the blood plasma as well as the erythrocyte count in the blood were also similar in the control and experimental mice. The hematocrit value decreased after BrV and MeOCl administration. The relative weight of liver was higher in mice receiving both drugs in combination, than in control and in mice receiving BrV alone. The relative weight of spleen was significantly higher in animals receiving BrV alone, than in other groups.
Duchenne-Meryon muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most common and lethal genetic muscle disease. Ameliorating muscle necrosis, inflammation, and fibrosis represents an important therapeutic approach for DMD. Imatinib, an antineoplastic agent, demonstrated antiinflammatory and antifibrotic effects in liver, kidney, lung, and skin of various animal models. This study tested antiinflammatory and antifibrotic effects of imatinib in mdx mice, a DMD mouse model. We treated mdx mice with intraperitoneal injections of imatinib at the peak of limb muscle inflammation and the onset of diaphragm fibrosis. Controls received PBS vehicle or were left untreated. Muscle necrosis, inflammation, fibrosis, and function were evaluated by measuring serum CK activity, endomysial CD45 immunoreactive inflammation area, endomysial collagen III deposition, and hind limb grip strength. Phosphorylation of the tyrosine kinase targets of imatinib was assessed by Western blot in diaphragm tissue and in primary cultures of peritoneal macrophages and skeletal muscle fibroblasts. Imatinib markedly reduced muscle necrosis, inflammation, and fibrosis, and significantly improved hind limb grip strength in mdx mice. Reduced clinical disease was accompanied by inhibition of c-abl and PDGFR phosphorylation and suppression of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta expression. Imatinib therapy for DMD may hold promise for ameliorating muscle necrosis, inflammation, and fibrosis by inhibiting c-abl and PDGFR signaling pathways and downstream inflammatory cytokine and fibrotic gene expression.
1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine and rimcazole act as typical neuroleptics (antagonize the apomorphine-induced aggression and climbing) and at the same time, as dopamine stimulants (antagonize neuroleptic-induced catalepsy). When given alone, they exhibit no visible behavioral effects.
The contribution of dopaminergic mechanisms to the generalization of epileptic activity was studied in rats given pilocarpine after pretreatment with selective dopamine agonists. At the dose of 200 mg/kg, pilocarpine produced limbic stereotypes but not convulsions or seizure-related brain damage. Pilocarpine, 200 mg/kg, following pretreatment with the D1 agonist (RS)-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3 benzazepine, but not its (S)-enantiomer, induced convulsive activity as revealed by behavioral, electroencephalographic alterations and widespread brain damage. These features were identical to those produced by a higher, convulsant dose of pilocarpine (400 mg/kg). On the other hand, pretreatment with the D2 agonist 4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-n-propyl-2H-pyrazolo-3,4-g-quinoline failed to induce convulsions. Furthermore, the D1 receptor antagonist (R)-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-n-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine -7-ol prevented the convulsive activity induced by both 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3 benzazepine plus pilocarpine (200 mg/kg) and pilocarpine (400 mg/kg), given alone. However, neither dopamine agonists nor antagonists altered the limbic stereotypes induced by pilocarpine, suggesting a dopamine system involvement primarily in the mechanisms of epilepsy generalization. The results suggest that pharmacological manipulation of dopaminergic transmission may provide an alternative approach to therapy of secondarily generalized epilepsy.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant that is produced inadvertently during the synthesis of some organochlorine compounds, such as the chlorinated phenoxy pesticides. It is biologically and ecologically persistent, with an estimated half-life of 7 years in humans. It possesses high acute toxicity in rodents and is a carcinogen, teratogen, and immunotoxin. In chronic bioassays for carcinogenicity, TCDD at a dose of 10 ng/kg/day increases the incidence of liver tumors in female rats, making it one of the most potent animal carcinogens ever tested. A recent study in humans has shown an increase in the incidence of respiratory tract tumors in workers in chlorinated phenoxy herbicide plants. Considerable controversy and uncertainty remain, however, concerning its carcinogenic potency in humans and the reliability of using animal data to predict human risks. It is generally accepted that most, if not all, of the effects of TCDD require its binding to the Ah receptor. In addition to its toxic effects, TCDD produces a number of biochemical effects, such as induction of CYP1A1, downregulation of binding activity of the estrogen and epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors, and changes in cytokine pathways. These effects suggest that the Ah receptor plays an important role in regulating the cell cycle. A number of structural analogs of TCDD, such as the polychlorinated dibenzofurans, also interact with the Ah receptor, and they produce the same spectrum of responses as TCDD in animal and cell models. The potency of these compounds is strongly correlated with their binding affinity to the Ah receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the major cause of end-stage renal disease. The early changes in DN are characterized by an increased in kidney size, glomerular volume, and kidney function, followed by the accumulation of glomerular extracellular matrix, increased urinary albumin excretion (UAE), glomerular sclerosis, and tubular fibrosis. Resveratrol (RSV) has been shown to ameliorate hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. In the present study, we examined the beneficial effects of RSV on DN and explored the possible mechanism of RSV action. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with streptozotocin at 65mg/kg body weight. The induction of diabetes mellitus (DM) was confirmed by a fasting plasma glucose level ≥300mg/dL and symptoms of polyphagia and polydipsia. The DM rats were treated with or without RSV at 0.75mg/kg body weight 3 times a day for 8 weeks. Animals were sacrificed and kidney histology was examined by microscopy. Urinary albumin excretion, glomerular hypertrophy and expressions of fibronectin, collagen IV, and TGF-β in the glomeruli were alleviated in RSV-treated DM rats, but not in untreated DM rats. In addition, RSV treatment reduced the thickness of the glomerular basement membrane (GBM) to the original thickness and increased nephrin expressions to normal levels in DM rats. Moreover, RSV inhibited phosphorylation of smad2, smad3 and ERK1/2 in diabetic rat kidneys. This is the first report showing that RSV alleviates early glomerulosclerosis in DN through TGF-β/smad and ERK1/2 inhibition. In addition, podocyte injuries of diabetic kidneys are lessened by RSV.
5-Azacytidine was applied to NMRI-mice (1-2 mg/kg) either on gestation day 12, 14, or 16. In the first case it mainly induced leukemias, while in the latter experiments leukemias, lung adenomas and soft tissue sarcomas represent the main effects. The experiments performed on gestation day 14 led to tumor rates below the spontaneously occurring tumor frequencies in NMRI-mice. There is a clear-cut inverse dose-response relationship in leukemia induction, as the higher dose principally shows a lower degree of effectiveness. This, as well as a reduction of tumor frequency below control levels after application of this drug on day 14, can be explained by an "overkill" effect. The cytotoxic and embryolethal efficacy of the agent thus surpasses the transformation effects at the cellular genome. While a negative correlation between the general embryotoxicity of azacytidine and the simultaneous tumor inducibility is to be observed, there is no correlation at the target organ level between the embryotoxic and the carcinogenic effects.
