Over the past 10 years, itraconazole has been used to treat more than 34 million patients worldwide. We present a review of the safety of various continuous itraconazole schedules used in the treatment of dermatomycosis and onychomycosis. Data from controlled clinical trials and extensive post-marketing surveillance show that itraconazole has an impressive safety profile at a dose of 50-200 mg/day for 1-4 weeks for dermatomycosis and 200 mg/day for 3 months for onychomycosis. In addition, itraconazole is safe to use in diabetic patients with dermatomycosis or onychomycosis. Short-term, intermittent itraconazole regimens, which may offer additional benefits in terms of safety and cost, have now been introduced.
We report three cases of digoxin toxicity presenting with decreased visual acuity, unaccompanied by the classic visual symptom of xanthopsia. Visual function improved and symptoms diminished upon lowering of blood digoxin level. Electroretinographic (ERG) abnormalities in the first case were suggestive of a cone deficit, which supports recent electrodiagnostic and labeled tracer studies implicating retinal dysfunction in the pathogenesis of digoxin toxicity. The second patient presented with visual symptoms exclusively. Evaluation of the third case was hampered by advanced retinitis pigmentosa and the presentation was complicated by a syncopal episode. Digoxin toxicity is a potentially life-threatening condition. Ophthalmologists and neurologists may be the first physicians consulted. It must be considered in the differential diagnosis in patients with otherwise unexplained visual loss.
This study characterizes the molecular neurotoxicity of diesel exhaust (DE) on the tachykinin substance P (SP) signaling system in the lungs. A total of 96 female Fischer 344/NH rats (approximately 175 g, approximately 4 weeks old) were randomly assigned to eight groups in a 2 x4 factorial design: capsaicin versus non-capsaicin (vehicle) pretreatment, and filtered room air versus two exposure levels of DE with diesel engine room control. The rats were exposed nose-only to room air or low (35.3 micro g/m(3)) and high concentrations (669.3 micro g/m(3)) particulates directly from a Cummins N14 research engine at 75% throttle for 4 h/day, 5 days/week, for 3 weeks. The findings showed that exposure to DE dose-dependently induced bronchopulmonary neurogenic inflammation, both in capsaicin- and vehicle-pretreated rats, as measured by plasma extravasation, edema, and inflammatory cells. DE inhalation affected the SP signaling processes, including stored SP depletion and the gene/protein overexpression for neurokinin-1 receptor. DE also significantly reduced the activity of neutral endopeptidase, a main degradation enzyme for SP. Consequently, these changes may be regarded as critical factors that switched neurogenic pulmonary responses from their protective functions to a detrimental role that perpetuates lung inflammation. These changes may possibly be associated with the mass concentration of DE particles due to their physico-chemical characteristics. Moreover, capsaicin-pretreated rats had more sensitivity to these levels of DE exposure due to stimulation of bronchopulmonary C-fibers. However, the effects of capsaicin treatment were not consistent and apparent in this study. Taken together, our findings suggest that neurokininergic mechanisms may possibly be involved in DE-induced lung inflammation, but that bronchopulmonary C-fibers did not dominate DE-induced inflammatory abnormalities.
Differentiation of human endometrial stromal cells (HESC) into decidual cells represents a highly coordinated process essential for embryo implantation. We show that decidualizing HESC down-regulate the histone methyltransferase enhancer of Zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), resulting in declining levels of trimethylation of histone 3 on lysine 27 (H3K27me3) at the proximal promoters of key decidual marker genes PRL and IGFBP1. Loss of H3K27me3 was associated with a reciprocal enrichment in acetylation of the same lysine residue, indicating active remodeling from repressive to transcriptionally permissive chromatin. Chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with DNA microarray analysis demonstrated that decidualization triggers genome-wide changes in H3K27me3 distribution that only partly overlap those observed upon EZH2 knockdown in undifferentiated HESC. Gene ontology revealed that gain of the repressive H3K27me3 mark in response to decidualization and upon EZH2 knockdown in undifferentiated cells was enriched at the promoter regions of genes involved in transcriptional regulation and growth/cell proliferation, respectively. However, loss of the H3K27me3 mark (indicating increased chromatin accessibility) in decidualizing cells and upon EZH2 knockdown occurred at selective loci enriched for genes functionally implicated in responses to stimulus. In agreement, EZH2 knockdown in undifferentiated HESC was sufficient to augment the induction of decidual marker genes in response to cyclic AMP and progesterone signaling. Thus, loss of EZH2-dependent methyltransferase activity in the endometrium is integral to the process of chromatin remodeling that enables the transition from a proliferative to a decidual phenotype in response to differentiation cues.
Drugs that antagonize nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) can be used to inhibit nicotine-induced behavior in both humans and animals. The aim of our experiments is to establish a proof-of-principle that antagonism of nAChRs by negative allosteric modulation can alter behavior in a relevant animal model of addiction, nicotine self-administration. We have identified a novel, negative allosteric modulator of nAChRs, UCI-30002 [N-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1-naphthyl)-4-nitroaniline], with selectivity for the major neuronal nAChR subtypes over muscle-type nAChRs. After systemic administration, UCI-30002 significantly reduces nicotine self-administration in rats on both fixed ratio and progressive ratio schedules of reinforcement. The minimum effective dose that significantly alters nicotine self-administration corresponds to brain concentrations of UCI-30002 that produce at least 30% inhibition of the major neuronal nAChR subtypes measured in vitro. UCI-30002 has no effect on responding for food reinforcement in rats on either type of schedule, indicating that there is no effect on general responding or natural reward. UCI-30002 represents validation of the concept that negative allosteric modulators may have significant benefits as a strategy for treating nicotine addiction and encourages the development of subtype-selective modulators.
Clozapine (CZP) is an atypical antipsychotic drug that does not appear to block striatal dopamine receptors. In six patients who met the criteria of HIV-associated psychosis and who had previously developed moderate parkinsonism as a result of the use of typical neuroleptic agents, CZP was added in an open, rising dose study. Subjects were evaluated at baseline after at least 7 days without neuroleptic drugs and then monthly for 3 months of the experimental treatment using three rating scales: Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), Clinical Global Impression (CGI), and motor examination of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). A significant reduction in psychopathology as represented in the BPRS total score (54.2 at baseline versus 23.9 at month 3) and CGI (2 and 8, respectively) was obtained with a mean CZP dose of 27.08 mg/day. Parkinsonism also improved by an average of 76.5% at the end of the study. One patient did not complete the study as a result of a progressive decrease in leukocyte count while on CZP. These preliminary results suggest that the pharmacologic properties of CZP may be of value in the management of HIV-psychotic patients.
A case of a Reye-like syndrome during the course of treatment with VPA was reported. Hyperammonemia and severe liver damage as well as diffuse small droplets in the liver biopsy material were demonstrated. On analysis by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry of the urine immediately after the onset, the metabolites of VPA were detected together with lactate and other substances, and electron microscopic observation of liver biopsy material revealed deformation of mitochondria, disappearance of cristae and electron dense deposits in the matrix.
The effect of mancozeb, a fungicide, on mouse skin ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and DNA synthesis was studied. ODC activity was induced after topical application of mancozeb and exhibited a peak level at 5 h. This ODC induction was dependent on the dose of mancozeb applied. Cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, inhibited the mancozeb-caused ODC induction, indicating the effect on enzyme protein synthesis. The rate of DNA synthesis was also increased by mancozeb, as indicated by increased [3H]thymidine incorporation into skin DNA. Induction of ODC activity and DNA synthesis are among the events probably involved in the tumorigenic action of mancozeb on mouse skin.
Autistic disorder (MIM 209850) is currently viewed as a neurodevelopmental disease. Reelin plays a pivotal role in the development of laminar structures including the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum and of several brainstem nuclei. Neuroanatomical evidence is consistent with Reelin involvement in autistic disorder. In this study, we describe several polymorphisms identified using RNA-SSCP and DNA sequencing. Association and linkage were assessed comparing 95 Italian patients to 186 ethnically-matched controls, and using the transmission/disequilibrium test and haplotype-based haplotype relative risk in 172 complete trios from 165 families collected in Italy and in the USA. Both case-control and family-based analyses yield a significant association between autistic disorder and a polymorphic GGC repeat located immediately 5' of the reelin gene (RELN) ATG initiator codon, as well as with specific haplotypes formed by this polymorphism with two single-base substitutions located in a splice junction in exon 6 and within exon 50. Triplet repeats located in 5' untranslated regions (5'UTRs) are indicative of strong transcriptional regulation. Our findings suggest that longer triplet repeats in the 5'UTR of the RELN gene confer vulnerability to autistic disorder.
An open study was made of 25 patients with severe, recalcitrant psoriasis treated with azaribine (6-azauridine triacetate). Most patients received 125 mg/kg/day for a period of 8 weeks. A good to excellent response with 60-100% clearing of lesions was observed in 14 patients and a fair response with 40-60% improvement in another 6 patients. Thus 20 patients (80% of the series) exhibited a favorable clinical response. 16 of these 20 patients relapsed to approximately pretreatment status within 1 month after stopping therapy. The most frequently observed side-effects were mild reversible anemia, fatigue and mild transient gastrointestinal symptons. 8 patients (32% of the series) exhibited sufficient toxicity to necessitate the discontinuance of therapy. 1 patient experienced an unexplained femoral arterial thrombotic episode while on the drug. Azaribine may find a place in the therapy of severe psoriasis particularly in patients with hepatic disease. However, further studies of its potential for toxicity are indicated.
The FAP regimen was modified and low-dose consecutive daily administration of cisplatin (CDDP) and continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and pirarubicin were employed to reduce the toxicity and achieve synergy. Patients with advanced and recurrent gastric cancer were treated with this regimen as early phase II trial and its efficacy and toxicity were assessed.
Twenty-nine patients with advanced or recurrent gastric cancer were treated with intravenous 5-FU, 360 mg/m2, continuous infusion, on days 1-5 and 8-12, CDDP, 10 mg/body, drip infusion, on days 1-5 and 8-12 and pirarubicin, 20 mg/body, on days 1 and 8, which was repeated every 4 weeks.
One complete (CR) and 10 partial (PR) responses were observed. Eleven patients showed no change (NC) and seven had progressive disease (PD). The overall response rate (CR and PR) was 37.9%. The response rates of lymph node metastatic lesions and primary gastric lesions were 47 and 44%, respectively. The major toxicity was bone marrow suppression, which was well tolerated. Grade 3/4 nausea/vomiting did not occur. The median survival of all patients was 30 weeks, that of those who responded was 48 weeks and that of those showing NC or PD was 24 weeks.
This modified FAP regimen was considered useful with a moderate response and less severe toxicity, but further investigation is necessary.
The efficacy of the treatment of advanced gastric cancer is not very good. The response rate to the original etoposide--leucovorin--5-fluorouracil (ELF) treatment is 53% with tolerable side effects. Whether increasing the dose intensity by prolonging the duration of infusion with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin (LV) from 3 to 5 days for advanced or metastatic gastric cancer patients would enhance the efficacy but not increase side effects is still unknown.
Thirty-six advanced or metastatic gastric cancer and chemotherapy-naïve patients with measurable or evaluable diseases were scheduled to receive intravenous etoposide 100 mg/m2/day on days 2-4, LV 300 mg/m2/day intravenously and 5-FU 500 mg/m2/day intravenously on days 1-5, every 4 weeks. All patients who received at least two courses of chemotherapy were evaluated for tumor response, survival and response duration and toxicity according to the WHO criteria.
Thirteen patients showed a response, including five with complete response (CR). The overall response rate was 36% (95% confidence interval, CI, 20-52%) in the whole group and 46% (95% CI 28-66%) in the 28 patients with measurable disease. The median progression-free interval and overall median survival time were 5 and 7 months, respectively. The most frequent toxicity was alopecia (grade I/II 56.3%). The incidence of grade III or greater myelosuppression was 5.9%. No treatment-related death occurred.
The efficacy of the modified ELF by increasing the dosages of 5-FU and LV is not superior to the results of the original regimen, yet it is a relatively safe and tolerable combination regimen for advanced gastric cancer.
Exposure to cocaine in utero results in behavioral and neurodevelopmental abnormalities that persist into adulthood. Conventional MR imaging has generally failed to reveal the expected structural lesions to explain these clinical findings. We report a case of focal MR imaging signal-intensity changes in the substantia nigra, locus ceruleus, and other selected nerve tracts and nuclei in a child exposed prenatally to cocaine and other drugs. The patient also had dilated cardiomyopathy.
The efficacy of denopamine, an orally active beta 1-adrenoceptor agonist, in improving cardiac failure was assessed in dog heart-lung preparations. Cardiac functions depressed by pentobarbital (118 +/- 28 mg; mean value +/- SD) such that cardiac output and maximum rate of rise of left ventricular pressure (LV dP/dt max) had been reduced by about 35% and 26% of the respective controls were improved by denopamine (10-300 micrograms) in a dose-dependent manner. With 100 micrograms denopamine, almost complete restoration of cardiac performance was attained, associated with a slight increase in heart rate. No arrhythmias were induced by these doses of denopamine. The results warrant clinical trials of denopamine in the treatment of cardiac failure.
Low density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation plays a crucial role in the development and progression of atherosclerosis and is enhanced in patients with essential hypertension. This finding has stimulated a search for antihypertensive drugs with high intrinsic antioxidant properties. We investigated the antihypertensive and antioxidant effects of carvedilol, a new vasodilating beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent in a group of patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension after 4-month treatment. Carvedilol administration markedly increased the resistance to oxidation of LDL isolated from treated patients to values comparable to those of control, nonhypertensive subjects. This effect was achieved despite a significant loss in LDL-associated vitamin E. The increased resistance of LDL to oxidation promoted by carvedilol was not related to the normalization of previously increased blood pressure (BP). Indeed, the administration of other conventional antihypertensive drugs, capable of decreasing arterial BP but without high intrinsic antioxidant properties, to a control group of matched hypertensive patients failed to ameliorate LDL oxidation parameters. Carvedilol treatment also reduced the extent of in vivo LDL oxidation, as reflected by the decrease in antioxidized LDL autoantibody titer. This effect as well was detected only in the group of carvedilol-treated hypertensive patients and not after the simple reduction in BP obtained with antihypertensive drugs different from carvedilol.
(1) Domperidone, a "hidden" neuroleptic, is widely used as an oral antiemetic yet its efficacy has not been adequately documented. (2) In a case-control study domperidone was associated with an estimated relative risk of sudden cardiac death of 3.8 (95% confidence interval 1.5-9.7). (3) QT interval prolongation has been reported in an infant on domperidone, with normalisation after domperidone withdrawal. Serious cardiac arrhythmias led to the market withdrawal of the intravenous form of domperidone in the 1980s. (4) In practice, these data represent an additional reason not to use domperidone, or other antiemetics, for mild and transient health problems. Special care is required when other risk factors for QT interval prolongation are present.
A 19-year-old female diagnosed with Graves' disease had treatment initiated with propylthiouracil (PTU). Pretreatment complete blood count and liver-associated enzymes (LAEs) were normal, but no further LAEs were obtained, reflecting U.S. guidelines written in 1995. Three months later, she presented with nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and jaundice. LAEs were markedly elevated with: total bilirubin, 6.5 mg/dl; aspartate aminotransferase (AST), 1747 IU/L; and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 1589 UL/L. After 6 days at an outside hospital, she was transferred to our tertiary care center in acute liver failure with coagulopathy and stage II encephalopathy. Liver transplant evaluation was promptly initiated and she was listed as status 1. PTU was the only medication she had taken; and all serologic, autoimmune, and metabolic studies were negative. She demonstrated rapid clinical deterioration, and on hospital day 7 she underwent orthotopic liver transplant but succumbed to tonsillar herniation immediately after surgery. Pathology from her explanted liver revealed marked necrosis and collapse, consistent with her acute liver failure. PTU-associated hepatotoxicity and myelotoxicity have been well-recognized serious adverse effects for more than 50 years. However, as deaths related to hepatic injury from PTU are rare, American Thyroid Association guidelines do not call for routine monitoring of LAEs, although monitoring of white blood cell count levels is advised. Given the wide spectrum of PTU-related liver injury, ranging from asymptomatic elevations in ALT to fatal acute liver failure, we urge consideration of an LAE monitoring program to prevent irreversible liver damage and call for a reappraisal of monitoring guidelines in the United States.
Acetaminophen (APAP) administration (600 mg/kg, po) results in proximal tubular necrosis in 18-hr fasted, 3-month-old male CD-1 mice. This study was undertaken to determine if deacetylation of APAP to p-aminophenol (PAP) is a prerequisite to nephrotoxicity in the mouse, as it is in the Fischer rat. Administration of either APAP or PAP to mice resulted in significant elevations of plasma urea nitrogen and marked proximal tubular necrosis at 12 hr after dosing. Prior inhibition of APAP deacetylation by the carboxylesterase inhibitors bis(p-nitrophenyl) phosphate or tri-o-tolyl-phosphate did not alter APAP hepatotoxicity or nephrotoxicity. By contrast, pretreatment with the MFO inhibitor piperonyl butoxide decreased APAP nephrotoxicity but not that of PAP. Immunochemical analysis of kidneys from APAP-treated mice demonstrated covalently bound APAP but no binding was detected after mice were treated with a nephrotoxic dose of PAP. Since the antibody used has been characterized as being directed primarily against the N-acetyl moiety of bound APAP metabolite and since it did not react with kidney proteins of mice given a nephrotoxic dose of PAP, it is unlikely that APAP deacetylation preceded binding or that acetylation of bound PAP occurred. Taken together, these findings indicate that in the CD-1 mouse, APAP-induced nephrotoxicity differs from that previously described for the Fischer rat and likely involves cytochrome P450-dependent activation and subsequent covalent binding of a metabolite without prior deacetylation.
The present study was performed in order to compare the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of lisinopril, a long-acting angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, with captopril, the shorter acting ACE inhibitor available, in the treatment of elderly patients (mean age 70 +/- 0.5 years) with congestive heart failure (mean left ventricular ejection fraction 33.5 +/- 1%). The study was organized according to a double-blind, parallel-group, randomized multicenter protocol. After a 14-day placebo run-in period, patients were randomized to receive either lisinopril 5 mg orally once per day or captopril 12.5 mg orally once per day. The dose of the study drug could be doubled at 2-week intervals for 6 weeks. The maximal dose was lisinopril 20 mg once per day or captopril 25 mg twice per day. The addition of either captopril or lisinopril to a regimen of diuretics caused a significant increase in exercise tolerance assessed by bicycle ergometry after 12 weeks of treatment (530 +/- 21 seconds vs. 431 +/- 13 seconds, p < 0.01; 555 +/- 19 seconds vs. 463 +/- 12 seconds, p < 0.01, respectively). Both drugs significantly increased left ventricular ejection fraction and stroke volume, were equally effective in improving NYHA class, and were well tolerated, with no differences detectable between treatments. The results of this study indicate that lisinopril 5-20 mg once daily is at least as effective and well tolerated as captopril 12.5-50 mg daily in the treatment of elderly patients with congestive heart failure.
In vitro release of renin, angiotensinogen and aldosterone was studied in control (CT) and nephrotic rats. Nephrotic syndrome (NS) was induced by a single injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PA). The in vitro systems used were: renal cortical slices (RCS), liver slices (LS) and adrenal glands, all incubated in Krebs-Ringer buffer. Renal renin content (RRC) and isoproterenol-induced renin secretion (RS) also were studied. RS, RRC and angiotensinogen release were measured indirectly by radioimmunoassay (RIA) of angiotensin I (ANG I); aldosterone was estimated by direct RIA. Basal RS was not modified in NS: 385 +/- 196 (CT) vs 344 +/- 149 ng ANG I/mg protein/h (NS), p greater than 0.05. Isoproterenol increased RS significantly in both CT and NS groups: 535 +/- (CT) and 685 +/- 231 ng ANG I/mg protein/h (NS) (p less than 0.05 vs. basal RS). RRC was similar in both groups: 2.17 +/- 0.62 (CT) vs 2.05 +/- 0.49 micrograms ANG I/mg protein/h (NS), p greater than 0.05. Angiotensinogen release from LS increased in nephrotic rats from 10 +/- 3.2 (CT) to 12 +/- 1.9 pmoles angiotensinogen I/mg tissue/2h (NS), p less than 0.05. Aldosterone release increased markedly from adrenal glands of rats with NS (1649 +/- 1111 pg aldosterone/mg tissue/h) with respect to control rats (257 +/- 85), p less than 0.05 In vitro studies were performed six days after PA-injection, when nephrotic rats had ascitis, edema, proteinuria, hypoproteinemia, hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, low sodium and aldosterone excretion, low levels of plasma angiotensinogen and high levels of plasma renin and aldosterone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
PGE2 production by glomeruli is increased in a variety of glomerular diseases. Potentially, this process may affect mesangial cell protein synthesis and mesangial cell growth. Thus studies have been undertaken, using cultured human mesangial cells, to assess the effects of PGE2 on proline uptake, protein synthesis and cell proliferation. In the presence of 140 mM NaCl, incubation of mesangial cells with 0.01 to 1 microM PGE2 for 72 hours resulted in a marked decrease of 14C proline uptake, but did not modify 14C leucine uptake. Substitution of choline to sodium inhibited 14C proline uptake by 85% which became independent of PGE2, indicating that this PG specifically altered sodium-dependent proline uptake. Inhibition of this component reached 35 to 50% with 1 microM PGE2. The inhibitory effect of PGE2 on sodium-dependent proline uptake required a lag time of 48 hours, and was suppressed by ouabain, an inhibitor of Na+, K+ ATPase activity. PGE2 did not modify the Vmax of the transport system (1.007 vs. 1.023 nmol/mg/min) but increased (P less than 0.01) its Km (1.179 vs. 0.823 mM). 8-bromo-cyclic AMP also inhibited sodium-independent proline uptake, and PGE2 markedly increased cyclic AMP production. Taken together, these results suggested that PGE2 acted via cyclic AMP stimulation. PGE2 under identical conditions (1 microM, 72 hr incubation) produced a decrease in collagen synthesis estimated by the relative rate of collagen production after incubation of mesangial cells with 14C proline (percentage of 14C radioactivity in collagenase-sensitive proteins over total proteins). PGE2 also diminished the intracellular free proline pool. More generally, PGE2 inhibited cell proliferation and cell total proteins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A retrospective study of ten patients with infant botulism who received gentamicin or kanamycin suggests that aminoglycoside antibiotics potentiate muscular weakness and precipitate respiratory failure as late as 27 days after onset of the disease. Although it is difficult to separate progression of the disease from the effects of antibiotics, the rapidity of deterioration following aminoglycoside treatment and the rapidity of recovery following cessation of aminoglycoside therapy is highly suggestive. A review of five patients who received only penicillin or a semisynthetic derivative of penicillin did not reveal any temporal deterioration with onset of penicillin therapy or improvement with cessation of penicillin therapy.
Genotoxicity of eight topically applied compounds was determined using the bone marrow micronucleus (MN) test and hair follicle nuclear aberration (NA) assay in CD1 mice. Twenty-four hours after a single treatment, cyclophosphamide (CY), applied at doses corresponding to 1/4, 1/8, 1/16, and 1/32 of the published dermal LD50, and N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU), applied at 1/4, 1/8, and 1/16 of the published dermal LD50, were found to increase the incidence of NA in a dose-dependent manner. The frequency of MN was significantly increased only at the highest dose of CY. Using the same protocol, six pesticides applied in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) at doses of 1/8, 1/16, and 1/32 of the dermal LD50 were investigated. Aminocarb and chlordane induced a dose-dependent increase in the frequency of NA, while there was an observed increase in NA incidence at only the highest doses of dichlorvos (DDVP), 4,4'-DDT (DDT), and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). No effect was observed with fenitrothion on nuclear aberrations in hair follicles. Except for the highest dose of chlordane, none of the pesticides tested positive in the bone marrow micronucleus test. Serum cholinesterase levels were reduced to 70 +/- 4.7% of the DMSO control level with DDVP, 57 +/- 8.2% with aminocarb, and 60.3 +/- 4.8% with fenitrothion, indicating some systemic activity with these topically applied agents. The data suggest that aminocarb, chlordane, DDVP, DDT, and 2,4-D are genotoxic as determined by the NA assay and that this assay may be more useful in detecting topically applied genotoxic agents than the more often used bone marrow micronucleus test.
Co-administration of kanamycin (KA) with the loop diuretic ethacrynic acid (EA) has previously been shown to produce a rapid and profound hearing loss in guinea pigs. In the present study we describe a modified technique for developing a profound hearing loss in cats. By monitoring the animal's hearing status during the intravenous infusion of EA the technique minimizes the effects of individual variability to the drug regime. Seven cats received a subcutaneous injection of KA (300 mg/kg) followed by intravenous infusion of EA (1 mg/min). Click-evoked auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) were recorded to monitor the animal's hearing during the infusion. When the ABR thresholds rose rapidly to levels in excess of 90 dB SPL the infusion of EA was stopped. This occurred at EA doses of 10-25 mg/kg, indicating considerable individual variability to the deafening procedure. However, there was a strong negative correlation (r = -0.93) between the EA dose and body weight which accounted for much of this variability. Subsequent ABR monitoring showed that this profound hearing loss was both bilateral and permanent. Significantly, blood urea and creatinine levels, monitored for periods of up to three days after the procedure, remained within the normal range. Furthermore, there was no clinical evidence of renal dysfunction as indicated by weight loss or oliguria. Cochlear histopathology, examined after a two months to three year survival period, showed an absence of all inner and outer hair cells in the majority of cochleas. The extent of loss of spiral ganglion cells was dependent on their distance from the round window and the period of survival following the deafening procedure. Clearly, the degeneration of spiral ganglion cells continued for several years following the initial insult. Finally, we observed no evidence of renal histopathology. In conclusion, the co-administration of KA and EA produces a profound hearing loss in cats without evidence of renal impairment. Monitoring the animal's hearing status during the procedure ensures that the dose of EA can be optimised for individual animals. Moreover, it may be possible to adapt this procedure to produce animal models with controlled high frequency hearing losses.
Preferential blocks of peripheral nerves have shown that myelinated nerves are more susceptible to local compression and less resistant to asphyxia than unmyelinated fibers. Since two groups of functionally different nociceptors exist in the dental pulp, it is of theoretical and clinical interest to determine the influence of ischemia on the sensitivity of human dental pulp, using standard means for testing tooth vitality and at the same time investigating the intensity coding in one pathway of the afferent trigeminal system. Adrenaline was used to study the differential effect of adrenaline-induced ischemia on intradental A-delta nerve activity (INA) and the concomitant sharp pain, as well as on the detection threshold for monopolar electrical stimulation. Cold (ethyl chloride) and heat (heated gutta-percha) stimulation was applied to the tooth surface. In accordance with the hydrodynamic theory of dentin sensitivity the rapid fluid flow induced in the dentinal tubuli by these thermal stimuli is an adequate stimulus for selectively activating the A-delta nerves in healthy pulps. Consistency plots of the magnitude of the perceptual experience of sharp pain against the neural population response in linear coordinates yielded a high product-moment correlation, implying linearity for the intensity coding relationship. In contrast to the significant reduction of INA and its perceptual correlate of sharp pain after adrenaline administration, the electrical detection threshold remained constant during the full test period, suggesting that electrical threshold measurements have their limitations as a diagnostic tool or criterion for assessing the sensitivity of the dental pulp. The absence of A-delta activity was parallelled by no sensation of sharp pain. These findings suggested that the integrated neural A-delta activity constituted the underlying peripheral neurophysiological mechanism of the sensory intensity of sharp dental pain.
Antiretroviral treatment (ART) of pregnant women and newborn reduces the vertical HIV transmission below 2 % but long term effects are still not clear.
We analyzed the data of 59 children born to HIV infected women.
The median observation time was 404 (14-740) days. There was no vertical HIV transmission (95 %-confidence interval [CI] 0-5.1 %). Among 6 children without prenatal ART one child with congenital diaphragmatic hernia was born. In 53 infants with prenatal ART we observed 19 congenital malformations (35.8 %, 95 %-CI 23.2-50.6 %). Three were severe malformations (5.7 %, 95 %-CI 1.2-15.5 %): one supraorbital hemangioma (after zidovudine), one athetoid cerebral palsy without evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction (after zidovudine), and one unilateral femoral hypoplasia (after short term zidovudine, lamivudine, and efavirenz in late pregnancy). Sixteen minor malformations were found (30.1 %, 95 %-CI 21.2-43.8 %): ventricular septal defect (closed spontaneously after 6 months), atrial septal defect, transient and persistent pulmonary stenoses, hexadactylies, unilateral hearing impairment, dystopic kidney, subependymal bleeding cysts, and mild dilation of ventricles.
ART prevents vertical HIV transmission. All women should be advised ART during pregnancy and delivery. The prevalence of malformations after prenatal/perinatal ART appears considerably high. Therefore, detailed information for the parents and long term follow-up of all children exposed to antiretroviral drugs are crucial.
Transient exposure to methoxychlor (MXC), an environmental endocrine-disrupting chemical, during fetal and neonatal stages causes ovarian dysfunction in pubertal, adult, and aging animals. Adult animals have reduced number of ovulations and abnormal follicular composition associated with altered gene expression and DNA methylation patterns. To test the hypothesis that the ovarian epigenomic changes induced by MXC are detectable following the exposure period, leading to altered gene expression by adulthood, we conducted a targeted genome-wide methylation study using Nimblegen 3x720K CpG Island Plus RefSeq Promoter Arrays. Control (vehicle), low-dose MXC (20 μg/kg/day), or high-dose MXC (100 mg/kg/day) treatments were administered between Embryonic Day 19 and Postnatal Day (PND) 7. Ovaries were collected at PND 7 immediately after exposure or at adulthood, PND 60. Array hybridizations were conducted with genomic DNA after methylated DNA immunoprecipitation and the array data were analyzed. DNA methylation events were functionally annotated, and candidate loci common to all the treatments or unique to some treatments were identified. Specific loci encoding signaling molecules such as the regulatory subunit p85 of phosphoinositide-3-kinase, insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor, Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene, insulin receptor, and forkhead box protein O3 were identified to be hypermethylated in MXC-treated ovaries at PND 7 and/or PND 60. Examination of gene expression changes with TaqMan low-density arrays revealed that nearly 25% of the genes that were assayed were downregulated. These data demonstrate that key molecules in specific signaling pathways such as PTEN signaling, IGF-1 signaling, or rapid estrogen signaling are epigenetically altered in MXC-exposed ovaries, which is associated with ovarian dysfunction and female infertility.
