We report an unusual case of respiratory depression and prolonged apnea after a single, 50-mg intravenous dose of tramadol. Shortly after an uneventful surgery and anesthesia, the patient was administered intravenous tramadol. Soon after the tramadol injection, the patient became apneic, did not respond to verbal command, and started exhibiting oxygen desaturation. He was quickly administered 100% oxygen and positive pressure ventilation via a Bain circuit, and it took 45 minutes for the spontaneous respiration to return to regular. The respiratory depression could be due to increased amount of (+)enantiomer in that ampoule of tramadol. Physiological parameters affecting the metabolism of either enantiomer of tramadol or perioperative drugs need to be evaluated, as do physiological changes affecting the activity or metabolism of (+enantiomer. This case report demonstrates that even a small single dose of tramadol administered intravenously in the immediate postoperative period after general anesthesia may manifest as sudden and prolonged apnea.
Magnesium is increasingly being considered as a neuroprotective agent. We aimed to study its effects on middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity (V(mca)), cerebral autoregulation and cerebral vascular reactivity to carbon dioxide (CRCO(2)) in healthy volunteers.
Fifteen healthy volunteers were recruited. Using transcranial Doppler ultrasonography, V(mca) was recorded continuously. The strength of autoregulation was assessed by the transient hyperaemic response test, and the CRCO(2) was measured by assessing changes in V(mca) to the induced changes in end-tidal carbon dioxide. I.V. infusion of magnesium sulphate was then started (loading dose of 16 mmol followed by an infusion at the rate of 2.7 mmol h(-1)) for 45 min. The cerebral haemodynamic variables were measured again near the end of the infusion of magnesium sulphate.
Total serum magnesium levels were doubled by the infusion regimen. However, there were no significant changes in V(mca), strength of autoregulation, or CRCO(2). Five of the volunteers reported marked nausea and two developed significant hypotension during the loading dose.
Infusion of magnesium sulphate, in a dose that doubles its concentration in plasma, does not affect V(mca), strength of autoregulation or CRCO(2) in healthy volunteers. However, it can be associated with nausea and hypotension.
Collagen and elastin, the predominant components of the lung connective tissue network, have been suggested to have an important influence on lung compliance and maximal expansion. Decrease in lung compliance and distensibility often is seen in human congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) lung as well as in experimentally produced CDH lung. The aim of this study was to investigate mRNA levels of tropoelastin and alpha1 (I) procollagen, the precursors of elastin, and type I collagen, respectively, in CDH lung and to determine whether antenatal dexamethasone treatment has any effect on the production of these extracellular matrix proteins.
CDH model was induced in pregnant rats after administration of 100 mg nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation (term, 22 days). Dexamethasone (0.25 mg/kg) was given on day 18.5 and 19.5. Cesarean section was performed on day 21. The fetuses were divided into three groups: group I, normal controls; group II, nitrofen-induced CDH; and group III, nitrofen-induced CDH with antenatal dexamethasone treatment. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to evaluate relative amounts of tropoelastin and alpha1 (I) procollagen mRNA.
Levels of both tropoelastin and alpha1 (I) procollagen mRNA were significantly increased in group II compared with group I (P< .05). Neither tropoelastin nor alpha1 (I) procollagen mRNA levels were significantly different between group II and III.
The increased local synthesis of tropoelastin and type I procollagen in CDH lung may be responsible for the increased rigidity and decreased compliance observed in the CDH hypoplastic lung. Glucocorticoids have no effect on pulmonary tropoelastin and alpha1 (I) procollagen gene expression in CDH lungs.
A single electroconvulsive shock (ECS) has no influence on seizures induced by picrotoxin and bicuculline, although it decreases the level of GABA in the cortex. A repeated ECS (once daily for 7 days) does not change the level of GABA in the cortex, brain stem, and cerebellum, but depresses seizures induced by both compounds. It prolongs the time of their occurrence and decreases their intensity. This effect is stronger in the case of bicuculline. It manifests itself in the increase of the number of animals protected from seizures and decrease of their lethality. Baclofen does not change ECS action on seizures induced by picrotoxin and bicuculline whereas it enhances catalepsy caused by ECS. Bicuculline does not change the time-course of catalepsy. The obtained results suggest that repeated ECS reduces the seizures induced by GABA antagonists probably y increasing GABA-ergic transmission or/and by increasing dopaminergic and serotoninergic transmission which significantly modify the activity of GABA-ergic neurons.
Glycine transporter (GlyT)-1 plays a pivotal role in maintaining the glycine level at the glutamatergic synapse. Glycine is an allosteric agonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Because activation of NMDA receptors is an essential step for induction of methamphetamine dependence and psychosis, differences in the functioning of GlyT-1 due to genetic variants of the GlyT-1 gene (GLYT1) may influence susceptibility. A case-control genetic association study of the GLYT1 gene examined 204 patients with methamphetamine-use disorder and 210 healthy controls. We examined three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), SNP1, IVS3 + 411C > T, rs2486001; SNP2, 1056G > A, rs2248829; and SNP3, IVS11 + 22G > A, rs2248632, of the GLYT1 gene and found that SNP1 showed a significant association in both genotype (P = 0.0086) and allele (P = 0.0019) with methamphetamine-use disorder. The T-G haplotype at SNP1 and SNP2 was a significant risk factor for the disorder (P = 0.000039, odds ratio: 2.04). The present findings indicate that genetic variation of the GLYT1 gene may contribute to individual vulnerability to methamphetamine dependence and psychosis.
A clinical trial of 5-day Cisplatin combined with loading course 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was conducted in 37 patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma. Objective tumor responses were seen in 10 of 34 patients (29%) who had not received prior chemotherapy. The estimated median survival for previously untreated patients is 26 weeks measured from the onset of therapy. Toxicity consisted primarily of leukopenia, vomiting, and reversible renal insufficiency. This combination of cisplatin and intensive course 5-FU has demonstrated Phase II activity in patients with advanced colorectal cancer. A controlled trial is now in progress to prospectively compare this regimen with full dose single agent 5-FU.
Polymorphisms in p53, p21 and CCND1 could regulate the progression of the cell cycle and might increase the susceptibility to inorganic arsenic-related cancer risk. The goal of our study was to evaluate the roles of cell cycle regulatory gene polymorphisms in the carcinogenesis of arsenic-related urothelial carcinoma (UC).
A hospital-based case-controlled study was conducted to explore the relationships among the urinary arsenic profile, 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels, p53 codon 72, p21 codon 31 and CCND1 G870A polymorphisms and UC risk. The urinary arsenic profile was determined using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and hydride generator-atomic absorption spectrometry (HG-AAS). 8-OHdG levels were measured by high-sensitivity enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kits. Genotyping was conducted using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymerase (PCR-RFLP).
Subjects carrying the p21 Arg/Arg genotype had an increased UC risk (age and gender adjusted OR=1.53; 95% CI, 1.02-2.29). However, there was no association of p53 or CCND1 polymorphisms with UC risk. Significant effects were observed in terms of a combination of the three gene polymorphisms and a cumulative exposure of cigarette smoking, along with the urinary arsenic profile on the UC risk. The higher total arsenic concentration, monomethylarsonic acid percentage (MMA%) and lower dimethylarsinic acid percentage (DMA%), possessed greater gene variant numbers, had a higher UC risk and revealed significant dose-response relationships. However, effects of urinary 8-OHdG levels combined with three gene polymorphisms did not seem to be important for UC risk.
The results showed that the variant genotype of p21 might be a predictor of inorganic arsenic-related UC risk.
Two channel proteins, inwardly rectifying potassium channel 4.1 (Kir4.1) and water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4), were recently identified as targets of an autoantibody response in patients with multiple sclerosis and neuromyelitis optica, respectively. In the present study, we examined the expression patterns of Kir4.1 and AQP4 in a mouse model of demyelination induced by cuprizone, a copper chelator. Demyelination was confirmed by immunohistochemistry using an anti-proteolipid protein antibody in various brain regions, including the corpus callosum, of cuprizone-fed mice. Activation of microglial and astroglial cells was also confirmed by immunohistochemistry, using an anti-ionized calcium binding adapter molecule and a glial fibrillary acidic protein antibody. Western blot analysis revealed the induction of Kir4.1 protein, but not AQP4, in the cortex of cuprizone-fed mice. Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed the Kir4.1 protein induction in microvessels of the cerebral cortex. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that mRNA levels of Kir4.1 and AQP4 in the cortex did not change during cuprizone administration. These findings suggest that enhanced accumulation of Kir4.1 protein in the brain with an inflammatory condition facilitates the autoantibody formation against Kir4.1 in patients with multiple sclerosis.
In 4 patients with cirrhosis and ascites, diuretic therapy resulted in an impairment of renal function that was associated with a rise in plasma renin activity (PRA). In 3, this occurred in the absence of volume depletion. When diuretics were discontinued, renal function returned to normal. beta-adrenergic blocking drugs were then given to suppress renin secretion and diuretics restarted. On this occasion, impairment of renal function did not occur. In 2 further patients, administration of beta-adrenergic blockers during a period of diuretic-induced renal impairment resulted in an improvement in renal function. Although these findings may indicate that diuretic-induced renal impairment in cirrhosis is at least partly due to activation of the renin-angiotensin system, in another group of patients a diuretic-induced rise in PRA was not associated with a deterioration in renal function.
We report here that sex hormones modulate susceptibility to a sexually transmitted viral agent, herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2), in a mouse model. Ovariectomized mice were administered either saline (control), estradiol (E(2)), progesterone (P(4)), or a combination of both estradiol and progesterone (E+P) and infected intravaginally with HSV-2. With an inoculation dose of 10(5) PFU, the saline- and P(4)-treated mice were found to be highly susceptible to genital HSV-2 infection. Both groups had extensive pathology and high viral titers in vaginal secretions, and 100% of mice succumbed by day 4 postinfection. E(2)-treated mice were protected from HSV-2 infection at the same dose and did not display any vaginal pathology or viral shedding. There was a slow progression of genital pathology in the combination hormone-treated group, along with prolonged viral shedding; 80% of animals succumbed by day 13. With lower inoculation doses of 10(3) and 10(2) PFU, 50 and 100%, respectively, of the combination hormone-treated mice survived. Localization of HSV-2 infection showed extensive infection in the vaginal epithelium of P(4)- and saline-treated animals within 24 h of inoculation. E(2)-treated animals were clear of infection, while the E+P-treated group had focal infection at 24 h that had progressed extensively by day 3. Infection was accompanied by persistent inflammation and infiltration of neutrophils in the P(4)-treated group. An analysis of the genes in the vaginal tissue showed that inflammation in the P(4)-treated group correlated with local induction of chemokines and chemokine receptors that were absent in the E(2)-treated mice and in uninfected P(4)-treated mice. The results show that sex hormones regulate initiation of infection and immune responses to genital HSV-2 infection.
Temozolomide is an imidazotetrazine with a mechanism of action similar to dacarbazine and equivalent activity in melanoma. It is well tolerated and is a candidate for combination chemotherapy and schedule manipulation. In this study, we combined temozolomide with interferon alfa-2b and, separately, with thalidomide, and we administered temozolomide alone in a compressed schedule. The objectives of this randomized phase II, two-center study were to determine response rates, overall survival, and tolerability of the regimens in patients with advanced metastatic melanoma.
One hundred eighty-one patients with metastatic melanoma were randomly assigned to receive up to six 4-weekly cycles consisting of temozolomide 200 mg/m2 every 8 hours for five doses, or temozolomide 200 mg/m2 daily for days 1 to 5 plus interferon alfa-2b 5 MU (million International Units) subcutaneously three times a week, or temozolomide 150 mg/m2 (increased after one cycle to 200 mg/m2) daily on days 1 to 5 plus thalidomide 100 mg daily days 1 to 28.
The treatment arms were well balanced for known prognostic factors. Median survival was 5.3 months for 8-hourly temozolomide, 7.7 months for temozolomide/interferon, and 7.3 months for temozolomide/thalidomide; and 1-year survivals were 18%, 26%, and 24%, respectively. Response or disease stabilization occurred in 20% of patients (95% confidence interval [CI], 10% to 33%) given 8-hourly temozolomide, 21% (95% CI, 12% to 33%) given temozolomide/interferon, and 25% (95% CI, 15% to 38%) given temozolomide/thalidomide. Grade 3 or 4 nonhematologic toxicities were similar in each arm except for infection, which was more frequent with 8-hourly temozolomide. There were fewer instances of grade 3 or 4 myelotoxicity with temozolomide/thalidomide.
Of the three regimens tested, the combination of temozolomide and thalidomide seems the most promising for future study.
Potassium supplementation in diuretic-induced hypokalemia (serum potassium less than 3.5 mmol/liter) in patients being treated for hypertension is a common event. In a previous study 40 mmol/day of orally administered potassium was not effective in preventing diuretic-induced hypokalemia in patients who had previously developed hypokalemia while being treated for hypertension with hydrochlorothiazide. In the study reported here dosages as high as 60 to 80 mmol/day of orally administered potassium failed to prevent hypokalemia in 7 of 19 hypertensive patients who were receiving hydrochlorothiazide. Potassium supplementation was compared with the potassium-sparing diuretic amiloride. The study design was open label and subject matched with crossover of therapeutic regimens.
Oral diuretics have traditionally been first-line (step 1) agents for initiating antihypertensive therapy in the stepped-care approach to management. They have a generally favorable side effects profile as well as several other attributes that make them particularly useful in this role. They are effective as monotherapy in many patients, convenient, easy to titrate, comparatively inexpensive and are well tolerated by most patients. They do not cause salt and water retention, which can lead to pseudotolerance. Monotherapy with a diuretic adequately controls hypertension in many patients with mild hypertension (diastolic blood pressure between 90 and 104 mm Hg). When therapy is initiated with a nondiuretic agent and an additional drug is needed, a diuretic can be used to advantage as step 2 in many patients.
The interruption of oral anticoagulant (OAC) administration is sometimes indicated in patients with mechanical heart valves, mainly before noncardiac surgery, non-surgical interventions, and pregnancy. Unfractionated heparin (UH) is currently the substitute for selected patients. Low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) offers theoretical advantages over UH, but is not currently considered in clinical guidelines as an alternative to UH in patients with prosthetic valves.
The aim of the present study was to review the data accumulated so far on the use of LMWH in this patient population and to discuss its applicability in common practice.
For this paper, the current medical literature on LMWH in patients with mechanical heart valves was extensively reviewed.
There were eight series and six case reports. None of the studies was randomized, and only one was prospective. Data to establish the thromboembolic risk were incomplete. After excluding case reports, the following groups were constructed: (a) short-term administration, after valve insertion (n = 212); (b) short-term, perioperative (noncardiac)/periprocedural (n = 114); (c) long-term, due to intolerance to OAC (n = 16); (d) long-term, in pregnancy (n = 10). The incidence rate of thromboembolism was 0.9% for all the studies and 0.5, 0, 20, and 0% in groups a, b, c, and d, respectively; for hemorrhage, the overall rate was 3.4% (3.8, 2.6, 10, and 0% for the respective groups).
In patients with mechanical heart valves, short-term LMWH therapy compares favorably with UH. Data on mid- and long-term LMWH administration in these patients are sparse. Further randomized studies are needed to confirm the safety and precise indications for the use of LMWH in patients with mechanical heart valves.
Capsaicin, the pungent component of hot peppers, and the venom of the spider Phoneutria nigriventer are able to activate sensory nerves resulting in cutaneous neurogenic plasma extravasation. This study was undertaken to compare the ability of these substances to evoke oedema in the rat hind-paw and mechanisms underlying this effect. Subplantar injection of either Phoneutria nigriventer venom (PNV; 1-100 microg/paw) or capsaicin (10-200 microg/paw) caused a significant paw oedema that was potentiated by CGRP (10 pmol/paw). In rats treated neonatally with capsaicin to deplete neuropeptides, the paw oedema induced by either PNV (100 microg/paw) or capsaicin (100 microg/paw) was partially reduced (P<0.05). The tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist SR140333 (0.2 micromol/kg; i.v.) prevented the paw oedema induced by the tachykinin NK1 receptor agonist GR73632 (30 pmol/paw) and partially reduced paw oedema induced by PNV or capsaicin. Treatment of rats with compound 48/80 (5 mg/kg; s.c. 3 days) or with both H1 receptor antagonist (mepyramine; 1 nmol/paw) and 5-HT receptor antagonist (methysergide; 1 nmol/paw) significantly inhibited PNV- or capsaicin-induced paw oedema. The combined treatment with mepyramine and methysergide and SR140333 further reduced PNV- and capsaicin-induced paw oedema. The bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist Hoe 140 affected neither PNV- nor capsaicin-induced responses. Our results suggest that PNV and capsaicin each induce paw oedema that is partially mediated by activation of sensory fibers culminating in the release of substance P as well as by activation of mast cells which in turn release amines such as histamine and 5-HT.
Gap junctional communication plays an important role in various models of brain pathology, but the changes of gap junctions in Parkinsonism are still not understood. In this study, we show that a major gap junctional protein, connexin43 (Cx43), in astrocytes is enhanced both in a rat Parkinson's disease (PD) model induced with rotenone, a widely used pesticide that inhibits mitochondrial complex I, and in vitro in cultured astrocytes stimulated with rotenone. Enhancement of Cx43 protein levels in rotenone-treated cultured astrocytes occurred in parallel with an increase in gap junctional intercellular communication, but was not accompanied with an increase in Cx43 mRNA levels. Furthermore, the rotenone-induced increase of Cx43 protein levels both in vitro and in vivo was associated with increased levels of phosphorylated Cx43, which is required for gap junctional intercellular communication. In our rat PD model, phosphorylated Cx43 was selectively enhanced in the basal ganglia regions, which contain DA neurons or their terminal areas. The increase of Cx43 levels was lower in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the striatum than in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the globus pallidus. Our findings indicate that modulation of Cx43 protein, and consequently gap junctional cellular communication, in astrocytes may play an important role in PD pathology.
Pigs in which venous catheters were positioned for long-term use were injected i.v. with high doses of nicotine in physiol. saline. The LD50 was 2.656 mg/kg body weight. Clinical symptoms were mainly: forced respiration, muscular tremor to tetanoid spasms, cyanosis of the skin, salivation and sometimes vomiting. The degree and duration of symptoms were dose-dependent. Ecg changes in anaesthesized pigs following intravenous nicotine injections of 0.126 mg/kg and 0.378 mg/kg at 15 minutes' interval were immediately commencing disturbances of the heart rate in form of bradycardia and asystolia. After 5 sec we observed extrasystoles, tachycardia, sino-auricular block and AV-block of first and second degree as well as a number of T- and P-changes. Changes of the ecg were observed generally for 10 to 15 min, however, the T-wave remained sometimes negative or biphasic-preterminal negative for some hours.
Numerous factors have been implicated in the pathogenesis of cocaine associated myocardial infarction (CAMI). However, the relative contributions each of these mechanisms provide to the pathogenesis of CAMI have not been well defined. We hypothesized that significant angiographic differences exist between CAMI patients vs thrombotic AMI patients (TAMI) and normal controls.
The TIMI Flow Grade, corrected TIMI Frame Count (CTFC), TIMI Myocardial Perfusion Grade (TMPG), presence of triple-vessel disease, stenosis severity, and presence of angiographically apparent thrombus were compared in patients who sustained CAMI to TAMI patients and normal controls.
2495 angiograms were analyzed (CAMI = 57, TAMI = 2403, Controls = 35). Impairment in both epicardial and microvascular flow in patients with CAMI was intermediate between TAMI and controls. Compared to TAMI patients, CAMI patients were less likely to have 3 vessel disease (8.9% vs. 19.1%; p < 0.05), epicardial stenosis was less severe (14.9+/-30.2 vs. 72.6+/-18.6; p < 0.0001), less thrombus was present (6.5% vs. 33.1%; p < 0.001) and TIMI grade 3 flow was observed more frequently (76% vs. 59%). Normal TMPG 3 perfusion was significantly impaired in both CAMI and TAMI patients when compared to controls without AMI (TMPG 3 was 40% and 26.6% vs. 100% respectively; p < 0.001 for both). The majority of patients in both AMI groups had diminished or absent tissue level perfusion (TMPG 0 flow, CAMI 53.9 vs. TAMI 56.8%).
Both epicardial and microvascular flow is impaired in CAMI. While epicardial flow among CAMI patients is slightly better than TAMI patients, the incidence of little or severely impaired tissue level perfusion is nearly identical.
Lupus anticoagulant is an acquired antiphospholipid antibody that can increase greatly the risk of thromboembolism during pregnancy. Because a baseline elevated activated partial thromboplastin time (PTT) is associated frequently with this antibody, monitoring anticoagulant effect with activated PTT can be unreliable.
A pregnant woman with lupus anticoagulant being treated with adjusted dose heparin experienced concurrent severe thrombotic and hemorrhagic complications.
This case illustrates the pitfall of activated PTT monitoring when administering anticoagulation therapy to a patient with a baseline elevated activated PTT. We propose that heparin levels be used to monitor anticoagulation in these patients.
Genetic screening of 171 patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration disclosed 14 patients, across nine pedigrees, with mutations in the intron to exon 10 in the tau gene, a region regulating the splicing of exon 10 via a stem loop mechanism. Thirteen of these patients had the +16 splice site mutation and one had the +13 splice site mutation. Affected members of all nine families presented with changes in behaviour and social conduct that were prototypical of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). In all patients with the +16 splice site mutation, the behavioural profile was characterized by disinhibition, restless overactivity, a fatuous affect, puerile behaviour and verbal and motor stereotypies. The single patient with the +13 mutation presented a contrasting picture of apathy and inertia. In addition, all patients had evidence of semantic loss. Pathologically, five of the six patients so far autopsied shared frontotemporal atrophy with involvement of the substantia nigra. The underlying histology was that of microvacuolar-type cortical degeneration with a few swollen cells. Tau pathology was widespread throughout the brain and present in neurones and glial cells, mostly in the frontal and temporal cortical regions. This was in the form of neurofibrillary tangles and amorphous tau deposits (pre-tangles); Pick bodies were not observed. Ultrastructurally, the tau filaments had a twisted, ribbon-like morphology distinct from the paired helical filaments of Alzheimer's disease. One patient died from an unrelated illness whilst in the early clinical stages of FTD. In this patient, cortical microvacuolar and astrocytic changes were absent, though there were scattered neurones and glial cells, immunoreactive to tau, throughout the cortical and subcortical regions. The disease process underlying the neurodegeneration within these inherited forms of FTD may therefore stem directly from early, primary alterations in the function of tau. All eight families with the +16 mutation seem to be part of a common extended pedigree, possibly originating from a founder member residing within the North Wales region of Great Britain.
We report a patient who experienced a reversible prolongation of the QT interval and episodes of syncope while receiving probucol. A 64-year-old woman experienced syncopal attacks 8 and 11 weeks after beginning probucol treatment (500 mg twice daily). The pre-treatment ECG showed a slight prolongation of the corrected QT interval (QTc) (0.46 sec). Her QTc increased to 0.62 sec 12 weeks after beginning probucol treatment and decreased to about the baseline value (0.48 sec) 6 weeks after treatment was discontinued. Probucol is known to prolong the QT interval. A long QT interval has been linked to an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias, syncope or sudden death. However, clinical reports which causally relate probucol treatment to syncope are very rare. Although an ECG during the episodes of syncope was not available, this patient's syncope might be due to ventricular tachyarrhythmia associated with probucol-induced QT prolongation. This case emphasizes the need for careful evaluation of the QT interval before and during probucol treatment.
The hypotensive effects of YM430 (4(((S)-2-hydroxy-3-phenoxypropyl)amino)butyl methyl 2,6-dimethyl-((S)-4-(m-nitrophenyl))-1,4-dihydropyridine-3,5-dicarboxyla te) were evaluated in hypertensive animals. In conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), single oral administration of YM430 (10-100 mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent decrease in mean blood pressure (MBP) with slight reflex tachycardia. The hypotensive effect of YM430 reached its maximum about 2 hr after dosing and lasted for over 10 hr. Importantly, the beta 1-adrenoceptor blocking activity of YM430 had a similar time course to that of its calcium entry blocking activity. In conscious normotensive dogs (NTD: 1-10 mg/kg, p.o.), YM430 decreased MBP without reflex tachycardia, and inhibited isoproterenol (ISO)-induced tachycardia in a dose-dependent manner. In conscious renal hypertensive dogs (RHD: 0.3-3 mg/kg, p.o.), YM430 also produced a sustained hypotensive effect. Furthermore, on repeated oral administration to conscious SHR and NTD, YM430 caused a long-lasting hypotensive effect. This hypotensive activity and inhibition of ISO-induced tachycardia showed neither tolerance, augmentation nor rebound. In conclusion, YM430 has a long-lasting hypotensive effect and behaves as a hybrid compound, combining calcium entry blocking and beta 1-adrenoceptor blocking activities in vivo. In addition, the degree of the blocking activities of YM430 remains nearly constant in the long-term after oral administration.
Ganciclovir is widely used as prophylactic and pre-emptive therapy, as well as treatment, for CMV infection following BMT. We report a case treated with ganciclovir 5 days a week. Following escalation of the ganciclovir dose to a twice daily dose to treat CMV antigenaemia, he developed encephalopathy. His encephalopathy resolved with withdrawal of ganciclovir. Ganciclovir encephalopathy has been described in other groups of patients but has not been reported following BMT to date. With its widespread use this complication is likely to be seen more often.
The use of beta-adrenergic antagonists for the control of high blood pressure associated to pregnancy is frequent. Their use is related with the appearance of undesirable effects of the fetus. The case of neonatal cardiac arrest attributed, to the administration of labetalol to the mother is presented. The high transplacentary passage, the different pharmacokinetics of the drug in the newborn and the clinical evolution of the patient suggests its involvement. It is concluded that labetalol may cause severe undesirable effects in newborns and fetal heart rate of the mother and neonate should be monitored upon use of this drug.
The aims of this study were to develop an algorithm to accurately quantify Vigabatrin (VGB)-induced central visual field loss and to investigate the relationship between visual field loss and maximum daily dose, cumulative dose and duration of dose.
The sample comprised 31 patients (mean age 37.9 years; SD 14.4 years) diagnosed with epilepsy and exposed to VGB. Each participant underwent standard automated static visual field examination of the central visual field. Central visual field loss was determined using continuous scales quantifying severity in terms of area and depth of defect and additionally by symmetry of defect between the two eyes. A simultaneous multiple regression model was used to explore the relationship between these visual field parameters and the drug predictor variables.
The regression model indicated that maximum VGB dose was the only factor to be significantly correlated with individual eye severity (right eye: p = 0.020; left eye: p = 0.012) and symmetry of visual field defect (p = 0.024).
Maximum daily dose was the single most reliable indicator of those patients likely to exhibit visual field defects due to VGB. These findings suggest that high maximum dose is more likely to result in visual field defects than high cumulative doses or those of long duration.
