This study was performed to investigate whether the anticonvulsant phenytoin has neuroprotective effect in a model of hypoxia-ischemia with neonatal rats. The left carotid artery of each rat was ligated, followed by 3 h of hypoxic exposure (8% O2) in a temperature-regulated environment (36 degrees C). Two weeks later, brain damage was assessed by measuring loss of brain hemisphere weight. Phenytoin had no effect on body temperature or plasma glucose, but attenuated brain damage in a dose-dependent manner (3, 10, and 30 mg/kg i.p.) when administered before the hypoxic episode. Phenytoin administered during or after hypoxia did not alter hypoxic brain damage significantly. A parallel experiment using histological examination of frozen brain sections demonstrated less brain infarction after phenytoin treatment (30 mg/kg i.p.). In an additional experiment measuring breakdown of an endogenous brain calpain substrate, spectrin, phenytoin treatment reduced this measure of early cellular damage. Our results indicate that pretreatment with phenytoin is neuroprotective at a plasma phenytoin concentration of approximately 12 micrograms/ml. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that blockade of voltage-dependent sodium channels reduces brain damage following ischemia.
Methysergide, a congener of LSD and potent serotonin (5-HT) antagonist, induced a florid transient psychosis resembling an LSD psychosis in a patient with spasmodic torticollis with a family history of schizophrenia. Thirteen years later he developed a major depression. A variety of other drug challenges and treatments for his torticollis had no psychotomimetic effect. Blockade of 5-HT receptors may subserve methysergide-induced psychosis.
The mouse strain CL/Fr has been produced by selection for high frequency of cleft lip. It is also sensitive to induction of cleft palate by glucocorticoids, as are its A strain relatives. "Star" strain is free of spontaneous clefts, and is resistant to glucocorticoid teratogenic effects. CL/Fr is also sensitive to toxic effects (80% death at 25 mg/kg) of diphenylhydantoin (DPH), whereas Star is not. Reciprocal crosses between CL/Fr and Star parents were followed for three generations of back-crossing to CL/Fr, with treatment by chronic subcutaneous (SC) DPH injection (20 mg/kg daily from day 0 of pregnancy). Two patterns of response were observed for facial clefts. Primary palate clefts (CL, CLP, lip scars) were not affected by DPH treatment, and showed regression on % CL/Fr genome suggestive of a two- or three-locus recessive effect with the sensitive alleles from CL/Fr. Secondary palate clefts and open eyelids, considered as a group as relatively late developmental defects, showed a pattern suggestive of a dominant gene which increases risk of malformation in DPH-treated embryos, expressed in the crosses, but not in the absence of treatment or in the presence of the full "Star" genome.
The reorganizations of the overall intrinsic glutamatergic and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic hippocampal networks as well as the time course of these reorganizations during development of pilocarpine-induced temporal lobe epilepsy were studied with in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry experiments for the vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1) and the vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT). These transporters are particularly interesting as specific markers for glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons, respectively, whose expression levels could reflect the demand for synaptic transmission and their average activity. We report that 1) concomitantly with the loss of some subpopulations of VGAT-containing neurons, there was an up-regulation of VGAT synthesis in all remaining GABA neurons as early as 1 week after pilocarpine injection. This enhanced synthesis is characterized by marked increases in the relative amount of VGAT mRNAs in interneurons associated with increased intensity of axon terminal labeling for VGAT in all hippocampal layers. 2) There was a striking loss of mossy cells during the latent period, demonstrated by a long-term decrease of VGLUT1 mRNA-containing hilar neurons and associated loss of VGLUT1-containing terminals in the dentate gyrus inner molecular layer. 3) There were aberrant VGLUT1-containing terminals at the chronic stage resulting from axonal sprouting of granule and pyramidal cells. This is illustrated by a recovery of VGLUT1 immunoreactivity in the inner molecular layer and an increased VGLUT1 immunolabeling in the CA1-CA3 dendritic layers. These data indicate that an increased activity of remaining GABAergic interneurons occurs during the latent period, in parallel with the loss of vulnerable glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons preceding the reorganization of glutamatergic networks.
Exposure of freshwater prawn (Macrobrachium lamarrei (H. Milne Edwards) to a lethal dose (96-hr LC50;0.78 mg/l) of dichlorvos for 24, 48, 72, and 96 hr induced inhibition in acetylcholinesterase and alkaline phosphatase activities and enhanced acid phosphatase activity. Hepatic glycogen values were depleted while the blood glucose level was increased up to 72 hr of exposure. After 96 hr of dichlorvos exposure hypoglycemia was recorded. The possible role of these changes in the dichlorvos intoxication is discussed.
The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of a 40% restriction of dietary energy consumption, relative to that consumed by rats allowed to feed ad libitum, on the ability of 17beta-estradiol (E2) to induce pituitary tumorigenesis in two inbred rat strains, ACI and Copenhagen (COP), which are very closely related genetically. Ovary-intact ACI and COP rats were fed either a control or an energy-restricted diet beginning at 8 wk of age. Continuous treatment with E2, released from subcutaneous Silastic tubing implants, was initiated at 9 wk of age and the animals were killed 12 wk later. Estrogen-induced pituitary tumorigenesis is associated with rapid induction of lactotroph hyperplasia, increased pituitary mass, and hyperprolactinemia. E2 significantly increased pituitary mass and circulating prolactin (PRL) in both ACI and COP rats, and this response was significantly greater in ACI rats relative to COP. Dietary energy restriction did not inhibit E2-induced pituitary growth in the ACI rat. By contrast, E2-induced pituitary growth in COP rats was attenuated by dietary energy restriction, as evidenced by quantification of pituitary mass, pituitary weight to body weight ratio, circulating PRL, and pituitary cell proliferation. This study indicates that sensitivity to the inhibitory actions of dietary energy restriction on E2-induced pituitary tumorigenesis is genetically determined.
In isolated Purkinje fibers, digitalis intoxication induces triggered activity, which is based upon delayed afterdepolarizations. The characteristics of delayed afterdepolarizations have been studied systematically by programmed electrical stimulation. The present investigations were done to study the role of triggered activity during digitalis intoxication in the intact heart. For this purpose, a pacing protocol, similar to that used in experiments of isolated Purkinje fibers, was used. The experiments were done on conscious dogs with chronic complete atrioventricular block. Ventricular tachycardia was induced with digoxin IV 0.1 mg/kg/1-1 1/2 hr. The effect of programmed electrical stimulation on the first post-pacing interval was determined during sustained ventricular tachycardia and, following its spontaneous termination during an episode when ectopic activity could only be induced by pacing. During sustained ventricular tachycardia there was a direct linear relation between the interstimulus interval of regular pacing and the first post-pacing interval. During the episode when ectopic activity could only be induced by pacing, shortening of the post-pacing interval resulted in biphasic behavior of the first post-pacing interval. Pacing with interstimulus intervals of more than 400 ms induced a first post-pacing interval equal to the interstimulus interval, whereas shorter interstimulus intervals induced a first post-pacing interval twice the interstimulus interval. When during regular pacing only the last pacing interval was changed, a similar biphasic response resulted. When toxicity had almost subsided, ectopic activity could only be induced following short pacing intervals (200-320 ms). Again, a direct linear relation was found between the pacing interval and the first post-pacing interval. Our findings strongly suggest that at different levels of digitalis intoxication triggered activity is the underlying mechanism for the first post-pacing QRS complex.
Because hypothermia and anorexia were previously found to be more sensitive indices of the effects of lindane than were convulsions, these endpoints were used to quantify the ability of benzodiazepines (BDs) and phenytoin either to ameliorate or exacerbate the toxicity of lindane in the rat. After administration of lindane (40 or 50 mg/kg) in oil per os, toxicity was counteracted by phenytoin and the "central" BD agonists diazepam and clonazepam, but was worsened by Ro 5-4864 a "peripheral" BD agonist. Clonazepam and diazepam were each more effective in counteracting lindane-induced anorexia than in stimulating food intake, presumably because the animals had been fasted and probably even controls ate maximally when food was presented. Diazepam alone (3 injections in 1 day) produced withdrawal-induced decreased food intake the following day. Clonazepam and diazepam alone each transiently decreased colonic temperature, yet effectively blocked the more severe hypothermia produced by lindane. Ro 5-4864 by itself did not produce any measurable effects, yet exacerbated all of the effects, including lethal effects, of lindane. The present findings are compatible with other evidence that lindane and Ro 5-4864 act at the picrotoxinin receptor of the GABAA-activated chloride channel and that systemic administration of agents acting at this site may produce a constellation of effects, including seizures, hypothermia and anorexia.
In the last decade, arsenic trioxide (As2O3) has been used very successfully to treat acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL). Much less is known about the effectiveness of As2O3 in other neoplastic disorders. In this paper, we report that after 18 h in vitro treatment with 4 microM As2O3, 75+/-18% of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) cells (n=52) underwent apoptosis. It is important to note that B-CLL cells harboring a deletion of chromosome 17p13, which predisposes to fludarabine resistance and has been identified as an important negative predictor of clinical outcome, were more susceptible to As2O3 toxicity than cells lacking this aberration. Furthermore, unfavourable risk profiles such as unmutated IgVH status, high CD38 expression and prior treatment were associated with significantly higher sensitivity of B-CLL cells to As2O3. As2O3 also preferentially killed B-CLL cells compared to B cells from healthy age-matched controls. Molecular analysis revealed that basal superoxide dismutase activity was positively correlated with the pro-apoptotic activity of As2O3 pointing to a role of reactive oxygen species in cell death induction. The high activity of As2O3 in B-CLL cells from high-risk patients makes it a promising drug for high-risk and/or fludarabine-refractory B-CLL patients.
In a previous study on doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in LOU/M/Wsl rats, severe nephropathy has been observed; therefore, the question was raised whether nephropathy adds to or even might be responsible for doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy in rats. For elucidation of this question, the temporal relationship between the onset of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy and nephropathy was studied. In addition, examination was made of whether modifications of the treatment schedule could circumvent nephrotoxicity. Because preliminary studies had shown that female LOU/M/Wsl rats developed less doxorubicin-induced albuminuria, both male and female LOU/M/Wsl rats were treated with an iv dose of 1 mg doxorubicin/kg (body wt)/rat on five consecutive days and then weekly. Saline-treated animals served as controls. Albuminuria, serum albumin, and serum creatine levels were assessed weekly. For histologic examination, 5 male and 5 female rats were killed weekly. At day 14 and thereafter, doxorubicin-treated male rats showed albuminuria greater than or equal to 10 g/liter. Albuminuria of greater than or equal to 10 g/liter was not avoided by modifications of the treatment schedule. Female rats had on day 14 a urinary albumin level of 1.0-3.0 g/liter, yet reaching the level of greater than or equal to 10 g/liter at day 49. In male rats serum albumin levels decreased to levels below 10 g/liter (p less than .001 vs. finding for day 0); in contrast female rats maintained constant serum albumin levels till day 49. Serum creatine levels showed a tendency to rise, the values of male rats not being measured after day 28 due to hyperlipidemia; the levels of female rats increased from 37.8 +/- 3.0 mumol/liter to 53.7 +/- 2.5 mumol/liter on day 49 (P less than .001). At day 10 in male and female rats a grade 1-1.5 cardiomyopathy score, assessed according to the modified Billingham scoring system, was found, gradually increasing to grade 2.5-3 cardiomyopathy, both in males and females, on day 49. In male LOU/M rats the nephropathy developed steadily from day 14 and thereafter, whereas in females the rate of development of kidney damage was slower and at the end point of the study the severity of kidney lesions was less in comparison to that of the males. The onset of cardiomyopathy and nephropathy was simultaneous. It was concluded that cardiomyopathy observed in LOU/M rats is a phenomenon independent of nephropathy.
Carboplatin (CBDCA) is an active agent in the treatment of acute leukemia and is associated with limited extramedullary toxicity. Simultaneous phase II trials were conducted by the Southwest Oncology Group in adult patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML). CBDCA was given as a continuous infusion at a dose of 300 mg/m2 daily for 5 days. Three (8%) of the 37 eligible patients in the relapsed group achieved complete remissions (CRs) lasting 3, 4, and 26 months. Entry of patients was stopped early in the refractory group due to slow accrual and in the relapsed group due to low CR rate. For both groups combined, the CR rate was 3/45 or 7% (95% confidence interval 3-18%). There were 12 fatal toxicities. Four patients died of intracerebral hemorrhage, three of infection, and five of hepatic and/or renal failure. Nonhematologic grade 4 toxicity included diarrhea in three patients, hyperbilirubinemia in four, and mucositis and renal toxicity in one each. These results suggest that CBDCA should not be considered for treatment of relapsed or refractory AML patients with prior high-dose therapy.
Sensenbrenner syndrome/cranioectodermal dysplasia (CED) is an autosomal-recessive disease that is characterized by craniosynostosis and ectodermal and skeletal abnormalities. We sequenced the exomes of two unrelated CED patients and identified compound heterozygous mutations in WDR35 as the cause of the disease in each of the two patients independently, showing that it is possible to find the causative gene by sequencing the exome of a single sporadic patient. With RT-PCR, we demonstrate that a splice-site mutation in exon 2 of WDR35 alters splicing of RNA on the affected allele, introducing a premature stop codon. WDR35 is homologous to TULP4 (from the Tubby superfamily) and has previously been characterized as an intraflagellar transport component, confirming that Sensenbrenner syndrome is a ciliary disorder.
Arsenic trioxide decreases proliferation of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells, but its precise mechanism of action is unknown.
We studied the effect of arsenic trioxide on patient samples and the AML cell line HEL, which, like leukemic blasts from 50% of AML cases, has constitutively activated signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins.
Arsenic trioxide induced mitotic arrest starting at 24 hours and significant cell death at 48 hours. These events were preceded by an arsenic trioxide dose-dependent down-regulation of activated STAT proteins starting at 6 hours. We hypothesized that arsenic trioxide inhibits protein tyrosine kinases (PTK), which, among others, phosphorylate and activate STATs. We therefore studied arsenic trioxide effects on Janus kinases and on three oncogenic PTKs that are known to activate STATs [FLT3, ZNF198/fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1), and BCR/ABL]. Arsenic trioxide reduced STAT3 activation by Janus kinases, altered phosphorylation and electrophoretic mobility of ZNF198/fibroblast growth factor receptor 1, reduced kinase protein level, and decreased STAT3 protein phosphorylation. Arsenic trioxide also reduced the phosphorylation of BCR/ABL and FLT3 with corresponding decreased STAT5 phosphorylation.
These results suggest a selective activity of arsenic trioxide on PTKs and will assist in developing clinical trials in AML.
Cocaine administration to phenobarbitone treated DBA/2Ha mice caused scattered peripheral portal cell necrosis within 2 h. At 3 h, when this initial lesion had become more widespread, and plasma membrane integrity had been compromised, 15-fold elevations in plasma levels of liver enzymes were observed. Biochemical analysis of liver microsomes showed no changes in the levels of total cytochrome P-450 during the development of hepatic damage, and there was no correlation between microsomal malondialdehyde (MDA), an indicator of lipid peroxidation, and liver damage. These results indicate that as liver damage occurs only 2 h after cocaine administration, prompt action is warranted when cocaine overdose is suspected.
CGP 56999A ([3-[1-(R)-[(3-cyclohexylmethyl)hydroxyphosphinyl]-2-(S)- hydroxy-propyl] amino]ethyl]-benzoic acid) is a potent GABAB receptor antagonist showing much more pronounced convulsant features in mice than do other previously studied GABAB receptor antagonists. The goal of this study was to elucidate the physiological mechanisms underlying this effect. In mice a dose of 0.6 mg/kg intraperitoneal (i.p.) CGP 56999A elicited behavioral activation and stereotypy with periods of intensive scratching and grooming. At 1 mg/kg i.p. most mice displayed myoclonic seizure-like episodes lasting several min. Pretreatment with the lower dose of 0.6 mg/kg i.p. also induced seizures after treatment with a subthreshold dose of pentylenetetrazole (40 mg/kg i.p.). In rats a dose of 3 mg/kg CGP 56999A (i.p.) induced convulsions of tonic-clonic nature. Intracellular sharp microelectrode recordings from rat cortical neurons in slices revealed no paroxysmal actions of CGP 56999A (10 microM). Similar to other GABAB receptor antagonists, CGP 56999A suppressed the late inhibitory postsynaptic potential (i.p.s.p.), but had no effect on the excitatory postsynaptic potential (e.p.s.p.) in the cortex. In cortical slices exposed to picrotoxin (10 microM), the compound evoked pronounced, spontaneous and intense epileptiform discharges. In conclusion, these findings demonstrated that the convulsive feature of the potent GABAB receptor antagonist, CGP 56999A, may be due to suppression of the late i.p.s.p., which becomes apparent in the intact brain only, whereas this action remains undetected in untreated brain slices. This remarkable discrepancy between in vitro and in vivo may be a consequence either of disruption of neuronal circuits during slice preparation or of the pronounced hyperpolarization of pyramidal neurons, at least in the case of cortical slice preparations.
There is a need for safe and effective alternative treatments for patients with moderate to severe psoriasis.
Pimecrolimus is a calcineurin inhibitor that is being investigated in oral form for the treatment of psoriasis.
A double-blind, randomized, parallel-group, dose-finding study was performed. Healthy adult outpatients with moderate to severe chronic plaque-type psoriasis (n = 143) were randomized to receive oral placebo or pimecrolimus 10 mg, 20 mg or 30 mg twice daily (b.d.) for 12 weeks.
The Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) was used to assess clinical severity of psoriasis. Results were analysed at weeks 7 (primary endpoint) and 13. Safety was assessed by monitoring all adverse events, laboratory investigations (blood chemistry, urinalysis, haematology) and physical examinations.
The change from baseline in PASI at week 7 showed a dose-dependent effect. The differences between each of the two higher doses of pimecrolimus and placebo were statistically significant (P < 0.001; ANOVA). The mean percentage decreases from baseline in PASI in the placebo group and pimecrolimus 10 mg, 20 mg and 30 mg b.d. groups at week 7 were 3.1%, 22.2%, 51.3% and 54.0%, respectively. Most adverse events were of mild or moderate severity. The only adverse event to show a dose-response relationship was a transient feeling of warmth. No clinically relevant effects on laboratory parameters were observed, and no increase in skin infection with pimecrolimus was seen.
Oral pimecrolimus produces a dose-dependent reduction in psoriasis severity, with doses of 20 mg and 30 mg b.d. being the most effective and well tolerated.
The influence of peak-dose, levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) on manual tracking (MT) was examined in 10 dyskinetic patients with Parkinson's disease (DPD), and compared to 10 age/gender-matched non-dyskinetic patients with Parkinson's disease (NDPD) and 10 healthy controls. Whole-body movement (WBM) and MT performance were recorded simultaneously with a 6-degrees-of-freedom magnetic motion tracker and forearm rotation sensors, respectively. Subjects were asked to match the length of a computer-generated line with a line they controlled via wrist rotation. Results show that DPD patients had greater WBM magnitude at rest and during the motor task, both in displacement and in velocity. All groups displayed some increase in WBM displacement from rest to MT, but only the DPD group had a significant increase in WBM velocity during movement. As for MT performance (determined by assessing the positional mismatch between subjects' and target lines), ERROR in displacement was statistically similar between groups. There was no correlation between ERROR and the magnitude of WBM within the DPD group. The DPD group showed significant increased ERROR when the velocity of the subject's line was compared with that of the velocity of the target line. When two distinct target pace segments were examined (FAST/SLOW), no significant differences were found in ERROR for displacement for either group, but both the NDPD and DPD group showed increased ERROR from SLOW to FAST for velocity. This was accompanied with an increase in WBM velocity only in the DPD group. The lack of increased ERROR during the SLOW tracking portion in the DPD group supports the notion that the dyskinesias themselves were not primarily responsible for the ERROR seen in the patients. When examining the positive or negative values of ERROR (i.e., faster or slower than the target), we found that the increased ERROR in velocity observed in the DPD group was the result of excess velocity rather than bradykinesia, manifested as isolated deviations from the target trace in the DPD group that were coherent in time with increased ERROR in velocity. In conclusion, evidence presented in the present study shows that the LID was not the primary cause of the ERROR seen in the DPD group. Accordingly, we propose that the increased ERROR seen in the DPD group resulted from a mechanism distinct from the one generating LID.
The goal of this study is to evaluate the applicability and effectiveness of combination support of the extraaortic balloon (EAB) and the ventricular assist cup (VAC) to the acute heart failure model. Under general anesthesia, 10 adult dogs were used. Through the median sternotomy, EAB was placed around the ascending aorta and VAC in the pericardial cavity. After heart failure was induced by administration of propranolol, the on-off tests of devices were done as follows. Only EAB was used, and only VAC was used and both devices were used. Regional blood flows (RBFs) of both ventricles, liver kidneys, and brain were measured by colored microsphere technique. Hemodynamic parameters were also measured. In heart failure model, cardiac output (CO) decreased to 66% of control value. In the group assisted by EAB, aortic peak-diastolic pressure and RBFs of both ventricle and brain increased significantly. In the group assisted by VAC, CO and RBFs of all but the left ventricle significantly increased. In the group assisted by EAB and VAC, aortic peak-diastolic pressure, CO, and all five RBFs significantly increased. These results suggest the combination of EAB and VAC is applicable and effective and would be a promising implantable device for the chronic heart failure.
The hypertension and tachycardia after intraperitoneal administration of baclofen, 5 mg kg-1, to conscious rats was prevented by a midcollicular decerebration but not by a brain transection rostral to the hypothalamus. In conscious rats, local application of baclofen (50 ng) into the region of the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) caused a consistent pressor response while injections into the hypothalamus, n. fastiguus, nn. amygdala, nn. dorsalis raphe or n. locus coeruleus did not. The cardiovascular effects of NTS injections of baclofen in anaesthetized animals were variable. The reflex heart rate reduction to noradrenaline (0.5 microgram i.v.) was prevented by administration of baclofen i.v. as well as locally into the NTS. It is concluded that baclofen causes elevation of blood pressure in the NTS, and that this structure is a possible locus of action for systemically administered baclofen in producing hypertension.
On a daily basis it appears that as many as one in five adults in the United States may consume an analgesic compound either on a prescription basis or by over-the-counter (OTC) purchase. This high profile of intermittent or repetitive analgesic use appears to be relatively similar throughout the developed world. Although analgesics generally have a good renal safety profile, the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) analgesics may produce mild renal side effects, such as the generation of peripheral edema in up to 5% of the general population. Other more serious renal and related cardiovascular side effects tend to be more apparent in lesser numbers of clinically "at risk" NSAID analgesic users. In contrast, non-NSAID analgesics, such as paracetamol or tramadol, have essentially no renal or related cardiovascular side effects when used at recommended dosing schedules. This review characterizes the renal syndromes associated with the use of NSAID analgesics, identifies the risks inherent in the use of these compounds in treated patients with hypertension and congestive heart failure, summarizes the early comparable data available for the new COX-2-specific inhibitors, and profiles the scant acute and long-term clinical concerns attendant with the use of non-NSAID nonnarcotic analgesics. It is important that healthcare providers and practitioners are aware of the relative renal risks of different analgesics and that they use this knowledge to counsel the analgesic-consuming population appropriately.
The effects of 17beta-estradiol and the anti-estrogen, tamoxifen, on methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system were examined in ovariectomized CD-1 mice. In Experiment 1, striatal dopamine concentrations from estrogen treated mice were significantly greater than that from non-estrogen treated mice following methamphetamine. Dopamine concentrations from estrogen+tamoxifen+methamphetamine treated mice were decreased compared to estrogen+methamphetamine treated mice and not significantly different from those of tamoxifen+methamphetamine treated mice or mice receiving methamphetamine alone. These results suggest that estrogen is functioning as a neuroprotectant of methamphetamine-induced nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity and that this neuroprotective effect of estrogen is abolished in the presence of tamoxifen. In Experiment 2, estrogen administration after methamphetamine treatment did not produce any significant changes in dopamine concentrations compared with methamphetamine treatment alone. The data from Experiment 2 show that estrogen cannot reverse the methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity upon the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. Similar results were observed for the potassium-stimulated dopamine outputs from these treatment conditions as evaluated with in vitro superfusion, although a difference between the two measures for the estrogen+methamphetamine treated group was obtained in Experiment 1. These results have important implications for estrogen-tamoxifen interactions upon the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system and the gender differences which are observed in Parkinson's disease and animal models of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity as well as for the proposed use of tamoxifen in pre-menopausal women at risk for breast cancer.
During presurgical evaluation, 14 patients with medically intractable focal epilepsies underwent magnetoencephalographic (MEG) recordings for focus localization. To increase the number of epileptic discharges required for MEG analysis, we administered methohexital (MHT), a short-acting barbiturate known to provoke epileptic activity. We also investigated the spike-provoking properties of clonidine in comparison with MHT.
Patients were briefly anesthetized with intravenously administered MHT after being premedicated orally with clonidine. Numbers and locations of epileptic MEG discharges were assessed after clonidine premedication as well as during MHT anesthesia. Results were compared with baseline MEG recordings.
MHT increased the frequency of focal epileptic discharges in 8 of 13 patients ( of the 14 patients did not receive MHT after premedication with clonidine). Premedication with clonidine also increased focal epileptic discharges in 9 of 14 patients. The numbers of epileptic signals and numbers of spikes contributing to MEG source localizations were significantly increased in MEG recordings under both treatment conditions (clonidine premedication and MHT anesthesia) as compared with baseline MEG recordings.
Our results confirmed the selective proconvulsive effects of MHT on the epileptic focus, as previously suggested by EEG and electrocorticographic (ECoG) investigations. However, our present data establish for the first time that clonidine increases epileptic activity in patients with seizure disorders and indicate that clonidine is suitable as an activating agent for localization of epileptogenic foci by MEG. This effect of clonidine on specific epileptic activity also indicates that specific care must be taken when clonidine is used as an antihypertensive drug in patients with seizure disorders.
Lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer related death worldwide with more than a million deaths per year. The poor prognosis is due to its high aggressiveness and its early metastasis. Although the exact mechanisms are still unknown, the process of epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) seems to be involved in these neoplastic processes. We already demonstrated that serum levels of CCL18, a primate specific chemokine, are highly elevated in patients with lung cancer and correlate with their survival time of patients with adenocarcinoma of the lung. Therefore, we hypothesized that CCL18 may be directly involved in pathological processes of lung cancer, e.g. EMT. We investigated the effect of CCL18 on A549, an adenocarcinoma cell line of the lung, on EMT and other cell functions like proliferation, chemotaxis, invasion, chemoresistance and proliferation. Exposure of A549 lung cancer cells to CCL18 in various concentrations decreases the epithelial marker E-cadherin, whereas FSP-1, a marker of the mesenchymal phenotype increases. Accordingly, CCL18 induced the transcriptional EMT regulator SNAIL1 in a dose dependent fashion. In contrast, an increasing CCL18 concentration was associated with a decline of cell proliferation rate. In addition, CCL18 induced chemotaxis of these cells and increased their chemoresistance. Therefore, CCL18 may be an interesting therapeutic target for NSCLC.
