Strain difference of mouse skin tumorigenesis was studied with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) and benzoyl peroxide (BzP) both in 8-week-old hypocatalasemic C3H mice (C-s(b)) and in normal C3H/HeNCrj mice (C3H). Two weeks after initiation by 4 mu mole MNNG, both strains of female mice were promoted by 10 nmole TPA or 10 mg, 20 mg BzP twice weekly for 30 and 52 weeks. The incidence of skin tumors in C-b(s) was significantly increased as compared to that in C3H mice promoted by TPA for 30 weeks but after 52 weeks of TPA promotion there was no difference between the 2 strains. By the promotion with 10 mg or 20 mg BzP, the incidence of skin tumor in C3H was 5% at both levels after 30 weeks of promotion and 19% and 38%, respectively, after 52 weeks of promotion. No skin tumors appeared in C-b(s) mice with BzP treatment after 30 weeks of promotion. After 52 weeks of promotion by 10 mg BzP, skin tumors were induced in only 15% of C-b(s) mice. The results show that genetic factors, especially radical scavenging enzymes, controlled susceptibility to skin tumorigenesis by promotion with either TPA or BzP.
The situation regarding hemorrhagic cystitis after conditioning for bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in Japan was surveyed and analyzed. Thirty-seven of 110 patients (33.6%) developed hemorrhagic cystitis after conditioning for BMT with cyclophosphamide (CY) and total body irradiation. In two of these 37 patients the cystitis was virus (adenovirus)-induced. In the others it was diagnosed as CY-induced. The severity and duration of CY-induced hemorrhagic cystitis were related to its onset. The delayed type of hemorrhagic cystitis induced by CY seemed to have a poor prognosis and often continued until the patient died. Therefore, late-onset hemorrhagic cystitis should be followed carefully and its prophylaxis may be important. 2-Mercaptoethane sulphonate (mesna) injections for prophylaxis of CY-induced hemorrhagic cystitis were found to be effective in reducing the incidence of the delayed type in 21 (53.8%) of 39 patients treated, but did not reduce the total incidence of CY-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.
Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) associated with the use of tacrolimus is a rare complication of liver and intestinal transplantation seen almost exclusively among pediatric patients. Reduction of tacrolimus dosage or conversion to cyclosporin A (CsA) has been used as an effective treatment in reviewed cases. We present three pediatric transplant recipients who developed hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy while under tacrolimus immunosuppression and were treated with conversion to sirolimus (Rapamycin). The patients (ages 6 yr, 12 yr and 11 months) were transplant recipients (liver, n = 2; liver and intestine, n = 1) who developed significant cardiomyopathy 15 and 96 months post-transplant. One patient died of post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder 21 days after starting sirolimus. One patient had received two liver transplants and had been on CsA for 12 yr before conversion to tacrolimus at 60 months post-transplant for acute and chronic rejection. The surviving patients were receiving mycophenolate mofetil, tacrolimus and steroids at the time of diagnosis. Dose reduction of tacrolimus and treatment with beta blockers failed to alleviate the hemodynamic changes. The patients were converted to sirolimus 1.6, 37 and 148 months post-transplant and maintained a whole-blood trough level of 15-20 ng/mL 21 days after starting sirolimus. Repeat echocardiograms in the surviving patients showed improvement in cardiomyopathy. One patient had one rejection episode (intestinal biopsy, mild acute cellular rejection) after starting sirolimus that responded to a transient increase in steroids. The early demise of the third patient after sirolimus conversion prevented an adequate assessment of cardiomyopathy. Conversion to sirolimus was associated with a reduction in the cardiomyopathy of the two surviving patients while still providing effective immunosuppression. To our knowledge this observation has not been previously reported.
The results of two empirically designed and potentially non-cross-resistant combinations administered sequentially in advanced breast cancer with the intent of achieving a high rate of durable complete remissions were analyzed. The two drug combinations consisted of cyclophosphamide plus Adriamycin and high-dose methotrexate plus cisplatin given for a total of three cycles; twenty evaluable patients, not previously treated with chemotherapy, were entered into the study. Ten patients were allocated to receive cyclophosphamide and Adriamycin first followed by high-dose methotrexate and cisplatin, while the remaining patients received the opposite sequence. The overall response rate for the entire group was 85% (17 of 20). However, only three of 20 (15%) patients achieved complete remission. One additional complete response was observed when treatment was prolonged for an additional complete cycle. The overall median duration of response was 13 months (range, 5-20+ months). Responses were similarly distributed among different sites of lesions. Myelosuppression and gastrointestinal toxicity were mild and transient. Reversible acute renal failure was observed after methotrexate administration in three cases. Present results indicate that overall this sequential treatment appears effective in patients with advanced breast cancer. However, the lack of an increased complete remission rate over conventional regimens coupled with a potential risk of renal toxicity prevents further studies with this multiple drug combination.
Both cocaine withdrawal symptoms, measured by an instrument called the Cocaine Selective Severity Assessment (CSSA), and urine toxicology results obtained at the start of treatment have been shown to predict treatment outcome in outpatient cocaine dependence treatment. This study further evaluates the predictive validity of the CSSA and urine toxicology results, alone and in combination. Subjects included 76 cocaine-dependent individuals who participated in 7-week, outpatient, pilot medication trials for cocaine dependence. Predictor variables included CSSA scores and results from a urine toxicology screen obtained on the first day of medication treatment. Successful outcome was defined as 3 continuous weeks of self-reported abstinence from cocaine confirmed by urine toxicology screens. Predictive validity was assessed by logistic regression analysis. Both the urine toxicology screen and the CSSA scores were significant predictors of 3 weeks of continuous abstinence from cocaine, and the inclusion of both variables significantly improved the predictive validity of either variable alone. Urine toxicology results and CSSA scores obtained at treatment entry are useful predictors of outcome in outpatient cocaine dependence treatment.
During 20 months 49 AIDS patients treated with zidovudine were followed prospectively. The 12-month cumulative probability of survival was 73% and the 18-month probability of survival was 51%. The probability of survival was significantly higher when, at the start of therapy, the Karnofsky score was 70 or higher (p less than 0.001) or the CD4 cell count was 0.05 x 10(9)/l or higher (p less than 0.05). The general condition, Karnofsky score, body weight, number of CD4 positive cells and the lymphocyte stimulation in vitro improved during therapy, but the beneficial effects lasted only 6-9 months. Anaemia (Hb less than 6 mmol/l) developed in 21 (43%) of the patients. (Pan)cytopenia prompted dose reduction in 14 patients, in 5 patients with pancytopenia therapy was withdrawn. The length of stay in hospital was 885 days for the whole group of patients, equivalent to 20 days per patient year.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are a large family of environmentally prevalent toxic compounds generated from the combustion of organic materials and diesel exhaust. Humans and wild animals are exposed to PAHs mostly through dietary intake of contaminated food. Benzo[b]fluoranthene (B[b]F) is a common constituent of PAH complexes present in diverse types of food. B[b]F has been found in human milk, raising the demand for the need for risk assessment of offspring after maternal exposure to B[b]F. In the present study, pregnant mice were orally exposed to low doses (2-2000μg/kg body weight) of B[b]F during gestational and lactational periods, and their male offspring were assessed. Maternal B[b]F exposure disturbed normal sperm function in F1 offspring. To understand the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which the perinatal exposure to B[b]F decreased sperm quality, the testes of young adult F1 mice were examined for changes in expression of steroidogenesis-related and testicular apoptosis mediators and found that aryl hydrocarbon receptor, estrogen receptor α, and a set of proapoptotic proteins including Bax, Noxa, Bad, and Bim were significantly upregulated. Therefore, the current transgenerational animal study implies that consumption of PAH-contaminated diets by mothers may possibly influence their offspring to cause dysfunctional male reproductive function in humans.
An increased incidence of chronic hepatitis has been reported in Labrador Retrievers.
A breed associated hepatopathy occurs in Labrador Retrievers.
Twenty-four client-owned Labrador Retrievers.
Medical records of dogs with histopathologic confirmation of chronic hepatitis were retrospectively reviewed. A clinical score based on clinical signs and the results of biochemical tests was generated for each dog. Hepatic biopsy specimens were scored for disease activity, fibrosis, and copper accumulation.
The median age was 9.3 years (range, 3.9-14.0 years). Clinical signs included inappetence, vomiting, lethargy, and weight loss. All dogs had increases in serum activity of one or more hepatobiliary enzyme. Hyperbilirubinemia and hypoalbuminemia were present in 45% and 21% of dogs, respectively. The median clinical score was 2.9, with a range of 0-8. The median histopathology activity and the fibrosis scores were 3.5 (range, 1-6) and 3.0 (range, 0-4), respectively. Rhodanine-positive copper staining was present in 15 of 17 biopsy specimens, with a median score of 2.0 (range, 0-3). Median survival was 374 days (range, 1-2645 days). A prolonged prothrombin time (P = .013) and thrombocytopenia (P = .041) were associated with survival < 2 months. The presence of anorexia (P = .049), hypoglobulinemia (P = .045), or prolonged partial thromboplastin time (P = .033) were associated with shorter overall survival times. The clinical score correlated with survival time (P = .030) and histopathologic staging (P = .049).
A progressive hepatopathy in Labrador Retrievers in this study was marked by chronic inflammation, fibrosis, and copper accumulation. A clinical scoring system that correlates with survival time may be useful as a noninvasive method to predict prognosis.
The effects of intravenous encainide on digoxin-induced atrial ectopic tachycardia (AET) were investigated in the rat using 3-channel simultaneous limb-lead electrocardiography. Pentobarbital-anesthetized (35 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) adult male rats were given digoxin subcutaneously, 30 mg/kg. After onset of AET, rats received either saline (0.5 ml/kg) or encainide; 0.25, 0.5, 1.0, or 2.0 mg/kg intravenously in repeated doses at 15-min intervals. At all doses, encainide converted digoxin-induced AET to ventricular arrhythmias, prolonged recovery time, and increased mortality in comparison to saline-treated animals. An additional group of anesthetized rats was not given digoxin. These animals received encainide (2.0 mg/kg, intravenously) in repeated doses at 15-min interval and developed dose-related increase in the P-R interval only. Blood samples were obtained by cardiac puncture from 12 additional anesthetized, digoxin-treated rats 5 min after the fourth intravenous dose of saline (0.5 ml/kg, n = 6) or encainide (1.0 mg/kg, n = 6). Serum was prepared and analyzed by affinity column-mediated immunoassay. Digoxin levels were the same in both groups. These results suggest that encainide may exacerbate digoxin-induced arrhythmias (proarrhythmic effect) in this species. In view of our findings of digoxin-encainide interactions in the rat, we recommend caution if these drugs are coadministered in humans.
Classical studies of cholinesterase activity during liver dysfunction have focused on butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), whereas acetylcholinesterase (AChE) has not received much attention. In the current study, liver and plasma AChE levels were investigated in rats with cirrhosis induced after 3 weeks of bile duct ligation (BDL). BDL rats showed a pronounced decrease in liver AChE levels (approximately 50%) compared with sham-operated (non-ligated, NL) controls; whereas liver BuChE appeared unaffected. A selective loss of tetrameric (G4) AChE was detected in BDL rats, an effect also observed in rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis. In accordance, SDS-PAGE analysis showed that the major 55-kd immunoreactive AChE band was decreased in BDL as compared with NL. A 65-kd band, attributed in part to inactive AChE, was increased as became the most abundant AChE subunit in BDL liver. The overall decrease in AChE activity in BDL liver was not accompanied by a reduction of AChE transcripts. The loss of G4 was also reflected by changes observed in AChE glycosylation pattern attributable to different liver AChE forms being differentially glycosylated. BDL affects AChE levels in both hepatocytes and Kupffer cells; however, altered AChE expression was mainly reflected in an alteration in hepatocyte AChE pattern. Plasma from BDL rats had approximately 45% lower AChE activity than controls, displaying decreased G4 levels and altered lectin-binding patterns. In conclusion, the liver is an important source of serum AChE; altered AChE levels may be a useful biomarker for liver cirrhosis.
Topiramate, an antiepileptic drug with multiple mechanisms of action, was assessed as a neuroprotective agent following status epilepticus. We administered topiramate or normal saline chronically beginning 1 hour after cessation of lithium pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Control animals not subjected to status epilepticus were also treated with topiramate or normal saline. Following completion of the topiramate treatment, animals were tested in the water maze to assess spatial learning and underwent in vivo single-cell place cell recordings. Spontaneous seizure frequency following status epilepticus in the topiramate-treated rats was similar to that in the rats treated with saline. Following status epilepticus, rats had profound deficits in water maze performance and place cell function. Rats subjected to status epilepticus and treated with topiramate were also severely impaired in the water maze, but performed slightly better than rats treated with saline. Following status epilepticus, topiramate-treated rats did not differ from rats treated with normal saline in the platform switch, a test of prefrontal function. Although place cell firing patterns were similar in both the topiramate- and saline-treated rats, rats treated with topiramate had higher information content scores than rats treated with saline. Topiramate-treated animals had less supragranular sprouting following status epilepticus than nontreated rats. Control animals treated with topiramate did not differ from saline-treated controls on any measures. Taken together, this study shows that topiramate administered following status epilepticus has modest neuroprotective effects.
The short QT syndrome (SQTS) is associated with cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death. The SQT1 form of SQTS results from an inactivation-attenuated, gain-of-function mutation (N588K) to the human ether-à-go-go-related gene (hERG) potassium channel. Pharmacological blockade of this mutated hERG channel may have therapeutic value. However, hERG-blocking potencies of canonical inhibitors such as E-4031 and D-sotalol are significantly reduced for N588K-hERG. Here, five hERG-blocking drugs were compared to determine their relative potencies for inhibiting N588K channels, and two other inactivation-attenuated mutant channels were tested to investigate the association between impaired inactivation and altered drug potency.
Whole-cell patch clamp measurements of hERG current (I(hERG)) mediated by wild-type and mutant (N588K, S631A and N588K/S631A) channels were made at 37 degrees C CHO cells.
The N588K mutation attenuated I(hERG) inhibition in the following order: E-4031>amiodarone>quinidine>propafenone>disopyramide. Comparing the three inactivation mutants, the two single mutations, although occurring in different modules of the channel, attenuated inactivation to a nearly identical degree, whereas the double mutant caused considerably greater attenuation, permitting the titration of inactivation. Attenuation of channel inhibition was similar between the single mutants for each drug, and was significantly greater with the double mutant.
The degree of drug inhibition of hERG channels may vary based on the level of channel inactivation. Drugs previously identified as useful for treating SQT1 have the least dependence on hERG inactivation. In addition, our findings indicate that amiodarone may warrant further investigation as a potential treatment for SQT1.
Hyperactivity of noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) neurons following withdrawal from chronic opiates has been implicated in the opiate withdrawal syndrome. Here, we report that local withdrawal induced in vivo by microinfusion of an opiate antagonist into the LC of morphine-dependent rats marginally, but significantly, activated LC neurons above the level obtained with local naloxone microinfusion in naive rats. This local withdrawal response contributes a significant fraction (approximately 19%) of the total LC hyperactivity induced by systemic naloxone.
The tobacco-specific nitrosamine, 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), induces lung tumors in rodents and has been suggested as a causative factor in human lung cancer. NNK is activated by α-hydroxylation at either the methyl or methylene carbon adjacent to the N-nitroso group to yield unstable intermediates that spontaneously decompose to produce alkylating agents. 4-(Hydroxymethylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (HO-methyl NNK) glucuronide, a glucuronide of the reactive intermediate of NNK has been identified. However, there are no available data concerning HO-methyl NNK glucuronide. In the present study, we investigated the tissue distribution of HO-methyl NNK glucuronide in control and phenobarbital (PB)-treated rats after intraperitoneal administration of NNK. In PB-treated rats, HO-methyl NNK glucuronide was detected in plasma, kidney, liver, lung, and pancreas. On the contrary, in the control rats, HO-methyl NNK glucuronide was detected only in plasma, kidney and liver at low concentrations compared with PB-treated rats. The results of cumulative urinary excretion of HO-methyl NNK glucuronide in Wistar and Gunn rats suggested that PB-inducible UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B isoforms mainly contribute to the formation of HO-methyl NNK glucuronide.
Response to lamivudine treatment longer than 1 year was compared in 15 patients persistently infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) genotype A, 38 with genotype B, and 449 with genotype C. Patients with genotype A were younger (median age 37 [range 24-49] vs. 47 [24-67] or 44 [18-73], P = 0.015), possessed hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) more frequently (73% vs. 21% or 56%, P < 0.001) and HBV DNA in higher levels (8.6 [6.1-8.7] vs. 6.5 [<3.7-8.7] or 6.5 [<3.7-8.7] log genome equivalents (LGE)/ml, P = 0.024) than those with genotype B or C. During lamivudine, YMDD mutants (89% vs. 53% or 42%, P = 0.0001) and breakthrough hepatitis developed more often (47% vs. 21% or 29%, P = 0.023) in patients with genotype A than B or C. YMDD mutants elicited more frequently in patients with genotype A than B or C who were positive (82% [9/11] vs. 25% [2/8] or 48% [117/245], P = 0.037) or negative for HBeAg (75% [3/4] vs. 30% [9/30] or 33% [68/204], P = 0.003). HBeAg (hazard ratio 2.1 [95% confidence interval 1.53-2.92], P < 0.001) and genotype A (2.78 [1.08-7.12], P = 0.034) enhanced the emergence of YMDD mutants by the Cox proportional hazard model. The risk for breakthrough hepatitis was increased by the baseline alanine aminotransferase level <500 IU/L (2.56 [1.82-5.50], P = 0.018), HBeAg (2.11 [1.40-3.16], P < 0.001), cirrhosis (1.92 [1.24-2.97], P = 0.004) and HBV DNA > or =8.0 LGE/ml (1.57 [1.04-2.36], P = 0.03); it was influenced by genotypes only in patients with HBeAg. In conclusion, HBV genotypes help in predicting response to long-term lamivudine treatment and development of YMDD mutants in patients with chronic hepatitis B.
A 3-yr-old boy received valproic acid (VPA) for recurrent seizures. He developed coma and acute liver failure that were attributed to VPA toxicity, and underwent emergency orthotopic liver transplantation (OLTx). Despite good graft function, his neurological state worsened and led to death a few months later. The diagnosis of Alpers-Huttenlocher Syndrome (AHS) was suspected, subsequently to liver Tx, in view of ongoing neurologic deterioration and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings. The syndrome, recessively inherited, associates brain degeneration with liver failure, and is now considered a mitochondrial disease. Enzyme activity deficiencies of the respiratory chain were identified in muscle mitochondria, as well as morphologic abnormalities of mitochondria in the explanted liver. Guidelines for diagnosis are presented, in order to differentiate the liver failure in AHS from that induced by genuine VPA toxicity. It is recommended to avoid liver Tx in patients with AHS given the fatal neurological course of the disease.
The effect of Myrj 59 (a polyoxyethyleneglycol derivative of stearic acid) on amphotericin B (Am B) solubility, toxicity and activity has been investigated. We showed that Myrj 59 could solubilize the antibiotic. Moreover, it also decreased and abolished the haemolytic activity of the drug by increasing the resistance of the red blood cells and impairing the interaction of Am B with the cellular membrane cholesterol, but it did not modify the in-vitro antifungal activity of the drug. On the other hand, Myrj 59 did not decrease the acute in-vivo toxicity of the drug (LD50 and nephrotoxicity). In a previous study we have shown that a polyoxyethleneglycol derivative of cholesterol could solubilize Am B and was able to decrease the in-vitro and in-vivo toxicity of the antibiotic without altering its in-vitro antifungal activity. The results of the present study suggest that the cholesterol moiety of the surfactant is not necessary to decrease the in-vitro lytic activity of the drug but could play a role in the reduction of the in-vivo toxicity.
The antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA) has been implicated as a human teratogen causing spina bifida aperta. Recently, we developed a mouse model inducing spina bifida aperta with VPA. To elucidate the pathogenesis of VPA-induced spina bifida aperta we now investigated the anatomy and histology of this defect in the mouse. The morphology of spina bifida aperta induced by all-trans-retinoic acid (RA) was used for comparison. Various doses of VPA and RA were administered at different times to determine the periods of sensitivity for inducing spina bifida aperta with these drugs. Each administration regimen consisted of three doses applied at intervals of 6 hr. RA induced spina bifida aperta during an earlier developmental period (day 8 of gestation) than VPA (day 9 of gestation). The most effective regimens for induction of spina bifida aperta in mice were injections of 3 x 500 mg VPA-Na/kg body weight (b.w.) intraperitoneally on day 9 of gestation at 0, 6, and 12 hr; RA (12.5 mg/kg b.w.) was given orally on day 8 of gestation at 12 and 18 hr, day 9 at 0 hr. VPA did not induce spina bifida aperta on day 8 of gestation and RA did not induce this effect on day 9 of gestation. Histological studies of day 18 fetuses carrying spina bifida aperta were performed. The spina bifida aperta induced by VPA shows a disorganized and necrotic spinal cord. In the vertebral canal were observed cell debris, blood cells, capillaries, macrophages, and rests of meninges. These results indicate that the spinal cord is almost destroyed at the affected section. In contrast, the spina bifida aperta induced by RA demonstrates a spinal cord organized in the gray and white matter, the dorsal and ventral horn. But the neural canal does not exist, only a layer of ependymal cells lies on the surface of the spinal cord. Our results indicate that the morphology of spina bifida aperta induced by VPA differed distinctly from that induced by RA in the mouse fetus. Moreover VPA produced a spina bifida aperta with a specific morphology. Also the period of sensitivity for induction of this lesion differed and occurred earlier for RA than for VPA. VPA and RA may possibly induce spina bifida aperta via different mechanisms in the mouse.
After the administration of verapamil for rapid tachycardias, five patients developed ventricular fibrillation or required urgent cardioversion. All episodes occurred in hospital emergency rooms, and each patient was resuscitated. Examination of electrocardiograms confirmed the presence of the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. In four patients, the presenting tachyarrhythmia was atrial fibrillation with preexcited ventricular complexes, and in one patient a narrow QRS complex tachycardia was initially recorded. Acceleration of atrioventricular conduction occurred within 10 minutes of administration of verapamil, 5 to 10 mg intravenously. Subsequently, intracardiac electrophysiologic studies confirmed the presence of accessory atrioventricular pathways capable of rapid antegrade conduction in each patient. Because of this potentially fatal adverse response, verapamil should not be used in patients with atrial fibrillation and preexcited ventricular complexes.
Among survivors of acute myocardial infarction, frequent and repetitive ventricular premature depolarizations (VPDs) detected on ambulatory monitoring contribute independently to the risk of all-cause mortality and sudden death. Apart from the beta-blockers, no antiarrhythmic drug has been reliably demonstrated to reduce mortality among patients with VPDs. A pilot study was undertaken to gather data to aid in the design of a multicenter trial of amiodarone for the reduction of mortality from cardiac arrhythmias in such patients.
Seventy-seven patients with acute myocardial infarction within the previous 6-30 days and 10 or more VPDs/hr or one or more runs of ventricular tachycardia on 24-hour electrocardiographic recording were randomized in a double-blind fashion in a 2:1 amiodarone-to-placebo ratio. The loading dose was 10 mg/kg/day for 3 weeks. The maintenance dose was 300-400 mg/day with reductions at 4-month intervals in response to VPD suppression, excessive plasma levels, or toxicity. VPD suppression at 1 week and 2 weeks was 63% and 85%, respectively, on amiodarone and 17% and 27%, respectively, on placebo. Apart from thyroid-stimulating hormone elevation and skin reactions, no side effects occurred more frequently with amiodarone. The study drug was stopped for side effects or noncompliance in 35% of amiodarone patients and 34% of placebo patients. Patients were followed for a maximum of 2 years (mean, 20 months). Arrhythmic death or resuscitated ventricular fibrillation occurred in two of 48 amiodarone patients (6%) and four of 29 placebo patients (14%), whereas the rates of all-cause mortality were five of 48 (10%) and six of 29 (21%), respectively.
Amiodarone, in moderate loading and maintenance dosages with adjustments in response to plasma levels, VPD suppression, and side effects, results in effective VPD suppression and acceptable levels of toxicity.
This study investigated the ex vivo effects of the moderate red wine (RW) and grape juice (GJ) consumption, and the in vitro effects of the resveratrol, caffeic acid, gallic acid, quercetin, and rutin on NTPDase (nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase), ecto-nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase (E-NPP), 5'-nucleotidase, and adenosine deaminase (ADA) activities in platelets and platelet aggregation from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. The animals were divided into six groups (n = 10): control/saline, control/GJ, control/RW, diabetic/saline, diabetic/GJ, and diabetic/RW. RW and GJ were administered for 45 days; after this period, the blood was collected for experimental determinations. Results showed that NTPDase, E-NPP, 5'-nucleotidase, and ADA activities as well as platelet aggregation were increased in the diabetic/saline group compared to the control/saline group. Treatment with RW and GJ increased ectonucleotidases activities and prevented the increase in the ADA activity in the diabetic/GJ and diabetic/RW groups. Platelet aggregation was also decreased by the treatment with RW and GJ in the diabetic/GJ and diabetic/RW groups. In the in vitro tests, resveratrol, caffeic acid, and gallic acid increased ATP, ADP, and AMP hydrolysis, while quercetin and rutin decreased the hydrolysis of these nucleotides in platelets of diabetic rats. The ADA activity and platelet aggregation were reduced in platelets of diabetic rats in the presence of all polyphenols tested in vitro. These findings suggest that RW, GJ, and all polyphenols tested were able to modulate the ectoenzymes activities. Moreover, a decrease in the platelet aggregation was observed and it could contribute to the prevention of platelet abnormality, and consequently vascular complications in diabetic state.
To identify genes involved in vascular disease, we investigated patients with supravalvular aortic stenosis (SVAS), an inherited vascular disorder that causes hemodynamically significant narrowing of large elastic arteries. Pulsed-field gel and Southern analyses showed that a translocation near the elastin gene cosegregated with SVAS in one family. DNA sequence analyses demonstrated that the translocation disrupted the elastin gene and localized the breakpoint to exon 28. Taken together with our previous study linking SVAS to the elastin gene in two additional families and existing knowledge of vascular biology, these data suggest that mutations in the elastin gene can cause SVAS.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) and hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) represent multiple disorders with diverse etiologies. We compared the gender and race of 335 patients enrolled in the Oklahoma TTP-HUS Registry across 21 years for their first episode of TTP or HUS to appropriate control groups. The relative frequency of women and white race among patients with TTP-HUS-associated with a bloody diarrhea prodrome and the relative frequency of women with quinine-associated TTP-HUS were significantly greater than their control populations. The relative frequency of women and black race among patients with idiopathic TTP and TTP-associated with severe ADAMTS13 deficiency was significantly greater than their control populations. The relative frequency of black race among patients who had systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) preceding TTP was significantly greater than among a population of patients with SLE, and the relative frequency of black race among patients with other autoimmune disorders preceding TTP was significantly greater than their control population. No significant gender or race disparities were present among patients with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation-associated thrombotic microangiopathy, TTP associated with pregnancy, or TTP associated with drugs other than quinine. The validity of these observations is supported by the enrollment of all consecutive patients across 21 years from a defined geographic region, without selection or referral bias. These observations of different gender and race disparities among the TTP-HUS syndromes suggest the presence of different risk factors and may serve as starting points for novel investigations of pathogenesis.
Preclinical studies have shown that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may be involved in antidepressant action, and the BDNF gene has been suggested to be involved in the pharmacological treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). In this study, the relationship between BDNF Val66Met polymorphism (Single Nucleotide Polymorphism Database ID: rs6265) and severity of depression, efficacy of fluoxetine and its side effects was tested in Chinese patients with MDD.
Patients with MDD took the oral selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine (20 mg/day) for 6 weeks. Its clinical efficacy and side effects were measured by the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and the Treatment-Emergent Symptoms Scale (TESS), respectively. The patients were genotyped for Val66Met polymorphism of the BDNF gene.
In the multivariate regression analysis, there was no significant association between severity of depression and BDNF Val66Met polymorphism. There was no association between efficacy of fluoxetine and BDNF Val66Met polymorphism, but there was a marginal positive suggestion that heterozygous patients tended to have a better remission with fluoxetine in comparison with homozygous analogs. Insomnia and decreased sexual desire, side effects of fluoxetine, may have an association with the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism, and Met allele carriers showed a lower incidence of these side effects.
These results indicate that there was a lack of association between severity of depression and BDNF Val66Met polymorphism in Chinese patients with MDD. The BDNF Val66Met polymorphism may play a major role in the efficacy and side effects of SSRI (fluoxetine) in Chinese patients with MDD.
Phenytoin toxicity occurred in an older man who received a dosage of 300 mg/day. The patient developed high serum phenytoin concentrations from this common adult dosage, with symptoms of functional decline and altered mental status. These behaviors were perceived as sun-downing and were treated with haloperidol. A long hospitalization was required.
Sublesional osteoporosis predisposes individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI) to an increased risk of low-trauma fracture. The aim of the present work was to investigate the effect of treatment with resveratrol (RES) on sublesional bone loss in spinal cord-injured rats.
Complete SCI was generated by surgical transaction of the cord at the T10-12 level. Treatment with RES (400 mg·kg(-1) body mass per day(-1) , intragastrically) was initiated 12 h after the surgery for 10 days. Then, blood was collected and femurs and tibiae were removed for evaluation of the effects of RES on bone tissue after SCI.
Treatment of SCI rats with RES prevented the reduction of bone mass including bone mineral content and bone mineral density in tibiae, preserved bone structure including trabecular bone volume fraction, trabecular number, and trabecular thickness in tibiae, and preserved mechanical strength including ultimate load, stiffness, and energy in femurs. Treatment of SCI rats with RES enhanced femoral total sulfhydryl content, reduced femoral malondialdehyde and IL-6 mRNA levels. Treatment of SCI rats with RES suppressed the up-regulation of mRNA levels of PPARγ, adipose-specific fatty-acid-binding protein and lipoprotein lipase, and restored mRNA levels of Wnt1, low-density lipoprotein-related protein 5, Axin2, ctnnb1, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and receptor for IGF-1 in femurs and tibiae.
Treatment with RES attenuated sublesional bone loss in spinal-cord-injured rats, associated with abating oxidative stress, attenuating inflammation, depressing PPARγ signalling, and restoring Wnt/β-catenin and IGF-1 signalling.
