Propranolol administered subcutaneously in a dise of 30 mg/kg twice a day for 3 weeks did not significantly lower systolic tail blood pressure (STBP) in chronic two-kidney Goldblatt hypertension in rats. Plasma renin activity (PRA) measured at the end of the treatment was not significantly different in propranolol treated and dextrose treated rats, although there was marked bradycardia in propranolol treated rats. However, 3 out of 10 propranolol treated hypertensive rats had pressures in the normotensive range during the last week of therapy. PRA values in these three rats were significantly lower than those in dextrose treated hypertensive rats. STBP on day 20 showed a positive correlation with PRA in both propranolol (r = 0.90, p less than 0.01) and dextrose (r = 0.85, p less than 0.01) treated hypertensive rats. Hypertension was associated with an increase in heart weight, which was significantly blunted but not abolished by propranolol treatment. Thus, propranolol did not decrease blood pressure in most rats with chronic two-kidney Goldblatt hypertension; when it did lower blood pressure, its antihypertensive effect appeared related to its renin suppression effect. Furthermore, propranolol mitigated hypertension induced cardiac hypertrophy, independently of its antihypertensive effect.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNA molecules that regulate posttranscriptional gene expression. Previous research has suggested that aberrant miRNA expression often plays a critical role in many types of cancer, including lung cancer. However, the exact miRNAs that are involved in pulmonary carcinogenesis remain unclear. We investigated the miRNA-based molecular changes that occur in urethane-induced carcinogenicity and identified specific miRNA deregulation in pulmonary carcinogenesis induced by urethane. In this study, we used a lung cancer model in which Balb/c mice were exposed to urethane via ip injection once a week for four consecutive weeks. The mice were then killed in weeks 6, 12, or 24. Two small RNA libraries were constructed with the total RNA from the lung tumor and normal adjacent lung tissues of the urethane-injected mice collected in week 24. Using Solexa sequencing, we identified a plethora of differentially expressed miRNAs and predicted nine novel miRNAs. Further analysis demonstrated the sustainable downregulation of miR-1a in the lung tissues in lung carcinogenesis induced by urethane. The levels of miR-1a were also reduced in the serum. Our findings indicate that urethane exposure alters the expression of a cluster of miRNAs. The simultaneous downregulation of miR-1a in lung tissues and serum in urethane-induced pulmonary carcinogenesis suggests that miR-1a is associated with tumorigenesis.
Higher levels of endogenous sex steroid hormones are associated with increased risks of breast cancer in postmenopausal women. Data for premenopausal women are sparse, in part because of the complexity of measuring hormone levels that vary cyclically. We prospectively evaluated associations between plasma sex hormone levels and breast cancer risk among premenopausal women in a case-control study nested within the Nurses' Health Study II.
From 1996 to 1999, blood samples were collected from 18,521 premenopausal women during the early follicular and midluteal phases of their menstrual cycles. A total of 197 cases of breast cancer were diagnosed among these women after blood collection and before June 1, 2003; these case subjects were matched to 394 control subjects. Logistic regression models, controlling for breast cancer risk factors, were used to calculate relative risks (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). All statistical tests were two-sided.
Women in the highest (versus the lowest) quartiles of follicular total and free estradiol levels had statistically significantly increased risks of breast cancer (RR = 2.1 [95% CI = 1.1 to 4.1], P(trend) = .08, and RR = 2.4 [95% CI = 1.3 to 4.5], P(trend) = .01, respectively); the associations were stronger for invasive breast cancer and for estrogen and progesterone receptor-positive (ER+/PR+) tumors. Luteal estradiol levels were not associated with breast cancer risk. Higher levels of total and free testosterone and androstenedione in both menstrual cycle phases were associated with modest, non-statistically significant increases in overall risk of breast cancer and with stronger, statistically significant increases in risks of invasive and ER+/PR+ cancers (e.g., RR of invasive cancers for the top [versus bottom] quartile of luteal total testosterone levels = 2.0 [95% CI = 1.1 to 3.6], P(trend) = .05, and RR of ER+/PR+ cancers = 2.9 [95% CI = 1.4 to 6.0], P(trend) = .02). Levels of estrone, estrone sulfate, progesterone, and sex hormone-binding globulin were not associated with breast cancer risk. The absolute number of cases observed over 3 years were 30 among women in the lowest 25% of follicular total estradiol levels and 50 among women in the highest 25%.
Levels of circulating estrogens and androgens may be important in the etiology of premenopausal breast cancer.
Angiogenesis, the induction of vessel growth is involved in numerous physiological and pathological processes. While the anti-tumor effect of angiogenesis inhibitors has been extensively investigated in malignant tumors, there is very little information on the effect of angiogenesis inhibitors on inflammation induced angiogenesis. In this report, we utilized a murine model of acute chemically induced cystitis to investigate the ability of three different angiogenesis inhibitors, angiostatin, endostatin and TNP-470, to inhibit the angiogenesis stimulated by this injury. We demonstrate herein, that prophylactic application of the angiogenesis inhibitors led to a significant reduction of each of the inflammatory parameters that were measured. We conclude that anti-angiogenic therapy with angiostatin, endostatin and TNP-470 inhibits inflammation associated angiogenesis induced in this model. We also propose that anti-angiogenic agents may serve as a valuable addition to a standard cyclophosphamid chemotherapy regimen to help reduce the chemotherapy-related side effects while potentially adding an anti-tumor effect.
Octreotide, an effective treatment for acromegaly, induces gall bladder stones in 13-60% of patients. Because knowledge of stone composition is essential for studies of their pathogenesis, treatment, and prevention, this was investigated by direct and indirect methods in 14 octreotide treated acromegalic patients with gall stones. Chemical analysis of gall stones retrieved at cholecystectomy from two patients, showed that they contained 71% and 87% cholesterol by weight. In the remaining 12 patients, localised computed tomography of the gall bladder showed that eight had stones with maximum attenuation scores of < 100 Hounsfield units (values of < 100 HU predict cholesterol rich, dissolvable stones). Gall bladder bile was obtained by ultrasound guided, fine needle puncture from six patients. All six patients had supersaturated bile (mean (SEM) cholesterol saturation index of 1.19 (0.08) (range 1.01-1.53)) and all had abnormally rapid cholesterol microcrystal nucleation times (< 4 days (range 1-4)), whilst in four, the bile contained cholesterol microcrystals immediately after sampling. Of the 12 patients considered for oral ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) treatment, two had a blocked cystic duct and were not started on UDCA while one was lost to follow up. After one year of treatment, five of the remaining nine patients showed either partial (n = 3) or complete (n = 2) gall stone dissolution, suggesting that their stones were cholesterol rich. This corresponds, by actuarial (life table) analysis, to a combined gall stone dissolution rate of 58.3 (15.9%). In conclusion, octreotide induced gall stones are generally small, multiple, and cholesterol rich although, in common with spontaneous gall stone disease, at presentation some patients will have a blocked cystic duct and some gall stones containing calcium.
Three-hundred and twenty-four patients were enrolled in an open-label, multicenter, international study in which pre- and post-liver transplantation (LT) patients with recurrent chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and evidence of lamivudine-resistant HBV were treated with adefovir dipivoxil 10 mg once daily. In the pre- and post-LT cohorts, 128 and 196 patients were treated for a median duration of 18.7 and 56.1 weeks, respectively. In patients who received 48 weeks of treatment, 81% of the pre-LT and 34% of the post-LT cohort achieved undetectable serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA (Roche Amplicor Monitor polymerase chain reaction [PCR] assay lower limit of quantification [LLQ] < 400 copies/mL) with a median change in serum HBV DNA from baseline of -4.1 log(10) and -4.3 log(10) copies/mL, respectively. Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), albumin, bilirubin, and prothrombin time normalized in 76%, 81%, 50%, and 83% of pre-LT patients and 49%, 76%, 75%, and 20% of post-LT patients. The Child-Pugh-Turcotte (CPT) score improved in over 90% of patients in both cohorts. Genotypic analysis of 122 HBV baseline samples revealed that 98% of these patients had lamivudine-resistant mutant HBV. No adefovir resistance mutations were identified in patients after 48 weeks of therapy. One-year survival was 84% for pre-LT and 93% for post-LT patients (Kaplan-Meier analysis). Treatment-related adverse effects associated with adefovir dipivoxil in this setting were primarily mild to moderate in severity. In conclusion, 48 weeks of adefovir dipivoxil resulted in significant improvements in virologic, biochemical, and clinical parameters in CHB patients pre- and post-LT with lamivudine-resistant HBV.
Riddelliine belongs to a class of toxic pyrrolizidine alkaloids and is isolated from plants of the genera Crotalaria, Amsinckia, and Senecio that grow in the western United States. Cattle, horses, and sheep that ingest these plants succumb to their toxic effects. Riddelliine residues have been found in meat, milk, and honey, and the plants may contaminate human food sources. Riddelliine was nominated for study by the Food and Drug Administration because of its potential for human exposure and its economic impact on the livestock industry and because the toxicity of other pyrrolizidine alkaloids suggests riddelliine may be carcinogenic. Male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice received riddelliine (approximately 92% pure) by gavage. Female rats and male and female mice were dosed for 2 years; due to high mortality, the study in male rats was terminated at week 72. In vitro genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium and in cultured Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. In addition, riddelliine was evaluated in vivo for induction of micronuclei in mouse bone marrow and peripheral blood erythrocytes and for induction of S-phase DNA synthesis and unscheduled DNA synthesis in the liver of rats and mice. Riddelliine-induced DNA adduct levels were determined in liver tissue obtained from female rats admininstered riddelliine for 3 or 6 months. 2-YEAR STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 50 male and 50 female rats were administered 0 or 1 mg riddelliine/kg body weight in sodium phosphate buffer by gavage 5 days per week; additional groups of 50 female rats received 0.01, 0.033, 0.1, or 0.33 mg/kg. A wide dose range was used in female rats to better characterize the dose-response curve. Females were dosed for 105 weeks; due to high mortality, male rats were terminated at week 72. All but three 1 mg/kg males died before week 70, and all 1 mg/kg females died before week 97. Mean body weights of 1 mg/kg males and females were less than those of the vehicle controls throughout most of the study. The only clinical finding related to riddelliine administration was a general debilitation of the animals prior to death. Hemangiosarcomas were present in the liver of 86% of males and 76% of females in the 1 mg/kg groups, and this neoplasm was considered the cause of the large number of early deaths in these groups. The incidences of hepatocellular adenoma and mononuclear cell leukemia in 1 mg/kg males and females were significantly increased. Nonneoplastic lesions related to riddelliine treatment occurred in the liver and kidney of males and females. Analyses of liver tissue from female rats treated with riddelliine for 3 or 6 months yielded eight DNA adducts; these were the same as DNA adducts formed in vitro by the metabolism of riddelliine by human liver microsomes in the presence of calf thymus DNA. 2-YEAR STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 50 male and 50 female mice were administered riddelliine in sodium phosphate buffer by gavage at doses of 0 or 3 mg/kg, 5 days per week, for 105 weeks; additional groups of 50 male mice received 0.1, 0.3, or 1 mg/kg for 105 weeks. A wide dose range was used in male mice to better characterize the dose-response curve. Survival of males and females administered 3 mg/kg was significantly less than that of the vehicle controls. Mean body weights of 3 mg/kg mice were less than those of the vehicle controls throughout most of the study. Hemangiosarcomas of the liver were present in 62% of males in the 3 mg/kg group. The incidences of hepatocellular neoplasms occurred with negative trends in male mice and were significantly decreased in 3 mg/kg females. The incidences of alveolar/bronchiolar neoplasms in 3 mg/kg females were significantly increased. Nonneoplastic lesions related to riddelliine administration occurred in the liver and kidney of males and females and in the lung and arteries (multiple tissues) of females.
Riddelliine was mutagenic in S. typhimurium strain TA100 with, but not without, S9 activation; no significant mutagenic activity was detected in strain TA98 or TA1535,ed in strain TA98 or TA1535, with or without S9. A small, dose-related increase in mutant colonies seen in strain TA97 with S9 was judged to be equivocal. Riddelliine induced sister chromatid exchanges in cultured CHO cells with and without S9. Chromosomal aberrations were induced in CHO cells only in the presence of S9. Following 4 or 13 weeks of daily gavage treatment with riddelliine, no increases in the frequency of micronucleated erythrocytes were noted in the peripheral blood of male or female B6C3F1 mice. Use of a single intraperitoneal injection protocol, however, produced a small but significant increase in the frequency of micronucleated eryth-rocytes in peripheral blood of male Swiss mice 48 hours after injection; bone marrow analysis 24 hours after injection demonstrated a small but insignificant increase in the frequency of micronuclei. Unscheduled DNA synthesis was detected in cultured hepatocytes from male and female rats and mice following 5 or 30 days of riddelliine treatment by gavage. In addition, an S-phase DNA synthesis was observed in cultured hepatocytes of male and female rats treated for either time period.
Under the conditions of these studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of riddelliine in male and female F344/N rats based primarily on increased incidences of hemangiosarcoma in the liver. The increased incidences of hepatocellular adenoma and mononuclear cell leukemia in male and female rats were also considered to be treatment related. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of riddelliine in male B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of hemangiosarcoma in the liver. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity in female B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of alveolar/bronchiolar neoplasms. Administration of riddelliine by gavage resulted in nonneoplastic lesions in the liver and kidney of male and female rats; the liver and kidney of male and female mice; and the lung and arteries (multiple tissues) of female mice. Decreased incidences of hepatocellular neoplasms in male and female mice were related to riddelliine administration.
This study addressed the hypothesis that epoxidation of the double bond in allylnitrile mediates its vestibular toxicity, directly or after subsequent metabolism by epoxide hydrolases. The potential metabolites 3,4-epoxybutyronitrile and 3,4-dihydroxybutyronitrile were synthesized and characterized. In aqueous solutions containing sodium or potassium ions, 3,4-epoxybutyronitrile rearranged to 4-hydroxybut-2-enenitrile, and this compound was also isolated for study. Male adult Long-Evans rats were exposed to allylnitrile or 3,4-epoxybutyronitrile by bilateral transtympanic injection, and vestibular toxicity was assessed using a behavioral test battery and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) observation of the sensory epithelia. Overt vestibular toxicity was caused by 3,4-epoxybutyronitrile at 0.125 mmol/ear and by allylnitrile in some animals at 0.25 mmol/ear. Additional rats were exposed by unilateral transtympanic injection. In these studies, behavioral evidences and SEM observations demonstrated unilateral vestibular toxicity after 0.125 mmol of 3,4-epoxybutyronitrile and bilateral vestibular toxicity after 0.50 mmol of allylnitrile. However, 0.25 mmol of allylnitrile did not cause vestibular toxicity. Unilateral administration of 0.50 mmol of 3,4-dihydroxybutyronitrile or 4-hydroxybut-2-enenitrile caused no vestibular toxicity. The four compounds were also evaluated in the mouse utricle explant culture model. In 8-h exposure experiments, hair cells completely disappeared after 3,4-epoxybutyronitrile at concentrations of 325 or 450μM but not at concentrations of 150μM or lower. In contrast, no difference from controls was recorded in utricles exposed to 450μM or 1.5mM of allylnitrile, 3,4-dihydroxybutyronitrile, or 4-hydroxybut-2-enenitrile. Taken together, the present data support the hypothesis that 3,4-epoxybutyronitrile is the active metabolite of allylnitrile for vestibular toxicity.
An auditory-evoked magnetic field was recorded before and during tinnitus remission induced by an intravenous lidocaine injection. One and 4 kHz probe tones were presented monaurally in four tinnitus patients, and the responses were recorded using a 122-channel magnetometer. Three normal volunteers were also examined as controls. In tinnitus patients, the N100 m peak became sharper, while there was no marked change except for slight reduction in amplitude in normal subjects. Tinnitus remission by lidocaine may be related to attenuation of a masking-like effect of tinnitus on the sound-evoked responses.
Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) is associated with male reproductive disorders, but its targets and mechanisms are poorly understood. We used in vitro and in vivo models to explore the roles of Sertoli cells and the blood-testis barrier (BTB) in PFOS-induced male reproductive dysfunction. First, we used primary Sertoli cell to estimate PFOS-induced cytotoxicity, junction proteins expression, and the changes of barrier function. ICR mice were then administered PFOS (0.25-50mg/kg/day) for 4 weeks. Sperm count, ultrastructure and permeability of the Sertoli cell-based BTB, and testicular PFOS were estimated. Furthermore, the expression and localization of proteins related to junctions between Sertoli cells and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway were evaluated. Apparent decreases in sperm count were found. PFOS significantly increased vacuolization in Sertoli cells in seminiferous tubules and BTB ultrastructural disassembly, which subsequently increased BTB permeability and testicular PFOS levels, which was confirmed by in vitro results that PFOS decreased transepithelial electrical resistance between Sertoli cells. Additionally, PFOS decreased the expression of junction proteins in Sertoli cells, which was further confirmed by in vivo results that PFOS decreased or dislocated junction proteins (i.e., ZO-1, occludin, claudin-11, and connexin-43) and increased proteins related to the MAPK signaling pathway (i.e., Erk and p38), whereas basal ectoplasmic specialization proteins did not change. The results were confirmed by SB203580, a p38 MAPK selective inhibitor. Sertoli cells appear to be a new cellular target for PFOS. Together with disruption of BTB integrity and function, these cells play an important role in PFOS-induced male reproductive toxicity.
This phase II trial investigated the efficacy and safety of oxaliplatin (O), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and folinic acid (FA) (OFF) as second-line treatment for patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma after failure of first-line gemcitabine treatment.
37 patients with confirmed progressive disease on gemcitabine therapy were treated with OFF (O 85 mg/m(2) days 8, 22; FA 500 mg/m(2), followed by 5-FU 2,600 mg/m(2) days 1, 8, 15, 22) every 6 weeks. Patients were treated on an outpatient basis and remained on treatment until disease progression.
All patients were assessable for toxicity and effectiveness. We observed moderate hematotoxicity, the most common non-hematologic toxicity was neurotoxicity. A total of 12 patients had grade 3 nonhematologic toxicities: nausea and vomiting (4 patients), reversible neurotoxicity (5 patients), and diarrhea (3 patients). No grade 4 toxicities were observed. Median time to progression was 12 (1-125) weeks. Survival in second line was 22 (4-326+) weeks. Overall disease control rate was 49% (complete remission = 3%; partial remission = 3%; stable disease > 12 weeks = 43%).
This regimen is feasible and active with an acceptable toxicity profile; it can be safely administered in an outpatient setting. There is an urgent need for further investigation in phase III trials.
A comparative analysis of the effectiveness and expediency of the local application of collocyl (128 patients), trypsin immobilized on textile cellulose and kapron matrix (186 patients) and gauze bandage moistened with a solution of enzymes and 10% sodium chloride was made. It was shown that collocyl as well as trypsin modified gauze and kapron accelerated cleansing the wounds of nonviable tissues, decreased their infectivity, reduced intoxication of the organism and improved the course of the wound process.
Dopamine replacement therapy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease leads to deleterious abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), known as L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia, which parallels enhanced striatal dopamine D1 receptor-mediated signaling. Recent evidence suggests stimulation of striatal serotonin (5-HT) 1B receptors may reduce D1-mediated signaling. Given this potential antidyskinetic mechanism, male hemiparkinsonian Sprague-Dawley rats received treatments of D1 receptor agonist, SKF81297, (0.8 mg/kg) or L-DOPA (12 mg/kg, subcutaneous injection). Dyskinetic movements were rated using the AIMs scale. Rats were then administered vehicle (100% dimethyl sulfoxide) or the 5-HT1B receptor agonist, CP94253, (1.5 or 3.0 mg/kg, subcutaneous injection), followed by SKF81297 or L-DOPA and rated for AIMs. Results indicate that CP94253 mitigates both L-DOPA and D1 receptor agonist-induced dyskinesia. These findings suggest that 5-HT1B receptor stimulation directly diminishes D1 receptor-mediated dyskinesia, implicating an important target for the treatment of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
We investigated 39 primary hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) for aberrations in DNA copy number, using comparative genomic hybridization (CGH). Gain of DNA at 8q was common in these tumors; high-level gains, indicative of gene amplification, occurred most frequently at 8q23-q24. Gains of 8q correlated with large (>5 cm) tumor size. To identify targets of the amplification events involving 8q, we determined expression levels of 14 candidate genes within that region in a total of 41 HCCs by means of real-time quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reactions (RT-PCR). Significant correlation was found between elevated levels of expression and increases in copy number for PTK2 (located at 8q24.3) and EIF3S3 (at 8q23.3), but for none of the other candidates, which included MYC (8q24.1). Southern blot analyses confirmed that PTK2 and EIF3S3 were amplified, respectively, in 5 (19%) and 7 (26%) of the 27 tumors examined in accordance with expression patterns, an indication that expression of PTK2 and EIF3S3 was probably up-regulated by the amplification mechanism. When we analyzed potential relationships between elevated expression of PTK2 and EIF3S3 and clinicopathologic parameters, high expression of the 2 transcripts was significantly associated with large (>5 cm) tumor size and with hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. In conclusion, PTK2 and EIF3S3, which, respectively, encode focal adhesion kinase and the p40 subunit of the eukaryotic initiation factor 3, were probable targets within the amplification at 8q23-q24 and may be involved in progression of HCC.
We describe 8 cases of osteoid osteoma of the spine and the pelvis. In the rare cases of this tumor the clinical symptoms are not specific. The typical nocturnal exacerbation of the pain was absent in 2 of our 8 patients. More often the main symptoms were abnormalities of the gait or deformation of the spine, partly secondary to the often absent pain. Pain relief after aspirin is described but not constant. The aspirin test was positive in 4 of our 8 cases (in 20-50% of the cases in the literature). It must be emphasized that conventional-x-ray is often not diagnostic, and therefore the diagnosis is often delayed. If there is suspicion of osteoid osteoma a technetium bone scan should be performed. CT-scan is required for preoperative evaluation. Treatment of choice is the excision of the tumor in healthy tissue, which was successful in all our 8 cases.
To explore the roles of abnormalities of thymocytic abnormal apoptosis and its Fas expression in patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) in generation of autoimmune response.
The thymocytes were isolated and thymus extractive was prepared from fresh thymic tissue excised from MG patients. The proliferation of thymocyes was evaluated by MTT colorimetry. The apoptosis of thymocytes were examined by DNA electrophoresis. Expression of Fas was analyzed by a FACScan flow cytometry. Transcription and mutation of Fas gene were detected by RT-PCR and single-stranded conformation polymorphism ( SSCP) analysis.
Thymus extractive could inhibit proliferation of normal thymocytes, while had no influence on the thymocytic proliferation of MG patients. The proliferation of thymocytes of both normal persons and MG patients could be inhibited by thymus extractive in the presence of dexamethasone. The inhibition rates were 58. 33% and 54. 26% respectively. The cocultured thymocytes with dexamethasone showed characteristic apoptosis pattern and the DNA electrophoresis exhibited 'ladder' appearance. The abnormal bands in Fas mRNA of partial MG patients' thymocytes were found by RT-PCR-SSCP analysis.
Abnormalities of apoptosis and Fas gene expression of MG patients' thymocytes, and Fas gene mutation may be related to the pathogenesis and progression of MG.
To investigate long-term cardiac sequelae associated with anthracycline use in adjuvant chemotherapy of patients with early breast cancer.
All 1,000 patients from three prospective trials of adjuvant chemotherapy containing doxorubicin (n = 637, median total dose of 294 mg/m(2)) or not containing the anthracycline (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil [CMF] regimen alone, n = 363) were analyzed for the relative incidence of congestive heart failure (CHF) and myocardial infarction (MI) during 14 years of follow-up. The 462 women continuously free of disease as of February 1996 were recalled, and 355 consented to undergo evaluation including 12-lead ECG and cardiac ultrasound with determination of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) to assess the relative incidence of abnormalities in long-term survivors.
Among the 1,000 patients, there were six cases of CHF and three cases of MI. Cumulative cardiac mortality accounted for 0.4% (doxorubicin-treated = 0.6%; CMF-treated = 0). Eighteen (5%) of the 355 patients undergoing cardiac evaluation after median 11 years of follow-up presented systolic dysfunction as defined by pathologic (< 50%, n = 8) or borderline (50% to 55%, n = 10) LVEF. Systolic dysfunction was higher in doxorubicin-treated (15 of 192; 8%) than in CMF-treated patients (three of 150; 2%). Breast irradiation had a significant impact on the occurrence of early CHF (four of 116; 3%), but not on systolic dysfunctions.
At longer than 10 years of follow-up, the use of doxorubicin at a total dose commonly applied in regimens of adjuvant chemotherapy does not lead to cardiac clinical sequelae that counter-balance the benefit of treatment in patients with operable breast cancer who may be cured of their disease.
Recently, two polymorphisms (DBH5'-Ins/del and DBH 444 g/a) of the Dopamine Beta Hydroxylase (DBH) gene were isolated, and one haplotype (Del-a) was found to be associated with low DBH activity and cocaine-induced paranoia. The purpose of this study is to test for association between these two polymorphisms and schizophrenia or its phenotypic variability with respect to neuroleptic therapeutic response and symptom profile. Allelic and haplotype distributions of these two polymorphisms were compared between two groups of schizophrenic patients (excellent neuroleptic-responders; R, n = 42 and non-responders; NR, n = 64), and one group of healthy volunteers (n = 120). The "Del" and "a" alleles were in positive linkage disequilibrium. No allelic or genotype differences in the distribution of these two polymorphisms were observed between patients and controls. However, The Del-a haplotype was significantly more common in NR patients, and the mean total BPRS score was significantly higher in the group of patients with the Del-a compared to those without the Del-a haplotype. These results suggest that the DBH gene is not a causative factor in schizophrenia but that it may be a modulator of psychotic symptoms, severity of the disorder and therapeutic response to neuroleptic drugs.
A 42-year-old woman was admitted because of cough, sputum, and fever. A chest roentgenogram revealed a nodular density in the left upper lung field with satellite lesions compatible with tuberculoma. Mycobacterium tuberculosis was detected from sputum. Five weeks after starting the treatment with 0.4 g/day of isoniazid, 0.45 g/day of rifampicin, and 0.75 g/day of streptomycin, she showed itching erythema in the trunk. The white blood cell count was 4,500/mm3 with 14% eosinophils, and serum transaminases were slightly increased (GOT 101 U/L, GPT 74 U/L). Although isoniazid and rifampicin were stopped, the erythema with exfoliation spread to her extremities, suggesting exfoliative dermatitis. The white blood cell count reached 15,990/mm3 with 68% eosinophils (10,810/mm3). Stimulation indices measured with the lymphocyte stimulation test (LST) were 109% with rifampicin, 140% with isoniazid, and 275% with streptomycin, suggesting streptomycin-induced allergy. After cessation of streptomycin, the symptoms gradually improved. After the reaction had subsided, the treatment with isoniazid, rifampicin, and ethambutol was resumed, but she showed no further adverse reactions. LST seems to be very useful to identify the drug or drugs responsible for the reactions occurred during the treatment by antituberculosis drugs.
Chemotherapy is used in the treatment of children and adolescents with malignant diseases. Some of the chemotherapeutic agents are highly toxic and may cause a number of side effects. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the long-term effects on hearing in cancer survivors who had received platinum-based chemotherapy in childhood or adolescence.
Medical records of 297 patients, who had received treatment for cancer at the Children's Hospital, Landspitali University Hospital in Iceland between 1981 and 2006, were retrospectively reviewed. Fifteen subjects fulfilled the eligibility criteria for the study and underwent an extended audiometric evaluation.
The results showed that three of the subjects had a high frequency hearing loss. In one subject, we observed a hearing recovery just after the completion of chemotherapy, but the hearing deteriorated again some years later. Nine of the 15 subjects (60%) had tinnitus after the cancer treatment. An evaluation of subjective hearing disability and handicap (The Hearing Measurements Scale) revealed that some subjects had great difficulties with hearing in certain situations. The Hearing Measurement Scale showed that the pure-tone audiogram findings were only partly associated with the apparent hearing difficulties.
Regular follow-up hearing examinations, which include both pure-tone audiogram investigations and subjective hearing disability assessments, should be performed during and after chemotherapy to identify subjects who require particular attention. This will ensure that hearing impaired individuals are provided with the most suitable listening devices, to promote good speech and social development.
Statin-fibrate combinations are commonly used to treat hyperlipidemia. These drugs have been previously reported to cause rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure. Whether different statin-fibrate combinations have different risks for rhabdomyolysis is not known. We report a patient who developed rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure promptly after switching from the combination of pravastatin and fenofibrate to simvastatin and gemfibrozil.
Low-molecular-weight organic chromium complexes such as chromium picolinate are often used as dietary supplements to improve insulin sensitivity and to correct dyslipidemia. However, toxicity associated with such chromium compounds has compromised their therapeutic value. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of a newly synthesized complex of chromium with phenylalanine, Cr(pa)3 on insulin-signaling and glucose tolerance. Cr(pa)3 was synthesized by chelating chromium(III) with D-phenylalanine ligand in aqueous solution. In mouse 3T3-adipocytes, Cr(pa)3 augmented insulin-stimulated glucose-uptake as assessed by a radioactive-glucose uptake assay. At the molecular level, Cr(pa)3 enhanced insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of Akt in a time- and concentration-dependent manner without altering the phosphorylation of insulin receptor. Oral treatment with Cr(pa)3 (150 microg/kg/d, for six weeks) in ob/ob+/+ obese mice significantly alleviated glucose tolerance compared with untreated obese mice. Unlike chromium picolinate, Cr(pa)3 does not cleave DNA under physiological reducing conditions. Collectively, these data suggest that Cr(pa)3 may represent a novel, less-toxic chromium supplement with potential therapeutic value to improve insulin sensitivity and glycemic control in type II diabetes.
This report describes an increased incidence of neurotoxic side effects secondary to isoniazid therapy in patients with end-stage renal disease. Toxicity was observed only in those patients receiving pyridoxine supplements of less than 100 mg/day. The increased sensitivity of the dialysis population to isoniazid neurotoxicity is predominantly due to abnormal metabolism of pyridoxine resulting in low serum levels of the active metabolite, pyridoxal phosphate. In addition, there is rapid clearance of pyridoxal phosphate by hemodialysis, resulting in a severer deficiency of this active metabolite. In order to prevent the neurotoxicity associated with isoniazid therapy, we recommend that 100 mg/day of pyridoxine be given as a supplement to hemodialysis patients requiring isoniazid therapy.
To correlate clinical and urodynamic findings with MRI in patients with spinal cord injury and detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia who were consecutively treated with transperineal injections of botulinum-A toxin (BTX-A) under EMG control.
Six patients with spinal cord injury and upper motor neuron bladder dysfunction associated with detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia were prospectively analysed. One hundred international units (IU) BTX-A (Botox in 1 ml normal saline without preservative) diluted 1 to 1 with 1 ml gadopentetate were injected transperineally under EMG control. MRI was started immediately after needle withdrawal.
In all six patients gadopentetate was located in the external urethral sphincter on MRI. In no patient did traces of gadopentetate appear in the perineal musculature located in the vicinity of the external urethral sphincter. No patient developed resistance to BTX-A. All patients showed an (ongoing) improvement of their voiding function after BTX-A injections.
Transperineal injections of BTX-A under EMG control are efficient in the release or amelioration of lower urinary tract obstruction due to detrusor sphincter dyssynergia in patients with spinal cord injury. Despite well described methods, EMG of the external urethral sphincter is difficult and it is not possible to definitively exclude false recordings of the surrounding perineal musculature. By the use of MRI it was shown that both the EMG recordings and transperineal injection method are precise.
To establish the maximum tolerated dose of lonafarnib, a novel farnesyltransferase inhibitor, in combination with paclitaxel in patients with solid tumors and to characterize the safety, tolerability, dose-limiting toxicity, and pharmacokinetics of this combination regimen.
In a Phase I trial, lonafarnib was administered p.o., twice daily (b.i.d.) on continuously scheduled doses of 100 mg, 125 mg, and 150 mg in combination with i.v. paclitaxel at doses of 135 mg/m(2) or 175 mg/m(2) administered over 3 h on day 8 of every 21-day cycle. Plasma paclitaxel and lonafarnib concentrations were collected at selected time points from each patient.
Twenty-four patients were enrolled; 21 patients were evaluable. The principal grade 3/4 toxicity was diarrhea (5 of 21 patients), which was most likely due to lonafarnib. dose-limiting toxicities included grade 3 hyperbilirubinemia at dose level 3 (100 mg b.i.d. lonafarnib and 175 mg/m(2) paclitaxel); grade 4 diarrhea and grade 3 peripheral neuropathy at dose level 3A (125 mg b.i.d. lonafarnib and 175 mg/m(2) paclitaxel); and grade 4 neutropenia with fever and grade 4 diarrhea at level 4 (150 mg b.i.d. lonafarnib and 175 mg/m(2) paclitaxel). The maximum tolerated dose established by the continual reassessment method was lonafarnib 100 mg b.i.d. and paclitaxel 175 mg/m(2). Paclitaxel appeared to have no effect on the pharmacokinetics of lonafarnib. The median duration of therapy was eight cycles, including seven cycles with paclitaxel. Six of 15 previously treated patients had a durable partial response, including 3 patients who had previous taxane therapy. Notably, two of five patients with taxane-resistant metastatic non-small cell lung cancer had partial responses.
When combined with paclitaxel, the recommended dose of lonafarnib for Phase II trials is 100 mg p.o. twice daily with 175 mg/m(2) of paclitaxel i.v. every 3 weeks. Additional studies of lonafarnib in combination regimens appear warranted, particularly in patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
3'-Azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT) is the most widely used and evaluated chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of persons with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and persons seropositive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The National Cancer Institute nominated AZT for toxicity and carcinogenicity studies because of the impending large-scale use of AZT in the treatment of adult patients with AIDS or AIDS-related complex. alpha-Interferon A/D, which displays antiviral activity in mice, is a hybrid molecule composed of the N-terminal portion of human alpha-interferon A and the C-terminal portion of human alpha-interferon D. AZT and alpha-interferon A/D combination studies were conducted because in vitro studies of AZT and alpha-interferon have demonstrated that the combination is more effective in blocking HIV infection than either agent alone. Male and female B6C3F1 mice received AZT (approximately 98% pure) in 0.5% aqueous methylcellulose by gavage for 14 weeks or 2 years. In addition, male and female B6C3F1 mice received alpha-interferon A or alpha-interferon A/D by subcutaneous injection for 2 years, and male and female B6C3F1 mice received AZT in 0.5%% aqueous methylcellulose by gavage in combination with alpha-interferon A/D by subcutaneous injection for 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium, cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, mouse bone marrow erythrocytes, and mouse peripheral blood erythrocytes. 14-WEEK AZT STUDY: Groups of 10 male and 10 female mice received AZT in 0.5% methylcellulose by gavage at doses of 0, 50, 100, 200, 800, or 2,000 mg/kg daily for 14 weeks. Additional groups of 10 male and 10 female mice received AZT in 0.5% methylcellulose by gavage at doses of 0, 100, 800, or 2,000 mg/kg daily for 14 weeks and then were held without treatment for an additional 4 weeks before necropsy. One female receiving 100 mg/kg and two females receiving 200 mg/kg died during week 1 as a result of gavage trauma; one female receiving 2,000 mg/kg also died prior to the end of the 14-week dosing period. One female receiving 2,000 mg/kg in the recovery study also died from gavage trauma during week 1. The final mean body weights of dosed mice were similar to those of the vehicle control groups at the end of the dosing period and at the end of the recovery period. Female mice receiving 200, 800, or 2,000 mg/kg gained less weight than the vehicle controls during the 14-week dosing period. Exposure to AZT was toxic to the bone marrow, resulting in significant changes in the peripheral blood (decreased hematocrit values, erythrocyte counts, and hemoglobin concentrations, and increased mean cell volume and mean cell hemoglobin) and bone marrow (erythroid hypoplasia) characteristic of a dose- and time-dependent, minimal to moderate, poorly regenerative macrocytic anemia. At the end of the 4-week recovery period, the hematology parameters had returned to normal, indicating that the hematotoxicity was reversible. 2-YEAR STUDIES: AZT Groups of 95 male and 95 female mice received AZT in 0.5% methylcellulose by gavage at daily doses of 0, 30, 60, or 120 mg/kg body weight, administered as two equal doses at least 6 hours apart, 5 days per week for 105 weeks. Each group of 95 animals was composed of a core group of 50 animals for evaluation of carcinogenic response, a group of 30 animals for evaluation of hematology and bone marrow cellularity, and a group of 15 animals from which blood was drawn for determination of plasma AZT concentrations at week 54. alpha-Interferon A/D and AZT/alpha-Interferon A/D Studies Groups of 80 male and 80 female mice received AZT in 0.5% aqueous methylcellulose by gavage at daily doses of 0, 30, 60, or 120 mg/kg body weight, given in two equal doses, 5 days per week for 105 weeks. Those groups receiving AZT also received sub-cutaneous injections of 500 or 5,000 U alpha-interferon A/D three times per week for 105 weeks. Additional groups of 80 male and 80 female mice received subcutaneous injections of the vehicle, 500 U alpha-interferon A/D, 5,000 Uutaneous injections of the vehicle, 500 U &alpha;-interferon A/D, 5,000 U &alpha;-interferon A/D, or 5,000 U &alpha;-interferon A, three times per week for 105 weeks. Each group of 80 animals was composed of a core group of 50 animals for evaluation of carcinogenic response and a group of 30 animals for evaluation of hematology and bone marrow cellularity. Because of the large number of animals involved, the 2-year studies were started in four phases and, for clarity, are presented as follows: the AZT study, the &alpha;-interferon A/D study, the AZT/500 U &alpha;-interferon A/D study, and the AZT/5,000 U &alpha;-interferon A/D study. Design of the 2-year AZT, AZT/&alpha;-Interferon A/D, and &alpha;-Interferon A/D Studies AZT Dose AZT Study AZT/500 U &alpha;-Interferon A/D Study AZT/5,000 U &alpha;-Interferon A/D Study 500 or 5,000 U &alpha;-Interferon A/D or 5,000 U &alpha;-Interferon A Study Vehicle Control 95 male and 95 female micea 80 male and 80 female miceb 80 male and 80 female miceb 80 male and 80 female miceb 30 mg/kg AZT 95 male and 95 female mice 80 male and 80 female mice 80 male and 80 female mice none 60 mg/kg AZT 95 male and 95 female mice 80 male and 80 female mice 80 male and 80 female mice none 120 mg/kg AZT 95 male and 95 female mice 80 male and 80 female mice 80 male and 80 female mice none aFor the AZT study, there were 95 male and 95 female mice; these were divided into 50 males and 50 females in the core groups, 30 males and 30 females in the clinical pathology groups (hematology and bone marrow analyses only), and 15 males and 15 females for plasma AZT concentration determinations. bFor the &alpha;-interferon A/D study and the AZT/&alpha;-interferon A/D studies, there were 80 male and 80 female mice for each study; these were divided into 50 males and 50 females in the core groups and 30 males and 30 females in the clinical pathology groups (hematology and bone marrow analyses only). Survival and Body Weights Survival and mean body weights of mice exposed to AZT, &alpha;-interferon A, &alpha;-interferon A/D, or AZT plus &alpha;-interferon A/D were generally similar to those of the vehicle control groups. Hematology and Bone Marrow Analyses All groups of male and female mice receiving AZT exhibited changes in peripheral blood and bone marrow characteristic of a dose- and time-dependent, minimal to mild, macrocytic, nonresponsive anemia. In females, these changes were evident throughout the study. In males, the macrocytic anemia had resolved by week 80 in the 30 mg/kg group; at study termination erythrocyte macrocytosis was present only in males receiving 60 or 120 mg/kg AZT or AZT plus &alpha;-interferon A/D. There were no treatment-related alterations in hematology or bone marrow parameters in groups that received only &alpha;-interferon A or A/D. Pathology Findings Incidences of squamous cell carcinoma and squamous cell papilloma or carcinoma (combined) of the vagina occurred with a positive trend and were significantly increased in groups of female mice receiving 60 or 120 mg/kg AZT alone or in combination with &alpha;-interferon A/D. Epithelial hyperplasia was observed in all dosed groups of females, and the incidence was significantly increased in the 120 mg/kg AZT group. Three renal tubule adenomas and one renal tubule carcinoma were observed in male mice receiving 120 mg/kg AZT; the combined incidence in this group exceeded the range in historical controls. A renal tubule adenoma was observed in one male receiving 60 mg AZT/kg and 500 U &alpha;-interferon A/D; how ever, none were observed in other groups. Evaluation of step sections revealed a few more renal tubule hyperplasias but no additional neoplasms. The incidence of harderian gland adenoma was increased in male mice receiving 120 mg/kg AZT and exceeded the range in historical controls. Harderian gland neoplasms were observed in other groups but did not follow a treatment-related pattern. Overall Incidences of Vaginal Neoplasms and Hyperplasia of the Vaginal Epithelium in Female Mice in the 2-Year Gavage Studies of AZT and AZT/&alpha;-Interferon A/Da Vehicle Control 30 mg AZT/kg 60 mg AZT/kg 120 mg AZT/kg AZT alone 2/197 (1&percnt;)b 1/197 0/49 (0&percnt;) 3/49 5/45 (11%&percnt;) 4/45 11/49 (22%&percnt;) 11/49 500 U &alpha;-Interferon A/D 0/49 (0%&percnt;) 0/49 0/44 (0&percnt;) 4/44 5/48 (10&percnt;) 8/48 6/48 (13&percnt;) 12/48 5,000 U &alpha;-Interferon A/D 1/50 (2&percnt;) 1/50 1/48 (2&percnt;) 4/48 5/48 (10&percnt;) 8/48 4/50 (8&percnt;) 15/50 aData are presented as number of vaginal neoplasms/number of animals microscopically examined (first line) and number of vaginal hyperplasias/number of animals microscopically examined (second line) bCombined incidences of controls from the AZT alone study and the AZT/&alpha;-interferon A/D studies; incidences in the vehicle control group from the AZT alone study are 0/50 (0%&percnt;) (neoplasms) and 0/50 (hyperplasia) Overall Incidence of Harderian Gland Neoplasms in Male Mice in the 2-Year Gavage Studies of AZT and AZT/&alpha;-Interferon A/Da Vehicle Control 30 mg AZT/kg 60 mg AZT/kg 120 mg AZT/kg AZT alone 13/200 (6%&percnt;)b 5/50 (10%&percnt;) 2/50 (4&percnt;) 10/50 (20%&percnt;) 500 U &alpha;-Interferon A/D 3/50 (6&percnt;) 3/50 (6&percnt;) 1/50 (2%&percnt;) 4/50 (8%&percnt;) 5,000 U &alpha;-Interferon A/D 3/50 (6&percnt;) 9/50 (18%&percnt;) 4/50 (8%&percnt;) 4/50 (8&percnt;) aData are presented as number of harderian gland neoplasms/number of animals necropsied bCombined incidences of controls from the AZT alone study and the AZT/&alpha;-interferon A/D studies; incidence in the vehicle control group from the AZT alone study is 3/50 (6&percnt;) Male mice had a pattern of nonneoplastic liver lesions along with silver-staining helical organisms within the liver consistent with an infection with Helicobacter hepaticus. An organism compatible with H. hepaticus was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism-based assays. Detection of dose-related differences in neoplasm incidences in these studies was not considered to have been significantly impacted by the infection with H. hepaticus or its associated hepatitis. GENETIC TOXICOLOGY: AZT is mutagenic in vitro and in vivo. It induced gene mutations in Salmonella typhimurium strain TA102, with and without S9; no increases in mutations were noted in the other tested strains of S. typhimurium. AZT induced sister chromatid exchanges, but not chromosomal aberrations, in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, with and without S9. In vivo studies with male mice administered AZT by gavage showed highly significant increases in micronucleated erythrocytes in bone marrow and peripheral blood after exposure periods that ranged from 72 hours to 14 weeks. CONCLUSIONS: Under the conditions of these 2-year gavage studies there was equivocal evidence of carcinogenic activity of AZT in male mice based on increased incidences of renal tubule and harderian gland neoplasms in groups receiving AZT alone. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of AZT in female mice based on increased incidences of squamous cell neoplasms of the vagina in groups that received AZT alone or in combination with &alpha;-interferon A/D. Hematotoxicity occurred in all groups that received AZT. Treatment with AZT alone and AZT in combination with &alpha;-interferon A/D resulted in increased incidences of epithelial hyperplasia of the vagina in all dosed groups of females. Synonyms: AZT; 3'-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymidine; azidodeoxythymidine; azidothymidine; 3'-azidothymidine; 3'-deoxy-3'-azidothymidine; 3'-deoxy-(8CI) (9CI); BW A509U; Compound S; ZDV; zidovudine Trade name: Retrovir&reg;
Pregnant rats with adriamycin nephropathy (ADRP rats) develop hypertension and have an increased vascular reactivity to noradrenaline in the isolated mesenteric bed in vitro. We have shown previously that the administration of daltroban, a specific thromboxane receptor antagonist, prevented hypertension in ADRP rats.
We measured the effect of daltroban (10(-5) mol/l) on the vasoconstrictory response to noradrenaline (1-10 micromol/l) in the isolated mesenteric bed of ADRP rats at the end of pregnancy, as compared with normal pregnant and adriamycin-treated virgin rats. In further experiments, we measured the changes of flow induced by increasing concentrations of the thromboxane analogue, U46619 (10(-7)-10(-6) mol/l). Finally, changes of flow were assessed in arteries maximally constricted with U46619 (10(-6) mol/l), during perfusion in the presence of increasing concentrations of daltroban (10(-7)-10(-5) mol/l).
Daltroban diminished the response to noradrenaline in all groups, shifting the concentration-effect curve to the right. However, at maximal concentrations of noradrenaline, daltroban was ineffective in all rats, except in ADRP animals. The vasoconstrictory response to U46619 was significantly reduced in all pregnant rats, both normal and adriamycin-treated. Daltroban progressively released the vasoconstriction induced by U46619 in all groups. However, this vasodilator response was attenuated in the adriamycin-treated rats, the slopes of their curves being smaller than those of the respective untreated groups (0.038 +/- 0.006 in virgin rats vs 0.063 +/- 0.011 in controls, P < 0.05; and 0.015 +/- 0.005 in ADRP vs 0.028 +/- 0.008 in normal pregnancy, P < 0.05).
The findings could be explained by enhanced occupancy of thromboxane receptors by an endogenous agonist, possibly PGH2, as a consequence of either increased levels of the autacoid or increased number of affinity receptors.
