The objectives of this study were to determine the effects of prolonged exposure to perchlorate on (1) thyroid status and reproductive performance of adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) and (2) F1 embryo survival and early larval development. Using a static-renewal procedure, mixed sex populations of adult zebrafish were exposed to 0, 10, and 100 mg/l nominal concentrations of waterborne perchlorate for 10 weeks. Thyroid histology was qualitatively assessed, and females and males were separated and further exposed to their respective treatments for six additional weeks. Eight females in each tank replicate (n = 3) were paired weekly with four males from the same respective treatment, and packed-egg (spawn) volume (PEV) was measured each of the last five weeks. At least once during weeks 14-16 of exposure, other end points measured included fertilization rate, fertilized egg diameter, hatching rate, standard length, and craniofacial development of 4-day-postfertilization larvae and thyroid hormone content of 3.5-h embryos and of exposed mothers. At 10 weeks of exposure, perchlorate at both concentrations caused thyroidal hypertrophy and colloid depletion. A marked reduction in PEV was observed toward the end of the 6-week spawning period, but fertilization and embryo hatching rates were unaffected. Fertilized egg diameter and larval length were increased by parental exposure to perchlorate. Larval head depth was unaffected but the forward protrusion of the lower jaw-associated cartilage complexes, Meckel's and ceratohyal, was decreased. Exposure to both concentrations of perchlorate inhibited whole-body thyroxine content in mothers and embryos, but triiodothyronine content was unchanged. In conclusion, prolonged exposure of adult zebrafish to perchlorate not only disrupts their thyroid endocrine system but also impairs reproduction and influences early F1 development.
The effect of comedication with fluvoxamine on the plasma concentrations of the enantiomers of citalopram and its metabolites in dextromethorphan/mephenytoin phenotyped patients pretreated with citalopram (CIT) was studied: seven female patients (45.1 +/- 13.9 years) suffering from a major depressive episode [ICD-10: F32.2 (n = 3 patients), F33.2 (n = 2), F32.10 (n = 1) or F32.11 (n = 1)], who were non-responders to a 3-week treatment with 40 mg/day CIT (From day-21 to day 0) (day 0: MADRS score > or = 12), were co-medicated for another 3 weeks with fluvoxamine (50 mg/day from day 1-7, 100 mg/day from day 14-21). All patients were extensive metabolizers of mephenytoin (CYP2C19) and dextromethorphan (CYP2D6), except one patient, who had a genetic deficiency of CYP2D6. There was a significant increase of the plasma concentrations of S- and R-citalopram from day 0 (27 +/- 14 micrograms/l and 55 +/- 23 micrograms/l, respectively) to day 21 (83 +/- 38 micrograms/l and 98 +/- 44 micrograms/l, respectively), after addition of fluvoxamine (P < 0.02, for each comparison), and the mean ratio S/R-citalopram increased from 0.48 to 0.84. S-Citalopram inhibits more potently 5-HT uptake than R-citalopram: therefore, fluvoxamine increases the pharmacologically more active S-citalopram with some stereoselectivity. According to a previous in vitro study, this pharmacokinetic interaction occurs on the level of CYP2C19, but also of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 which, in contrast to CYP1A2, contribute to the N-demethylation of citalopram and which are stereoselectively inhibited by fluvoxamine. All but one patient showed clinical improvement by a decrease of the MADRS score by at least 50% and a final score < or = 13 (mean +/- SD: day 0:30.6 +/- 9.2; day 21:11.0 +/- 6.5). Some patients showed minor symptoms, such as nausea and tremor, but the combined treatment was generally well tolerated.
Rigorous clinical trials have been criticized as having limited external validity, and specifically that subjects participating in clinical trials are not representative of individuals seen in clinical practice. To assess the representativeness of subjects participating in clinical trials, 243 research subjects participating in clinical trials of treatments for cocaine dependence were compared to a sub-sample of 213 individuals being treated for cocaine dependence in outpatient clinical settings from a large national database. The data suggest that research findings are not invariably based on less challenging patients with mild forms of substance dependence and related problems; moreover research patients may be similar to, if not more severe than, individuals with cocaine problems seen in regular clinical settings in the community.
A 47-year-old woman with diabetic gastroparesis, on treatment with domperidone, a dopamine-receptor antagonist, was admitted to the hospital in coma, with high blood pressure and nonreactive pupils. She then developed high fever. Her condition progressively worsened for two days, when muscle rigidity was noted and creatine phosphokinase was greater than 2000 U/liter. A diagnosis of neuroleptic malignant syndrome was made, and the patient was given dantrolene with prompt and complete resolution of all signs and symptoms. Subsequent inquiry revealed a distant past history of positive muscle biopsy for malignant hyperthermia, obtained after the diagnosis had been made in a family member. This case suggests that domperidone may induce neuroleptic malignant syndrome and that patients with malignant hyperthermia are at increased risk for this complication.
Cytisine (CYT), one of the principal bioactive components derived from the seeds of Cytisus laborinum L, has been widely used for central nervous system (CNS) diseases treatment. The present study investigated the protective effect of CYT on cultured cortical neural injury induced by N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA). Our data showed that CYT conferred protective effect against loss of cellular viability induced by brief exposure to 200 μM NMDA in a concentration-dependent manner. CYT significantly inhibited the neuronal apoptosis induced by NMDA exposure by reversing intracellular Ca(2+) overload and balancing Bcl-2 and Bax expression levels. Furthermore, CYT significantly reversed the up-regulation of GluN2B-containing NMDA receptors by exposure to NMDA, but it did not affect the level of GluN2A-containing NMDA receptors. These findings suggest that CYT protects cortical neurons, at least partially, by inhibiting the level of GluN2B-containing NMDA receptors and regulating Bcl-2 family.
Methamphetamine (MAP) is one of the most frequently used illegal substances in Japan, and family and twin studies have suggested that genetic factors contribute to psychostimulant dependence, including MAP dependence. Organic cation transporter 3 (OCT3) has been reported to be involved in the disposition of MAP as well as MAP-induced behavioral changes in animals. Moreover, SLC22A3 (which encodes OCT3) is a candidate gene for MAP dependence because it is located within a chromosomal region associated with substance dependence.
Using 96 healthy control subjects, linkage disequilibrium (LD) within the SLC22A3 was investigated, and 5 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were selected as haplotype tag SNPs to search for an association with MAP dependence. Single-marker analyses and haplotype analyses of these SNPs were performed in 213 subjects with MAP dependence and 443 healthy controls.
SLC22A3 polymorphisms were not significantly associated with MAP dependence in any of the single-marker and haplotype analyses. When subjects with MAP dependence were divided into polysubstance and single-MAP users, genotype and allele frequency of SNP2 (p=0.024, p=0.011, respectively), allele frequency of SNP3 (p=0.037), and haplotypic frequencies for these 2 SNPs (p=0.0438) differed significantly between groups.
These results suggest that polymorphisms of SLC22A3 are related to the development of polysubstance use in Japanese patients with MAP dependence.
Patients with rheumatoid arthritis have been treated alternately with aurothioglucose and aurothiomalate. In the earlier part of the study an oily suspension of aurothioglucose and an aqueous solution of aurothiomalate were used, but later an aqueous solution of aurothioglucose was alternated with the oily suspension and an oily suspension of aurothiomalate with the aqueous solution. Skin eruptions, stomatitis, and albuminuria were significantly more common in patients treated with the aqueous solution than with the oily suspension.
Anemia is an important and frequent secondary effect of the treatment with pegylated interferon and ribavirin in patients with chronic viral C hepatitis. Ribavirin produces more often hemolytic anemia, while pegylated interferon may determine medullary suppression. The level of hemoglobin beneath 10 g/dL is considered by most authors as being the reference level for anemia secondary to the antiviral treatment. Beneath this hemoglobin value it is recommended to reduce or to stop the treatment with ribavirin, to administer recombinant human erythropoietin or blood transfusion, based on the severity of the anemia. The growth rate of the serum erythropoietin in the first few weeks of treatment is correlated with the necessity of decreasing the doses or even to stop the treatment with ribavirin. The SVR (sustained viral response) rate of the patients is reduced when the ribavirin doses are reduced due to anemia.
Studies of organic anterograde amnesia have been central to the development of theories of implicit memory. Pharmacological amnesia provides an additional method for exploring implicit memory, allowing for the experimental manipulation of amnesia and the testing of more participants. A significant concern with pharmacological amnesia is whether its cognitive effects are specific to explicit memory. The current research examines the effects of the benzodiazepine, midazolam, on retrieval from semantic memory and encoding in explicit memory. We focus on midazolam because it holds significant advantages over other benzodiazepines in inducing pharmacological amnesia and prior research suggests it may be useful for testing theories of implicit memory. Our results demonstrate that midazolam does not impair accuracy of retrieval from semantic categories, even when it produces anterograde amnesia for retrieved category items on a later recall test. These results suggest ways midazolam can be used to help test theories of implicit memory.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), the most common endocrinopathy of reproductive-aged women, is characterized by ovulatory dysfunction and hyperandrogenism.
The aim was to compare gene expression between endometrial samples of normal fertile controls and women with PCOS.
We conducted a case control study at university teaching hospitals.
Normal fertile controls and women with PCOS participated in the study.
Endometrial samples were obtained from normal fertile controls and from women with PCOS, either induced to ovulate with clomiphene citrate or from a modeled secretory phase using daily administration of progesterone.
Total RNA was isolated from samples and processed for array hybridization with Affymetrix HG U133 Plus 2 arrays. Data were analyzed using GeneSpring GX11 and Ingenuity Pathways Analysis. Selected gene expression differences were validated using RT-PCR and/or immunohistochemistry in separately obtained PCOS and normal endometrium.
ANOVA analysis revealed 5160 significantly different genes among the three conditions. Of these, 466 were differentially regulated between fertile controls and PCOS. Progesterone-regulated genes, including mitogen-inducible gene 6 (MIG6), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), GRB2-associated binding protein 1 (GAB1), S100P, and claudin-4 were significantly lower in PCOS endometrium; whereas cell proliferation genes, such as Anillin and cyclin B1, were up-regulated.
Differences in gene expression provide evidence of progesterone resistance in midsecretory PCOS endometrium, independent of clomiphene citrate and corresponding to the observed phenotypes of hyperplasia, cancer, and poor reproductive outcomes in this group of women.
In a double-blind cross-over clinical trial, flutonidin (2-4 mg daily) was compared with timolol (20-40 mg daily) in the treatment of mildly or moderately hypertensive patients who concomitantly received fixed diuretic treatment. Each drug was administered for 1 month, with an interval of 2 weeks between the two monthly periods. During administration of flutonidin, blood pressure initially fell but returned to baseline values at the end of treatment. Heart rate was not affected by the drug. Timolol significantly reduced both blood pressure and heart rate. Its effect becomes evident during the 1st week and increases throughout the treatment period. Side effects were more frequent during flutonidin administration than during timolol administration. No significant modifications of the laboratory findings were observed during either flutonidin or timolol treatment.
There is strong evidence that metabolites are responsible for adverse effects of benzene. Benzene myelotoxicity, reproduced by coadministering phenol (PH) and hydroquinone (HQ) but not when these benzene metabolites were administered alone, has been postulated to be induced by PH stimulating the myeloperoxidase-mediated oxidation of HQ to the toxic 1,4-benzoquinone in bone marrow. A pharmacokinetic interaction between PH and HQ is also hypothesized to contribute to the observation. Both metabolites are sulfoconjugated and glucuronoconjugated. Sulfoconjugation of phenolic substrates has been shown to approach saturation at high concentrations in rats. Thus, more PH may be converted to HQ and HQ conjugation may be diminished. These effects would increase the amounts of PH and HQ present and result (by further oxidation) in the formation of more 1,4-benzoquinone. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the pharmacokinetics in blood and the recovery of hydroquinone and phenol in urine when the metabolites were administered intraperitoneally alone or in combination at 75 mg/kg each to B6C3F1 mice. The combination resulted in a 2.6-fold increase in the area under the blood concentration-time curve (AUC) of HQ compared to the sum of AUC values observed after administration of each compound alone. The half-life of HQ was also increased from 9 +/- 2 to 15 +/- 3 min. The AUC of PH was increased by a factor of 1.4. The clearance of phenol decreased from 89 +/- 13 ml/min per kilogram when injected alone to 62 +/- 7 ml/min per kilogram after coadministration. A decreased clearance of formation of each conjugate demonstrated that both conjugation pathways were diminished. This interaction may contribute to the observed production of myelotoxicity when these metabolites are coadministered.
Leukoencephalopathy syndromes encompass a variety of neurologic abnormalities that affect cerebral white matter. Known etiologies include malignant hypertension, eclampsia, renal failure, CNS infection, and drug therapy with cyclosporine, tacrolimus (FK506) and interferon-alpha. Symptoms vary according to sites of involvement; they include altered mentation, visual disturbances, focal neurologic signs, and seizures. Characteristic radiologic findings are hypodense areas without contrast enhancement on CT and an increased T2 signal on MRI. The hypodense areas are often symmetric. The clinical symptoms and neuroimaging abnormalities are often reversible with treatment of the underlying condition or removal of the offending drug. We describe a patient with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with conventional cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) chemotherapy and high-dose steroids who developed a rapidly progressive fatal leukoencephalopathy. Her neurologic symptoms and findings on CT are consistent with reported cases of leukoencephalopathy; however, in this instance, the syndrome was not reversible and was ultimately fatal. None of the previously described etiologies could be demonstrated in association with the patient's illness. There are no prior reports of fatal leukoencephalopathy in adult patients treated with standard-dose CHOP. We believe the concurrent immunosuppression from chemotherapy and high-dose steroids resulted in this patient's fatal complication.
The authors describe a 31-year-old woman who developed persistent generalized anxiety after brief exposure to the dopamine antagonist metoclopramide. Independently of that, she had experienced a panic attack followed by dystonias, shortly after a single dose of that drug, 17 years before. Both temporal association and recurrence of anxiety symptoms after re-challenge with metoclopramide suggest a causal relationship. The case might provide an initial piece of evidence that dopaminergic neurotransmission can be involved in the pathogenesis of generalized anxiety disorder.
Myocardial bridging is not uncommon. However, hemodynamic instability in the setting of myocardial bridging is rare. We describe an unusual case of a 47-year-old woman whose increased use of inhaled albuterol led to a non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction and unmasking of hemodynamically significant myocardial bridging. We detail its diagnosis through myocardial perfusion imaging and coronary angiography. To our knowledge, this is the first time previously undiagnosed myocardial bridging has led to a myocardial infarction in the setting of inhaled albuterol use.
Levosimendan is a novel calcium-sensitising agent that has been shown to have beneficial inotropic, metabolic and vasodilatory effects in the treatment of acute and advanced chronic heart failure. Levosimendan binds to troponin-C in cardiomyocytes and, thereby, improves cardiac contractility without disturbing the metabolic status of the heart and increasing myocardial oxygen demand or provoking fatal cardiac arrhythmias. Levosimendan also opens ATP-sensitive potassium channels, causing peripheral arterial and venous dilatation, and increasing coronary flow reserve. When it is given as a short-term therapy, levosimendan enhances cardiac output, reduces systemic vascular resistance and lowers pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. Clinical outcomes were significantly reduced in decompensated or postmyocardial infarction heart failure patients who received levosimendan, compared with those on dobutamine or placebo. Recent investigations focusing on the anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic actions of levosimendan in the failing heart indicate that improvement of cardiac contractile performance is closely related with the drug-induced reduction of circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines and apoptosis inducers. The most common adverse effects of levosimendan treatment are hypotension and headache. Overall, levosimendan represents an effective and safe option for the treatment of decompensated heart failure patients.
We report the case of an in-situ endometrial adenocarcinoma with severe atypical hyperplasia which developed while the patient was on tamoxifen only 1 year after endometrial resection for benign pathology. A 55-year-old woman received tamoxifen as adjuvant therapy for breast cancer treated in 1994. At that time, a benign endometrial polyp was also removed before initiating tamoxifen treatment. In 1997, endometrial resection was performed for benign pathology (atrophic cystic endometrium). In 1998, an endometrial adenocarcinoma was diagnosed. This case illustrates that endometrial resection does not protect women taking tamoxifen against subsequent development of severe atypical lesions.
Anticholinesterase pesticides have been widely used in agricultural and domestic settings and can be detected in the environment after long-term use. Although the acute toxic effects of chlorpyrifos and carbaryl have been well described, little is known about the chronic toxicity of the pesticides mixture. To investigate their chronic neurotoxicity, Wistar rats were exposed to chlorpyrifos, carbaryl, and their mixture (MIX) for 90 consecutive days. The activities of serum cholinesterase (ChE) as well as acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and neuropathy target esterase (NTE) in nerve tissues were determined. Furthermore, the histopathological examination was carried out. The results showed that ChE activity significantly decreased in all treated rats except the rats treated with low dose carbaryl. Treatment with middle- and high-dose chlorpyrifos and MIX in rats significantly inhibited AChE activity in the central nervous tissues, whereas treatment with carbaryl alone did not. In sciatic nerve, AChE activity was significantly inhibited by high-dose carbaryl and MIX, but not by chlorpyrifos alone. No significant NTE inhibition was observed in all treatment groups. Histopathological examination revealed that both chlorpyrifos and MIX treatment induced hippocampal damage. However, no obvious hippocampal damage was found in carbaryl-treated rats. Carbaryl and MIX, but not chlorpyrifos alone, induced pathological damage of sciatic nerve. Taken together, all of the results indicated that chlorpyrifos and carbaryl have different toxicological target tissues in nervous system and showed corresponding effects in the nervous tissues, which may reflect the different sensitivity of central and peripheral nervous tissues to different pesticides individually and in combination.
In 29 patients who had been administrated adriamycin (ADR) for the treatment of hematopoietic malignancies, myocardial SPECT was performed 20 minutes and 4 hours after an intravenous dose of 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG). Findings of the myocardial SPECT were compared with the total dose of ADR, ejection fraction (EF) and left ventricular wall motion, as assessed by ultrasound echocardiography. The mean total dose of ADR was 329.3 mg/m2 (range, 150-550 mg/m2). 1) Although the cardiac function was normal, the washout rate (WR) of MIBG was high in 75% of the patients whose MIBG myocardial SPECT showed abnormality on ADR, suggesting the presence of adrenergic nerve disorder. 2) The total dose of ADR was significantly correlated with WR of MIBG (p < 0.001). Consequently, WR of MIBG may be an index which reflects adrenergic nerve disorder in the myocardium earlier than EF. 3) It was suggested that adrenergic nerve disorder was involved in pathogenesis of myocardial complications associated with ADR administration. In summary, MIBG myocardial SPECT could be a useful test for determining a dosage regimen of ADR therapy of individual patients.
Removal of the rat pineal gland entailed an attenuation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy and readjustment of its time-course. This may depend on either direct of indirect effects of the pineal factors, mostly in the ventral portion of the striatum whose hyperactivity determines the main parameters of the neuroleptic effect.
The expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 8 (mGluR8) was studied in the rat hippocampus after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (APISE) by light immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy. At 1 day APISE, mGluR8 immunoreactivity was up-regulated in the entire molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. At 7 days APISE, mGluR8 immunoreactive cells began to appear in the stratum lacunosum moleculare of CA1, and by day 31, they were seen in all layers of CA1. By electron microscopy and double labelling study, the mGluR8 immunoreactive cells were identified as astrocytes. The present novel finding of induced expression of mGluR8 in astrocytes APISE suggests that it may be linked to gliosis.
Drug-induced controlled hypotension (CH) combined with acute normovolemic hemodilution (ANH) is being widely used for blood conservation in surgical patients. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of esmolol-induced CH combined with ANH (hematocrit down to 28%).
Thirty patients who were scheduled to receive spinal surgery were randomly divided into two groups: an esmolol-induced CH alone group (esmolol group, n=15) and a CH-ANH combined group (E-ANH group, n=15). Controlled hypotension was induced with esmolol 500 micro g/kg, followed by a continuous infusion of 0-300 micro g/kg/min to maintain mean arterial pressure at 55-65 mmHg.
The mean infusion rate of esmolol in the esmolol-ANH group was 46+/-6 micro g/kg/min (mean+/-SD), which was significantly lower than the 77+/-9 micro g/kg/min used in the esmolol group (P<0.05). The number of units of homologous blood (packed RBC) transfused perioperatively was 2.2+/-0.6 units in the esmolol-ANH group, which was significantly less than 4.3+/-0.4 units used in the esmolol group (P<0.01). While O2 delivery decreased significantly during CH, O2 consumption remained unchanged in both groups. No complications resulted from CH or ANH in any of the groups.
Our data suggest that ANH of moderate degree can be combined with esmolol-induced CH to improve blood conservation in surgical patients.
Various anticonvulsant medications have been associated with paradoxical aggravation of epileptic seizures in therapeutic doses and toxic concentrations. Lamotrigine has been reported to exacerbate seizures and myoclonic seizures in generalized epilepsy in a child with localization-related epilepsy.
To describe lamotrigine intoxication paradoxically producing status epilepticus in an adult with localization-related epilepsy.
Observational case report.
Neurology service, inpatient hospitalization, and outpatient follow-up in a neurology clinic.
A patient with known localization-related epilepsy who ingested an overdose of lamotrigine tablets in a suicide attempt.
None.
Observation of the course of the patient's reaction to lamotrigine intoxication, monitoring of lamotrigine levels, and monitoring of ictal and postictal status.
The patient developed a prolonged convulsive status epilepticus, which was eventually controlled with benzodiazepines. The patient also developed transient obtundation and severe ataxia, all of which resolved completely within 96 hours.
To our knowledge, in addition to being the first case report to describe convulsive status epilepticus after lamotrigine intoxication, this is the first report of the proconvulsant effect of lamotrigine in a case of localization-related epilepsy in an adult. The effects of accidental or suicidal ingestion of lamotrigine tablets seem to be reversible.
Spasticity is defined as increased resistance to passive movement, secondary to hyperreflexia after an upper motor neuron lesion. In children with cerebral palsy (CP), it can interfere with mobility and self-care and can contribute to development of fixed myostatic contractures. This study investigated the efficacy of botulinum toxin type-A, a neuromuscular blocking agent that reduces muscle tone, in a variety of neuromuscular disorders, injections in a prospective, 3-month, controlled study involving 40 children with spastic diplegic CP. The patients were divided into two groups: Group 1 (20 patients) entered a botulinum toxin type-A injection+physiotherapy rehabilitation program; Group 2 (20 patients) were given the physiotherapy rehabilitation program only. Patients were assessed at 4, 8 and 12 weeks post-treatment using the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS), dynamic gait pattern, ankle range-of-motion measurements and quantification of muscle denervation by nerve conduction techniques. The botulinum toxin type-A group demonstrated statistically significantly decreased spasticity, improved gait function and improved range of motion with evidence of partial denervation of the injected muscle compared to the control group. In conclusion, botulinum toxin type-A injections are a well-tolerated, non-surgical technique that can improve overall response to physiotherapy.
To assess the patterns of use, subjective effect profile and dependence liability of mephedrone, supported by corroborative urine toxicology.
Cross-sectional structured telephone interview.
UK-based drug users associated with the dance music scene.
A total of 100 mephedrone users, recruited through their involvement with the dance music scene.
Assessment of pattern of use, acute and after effects, DSM dependence criteria and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry urinalysis.
Mephedrone consumption results in typical stimulant-related subjective effects: euphoria, increased concentration, talkativeness, urge to move, empathy, jaw clenching, reduced appetite and insomnia. Thirty per cent of the sample potentially met criteria for DSM-IV dependence and there was evidence of a strong compulsion to use the drug (47% had used the drug for 2 or more consecutive days). Self-reported recent consumption of mephedrone was confirmed by toxicological analysis in all of the 14 participants who submitted a urine sample.
Mephedrone has a high abuse and health risk liability, with increased tolerance, impaired control and a compulsion to use, the predominant reported dependence symptoms.
