To study preliminarily the inhibitory effects of recombinant human neurotrophin (hNT)-4/5 protein on neurotoxicity caused by arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)).
Nerve cells of the chicken embryonic forebrain and PC12 cells were co-cultured with recombinant hNT-4/5 protein and As(2)O(3) (0 - 16 micromol/L) for 24 and 48 hours, respectively, to observe the survival of nerve cells and the outgrowth of PC12 cells, with clone expression and recombination techniques.
There was significant difference in survival rate of nerve cells between the experimental and control groups (P < 0.01) after co-culture for 48 hours, and survival rate and number of neuron outgrowth increased with the concentration of hNT-4/5 protein.
Recombinant hNT-4/5 protein could inhibit neurotoxicity caused by As(2)O(3), which provided a basis to find an anti-toxic factor in the environment by genetic engineering.
The reproducibility of patch tests is an important determinant of the clinical value of this diagnostic procedure. The aim of the present study was to delineate comparatively the efficiency and reproducibility of identical test reagents from 2 different commercial sources. Purchased in duplicate from brial and Boots-Hermal, 30 allergens from the European standard and an extension series were simultaneously applied to Finn Chambers and affixed next to each other. Out of 2070 paired patch tests in 71 patients, 97.2% presented with concordant-negative results. 60 patch tests were classified as allergic with 95% concordant-positive results. From these paired positive patches, a subgroup of 13 (22.8%) corresponding allergens presented with minor differences in the visible strength of the allergic reaction. Generated by cobalt chloride, formaldehyde and 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol in 1 patient each, discordant results, i.e. 1 positive and 1 negative test in parallel, were found in only 5%. Taken together, we were able to demonstrate that patch test preparations from 2 different companies exhibited a high level of reproducibility. This standardized quality of test reagents from different suppliers provides useful information on several aspects of everyday practice.
Several studies have shown that oral nickel exposure can elicit systemic contact dermatitis (SCD) in nickel-sensitive individuals. The current study describes some of the immunological mechanisms underlying such nickel-allergic reactions elicited by oral exposure to nickel. Following oral exposure to graded concentrations of nickel or placebo, blood samples were taken from nickel-sensitive individuals and from non-nickel-sensitive controls. T-cell subtypes (CD3+, CD4+, CD8+ and CD45RO+), expression of skin-homing receptor, cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen (CLA) and cytokine profiles [interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, interferon-gamma and tumour necrosis factor-alpha] were investigated. A definite dose-response reaction pattern to oral nickel exposure was observed among nickel-sensitive individuals. Nickel-sensitive individuals whose dermatitis flared after oral challenge with nickel showed significant decreases in fractions of CD3+ CD45RO+ CLA+ and CD8+ CD45RO+ CLA+ blood lymphocytes, suggesting migration of CD8+ 'memory' CLA+ T lymphocytes from the blood to peripheral tissues. Only those nickel-sensitive individuals who clinically reacted to oral challenge with nickel (4 mg) had elevated levels of IL-5 in the serum, indicating an activation of type 2 T lymphocytes in the peripheral blood. In conclusion, the study indicates that CD8+ CD45RO+ CLA+ T lymphocytes and T lymphocytes with a type 2 cytokine profile are involved in SCD elicited by nickel.
Chlorozotocin is a chloroethylnitrosourea antitumor agent that is in clinical trial for a variety of human tumors. Renal failure has been a reported side effect of treatment with several of the chloroethylnitrosoureas, including chlorozotocin. To better understand the pathogenesis of this target organ toxicity, we have studied the nephrotoxicity of a single high, intermediate, or low dose of chlorozotocin in male F344 rats. We report here the sequence of histopathologic changes seen over a 1-10-day (high dose) or 1-28-day (intermediate or low dose) period. The single high dose (40 mg/kg, s.c.) produced an acute cortical necrosis involving the proximal tubules, followed by later necrotic changes in the collecting ducts in the inner medulla. Karyomegaly was noted at 10 days in occasional cells of the papillary collecting ducts and urinary epithelium lining the papilla. A single intermediate dose (25 mg/kg, s.c.) caused a similar but less severe injury of later onset. Proximal tubule injury was less severe and more limited. Necrosis of papillary collecting ducts was not seen; however, karyomegaly was pronounced in cells of the collecting ducts in the inner stripe of the outer medulla and inner medulla, and in the urinary epithelium covering the papilla. No discernible histopathology was present following the low dose (12.5 mg/kg, s.c.) of chlorozotocin. The histopathology was correlated with biochemical parameters. Our findings have possible implications for monitoring the severity of nephrotoxic side effects in patients, as well as provide preliminary evidence that this antineoplastic agent may itself cause preneoplastic changes, a finding with important long term implications.
A 76-year-old on long-term Lasix and Pyrogastrone presented with stridor. This became worse with local irritation, e.g. on coughing or during indirect laryngoscopy. Indirect laryngoscopy showed a narrow glottis with an otherwise normal larynx. Blood investigation showed a low serum potassium with a raised bicarbonate level, and a serum calcium level just within the acceptable normal range. A diagnosis of laryngospasm secondary to drug-induced hypokalaemic alkalosis was made. This was treated with the withdrawal of the above drugs and supplementing potassium orally.
The effect of aqueous extract of Swertia chirayita stem on the pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines balance in primary joint synovium of adjuvant-induced arthritic mice has been studied. The level of pro-inflammatory cytokines was found elevated in the joint synovium of arthritic mice in comparison to normal joints. Administration of S. chirayita extract in varying doses through the oral route did not modulate the proinflammatory cytokines on day 2. In contrast, by day 12, a dose dependent (0, 11.86 and 23.72 mg/kg body weight) reduction of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (INF-alpha) interleukin-1beta, (IL-beta) and interferon-gamma, (IFN-gamma) and elevation of Interleukin-10 (IL-10) was observed in the joint homogenates of arthritic mice. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) was not down regulated in joint homogenate of arthritic mice at the dose 11.86 mg/kg but at higher doses (23.72 and 35.58 mg/kg) significant reduction was observed. The aqueous extract was found to possess two polar compounds, amerogentin and mangiferin but was devoid of swerchirin, chiratol, methyl swetianin, and swertanone. Mangiferin has been reported to possess potent anti-inflammatory property and we presume its presence in the aqueous extract of S. chirayita is responsible for reducing TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, and IFN-gamma and/or elevating IL-10 in the joint homogenates of arthritic mice on day 12. This study will help in our understanding of the mechanism of anti-inflammatory action of S. chirayita in the light of proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine balance.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) are frequent in parkinsonian patients and may result from an aberrant plasticity. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) represents a likely candidate to subserve neuroadaptive processes encountered in LIDs. We compared striatal BDNF levels measured by ELISA in levodopa-treated 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) monkeys having developed LIDs compared with animals where LIDs were prevented by the addition of CI-1041 (NR1A/2B NMDA receptor antagonist) or low doses of cabergoline (dopamine D2 receptor agonist). We observed reduced striatal BDNF concentrations in levodopa-treated MPTP monkeys with or without LIDs, suggesting that levodopa treatment is associated with reduced striatal BDNF levels and is independent of dyskinesias.
EB1089, a novel vitamin D3 analog, has been shown to have cytotoxic and antiproliferative properties in a variety of malignant cells. However, its potential as a treatment for B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) has not been evaluated. EB1089 induced apoptosis in all of the 102 B-CLL samples tested with a mean LD(50) (the concentration of EB1089 required to kill 50% of cells) value (+/- SD) of 2.1 x 10(-8) M (+/- 1.4 x 10(-8) M). Furthermore, no significant difference was found in the cytotoxicity of EB1089 in B-CLL samples from previously treated and untreated patients (P =.1637). Induction of apoptosis was associated with a reduction in Bcl-2 and Mcl-1 protein expression, but this was evident only in the apoptotic cells. In contrast, the expression of Bax, p21, and p53 was not altered in the viable or apoptotic cells from either B- or T-lymphocyte lineages. EB1089-induced apoptosis was preceded by activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase and suppression of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activity, and this was associated with downstream activation of caspase-3. The pancaspase inhibitor (Z-VAD-FMK) and the caspase-9 inhibitor (Z-LEHD-FMK) were able to partially abrogate the apoptotic effects of EB1089 but did not affect the phosphorylation of p38 MAP kinase or the suppression of ERK. The B-CLL cells in the study were shown to highly express vitamin D receptor, but an additional receptor-independent mechanism of cell killing cannot be ruled out at this stage. These findings show that EB1089 is a potent apoptosis-inducing agent in B-CLL cells and may be useful in the treatment of B-CLL patients, particularly those with p53 mutations or drug-resistant disease.
We herein present a case of attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis (AFAP) with advanced rectal cancer in a 16-year-old boy. His mother and younger brother both had subcutaneous soft tissue tumors in the back and sparse-type colorectal polyposis. His mother also had dental anomalies and gastric fundic gland polyposis. The patient was admitted to our hospital for investigation of bloody stools. Barium enema and colonofiberscopy revealed advanced rectal cancer and sparse (<50) colorectal polyps. He also had dental anomalies, a subcutaneous soft tissue tumor in the back, and gastric fundic gland polyposis as extracolonic manifestations. A total proctocolectomy and ileoanal anastomosis were performed, and histological examination of the resected specimens confirmed moderately differentiated adenocarcinomas of the rectum with metastases to the regional lymph nodes. The other colorectal polyps were tubular adenomas with no evidence of malignancy. Germline mutations in the APC gene were observed in codons 486, 545, 1493, and 1556. This case serves to demonstrate that a total proctocolectomy with ileoanal anastomosis should be the procedure of choice for young patients found to have advanced rectal cancer associated with FAP.
Org 6001 (3alpha-amino-5alpha-androstan-2beta-ol-17-one-hydrochloride) is an orally non-hormonal aminosteroid possessing antiarrhythmic activity. In 13 dogs the efficacy of the drug against ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia (VT) was studied. VT was produced by a mean dose of 67.5 +/- 18.7 mug/kg ouabain, administered by continuous infusion of 25 mug/min. 20 min after the onset of VT an 0.125 mg/kg/min infusion of Org 6001 was initiated, doubling the dose every 10 min. In all dogs VT was reverted into normal sinus rhythm (NSR) by a dose of 9.72 +/- 7.07 mg/kg (0.87-20.75 mg/kg) Org 6001. The duration of VT ranged from 27-61 min (mean 47.1 +/- 11.4 min), including the 20 min waiting period. NSR persisted in 8 dogs until the experiment was terminated (90 min after onset of VT), while in 5 dogs VT returned after 3-23 min sufficient to revert VT into NSR. A bolus injection of Org 6001 (10 mg/kg) gave an immediate return to NSR in 3 dogs, in which VT was provoked again by administration of a second dose of ouabain after the 90 min period had elapsed. Though the interaction of ouabain makes a quantitative analysis of the negative inotropic effects difficult, it appeared that there uas no major hemodynamic deterioration during and after treatment with Org 6001. During digitalization there was a significant increase in the first derivative of left ventricular systolic pressure (peak LVdP/dt) from 2340 +/- 600 to 3650 +/- 1070 mm Hg/sec and in peripheral resistance, while heart rate decreased. During VT, left ventricular systolic pressure (LVSP) and mean aortic pressure (MAP) dropped by approximately 20 mm Hg, while heart rate increased significantly. After treatment with Org 6001, LVSP and MAP further decreased to 128 +/- 30 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) areased to 128 +/- 30 mm Hg (p less than 0.05) and 112 +/- 20 mm Hg respectively. Peak LVdP/dt fell from 3650 +/- 1390 to 2780 +/- 970 mm Hg/sec (p less than 0.05). Heart rate had dropped to 126 +/- 22 beats/min (p less than 0.05). During the first 30 min after Org 6001 infusion was stopped none of the parameters showed significant changes, although peak LVdP/dt rose slightly. It is shown in the present investigation that Org 6001 has effective antiarrhythmic properties in controlling ouabain-induced VT with acceptable cardiodepressant actions.
To examine the seizure characteristics and electroencephalogram (EEG) abnormalities in psychiatric patients taking clozapine, given the estimate of a 10% cumulative risk of generalized seizures in this population.
We reviewed all consecutive EEGs of ambulatory psychiatric patients taking clozapine performed at our laboratory during 1996 and 1997.
A university-affiliated urban teaching hospital.
Twelve patients (4 F/8 M; mean age 40.1 y, range 20-63) had either presented with de novo ictal events within the first month of clozapine therapy (n = 8) or had EEGs recorded to assess seizure risk (n = 4).
According to clinical history and interictal EEG findings, the patients were subdivided as follows: three patients with generalized tonic-clonic seizures, two with generalized myoclonic jerks (1 associated with simple partial seizures), two with complex partial seizures, and one with simple partial seizures. The EEGs revealed interictal epileptiform abnormalities (IEDs) in eight patients, two of whom had not had seizures. IEDs were focal or multifocal, with a predominance of left temporal foci. One patient showed a paroxysmal response to photic stimulation.
Patients taking clozapine may be prone to partial seizures and focal EEG abnormalities as well as to generalized seizures and EEG abnormalities, as previously reported.
Repeated administration of cocaine to animals results in sensitization to several reactions to the drug, including seizures and mortality. These consequences are thought to be related to the pathology that develops in humans abusing cocaine. Previous studies implied the involvement of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type of glutamate receptors in cocaine-induced toxicity, and recent studies documented a role for nitric oxide in NMDA-receptor mediated neurotoxicity. The present study was undertaken to determine whether nitric oxide synthase inhibitors block the development of sensitization to the toxic effects of cocaine in mice. Repeated administration of cocaine (45 mg/kg/day; intraperitoneally) to Swiss Webster mice, for 7 days, resulted in a progressive increase in the duration of the convulsive response to cocaine, an increase in the number of animals that had seizures, and augmentation in lethality rate. Pretreatment with NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 100 mg/kg/day; intraperitoneally) or NG-nitro-L-arginine (NO-Arg; 25 mg/kg/day; intraperitoneally) completely abolished the sensitization to the convulsive and lethal responses to cocaine. Receptor binding assays indicated first, that pretreatment with L-NAME apparently diminished cocaine-induced upregulation of cortical NMDA receptors, and second, that the effects of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitors tested are not mediated via a direct interaction of the drugs with the phencyclidine/NMDA receptor complex. Taken together, the present study suggests an important role for nitric oxide in the development of sensitization to the toxic effects of cocaine, and further supports the relationship between NMDA-receptor mediated neurotoxicity and nitric oxide.
We report on a 76 year old woman who fainted on her way to the restroom during the night. At the emergency department, a prolonged QT-interval was noticed in addition to sinusbradycardia and marginal hypokalemia. The QT-interval normalized promptly after citalopram was discontinued. Taking into account the clinical picture and the ascertained orthostatic dysregulation, a diagnosis of orthostatic syncope was made. Because of the lengthened QT-interval, drug-induced torsade de pointes ventricular arrhythmia was considered as a differential diagnosis. We describe that citalopram was most probably the cause for the prolonged QT-interval. In our article we discuss the pathophysiology of drug-induced long QT syndrome (LQTS), the most important drugs involved, and finally the prophylaxis and treatment of a TdP ventricular arrhythmia.
To explore the mechanism of embryonic developmental toxicity of methyl mercury at cellular and gene levels.
Effects of methylmercury on embryonic cell behavior and gene expression in rats were observed with in vitro (0, 0.05, 0.10, 0.20, 0.40, 0.80 and 1.60 mg/L of methylmercury) and in vivo (0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.8, 1.6 and 3.2 mg/L of methylmercury) rat models, in situ hybridization and TdT-induced dUTP nick end labeling techniques.
Methylmercury could pass through yolk-sac placenta quickly, and inhibit placenta development and blood vessel differentiation there at higher concentration. There was a dose-response relationship between concentration of methylmercury and its embryonic developmental toxicity. Its developmental toxicity mainly characterized as patent neural tube and anomalous flexion. Methylmercury could induce excessive apoptosis of embryonic cells, inhibit apparently the synthesis of cellular DNA and RNA and damage its cellular ultrastructure. It also could induce significantly the expression of heat shock protein 70 mRNA and inhibit the expression of fibronectin and p16 mRNA. There was relationship between heat shock protein 70 mRNA, Ca(2+), apoptosis and teratogenesis.
Disturbance of embryonic cell behavior and related gene expression played important roles in developmental toxicity caused by methylmercury.
In mammals, the main component of the circadian system is the suprachiasmatic nucleus in the hypothalamus. However, circadian clocks are also present in most peripheral tissues, such as adipose tissue. The aim of the present study was to analyse the potential effects of resveratrol on changes induced by high-fat feeding in the expression of clock genes and clock-controlled genes in the white adipose tissue from rats. For this purpose, rats were divided into three groups: a control group, fed a standard diet, and two other groups, either fed a high-fat diet supplemented with resveratrol (RSV) or no resveratrol (HF). The expression of clock genes and clock-controlled genes was analysed by RT-PCR. Protein expression and fatty acid synthase (FAS) activity were also analysed. When comparing the controls, the RSV group showed similar patterns of response to the HF group, except for reverse erythroblastosis virus α (Rev-Erbα), which was down-regulated. The expression of this gene reached the same levels as in control rats. The response pattern of protein expression for Rev-Erbα was similar to that found for gene expression. High-fat feeding up-regulated all adipogenic genes and resveratrol did not modify them. In the HF group, the activity of FAS tended to increase, while resveratrol decreased. In conclusion, resveratrol reverses the change induced by high-fat feeding in the expression of Rev-Erbα in adipose tissue, which means that clock machinery is a target for this polyphenol. This change seems to be related to reduced lipogenesis, which might be involved in the body fat-lowering effect of this molecule.
To evaluate the effects of diltiazem (240 mg/day) on the left ventricular function, we studied 13 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Comparison with placebo was made in a double-blind randomized crossover study. Both placebo and diltiazem were administered for 5 weeks. We assumed left ventricular systolic time intervals assessed by polycardiography as parameter of ventricular function. Diltiazem induced a significant decrease in pre-ejection period (p less than 0.01) as well as pre-ejection period/left ventricular ejection time ratio (p less than 0.01). Thus, our results suggest that diltiazem improves the contractile state of ischemic myocardium in CAD patients.
The mechanism of recumbent hypertension induced by fludrocortisone was studied in seven patients with orthostatic hypotension. All showed increases in blood pressure in the recumbent and standing positions, and hypertensive levels were achieved on recumbency in four of them. Hypertensive retinopathy developed in two patients and cardiomegaly in one. Initial blood-pressure elevations were associated with sodium retention and plasma-volume expansion. However, with long-term treatment, plasma volume decreased to control levels despite further blood-pressure increases. Treatment did not affect plasma levels of catecholamines but did enhance pressor responsiveness to infused norepinephrine in some subjects. Hemodynamic studies indicated that hypertension in the recumbent position was related to increases in total peripheral-vascular resistance and not to changes in cardiac output. Clinically, hypertension in the recumbent position is an important risk of fludrocortisone treatment in patients with orthostatic hypotension. This unusual model of chronic mineralocorticoid-induced hypertension is not volume dependent but is related to increased peripheral-vascular resistance.
Chronic stress precipitates drug seeking behavior and alters the effects of drugs of abuse. Although it is known that chronic stress potentiates acute neurochemical and hyperthermic responses to the drug of abuse methamphetamine, no studies have investigated if and how chronic stress alters other physiological responses to methamphetamine. Therefore the objective of these studies was to determine if 10 days of chronic unpredictable stress modulates corticosterone (CORT) responses to methamphetamine and furthermore how chronic stress may modulate methamphetamine-induced increases in hyperthermia and CORT. As chronic stress potentiates hyperthermic responses to serotonin 2 (5-HT2) stimulation and 5-HT2 receptors are important in mediating both hyperthermic and CORT responses, we also investigated if 5-HT2 antagonism would block hyperthermia and CORT secretion by the serial exposure to stress and methamphetamine (stress/methamphetamine). The results of these studies illustrate that stress potentiates methamphetamine-induced increases in body temperature and CORT secretion and that these increases are blocked by the 5-HT2 antagonist ketanserin. Furthermore, the combination of stress and methamphetamine depletes 5-HT content in the hippocampus 7 days after methamphetamine administration which is blocked by the 5-HT2 antagonist ketanserin. Overall, these results indicate a pharmacological mechanism for the depletion of hippocampal 5-HT by the serial exposure to stress and methamphetamine and further illustrate the deleterious interactions between chronic stress and methamphetamine use.
The dose-dependent cardiomyopathy and heart failure due to adriamycin have been shown to be due to increased oxidative stress and loss of myocytes. We examined the incidence of myocardial apoptosis as well as changes in the expression of apoptotic regulatory gene products in an established animal model of adriamycin cardiomyopathy. Rats were treated with adriamycin (cumulative dose, 15 mg/kg), and the hearts were examined for apoptosis as well as expression of Bax, caspase 3, and Bcl-2 at 0, 4, 10, 16, and 21 days after the treatment. A significant increase in the incidence of apoptosis was seen at 4 days, followed by a decline at 10 and 16 days of posttreatment. At 21 days, the number of apoptotic cells increased again and included cells of the conducting system. Expression of Bax corresponded to these biphasic changes, whereas the converse was true for the expression of Bcl-2. The latter peaked at 10 days followed by a decline at 16 and 21 days. The Bax/Bcl-2 ratio also correlated with the incidence of apoptosis. Expression of caspase 3 correlated with increased apoptosis, but only at early time points. Probucol (cumulative dose, 120 mg/kg), a known antioxidant as well as promoter of endogenous antioxidants, significantly reduced the incidence of apoptosis as well as expression of Bax. Adriamycin-induced hemodynamic changes were also prevented by probucol. These data suggest that adriamycin-induced apoptosis is mediated by oxidative stress and may play a role in the development of heart failure.
While most clinically used antibiotics were derived from natural products, the isolation of new broad-spectrum natural products has become increasingly rare and narrow-spectrum agents are typically deemed unsuitable for development because of intrinsic limitations of their scaffold or target. However, it is possible that the spectrum of a natural product antibiotic might be limited by specific resistance mechanisms in some bacteria, such as target mutations, and the spectra of such "latent" antibiotics might be reoptimized by derivatization, just as has been done with clinically deployed antibiotics. We recently showed that the spectrum of the arylomycin natural product antibiotics, which act via the novel mechanism of inhibiting type I signal peptidase, is broader than previously believed and that resistance in several key human pathogens is due to the presence of a specific Pro residue in the target peptidase that disrupts interactions with the lipopeptide tail of the antibiotic. To begin to test whether this natural resistance might be overcome by derivatization, we synthesized analogues with altered lipopeptide tails and identified several with an increased spectrum of activity against S. aureus. The data support the hypothesis that the arylomycins are latent antibiotics, suggest that their spectrum may be optimized by derivatization, and identify a promising scaffold upon which future optimization efforts might focus.
Autism is a neurological disorder of childhood with poorly understood etiology and pathology. We compared lipid peroxidation status in the plasma of children with autism, and their developmentally normal non-autistic siblings by quantifying the levels of malonyldialdehyde, an end product of fatty acid oxidation. Lipid peroxidation was found to be elevated in autism indicating that oxidative stress is increased in this disease. Levels of major antioxidant proteins namely, transferrin (iron-binding protein) and ceruloplasmin (copper-binding protein) in the serum, were significantly reduced in autistic children as compared to their developmentally normal non-autistic siblings. A striking correlation was observed between reduced levels of these proteins and loss of previously acquired language skills in children with autism. These results indicate altered regulation of transferrin and ceruloplasmin in autistic children who lose acquired language skills. It is suggested that such changes may lead to abnormal iron and copper metabolism in autism, and that increased oxidative stress may have pathological role in autism.
It is known that the subcutaneous injection of a single dose of sodium selenite into suckling rats results in the development of large nuclear opacities. The intracellular transport of selenite in various cells, except lens cells, occurs via the Cl/HCO3 exchanger. The aim of the present study is to investigate the possible role of the anion-exchange inhibitor, disulfonic stilbene (SITS), in the selenite-induced catarogenesis in the rat pups. Wistar albino rats (8-10 d old) were separated into three groups: one control and two experimental. The first experimental group was injected subcutaneously with a single dose of 30 nmol sodium selenite/g body weight. The second experimental group was injected with a single dose of 10 nmol SITS/g body weight 15 min before the same dose selenite injection. The control group did not have any injections. The stage of cataract development was examined on d 7 postinjection with slit-lamp photographs. In SITS pretreated group, all eyes remained transparent (considered as stage 0), whereas in the selenite-injected group, the animals did have different stage of nuclear cataract; 8 animals have stage 5, 10 animals have stage 4, and 4 animals have stage 3. A pretreatment of SITS completely prevented cataract formation of the selenite-induced cataract model in rat pups.
The use of mixed allogeneic bone marrow chimerism to induce donor-specific transplantation tolerance has been extensively demonstrated. In the present study, we assessed the effect of combined use of a short course of FK506 and a single-dose cyclophosphamide (CYP) on the induction of tolerance and development of GVHD after allogeneic BMT.
Lewis rat (RT1(l)) recipients received BMT from Brown Norway (RT1(n)) donors on the next day after injection of CYP at a dose of 200 mg/kg. The recipients were further treated with no FK506 (n = 8), 0.3 mg/kg/day FK506 on days 10-16 (n = 6), or the same dose of FK506 on days 0-6 (n = 6). In a subgroup of animals, heterotopic heart transplantation was performed to investigate transplantation tolerance.
Six of eight recipient rats that did not receive FK506 died of severe GVHD, while high levels of chimerism were induced. Recipients of FK506 in the later phase developed mild transient GVHD around 2 to 3 weeks after BMT and recovered thereafter; however, the level of chimerism was significantly decreased (2.8 +/- 2.3% on day 100). Treatment with FK506 in the early phase completely prevented the development of GVHD and induced stable allogeneic chimerism in the long-term (13.8 +/- 8.3% on day 100). These recipients with stable chimerism accepted subsequent BN heart allografts indefinitely (>200 days x 5), while rejecting third-party (BUF) heart allografts by day 12.
Early transient FK506 promotes the induction of stable bone marrow chimerism without GVHD after BMT with CYP pretreatment. The timing of treatment with FK506 is critical with a view to preventing GVHD and inducing stable long-lasting chimerism.
Human serum paraoxonase-1 (PON1) prevents oxidation of low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and hydrolyzes the oxidized form, therefore preventing the development of atherosclerosis. The polymorphisms of PON1 gene are known to affect the PON1 activity and thereby coronary artery disease (CAD) risk. As studies are lacking in North-West Indian Punjabi's, a distinct ethnic group with high incidence of CAD, we determined PON1 activity, genotypes and haplotypes in this population and correlated them with the risk of CAD.
350 angiographically proven (≥ 70% stenosis) CAD patients and 300 healthy controls were investigated. PON1 activity was determined towards paraoxon (Paraoxonase; PONase) and phenylacetate (Arylesterase; AREase) substrates. In addition, genotyping was carried out by using multiplex PCR, allele specific oligonucleotide -PCR and PCR-RFLP methods and haplotyping was determined by PHASE software. The serum PONase and AREase activities were significantly lower in CAD patients as compared to the controls. All studied polymorphisms except L55M had significant effect on PONase activity. However AREase activity was not affected by them. In a logistic regression model, after adjustment for the conventional risk factors for CAD, QR (OR: 2.73 (1.57-4.72)) and RR (OR, 16.24 (6.41-41.14)) genotypes of Q192R polymorphism and GG (OR: 2.07 (1.02-4.21)) genotype of -162A/G polymorphism had significantly higher CAD risk. Haplotypes L-T-G-Q-C (OR: 3.25 (1.72-6.16)) and L-T-G-R-G (OR: 2.82 (1.01-7.80)) were also significantly associated with CAD.
In conclusion this study shows that CAD patients had lower PONase and AREase activities as compared to the controls. The coding Q192R polymorphism, promoter -162A/G polymorphism and L-T-G-Q-C and L-T-G-R-G haplotypes are all independently associated with CAD.
The present experiments dealt the effects of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) on the locomotor activity stimulating action of morphine in mice. In the first series of experiments, the pretreatments of mice by THC in doses up to 20 mg/kg have been found to potentiate the morphine-induced hyperactivity in dose-dependent manner, but higher doses of THC did not produce such an action. In the second series of experiments the dose-response curve of morphine for the motor activity has been found to shift to the left by the pretreatment of mice with 10 mg/kg of THC. These results show a synergism between morphine and THC and suggest that both drugs may share some common site of action.
To clarify the role of thromboxane A2 (TxA2), endothelin-1 (ET-1) and endothelin-3 (ET-3) in the progression of glomerular injury in accelerated nephrotoxic serum nephritis (NTN) in the rat, we studied the expression of ET-1 and ET-3 at the kidney by immunohistochemical method and examined the effect of a novel TxA2 receptor antagonist, S-1452. The S-1452-treated group showed significantly lowered 24-hr proteinuria and milder glomerular cell proliferation and lobulation than the non-treated group (NT group) on experimental day 10. There was no significant difference in the glomerular polymorphonuclear cell (PMN) exudation between the 2 groups. Immunofluorescent findings revealed that ET-1 and ET-3 were seen along the glomerular capillary wall and partly in the mesangial area in all rats of the NTN group. The degree and positive rate of ET-1 and ET-3 staining were significantly higher in the NTN group than in the S-1452 group. These findings suggest that TxA2 may be an important mediator in the development of NTN, and that TxA2 receptor antagonist may be useful for the reduction of glomerular injury in this type of nephritis. In addition, local production of ET may contribute to the development of this nephritis.
40 patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia were allocated to two different treatment groups according to their year of birth. Those patients born on odd years were given 5 mg of practolol intravenously, those born on even years receiving 5 mg of verapamil, and if the tachycardia continued, the same injection was repeated after 5 minutes. If practolol treatment failed, the patient was given 5 mg of verapamil half an hour later, and vice versa. Verapamil restored sinus rhythm in 19 patients out of 20. Practolol proved effective in 8 out of 20. In patients who were switched over to the other treatment verapamil was effective in 9 out of 11 and practolol in 1 patient. Side effects were few. Marked hypotension occurred in 2 patients, in 1 patient after 5 mg of verapamil, and after 5 mg of practolol in the other. It is concluded that verapamil is a very effective agent in the treatment of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. Selection of patients is emphasized to increase the safety of its use.
