Thiotepa (TT) has not been reported to cause cardiomyopathy, whereas cyclophosphamide (Cy)-related cardiomyopathy is well characterized. To search for cases of acute onset cardiomyopathy associated with TT, we retrospectively reviewed 171 patients who received TT-containing conditioning regimens for blood or marrow transplantation (BMT). Nine of 171 patients (5.3%) developed clinical congestive heart failure in the post-BMT period. The median time to onset of heart failure was 15 days after BMT (range 5-30). The median pre-BMT left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 50% (range 42-65%) as determined by two-dimensional echocardiogram, or gated blood pool scan. At the time of cardiomyopathy onset, LVEF was 30%. Six patients died of causes unrelated to heart failure. All affected patients who developed congestive heart failure following administration of TT had some evidence of cardiac dysfunction prior to transplantation. Significant risk factors for the development of cardiomyopathy included low pre-BMT-LVEF and female sex--particularly in females receiving allogeneic transplantation. The incidence of congestive heart failure with TT-containing regimens was similar to the incidence using other regimens with and without Cy. The mean time to clinical evidence of TT-associated cardiomyopathy was longer than the mean time reported with Cy. We recommend caution in using high-dose TT-containing regimens for patients with histories of cardiac dysfunction.
In the context of a prospective study on the adverse effects of anti-epileptic drugs on fetal outcome, we evaluated our experience with prenatal diagnosis by ultrasonography and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) determination in amniotic fluid. We compared these results with AFP values in maternal serum obtained prior to amniocentesis. From November 1985 to July 1990, amniocentesis at 16-18 weeks of gestation was performed in 267 pregnancies of 237 different women using anti-epileptic drugs. Among 92 pregnancies with maternal valproic acid use, five (including one concordantly affected monozygotic twin-pair) were terminated because of a spina bifida aperta, all prenatally diagnosed by AFP determination and acetylcholinesterase electrophoresis in amniotic fluid. The maternal serum AFP level was raised (> or = 2.5 multiples of the median (MOM) for singleton pregnancies and > or = 4.5 MOM for twin pregnancies) in only two of these five affected pregnancies. We emphasize that maternal serum AFP levels may be unreliable for prenatal screening for fetal neural tube defects in women taking valproate and recommend that amniocentesis and fetal ultrasound examination should be offered directly.
Laryngopharyngeal reflux has been proposed as a possible cause of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). We investigated the efferent laryngeal and diaphragmatic responses to acid exposure on the laryngeal mucosa using a neonatal canine model. Electromyographic (EMG) recordings from the thyroarytenoid muscle and the diaphragm were measured with hooked-wire electrodes. Reproducible laryngospasm responses occurred in all animals after laryngeal exposure to hydrochloric acid at pH 2.0 or less. Laryngospasm occurred in combination with tachypnea and increased diaphragmatic activity in most of the animals. Laryngospasm was associated with prolonged apnea and total cessation of diaphragmatic EMG activity in 1 animal, and in another, initial tachypnea was followed by erratic diaphragmatic activity and brief apnea. Laryngeal acid exposure (below pH 2.0) causes laryngospasm and may result in paradoxical apneic events in neonatal dogs. Acid-induced, laryngospasm-associated apnea may represent a potential cause of SIDS, and the immature dog appears to be an excellent model for further investigations.
Chronic metabolic acidosis induces dramatic increases in net acid excretion that are predominantly due to increases in urinary ammonia excretion. The current study examines whether this increase is associated with changes in the expression of the renal ammonia transporter family members, Rh B glycoprotein (Rhbg) and Rh C glycoprotein (Rhcg). Chronic metabolic acidosis was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by HCl ingestion for 1 wk; control animals were pair-fed. After 1 wk, metabolic acidosis had developed, and urinary ammonia excretion increased significantly. Rhcg protein expression was increased in both the outer medulla and the base of the inner medulla. Intercalated cells in the outer medullary collecting duct (OMCD) and in the inner medullary collecting duct (IMCD) in acid-loaded animals protruded into the tubule lumen and had a sharp, discrete band of apical Rhcg immunoreactivity, compared with a flatter cell profile and a broad band of apical immunolabel in control kidneys. In addition, basolateral Rhcg immunoreactivity was observed in both control and acidotic kidneys. Cortical Rhcg protein expression and immunoreactivity were not detectably altered. Rhcg mRNA expression was not significantly altered in the cortex, outer medulla, or inner medulla by chronic metabolic acidosis. Rhbg protein and mRNA expression were unchanged in the cortex, outer and inner medulla, and no changes in Rhbg immunolabel were evident in these regions. We conclude that chronic metabolic acidosis increases Rhcg protein expression in intercalated cells in the OMCD and in the IMCD, where it is likely to mediate an important role in the increased urinary ammonia excretion.
Acute doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity can be prevented in adults by continuous infusion of the drug, but mechanisms of cardiotoxicity are different in children. We compared cardiac outcomes in children receiving bolus or continuous infusion of doxorubicin.
In a randomized study, children with high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia received doxorubicin 360 mg/m(2) in 30-mg/m(2) doses every 3 weeks either by bolus (within 1 hour, n = 57) or by continuous infusion (over 48 hours, n = 64). Echocardiograms obtained before doxorubicin and at longest follow-up times were centrally remeasured, and z scores of cardiac measurements were calculated based on a healthy population.
The groups were similar in age, sex distribution, doxorubicin dose, and duration of follow-up. Before treatment, measures of left ventricular (LV) structure and function did not reveal dilated cardiomyopathy and were not statistically different between bolus and continuous-infusion groups. The follow-up echocardiograms demonstrated no significant difference between the two groups for any cardiac characteristic, but both groups showed significant abnormalities of LV structure and function compared with normal and with baseline. For example, the mean LV fractional shortening fell by approximately two SD in both groups between the two echocardiograms. LV contractility was depressed in both groups (for bolus patients, median z score = -0.70 SD, P =.006; for continuous-infusion patients, median z score = -0.765, P =.005). Dilated cardiomyopathy and inadequate LV hypertrophy were noted in both groups. Clinical cardiac manifestations and event-free survival did not differ.
Continuous doxorubicin infusion over 48 hours for childhood leukemia did not offer a cardioprotective advantage over bolus infusion. Both regimens were associated with progressive subclinical cardiotoxicity. Other cardioprotective strategies should be explored.
In October 1995 the Committee on Safety of Medicines advised UK doctors and pharmacists that oral contraceptives containing desogestrel and gestodene were associated with double the risk of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) compared to pills containing other progestogens. In 1997 data was analysed from the MediPlus database of UK general practitioner records, which reported odds ratios for desogestrel and gestodene lower than that for levonorgestrel. Here the results of a more stringent nested case control analysis on the MediPlus database are reported. The study was larger and cases were verified. A crude incidence of idiopathic VTE was found amongst users of combined oral contraceptives of 4.6 per 10 000 exposed women years. Using levonorgestrel 150 microg + ethinyloestradiol 30 microg as reference, non-significant odds ratios of 1.1 (0.5-2.6) for desogestrel 150 microg + ethinyloestradiol 30 microg and 1.1 (0.5-2.4) for gestodene 75 microg + ethinyloestradiol 30 microg were found. The results of this study show no significant difference in risk between different formulations of combined oral contraceptive.
We report the case of a patient in whom dramatic T wave alternans with brief bouts of torsades de pointes and QT prolongation occurred in association with intravenously administered pentamidine. This ECG marker of a potentially fatal side effect, although uncommon, should be looked for in patients requiring the use of this drug.
The authors have refined a model of cirrhosis in the rat and used it to determine whether the administration of halothane anesthesia adversely affects preexisting liver disease. Male Wistar rats were placed on phenobarbital water and were assigned randomly to two groups. Group 1 rats were exposed by inhalation to carbon tetrachloride (CC14) at weekly intervals for 12 exposures while Group 2 rats received only air. All treatment including phenobarbital then was withdrawn for 4 weeks. Rats then were bled for SGOT and SGPT determinations and 24 h later were exposed to 1.8% halothane in oxygen for 3 h (HAL); the remaining rats from each group were exposed to 100% oxygen for 3 h (O2). Twenty-four hours later, rats were killed and blood was obtained for SGOT and SGPT by cardiac puncture. Light microscopic histologic examination was performed blind on liver sections for cirrhosis and scored for superimposed acute focal necrosis. The weekly sublethal CCl4 exposure resulted in histologically demonstrable cirrhosis in all surviving Group 1 animals. The mean (+/- SD) SGOT (128 +/- 32 IU/1) and SGPT (86 +/- 24 IU/1) values for the Group 1 rats were significantly greater (P less than 0.01) than those for Group 2 rats (98 +/- 18 IU/1 and 57 +/- 12 IU/1, respectively). Cirrhotic animals showed neither deterioration in liver function nor acute liver cell necrosis after Hal compared with O2. However, Group 2 rats showed a modest but significant increase in SGOT (P less than 0.05) after HAL, while this change was not noted after O2. Thus, 1.8% halothane anesthesia in oxygen did not result in superimposition of acute liver cell injury in already cirrhotic rats.
D-penicillamine has been used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis for years. As a rare complication of this treatment the occurrence of myasthenia gravis has been described, the clinical features of this complication being indistinguishable from that of idiopathic myasthenia gravis. Both D-penicillamine induced and idiopathic myasthenia gravis show elevated titers of acetylcholine receptor antibodies and respond to acetylcholinesterase inhibitor treatment. We report on a patient with rheumatoid arthritis who, under treatment with D-penicillamine, developed severe myasthenia gravis which required temporary acetylcholinesterase inhibitor therapy. 8 months after D-penicillamine was discontinued the acetylcholine receptor antibodies had disappeared and the acetylcholinesterase inhibitors could be withdrawn. Clinical findings and possible pathogenetic aspects of D-penicillamine induced myasthenia gravis are discussed.
We examined the effects of cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced cystitis on the expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the serum levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) using in situ hybridization histochemistry and radioimmunoassay. In addition, the expression of AVP heteronuclear (hn) RNA and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) mRNA was also examined in the PVN of a CP-induced cystitis model. We found that the levels of CRH mRNA were significantly increased in the PVN at 2 h after intraperitoneal administration of CP compared to those in saline-treated rats. The CRH mRNA levels in the PVN peaked at 12 h after CP administration and the levels were still significantly higher than those in saline-treated group at 24 h after CP administration. The serum ACTH levels in CP-treated group were also significantly higher compared to those in saline-treated group at any of the time points examined. Unlike previous findings showing upregulation of nNOS mRNA and AVP hnRNA under somatic nociceptive states, the levels of nNOS mRNA and AVP hnRNA were unchanged in the PVN following CP-induced cystitis, visceral nociceptive stimulation. These results suggest that visceral nociceptive stimulation as well as somatic nociceptive stimulation may activate the hypothalamo-pituitary axis but the hypothalamic neuroendocrine responses produced by visceral nociceptive stimulation may be different from those produced by somatic nociceptive stimulation.
The hydrophilic bile salt ursodeoxycholate (UDCA) inhibits injury by hydrophobic bile acids and is used to treat cholestatic liver diseases. Interestingly, hepatocyte cell death from bile acid-induced toxicity occurs more frequently from apoptosis than from necrosis. However, both processes appear to involve the mitochondrial membrane permeability transition (MPT). In this study, we determined the inhibitory effect of UDCA on deoxycholic acid (DCA)-induced MPT in isolated mitochondria by measuring changes in transmembrane potential (delta psi m) and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In addition, we examined the expression of apoptosis-associated proteins in mitochondria isolated from livers of bile acid-fed animals.
Adult male rats were maintained on standard diet supplemented with DCA and/or UDCA for 10 days. Mitochondria were isolated from livers by sucrose/percoll gradient centrifugation and MPT was measured using spectrophotometric and fluorimetric assays. delta psi m and ROS generation were determined by FACScan analysis. Cytoplasmic and mitochondrial protein abundance were determined by Western blot analysis.
DCA increased mitochondrial swelling 25-fold over controls (p < 0.001); UDCA reduced the swelling by > 40% (p < 0.001). Similarly, UDCA inhibited DCA-mediated release of calcein-loaded mitochondria by 50% (p < 0.001). delta psi m was significantly decreased in mitochondria incubated with DCA but not with UDCA. delta psi m disruption was followed closely by increased superoxide anion and peroxides production (p < 0.01). Coincubation of mitochondria with UDCA significantly inhibited the changes associated with DCA (p < 0.05). In vivo, DCA feeding was associated with a 4.5-fold increase in mitochondria-associated Bax protein levels (p < 0.001); combination feeding with UDCA almost totally inhibited this increase (p < 0.001).
UDCA significantly reduces DCA-induced disruption of delta psi m, ROS production, and Bax protein abundance in mitochondria, suggesting both short- and long-term mechanisms in preventing MPT. The results suggest a possible role for UDCA as a therapeutic agent in the treatment of both hepatic and nonhepatic diseases associated with high levels of apoptosis.
The effects of the tricyclic antidepressant clomipramine on sleep EEG and nocturnal penile tumescence (NPT) were investigated during a long-term study in a normal male control subject. During 21 consecutive days the subject received first placebo for 3 days, then stepwise increasing dosages of clomipramine for 10 days, and finally placebo after withdrawal for 8 days. Under clomipramine, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep was suppressed markedly; an REM rebound occurred after withdrawal. Awake and stages 1 and 2 increased while slow wave sleep was diminished under clomipramine. Those non-REM parameters returned to baseline values after drug cessation. NPT was reduced simultaneously with REM sleep under clomipramine 30 to 75 mg. Under this dosage range, full erections occurred during the later hours of sleep in association with the delayed REM periods. Clomipramine 100 mg prompted a further decrease of NPT, which exceeded the REM suppression. Most of the changes and NPT parameters depended significantly on the dosage and the plasma concentration of clomipramine. After withdrawal, NPT needed 6 days to normalize. Although NPT was disturbed distinctly, no erectile dysfunction, but a decrease of sexual interest and, once, a lack of ejaculation, were reported.
It is hypothesized that atypical antipsychotic drugs have neuroprotective effects which may be one of the mechanisms in treatment of schizophrenia. We investigated the neuroprotective effects of olanzapine (OLA), an atypical antipsychotic drug, on methamphetamine (METH)-induced neurotoxicity in rats. After pretreatment with OLA (2 mg/kg/day) by intraperitoneal injection for 2 weeks, rats were administered METH (7.5 mg/kg, four times at 2-h intervals) by subcutaneous injection while their body temperature was monitored. The rats were sacrificed 24 h after the last injection of METH for immunohistochemistry. METH-induced 24 h mortality was effectively reduced and METH-induced decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in caudate putamen (CPu) was significantly attenuated by OLA chronic pretreatment. Furthermore, we showed that the above neuroprotective potential of OLA might be associated with its attenuating effects on METH-induced hyperthermia and with its preventative actions on METH-induced decrease of Bcl-2, an anti-apoptotic gene product, in the CPu. Our results suggest that OLA may be a neuroprotective agent and that its neuroprotective potential may contribute to its therapeutic effects in treatment of schizophrenia.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of nilvadipine (a dihydropyridine-type calcium entry blocker) on the cerebral circulation, experimental models of cerebral ischemia were used to measure abrupt changes in the cortical cerebral blood flow (CBF) at the 'penumbra' (the boundary region between the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) and the middle cerebral artery (MCA)). Left middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was performed in Sprague--Dawley rats, and then 8 or 16 micrograms kg-1 of nilvadipine was administered to two groups of the rats. The former group was referred to as the 8-MCAO(+) group (n = 8), and the latter group, the 16-MCAO(+) group (n = 8). To a control group (n = 8), only the solvent of nilvadipine was administered. After the administration in each group, CBF and the mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) were continuously measured for 60 min. The MAP in both the 8-MCAO(+) and 16-MCAO(+) groups was significantly lower than in the control group for 25 min after nilvadipine administration (Wilcoxon 2 sample test, p < 0.05). Also, the CBF in the 16-MCAO(+) group was significantly lower (about 20%) for 55 minutes than that in the control group. On the other hand, the CBF in the 8-MCAO(+) group three minutes after nilvadipine administration was not significantly lower than in the control group (Wilcoxon 2 sample test). Our findings confirmed that nilvadipine (8 micrograms kg-1) maintained CBF while lowering the blood pressure in the experimental model of acute cerebral ischemia.
Over a 30 month period, 47 out of 749 patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus had various neuromuscular symptoms. Based on clinical and electrophysiological data, 47% had distal symmetric polyneuropathy, 11% chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP), 8.5% toxic neuropathy related to 2-3-dideoxyinosine (DDI), 8.5% cranial neuropathy, 8.5% mononeuropathy multiplex or isolated focal neuropathy, 8.5% progressive lumbosacral polyradiculopathy, and 8.5% myopathy. Half of the patients exhibited previous or concomitant signs of central nervous system involvement and 18 patients died during the study period. CIDP and cranial neuropathies usually appeared early in the course of the disease and consequently showed neurological improvement. Nerve conduction studies of DDI related toxic neuropathies showed distal axono-myelinic sensitivo-motor neuropathy, differing from CIDP by the absence of a conduction block. Distal symmetric polyneuropathies, frequent in the advanced systemic illness, do not systematically require an extended workup, but more unusual peripheral neuropathies which might be treatable necessitate further investigations (electromyography, radiology, serological blood tests; protein chemistry and routine workup of the cerebrospinal fluid). For example, progressive lumbosacral polyradiculopathies responded to early treatment, with a better outcome in one case of herpetic origin than in another case due to cytomegalovirus infection. Our observations suggest that myopathies in HIV infected patients should first be tackled by temporary interruption of virostatic medication, followed by muscle biopsy if the symptoms persist.
In normotensive rats, chronic infusion of exogenous ouabain causes hypertension involving central mechanisms. To determine whether ouabain-induced hypertension is associated with specific changes in brain Na+,K+-ATPase activity and expression, we assessed brain Na+,K+-ATPase isozyme activity and protein expression in rats treated with ouabain (50 microg/day s.c. or 10 microg/day i.c.v. for 14 days). Resting mean arterial pressure (MAP) was higher in s.c.- and i.c.v.-ouabain-treated animals vs. control (124+/-2 vs. 105+/-2 and 130+/-2 vs. 109+/-2, respectively, p<0.01). Ouabain infused s.c. or i.c.v. for 14 days had no effect on Na+,K+-ATPase isozyme activity in hypothalamic, pontine/medullary or cortical microsomes. However, the percent increase in total Na+,K+-ATPase activity produced in vitro by antibody Fab fragments that bind ouabain with high affinity (Digibind) was two-fold greater in s.c.- and i.c.v.-ouabain-treated rats vs. control, but only in hypothalamic microsomes. Thus, ouabain infused s.c. or i.c.v. does appear to directly inhibit Na+,K+-ATPase activity in the hypothalamus. On the other hand, in the hypothalamus, s.c.- and i.c.v.-ouabain infusions tended to increase alpha3 (by 30-44%), but had no effect on alpha1 or alpha2 Na+,K+-ATPase isozyme protein expression. In addition, ouabain was found to partially dissociate from the Na+,K+-ATPase enzyme following sample processing. Thus, the inability to detect a decrease in enzyme activity in the hypothalamus in response to ouabain may be due, in part, to an increase in enzyme expression and the dissociation of ouabain during sample processing.
Hospital-based drug monitoring facilities have been used to investigate the frequency of perceptual disturbances in inpatients receiving pentazocine and the occurrence of dependence upon this drug after discharge from hospital. A pilot study was carried out in which seven out of 70 hospital inpatients receiving pentazocine reported such episodes, while in a prospective study, 9 out of 132 patients receiving pentazocine and 1 out of 112 receiving cyclimorph, dihydrocodeine, or pethidine reported their occurrence. A total of 135 patients who received pentazocine for disorders likely to require longterm analgesia were followed up for six months after their discharge from hospital. 24 had received pentazocine after discharge; two required an increase in dosage and four expressed a preference for pentazocine.
The effects of i.v. bolus administration of cromakalim (1-10 micrograms/kg) and pinacidil (3-100 micrograms/kg) on large (circumflex artery) and small coronary arteries and on systemic hemodynamics were investigated in chronically instrumented conscious dogs and compared to those of nitroglycerin (0.03-10 micrograms/kg). Nitroglycerin, up to 0.3 micrograms/kg, selectively increased circumflex artery diameter (CxAD) without simultaneously affecting any other cardiac or systemic hemodynamic parameter. In contrast, cromakalim and pinacidil at all doses and nitroglycerin at doses higher than 0.3 micrograms/kg simultaneously and dose-dependently increased CxAD, coronary blood flow and heart rate and decreased coronary vascular resistance and aortic pressure. Cromakalim was approximately 8- to 9.5-fold more potent than pinacidil in increasing CxAD. Vasodilation of large and small coronary vessels and hypotension induced by cromakalim and pinacidil were not affected by prior combined beta adrenergic and muscarinic receptors blockade but drug-induced tachycardia was abolished. When circumflex artery blood flow was maintained constant, the increases in CxAD induced by cromakalim (10 micrograms/kg), pinacidil (30 micrograms/kg) and nitroglycerin (10 micrograms/kg) were reduced by 68 +/- 7, 54 +/- 9 and 1 +/- 1%, respectively. Thus, whereas nitroglycerin preferentially and flow-independently dilates large coronary arteries, cromakalim and pinacidil dilate both large and small coronary arteries and this effect is not dependent upon the simultaneous beta adrenoceptors-mediated rise in myocardial metabolic demand. Finally, two mechanisms at least, direct vasodilation and flow dependency, are involved in the cromakalim- and pinacidil-induced increase in CxAD.
A 67-year-old woman with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) showed a marked decrease in leukemic promyelocytes with concomitant maturation of leukemic cells during treatment with retinol palmitate. A culture study in vitro revealed that retinol, which is the main metabolite of retinol palmitate detected in plasma, induced morphological and functional maturation of leukemic promyelocytes. These findings may indicate that retinol palmitate induces cell differentiation and slows proliferation of leukemic cells in vivo, and that the reduction in cell growth is the key phenomenon in the clearing of leukemic cells, rather than the maturation phenomenon itself.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) play important roles in the invasion and migration of cancer cells. In this study, we used in vitro and in vivo assays to examine the inhibitory effects of oroxylin A, one of the main bioactive flavonoid extracted from Scutellaria radix, on the human breast carcinoma cell MDA-MB-231 invasion and migration. We found that oroxylin A can suppress cell adhesion, invasion and migration in a concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, oroxylin A led to the reduction of the activity and expression levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in gelatin zymography, real-time PCR and western blotting analysis. Further elucidation of the mechanism revealed that oroxylin A increased the expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2), the endogenous inhibitor of MMP-2, and repressed the phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA)-induced translocation of protein kinase Cδ (PKCδ), phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) and binding activity of the transcription factor activator protein-1 (AP-1) which are upstream signaling molecules in MMP-9 expression. Our results also indicated that oroxylin A inhibited the lung metastasis of murine melanoma cell B16-F10 in vivo. Therefore, we proposed that oroxylin A might be developed as a therapeutic potential candidate for the treatment of cancer metastasis.
Non-radioisotopic local lymph node assay (LLNA) using 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) with flow cytometry (FCM) is gaining attention since it is free from the regulatory issues in traditional LLNA (tLLNA) accompanying in vivo uses of radioisotope, (3)H-thymidine. However, there is also concern over compromised performance of non-radioisotopic LLNA, raising needs for additional endpoints to improve the accuracy. With the full 22 reference substances enlisted in OECD Test Guideline No. 429, we evaluated the performance of LLNA:BrdU-FCM along with the concomitant measurements of B/T cell ratio and ex vivo cytokine production from isolated lymph node cells (LNCs) to examine the utility of these markers as secondary endpoints. Mice (Balb/c, female) were topically treated with substances on both ears for 3 days and then, BrdU was intraperitoneally injected on day 5. After a day, lymph nodes were isolated and undergone FCM to determine BrdU incorporation and B/T cell sub-typing with B220+ and CD3e+. Ex vivo cytokine production by LNCs was measured such as IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-12, IFN-γ, MCP-1, GM-CSF and TNFα. Mice treated with sensitizers showed preferential increases in B cell population and the selective production of IL-2, which matched well with the increases in BrdU incorporation. When compared with guinea pig or human data, BrdU incorporation, B cell increase and IL-2 production ex vivo could successfully identify sensitizers with the accuracy comparable to tLLNA, suggesting that these markers may be useful for improving the accuracy of LLNA:BrdU-FCM or as stand-alone non-radioisotopic endpoints.
Buprenorphine is a promising alternative to methadone or levo-acetyl alpha methadol for opioid agonist maintenance treatment, and thrice-weekly dosing would facilitate its use for this purpose.
After a 3-day induction, opioid-dependent patients (n = 92) were randomly assigned to daily clinic attendance and 12-weeks maintenance treatment with sublingual buprenorphine administered double blind either daily (n = 45; 16 mg/70 kg) or thrice weekly (n = 47; 34 mg/70 kg on Fridays and Sundays and 44 mg/70 kg on Tuesdays). Outcome measures include retention, results of 3x/week urine toxicology tests, and weekly self-reported illicit drug use.
There were no significant differences at baseline in important social, demographic, and drug-use features. Retention was 71% in the daily and 77% in the 3x/week conditions. The proportion of opioid-positive urine tests decreased significantly from baseline in both groups and averaged 57% (daily) and 58% in 3x/week. There were no significant differences between groups in self-reported number of bags of heroin used for any day of the week, including Thursdays (48-72 hours following the last buprenorphine dose for subjects in the 3x/week condition), or in medication compliance (92%, 91%) and counseling attendance (82%, 82%).
At an equivalent weekly dose of 112 mg/70 kg, thrice-weekly and daily sublingual buprenorphine appear comparable in efficacy with regard to retention and reductions in illicit opioid and other drug use. These findings support the potential for utilizing thrice-weekly buprenorphine dosing in novel settings.
We examined the effects of disulfiram versus placebo on cocaine dependence in buprenorphine-maintained subjects.
Opioid and cocaine dependent subjects (n = 20) were induced onto buprenorphine maintenance, then randomized to disulfiram (250 mg q.d. ; n = 11) or placebo (n = 9) treatment for 12 weeks.
Groups were comparable at baseline on demographic measures and on baseline measures of drug-use severity. Fifteen subjects completed the study, including 8 subjects randomized to disulfiram (72.7%) and 7 subjects randomized to placebo (77.8%). The total number of weeks abstinent from cocaine was significantly greater on disulfiram versus placebo (mean +/- SD: 7.8 +/- 2.6 vs. 3.3 +/- 0.5, p <.05) and the number of days to achieving 3 weeks (24.6 +/- 15.1 vs. 57.8 +/- 7.7, p <.01) of continuous cocaine abstinence was significantly lower in disulfiram compared with placebo. The number of cocaine-negative urine tests during the trial were also higher on disulfiram (14.7) than on placebo (8.6); furthermore, subjects in the disulfiram group achieved consistently higher rates of cocaine-negative urine tests in each 3-week interval and the increase over time was faster in the disulfiram compared with placebo.
This preliminary study suggests the potential efficacy of disulfiram versus placebo for treatment of cocaine dependence in buprenorphine-maintained patients.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of flumazenil vs placebo in reversing fentanyl and midazolam-induced conscious sedation in ED patients undergoing a short, painful procedure.
This was a multicenter, randomized, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled study conducted at 9 university-affiliated teaching hospitals. Patients > 18 years of age requiring conscious sedation for a painful procedure expected to last < 20 minutes were eligible for inclusion in the study. Patients received 2 micrograms/kg of fentanyl, followed by midazolam titrated to the desired level of sedation. Patients were then randomized to receive either flumazenil or placebo in a 3:1 ratio (flumazenil:placebo). Vital signs, O2 saturation, and alertness were recorded at regular intervals. Prior to ED release, patients were asked to rate the amount of discomfort they experienced and the level of relaxation achieved on a 10-cm visual analog scale (VAS). They also were questioned about their recall for the procedure and satisfaction with the drug regimen. Physicians also rated their satisfaction with the drug regimen on a 10-cm VAS.
Overall, 133 patients received flumazenil and 46 patients received placebo. Patients in the 2 groups received similar doses of midazolam. The patients who received flumazenil returned to baseline alertness earlier (11.1 min vs 24.8 min, p < 0.001) and at a faster rate than did the patients given placebo. Actual intervals from procedure completion until release from the ED did not differ between the 2 groups (98.2 +/- 3.6 min flumazenil vs 96.9 +/- 5.8 min placebo; p = 0.89). The amounts of discomfort experienced, levels of relaxation achieved, recalls for the procedure, and both patient and physician satisfactions were also similar for the 2 groups. There were no serious adverse effects related to the study drug, and minor adverse effects were similar for the 2 groups.
Flumazenil is safe and efficacious in reversing midazolam-induced sedation in ED patients given a combination of fentanyl and midazolam to facilitate the performance of a short, painful procedure. The patients given flumazenil returned to baseline alertness earlier and at a faster rate than did the patients given placebo. However, flumazenil did not alter the actual interval from procedure completion until ED release.
