Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is characterized by brain lesions, epilepsy, increased incidence of mental retardation and autism. The causal link between lesion load and epilepsy on cognitive disabilities has been debated, and these factors explain only part of the intelligence quotient variability. A Tsc2 rat model of the disease provided evidence that the TSC genes are directly involved in neuronal function. However, these lesion- and epilepsy-free animals did not show learning deficits, leaving open the possibility that the presence of brain lesions or epilepsy is a prerequisite for the cognitive deficits to fully develop. Here, we reinvestigated the relation among cerebral lesions, epilepsy, and cognitive function using Tsc1+/- mice.
We used immunocytochemistry and high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging to study the presence of neuronal pathology in Tsc1+/- mice. We used the Morris water maze, fear conditioning, social interaction, and nest building test to study the presence of cognitive and social deficits.
We observed no spontaneous seizures or cerebral lesions in the brains of Tsc1+/- mice. In addition, giant dysmorphic cells were absent, and spine number and dendritic branching appeared to be normal. Nevertheless, Tsc1+/- mice showed impaired learning in the hippocampus-sensitive versions of the learning tasks and impaired social behavior.
Tsc1+/- mice show social and cognitive deficits in the absence of apparent cerebral pathology and spontaneous seizures. These findings support a model in which haploinsufficiency for the TSC genes leads to aberrations in neuronal functioning resulting in impaired learning and social behavior.
A 59-y-old with a history of chronic renal failure on hemodialysis was diagnosed with herpes zoster and begun on 800 mg acyclovir 5 times daily. Two days later the patient developed visual hallucinations, ataxia, confusion and memory loss along with focal myoclonus, nausea and vomiting. No fever, elevated WBC count or significant electrolyte imbalance was found. CT scan of the brain was unremarkable. The patient was then dialyzed for presumed acyclovir toxicity. Her acyclovir level was later found to have been 3.4 micrograms/ml (normal peak range 0.4-2 micrograms/ml) prior to dialysis. After 3 h of hemodialysis, her post-dialysis acyclovir level was 1.9 micrograms/ml. After a second course of hemodialysis the next day the patient's mental status improved, and she was discharged 5 d later. Due to its low volume of distribution (0.6 L/kg), low protein binding (about 15%) and water solubility, acyclovir is an example of the ideal drug that can be removed by hemodialysis. About 45% of the total body amount can be extracted through a 3-h course of hemodialysis with resultant improvement in symptoms.
Herein, we report our examination of the anti-breast cancer activity of a novel synthetic compound, 7-(benzylamino)-1, 3, 4, 8-tetrahydropyrrolo [4, 3, 2-de]quinolin-8(1H)-one (BA-TPQ). This agent is an analog of a naturally occurring marine compound, and was found to be the most active out of more than 40 related compounds. We investigated the in vitro activity of BA-TPQ on the survival, proliferation, and apoptosis of breast cancer cells using the MTT and BrdUrd assays, and Annexin/Annexin-PI staining and flow cytometry. The in vivo anti-cancer effects of BA-TPQ were evaluated in xenograft models of breast cancer. Finally, the mechanisms of action of the compound were also assessed by cDNA microarrays, RT-PCR and Western blotting. In a dose-dependent manner, BA-TPQ inhibited cell growth and induced apoptosis and cell cycle arrest in human MCF-7 and MDA-MB-468 breast cancer cells in vitro, and showed in vivo efficacy in mice bearing MCF-7 or MDA-MB-468 xenograft tumors. We demonstrated that BA-TPQ modifies the expression of numerous molecules involved in cell cycle progression and apoptosis. Similar changes in protein expression were observed in vitro and in vivo, as determined by examination of cells and excised xenograft tumors. Our preclinical data indicate that BA-TPQ is a potential therapeutic agent for breast cancer that has multiple hormone-, Her2-, and p53-independent mechanisms of action, providing a basis for further development of the compound as a novel anticancer agent.
In adult female rats diabetic nephropathy was induced by i.v. administration of streptozotocin (6 mg/100 g b.w.). The animals survive for 3 weeks when very low daily doses of insulin (0.3 IU/animal) are administered. High blood urea concentrations and distinct proteinuria indicate the impairment of kidney function in streptozotocin diabetic rats. Streptozotocin induces mild polyuria and increased renal excretion of potassium; there is also an increase in renal excretion of administered p-aminohippurate. Three weeks after administration of streptozotocin the formation of lipid peroxides is increased in the kidney. At this time glutathione content (GSH, GSSG) is unchanged in liver and kidney of streptozotocin diabetic rats. Impairment of kidney function in streptozotocin diabetic rats can be prevented by daily supplementation with sufficient doses of insulin (about 3 IU/animal).
Oral cimetidine for the treatment of verruca continues to be a topic of discussion and controversy. Although its usage has gained popularity because it offers an alternative to conventional topical and surgical verruca therapy, its reported efficacy in managing warts lacks consistency in outcomes. Using high doses of oral cimetidine, therefore, raises concern about possible untoward effects. Cimetidine relies on effecting a change in the immune system to eradicate the verruca, but such a change in the immune system may cause patients to develop responses detrimental to their well being. The authors present an unusual case of severe delayed hypersensitivity with the use of oral cimetidine.
The hemodynamic effects of a fixed dose of 10 mg i.v. Labetalol were evaluated in 9 CAD patients during a surgical procedure for myocardial revascularisation. The results show a significant mean decrease in heart rate (HR) (-13%), systolic blood pressure (SBP) (-16%) and rate pressure product (RPP) (-28%). Other hemodynamic parameters were not significantly affected. These results were confirmed by a clinical study where in a series of 110 CAD patients 21 were treated during the surgical procedure with incremental doses of Labetalol to control high systolic blood pressure and tachycardia. Administration of a mean dose of 24.3 mg of Labetalol resulted in a significant decrease of RPP (-38%). No side effects related to Labetalol were encountered.
Fructose-induced hypertriglyceridemic rats become resistant to hepatotoxicity and susceptible to nephrotoxicity of acetaminophen (APAP), as compared with normal ones. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that alterations in the distribution of APAP and in the intrinsic susceptibility to toxicants are responsible for the alteration in hepatorenal toxicity of APAP in fructose-induced hypertriglyceridemic rats. Following APAP-administration (750 mg/kg, i.p.), fructose-pretreated rats (25% fructose in drinking water for 5 weeks) showed nephrotoxicity of APAP more promptly and more severely than normal ones. Renal APAP-concentrations at the early phase (15 and 30 min. after APAP-administration) were significantly greater in fructose-pretreated rats than those in normal ones. Plasma and hepatic APAP concentrations in fructose-pretreated rats were greater than those in normal ones only at the later phase (plasma; 6 hr, liver; 6 and 12 hr after APAP-administration). There were no significant differences in the APAP-induced depletion of hepatic and renal glutathione and in the basal hepatic and renal cytochrome P-450 contents between these rats. Fructose-pretreated rats were also more susceptible to p-aminophenol (PAP), a nephrotoxic metabolite of APAP, than normal rats. Therefore, enhanced susceptibility to APAP-nephrotoxicity in fructose-pretreated rats may be due, at least in part, to increased renal APAP concentration and increased intrinsic susceptibility to the metabolic nephrotoxicant.
Although cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II) (cisplatin) is an effective anticancer agent, its clinical use is highly limited predominantly due to its adverse effects on renal functions. The present work examined the therapeutic potential of edaravone, a free radical scavenger, for inhibiting cisplatin-induced renal injury.
Edaravone, 3-methyl-1-phenyl-pyrazolin-5-one, was administrated intravenously at a dose of 30 mg/kg of body weight to male Wistar rats (200-220 g). After 30 min, cisplatin was injected intraperitoneally at a dose of 5 mg/kg of body weight. At the indicated times after the treatment, functions and histological changes of the kidney were analyzed. To test the therapeutic potential of edaravone in chemotherapy, its effect on the anticancer action of cisplatin was examined in ascites cancer-bearing rats.
We found that cisplatin rapidly impaired the respiratory function and DNA of mitochondria in renal proximal tubules, thereby inducing apoptosis of tubular epithelial cells within a few days and chronic renal dysfunction associated with multiple cysts one-year after the administration. Administration of edaravone inhibited the cisplatin-induced acute injury of mitochondria and their DNA and renal epithelial cell apoptosis as well as the occurrence of chronic renal dysfunction and multiple cyst formation. The anticancer effect of cisplatin remained unaffected by intravenous administrating of edaravone.
These results indicate that edaravone may have therapeutic potential for inhibiting the acute and chronic injury of the kidney induced by cisplatin.
The neurotoxicity of manganese [Mn] is due in part to glutamate excitotoxicity. Release of ATP by astrocytes is a critical modulator of glutamatergic neurotransmission, which is regulated by calcium (Ca(2+)) waves that propagate through astrocytic networks in response to synaptic activity. It was postulated that Mn alters ATP-dependent intracellular Ca(2+) dynamics in astrocytes, thereby suppressing Ca(2+) wave activity. Confluent primary cultures of cortical astrocytes were loaded with the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye fluo-4 and examined by fluorescence microscopy for Ca(2+) wave activity following micropipet mechanical stimulation of a single cell. Mitochondrial Ca(2+) was evaluated by fluorescence microscopy following addition of ATP using the mitochondrial-specific Ca(2+) dye rhod-2-AM. Imaging studies revealed that pretreatment of astrocytes with 1-10 microM Mn significantly reduced the rate, area, and amplitude of mechanically induced Ca(2+) waves. This attenuation was not a result of inhibited mitochondrial calcium uptake because robust calcium waves were still observed following pretreatment of astrocytes with Ru360, an inhibitor of mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake, either in coupling or uncoupling conditions. However, determination of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca(2+) levels in cells using the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin indicated that Mn reduced the available pool of releasable ER Ca(2+) at concentrations as low as 1 muM. Examination of ATP-stimulated changes in mitochondrial Ca(2+) indicated that, in cells pretreated with Mn, mitochondria retained high levels of Ca(2+). It is concluded that exposure of astrocytes to low concentrations of Mn(2+) results in sequestration of Ca(2+) within the mitochondria that reduces the available pool of releasable Ca(2+) within the ER, thereby inhibiting calcium wave activity.
Protein-losing enteropathy (PLE) is frequently complicated in patients with gastrointestinal tract-involved Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH); however, LCH per se is not generally included in the list of diseases that cause PLE. We report here a case of infantile PLE that presented with continuous diarrhea at the onset of LCH. She was initially diagnosed as having allergic gastroenteropathy and, thus, received intravenous prednisolone, which was thought to have induced immunodeficiency and consequently resulted in life-threatening cytomegalovirus-associated hemophagocytic syndrome and disseminated intravascular coagulation. Because chemotherapy for hemophagocytic syndrome was transiently effective for underlying LCH as well, the diagnosis of LCH was delayed until its recurrence. Gastrointestinal tract-involved LCH, a rare but highly fatal disease, should be considered for infants with refractory gastrointestinal symptoms, especially for those with PLE; endoscopic biopsy is strongly recommended for immediate diagnosis.
Obscurations of vision were experienced by three patients taking quinidine and by two patients taking quinine. In four, transient symptoms developed on exposure to light after first awaking in the morning, and in the fifth, there was persistent photophobia. In two patients, there was a large central scotoma, in one, swirling dark clouds, and in the fourth, flickering of vision. The duration was 1 to 4 minutes in three patients and 45 to 60 minutes in one patient. The symptoms, which are benign, may be confused with the prodromal visual manifestations of thrombotic cerebrovascular disease.
Several procedures performed in the electrophysiology laboratory (EP lab) require surgical manipulation and are lengthy. Patients undergoing such procedures usually receive general anesthesia or deep sedation administered by an anesthesiologist. In 536 consecutive procedures performed in the EP lab, we assessed the safety and efficacy of deep sedation administered under the direction of an electrophysiologist and in the absence of an anesthetist. Patients were monitored with pulse oximetry, noninvasive blood pressure recordings, and continuous ECGs. The level of consciousness and vital signs were evaluated at 5-minute intervals. Deep sedation was induced in 260 patients using midazolam, phenergan, and meperidine, then maintained with intermittent dosing of meperidine at the following mean doses: midazolam 0.031 +/- 0.024 mg/kg; phenergan 0.314 +/- 0.179 mg/kg; and meperidine 0.391 +/- 0.167 mg/kg per hour. In the remaining 276 patients, deep sedation was induced with midazolam and fentanyl and maintained with a continuous infusion of fentanyl at a mean dose of 2.054 +/- 1.43 micrograms/kg per hour. Fourteen patients experienced a transient reduction in oxygen saturation that was readily reversed following administration of naloxone. An additional 11 patients desaturated secondary to partial airway obstruction, which resolved after repositioning the head and neck. Fourteen patients experienced hypotension with fentanyl. All but one returned to baseline blood pressures following an infusion of normal saline. No patient required intubation and no death occurred. Only three patients had recollection of periprocedure events. No patient remembered experiencing pain with the procedure. Hospital stays were not prolonged as a result of the sedation used.
(1) deep sedation during EP procedures can be administered safely under the guidance of the electrophysiologist without an anesthetist present; (2) the drugs used should be readily reversible in case of respiratory depression; and (3) this approach may reduce the overall cost of the procedures in the EP lab, maintaining adequate patient comfort.
A case of cerebromedullospinal disconnection or "locked-in" syndrome after intraventricular methotrexate is described. This is an unusual complication of intraventricular methotrexate instillation. Ventral pontine infarction is postulated to be responsible for the syndrome.
From August 1995 to December 1997, 15 patients with stage III-IV ovarian cancer were treated with outpatient intensive chemotherapy with G-CSF and stem cell support. The first cycle consisted of cyclophophamide IV 6 g/m(2); second, third, fourth and fifth paclitaxel 250 mg/m(2) and the sixth and seventh carboplatin AUC 18. CD34(+) cells were collected after the first cycle and reinfused after completion of cycles 6 and 7. Fourteen patients had stage IIIc and one patient had stage IV disease with liver metastases. All patients underwent laparotomy to maximize tumor debulking. This was optimal in eight patients and suboptimal in seven patients. Second-look surgery was performed in 14 patients. All patients had macroscopic complete responses and 10 patients had complete histologic response. Median follow-up was 48 months (range, 20 to 62). Twelve patients had further progression at a median of 27 months (range, 9 to 42) and nine are alive, three without evidence of disease progression. This pilot study shows that dose-dense chemotherapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin is associated with low toxicity and may improve the outcome of patients with poor prognosis ovarian cancer.
Children with Wilms tumor who have a particular risk of failure at relapse or at primary diagnosis were treated with high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) and autologous peripheral blood stem cell rescue in order to improve their probability of survival. From April 1992 to December 1998, 23 evaluable patients received HDC within the German Cooperative Wilms Tumor Studies. Nineteen were given melphalan, etoposide and carboplatin (MEC); the others received different regimens. The dose of carboplatin was adjusted according to renal function. Indications for HDC were high-risk relapse in 20 patients, bone metastases in two patients and no response in one patient. Fourteen of 23 patients are alive after a median observation time of 41 months, 11 of 14 in continuous complete remission, three in CR after relapse post HDC. The estimated survival and event-free survival for these patients are 60.9% and 48.2%. Twelve children relapsed after HDC; nine of them died within 12 months and three are surviving from 20 to 33 months after relapse. The main toxicities were hematologic, mucositis and renal (tubular dysfunction; intermittent hemodialysis in one patient). There were no toxic deaths. About half of the children suffering from Wilms tumor with very unfavorable prognostic factors survive disease-free after HDC for over 3 years. Besides hematological toxicity, mucositis and infections, renal function is at risk during HDC. With dose adjustment on glomerular filtration rate, however, no permanent renal failure was observed.
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of prochlorperazine were studied in healthy volunteers using a recently developed h.p.l.c. assay. Eight subjects received 12.5 mg and 6.25 mg i.v. doses of prochlorperazine, a 25 mg oral dose and placebo in random order. Plasma half-life (t1/2) of prochlorperazine was 6.8 +/- 0.7 h and 6.9 +/- 0.8 h for the 12.5 mg and 6.25 mg i.v. doses respectively. Apparent volume of distribution and plasma clearance were high and the kinetics did not appear to be dose-related. Absorption of oral prochlorperazine appeared to be slow and bioavailability was very low. A metabolite, possibly prochlorperazine sulphoxide, was noted after oral dosing. Mild sedation was common after i.v. prochlorperazine, but cardiovascular effects were minimal. The main adverse effect was akathisia which was reported by five out of eight subjects after the higher i.v. dose. These results provide preliminary information on the pharmacokinetics of i.v. prochlorperazine which were previously unknown.
The case of a 47-year-old woman suffering from a CT-assessed ischemic right hemisphere stroke, which occurred after a 2-month treatment with danazol (a synthetic androgen), is reported. The patient's thrombocytosis in association with danazol treatment and its possible correlations with the thrombotic event are discussed.
Numerous studies link arsenic exposure to human cancers in a variety of tissues, including the liver. However, inorganic arsenic has never been unequivocally shown to be an animal carcinogen, and its carcinogenic mechanism remains undefined. Our previous studies indicate that chronic (> or =18 weeks), low-level (125 to 500 nM) exposure to arsenite induces malignant transformation in the normally nontumorigenic rat liver epithelial cell line (TRL 1215), and these chronic arsenic-exposed (CAsE) cells produce invasive and metastatic tumors upon inoculation into nude mice. In addition, a prior microarray screening analysis of aberrant gene expression showed several oncogenes were overexpressed in CAsE cells exposed to 500 nM arsenite, including a prominent overexpression of the protooncogene c-myc, as well as genes related to cell proliferation. Thus, to better understand the mechanism of arsenic carcinogenesis, we studied the role of c-myc overexpression in arsenite-induced cell transformation. The upregulation of c-myc was confirmed by RT-PCR at the transcription level and by Western blot analysis for the translation product. Further analysis showed that arsenite produced significant increases in the steady-state expression of c-myc in a time- and concentration-dependent manner during the malignant transformation process. The level of c-myc expression was highly correlated (r = 0.988) with tumor formation after inoculation of CAsE cells into nude mice and was also highly correlated (r = 0.997) with genomic DNA hypomethylation. CAsE cells showed a high cell proliferation rate in a fashion related to the level of arsenic exposure. The expression of c-myc was highly correlated with cellular hyperproliferation (r = 0.961). Consistent with the enhanced proliferation both proliferating cell nuclear antigen and cyclin D1 were overexpressed in CAsE cells. In summary, a prominent overexpression of c-myc, a gene frequently activated during hepatocarcinogenesis, is strongly correlated with several events possibly associated with arsenic-induced malignant transformation, including hyperproliferation, DNA hypomethylation and tumor formation upon inoculation into nude mice. These correlations provide convincing evidence c-myc overexpression is mechanistically important in arsenic-induced malignant transformation in this model system.
Based on the key role of hyperglycemia-mediated oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of diabetic cardiomyopathy, increasing antioxidant defense would represent a novel therapeutic approach for management of diabetic cardiomyopathy. This study was designed to seek the effectiveness of chronic treatment with resveratrol, a potent natural antioxidant, on streptozotocin-nicotinamide experimental model of type 2 diabetic hearts.
Male rats randomized into four groups (n = 12): control, diabetic, control + resveratrol, and diabetic + resveratrol.
Four-month oral resveratrol administration to diabetic rats (5 mg/kg/day) alleviated the reduction of cardiac antioxidant enzymes activities (3.88 ± 0.48 vs. 1.49 ± 0.43 U, p < 0.05 for superoxide dismutase, and 2.72 ± 0.26 vs. 1.18 ± 0.19 nmol/min/mL, p < 0.05 for catalase) and the enhancement of cardiac oxidative markers (5.01 ± 0.37 vs. 7.23 ± 0.51 ng, p < 0.05 for 8-isoprostane, 6.03 ± 0.87 vs. 8.49 ± 0.52 μmol, p < 0.05 for nitrite/nitrate, and 0.44 ± 0.03 vs. 0.59 ± 0.04, p < 0.05 for oxidized/reduced glutathione ratio), nuclear factor kappa B activity (0.37 ± 0.09 vs. 0.60 ± 0.11, p < 0.05) and apoptosis rate (0.98 ± 0.28 vs.1.63 ± 0.16, p < 0.05). Moreover, it improved left ventricular developed pressure (72.46 ± 8.16 vs. 52.01 ± 11.32 mm Hg, p < 0.05) and coronary flow (14.08 ± 1.09 vs. 11.75 ± 1.43 mL/min × g, p < 0.05).
These beneficial cardioprotective observations suggest that treatment with resveratrol can potentially delay or attenuate the progression of diabetes-related cardiac complications.
Morphological and biochemical studies were performed on the soleus muscles of rats receiving a daily intraperitoneal injection of 50 mg chloroquine chloride (CQ) per kilogram of body weight. Light microscopy showed mild to moderate variations in fiber size, numerous dense membranous bodies and vacuoles. The vacuoles were ringed by material that was intensely basophilic in hematoxylin-eosin preparations, resembling rimmed vacuoles in the muscle fibers of distal myopathy. Segmental degradation or necrosis was often observed. The 3H-leucine uptake by myofibrillar and soluble sarcoplasmic fractions in CQ-treated muscles was the same as in the controls. The significant increases in lysosomal (cathepsin B & L, B and D) proteases and thiol protease inhibitor occurred in the earlier stages of CQ-induced myopathy, when hardly any autophagic vacuoles or dense bodies were observable by light microscopy. We conclude that the over-development of autophagic vacuoles and the significant increases in lysosomal protease activity in muscle tissues may be important in the development of the focal degradation and necrosis of CQ-treated muscles.
Initial anesthesic-induced hypothermia results largely from core-to-peripheral redistribution of heat. Administration of transdermal nitroglycerin induces vasodilation. Such vasodilation, induced well before induction of anesthesia, might redistribute heat to peripheral tissues. Minimal redistribution hypothermia might accompany subsequent induction of anesthesia. We studied 32 patients undergoing gastrointestinal surgery. Thirty minutes before induction of anesthesia, they were randomly assigned to: 1. transdermal nitroglycerin 10 mg; 2. transdermal nitroglycerin 5 mg; and, 3. control. Core temperature during the first hour of anesthesia decreased significantly more in the control patients than in those given either dose of nitroglycerin. Vasodilation induced by transdermal nitroglycerin before induction of anesthesia significantly decreased subsequent redistribution hypothermia. Drug-induced modulation of vascular tone thus produces clinically important alterations in intraoperative core temperature.
Obesity is a global phenomenon and is associated with various types of cancer, including colon cancer. There is a growing interest for safe and effective bioactive compounds that suppress the risk for obesity-promoted colon cancer. Resveratrol (trans-3, 4', 5,-trihydroxystilbene), a stilbenoid found in the skin of red grapes and peanuts suppresses many types of cancers by regulating cell proliferation and apoptosis through a variety of mechanisms, however, resveratrol effects on obesity-promoted colon cancer are not clearly established.
We investigated the anti-proliferative effects of resveratrol on HT-29 and SW480 human colon cancer cells in the presence and absence of insulin like growth factor-1 (IGF-1; elevated during obesity) and elucidated the mechanisms of action using IGF-1R siRNA in HT-29 cells which represents advanced colon carcinogenesis.
Resveratrol (100-150 microM) exhibited anti-proliferative properties in HT-29 cells even after IGF-1 exposure by arresting G0/G1-S phase cell cycle progression through p27 stimulation and cyclin D1 suppression. Treatment with resveratrol suppressed IGF-1R protein levels and concurrently attenuated the downstream Akt/Wnt signaling pathways that play a critical role in cell proliferation. Targeted suppression of IGF-1R using IGF-1R siRNA also affected these signaling pathways in a similar manner. Resveratrol treatment induced apoptosis by activating tumor suppressor p53 protein, whereas IGF-1R siRNA treatment did not affect apoptosis. Our data suggests that resveratrol not only suppresses cell proliferation by inhibiting IGF-1R and its downstream signaling pathways similar to that of IGF-1R siRNA but also enhances apoptosis via activation of the p53 pathway.
For the first time, we report that resveratrol suppresses colon cancer cell proliferation and elevates apoptosis even in the presence of IGF-1 via suppression of IGF-1R/Akt/Wnt signaling pathways and activation of p53, suggesting its potential role as a chemotherapeutic agent.
This study compared the relative efficacy of a once-daily niacin extended-release (ER)/lovastatin fixed-dose combination with standard doses of atorvastatin or simvastatin, with a special emphasis on relative starting doses. Subjects (n = 315) with elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and decreased high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol blood levels (defined as LDL cholesterol blood levels > or =160 mg/dl without coronary artery disease, or > or =130 mg/dl if coronary artery disease was present, and HDL cholesterol <45 mg/dl in men and <50 mg/dl in women) were randomized to atorvastatin, simvastatin, or niacin ER/lovastatin for 16 weeks. The primary efficacy variables were the mean percent change in LDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol levels from baseline. After 8 weeks, the starting dose niacin ER/lovastatin 1,000/40 mg and the 10-mg starting dose atorvastatin both lowered mean LDL cholesterol by 38%. After 12 weeks, niacin ER/lovastatin 1,000/40 mg lowered LDL cholesterol by 42% versus 34% with the 20-mg starting dose of simvastatin (p <0.001). Niacin ER/lovastatin increased HDL cholesterol significantly more than atorvastatin or simvastatin at all compared doses (p <0.001). Niacin ER/lovastatin also provided significant improvements in triglycerides, lipoprotein(a), apolipoprotein A-1, apolipoprotein B, and HDL subfractions. A total of 6% of study subjects receiving niacin ER/lovastatin withdrew because of flushing. No significant differences were seen among study groups in discontinuance due to elevated liver enzymes. No drug-induced myopathy was observed. Niacin ER/lovastatin was comparable to atorvastatin 10 mg and more effective than simvastatin 20 mg in reducing LDL cholesterol, was more effective in increasing HDL cholesterol than either atorvastatin or simvastatin, and provided greater global improvements in non-HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and lipoprotein(a).
Azathioprine-induced veno-occlusive disease of the liver mainly described after kidney transplantation is as rare as severe with a high mortality due to acute portal hypertension and liver failure. A kidney-transplanted patient with severe azathioprine-induced veno-occlusive disease of the liver and worsening despite drug discontinuation was treated by emergency transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt. Whereas the veno-occlusive disease was controlled, the patient developed severe intractable portosystemic encephalopathy successfully treated by a stent reducer maintaining a certain degree of portal diversion. Twelve months after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt, liver function was normalized and the stent was thrombosed with a subnormal liver histology. Thirty-six months after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt the patient is alive with normal liver function tests and kidney graft function. Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt for treatment of severe veno-occlusive disease of the liver is an alternative to tide the patient over until recovery of liver function.
