A patient who had recently undergone craniotomy for a meningioma experienced carbamazepine (Tegretol)-induced hemolytic anemia. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of hemolytic anemia clearly induced by carbamazepine.
Hormonal differences between males and females have surfaced as a crucial component in the search for effective treatments after experimental models of traumatic brain injury (TBI). Recent findings have shown that selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) may have therapeutic benefit. The present study examined the effects of raloxifene, a SERM, on functional recovery after bilateral cortical contusion injury (bCCI) or sham procedure. Male rats received injections of raloxifene (3.0mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle (1.0 ml/kg, i.p.) 15 min, 24, 48, 72, and 96 h after bCCI or sham procedure. Rats were tested on both sensorimotor (bilateral tactile removal and locomotor placing tests) and cognitive tests (reference and working memory in the Morris water maze). Raloxifene-treated animals showed a significant reduction in the initial magnitude of the deficit and facilitated the rate of recovery for the bilateral tactile removal test, compared to vehicle-treated animals. The raloxifene-treated animals also showed a significant improvement in the acquisition of working memory compared to vehicle-treated animals. However, raloxifene did not significantly improve the acquisition of reference memory or locomotor placing ability. Raloxifene treatment also did not result in a significant reduction in the size of the lesion cavity. Thus, the task-dependent improvements seen following raloxifene treatment do not appear to be the result of cortical neuroprotection. However, these results suggest that raloxifene improves functional outcome following bCCI and may present an interesting avenue for future research.
A patient presented with acute ST segment elevation myocardial infarction following cocaine abuse. He was transferred for primary angioplasty. The emergent coronary angiography revealed acute left main coronary artery occlusion. Recanalization with balloon angioplasty was performed, followed by thrombectomy and stenting of the left main coronary artery with a paclitaxel-eluting stent. The patient recovered with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% at discharge. The pathophysiology of cocaine-induced myocardial infarction includes vasospasm, thrombosis and increased myocardial oxygen demand. Primary percutaneous coronary intervention allows local delivery of vasodilators and mechanical reperfusion in a timely manner. The authors argue that it is the best option for cocaine-induced ST segment elevation myocardial infarction. Recent data from randomized trials comparing bare metal and drug-eluting stents for primary percutaneous coronary intervention are discussed, as is the lack of evidence supporting the use of thrombectomy devices in acute myocardial infarction. The authors believe that primary percutaneous coronary intervention should be considered early for a patient presenting with cocaine-induced ST segment elevation myocardial infarction.
Sporadic breast cancers are mainly attributable to long-term exposure to environmental factors, via a multi-year, multi-step, and multi-path process of tumorigenesis involving cumulative genetic and epigenetic alterations in the chronic carcinogenesis of breast cells from a non-cancerous stage to precancerous and cancerous stages. Epidemiologic and experimental studies have suggested that green tea components may be used as preventive agents for breast cancer control. In our research, we have developed a cellular model that mimics breast cell carcinogenesis chronically induced by cumulative exposures to low doses of environmental carcinogens. In this study, we used our chronic carcinogenesis model as a target system to investigate the activity of green tea catechin extract (GTC) at non-cytotoxic levels in intervention of cellular carcinogenesis induced by cumulative exposures to pico-molar 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) and benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P). We identified that GTC, at a non-cytotoxic, physiologically achievable concentration of 2.5 µg/mL, was effective in suppressing NNK- and B[a]P-induced cellular carcinogenesis, as measured by reduction of the acquired cancer-associated properties of reduced dependence on growth factors, anchorage-independent growth, increased cell mobility, and acinar-conformational disruption. We also detected that intervention of carcinogen-induced elevation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), increase of cell proliferation, activation of the ERK pathway, DNA damage, and changes in gene expression may account for the mechanisms of GTC's preventive activity. Thus, GTC may be used in dietary and chemoprevention of breast cell carcinogenesis associated with long-term exposure to low doses of environmental carcinogens.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) has been shown to cause a multitude of detrimental effects to developing zebrafish (Danio rerio). Previously, we demonstrated that jaw growth was impaired by TCDD exposure, but the exact mechanism underlying these malformations remained unknown. In the present study, we investigated the involvement of hedgehog genes and their downstream signaling in TCDD-mediated jaw malformation. We demonstrate that the developing lower jaw expresses sonic hedgehog a (shha), sonic hedgehog b (shhb) and their receptors, patched1 (ptc1) and patched2 (ptc2), as well as the downstream transcription factors, gli1 and gli2a. Loss of Hh signaling in mutants (sonic you) and larvae treated with a Hh inhibitor (cyclopamine), resulted in similar effects as those caused by TCDD. Moreover, TCDD exposure caused downregulation of shha and shhb in a manner dependent on aryl hydrocarbon receptor 2 (ahr2). Although this suggested an involvement of Hh signaling in TCDD-mediated impairment of jaw growth, we did not observe downregulation of ptc1 and ptc2, receptors dependent on Hh signaling. Furthermore, while the overall occurrence of apoptosis in the developing jaw was minimal, it was significantly increased in larvae treated with cyclopamine. In contrast, both TCDD and cyclopamine markedly reduced immunoreactivity against phosphorylated histone 3, a cell proliferation marker in the developing jaw. Taken together, our data suggest that Ahr2-mediated downregulation of Hh signaling, leading to a failure of cell proliferation, contributes to TCDD induced inhibition of lower jaw growth. TCDD may impair jaw growth through other pathway(s) in addition to Hh signaling.
Exposure to environmental toxins increases the risk of neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD). Rotenone is a neurotoxin that has been used to induce experimental Parkinsonism in rats. We used the rotenone model of experimental Parkinsonism to explore a novel aspect of extra-nigral degeneration, the neurodegeneration of spinal cord (SC), in PD. Rotenone administration to male Lewis rats caused significant neuronal cell death in cervical and lumbar SC as compared with control animals. Dying neurons were motoneurons as identified by double immunofluorescent labeling for terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase, recombinant-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling-positive (TUNEL(+)) cells and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunoreactivity. Neuronal death was accompanied by abundant astrogliosis and microgliosis as evidenced from glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-immunoreactivity and OX-42-immunoreactivity, respectively, implicating an inflammatory component during neurodegeneration in SC. However, the integrity of the white matter in SC was not affected by rotenone administration as evidenced from the non co-localization of any TUNEL(+) cells with GFAP-immunoreactivity and myelin basic protein (MBP)-immunoreactivity, the selective markers for astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, respectively. Increased activities of 76 kD active m-calpain and 17/19 kD active caspase-3 further demonstrated involvement of these enzymes in cell death in SC. The finding of ChAT(+) cell death also suggested degeneration of SC motoneurons in rotenone-induced experimental Parkinsonism. Thus, this is the first report of its kind in which the selective vulnerability of a putative parkinsonian target outside of nigrostriatal system has been tested using an environmental toxin to understand the pathophysiology of PD. Moreover, rotenone-induced degeneration of SC motoneuron in this model of experimental Parkinsonism progressed with upregulation of calpain and caspase-3.
Decision-making deficits are a robust cognitive correlate of substance abuse, but few studies have addressed the long-term differential associations of cocaine use and marijuana (MJ) use on decision-making. This study utilized the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), a widely used measure of decision-making, to investigate the relationship between cocaine and MJ use and IGT learning. We analyzed between and within group differences across two consecutive testing sessions in abstinent users of either MJ or cocaine. We assessed long-term correlates of the use of these drugs by evaluating users after 25 days of enforced abstinence. Results showed that both cocaine users and MJ users performed worse than controls on the total IGT net score. All groups showed learning between Session 1 and Session 2, but the cocaine users showed the smallest increase in performance. The pattern of learning from the beginning to the end (block x block) of the IGT (Session 2) was different for the drug groups, with the cocaine group showing more learning than the MJ group. Dose-related measures of cocaine use (g/week) and MJ use (joints/week) predicted IGT performance (the heavier the drug use the lower the performance). Differential correlates of cocaine use and MJ use on decision-making learning may have important implications for the development of novel treatment interventions.
Orlistat is a pancreatic lipase inhibitor licensed for the treatment of obesity. As obesity rates increase and non-prescription dispensing of orlistat increases, an awareness of its adverse effects is of crucial importance as complications arise more frequently from increased use. Orlistat induced pancreatitis has been described only once previously, but without a diagnostic increase in serum amylase.
We report the case of two patients who developed severe acute abdominal pain and elevated pancreatic enzymes at 2 and 10 days after starting orlistat. In one case no alterative precipitant was identified. In the other, a predisposing history of pancreatic injury was present. In both cases all other contributory causes were excluded.
Our reports suggest orlistat can trigger drug induced acute pancreatitis in certain patients. For patients presenting with abdominal pain soon after commencing orlistat, a diagnosis of pancreatitis must be considered. We also recommend cautious use of orlistat in patients at risk of pancreatic injury.
Cis-diamminedichloroplatinum II currently is the most effective chemotherapeutic agent in advanced bladder cancer. However, most of the objective responses are partial and/or of limited duration (average 6 months). In an effort to identify a more effective compound with less toxicity platinum analogues have been synthesized. Since results in the carcinogen-induced murine bladder cancer model have correlated with activity of drugs in man this model was used to evaluate 4 of these analogues. Although not as effective as the parent compound, cis-diamminedichloroplatinum, they exhibited significant antitumor activity in the poorly differentiated transplanted tumor. However, they were not able to reduce the incidence or size of primary tumors. Another approach to enhance tumor cell kill is combination chemotherapy. The addition of cyclophosphamide or cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin hydrochloride to cis-diamminedichloroplatinum produced a greater tumor inhibition than cis-diamminedichloroplatinum alone in experiments with the transplanted and the primary tumor models. It is hoped that these studies will continue to provide background information for the design of disease oriented phase I and II clinical trials.
Antiepileptic drugs taken by pregnant epileptic women are known human teratogens. They may also cause pharmacological side effects in the newborn, i.e. sedation and or withdrawal symptoms. We examined the relationship between the maternal antiepileptic therapy, neonatal behaviour and later neurological functions in infancy. The study comprised 40 children exposed in utero to a single antiepileptic drug (phenobarbitone, phenytoin, valproic acid). Valproic-acid-exposed children were the highest compromised, except for apathy, which was most profound in phenobarbitone-exposed neonates. Valproic acid serum concentrations at birth correlated with the degree of neonatal hyper-excitability and neurological dysfunction when children were re-examined 6 years later. We suggest that valproic acid may not only cause malformations but also cerebral dysfunction immediate and long term.
Endocannabinoids and cannabinoid CB1 receptors play a role in the control of movement by modulating GABA, glutamate, and other neurotransmitters throughout the basal ganglia. Roles for abnormalities in endocannabinoid signaling in Parkinson's disease (PD) and the major side effect of current treatments, levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID), have been suggested by rodent studies. Here we show that signaling by endocannabinoids contributes to the pathophysiology of parkinsonism and LID in MPTP-lesioned, non-human primate models of Parkinson's disease. In MPTP-lesioned marmosets previously treated with levodopa to establish LID, attenuation of CB1 signaling by systemic administration of rimonabant (1 and 3 mg/kg) had anti-parkinsonian actions, equivalent to a 71% increase in motor activity at 3 mg/kg. Rimonabant did not elicit dyskinesia. Co-administration of levodopa (8 mg/kg) and rimonabant (1 and 3 mg/kg) resulted in significantly less dyskinesia than levodopa alone, without significantly affecting the anti-parkinsonian action of levodopa. These data suggest that enhanced endocannabinoid signaling may be involved in the pathophysiology of both parkinsonism and LID. To define potential mechanisms by which such a role might be mediated, we determined the levels of the endocannabinoids anandamide and 2-arachidonyl glycerol (2-AG) throughout the basal ganglia in normal and three groups of MPTP-lesioned cynomolgus monkeys (untreated; acutely treated with L-DOPA, non-dyskinetic; long-term treated, with levodopa-induced dyskinesia). In the untreated, MPTP-lesioned primate, parkinsonism was associated with increases in both 2-AG (+88%) and anandamide (+49%) in the striatum, and of 2-AG (+97%) in the substantia nigra, changes that are consistent with the previously suggested role for endocannabinoids in mechanisms attempting to compensate for loss of dopamine in untreated parkinsonism. Increased levels of anandamide (+34%) in the external globus pallidus of MPTP-lesioned animals were normalized by levodopa treatment and may contribute to the generation of parkinsonian symptoms. However, no clear alteration in endocannabinoid levels could be correlated with the expression of LID. These data highlight the potential roles played by endocannabinoids and CB1 in PD and LID and suggest the need for further research to pursue the multiple therapeutic opportunities for manipulating this system in movement disorders.
Dexrazoxane is a derivative of the powerful metal-chelating agent ethyl enediamine tetra acetic acid. Its cardioprotective effect is thought to be due to its ability to chelate iron and reduce the number of metal ions complexed with anthracycline and, consequently, decrease the formation of superoxide radicals. Preclinical studies have confirmed that dexrazoxane has significant activity as a cardioprotective agent against anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity. Dexrazoxane is well-tolerated, with myelosuppression being the dose-limiting toxicity in Phase I trials. The cardioprotective utility of dexrazoxane has been further illustrated in a number of randomized trials. In addition no significant difference in survival has been observed between the dexrazoxane and control arms of these trials but, in one, a significantly lower response rate was observed in the dexrazoxane compared to placebo arm. Further trials are required to evaluate the efficacy of dexrazoxane in hematological malignancies as well as the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer. Its use in the paediatric setting and in the management of elderly patients with cardiac comorbidity also requires investigation. Recently, interest has focused on the use of dexrazoxane as an antidote for anthracycline extravasation. In addition the general cytoprotective activity of this drug requires further assessment, as well as selectivity in this context.
We have developed a transcriptome-wide approach to identify genes affected by promoter CpG island DNA hypermethylation and transcriptional silencing in colorectal cancer. By screening cell lines and validating tumor-specific hypermethylation in a panel of primary human colorectal cancer samples, we estimate that nearly 5% or more of all known genes may be promoter methylated in an individual tumor. When directly compared to gene mutations, we find larger numbers of genes hypermethylated in individual tumors, and a higher frequency of hypermethylation within individual genes harboring either genetic or epigenetic changes. Thus, to enumerate the full spectrum of alterations in the human cancer genome, and to facilitate the most efficacious grouping of tumors to identify cancer biomarkers and tailor therapeutic approaches, both genetic and epigenetic screens should be undertaken.
Cure of cognitive disorders such as amnesia, attention deficit, and Alzheimer's disease is still far from being realized in the field of medicine. Nootropic agents such as piracetam, aniracetam, and choline esterase inhibitors like donepezil are being used for improving memory, mood, and behavior, but the resulting side effects associated with these agents have made their applicability limited. In Ayurveda, the roots of Nardostachys jatamansi have been clinically employed for their anti-ischemic, antioxidant, anticonvulsant, and neuroprotective activities. The present study was undertaken to assess the potential of N. jatmansi as a memory enhancer. The elevated plus maze and the passive avoidance paradigm were employed to evaluate learning and memory parameters. Three doses (50, 100, and 200 mg/kg, p.o.) of an ethanolic extract of N. jatamansi were administered for 8 successive days to both young and aged mice. The 200 mg/kg dose of N. jatmansi ethanolic extract significantly improved learning and memory in young mice and also reversed the amnesia induced by diazepam (1 mg/kg, i.p.) and scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.). Furthermore, it also reversed aging-induced amnesia due to natural aging of mice. As scopolamine-induced amnesia was reversed, it is possible that the memory improvement may be because of facilitation of cholinergic transmission in the brain. Hence, N. jatmansi might prove to be a useful memory restorative agent in the treatment of dementia seen in elderly persons. The underlying mechanism of action can be attributed to its antioxidant property.
To evaluate the incidence and resolution of sexual adverse experiences (AEs) in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia treated with finasteride 5 mg compared with placebo.
The Proscar Long-term Efficacy and Safety Study (PLESS) was a 4-year, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial assessing the efficacy and safety of finasteride 5 mg in 3040 men, aged 45 to 78 years, with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia, enlarged prostates, and no evidence of prostate cancer. Patients completed a questionnaire at screening regarding their history of sexual dysfunction. During treatment, spontaneously self-reported sexual AEs were recorded.
At screening, 46% of patients in each treatment group reported some history of sexual dysfunction. During year 1 of the study, 15% of finasteride-treated patients and 7% of placebo-treated patients had sexual AEs that were considered drug related by the investigator (P <0.001). During years 2 to 4, no between-group difference was noted in the incidence of new sexual AEs (7% in each group). The drug-related sexual AE profile for finasteride was similar for men with or without a history of sexual dysfunction. Sexual AEs resolved while continuing therapy in 12% of finasteride patients and 19% of placebo patients. Only 4% of finasteride and 2% of placebo patients discontinued the study because of sexual AEs. In men who discontinued with a sexual AE, 50% and 41% experienced resolution of their sexual AE after discontinuing finasteride or placebo therapy, respectively.
Compared with placebo, men treated with finasteride experienced new drug-related sexual AEs with an increased incidence only during the first year of therapy.
Sotos syndrome (Sos) is an overgrowth disorder also characterized clinically by mental retardation, specific craniofacial features and advanced bone age. As NSD1 haploinsufficiency was determined in 2002 to be the major cause of Sos, many intragenic mutations and chromosomal microdeletions involving the entire NSD1 gene have been described. In the Japanese population, half of the cases analyzed appear to have a common microdeletion; however, in the European population, deletion cases account for only 9%. Blast analysis of the Sos genomic region on 5q35 revealed two complex mosaic low-copy repeats (LCRs) that are centromeric and telomeric to NSD1. We termed these proximal Sos-REP (Sos-PREP, approximately 390 kb) and distal Sos-REP (Sos-DREP, approximately 429 kb), respectively. On the basis of the analysis of DNA sequence, we determined the size, structure, orientation and extent of sequence identity of these LCRs. We found that Sos-PREP and Sos-DREP are composed of six subunits termed A-F. Each of the homologous subunits, with the exception of one, is located in an inverted orientation and the order of subunits is different between the two Sos-REPs. Only the subunit C' in Sos-DREP is oriented directly with respect to the subunit C in Sos-PREP. These latter C' and C subunits are greater than 99% identical. Using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis analysis in eight Sos patients with a common deletion, we detected an approximately 550 kb junction fragment that we predicted according to the non-allelic homologous recombination (NAHR) mechanism using directly oriented Sos-PREP C and Sos-DREP C' subunits as substrates. This patient specific junction fragment was not present in 51 Japanese and non-Japanese controls. Subsequently, using long-range PCR with restriction enzyme digestion and DNA sequencing, we identified a 2.5 kb unequal crossover hotspot region in six out of nine analyzed Sos patients with the common deletion. Our data are consistent with an NAHR mechanism for generation of the Sos common deletion.
Chromatin remodeling complexes play critical roles in development. Here we describe a transcription factor, CECR2, which is involved in neurulation and chromatin remodeling. CECR2 shows complex alternative splicing, but all variants contain DDT and bromodomain motifs. A mutant mouse line was generated from an embryonic stem cell line containing a genetrap within Cecr2. Reporter gene expression demonstrated Cecr2 expression to be predominantly neural in the embryo. Mice homozygous for the Cecr2 genetrap-induced mutation show a high penetrance of the neural tube defect exencephaly, the human equivalent of anencephaly, in a strain-dependent fashion. Biochemical isolation of CECR2 revealed the presence of this protein as a component of a novel heterodimeric complex termed CECR2-containing remodeling factor (CERF). CERF comprises CECR2 and the ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler SNF2L, a mammalian ISWI ortholog expressed predominantly in the central nervous system. CERF is capable of remodeling chromatin in vitro and displays an ATP hydrolyzing activity that is stimulated by nucleosomes. Together, these data identify a novel chromatin remodeling complex with a critical role in neurulation.
Previous studies have shown moderate or severe phlebitis at the site of venipuncture in some patients who receiving prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) infusion therapy. Such phlebitis is sometimes severe enough to necessitate the cessation of PGE1 therapy. This study investigated how to continue PGE1 infusion therapy for 3 weeks with tolerable phlebitis. Although a 60 microg dose of PGE1 is usually dissolved in 500 mL of fluid to avoid phlebitis, we used 200 mL to prevent volume overload. This PGE1 solution was neutralized to pH 7.4 with 4 mL of 7% sodium bicarbonate. We examined the frequency and severity of phlebitis among patients who received a 2-h PGE1 infusion twice daily. Eighteen patients who were hospitalized for peripheral vascular disease between June 1998 and May 1999 were studied. All of them were men and their mean age was 63.3 +/- 8.9 years (range: 47-78 years). Fourteen patients had arteriosclerosis obliterans and four had Buerger's disease. When the severity of phlebitis was determined according to Dinley's criteria, two patients (11%) had grade 0, four patients (22%) had grade 1, eleven patients (61%) had grade 2, and one patient (6%) had grade 3 phlebitis. Usually, PGE1 infusion therapy is stopped when phlebitis reaches grade 4 or more, but there were no such cases in this study. We also found that aging was significantly correlated with a decrease in the severity of phlebitis (Spearman's rank correlation test: r = -0.545, p = 0.0193).
The authors examined the effect of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor donepezil on magnetic resonance markers of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease.
In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study, 67 patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease received 24 weeks of treatment with donepezil (5 mg/day for the first 28 days and 10 mg/day thereafter) or placebo. Patients were reevaluated at 6-week intervals to measure change from baseline in several outcome measures, including right, left, and total hippocampal volumes, measured with magnetic resonance imaging; brain concentrations of N-acetylaspartate, measured with proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy; and cognition, assessed with the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale cognitive subscale.
At some interim assessments, mean normalized measures of N-acetylaspartate concentration tended to be higher in the donepezil-treated patients than in the patients who received placebo, but these differences were not significant at endpoint. At endpoint, the donepezil-treated patients had significantly smaller mean decreases in total and right hippocampal volumes and a smaller, nearly significant mean decrease in left hippocampal volume, compared with the placebo-treated patients. Mean Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale cognitive subscale scores were improved after treatment with donepezil, relative to placebo, at weeks 6, 12, 18, and 24.
These preliminary results suggest that donepezil may have a potentially protective effect in Alzheimer's disease. Larger, longer-term confirmatory studies of the medication's effects are warranted.
At present, there is no curative strategy for advanced cardiomyopathy except for cardiac transplantation, which is not easily performed, mainly due to a shortage of donors. It has been reported that myocardial progenitor cells exist even in the postnatal heart, suggesting that myocardial progenitor cells could proliferate under some situations and might improve cardiac function in cardiomyopathy-induced hearts. In this study, recombinant human hepatocyte growth factor (rhHGF) was delivered using ultrasound-mediated destruction of microbubbles (UMDM) into the cardiomyopathy-induced heart by doxorubicin (20 mg/kg). Intravenous injection of rhHGF (IV-rhHGF) alone or UMDM alone failed to improve the morphology or the function of the cardiomyopathy-induced heart, but (IV-rhHGF + UMDM) treatment significantly improved the heart morphologically and functionally, and repetitive treatments of (IV-rhHGF + UMDM) enhanced the effects. The number of bromodeoxy-uridine-positive cardiomyocytes significantly increased in the (IV-rhHGF + UMDM)-treated hearts compared with the untreated hearts. Moreover, Sca-1+ myocardial progenitor cells express c-Met, a receptor for HGF. These results suggest that (IV-rhHGF + UMDM) treatment could morphologically and functionally improve the heart in the case of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy through the proliferation of the myocardial progenitor cells.
The goal of the present study was to determine how proapoptosis proteins regulate the progression of liver proliferative foci and tumorigenesis initiated by a chemical carcinogen, diethylnitrosamine (DEN).
Bid-deficient mice (15-day-old) were injected with 15 microg/g of DEN, then killed at 3 and 10 days, and 4 and 8 months after injection for analysis of hepatocellular proliferation, apoptosis and tumorigenesis.
The rate of apoptosis in the hepatocytes of the wild-type mice was significantly higher than in the Bid-deficient mice at 10 days after DEN exposure (P < 0.0001); the results of BrdU labeling agreed with the measurement of apoptosis in these animals, showing an obvious increase in the wild-type mice compared with the Bid-deficient mice (P < 0.0001). Four months after DEN exposure, the number and size of lesion foci or nodules in the wild-type mice were both greater than in the Bid-deficient mice (P < 0.05 and P < 0.001, respectively), but there was no significant difference between the two groups of mice at 8 months.
These results suggest that a lack of apoptosis in liver tissue in the early stage after DEN exposure decreased some of the tumorigenesis potential of DEN.
Ten patients with advanced renal carcinoma were treated by ifosfamide (50-60 mg/kd/day x 5 days). The treatment was repeated every 4 weeks and continued until progression appeared. Two patients came into partial remission, two had subjective improvement, and six did not respond. Seven patients developed acute psychopathological symptoms during the first ifosfamide-cycle. Five patients had visual and paranoid hallucinations, four patients were completely confused. Follow-up for up to 10 weeks showed a persisting organic brain syndrome in five patients.
