We report the occurrence of a tic in a boy with Down's syndrome. The movement disorder was induced by carbamazepine (CBZ) and resolved completely after discontinuation of CBZ. The development of tics seems to be a rare, idiosyncratic side effect of CBZ in children.
Development of effective medications for the treatment of cocaine dependence remains a major priority for the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) at the National Institutes of Health. The Cocaine Rapid Efficacy Screening Trial (CREST) paradigm was developed by the Division of Treatment Research and Development (DT R&D) at NIDA with the goal of enhancing pilot clinical trial validity when systematically assessing a range of medications and drug classes for potential utility in treatment of cocaine dependence.
CREST utilizes a randomized, controlled, parallel group, blinded methodology for comparing one or more marketed medications against a standard, pharmaceutical grade placebo. The trial design is comprised of a flexible 24-week screening/baseline period followed by randomization to an 8-week treatment period.
Standard measures of outcomes for the CREST included urinary benzoylecgonine (primary metabolite of cocaine), retention, cocaine craving, depression, clinical global impression and HIV-risk behaviors. In order to facilitate comparisons of data from the CREST studies across sites, drug classes and time, standardized procedures, measures and psychosocial counseling were used.
A total of 19 medications were evaluated in out-patient treatment research clinics in Boston, Cincinnati, Los Angeles, New York and Philadelphia.
Findings supported decisions to move forward three medications (cabergoline, reserpine, tiagabine) using full-scale, adequately powered, randomized placebo-controlled trial designs. Lessons learned from the CREST experience continue to shape cocaine pharmacotherapy trial design and execution.
Myocardial ischaemia and infarction has become a well-recognized sequelae of cocaine use. The possibility of recent cocaine use should be assessed in patients with potential myocardial ischaemia because the treatment of patients with myocardial ischaemia related to cocaine differs from that of patients with myocardial ischaemia unrelated to cocaine. Patients with cocaine-associated myocardial ischaemia should receive initial treatment with benzodiazepines to decrease central adrenergic stimulation. Aspirin should be used to reduce thrombus formation, and nitroglycerin to reverse coronary vasoconstriction. Patients with continued ischaemia can be treated with either low doses of phentolamine, or verapamil. If ischaemia continues after treatment with these agents mechanical reperfusion or thrombolytic therapy should be considered depending upon the clinical circumstances. Patients with myocardial ischaemia secondary to cocaine should not receive treatment with beta adrenergic antagonists as these agents enhance coronary vasoconstriction thereby worsening ischaemia.
Extrahepatic biliary obstruction leads to bile duct epithelial cell proliferation. Somatostatin and its analogue, octreotide, have been shown to inhibit DNA synthesis and proliferation in hepatocytes. We investigated the effect of octreotide on the biliary epithelial cell proliferative responses to biliary obstruction. Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent common bile duct ligation and subcutaneous injection of either saline or octreotide (6 micrograms/kg) twice daily for 7 days. Morphometric analysis of hepatocytes, bile duct epithelial cells, and periportal connective tissue was performed by computerized point counting. Hepatocyte volume was preserved with octreotide treatment, which also significantly decreased bile duct proliferation and periportal extracellular matrix deposition in response to biliary obstruction compared with saline treated, duct-ligated animals. These results indicate that octreotide prevents the morphological changes that accompany extrahepatic biliary obstruction.
The aims of the study were to test whether drug dose is positively related to the magnitude of the conditioned response following sensitization to the behavioural effects of cocaine and to investigate the relationship between the conditioned response and cocaine-induced sensitization. Male mice (C57BL/6J) were first injected over seven successive days with either saline or cocaine at 2.5, 5, 10 or 20 mg/kg s.c., in the testing room. On the test day, 24 h after the last injection, mice from all conditions were challenged with saline in the testing room to test for conditioned cocaine effects. Mice were video-recorded and various behaviours were later scored using a time-sampling technique. Cocaine-elicited orofacial stereotypy was significantly sensitized at the two highest doses and dose-dependently conditioned at the three highest doses. Cocaine-increased locomotion was sensitized at the three highest doses and significantly conditioned at 10 and 20mg/kg. Cocaine-increased sniffing did not change over pretreatment at any dose, and was conditioned only at 10 mg/kg. Cocaine-decreased immobility also did not change over pretreatment at any dose, but was conditioned at 10 and 20mg/kg. Concomitantly, rearing was reduced by cocaine at 10 and 20mg/kg, without sensitization being induced, and it was reduced under saline challenge after 5 mg/kg cocaine, while cocaine-decreased grooming was sensitized at the three highest doses and conditioned at 10 and 20 mg/kg cocaine. There was a positive relation between the size of the conditioned response for orofacial stereotypy and the magnitude of the unconditioned stimulus (the doses), a result conforming to the Pavlovian account of the placebo effect. This could also be concluded from considering the behaviour patterns as components of a unique placebo effect (hyperkinetic syndrome), since orofacial stereotypy, very apparent at 20 mg/kg cocaine, interfered at that dose with the full-blown expression of locomotion and sniffing, both yielding (approximately) inverted U-shaped dose-effect curves. However, no correlation was found between the magnitude of the conditioned response and the amplitude of sensitization (the difference between the initial unconditioned non-sensitized response and the last unconditioned sensitized response), a finding which indicates that conditioned responding does not participate in the generation of the sensitized effects, contrary to the 'excitatory conditioning model of contextual sensitization'.
A comparative, double-blind, placebo-controlled, double-dummy, randomized, crossover trial was performed in 32 hypertensive patients (initial blood pressure [BP] 165/105 +/- 3/2 mm Hg), most of them obese women, to evaluate the antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability of the new calcium channel blocking drug nisoldipine, 10 mg once or twice daily, over 6 weeks compared with the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide-amiloride (hydrochlorothiazide, 25 mg, in combination with amiloride, 2.5 mg once or twice daily). Adequate 24-hour control of BP (supine diastolic BP less than 90 mm Hg) was achieved in 15 of 32 patients (47%) with monotherapy by 1 agent and in 23 of 32 patients (72%) when including those who responded to either agent. Both nisoldipine and the diuretic had a flat dose-response curve. The larger dose of diuretic yielded lower systolic and exercise BP values (erect and supine) than high-dose nisoldipine (p less than 0.05), with less headache (p less than 0.05). In the other 9 patients who did not respond, the combination of nisoldipine 10 mg plus hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg)-amiloride (2.5 mg) was administered and yielded a response in 8 patients (overall response including monotherapy 96%). Ten patients were given nisoldipine for an additional period of 6 months, and they required an average dose of 33 mg/day for BP control. In both the 6-week and 6-month studies, nisoldipine monotherapy caused frequent subjective adverse effects. In contrast, in the 6-week study the combination of low-dose nisoldipine and low-dose diuretic gave good BP control with no adverse effects.
The early and long-term effects of coronary artery ligation on the plasma and left ventricular angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE and ACE2) activities, ACE and ACE2 mRNA levels, circulating angiotensin (Ang) levels [Ang I, Ang-(1-7), Ang-(1-9), and Ang II], and cardiac function were evaluated 1 and 8 weeks after experimental myocardial infarction in adult Sprague Dawley rats. Sham-operated rats were used as controls. Coronary artery ligation caused myocardial infarction, hypertrophy, and dysfunction 8 weeks after surgery. At week 1, circulating Ang II and Ang-(1-9) levels as well as left ventricular and plasma ACE and ACE2 activities increased in myocardial-infarcted rats as compared with controls. At 8 weeks post-myocardial infarction, circulating ACE activity, ACE mRNA levels, and Ang II levels remained higher, but plasma and left ventricular ACE2 activities and mRNA levels and circulating levels of Ang-(1-9) were lower than in controls. No changes in plasma Ang-(1-7) levels were observed at any time. Enalapril prevented cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction as well as the changes in left ventricular ACE, left ventricular and plasmatic ACE2, and circulating levels of Ang II and Ang-(1-9) after 8 weeks postinfarction. Thus, the decrease in ACE2 expression and activity and circulating Ang-(1-9) levels in late ventricular dysfunction post-myocardial infarction were prevented with enalapril. These findings suggest that in this second arm of the renin-angiotensin system, ACE2 may act through Ang-(1-9), rather than Ang-(1-7), as a counterregulator of the first arm, where ACE catalyzes the formation of Ang II.
Hyperkalemia may occur in many clinical settings and lead to serious events. Heparin-induced hyperkalemia is presumably less well recognized than other untoward effects of heparin treatment and more frequent than commonly perceived. To draw attention to this clinically relevant occurrence, we report 2 cases of life-threatening bradyarrhythmia associated with heparin prescription. Heparin-induced hyperkalemia is mediated by an enzymatic block in the synthesis of aldosterone; however, in most cases severe hyperkalemia occurs in the presence of additional factors influencing potassium homeostasis. Patients treated with heparin should be stratified and adequately monitored according to the outlined risk profile.
Cocaine use is an under-recognized risk factor of antipsychotic-induced acute dystonia. A case of a patient with psychotic illness and concurrent cocaine use developing acute dystonia with ziprasidone is described.
A bacterial cocaine esterase (CocE) produces robust protection and reversal of cocaine toxicity. The aim of this study was to investigate how effectiveness of CocE was changed following its repeated administration together with cocaine.
Cocaine toxicity was quantified by measuring the occurrence of convulsions and lethality in mice. Immunologic responses of CocE were determined using ELISA. In the protection experiment, i.v. CocE 0.3mg was given 1min before a lethal dose of i.p. cocaine 180mg/kg. In the rescue experiment, i.v. CocE 0.3mg was given 1min after the occurrence of convulsions elicited by i.p. cocaine 100mg/kg. In both treatment paradigms, four trials were conducted in the same animals with a 2-week interval.
CocE retained its effectiveness to protect or rescue mice during the first two trials and these mice did not show an immune response. In contrast, CocE's effectiveness was gradually reduced in the last two trials, accompanied by 10- and 100-fold increases in anti-CocE antibody titers. Nevertheless, effectiveness of CocE could be partially recovered by increasing the dose of CocE. In addition, escalating the dose of CocE from the minimum effective dose for repeated administration could also retain CocE's effectiveness longer and slow the production of anti-CocE antibodies.
These results indicate that CocE is a weak antigen and it can maintain its protective and rescuing ability initially against cocaine-induced toxicity. Decreased effectiveness of CocE following repeated use can be partially improved by adjusting the dose and frequency of CocE treatment.
Traditionally metastatic melanoma of the distal leg and the foot metastasize to the lymph nodes of the groin. Sometimes the first site of nodal disease can be the popliteal fossa. This is an infrequent event, with rare reports in literature and when it occurs, radical popliteal node dissection must be performed.
We report a case of a 36-year old man presented with diagnosis of 2 mm thick, Clark's level II-III, non ulcerated melanoma of the left heel, which developed during the course of the disease popliteal node metastases, after a superficial and deep groin dissection for inguinal node involvement. Five months after popliteal lymph node dissection he developed systemic disease, therefore he received nine cycles of dacarbazine plus fotemustine. To date (56 months after prior surgery and 11 months after chemotherapy) he is alive with no evidence of disease.
In case of groin metastases from melanoma of distal lower extremities, clinical and ultrasound examination of ipsilateral popliteal fossa is essential. When metastatic disease is found, radical popliteal dissection is the standard of care. Therefore knowledge of anatomy and surgical technique about popliteal lymphadenectomy are required to make preservation of structures that if injured, can produce a permanent, considerable disability.
The effectiveness and safety of verapamil, nifedipine, and placebo in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris were evaluated and compared in two double-blind randomized crossover trials. In the first study, nifedipine (10 mg 3 times daily) was compared with placebo in 24 patients with chronic effort-related angina pectoris; no significant differences in exercise performance were observed with nifedipine compared with placebo. In the second study, the effects of verapamil (120 mg 3 times daily), nifedipine (20 mg 3 times daily), and placebo were compared in 32 patients with chronic stable angina using a double-blind crossover study design. Compared with placebo, both nifedipine and verapamil prolonged exercise duration (5.7 +/- 0.3 minutes with placebo, 7.9 +/- 0.5 minutes with nifedipine [p less than 0.001], and 10.0 +/- 0.7 minutes with verapamil [p less than 0.001]), but the improvement with verapamil was greater than that seen with nifedipine (p less than 0.01). Seven patients had increasing angina with nifedipine, none did with verapamil; the exacerbation of angina during nifedipine therapy appeared related to our observation that, compared with placebo, patients receiving nifedipine had higher heart rates, while patients receiving verapamil had slower heart rates. This study indicates that, at the doses used, verapamil was more effective and better tolerated than nifedipine in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris.
The present study was designed to study the effects of As(2)O(3) on QT interval prolongation and to explore the potential ionic mechanisms in isolated rat ventricular cardiomyocytes. The rats of As(2)O(3) group were treated with 0.8 mg·kg(-1)·d(-1) As(2)O(3) intravenously for 7 days consecutively and the control group with saline. The ECG was recorded to calculate heart rate-corrected QT interval (QTc). Single cardiomyocytes were isolated by using collagenase II, and the action potential duration (APD) and ion currents were recorded by whole-cell patch clamp. [Ca(2+)](i) was examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Our data showed that both QTc and APD were prolonged significantly after As(2)O(3)treatment. Meanwhile, As(2)O(3) suppressed I(K1) and shifted the reversal potential to more positive direction. Moreover, the density of I(Ca,L) was augmented significantly, and the steady-state activation curve became more negative, whereas, the inactivation and reactivation of I(Ca,L) were not changed notably after As(2)O(3) administration. Furthermore, the maximal [Ca(2+)](i) was enhanced obviously by either KCl or caffeine stimulation in As(2)O(3)-treated cardiomyocytes. Our results show that the potential mechanism of As(2)O(3)-induced QT interval prolongation in rat might be relative to disturbing the fine balance of transmembrane currents (increasing I(Ca,L) and decreasing I(K1)) and causing APD prolongation.
Many human diseases are caused by inactivating mutations in specific G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). In about 10% of these cases, a premature stop codon leads to the generation of a truncated, functionally inactive receptor protein. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that such GPCR mutations can be functionally rescued in vitro and in vivo by treatment with aminoglycoside antibiotics, which are known for their ability to suppress premature termination codons. As a model system, we studied a mutant V2 vasopressin receptor (AVPR2) containing the inactivating E242X nonsense mutation which mimics human X-linked nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (XNDI) when introduced into mice via gene targeting techniques. Studies with cultured mammalian cells expressing the E242X mutant receptor showed that G418 (geneticin) was by far the most potent aminoglycoside antibiotic capable of suppressing the E242X nonsense codon. Strikingly, G418 treatment increased AVP-mediated cAMP responses in cultured kidney collecting duct cells prepared from E242X mutant mice in vitro, and significantly improved the urine-concentrating ability of E242X mutant mice in vivo. This is the first study demonstrating that G418 (aminoglycosides) can ameliorate the clinical symptoms of a disease-causing premature stop codon in a member of the GPCR superfamily.
In polycythemia vera (PV), treatment with chlorambucil and radioactive phosphorus (p32) increases the risk of leukemic transformation from 1% to 13-14%. This risk has been estimated to be 1-5.9% with hydroxyurea (HU) therapy. When compared with historical controls, the risk with use of HU does not appear to be statistically significant. The leukemogenic risk of HU therapy in essential thrombocytosis (ET) and in myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia (MMM) is unknown. HU remains the main myelotoxic agent in the treatment of PV, ET, and MMM. We studied 64 patients with these three disorders, seen at our institution during 1993-1995. The patients were studied for their clinical characteristics at diagnosis, therapies received, and development of myelodysplasia or acute leukemia (MDS/AL). Forty-two had PV, 15 ET, and 6 MMM, and 1 had an unclassified myeloproliferative disorder. Of the 42 patients with PV, 18 were treated with phlebotomy alone, 16 with HU alone, 2 with p32, 2 with multiple myelotoxic agents, and 2 with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha). Two patients from the phlebotomy-treated group, one from the HU-treated group, and 1 from the multiple myelotoxic agent-treated group developed MDS/AL. In the larger group, 11 received no treatment or aspirin alone, 18 were treated with phlebotomy alone, 25 with HU, 5 with multiple myelotoxic agents, 2 with p32, 2 with IFN-alpha, and 1 with melphalan. Study of the entire group of 64 patients showed that only one additional patient (total of 5 out of 64) developed MDS/AL. This patient had been treated with HU alone. Statistical analysis did not show any association between clinical characteristics at diagnosis, or HU therapy, and development of MDS/AL (P=0.5). Thus, our data provide no evidence suggestive of increased risk of transformation to MDS/AL with HU therapy in PV, ET, and MMM. Larger, prospective studies are needed to study this issue further.
Clinical experience has firmly established the usefulness of imipramine in the management of enuresis. Our report describes the serious dose-related cardiac and central nervous system toxic effects of imipramine. Comparison of the human and animal toxicity data is presented and recommendations are given for safe human dose ranges.
To report the association of acquired nasolacrimal duct obstruction and orbital cellulitis in patients with a history of chronic intranasal cocaine abuse.
Retrospective, consecutive case series. Results of imaging, histopathologic examinations, and clinical courses of these patients were studied.
Five women and 2 men (mean age, 41 years) with a history of chronic intranasal cocaine abuse (mean, 11 years; range, 5-20 years) presented with epiphora and in some cases acute onset of periorbital pain, edema, and erythema associated with fever. The suspicion of intranasal cocaine abuse was made on anterior rhinoscopy with the detection of an absent nasal septum and inferior turbinate. Computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging findings in 4 patients included extensive bony destruction of the normal orbital wall architecture, opacification of the sinuses, and the presence of an intraorbital tissue mass. Histopathologic examination of the nasolacrimal duct in 2 patients and of the orbital mass in a third patient revealed marked chronic inflammation with fibrosis causing secondary nasolacrimal duct obstruction. Six patients were treated with systemic antibiotics followed by dacryocystorhinostomy in 3 patients, and a pericranial flap to insulate the exposed orbit in 1 patient.
Chronic intranasal cocaine abuse can result in extensive bony destruction of the orbital walls with associated orbital cellulitis, and should be included in the differential diagnosis of acquired nasolacrimal duct obstruction. Anterior rhinoscopy is very helpful in establishing the correct diagnosis in these patients.
To determine whether dipyridamole infusion can be used as an alternative method to physical exercise, 87 lead body surface mapping was performed to compare the distribution patterns of ST-segment depression after 0.568 mg/kg/4 min dipyridamole infusion (D) and after submaximal treadmill exercise (T) in 21 patients with coronary artery disease. Significant ST-segment depression (greater than or equal to 0.05 mV) was observed in 19 patients after D and in 18 after T. After D and T, each patient showed a similar distribution pattern of ST-segment depression. There were no significant differences in the number of leads which showed ST-segment depression (nST: D, 15.6 +/- 11.1 vs T, 15.2 +/- 10.8) and in the maximal value of ST-segment depression (STmax: D, -0.24 +/- 0.16 vs T, -0.20 +/- 0.13 mV). Good correlations were observed in nST (r = 0.84) and in STmax (r = 0.87) between D and T. The increase in mean pressure-rate product after T was 89%, while the increase after D was only 22%. Our results suggest that this pharmacologic test to induce myocardial ischemia may be useful in the evaluation of coronary artery disease in patients who are physically unable to perform adequate exercise.
There was 13 patinets with histologically metastatic prostatic adenocarcinoma treated with a single oral dose of 80 mg. per kg. hydroxyurea every third day (based on ideal or actual weight, whichever is less) and 12.5 mg. chlorotrianisene per day. Toxicity was mild. The most common manifestations were nausea, occasional vomiting leukopenia. A definite attempt was made to depress the white blood count to approximately 2,000 cells per cu. mm. Hydroxyurea was not discontinued unless the white blood count decreased to less that 2,000 cells per cu. mm., after which a single dose was usually omitted. Omission of a single dose would allow the white blood count to return promptly to more than 2,000 cells per cu. mm. Objective tumor regression was demonstrated in 6 of the 13 patients and all patients had a definite improvement in the quality of life.
To analyse steroid psychiatric related complications in aged (> 65 years old) with temporal arteritis (TA).
Retrospective cohort study.
In a cohort of 126 elderly patients with a diagnosis of TA and followed with a mean period of 64 months, clinical and biological presentations, outcome and corticoid adverse effects were recorded throughout the follow-up period.
Twenty patients (16%), (mean age: 73 +/- 7.9 years, male n = 6) exhibited corticosteroid related psychiatric complications. Symptoms appear to be dose dependent and generally begin during the first month of treatment. Psychiatric disorders were as follow: mood disturbances (n = 8), depression (n = 6), mania (n = 3), anxiety neurosis (n = 2) and dementia (n = 1). Three patients were hospitalized in psychiatric units and 2 in nursing home. Psychiatric adverse affects appears to be more frequent with prednisone than prednisolone (P < 0.05).
The purpose of the present study was to measure adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) occupancy in the brain by a novel adenosine A(1)/A(2A) antagonist, 5-[5-amino-3-(4fluorophenyl)pyrazin-2-yl]-1-isopropylpyridine-2(1H)-one (ASP5854), and to determine the degree of receptor occupancy necessary to inhibit haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rhesus monkeys.
A(2A)R occupancy by ASP5854 (0.001-0.1 mg/kg) was examined in the striatum using an A(2A)R-specific radiotracer, (11)C-SCH442416, and PET in conscious rhesus monkeys. A(2A)R occupancy was monitored after a single intravenous administration of ASP5854 in 3 animals, and a dynamic PET scan was performed at 1, 4, and 8 h after an intravenous bolus injection of the tracer for approximately 740 MBq. Catalepsy was induced by haloperidol (0.03 mg/kg, intramuscularly) and examined for incidence and duration.
ASP5854 dose-dependently increased A(2A)R occupancy in the striatum and showed long-lasting occupancy even after the reduction of plasma concentration. Haloperidol induced severe catalepsy at 40 min after intramuscular injection. The incidence and duration of cataleptic posture were dose-dependently reduced by ASP5854 at 1 h after oral administration, and the minimum ED(50) value was 0.1 mg/kg. Administration of a dose of 0.1 mg/kg yielded a plasma concentration of 97 +/- 16.3 ng/mL, which corresponded to 85%-90% of A(2A)R occupancy.
These results showed that ASP5854 antagonized A(2A)R in the striatum, and the dissociation from A(2A)R was relatively slow. In addition, more than 85% A(2A)R occupancy by ASP5854 resulted in an inhibition of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Thus, such a pharmacodynamic study directly demonstrates both the kinetics of a drug in the brain and the relationship between dose-dependent receptor occupancy and plasma level.
To clarify the spatial relationship between coronary microvascular dysfunction and myocardial fibrosis in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), we compared the measurement of hyperemic myocardial blood flow (hMBF) by PET with the extent of delayed contrast enhancement (DCE) detected by MRI.
In 34 patients with HCM, PET was performed using (13)N-labeled ammonia during hyperemia induced by intravenous dipyridamole. DCE and systolic thickening were assessed by MRI. Left ventricular myocardial segments were classified as with DCE, either transmural (DCE-T) or nontransmural (DCE-NT), and without DCE, either contiguous to DCE segments (NoDCE-C) or remote from them (NoDCE-R).
In the group with DCE, hMBF was significantly lower than in the group without DCE (1.81 +/- 0.94 vs. 2.13 +/- 1.11 mL/min/g; P < 0.001). DCE-T segments had lower hMBF than did DCE-NT segments (1.43 +/- 0.52 vs. 1.91 +/- 1 mL/min/g, P < 0.001). Similarly, NoDCE-C segments had lower hMBF than did NoDCE-R (1.98 +/- 1.10 vs. 2.29 +/- 1.10 mL/min/g, P < 0.01) and had no significant difference from DCE-NT segments. Severe coronary microvascular dysfunction (hMBF in the lowest tertile of all segments) was more prevalent among NoDCE-C than NoDCE-R segments (33% vs. 24%, P < 0.05). Systolic thickening was inversely correlated with percentage transmurality of DCE (Spearman rho = -0.37, P < 0.0001) and directly correlated with hMBF (Spearman rho = 0.20, P < 0.0001).
In myocardial segments exhibiting DCE, hMBF is reduced. DCE extent is inversely correlated and hMBF directly correlated with systolic thickening. In segments without DCE but contiguous to DCE areas, hMBF is significantly lower than in those remote from DCE and is similar to the value obtained in nontransmural DCE segments. These results suggest that increasing degrees of coronary microvascular dysfunction might play a causative role for myocardial fibrosis in HCM.
In this report female and male CD-1 mice were treated with a neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine (MA) to compare gender differences in striatal dopamine depletion and concordant changes in mRNA markers of the transforming growth factor-beta injury response associated with neurodegeneration. Striatal dopamine concentrations of MA-treated female mice were less depleted and significantly greater than that of identically treated males. Associated with this gender difference in striatal dopamine depletion were significantly decreased mRNA levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and a trend for increased (p = 0.06) mRNA levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein within females. No statistically significant differences between MA-treated female and male mice were obtained in mRNA levels for transforming growth factor-beta, transforming growth factor-beta type 2 receptor, activin-like kinase-5 or fibronectin. These data demonstrate the presence of changes in two specific molecular markers of the transforming growth factor-beta injury response which are in accordance with gender differences in MA-induced striatal dopamine depletion. The results suggest that the neuroprotective advantage displayed by females may in part be related to reductions in the transforming growth factor-beta injury response as indicated by decreased mRNA plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and an increased response of reactive astrocytes which promote neuronal survival as indicated by augmented glial fibrillary acidic protein mRNA levels.
A prospective, randomized, double-blind study to compare the efficacy in terminating postoperative atrial fibrillation of the class Ic drug propafenone versus class Ia drug procainamide was conducted. Intravenous propafenone was superior to procainamide in achieving rapid cardioversion and a better rate control with a lower incidence of symptomatic hypotension.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is an important growth factor for glioma cell proliferation and invasion. BFGF is overexpressed in malignant gliomas and its level is associated with malignant grades and clinical outcome of patients with gliomas. Small interfering RNAs (siRNA) are synthetic forms of microRNA made of short double stranded RNA, and they effectively catalyze the degradation of their target mRNA. The use of siRNA has become a key method in the suppression of gene expression and the development of therapeutic agents. In this study, we used an adenovirus(Ad)-mediated transfer of siRNA against bFGF mRNA (Ad-bFGF-siRNA) to study the effect of down-regulating bFGF expression on the sensitivity of glioma cells to chemotherapeutics. An optimal siRNA sequence specific for bFGF mRNA was cloned into an adenoviral vector and transfected into three glioma cell lines: U251, A172, and LN229. Methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) assays were used to examine changes in cell proliferation, and changes in bFGF mRNA and protein levels in U251 cells were detected using quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. Apoptosis of U251 cells was detected using Hoechst staining and flow cytometry, with expression of apoptosis-related proteins evaluated by Western blot. Following the transfection of a bFGF-specific siRNA, mRNA and protein levels of bFGF decreased significantly. Lower rates of proliferation and increased levels of apoptosis also were associated with the Ad-bFGF-siRNA-transfected group compared to control group. Decreased expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, Jak-1, and STAT-3 and increased expression of Bax also were detected in the Ad-bFGF-siRNA-transfected group. For cells treated with both Ad-bFGF-siRNA and chemotherapeutics, a significant reduction in cell survival was observed compared to treatment with Ad-bFGF-siRNA or chemotherapeutics alone. Overall, we found that targeting bFGF mRNA with a siRNA resulted in lower rates of proliferation, increased apoptosis, and enhanced sensitivity of glioma cells to chemotherapy drugs. This suggests that specific targeting of bFGF mRNA may provide a novel approach for the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).
The relations between urinary 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol, (MHPG) excretion, ward behavior in two environments (dayroom and gym), and symptomatology were examined in 58 psychiatric inpatients. In the total patient sample, idiosyncratic behaviors and body activity correlated positively with MHPG levels. Among depressed patients MHPG correlated negatively with eating lunch in the dayroom and positively with self-reported appetite loss, suggesting that appetite disturbance in major depression may be due to high norepinephrine turnover. The results support the utility of naturalistic observation instruments in exploring the relations between psychopathology and biological substrates.
The association of propofol with excitatory motor activity, such as myoclonic jerking and opisthotonus, in humans and in animals suggests that it may aggravate clinical seizure activity in some circumstances, although evidence suggests that under other circumstances, propofol inhibits seizure activity. In the current study, we assessed the effect of sedating doses of propofol on lidocaine-induced seizure activity in spontaneously breathing rats receiving no other anesthetics. Adult Sprague-Dawley male rats, 300-400 g, were divided into a control group and three experimental groups representing three graded levels of propofol sedation. The control rats then received a lidocaine infusion at the rate of 150 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1), resulting in a slow, progressive increase in systemic lidocaine concentrations. At the onset of electroencephalographic (EEG) seizure activity, arterial lidocaine concentrations were obtained. The treated rats received propofol according to three different dose schedules: Dose 1 = 10 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1) after a 2.5-mg/kg bolus; Dose 2 = 20 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1) after a 5-mg/kg bolus; Dose 3 = 40 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1) after a 10-mg/kg bolus. After 30 min, a steady level of sedation, dependent on the dose of propofol, was achieved. The lidocaine infusion was then started, and systemic lidocaine levels were obtained at the onset of EEG seizure activity. The lidocaine was continued until the onset of death by cardiac arrest. Plasma lidocaine was measured by gas chromatography. Analysis of variance and Dunnett's t-test were used for comparisons with the control values. Continuous propofol sedation increased the seizure dose of lidocaine from 37.7 +/- 3.5 mg/kg (mean +/- SEM) to 52.5 +/- 2.6 mg/kg (Dose 1, P < 0.05) and 67.9 +/- 8.6 mg/kg (Dose 2, P < 0.05), and completely abolished lidocaine seizures at Dose 3. The lethal dose of lidocaine, 89.4 +/- 10.5 mg/kg control versus 108.7 +/- 10.3 mg/kg (Dose 1), 98.3 +/- 10.1 mg/kg (Dose 2), and 93.5 +/- 10.4 mg/kg (Dose 3) did not differ among groups. The lidocaine levels at seizure threshold were increased in the propofol-treated rats: 16.9 +/- 0.5 microg/mL control versus 19.2 +/- 0.7 microg/mL (Dose 1, P = not significant) and 23.7 +/- 1.8 microg/mL (Dose 2, P < 0.05). Continuous propofol sedation in spontaneously breathing rats receiving no other anesthetics exerts a protective effect against lidocaine-induced seizures in a monotonic, dose-dependent fashion. The cardiac arrest dose of lidocaine is unaffected by propofol under these conditions.
The i.v. anesthetic drug propofol, given to rats to produce sedation, was found to suppress seizure activity caused by overdosage of the local anesthetic lidocaine.
