Microglial activation plays an important role in neurodegenerative diseases by producing an array of proinflammatory enzymes and cytokines. Ginsenoside Rg1 (Rg1), a well-known Chinese herbal medicine, has been well recognized for its anti-inflammatory effect. This study sought to determine the anti-inflammatory effects of Rg1 and its underlying mechanisms in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated murine BV-2 microglial cells.
Murine BV-2 microglial cells were treated with Rg1 (10, 20, and 40 μM) and/or LPS (1 μg·ml(-1)). The mRNA and protein levels of proinflammatory proteins and cytokines were analysed by RT-PCR assay and double immunofluorescence labeling, respectively. Phosphorylation levels of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) cascades, inhibitor κB-α (IκB-α) and cyclic AMP- responsive element (CRE)-binding protein (CREB) were measured by western blot. U73122 (5 μM), a specific phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor, was used to determine if PLC signaling pathway might be involved in Rg1's action on activated BV-2 cells.
Pretreatment with Rg1 significantly attenuated the LPS-induced expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) in BV-2 cells. U73122 blocked the effects of Rg1 on LPS-induced microglial activation. In addition, PLC-γ1 inhibition partially abolished the inhibitory effect of Rg1 on the phosphorylation of IκB-α, CREB, extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK).
This investigation demonstrates that Rg1 significantly attenuates overactivation of microglial cells by repressing expression levels of neurotoxic proinflammatory mediators and cytokines via activation of PLC-γ1 signaling pathway.
The antiarrhythmic effects of the sustained release form of mexiletine (Mexitil-Perlongets) were evaluated in a double-blind placebo trial in 630 patients with recent documented myocardial infarction. The primary response variable was based on central reading of 24 hour ambulatory electrocardiographic recordings and was defined as the occurrence of 30 or more single premature ventricular complexes in any two consecutive 30 minute blocks or one or more runs of two or more premature ventricular complexes in the entire 24 hour electrocardiographic recording. Large differences, regarded as statistically significant, between the mexiletine and placebo groups were noted in that end point at months 1 and 4, but only trends were observed at month 12. These differences were observed even though the serum mexiletine levels obtained in this study were generally lower than those observed in studies that have used the regular form of the drug. There were more deaths in the mexiletine group (7.6%) than in the placebo group (4.8%); the difference was not statistically significant. The incidence of coronary events was similar in both groups. Previously recognized side effects, particularly tremor and gastrointestinal problems, were more frequent in the mexiletine group than in the placebo group.
A phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of the combination of vinblastine, paclitaxel and cisplatin (PVC) in previously untreated patients with advanced transitional cell carcinoma. Chemotherapy naive patients with locally advanced or metastatic transitional cell carcinoma received the intravenous combination of paclitaxel 175 mg/m(2)over three hours followed by cisplatin 70 mg/m(2)over 3 hours on day 1 and vinblastine 3 mg/m(2)as a bolus on days 1 and 8 on a 21-day cycle, to a maximum of 6 cycles. The day 8 vinblastine was omitted if the total neutrophil count was <1.0. 15 patients (13 M, 2 F) of median age 66 (54-75) received a median of 5 cycles of treatment. There were two complete responses (13%; 95% CI 2-40%) and five partial responses (33%; 95% CI 12-62%), for an overall response rate of 46% (95% CI 21-73%). Responses occurred only in those with locally recurrent tumours and/or lymph nodes involved. Neutropenia at Grade 3-4 occurred in 14 of 67 cycles (21%) resulting in 7 episodes of neutropenic sepsis. Grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia was not observed. Other Grade 3 toxicity included alopecia (10 pts), diarrhoea (2 pts), constipation resulting in bowel obstruction (2 pts), nephrotoxicity (1 pt), myalgic pain (1 pt) and peripheral neuropathy (1 pt). Six patients developed Grade 2 paraesthesia. The median time to progression was 6 months and the median survival was 11 months. The regimen PVC was both less effective against transitional cell carcinoma and less toxic than expected. This may reflect an inhibitory interaction between vinblastine and paclitaxel and this schedule cannot be recommended for further investigation.
Bleeding in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is mainly associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation and hyperfibrinolysis. Annexin II (Ann II) is a co-receptor for plasminogen and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). This study demonstrates that abnormally high levels of Ann II expression in APL cells increase the production of plasmin. Hyperfibrinolysis could be corrected by all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or ATRA plus arsenic trioxide therapy in patients with APL. SiRNA targetting Ann II caused a decrease in tPA-dependent plasmin generation, while Ann II cDNA transfectant stimulated plasmin production. These results suggest that Ann II play an important role in hyperfibrinolysis in APL.
Both dopamine uptake inhibitors and sigma(1) receptor antagonists have been implicated as potential pharmacotherapeutics for the treatment of cocaine abuse. While the dopamine uptake inhibitors may share with cocaine neurochemical mechanisms underlying reinforcing properties, sigma(1) antagonists have been shown to attenuate some behavioral actions and toxic side effects associated with cocaine overdose. Rimcazole, a sigma(1) receptor antagonist that binds to the DAT (K(i) = 224 nM), is not behaviorally cocaine-like and attenuates some of the behavioral actions of cocaine. To determine the roles of both DAT and sigma(1) receptors in the behavioral actions of rimcazole, a series of analogues was synthesized. Initial studies identified two analogues (1 and 4) that showed high to moderate affinities for both DAT and sigma(1) receptors and failed to show cocaine-like discriminative stimulus (DS) effects. A second series of bis(4'-fluorophenyl)amine analogues have now been prepared in which the most potent DAT compound, 19 (K(i) = 8.5 nM), was selective over serotonin transporter (SERT/DAT = 94), norepinephrine transporter (NET/DAT = 63), and sigma(1) receptor binding (sigma(1)/DAT = 44). In addition, two other analogues 10 and 17 showed superior selectivity for DAT over SERT (170- and 140-fold, respectively) and DAT over NET (219- and 190-fold, respectively) but were essentially equipotent at DAT and sigma(1) receptors (10; K(i) = 77 and 124 nM, respectively, 17; K(i) = 28 and 13 nM, respectively). CoMFA studies at both DAT and sigma(1) receptors were performed to examine structural requirements for optimal binding at these two targets as well as to assess differences between them. Behavioral evaluation of analogues with varying affinities for both DAT and sigma(1) receptors may provide a novel approach toward designing medications for cocaine abuse.
Following contamination from the Chernobyl accident in April 1986 excess infant leukemia (0-1 y) was reported from five different countries, Scotland, Greece, Germany, Belarus and Wales and Scotland combined. The cumulative absorbed doses to the fetus, as conventionally assessed, varied from 0.02 mSv in the UK through 0.06 mSv in Germany, 0.2 mSv in Greece and 2 mSv in Belarus, where it was highest. Nevertheless, the effect was real and given the specificity of the cohort raised questions about the safety of applying the current radiation risk model of the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) to these internal exposures, a matter which was discussed in 2000 by Busby and Cato and also in the reports of the UK Committee examining Radiation Risk from Internal Emitters. Data on infant leukemia in the United Kingdom, chosen on the basis of the cohorts defined by the study of Greece were supplied by the UK Childhood Cancer Research Group. This has enabled a study of leukemia in the combined infant population of 15,466,845 born in the UK, Greece, and Germany between 1980 and 1990. Results show a statistically significant excess risk RR = 1.43 (95% CI 1.13 < RR < 1.80 (2-tailed); p = 0.0025) in those born during the defined peak exposure period of 01/07/86 to 31/12/87 compared with those born between 01/01/80 and 31/12/85 and 01/01/88 and 31/12/90. The excess risks in individual countries do not increase monotonically with the conventionally calculated doses, the relation being biphasic, increasing sharply at low doses and falling at high doses. This result is discussed in relation to fetal/cell death at higher doses and also to induction of DNA repair. Since the cohort is chosen specifically on the basis of exposure to internal radionuclides, the result can be expressed as evidence for a significant error in the conventional modeling for such internal fetal exposures.
The aim of this study was to assess the feasibility, safety and diagnostic accuracy of a high dose dobutamine infusion in conjunction with thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography in 144 patients (72 men and 72 women with a mean age of 65 +/- 10 years) unable to perform exercise or pharmacologic vasodilator stress testing.
Dobutamine increases myocardial oxygen consumption by increasing heart rate, contractility and arterial blood pressure. In addition, it causes myocardial blood flow heterogeneity and thus may be a useful stress for noninvasive detection of coronary artery disease.
Dobutamine was administered intravenously at incremental doses of 5, 10, 20, 30 and up to 40 micrograms/kg per min at 3-min intervals. After 1 min of the maximal dose, 3 mCi of thallium-201 was injected and the infusion was continued for an additional 2 min. Thallium-201 tomography was performed 5 to 10 min after termination of the infusion and 4 h later. The images were visually assessed for the presence and vascular location of perfusion defects and the extent of thallium redistribution. Coronary angiography was performed in 84 patients, with a > 50% stenosis considered significant.
Dobutamine significantly (p = 0.0001) increased the heart rate (from 75 +/- 14 beats/min to 120 +/- 23 beats/min), systolic blood pressure (from 136 +/- 23 mm Hg to 148 +/- 35 mm Hg) and the rate-pressure product (from 10,144 +/- 2,517 to 17,858 +/- 4,349) from baseline to peak infusion rate, respectively. Most patients (75%) experienced side effects during the infusion, but 74% tolerated a dobutamine dose of 40 micrograms/kg per min and 97% a dose of 30 micrograms/kg per min. The more common side effects were typical (26%) and atypical (5%) chest pain, palpitation (29%), flushing (14%), headache (14%) and dyspnea (14%). The overall sensitivity of dobutamine tomography was 86% in the patients who underwent coronary angiography and 84% in those with single-vessel, 82% in those with double-vessel and 100% in those with triple-vessel disease. Seventy-eight percent of vessels with severe (> or = 70%) stenoses were identified with dobutamine tomography. The specificity of dobutamine tomography was 90% for patients and 86% for individual vessels.
A high dose dobutamine infusion in conjunction with thallium tomography appears to be a well tolerated and accurate method for diagnosing coronary artery disease in patients unable to perform exercise or vasodilator pharmacologic stress testing.
The purpose of this research is to analyse patients in whom carbamazepine (CBZ) therapy adversely affected electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings leading to seizure exacerbation and to identify risk factors for these events. From a total number of 2191 patients (p.) included in the Municipal Epilepsy Center (MEC) database, 77 patients with spike-and-wave (SW) discharges while on CBZ treatment have been selected. Patient population was divided in two groups: (i) patients who were already receiving CBZ at the time of their first visit to the MEC; and (ii) patients to whom CBZ was prescribed during follow-up at the MEC. CBZ was discontinued in all patients with confirmed evidence of an increase in seizure frequency, or with no improvement of epilepsy. During follow-up, EEG findings as well as all clinical changes were duly recorded. Group 1: Carbamazepine was discontinued in 17 patients (p.) as a result of paradoxical reactions. This condition occurs when an antiepileptic drug (AED) appears to exacerbate a type of seizure against which it is usually effective, or when it leads to the onset of new types of seizures. Three p. were withdrawn because of inappropriate drug selection. Group 2: CBZ was discontinued in six patients (p.) as a result of paradoxical reactions. The paradoxical reaction was more frequent in patients with frontal epilepsy and generalized SW discharges on the EEG (P=0.09) and patients with benign rolandic epilepsy (BRE) with diffuse interictal sharp and slow-wave discharges. In both groups, clinical and electrical changes returned to their initial status upon CBZ withdrawal. On the basis of this study, it may be concluded that EEGs might eventually help to screen high-risk patients. If EEG recordings become substantially worse, with more frequent and longer generalized SW bursts after initiation of CBZ therapy, patients should be carefully monitored in order to detect any sign of clinical impairment.
Low folate and high homocysteine (Hcy) concentrations are associated with pregnancy-related pathologies such as spina bifida. Polymorphisms in folate/Hcy metabolic enzymes may contribute to this potentially pathogenic biochemical phenotype.
The study comprised 26 Caucasian and 23 African-American premenopausal women. Subjects gave fasting blood samples for biochemical phenotyping and genotyping. Total Hcy (tHcy) and both plasma and red blood cell (RBC) folate derivatives (i.e. tetrahydrofolate [THF], 5-methylTHF [5-MTHF], and 5,10-methenylTHF [5,10-MTHF]) were measured using stable isotope dilution liquid chromatography, multiple reaction monitoring, and mass spectrometry. Eleven polymorphisms from nine folate/Hcy pathway genes were genotyped. Tests of association between genetic, lifestyle, and biochemical variables were applied.
In African American women, tHcy concentrations were associated (p < 0.05) with total RBC folate, RBC 5-MTHF, B(12), and polymorphisms in methionine synthase (MTR) and thymidylate synthase (TYMS). In Caucasian women, tHcy concentrations were not associated with total folate levels, but were associated (p < 0.05) with RBC THF, ratios of RBC 5-MTHF:THF, and polymorphisms in 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) and MTR. In African Americans, folate derivative levels were associated with smoking, B(12), and polymorphisms in MTR, TYMS, methionine synthase reductase (MTRR), and reduced folate carrier1 (RFC1). In Caucasians, folate derivative levels were associated with vitamin use, B(12), and polymorphisms in MTHFR, TYMS, and RFC1.
Polymorphisms in the folate/Hcy pathway are associated with tHcy and folate derivative levels. In African American and Caucasian women, different factors are associated with folate/Hcy phenotypes and may contribute to race-specific differences in the risks of a range of pregnancy-related pathologies.
Benzene is a recognized hematotoxin and leukemogen, but its mechanisms of action in humans are still uncertain. To provide insight into these processes, we carried out a cross-sectional study of 44 healthy workers currently exposed to benzene (median 8-hr time-weighted average; 31 ppm), and unexposed controls in Shanghai, China. Here we provide an overview of the study results on peripheral blood cells levels and somatic cell mutation frequency measured by the glycophorin A (GPA) gene loss assay and report on peripheral cytokine levels. All peripheral blood cells levels (i.e., total white blood cells, absolute lymphocyte count, platelets, red blood cells, and hemoglobin) were decreased among exposed workers compared to controls, with the exception of the red blood cell mean corpuscular volume, which was higher among exposed subjects. In contrast, peripheral cytokine levels (interleukin-3, interleukin-6, erythropoietin, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, tissue necrosis factor-alpha) in a subset of the most highly exposed workers (n = 11) were similar to values in controls (n = 11), suggesting that benzene does not affect these growth factor levels in peripheral blood. The GPA assay measures stem cell or precursor erythroid cell mutations expressed in peripheral red blood cells of MN heterozygous subjects, identifying NN variants, which result from loss of the GPA M allele and duplication of the N allele, and N phi variants, which arise from gene inactivation. The NN (but not N phi) GPA variant cell frequency was elevated in the exposed workers compared with controls (mean +/- SD, 13.9 +/- 8.4 mutants per million cells versus 7.4 +/- 5.2 per million cells, (respectively; p = 0.0002), suggesting that benzene produces gene-duplicating but not gene-inactivating mutations at the GPA locus in bone marrow cells of exposed humans. These findings, combined with ongoing analyses of benzene macromolecular adducts and chromosomal aberrations, will provide an opportunity to comprehensively evaluate a wide range of early biologic effects associated with benzene exposure in humans.
Four patients with active Paget's disease were treated with the RNA inhibitor actinomycin D. Three were clinically improved after treatment; the fourth had multiple collapsed vertebrae and showed no symptomatic improvement. Striking changes took place in urinary calcium and hydroxyproline, in serum alkaline phosphatase, and to a less extent in serum calcium and phosphate. These studies are continuing and are being compared with the effects of mithramycin.
The purpose of this work is to study mechanisms underlying anti-tumor effects of farnesyltransferase inhibitors (FTIs) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We demonstrate that mRNA and protein levels of Ras homologue enriched in brain (Rheb) are highly expressed both in NSCLC tissues and in NSCLC cell lines. Rheb expression levels correlate with phosphorylation of its downstream target S6 and the sensitivity of NSCLC cells to FTIs (R115777 and SCH66336)-induced growth inhibition and apoptosis. FTIs effectively and preferentially inhibited Rheb downstream signaling in NSCLC cells. Moreover, inhibition of Rheb functions by FTIs or dominant-negative Rheb mutants enhance the effects of cisplatin on NSCLC cells. Rheb-CSVL, a FTIs-resistant mutant, reduces the effects of FTIs on NSCLC cells. Our results suggest that Rheb is a critical target for FTIs therapy in NSCLC.
The occurrence of hepatotoxicity and acute renal dysfunction following an acute paracetamol overdose has been well documented. Acute pancreatitis, however, has been rarely described. We would like to report a hemodialysis patient who developed acute pancreatitis and hepatic failure from acute paracetamol toxicity. To our knowledge, this represents the first description in a dialysis patient of paracetamol induced pancreatitis. Given the frequency of paracetamol usage in these patients, we believe that it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients with unexplained acute pancreatitis, particularly if there is associated hepatic dysfunction.
A high incidence of endometrial adenocarcinoma and pre-neoplastic lesions was induced in ICR mice treated with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea and 17 beta-oestradiol within 23 weeks. The endometrial lesions were histopathologically similar to those of human subjects. To assess the cell proliferative activity of these lesions, a one-step silver colloid staining for nucleolar organizer regions was applied and the numbers of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions (AgNORs) were counted. The mean numbers +/- SD of AgNORs in each lesion were as follows: simple hyperplasia, 2.07 +/- 0.36; complex hyperplasia without cytological atypia, 2.79 +/- 0.39; complex hyperplasia with cytological atypia, 3.43 +/- 0.38; and well-differentiated adenocarcinoma, 4.17 +/- 0.40. Significant differences were observed in each lesion (P < 0.001). These findings suggest that the mean numbers of Ag-NORs are increased in the progression of neoplastic changes in the mouse endometrium, as in human endometrial lesions. This rapid induction model of endometrial carcinoma in mice is useful in the understanding of the histogenesis of endometrial carcinoma in human subjects.
Hepatobiliary scans using Tc-IDA are reliable in making the diagnosis of acute cholecystitis. Commonly, opioid drugs are administered in patients with acute cholecystitis to relieve pain. Opioid drugs cause biliary sphincter spasm. Whether these drugs adversely affect hepatobiliary scans is unknown. We studied 13 healthy volunteer subjects, performing three hepatobiliary scans in each one. Scans were performed without opioid drugs and 30 minutes after intramuscularly administered meperidine, morphine, hydroxyzine, hydroxyzine plus meperidine, butorphanol, and nalbuphine. Opioid drugs markedly delayed clearance of Tc-IDA from the common bile duct, simulating common bile duct obstruction. Hydroxyzine alone caused an insignificant delay. We have concluded that opioid drugs cause bile duct obstruction in healthy persons. If opioid drugs are administered before a diagnostic hepatobiliary scan, delayed clearance of Tc-IDA from the common bile duct might lead to an erroneous diagnosis and indicate a potentially unnecessary common bile duct exploration. Opioid drugs should not be administered for several hours before a diagnostic hepatobiliary scan.
The immunosuppressants ciclosporin (cyclosporin A, CsA) and tacrolimus can cause severe nephrotoxicity. Since CsA increases free radical formation, this study investigated whether an extract from Camellia sinensis, which contains several polyphenolic free radical scavengers, could prevent nephrotoxicity caused by CsA and tacrolimus. Rats were fed powdered diet containing polyphenolic extract (0-0.1%) starting 3 days before CsA or tacrolimus. Free radicals were trapped with alpha-(4-pyridyl-1-oxide)-N-tert-butylnitrone (POBN) and measured using an electron spin resonance spectrometer. Both CsA and tacrolimus decreased glomerular filtration rates (GFR) and caused tubular atrophy, vacuolization and calcification and arteriolar hyalinosis, effects that were blunted by treatment with dietary polyphenols. Moreover, CsA and tacrolimus increased POBN/radical adducts in urine nearly 3.5 fold. Hydroxyl radicals attack dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) to produce a methyl radical fragment. Administration of CsA or tacrolimus with (12)C-DMSO produced a 6-line spectrum, while CsA or tacrolimus given with (13)C-DMSO produced a 12-line ESR spectrum, confirming formation of hydroxyl radicals. 4-Hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), a product of lipid peroxidation, accumulated in proximal and distal tubules after CsA or tacrolimus treatment. ESR changes and 4-HNE formation were largely blocked by polyphenols. Taken together, these results demonstrate that both CsA and tacrolimus stimulate free radical production in the kidney, most likely in tubular cells, and that polyphenols minimize nephrotoxicity by scavenging free radicals.
This study examined the association between self-reported diabetes, fish consumption and serum levels of organochlorines in a First Nation community. One quarter of the 101 participants reported diabetes. Serum PCBs, but not p,p'-DDE, were positively correlated to consumption frequency of total fish, walleye and pike, but not trout. Reported diabetes was positively associated to p,p'-DDE and some PCB congeners. Odds Ratios (OR) for reported diabetes for those in the upper 75th percentile for serum p,p'-DDE compared to the others were 3.5 (95% CI 1-13.8) and 6.1 (95% CI 1.4-27.3) (weight wet and lipid-standardized values, respectively) and for total sum of PCBs: 4.91 (95% CI 1.4-19.0) and 5.51 (95% CI 1.3-24.1). For participants who were in the upper 50th percentile for trout and white fish intake, reported diabetes was respectively 6 and 4 times lower compared to the others. These findings support the hypothesis that environmental exposure to elevated p,p'-DDE and PCBs is associated with increased risk of diabetes. Consumption of trout and white fish may be beneficial to reduce risk.
PGP9.5/UCHL1 is a member of the carboxyl-terminal ubiquitin hydrolase family with a potential role in carcinogenesis. We previously identified PGP9.5 as a putative tumor-suppressor gene and methylation of the promoter as a cancer-specific event in primary cancer tissues. In this current study, we analyzed PGP9.5 methylation in 50 esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) primary tumors with well characterized clinicopathologic variables including patient outcome. Two independent modalities for methylation analysis (TaqMan methylation-specific PCR and combined bisulfite restriction analysis) were used to analyze these samples. The two data sets were consistent with each other, as the 21 patients (42%) with highest methylation levels by TaqMan analysis all showed visible combined bisulfite restriction analysis bands on acrylamide gels. Using an optimized cutoff value by TaqMan quantitation, we found that patients with higher PGP9.5 methylation ratios in the primary tumor showed poorer 5-year survival rates than those without PGP9.5 methylation (P = 0.01). A significant correlation was also seen between PGP9.5 promoter methylation and the presence of regional lymph node metastases (P = 0.03). Multivariate analysis subsequently revealed that PGP9.5 methylation was an independent prognostic factor for ESCC survival (P = 0.03). These results suggest that PGP9.5 promoter methylation could be a clinically applicable marker for ESCC progression.
In an open prospective study. 40 patients with progressing painful bone metastases received 45 mg pamidronate by 1-h infusion every 3 weeks. A total of 27 patients (67%; 95% CI 53%-81%) experienced relief of pain as shown by the significant reduction of the bone pain score after three pamidronate administrations (from 2.25 +/- 0.64 to 1.15 +/- 0.36). Furthermore, 20 patients (60%) reduced their consumption of analgesics. We did not observe any objective response by skeletal radiological examination. In 11 patients presenting a skeletal progressive disease, bone pain improved, as well as their mobility score, but not their fatigue score. Treatment was well tolerated. Only 1 patient discontinued the treatment because of fever and cutaneous rash after the first administration. In conclusion, our results seem to confirm that pamidronate exerts a benefical effect on bone pain and mobility impairment in patients with painful osteolytic bone metastases.
In attempt to discover novel aberrantly hypermethylated genes with putative tumor suppressor function in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), we applied expression profiling following pharmacologic inhibition of DNA methylation in EOC cell lines. Among the genes identified, one of particular interest was DOK1, or downstream of tyrosine kinase 1, previously recognized as a candidate tumor suppressor gene (TSG) for leukemia and other human malignancies. Using bisulfite sequencing, we determined that a 5'-non-coding DNA region (located at nt -1158 to -850, upstream of the DOK1 translation start codon) was extensively hypermethylated in primary serous EOC tumors compared with normal ovarian specimens; however, this hypermethylation was not associated with DOK1 suppression. On the contrary, DOK1 was found to be strongly overexpressed in serous EOC tumors as compared to normal tissue and importantly, DOK1 overexpression significantly correlated with improved progression-free survival (PFS) values of serous EOC patients. Ectopic modulation of DOK1 expression in EOC cells and consecutive functional analyses pointed toward association of DOK1 expression with increased EOC cell migration and proliferation, and better sensitivity to cisplatin treatment. Gene expression profiling and consecutive network and pathway analyses were also confirmative for DOK1 association with EOC cell migration and proliferation. These analyses were also indicative for DOK1 protective role in EOC tumorigenesis, linked to DOK1-mediated induction of some tumor suppressor factors and its suppression of pro-metastasis genes. Taken together, our findings are suggestive for a possible tumor suppressor role of DOK1 in EOC; however its implication in enhanced EOC cell migration and proliferation restrain us to conclude that DOK1 represents a true TSG in EOC. Further studies are needed to more completely elucidate the functional implications of DOK1 and other members of the DOK gene family in ovarian tumorigenesis.
Mitoxantrone (MX) is a cytotoxic drug with proven clinical efficacy in active multiple sclerosis (MS). In this ex vivo study we investigated the immunological effects of MX on peripheral blood leucocytes (PBL) from MS patients. PBL were isolated from 46 patients with active MS (mean age 42 years, female : male 1.4 : 1) before and immediately after 1 h MX infusion. Isolated PBL were cultured and stimulated with phytohaemagglutinin (PHA), T cell receptor stimulating monoclonal antibody (MoAb) X35 or kept in culture medium alone. Proliferation was measured by [3H]-thymidine incorporation. MX-uptake and cell death in PBL subpopulations was analysed by flow cytometry using antibodies against cluster of differentiation (CD)-surface antigens, annexin V (AnnV) and propidium iodide (PI). MX was incorporated rapidly into PBL. After only a 1-h in vivo exposure, MX reduced proliferative responses in unstimulated and stimulated PBL (PHA: - 17%, MoAb X35: -13%). MX-exposed PBL showed an increase of AnnV+/PI+ cells (unstimulated: 12%, PHA: 15%), which was even more pronounced 2 weeks after infusion. No difference was observed between de novo MX-treated patients and those on long-term MX treatment. In T cell receptor stimulated PBL, cell death was induced preferentially in CD19-positive B cells and to a lesser extent in CD8-positive T cells. MX is incorporated rapidly in circulating PBL of MS patients and induces a pronounced suppression of proliferative responses. This suppression appears to be mediated at least partly by the induction of late apoptotic/necrotic cell death with a preferential susceptibility of B cells.
An experimental treatment that results in dysraphic lesions in rat embryos was studied to gain insight into the origin of such lesions. Pregnant rats given 100,000 units of vitamin A by gavage tube on gestational Days 8, 9, and 10 produced abnormal litters, and 50% of the embryos had exencephaly and/or spina bifida. Study of these embryonic lesions revealed hyperplesia of neural tube tissue that extended laterally to the edge of an epidermal defect. The epidermal defect consisted of the absence of fetal epidermis over the hyperplastic neural tissue. At no stage in development was embryonic hydrocephalus noted. In fact, the central canals of the embryos with malformations were poorly developed and smaller than those of control embryos. Results with this model indicate that the malformations arise through a process of overgrowth and hyperplasia and not from embryonic hydrocephalus. Continued work with this and other models is required to delineate new mechanisms and to offer alternative postulates for the origin of dysraphic lesions.
Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is the leading pretreatment candidate against exposure to organophosphates (OPs), which pose an ever increasing public and military health. Since respiratory failure is the primary cause of death following acute OP poisoning, an inhaled BChE therapeutic could prove highly efficacious in preventing acute toxicity as well as the associated delayed neuropathy. To address this, studies have been performed in mice and macaques using Chinese Hamster Ovary cells (CHO)-derived recombinant (r) BChE delivered by the pulmonary route, to examine whether the deposition of both macaque (Ma) and human (Hu) rBChE administered as aerosols (aer) favored the creation and retention of an efficient protective "pulmonary bioshield" that could scavenge incoming (inhaled) OPs in situ thereby preventing entry into the circulation and inhibition of plasma BChE and AChE on red blood cells (RBC-AChE) and in cholinergic synapses. In contrast to parenteral delivery of rBChE, which currently requires posttranslational modification for good plasma stability, an unmodified aer-rBChE pretreatment given 1-40 h prior to >1 LD50 of aer-paraoxon (Px) was able to prevent inhibition of circulating cholinesterase in a dose-dependent manner. These studies are the first to show protection by rBChE against a pesticide such as paraoxon when delivered directly into the lung and bode well for the use of a non-invasive and consumer friendly method of rHuBChE delivery as a human treatment to counteract OP toxicity.
Preliminary experimental and clinical data suggest that nifedipine can abort early acute myocardial infarction (AMI) or decrease infarct size by reversal of coronary artery spasm, improved coronary flow to the ischemic zone, reduction in myocardial oxygen demand or protection of ischemic cells. The first large clinical trial testing the ability of nifedipine to reduce infarct size, the Nifedipine Angina Myocardial Infarction Study, was recently reported. Nifedipine treatment failed to prevent progression of threatened infarction to AMI or to reduce infarct size in patients with AMI. The study suggested an increased early mortality rate in patients with AMI treated with nifedipine, but this finding should be interpreted with caution pending the results of similar trials now in progress.
