1. The effects of the dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker nifedipine and the activator Bay K 8644 were investigated in different behavioural tests involving dopaminergic systems. These were the discriminative stimulus induced by amphetamine, rotational behaviour in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions and apomorphine-induced yawning in rats. 2. The yawning induced by apomorphine (40 micrograms kg-1 s.c.) was significantly potentiated by nifedipine (5-10 mgkg-1 i.p.). Bay K 8644 (0.05-0.5 mgkg-1 i.p.) dose-dependently inhibited yawning induced by apomorphine (80 micrograms kg-1 s.c.) and, at 0.4 mgkg-1, inhibited the nifedipine potentiation of apomorphine-induced yawning. In contrast to their effects on apomorphine-induced yawning, nifedipine and Bay K 8644 had no effect on apomorphine-induced penile erection. 3. Bay K 8644 (0.06-0.5 mgkg-1 i.p.) and nifedipine (5-20 mgkg-1 i.p.) had no dose-related effect on the discrimination performance of rats trained to discriminate amphetamine from saline. However, nifedipine dose-dependently reduced the response rate of amphetamine-treated rats. Bay K 8644 had no effect on this measure except at high doses that also caused disruption. 4. Neither nifedipine (5-10 mgkg-1 i.p.) nor Bay K 8644 (0.06-0.5 mgkg-1 i.p.) affected the turning behaviour induced by amphetamine (1 mgkg-1 i.p.) in rats with unilateral 6-OHDA lesion of the medial forebrain bundle, and did not induce turning themselves. 5. As the dihydropyridine compounds affected apomorphine-induced yawning but not penile erection, and did not affect amphetamine-induced rotation or drug discrimination, it seems unlikely that they are affecting dopamine release in vivo.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease and is characterized by dopaminergic (DA) neuronal cell loss in the substantia nigra. Although the entire pathogenesis of PD is still unclear, both environmental and genetic factors contribute to neurodegeneration. Epidemiologic studies show that prevalence of PD is lower in smokers than in nonsmokers. Nicotine, a releaser of dopamine from DA neurons, is one of the candidates of antiparkinson agents in tobacco. To assess the protective effect of nicotine against rotenone-induced DA neuronal cell toxicity, we examined the neuroprotective effects of nicotine in rotenone-induced PD models in vivo and in vitro. We observed that simultaneous subcutaneous administration of nicotine inhibited both motor deficits and DA neuronal cell loss in the substantia nigra of rotenone-treated mice. Next, we analyzed the molecular mechanisms of DA neuroprotective effect of nicotine against rotenone-induced toxicity with primary DA neuronal culture. We found that DA neuroprotective effects of nicotine were inhibited by dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE), alpha-bungarotoxin (alphaBuTx), and/or PI3K-Akt/PKB (protein serine/threonine kinase B) inhibitors, demonstrating that rotenone-toxicity on DA neurons are inhibited via activation of alpha4beta2 or alpha7 nAChRs-PI3K-Akt/PKB pathway or pathways. These results suggest that the rotenone mouse model may be useful for assessing candidate antiparkinson agents, and that nAChR (nicotinic acetylcholine receptor) stimulation can protect DA neurons against degeneration.
We describe a case of spontaneously reversible refractory anaemia, a subtype of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), with monosomy 7 secondary to chronic treatment with azathioprine (AZA) in a young renal transplant recipient. AZA was stopped after that conventional cytogenetics and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) had demonstrated the existence of a monosomy 7 clone, 4 months later, haematological values had considerably improved and the karyotypic examination as well as the FISH analysis were normal. The spontaneous remission of this MDS with monosomy 7, which is usually associated with a particularly poor prognosis, could be due to the recovery of a better immunosurveillance following the withdrawal of AZA.
We describe 2 patients with intracranial hemorrhage after ingestion of diet pills containing phenylpropanolamine (PPA) in combination with caffeine. The first patient had bilateral simultaneous intracerebral hemorrhages, and the second had a subarachnoid hemorrhage. PPA is widely used most often without prescription and causes intracranial hemorrhage more often than has been realized. The mechanism may be induction of a transient hypertensive crisis.
Various alterations of the immune system have recently been reported to attenuate the severity of morphine withdrawal. The effect of the immunosuppressive agent ciclosporine A on the naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal syndrome in the chronically dependent mouse was investigated. Ciclosporine A significantly suppressed stereotyped behaviour such as jumping and forepaw treading while wet shakes were potentiated. Withdrawal diarrhoea was diminished as a consequence of a promotive action of ciclosporine A on the intestine. A ciclosporine derivative, which is devoid of immunosuppressive activity, had no influence on withdrawal signs. The attenuating effect of ciclosporine A was observed at a dose of 20 mg/kg i.p., which is not regarded as immunosuppressive in the mouse. It was also effective in animals lacking an intact immune system as a result of a genetic T-cell defect (nude mouse) or after selective ablation by whole body irradiation. Nude mice and irradiated normal mice developed dependence on morphine to the same extent as normal animals, as could be derived from the severity of their withdrawal signs. These results suggest that an intact immune system is not a necessary prerequisite for ciclosporine A to attenuate morphine withdrawal and that its action may be attributable to mechanisms other than immunosuppression. It is possibly a result of a direct effect of ciclosporine A on the central nervous system structures involved in the behavioural expression of the opiate withdrawal syndrome.
A retrospective survey using chart review was conducted to determine the incidence of clinically significant hypokalemia resulting from therapy with chlorthalidone (CTLD) or hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ). The frequency of hypokalemia, potassium less than or equal to 3.0 mEq/liter, was 4/29 patients (13.8%) in the CTLD once-daily group, 0/17 in the HCDL twice-daily group, and 0/31 in the HCTZ once-daily group. Using the Fisher exact probability test, a significant difference in the incidence of hypokalemia was observed between the CTLD once-daily and HCTZ once-daily groups. From the results, it is apparent that a diuretic's duration of actions, as represented by HCTZ (short-acting) and CTLD (long-acting), influences serum potassium concentrations; CTLD produced a greater incidence and degree of hypokalemia.
Little is known about environmental determinants of autoimmune diseases.
We studied autoimmune diseases in relation to level of exposure to perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), which was introduced in the late 1940s and is now ubiquitous in the serum of residents of industrialized countries.
In 2008-2011 we interviewed 32,254 U.S. adults with high serum PFOA serum levels (median, 28 ng/mL) associated with drinking contaminated water near a chemical plant. Disease history was assessed retrospectively from 1952 or birth (if later than 1952) until interview. Self-reported history of autoimmune disease was validated via medical records. Cumulative exposure to PFOA was derived from estimates of annual mean serum PFOA levels during follow-up, which were based on plant emissions, residential and work history, and a fate-transport model. Cox regression models were used to estimate associations between quartiles of cumulative PFOA serum levels and the incidence of autoimmune diseases with ≥ 50 validated cases, including ulcerative colitis (n = 151), Crohn's disease (n = 96), rheumatoid arthritis (n = 346), insulin-dependent diabetes (presumed to be type 1) (n = 160), lupus (n = 75), and multiple sclerosis (n = 98).
The incidence of ulcerative colitis was significantly increased in association with PFOA exposure, with adjusted rate ratios by quartile of exposure of 1.00 (referent), 1.76 (95% CI: 1.04, 2.99), 2.63 (95% CI: 1.56, 4.43), and 2.86 (95% CI: 1.65, 4.96) (ptrend < 0.0001). A prospective analysis of ulcerative colitis diagnosed after the baseline 2005-2006 survey (n = 29 cases) suggested a positive but non-monotonic trend (ptrend = 0.21).
To our knowledge, this is the first study of associations between this common environmental exposure and autoimmune diseases in humans. We found evidence that PFOA is associated with ulcerative colitis.
Prototypical NF-kappaB consists of a transcription factor dimer of p50 and p65, and an inhibitory subunit called I-kappaB. NF-kappaB is activated in neurons in response to excitotoxic, metabolic, and oxidative stress. Cell-culture data suggest that activation of NF-kappaB can prevent neuronal apoptosis, but its role in vivo is unclear and the specific kappaB subunits involved are unknown. In Huntington's disease (HD), striatal neurons degenerate, and a similar pattern of neuronal vulnerability occurs in rats and mice following exposure to the mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP). We report that mice lacking the p50 subunit of NF-kappaB exhibit increased damage to striatal neurons following administration of 3NP. The neuronal death occurs by apoptosis as indicated by increased caspase activation and DNA fragmentation into oligonucleosomes. NF-kappaB activity is markedly increased in striatum 24-72 h following 3NP administration in wild-type mice, but not in mice lacking p50, indicating that p50 is necessary for the vast majority of 3NP-induced NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity in striatum. Cultured striatal neurons from p50-/- mice exhibited enhanced oxidative stress, perturbed calcium regulation, and increased cell death following exposure to 3NP, suggesting a direct adverse effect of p50 deficiency in striatal neurons.
Twenty otherwise health adults with a diagnosis of reversible obstructive airways disease were treated for one month in a single-blind crossover study with approximately equivalent doses of Elixophyllin SR capsules or Theo-Dur tablets. Both products provided evidence of efficacy by improvement in pulmonary function tests, and both were well tolerated. There were no significant differences between the two products with regard to bioavailability, efficacy, or tolerance. Both dosage forms appeared to have similar kinetic properties within the context of the study.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) play an essential role in the elimination of xenobiotic-derived electrophilic metabolites and also catalyze certain steps in the conversion of endogenous molecules. Their expression is controlled by different transcription factors, such as the antioxidant-activated Nrf2 or the constitutive androstane receptor. Here, we show that the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway is also involved in the transcriptional regulation of GSTs: GSTm2, GSTm3, and GSTm6 are overexpressed in mouse hepatomas with activating Ctnnb1 (encoding beta-catenin) mutations and in transgenic hepatocytes expressing activated beta-catenin. Inversely, GSTm expression is reduced in mice with hepatocyte-specific knock out of Ctnnb1. Activation of beta-catenin-dependent signaling stimulates GSTm expression in vitro. Activation of beta-catenin in mouse hepatoma cells activates GSTm3 promoter-driven reporter activity, independently of beta-catenin/T-cell factor sites, via a retinoid X receptor-binding site. By contrast, GSTm expression is inhibited upon Ras activation in mouse liver tumors and transgenic hepatocytes. Recent studies by different groups have shown that beta-catenin-dependent signaling is involved in the transcriptional control of "perivenous" expression of various cytochrome P450s in mouse liver, whereas Ras signaling was hypothesized to antagonize the perivenous hepatocyte phenotype. In synopsis with our present results, it now appears that the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway functions as a master regulator of the expression of both phase I and phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes in perivenous hepatocytes from mouse liver.
Torsades de pointes is a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia characterized by marked QT prolongation on the electrocardiogram. It can be induced by both antiarrhythmic and nonantiarrhythmic drugs, such as quinidine and erythromycin. No extensive literature documents an interaction between quinidine and erythromycin when the agents are administered orally. A 95-year-old man received oral quinidine and erythromycin for the treatment of atrial fibrillation and community-acquired pneumonia. He developed torsades de pointes and subsequently cardiac arrest. Since erythromycin and quinidine are known to cause arrhythmias individually, caution and close monitoring are necessary when the drugs are administered concomitantly.
The treatment of patients with AIDS and AIDS-related complex (ARC) with zidovudine is limited by major haematological toxicity. In an open study of the use of zidovudine, 10 out of a total of 81 patients developed a severe anaemia within the first 3 months of treatment. In five of these 10 patients the mean cell volume did not increase but remained within the normal range. Bone marrow examination of three of these five showed a pure red-cell aplasia. In all five patients the anaemia resolved on discontinuation of the drug and in three that were re-challenged, the anaemia recurred. Zidovudine-induced anaemia has usually been reported as macrocytic and megaloblastic, but in our experience erythroid aplasia appears to be a major cause of anaemia occurring within the first 3 months of treatment. The earliest sign is anaemia with a stable or only a slight increase in the mean cell volume (MCV).
Frequent relapses after treatment for visceral leishmaniasis and apparent parasitological cure is not commonly reported. Seven year old boy who relapsed four times with clinical and parasitological evidence of the disease at each two months follow-up period is presented. He had Leishimania donovani Kenya strain. After treatment, review would be after two months, six months and twelve months periods. Splenic aspirates were routinely done weekly and on the last day of each treatment. The drugs administered for varying periods included intravenous sodium stibogluconate 20 mg/kg daily, P20 in combination with allopurinol 21 mg/kg three times daily, and Pentamidine 4 mg/kg three times weekly and antituberculous drugs. The presence of abundant extra cellular leishmania donovani bodies in the bone marrow and possible pulmonary tuberculosis might have precipitated the frequent relapses. It is not clear which of the drugs effected the cure. It was observed that inspite of prolonged antileishmanial drug administration no side effects were noted.
Pilocarpine-induced seizures are mediated by the M(1) subtype of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR), but little is known about the signaling mechanisms linking the receptor to seizures. The extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling cascade is activated by M(1) mAChR and is elevated during status epilepticus. Yet, the role of ERK activation prior to seizure has not been evaluated. Here, we examine the role of pilocarpine-induced ERK activation in the induction of seizures in mice by pharmacological and behavioral approaches. We show that pilocarpine induces ERK activation prior to the induction of seizures by both western blot and immunocytochemistry with an antibody to phosphorylated ERK. In addition, we show that the ERK pathway inhibitor SL327 effectively blocks the pilocarpine-induced ERK activation. However, SL327 pretreatment has no effect on the initiation of seizures. In fact, animals treated with SL327 had higher seizure-related mortality than vehicle-treated animals, suggesting activated ERK may serve a protective role during seizures. In addition, ERK inhibition had no effect on the development of the long-term sequelae of status epilepticus (SE), including mossy fiber sprouting, neuronal death and spontaneous recurrent seizures.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is thought to be a result of dopamine D2 receptor blockade in the striatum of the basal ganglia. Risperidone, a benzisoxazole derivative antipsychotic, has high serotonin 5-HT2 receptor blockade and dose-related D2 receptor blockade. The high ratio is believed to impart the low frequency of extrapyramidal symptoms with risperidone at low dosages. With this low frequency of extrapyramidal symptoms, it was thought the frequency of neuroleptic malignant syndrome might also be lowered. A 73-year-old woman developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome after monotherapy with risperidone. The syndrome reversed after discontinuing risperidone and starting treatment with dantrolene and bromocriptine. It appears that the protection from extrapyramidal side effects observed with risperidone does not ensure protection from neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
To validate the induction of blood lymphocyte cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) expression in alcoholic liver cirrhosis and mRNA and protein expression of CYP2E1 in freshly prepared blood lymphocytes of alcoholic liver cirrhotic (ACP), nonalcoholic cirrhotic patients (NACP), alcoholic controls (ACs), and nonalcoholic controls (NACs) were investigated. Registered ACP and NACP patients at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Science, Lucknow, India along with NACs and ACs were included in the study. Real time polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and CYP2E1-dependent enzyme activity were determined in blood lymphocytes isolated from cases and controls. Significant increases in CYP2E1 mRNA and protein expression were observed in freshly prepared blood lymphocytes isolated from ACs and ACP patients as compared with respective NACs or NACP patients. A concomitant increase in N-nitrosodimethyamine demethylase activity was evident in the blood lymphocytes of ACs and ACP patients. Interestingly, the comparative increase observed in CYP2E1 expression was of greater magnitude in the blood lymphocytes isolated from ACP patients, although they abstained from alcohol drinking. Findings suggest that significant increase in the CYP2E1 mRNA and protein expression in the blood lymphocytes, isolated from early stage ACP patients, can be used to predict alcohol-induced toxicity.
A markedly prolonged quinidine elimination half-life due to hepatic failure and resultant quinidine toxicity occurred in a 57-year-old man with a history of atrial fibrillation. A prolonged QT interval, development of torsades de pointes, and a serum quinidine concentration of 3.1 micrograms/ml contributed to a decision favoring permanent pacemaker implantation. The apparent quinidine half-life ranged from 66-99 hours and was associated with QT prolongation and persistent U waves. On discontinuing quinidine, all signs associated with toxicity resolved as serum quinidine concentrations decreased, which resulted in reversal of the decision to implant a permanent pacemaker. This case reports an extremely long quinidine elimination half-life and reillustrates the importance of drug pharmacokinetics in patient care.
Pharmacological treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in the future may target inhibitors of specific procoagulant proteins. This study used a non-human primate model to test the effect of PHA-798, a specific inhibitor of the tissue factor/Factor VIIa complex (TF/VIIa), on venous thrombus formation.
PHA inhibits the TF/VIIa complex with an IC(50) of 13.5 nM (K(i) 9 nM) and is more than 2000-fold selective for the TF/VIIa complex with respect to IC(50)s for factor Xa and thrombin. In the model, a thrombogenic surface was introduced into the vena cava of a primate, and the amount of thrombus accumulated after 30 min was determined.
PHA-798 reduced thrombus formation on the thrombogenic surface in a dose-dependent manner (56+/-1.9% and 85+/-0.3% inhibition with 100 and 200 microg/kg/min PHA-798, respectively) indicating that the model is sensitive to TF/VIIa inhibition. Treatment with 1 mg/kg intravenous (IV) acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) resulted in only a slight (4-12%), non-significant inhibition of thrombus formation. However, the combination of 100 microg/kg/min PHA-798 and 1 mg/kg ASA resulted in an 89% inhibition of thrombus formation. Additionally, while ASA alone increased bleeding time (BT) from 3.3 min at baseline to 4.6 min following treatment, addition of PHA-798 (100 microg/kg/min) to ASA did not significantly increase the BT further (4.7 min).
The results of this study indicate that inhibition of TF/VIIa may be safe and effective for the prevention of the proprogation of venous thrombosis and that the combination of ASA and PHA may provide increased efficacy with little change in safety.
To describe our initial experience with treatment of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) for close contacts of infectious TB cases in Singapore, an intermediate TB burden country with mass BCG (re)vaccination since the 1950s.
Screening of 5699 contacts of 1374 index cases notified in 1998 was carried out at the TB Control Unit.
Seventy-five per cent (4239) completed tuberculin skin testing (TST). Fifty-three cases of TB disease were detected (0.9% yield). Twenty-one per cent (895/4239) of the TST-screened contacts were started on LTBI treatment, comprising 92% (810/883) of contacts with TST > or = 15 mm, 5% (64/1195) of those with TST 10-14 mm and 1% (21/2161) of those with TST < 10 mm. The regimen utilized was isoniazid for 6 months in adults and 9 months in children. Eighty-one per cent completed treatment. The incidence of isoniazid-induced hepatitis was 0.45%. Over the ensuing 4 years, one case of active TB was reported among those treated for LTBI, and 10 cases (five without TST readings) were notified among contacts who did not receive treatment.
Where good case-finding and treatment of TB disease exist, and where resources permit, LTBI treatment for close contacts is feasible as a complementary TB control strategy in an intermediate TB burden country with a BCG-vaccinated population.
Although it is well established that the striatum contains both local and projection GABA neurons, little is known about their possible role in memory storage. We now report that in the Wistar rat, intrastriatal post-training injection of microgram quantities of bicuculine or picrotoxin, two GABA antagonists with different modes of action, induced retrograde amnesia of inhibitory avoidance, in concordance with the effects of injections of picrotoxin into the substantia nigra. These results suggest that GABA activity of the nigrostriatal system is involved in cognitive functions.
Murine contact photosensitivity (CPS) to 3,3',4', 5-tetrachlorosalicylanilide (TCSA) is genetically controlled mainly by the major histocompatibility complex. The H-2(b,d) haplotypes are closely associated with high responders, whereas mice with H-2(k) are low or non-responders. We found that BALB/c (H-2(d)) mice were high responders in CPS not only to TCSA but also to chlorpromazine (CPZ) and benzocaine, whereas AKR/n (H-2(k)) mice were hyporesponsive to these three photoallergic agents. To elucidate the relationship between CPS responsiveness and T helper cell induction, the expression of T-cell cytokines was examined by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction in the elicited skin of CPS to the three chemicals. The expression levels of interleukin(IL)-2 and interferon-gamma mRNAs were markedly higer in BALB/c mice than AKR/n mice, whereas mRNA for IL-4 was expressed strongly in AKR/n mice. These data suggest that the hyporesponsiveness of CPS to the photoallergens in AKR/n mice is closely associated with the activation/induction of Th2 cytokines at the challenged sites.
Although recently developed drugs have brought significant improvement, the treatment of psychotic disorders still presents serious drawbacks. Since inherent complexity and lack of satisfactory understanding of the underlying pathophysiology impose limits for rational drug design, resourceful approaches in the search for antipsychotics are pertinent. This paper reports pharmacological properties of alstonine, a heteroyohimbine type alkaloid, which exhibited an antipsychotic-like profile, inhibiting amphetamine-induced lethality, apomorphine-induced stereotypy and potentiating barbiturate-induced sleeping time. Atypical features of alstonine were the prevention of haloperidol-induced catalepsy and lack of direct interaction with D1, D2 and 5-HT2A receptors, classically linked to antipsychotic mechanism of action.
Allopregnanolone (ALLO, 3alpha,5alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone), a positive allosteric modulator of actions of gamma-aminobutyric acid GABA) at GABA(A) receptors, is synthesized in the brain from progesterone by the sequential action of two enzymes: a type I 5alpha-reductase and a 3alpha-hydroxysteroid oxidoreductase. We previously demonstrated that long-term social isolation of mice caused a significant decrease in brain ALLO content via suppression of type I 5alpha-reductase and its mRNA expression. In this study, to clarify a physiological role of endogenous brain ALLO, we investigated changes in seizure susceptibility of mice following protracted social isolation and compared with those of mice treated with SKF105111 (SKF), an inhibitor of types I and II 5alpha-reductase. Social isolation of mice for 7 weeks prior to the experiments caused a significant increase of seizure susceptibility to the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin but not to the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine or the glutamate receptor agonist kainic acid. The change in the seizure susceptibility was completely reversed by 2.5 mg/kg ip ALLO, a dose that per se had no effect on picrotoxin-induced seizure. Treatment of mice with SKF (20 mg/kg ip) also reduced a threshold dose of picrotoxin, but not that of strychnine or kainic acid, which was required to elicit seizure in group-housed mice. The effect of SKF was attenuated by ALLO (2.5 mg/kg ip). In contrast, SKF treatment had no effect on picrotoxin-induced seizure in socially isolated mice. These findings suggest that endogenous brain ALLO plays a suppressive role in seizure susceptibility via a positive modulation of GABA(A) receptor function and that social isolation enhances seizure susceptibility in mice via reduction of GABA(A) receptor function caused by a decrease of endogenous ALLO.
Preclinical studies suggested that combination of naltrexone and isradipine may be useful for the treatment of cocaine addiction. This study examined whether naltrexone and isradipine, alone or in combination, would attenuate the subjective and physiological effects of cocaine in humans. Seven cocaine users participated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled inpatient study. Before each of the seven experimental sessions, subjects were treated orally with naltrexone (50 mg or placebo), isradipine (10 mg or placebo), or naltrexone plus isradipine. Subjects then received a single dose of intranasal cocaine (4 mg or 100 mg/70 kg). Isradipine alone attenuated the systolic blood pressure response to cocaine. In contrast, isradipine plus naltrexone treatment attenuated both the systolic and diastolic blood pressure responses. Naltrexone alone did not affect the blood pressure response to cocaine. For subjective response to cocaine, isradipine, alone or in combination with naltrexone, did not have significant effects. Naltrexone treatment alone attenuated the rating of "good effects" from cocaine without affecting other subjective responses. These results suggest that isradipine alone or in combination with naltrexone attenuates some of the physiological effects of cocaine.
