1. Antiarrhythmic actions of ajmaline against ischaemia (left coronary artery occlusion for 15 min) and subsequent reperfusion-induced arrhythmias were investigated in anaesthetized rats. 2. Ajmaline (2 mg kg-1, i.v.) was effective in suppressing ischaemia-induced arrhythmias whether given pre- or post-occlusion. 3. Ajmaline diminished the reperfusion-induced arrhythmias completely when given pre-occlusion but had little effect when given post-occlusion. 4. Reperfusion-induced increases in plasma enzyme activities of lactate dehydrogenase, glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase and creatine phosphokinase were prevented more effectively when ajmaline was given pre-occlusion rather than post-occlusion. 5. Fifteen min post-occlusion, the ajmaline concentrations in the ischaemic ventricle were 18.42 +/- 1.66 and 1.18 +/- 0.15 micrograms g-1 for pre- and post-occlusion administration, respectively. However, ajmaline concentrations in whole blood and normal ventricle were not significantly different between pre- and post-occlusion administration. 6. We suggest that the beneficial effect of ajmaline against reperfusion-induced arrhythmias is related to the ischaemic myocardial concentration of ajmaline which is markedly affected by the time of drug administration (i.e. pre- and post-occlusion).
Caffeine produces mild psychostimulant and sometimes anxiogenic effects by antagonizing adenosine at A(1) and A(2A) receptors, and perhaps through interactions with other transmitter systems. Adenosine receptors are colocalized and functionally interact with dopamine receptors in the brain. Thus, functional polymorphisms in the genes for either adenosine or dopamine receptors may affect responses to caffeine. In this study, we examined associations between self-reported anxiogenic effects of caffeine and variation in the genes for A(2A) (ADORA2A) and DRD(2) (DRD2) receptors. Healthy male and female individuals (n=102), who consumed less than 300 mg caffeine per week, ingested capsules containing 0, 50, 150, and 450 mg caffeine under double-blind conditions in four separate experimental sessions. Subjective anxiety was measured before and at repeated times after capsules were consumed. At the 150 mg dose of caffeine, we found a significant association between caffeine-induced anxiety (Visual Analog Scales, VAS) and ADORA2A rs5751876 (1976C/T), rs2298383 (intron 1a) and rs4822492 (3'-flank), and DRD2 rs1110976 (intron 6). Caffeine-induced anxiety (VAS) was also associated with two-loci interactions of selected ADORA2A and DRD2 polymorphisms. The lowest dose of caffeine did not increase ratings of anxiety while the highest dose increased anxiety in the majority of subjects. These findings provide support for an association between an ADORA2A polymorphism and self-reported anxiety after a moderate dose of caffeine. It is likely that other ADORA2A and DRD2 polymorphisms also contribute to responses to caffeine.
Drug addicts have deficits in frontocortical function and cognition even long after the discontinuation of drug use. It is not clear, however, whether the cognitive deficits are a consequence of drug use, or are present prior to drug use, and thus are a potential predisposing factor for addiction. To determine if self-administration of cocaine is capable of producing long-lasting alterations in cognition, rats were allowed access to cocaine for either 1 h/day (short access, ShA) or 6 h/day (long access, LgA) for 3 weeks. Between 1 and 30 days after the last self-administration session, we examined performance on a cognitively demanding test of sustained attention that requires an intact medial prefrontal cortex. The expression levels of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor mRNA and D2 protein in the prefrontal cortex were also examined. Early after discontinuation of drug use, LgA (but not ShA) animals were markedly impaired on the sustained attention task. Although the LgA animals improved over time, they continued to show a persistent pattern of performance deficits indicative of a disruption of cognitive flexibility up to 30 days after the discontinuation of drug use. This was accompanied by a significant decrease in DA D2 (but not D1) mRNA in the medial and orbital prefrontal cortex, and D2 receptor protein in the medial prefrontal cortex of LgA (but not ShA) animals. These findings establish that repeated cocaine use is capable of producing persistent alterations in the prefrontal cortex and in cognitive function, and illustrate the usefulness of extended access self-administration procedures for studying the neurobiology of addiction.
Pathological skin-picking is a self-injurious, impulsive behaviour with repetitive, and ritualistic characteristics. A number of studies show that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) may be efficacious in reducing skin-picking behaviour. Two case reports are presented demonstrating that SSRI-treatment may induce or aggravate pathological skin-picking behaviour. Possible mechanisms of SSRI-induced pathological skin-picking and implications for clinical care are discussed.
X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) is the most potent member of the IAP family that exerts antiapoptotic effects. Recently, XIAP-associated factor 1 (XAF1) and two mitochondrial proteins, Smac/ DIABLO and HtrA2, have been identified to negatively regulate the caspase-inhibiting activity of XIAP. We explored the candidacy of XAF1, Smac/DIABLO and HtrA2 as a tumor suppressor in colonic carcinogenesis.
Expression and mutation status of the genes in 10 colorectal carcinoma cell lines and 40 primary tumors were examined by quantitative PCR analysis.
XAF1 transcript was not expressed or present at extremely low levels in 60% (6/10) of cancer cell lines whereas Smac/DIABLO and HtrA2 are normally expressed in all cell lines examined. Tumor-specific loss or reduction of XAF1 was also found in 35% (14/40) of matched tissue sets obtained from the same patients. XAF1 transcript was reactivated in all the low expressor cell lines by treatment with the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. Moreover, bisulfite DNA sequencing analysis for 34 CpG sites in the promoter region revealed a strong association between hypermethylation and gene silencing. Restoration of XAF1 expression resulted in enhanced apoptotic response to etoposide and 5-flurouracil, whereas knockdown of XAF1 expression by siRNA transfection significantly inhibited chemotherapeutic drug-induced apoptosis.
XAF1 undergoes epigenetic gene silencing in a considerable proportion of human colon cancers by aberrant promoter hypermethylation, suggesting that XAF1 inactivation might be implicated in colonic tumorigenesis.
To effectively treat bone diseases using bone regenerative medicine, there is an urgent need to develop safe cheap drugs that can potently induce bone formation. Here, we demonstrate the osteogenic effect of icariin, the main active compound of Epimedium pubescens. Icariin induced osteogenic differentiation in pre-osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells and mouse primary osteoblasts. Icariin upregulated the mRNA expression levels of the osteoblast marker genes runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) and inhibitor of DNA-binding 1 (Id-1). The osteogenic effect was inhibited by the introduction of Smad6 or dominant-negative Runx2, as well as Noggin treatment. Furthermore, icariin induced the mRNA expression of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-4. These data suggest that icariin exerts its potent osteogenic effect through induction of Runx2 expression, production of BMP-4 and activation of BMP signaling. The extremely low cost of icariin and its high abundance make it appealing for bone regenerative medicine.
Decitabine's mechanism of action in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia remains incompletely understood. We studied the dynamics of neoplastic cell clearance during decitabine treatment (100 mg/m(2) per course every 4 weeks) using quantitative monitoring of mutant alleles by pyrosequencing. Patients with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia were first screened for JAK2 and NPM1 mutations, and 3 patients with mutations were identified. Mutant allele percentages in mononuclear cell DNA were followed after treatment, along with methylation of LINE1 and 10 other genes. The clearance of mutant alleles was modest after the first cycle, despite induction of hypomethylation. Delayed substantial clearance was observed after 2 to 4 cycles that correlated with clinical response. Two patients had complete disappearance of mutant alleles and sustained clinical remissions. In another patient, mutant allele was detectable at clinical remission, which lasted for 8 months. Our data suggest a predominantly noncytotoxic mechanism of action for decitabine, leading to altered biology of the neoplastic clone and/or normal cells. This trial was registered at www.ClinicalTrials.gov as #NCT00067808.
The effects of oral supplementation of melatonin on growth of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC) cells implanted intraperitoneally in female mice were studied. Melatonin at 50 mg/kg body wt. reduced the viability and volume of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma cells and increased the survival of the treated mice. No significant change in intracellular reduced glutathione (GSH) content in EAC cells was observed indicating that GSH was not involved in the inhibitory effect of melatonin. The activity of glutathione-S-transferase in EAC cells was significantly increased. Flow cytometirc studies showed that melatonin not only delayed the progression of cells from G(0)/G(1) phase to S-phase of the cell cycle but also reduced DNA synthesis during cell cycle. In addition, the aneuploidy status was depressed in melatonin treated mice. Based on these data and the reduced viability in both in vitro and in vivo, it is suggested that melatonin might induce apoptosis in EAC cells.
Acute renal failure in association with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and the pathological finding of thrombotic microangiopathy may occur in a number of conditions including hemolytic uremic syndrome, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, and systemic sclerosis. Distinguishing between these conditions on clinical grounds may be difficult, and further investigations, including serological tests, are normally helpful. We present a patient who was treated with 5 doses of monthly carboplatin chemotherapy for stage IIb ovarian carcinoma and who subsequently developed acute renal failure and microangiopathic hemolysis together with some cutaneous features of systemic sclerosis. Initial serological tests, including anti-nuclear antibody titers measured using rat hepatocytes, were normal, and renal biopsy showed features of microangiopathic hemolysis, fibrinoid change, patchy tubular atrophy, and concentric intimal proliferation. A clinical diagnosis of diarrhea-negative hemolytic uremic syndrome was made and she was treated with plasma exchange and fresh frozen plasma infusion. However, she remained dialysis-dependent. Several weeks later she died following a cardiac arrest. Post-mortem examination revealed medial hypertrophy, concentric intimal proliferation, and thrombi within the small arteries of the kidneys and lungs. Subsequent results from tests taken at the time of her presentation with acute renal failure revealed a normal von Willebrand factor qualitative distribution, and a positive anti-nuclear antibody titer (using a human cell line) in association with positive autoantibodies to RNA polymerase types I, II, and III. Taken together, the clinical, laboratory, and post-mortem findings were suggestive of a diagnosis of systemic sclerosis. We discuss the differential diagnoses, and the associations between these and malignancy and chemotherapy. Finally, we consider the serological tests used for the diagnosis of systemic sclerosis that were, in this case, initially misleading.
Isoeugenolol (1.0, 3.0, 5.0 mg/kg, i.v.) produced a dose-dependent bradycardia and a decrease in blood pressure in anesthetized Wistar rats. Isoeugenolol inhibited the tachycardia effects induced by (-)isoproterenol, but had no blocking effect on the arterial pressor responses induced by (-)phenylephrine. In isolated guinea pig tissues, isoeugenolol antagonized (-)isoproterenol-induced positive inotropic and chronotropic effects on the atria and tracheal relaxations in a concentration-dependent manner. The apparent pA2 values for isoeugenolol on right atria, left atria and trachea were 7.63+/-0.03, 7.89+/-0.12 and 6.12+/-0.05, respectively, indicating that isoeugenolol was a highly selective beta1-adrenoceptor blocker. On the other hand, isoeugenolol produced a mild direct cardiac depression at high concentration and was without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA). In isolated rat thoracic aorta, isoeugenolol relaxed more potently the contractions induced by (-)phenylephrine (10 microM) and 5-HT (10 microM) than those by high K+ (75 mM). In isolated guinea pig trachea, isoeugenolol attenuated the carbachol (1 microM)-con-tracted trachea more significantly than those contracted with high K+. Furthermore, the binding characteristics of isoeugenolol and various beta-adrenoceptor antagonists were evaluated in [3H]CGP-12177 binding to rat ventricle, lung and interscapular brown adipose tissue (IBAT) membranes. The -log IC50 values of isoeugenolol for predominate beta1-, beta2- and beta3-adrenergic receptor sites were 5.82+/-0.09, 4.74+/-0.05 and 4.73+/-0.12, respectively. In conclusion, isoeugenolol was found to be a highly selective beta1-adrenoceptor antagonist with tracheal and vascular smooth muscle relaxant activities, but was devoid of alpha-adrenoceptor-blocking action.
An 8-year-old boy known to have Duchenne's muscular dystrophy suffered a cardiac arrest 10 minutes after he regained consciousness after isoflurane anaesthesia for an orchidopexy procedure. Resuscitation was successful 2 hours after the start of external cardiac compression and after correction of hyperkalaemia and the administration of dantrolene. He later developed myoglobinuria elevated creatine kinase and a metabolic and respiratory acidosis. He demonstrated a delayed increase in rectal temperature.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most frequent cause of cancer deaths in males and was the third most frequent cause of cancer deaths in 2007 throughout the world. The incidence rate is 2-3 times higher in developing countries than in developed countries. Animal models have enabled study of the mechanism of HCC and the development of possible strategies for treatment. Diethylnitrosamine (DEN) is a representative chemical carcinogen with the potential to cause tumors in various organs, including the liver, skin, gastrointestinal tract, and respiratory system. Specifically in HCC, DEN is a complete carcinogen. Many lines of evidence have demonstrated a relationship between carcinogenesis and cell cycle regulation. In this study we found that cell cycle regulatory proteins were critically involved in cancer initiation and promotion by DEN. Cyclin D1, cyclin E, cdk4, and p21(CIP1/WAF1) are factors whose expression levels may be useful as criteria for the classification of hepatic disease. In particular, cdk4 had a pivotal role in the transition to the neoplastic stage. In conclusion, we suggest that changes in the level of cdk4 may be useful as a biomarker for detection of HCC.
Understanding the basic and clinical pharmacology of nicotine provides a basis for improved prevention and treatment of tobacco addiction. Nicotine acts on nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the brain to release dopamine and other neurotransmitters that sustain addiction. Neuroadaptation and tolerance involve changes in both nicotinic receptors and neural plasticity. Nicotine addiction can occur in the context of physical dependence characterized by self-medication to modulate negative affect and/or to relieve withdrawal symptoms, as well as, in light or occasional smokers, primarily for positive reinforcement in specific situations. Nicotine is metabolized primarily by CYP2A6. Its clearance exhibits considerable individual variability that is determined by genetic, racial, and hormonal (sex) factors. Genetically slow metabolism of nicotine appears to be associated with a lower level of dependence. Nicotine dependence is highly heritable and appears to be influenced by genes coding for some nicotine receptor subtypes, some neurotransmitter genes, and genes involved in neural connectivity. Novel pharmacotherapies for nicotine dependence include partial agonists for nicotinic receptors and nicotine vaccines. Pharmacogenetic studies suggest various candidate genes and a nicotine metabolism phenotype that influence outcome. Human pharmacology studies of nicotine and smoking behavior also provide a basis for assessing the benefits and risks of long-term nicotine use for harm reduction and for a potential cigarette regulatory strategy that includes reducing nicotine content of cigarettes to nonaddictive levels.
To find out whether parkinsonian patients with levodopa-induced peak-dose dyskinesias are bradykinetic.
The performance of a sequential internally determined arm movement and a simple externally triggered arm movement was studied in a group of dyskinetic parkinsonian patients during their best clinical condition and when they were OFF treatment. Patients' performance was compared with that of an age-matched control group. Movements in the three-dimensional space were recorded by the ELITE motion analysis system. Kinematic variables analysed for the sequential motor task were total movement duration and total pause duration; for the simple motor task, movement duration and reaction time; and for both tasks, movement inaccuracy.
When patients were OFF therapy they performed sequential and simple movement tasks slower than healthy subjects whereas when they were dyskinetic they did not. During the sequential task, when the patients were dyskinetic total pause duration shortened and movement inaccuracy increased.
Our kinematic finding indicates that parkinsonian patients' with peak-dose dyskinesias are not bradykinetic.
Parkinsonian patients with peak-dose dyskinesias are not bradykinetic, probably because dopamine at peak doses functionally normalizes the mechanisms controlling movement speed.
Antiarrhythmic effects of oxprenolol, a beta-blocker, were studied quantitatively on arhythmias produced by epinephrine during halothane anesthesia and by two-stage coronary ligation, and were compared to those of other beta-blockers, propranolol and Kö 1400, which have been already reported. Though oxprenolol has potent beta-blocking activity, the antiarrhythmic effect on halothane-epinephrine arrhythmia was significantly weaker than those of propranolol and Kö 1400. The effective dose of oxprenolol was 60 +/- 18 microgram/kg (mean +/- S.E., N = 6), which is in the range of the so-called beta-adrenergic blocking dose. The weaker antiarrhythmic effect of oxprenolol as compared to propranolol and Kö 1400 is probably due to the intrinsic positive chronotropic effect, which is most clearly observed in oxprenolol as compared to the other two drugs. As for two-stage coronary ligation arrhythmia, oxprenolol suppressed only that observed 48 hours after coronary ligation using higher doses (5 to 10 mg/kg). Other beta-blockers also showed similar effects. Because of the high doses necessary for the antiarrhythmic effects on the coronary ligation arrhythmia, the mechanism for suppressing the arrhythmia is probably due to the local anesthetic action of the beta-blockers.
The in vitro antiepileptic activity of the novel anticonvulsant drug felbamate was tested in rat hippocampal slices on the CA1 epileptiform bursting induced by different chemical epileptogenic agents. The effects of felbamate were compared with those of the anticonvulsant drugs diphenylhydantoin and pentobarbitone and with the effects of excitatory amino acid antagonists acting at both N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptors. Like the non-NMDA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), felbamate at a minimum effective concentration of 1 mM induced a significant (P < 0.01) reduction of the duration of the CA1 epileptiform bursting due to the K+ channel blocker, 4-aminopyridine, and the excitatory amino acids, kainate and quisqualate. Like the NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine, felbamate (1.6 mM) significantly (P < 0.01) decreased the duration of the CA1 epileptiform bursting caused by 'Mg(2+)-free' solutions. Conversely, felbamate (1.6 mM), CNQX (100 microM) and ketamine (100 microM) failed to affect the epileptiform bursting induced by the GABA antagonist penicillin. Pentobarbitone (100 microM) significantly (P < 0.01) decreased the duration of the CA1 epileptiform bursting caused by 'Mg(2+)-free' solutions, 4-aminopyridine or penicillin, while diphenylhydantoin (up to concentrations of 100 microM) failed to have an effect. The results indicate that felbamate displays a unique profile of in vitro antiepileptic effects as a broad spectrum antagonist of excitatory amino acid transmission.
Dropwort (Oenanthe javanica) has been used for many years for the treatment of inflammatory conditions, including hepatitis. We investigated the protective effects of fermented field water-dropwort extract (FDE) on tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BHP)-induced hepatotoxicity in HepG2 cells and carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced liver damage in rats. Pretreatment with FDE prior to the t-BHP treatment of HepG2 cells inhibited cell death and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage in a dose-dependent manner. In addition FDE significantly prevented the increase of hepatic enzyme markers (ALT, AST) in vivo. Moreover, FDE administration for 7 days significantly affected CYP2E1, CYP4A2, and PPARγ gene expressions. CYP2E1 and CYP4A2 gene expression in the liver, increased 2 and 22-fold by CCl4 administration, respectively, was attenuated to normal levels by pretreatment with FDE. PPARγ gene expression, completely blocked by CCl4 treatment, was increased by FDE pretreatment compared to normal control group. Histopathological examination of the livers also revealed that FDE reduced the incidence of liver lesions. Caffeic acid and chlorogenic acid were identified as major constituents of FDE. These results demonstrate the protective effects of FDE against hepatocytotoxicity induced by CCl4 and t-BHP in rats and HepG2 cells, thus indicating the potential of FDE as a therapeutic for acute liver diseases.
Oral administration of the angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril produced a substantial reduction of blood pressure in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats. After oral administration of captopril (30 mg/kg), mean blood pressure decreased from 172 +/- 11 to 148 +/- 9 mmHg (P less than 0.01) in one hour and its antihypertensive effects lasted for the next seven hours. Plasma vasopressin levels showed a marked elevation in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats compared with control values (22 +/- 5 versus 5 +/- 3 pg/ml). This increase in vasopressin was significantly reduced by captopril from 25 +/- 5 to 8 +/- 6 pg/ml. In addition, whole body vascular reactivity to norepinephrine was examined. Responsiveness was at first attenuated but returned to control value in spite of reduction of both plasma vasopressin and blood pressure. Thus, captopril reduces blood pressure in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats and the fall in blood pressure is accompanied by reduction of plasma vasopressin and attenuation of vascular reactivity.
Although levodopa (LD) is the gold standard therapy for symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), the chronic use of LD leads to the development of motor complications in almost all patients.
We assessed the presence and risk factors for motor complications in PD patients on LD therapy. We examined 555 PD patients on LD for the presence or absence of wearing-off (WO+/-) and dyskinesia (DK+/-).
WO was present in 46.3%, and DK in 30.1% of patients. The mean age at onset of symptoms were earlier in WO(+)/DK(+) groups (p<0.001). The duration of PD was longer in WO(+)/DK(+) groups (p<0.001). The time between the first symptom and the occurrence of WO/DK, or LD initiation were not significantly different. The initial LD dose was significantly higher in WO(+) compared to WO(-) (300.1mg/d versus 232.5mg/d, p<0.001), and DK(+) compared to DK(-) groups (291.4 mg/d versus 251.9 mg/d, p=0.001). The time until dopamine agonist (DA) initiation was longer in WO(+)/DK(+) groups (p<0.001). WO (p<0.001) and DK (p=0.002) were more common in patients with H&Y stages 3+4. UPDRS scores were higher in WO(+) and DK(+) patients (p<0.001 and p=0.027).
Our study showed that the development of motor complications was associated with early onset PD, longer disease duration, advanced disease, higher initial LD dose, longer LD use, and late DA initiation, but not with the timing of LD initiation.
9-fold more resistant to mitomycin C (MMC) than parental cells (J82/WT). The IC(50) values for paclitaxel in J82/WT and J82/MMC-2 cell lines were 0.7+/-0.03 and 2.8+/-0.7 microM, respectively (P<0. 05). Thus, the J82/MMC-2 cell line exhibited 4-fold cross-resistance to paclitaxel compared with J82/WT. Intracellular accumulation of [(3)H]paclitaxel was comparable in J82/WT and J82/MMC-2 cell lines. There were no qualitative or quantitative differences between the J82/WT and J82/MMC-2 cell lines in terms of their alpha-tubulin and beta-tubulin contents. Paclitaxel-induced apoptosis could not be detected in either cell line over a wide range of drug concentrations. These results indicate that cross-resistance to paclitaxel in the J82/MMC-2 cell line is not linked to reduced drug accumulation, increased drug efflux, alterations in tubulin content or reduced paclitaxel-induced apoptosis. Paclitaxel-induced DNA strand breakage, however, determined by alkaline elution, was markedly lower in the J82/MMC-2 cell line than in J82/WT. These results suggest that paclitaxel cross-resistance in J82/MMC-2 may be attributed to reduced paclitaxel-induced DNA strand breakage. The precise mechanism of reduced paclitaxel-induced DNA strand breakage in J82/MMC-2 cell line relative to J82/WT cells, however, remains to be elucidated.
Penicillin model is a widely used experimental model for epilepsy research. In the present study we aimed to portray a detailed spectral analysis of penicillin-induced epileptiform activity in comparison with basal brain activity in anesthetized Wistar rats. Male Wistar rats were anesthetized with i.p. urethane and connected to an electrocorticogram setup. After a short period of basal activity recording, epileptic focus was induced by injecting 400IU/2 microl penicillin-G potassium into the left lateral ventricle while the cortical activity was continuously recorded. Basal activity, latent period and the penicillin-induced epileptiform activity periods were then analyzed using both conventional methods and spectral analysis. Spectral analyses were conducted by dividing the whole spectrum into different frequency bands including delta, theta (slow and fast), alpha-sigma, beta (1 and 2) and gamma (1 and 2) bands. Our results show that the most affected frequency bands were delta, theta, beta-2 and gamma-2 bands during the epileptiform activity and there were marked differences in terms of spectral densities between three investigated episodes (basal activity, latent period and epileptiform activity). Our results may help to analyze novel data obtained using similar experimental models and the simple analysis method described here can be used in similar studies to investigate the basic neuronal mechanism of this or other types of experimental epilepsies.
The effects of various alpha-adrenoceptor agonists, microinjected into the area of the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) at the level of the obex, on blood pressure, and the interaction between noradrenaline and some alpha-antagonists in the area of the NTS were investigated in anaesthetized male rats. A dose-dependent decrease in blood pressure was induced by noradrenaline. The relative potencies of the substances were adrenaline greater than noradrenaline greater than alpha-methylnoradrenaline greater than clonidine greater than tyramine. In contrast, phenylephrine was ineffective. The hypotensive effect of noradrenaline, alpha-methylnoradrenaline and clonidine was not affected by pretreatment with 6-hydroxydopamine given intraventricularly, while the effect of tyramine was blocked by the pretreatment. Prior application of phentolamine at the same site antagonized the hypotensive response to noradrenaline. Prazosin was about 10 times less potent than yohimbine in antagonizing the noradrenaline-induced hypotension. The present data suggest that the alpha-adrenoceptors in the area of the NTS responsible for the decrease in blood pressure are the same type as the peripheral presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors but may be located postsynaptically. It appears that the noradrenergic neurons in the NTS can play a role in blood pressure regulation.
Alternating sinus rhythm and intermittent sinoatrial (S-A) block was observed in a 57-year-old woman, under treatment for angina with 80 mg propranolol daily. The electrocardiogram showed alternation of long and short P-P intervals and occasional pauses. These pauses were always preceded by the short P-P intervals and were usually followed by one or two P-P intervals of 0.92-0.95 s representing the basic sinus cycle. Following these basic sinus cycles, alternating rhythm started with the longer P-P interval. The long P-P intervals ranged between 1.04-1.12 s and the short P-P intervals between 0.80-0.84 s, respectively. The duration of the pauses were equal or almost equal to one short plus one long P-P interval or to twice the basic sinus cycle. In one recording a short period of regular sinus rhythm with intermittent 2/1 S-A block was observed. This short period of sinus rhythm was interrupted by sudden prolongation of the P-P interval starting the alternative rhythm. There were small changes in the shape of the P waves and P-R intervals. S-A conduction through two pathways, the first with 2/1 block the second having 0.12-0.14 s longer conduction time and with occasional 2/1 block was proposed for the explanation of the alternating P-P interval and other electrocardiographic features seen. Atropine 1 mg given intravenously resulted in shortening of all P-P intervals without changing the rhythm. The abnormal rhythm disappeared with the withdrawal of propranolol and when the drug was restarted a 2/1 S-A block was seen. This was accepted as evidence for propranolol being the cause of this conduction disorder.
This report provides the first videotape example of a patient with permanent cerebellar ataxia from high dose cytosine arabinoside. This case was unusual in that the patient was young, the effects are seemingly permanent and severe, and corticospinal tract damage also occurred. Early recognition to stop drug administration remains the only method to reduce risk.
Clinical studies suggest that tramadol-induced analgesia is partially antagonized by ondansetron.
To investigate the type of interaction between tramadol and two anti-emetics on antinociception and gastrointestinal transit in mice.
We assessed the antinociceptive (acetic acid writhing test, plantar test) and antitransit (charcoal meal) effects of tramadol individually, and combined with ondansetron or droperidol in female Swiss CD-1 mice. Isobolograms and analysis of variance were used to determine the type of interaction.
In the writhing test, tramadol, ondansetron and droperidol, each induced dose-related inhibition of nociception. The ED(50)'s were: tramadol 4.2+/-0.33 mg kg(-1); ondansetron 1.03+/-0.05 mg kg(-1), and droperidol 1.00+/-0.14 mg kg(-1). Dose-response curves were also obtained with tramadol combined with ondansetron or droperidol at 1:1 fixed ratios. The isobolographic analysis demonstrated antagonism for both combinations. In the plantar test, the ED(50) for tramadol was 51.4+/-2.3 mg kg(-1), but no dose-response curves could be obtained with ondansetron or droperidol individually. The interaction was assessed from dose-response curves to tramadol in the presence of a fixed dose of ondansetron (0.1 mg kg(-1)) or droperidol (0.05 mg kg(-1)). The results show antagonism between tramadol-ondansetron (p<0.05) and no interaction for the tramadol-droperidol combination. Both anti-emetics antagonized the antitransit effects of tramadol.
The interaction of tramadol with ondansetron or droperidol on antinociception can be antagonistic or additive, depending on the type of stimuli. Both anti-emetics antagonize the anti-transit effects of tramadol. The results demonstrate antagonism between tramadol and the two anti-emetics for analgesia and inhibition of gastrointestinal transit, supporting previous clinical studies.
In differential diagnosis of a delir also adverse effects of medicaments have to be taken into account beside other causes. We report a case of an agitated delir with nocturnal disturbance of consciousness, confusion, restlessness and sleeplessness. This delir existed exclusively during the therapy of a cutaneous herpes zoster with zovirax-pills which can only be explained by a causal connection--after exclusion of other causes. As a so far undescribed predisposition for neurotoxicity of oral therapy with acyclovir signs of vascular encephalopathy were found in the patient's cranial magnetic resonance imaging. The central nervous side effects of acyclovir were summarized shortly.
Carcinogenesis is a multistage process consisting of the three distinct stages: initiation, promotion, and progression. The initiation-promotion-progression (IPP) protocol models these stages and establishes a method whereby agents that possess a carcinogenic risk can be classified as acting primarily at any one or combination of these stages. In one hepatocarcinogenesis IPP protocol, rats were initiated with 10 mg of diethylnitrosamine/kg body wt at 5 days of age, started on the promoting agent phenobarbital at weaning, subjected to a 70% partial hepatectomy at 6 months, and, at the peak of proliferation, given a putative progressor agent, ethylnitrosourea ([ENU] 100 mg/kg, ip) or hydroxy-urea ([HU] 3 x 150 mg/kg, ip). Administration of the promoting agent was discontinued after the progressor agent was given, and the rats were sacrificed 6 months later. The number and volume fraction of promoter-independent (growth in the absence of the promoting agent) altered hepatic foci (AHF) were then determined by quantitative stereology. The number of such AHF increased with either ENU or HU treatment compared with animals not given a progressor agent. In addition, hepatocytes isolated from animals subjected to an IPP regimen with ENU as the progressor agent exhibited a greater degree of chromosomal breakage and aneuploidy than animals not given a second initiator. A variation of this model, in which the promoting agent was maintained after administration of the progressor agent, was examined. In this IPP model, the number of heterogeneous AHF (foci-in-foci) increased after application of the progressor agent (ENU or HU). An increased incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma was also observed in animals subjected to the IPP protocol when promotion was maintained until sacrifice. Thus, the characteristics of progression--increased chromosomal damage, aneuploidy, growth of AHF in the absence of continued tumor promotion, the presence of foci-in-foci, and an increased incidence of malignant neoplasia--have been used as end points for the demonstration of progressor activity by ENU. In addition, the potential progressor activity of HU and benzene has been demonstrated with the IPP model of rat hepatocarcinogenesis.
Key points. Cocaine, the second most frequently consumed illicit substance after cannabis in both United States and Europe, remains the psychostimulant of choice for many, often mixed with other psychoactive substances. It is most frequently associated with alcohol, and a diagnosis of alcohol dependence may be made in 50%-90% of cocaine-dependent subjects. When treating cocaine addicts, it is important to characterize not only the modalities of cocaine use but also the modes of consumption of other substances, notably alcohol. Alcohol is often consumed to reduce the anxiety and discomfort resulting from cocaine withdrawal. Alcohol may also trigger an irresistible craving for cocaine, which can result in frequent relapses even after several months of cocaine abstinence. Brief intervention and motivational interview techniques can help to reduce alcohol use and prevent cocaine relapses in this context. In the absence of severe cocaine withdrawal symptoms, the guidelines for treating alcohol withdrawal syndrome may be applied for cocaine and alcohol codependence. Lower doses of benzodiazepine are needed for treating this alcohol-cocaine withdrawal syndrome. Cognitive behavioral therapies, alone or in combination with psychotropic medication, are accepted therapeutic approaches for alcohol-cocaine dependence. It is also accepted that over the long term the combination of psychotherapeutic treatments is usually more effective than any single approach. In the absence of a therapeutic consensus, four drugs (disulfiram, baclofen, topiramate and naltrexone) are most often recommended to promote and maintain abstinence; nevertheless, their efficacy has not been proven and their use remains experimental and off-label: they have not been approved by health authorities as treatment for addictions.
