The effects of a daily administration of an anti-converting enzyme inhibitor. Captopril (CPT) (100 mg/kg/orally), on the development of functional and morphological alterations induced in rats by a single injection (7.5 mg/kg/iv) of Doxorubicin (DXR) (Adriamycin*), were investigated. Twenty-four-hour protein excretion, urine output, food intake, water intake, and body weight gain were measured weekly for 30 days. Transmission and scanning electron microscopy observations were performed on kidney samples after 30 days. Four groups were studied. Group 1 were control rats. Group 2 were rats injected with DXR. Group 3 were rats injected with DXR and treated with CPT for 30 days. Group 4 were rats injected with DXR and treated with CPT for 15 days (CPT treatment started 15 days after DXR injection). Group 1 did not show significant functional or morphological changes. Group 2 showed severe proteinuria, significant increase in urinary volume within 2 weeks, significant body weight reduction and diffuse morphological changes. These changes mainly consisted of podocyte swelling, severe foot process fusion, and presence of casts within tubular lumen. Group 3, with respect to group 2, showed a significant reduction of the 24 h protein excretion and urine output. This group displayed morphological changes similar to those observed in group 2, but with a focal distribution. Group 4 showed functional and morphological changes comparable with those of group 2. It is concluded that CPT partially inhibits the development of the functional and morphological damage induced by DXR in the rat kidney. However, CPT did not influence the natural development of nephropathy when treatment started 15 days after DXR injection.
The present case demonstrates the importance of close observation, also of serum calcium, when initiating tamoxifen therapy, especially in patients with known osseous metastases. Hypercalcaemia should also be considered as a possible cause of CNS symptoms in patients newly started on endocrine treatment. Hydration with saline is the first step in the management of hypercalcaemia. In patients with a serum calcium level > 3.50 mmol/l (serum ionised calcium approximately 2.00 mmol/l) hydration should be combined with bisphosphonates.
Cell death is known to play a crucial role in liver diseases. We compared the clinical courses of two cases of liver failure of different origins correlated with the extent of cell death (apoptosis and/or necrosis), measured in the patient's blood. Patient 1 was admitted with acute liver failure following acetaminophen intoxication. Intravenous therapy with acetylcysteine was performed. The percentage of apoptotic cell death measured by M30 was three times higher than normal and the overall cell death measured by M65 was more than 30 x higher than normal. High levels of aminotransferases were detected, indicating high rates of necrosis. M30 and M65 values rapidly returned to normal levels, while the liver function test (LFT) levels decreased with latency. Patient 2 was admitted with acute-on-chronic liver failure with known liver fibrosis. M30 values were 16 x higher than normal. In contrast, M65 values were lower than in the first case. This time, no movement in M30 levels was seen until the M30 levels rapidly increased indicating the inevitable death of the patient, while LFTs did not change. These results indicate the role of M30 and M65 immunoexpression as markers for functioning liver cell mass, capacity for recovery and therefore as predictive markers in acute liver failure.
Resveratrol (Res) or trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene, has been proven to exert neuroprotective effects in cerebral ischemia. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether Res has neuroprotective effects in primary cortical neurons subjected to transient oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) via inhibiting the expression of the gene encoding stromelysin-1, also known as matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3), and via inhibiting cell apoptosis. Primary cortical cells were exposed to OGD, followed by reoxygenation to induce transient ischemia. Res (50 µM) was added into the culture medium during transient ischemia in the presence or absence of the nuclear factor (NF)-κB inhibitor pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC; 10 µM) or 500 µM of the nitric oxide (NO) donor NOC-18. Cell viability was assessed using the tetrazolium reduction (MTT) assay. Cell apoptosis was evaluated by flow cytometry. MMP-3 expression was analyzed by western blot and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), while the levels of inducible NO synthase (iNOS), NF-κB, caspase-3, cleaved caspase-3, B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) were assayed by western blot. NO was detected using a spectrophotometric method. We found that the cellular viability was significantly reduced by transient OGD and that this effect was reversed by Res treatment. In addition, OGD was shown to induce cell apoptosis, the expression of Bax and the activation of caspase-3, and inhibit the expression of Bcl-2, and these effects were also reversed by Res treatment. Res treatment significantly reduced the level of MMP-3 that was induced by transient OGD, via inhibition of NF-κB expression. In addition, Res inhibited iNOS expression and NO synthesis that were induced by OGD. MMP-3 expression induced by NO was attenuated by Res treatment and was partially restored by exogenous NO using NOC-18. Taken together, these findings indicate that OGD induces apoptosis through canonical apoptosis signaling and by modulating the expression of MMP-3; Res can reverse the OGD-induced MMP-3 expression and cell apoptosis via the NF-κB-iNOS/NO pathway. Therefore, Res may be a promising agent for the treatment of neuronal injury associated with stroke.
Total serum calcium levels were estimated in 60 adult patients with malaria to know the prevalence of hypocalcemia in different types of malaria and its clinical implications. As hypocalcemia is known to cause Q-Tc interval prolongation, electrocardiograms were obtained in all patients with low calcium levels. Twenty seven (45%) patients with malaria had hypocalcemia. Majority (88.24%) of the complicated malaria patients had hypocalcemia as against uncomplicated malaria (27.91%). Mean calcium levels were significantly lower in complicated malaria (7.4 +/- 0.98 mg/dl) when compared to uncomplicated malaria (8.4 +/- 0.44 mg/dl). There was an inverse relation between calcium levels and parasite load (P < 0.05). Significant correlation was also seen between the degree of hypocalcemia and Q-Tc prolongation (P < 0.01). Return of calcium levels to normal coincided with clinical recovery and parasite clearance. Three patients who had low calcium levels and prolonged Q-Tc died of hypotension, bradycardia and heart block after quinine therapy. The exact cause of hypocalcemia could not be ascertained but renal failure, hypomagnesemia and parathyroid failure could have been contributary. In conclusion, hypocalcemia is not uncommon in complicated malaria. It can be of prognostic value as it may indicate complicated malaria or heavy parasitemia and its return to normal may indicate clinical recovery and parasite clearance.
The development of the dual peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha/gamma agonist tesaglitazar as an oral antidiabetic was recently discontinued. Here we present tumor data from a 2-year carcinogenicity study in rats given 0.3, 1, 3, and 10 micromol/kg tesaglitazar is presented with focus on the findings of subcutaneous fibrosarcomas. To investigate the mechanism for induction of fibrosarcomas, replicative DNA synthesis (immunohistochemical detection of BrdU-labeled cells) and expression of PPARgamma (immunohistochemistry and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) in subcutaneous adipose tissues was assessed in rats administered 1 or 10 micromol/kg for 2 weeks or 3 months. Poorly differentiated subcutaneous mesenchymal sarcomas with a predominant spindle cell appearance occurred at the highest dose level of 10 micromol/kg in both sexes, and these tumors were diagnosed as fibrosarcomas. The 10-micromol/kg dose was at or above the maximum tolerated dose and caused considerable cardiovascular mortality. Tesaglitazar stimulated DNA synthesis mainly in subcutaneous interstitial mesenchymal cells. The percentage of BrdU-labeled interstitial cells was increased at 1 and 10 micromol/kg after 2 weeks. The increase in DNA synthesis was still significant at the end of the 12-week treatment at 10 mumol/kg, the dose producing fibrosarcoma. However, at 1 micromol/kg, a dose below the no-observed-effect level for fibrosarcoma, the level of DNA synthesis was similar to control levels at 12 weeks. Immunohistochemical analyses showed no detectable PPARgamma protein in the majority of BrdU-labeled interstitial mesenchymal cells in white and brown fat. This indicates that stimulation of DNA synthesis is not mediated via direct activation of PPARgamma in these cells. The results suggest that the induction of rat fibrosarcoma by tesaglitazar, at exposures 100-fold above the human therapeutic exposure, may involve proliferation of undifferentiated mesenchymal cells in subcutaneous tissues.
To report a case of trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX)-induced tremor responsive to a reduction in dosage.
A 55-year-old white man with AIDS and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) developed a tremor after receiving 5 days of therapy with TMP/SMX 19.4 mg/kg/d (TMP). The tremor resolved completely 3 days after a dosage reduction to TMP/SMX 15.1 mg/kg/d.
Central nervous system adverse reactions to TMP/SMX have been reported in both the AIDS and non-AIDS populations. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of TMP/SMX-induced tremor responsive to a reduction in dosage. Pharmacokinetic and clinical data suggest a concentration-dependent etiology for various adverse effects, including tremor. The mechanism of the tremor is unknown; however, toxic metabolites of SMX and disruptions of biogenic amine neurotransmission by TMP have been hypothesized.
TMP/SMX remains the drug of first choice for treating PCP, but it is clearly not well tolerated by patients with AIDS. Concentration-dependent toxicities such as tremor may lead to premature discontinuation of proven, effective TMP/SMX therapy. Using the lower end of the recommended dosing range for TMP/SMX (TMP 15 mg/kg/d) may reduce the incidence of these toxicities while still achieving acceptable TMP concentrations and antimicrobial efficacy.
In recent years, several authors have noted that oral calcium treatment was associated with a reduction in serum cholesterol level.
Calcium carbonate was examined for its ability to lower serum cholesterol levels in hypercholesterolemic patients. Fifty-six patients with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia were examined in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study. Patients were treated with a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet targeted at the American Heart Association Step-1 diet for 8 weeks before and while receiving placebo or calcium carbonate (9.98 mmol [400 mg] of elemental calcium) three times daily with meals for 6 weeks. Patients were then crossed over to the alternate treatment for an additional 6-week period.
Compared with placebo, calcium carbonate achieved a 4.4% reduction in the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level, and a 4.1% increase in the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level. The ratio of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol significantly decreased by 6.5% with calcium carbonate treatment. Calcium carbonate treatment did not significantly affect blood pressure or serum levels of triglycerides, lipoprotein Apo B, or calcium. Relative urinary saturation ratios of calcium oxalate levels were unchanged during calcium carbonate therapy. Compliance with diet and treatment was excellent and no significant adverse effects were noted.
Thus, calcium carbonate was a modestly effective and well-tolerated adjunct to diet in the management of mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia in this clinical study.
Granule cell (GC) neurogenesis increases following seizures, and some newborn GCs develop in abnormal locations within the hilus. These ectopic GCs (EGCs) display robust spontaneous and evoked excitatory activity. However, the pattern of afferent input they receive has not been fully defined. This study used electron microscopic immunolabeling to quantitatively evaluate mossy fiber (MF) input to EGCs since MFs densely innervate the hilus normally and undergo sprouting in many animal models of epilepsy. EGC dendrites were examined in tissue from epileptic rats that had initially been treated with pilocarpine to induce status epilepticus and subsequently had spontaneous seizures. MF terminals were labeled with a zinc transporter-3 antibody, and calbindin immunoreactivity was used to label hilar EGCs and GC layer GCs. The pattern of input provided by sprouted MF terminals to EGC dendrites was then compared to the pattern of MF input to GC dendrites in the inner molecular layer (IML), where most sprouted fibers are thought to project. Analysis of EGC dendrites demonstrated that MF terminals represented their predominant source of afferent input: they comprised 63% of all terminals and, on average, occupied 40% and 29% of the dendritic surface in the dorsal and ventral dentate gyrus, respectively, forming frequent synapses. These measures of connectivity were significantly greater than comparable values for MF innervation of GC dendrites located in the IML of the same tissue sections. Thus, EGCs develop a pattern of synaptic connections that could help explain their previously identified predisposition to discharge in epileptiform bursts and suggest that they play an important role in the generation of seizure activity in the dentate gyrus.
Serum erythropoietin (Epo) concentrations and variables of red cell and iron status were studied in 27 Sudanese patients who were treated with sodium stibogluconate for visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar). Blood haemoglobin increased from 6.4 (+/- 1.7 SD) to 9.5 (+/- 1.4) g/dl during treatment. Serum ferritin decreased concomitantly. Serum iron levels were unchanged whereas the total iron binding capacity increased slightly. The pre-treatment serum Epo concentration in relation to the blood haemoglobin concentration was not as high as expected from the one in primary haematological diseases, indicating that there is a relative lack of Epo in anaemic kala-azar patients. Serum Epo further decreased during stibogluconate therapy. The normal dependence of the serum Epo level on the blood haemoglobin concentration was lost during mid-term antimonial treatment, but it recovered thereafter. Cell culture studies with the human hepatoma cells HepG2 showed that stibogluconate (> or = 30 microg/ml) inhibited Epo gene expression. Thus, effective treatment of kala-azar with stibogluconate results in improvement of anaemia, although the drug itself may impair Epo production.
Colchicine may induce a myoneuropathy in patients with renal insufficiency. To date, myotonia has not been described in this disorder. We recently studied 4 patients treated with routine doses of colchicine who, in the setting of renal insufficiency, developed a severe myoneuropathy characterized by prominent myotonic discharges on electromyography. In addition, 1 of the 4 patients had profound clinical myotonia. In the 3 patients in whom biopsies were performed, marked myopathic change with intracytoplasmic vacuolization was identified. All 4 patients improved rapidly with discontinuation of the medication. The patient in whom electrophysiologic studies were repeated had a complete resolution of the myotonic discharges. Colchicine myoneuropathy can present with prominent clinical and electrophysiologic myotonia that resolves completely with discontinuation of the medication.
Trazodone a triazolepyridine derivative is known for its therapeutic effect in the treatment of depression since early 60's. It has little catecholamine potentiation or anticholinergic action. It has been reported to have less severe cardiotoxic effect. Mild or transient as well as orthostatic hypotension may be its main cardiovascular complication. Additive hypotensive side effect following combined use of Trazodone and Phenothiazine in two hospitalized patients was observed and documented. Each case is detailed. While the mechanism of action of both agents and their effect on alpha 1 and alpha 2 adrenergic receptors has been described, some suggestions are made to explain a possible mechanism for the observed side effect. This finding might be implemented into further research work.
The functional status of the liver after paracetamol administration to rats was dissociated with regard to cytosolic and microsomal functions. The cytosolic function, measured as galactose elimination capacity, was unchanged even after high doses of paracetamol. The microsomal function, measured as the prothrombin time, was reversibly decreased to a minimum 12 h after paracetamol administration and showed dose dependence. The structural changes of the liver cells were centrilobular necroses and dilatation of the endoplasmic reticulum. They were most marked 36 h after paracetamol and were not correlated to the functional impairment. We conclude that during acute paracetamol induced liver damage to rats different functions of the liver are unequally influenced and that the structural changes occur later than the functional ones. The paracetamol intoxicated rat is a promising model for further investigation of dissociation of subcellular functions during acute liver damage.
The present study sought to evaluate the regulatory effect of epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) on C-reactive protein (CRP) and other inflammatory markers in rats fed an atherogenic diet. Male albino Wistar rats were divided into three groups of nine each. Group I (normal) rats on normal diet received an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of physiological saline; group II (atherosclerotic-untreated) rats received an atherogenic diet for 45 days and daily i.p. administration of saline from days 31 to 45; group III (atherosclerotic-treated) rats received an atherogenic diet for 45 days and daily i.p. administration of EGCG (100mg/kg BW) from days 31 to 45 and were then euthanized. The biochemical parameter, CRP, and haematological parameters of inflammation (erythrocyte sedimentation rate [ESR], total leucocyte count [WBC], differential leucocyte count, platelet count) were determined. Immunoblotting and RT-PCR were employed to elucidate the CRP protein and its mRNA expression. Group II rats showed a significant increase in the mean serum CRP level, ESR and total WBC, platelet and differential leucocyte counts, when compared with corresponding values in group I rats. Significantly lower mean levels/counts of inflammatory markers were noted in group III rats than corresponding values in group II rats. Group II rats exhibited significantly higher mean values of CRP protein expression and relative transcript levels of CRP than group I or group III rats. These results suggest that EGCG, a major component of green tea catechins, may decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease by reducing inflammatory markers in rats fed an atherogenic diet.
A 37-year-old patient presented with a severe allergic local reaction upon inhalation of budesonide for asthma. Skin tests were positive for budesonide and amcinonide (group B) and elicited a strong local reaction and a disseminated macular exanthema. Corticosteroids from other groups were well tolerated. A 38-year-old male patient had first an allergic contact dermatitis to topically applied prednisolone acetate and then a disseminated eczematous exanthema upon oral intake of prednisone. A delayed-type sensitization to corticosteroids from group A such as hydrocortisone, prednisone and tixocortol pivalate was identified. A detailed diagnosis in patients with allergic reactions to corticosteroids is crucial with regard to their use in emergency therapy.
Since 1976, 23 patients with cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis were treated. These patients presented with a variety of urinary problems, including incontinence, hematuria and vesicoureteral reflux. Vesicoureteral reflux was found in 9 patients, hydronephrosis in 4 and a contracted fibrotic bladder in 3. Of the 23 patients 18 had undergone a combination of radiation and cyclophosphamide therapy. Based on this experience a general outline is developed for evaluation and treatment of patients with cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis and its potentially severe complications.
The aim of the present study was to determine if phenobarbital affects the nociception threshold. Systemic (1-20 mg/kg) phenobarbital administration dose dependently induced hyperalgesia in the tail-flick, hot-plate and formalin tests in rats and in the abdominal constriction test in mice. Formalin and abdominal constriction tests were the most sensitive procedures for the detection of hyperalgesia in response to phenobarbital compared with the tail-flick and hot-plate tests. The hyperalgesia induced by systemic phenobarbital was blocked by previous administration of 1 mg/kg ip picrotoxin or either 1-2 mg/kg sc or 10 ng icv bicuculline. Intracerebroventricular phenobarbital administration (5 microg) induced hyperalgesia in the tail-flick test. In contrast, intrathecal phenobarbital administration (5 microg) induced antinociception and blocked systemic-induced hyperalgesia in this test. We suggest that phenobarbital may mediate hyperalgesia through GABA-A receptors at supraspinal levels and antinociception through the same kind of receptors at spinal levels.
Toxicological effects of acrylamide on differential gene expression profile of rat testis were evaluated. Acrylamide induced morphological sperm defects, and decreased sperm concentration in cauda epididymis. Serum testosterone level and Leydig cell viability were also decreased dose-dependently, which resulted in decreased spermatogenesis. Acrylamide-induced histopathological lesions, such as formation of multinucleated giant cells and vacuolation, and numerous apoptotic cells were observed in seminiferous tubules. cDNA microarray analysis revealed that genes related to testicular-functions, apoptosis, cellular redox, cell growth, cell cycle, and nucleic acid-binding were up/down-regulated in testes isolated from acrylamide-treated group (60 mg/kg/day). Acrylamide toxicity appears to increase Leydig cell death and perturb gene expression levels, contributing to sperm defects and various abnormal histopathological lesions including apoptosis in rat testis.
Angiotensin II and hypertension increase vascular oxidant stress. We examined how these might affect expression of the extracellular superoxide dismutase (ecSOD), a major form of vascular SOD. In mice, angiotensin II infusion (1.1 mg/kg for 7 days) increased systolic blood pressure from 107+/-3 to 152+/-9 mm Hg and caused a 3-fold increase in ecSOD, but there was no change in the cytosolic Cu/Zn SOD protein, as determined by Western blot analysis. This was associated with a similar increase in ecSOD mRNA as assessed by RNase protection assay and was prevented by losartan. Induction of ecSOD by angiotensin II was not due to hypertension alone, because hypertension caused by norepinephrine (5.6 mg. kg-1. d-1) had no effect on ecSOD. Similarly, exposure of mouse aortas to angiotensin II (100 nmol/L) in organoid culture increased ecSOD by approximately 2-fold. In the organoid culture, angiotensin II-induced upregulation of ecSOD was prevented by losartan (10 micromol/L) and PD985059 (30 micromol/L), a specific inhibitor of p42/44 MAP kinase kinase. Angiotensin II activates the NADH/NADPH oxidase; however, diphenyleneiodonium chloride (10 micromol/L), an inhibitor of this oxidase, did not prevent p42/44 MAP kinase phosphorylation or ecSOD induction by angiotensin II. Finally, in human aortic smooth muscle cells, angiotensin II moderately increased transcriptional rate (as assessed by nuclear run-on analysis) but markedly increased ecSOD mRNA stability. Thus, angiotensin II increases ecSOD expression independent of hypertension, and this increase involves both an increase in ecSOD transcription and stabilization of ecSOD mRNA. This effect of angiotensin II on ecSOD expression may modulate the oxidative state of the vessel wall in pathological processes in which the renin-angiotensin system is activated.
In many transplant centres lamivudine is an important component of prophylaxis against, and treatment of, hepatitis B virus (HBV) graft infection. Drug resistant HBV species with specific polymerase mutations may emerge during lamivudine treatment.
To examine the clinical consequences of graft infection by lamivudine resistant virus.
The clinical course of four liver transplant patients who developed graft infection with lamivudine resistant virus was reviewed. The response of HBV infection to reduction of immunosuppression and to manipulation of antiviral therapy was assessed. For each patient, serum viral titre was measured and the viral polymerase gene was sequenced at multiple time points.
High serum titres were observed following emergence of the lamivudine resistant species. Wild type HBV re-emerged as the dominant serum species after lamivudine withdrawal. All patients developed liver failure, and onset of liver dysfunction was observed when resistant virus was the dominant serum species. In three patients, liver recovery was observed when immunosuppression was stopped and when alternative antivirals were given. Wild type virus appeared to respond to ganciclovir, and to reintroduction of lamivudine. For one patient, introduction of famciclovir was associated with clinical, virological, and histological response.
Failure of lamivudine prophylaxis may identify patients at special risk for the development of severe graft infection. Treatment of graft reinfection should include reduction of immunosuppression, and systematic exposure to alternative antivirals. Viral quantitation and genetic sequencing are essential components of therapeutic monitoring.
Many trials in patients with acute myocardial infarction have demonstrated that thrombolytic therapy is not associated with an excessive risk of stroke, as compared with conventional treatment. However, the incidence of various forms of stroke in patients treated with different thrombolytic and antithrombotic regimens and the associated effect of risk factors for stroke are largely unknown.
Strokes occurring in patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction who were enrolled in either of two large trials were analyzed. The patients were randomly assigned to receive streptokinase (1.5 million units) or recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) (100 mg) and also randomly assigned to receive subcutaneous heparin or no heparin. Ninety-one percent of the patients also received aspirin.
Complete data were available on 20,768 patients. A total of 236 (1.14 percent) had strokes in the hospital; 0.36 percent had hemorrhagic strokes, 0.48 percent ischemic strokes, and 0.30 percent strokes of undefined cause. Patients treated with t-PA had a small but significant excess of stroke as compared with those who received streptokinase (1.33 vs. 0.94 percent; adjusted odds ratio, 1.42; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.09 to 1.84). The administration of subcutaneous heparin in addition to a thrombolytic agent did not increase the risk of stroke (risk with heparin, 1.13 percent; without heparin, 1.14 percent). Older age, a higher Killip class, and the occurrence of anterior infarction significantly increased the risk of stroke, whereas a higher body-mass index or a history of hypertension, diabetes, or smoking did not.
Patients with acute myocardial infarction who receive thrombolytic therapy have a small risk of stroke. Treatment with t-PA as compared with streptokinase resulted in a small but significant excess of stroke. Subcutaneous heparin, given together with t-PA or streptokinase and aspirin, did not result in an increased risk of stroke.
In 19 patients, who suffered from severe spinal spasticity of different etiologies and did not respond sufficiently to oral antispastic therapy, intrathecal Baclofen test boli were administered. In 11 patients a DAD (Drug Administration Device) [SynchroMedR Model 8611 H, Medtronic Inc. Minneapolis, USA] was implanted. Catheter dislocation or torsion was the most common complication to be observed in these 11 patients. Long term intrathecal Baclofen application was effective in all patients, as reducing spasticity, flexor spasms and spasm induced pain. In some cases the motor performance ameliorated.
Most cosmetics and industrial products contain preservatives. Preservative allergy is common and, historically, changing contact allergy epidemics caused by preservatives have been observed. In 1997, Alan Dillarstone predicted a stable development of preservative allergy following mandatory ingredient labelling on cosmetic products.
To investigate the development in the prevalence of preservative allergy in Denmark over a 24-year period (1985-2008) and to challenge the prediction made by Dillarstone.
A retrospective analysis of patch test data was performed (n = 18179). Comparisons were made using a chi(2) test. Logistic regression analyses were used to test for associations.
The development of preservative allergy mirrored those of other European patch test centres. The development was not dependent on sex or age group. The prevalence was higher among women and those aged 41-60 years. Formaldehyde allergy was persistently prevalent over the study years. The overall prevalence of preservative allergy increased significantly (P(trend) = 0.001), mainly because of patch testing with additional preservatives in recent years.
Dillarstone's prediction was confirmed as the prevalence of contact allergy to individual preservatives remained relatively stable. However, the overall burden of preservative allergy seemed to increase. Introduction of new preservatives may add to the burden of contact allergy.
Small molecules have played an important role in delineating molecular pathways involved in embryonic development and disease pathology. The need for novel small molecule modulators of biological processes has driven a number of targeted screens on large diverse libraries. However, due to the specific focus of such screens, the majority of the bioactive potential of these libraries remains unharnessed. In order to identify a higher proportion of compounds with interesting biological activities, we screened a diverse synthetic library for compounds that perturb the development of any of the multiple organs in zebrafish embryos. We identified small molecules that affect the development of a variety of structures such as heart, vasculature, brain, and body-axis. We utilized the previously known role of retinoic acid in anterior-posterior (A-P) patterning to identify the target of DTAB, a compound that caused A-P axis shortening in the zebrafish embryo. We show that DTAB is a retinoid with selective activity towards retinoic acid receptors gamma and beta. Thus, conducting zebrafish developmental screens using small molecules will not only enable the identification of compounds with diverse biological activities in a large chemical library but may also facilitate the identification of the target pathways of these biologically active molecules.
A double-blind study comparing the analgesic efficacy of orally administered zomepirac sodium with intramuscularly (IM) administered morphine sulfate was conducted in 109 patients with acute postoperative pain. Single treatments were administered within 48 hours of surgery, and subjective responses were obtained from patients by specially employed trained nurses. Pain relief achieved with both doses of orally administered zomepirac sodium at 100 mg and 200 mg was similar, and analgesia with each dose of zomepirac was significantly better than that obtained with IM administered morphine sulfate at 8 mg. There were no unusual side effects with either drug.
