This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study evaluated the effects of haloperidol alone and haloperidol plus sertraline on cognitive and psychomotor function in 24 healthy male subjects.
All subjects received placebo on Day 1 and haloperidol 2 mg on Days 2 and 25. From Days 9 to 25, subjects were randomly assigned to either sertraline (12 subjects) or placebo (12 subjects); the sertraline dose was titrated from 50 to 200 mg/day from Days 9 to 16, and remained at 200 mg/day for the final 10 days of the drug administration period. Cognitive function testing was performed before dosing and over a 24-hour period after dosing on Days 1, 2, and 25.
Impairment of cognitive function was observed 6 to 8 hours after administration of haloperidol on Day 2 but was not evident 23 hours after dosing. When single-dose haloperidol was given again 25 days later, greater impairment with earlier onset was noted in several tests in both treatment groups, suggesting enhancement of this effect. There was no indication that sertraline exacerbated the impairment produced by haloperidol since an equivalent effect also occurred in the placebo group. Three subjects (2 on sertraline and 1 on placebo) withdrew from the study because of side effects. Ten subjects in each group reported side effects related to treatment. The side effect profiles of sertraline and of placebo were similar.
Haloperidol produced a clear profile of cognitive impairment that was not worsened by concomitant sertraline administration.
An animal model of chronic allergic rhinitis was developed by repeated local booster sensitization into the nasal cavity in sensitized rats. The severity of allergic rhinitis was assessed by determining the extent of two markers of nasal allergic symptoms (sneezing and nasal rubbing) after antigen challenge. The number of incidents of sneezing and nasal rubbing was markedly increased during intranasal instillation of antigen in sensitized rats. The PCA titers were also markedly elevated by intranasal sensitization. Some histamine H(1)-receptor antagonists such as chlorpheniramine, ketotifen, astemizole and epinastine inhibited the increase in antigen-induced nasal symptoms in a dose-related manner. Nasal rubbing was more potently inhibited by H(1)-receptor antagonists than sneezing. In conclusion, we developed a chronic allergic rhinitis model showing nasal symptoms in rats, and this model may be useful for evaluating the effects of drugs on allergic rhinitis.
A 71-year-old woman experienced a pruritic, maculopapular, morbilliform rash on her lower extremities 5 days after starting warfarin for recurrent deep vein thrombosis. The rash extended to her truncal areas and progressively worsened until somewhat painful vesicular lesions developed. Warfarin was discontinued, and subcutaneous injections of enoxaparin were begun; the rash resolved. In addition to a history of deep vein thrombosis, the patient had experienced a hypersensitivity skin reaction to warfarin in the past that necessitated withdrawal of the drug and placement of a vena caval filter. Because no clear consensus exists on whether dyes used in compounding warfarin play a causative role or whether allergic cross-sensitivity occurs among the coumarin derivatives, the patient was rechallenged with a dye-free warfarin 10-mg tablet. The pruritic rash returned along with the vesicular lesions and continued to worsen until the warfarin was discontinued again. The patient subsequently was given oral anticoagulant therapy with anisindione, an indanedione, and her symptoms resolved completely. Health care providers managing patients who are receiving oral anticoagulant therapy should be aware of the maculopapular allergic reactions associated with warfarin and consider alternative treatment options such as anisindione.
Laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR) is frequently treated with empiric proton-pump inhibitors (PPI), but the optimal dosing and duration is unknown. We performed an open label prospective cohort study to evaluate whether twice-daily (BID) PPI is more effective than once-daily (QD) PPI for the treatment of LPR.
Patients diagnosed with LPR based on ear, nose, and throat (ENT) symptoms and laryngoscopy findings were enrolled. Questionnaire assessed demographics, ENT symptoms, symptom severity, and exposure to other potential laryngeal irritants. Esophageal manometry, ambulatory 24-hour pH monitoring, and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy were performed before initiation of therapy. Patients were consecutively assigned to three groups: BID PPI (lansoprazole 30 mg BID), BID PPI + H2 receptor antagonist (H2RA; omeprazole 20 mg BID + ranitidine 300 mg each night), or QD PPI (esomeprazole 40 mg QD). Greater than 50% primary symptom improvement from baseline defined symptom response. At 2 month follow-up, the same PPI dose was continued for responders, and PPIs were doubled for nonresponders for an additional 2 months. Repeat symptom assessment and laryngoscopy performed at 4 month follow-up.
Eighty-five patients were enrolled (median age 49 years, interquartile range 44.0 - 65.0; 76% white; 34% male). Treatment groups were BID PPI for 30 patients, BID PPI + H2RA for 30 patients, and QD PPI for 25 patients. RESPONSE TO THERAPY: At 2 months, BID response occurred among 15 of 30 (50%) patients, BID + H2RA for 15 of 30 (50%), and QD for 7 of 25 (28%) (P = .03). No statistical difference found between the two BID PPI groups with and without H2RA. Among the QD group nonresponders, 7 of 13 (54%) achieved symptom response with additional 2 months of BID dosing. At 4 month follow-up, an additional 22% of responses were obtained from the two BID groups (43/60, 72%). The overall response rate for all three groups was 70% (54/77). PREDICTORS OF OUTCOME: Pretherapy interarytenoid mucosa and true vocal folds abnormalities were associated with twofold increase in symptom response (odds ratio 1.99 and 1.96, respectively, P = .017).
BID PPI appears to be more effective than QD PPI in achieving clinical symptom response in suspected LPR. More response was achieved at 4 months compared with 2 months. Therefore, aggressive acid suppression with BID PPI for at least 4 months is warranted for treatment of LPR.
A 63-year-old African-American woman was admitted to the hospital with urosepsis and altered mental status. She had a history of schizophrenia and was treated with olanzapine 5 mg/day and lithium carbonate 300 mg 3 times/day. During her hospital stay, her sodium level and serum osmolality increased and her urine osmolality decreased, whereas her lithium levels remained within normal limits. Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with diabetes insipidus secondary to lithium therapy and was treated successfully with amiloride. Clinicians have been aware of lithium toxicity for many years and traditionally have administered thiazide diuretics for lithium-induced polyuria and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Recently, amiloride, a potassium-sparing diuretic, has been reported as a successful treatment for nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
This study evaluated the efficacy of low-dose dopamine for prevention of amphotericin B-induced nephrotoxicity in autologous bone marrow transplant and leukemia patients. Seventy-one patients undergoing cytoreductive therapy who required amphotericin B were randomly assigned in an unblinded fashion to a group receiving continuous-infusion low-dose dopamine (3 microgram/kg/min) or a group receiving no dopamine. Amphotericin B was dosed at 0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg/day based on computerized tomography scan results or presence of positive blood cultures. No patient received saline boluses. The rate of nephrotoxicity, severity as graded by Southwest Oncology Group toxicity criteria, and time to each grade of nephrotoxicity were compared between the two groups. Eighty percent of the no-dopamine group and 66.7% of the dopamine group developed nephrotoxicity, defined as a 1.5-fold or greater increase in baseline serum creatinine level (P = 0.20). No statistical difference was noted at any grade of nephrotoxicity between the two groups. Thirty-four percent of patients in the no-dopamine group versus 17.6% in the dopamine group had a 2.5-fold or greater increase in serum creatinine level, which was not statistically significant (P = 0.0888). Ten patients developed grade IV nephrotoxicity and were withdrawn from the study, 7 in the no-dopamine group and 3 in the dopamine group (P = 0.19). The time to each grade of nephrotoxicity was also not significantly different for the two groups. Eleven adverse drug reactions were reported in the dopamine group in comparison to one in the no-dopamine group. Thus, dopamine offers little in the way of prevention of nephrotoxicity associated with amphotericin B therapy. Although the significance of drug reactions in the dopamine group is not clearly established due to lack of cardiac monitoring in the no-dopamine group, dopamine therapy is not without complications.
Platelets are small disc-shaped cell fragments which undergo a rapid transformation when they encounter vascular damage. They become more spherical and extrude pseudopodia, their fibrinogen receptors are activated, causing them to aggregate, they release their granule contents, and eventually form a plug which is responsible for primary haemostasis. Activation of platelets is also implicated in the pathogenesis of unstable angina, myocardial infarction and stroke. Here we show that platelets from mice deficient in the alpha-subunit of the heterotrimeric guanine-nucleotide-binding protein Gq are unresponsive to a variety of physiological platelet activators. As a result, G alpha(q)-deficient mice have increased bleeding times and are protected from collagen and adrenaline-induced thromboembolism. We conclude that G alpha(q) is essential for the signalling processes used by different platelet activators and that it cannot be replaced by G alpha(i) or the beta gamma subunits of the heterotrimeric G proteins. G alpha(q) may thus be a new target for drugs designed to block the activation of platelets.
Effects of ZSET845 (3,3-dibenzylimidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-2-(3H)-one), a newly synthesized cognitive enhancer, and donepezil and tacrine on the scopolamine-induced cognitive deficits in rats were examined in passive avoidance and radial-arm maze tasks. ZSET845 (0.01 mg/kg) showed a greater ameliorative effect than donepezil (0.1 mg/kg) or tacrine (1 mg/kg) in the passive avoidance task. In the radial-arm maze task, ZSET845 (0.1 mg/kg) also showed a greater effect than donepezil (10 mg/kg) or tacrine (10 mg/kg). ZSET845 induced an increase in the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in the hippocampus, suggesting that the ameliorative effects of ZSET845 are related to the increase in the ChAT activity in the hippocampus.
The clinically important opioid fentanyl, administered acutely, enhances mechanical hypersensitivity in a model of surgical pain induced by plantar incision. Activity of neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor-expressing ascending spinal neurons, descending pathways originating in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), and spinal dynorphin are necessary for the development and maintenance of hyperalgesia during sustained morphine exposure, suggesting that these mechanisms may also be important in opioid enhancement of surgical pain. Therefore, we examined the roles of these mechanisms in sensory hypersensitivity produced by acute fentanyl administration in rats not undergoing surgical incision and in rats undergoing plantar incision. In non-operated rats, fentanyl induced analgesia followed by immediate and long-lasting sensory hypersensitivity, as previously described. Fentanyl also enhanced pain sensitivity induced by plantar incision. Ablation of NK-1-expressing spinal neurons by pre-treatment with substance P-Saporin reduced sensory hypersensitivity in fentanyl-treated rats and, to a lesser extent, in fentanyl-treated rats with a surgical incision. Microinjection of lidocaine into the RVM completely reversed fentanyl-induced sensory hypersensitivity and fentanyl enhancement of incision-induced sensory hypersensitivity. RVM lidocaine injection resulted in a slight reduction of incision-induced sensory hypersensitivity in the absence of fentanyl pre-treatment. Spinal dynorphin content increased by 30 +/- 7% and 66 +/- 17% in fentanyl- and fentanyl/incision-treated rats. Spinal administration of antiserum to dynorphin attenuated sensory hypersensitivity in fentanyl-treated rats. These data support a partial role of NK-1 receptor-containing ascending pathways and a crucial role of descending facilitatory pathways in fentanyl-induced hyperalgesia and in the enhanced hyperalgesia produced by fentanyl treatment following surgical incision.
We have previously described a mitoxantrone-resistant MCF7 cell line that is cross-resistant to topotecan, 7-ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidino)-1-piperidino]carbonyloxy-camptothecin (CPT-11), and 9-aminocamptothecin, but not to camptothecin. A novel mechanism that resulted in decreased topotecan accumulation in MCF7/MX cells was proposed (Yang et al. Cancer Res 55: 4004-4009, 1995). We now have developed a topotecan-resistant cancer cell line from wild-type MCF7 cells. MCF7/TPT300 cells were 68.9-fold resistant to topotecan, 68.3-fold to 10-hydroxy-7-ethylcamptothecin (SN-38), and 116-fold to mitoxantrone, but only 4.1-fold to camptothecin. Topotecan efflux was increased in MCF7/TPT300 cells compared with MCF7/WT cells, and this increase was reversed upon ATP depletion by sodium azide, suggesting an energy-dependent drug efflux mechanism. However, MCF7/TPT300 cells did not overexpress P-glycoprotein or the multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP1). In contrast, overexpression of the breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP/MXR/ABCP) was observed in MCF7/TPT300 cells as well as DNA topoisomerase I down-regulation. Our data suggest that enhanced topotecan efflux contributes partly to topotecan resistance in MCF7/TPT300 cells, possibly mediated by BCRP/MXR/ABCP.
Cocaine-induced myocardial infarct is a medical emergency with increasing prevalence. The efficacy of thrombolytics in patients with cocaine-induced infarcts has not been well studied. This report describes the case of a patient who presented with presumed cocaine-induced myocardial infarct. The patient was treated with intravenous thrombolysis and developed an intraventricular bleed with herniation and death. Physicians should be aware of this grave consequence in a generally young population.
Patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) are particularly vulnerable to adverse effects of neuroleptics; this sensitivity is included among the clinical diagnostic criteria for DLB. Recently atypical neuroleptics, which carry less risk of extrapyramidal side effects than typical agents, have come into increasing use in treating psychotic symptoms and behavioral disturbances related to DLB. The present report is the first to describe a DLB patient who developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) induced by quetiapine, an atypical neuroleptic known to have relatively infrequent extrapyramidal side effects in DLB patients. Physicians should be aware of the possibility of the occurrence of NMS in DLB even when atypical neuroleptics are administered.
A 25-year-old female patient developed headache and papilledema under sulphasalazine treatment for ulcerative colitis. The patient met the International Headache Society's criteria for idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Sulphasalazine was discontinued and the patient was given azathioprine for ulcerative colitis and acetazolamide for intracranial hypertension. Three weeks later, her examination was normal and lumbar puncture revealed an opening pressure of 180-mm H(2)O. Sulphasalazine is a product of 5 aminosalicylate (5 ASA) and there seems to be a relationship between the administration of sulphasalazine and the onset of intracranial hypertension symptoms. Early diagnosis of intracranial hypertension is important in patients with ulcerative colitis receiving 5 ASA treatment to prevent visual complications.
Subutex (buprenophine) was approved by the Health Science Authority of Singapore for heroin detoxification in 2002. The number of heroin addicts has decreased in Singapore since the introduction of Subutex. However, Subutex abuse and its associated complications became arising medical problems. We report the management of a series of infective endocarditis cases secondary to Subutex abuse.
We identified 12 cases of infective endocarditis in former heroin addicts treated with Subutex from August 2005 to April 2006. All patients were interviewed by the research coordinator and prospectively followed-up for two years.
The treatment period of Subutex endocarditis was often prolonged with a mean hospitalisation stay of 48 days, with 3.8 days in the intensive care unit. Multiple medical complications were noted. Staphylococcus aureus septicaemia accounted for 92 percent of cases. Mortality rate was 42 percent. Failure rate of medical therapy alone was common. 25 percent underwent open heart valve surgery. All patients were subsidised. Mean hospitalisation expenses was S$31,218.
Subutex endocarditis causes significant morbidity and mortality. It imposes a heavy medical and financial burden to the patient and society. Multidisciplinary treatment involving cardiologists, infectious disease physicians, psychiatrists, surgeons, medical counsellors and social workers is required to manage these patients.
As part of an investigation on the role of estrogen in liver disease, we tested the effects of estradiol-3-benzoate (EB) in the thioacetamide (TAA)-induced rat liver cirrhosis model. Male F344 rats (n = 100) were divided into six groups. Animals of groups 1-4 received TAA (0.03% in drinking water) for 12 weeks, and groups 5 and 6 served as controls without TAA. For the exposure period, EB pellets were implanted subcutaneously to give doses of 0 (groups 1 and 5), 1 (group 2), 10 (group 3), and 100 mug (groups 4 and 6) simultaneously. All animals were sacrificed at week 12. Significant increase of liver cirrhosis, liver weight, collagen content, and lipid peroxidation in the livers was evident in groups 3 and 4 (p < 0.05) compared with group 1. Formation of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) was significantly elevated in group 4 (p < 0.01), along with expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) and stellate cell activation-associated protein (STAP), as determined by RT-PCR analysis (p < 0.01). However, there were no differences in liver weight, collagen content, lipid peroxidation, 8-OHdG formation, and alpha-SMA and STAP mRNA expression between groups 5 and 6. We conclude that EB treatment enhances TAA-induced cirrhosis, associated with increase of oxidative stress and activation of hepatic stellate cells.
Labetalol 1-5 mg/kg administered intravenously to normal subjects in the supine position produced an immediate mean fall in systolic (16%) and diastolic (25%) blood pressure with a concomitant increase in heart rate (12%). After graded exercise, intravenous labetalol inhibited increases in heart rate and blood pressure. Isoprenaline log dose response curves of increase in heart rate and reduction in diastolic pressure after intravenous labetalol shifted to the right in a parallel manner compared with pre-labetalol response curves suggestive of competitive antagonism at beta-adrenoceptor sites. Similarly, phenylephrine dose response curves of increase in systolic pressure before and after intravenous labetalol were suggestive of competitive antagonism at alpha-adrenoceptor sites. The ratio of relative potency alpha: beta adrenoceptor antagonism after intravenous labetalol was approximately 1:7, whereas in the same subjects after oral labetalol the ratio was approximately 1:3 as previously reported. Using the inhibition of isoprenaline tachycardia to estimate the potency of the beta-adrenoceptor antagonism of labetalol relative to that of propranolol the potency ratio was 1:6. However, using inhibition of Valsalva tachycardia as the index, the estimated ratio was approximately 1:3. Estimates of relative potency using inhibition of tilt tachycardia were complicated by the additional effects upon blood pressure after labetalol not seen after propranolol. Labetalol produced adrenoceptor blockade at both alpha and beta sites in man sufficient to explain its therapeutic antihypertensive effect.
Fluorescein angiography is commonly used in evaluation of retinopathy. Adverse reactions are uncommon but severe cardiovascular difficulties seem to occur selectively in older men with hypertension and ischemic heart disease. The 54-year-old patient described had hypertensive crisis and resulting myocardial infarction after fluorescein angiography.
Wilson's disease responds to a variety of treatments including D-penicillamine and trientene. Nephrotic syndrome is a late complication of D-penicillamine treatment. We report a pediatric patient with Wilson's disease who developed nephrotic syndrome 2 wk after beginning D-penicillamine. His nephrosis resolved and his disease is quiescent with trientene treatment.
To evaluation the effect of experimental tonic cutaneous pain on motor cortex excitability by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Thirty healthy adults (male: 12, female: 18) were tested with TMS. Cutaneous pain was induced by topical application of capsaicin cream (0.025%) on the skin overlying the flexor carpi radialis of dominant limb. And the cream had been under an occlusive dressing for 40 minutes until we removed it. Magnetic stimulation was performed to the contralateral cortex with a circular coil at 80% intensity of maximum stimulator output. MEPs were recorded at flexor carpi radialis (FCR), extensor carpi radialis (ECR) and opponens pollicis (OP) with constant isometric contraction of 10%, 30% maximal voluntary contraction (MVC). Main outcome measures the intensity of pain by visual analog scale (VAS). The latency, amplitude and silent period of motor evoked potentials (MEPs). Values at baseline and 20, 40, 60, 80 minutes from applying capsaicin were compared. VAS score reached the peak value at 40 minutes. Amplitudes of MEPs at FCR progressively decreased up to 40 minutes than returned to nearly baseline value at 80 minutes. The decrease in MEP amplitude at FCR was accompanied by the increase in VAS score significantly and sustained for 20 min after washing out capsaicin cream. At ECR & OP, we could not demonstrate any changes in amplitude with time. Silent period at FCR only was significantly prolonged with the increase in VAS score. The present findings support that noxious cutaneous stimulation inhibit motor cortex excitability by so-called cortico-cortical circuits.
The aim of the study was to assess the efficacy of interferon (IFN)-alpha-2b and ribavirin in combination in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients unresponsive to a previous treatment with IFN-alpha-2b alone.
We conducted a randomized study in 303 CHC patients. One hundred fifty-two patients received subcutaneous administration of recombinant IFN-alpha-2b (3 MU thrice weekly) and ribavirin (1000-1200 mg/daily per os), whereas 151 received IFN-alpha-2b alone (6 MU thrice weekly). Both ribavirin and IFN-alpha-2b were given for 24 wk, regardless of treatment response. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and HCV RNA titer were checked during the treatment period and for a further 24 wk.
Normal ALT levels were observed in 64.5% of the patients treated with IFN-alpha and ribavirin and in 22.6% of the patients treated with IFN-alpha alone. In the group of patients receiving IFN-alpha and ribavirin HCV RNA was not detectable in 40% of patients responders and remained undetectable in 44.2% of sustained responders. In the group of patients receiving IFN-alpha alone HCV RNA was not detectable in 24.2% of patients responders and remained not detectable in 33.3% of sustained responders.
A 24-wk treatment course with IFN-alpha and ribavirin given to patients with a previous lack of response to IFN-alpha alone offers a chance of a sustained biochemical and virological response, at least in a subset of such patients. The role of long-term therapy in inducing prolonged remission still remains to be explored.
Grilled or fried meat and fish contain various mutagenic heterocyclic amines, and structures of at least 19 compounds have already been determined. Among these, 10 have been examined for long term carcinogenicity, all proving to be positive. 2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), for example, preferentially induced mammary adenocarcinomas in 47% of Fischer 344 female rats when supplemented into the diet at a concentration of 400 parts per million (ppm) for 52 weeks. Moreover, 100 ppm of PhIP for 104 weeks yielded the same incidence. PhIP in the diet for 48 weeks also induced mammary cancer in Sprague-Dawley female rats with incidences of 72 and 25% at 200 ppm and 100 ppm. 2-Amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline in the diet at 300 ppm also induced a 25% incidence of mammary adenocarcinomas within 40 weeks. Analysis of PhIP-induced rat mammary carcinomas for ras mutations by polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism and direct sequencing revealed Ha-ras activation in 3 of 17 carcinomas; all were G-->A transitions at the second letter of codon 12 replacing glycine by glutamic acid. A p53 gene mutation was also found in 1 of 10 carcinomas examined; a G-->T transversion was detected at the third letter of codon 130, with a substitution of asparagine for lysine. PhIP is the most abundant mutagenic and carcinogenic heterocyclic amine in grilled meat, and, therefore, a role for this compound in human carcinogenesis is strongly implied.
The effects of straight chain fatty acids on seizures induced by picrotoxin and pentylenetetrazole were studied in mice. After i.p. injection capric, lauric, myristic, palmitic and stearic acid delayed the onset of picrotoxin-induced clonic convulsion in a dose-dependent manner. The survival time was also prolonged by the pretreatment with lauric, myristic, palmitic and stearic acid. However, the onset of the clonic convulsion induced by pentylenetetrazole was delayed only by lauric acid. The prolongation of the survival time was also observed only in the animals pretreated with capric and lauric acid. These results suggest that the straight chain fatty acids examined in the present study possess anticonvulsant activity in mice.
Risk factors for long-term nephrotoxicity after ifosfamide for childhood cancers are not fully known. We have studied patient-related and treatment-related risk factors for chronic ifosfamide nephrotoxicity.
A group of 23 children who had received ifosfamide at age 2.1-16.2 years (median 6.9) for various cancers were assessed for nephrotoxicity, at 1-28 (2) months after the end of treatment, by renal function testing, laboratory values, and a grading score (none, mild, moderate, severe). No patient had received cisplatin or undergone nephrectomy. 13 children were reassessed at 10-26 (23) months; eight had died and two were not evaluable. The median total ifosfamide dose was 100.8 (9.0-160.4) g/m2 over a median of 15 courses every 3 weeks as a 48-72 h continuous intravenous infusion (in 22 cases), with mesna and hydration.
Glomerular filtration rate was below normal in ten (45%) of 22 evaluable children; their rate was 61-85 mL/min per 1.73 m2. Proximal tubular toxicity led to hypophosphataemic rickets and/or renal tubular acidosis in six children, and distal tubular toxicity caused nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in one. Of the risk factors analysed by multiple regression, only total ifosfamide dose was associated with proximal tubular toxicity. Only two of ten evaluable patients who received under 100 g/m2 developed moderate nephrotoxicity, whereas six of ten who received over this dose had moderate or severe nephrotoxicity.
High total ifosfamide dose was the only risk factor we identified. Although inter-patient variability was high, cumulative doses of 100 g/m2 or higher should be avoided in children with cancer.
The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of the 4-methylesculetin with those produced by prednisolone and sulphasalazine and to elucidate the mechanisms involved in its action. Colitis was induced in rat by instillation of trinitrobenzenesulphonic acid (TNBS). The colon damage was evaluated using macroscopic, microscopic and biochemical analysis. In addition, in vitro studies were performed to evaluate cytokine production in cell cultures using the murine macrophage cell line RAW264.7, mouse splenocytes and the human colonic epithelial cell line Caco-2. 4-Methylesculetin produced a reduction of the macroscopic damage score and the recovery of the intestinal cytoarchitecture. These effects were associated with a prevention of the GSH depletion and an inhibition in AP activity. After colitis relapse, 4-methylesculetin improved the colonic inflammatory status as evidenced by histological findings, with a reduction in apoptosis, as well as biochemically by inhibition of colonic myeloperoxidase, alkaline phosphatase and metalloproteinase 9 activities. Paired with this inhibitive activity, there was a decrease in malondialdehyde content and in IL-1β levels. In vitro assays revealed that 4-methylesculetin promoted an inhibition in IL-1β, IL-8, IL-2 and IFN-γ production in cell cultures. In conclusion, 4-methylesculetin showed similar efficacy to that obtained with either prednisolone or sulphasalazine, both in the acute phase of colitis as well as following a curative protocol. The intestinal anti-inflammatory activity by 4-methylesculetin is likely related to its ability in reduce colonic oxidative stress and inhibit pro-inflammatory cytokine production.
Imexon is an iminopyrrolidone derivative that has selective antitumor activity in multiple myeloma. The exact mechanism of imexon action is unknown. In human 8226 myeloma cells, the cytotoxicity of imexon was schedule-dependent, and long exposures (> or = 48 hr) to low concentrations of imexon were most effective at inducing cytotoxicity. Our data suggest that imexon does not affect DNA, but it can alkylate thiols by binding to the sulfhydryl group. We have also demonstrated by HPLC studies that in human 8226 myeloma cells, imexon depletes cellular stores of cysteine and glutathione. Oxidative stress in 8226 cells exposed to imexon was detected by immunohistochemical staining with a monoclonal antibody to 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), followed by confocal microscopy. These images showed increased levels of 8-OHdG in the cytoplasm of cells treated with different concentrations of imexon at 8, 16, and 48 hr. Interestingly, 8-OHdG staining was not observed in the nuclei of imexon-treated cells, in contrast to the diffuse staining seen with t-butyl hydroperoxide. Myeloma cells exposed to imexon showed classic morphologic features of apoptosis upon electron microscopy, and increased levels of phosphatidylserine exposure, detected as Annexin-V binding, on the cell surface. To prevent depletion of thiols, 8226 myeloma cells exposed to imexon were treated with N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Simultaneous, as well as sequential, treatment with NAC before imexon exposure resulted in protection of myeloma cells against imexon-induced cytotoxicity. Conversely, the glutathione synthesis inhibitor buthionine sulfoximine increased imexon cytotoxicity. These data suggest that imexon perturbs cellular thiols and induces oxidative stress leading to apoptosis in human myeloma cells.
We tested the hypothesis that carvedilol inhibits clinical progression in patients with mildly symptomatic heart failure due to left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction.
Patients (n = 366) who had mildly symptomatic heart failure with an LV ejection fraction (LVEF) < or = 0.35, had minimal functional impairment (defined as the ability to walk 450 to 550 m on a 6-minute walk test), and were receiving optimal standard therapy, including ACE inhibitors, were randomized double-blind to carvedilol (n = 232) or placebo (n = 134) and followed up for 12 months. The primary end point was clinical progression, defined as death due to heart failure, hospitalization for heart failure, or a sustained increase in heart failure medications. Clinical progression of heart failure occurred in 21% of placebo patients and 11% of carvedilol patients, reflecting a 48% (P = .008) reduction in the primary end point of heart failure progression (relative risk, 0.52; CI, 0.32 to 0.85). This effect of carvedilol was not influenced by sex, age, race, cause of heart failure, or baseline LVEF. Carvedilol also significantly improved several secondary end points, including LVEF, heart failure score, NYHA functional class, and the physician and patient global assessments. Carvedilol reduced all-cause mortality but had no effects on the Minnesota Living With Heart Failure scale, the distance walked in 9 minutes on a self-powered treadmill, or cardiothoracic index. The drug was well tolerated.
Carvedilol, when added to standard therapy, including an ACE inhibitor, reduces clinical progression in patients who are only mildly symptomatic with well-compensated heart failure.
