The effect of a potent inhibitor of platelet aggregation, BL-3459, on adrenaline-induced myocardial necrosis was investigated in beagle dogs. BL-3459, an alpha-adrenergic receptor blocking agent, phenoxybenzamine, and a beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agent, propranolol, were compared for their ability to modify the effects of adrenaline on platelet function, arterial blood pressure and myocardial damage. Adrenaline infusion led to a dose-related myocardial damage, elevation in arterial blood pressure, elevation in screen filtration pressure (SFP) and fall in platelet count. BL-3459 inhibited the elevation in SFP and the fall in platelet count as well as limiting the extent of myocardial damage. Phenoxybenzamine significantly modified all adrenaline-induced changes except the elevation in SFP. Propranolol had little effect alone and seemed to antagonize the beneficial effects of BL-3459 when the two drugs were combined. These results suggest that while other factors may also be involved, platelet aggregation and transient hypertension are correlated with the extent of adrenaline-induced myocardial necrosis observed in this model. A potent inhibitor of platelet aggregation, BL-3459, and the alpha-adrenergic receptor blocking agent, phenoxybenzamine, appear to afford protection against the observed pathological effects.
To investigate whether opiate overuse might cause chronic daily headache in those with migraine, we studied patients who were taking codeine (or other opiates) for control of bowel motility after colectomy for ulcerative colitis.
Analgesic overuse is considered by many to be one factor which can result in the transformation of migraine into a chronic daily headache pattern. Most of the evidence for this comes from patients with migraine who are taking increasing amounts of analgesia for headache. Many of these patients revert to an intermittent migraine pattern once the analgesics are stopped.
Women who were 1 year postcolectomy for ulcerative colitis were identified in several colorectal surgery practices in Calgary. They were sent a questionnaire designed to determine if they had a history of migraine prior to surgery, if they currently had chronic daily headache, what medications they were taking to control bowel motility, and what medications they were taking for headache.
Twenty-eight patients who met our inclusion criteria returned completed questionnaires. Eight of these exceeded the recommended limits for opiate use in patients with headache. Eight patients met diagnostic criteria for migraine. Two patients had chronic daily headache starting after surgery. Both used daily opiates beginning after their surgery, and both had a history of migraine. The other six patients who used opiates daily did not have a history of migraine and did not have chronic daily headache. All patients with migraine who used daily opiates to control bowel motility following surgery developed chronic daily headache after surgery.
Patients with migraine who use daily opiates for any reason are at high risk of developing transformed migraine with chronic daily headache. This risk appears much lower in patients without a history of migraine who use opiates for nonpain indications.
We examined the changes of two transcription factors, CREB and c-Jun, in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) after acute (8 or 48 hours) or chronic (10 days) cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. Results showed an increase in the number of p-CREB-immunoreactive (-IR) cells in the L1 and L2 DRG (5-7-fold; P < or = 0.05) as well as L6 and S1 DRG (2-4-fold; P < or = 0.05) after acute and chronic cystitis. The number of p-CREB-IR cells in the L4-L5 DRG was not altered with cystitis. The number of c-Jun-IR cells increased in the L1-L2 DRG (L1: 10-fold; L2: 8-fold; P < or = 0.05) only with chronic cystitis, although it increased in the L6-S1 DRG with CYP-induced cystitis of acute (2-3-fold; P < or = 0.05) and chronic (6-10-fold; P < or = 0.05) duration. After CYP treatment, the percentage of bladder afferent cells expressing p-CREB immunoreactivity (3-7-fold; P < or = 0.05) increased in L1, L2, L6, and S1 DRG. The increase occurred 8 hours post-CYP injection and was maintained with chronic cystitis. There were few c-Jun-IR cells in the bladder afferent population. These results demonstrate that CYP induces p-CREB and c-Jun expression in DRG in a time-dependent manner. However, c-Jun expression is not associated with bladder afferent neurons. Resiniferatoxin reduced CYP-induced up-regulation of p-CREB in DRG, suggesting that cystitis can reveal an altered CREB phosphorylation that may be mediated by capsaicin-sensitive bladder afferents. Colocalization of p-CREB and Trk receptor(s) showed that a subpopulation of p-CREB-IR cells expressed p-Trk with cystitis. These results suggest that up-regulation of p-CREB may be mediated by a neurotrophin/Trk signaling pathway.
Takotsubo cardiomyopathy mimics acute myocardial infarction but is a separate clinical entity characterized by distinct wall motion abnormalities in the absence of obstructive coronary lesions. The prevalence of this condition is relatively uncommon yet has gained increasing recognition in recent years. It has rarely been associated with the use of dobutamine infusion during cardiac stress testing. We present in detail two cases of dobutamine-induced Takotsubo cardiomyopathy from our case series, one from 2002 and the other from 2008. While both cases display the typical features of Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, the former was initially diagnosed as dobutamine-induced vasospasm. These cases may provide insight into the pathophysiological mechanism of the condition and suggest that the increasing recognition of Takotsubo cardiomyopathy results from increasing familiarity of the condition.
Dextromethorphan (DM) is a noncompetitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, which is widely used as an antitussive agent. DM also prevents neuronal damage and modulates pain sensation via noncompetitive antagonism of excitatory amino acids (EAAs). DM has been found to be useful in the treatment of pain in cancer patients and in the treatment of methotrexate-induced neurotoxicity. Clinical studies with DM in cancer patients are reviewed in this article.
The effects of infusing human alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide were studied in eight patients with congestive heart failure, five normal rabbits and five rabbits with adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy. In patients with heart failure, calcitonin gene-related peptide caused a dose-dependent increase in cardiac output and decrease in pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance and pulmonary artery pressure. The systemic blood pressure and right atrial and pulmonary wedge pressures decreased only at the highest infusion rate (16 ng/kg per min). Heart rate remained unchanged. Plasma epinephrine increased (p less than 0.05), whereas aldosterone, atrial natriuretic peptide and prolactin concentrations decreased (p less than 0.05). Plasma norepinephrine, renin activity, cortisol and growth hormone concentrations remained unchanged. In both groups of rabbits, the drug decreased blood pressure and increased cardiac output and heart rate. There was a significant increase in renal blood flow (p less than 0.05). The peptide did not affect the contraction amplitude of human and rabbit ventricular myocytes. These findings suggest that calcitonin gene-related peptide is a vasodilator in the rabbit and humans with little direct effect on ventricular myocardium. This peptide may be useful in some forms of heart failure.
A physiological alteration associated with schizophrenic and manic psychoses is diminished inhibition of the electrophysiological response to repeated auditory stimuli. This deficit also occurs in cocaine addicts. Studies in animals show that such inhibition is decreased by noradrenergic receptor stimulation and that the inhibition is enhanced by nicotinic cholinergic receptor stimulation.
C3H mice were treated for 7 days with cocaine. They were then prepared for electrophysiological recording. After the effects of cocaine treatment were observed, they were treated with nicotine agonists.
Chronic cocaine administration markedly diminished inhibition of the hippocampal-evoked response to repeated auditory stimuli. The loss of inhibition was reversed by acute treatment with either nicotine or the selective alpha 7 nicotinic agonist 3-(2,4)-dimethoxybenzylidine anabaseine (DMXB; GTS21). The effects of nicotine showed tachyphylaxis, whereas those of DMXB did not.
This reversal of cocaine's effect by nicotinic agonists is consistent with previous pharmacological studies of the inhibition of auditory response. Additionally, the ability of nicotinic agonists to reverse a physiological defect associated with psychosis may have therapeutic implications for the neuropsychiatric sequelae of cocaine addiction in humans.
Vasomotion is a rhythmic change in vascular caliber that has been described in vivo mainly in peripheral arterioles. In this study, we have characterized vasomotion in a large artery of the brain in vivo. In anesthetized rats, spontaneous vasomotion was observed in 38 of 47 basilar arteries visualized through a cranial window. Base-line arterial diameter was 259 +/- 9 (means +/- SE) microns. Under control conditions, the frequency of vasomotion was 4.8 +/- 0.2 cycles/min, and the amplitude was 19 +/- 2% of the mean diameter. Vasomotion usually occurred simultaneously along the entire length of the vessel, but in some arteries it propagated in either direction. Moderate hypertension (phenylephrine) or vasoconstriction induced by topical application of serotonin, vasopressin, or the thromboxane analogue U 46619 increased the frequency of vasomotion. Moderate hypotension or vasodilation induced by nitroglycerin, adenosine, or acetylcholine decreased the frequency. Marked hypertension, hypotension, or vasodilatation abolished vasomotion. Thus vasomotion of the basilar artery in vivo 1) is common and of relatively large amplitude, 2) does not seem to be driven by a single pacemaker, and 3) is dependent on vessel diameter or vasomotor tone.
Guinea pigs were exposed through inhalation to phthalic anhydride (PA) dust at 0.5, 1.0, and 5.0 mg/m3, 3 hours/day for 5 consecutive days. Inhalation challenge with aerosolized phthalic anhydride-guinea pig serum albumin (PA-GPSA) conjugate elicited immediate-onset respiratory reactions in animals exposed to all three levels of dust. Inhalation challenge of a subgroup of animals with phthalic anhydride dust did not elicit an immediate response, as measured by changes in respiratory frequency and plethysmograph pressure. Serologic studies showed that these animals had allergic IgG1a antibody to PA-GPSA. There was a dose-dependent increase in specific IgG antibody activity, as measured by ELISA. Animals exposed to and challenged with 5.0 mg/m3 PA dust had significant numbers of hemorrhagic lung foci. Those animals with the greatest number of foci had high IgG antibody activity to PA, as measured by ELISA. This study showed that exposure to levels of PA dust as low as 0.5 mg/m3, below the current threshold limit value of 6.0 mg/m3, can sensitize animals to produce allergic antibody.
A 74-year-old man developed Cushing's syndrome and hypokalemia due to ACTH-independent bilateral macronodular adrenocortical hyperplasia (AIMAH) with excessive secretion of mineralocorticoid hormones. Plasma concentrations of weak mineralocorticoids were high. The increase in plasma cortisol did not have a diurnal rhythm, and was not suppressed by a high dose of dexamethasone. Plasma ACTH was undetectable, but plasma cortisol was increased by ACTH administration. The concentrations of mineralocorticoids, especially deoxycorticosterone and corticosterone were increased, and augmented the response to ACTH administration. Plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentrations were rather suppressed. Both adrenal glands, with a total weight of 110 g, were enlarged and contained several macronodules. These nodules were composed of hyperplasia of small cortical cells and usual clear cells. This is a rare case of ACTH-independent bilateral macronodular adrenocortical hyperplasia because there were excessive secretion of mineralocorticoid and hypokalemia.
Nicotine is shown to be one of the carcinogenic agents for gastric cancer. Perturbation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) results in loss of intracellular adhesions leading to tumor progression. In this study, we examined the underlying mechanism of the long-term effects of nicotine on tumor progression in human gastric cancer cells. Nicotine activated 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX) in three gastric cancer cell lines (MKN-45, MKN-28 and AGS). Cells treated with nicotine dose- and time-dependently induced cell proliferation, invasion and suppressed apoptosis. In addition, cell cycle progression analysis revealed that activation of 5-LOX modulated the G1/S phase transition regulatory proteins and caused cell proliferation. MK886 (5-LOX activating protein inhibitor) mediated the induction of apoptosis by elevation of caspase-3 and Bax/Bcl2 ratio. Abrogation of 5-LOX repressed featured molecular markers of EMT (inactivation of E-cadherin and activation of transcriptional repressor Snail). Blockade of 5-LOX signaling resulted in downregulation of cyclin D1, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP-7, -9), urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) and its receptor (uPAR), and pro-apoptotic proteins. Furthermore, suppression of Snail and induction of E-cadherin is extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk)-dependent. Thus, we conclude that the promotion effect of nicotine on cancer cell progression and EMT is mediated by Erk/5-LOX signaling pathway.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of metronidazole (500 mg/kg b.wt. daily by gavage for 14 consecutive days) on male fertility, haematopoiesis and genotoxic affinity. Mature male Swiss mice were treated with metronidazole and divided into 3 groups each with 10 animals, examined after 2 weeks, 1 and 2 months from the onset of drug administration. The results demonstrated that metronidazole significantly (P<0.05) decreased the weight of the testes, epididymides and accessory sexual organs (seminal vesicles and prostates) after one month from the onset of treatment. While accessory sexual organ weights were restored after 2 months from onset of treatment, the decrease in testes and epididymides weights persisted until 2 months later. The deleterious effects of metronidazole on reproductive organ weights might be due to a decrease in testosterone level after 2 weeks, and 1 and 2 months from the onset of treatment. Metronidazole induced a significant decrease in motile sperm and an increase in abnormal sperm after 1 month. The viability of sperm was normal after 2 months. Metronidazole induced anaemia characterized by decreased erythrocyte and leukocytic counts, haemoglobin content and haematocrit %. The ability of oral metronidazole administration to induce genotoxic damage in somatic cells of mice was evaluated using mitotic index, micronuclei and chromosomal aberration. A significant reduction in mitotic activity was observed two weeks from the onset of drug administration, restoration occurred after one month. A significant and persistence increase in the frequency of chromosomal aberration and micronucleus was observed at all periods of the experiment. In conclusion, the results of this study indicate that 1) metronidazole (500 mg/kg by gavage) for 14 days caused a harmful effect on male fertility in mice after one and two months from start of administration, 2) metronidazole induced anaemia after one month from start of administration, 3) metronidazole at this high dose level (3 times the therapeutic dose in mice) has the ability to induce genotoxic effects in somatic cells.
Mercury toxicity is a highly interesting topic in biomedicine due to the severe endpoints and treatment limitations. Selenite serves as an antagonist of mercury toxicity, but the molecular mechanism of detoxification is not clear. Inhibition of the selenoenzyme thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) is a suggested mechanism of toxicity. Here, we demonstrated enhanced inhibition of activity by inorganic and organic mercury compounds in NADPH-reduced TrxR, consistent with binding of mercury also to the active site selenolthiol. On treatment with 5 μM selenite and NADPH, TrxR inactivated by HgCl(2) displayed almost full recovery of activity. Structural analysis indicated that mercury was complexed with TrxR, but enzyme-generated selenide removed mercury as mercury selenide, regenerating the active site selenocysteine and cysteine residues required for activity. The antagonistic effects on TrxR inhibition were extended to endogenous antioxidants, such as GSH, and clinically used exogenous chelating agents BAL, DMPS, DMSA, and α-lipoic acid. Consistent with the in vitro results, recovery of TrxR activity and cell viability by selenite was observed in HgCl(2)-treated HEK 293 cells. These results stress the role of TrxR as a target of mercurials and provide the mechanism of selenite as a detoxification agent for mercury poisoning.
While skin is a major target for sulphur mustard (HD), a therapy to limit HD-induced vesication is currently not available. Since it is supposed that apoptotic cell death and proteolytic digestion of extracellular matrix proteins by metalloproteases are initiating factors for blister formation, we have explored whether inhibition of these processes could prevent HD-induced epidermal-dermal separation using adult human skin in organ culture. Involvement of the caspase and the metalloprotease families was confirmed by the observation that their respective broad spectrum inhibitors, Z-VAD-fmk and GM6001, each suppressed HD-induced microvesication. The lowest effective concentrations were 10 and 100microM, respectively. Using specific inhibitors for caspase-8 (> or =10microM) and caspase-9 (> or =10microM) we learned that HD-induced apoptosis is initiated by the death receptor pathway as well as by the mitochondrial pathway. Remarkably, blocking caspase-8 activity resulted in morphologically better conserved cells than blocking caspase-9 activity. We zoomed in on the role of metalloproteases in HD-induced microvesication by testing the effects of two inhibitors: dec-RVKR-cmk and TAPI-2. Dec-RVKR-cmk is an inhibitor of furin, which activates transmembrane enzymes of the 'a disintegrin and metalloproteinase' (ADAM)-family as well as the membrane-type metalloproteases (MTx-MMP). TAPI-2 specifically inhibits TNFalpha-converting enzyme (TACE/ADAM17), which is involved in pericellular proteolysis. Both inhibitors prevented microvesication at concentrations of > or =500 and > or =20microM, respectively. This confirms that ADAMs and MT-MMPs play a role in HD-induced epidermal-dermal separation, with a particular role for TACE/ADAM17. Since TACE is involved not only in degradation of cell-matrix adhesion structures, but also in ectodomain shedding of ligands for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and in release of TNFalpha, these results imply TACE-mediated pathways as a new concept in HD toxicity. In conclusion, transmembrane metalloproteases probably form a main target for treatment of blisters in HD casualties. The observation that microvesication in the ex vivo human skin model still could be prevented when the metalloprotease inhibitor GM6001 was applied up to 8h after exposure to HD opens perspectives for non-urgent cure of HD casualties.
Attempts to reverse cerebral vasospasm (CVS) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) rely on a limited number of treatments. Calcium channel blockers have proven a benefit but their vasodilating effect on spastic cerebral arteries is relatively modest. Milrinone, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, combines vasodilating and inotropic properties, but limited data exist to support its use for the treatment of CVS. We assessed the efficacy and tolerance of milrinone in patients with CVS secondary to aSAH.
Twenty-two consecutive patients with angiographically-proven CVS (arterial diameter reduction >40%) have been studied. Intraarterial milrinone was infused in the cerebral territory(ies) involved and followed by continuous intravenous infusion until Day 14 after initial bleeding. We evaluated angiographic reversal of CVS, hemodynamic tolerance, and neurological outcome 1 year after aSAH.
Thirty-four selective intraarterial infusions of milrinone were required to treat 72 vasospastic territories. Intraarterial milrinone resulted in 53+/-37% increase in arterial diameter (P<.0001). Milrinone infusion resulted in moderately increased heart rate, but systemic arterial pressure remained unchanged. Five patients (23%) had angiographically-proven vasospasm recurrence within 48 hours after the procedure. Two of them were successfully reversed after another intraarterial infusion of milrinone. The remaining 3 underwent mechanical angioplasty. Two patients (9%) died in ICU, and 2 were lost to follow-up. All other patients had very good neurological outcome (modified Rankin scale: 0.8+/-1.0; Barthel index: 100 [95-100]).
This study suggests that milrinone is effective and safe for reversal of CVS after aSAH and should be tested in a large randomized trial.
To examine modulations caused by cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors on altered microenvironments and overbalanced neurotransmitters in pilocarpine-induced epileptic status rats and to investigate possible mechanisms.
Celecoxib (a COX-2 inhibitor) was administered 45 min prior to pilocarpine administration. The effects of COX-2 inhibitors on mIPSCs (miniature GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents) of CA3 pyramidal cells in the hippocampus were recorded. Expressions of COX-2, c-Fos, newly generated neurons, and activated microgliosis were analyzed by immunohistochemistry, and expressions of alpha-subunit of gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA(A)) receptors and mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (MAPK/ERK) activity were detected by Western blotting.
Pretreatment with celecoxib showed protection against pilocarpine-induced seizures. Celecoxib prevented microglia activation in the hilus and inhibited the abnormal neurogenesis and astrogliosis in the hippocampus by inhibiting MAPK/ERK activity and c-Fos transcription. Celecoxib also up-regulated the expression of GABA(A) receptors. NS-398 (N-2-cyclohexyloxy-4-nitrophenyl-methanesulfonamide), another COX-2 inhibitor, enhanced the frequency and decay time of mIPSCs.
The COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib decreased neuronal excitability and prevented epileptogenesis in pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus rats. Celecoxib regulates synaptic reorganization by inhibiting astrogliosis and ectopic neurogenesis by attenuating MAPK/ERK signal activity, mediated by a GABAergic mechanism.
Loreclezole (5 mg/kg) exerted a significant protective action in amygdala-kindled rats, reducing both seizure and afterdischarge durations. The combinations of loreclezole (2.5 mg/kg) with valproate, clonazepam, or carbamazepine (applied at their subprotective doses) also exhibited antiseizure effect in this test. However, only two first combinations occurred to be of pharmacodynamic nature. Among several chemoconvulsants, bicuculline, N-methyl-D-aspartic acid and BAY k-8644 (the opener of L-type calcium channels) reversed the protective activity of loreclezole alone and its combination with valproate. On the other hand, bicuculline, aminophylline and BAY k-8644 inhibited the anticonvulsive action of loreclezole combined with clonazepam. The results support the hypothesis that the protective activity of loreclezole and its combinations with other antiepileptics may involve potentiation of GABAergic neurotransmission and blockade of L-type of calcium channels.
Ascorbate (AA), an antioxidant substance known as vitamin C, exists in the brain at a high concentration, although transfer into the brain after systemic administration of AA itself is limited. Intraperitoneal administration of dehydroascorbate (DHA) resulted in a rapid and progressive increase in extracellular AA in rat striatum in a dose-dependent manner. DHA administration increased 2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoate (2,3- and 2,5-DHBA) formation from salicylate in parallel with the increase in extracellular AA. Intrastriatal administration of active AA oxidase (AAO), but not the inactivated enzyme, completely suppressed the increase in 2,3- and 2,5-DHBA formation after the DHA administration. These findings suggest that extracellular AA might stimulate hydroxyl radical (OH) generation in the striatum. This is supported by the observation of dose-dependent OH generation upon intrastriatal administration of AA itself. In addition, deferoxamine, an iron chelator, decreased basal 2,3- and 2,5-DHBA formation and strongly, though not completely, suppressed the DHA-induced increase of 2,3- and 2,5-DHBA formation. Therefore, increased extracellular AA might function as a prooxidant and stimulate OH generation in cooperation with iron in rat striatum.
l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease may result from aberrant glutamatergic stimulation of the striatum due to synaptic plasticity in the motor cortex or striatum as a consequence of adaptation of striatal output pathways. This might result from changes in NMDA receptor subunit or NMDA receptor associated postsynaptic density (PSD) scaffold protein expression. Using immunoautoradiography the expression levels of NR1 and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor and the postsynaptic density scaffold proteins, PSD-95, PSD-93, and neurofilament light (NFL) were examined in normal common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned animals that exhibited high or low levels of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Brains from MPTP-lesioned animals that were not primed for l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia were not included in this study. No alterations in the NR1 NMDA receptor subunit were observed. The NR2B NMDA receptor subunit was increased in caudal caudate nucleus and putamen, hippocampus, cingulate motor area (CMA), supplementary motor area (SMA) and dorsal primary motor cortex (dMI) of highly dyskinetic MPTP-lesioned marmosets, but not in animals with low levels of dyskinesia. PSD-93 was decreased in the globus pallidus of marmosets with high and low levels of dyskinesia and increased in the CMA, SMA and dMI of highly dyskinetic marmosets. PSD-95 was increased in the SMA of highly dyskinetic marmosets, but not in animals with low dyskinesia. NFL expression was elevated in the SMA and dorsal and ventral MI of highly dyskinetic marmosets. These results suggest that l-DOPA treatment of MPTP-lesioned marmosets can affect glutamatergic systems and indicate that altered NMDA receptor function may relate to dyskinesia.
Histochemical, electron microscopy and biochemical studies were performed on muscle biopsy specimens from 11 AIDS patients treated with zidovudine. A peculiar association of structural abnormalities and mitochondrial dysfunction was found. Focal cytochrome c oxidase (COX) deficiency was evident in muscle sections from 9 patients, 8 of whom had received long-term treatment while one had been treated for 1 month only. Electron microscopy showed changes in number, size and structure of mitochondria. Biochemical studies proved partial COX and succinate cytochrome c reductase (SCR) deficiency in 4 patients; one patient had only reduced SCR activity. Our data confirm that AZT therapy can cause toxic myopathy with mitochondrial dysfunction.
Previous studies from our laboratory have identified a number of genes associated with chemosensitivity to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) using an in vitro colon cancer cell line model. In this study, the in vivo significance of several marker genes in terms of prognostic potential was evaluated using colorectal cancer patient samples. Eight marker genes were selected based on their functional roles and significant fold changes in expression. They are SERTA domain containing 1 (SEI1), ribonucleotide reductase M2 polypeptide (RRM2), origin recognition complex, subunit 6 homolog-like (ORC6L), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (EIF4E), thymidylate synthase (TS), SET and MYND domain containing 3 (SMYD3), Dickkopf homolog 4, and methyl-CpG binding domain protein 4 (MBD4). Forty-eight snap frozen clinical colorectal samples (24 normal and 24 paired colorectal cancer patient samples) were selected with detailed clinical follow-up information. cDNAs were synthesized and the expression levels of marker genes were quantified via qRT-PCR analysis. The statistical significance of these markers for disease prognosis was evaluated using the two-tailed paired Wilcoxon test. Survival curves were plotted according to the method of Kaplan-Meier and compared using the log-rank test. Based on the quantitative expression analysis, RRM2 (p=0.0001; 95% CI, 2.0-4.5), ORC6L (p=0.0001; 95% CI, 1.8-4.6), EIF4E (p=0.0002; 95% CI, 0.3-0.9), TS (p=0.0005; 95% CI, 0.7-2.2) and SMYD3 (p=0.0001; 95% CI, 0.8-1.5) were overexpressed in tumor tissues. However, the expression of SEI1 was decreased in tumors (p=0.02; 95% CI, 0.1-1.3), consistent with the function of SEI1 as a potential tumor suppressor. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis indicated that MBD4 is a significant prognostic factor for patient survival (p=0.03). MBD4 was a key protein involved in DNA methylation. The expression of TS was associated with tumor stage as it had a significantly higher expression level in UICC stage I and II compared to stage IV patients (p=0.03). MBD4 may be a potential novel prognostic marker for predicting patient survival for colorectal cancer.
Occupational and environmental determinants of benign thyroid disease and follicular thyroid cancer were evaluated in a series of cases in 1977-1987. Of the cases initially diagnosed as follicular thyroid cancer, only 31 remained after a reclassification, whereas 44 were found to be benign thyroid disease. Both series were compared with 387 randomly selected population controls. Occupational solvent exposure was strongly associated with benign thyroid disease (odds ratio, OR, 2.8; 95% confidence interval, 95% CI, 0.9-9.0 for women and OR 18.9; 95% CI 2.2-161 for men). Eight of the nine men found to have benign disease had been exposed to solvents, and six of them to trichloroethylene. For both types of cases, a private well at the birth address increased the risk, OR 2.0; 95% CI 0.9-4.0 and OR 3.0; 95% CI 1.2-7.2, respectively, whereas the risk was lower for those living in coastal areas. Less fish and shellfish in the diet increased the risk for malignant thyroid disease only. Although based on small numbers, the study indicates etiologic roles of occupational and environmental factors for both conditions studied. The influences of occupation and diet differ, however, for the two outcomes.
The efficacy of continuous and intermittent nitroglycerin patches (10 mg/day) was compared in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial in 36 patients with stable angina and reproducible, exercise-induced ST depression. Intermittent treatment was administered either 18 or 14 h/day with an intermission of 6 h or 10 h, respectively. Exercise tests were performed during the last 2 h of patch application. Compared with placebo, neither continuous nitroglycerin nor the two intermittent regimens prolonged total treadmill time or time to 1 mm ST depression. No treatment eliminated exercise-induced ST depression in greater than 1 of the 36 patients. Time to angina was prolonged (by 40 +/- 66 s) only during the "10 h off" treatment (p = 0.001); time to angina increased by greater than or equal to 20% in 13 patients. Responders to treatment could be predicted by a short history of angina (p less than 0.05) and a time to angina less than or equal to 250 s during the placebo test. For each treatment, greater than or equal to 25 of the patients reported headache; 4 additional patients dropped out because of severe headache and 2 others because of a coronary event in a washout period. Thus, in most patients with stable angina, side effects outweight any benefit demonstrable with this therapy.
Alcohol and cocaine use are associated with significant cardiovascular complications, including cardiomyopathy. The pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying the development of these toxic cardiomyopathies vary depending on the inciting agent but include direct toxic effects, neurohormonal activation, altered calcium homeostasis, and oxidative stress. The typical patient with alcoholic cardiomyopathy is a long-term excessive alcohol consumer who is otherwise indistinguishable from other patients with nonischemic cardiomyopathy. The typical patient with cocaine cardiomyopathy is a young male smoker who presents with signs of adrenergic excess. Management of these patients is similar to that of patients with other forms of dilated cardiomyopathy, although beta-blockers should be avoided in patients with cocaine-associated heart failure and benzodiazepines should be given in this setting to blunt adrenergic excess. Left ventricular function may improve dramatically with abstinence from alcohol or cocaine. Unfortunately, the rate of recidivism is high and left ventricular dysfunction and symptomatic heart failure often recurs.
Styrene causes toxicity in both the lung and the liver. The study of the relationship of this toxicity to the metabolism of styrene has been aided by the use of knockout mice for both bioactivation and detoxification pathways. It has been hypothesized that CYP2E1 is primarily responsible for styrene bioactivation in mouse liver and CYP2F2 in mouse lung. Two knockout strains were used in the current studies. Mice deficient in hepatic cytochrome P450 reductase had much less hepatic metabolism of styrene to styrene oxide. Styrene (600 mg/kg, i.p.) caused significant hepatotoxicity, as determined by serum sorbitol dehydrogenase and glutathione levels, in the wild-type but not in the knockout mice. It caused lung toxicity, as determined by protein levels, cell number, and lactate dehydrogenase activity in the bronchioalveolar lavage fluid of wild-type mice, but this effect was less in the knockout mice. In CYP2F2 knockout mice there was only a small decrease in the hepatic metabolism of styrene but a very large decrease in pulmonary metabolism. As expected the CYP2F2 knockout and wild-type mice were equally susceptible to styrene-induced hepatotoxicity, but the knockout mice were less susceptible to styrene-induced pneumotoxicity. Although the results are inconsistent with the simple hypothesis that styrene pneumotoxicity is due to the bioactivation of styrene to styrene oxide by CYYP2F2, they demonstrate the importance of both liver and lung in the metabolism of styrene, but additional pharmacokinetic studies are needed to help clarify the relationship between target organ metabolism and susceptibility.
To examine whether inhibition of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) activity by quinidine affects the central nervous system toxicity of lidocaine and racemic bupivacaine (bupivacaine).
Forty male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into four groups (n = 10). Fifteen minutes following administration of 15 mg x kg(-1) of quinidine (QL and QB groups) or saline (L and B groups), lidocaine (L and QL groups, 4 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1)) or bupivacaine (B and QB groups, 1 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1)) was infused until convulsions occurred. Concentrations of lidocaine and its primary metabolite, monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) and bupivacaine in plasma and in the brain at the onset of convulsions were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography.
There were no differences in the dose of lidocaine required to induce convulsions between the L and QL groups. There were no differences in the concentrations of total (L = 17.2 +/- 3.5, QL = 16.6 +/- 2.6 micro g x mL(-1)) or unbound lidocaine (L = 7.8 +/- 2.5, QL = 7.3 +/- 2.3 micro g x mL(-1)), total (L = 1.2 +/- 0.5, QL = 1.3 +/- 0.7 micro g x mL(-1)) or unbound MEGX (L = 0.9 +/- 0.5, QL = 0.8 +/- 0.4 micro g x mL(-1)) in plasma, total lidocaine or MEGX in the brain at the onset of convulsions between the L and QL groups. The dose of bupivacaine required to induce convulsions was comparable in the B and QB groups. At the onset of convulsions, plasma concentrations of both total (B = 4.9 +/- 1.1, QB = 4.0 +/- 0.6 micro g x mL(-1), P = 0.03) and unbound bupivacaine (B = 1.4 +/- 0.6, QB = 0.9 +/- 0.2 micro g x mL(-1), P = 0.02) were significantly lower in the QB group than in the B group. There were no differences in concentration of total bupivacaine in the brain between the B and QB groups.
These results suggest that quinidine inhibited P-gp activity, resulting in increased brain/plasma concentration ratio of bupivacaine, but not of lidocaine, and decreased the threshold of plasma concentration for bupivacaine-induced convulsions.
In recent years, the use of valproic acid (VPA) as a mood-stabilizing agent has continuously increased. Although VPA usually is well tolerated, its use in combination with other psychotropic compounds might bear an elevated risk of adverse reactions. Here, we present the case of a 42-year-old male suffering from treatment-resistant psychotic depression, who was prescribed VPA additionally to lithium, clomipramine, flupentixol and risperidone. By doing so, he developed myoclonus, tremor and encephalopathy with sedation and marked EEG background slowing. Most notably, these side effects occurred in the presence of normal VPA and ammonia serum concentrations. On VPA discontinuation, all symptoms vanished and EEG normalized. We thus suggest that direct VPA-induced encephalopathy in the absence of ammonemia does exist, in this case probably facilitated by psychotropic polypharmacy.
Thirty patients with metastatic carcinoma of the breast were treated with a combination of cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin (doxorubicin), and peptichemio (CAP) as an induction regimen, and maintenance regimen consisting of thiotepa, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil (TMF). Twenty-four patients were evaluable. Thirteen patients achieved an objective response for a response rate of 54.0% (complete remission plus partial remission). Median duration of response was 9.5 months (0-32+). The CAP regimen had severe myelotoxicity that led to dose reductions in 67% of patients. Furthermore, 50% of the patients required delay (greater than 28-day interval) in chemotherapy courses because of myelosuppression, and peptichemio had to be discontinued in seven patients. The CAP chemotherapy as an induction regimen for metastatic breast carcinoma resulted in underutilization of Adriamycin, and proved to be inferior to other Adriamycin-containing regimens. Although peptichemio used as a single agent had significant activity against breast cancer, it was not suitable for prolonged use in conjunction with other myelosuppressive agents. However, it may have a role in second-line therapy of metastatic breast cancer in conjunction with nonmyelosuppressive agents. The authors were unable to test the efficacy of non-cross-resistant maintenance therapy with TMF in this trial.
