Six children developed severe daily migraine-type headaches during cancer treatment. In addition to chemotherapy drugs, all received daily doses of ondansetron, a 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 receptor antagonist. 5-Hydroxytryptamine is considered to play a central role in migraine pathogenesis, and ondansetron may have caused headaches by producing 5-hydroxytryptamine dysfunction in the brain. All six children had either a personal or a family history of migraine, and this may be a risk factor for developing ondansetron-associated migraine-type headaches. Ondansetron-induced headaches respond to withholding the drug and to standard antimigraine medications, but further study of a larger group of patients is required to confirm this impression.
Gefitinib is an inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase and has been approved for the treatment of nonsmall cell lung cancer refractory to established cancer treatments. Several cases of adverse hepatic and pulmonary events have been reported, which led to discontinuation of therapy. While the mechanism of toxicity remains unknown, we present evidence that gefitinib accumulates in the liver and lung, and it can be bioactivated in hepatic, intestinal, and pulmonary microsomes to form a reactive metabolite. The reactive metabolite was trapped by the peptide mimetic GSH, indicating that the metabolite was sufficiently reactive to bind to the cysteine groups of proteins. Two cytochrome P450-dependent gefitinib-GSH adducts were detected, and P450 1A1 and 3A4 were found to be the major enzymes responsible for adduct formation. The mechanism of bioactivation is proposed to involve oxidative defluorination of gefitinib to form a reactive quinone-imine. Clinical reports have noted an increase in adverse pulmonary events with patients who continued smoking. Consistent with the clinical toxicology data, a 12-fold increase in GSH adduct formation was detected in human pulmonary microsomes from smokers over nonsmokers, in agreement with P450 1A1 being induced by cigarette smoke.
Three groups of patients were studied with the purpose of assessing the efficiency of the application of Pariet in the complex treatment of chronic pancreatitis. The first group (16 people) underwent conventional treatment (spasmolytics, enzymes, disintoxication therapy). In addition to conventional treatment, the second (22 people) and third (21 people) groups were administered Pariet (rabeprazole), 20 mg per day, or Quamatel (famotidine), 40 mg per day, respectively. The intragastric and intraduodenal pH was higher against the background of the treatment with Pariet than against the background of the application of Quamatel even within the first hours and days of treatment. A faster pain relief was observed in the second group of patients (p 0.05) than in the third one. According to the MRI data, the seven-day Pariet treatment of patients with chronic pancreatitis was accompanied by a reduction of the pancreas size, the diameter of the main pancreatic duct and the pancreatic edema. Thus, the application of Pariet in the complex treatment of chronic pancreatitis promotes a faster and more efficient pain relief and reduction of pancreatic edemas, as compared to the Quamatel therapy.
The frequency of decreased renal function was compared between patients treated with brand and generic products of vancomycin injection (VCM) in a retrospective manner based on the clinical examination records archived in Okayama University Hospital. A total of 122 patients were found to have been solely treated with vancomycin injection for MRSA infection, and their examination records were analyzed. The renal function of those patients was evaluated based on the serum creatinine concentration (SCr), and patients whose SCr was maximally elevated above the defined upper limit of the normal range (1.20 mg/dl for males and 0.96 mg/dl for females) were considered to show decreased renal function. Although the amount of VCM administered to patients was larger in the case of generic rather than brand products, the percentage of patients whose renal function was decreased during VCM treatment was not significantly different between the VCM products, in which 2 among 62 patients receiving the brand product and 4 among 60 receiving the generic product were reported to show decreased renal function. It was additionally revealed that 3 of those 4 patients with a decreased renal function related to the generic product were not treated as instructed by the package insert, and their trough VCM concentration exceeded the recommended level of 10 microg/ml. With these findings, the brand and generic VCM products are considered to be similar regarding the adverse effect of decreasing renal function.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) or kala-azar is known to be associated with a mixed Th1-Th2 response, and effective host defense requires the induction of IFN-gamma and IL-12. We address the role of the differential decline of IL-10 and TGF-beta in response to sodium antimony gluconate (SAG) and amphotericin B (AmB), the therapeutic success of SAG and AmB in Indian VL, and the significance of IL-10 and TGF-beta in the development and progression of post-kazla-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL). In the active disease, PBMC from VL patients showed suppressed Ag-specific lymphoproliferation, IFN-gamma and IL-12 production, and elevation of IL-10 and TGF-beta. Cure corresponded with an elevation in IFN-gamma and IL-12 production and down-regulation of IL-10 and TGF-beta. Both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells were involved in IFN-gamma and IL-10 production. Interestingly, the retention and maintenance of residual IL-10 and TGF-beta in some SAG-treated individuals and the elevation of IL-10 and TGF-beta in PKDL, a sequel to kala-azar, probably reflects the role of these cytokines in reactivation of the disease in the form of PKDL. Contrastingly, AmB treatment of VL resulted in negligible TGF-beta levels and absolute elimination of IL-10, reflecting the better therapeutic activity of AmB and its probable role in the recent decline in PKDL occurrences in India. Moreover, elucidation of immune responses in Indian PKDL patients revealed a spectral pattern of disease progression where disease severity could be correlated inversely with lymphoproliferation and directly with TGF-beta, IL-10, and Ab production. In addition, the enhancement of CD4(+)CD25(+) T cells in active VL, their decline at cure, and reactivation in PKDL suggest their probable immunosuppressive role in these disease forms.
The authors have compared the short-term effect of two captopril (ACE inhibitor) preparations namely the Lopirin (SQUIBB) and Tensiomin (EGIS) and dihydralazine as well as placebo in 15 patients with severe heart failure (NYHA III-IV, class). In case of 8 patients with NYHA IV, functional class the short-term effect of the combined therapy of dihydralazine and Lopirin and dihydralazine and Tensiomin as well dihydralazine and placebo have been compared. The underlying disease was dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and ischaemic heart disease (IHD). At the end of the treatment with different drugs and placebo the clinical signs of heart failure (complaints and physical status) and the echo and mechanocardiographic parameters of left ventricular function were assessed. The parameters, apart from the clinical signs, have been evaluated in double blind fashion. Compared to placebo all the three drugs i.e. dihydralazine, Lopirin as well as Tensiomin have decreased significantly the NYHA classes, influenced favorably the non-invasive parameters of left ventricular function and decreased blood pressure. As to the dihydralazine, it improved the left ventricular ejection function and the clinical state of the patients with DCM in a higher degree than the two ACE inhibitors did. The effect of Tensiomin and Lopirin was the same in every respect. Both have influenced more favourable the complaints and physical state of patients with IHD than dihydralazine has. The left ventricular filling pressure, the double product (heart rate x wall tension) indicating the myocardial oxygen demand were more reduced in their effect than in that of dihydralazine. Unlike dihydralazine both decreased the heart rate. Administering one of the two ACE inhibitors to the dihydralazine beneficial additive effects have been experienced; the NYHA classes, the heart rate, the left ventricular wall tension and the double product diminished. The authors, on the bases of the results, consider Tensiomin and Lopirin as equivalent in their effect. In their opinion the administration of these drugs mean a new, efficient way of therapy, first of all in cases of heart failure caused by IHD. In the most severe cases they suggest a trial with the combined dihydralazine-ACE inhibitor therapy.
Increased production of oxygen free radicals and infiltration of neutrophils into tissue subjected to ischemia-reperfusion have emphasized that neutrophils play a direct role in the development of injury. The present study was designed to elucidate the effect of FK506, a new immunosuppressive drug, on 11 hours of complete ischemia and reperfusion of the inguinal island skin flaps in rats. Group 1 (n = 10) control animals underwent ischemia and reperfusion and no treatment. Group 2 (n = 10) animals received FK 506 0.3 mg/kg/day, and group 3 (n = 9) animals received 0.5 mg/kg/day intramuscularly for 3 days before the ischemia. The effect of the drug was evaluated by measuring flap survival and tissue malondialdehyde content and myeloperoxidase activity and also by histopathologic examination of the skin specimens taken at the 1st and 24th hour after reperfusion. The survival of flaps controlled for 7 days was found to be significantly improved in group 2 (65.0 +/- 10.93 percent) and group 3 (93 +/- 6.25 percent) when compared with the control group (14 +/- 10.12 percent) (p < 0.04 and p < 0.0001). The tissue contents of malondialdehyde and activities of myeloperoxidase were significantly lower in groups 2 and 3 than in the control group. Three days of pretreatment with FK506 significantly reduced neutrophil infiltration in groups treated with either of the doses. These results showed that neutrophils play an important role in island flap survival associated with ischemia-reperfusion injury. Increased neutrophil infiltration was found related with increased levels of malondialdehyde and myeloperoxidase. Flap necrosis and the increase in malondialdehyde, myeloperoxidase, and neutrophil infiltration were improved by FK506 pretreatment, a neutrophil modulating agent.
Three cases of acute renal toxicity in patients receiving long-term therapy with mitomycin C and 5-fluorouracil are reported. Two of the patients (1 and 3) are from a multicentre trial of adjuvant chemotherapy for gastric carcinoma. All three cases showed extensive fibrin deposition in the kidneys and lungs, the appearances of the renal lesions being similar to those seen in the haemolytic-uraemic syndrome. Two of the three cases had received blood transfusions, and attention is drawn to the possibility that mitomycin C may sensitise the kidneys to minor mismatches. With the increasing use of these antimitotic agents, great vigilance should be exercised with regard to renal function and haemolytic status.
In 7 out of 14 patients there were marked subjective symptoms following the interruption of prolonged treatment with clonidine. A significant increase in blood pressure, systolic and diastolic, heart rate and urinary catecholamine excretion was seen in the majority of cases. The clinical and biological manifestations would appear to reflect a phenomenon of derepression of sympathetic activity: the increase in urinary catecholamines is the biological result. The findings are of practical importance since they indicate that the interruption of anti-hypertensive therapy with clonidine must be under taken with caution, i.e. progressively.
The male spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), as it ages, suffers many of the renal and cardiovascular complications that are recognized in humans as risk factors for radiocontrast (RC) agent induced renal failure (RF). Knowledge of this led us to test this strain of rats as a small animal model for RC-induced renal failure (RC-RF). Functional studies demonstrated a significant fall in GFR in the recovery period after RC administration. In addition, histopathologic evaluation of the kidneys was done in this study. Our results are based on assigning separate scale values to the histopathological evaluation of the (a) glomeruli, (b) tubules, (c) interstitium, and (d) arteries and arterioles of the kidneys. Saline (S) was administered to one group and the RC agent Hypaque-76 (diatrizoate meglumine sodium) to paired groups of 5-, 8-, 10-, 12-, and 14-month-old male SHR. The results indicated that younger animals (5 and 8 months old) were resistant to the nephrotoxic effects of the RC, but developed susceptibility at 10 months of age, when spontaneous renal pathology became manifest. Both spontaneous renal pathology and RC-induced renal damage (RC-RD) increased as the animals aged. In addition, when the administered dose of RC was repeated after a short interval of only 6 h, the degree of RC-RD increased greatly. In parallel control studies of the influence of gender and strain on the response to RC in 12-month-old rats, neither hypertensive female SHR nor male normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats demonstrated significant spontaneous renal pathology or the marked susceptibility to RC nephrotoxicity shown by their male SHR counterparts. This small animal model for RC-RD, the mature male SHR, has the distinct advantage that risk factors for RC-RD, similar to those characterized in humans for RC-RF, develop spontaneously without requiring any special treatment or surgical intervention.
The sequential development of hepatic nodules induced by phenobarbitone (PB) has been studied in the C3H/He strain of mouse, a strain prone to the development of spontaneous liver tumours. PB was administered in the diet to young male animals at a dose level of 85 mg/kg/day for up to 91 weeks. Control and PB-treated mice developed hepatic nodules within 60 weeks. In control animals the nodules consisted of small basophilic cells, and by 80 weeks a small proportion of the animals had developed unequivocal hepatocellular carcinoma. The basophilic nodules were similar in many respects to those induced by N-nitrosodiethylamine. In PB-treated mice the incidence of basophilic nodules was similar to that in controls. These animals also developed hepatic nodules formed of large eosinophilic cells which were readily dissectable from the surrounding host tissue by 60 weeks. Biochemical investigations into the large eosinophilic nodules from PB treated mice showed that both Phase I and Phase II types of xenobiotic metabolizing enzyme activities were induced to levels either similar to, or greater than in the surrounding host tissue. In contrast, enzyme activities in basophilic nodules from untreated mice killed at 91 weeks, were generally similar to or lower than in the surrounding host tissue. The presence of eosinophilic nodules did not lead to an increase in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in the PB-treated C3H/He mice. Concurrent experiments conducted in the C57BL/6 strain of mouse did not result in the development of liver nodules at 60 weeks. Thus, the eosinophilic nodules induced by phenobarbitone in C3H/He mice appear to be distinctly different from the basophilic liver nodules arising spontaneously or to basophilic nodules produced by the hepatocellular carcinogen N-nitrosodiethylamine.
Phenylpropanolamine is a sympatheticomimetic agent which is widely used in pharmacologic preparations to treat nasal congestion, and to produce and anorexigenic or stimulant action. In the last years complications affecting the nervous system or the general condition have been reported. There is still controversy with regard to the safety of this pharmacologic agent. In this study we report two cases of parenchymal cerebral hemorrhage secondary to phenylpropanolamine administration. In the second case we observed angiographic findings of a reversible vasculopathy.
1. A double-blind crossover trial comparing the antihypertensive effect of tienilic acid and hydrochlorothiazide was conducted in thirty-eight patients with mild to moderate hypertension. 2. Tienilic acid was shown to be as effective as hydrochlorothiazide in controlling blood pressure. 3. Tienilic acid acid significantly lowered serum uric acid levels compared with both placebo and hydrochlorothiazide. 4. Tienilic acid was generally well tolerated but one patient developed acute renal failure due to acute allergic interstitial nephritis whilst taking the drug.
Phenylephrine-induced hypertension (increase of 30-35 mm Hg for 15 min) is reported to increase cerebral perfusion pressure and collateral flow to ischemic areas of the brain in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemia. In the present study, we examined whether phenylephrine-induced hypertension of similar magnitude and duration was beneficial in a rat model of closed head trauma (CHT). Forty-eight rats were randomized into four experimental conditions: CHT at time 0 min (yes/no), plus phenylephrine-induced hypertension (increase of 30-35 mm Hg for 15 min) at 65 min (yes/no). CHT was delivered using a weight-drop device (0.5 J). Outcome measures were neurological severity score (NSS) at 1, 4, and 24 h, and brain tissue specific gravity (microgravimetry) and injury volume (2,3,5-triphenyltetrazoium chloride) at 24 h. After CHT, NSS at 24 h (median +/- range) and brain tissue specific gravity (mean +/- SD, injured hemisphere) were 7+/-2 and 1.033+/-0.007 without phenylephrine and 8+/-2 and 1.035+/-0.005 with phenylephrine (P = 0.43), respectively. Tissue injury volume (mean +/- SD) was 335+/-92 mm3 without phenylephrine and 357+/-154 mm3 with phenylephrine (P > 0.62). The results of our study indicate that postinjury treatment with 15 min of phenylephrine-induced hypertension does not attenuate brain edema, reduce tissue injury volume, or improve neurological outcome after CHT in rats.
Phenylephrine-induced hypertension is reported to increase cerebral perfusion pressure and blood flow in a rat model of focal cerebral ischemia. In our study, phenylephrine-induced hypertension did not decrease brain edema or tissue injury volume or improve neurological outcome in a rat model of closed head trauma.
Clonidine is approved for intraspinal administration in the treatment of neuropathic cancer pain. Some studies have suggested an analgesic effect after systemic clonidine administration. The purpose of this study was to compare the analgesic effects of intrathecal and IV clonidine with acute noxious stimulation and with hyperalgesia from intradermal capsaicin injection in volunteers. Sixteen healthy volunteers received intradermal injections of capsaicin (100 microg) before and after the IV or intrathecal injection of clonidine 50 or 150 microg in a randomized, double-blind manner. Pain and areas of mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia were determined at specified intervals. In addition, pain to noxious heat stimulation was determined. The capsaicin injection produced pain, followed by hyperalgesia and allodynia. The intrathecal, but not IV, injection of 150 microg of clonidine reduced capsaicin-induced pain and area of hyperalgesia. Intrathecal clonidine (150 microg) reduced pain to heat stimulation, whereas IV clonidine did not. The groups did not differ in hemodynamic or sedative effects from clonidine. These data support the value of intraspinal administration of clonidine for the treatment of acute pain and of pain states associated with hyperalgesia. Similarly, they suggest that analgesia from the systemic administration of this alpha2-adrenergic agonist, if any, is weak in doses that produce sedation and reduce blood pressure.
To the extent that the experimental pain conditions used in this study reflect those in patients with acute and chronic pain, these data support the spinal rather than IV injection of clonidine for analgesia.
The effects of implantation of acrylic monomer on the cardiovascular response were studied in 37 patients undergoing hip arthroplasty and receiving high-dose fentanyl anaesthesia, under normotensive conditions or during hypotension induced by trimetaphan (TMP), sodium nitroprusside or nitroglycerine. Heart rate, mean arterial pressure (MAP), the ventricular stroke volume (SV) and the cardiac output (CO) were monitored before, and at 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8-min intervals after the insertion of the acrylic cement into the acetabulum or the neck of femur. There was a moderate decrease in MAP after insertion into the acetabulum under normotensive conditions and TMP-induced hypotension, while the reduction in pressure was significant after the cement's application in the femur. Heart rate did not change on insertion of the monomer in any of the patients. Moderate decreases in SV and CO were observed during normotension or TMP-induced hypotension. There were no significant changes in the cardiovascular haemodynamics on the insertion of the acrylic material under hypotension induced by nitroprusside or nitroglycerine.
To improve survival and reduce toxicity in primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL) treatment, we conducted a multicenter phase II study with early high-dose chemotherapy (HDT) and autologous stem-cell transplantation (ASCT) followed by hyperfractionated whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) for newly diagnosed PCNSL patients younger than 65 years of age.
Chemotherapy included three steps: three cycles of methotrexate (8 g/m2); cytarabine (AraC; two doses of 3 g/m2) and thiotepa (40 mg/m2) followed by stem-cell harvest; HDT with carmustine (400 mg/m2) and thiotepa (two doses of 5 mg/kg body weight) followed by ASCT. WBRT (45 Gy, two doses of 1 Gy/d) was administered for consolidation.
Thirty patients with PCNSL younger than 65 years of age (median, 54 years; range, 27 years to 64 years) were enrolled (nine pilot-phase; 21 phase II). Twenty-eight patients responded to methotrexate: six patients with complete remission (CR), 15 patients with partial remission (PR), and seven patients with stable disease (SD) with clinical improvement. Of 26 patients proceeding to AraC and thiotepa, 10 patients achieved CR, 14 patients achieved PR, one patient experienced SD with clinical improvement, and one patient suffered disease progression. Twenty-three patients received HDT plus ASCT, resulting in 15 patients with CRs and eight patients with PRs. After WBRT, 21 of 21 patients had CRs. One patient died from liver failure after methotrexate. HDT was well tolerated apart from WHO grade 3/4 cytopenia. With a median follow-up of 63 months (range, 4 months to 84 months), 5-year overall survival probability is 69% for all patients and 87% for the 23 patients receiving HDT plus ASCT. The 5-year probability of relapse-related death is 21% for all patients (n = 30) and 8.7% for patients treated with HDT plus ASCT (n = 23).
Sequential systemic methotrexate and AraC and thiotepa followed by HDT plus ASCT and hyperfractionated WBRT is very effective with little toxicity as initial therapy for PCNSL.
A patient is described with cholestatic hepatitis following the use of carbimazole. A liver biopsy specimen showed intracanalicular cholestasis and some mononuclear cell infiltrate in the portal triades, consistent with drug toxicity; indications of an autoimmune or viral pathogenesis were absent. Rechallenge with the drug precipitated jaundice and disturbed liver function once more. Carbimazole induced a blastogenic response of patient lymphocytes in vitro. Both may suggest the involvement of an immune-mediated reaction, especially as it has been shown that sensitized lymphocytes may produce a cholestatic factor on stimulation with antigen.
The association in therapeutic doses of gentamicin and furosemide resulted, in a young patient suffering from post-B virus hepatitis cirrhosis, in renal insufficiency which was spontaneously regressive when the drugs were stopped. Gentamicin, used without furosemide, was not associated with any impairment of renal function. A review of the literature indicates a number of pathogenic hypotheses to explain the increased nephrotoxicity of this drug combination.
Cisplatin, a chemotherapeutic agent, causes significant nausea and vomiting. It is postulated that cisplatin-induced oxidant stress may be responsible for these symptoms. We tested whether pretreatment with American ginseng berry extract (AGBE), an herb with potent antioxidant capacity, and one of its active antioxidant constituents, ginsenoside Re, could counter cisplatin-induced emesis using a rat pica model.
In rats, exposure to emetic stimuli such as cisplatin causes significant kaolin intake, a phenomenon called pica. We therefore measured cisplatin-induced kaolin intake as an indicator of the emetic response. Rats were pretreated with vehicle, AGBE (dose range 50-150 mg/kg, IP) or ginsenoside Re (2 and 5 mg/kg, IP). Rats were treated with cisplatin (3 mg/kg, IP) 30 min later. Kaolin intake, food intake, and body weight were measured every 24 h for 120 h. Additionally, the free radical scavenging activity of AGBE was measured in vitro using ESR spectroscopy.
A significant dose-response relationship was observed between increasing doses of pretreatment with AGBE and reduction in cisplatin-induced pica. Kaolin intake was maximally attenuated by AGBE at a dose of 100 mg/kg. Food intake also improved significantly at this dose (P<0.05). Pretreatment with ginsenoside Re (5 mg/kg) also decreased kaolin intake (P<0.05). In vitro studies demonstrated a concentration-response relationship between AGBE and its ability to scavenge superoxide and hydroxyl radicals.
Pretreatment with AGBE and its major constituent, Re, attenuated cisplatin-induced pica, and demonstrated potential for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. Significant recovery of food intake further strengthens the conclusion that AGBE may exert an antinausea/antiemetic effect.
To date, there is no gold standard therapy for skin photoageing. In the last decade, laser technologies have offered great promise among skin-rejuvenation therapies; however, both non-ablative and ablative fractional resurfacing modalities have their own benefits and drawbacks. More recently, open-label studies and few controlled trials have suggested that photodynamic therapy may have therapeutic potential in photodamage.
To assess the efficacy of methyl aminolevulinate + red-light on facial photodamage in a double-blind split-face randomized placebo-controlled trial.
Subjects had initially two split-face treatments 2-3 weeks apart in which half of the face was treated with MAL + red-light compared with placebo + red-light. Primary outcome was the assessment of global photodamage 1 month after session 2. Secondary outcomes included the assessment of fine lines, mottled pigmentation, tactile roughness, sallowness, erythema and telangiectasia 1 month after session 2, according to severity scores rated as failure, improvement or success.
Based on the intention-to-treat analysis, a total of 48 patients (96 split-faces) were included. Facial global photodamage success or improvement had occurred in 94 split-faces and in no split-faces receiving placebo (RR: 0.02; 95% confidence interval, 0.0-0.14; P = 0.0000). One patient had an adverse event that led to the discontinuation of the therapy after session 1.
Methyl aminolevulinate + red-light demonstrated significantly superior efficacy in global facial photodamage compared with placebo. This therapy was also useful for all other specific secondary outcomes, except for telangiectasia. Overall, MAL + red-light sessions were well tolerated and resulted in high/total patient satisfaction in the majority of subjects (80.4%).
Multiple risk factors for diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) have been described, including omission of insulin therapy and clinical conditions known to increase counterregulatory hormones. Recently, substance abuse has been identified in patients with DKA. We observed many cases of DKA in cocaine users, although the association between cocaine use and DKA has not been well described in the medical literature.
We performed a retrospective case-control study of admissions for DKA in cocaine users and non-user controls in an urban teaching hospital from January 1, 1985, to December 31, 1994.
We identified 720 adult admissions for DKA. Twenty-seven cocaine users accounted for 102 admissions (14% of all DKA admissions). The users were compared with 85 nonuser controls who had 154 DKA admissions. Cocaine users had more admissions for DKA (mean, 3.78 vs 1.81; P = .03). Cocaine users were less likely than controls to have an intercurrent illness identified as a precipitating factor for DKA (14.7% vs 33.1%; P<.001) and were more likely to have missed taking insulin prior to admission (45.1% vs 24.7%; P<.001). Although cocaine users had higher serum glucose levels on admission (32.9 mmol/L [593.4 mg/dL] vs 29.5 mmol/L [531.1 mg/dL]; P =.03), no differences in intensity of illness or treatment outcome were detected.
In this preliminary study, cocaine use was found in a significant number of adults admitted with DKA and was associated with more frequent omission of insulin therapy and the absence of precipitating systemic illness. Either because of its association with insulin therapy omission or its effects on counterregulatory hormones, cocaine use should be considered a risk factor for DKA, particularly in patients with multiple admissions.
1. The effect of interleukin-10 (IL-10) upon the hyperalgesic activities in rats of bradykinin, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and carrageenin were investigated in a model of mechanical hyperalgesia. 2. Hyperalgesic responses to bradykinin (1 micrograms) were inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by prior treatment with IL-10 (1-100 ng). 3. Hyperalgesic responses to TNF alpha (2.5 pg), IL-1 beta (0.5 pg) and IL-6 (1.0 ng) but not to IL-8 (0.1 ng) and PGE2 (50 ng and 100 ng) were inhibited by prior treatment with IL-10 (10 ng). 4. Hyperalgesic responses to carrageenin (100 micrograms) were inhibited by IL-10 (10 ng) when this cytokine was injected before but not after the carrageenin. 5. A monoclonal antibody to mouse IL-10 potentiated the hyperalgesic responses to carrageenin (10 micrograms) and TNF alpha (0.025 pg) but not that to IL-8 (0.01 ng). 6. In in vitro experiments in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (MNCs), IL-10 (0.25-4.0 ng ml-1) inhibited in a dose-dependent manner PGE2 production by MNCs stimulated with IL-1 beta (1-64 ng ml-1) or endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS, 1 iu = 143 pg ml-1) but evoked only small increases in IL-1ra production. 7. These data suggest that IL-10 limits the inflammatory hyperalgesia evoked by carrageenin and bradykinin by two mechanisms: inhibition of cytokine production and inhibition of IL-1 beta evoked PGE2 production. Our data suggest that the latter effect is not mediated via IL-10 induced IL-Ira and may result from suppression by IL-10 of prostaglandin H synthase-2 (COX-2).
