Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by invasion of hyperplastic synovial cells and progressive joint destruction. Ozone therapy has been proposed as an immunomodulator and cellular metabolic activator which shows long-term anti-inflammatory effects and serves to reduce further the proinflammatory factors. We purified RA synovial fibroblast cells (RA-SFc) from patients and avoided contaminating macrophages by flow cytometry, then treated them with ozone. Following the observable decreased production of proinflammatory factors TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6 from RA-SFc, we infused the cultured RA-SFc into joints of severe combined immunodeficiency mice. The mRNA and protein levels of the RA-SFc exposed to 3% and 5% ozone were the same. As a result, 3% and 5% ozone applied externally ameliorated the inflammatory reaction of RA without toxicity or serious side effects. Therefore, ozone injected into the knees of RA patients could become a valuable treatment, and we confirm the interactive mechanism between ozone and RA-SFc.
Microdeletions of chromosome 22q11 are the most common genetic defects associated with cardiac and craniofacial anomalies in humans. A screen for mouse genes dependent on dHAND, a transcription factor implicated in neural crest development, identified Ufd1, which maps to human 22q11 and encodes a protein involved in degradation of ubiquitinated proteins. Mouse Ufd1 was specifically expressed in most tissues affected in patients with 22q11 deletion syndrome. The human UFD1L gene was deleted in all 182 patients studied with 22q11 deletion, and a smaller deletion of approximately 20 kilobases that removed exons 1 to 3 of UFD1L was found in one individual with features typical of 22q11 deletion syndrome. These data suggest that UFD1L haploinsufficiency contributes to the congenital heart and craniofacial defects seen in 22q11 deletion.
Adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) administration to sheep (100 IU/day) produces a sustained increase in arterial pressure within 24 h. The effect of ACTH on excretion of an intravenous saline load was tested in 8 adult cross-bred Merino ewes. A significant diuretic response to saline loading was found after 24 h but no increased natriuresis. On days 3 and 6, diuretic and natriuretic responses were both significantly increased. Steroid-induced sodium retention may have abolished the natriuretic effect on day 1.
Ceruloplasmin (Cp) is the strongest ferroxidase in human plasma. Hereditary deficiency of this protein, named aceruloplasminemia, is an interesting model to elucidate the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of neurodegeneration induced by oxidative stress. Enhanced oxidative stress due to excessive iron accumulation is observed in the brains of aceruloplasminemia patients. Rotenone, a selective mitochondrial complex I inhibitor, induces neurodegeneration mimicking Parkinson's disease. We investigated the influence of Cp deficiency upon neurodegeneration using rotenone-treated, Cp-deficient mouse brains. Immunohistochemical examination showed that acrolein, one of the products of lipid peroxides, and ubiquitin were more markedly immunoreacted in the brains of rotenone-treated, Cp-deficient mice than in rotenone-untreated, Cp-deficient or rotenone-treated, wild-type mice. These molecules were localized in neuronal cells. These results suggested that rotenone-induced lipid peroxidation and accumulation of ubiquitin immunoreactivity were enhanced in the absence of Cp. Therefore, Cp may protect neuronal cells from oxidative stress-induced neurodegeneration.
We investigated antioxidative activity and the effect of indomethacin, an agent that inhibits cyclooxygenase, on extracellular glutamate and cerebral blood flow in cerebral ischemia in gerbils. Pre-ischemic administration of indomethacin (5 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly rescued hippocampal CA1 neurons (9+/-6 cells/mm in the ischemia, 87+/-43 cells/mm in the indomethacin group, P<0.001). DNA fragmentation induced by ischemia was also examined using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated UTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) method and indomethacin reduced TUNEL positive cells (140+/-21 in the ischemia, 99+/-31 in the indomethacin group, P<0.01). In addition, indomethacin attenuated the increase in hippocampal blood flow during reperfusion, but not increased extracellular glutamate by ischemia. Eight-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG), a highly sensitive marker of DNA oxidation, was measured 90 min following ischemia using high-pressure liquid chromatography. Indomethacin significantly decreased the level of ischemia-induced 8-OH-dG in the hippocampus (P<0.05). These results suggest that indomethacin may protect neurons by attenuating oxidative stress and reperfusion injury in ischemic insult.
Epidemiologic studies have demonstrated an association between acute exposure to ambient fine particles and both mortality and morbidity. Less is known about the relative impacts of the specific chemical constituents of particulate matter<2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5) on hospital admissions.
This study was designed to estimate the risks of exposure to PM2.5 and several species on hospital admissions for respiratory diseases among children.
We obtained data on daily counts of hospitalizations for children<19 and <5 years of age for total respiratory diseases and several subcategories including pneumonia, acute bronchitis, and asthma for six California counties from 2000 through 2003, as well as ambient concentrations of PM2.5 and its constituents, including elemental carbon (EC), organic carbon (OC), and nitrates (NO3). We used Poisson regression to estimate risks while controlling for important covariates.
We observed associations between several components of PM2.5 and hospitalization for all of the respiratory outcomes examined. For example, for total respiratory admissions for children<19 years of age, the interquartile range for a 3-day lag of PM2.5, EC, OC, NO3, and sulfates was associated with an excess risk of 4.1% [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.8-6.4], 5.4% (95% CI, 0.8-10.3), 3.4% (95% CI, 1.1-5.7), 3.3% (95% CI, 1.1-5.5), and 3.0% (95% CI, 0.4-5.7), respectively. We also observed associations for several metals. Additional associations with several of the species, including potassium, were observed in the cool season.
Components of PM2.5 were associated with hospitalization for several childhood respiratory diseases including pneumonia, bronchitis, and asthma. Because exposure to components (e.g., EC, OC, NO3, and K) and their related sources, including diesel and gasoline exhaust, wood smoke, and other combustion sources, are ubiquitous in the urban environment, it likely represents an identifiable and preventable risk factor for hospitalization for children.
Lead exposure and psychological stress have been independently associated with hypertension in various populations, and animal studies suggest that when they co-occur, their effects may be exacerbated.
We examined whether psychological stress modifies the impact of cumulative lead exposure (measured as bone lead levels) on hypertension and blood pressure in Boston-area community-exposed men participating in the Normative Aging Study.
We evaluated the modifying effect of stress on lead exposure on baseline hypertension status (513 participants) and on blood pressure in those without hypertension (237 participants), cross-sectionally. In baseline nonhypertensives, we examined the same risk factors in relation to prospective risk of developing hypertension.
Cross-sectional analysis revealed a positive interaction between stress and tibia lead on systolic blood pressure, after adjusting for age, body mass index, family history of high blood pressure, education, smoking, alcohol consumption, physical activity, and nutritional factors. In prospective multivariate analyses, high stress also modified the effect of tibia lead and patella lead on the risk of developing hypertension. Those reporting high stress had 2.66 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.43-4.95] times the risk of developing hypertension per standard deviation increase in tibia lead and had 2.64 (95% CI, 1.42-4.92) times the risk per standard deviation increase in patella lead.
To our knowledge, these are the first analyses to look at interactive effects of stress and lead on hypertension in humans. These results suggest that the effect of lead on hypertension is most pronounced among highly stressed individuals, independent of demographic and behavioral risk factors.
Metoclopramide is an antiemetic drug which occasionally produced acute dystonic reactions. Although known to interfere with central dopamine mechanisms, it is frequently used in Parkinson's disease to prevent levodopa-induced nausea and vomiting. In this study metoclopramide did not increase Parkinsonism or reduce levodopa-induced involuntary movements in patients with Parkinson's disease. Pimozide, by contrast, increased Parkinsonism and reduced involuntary movements. The capacity of metoclopramide to produce acute dyskinesias while being apparently free of Parkinsonism effects is pharmacologically unique and differentiates this drug from the phenothiazines and butyrophenones.
To study the nephrotoxicity induced by first oral administration of tacrolimus (FK506) and the prevention of diltiazem (Dil).
24 Sprague-Dawley male rats were randomly divided into 4 equal groups: control (n = 6), cyclosporine A (CsA) group (receiving CsA 25 mg.kg(-1).d(-1) so as to develop CsA-induced nephropathy model), FK506 group (receiving FK506 0.8 mg.kg(-1).d(-1), the common renal transplantation therapeutic dose, so as to develop FK506-induced nephropathy model), FK506 + Dil group (receiving CsA 0.8 mg.kg(-1).d(-1) and Dil 8 mg.kg(-1).d(-1)), and control group. Four weeks later body weight was measured, blood samples were collected to examine the creatinine, urea nitrogen, and uric acid, and urine samples were collected to examine the 24 h urine protein, uric acid, and creatinine. Then the rats were killed with their kidneys taken out to undergo histopathological examination.
The urine creatinine levels of the CsA and FK506 groups were significantly lower than that of the control group (both P < 0.05), however, there was no significant difference in urine creatinine between the FK506 + Dil group and control group. The blood creatinine levels of both CsA and FK506 groups were significantly higher than those of the FK506 + Dil group and control group (all P < 0.05), however, there was no significant difference in blood creatinine between the FK506 + Dil group and control group. The urea nitrogen level of the CsA group was significantly higher than those of the other 3 groups (all P < 0.05). The creatinine clearance rates of the CsA and FK506 groups were both significantly lower than that of the control group (both P < 0.05), and the creatinine clearance rate of the FK506 + Dil group was between those of the FK506 group and control group, however, with significant differences with both of them. Histopathology examination showed cloudy swelling and vacuolization of the renal tubular epithelial cells in the CsA and FK506 groups. However, the pathological changes of the FK506 + Dil group were remarkably milder in comparison with these 2 groups.
FK506 and CsA at the renal transplantation therapeutic dose induce nephrotoxicity. Diltiazem prevents FK506-induced nephrotoxicity.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is characterised by chronic intestinal inflammation, resulting from dysregulation of the mucosal immune system and compromised intestinal epithelial barrier function. The bile salt, nuclear farnesoid X receptor (FXR), was recently implicated in intestinal antibacterial defence and barrier function. The aim of this study was to investigate the therapeutic potential of FXR agonists in the treatment of intestinal inflammation in complementary in vivo and in vitro models.
Colitis was induced in wild-type (WT) and Fxr-null mice using dextran sodium sulfate, and in WT mice using trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid. Mice were treated with vehicle or the FXR agonist INT-747, and colitis symptoms were assessed daily. Epithelial permeability assays and cytokine expression analysis were conducted in mouse colon and enterocyte-like cells (Caco-2/HT29) treated with medium or INT-747. Inflammatory cytokine secretion was determined by ELISA in various human immune cell types.
INT-747-treated WT mice are protected from DSS- and TNBS-induced colitis, as shown by significant reduction of body weight loss, epithelial permeability, rectal bleeding, colonic shortening, ulceration, inflammatory cell infiltration and goblet cell loss. Furthermore, Fxr activation in intestines of WT mice and differentiated enterocyte-like cells downregulates expression of key proinflammatory cytokines and preserves epithelial barrier function. INT-747 significantly decreases tumour necrosis factor α secretion in activated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, purified CD14 monocytes and dendritic cells, as well as in lamina propria mononuclear cells from patients with IBD.
FXR activation prevents chemically induced intestinal inflammation, with improvement of colitis symptoms, inhibition of epithelial permeability, and reduced goblet cell loss. Furthermore, FXR activation inhibits proinflammatory cytokine production in vivo in the mouse colonic mucosa, and ex vivo in different immune cell populations. The findings provide a rationale to explore FXR agonists as a novel therapeutic strategy for IBD.
Amado and Cavalheiro [Amado, D., Cavalheiro, E.A., 1998. Hormonal and gestational parameters in female rats submitted to the pilocarpine model of epilepsy. Epilepsy Res. 32, 266-274], studying the establishment of the pilocarpine epilepsy model in female rats observed that the estrous cycle was dramatically altered during the three periods of this experimental model. This work was delineated to study the function of sexual hormones in the development of the epilepsy model induced by pilocarpine in ovariectomized rats. Experimental groups were: (a) control animals during estrus phase of the estrous cycle (E) and ovariectomized female rats (OVX) treated with saline instead of pilocarpine in the same volume, (b) experimental animals, that developed status epilepticus (SE) and were studied during the chronic phase of this model: intact chronic rats (CHRON) and ovariectomized chronic rats (OVX+CHRON) and (c) ovariectomized chronic rats, that were submitted to hormonal replacement therapy treated with: medroxyprogesterone (OVX+CHRON+MPA); 17beta-estradiol (OVX+CHRON+E2), or both (OVX+CHRON+E2+MPA). All ovariectomized animals showed genital atrophy 4 days after the surgical procedure. Moreover, all animals that developed SE and survived showed spontaneous recurrent seizures during the chronic phase. Concerning to seizure frequency, animals receiving medroxyprogesterone associated with 17beta-estradiol showed decreased seizures' number. However, animals that received only medroxyprogesterone therapy also showed reduction in the number of seizures. In addition, hormonal treatment was also able to stabilize the mossy fibers sprouting process, showing the importance of these hormones in the development of the epilepsy in female rats.
Cardiotoxicity due to tacrolimus is documented infrequently in the medical literature. Sinus bradycardia associated with intravenous tacrolimus occurred in a 15-year-old orthotopic liver transplant recipient. The mechanism of this adverse effect is unknown; however, it does not appear to be concentration dependent, and in this patient it resolved on changing to oral therapy. Practitioners should be aware that intravenous administration of tacrolimus may be associated with adverse cardiac events including sinus bradycardia.
Hepatotoxicity due to cocaine has been well described in animal models. There are few reports on cocaine-induced hepatic injury in humans; however, its link to rhabdomyolysis and renal failure is better known. We report a case of reversible acute hepatonephrotoxicity associated with recreational cocaine use. The proposed mechanisms responsible for its hepatic and renal toxicity are reviewed.
The objective of this study was to examine the ocular hydrodynamic effects of topically and centrally administered naphazoline, alone and following pretreatment with pertussis toxin (PTX) and alpha(2)/I(1)receptor antagonists. Topically and intracisternally administered naphazoline was examined for its ability to alter intraocular pressure (IOP) of rabbits in the absence and presence of receptor antagonists (rauwolscine, efaroxan) and a G(i/o)ribosylating agent PTX. In addition, the topical effects of naphazoline on pupil diameter and aqueous humor flow rate were evaluated. Topical unilateral application of naphazoline (7.5, 25 and 75 micro g; 25 micro l) elicited an ipsilateral dose-dependent mydriasis (2, 4 and 5.5 mm) that peaked at 2 hr with a duration of up to 5 hr. The IOP decreases induced by naphazoline were bilateral and dose-dependent (3, 6 and 10 mmHg); the response peaked at 1 hr and lasted for up to 5 hr. Pretreatment with efaroxan (250 micro g) elicited significantly greater antagonism of the ocular hypotensive response to naphazoline than did rauwolscine (250 micro g) suggesting an involvement of imidazoline (I(1)) receptors. Intracisternal application of naphazoline (3.3 micro g) also produced bilateral reductions (6 mmHg) of IOP that were immediate (10 min post drug) and lasted for approximately 2 hr. In PTX-pretreated (2.5 micro g kg(-1), i.a.) rabbits, the ocular hypotensive effects of naphazoline by both routes (topically and centrally) were attenuated by 50--65%. In addition to producing ocular hypotension, topical application of naphazoline (75 micro g; 25 micro l) caused significant reduction, from 2.8 to 1.5 micro l min(-1), in aqueous humor flow. These in vivo data indicate that, regardless of route of administration, alteration of aqueous humor flow by naphazoline was induced by the activation of alpha(2)and I(1)receptors. The ocular hypotensive effects produced by central administration did not result in sedation, therefore, there is the suggestion that central alpha(2)adrenergic receptors were stimulated minimally by naphazoline. Thus, these data suggest that ocular hypotensive effects and suppression of aqueous humor flow rate by naphazoline are mediated, in part, by alpha(2)and/or central I(1)at both central (brain) and peripheral (eye) sites. Moreover, these data indicate that the receptors are linked to PTX-sensitive G((i/o))proteins.
A patient developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome after a single dose of venlafaxine with trifluoperazine treatment. A dopamine-inhibition effect induced by one dose of venlafaxine may have augmented dopamine-receptor inhibition by trifluoperazine.
The pancreas is highly susceptible to the oxidative stress induced by ischemia/reperfusion (IR) injury leading to the generation of acute pancreatitis. Melatonin has been shown to be useful in the prevention of the damage by ischemia-reperfusion in liver, brain, myocardium, gut and kidney. The aim of the study was to evaluate the cytoprotective properties of melatonin against injury induced by IR in pancreas. The obstruction of gastro-duodenal and inferior splenic arteries induced pancreatic IR in male Wistar rats. Melatonin was intraperitoneally administered before or/and after IR injury. The animals were killed at 24 and 48 hr after reperfusion and there were evaluated parameters of oxidative stress (lipoperoxides, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and reduced glutathione), glandular endocrine and exocrine function (lipase, amylase, insulin) and cell injury (apoptosis and necrosis). The IR induced a marked enhancement of oxidative stress and impaired pancreatic function. The histological analysis showed that IR induced acute pancreatitis with the accumulation of inflammatory infiltrate, disruption of tissue structure, cell necrosis and hemorrhage. Melatonin administration before or after pancreatic IR prevented all tissue markers of oxidative stress, biochemical and histological signs of apoptosis and necrosis, and restored glandular function. No histological signs of pancreatitis were observed 48 hr after reperfusion in 80% of the animals treated with melatonin, with only a mild edematous pancreatitis being observed in the remaining rats. Preventive or therapeutic administration of melatonin protected against the induction of oxidative stress and tissue injury, and restored cell function in experimental pancreatic IR in rats.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are detoxifying enzymes that contribute to the glutathione-ascorbic acid (vitamin C) antioxidant cycle.
The objective was to determine whether GST genotypes modify the association between dietary vitamin C and serum ascorbic acid.
Nonsmoking men and women (n = 905) between 20 and 29 y of age were participants in the Toronto Nutrigenomics and Health Study. Overnight fasting blood samples were collected to determine serum ascorbic acid concentrations by HPLC and to genotype for deletion polymorphisms in GSTM1 and GSTT1 and an Ile105Val substitution in GSTP1. A 196-item food-frequency questionnaire was used to estimate vitamin C intake.
A gene-diet interaction on serum ascorbic acid was observed for GSTM1 (P = 0.04) and GSTT1 (P = 0.01) but not for GSTP1 (P = 0.83). The odds ratio (95% CI) for serum ascorbic acid deficiency (<11 micromol/L) was 3.20 (1.88, 5.44) for subjects who did not meet the Recommended Dietary Allowance of vitamin C compared with those who did. The corresponding odds ratios (95% CIs) were 2.17 (1.10, 4.28) and 12.28 (4.26, 33.42), respectively, for individuals with the GSTT1*1/*1 +*1/*0 (functional) and GSTT1*0/*0 (null) genotypes and 2.29 (0.96, 5.45) and 4.03 (2.01, 8.09), respectively, for the GSTM1*1/*1+GSTM1*1/*0 and GSTM1*0/*0 genotypes.
The recommended intake of vitamin C protects against serum ascorbic acid deficiency, regardless of genotype. Individuals with GST null genotypes had an increased risk of deficiency if they did not meet the Recommended Dietary Allowance for vitamin C, which suggests that the GST enzymes protect against serum ascorbic acid deficiency when dietary vitamin C is insufficient.
The promoter region of Discoidin, CUB and LCCL domain containing 2 (DCBLD2) was found to be aberrantly methylated in gastric cancer cell lines and in primary gastric cancers, as determined by restriction landmark genomic scanning. DCBLD2 expression was inversely correlated with DCBLD2 methylation in gastric cancer cell lines. Treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine and trichostatin A partially reversed DCBLD2 methylation and restored gene expression in DCBLD2-silenced cell lines. In an independent series of 82 paired gastric cancers and adjacent normal tissues, DCBLD2 expression was down-regulated in 79% of gastric cancers as compared with normal tissues as measured by real-time reverse transcription-PCR. Pyrosequencing analysis of the DCBLD2 promoter region revealed abnormal hypermethylation in gastric cancers, and this hypermethylation was significantly correlated with down-regulation of DCBLD2 expression. Furthermore, ectopic expression of DCBLD2 in gastric cancer cell lines inhibited colony formation in both anchorage-dependent and anchorage-independent cultures and also inhibited invasion through the collagen matrix. These data suggest that down-regulation of DCBLD2, often associated with promoter hypermethylation, is a frequent event that may be related to the development of gastric cancer.
The in vivo effects of melatonin on proliferation and apoptosis of 17-beta-estradiol (E2)-induced pituitary prolactin-secreting tumor (prolactinoma) were investigated in rats kept in 12 L/12 D (lights on: 06:00-18:00 hr). As melatonin was shown to induce apoptosis of breast and liver tumor cells, we examined whether melatonin would induce apoptosis of rat pituitary prolactinoma cells. 0.125, 0.25, 0.50 or 1.0 mg melatonin/day/rat was administrated subcutaneously at 17:30-18:00 hr. The weight of prolactinomas was measured. Apoptosis was evaluated using the TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling method. It was found that treatment with 0.25 and 0.50 mg melatonin for 97 days inhibited prolactinoma cell proliferation and increased prolactinoma cell apoptosis. Furthermore, melatonin induced mRNA expression of Bax and cytochrome c protein expression. Conversely, mRNA expression of Bcl-2, and mitochondrial membrane potential were inhibited by melatonin treatment. These results suggest that melatonin inhibits the proliferation and induces apoptosis of rat pituitary prolactin-secreting tumor via perturbation of mitochondria physiology.
We report the successful use of prostaglandin F2 alpha continous bladder irrigation in two patients for the treatment of intractable cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis which was resistant to conventional therapy in two patients. A 0.7 mg% solution of prostaglandin F2 alpha was used for continuous bladder irrigation at a rate of 150 to 200 cc/hr for four days. The response was complete in both patients and no side effects were noted.
To establish cell lines from the patient with plasmablastic lymphoma, who was immunologically competent including negative human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) serology, and analyze the unique chromosomal translocations seen in the cell lines in order to unveil the pathogenesis of this tumor, which had no evidence of Epstein-Barr virus involvement.
Establishment of the cell lines was attempted by inoculating the patient's lymph node biopsy specimen subcutaneously to immunodeficient mice. Comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) array and FISH analysis were performed to identify breakpoints of the two chromosomal translocations. Of the 4 candidate genes identified by FISH analysis to be involved in the translocations, reverse transcription-PCR, Western blot, flow cytometry, and proliferation assay were performed to identify the exact genes involved.
Analysis of the cell lines identified loss of p16 at the protein level by chromosomal translocation of t(9;13) and upregulation of MDR-1 by t(4;7). The cell lines expressing MDR-1 acquired resistance to chemotherapeutic agents such as cisplatin and doxorubicin, but not bortezomib. Expression of B lymphoid lineage marker genes of these cell lines was negative for paired box 5 (Pax5) or PR domain containing 1, with ZNF domain (PRDM1), but was positive for X-box binding protein 1 (Xbp1).
We established three novel cell lines of plasmablastic lymphoma. Characterization of the unique chromosomal translocation identified loss of p16 and upregulation of MDR-1 at protein level. Expression of Xbp1(s), which is involved in the maturation of plasma cells, corresponded to the plasmablastic appearance of the tumor. These cell lines may be a useful tool to understand the pathophysiology of the disease and to develop novel treatment strategies.
Oral contraceptive agents (OCs) containing levonorgestrel, 150 micrograms, and ethinyl estradiol, 30 micrograms, account for almost half the sales of such agents in the United Kingdom. The remarkable success of this formulation has occurred primarily because it provides extremely low doses of both hormonal constituents yet still gives most users a very acceptable bleeding pattern: the incidence of breakthrough bleeding is about 6% and of amenorrhea, less than 3%. Approximately 90% of users have cycle lengths of 28 +/- 3 days. The risk of serious side effects is significantly lower than with formulas containing higher doses of progestogen and/or estrogen. Minor side effects occur in only a small percentage of cycles. Headache is reported in approximately 10% of all cycles and should be regarded as a potential indicator of increased risk. If it presents as focal migraine, use of the combined OC should be discontinued. The contraceptive effectiveness of the 150/30 formulation is similar to that of the 50 micrograms formulations among compliant women; in less compliant women the margin of error is reduced, and the possibility of an increased risk of accidental pregnancy must be considered.
After widespread publicity about major adverse reactions to oral contraceptive agents, combinations were tested that contained lower doses of sex steroids than had been used before. Among them, the combination of levonorgestrel, 150 micrograms, and ethinyl estradiol, 30 micrograms, was studied intensively. European studies exclusive of the British Isles were conducted on 3,733 patients through approximately 36,000 cycles. There were nine pregnancies, for a Pearl index of 0.3. Cycle regulation was excellent, with normalization of menstrual flow. Amenorrhea was reported in 2.3% or less of cycles. No serious side effects were reported. The decrease in estrogen dosage, usually accompanied by a decrease in the progestational component, has resulted in a decrease in reported thromboembolic disease. Factors still important are diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obesity and cigarette smoking.
Levonorgestrel, 0.15 mg, and ethinyl estradiol, 0.03 mg, an ultra-low-dose oral contraceptive product, was studied in Latin America. In total, 1,206 sexually active, fertile women in their reproductive years were followed through 9,736 cycles. Only one of eight pregnancies was attributed to failure of the medication, resulting in a corrected Pearl index of 0.13. Very good cycle regulation was achieved, with an acceptably low rate of intermenstrual bleeding. The medication was discontinued for medical reasons in only 5% of the patients. Apart from a mild case of thrombophlebitis, there were no major side effects. These studies show that this combination oral contraceptive provides effective contraception with a very low incidence of side effects.
0.15 mg levonorgestrel and 0.03 mg ethinyl estradiol, an ultra-low-dose oral contraceptive (OC) was studied in Latin America. In total, 1206 sexually active, fertile women in their reproductive years were followed through 9736 cycles. Only 1 of 8 pregnancies was attributed to failure of the medication, resulting in a corrected Pearl Index of 0.13. Very good cycle regulation was achieved, with an acceptably low rate of intermenstrual bleeding. The medication was discontinued for medical reasons in only 5% of the patients. Apart from a mild case of thrombophlebitis, there were no major side effects. These studies show that this combination OC provides effective contraception with a very low incidence of side effects.
Nitric oxide (NO) and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) may induce vascular relaxation by increasing the production of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), an important mediator of vascular tone during sepsis. This study aimed to determine whether regulation of NO and the ANP system is altered in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced kidney injury. LPS (10 mg.kg(-1)) was injected in the tail veins of male Sprague-Dawley rats; 12 hours later, the kidneys were removed. Protein expression of NO synthase (NOS) and neutral endopeptidase (NEP) was determined by semiquantitative immunoblotting. As an index of synthesis of NO, its stable metabolites (nitrite/nitrate, NOx) were measured using colorimetric assays. mRNA expression of the ANP system was determined by real-time polymerase chain reaction. To determine the activity of guanylyl cyclase (GC), the amount of cGMP generated in response to sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and ANP was calculated. Creatinine clearance decreased and fractional excretion of sodium increased in LPS-treated rats compared with the controls. Inducible NOS protein expression increased in LPS-treated rats, while that of endothelial NOS, neuronal NOS, and NEP remained unchanged. Additionally, urinary and plasma NOx levels increased in LPS-treated rats. SNP-stimulated GC activity remained unchanged in the glomerulus and papilla in the LPS-treated rats. mRNA expression of natriuretic peptide receptor (NPR)-C decreased in LPS-treated rats, while that of ANP and NPR-A did not change. ANP-stimulated GC activity reduced in the glomerulus and papilla. In conclusion, enhancement of the NO/cGMP pathway and decrease in ANP clearance were found play a role in the pathogenesis of LPS-induced kidney injury.
One hundred and eighty patients, average age of 58 years (range 24-75) were evaluated for impotence and were advised to undergo pharmacologic self-injection therapy with either papaverine/Regitine (90%) or prostaglandin E1 (10%). Follow-up was available from 2 months to 3 years (average 11 months). The cause of impotence was determined by hormonal testing, Rigiscan and psychological testing. The etiology of impotence was organic (70%), psychogenic (20%), and mixed (10%). After the initial test injection 22% of patients did not enroll in the self-injection program or were lost to follow-up. The group with psychogenic impotence had the highest satisfaction/usage rate at 42%. Overall only 20% of patients were satisfied long-term and were actively using self-injection therapy. Of the 140 patients available for follow-up, 112 patients (80%) discontinued self-injection therapy. The reasons for discontinued usage were alternate treatment (prosthesis or vacuum device) 15%, return or improvement of erections 8%, partner dissatisfaction or loss of partner 10%, or complications of injection therapy 10%. Cost was not a factor for discontinued use. Loss of interest caused 57% of patients to stop using self-injection therapy. Although pharmacologic self-injection therapy is initially promising there is a high drop-out rate at long-term follow-up.
