This study was designed to determine the gastroprotective properties of cinitapride (CNT), a novel prokinetic benzamide derivative agonist of 5-HT4 and 5-HT1 receptors and 5-HT2 antagonist, on mucosal injury produced by 50% (v/v) ethanol. Results were compared with those for 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT: 10 mg kg-1). The possible involvements of gastric mucus secretion, endogenous prostaglandins (PGs) and sulfhydryl compounds (SH) in the protection mediated by CNT were also examined. Intraperitoneal administration of CNT (0.50 and 1 mg kg-1), 30 min before ethanol, significantly prevented gastric ulceration and increased the hexosamine content of gastric mucus. CNT (1 mg kg-1) also produced a significant increase in gastric mucosal levels of PGE2, but did not induce any significant changes in SH values. On the contrary, pretreatment with 5-HT worsened ethanol-induced erosions, however, did not affect gastric mucus secretion, glycoprotein content or PGE2 levels, although the non-protein SH fraction was significantly decreased. The present results demonstrate that the gastroprotective effects of CNT could be partly explained by a complex PG dependent mechanism. We suggest that 5-HT dependent mechanisms through 5-HT2 receptor blockade and 5-HT1 receptor activation could be also involved.
A 36-year-old male, who 1 year previously had survived a large anterior myocardial infarction, followed by cardiac arrest, was treated a few months for psoriasis with oral methotrexate, at single weekly oral doses of up to 10 mg, when he had to be hospitalized due to anginal pain and palpitation. Repeated 24-hour electrocardiogram recordings revealed ventricular ectopy up to 580 premature beats per hour. The ventricular premature beats were almost completely abolished after a few days' discontinuation of methotrexate therapy but recurred a few hours after an attempt to restart it had been made. A coronary angiogram showed only minimal wall abnormalities. Electrophysiological testing and endomyocardial biopsy were normal.
The purpose of this study was to characterize the brain activity and associated cortical structures involved in pseudobulbar affect (PBA), a condition characterized by uncontrollable episodes of laughing and/or crying in patients with multiple sclerosis before and after treatment with dextromethorphan/quinidine (DM/Q). Behavioral responses and event-related potentials (ERPs) in response to subjectively significant and neutral verbal stimuli were recorded from 2 groups: 6 multiple sclerosis patients with PBA before (PBA-preTx) and after (PBA-DM/Q) treatment with DM/Q and 6 healthy control (HC) subjects. Statistical nonparametric mapping comparisons of ERP source current density distributions between groups were conducted for subjectively significant and neutral stimuli separately before and after treatment with DM/Q. Treatment with DM/Q had a normalizing effect on the behavioral responses of PBA patients. Event-related potential waveform comparisons of PBA-preTx and PBA-DM/Q with HC, for both neutral and subjectively significant stimuli, revealed effects on early ERP components. Comparisons between PBA-preTx and HC, in response to subjectively significant stimuli, revealed both early and late effects. Source analysis comparisons between PBA-preTx and PBA-DM/Q indicated distinct activations in areas involved in emotional processing and high-level and associative visual processing in response to neutral stimuli and in areas involved in emotional, somatosensory, primary, and premotor processing in response to subjectively significant stimuli. In most cases, stimuli evoked higher current density in PBA-DM/Q compared with the other groups. In conclusion, differences in brain activity were observed before and after medication. Also, DM/Q administration resulted in normalization of behavioral and electrophysiological measures.
The present study investigated the penetration and potential toxicity of titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) nanoparticles following its dermal exposure in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, after exposure to isolated porcine skin for 24h, titanium dioxide nanoparticles of carious sizes cannot penetrate through stratum corneum. Interestingly, when studied in vivo, quite different results were obtained. After topically applied on pig ear for 30 days, TiO(2) nanomaterials (4 nm and 60 nm) can penetrate through horny layer, and be located in deep layer of epidermis. Furthermore, after 60 days dermal exposure in hairless mice, nano-TiO(2) particles can penetrate through the skin, reach different tissues and induce diverse pathological lesions in several major organs. Notably, P25 (21 nm) TiO(2) nanomaterials shows a wider tissue distribution, and can even be found in the brain without inducing any pathological changes. Among all of the organs examined, the skin and liver displayed the most severe pathological changes that correspond to the significant changes in SOD and MDA levels. These results suggest that the pathological lesions are likely to be mediated through the oxidative stress induced by the deposited nanoparticles. Accordingly, the collagen content expressed as HYP content are also significantly reduced in mouse skin samples, indicating that topically applied nano-TiO(2) in skin for a prolonged time can induce skin aging. Altogether, the present study indicates that nanosize TiO(2) may pose a health risk to human after dermal exposure over a relative long time period.
We studied the effects--on parkinsonian signs, on levodopa-induced dyskinesias, and on levodopa response--of acute experimental high-frequency stimulation of the internal pallidum (GPi) during off-drug and on-drug phases. Thirteen quadripolar electrodes were evaluated in 8 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Stimulation of the most ventral contacts, lying at the ventral margin of or just below the GPi, led to pronounced improvement in rigidity and a complete arrest of levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The antiakinetic effect of levodopa was also blocked and the patients became severely akinetic. Stimulation of the most dorsal contacts, lying at the dorsal border of the GPi or inside the external pallidum, usually led to moderate improvement of off-drug akinesia and could also induce dyskinesias in some patients. When using an intermediate contact for chronic stimulation, a good compromise between these opposite effects was usually obtained, mimicking the effect of pallidotomy. We conclude that there are at least two different functional zones within the globus pallidus, at the basis of a different pathophysiology of the cardinal symptoms of PD. The opposite effects may explain the variable results of pallidal surgery reported in the literature and may also largely explain the paradox of PD surgery. A possible anatomical basis for these differential functional effects could be a functional somatotopy within the GPi, with the segregation of the pallidofugal fibers from the outer portion of the GPi, on one hand, forming the ventral ansa lenticularis and from the inner portion of the GPi, on the other hand, forming the dorsal lenticular fasciculus.
The objectives of this study were to determine the following: (a) the feasibility of expanding interim methadone treatment (IM), (b) the impact of IM on heroin and cocaine use, and (c) the effect of charging a modest fee for IM. Six clinics provided daily methadone plus emergency counseling only (IM) to heroin-addicted individuals on a waiting list for treatment. IM was provided for up to 120 days before transfer to regular methadone treatment. Drug testing was conducted at admission to IM and at transfer to methadone treatment program (MTP). Half the patients were charged $10/week for IM. Logistic regression analysis was used to determine the effect of fee status and other variables on transfer. Of 1,000 patients enrolled in IM, 762 patients (76.2%) were admitted to a regular MTP. For those who transferred (n = 762), opioid-positive tests decreased from 89.6% to 38.4%; cocaine, from 49.9% to 44.9% from admission to transfer. Logistic regression analysis indicated that fee status at baseline was not significantly associated with transfer. When limited public resources create waiting lists, IM can allow additional patients to sharply reduce heroin use while waiting for admission to MTP.
We describe a case of prolonged sinus arrest resolved by external cardiac massage following intravenous infusion of dipyridamole, during a thallium myocardial perfusion test. The arrhythmia, presumably due to an acute drug adverse effect, had not been previously described (to our knowledge) as a complication of dipyridamole stress testing.
Olfactomedin-4 (OLFM-4) is an extracellular matrix protein that is highly expressed in human endometrium. We have examined the regulation and function of OLFM-4 in normal endometrium and in cases of endometriosis and endometrial cancer. OLFM-4 expression levels are highest in proliferative-phase endometrium, and 17β-estradiol up-regulates OLFM-4 mRNA in endometrial explant cultures. Using the luciferase reporter under control of the OLFM-4 promoter, it was shown that both 17β-estradiol and OH-tamoxifen induce luciferase activity, and epidermal growth factor receptor-1 is required for this estrogenic response. In turn, EGF activates the OLFM-4 promoter, and estrogen receptor-α is needed for the complete EGF response. The cellular functions of OLFM-4 were examined by its expression in OLFM-4-negative HEK-293 cells, which resulted in decreased vimentin expression and cell adherence as well as increased apoptosis resistance. In cases of endometriosis and endometrial cancer, OLFM-4 expression correlated with the presence of epidermal growth factor receptor-1 and estrogen receptor-α (or estrogen signaling). An increase of OLFM-4 mRNA was observed in the endometrium of endometriosis patients. No change in OLFM-4 expression levels were observed in patients with endometrial cancer relative with controls. In conclusion, cross-talk between estrogen and EGF signaling regulates OLFM-4 expression. The role of OLFM-4 in endometrial tissue remodeling before the secretory phase and during the predisposition and early events in endometriosis can be postulated but requires additional investigation.
We examined the occurrence of renal complications and hypertension in 540 primary liver recipients entered into the European liver trial comparing primary FK 506 to a cyclosporin A based immunosuppression regimen (CBIR). No difference in serious renal impairment or mean creatinine levels was observed with similar rates of "kidney failure" (FK 506 9.4% vs. CBIR 7.3%) and dialysis requirements (FK 506 12% vs. CBIR 11%). "Abnormal kidney function", a less serious parameter of renal impairment, was reported in 89 recipients (33%) in the FK 506 group versus 58 (21%) in the CBIR group (P < 0.01). Development of this complication was associated with elevated intravenous FK 506 dosing schedules, with the mean cumulative dose 43% higher than treated patients with unaffected kidney function. In a later cohort of patients where intravenous dosing was lower, no significant difference in renal complications was detectable. The 6-month prevalence rate of systemic arterial hypertension was noted to be lower in the FK 506-treated patients compared to the CBIR group [33 (17.2%) vs. 47 (25.7%)].
Ibuprofen is being widely used as an antipyretic in children. Recent studies indicate that it is as efficacious and with no significant difference in side-effects when compared to paracetamol. We describe three cases that illustrate that renal complications can occur when ibuprofen is prescribed in the presence of intravascular volume depletion and/or pre-existing renal problems. We discuss the mode of action of ibuprofen and recommend that its use as an antiypretic in children should be avoided in actual or potential intravascular volume contraction and in cases with pre-existing renal problems.
Veralipride is a substituted benzamide which is used for the treatment of menopausal hot flushes. We report five cases with extrapyramidal disorders associated to a treatment with this drug for which the neuroleptic activity resulting from an interaction with D2 receptors is not always known by prescribers. One case consisted of acute dyskinesias and four of parkinsonian syndromes, one of these being associated with tardive dyskinesia. In these four cases, dosing recommendations were not respected.
To provide insights into the mode of action for Ni3S2 lung carcinogenicity by examining gene expression changes in target cells after inhalation exposure.
Gene expression changes were determined in micro-dissected lung broncho-alveolar cells from Fischer 344 rats following inhalation of Ni3S2 at 0.0, 0.04, 0.08, 0.15, and 0.60 mg/m(3) (0.03, 0.06, 0.11, and 0.44 mgNi/m(3)) for one and four weeks (6h/day, 5 days/week).
Broncho-alveolar lavage fluid evaluation and lung histopathology provided evidence of inflammation only at the two highest concentrations, which were similar to those tested in the 2-year bioassay. The number of statistically significant up- and down-regulated genes decreased markedly from one to four weeks of exposure, suggesting adaptation. Cell signal pathway enrichment at both time-points primarily reflected responses to toxicity, including inflammatory and proliferative signaling. While proliferative signaling was up-regulated at both time points, some inflammatory signaling reversed from down-regulation at 1 week to up-regulation at 4 weeks.
These results support a mode of action for Ni3S2 carcinogenicity driven by chronic toxicity, inflammation and proliferation, leading to mis-replication, rather than by direct genotoxicity. Benchmark dose (BMD) analysis identified the lowest pathway transcriptional BMD exposure concentration as 0.026 mgNi/m(3), for apoptosis/survival signaling. When conducted on the basis of lung Ni concentration the lowest pathway BMD was 0.64 μgNi/g lung, for immune/inflammatory signaling.
These highly conservative BMDs could be used to derive a point of departure in a nonlinear risk assessment for Ni3S2 toxicity and carcinogenicity.
Fabry disease is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by loss of α-galactosidase function. More than 500 Fabry disease mutants have been identified, the majority of which are structurally destabilized. A therapeutic strategy under development for lysosomal storage diseases consists of using pharmacological chaperones to stabilize the structure of the mutant protein, thereby promoting lysosomal delivery over retrograde degradation. The substrate analog 1-deoxygalactonojirimycin (DGJ) has been shown to restore activity of mutant α-galactosidase and is currently in clinical trial for treatment of Fabry disease. However, only ∼65% of tested mutants respond to treatment in cultured patient fibroblasts, and the structural underpinnings of DGJ response remain poorly explained. Using computational modeling and cell culture experiments, we show that the DGJ response is negatively affected by protein aggregation of α-galactosidase mutants, revealing a qualitative difference between misfolding-associated and aggregation-associated loss of function. A scoring function combining predicted thermodynamic stability and intrinsic aggregation propensity of mutants captures well their aggregation behavior under overexpression in HeLa cells. Interestingly, the same classifier performs well on DGJ response data of patient-derived cultured lymphoblasts, showing that protein aggregation is an important determinant of chemical chaperone efficiency under endogenous expression levels as well. Our observations reinforce the idea that treatment of aggregation-associated loss of function observed for the more severe α-galactosidase mutants could be enhanced by combining pharmacological chaperone treatment with the suppression of mutant aggregation, e.g. via proteostatic regulator compounds that increase cellular chaperone expression.
A total of 154 patients with carcinoma of the prostate received estrogen therapy with diethylstillbestrol (DES), chlorotrianisene or ethinyl estradiol. During a mean follow-up period of 26 months the incidence of complications -- thromboembolic episodes, fluid retention and gynecomastia -- was recorded. Although the incidence of cardiovascular complications was significantly higher in the DES group, the differences in mortality between the groups were not significant. The differences in incidence of fluid retention and gynecomastia also lacked significance. All three compounds produced adrenal cortical hyperplasia as indicated by the increased serum cortisol values.
Clinicopathologic features of 45 patients with fulminant hepatic failure due to massive or submassive hepatic necrosis were studied. Both percutaneous biopsies and liver explants were available in 23 patients, whole livers only in 11 cases, and biopsies only in 11 cases. An etiologic diagnosis was established in 16 cases (36%). A further 3 cases (7%) were associated with aplastic anemia. Established etiologies included drug reactions (n = 7); autoimmune hepatitis, type 2 (n = 3); halothane hepatitis (n = 1); ischemia/hypotension (n = 1); mushroom poisoning (n = 1); mitochondrial disorder (n = 1); hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (n = 1); and adenoviral hepatitis (n = 1). The extent of necrosis on liver biopsy correlated poorly with that in liver explants (mean difference, 32% +/- 23.8%). Almost all cases could be classified into one of 2 broad patterns of necrosis, namely, (1) zonal coagulative necrosis or (2) panlobular (nonzonal) necrosis. These patterns differed significantly with respect to several clinical parameters including sex ratio, peripheral blood white cell count, serum aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase, conjugated bilirubin, and alkaline phosphatase levels. Livers with panlobular necrosis showed a spectrum of histopathologic findings that included central venulitis (76%), lymphocytic infiltration of large duct/gallbladder epithelium (54%), and syncytial giant cell transformation (18%). These features were not seen in livers with zonal coagulative necrosis which frequently showed prominent steatosis (91%). Both patterns of necrosis frequently showed ductular proliferation (100%) and cholangiolitis (80%). The diagnostic yield of ancillary studies (histochemistry, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy) was very low (<1%). The small proportion of cases with etiologic diagnoses precluded correlation of clinical and histopathological parameters with specific etiologies. In summary, this study describes the spectrum of changes seen in massive and submassive necrosis in children and identifies clinical features that might differentiate between 2 broad patterns of necrosis.
Thromboembolic events arising as a side-effect of neuroleptic and thymoleptic therapy, although rare, represent serious complications. We report on two patients suffering from an acute deep vein thrombosis after administration of a combined therapy with paroxetine and zotepine. The absence of common risk factors for the development of venous thrombosis in both patients led us to reconsider the potential impact that the drugs administered may have on thrombogenesis. Possible influences of the neuroleptic and thymoleptic therapy on the coagulation system are discussed. Although the clinical observations do not necessarily imply a strict causal relationship between drug administration and thrombosis, there are features of these two cases that should enhance our awareness of the possibility of thrombotic events occurring as a consequence of neuroleptic and thymoleptic therapy.
Increased GABA-mediated neurotransmission, reported to occur in hepatic encephalopathy (HE), is associated with a decrease in the release of Met-enkephalin and the expression of its coding gene in the brain. Furthermore, patients with cirrhosis and a history of HE exhibit increased sensitivity to the neuroinhibitory effects of morphine. Thus, there is a rationale to study the status of the endogenous opioid system in HE. The aim of this study was to determine whether mu-opioid receptors in the brain are up-regulated in a well characterized model of HE. Binding parameters of mu-opioid receptors were derived by assaying the binding of the opiate agonist [3H]-tyr-D-Ala-Gly-N-Methyl-Phe-Gly-ol (DAMGO) to brain membranes from rats with precisely defined stages of HE and control animals. The mean density of mu-opioid receptor sites (Bmax) in rats with stage II, III, and IV HE was 15, 29, and 33% higher, respectively, than the corresponding control value (p<0.01). In addition, the affinity of mu opioid receptors for the agonist (1/Kd) also increased with progression of HE (mean for stage IV HE vs. corresponding control mean, p<0.01). In conclusion, in liver failure, increased density and affinity of central mu-opioid receptors in the brain may: (i) be the basis for the documented increased sensitivity to opiate agonists; and (ii) occur as a consequence of increased GABAergic tone reducing neuronal synthesis and release of opioid agonist peptides.
162 consecutive gentamicin courses have been evaluated retrospectively with respect to nephrotoxicity of gentamicin (GM). Of these, 120 courses were administered in 106 patients for more than 2 days and under adequate control of plasma creatinine (PCr). In 62 of these 120 courses, PCr concentrations increased. In 17 courses (14%), GM therapy was found to be the only demonstrable etiology to the rise in PCr. The 17 courses with GM-induced reduction in kidney function were characterized by a prolonged duration of treatment, a high total dose of GM and a somewhat higher level of serum GM than the 58 courses of GM treatment in which PCr remained unchanged. No significant differences were found with regard to age, average daily dose of GM, average daily dose per kg and average daily dose in proportion to average diuresis. Additional administration of other nephrotoxic drugs did not increase the incidence of GM-induced nephropathy. When GM was the only demonstrable cause of nephropathy, the elevation in PCr concentrations were generally mild and transient, while the nephropathy when other factors were involved more often became severe and occasionally irreversible.
Cross-sectional and ecological studies indicate that air pollution may be a risk factor for type 2 diabetes, but prospective data are lacking.
We examined the association between traffic-related air pollution and incident type 2 diabetes.
Between 1985 and 1994, cross-sectional surveys were performed in the highly industrialized Ruhr district (West Germany); a follow-up investigation was conducted in 2006 using data from the Study on the Influence of Air Pollution on Lung, Inflammation and Aging (SALIA) cohort.
1,775 nondiabetic women who were 54-55 years old at baseline participated in both baseline and follow-up investigations and had complete information available.
Using questionnaires, we assessed 16-year incidence (1990-2006) of type 2 diabetes and information about covariates. Complement factor C3c as marker for subclinical inflammation was measured at baseline. Individual exposure to traffic-related particulate matter (PM) and nitrogen dioxide was determined at different spatial scales.
Between 1990 and 2006, 87 (10.5%) new cases of diabetes were reported among the SALIA cohort members. The hazards for diabetes were increased by 15-42% per interquartile range of PM or traffic-related exposure. The associations persisted when different spatial scales were used to assess exposure and remained robust after adjusting for age, body mass index, socioeconomic status, and exposure to several non-traffic-related sources of air pollution. C3c was associated with PM pollution at baseline and was a strong independent predictor of incident diabetes. Exploratory analyses indicated that women with high C3c blood levels were more susceptible for PM-related excess risk of diabetes than were women with low C3c levels.
Traffic-related air pollution is associated with incident type 2 diabetes among elderly women. Subclinical inflammation may be a mechanism linking air pollution with type 2 diabetes.
Our study identifies traffic-related air pollution as a novel and potentially modifiable risk factor of type 2 diabetes.
The -1438A/G polymorphism of the 5-HT2A gene has been found to be associated with clinical response to clozapine and other second generation antipsychotics. Testing the impact of this marker on response to first generation antipsychotics (which have a lower affinity for the 5-HT2A receptor) provides the opportunity to help disentangling the two different roles that this polymorphism might have. A psychopharmacogenetic role should be detected only for antipsychotics with high affinity to the 5-HT2A receptor (therefore to second generation antipsychotics). An alternative role would imply tagging a subgroup of patients responsive to any antipsychotic, whatever their affinity, meaning that the association is more depending on non pharmacological charaterictics, such as clinical specificities.
A family-based sample of 100 Algerian patients with schizophrenia (according to DSM-IV criteria) and their 200 biological parents was recruited, in order to avoid stratification biases. Patients were all treated, or have been treated, by conventional antipsychotics (mainly haloperidol) for at least four weeks, at appropriate dosage. May and Dencker scale was used to distinguish responders and non responders.
No allele of the -1438A/G polymorphism of the 5-HT2A gene was transmitted in excess (50 transmitted for 38 untransmitted) in the whole sample of patients with schizophrenia (p = .90). In contrast, a significant excess of transmission of the G allele was observed (p = .02) in the subgroup of patients with good treatment response (17 transmitted for 6 untransmitted).
Using a TDT approach, we showed that the G allele of the -1438A/G polymorphism of the gene coding for the 5-HT2A receptor was associated to schizophrenia with good response to conventional antipsychotics, although this conclusion is based on 88 informative patients only. Because previous data showed the same result with atypical antipsychotics, it can be concluded that the G allele tags a subgroup of schizophrenic patients with greater chance of improvement with antipsychotics of either type.
For development of mechanism-based pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) models, continuous recording of drug effects is essential. We therefore explored the use of isoprenaline in the continuous measurement of the cardiovascular effects of antagonists of beta-adrenoceptors (beta-blockers). The aim was to validate heart rate as a pharmacodynamic endpoint under continuous isoprenaline-induced tachycardia by means of PK-PD modelling of S(-)-atenolol.
Groups of WKY rats received a 15 min i.v. infusion of 5 mg kg(-1) S(-)-atenolol, with or without i.v. infusion of 5 microg kg(-1) h(-1) isoprenaline. Heart rate was continuously monitored and blood samples were taken.
A three-compartment model best described the pharmacokinetics of S(-)-atenolol. The PK-PD relationship was described by a sigmoid Emax model and an effect compartment was used to resolve the observed hysteresis. In the group without isoprenaline, the variability in heart rate (30 b.p.m.) approximated the maximal effect (Emax=43+/-18 b.p.m.), leaving the parameter estimate of potency (EC50=28+/-27 ng ml(-1)) unreliable. Both precise and reliable parameter estimates were obtained during isoprenaline-induced tachycardia: 517+/-13 b.p.m. (E0), 168+/-15 b.p.m. (Emax), 49+/-14 ng ml(-1) (EC50), 0.042+/-0.012 min(-1) (k(eo)) and 0.95+/-0.34 (n).
Reduction of heart rate during isoprenaline-induced tachycardia is a reliable pharmacodynamic endpoint for beta-blockers in vivo in rats. Consequently this experimental approach will be used to investigate the relationship between drug characteristics and in vivo effects of different beta-blockers.
Arylamine carcinogens induce prostate tumours in rodent models and may contribute to the aetiology of human prostate cancers. N-acetylation and O-acetylation, catalysed by N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) and 2 (NAT2), activate and/or deactivate arylamines to electrophilic intermediates that bind DNA and initiate tumours in target organs. NAT1 and NAT2 are both subject to genetic polymorphism in humans, and molecular epidemiological investigations suggest that NAT1 and/or NAT2 acetylator genotype modifies risk for prostate cancers. A Syrian hamster model congenic at the NAT2 locus was used to investigate the role of acetylator genotype in N- and O-acetylation of aromatic and heterocyclic amine carcinogens in the liver and prostate. A gene dose-response (NAT2*15/*15>NAT2*15/*16A>NAT2*16A/*16A) relationship was observed in liver and prostate cytosol towards the N-acetylation of p-aminobenzoic acid, 2-aminofluorene, beta-napthylamine, 4-aminobiphenyl, and 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl. NAT1 and NAT2 were separated and partially purified from liver and prostate cytosol. NAT1 and NAT2 in liver and prostate catalysed -acetylation of the arylamines above and O-acetylation of N-hydroxy derivatives of 2-aminofluorene, 4-aminobiphenyl and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine. Rates were higher in rapid versus slow acetylators when catalysed by NAT2 but not when catalysed by NAT1. Partially purified prostate NAT2 exhibited higher apparent K(m) and V(max) than NAT1. Prostate NAT1 mRNA levels were higher than NAT2 and neither NAT1 nor NAT2 mRNA level differed with NAT2 acetylator genotype. The results provide mechanistic support for a role of NAT1 and/or NAT2 acetylator polymorphism(s) in human prostate cancer risk related to aromatic and/or heterocyclic amine carcinogens.
Indole-3-carbinol (I3C) is produced by members of the family Cruciferae, and particularly members of the genus Brassica (e.g., cabbage, radishes, cauliflower, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and daikon). Under acidic conditions, 13C is converted to a series of oligomeric products (among which 3,3'-diindolylmethane is a major component) thought to be responsible for its biological effects in vivo. In vitro, 13C has been shown to suppress the proliferation of various tumor cells including breast cancer, prostate cancer, endometrial cancer, colon cancer, and leukemic cells; induce G1/S arrest of the cell cycle, and induce apoptosis. The cell cycle arrest involves downregulation of cyclin D1, cyclin E, cyclin- dependent kinase (CDK)2, CDK4, and CDK6 and upregulation of p15, p21, and p27. Apoptosis by I3C involves downregulation antiapoptotic gene products, including Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, survivin, inhibitor-of-apoptosis protein (IAP), X chromosome-linked IAP (XIAP), and Fas-associated death domain protein-like interleukin-1-beta-converting enzyme inhibitory protein (FLIP); upregulation of proapoptotic protein Bax; release of micochondrial cytochrome C; and activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3. This agent inhibits the activation of various transcription factors including nuclear factor-kappaB, SP1, estrogen receptor, androgen receptor and nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). This indole potentiates the effects of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) through induction of death receptors and synergises with chemotherapeutic agents through downregulation of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). In vivo, I3C was found to be a potent chemopreventive agent for hormonal-dependent cancers such as breast and cervical cancer. These effects are mediated through its ability to induce apoptosis, inhibit DNA-carcinogen adduct formation, and suppress free-radical production, stimulate 2-hydroxylation of estradiol, inhibit invasion and angiogenesis. Numerous studies have indicated that I3C also has a strong hepatoprotective activity against various carcinogens. Initial clinical trials in women have shown that I3C is a promising agent against breast and cervical cancers.
Annexin 1 is a 37-kDa protein that has complex intra- and extracellular effects. To discover whether the absence of this protein alters bone development, we monitored this event in the annexin-A1 null mice in comparison with littermate wild-type controls.
Radiographic and densitometry methods were used for the assessment of bone in annexin-A1 null mice at a gross level. We used whole-skeleton staining, histological analysis, and Western blotting techniques to monitor changes at the tissue and cellular levels.
There were no gross differences in the appendicular skeleton between the genotypes, but an anomalous development of the skull was observed in the annexin-A1 null mice. This was characterized in the newborn annexin-A1 null animals by a delayed intramembranous ossification of the skull, incomplete fusion of the interfrontal suture and palatine bone, and the presence of an abnormal suture structure. The annexin-A1 gene was shown to be active in osteocytes during this phase and COX-2 was abundantly expressed in cartilage and bone taken from annexin-A1 null mice.
Expression of the annexin-A1 gene is important for the normal development of the skull in mice, possibly through the regulation of osteoblast differentiation and a secondary effect on the expression of components of the cPLA2-COX-2 system.
One hundred eighteen patients with various malignancies received a total of 847 vinorelbine (VNR) infusions, during 25 of which episodes of vinorelbine phlebitis occurred (1 in each of the 25 patients concerned). Venous irritation was graded with reference to the scale devised by Rittenberg et al. To prevent these 25 patients against further venous toxicity, we pretreated them with cimetidine 200 mg i.v. prior to VNR administration in subsequent cycles of chemotherapy. In most (19, or 76%) complete prevention of recurrent phlebitis was observed, while partial prevention was observed in 5 patients (20%). Treatment was unsuccessful in 1 patient. In 127 VNR infusions given after cimetidine prophylaxis only 7 (6%) episodes of phlebitis occurred. These data show that i.v. administration of cimetidine prior to vinorelbine infusion can successfully prevent recurrence of phlebitis in patients who have shown venous irritation upon prior VNR treatment, at a rate of 94%.
West syndrome (WS) is a generalized epileptic syndrome of infancy and early childhood with various etiologies, and consists of a triad of infantile spasm, arrest or regress of psychomotor development and specific electroencephalogram (EEG) pattern of hypsarrhythmia. WS had been believed to be refractory, but recent evidence supports effectiveness of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) treatment. The ACTH treatment, however, has a problem that it is often accompanied by adverse autonomic symptoms. We therefore examined heart rate variability (HRV) for assessing cardiac autonomic functions in WS and prospectively observed the changes during ACTH treatment. We studied 15 patients with WS and 9 age-matched controls during sleep (EEG stage 2). Compared with controls, the patients with WS were greater in the low-frequency component (LF) of HRV, an index reflecting sympatho-vagal interaction (p = 0.02), but were comparable for high-frequency component (HF) and LF-to-HF ratio (LF/HF), indices reflecting cardiac vagal activity and sympathetic predominance, respectively. During ACTH treatment, heart rate decreased (p < 0.01), LF and HF increased (p < 0.01), and LF/HF did not differ significantly. These results indicate that WS might be accompanied by autonomic changes and that ACTH treatment enhances parasympathetic function and causes bradycardia.
We report the case of a patient who, 9 months after initiation of enalapril and hydrochlorothiazide combination treatment for hypertension, developed angio-oedema with near fatal outcome. Our patient was successfully intubated using a flexible bronchofiberoscope. This case demonstrates that patients given an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor may develop serious facial and laryngeal swelling even several months after the initiation of treatment. The occurrence of even mild swelling should lead to prompt cessation of the drug. Patients with incipient ACE inhibitor-related angio-oedema should, without any delay, be referred to hospital for emergency treatment.
The Crohn's disease (CD) susceptibility gene, nucleotide-binding oligomerizetion domain 2 (NOD2)/caspase recruitment domain 15 (CARD15), is linked to the innate immune response associated with altered epithelial bacterial defense. Its relevance in antibiotic therapy of perianal fistulating CD remains elusive. The aim of the study was to explore systematically the association between NOD2/CARD15 variants and clinical response of perianal fistulas in patients using antibiotic therapy.
Fifty-two patients (median age 36 yr) with draining perianal fistulas were treated with ciprofloxacin (N = 49) or metronidazole (N = 3) for a median duration of 7 wk. Complete response was defined as the absence of any draining fistula despite gentle finger compression. Genotyping for NOD2/CARD15 variants and human beta (beta)-defensin 2 (HBD-2) copies was performed by 5' nuclease assays (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA). The examiners and laboratory investigators were blinded. The Fisher exact test and Wilcoxon signed rank test were used for statistical analysis.
Ciprofloxacin was discontinued in one patient due to diarrhea after 2 wk. Complete fistula response was observed in 13 of 39 patients with NOD2/CARD15 wild-type (33.3%) compared with none in patients carrying NOD2/CARD15 variants (0%, P= 0.02). The median number of HBD-2 gene copies between responders and partial/nonresponders was similar.
The study result suggests a substantial contribution of NOD2/CARD15 to the antibiotic treatment outcome of perianal fistulating CD. NOD2/CARD15 variants may predispose to an altered intestinal microflora in perianal fistulas that is less responsive to antibiotic treatment.
