The purpose of this study was to determine safety and tolerability of clopidogrel in children with arterial ischemic stroke (AIS). Clopidogrel is the alternative antiplatelet medication when aspirin is not tolerated or fails. The possible risks and safety of clopidogrel in children with AIS have not been assessed.
This is a prospective consecutive cohort study of children with AIS who were started on clopidogrel. Seventeen children were included.
Two children developed subdural hematomas while on clopidogrel in conjunction with aspirin. Two others had headache or hand numbness. No other side effects like rash or gastrointestinal upsets were reported.
We found clopidogrel to be relatively well tolerated in the pediatric population. In combination with aspirin and in the presence of other risk factors, intracranial bleeding may be seen.
Premature fusion of one or more of the cranial sutures (craniosynostosis) in humans causes over 100 skeletal diseases, which occur in 1 of approximately 2,500 live births. Among them is Apert syndrome, one of the most severe forms of craniosynostosis, primarily caused by missense mutations leading to amino acid changes S252W or P253R in fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2). Here we show that a small hairpin RNA targeting the dominant mutant form of Fgfr2 (Fgfr2(S252W)) completely prevents Apert-like syndrome in mice. Restoration of normal FGFR2 signaling is manifested by an alteration of the activity of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), implicating the gene encoding ERK and the genes downstream of it in disease expressivity. Furthermore, treatment of the mutant mice with U0126, an inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase 1 and 2 (MEK1/2) that blocks phosphorylation and activation of ERK1/2, significantly inhibits craniosynostosis. These results illustrate a pathogenic role for ERK activation in craniosynostosis resulting from FGFR2 with the S252W substitution and introduce a new concept of small-molecule inhibitor-mediated prevention and therapy for diseases caused by gain-of-function mutations in the human genome.
Glucosamine has been widely used to treat osteoporosis in clinic and it shows an effect on hexosamine biosynthetic pathway in glucose-induced insulin resistance. However, glucosamine and chronic hyperglycemia is not correlative. Thus, we used C (2)C (12) cell line to carry out the uptake assay of 2-[14C]-deoxy-d-glucose and [3H]-glucosamine. Glucosamine inhibited the in vitro glucose uptake in a concentration-dependent manner. The glucose transporter GLUT4 prepared for [3H]-glucosamine uptake showed a concentration-dependent competition between glucose and glucosamine uptake. The effects of glucosamine on glucose tolerance and homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) were also determined in normal Wistar and fructose-fed rats. Both plasma glucose levels and/or HOMA index were not changed in normal rats treated with glucosamine as compared with the saline-treated control. However, we found that glucosamine exhibited an effect on the expression of farnesoid X receptor in liver to exacerbate the values of HOMA and accelerate the development of insulin resistance in fructose-fed rats. Thus, glucosamine should be applied with caution in type-2 diabetic patients.
The incidence of melanoma continues to dramatically increase in most Western countries with predominantly Caucasian populations. However, only limited therapies for the metastatic stage of the disease are currently available. The main purpose of this study is to determine approaches that can substantially increase radiosensitivity of melanoma cells. The PI3K-AKT, NF-kappaB and COX-2 pathways, which are involved in the radioprotective response, are highly active in melanoma cells. Pharmacological suppression of COX-2 and PI3K-AKT, or RNAi-mediated knockdown of COX-2, substantially increased levels of G2/M arrest of the cell cycle and decreased clonogenic survival of gamma-irradiated melanomas, predominantly via a necrotic mechanism. On the other hand, resveratrol, a polyphenolic phytoalexin, selectively targets numerous cell signaling pathways, decreasing clonogenic survival primarily via an apoptotic mechanism. In melanoma cells, resveratrol inhibits STAT3 and NF-kappaB-dependent transcription, culminating in suppression of cFLIP and Bcl-xL expression, while activating the MAPK- and the ATM-Chk2-p53 pathways. Resveratrol also upregulates TRAIL promoter activity and induces TRAIL surface expression in some melanoma cell lines, resulting in a rapid development of apoptosis. Sequential treatment of melanoma cells, first with gamma-irradiation to upregulate TRAIL-R surface expression, and then with resveratrol to suppress antiapoptotic proteins cFLIP and Bcl-xL and induce TRAIL surface expression, had dramatic effects on upregulation of apoptosis in some melanoma lines, including SW1 and WM35. However, for melanoma lines exhibiting suppressed translocation of TRAIL to the cell surface, a necrotic mechanism of cell death was primarily involved in radiation response. Hence, surface expression of TRAIL induced by resveratrol appears to be a decisive event, one which determines an apoptotic versus a necrotic response of melanoma cells to sequential treatment.
Hyperthyroidism is a common endocrine disorder affecting 2% of females and 0.5% of males worldwide and antithyroid drugs constitute the first line of treatment in the majority of cases. These agents may cause severe adverse effects and among them liver failure, although rare, is a potential lethal one. This case illustrates the sudden and abrupt deterioration of hepatic function due to antithyroid drug administration. This case along with a concise literature review is presented aiming to increase the awareness of endocrinologists of possible fatal complications from the everyday use of common agents such as antithyroid drugs.
Nefazodone was used widely as an antidepressant until it was withdrawn from the U.S. market in 2004 due to hepatotoxicity. We have investigated methods to predict various toxic effects of drug candidates to reduce the failure rate of drug discovery. An electrophysiological method was used to assess the cardiotoxicity of drug candidates. Small molecules, including withdrawn drugs, were evaluated using a patch-clamp method to establish a database of hERG inhibition. Nefazodone inhibited hERG channel activity in our system. However, nefazodone-induced hERG inhibition indicated only a theoretical risk of cardiotoxicity. Nefazodone inhibited the hERG channel in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC50 of 45.3nM in HEK-293 cells. Nefazodone accelerated both the recovery from inactivation and its onset. Nefazodone also accelerated steady-state inactivation, although it did not modify the voltage-dependent character. Alanine mutants of hERG S6 and pore region residues were used to identify the nefazodone-binding site on hERG. The hERG S6 point mutants Y652A and F656A largely abolished the inhibition by nefazodone. The pore region mutant S624A mildly reduced the inhibition by nefazodone but T623A had little effect. A docking study showed that the aromatic rings of nefazodone interact with Y652 and F656 via π-π interactions, while an amine interacted with the S624 residue in the pore region. In conclusion, Y652 and F656 in the S6 domain play critical roles in nefazodone binding.
Radiographic contrast media (CM) are necessary to provide x-ray absorption of the bloodstream; all other observed effects need to be regarded as adverse. Four types of CM are currently used in diagnostic and interventional cardiology: ionic high-osmolar CM (HOCM), either ionic or non-ionic low-osmolar CM (LOCM), and non-ionic iso-osmolar CM (IOCM). Focusing on the potential cardiovascular effects caused by the CM, there is a clear difference between HOCM and the LOCM or IOCM. HOCM have a poorer profile due to a higher incidence of hypotension and electrophysiological effects. To prevent contrast-induced nephropathy, HOCM should be avoided and patients should receive the minimal dose of LOCM or IOCM with intravenous hydration before and after the procedure. Clinical hyperthyroidism has been detected after CM use, but the condition appears, ultimately, to be self-limited and to occur mainly in elderly patients. When assessing the need for a CM in terms of improved patient safety, preventing serious complications should be the major factor determining the choice. CM should not be selected on the basis of minor adverse effects since these are, ultimately, of low clinical relevance. Thrombotic events, in contrast, carry a high clinical relevance and we consider that these should be the main issue governing current choice. Ionic LOCM appear to have better profile than other CM with respect to interaction with platelet function and coagulation. In relation to thrombotic events in randomised clinical studies, ionic CM have been associated, mainly, with favourable and some neutral results compared with non-ionic agents. Only one trial indicated a more pronounced antithrombotic effect of the non-ionic IOCM relative to the ionic LOCM. The antithrombotic advantages of ionic over non-ionic LOCM are, in part, balanced by a greater frequency of minor adverse effects such as nausea, vomiting or cutaneous rashes. A matter of concern is the delayed adverse effects observed with non-ionic IOCM. However, severe and life-threatening reactions are exceptional and there are probably no significant differences between IOCM and LOCM whether ionic or non-ionic. However, in patients with known allergies, non-ionic CM are to be recommended. On the basis of the available pre-clinical and clinical data, the ionic LOCM or the non-ionic IOCM are the agents to be recommended in percutaneous coronary interventions because of their antithrombotic advantages over non-ionic LOCM.
A total of 49 patients with paucibacillary leprosy (PB) who completed multidrug therapy (MDT) between 1985 and 1990 were analysed retrospectively for efficacy and complications; 20 (40.8%) patients had borderline-tuberculoid (BT), 13 (26.5%) had tuberculoid (TT), 1 (2.1%) had indeterminate (I) and 15 (30.0%) had pure neural (N) leprosy; 26 patients (76.5% of 34 non-neural leprosy) were skin biopsied for histological cure before MDT was stopped. Of these 26 patients, 19 had histological clearance at 6 months while the remaining 7 cleared beyond 1 year (18-36 months). The remaining 8 non-neural patients who refused rebiopsy had MDT for 6-8 months and the MDT was stopped when there was clinical clearance. Of the 15 neural (N) leprosy patients, 11 were given MDT for 6 months while the rest had 12-18 months of treatment; 1 patient with neural leprosy, who was treated for 6 months, relapsed with BT leprosy 18 months post-treatment. There were few complications among the 49 patients-4 (8.2%) patients developed reaction to dapsone, 1 (2.0%) had the dapsone syndrome, 2 (4.1%) had haemolytic anaemia and 1 (2.0%) had dapsone hepatitis; 7 (14.3%) patients had type I reaction.
Diphenhydramine (DPH) is a commonly reported overdose that shares similar toxicities with other agents. such as tricyclic antidepressants, that interact with the fast sodium channels. Although physostigmine is considered an acceptable antidote for severe DPH toxicity, adverse effects such as seizures and cholinergic crisis may occur. We hypothesized that hypertonic saline or bicarbonate is equivalent or are better antidotes in an animal model of DPH toxicity. In a preliminary study. Sprague-Dawley rats were given toxic doses of DPH while continuous ECG, EEG, and blood pressure monitoring was performed. Seizures were the common toxic effect observed and was chosen. Four groups of 10 rats each were established as control physostigmine, hypertonic sodium bicarbonate, and hypertonic saline(3%) treatment. Control had initial "drop-off" seizure burst rates over time; seizure bursts in the treatment groups were compared to these rates. Hypertonic sodium bicarbonate was the most effective treatment, followed closely by hypertonic saline. Hypertonic sodium bicarbonate may interact with DPH neuronal sodium channels and may be considered adjuvant therapy in humans with DPH-induced seizures.
During treatment with amiodarone, digoxin and nadolol, asystole occurred repeatedly in a patient with chronic persistent automatic atrial tachycardia. Asystole did not occur after discontinuation of drug therapy, and rechallenge with amiodarone alone produced marked overdrive suppression of all pacemakers resulting in asystole. Amiodarone serum level was within therapeutic range. The possible electrophysiologic mechanisms by which amiodarone might suppress both normal and abnormal pacemakers are discussed. The occurrence of asystole at therapeutic serum concentration of amiodarone suggests that this drug should be used with caution.
Ketorolac is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. Dextran conjugates of ketorolac (KD) were synthesized and characterized to improve ketorolac aqueous solubility and reduce gastrointestinal side effects. An N-acylimidazole derivative of ketorolac (KAI) was condensed with a model carrier polymer, dextran of different molecular masses (40000, 60000, 110000 and 200000). IR spectral data confirmed formation of ester bonding. Ketorolac contents were evaluated by UV-spectrophotometric analysis. The molecular mass was determined by measuring viscosity using the Mark-Howink-Sakurada equation. In vitro hydrolysis studies were performed in aqueous buffers (pH 1.2, 7.4, 9) and in 80% (V/V) human plasma (pH 7.4). At pH 9, a higher rate of ketorolac release from KD was observed as compared to aqueous buffer of pH 7.4 and 80% human plasma (pH 7.4), following first-order kinetics. In vivo biological screening in mice and rats indicated that conjugates retained analgesic and anti-inflammatory activities with significantly reduced ulcerogenicity compared to the parent drug.
While the rise in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) parallels the increase in obesity and diabetes, a significant increase in dietary fructose consumption in industrialized countries has also occurred. The increased consumption of high fructose corn syrup, primarily in the form of soft drinks, is linked with complications of the insulin resistance syndrome. Furthermore, the hepatic metabolism of fructose favors de novo lipogenesis and ATP depletion. We hypothesize that increased fructose consumption contributes to the development of NAFLD.
A dietary history and paired serum and liver tissue were obtained from patients with evidence of biopsy-proven NAFLD (n=49) without cirrhosis and controls (n=24) matched for gender, age (+/-5 years), and body mass index (+/-3 points).
Consumption of fructose in patients with NAFLD was nearly 2- to 3-fold higher than controls [365 kcal vs 170 kcal (p<0.05)]. In patients with NAFLD (n=6), hepatic mRNA expression of fructokinase (KHK), an important enzyme for fructose metabolism, and fatty acid synthase, an important enzyme for lipogenesis were increased (p=0.04 and p=0.02, respectively). In an AML hepatocyte cell line, fructose resulted in dose-dependent increase in KHK protein and activity.
The pathogenic mechanism underlying the development of NAFLD may be associated with excessive dietary fructose consumption.
The breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 (BRCA1) is mutated in approximately 50% of hereditary breast cancers, and its expression is decreased in 30-40% of sporadic breast cancers, suggesting a general role in breast cancer development. BRCA1 physically and functionally interacts with estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) and several transcriptional regulators. We investigated the relationship between cellular BRCA1 levels and tamoxifen sensitivity. Decreasing BRCA1 expression in breast cancer cells by small interfering RNA alleviated tamoxifen-mediated growth inhibition and abolished tamoxifen suppression of several endogenous ER-targeted genes. ER-stimulated transcription and cytoplasmic signaling was increased without detectable changes in ER or ER coregulator expression. Co-immunoprecipitation studies showed that with BRCA1 knockdown, tamoxifen-bound ERalpha was inappropriately associated with coactivators, and not effectively with corepressors. Chromatin immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated that with tamoxifen, BRCA1 knockdown did not change ERalpha promoter occupancy, but resulted in increased coactivator and decreased corepressor recruitment onto the endogenous cyclin D1 promoter. Our results suggest that decreased BRCA1 levels modify ERalpha-mediated transcription and regulation of cell proliferation in part by altering ERalpha-coregulator association. In the presence of tamoxifen, decreased BRCA1 expression results in increased coactivator and decreased corepressor recruitment on ER-regulated gene promoters.
A randomized trial of two different formulations of diazepam--Valium and Diazemuls--in 109 patients undergoing endoscopy demonstrated that diazepam in a lipid emulsion (Diazemuls) greatly reduced the incidence of local pain at the time of injection (P less than 0.001).
An elderly patient treated with low dose Desipramine developed a delirium while her plasma level was in the "subtherapeutic" range. Delirium, which may be induced by tricyclic drug therapy in the elderly, can be caused by tricyclics with low anticholinergic potency. Therapeutic ranges for antidepressants that have been derived from general adult population studies may not be appropriate for the elderly. Further studies of specifically elderly patients are now required to establish safer and more appropriate guidelines for drug therapy.
The FDA recently moved loratadine (Claritin) from prescription only status to over-the-counter (OTC). In response to the availability of an OTC non-sedating antihistamine, many managed care organizations are reevaluating which if any prescription antihistamines should remain on formulary. From a managed care perspective, determining which of the remaining prescription antihistamines results in the greatest patient satisfaction with allergy treatment would be informative.
We report on a weighted cross sectional survey (n = 10,023) delivered online to a sample of allergy sufferers in the U.S. during the month of December 2002. Two segments were identified for analysis: patient who were dissatisfied with loratadine and converted to desloratadine (Clarinex; n = 61), and patients who were dissatisfied with loratadine and converted to fexofenadine (Allegra; n = 211). The two segments were compared along a series of measures that the literature suggests are related to treatment satisfaction.
The survey found that two of the satisfaction measures differentiated desloratadine converters from fexofenadine converters (p <.05): mean sum of self-reported adverse events and nighttime awakening due to allergy symptoms. For the remainder of satisfaction measures though, patients who were dissatisfied with loratadine reported equal duration of coverage and satisfaction with desloratadine as fexofenadine. When severity of disease was controlled for in the analysis, a pattern emerged suggesting greater levels of satisfaction amongst loratadine dissatisfied patients who converted to desloratadine. Point estimates suggest a consistent pattern favoring desloratadine patient satisfaction, with statistically significant results reported for sum of adverse effects, nighttime awakening due to symptoms, symptom severity just prior to the next dose, and overall satisfaction (p < 0.05).
On average, patients who were dissatisfied with loratadine reported equal or better satisfaction with desloratadine as fexofenadine. Patients with severe allergic rhinitis reported greater satisfaction when converted from loratadine to desloratadine than fexofenadine for select satisfaction measures. These results suggest that if managed care intends to position prescription antihistamines as second line for OTC loratadine treatment dissatisfaction, desloratadine is a useful treatment alternative. These findings, while informative to formulary decision-makers, must be interpreted with caution. Only through head-to-head controlled clinical trials can differences in efficacy and safety be established.
1. The premorbid behaviors produced by the administration of cocaine, ethanol, their combination, as well as a metabolite produced by their co-administration, viz. cocaethylene, were defined, determined and quantified in the HS strain of mice. 2. The LD50 for ethanol was 9.71 g/kg in males and 9.45 g/kg in females, whereas the LD50 values in male and female mice for cocaine were 101.55 and 90.00 mg/kg, respectively. 3. The data indicate that clonic-tonic seizures continued into status epilepticus after cocaine administration and prior to cocaine-induced lethality. In contrast, administration of the cocaine-ethanol metabolite cocaethylene produced status epilepticus without producing clonic-tonic seizures yet still resulted in lethality. 4. Thus, both cocaine and cocaethylene may produce their lethal effects in mice through neuro-regulatory mechanisms mediating protracted seizure induction.
Drug-induced cardiac arrhythmia, specifically Torsades de pointes, is associated with QT/QTc interval prolongation, thus prolongation of the QT interval is considered as a biomarker for Torsades de pointes risk (N Engl J Med 350:1013-1022, 2004). Specific inhibition of human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) potassium channels has been recognized as the main mechanism for QT prolongation (Cardiovasc Res 58:32-45, 2003). This mechanism has been demonstrated for a variety of small-molecule agents, which access the inner pore of the hERG channel preferentially from inside the cell. Peptide inhibitors of hERG, such as BeKm-1, interact with the extracellular amino acid residues close to the external pore region of the channel. In this study, the isolated rabbit heart was used to assess whether BeKm-1 could induce QTc prolongation like dofetilide and N-[4-[[1-[2-(6-methyl-2-pyridinyl)ethyl]-4-piperidinyl]carbonyl]phenyl]methanesulfonamide (E-4031). Five hearts were perfused with 10 and 100 nM BeKm-1 sequentially. ECG parameters and left ventricular contractility were measured with spontaneously beating hearts. Both concentrations of BeKm-1 prolonged QTc intervals significantly and concentration-dependently (4.7 and 16.3% at 10 and 100 nM, respectively). When evaluated for their inhibitory effect in a hERG functional assay, BeKm-1, dofetilide, and E-4031 caused QTc prolongation at concentrations that caused significant hERG channel inhibition. Lastly, two polyclonal anti-hERG antibodies were also assessed in the hERG channel assay and found to be devoid of any inhibitory effect. These results indicated that the isolated rabbit heart assay can be used to measure QTc changes caused by specific hERG inhibition by peptides that specifically block the external pore region of the channel.
The acute hemodynamic effects of nisoldipine (Bay K552) in patients with essential hypertension were studied using nuclear ventriculography. In a cohort of 16 essential hypertension patients, an oral dose of 15 mg nisoldipine significantly lowered blood pressure within 20 min. The effect lasted at least 3 h. Blood pressure that was 160.5 +/- 20.3/108.0 +/- 10.1 mm Hg initially was reduced to 137.0 +/- 14.9/93.8 +/- 9.4 mm Hg at 3 h (P < 0.001). Cardiac output rose, total peripheral resistance fell and ejection fraction rose significantly. End systolic and end diastolic volumes did not change significantly with this dose of nisoldipine. The acute hemodynamic effects of 15 mg nisoldipine administered orally, measured by repeat nuclear ventriculography, were maintained during therapy for the 8 weeks of observation. Thus, nisoldipine is a powerful antihypertensive agent, significantly decreasing BP as well as total peripheral resistance and increasing cardiac index. This effect was prominent after 3 h and wore off about 12 h after each dose. Five of the patients had an initially high heart rate. To these patients propranolol was added in small doses (20-40 mg/day, mean 25 +/- 26 mg/day). This addition did not change the results when the patients were analyzed separately.
In a single-blind study of 6 weeks' duration, 32 patients with stable angina pectoris, who had been receiving controlled-release, Durules, isosorbide-5-mononitrate (Imdur) 60 to 180 mg daily for at least 1 year, were assessed after abrupt withdrawal of the nitrate. After 2 weeks of placebo treatment nitrate therapy was re-instituted, and the patients followed for another 2 weeks. The possibility of development of tolerance and rebound phenomena was also investigated. Three patients experienced severe anginal symptoms necessitating hospitalization when controlled-release isosorbide-5-mononitrate was withdrawn abruptly. Patients complained of more severe anginal symptoms during the placebo period, experienced more frequent anginal attacks and used more glyceryl trinitrate tablets than during active treatment. ST segment changes during exercise were more pronounced with placebo. After controlled-release isosorbide-5-mononitrate was re-introduced, these variables indicated significant improvement. On the other hand, no deterioration occurred in exercise performance during the placebo phase. Responsiveness to glyceryl trinitrate was maintained, as shown by comparisons of exercise tests performed after the long term treatment and during the placebo phase. Controlled-release isosorbide-5-mononitrate retains a beneficial effect in patients with angina pectoris during prolonged use, although some attenuation of the effect is seen. Abrupt withdrawal of the drug is not recommended because of the possibility of severe exacerbation of anginal symptoms, although no clearcut rebound phenomena were seen.
To describe an outbreak of acute renal failure (ARF) occurring in a group of patients undergoing open-heart surgery, simultaneously to a change in perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis.
Case series.
A nine-bed heart surgery intensive care unit, serving a 1,300-bed University teaching hospital.
Thirty-two patients undergoing open-heart surgery during an 11-day period, when the preoperative surgical prophylaxis protocol had been changed from the usual antibiotic association of ceftriaxone + vancomycin to cefodizime + vancomycin.
ARF occurred in 16 of the 32 (50%) patients exposed to the new antibiotic prophylaxis regimen; seven patients had oliguric ARF, and nine patients had an increase in serum creatinine (SCr) levels >50% over 24-48 h. In the seven patients with oliguric ARF, SCr increased from a median preoperative level of 88 micromol/l (80-115 micromol/l) to a peak value of 725 micromol/l (521-857 micromol/l) in 5 days (4-6). Eight patients out of the sixteen with ARF (50%) were diabetics, as opposed to none of the 16 patients not experiencing ARF. Renal biopsy (three patients) showed tubular dilation and necrosis, interstitial edema, and lymphomononuclear infiltrate of moderate degree. Only one patient required hemodialysis, and all recovered renal function. No other cases of unexplained ARF occurred in the unit after the original prophylaxis protocol was resumed.
The simultaneous infusion of cefodizime and vancomycin may involve a high risk of substantial renal function derangement, especially in diabetics.
To report a case of thrombotic stroke. The etiology was difficult to identify, but was finally ascribed to psoriatic treatment with acitretin.
Treatment with acitretin was prescribed for a 52-year-old white woman for long-standing psoriasis. Thirty-four days later, she developed nausea, vomiting, vertigo, and headaches, followed by left lateropulsion, which impeded standing and lying. Both neurologic examination and magnetic nuclear imaging indicated a rectangular infarct in the vermis cerebelli and a small bulbar infarct. Time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography confirmed the presence of a thrombus at the beginning of the left vertebral artery. After heparin-based treatment and physiotherapy, the evolution was favorable.
Etiology identification of the stroke included cardiogenic pathology and coagulopathy, but acitretin treatment was considered the likeliest explanation. On review of the literature, this seems to be the first case of a thrombotic event associated with acitretin.
Acitretin should be considered as a possible cause of thrombotic stroke; this possibility should be kept in mind when patients taking acitretin develop an unexplained thrombotic event.
In 2006, we published a study that indicated that the new transdermal contraceptive patch containing ethinyl estradiol (EE) and the progestin norelgestromin did not increase the risk for venous thromboembolism (VTE) compared to oral contraceptive containing norgestimate and 35 microg of EE.
This report updates information on the risk of nonfatal VTE in women using the contraceptive patch in comparison to women using oral contraceptives containing norgestimate (either monophasic or triphasic) and 35 microg of EE (norgestimate-35) using an additional 17 months of data.
Nested case-control design based on information from PharMetrics, a US-based company that collects and organizes information on claims paid by managed care plans. The study was nested among all women, aged 15 to 44 years, who started either the contraceptive patch or norgestimate-35 after April 1, 2002. Cases were women with current use of one of these two study drugs and a documented diagnosis of VTE in the absence of identifiable clinical risk factors (idiopathic VTE) who were not in the earlier study. Up to four controls were matched to each case by age and calendar time.
Odds ratios (ORs) comparing the risk of nonfatal VTE in new users of the two contraceptives.
We identified 56 new cases of newly diagnosed, idiopathic VTE in the updated study population. The OR comparing the contraceptive patch to norgestimate-35 was 1.1 (95% CI 0.6-2.1).
After evaluating an additional 17 months of data, the results indicate that the risk of nonfatal VTE for the contraceptive patch is closely similar to the risk for oral contraceptives containing 35 mug of EE and norgestimate.
To report a case of improvement in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after adjunctive therapy with quetiapine.
A 49-year-old white man witnessed a traumatic event and experienced severe PTSD. He was started on paroxetine, with increases in dosage and no significant improvement. Quetiapine was added to his regimen, with increased doses resulting in improvement of PTSD symptoms, both clinically and as measured on the Hamilton-D rating scale for depression and the clinician-administered PTSD screen.
This is the first case published in the English language literature describing improvement in PTSD symptoms after treatment with quetiapine. There are several treatment options for PTSD, but some severe cases may require treatment with antipsychotic medications. Because of the lower risks of serious adverse effects, the newer atypical antipsychotics are much safer than the older antipsychotics. Although use of risperidone and olanzapine in the successful treatment of PTSD has been reported in the literature, there are no reports of quetiapine use in this clinical condition.
Quetiapine appeared to improve clinical signs and symptoms of PTSD in this patient. It may be a treatment option in other severe cases of PTSD.
Rats were subjected to adrenaline-induced acute hypertension during either the day or night. Albumin leakage into the brain was studied with Evans blue and 125I labeled serum albumin. The leakage was significantly lower during the night than during the day (P less than 0.001). d,1-propranolol had a protective effect (P less than 0.001) during the day and a slight reduction of the radioactivity (P less than 0.05 in some parts of the brain) was obtained by metoprolol (10 mg/kg) but not by butoxamine (10 mg/kg). None of the drugs reduced the tracer leakage during the night. The results suggest that the degree of alertness is of importance for the function of the blood-brain barrier in acute hypertension. However, the present experimental situation does not allow a separation of the effect of alertness per se and dark/light cycles. The changed vulnerability during the night could be related to enhanced neuronal activity, altered beta-adrenoreceptor sensitivity or to hormonal factors.
Features of both systemic lupus erythematosus and scleroderma developed in a young Chinese girl while on multiple anticonvulsant therapy. These were reversed after withdrawal of the drugs. Readministration of ethosuximide for control of epilepsy caused a relapse with predominant sclerodermatous features. These clinical signs again resolved after ethosuximide withdrawal.
