Although the way for pain management associated with acute pancreatitis has been searched for, there are not enough medications available for it. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of bradykinin (BK) in pain related to acute pancreatitis. After repeated injections of caerulein (50 μg/kg and 6 times), mice showed edema in the pancreas, and blood concentrations of pancreatic enzymes (amylase and lipase) were clearly elevated. A histopathological study demonstrated that caerulein caused tissue damage characterized by edema, acinar cell necrosis, interstitial hemorrhage, and inflammatory cell infiltrates. Furthermore, the mRNA levels of interleukin-1β and monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)-1 were significantly increased in the pancreas of caerulein-treated mice. The sensitivity of abdominal organs as measured by abdominal balloon distension was enhanced in caerulein-injected mice, suggesting that caerulein caused pancreatic hyperalgesia. Moreover, repeated treatment with caerulein resulted in cutaneous tactile allodynia of the upper abdominal region as demonstrated by the use of von Frey filaments, indicating that caerulein-treated mice exhibited referred pain. Under this condition, the mRNA levels of bradykinin B1 receptor (BKB1R) and bradykinin B2 receptor (BKB2R) were significantly increased in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). Finally, we found that des-Arg⁹-(Leu⁸)-bradykinin (BKB1R antagonist) and HOE-140 (BKB2R antagonist) attenuated the acute pancreatitis pain-like state in caerulein-treated mice. These findings suggest that the upregulation of BK receptors in the DRG may, at least in part, contribute to the development of the acute pancreatitis pain-like state in mice.
A region on chromosome 17 has recently been highlighted as linked to autism (MIM[209850]) in multiple studies and evidence has accumulated suggesting that male-only families (those families that have produced only affected males) provide the major contribution to linkage at this locus. In an attempt to comprehensively test for association of common variants to autism within the region on chromosome 17 defined in Stone et al. (Stone, J.L., Merriman, B., Cantor, R.M., Yonan, A.L., Gilliam, T.C., Geschwind, D.H. and Nelson, S.F. (2004) Evidence for sex-specific risk alleles in autism spectrum disorder. Am. J. Hum. Genet., 75, 1117-1123), a dense panel of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) was selected across the linkage peak and analyzed in a trio-based study design. SNPs were genotyped in 219 independent trios at an average intermarker distance of 6.1 kb across the 13.7 Mb interval. This provided ~80% coverage of common HapMap variation present in Caucasians, testing exonic, intronic, promoter and intergenic regions, as knowledge of important functional regions within the genome is currently limited. In this comprehensive association study of a linkage region in autism, no single SNP or haplotype association was sufficient to account for the initial linkage signal. Nominally significant single SNP and/or haplotype-based association results were detected in 15 genes, of which, MYO1D, ACCN1 and LASP1 stand out as genes with autism risk alleles requiring further study, with potential GRRs in the range of 1.34-2.29.
Echinodorus berteroi is an aquatic plant found in Central America and the Caribbean to which antiepileptic action has been attributed by folk medicine. The aim of the present study was to investigate the potential behavioral and antiepileptic effect of decoctions (1, 5, and 30%, intraperitoneally) of the dried roots. One and five percent decoctions produced hypoactivity in mice. Hyperactivity induced by amphetamine (3mg/kg, subcutaneously) was significantly reduced by the 30% decoction, in rats. The extracts did not modify the latency to the first clonic convulsion or the survival time of isoniazid (210 mg/kg, ip)-treated mice. The 30% decoction significantly increased the latency to the first picrotoxin-induced clonic convulsion (7 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), as well as survival time. Repeated administration of the 5% decoction (30-minute intervals) significantly reduced the amplitude (muV) of the epileptic spikes induced by topical application of penicillin to sensorimotor cortex, in curare-treated rats. In summary, the root decoctions of E. berteroi paradoxically exhibited neuroleptic and antiepileptic actions. Nevertheless, these results partly justify the use of the plant for the treatment of epilepsy by practitioners of folk medicine.
Recent human studies employing new magnetic resonance imaging techniques and micro-array analyses feature schizophrenia as a brain disease with alterations in white matter (WM), which is mainly composed of oligodendrocytes (OLs) and their processes wrapping around neuronal axons. To examine the putative role of OLs in the pathophysiology and treatment of schizophrenia, animal studies are essential. In the present study, C57BL/6 mice were given 0.2% cuprizone (CPZ) in their diet for five weeks during which they drank distilled water without or with quetiapine (QTP, 10 mg/kg). The mice fed with normal chow were used as controls. CPZ is a copper chelator and has been reported to induce consistent demyelination in the brain of C57BL/6 mouse by specifically damaging OLs. QTP is an atypical antipsychotic widely used in the treatment of schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders. In accordance with previous studies, CPZ-exposed mice showed pervasive myelin breakdown and demyelination. The amount of myelin basic protein (MBP) in the cerebral cortex was decreased by CPZ-exposure as shown in Western-blot analysis. In addition, the demyelinated sites were teemed with activated microglia and astrocytes but a few myelin forming OLs. Moreover, the activity of copper-zinc superoxide dismutase decreased in the cerebral cortex of CPZ-exposed mice. However, all of these pathological changes in WM were either prevented or alleviated in CPZ-exposed mice co-administered with QTP. These results suggest that the CPZ-exposed C57BL/6 mouse is a potential animal model to study possible roles of OLs in the pathogenesis and treatment of schizophrenia.
Vigabatrin (VGB) is a new antiepileptic drug useful in refractOry partial seizures. Psychosis as a secondary effect of VGB is well known. This drug may even induce new epileptic seizures. We report a 69-year-old hypertensive patient with multiple cerebral infarcts. She was diagnosed as having late onset symptomatic partial epilepsy (complex partial seizures and generalized secondary motor partial seizures). She had been receiving VGB 3 g/day in monotherapy. She came to the emergency room in a psychotic state with new epileptic seizures. We performed an EEG and video during the ictal phase. The patient was awake, conscious and partially oriented. The video showed generalized myoclonic jerks involving facial and limb muscles, separated by non-convulsive intervals lasting three minutes. The EEG showed spike and wave discharges over a diffuse slow-wave background activity. The patient was conscious throughout the recording. The electroclinical picture was considered as an encephalopathy-associated generalized myoclonic status. VGB was replaced by phenytoin. Two weeks later, and after a clinical improvement, a new recording showed the disappearance of signs of encephalopathy and the myoclonic status. Epileptic seizures induced by VGB are well reported. Several pathogenic mechanisms have been suggested. In our case the myoclonic status was related to a non-dose dependent encephalopathy induced by VGB. The electroclinical improvement after withdrawal of the drug supports this possibility.
Antrafenine is a new non-narcotic analgesic. In a double-blind, cross-over study the efficacy of antrafenine at doses of 450 mg/day and 900 mg/day was compared to naproxen 750 mg/day and placebo in patients with osteoarthritis. Each drug treatment was given for two weeks, the total duration of the study being eight consecutive weeks. Antrafenine, at either dose, was effective in relieving pain associated with osteoarthritis; the efficacy was comparable to naproxen. There was no definite indication that 900 mg/day was more effective than 450 mg/day. Antrafenine, at both dosage levels, was well tolerated. Any noted side-effects were mild. There was a total of 12 side-effects in nine patients with the high dose, five side-effects in five patients with the low dose, compared with 11 side-effects in nine patients with naproxen and 10 side-effects in seven patients with placebo.
N-[4-(5-Nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) is a potent urinary bladder carcinogen in the rat, and it can be metabolically activated in vitro by a variety of enzyme systems including aerobic cooxidation by prostaglandin H synthase. The latter enzyme is present in the rat bladder mucosa and can be inhibited by the oral administration of aspirin (ASA). To determine if ASA could inhibit the bladder carcinogenicity of FANFT, FANFT (0.2%) was co-administered in the diet with ASA (0.5%) for 12 weeks followed by 1 week of ASA only and then 56 weeks on control diet. 0.2% FANFT followed by control diet induced bladder carcinomas in 18 of 21 (87%) rats, but when ASA was co-administered, only 10 of 27 (37%) rats developed bladder carcinoma (p less than 0.001). However, forestomach tumors, not seen in rats fed only FANFT, developed in 7 rats fed FANFT plus ASA. No tumors occurred in control rats or those fed only ASA. Possible mechanisms, including the role of prostaglandin H synthase in FANFT metabolism, are discussed.
A novel series of 2-substituted-quinazolin-4(3H)-ones were synthesized by reacting 3,5-disubstituted-anthranilic acid with acetic anhydride/benzoyl chloride, which were further reacted with different primary amines to obtain 2,6,8-substituted-quinazolin-4(3H)-ones 6a-f, 7, 8. All the synthesized compounds were characterized and screened for analgesic and anti-inflammatory activities. Compounds 6,8-dibromo-2-phenyl-3-(4'-carboxyl phenyl)quinazolin-4(3H)-one 7 and 6,8-dibromo-2-phenyl-3-(2'-phenylethanoic acid)quinazolin-4(3H)-one 8 displayed good analgesic and anti-inflammatory activity in comparison to the reference standards acetyl salicylic acid and indomethacin, respectively.
To study the effects of chronic triochloride aluminum (AlCl3) exposure on both histocytological changes and amyloid precursor protein 695 (APP695) mRNA expression level of the rat spinal cord, in order to evaluate the relationship of the histocytological changes and the APP695 mRNA level in rat spinal cord exposed chronicly AlCl3.
Twenty six-month-old SD female rats were randomly divided into 2 groups, group normal and group exposed. The rats were exposed with intraperitoneal injection of 1 ml AlCl3 solution for continuous 3 days of the interval of one day during the period of total 72 days. Behaviors of the rats were observed by naked eyes. Histocytological examinations of the spinal cords of the rats were performed with HE dyeing. The expression levels of APP695 mRNA of spinal cords were tested with RT-PCR.
In comparition with group normal, intraperitoneal injection of AlCl3 solution caused movement obstacle of rat hind legs for short time. In comparition with normal group in the spinal cord cinerea of exposure group, invasion of glial cells into motor neuron appeared, satellite phenomenon appeared, glial cells prominently increased in number, traverse neurofibers prominently increased both in number and marking, glial cells around the blood vessels prominently increased in number, vacuoles prominently increased in number, expressions of APP695 mRNA prominently increased.
Intraperitoneal injection of AlCl3 solution could cause movement obstacle of rat hind legs for short time. Chronic aluminum exposure could cause injury or death of neurons, induced increases of glial cells, and vacuolar degeneration in rat spinal cords. Super expression of APP695 mRNA could participate the neuronal injury course.
Ketamine is increasingly used in pain therapy but may impair brain functions. Mood and cognitive capacities were compared after equianalgesic small-dose S(+)-, R(-)-, and racemic ketamine in healthy volunteers.
Twenty-four subjects received intravenous 0.5 mg/kg racemic, 0.25 mg/kg S(+)-, and 1.0 mg/kg R(-)-ketamine in a prospective, randomized, double-blind, crossover study. Hemodynamic variables, mood, and cognitive capacities were assessed for 60 min.
Transient increases in blood pressure, heart rate, and catecholamines were similar after administration of all drugs. At 20 min after injection, subjects felt less decline in concentration and were more brave after S(+)- than racemic ketamine. They reported being less lethargic but more out-of-control after R(-)- than racemic ketamine. Ketamine isomers induced less drowsiness, less lethargy, and less impairment in clustered subjective cognitive capacity than racemic ketamine for the 60-min study. Objective concentration capacity [test time, S(+): 25.4 +/- 15.2 s, R(-): 34.8 +/- 18.4 s, racemic ketamine: 40.8 +/- 20.8 s, mean +/- SD] and retention in primary memory [test time, S(+): 4.6 +/- 1.2 s, R(-): 4.2 +/- 1.4 s, racemic ketamine: 4.0 +/- 1.4 s, mean +/- SD] declined less after S(+)- than either R(-)- or racemic ketamine at 1 min. At 5 min, immediate recall, anterograde amnesia, retention in primary memory, short-term storage capacity, and intelligence quotient were less reduced after the isomers than racemic ketamine. Speed reading and central information flow decreased less after S(+)- than racemic ketamine.
Early after injection, ketamine isomers induce less tiredness and cognitive impairment than equianalgesic small-dose racemic ketamine. In addition, S(+)-ketamine causes less decline in concentration capacity and primary memory. The differences in drug effects cannot be explained by stereoselective action on one given receptor.
The authors describe a case of milk-alkali syndrome in a man who consumed antacid tablets (Rennie) for chronic epigastric pain. Simultaneous occurrence of hypercalcemia, metabolic alkalosis, and renal insufficiency, in conjunction with the appropriate history of ingestion of calcium carbonate-containing antacids, was suggestive of the syndrome. The syndrome became uncommon with the advent of modern ulcer therapy, but currently is increasing in frequency with the calcium supplementation drugs taken to prevent osteoporosis. This syndrome may produce life-threatening hypercalcemia.
Recently, we identified neuropathy target esterase (NTE) mutation as the cause of an autosomal recessive motor neuron disease (NTE-MND). Subsequently, we showed that NTE-MND mutations reduced specific activity (SA) and altered inhibitory kinetics of NTE catalytic domain constructs. Recent preliminary results showed that NTE is expressed in cultured human skin fibroblasts, and others have used mutant forms of neuronal proteins expressed in fibroblasts as biomarkers of neurogenetic diseases. Therefore, the present study was carried out to test the hypothesis that NTE in cultured skin fibroblasts from NTE-MND subjects also exhibit altered enzymological properties assessed by SA and IC(50) values of mipafox (MIP) and chlorpyrifos oxon (CPO). NTE SA was reduced to 65% of control (wild-type NTE from commercially obtained fibroblasts) in homozygous M1012V fibroblasts and 59-61% of control in compound heterozygous R890H/c2946_2947InsCAGC fibroblasts. MIP IC(50) values were unaffected by the NTE mutations, but the CPO IC(50) increased 4.5-fold in homozygous M1012V fibroblasts. Interestingly, markedly reduced NTE SAs (40-43% of control) were observed in fibroblasts from asymptomatic subjects heterozygous for NTE insertion c2946_2947InsCAGC. This insertion is predicted to produce truncated NTE missing the last 235 residues of its catalytic domain. These observations confirm that NTE-MND mutations reduce NTE SA in vitro. Moreover, to the extent observations made in cultured fibroblasts may be generalized to events in the nervous system, lack of correlation between reduced fibroblast NTE SA and the occurrence of NTE-MND in NTE insertion mutation heterozygotes indicates that reduction of NTE SA alone is insufficient to cause MND.
Azathioprine is used as an anti-inflammatory agent. Although there are numerous data demonstrating cytotoxic and immunosuppressive properties of azathioprine and its metabolite 6-mercaptopurine, the mechanism of the anti-inflammatory action of azathioprine has not yet been fully clarified. During our study, we investigated the effects of azathioprine on the inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in lipopolysaccharide stimulated murine macrophages (RAW 264.7) by measurement of iNOS protein (immunoblotting), iNOS mRNA (semiquantitative competitive RT-PCR), and NO production (nitrite levels). Azathioprine (0-210 muM) induces a concentration dependent inhibition of inducible nitric oxide synthesis (IC50: 33.5 muM). iNOS protein expression showed a concentration dependent reduction as revealed by immunoblotting when cells were incubated with increasing amounts of azathioprine. Azathioprine decreases iNOS mRNA levels as shown by semiquantitative competitive RT-PCR. In contrast, 6-mercaptopurine showed no inhibition of inducible nitric oxide synthesis. Azathioprine did not reduce iNOS mRNA stability after the addition of actinomycin D. Enzymatic activity assays with increasing concentrations of azathioprine (0-210 muM) showed no statistically significant inhibition of iNOS enzyme activity compared to cell lysates without azathioprine. Nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB p65 subunit and binding of NF-kappaB p50 subunit from nuclear extracts to a biotinylated-consensus sequence was unaffected by azathioprine treatment. iNOS inhibition by azathioprine was associated with a decreased expression of IRF-1 (interferon regulatory factor 1) and IFN-beta (beta-interferon) mRNA. Azathioprine induced iNOS inhibition seems to be associated with an action of the methylnitroimidazolyl substituent. This suggests a route to the rational design of nontoxic anti-inflammatory agents by replacing the 6-mercaptopurine component of azathioprine with other substituents. The inhibition of inducible nitric oxide synthesis might contribute to the anti-inflammatory activities of azathioprine.
There are controversies about adverse effects of bisphenol A (BPA), a ubiquitous xenoestrogen, on reproduction and development of male animals. To understand BPA action and assess its risk more completely, we examined the impact of BPA at high doses on the testes of pubertal male Kunming (China) mice. BPA at 0 (control), 160, 480, and 960 mg/kg/day was given by gavage to mice from postnatal days (PND) 31-44, followed by observation of morphology and detection of apoptosis and expressions of Fas/FasL and active caspase-3 on PND 45, 60, and 90 by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP nick end labeling, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting. There was no effect of BPA at 160 mg/kg/day, however, at 480 and 960 mg/kg/day there was underdevelopment of testes and disruption of spermatogenesis. There were many apoptotic Leydig and germ cells in the testes with apoptotic indices being significantly increased compared with controls. The expression of Fas and active caspase-3 was localized in the same cell types as apoptosis occurred, and expression levels of Fas, FasL, and active caspase-3 were significantly increased compared with controls. The disturbed spermatogenesis, apoptosis and upregulation of Fas, FasL, and active caspase-3 expression persisted to PND 90. The results suggest that high-dose BPA induces apoptosis of Leydig and germ cells in the mouse testis through the Fas-signaling pathway. Therefore, there is concern about reproductive health for humans occupationally exposed to high levels of BPA.
Tamoxifen is a non-steroid estrogenic antagonist, used in post-surgical therapy of breast cancer. It interferes with endocrinous promotion of breast cancer. Tamoxifen could determine endometrial, even carcinomatous, alterations. The case of a postmenopausal patient surgically treated for breast cancer and successively treated with tamoxifen (20 mg/die), is reported. She underwent ultrasonographic and hysterosonographic endometrial evaluation and finally a hysterectomy with bilateral annessiectomy. This case seems to confirm tamoxifen possible carcinogenical effects on the endometrium.
Systemic steroids are highly effective for patients with moderate-to-severe asthma exacerbations. Steroid-induced psychosis is known to be one of the adverse effects of steroid therapy, although infrequent. However, there is no reliable method of predicting steroid psychosis. We experienced the case of a 40-year-old asthmatic man who had previously taken steroids without any psychological side effect, but became acutely delirious after receiving some doses of steroids, higher than the previous doses, under a condition of emotional stress. The mean dose of prednisolone administered was 82 mg/day (1.37 mg/kg/day) for 10 days but the patient had taken two courses of steroids (0.82 mg/kg/day and 0.5 mg/kg/day, respectively) for asthma exacerbations without any psychiatric episodes during the previous year. At this time, the patient was under a condition of emotional stress related to family reasons. The asthmatic exacerbation of this case may be precipitated from sudden emotional stress and the following treatment with a high dose of steroida should be used cautiously due to the possibility of psychotic side reactions.
To investigate the relationship among mossy fiber axon sprouting(MFS), synaptic reorganization, and the alteration of expression of Eph A5 and ephrin A3 in the dentate gyrus in rats with pilocarpine-induced chronic temporal lobe epilepsy.
Mossy fiber sprouting and synaptic formation in rats were observed by Neo-Timm staining, after the acute status epilepticus and chronic spontaneous temporal lobe epilepsy induced by lithium-chloride and pilocarpine. In situ hybridization was used to detect ephrin A3 mRNA and an immunohistochemical staining was applied to determine Eph A5 protein.
In entorhinal cortex, only Eph A5 mRNA and protein expressed, which significantly decreased on Day 7 after pilocarpine induced status epilepticus(P<0.01),and resumed to normal levels on Day 30 (P>0.05). In the dentate granule cells, ephrin A3 mRNA reduced obviously on Day 7 after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (P<0.01), and returned to normal levels on Day 30 (P>0.05).
The down-regulation of Eph A5 mRNA and protein in entorhinal cortex and dentate gyrus, and ephrin A3 mRNA in dentate gyrus after status epilepticus may be part of the endogenous molecular mechanism of mossy fiber sprouting to the inner molecular layer of dentate gyrus.
Due to a recent alarming report suggesting that the severe neurotoxicity observed following treatment with a multiagent chemotherapy regimen might be due to the interaction of vincristine and VP-16-213, the neurologic toxicity data from a randomized trial conducted by the Bowman Gray School of Medicine and the Piedmont Oncology Association in small cell carcinoma of the lung have been analyzed. Of 102 patients evaluable for toxicity, 50 were treated with a combination of cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, and vincristine (CAV) and 52 received this regimen plus VP-16-213. Vincristine dosage was the same in both arms of the study. When analyzed by severity, neurologic complications were similar in both treatment groups: Grade 1-2 neurotoxicity occurred in 55% of patients on both arms and grade 3-4 neurotoxicity was observed in six (12%) patients on the CAV arm and four (8%) on the CAV-VP-16-213 arm. Addition of VP-16-213 to vincristine did not potentiate vincristine-induced neurotoxicity when administered in this dose-schedule relationship.
Previously reported studies have suggested that maintenance therapy in the treatment of ovarian cancer may provide progression-free survival (PFS) benefits, although they have not discerned a similar impact on patient overall survival (OS).
We examined the long-term PFS and OS of a previous study population consecutively treated with either 3 cycles (group A; n = 13 patients) or 12 cycles (group B; n = 13) of paclitaxel (135 mg/m(2); Q21 days) maintenance therapy. Eligible patients received maintenance chemotherapy following a complete response to 6 cycles of primary induction chemotherapy, comprising 6 cycles of carboplatin (AUC = 5), paclitaxel (175 mg/m(2)), and gemcitabine (800 mg/m(2)) per protocol.
There were statistically significant PFS differences between group A (12 months) and group B (24 months) (p = 0.016). Moreover, the OS in group A was 38 months and 80 months for group B (p = 0.012). Current follow-up for this patient population exceeds 58 months.
In the present investigation, 12 cycles of single agent paclitaxel maintenance therapy were associated with improved patient PFS and OS benefits. Despite contradictory reports, paclitaxel-based maintenance therapy may favorably impact both PFS and OS in advanced ovarian cancer patients who obtain a complete response to primary induction chemotherapy.
The extreme obesity of the obese (ob/ob) mouse is attributable to mutations in the gene encoding leptin, an adipocyte-specific secreted protein which has profound effects on appetite and energy expenditure. We know of no equivalent evidence regarding leptin's role in the control of fat mass in humans. We have examined two severely obese children who are members of the same highly consanguineous pedigree. Their serum leptin levels were very low despite their markedly elevated fat mass and, in both, a homozygous frame-shift mutation involving the deletion of a single guanine nucleotide in codon 133 of the gene for leptin was found. The severe obesity found in these congenitally leptin-deficient subjects provides the first genetic evidence that leptin is an important regulator of energy balance in humans.
A case of one infant of twins who developed suxamethonium apnoea is described. Investigation of the family revealed him to be homozygous for atypical cholinesterase while the other twin was normal. Tissue HLA and blood typing indicated the twins to be identical.
The relationship between sleep and epilepsy is both complex and clinically significant. Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) influences sleep architecture, while sleep plays an important role in facilitating and/or inhibiting possible epileptic seizures. The pilocarpine experimental model reproduces several features of human temporal lobe epilepsy and is one of the most widely used models in basic research. The aim of the present study was to characterize, behaviorally and electrophysiologically, the phases of sleep-wake cycles (SWC) in male rats with pilocarpine-induced epilepsy. Epileptic rats presented spikes in all phases of the SWC as well as atypical cortical synchronization during attentive wakefulness and paradoxical sleep. The architecture of the sleep-wake phases was altered in epileptic rats, as was the integrity of the SWC. Because our findings reproduce many relevant features observed in patients with epilepsy, this model is suitable to study sleep dysfunction in epilepsy.
The antiarrhythmic actions of the racemate and enantiomers of mexiletine were studied in conscious and anaesthetised rats. Racemate or enantiomers, at 20 mg/kg i.v., had little effect on ischaemia-induced ventricular fibrillation in conscious or anaesthetised rats. In conscious rats 20 mg/kg caused convulsions in 78-89% of rats when the plasma concentration of racemate was 20 +/- 2 microM. In anaesthetized animals a higher dose (40 mg/kg) of racemate could be given; this completely prevented ischaemia-induced fibrillation when the plasma concentration was 26 +/- 2 microM. Racemate and enantiomers accumulated in the heart and brain of conscious animals to give tissue: plasma ratios of 7.5 and 23, respectively. With electrical stimulation, both racemate and enantiomers dose dependently (4-32 mg/kg) increased threshold currents for induction of ventricular fibrillation, increased refractory period and minimally changed the ECG; findings expected with a Class Ib antiarrhythmic. The above studies failed to show major differences between racemate or enantiomers except for consistently lower (20-30%) plasma concentrations of R(-) at all dose levels. In conclusion, mexiletine prevented ischaemia-induced ventricular fibrillation in anaesthetised animals but only when given at doses producing convulsions in conscious animals.
The causes of angioedema are not well described, especially in the inpatient setting. The purpose of this study was to examine the causes of moderate to severe angioedema in patients requiring inpatient treatment. We performed a retrospective review in patients requiring inpatient consultation by the Division of Allergy and Immunology at our institution between 1995 and 2004. We focused on potential interactions among medications that elicited life-threatening angioedema requiring intubation. The allergy/immunology service was consulted on 69 patients with moderate to severe angioedema. Medications were the most common cause of angioedema (n = 64, 93%). In most cases (n = 46, 67%), the angioedema was attributed to two or more medications. Patients previously stable on ACE inhibitors (ACEI), aspirin (ASA), or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) appeared more likely to develop angioedema soon after the addition of another drug (i.e., ACEI, ASA/NSAIDs, direct mast cell degranulators, and antibiotics). ACEI, ASA/NSAID, and direct mast cell degranulators were contributing causes in 36 patients (56%), 45 patients (70%), and 23 patients (36%), respectively. Twenty patients required intubation, 14 (70%) patients were on ACEI, 12 (60%) patients were on ASA/NSAID, and 7 (35%) patients were on direct mast cell degranulators. ACEI, ASA/NSAID, or direct mast cell degranulators were a cause in 95% (n = 19) of patients requiring intubation. The combination of ACEI and ASA/NSAID was the most frequent cause of angioedema among all patients (n = 17, 25%) and those requiring intubation (n = 8, 40%). Moderate to severe angioedema often is a result of interactions between two or more medications involved in different pathways causing angioedema. In particular, combinations of ACEI, ASA/NSAID, or direct mast cell degranulators may lead to life-threatening angioedema requiring intubation.
We report a case involving orthotopic heart transplantation in which a recipient, known to be serologically negative for hepatitis B virus infection, received a heart from a donor known before transplantation to be hepatitis B surface antigen positive. The recipient was treated prospectively with a combination of hepatitis B immune globulin and hepatitis B vaccine. After 10 months of follow-up, the recipient has not experienced seroconversion or viremia from hepatitis B virus and has remained without symptoms by both clinical and laboratory measurements.
Troglitazone is a new drug for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Although mild liver injury occurred in 1.9% of participants in controlled trials, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has received reports of five postmarketing cases of severe liver disease that resulted in death or liver transplantation.
To report the clinical and histopathologic characteristics of a patient with troglitazone-associated severe liver injury leading to transplantation.
Case report.
Two university hospitals.
A 55-year-old woman taking troglitazone, 400 mg/d, and insulin, 120 U/d.
Discontinuation of troglitazone therapy, pretransplantation liver biopsy, and liver transplantation.
Early nonspecific symptoms were attributed to other causes and were not evaluated. After the patient had used troglitazone for 3.5 months, massive loss of liver parenchyma and symptoms of liver failure developed, necessitating liver transplantation.
Troglitazone may cause subfulminant liver failure.
Local cerebral blood flow (CBF) during three types of profound hypotension were compared using the quantitative autoradiographic [14]-C iodo-antipyrine method. Rats were rendered hypotensive to a mean arterial pressure of 30 mm Hg for 30 min by haemorrhage, trimetaphan or nitroprusside during 0.8% halothane anaesthesia. During haemorrhagic hypotension, mean local CBF was reduced significantly in all except two pontine regions. This reduction in flow ranged from 83% to 41% compared with the normotensive control group, with the neocortex and telencephalon most affected. During trimetaphan-induced hypotension, local CBF was reduced to the same degree and in the same pattern as that during haemorrhagic hypotension. In contrast, during nitroprusside-induced hypotension, local CBF in many regions of the brain was well maintained (57-101%); although local CBF was significantly below control in all cortical and telencephalic regions, it was significantly greater in the majority of these regions than in the other two hypotensive groups. We conclude that local CBF was significantly reduced in the neocortex and telencephalon by hypotension of this degree induced by all three methods, but nitroprusside preserved local CBF significantly better than the other methods, in these, as in most other regions.
