In rodents, mercuric chloride (HgCl2) causes an autoimmune disorder with glomerulonephritis (GN), and represents an animal model for the pathogenesis of GN. We have tested the hypothesis that HgCl2 induces major histocompatibility complex (MHC) expression in renal parenchymal cells, and studied the kinetics of this induction and its temporal relation to the development of immune complex deposition in the glomeruli. Mice treated with doses of HgCl2 between 2 and 3.2 mg/kg three times for one week had increased renal expression of MHC class I and class II (at the mRNA and the product levels). Class I induction was observed in proximal tubule cells, endothelial cells and glomerular cells. Class II induction was seen mainly in interstitial cells and, to a lesser extent, in tubule cells. Renal MHC expression was maximal at one week, decreased progressively after the second week of HgCl2 administration, and reached basal levels by 23 weeks. In contrast, the amount of lymphocyte infiltration in the kidney increased from the first to the fifth week and was followed by the appearance of glomerular immune deposits from the third week on. Glomerular immune complex deposits were maximal at five weeks and, by 23 weeks, immune deposits in HgCl2-treated mice were only slightly increased over those observed in the sham group. Renal MHC induction by HgCl2 was significantly reduced by treatment with monoclonal antibody against interferon gamma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is characterized by thrombocytopenia and paradoxical hypercoagulability. HIT occurs when an antibody ("HIT antibody") produced against the complex of heparin and platelet factor 4 (PF4) causes systemic platelet consumption and activation. Nephrologists encounter HIT in the care of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients because heparin is a routine anticoagulant in hemodialysis. The incidence of HIT in ESRD appears to be lower than in other clinical settings. However, HIT is equally life threatening in ESRD patients and therefore demands the same prompt recognition and aggressive treatment. Diagnosing HIT requires the detection of HIT antibodies. A functional assay (e.g., [(14)C] serotonin release assay) relies on the patient's HIT antibodies to activate donor platelets at pharmacologic heparin concentrations. The more common antigen assay (e.g., enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay [ELISA]) detects the binding of the patient's HIT antibodies to antigens (e.g., heparin-PF4 complex) in a microtiter well and does not involve platelets. The moment HIT is suspected, heparin should be stopped and an alternative anticoagulant initiated immediately, even before the result of a serologic test becomes available. The advent of several new anticoagulants in the last decade, especially argatroban and bivalirudin, has expanded treatment options for HIT in dialysis patients. This review discusses the epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical features, diagnosis, and treatment of HIT, with special emphasis on concepts relevant to the care of dialysis patients.
Mice lacking the transcription factor Nrl have no rod photoreceptors and an increased number of short-wavelength-sensitive cones. Missense mutations in NRL are associated with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa; however, the phenotype associated with the loss of NRL function in humans has not been reported. We identified two siblings who carried two allelic mutations: a predicted null allele (L75fs) and a missense mutation (L160P) altering a highly conserved residue in the domain involved in DNA-binding-site recognition. In vitro luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that the NRL-L160P mutant had severely reduced transcriptional activity compared with the WT NRL protein, consistent with a severe loss of function. The affected patients had night blindness since early childhood, consistent with a severe reduction in rod function. Color vision was normal, suggesting the presence of all cone color types; nevertheless, a comparison of central visual fields evaluated with white-on-white and blue-on-yellow light stimuli was consistent with a relatively enhanced function of short-wavelength-sensitive cones in the macula. The fundi had signs of retinal degeneration (such as vascular attenuation) and clusters of large, clumped, pigment deposits in the peripheral fundus at the level of the retinal pigment epithelium (clumped pigmentary retinal degeneration). Our report presents an unusual clinical phenotype in humans with loss-of-function mutations in NRL.
A randomised, double-blind study to compare the gastrointestinal (GI) tolerability, safety and efficacy of etoricoxib and diclofenac in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
A total of 4086 patients (mean age 60.8 years) diagnosed with RA were enrolled and received etoricoxib 90 mg daily (n = 2032) or diclofenac 75 mg twice daily (n = 2054). Use of gastroprotective agents and low-dose aspirin was allowed. The prespecified primary end point consisted of the cumulative rate of patient discontinuations due to clinical and laboratory GI adverse experiences (AEs). General safety was also assessed, including adjudicated thrombotic cardiovascular event data. Efficacy was evaluated using the Patient Global Assessment of Disease Status (PGADS; 0-4 point scale).
Mean (SD; maximum) duration of treatment was 19.3 (10.3; 32.9) and 19.1 (10.4; 33.1) months in the etoricoxib and diclofenac groups, respectively. The cumulative discontinuation rate due to GI AEs was significantly lower with etoricoxib than diclofenac (5.2 vs 8.5 events per 100 patient-years, respectively; hazard ratio 0.62 (95% CI: 0.47, 0.81; p<or=0.001)). The incidence of discontinuations for hypertension-related and oedema-related AEs were significantly higher with etoricoxib (2.5% and 1.1% respectively) compared with diclofenac (1.5% and 0.4% respectively; p<0.001 for hypertension and p<0.01 for oedema). Etoricoxib and diclofenac treatment resulted in similar efficacy (PGADS mean changes from baseline -0.62 vs -0.58, respectively).
Etoricoxib 90 mg demonstrated a significantly lower risk for discontinuing treatment due to GI AEs compared with diclofenac 150 mg. Discontinuations from renovascular AEs, although less common than discontinuations from GI AEs, were significantly higher with etoricoxib.
A total of 377 patients with chemical burns from all over Guangdong province were admitted to the Guangzhou Red Cross Hospital during the period from January 1987 to December 2001. There were 296 males and 81 females with a male to female ratio of 3.65:1. The mean age of the patients was 26 years. The majority of patients (89.2%) were in the age range of 15-60 years. Professionally, 244 patients (64.7%) were workers, of whom, 232 (95%) of patients were peasant workers. Most of the chemical burns occurred at places away from home (94.4%), especially in the working environment (67.8%). Only 20 patients (5.5%) were injured at home. Chemical burns by accident and by criminal assault were 337 (88.5%) and 40 (10.5%). Strong acids (60.8%), mainly sulfuric acid, nitric acid, hydrofluoric acid, alkali (33.9%), mainly lime and sodium hydroxide were common causative agents. There was a relationship between the incidence of chemical burns and the season, with more patients in July-September and October-December. There were 215 (57.1%) patients who washed the burnsite with water immediately, but the volumes of water and time of washing were not adequate. Patients with total burn surface area (TBSA) of less than 10% comprised the majority of patients (72.7%), with 188 (65.7%) deep partial thickness burns, 116 (40.6%) with full thickness burns, and 60 (21%) with superficial burns. Extremities (lower limb 56.6% and upper limb 51.4%) were the most frequent area of injury. Ocular burns were the most common accompanying injury (14.7%). Operations of autografts and conjunctival flap were carried out on 159 (42.2%) patients. The average period of hospitalization was 22 days. Only 2 (0.7%) deaths occurred in this study. Counter measures to improve this situation must include safety productive education and professional training, use of protective clothing at work, enhancing the concept of legal responsibility, and restricting management and use of corrosive chemicals. Irrigation of the burnsite promptly with substantial volumes of water and an adequately long time will help reduce the morbidity from chemical burns.
Gender differences in outcome following cerebral ischemia have frequently been observed and attributed to the actions of steroid hormones. Progesterone has been shown to possess neuroprotective properties following transient ischemia, with respect to decreasing lesion volume and improving functional recovery. The present study was designed to determine the mechanisms of progesterone neuroprotection, and whether these relate to the inflammatory response. Male mice underwent either 60 min or permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and received progesterone (8 mg/kg ip) or vehicle 1 h, 6 h and 24 h post-MCAO. Forty-eight hours following transient MCAO, structural magnetic resonance imaging revealed a significant decrease in the amount of edematous tissue present in progesterone-treated mice as compared with vehicle. Using real-time PCR we found that progesterone treatment significantly suppressed the injury-induced upregulation of interleukin (IL)-1beta, transforming growth factor (TGF)beta2, and nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-2 mRNAs in the ipsilateral hemisphere while having no effect on tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha mRNA expression. Progesterone treatment following permanent MCAO also resulted in a significant decrease in lesion volume. This was not apparent in mice lacking a functional NOS-2 gene. Thus, progesterone is neuroprotective in both permanent and transient ischemia, and this effect is related to the suppression of specific aspects of the inflammatory response.
Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) is a genetically heterogeneous autosomal recessive condition responsible for congenital blindness or greatly impaired vision since birth. So far, six LCA loci have been mapped but only 4 out of 6 genes have been identified. A genome-wide screen for homozygosity was conducted in seven consanguineous families unlinked to any of the six LCA loci. Evidence for homozygosity was found in two of these seven families at the 14q11 chromosomal region. Two retinal specific candidate genes were known to map to this region, namely the neural retina leucine zipper (NRL) and the retinitis pigmentosa GTPase regulator interacting protein (RPGRIP1). No mutation of the NRL gene was found in any of the two families. Thus, we determined the complete exon-intron structure of the RPGRIP1 gene. RPGRIP1 encompasses 24 coding exons, nine of which are first described here with their corresponding exon-intron boundaries. The screening of the gene in the two families consistent with linkage to chromosome 14q11 allowed the identification of a homozygous null mutation and a homozygous missense mutation, respectively. Further screening of LCA patients unlinked to any of the four already identified LCA genes (n=86) identified seven additional mutations in six of them. In total, eight distinct mutations (5 out of 8 truncating) in 8/93 patients were found. So far this gene accounts for eight out of 142 LCA cases in our series (5.6%).
Cysticercosis is an helminthic disease which is usually observed in endemic areas or in immigrants coming from these areas. Cases described in travellers coming back from endemic areas are rare. We describe a case of neurocysticercosis that was revealed by a paradoxical reaction. This reaction occurred during the early phase of the treatment of cutaneous cysticercosis by albendazole in a tourist coming back from the sub Indian continent. This case report leads to discuss the modes of infestation in tourists, and the management of cutaneous cysticercosis and paradoxical reaction that may impair the outcome of cysticercosis during the treatment with antihelminthic drugs.
In Africa, prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) with antiretrovirals is becoming a key component of the response to the pandemic. Toxicity issues remain however a concern and require careful monitoring. We report here three observations of mild neurological deterioration among children for whom a diagnosis of mitochondrial dysfunction was considered possible. These children were identified within a PMTCT research program (ANRS 049) conducted in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire, and evaluating a short regimen of maternal zidovudine monotherapy for PMTCT of HIV type 1. Maternal HIV-1 infection was diagnosed during pregnancy before enrolment in the randomised trial (two cases) or in the subsequent open cohort (one case). These three women had been allocated to the ZDV group and had no particular medical history. Pregnancy check-up was negative except the diagnosis of HIV-1 infection. The three children were diagnosed as uninfected by HIV-1. Symptoms developed by the age of six months (two cases) and 13 months (one case): growth failure, anthropometric abnormalities, impaired psycho-motor development, generalised and repeated seizures. The evolution of these three HIV-uninfected children was favourable after 12 to 18 months. The transient nature of these abnormalities is compatible with mild complications of mitochondrial dysfunction. We conclude however that the anticipated benefits of PMTCT with antiretrovirals in Africa greatly outweigh the potential risks and should not lead to reconsider their public health interest
We have studied the effect of i.v. flumazenil 0.01 mg kg-1 on the amnesia and sedation caused by midazolam 2 mg and 5 mg i.v. in volunteers in order to determine the relationship between the actions of the antagonist on these two effects. Midazolam caused dose-dependent central neural depression as assessed by critical flicker fusion frequency, and dose-dependent amnesia for word cards. In subjects given flumazenil 5 min after administration of midazolam, fusion frequency readings and memory were restored to levels comparable to those before midazolam administration. These two effects of flumazenil were similar in time course and extent, suggesting that they share the same mechanism of action. Flumazenil given alone had no effect on memory. The study has demonstrated anterograde amnesia following benzodiazepine administration and antagonism by flumazenil. There was neither retrograde amnesia nor retrograde antagonism of amnesia.
Disorders of water balance are among the most common and morbid of the electrolyte disturbances, and are reflected clinically as abnormalities in the serum sodium concentration. The transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) channel is postulated to comprise an element of the central tonicity-sensing mechanism in the mammalian hypothalamus, and is activated by hypotonic stress in vitro. A nonsynonymous polymorphism in the TRPV4 gene gives rise to a Pro-to-Ser substitution at residue 19. We show that this polymorphism is significantly associated with serum sodium concentration and with hyponatremia (serum sodium concentration < or =135 mEq/L) in 2 non-Hispanic Caucasian male populations; in addition, mean serum sodium concentration is lower among subjects with the TRPV4(P19S) allele relative to the wild-type allele. Subjects with the minor allele were 2.4-6.4 times as likely to exhibit hyponatremia as subjects without the minor allele (after inclusion of key covariates). Consistent with these observations, a human TRPV4 channel mutated to incorporate the TRPV4(P19S) polymorphism showed diminished response to hypotonic stress (relative to the wild-type channel) and to the osmotransducing lipid epoxyeicosatrienoic acid in heterologous expression studies. These data suggest that this polymorphism affects TRPV4 function in vivo and likely influences systemic water balance on a population-wide basis.
1. M40403 is a low molecular weight, synthetic manganese containing superoxide dismutase mimetic (SODm) that removes superoxide anions (*O2-) without interfering with other reactive species known to be involved in inflammatory responses (e.g. nitric oxide, NO and peroxynitrite, ONOO-). 2. As such, M40403 represents an important pharmacological tool to dissect the roles of *O2- in acute and chronic inflammation. For this purpose, the pharmacological profile of M40403 was evaluated in carrageenan-induced pleurisy. 3. Injection of carrageenan into the pleural cavity of rats elicited an acute inflammatory response characterized by: fluid accumulation in the pleural cavity which contained a large number of neutrophils (PMNs) as well as an infiltration of PMNs in lung tissues and subsequent lipid peroxidation, and increased production of nitrite/nitrate (NOx), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), tumour necrosis factor alpha, (TNFalpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-10 (IL-10). 4. All parameters of inflammation were attenuated by M40403 except for NOx, PGE2 and IL-10 which remained unaltered. Furthermore, carrageenan induced an upregulation of the adhesion molecules ICAM-1 and P-selectin, as well as nitrotyrosine and poly (ADP-ribose) synthetase (PARS) as determined by immunohistochemical analysis of lung tissues. 5. The degree of staining for the ICAM-1, P-selectin, nitrotyrosine and PARS was reduced by M40403. 6. These results clearly indicate that *O2- plays a critical role in the development of the inflammatory response by altering key components of the inflammatory cascade. Therefore, synthetic enzymes of SOD such as M40403, offers a novel therapeutic approach for the management of various inflammatory diseases where these radicals have been postulated to play a role.
Transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling pathway is a major pathway in cellular processes such as cell growth, apoptosis, and cellular homeostasis. The signaling pathway activated by 17β-estadiol (E2) appeared to inhibit the TGF-β signaling pathway by cross-talk with the TGF-β components in estrogen receptor (ER) positive cells. In this study, we examined the inhibitory effects of endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs), including 4-nonylphenol (NP), 4-otylphenol (OP), bisphenol A (BPA), and benzophenon-1 (BP-1), in the TGF-β signaling pathway in BG-1 ovarian cancer cells expressing estrogen receptors (ERs). The transcriptional and translational levels of TGF-β related genes were examined by reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR), Western blot analysis, and xenograft mouse models of ovarian cancer cells. As a result, treatment with NP, OP, and BPA induced the expressions of SnoN, a TGF-β pathway inhibitor, and c-Fos, a TGF-β target transcription factor. Treatment with NP, BPA, and BP-1 resulted in decreased phosphorylation of Smad3, a downstream target of TGF-β. These results indicate that NP and BPA may stimulate the proliferation of BG-1 cells via inhibition of the TGF-β signaling pathway. In a xenograft mouse model, transplanted BG-1 ovarian cancer cells showed significantly decreased phosphorylation of Smad3 and increased expression of SnoN in the ovarian tumor masses following treatment with E2, NP, or BPA. In parallel with an in vitro model, the expressions of these TGF-β signaling pathway were similarly regulated by NP or BPA in a xenograft mouse model. These results support the fact that the existence of an unproven relationship between EDCs/ER-α and TGF-β signaling pathway and a further study are required in order to verify more profound and distinct mechanism(s) for the disturbance of the TGF-β signaling pathway by diverse EDCs.
To review available data and implications for nurses of combination regimens containing capecitabine for metastatic breast cancer.
Peer-reviewed publications or abstracts from major oncology conferences and reviews of capecitabine focusing on nursing implications.
Capecitabine has proven efficacy in combination with docetaxel and is under evaluation in the neoadjuvant, adjuvant, and metastatic settings in combination with several oral and IV chemotherapeutic and biologic agents.
Capecitabine-containing regimens demonstrate high activity in a range of settings but typically have more complex safety profiles, dose-modification schemes, and scheduling requirements than monotherapy.
Patients need to be aware of a wider range of likely side effects and should understand that they have been prescribed combination therapy rather than more simple, single-agent treatments because of its potential to improve outcome.
We investigated the differential effects of levodopa medication and STN stimulation on finger force control in Parkinson subjects grasping to lift an object and performing vertical point-to-point movements of a hand-held object. The experiments were conducted in four treatment conditions: off-drug/off-stimulation, off-drug/on-stimulation, on-drug/off-stimulation and on-drug/on-stimulation. We found that the bradykinesia in Parkinsonian subjects improved by both levodopa medication and STN stimulation. As compared to healthy subjects, excessive grip force was observed in all Parkinson subjects, regardless of the treatment condition. This force excess was most pronounced in the on-drug condition and ameliorated by STN stimulation. We observed reliable correlations between the amount of force overflow and the severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in the on-drug condition. Despite some similarities regarding therapeutic effects on bradykinesia, our findings contrast with earlier observations with respect to the differential effects of levodopa and STN stimulation on the scaling of fingertip forces in Parkinson's disease. While levodopa causes an overshoot of fingertip forces, STN stimulation appears to be sufficient to alleviate, but not normalise the force excess. STN stimulation enables Parkinson subjects to scale grip force more accurately to the loads arising from voluntary manipulation of hand-held objects.
Asthma is a phenotypically heterogeneous disorder with many etiologic factors and clinical characteristics. T-bet, a Th1-specific transcription factor of T-box family, has been found to control interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) expression in T cells. Mice lacking the T-bet gene (tbx21) demonstrate multiple physiological and inflammatory features reminiscent of human asthma. In order to examine whether polymorphisms in the candidate gene, TBX21, located on chromosome 17q21.32, are related to the risk of human asthma phenotypes, we have searched for genetic variations in the human TBX21 gene and identified 24 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), including five novel SNPs, by direct sequencing in Japanese subjects. Among asthma phenotypes, a promoter -1993T-->C SNP, which is in linkage disequilibrium with a synonymous coding 390A-->G SNP in exon 1, is significantly associated with a risk of aspirin-induced asthma (AIA; P = 0.004, P(c) = 0.016). This association has also been confirmed in additional independent samples of asthma with nasal polyposis (P = 0.008), regardless of aspirin hypersensitivity. Furthermore, our data indicate that the -1993T-->C substitution increases the affinity of a particular nuclear protein to the binding site of TBX21 covering the -1993 position, resulting in increased transcriptional activity of the TBX21 gene. Thus, in addition to the antigen-driven excess Th2 response, increased T-bet (and subsequent IFN-gamma) production in human airways of individuals with the -1993T-->C polymorphism could contribute to the development of certain asthma-related phenotypes, such as AIA.
Previously, it was demonstrated that phenoxodiol induces apoptosis in epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC) cells and that it is capable of sensitizing these cells to Fas-mediated apoptosis. The objectives of this study were to determine whether phenoxodiol can also act as chemosensitizer to chemotherapeutic agents and to characterize the molecular mechanism behind its sensitizing effect.
Ten EOC cell lines were used in this study. The effect of phenoxodiol on the inhibitory concentration 50% (IC50) of carboplatin, paclitaxel, and gemcitabine was determined by the CellTiter 96 Assay. The in vivo effect of combination treatments with phenoxodiol and the above-mentioned agents was determined in animal xenograft models. Apoptosis was measured using the Caspase-Glo Assay and the apoptotic cascade was characterized by Western blot analyses.
The results showed that phenoxodiol is able to sensitize EOC cells to carboplatin, paclitaxel, and gemcitabine both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, it was demonstrated that phenoxodiol is capable of inducing apoptosis by: 1) the activation of the mitochondrial pathway through caspase-2 and Bid signaling, and 2) the proteasomal degradation of the anti-apoptotic protein XIAP.
Understanding the components of the apoptotic pathway activated by phenoxodiol, which allows it to sensitize EOC cells to chemotherapeutic agents, will provide valuable information on the characteristic mode of action of a chemosensitizer. This will help in the identification of novel drugs and in the design of better strategies for combination therapy in patients with recurrent ovarian carcinoma.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) in children is classically associated with diarrheas related to the production of a shiga-toxin. HUS occurs among oncologic patients, in relation with the cancer itself, or as a complication of the cytostatic treatment. The physician should be familiar with the triad of HUS (microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and renal failure) and search actively for this pathology in oncologic patient. The treatment is essentially empirical. It includes plasma exchanges, control of blood pressure, hydro-electrolytic balance control with dialysis, if necessary. Blood transfusion should be avoided. Potential mortal complications associated with HUS can be prevented by a rapid diagnosis and a prompt initiation of adequate therapy.
The efficacy of GM-CSF was investigated in 20 neutropenic patients (< 1500 neutrophils/microliters) with acute visceral leishmaniasis due to Leishmania chagasi. Patients were randomized to receive either GM-CSF, 5 micrograms/kg daily (intravenously or subcutaneously), or placebo for ten days, in combination with pentavalent antimony, 10-20 mg/kg daily for 20 days. Neutrophil counts were significantly greater on days 5 and 10 of treatment in the GM-CSF group compared with the placebo group (p < 0.02). Eosinophil and monocyte counts were also significantly increased in the GM-CSF group at day 10 (p < or = 0.03). Interestingly, at day 30, platelet counts were significantly increased in the GM-CSF group on days 5 and 10 (p = 0.04 and 0.02, respectively). Patients in the GM-CSF group experienced fewer secondary bacterial or viral infections than placebo patients. Infections occurred in only three patients given GM-CSF compared with eight patients given placebo (p < 0.04). All patients had complete resolution of disease symptoms at three months. Few adverse events were recorded. GM-CSF given subcutaneously at a dose of 5 micrograms/kg daily for ten days was well tolerated, reversed neutropenia rapidly and reduced the number of secondary infections in patients with leishmaniasis.
We describe the case of a dilated cardiomyopathy with angiographically normal coronary arteries in a 32-year-old man who underwent head and spine radiotherapy and high dose antracicline chemotherapy at the age of 5 year for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The long-term detrimental cytotoxic effect of remote life-saving chemotherapy should be considered in survivals of leukemia.
