Tamoxifen is an antiestrogenic agent used widely in the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. However, hepatic steatosis has been reported during clinical trials of tamoxifen. To explore the mechanism responsible for this tamoxifen-induced hepatic steatosis, we used microarray analysis to profile the gene expression pattern of mouse liver after tamoxifen treatment. Tamoxifen was administered orally as a single dose of 10mg/kg (low dose), 50mg/kg (medium dose), or 100mg/kg (high dose) to C57BL/6 mice, and the livers were removed 2h, 4h, 8h, and 24h later. From microarray data obtained from the liver samples, 414 genes were selected as tamoxifen-responsive genes (P<0.05, two-way ANOVA; cutoff ≥ 1.5-fold response). These genes were classified into three groups: 308 of the 414 genes showed a time-dependent response, nine genes showed a dose-dependent response, and 97 genes showed a time- and dose-dependent response. Most of the 308 time-dependent-responsive genes were associated predominantly with the biological processes involved in lipid metabolism. Overrepresented transcription factor binding site analysis showed that the following nuclear receptors that are important in lipid and carbohydrate metabolism were overrepresented: the androgen receptor (AR), nuclear receptor subfamily 2 group F member 1 (NR2F1), hepatocyte nuclear factor 4α (HNF4α), and retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor alpha 1 (RORα1). Reporter gene analysis further revealed that tamoxifen repressed the 5α-dihydrotestosterone-induced activation of the AR and the intrinsic transactivation function of RORα1, HNF4α, and NR2F1. Taken together, these data provide a better understanding of the molecular mechanism underlying tamoxifen-induced steatogenic hepatotoxicity and useful information for predicting steatogenic hepatotoxicity.
Binding of nicotine to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) elicits a series of dose-dependent behaviors that go from altered exploration, sedation, and tremors, to seizures and death. nAChRs are pentameric ion channels usually composed of alpha and beta subunits. A gene cluster comprises the alpha3, alpha5 and beta4 subunits, which coassemble to form functional receptors. We examined the role of the beta4 subunits in nicotine-induced seizures and hypolocomotion in beta4 homozygous null (beta4 -/-) and alpha3 heterozygous (+/-) mice. beta4 -/- mice were less sensitive to the effects of nicotine both at low doses, measured as decreased exploration in an open field, and at high doses, measured as sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. Using in situ hybridization probes for the alpha3 and alpha5 subunits, we showed that alpha5 mRNA levels are unchanged, whereas alpha3 mRNA levels are selectively decreased in the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb, and the inferior and the superior colliculus of beta4 -/- brains. alpha3 +/- mice were partially resistant to nicotine-induced seizures when compared to wild-type littermates. mRNA levels for the alpha5 and the beta4 subunits were unchanged in alpha3 +/- brains. Together, these results suggest that the beta4 and the alpha3 subunits are mediators of nicotine-induced seizures and hypolocomotion.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36)-amide (GLP-1) is a gut peptide, which exerts significant effects on glucose homeostasis. GLP-1 and GLP-1 receptors are also widely distributed in the central nervous system. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the effects of intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.)-injected GLP-1 on pilocarpine-induced seizures, anxiety and locomotor and exploratory activity in rat. Rats were pretreated with GLP-1 (1-1000 ng/5 microl; i.c.v.) or saline (5 microl; i.c.v.) 30 min before seizure induction by pilocarpine (2.4 mg/5 microl; i.c.v.) and with GLP-1 (1, 10, 100 ng/5 microl; i.c.v.) or saline (5 microl; i.c.v.) 30 min before the open field test or the elevated plus maze test. GLP-1 did not produce any protective effect against pilocarpine-induced seizures and did not also produce statistically significant differences in the number of squares visited (measure of locomotor activity) or number of rearings (measure of exploratory behaviour), compared to the saline-treated rats in the open field test. On the other hand, GLP-1 (1 ng and 10 ng; i.c.v.) induced an anxiogenic effect, indicated by a decrease in the time spent in open arms, an increase in the time spent in closed arms, and a decrease in the anxiety scores in the elevated plus maze test. Pretreatment with an arginine vasopressin (AVP) V(1) receptor antagonist (125 ng/5 microl; i.c.v.) and L-NAME (100 microg/5 microl and 200 microg/5 microl) significantly abolished the anxiogenic effect of GLP-1 (1 ng/5 microl; i.c.v.). These results suggest that, centrally-injected GLP-1 produces anxiogenic effects via NO pathway and AVP V(1) receptors, but does not have any effects on pilocarpine-induced seizures or locomotor and exploratory activity in the open field test.
Cigarette smoke, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension with the risk of development and progression of atherosclerosis and associated pathologies such as abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) are correlated. We examined the interaction of cigarette mainstream smoke (MS) and angiotensin-II (Ang II)-induced hypertension in the atherosclerotic process using hyperlipidemic apolipoprotein E-knockout (ApoE(-/-)) mice. ApoE(-/-) mice were treated with Ang II for 4 weeks and then further exposed to MS or to fresh air for 4 weeks. AAA formation was observed in all mice treated with Ang II, regardless of smoke exposure; however, smoke exposure increased the incidence of AAA in these mice. Ang II treatment resulted in higher gene expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-2, -3, -8, -9, and -12 in the abdominal aortas, which was further increased by MS exposure. The proteolytic activity of MMP-2 and MMP-9 was also enhanced in Ang II-treated mice exposed to MS, but only minor changes were seen with either smoke exposure or Ang II treatment alone. This study shows for the first time that both formation and severity of AAA in hypertensive ApoE(-/-) mice are accelerated by exposure to MS and that the proteolytic activity of MMPs is enhanced by the combination of Ang II and MS.
Cocaine toxicity frequently manifests as seizures and status epilepticus. Frequently, dextrose is administered to patients with cocaine-induced seizures. The objective of this study was to examine the effect of pre-existing hyperglycemia on cocaine neurotoxicity and death in mice.
Swiss albino mice received intraperitoneal dextrose at a dose of 1 g/kg (12.5%) (hyperglycemic group, n = 98). The euglycemic group (n = 98) received an equal volume of 0.9% saline. After 60 minutes, all the animals received intraperitoneal cocaine at a dose of 90 mg/kg. The times to onset of ataxia, seizure, and death were recorded in seconds. Times to events were compared using a Kaplan-Meier method and results were compared using the logrank test. The overall percentage outcomes were compared using chi-square.
The ataxia rates (hyperglycemic 97%, euglycemic 97%, chi(2) = 0, p = 1), seizure rates (hyperglycemic 85%, euglycemic 82%, chi(2) = 0.292, p = 0.589), and survival rates (hyperglycemic 62%, euglycemic 51%, chi(2) = 0.2514, p = 0.113) were similar between the groups. The survival following a seizure was significantly higher in the hyperglycemic group (hyperglycemic 57%, euglycemic 41%, chi(2) = 4.439, p = 0.035). The median ataxia time was earlier in the hyperglycemic group (190 sec) than in the euglycemic group (166 sec) (p = 0.031). Seizures occurred no earlier in the hyperglycemic group (331 sec) than in the euglycemic group (342 sec) (p = 0.207). Survival times were not different for the hyperglycemic group (9,133 sec) and the euglycemic group (7,593 sec) (p = 0.394). Survival times following seizures were not different for the hyperglycemic group (8,095 sec) and the euglycemic group (5,816 sec) (p = 0.0752).
In mice with pre-existing hyperglycemia, ataxia occurred earlier and survival following cocaine-induced seizures was longer than for euglycemic mice. No significant difference in the overall percentage of seizures and death was detected. Pre-existing hyperglycemia had minimal effect on worsening cocaine toxicity in mice.
Ascorbate has multiple biological roles and chemical interactions, some of which differ between normal and cancerous tissues. Biological effects of ascorbate depend on concentration, route of exposure, and duration of exposure. High-dose ascorbate acts as a pro-oxidant in tissue fluids and delivers peroxide to tissues and fluids, which is then detoxified by erythrocytes and plasma catalase in normally perfused areas. We have previously shown that nanoparticles incorporating palmitoyl ascorbate (PA) targeted and killed cancer cells in vitro. Here, our studies provide additional indications of the importance of extracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the anti-cancer-toxicity by PA-liposomes. Cell death in vitro can be blocked by catalase, superoxide dismutase, and the thiol reductant TCEP. Intracellullar iron may also play a role. Iron chelation by desferrioxamine inhibited cell death but EDTA did not. Further, the fluorescent marker of ROS production in cells indicated that the PA-liposomes caused an increase in ROS. Fluorescent microscopy of tumor sections taken at 3h after injection of rhodamine-labeled liposomes demonstrated an increased accumulation of PA-liposomes compared to plain liposomes. However, the overall biodistribution of (111)In-labeled PA-liposomes was similar to plain liposomes. PA-liposomes provided substantial anti-tumor activity in vivo and enhanced the anti-cancer activity of liposomally encapsulated paclitaxel. Thus, nanoparticles incorporating PA provide a platform for enhancement of the anti-tumor activity of ascorbate.
This research focused on three major questions regarding benzene-induced hematopoietic neoplasms (HPNs). First, why are HPNs induced equivocally and at only threshold level with low-dose benzene exposure despite the significant genotoxicity of benzene even at low doses both in experiments and in epidemiology? Second, why is there no linear increase in incidence at high-dose exposure despite a lower acute toxicity (LD(50) > 1000 mg/kg body weight; WHO, 2003, Benzene in drinking-water. Background document for development of WHO Guidelines for Drinking-Water Quality)? Third, why are particular acute myeloid leukemias (AMLs) not commonly observed in mice, although AMLs are frequently observed in human cases of occupational exposure to benzene? In this study, we hypothesized that the threshold-like equivocal induction of HPNs at low-dose benzene exposure is based on DNA repair potential in wild-type mice and that the limited increase in HPNs at a high-dose exposure is due to excessive apoptosis in wild-type mice. To determine whether Trp53 deficiency satisfies the above hypotheses by eliminating or reducing DNA repair and by allowing cells to escape apoptosis, we evaluated the incidence of benzene-induced HPNs in Trp53-deficient C57BL/6 mice with specific regard to AMLs. We also used C3H/He mice, AML prone, with Trp53 deficiency to explore whether a higher incidence of AMLs on benzene exposure might explain the above human-murine differences. As a result, heterozygous Trp53-deficient mice of both strains showed a nonthreshold response of the incidence of HPNs at the lower dose, whereas both strains showed an increasing HPN incidence up to 100% with increasing benzene exposure dose, including AMLs, that developed 38% of heterozygous Trp53-deficient C3H/He mice compared to only 9% of wild-type mice exposed to the high dose. The detection of AMLs in heterozygous Trp53-deficient mice, even in the C57BL/6 strain, implies that benzene may be a potent inducer of AMLs also in mice with some strain differences.
The neurotoxicity of the vincristine is well known, however, cranial neuropathy is not widely recognized. We describe a child with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who developed vincristine-induced bilateral vocal cord paralysis. Vocal cord paralysis resolved spontaneously upon withdrawal of the vincristine. Vinca-alkaloid-induced vocal cord paralysis is a potentially dangerous but reversible condition.
Eight (16%) of 50 children receiving adriamycin and 2 (3%) of 60 receiving daunomycin had severe cardiomyopathy with congestive heart failure. All 110 patients received cumulative doses of over 500 mg/m2. The incidence was significantly higher in those who also had incidental cardiac radiation. The electrocardiogram, with few exceptions, provided the first indication of cardiac abnormality. There were no deaths from heart failure. Two had thromboembolic episodes. Recommendations are discussed.
We report the case of attempted suicide by a 30-year-old man who had significant cognitive deficits that developed after at least three years of polysubstance use with cannabis, methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, "ecstasy") and cocaine. The patient reported increasing difficulties in his professional and interpersonal life which may have been associated with his cognitive dysfunction caused by his poly-drug use. In this setting, the patient complained of increasing symptoms of depression, including feelings of hopelessness and helplessness, and multi somatic complaints (based on DSM-IV criteria). These depressive symptoms led to the development of active suicidal ideation and ultimately to a suicide attempt. We propose that the patient's cognitive deficits resulted directly from his polysubstance use and contributed to his depression, suicide attempt and current serious suicidal ideation.
Manganese in excess is neurotoxic and causes CNS injury resembling that of Parkinson's disease. In brain, astrocytes predominantly take up and accumulate manganese and are thus vulnerable to its toxicity. Manganese was shown to induce cell swelling in cultured astrocytes, and oxidative/nitrosative stress (ONS) mediates such swelling. As aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is important in the mechanism of astrocyte swelling, we examined the effect of manganese on AQP4 protein levels in cultured astrocytes. Treatment of cultures with manganese increased AQP4 protein in the plasma membrane (PM), whereas total cellular AQP4 protein and mRNA levels were unchanged, suggesting that increased AQP4 levels is due to its increased stability and/or increased trafficking to the PM and not to its neosynthesis. AQP4 gene silencing by small interfering ribonucleic acid resulted in a marked reduction in astrocyte swelling by manganese. Antioxidants, as well as an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, diminished the increase in AQP4 protein expression, suggesting a role of ONS in the mechanism of AQP4 increase. As ONS is known to activate mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and MAPK activation has been implicated in astrocyte swelling, we examined the effect of manganese on the activation of MAPKs and found an increased phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2, C-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK)1/2/3, and p38-MAPK. Inhibitors of ERK1/2 and p38-MAPK (but not of JNK) blocked (40-60%) the manganese-induced increase in AQP4 protein content and astrocyte swelling, suggesting the involvement of these kinases in the increased AQP4 content. Inhibition of oxidative stress or MAPKs may represent potential strategies for counteracting AQP4-related neurological complications associated with manganese toxicity.
A carboxypeptidase E (CPE) knockout (KO) mouse was generated by deletion of exons 4 and 5 from the CPE gene, and its phenotype was characterized. KO mice became obese by 10-12 wk of age and reached 60-80 g by 40 wk. At this age, body fat content was more than double that in the wild-type (WT) controls. The null animals consumed more food overall, were less physically active during the light phase of the light-dark cycle, and burned fewer calories as fat than WT littermates. Fasting levels of glucose and insulin-like immunoreactivity in plasma were elevated in both male and female KO mice at approximately 20 wk; males recovered fully and females partially from this state by 32 wk. At this time, insulin-like immunoreactivity in the plasma, identified as proinsulin, was 50-100 times higher than that of the WT animals. The KO mice showed impaired glucose clearance and were insulin resistant. High levels of leptin and no circulating fully processed cocaine- and amphetamine-related transcript, a peptide that is responsive to leptin-induced feedback inhibition of feeding, were found in serum. The KO mice were subfertile and showed deficits in GnRH processing in the hypothalamus. Behavioral analyses revealed that KO animals showed diminished reactivity to stimuli and had reduced muscle strength and coordination, as well as visual placing and toe-pinch reflexes. These data demonstrate that CPE KO mice display a wide range of neural and endocrine abnormalities and suggest that CPE may have additional physiological roles beyond those ascribed to peptide processing and sorting of prohormones in cells.
The effects of systemic administration of the novel AMPA/GluR5 selective receptor antagonist NS1209 in animal models of experimental pain have been tested and compared with the AMPA receptor antagonist NBQX and the opiate morphine. In the mouse hot plate test, NS1209 (3-30 mg/kg, s.c. and i.p.) and morphine (3-30 mg/kg, s.c.) significantly increased the nociceptive response latency, whereas NBQX (3-30 mg/kg, i.p.) was ineffective. In the rat formalin test, a model of persistent pain, NS1209 (3 and 6 mg/kg, i.p.) and morphine (0.5 and 3 mg/kg, s.c.) produced dose-dependent reductions in second phase nociceptive behaviours, although NBQX (10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.) was without effect. In the chronic constriction injury model of neuropathic pain, NS1209 (3 and 6 mg/kg, i.p.), NBQX (10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.) and morphine (3 and 6 mg/kg, s.c.) all reduced mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia responses to von Frey hair and pin prick stimulation of the injured hindpaw. NS1209 and morphine also reduced cold hypersensitivity in response to ethyl chloride stimulation of the injured hindpaw. At the doses associated with anti-nociceptive actions, no effects on motor performance as determined by the rotarod test were observed for any of the drugs tested. Thus, systemic administration of NS1209 at non-ataxic doses has marked analgesic actions comparable to those of morphine in a range of animal models of experimental pain.
Mutations of the thyroperoxidase (TPO) gene have been reported as being the most severe and frequent abnormality in thyroid iodide organification defect (IOD) causing goitrous congenital hypothyroidism. The objective of this study was to screen and subsequently identify TPO gene mutations in patients with congenital hypothyroidism with evidence of total iodine organification defects (TIOD) or partial iodine organification defect (PIOD) as defined by the perchlorate discharge test. Seven goitrous patients with TIOD and seven patients with PIOD, from three and five unrelated families, respectively, were studied. We were able to detect different TPO genes mutations in patients with TIOD and PIOD. In TIOD families the results were as follows: (1) a homozygous GGCC insertion at exon 8, position 1277 (family 1); (2) compound heterozygosity with a GGCC insertion at exon 8 (1277) and a nucleotide substitution in exon 11 (2068G>C) (family 2); (3) compound heterozygosity with the mutation 2068G>C in exon 11 and a C insertion in exon 14 between positions 2505-2511 (family 3). In patients with PIOD we have detected: (1) only one heterozygous mutation in two families (4 and 5), in exons 11 and 10 (2084G>A and 1780C>A); (2) a compound heterozygous condition in one family (family 6), with mutations, respectively in exons 8 and 10 (1242G>T and 1780C>A); (3) only polymorphisms (family VII) and (4) a heterozygous mutation in the first base of the border exon/intron 9 +1G>T (family VIII). We did not detect inactivating mutations in exons 11, 16, and 21 of the THOX2 gene where mutations have been previously described. We concluded that homozygous and compound heterozygous mutations found in TIOD characterized the autosomal recessive mode of inheritance and will translate a nonfunctional protein or a protein that may not reach the apical membrane. As for PIOD, the majority of the studied kindreds had only heterozygous mutations and/or polymorphisms. It is conceivable that these TPO gene sequence alterations may partially affect the functional state of the translated protein or affect its transport to the apical membrane.
Most antidepressant therapies require an initial period of sustained use before therapeutic effects are observed; the literature suggests that this may be due to alterations in either serotonergic or noradrenergic systems. To further explore the mechanism of action of antidepressants, the effect of 21-day drug treatment to rats on serotonin type 2 and beta-adrenergic receptors in fronto-parietal hemicortices was evaluated. Because the same brain was used to measure concomitant changes in both receptors, confounding effects due to inter-animal variability are reduced. The effect of a classical antidepressant drug, desmethylimipramine, was compared with two compounds which have more recently been used to treat depression, ie., adinazolam, a tirazolobenzodiazepine, and buspirone, a serotonin type 1A partial agonist, both of which possesses combined anxiolytic and antidepressant effects. The anxiolytic drug diazepam, a benzodiazepine devoid of antidepressant properties, was used as an active control treatment. Membrane binding studies showed that the maximal binding of [125I]cyanopindolol to beta-adrenoceptors was significantly decreased only by desmethylimipramine treatment. On the other hand, adinazolam and buspirone, as well as desmethylimipramine, decreased the maximal binding of [125I]7-amino-8-iodo-ketanserin binding to serotonin type 2 receptors. Diazepam was without effect on either receptor. These results suggest that down-regulation of serotonin type 2 receptors may be a common element in the mechanism of action of antidepressant therapies.
Angiotensin II blockade and spironolactone effectively reduces proteinuria in humans. To clarify the mechanisms of the beneficial effect of blockade of both aldosterone and angiotensin II, we associated the aldosterone antagonist eplerenone to an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) and examined the effect on renal transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta expression and oxidative stress by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase in the Dahl salt-sensitive rat with heart failure (DSHF).
Dahl salt-resistant control rats and DSHF rats were fed with 8% NaCl diet and at 11 weeks the DSHF rats were treated with vehicle, eplerenone (Epl), trandolapril or a combination of both drugs for 7 weeks.
DSHF rats showed increased NADPH oxidase and decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) resulting in increased oxidative stress. ACEI and Epl reduced NADPH oxidase showing an additive effect in their combination; ACEI increased manganese SOD (MnSOD) and Epl increased MnSOD, copper-zinc SOD and catalase, resulting in the lowest levels of oxidative stress with the combination therapy. Glomerulosclerosis and proteinuria were increased in the DSHF rats, and Epl suppressed them more effectively than ACEI to levels not different from the combination of both, showing a positive correlation with NADPH oxidase expression and TGF-beta. Renal TGF-beta was specifically suppressed with Epl
The association of Epl to ACEI is beneficial due to further reduction of NADPH oxidase and specific inhibition of TGF-beta resulting in improvement of renal damage.
To report a case of a disturbance of taste and smell associated with the alpha-adrenoceptor agonist midodrine.
A 64-year-old white man with autonomic failure was started on midodrine 5 mg/day as treatment for orthostatic hypotension. After 3 months, the dose was increased to 12.5 mg/day, whereupon he noted a new onset of taste and smell disturbance. These symptoms made eating so unpleasant that the man greatly reduced his food intake, leading to significant weight loss. In addition, he experienced well-recognized adverse effects of midodrine, such as scalp pruritus, after the dose increase. All symptoms resolved with a dose reduction of midodrine (to 5 mg/day), and the patient increased his food intake, resulting in a return to his initial body weight.
Midodrine is commonly associated with dose-dependent adverse effects, such as scalp pruritus and cutis anserina. Disorders of taste and smell have not been previously reported with midodrine, although it has been suggested that other sympathomimetic drugs may have effects on the olfactory threshold. Severe disorders of taste and smell may impact not only on a patient's quality of life, but also on their physical well-being, with significant weight loss being reported in this case. According to the Naranjo probability scale, this patient's taste and smell disturbance was probably associated with midodrine.
The use of midodrine may be associated with taste and smell disturbance. This case suggests that such an association is likely to be dose dependent.
Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) isoforms and PDGF receptor-alpha are upregulated in fibroproliferative lesions in response to asbestos exposure. To examine the functional role of PDGF in asbestos-induced lung disease, we have evaluated the impact of PDGF-B overexpression in the lung on the development of pulmonary fibrosis induced by asbestos inhalation. Transgenic mice expressing PDGF-B from the surfactant protein C promoter and wild-type C57BL/6 mice were exposed to aerosolized chrysotile asbestos fibers via three different exposure regimens: 3 consecutive days to 9 mg/m(3), once a week for 5 weeks to 12 mg/m(3), or once a week for 8 weeks to 11 mg/m(3). The 3-day exposure did not produce fibroproliferative lesions in SPC-PDGFB or wild-type mice, indicating that PDGF expression did not increase susceptibility to a subthreshold dose of asbestos. Transgenic and wild-type mice subjected to the 5-week exposure protocol exhibited similar fibrogenic lesions histologically 48 hours and 8 weeks postexposure, but lungs from transgenic mice had elevated lung hydroxyproline content 8 weeks postexposure relative to wild-type mice. In addition, SPC-PDGFB transgenic mice developed pronounced thickening of arterioles following the 5-week exposure regimen. Mice exposed to asbestos for 8 weeks and examined 10 months later showed pronounced, diffuse fibrotic lesions of terminal bronchioles and alveolar ducts, but no histological differences between transgenic and nontransgenic mice were observed. These results indicated that PDGF-B overexpression can stimulate increased collagen deposition and vascular smooth muscle hyperplasia following asbestos inhalation and that a limited exposure (8 times) to chrysotile aerosol can produce long-lasting fibrotic lesions. The 8-week exposure regimen provides an animal model that encompasses an important aspect of human asbestosis-i.e., persistence of fibrosis for long periods after cessation of asbestos exposure.
The promotion effects of testosterone propionate (TP) on prostate carcinogenesis were investigated in F344 rats given the prostatic carcinogen, 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB). One group of animals received s.c. DMAB injections at a dose of 50 mg/kg body weight at 2-week intervals for a total of 10 injections along with s.c. implantations of TP-containing Silastic tubes. A second experimental group of rats was given DMAB at the same dose and intervals but each injection of DMAB was combined with 3 prior consecutive daily 100-mg/kg body weight s.c. injections of TP. After cessation of carcinogen administration, animals in these two groups received TP implants from week 21 to the end of the experiment. All surviving animals were killed at week 56 and accessory sex gland tumor incidences were compared to those in DMAB alone and other appropriate control groups. The groups given TP plus DMAB and subsequent long term administration of TP developed lesions of the dorsolateral prostate, seminal vesicles, and coagulating glands which were all invasive adenocarcinomas. Incidences were 84.2% (16 of 19 rats) and 66.7% (12 of 18 rats), respectively. Macroscopic large tumors were induced in 13 animals among which 8 demonstrated metastasis to the abdominal cavity, liver, or lung. None of the control groups except for the group given TP injections plus DMAB had equivalent tumors. Development of carcinomas of the ventral prostate, which were all of in situ type, were not increased by subsequent treatment with TP. These data thus clearly showed that TP can exert strong enhancing effects on tumor development in the dorsolateral prostate, seminal vesicles, and coagulating glands but not in the ventral prostate.
To report a case of seizure activity associated with oral codeine phosphate administered for analgesia in an elderly woman with end-stage renal disease.
A 73-year-old Taiwanese woman with end-stage renal disease received oral codeine phosphate 30 mg 4 times daily for her back and rib pain without adjustment of her dosage regimen. Seven days after starting codeine therapy, the woman became stuporous and developed tonic-clonic seizures. After phenytoin initiation, codeine discontinuation, and naloxone administration, the seizures did not recur.
Codeine is a frequently used opioid analgesic, especially when pain control with acetaminophen or nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs fails. Although seizures associated with codeine have been reported, pertinent data are very limited and the exact mechanism is unknown. An objective causality assessment indicated the seizure to be a probable drug-related event in this patient.
Elderly patients with end-stage renal disease may be predisposed to seizures with higher doses of codeine phosphate. It is imperative to adjust the codeine dosage regimen based on patients' renal function to avoid the potential toxicity with overdose.
The number of glomerular capillaries were unbiasedly estimated in the very heterogeneous population of glomeruli found in rats with lithium-induced nephropathy. The glomeruli are atubular, connected to atrophic tubules, or connected to normal proximal tubules. In rats with lithium nephropathy, hypertrophy is found in glomeruli with normal tubular connection. This hypertrophy may take place by an increase in the number, length, or diameter of the capillaries.
In serial sections, the glomeruli were sampled at random and followed to detect whether they were connected to an atrophic tubule, a normal proximal tubule, or no tubule at all. On 1-micron-thick serial sections, the number of capillaries was estimated using a method based on a topologic definition of the capillary. The number was estimated for three categories of glomeruli: normal glomeruli from control animals, hypertrophic glomeruli connected to normal proximal tubules from lithium-treated animals, and atrophic glomeruli being either atubular or connected to atrophic tubules from lithium-treated animals. On the same sections, stereologic methods were used to estimate the cross-sectional area and the length density of the glomerular capillaries.
The mean number of capillaries in normal, hypertrophic, and atrophic glomeruli was 188 +/- 26 (+/- SD), 271 +/- 32 (+44%), and 65 +/- 12 (-65%), respectively. Whereas the total length of the capillaries per glomerulus was increased in hypertrophic glomeruli and decreased in atrophic glomeruli compared to normal glomeruli, the mean capillary length of 48.3 +/- 3.7 microns, and 53.0 +/- 11.3 microns in the hypertrophic and atrophic glomeruli, respectively, was significantly higher than the 41.0 +/- 4.6 microns in the controls.
We conclude that in lithium-induced nephropathy, glomerular hypertrophy is mainly due to the increased numbers of capillaries, whereas the increase in the individual capillary length is of lesser importance.
This article is the fifth of a series aimed at mapping brain activities as they result from the development of cyclophosphamide (CP) cystitis in behaving rats using c-fos and Krox-24 expression. The inactive hepatic metabolites of CP are metabolized in the kidney to produce acrolein, which generates cystitis. Data come from animals which were injected once i.p. with either 1 ml saline (sham) or 100 mg/kg CP in 1 ml saline under transient volatile anesthesia and which behaved freely for 1-4 h postinjection, 4 h being the minimum time for cystitis to completely develop. Survival times longer than 4 h were not studied owing to ethical considerations. The first 2 h postinjection cover a period of time over which inputs of multifactorial origin (stress and pain due to the intraperitoneal injection process, possible effects due to the presence of hepatic CP metabolites in blood, cystitis onset) interact in an indistinguishable way; the last 2 h are more cystitis specific as the other effects have vanished. Complete screening of telencephalic levels has been performed. These data complete previously published data at both spinal and subtelencephalic levels. Of all the telencephalic structures, only the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in the dorsal part of its lateral division (BSTLd) and, to a lesser degree, the nucleus centralis of the amygdala, mostly in its caudal portion (cCeA), appeared to be significantly driven over the most specific cystitis period. Both of these structures had related, but not identical patterns of expression. They both reacted shortly after CP injection, but, while cCeA maintained its activity throughout cystitis development, BSTLd showed a rebound, reaching a peak value when cystitis was fully developed. Both of these areas are the only telencephalic areas to contain high PACAP38 immunoreactivity. This is evidence that, (1) both the BSTLd and cCeA could be the most rostral areas that visceronociceptive inflow would reach when cystitis genesis is under way, and (2) PACAP38 could be one of the neurochemical agents involved in telencephalic visceronociceptive processing. From our complete mapping of brain activities under a fully developed cystitis situation (4 h postinjection), it appears that the activities in BSTLd and cCeA are concomitant with those of both the dorsal vagal complex (DVC), paratrigeminal nucleus (PaT), and the ventrocaudal bulbar reticular formation (vcBRF) at brainstem levels, suggesting they all form the main part of the neural network that subserves the central processing of cystitis-related inputs, comprising pain and associated pseudoaffective responses. Both the DVC and BSTLd, which are the most powerfully driven areas, would be particularly important in such a way. The origin of these activities should be found in both vagal (as sensed through PaT activity) and spinal (pelvic) influences. This network profoundly differs from those reported for painful situations, either somatic or visceral, which controversally accompany positive cardiac inotropism.
We investigated the effect of methyleugenol on anaphylaxis. Methyleugenol completely inhibited systemic anaphylaxis induced by compound 48/80 in mice. Methyleugenol also inhibited local anaphylaxis activated by anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP) IgE. Moreover, methyleugenol dose-dependently inhibited histamine release in mast cells activated by compound 48/80 or anti-DNP IgE. Northern-blot analysis demonstrated that significantly reduced level of the mRNA of L-histidine decarboxylase (HDC) was expressed in mast cells treated with methyleugenol, compared to that without methyleugenol. We conclude that methyleugenol directly affect histamine release and HDC gene over-expression in mast cells.
NLR family, pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3), controls the activity of inflammatory caspase-1 by forming inflammasomes, which leads to cleavage of the procytokines IL-1beta and IL-18. Recent studies have shown associations of human NLRP3 polymorphisms with susceptibility to various inflammatory diseases; however, the association with allergic diseases remains unclear.
We sought to examine whether NLRP3 polymorphisms are associated with susceptibility to food allergy, food-induced anaphylaxis, and aspirin-induced asthma (AIA).
We selected 15 tag single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of NLRP3 and conducted association analyses of NLRP3 using 574 and 1279 samples for food allergy and AIA, respectively. We further performed functional analyses of the susceptible SNPs.
Two NLRP3 SNPs (rs4612666 and rs10754558) were significantly associated with susceptibility to food-induced anaphylaxis (P = .00086 and P = .00068, respectively). The NLRP3 haplotype of the 2 SNPs also showed a significant association (P = .000098). We could confirm the association with susceptibility to another hypersensitivity phenotype, AIA (rs4612666, P = .0096). Functional analysis revealed that the risk alleles of rs4612666 and rs10754558 increased the enhancer activity of NLRP3 expression and NLRP3 mRNA stability, respectively.
Our results indicate that the NLRP3 SNPs might play an important role in the development of food-induced anaphylaxis and AIA in a gain-of-function manner. Further research on the NLRP3 inflammasome will contribute to the development of novel diagnostic and therapeutic methods for food-induced anaphylaxis and AIA.
Prednisone and its active metabolite prednisolone, both substrates for 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11beta-HSD2), may represent a pharmacological challenge for the enzyme. The aim of the present work was to define the possible role of abnormal cortisol/cortisone handling, as revealed by an urinary tetrahydrocortisol + allotetrahydrocortisol (THFs)/tetrahydrocortisone (THE) ratio between 1.5 and 3.0, by measuring urinary cortisol and cortisone metabolites in: normotensive individuals (n = 100) who received 7-8 mg/day of oral prednisone and were then followed for development of hypertension; essential hypertensive (EH) participants from primary care (n = 103); and EH hypertensive patients referred to the Hypertension Unit (n = 141).
About one-third (14 out of 47, 30%) of glucorticoid-treated patients who developed hypertension showed a THFs/THE ratio >1.5, which was seen in 3% (n = 3) and 14% (n = 19) of primary and tertiary care hypertensive patients, respectively. A THFs/THE ratio >1.5 was associated with a 3.8-fold incremental risk of hypertension after glucocorticoid therapy, regardless of duration and intensity of prednisone therapy.
A number of EH patients and glucocorticoid-treated participants shared a similar phenotype, characterized by both arterial hypertension and elevated urinary THFs/THE ratio. Such a phenotype is more common in severely, rather than in mildly, hypertensive patients.
Earlier results suggest a minor role of variants in the serotonin 3 receptor (HTR3) subunit genes on antipsychotic treatment outcome of schizophrenia patients. In this study, we further investigated the role of the subunits A and B of the HTR3 receptor using 140 schizophrenia patients taking clozapine for 6 months. We have found significant allelic association of clozapine response with three variants in the HTR3A receptor (rs2276302, rs1062613, rs1150226) although only rs1062613 association remained significant after permutations (permutated P=0.041). Moreover, rs2276302 and rs1062613 have shown nominally significant genotypic association. The two haplotypes composed of rs2276302-rs1062613-rs1150226 were also nominally significant. Taken together, our results suggest that variants in the HTR3A receptor gene can play a role in the treatment outcome of clozapine in schizophrenia patients that are refractory or intolerant of typical antipsychotic therapy. Further studies are necessary to confirm the reported associations.
Coronary atherosclerosis includes an activation of circulating T lymphocytes. Statins exert anti-inflammatory effects beyond lipid lowering. Whether these properties influence systemic T lymphocytes is unclear.
To investigate the effect of atorvastatin on circulating T-lymphocyte subsets producing proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines (interferon gamma [IFN-gamma(+)], interleukin 2 [IL-2(+)], IL-4(+), and IL-10(+)) and on the T-cell-activating soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L), 30 hypercholesterolemic patients with angiographically documented stable coronary artery disease (CAD) were randomized to placebo or atorvastatin (20 mg/d) for 3 months. Eight healthy volunteers served as controls. Levels of peripheral cytokine-producing CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and their CD28- subsets were determined by FACS. Serum soluble CD40L was measured with ELISA.
IL-2(+) T lymphocytes and sCD40L levels were higher in patients with CAD compared with controls, whereas IFN-gamma(+) and anti-inflammatory IL-4(+) and IL-10(+) T lymphocytes were similar. Levels of IL-2(+), IFN-gamma(+), IL-4(+), and IL-10(+) T-cell subsets as well as CD28- T lymphocytes were neither changed by atorvastatin nor by placebo, whereas sCD40L was lowered only in atorvastatin-treated patients (P < .01).
Circulating IL-2(+) T lymphocytes are increased in patients with stable CAD reflecting an activation of the global immune system, but are not influenced by atorvastatin therapy. The elevated levels of platelet-derived T-lymphocyte-stimulating sCD40L are decreased by atorvastatin probably reflecting an atheroprotective effect. Hence, sCD40L may be an additional biomarker to be considered when evaluating the treatment effects of statins in patients with stable CAD.
