Chronic, infantile, neurological, cutaneous, and articular (CINCA) syndrome, also known as neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID), is a rare autosomal dominant inherited disease. It is characterized by a persistent rash with onset during the neonatal period, neurological and ocular manifestations, and articular involvement with abnormal ossification. Mutations within the CIAS1 gene are found in up to 60% of CINCA cases, but the exact underlying pathogenetic mechanisms causing this disorder are still unclear. Although the interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor antagonist anakinra (rHuIL-1Ra) has recently been reported to be effective, no formal recommended treatment protocols exist thus far. Herein, we describe a 17-year-old girl with CINCA for whom numerous medication trials had been unsuccessful. After the introduction of thalidomide, the symptoms of arthropathy improved dramatically even months after the medication was discontinued by the patient. We propose that thalidomide can be beneficial in select patients with CINCA syndrome.
This study was undertaken to examine in-situ heart function and metabolism during insulin treatment of verapamil-induced cardiogenic shock in awake canines.
Twenty mongrel canines were instrumented to monitor myocardial substrate uptakes (glucose, lactate, free fatty acids, oxygen [MVO2]), as well as ventricular (LV) end-systolic elastance (Emax), LV efficiency (LV minute work/MVO2), and Tau. Shock was induced by graded intraportal verapamil infusion followed by randomized assignment to one of 4 treatment groups: saline control (3.0 ml/kg/min, n = 5), epinephrine (5 micrograms/kg/min, n = 5), glucagon (10 micrograms/kg/min, n = 5) or insulin (1000 mU/min, n = 5) with dextrose to clamp arterial [glucose] +/- 10% of basal concentrations.
Insulin treatment significantly increased Emax (34 +/- 3 vs. 17 +/- 3 mmHg/mm, saline control), and shortened Tau (9 +/- 3 ms) compared to saline control (42 +/- 5 ms), epinephrine (20 +/- 4 ms) and glucagon (35 +/- 8 ms). With insulin treatment, mechanical efficiency increased to 20,097 +/- 2070 vs. 12,424 +/- 1615 mmHg.mm/ml/O2/100 g in controls. Simultaneously, insulin increased myocardial lactate uptake (35 +/- 2 vs. 17 +/- 4 mumol/min/100 g. saline control), but did not increase glucose uptake. Epinephrine and glucagon decreased mechanical efficiency compared to saline controls, coincident with increased myocardial fatty acid consumption, but without increasing lactate uptake. One dog died early with glucagon treatment before the first death in the saline-treated group.
Insulin improves systolic and diastolic heart function during aerobic shock and accelerates in-vivo myocardial lactate oxidation.
High mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), a delayed mediator of proinflammatory cytokines, could initiate and amplify inflammatory responses to infection, injury, and other inflammatory stimuli, and it has emerged as a potential therapeutic target for inflammatory diseases. The overexpression of HMGB1 in endothelial cells has been proved to contribute to the development of these diseases. Because many proinflammatory cytokines expression were suppressed by thiazolidinediones (TZDs), agonists for nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), whether TZDs can inhibit HMGB1 expression and function is of great interest, however, it remains unknown. Herein, we provide evidence that PPARγ agonist troglitazone, a member of the TZD class, modulates HMGB1 expression in the endothelial cell line EA.hy926 and propose a potential mechanism for that. Results from polymerase chain reaction experiments revealed that PPARγ is expressed in EA.hy926 cells, and it can be activated by troglitazone. Troglitazone inhibited the basal and LPS-stimulated HMGB1 expression at the mRNA level and protein level. A luciferase reporter assay showed that troglitazone inhibited not only the transcriptional activation of the HMGB1 promoter but also activities of heterologous promoters driven by nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) or activator protein 1 (AP-1) response elements. Altogether, these data suggest that NF-κB and AP-1 may participate in the inhibitory effect on HMGB1 transcription induced by troglitazone. Activation of PPARγ by troglitazone is effective for HMGB1 inhibition via suppressing NF-κB and AP-1 transcriptional activity in endothelial cells, which provides a new potential strategy to suppress excessive HMGB1 in inflammatory diseases.
Glutamine prevents the intestinal mucosal injury induced by chemotherapy. However, the mechanism has not yet been elucidated. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is expressed in the nuclei of cells during the DNA synthesis phase of the cell cycle, and PCNA is also involved in the DNA damage tolerance pathway known as post-replication repair. We hypothesized that glutamine supplementation might stimulate the intestinal epithelial cell cycle interruption induced by chemotherapy. The effect of supplemental glutamine after cisplatin-induced intestinal mucosal injury on the expression of PCNA was investigated.
The male Wister rats were divided into three groups; a control group (control n = 5), which received standard rat diet; the Cis group (cisplatin 6 mg/kg i.p., n = 5), and the Cis + Gln group [cisplatin + Ala-Glutamine (0.5 g/day × 3 days p.o., n = 5)]. After 1, 3, and 7 days of chemotherapy, PCNA, and glutamine transporter (ASCT2) expression in the small intestine (jejunum and ileum) was investigated.
The expression of PCNA in the crypt of the small intestine (jejunum and ileum) decreased after chemotherapy, while the expression strongly increased by glutamine administration, even if it was after chemotherapy. On day 1, both the mRNA expression of the glutamine transporter (ASCT2) and PCNA expression in crypt cells were significantly increased by administration of glutamine (Cis + Gln group). The increased expression of ACST2 appeared earlier than in the Cis group. In the Cis + Gln group, the PCNA expression was normalized on day 3, and the expression was same as that in the control group on day 3.
Glutamine supplementation rapidly improved the expression of PCNA after cisplatin-induced intestinal mucosal injury. The effects of glutamine may be due to an anti-oxidant effect, but the amino acid might also attenuate the initial mucosal injury and improve intestinal cell turnover.
A sharp increase in blood pressure, increase in atrial pressure and atrial strain, left ventricular diastolic dysfunction, and left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) lead to heterogeneity and instability in atrial conduction. The resulting physiopathological situation may elevate maximum Pwave duration (P(max)) and P-wave dispersion (PWD) in electrocardiography. The objective of our study was to explore the effect of the sudden change in atrial hemodynamics on P(max) and PWD, which may indicate the risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) development in hypertensive urgency.
The study included patients diagnosed as hypertensive urgency (systolic blood pressure > or =180 mmHg, diastolic blood pressure > or =110 mmHg). Nitroprusside was started at a dose of 0.2 microg/kg/min, and the ensuing dose was arranged according to blood pressure. Echocardiography and electrocardiography were used to noninvasively measure changes in diastolic function and PWD and P(max), respectively.
The study enrolled 102 patients (mean age 57.9+/-11.6 years; 32 [31.4%] males, and 70 [68.6%] females). P(max) decreased from 99.9+/-11.1 msec (95% confidence intervals [CI] 97.7, 102) to 88.5+/-9.3 msec (95% CI 86.6, 90.3) (P<0.001), while PWD decreased from 60.1+/-7.4 msec (95% CI 58.7, 61.6) to 43.9+/-6.7 msec (95% CI 42.5, 45.2) (P<0.001). In addition, most patients had LVH and diastolic dysfunction. After nitroprusside treatment improvements in indicators of diastolic functions such as E/A ratio, deceleration time, and isovolumetric relaxation time were observed.
The change observed in P(max) and PWD in hypertensive urgency may be associated with the rapid change in blood pressure and atrial strain, sympathetic nervous system activation, relative myocardial ischemia, and left ventricular diastolic dysfunction. Rapid regulation of blood pressure with nitroprusside brought about a marked decrease in P(max) and PWD in our patients. This improvement was interpreted as atrial conduction acquiring a stable and homogeneous character, which may reduce the risk of AF development in hypertensive urgency.
Drugs that inhibit growth of tumours and their blood supply could have considerable therapeutic potential. 2-Methoxyoestradiol-3,17-O,O-bis-sulphamate (2-MeOE2bisMATE) has been shown to inhibit the proliferation of MCF-7 (ER+) breast cancer cells and angiogenesis in vitro. 2-MeOE2bisMATE and its analogue, 17-Cym-2-MeOE2MATE, were investigated for their ability to inhibit in vivo angiogenesis and tumour growth. The mouse Matrigel plug assay for angiogenesis was used to investigate the effect of compounds on neovascularisation and was quantified using a FITC-dextran injection technique. Nude mice bearing tumours derived from MCF-7 cells were used to assess efficacy on tumour growth. Tumour sections were stained for VEGFR-2 and Ki67 to assess tumour angiogenesis and cell proliferation respectively. Matrigel plugs supplemented with basic fibroblast growth factor resulted in increased neovascularisation over 7 days. Oral administration of 2-MeOE2bisMATE for 7 days at 10 or 50 mg kg(-1) significantly reduced neovascularisation to or below control levels respectively. 17-Cym-2-MeOE2MATE at 20 mg kg(-1) was equally effective. 2-MeOE2bisMATE, dosed daily for 21 days, caused a 52% reduction in tumour growth at 5 mg kg(-1) and 38% regression at 20 mg kg(-1). 17-Cym-2-MeOE2MATE (20 mg kg(-1)) reduced tumour growth by 92%. Immunohistochemistry revealed a reduction in angiogenesis and proliferation. Matrigel plug and tumour imaging after FITC-dextran injection indicated that 2-MeOE2bisMATE caused a marked disruption of vasculature. These sulphamoylated oestrogen derivatives have been shown to be potent inhibitors of angiogenesis in vivo. This, together with their ability to inhibit tumour growth, indicates the potential of this new class of drugs for further development for cancer therapy.
Accumulating evidence suggests that a disruption of zinc (Zn) homeostasis may play a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Although several Zn transporter proteins responsible for the regulation of Zn balance are present in the brain, there has been little study of these proteins in Alzheimer's disease. To determine if alterations of Zn transporter proteins exist, levels of Zn transporter-4, which functions to remove Zn from the cytoplasm to endosomal/lysosomal compartments, and Zn transporter-6, which allocates cytoplasmic Zn to the trans-Golgi network, were measured in the hippocampus/parahippocampal gyrus, superior and middle temporal gyrus, and cerebellum of subjects with mild cognitive impairment, early Alzheimer's disease, late stage Alzheimer's disease, and age-matched controls using Western blot analysis and protein specific antibodies. Our results show that Zn transporter-4 and Zn transporter-6 are significantly (P<0.05) increased in hippocampus/parahippocampal gyrus of early Alzheimer's disease and Alzheimer's disease subjects. Zn transporter-6 is also increased (P<0.1) in the superior and middle temporal gyrus of Alzheimer's disease brain.
Neurogenesis may contribute to functional recovery after neural injury. Nitric oxide donors such as DETA-NONOate promote functional recovery after stroke. However, the mechanisms underlying functional improvement have not been ascertained. We therefore investigated the effects of DETA-NONOate on neural progenitor/stem cell neurospheres derived from the subventricular zone from young and retired breeder rat brain. Subventricular zone cells were dissociated from normal young adult male Wistar rats (2-3 months old) and retired breeder rats (14 months old), treated with or without DETA-NONOate. Subventricular zone neurosphere formation, proliferation, telomerase activity, and Neurogenin 1 mRNA expression were significantly decreased and glial fibrillary acidic protein expression was significantly increased in subventricular zone neurospheres from retired breeder rats compared with young rats. Treatment of neurospheres with DETA-NONOate significantly decreased neurosphere formation and telomerase activity, and promoted neuronal differentiation and neurite outgrowth concomitantly with increased N-cadherin and beta-catenin mRNA expression in both young and old neurospheres. DETA-NONOate selectively increased Neurogenin 1 and decreased glial fibrillary acidic protein mRNA expression in retired breeder neurospheres. N-cadherin significantly increased Neurogenin 1 mRNA expression in young and old neurospheres. Anti-N-cadherin reversed DETA-NONOate-induced neurosphere adhesion, neuronal differentiation, neurite outgrowth, and beta-catenin mRNA expression. Our data indicate that age has a potent effect on the characteristics of subventricular zone neurospheres; neurospheres from young rats show significantly higher formation, proliferation and telomerase activity than older neurospheres. In contrast, older neurospheres exhibit significantly increased glial differentiation than young neurospheres. DETA-NONOate promotes neuronal differentiation and neurite outgrowth in both young and older neurospheres. The molecular mechanisms associated with the DETA-NONOate modulation of neurospheres from young and older animals as well age dependent effects of neurospheres appear to be controlled by N-cadherin and beta-catenin gene expression, which subsequently regulates the neuronal differentiating factor Neurogenin expression in both young and old neural progenitor cells.
Norplant is a relatively new long-acting subdermal implant system that is used widely for contraception. In a recent report, Wagner and Berenson described two cases of Norplant-associated major depression and panic disorder. These were the first reports of severe psychiatric disorders linked to the use of Norplant.
Five cases are described of women who developed major depression, two of whom also developed obsessive-compulsive disorder and one of whom also developed agoraphobia, while using the Norplant system.
These women who had no prior psychiatric history developed major depression within 1 to 3 months after Norplant insertion. The depression worsened over time and in all cases resolved within 1 to 2 months after Norplant removal. There was no recurrence of depression after 7 to 8 months in four cases available for follow-up. In addition to major depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder developed in two women and symptoms of agoraphobia developed in one woman during Norplant treatment, which resolved after Norplant removal.
These cases provide further support for the association between Norplant and major depression, as well as a broad spectrum of anxiety disorders. It is important to design prospective studies to carefully examine the incidence of major depression and anxiety disorders in women who use Norplant. Risk factors for these disorders require further clarification.
Obesity is associated with increased risk of conditions such as hypertension, dyslipidaemia, diabetes mellitus, and obstructive sleep apnoea. Pharmacotherapy for obesity should be considered in combination with lifestyle changes in obese patients, or overweight patients with other conditions that put them at risk of developing heart disease. Sibutramine and orlistat are the only two anti-obesity medications approved for long-term use. Sibutramine is a serotonergic and adrenergic drug that reduces food intake. Orlistat is a gastrointestinal lipase inhibitor that interferes with fat absorption. However, it commonly causes flatulence and diarrhoea. Rimonabant is the first of a series of endocannabinoid receptor antagonists. It was approved by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) as an adjunct to diet and exercise in treating obesity in 2006. However, despite the extensive clinical trial data, EMEA announced in 2008 that it has recommended suspension of rimonabant because of its psychiatric side effects. Studies evaluating the long-term safety and efficacy of anti-obesity agents are needed.
Our goal was to demonstrate that medical therapy in patients with smell loss (hyposmia) that restored olfactory function toward or to normal could be verified and quantitated by functional MRI (fMRI) of brain and that visual representation of these changes could be used to identify these patients.
Multislice FLASH MR or echo planar MR brain scans were obtained in four patients with hyposmia in response to three olfactory stimuli both before and after treatment with theophylline. Activation images were derived using correlation analysis, and ratios of brain area activated to total brain area were obtained.
Prior to treatment, all patients stated that they could not smell; these losses were confirmed by standard psychophysical tests. At this time, fMRI brain activation in response to odors was significantly less than that measured in normal volunteers and similar to activation measured previously in other patients with a similar type of hyposmia. After treatment, subjective smell function improved in three patients and no improvement occurred in one; results were confirmed by psychophysical tests. In each patient in whom smell acuity improved, brain activation in response to each odor increased in each section and mean activation increased significantly for each odor. Activation increased in all regions previously associated with olfactory stimulation and was particularly apparent in orbitofrontal cortex, frontal lobe component of cingulate gyri, temporal lobe gyri, and hippocampus. There also was consistent activation in superior, middle, and inferior frontal lobe gyri. There were no changes in brain activation after treatment in the patient in whom smell did not improve.
These results demonstrate that theophylline is an effective therapeutic agent to correct hyposmia in some patients with smell loss. These changes have been documented by fMRI brain scans using olfactory stimuli. This is the first study in which this type of objective improvement following medical treatment has been demonstrated in patients with hyposmia.
Identification of the genes underlying complex phenotypes and the definition of the evolutionary forces that have shaped eukaryotic genomes are among the current challenges in molecular genetics. Variation in gene copy number is increasingly recognized as a source of inter-individual differences in genome sequence and has been proposed as a driving force for genome evolution and phenotypic variation. Here we show that copy number variation of the orthologous rat and human Fcgr3 genes is a determinant of susceptibility to immunologically mediated glomerulonephritis. Positional cloning identified loss of the newly described, rat-specific Fcgr3 paralogue, Fcgr3-related sequence (Fcgr3-rs), as a determinant of macrophage overactivity and glomerulonephritis in Wistar Kyoto rats. In humans, low copy number of FCGR3B, an orthologue of rat Fcgr3, was associated with glomerulonephritis in the autoimmune disease systemic lupus erythematosus. The finding that gene copy number polymorphism predisposes to immunologically mediated renal disease in two mammalian species provides direct evidence for the importance of genome plasticity in the evolution of genetically complex phenotypes, including susceptibility to common human disease.
The present study determined whether peripheral injections of the 5HT(1A) agonist (8-OH-DPAT), scopolamine infusions into the frontal cortex, or a combination of both drug treatments would produce impairments in rats trained on passive avoidance. Using a 2x2 design, rats were infused with either bacteriostatic water or 30 microg/1 microl of scopolamine HCl into the frontal cortex 30 min before being trained on passive avoidance. This was followed by injections (ip) of either 0.1% ascorbic acid/bacteriostatic water or 30 microg/kg of 8-OH-DPAT 15 min later. All subjects were tested for retention 72h later. At test, the initial latency to enter into the black shocked compartment and the total time spent in the white safe compartment (TTW) were recorded. Analysis of the latency data indicated that scopolamine and 8-OH-DPAT, when administered singly or in combination, produced amnesia for the task. Assessment of TTW scores, however, revealed that of the three drug-treated groups, only animals treated with 8-OH-DPAT alone tended to avoid the previously shocked black compartment and spend more time in the white safe compartment. These data indicate that either stimulating 5-HT(1A) or blocking frontal cortical muscarinic receptors at training impairs passive avoidance performance and that the deficit following the latter treatment is somewhat more extensive. Implications for the role frontal cortical muscarinic and 5HT(1A) receptors play in learning and memory are discussed.
Fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine were voluntarily withdrawn from the market in September 1997 because of reports of an association with heart valve abnormalities. Studies have been limited by lack of comparison with untreated controls.
To evaluate cardiovascular status and the prevalence of valvular abnormalities, as assessed by clinical cardiovascular parameters and echocardiography, in patients treated for obesity with dexfenfluramine or phentermine/fenfluramine.
Reader-blinded controlled study completed in February 1998.
Twenty-five clinical centers in the United States. Of 1640 enrolled subjects, 1473 were eligible (479 and 455 had taken dexfenfluramine and phentermine/fenfluramine, respectively, continuously for 30 days or more in the previous 14 months, and 539 were untreated matched controls) and provided clinical and echocardiographic data. Mean (SD) age was 47.4 (11.4) years, mean body mass index was 35.0 (7.4) kg/m2, and 74% were women. Mean (SD) duration of therapy was 6.0 (3.3) months (range, 1-18.4 months) in the dexfenfluramine group, and 11.9 (10.4) months (range, 1.4-63 months) in the phentermine/fenfluramine group, while the untreated group had no anorexigen use during the previous 5 years.
Cardiovascular signs and symptoms; echocardiographic evidence of aortic (AR) or mitral (MR) regurgitation according to US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) criteria (AR > or = mild or MR > or = moderate) and by grade; tricuspid and pulmonic valve regurgitation; and aortic, mitral, and tricuspid valve leaflet mobility and thickness, for treated vs untreated subjects.
Cardiovascular signs and symptoms were similar among anorexigen-treated and untreated subjects. Prevalence rates and relative risk (RR) of AR were significantly increased in anorexigen-treated patients and were 8.9% in the dexfenfluramine group (RR, 2.18; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.32-3.59), 13.7% in the phentermine/fenfluramine group (RR, 3.34; 95% CI, 2.09-5.35), and 4.1% in the untreated group (P<.001). No statistically significant differences in prevalence were observed for MR, thickening or decreased mobility of any valve leaflet, calculated pulmonary artery systolic pressure, or left ventricular ejection fraction. Serious cardiac events (including myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, or ventricular arrhythmia) occurring at any time were not statistically different in treated and untreated subjects (dexfenfluramine, 9.0%; phentermine/fenfluramine, 4.0%; and untreated, 8.4%); and following anorexigen treatment were uncommon (dexfenfluramine, 2.3%; phentermine/fenfluramine, 2.4%, and untreated, 3.3%, when adjusted for the median start date of anorexigen use).
Our data indicate that use of dexfenfluramine and phentermine/fenfluramine is associated with an increase in the prevalence of AR using FDA echocardiographic criteria, but was not associated with an increase in the prevalence of MR using FDA criteria or with serious cardiac events.
The metabolism of two of benzene's phenolic metabolites, phenol and hydroquinone, by peroxidase enzymes has been studied in detail. Studies employing horseradish peroxidase and human myeloperoxidase have shown that in the presence of hydrogen peroxide phenol is converted to 4,4'-diphenoquinone and other covalent binding metabolites, whereas hydroquinone is converted solely to 1,4-benzoquinone. Surprisingly, phenol stimulates the latter conversion rather than inhibiting it, an effect that may play a role in the in vivo myelotoxicity of benzene. Indeed, repeated coadministration of phenol and hydroquinone to B6C3F1 mice results in a dramatic and significant decrease in bone marrow cellularity similar to that observed following benzene exposure. A mechanism of benzene-induced myelotoxicity is therefore proposed in which the accumulation and interaction of phenol and hydroquinone in the bone marrow and the peroxidase-dependent formation of 1,4-benzoquinone are important components. This mechanism may also be responsible, at least in part, for benzene's genotoxic effects, as 1,4-benzoquinone has been shown to damage DNA and is shown here to induce multiple micronuclei in human lymphocytes. Secondary activation of benzene's phenol metabolites in the bone marrow may therefore play an important role in benzene's myelotoxic and carcinogenic effects.
Lamivudine treatment of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is associated with frequent resistance and loss of clinical benefit. We present outcomes of lamivudine-refractory Japanese patients treated with entecavir for 3 years.
Eighty-two patients refractory to lamivudine therapy received entecavir 0.5 or 1 mg daily for 52 weeks in phase II study ETV-052, directly entered rollover study ETV-060, and received entecavir 1 mg daily. Responses were evaluated among patients with available samples.
After 96 weeks in ETV-060 (148 weeks total entecavir treatment time), 55%(36/65) of patients had hepatitis B virus(HBV) DNA of\400 copies/mL, 85% (52/61) had alanine aminotransferase (ALT) of ≤1 × upper limit of normal (ULN), and 14.6% (7/48) achieved HBe seroconversion.A subset of 42 patients received entecavir 1 mg from phase II baseline through 148 weeks: 54% (19/35) had HBV DNA of <400 copies/mL, 84% (27/32) had ALT of ≤1 × ULN, and 15% (4/27) achieved HBe seroconversion.Sixteen patients in the 1-mg subset had baseline and week 148 evaluable biopsy pairs: 81% (13/16) showed histologic improvement and 38% (6/16) showed improvement in fibrosis. Genotypic resistance to entecavir emerged in 31 patients for a 3-year cumulative resistance probability of 35.9%. Entecavir was generally well tolerated during ETV-060, with no on-treatment ALT flares.
Long-term entecavir treatment of lamivudine-refractory CHB resulted in virologic suppression, ALT normalization, and improvements in liver histology. Resistance was consistent with that observed in worldwide studies.
alpha(1)-Adrenergic receptors (alpha(1A), alpha(1B), and alpha(1D)) are regulators of systemic arterial blood pressure and blood flow. Whereas vasoconstrictory action of the alpha(1A) and alpha(1D) subtypes is thought to be mainly responsible for this activity, the role of the alpha(1B)-adrenergic receptor (alpha(1B)AR) in this process is controversial. We have generated transgenic mice that overexpress either wild type or constitutively active alpha(1B)ARs. Transgenic expression was under the control of the isogenic promoter, thus assuring appropriate developmental and tissue-specific expression. Cardiovascular phenotypes displayed by transgenic mice included myocardial hypertrophy and hypotension. Indicative of cardiac hypertrophy, transgenic mice displayed an increased heart to body weight ratio, which was confirmed by the echocardiographic finding of an increased thickness of the interventricular septum and posterior wall. Functional deficits included an increased isovolumetric relaxation time, a decreased heart rate, and cardiac output. Transgenic mice were hypotensive and exhibited a decreased pressor response. Vasoconstrictory regulation by alpha(1B)AR was absent as shown by the lack of phenylephrine-induced contractile differences between ex vivo mesenteric artery preparations. Plasma epinephrine, norepinephrine, and cortisol levels were also reduced in transgenic mice, suggesting a loss of sympathetic nerve activity. Reduced catecholamine levels together with basal hypotension, bradycardia, reproductive problems, and weight loss suggest autonomic failure, a phenotype that is consistent with the multiple system atrophy-like neurodegeneration that has been reported previously in these mice. These results also suggest that this receptor subtype is not involved in the classic vasoconstrictory action of alpha(1)ARs that is important in systemic regulation of blood pressure.
Injury to the cerebellum commonly results in clumsiness or uncoordinated movement, which is referred to as ataxia. The severity of ataxia varies according to the extent of the lesion. Severe ataxia usually restricts activities of daily living, impairs mobility, and increases level of disability. Recent studies investigating use of serotonin agonists in the treatment of ataxia have produced mixed results; however, buspirone with an affinity specific to the 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) subreceptors has shown promise. In this brief report, we use a prospective, open, single-case experimental design to describe substantial subjective and objective dose-dependent improvement of ataxia after unusually high doses of buspirone taken by a patient whose severe ataxia was due to lithium toxicity.
To examine the effects of chronic cocaine use on the mid-latency auditory evoked responses (MLAERs), we recorded the evoked responses of 15 cocaine-dependent subjects and 13 age-matched healthy control subjects. Two evoked response paradigms were used: a trains paradigm with four different inter-stimulus intervals (ISIs) and a paired-click paradigm. Our data suggest that cocaine-dependent subjects generate smaller P50 components when long ISIs are used with multiple repetitions (in the trains paradigm). In a single repetition paradigm (paired clicks), a significant decrease in the ability to attenuate the N100 component was seen in the cocaine-dependent subjects.
Uncontrolled evidence suggests that divalproex administered via the oral loading strategy of 20 mg/kg/day may produce clinically significant antimanic response within 3 days of treatment in some patients. We conducted a prospective study to compare the antimanic response of divalproex oral loading with that of haloperidol in the initial treatment of acute psychotic mania.
After a < or = 1-day screening period, 36 consecutive hospitalized patients with bipolar disorder, manic or mixed phase and with psychotic features, were randomly assigned to receive either divalproex 20 mg/kg/day or haloperidol 0.2 mg/kg/day for 6 full days, without other psychotropic agents except lorazepam up to 4 mg/day for management of agitation. Serum valproate concentrations were measured after 1 day of treatment. Response was measured daily by a blind rater using the Young Mania Rating Scale and the Scale for Assessment of Positive Symptoms.
Divalproex oral loading and haloperidol were equally effective in acutely reducing manic and psychotic symptoms. The greatest rate of improvement for both drug regimens occurred over the first 3 full days of treatment. Side effects were infrequent and minor for both treatments, except for extrapyramidal side effects which were significantly more common with haloperidol.
Divalproex oral loading may produce rapid onset of antimanic and antipsychotic response comparable to that of haloperidol and with minimal side effects in the initial treatment of acute psychotic mania in a subset of bipolar patients.
To screen and identify differential serum proteins which might be involved in dermatitis medicamentosa-like of trichloroethylene (DMLT).
Three groups of sera were collected from population exposed to trichloroethylene (TCE) (group I), patients suffering from DMLT (group II), and the healed cases (group III). After removing albumin and IgG in the three pools of sera, a comparative proteomic analysis was carried out. The images were analyzed using ImageMaster Platinum 2D 5.0 to screen the differentially expressed proteins. The protein spots were then subjected to matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and tandem mass spectrometry sequencing of tryptic peptides for further identification.
The depletion of albumin and IgG greatly increased the number of protein spots to 300 ± 12.Five differential spots were identified, which were complement component C4b, apolipoprotein A-I, apolipoprotein C-III apolipoprotein C-II and transthyretin. Compared with group I, the expression levels of complement component C4b in group III and apolipoprotein C-II in group II were up-regulated (1.352 88-fold, 1.512 14-fold, respectively); compared with group I, the expression levels of apolipoprotein A-I, apolipoprotein C-III and transthyretin in group II were down-regulated (1.601 17-fold, 1.034 49-fold, 1.313 35-fold, respectively).
The findings of this study show that most of the identified differential proteins are closely related to immunity and liver dysfunction, which provides some evidence on elucidating the mechanisms and screening of biomarkers of TCE intoxication.
The molecular etiology of obesity predisposition is largely unknown. Here, we present evidence that genetic variation in TBC1D1 confers risk for severe obesity in females. We identified a coding variant (R125W) in TBC1D1 that segregated with the disease in 4p15-14-linked obesity pedigrees. In cases derived from pedigrees with the strongest linkage evidence, the variant was significantly associated with obesity (P=0.000007) and chromosomes carrying R125W accounted for the majority of the evidence that originally linked 4p15-14 with the disease. In addition, by selecting families that segregated R125W with obesity, we were able to generate highly significant linkage evidence for an obesity predisposition locus at 4q34-35. This result provides additional and confirming evidence that R125W affects obesity susceptibility, delimits the location of an obesity gene at 4q34-35 and identifies a gene/gene interaction that influences the risk for obesity predisposition. Finally, although the function of TBC1D1 is unknown, the protein is structurally similar to a known regulator of insulin-mediated Glut4 translocation.
