1. Forty patients with moderate to severe hypertension and daytime ambulatory diastolic blood pressure > or = 90 mm Hg were randomized double-blind to once-daily treatment with either quinapril up to 20 mg (n = 20) or atenolol up to 100 mg (n = 20) as single drugs or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg over a period of 12 weeks. 2. Conventional and ambulatory blood pressure, heart rate, side effects and metabolic changes were compared at the end of the run-in period on placebo, after 4 weeks on monotherapy and at the end of the 12-week period of active treatment. 3. Quinapril and atenolol reduced conventional blood pressure equally with substantial additional effect seen on combination therapy. The two regimens induced a significant decrease in ambulatory BP. However, the atenolol treated ambulatory hypertensive group experienced significantly greater decreases in diastolic blood pressure during 24 h, awake and sleep periods than did the quinapril group. 4. Adverse reactions were mild with both drugs except for severe Raynaud phenomenon in one patient in the atenolol group. Triglyceride levels were significantly increased with atenolol alone and in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. 5. Thus, within the limits of the dose ranges tested, quinapril and atenolol as single drugs or in combination with hydrochlorothiazide reduce significantly conventional and ambulatory blood pressure in moderate to severe hypertensives, but atenolol is more effective in reducing ambulatory diastolic blood pressure.
In order to test the therapeutic action of nicergoline during peroperative arterial hypertension, an intravenous perfusion of 5 mcg/kg/mn average dose was given to 15 patients which presented a peroperative increase of Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) greater than 30% when compared with preanaesthetic corresponding value. The haemodynamic evolution was monitored, using non invasive method (except for central venous pressure, CVP). Particularly Aortic Blood Flow (ASF) was measured by ultrasonic means using specially designed intraoesophageal probe and flow meter including A-Scan and Doppler Velocity meter. SBP increased in 43% during hypertensive peak (initial level mean 129, +/- 12.6 mmHg; hypertensive peak, mean 185 +/- 16.80 mmHg; p less than 0.001). Ten minutes after the beginning of nicergoline perfusion, SBP showed a significative decrease (mean 141.4 +/- 11.20 mmHg, +9%). At the end of operation the SBP was nearly to average initial value (mean 135, +/- 11.85 mmHg; +4.5%). Diastolic Blood Pressure and Mean Blood Pressure presented similar variations. ABF decreased significatively during hypertensive peak (Initial ABF value means 3.49, +/- 0.99 l/mn, hypertensive peak ABF value means 2.68, +/- 0.54 l/mn, -25%, p less than 0.01). Nicergoline perfusion induced a partial recovery of ABF (mean 3.23 +/- 0.56 l/mn, +8%, p less than 0.05). This one was confirmed at the end of operation (mean 3.6 +/- 0.56 l/mn; -4% N.S.). Heart rate did not change significantly during monitoring period. From this results is seems that nicergoline perfusion induces a protection of hypertensive patients during peroperative decompensation.
We studied the influence of dietary protein intake on the plasma level profile of levodopa, carbidopa, and 3-O-methyldopa and clinical efficacy in 12 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease after intake of one levodopa-carbidopa 200/50 controlled release tablet (Sinemet CR; LC-CR). The tablet was given 1 h before the protein rich meal on one day (fasted) and together with the meal on an other day (non-fasted). Higher levodopa and carbidopa concentrations were reached when the LC-CR was taken 1 h before the meal, but the plasma level profile for levodopa was flatter in the non-fasted state. The area under the curve for levodopa was slightly higher in the fasted condition. For the clinical variables walking and tapping slightly better clinical results (P = 0.08) were found in the fasted condition with the higher levodopa levels. If the patient on levodopa is in a clinically satisfactory condition, then non-fasted condition could be preferred because of the smooth plasma level profile demonstrated. However, if the initial levodopa concentrations are not in the critical range to be effective for the patient, the advice should be to take the drug in a fasted condition.
Occupational hepatic disorders are classified into toxic hepatitis, viral hepatitis, and chemical-induced malignancy in Korea. Toxic hepatitis cases were reported in workers who were exposed to dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, or trichloroethylene. Pre-placement medical examination and regular follow-up are necessary to prevent the development of toxic hepatitis. Viral hepatitis was chiefly reported among health care workers such as doctors, nurses and clinical pathology technicians who could easily be exposed to blood. Preventive measures for these groups therefore include vaccination and serum monitoring programs. Hepatic angiosarcoma caused by vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) exposure is a very well known occupational disease and it has not been officially reported in Korea yet. Some cases of hepatocellular carcinoma were legally approved for compensation as an occupational disease largely by overwork and stress, but not supported by enough scientific evidence. Effort to find the evidence of its causal relationship is needed.
Liver failure is a life threatening condition currently treated by palliative measures and, when applicable, organ transplantation. The use of a bioartificial organ capable of fulfilling the main functions of the liver would represent an attractive alternative. However, the shortage of suitable donor cells, and their limited growth ability have impeded the development of this strategy. We investigated whether lentiviral vectors allow for conditional immortalization of human hepatocytes and whether these immortalized hepatocytes could reverse lethal acute liver failure.
We exposed primary human hepatocytes to Cre-excisable lentiviral vectors coding for SV40T Antigen, telomerase, and/or Bmi-1 and tested the functionality of the resulting cell lines. Therapeutic potential of immortalized hepatocytes were tested in a murine model of acetaminophen-induced hepatic injury.
The immortalized hepatocytes grew continuously yet were non-tumorigenic, stopped proliferating when exposed to Cre recombinase, and conserved defining properties of primary hepatocytes, including the ability to secrete liver-specific proteins and to detoxify drugs. The implantation of encapsulated immortalized human hepatocytes rescued mice from lethal doses of acetaminophen.
Lentiviral vectors represent tools of choice for immortalization of non-dividing primary cells, and lentivirally immortalized human hepatocytes are promising reagents for cell-based therapy of acute liver failure.
To determine the effect of chlorpromazine on ouabain-induced arrhythmia and death, dial-urethane anesthetized cats were pretreated with chlorpromazine (5, 10, 20, 30, 40, or 60 mg/kg, i.v.) and then administered ouabain (2 microgram/kg/min, i.v.). Blood pressure, heart rate and lead II electrocardiogram (ECG) were monitored. The dosages of ouabain necessary to induce premature ventricular contractions, ventricular tachycardia and death were determined. No significant correlation between the dose of chlorpromazine given and the dose of ouabain required to produce arrhythmia or death was found. These doses of chlorpromazine could, therefore, be considered neither arrhythmogenic nor antiarrhythmic in the ouabain model. To determine whether chlorpromazine produced arrhythmia in the dial-urethane anesthetized cat model, the drug was infused at a rate of 1 mg/kg/min, i.v. Chlorpromazine produced arrhythmia at 185 +/- 4.3 minutes and death via cardiovascular collapse at 128 +/- 4.7 minutes. Bilateral adrenal vein ligation, employed to eliminate the influence of adrenal catecholamines, decreased the dosage of chlorpromazine necessary to produce arrhythmia and death to 67.8 +/- 17.7 and 84.7 +/- 15.7 mg/kg, respectively. Thus, adrenal catecholamines did not appear to contribute to chlorpromazine-induced arrhythmia, although the procedure of bilateral adrenal vein ligation appeared to be deleterious in combination with chlorpromazine. In all experiments, chlorpromazine depressed blood pressure without producing the reflex tachycardia normally seen with hypotension. This suggests that the drug may be interfering with the baroreceptor reflex arc. As chlorpromazine modifies the autonomic parameters of blood pressure, heart rate, and cardiac electrophysiology, sudden unexplained death in patients managed with this agent may be due to drug-induced arrhythmia.
To determine the efficacy of recombinant hepatitis B (rHB) vaccine and low-dose hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) in the prevention of mother-infant transmission of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection.
rHB vaccine was administered to two groups of healthy neonates born to mothers with both hepatitis B surface antigen and e antigen positive in Guangxi, Hunan and Hebei province. Two hundred eighty-nine subjects were included in active immunization group, receiving triple doses of rHB vaccine given i.m. at 0, 1 and 6 month intervals; while 186 subjects receiving 50 IU HBIG at birth with triple doses of rHB vaccine in the low-dose HBIG group.
Efficacy of active immunization alone was 87.8% (95% CI: 83.6 - 91.9). Efficacy of rHB vaccine and HBIG was 91.2% (95% CI: 86.7 - 95.6). No significant differences in efficacy by type of rHB vaccine (P = 0.707 2), immunoprophylaxis programs (P = 0.295 5) and regions of living (P = 0.998 7) were noticed. Seroprotection rates (anti-HBs >or= 10 mIU/ml) were detected in 91.1% and 93.5% in rHB vaccine alone recipients and rHB vaccine plus HBIG recipients, with geometric mean titer (GMT) of 153 mIU/ml and 164 mIU/ml at 1 year of age, respectively. Anti-rHBs decreased significantly with years after vaccination (chi(2) = 60.47, P = 0.000 1). Seroprotection rates of anti-rHBs antibodies decreased to 65.0% and 66.6% at 4 years of age in rHB vaccine alone recipients and rHB vaccine plus HBIG recipients, with GMT of 55 mIU/ml and 56 mIU/ml, respectively.
These results suggested that the effectiveness of rHB vaccine plus low-dose HBIG was much better than only active plasma-derived vaccine; however, methods used for anti-rHBs assay need to be evaluated and verified.
We describe a patient who suffered from intestinal perforation after abdominal trauma. Perioperatively, he was treated with a single dose of piperacillin and 9 doses of imipenem/cilastatin over 3 days. The patient was discharged 5 days after surgery in good clinical condition and with normal liver values except for a marginal elevation of alanine aminotransferase. Two weeks after discharge, he developed fatigue, fever and pruritus, necessitating rehospitalization. He was jaundiced and had elevated alkaline phosphatase and transaminases. After exclusion of an intra-abdominal fluid collection, a vascular problem, and infectious or autoimmune liver disease, a liver biopsy was performed. The biopsy revealed centrizonal bilirubinostasis, a portal infiltrate rich in eosinophils and cholangitis. Lymphocyte transformation tests for piperacillin and imipenem/cilastatin were positive, suggesting an immunological mechanism for the observed hepatopathy. Cholestasis gradually decreased but was detectable for several weeks. The patient had a full clinical and biochemical recovery after 3 months. We conclude that short-term therapy with piperacillin, imipenem/cilastatin or the combination of these drugs can lead to the same type of hepatopathy as described for amoxycillin/clavulanic acid or antistaphylococcal penicillins. Liver biopsy and positive lymphocyte transformation are compatible with an immunological mechanism.
Tangeretin, a citrus polymethoxyflavone, is an antioxidant modulator which has been shown to exhibit a surfeit of pharmacological properties. The present study was hypothesized to explore the therapeutic activity of tangeretin against 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) induced kidney injury in mammary tumor bearing rats. Recently, we have reported the chemotherapeutic effect of tangeretin in the breast tissue of DMBA induced rats. Breast cancer was induced by "air pouch technique" with a single dose of 25mg/kg of DMBA. Tangeretin (50mg/kg/day) was administered orally for four weeks. The renoprotective nature of tangeretin was assessed by analyzing the markers of oxidative stress, proinflammatory cytokines and antioxidant competence in DMBA induced rats. Tangeretin treatment revealed a significant decline in the levels of lipid peroxides, inflammatory cytokines and markers of DNA damage, and a significant improvement in the levels of enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants in the kidney tissue. Similarly, mRNA, protein and immunohistochemical analysis substantiated that tangeretin treatment notably normalizes the renal expression of Nrf2/Keap1, its downstream regulatory proteins and the inflammatory cytokines in the DMBA induced rats. Histological and ultrastructural observations also evidenced that the treatment with tangeretin effectively protects the kidney from DMBA-mediated oxidative damage, hence, proving its nephroprotective nature.
Resveratrol has shown array of biological actions, and is under clinical development for various disease conditions. The etiology of diabetic neuropathy revolves around oxidative stress, AGE formation, lipid peroxidation etc. All these stimulate inflammatory processes and NF-kappaB cascade is considered as one of the major players of inflammatory response. Activation of NF-kappaB results in elevated levels of inflammatory mediators. COX-2 and TNF-alpha activity have also been correlated with inflammatory damage in the pathophysiology of diabetic neuropathy (DN). Therefore we investigated the effect of resveratrol on NF-kappaB inflammatory cascade, COX-2, TNF-alpha and IL-6 levels in experimental DN. We found that resveratrol protected against various functional and behavioral deficits in diabetic neuropathy in line with our earlier published reports. In this study we found that the resveratrol treatment decreased the expression of p65 and IkappaB-alpha in treated rats. Treatment also ameliorated the elevated levels of TNF-alpha, IL-6 and COX-2. Resveratrol treatment produced significant decrease in nerve MDA levels in treated animals which may also be contributing to reduction in neuro-inflammation. This study confirms the NF-kappaB inhibitory activity and anti-inflammatory activity of resveratrol which may contribute to neuroprotection in diabetic neuropathy apart from its antioxidant effect.
To report oxaprozin-induced fulminant hepatic failure.
A 56-year-old woman was admitted with fulminant hepatic failure. Work-up for potential etiologies was negative except for the use of oxaprozin for the preceding two months. Results of premortem liver biopsy were consistent with drug-induced hepatic injury similar to that previously reported with diclofenac.
Although the literature describes elevation in hepatic transaminase concentrations associated with oxaprozin, fulminant hepatic failure has not been described previously.
Elevations in hepatic transaminase concentrations and now fulminant hepatic failure have been shown to occur with oxaprozin, as previously seen with other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Transaminitis is a known adverse effect of NSAID use, but is usually mild and reversible with discontinuation of drug. Transaminitis may be more likely to occur in the elderly, in patients receiving concurrent potentially hepatotoxic medications, and possibly with the newer long-acting NSAIDs. The existence of fulminant hepatitis, although rare, supports the need for monitoring liver function enzymes during NSAID therapy.
Desipramine is a tricyclic antidepressant for psychiatric disorders that can induce QT prolongation, which may lead to torsades de pointes. Since blockade of cardiac human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) channels is an important cause of acquired long QT syndrome, we investigated the acute effects of desipramine on hERG channels to determine the electrophysiological basis for its pro-arrhythmic potential. We examined the effects of desipramine on the hERG channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes using two-microelectrode voltage-clamp techniques. Desipramine-induced concentration-dependent decreases in the current amplitude at the end of the voltage steps and hERG tail currents. The IC(50) for desipramine needed to block the hERG current in Xenopus oocytes decreased progressively relative to the degree of depolarization. Desipramine affected the channels in the activated and inactivated states but not in the closed states. The S6 domain mutations, Tyr-652 located in the S6 domain of the hERG channel reduced the potency of the channel block by desipramine more than a mutation of Phe-656 in the same region. These results suggest that desipramine is a blocker of the hERG channels, providing a molecular mechanism for the arrhythmogenic side effects during the clinical administration of desipramine.
Infection of the bovine endometrium with Gram-negative bacteria commonly causes uterine disease. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) on cells of the immune system bind Gram-negative bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), stimulating the secretion of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin 1B (IL1B) and IL6, and the chemokine IL8. Because the endometrium is the first barrier to infection of the uterus, the signaling cascade triggered by LPS and the subsequent expression of inflammatory mediators were investigated in endometrial epithelial and stromal cells, and the key pathways identified using short interfering RNA (siRNA) and biochemical inhibitors. Treatment of endometrial cells with ultrapure LPS stimulated an inflammatory response characterized by increased IL1B, IL6, and IL8 mRNA expression, and IL6 protein accumulation in epithelial cells, and by increased IL1B and IL8 mRNA expression, and IL6 and IL8 protein accumulation in stromal cells. Treatment of endometrial cells with LPS also induced the degradation of IKB and the nuclear translocation of NFKB, as well as rapid phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase 3/1 (MAPK3/1) and MAPK14. Knockdown of TLR4 or its signaling adaptor molecule, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MYD88), using siRNA reduced the inflammatory response to LPS in epithelial and stromal cells. Biochemical inhibition of MAPK3/1, but not JNK or MAPK14, reduced LPS-induced IL1B, IL6, and IL8 expression in endometrial cells. In conclusion, epithelial and stromal cells have an intrinsic role in innate immune surveillance in the endometrium, and in the case of LPS this recognition occurs via TLR4- and MYD88-dependent cell signaling pathways.
High-dose methotrexate is included in chemotherapy regimens used to treat a number of malignant neoplasms. Methotrexate plasma concentration is considered the best toxicity predictor. Monitoring methotrexate plasma concentrations is standard practice in the identification of at-risk patients, the titration of folinic acid doses, and the establishment of corrective measures. Methotrexate is a kidney-cleared weak acid, and renal function impairment may retard methotrexate clearance. A case of severe methotrexate-induced toxicity secondary to renal failure is reported in a patient with non-Hodgkin s lymphoma receiving methotrexate at a dose of 1 g/m2. Corrective measures included folinic acid rescue therapy, cholestyramine resin administration, hydration and urine alkalinization, urine pH monitoring, and extracorporeal clearance techniques.
Although an indicator of renal tubular dysfunction, an increased urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) activity might reflect increased lysosomal activity in renal tubular cells.
Puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) was administered to Sprague Dawley rats to induce proteinuria. Total protein, albumin, NAG activity and protein electrophoretic pattern were assessed in daily urine samples for 33 days. The morphological appearance of the kidneys was examined on days three, four, six, eight and thirty three and the NAG isoenzyme patterns on days zero, four, eight and thirty three.
Following intravenous PAN urine volume and urine NAG activity increased significantly by day two, but returned to normal by day four. After day four all treated animals exhibited a marked rise in urine albumin, total protein excretion and NAG activity. Electrophoresis showed a generalised increase in middle and high molecular weight urine proteins from day four onwards. Protein droplets first appeared prominent in tubular cells on day four. Peak urine NAG activity and a change in NAG isoenzyme pattern coincided with both the peak proteinuria and the reduction in intracellular protein and NAG droplets (day six onwards).
This animal model demonstrates that an increase in lysosomal turnover and hence urine NAG activity, occurs when increased protein is presented to the tubular cells. Urine NAG activity is thus a measure of altered function in the renal tubules and not simply an indicator of damage.
Pazopanib (GW-786034) is a second-generation multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor against VEGFR1, -2 and -3, PDGFRalpha, PDGFRbeta and c-Kit. Preclinical evaluation has revealed excellent anti-angiogenic and antitumor activity in several tumors. A phase II clinical trial of pazopanib in untreated or cytokine/bevacizumab-pretreated renal cell carcinoma (RCC) has demonstrated promising activity accompanied by a favorable toxicity profile. A placebo-controlled phase III trial in untreated or cytokine-treated patients with RCC demonstrated a significant improvement in progression-free survival. Ongoing trials are further evaluating pazopanib in a variety of other malignancies.
The effects of pyrazinamide on the metabolism of tryptophan to niacin and of tryptophan to serotonin were investigated to elucidate the mechanism for pyrazinamide action against tuberculosis. Weanling rats were fed with a diet with or without 0.25% pyrazinamide for 61 days. Urine samples were periodically collected for measuring the tryptophan metabolites. The administration of pyrazinamide significantly increased the metabolites, 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid and beyond, especially quinolinic acid, nicotinamide, N'-methylnicotinamide, and N1-methyl-4-pyridone-3-carboxamide, and therefore significantly increased the conversion ratio of tryptophan to niacin and the blood NAD level . However, no difference in the upper metabolites of the tryptophan to niacin pathway such as anthranilic acid, kynurenic acid and xanthurenic acid was apparent between the two groups. No difference in the concentrations of trytptophan and serotonin in the blood were apparent either. It is suggested from these results that the action of pyrazinamide against tuberculosis is linked to the increase in turnover of NAD and to the increased content of NAD in the host cells.
Nifedipine reduces reactive hyperemia following brief coronary artery occlusions. To determine whether this is related to improvement in collateral blood flow to ischemic myocardium or alterations in myocardial oxygen consumption, ten chloralose anesthetized dogs were instrumented with coronary sinus catheters, circumflex artery flowmeters, and ultrasonic microcrystals for measurement of myocardial segment shortening. Myocardial oxygen consumption and circumflex coronary artery flow were determined at rest and during incremental infusions of isoproterenol. Myocardial blood flow measured with microspheres and segmental function were assessed during and following 30- and 60-second coronary artery occlusions. Thirty minutes after the intravenous administration of nifedipine, 10 micrograms/kg iv, all measurements were repeated. Nifedipine did not alter myocardial oxygen consumption or the relationship between oxygen consumption and circumflex coronary artery flow either at rest or during isoproterenol infusion. Following 60-second coronary occlusions, nifedipine reduced peak circumflex coronary artery flow (176 +/- 99 vs. 128 +/- 68 cc/min) and reactive hyperemia debt repayment (221 +/- 84 vs. 158 +/- 66%; p less than 0.01). Nifedipine did not alter flow to ischemic segments during coronary artery occlusions (0.16 +/- 0.10 vs. 0.19 +/- 0.13 ml/min/g mean transmural flow). Furthermore, nifedipine did not affect the severity of ischemic segment dysfunction, nor the rate of recovery of ischemic segment function following release of coronary artery occlusion. We conclude that the reduction in reactive hyperemia induced by nifedipine was not related to alterations in the severity of hypoperfusion in ischemic areas, or alterations in myocardial oxygen consumption. Reductions in reactive hyperemia produced by nifedipine did not impair recovery of mechanical function in postischemic myocardium.
We have expressed A-FOS, an inhibitor of activator protein-1 (AP-1) DNA binding, in adult mouse striatal neurons. We observed normal behavior including locomotion and exploratory activities. Following a single injection of cocaine, locomotion increased similarly in both the A-FOS expressing and littermate controls. However, following repeated injections of cocaine, the A-FOS expressing mice showed increased locomotion relative to littermate controls, an increase that persisted following a week of withdrawal and subsequent cocaine administration. These results indicate that AP-1 suppresses this behavioral response to cocaine. We analyzed mRNA from the striatum before and 4 and 24 h after a single cocaine injection in both A-FOS and control striata using Affymetrix microarrays (430 2.0 Array) to identify genes mis-regulated by A-FOS that may mediate the increased locomotor sensitization to cocaine. A-FOS expression did not change gene expression in the basal state or 4 h following cocaine treatment relative to controls. However, 24 h after an acute cocaine treatment, 84 genes were identified that were differentially expressed between the A-FOS and control mice. Fifty-six genes are down-regulated while 28 genes are up-regulated including previously identified candidates for addiction including brain-derived neurotrophic factor and period homolog 1. Using a random sample of identified genes, quantitative PCR was used to verify the microarray studies. The chromosomal location of these 84 genes was compared with human genome scans of addiction to identify potential genes in humans that are involved in addiction.
Repeated association of drugs of abuse with context leads to long-lasting behavioral responses that reflect reward-controlled learning and participate in the establishment of addiction. Reactivation of consolidated memories is known to produce a reconsolidation process during which memories undergo a labile state. We investigated whether reexposure to drugs had similar effects. Cocaine administration activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in the striatum, and ERK activation is required for the acquisition of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). When mice previously conditioned for cocaine-place preference were reexposed to cocaine in the drug-paired compartment after systemic administration of SL327, an inhibitor of ERK activation, CPP response was abolished 24 h later. This procedure also abolished the phosphorylation of ERK and glutamate receptor-1 observed in the ventral and dorsal striatum, 24 h later, during CPP test. Erasure of CPP by SL327 required the combination of cocaine administration and drug-paired context and did not result from enhanced extinction. Similarly, reexposure to morphine in the presence of SL327 long-lastingly abolished response of previously learned morphine-CPP. The effects of SL327 on cocaine- or morphine-CPP were reproduced by protein synthesis inhibition. In contrast, protein synthesis inhibition did not alter previously acquired locomotor sensitization to cocaine. Our findings show that an established CPP can be disrupted when reactivation associates both the conditioned context and drug administration. This process involves ERK, and systemic treatment preventing ERK activation during reexposure erases the previously learned behavioral response. These results suggest potential therapeutic strategies to explore in the context of addiction.
To explore the syndrome of glucocorticoid-induced hypertension in the elderly, we analyzed the clinical findings from 35 patients aged more than 65 years (12 men, 23 women) who received glucocorticoid therapy. Resting blood pressures (BP) were less than 140/90 mm Hg before glucocorticoid therapy, and patients were apparently disease-free apart from the condition for which glucocorticoid therapy was prescribed. Glucocorticoid-induced hypertension is defined as systolic BP more than 160 mm Hg and/or diastolic BP more than 95 mm Hg after glucocorticoid administration. Glucocorticoid-induced hypertension was seen in 13 patients (37.1%); all patients with hypertension [steroid (glucocorticoid)-induced hypertension (SH(+)) group] received more than 20 mg of prednisolone daily, and BP rose rapidly within a week of commencing glucocorticoid administration. The SH(+) group did not differ significantly in terms of age, heart rate, blood count, plasma biochemistry, plasma renin activity, plasma aldosterone, routine urinalysis, or urinary electrolytes from patients who did not show hypertension [SH(-) group]. However, serum total calcium concentrations were significantly lower in the SH(+) group both before and after 2 weeks of glucocorticoid therapy than in the SH(-) group. Furthermore, the SH(+) group showed a significantly higher percentage of patients with a positive family history of essential hypertension than the SH(-) group. In conclusion, although the detailed mechanisms are as yet uncertain, glucocorticoid-induced hypertension occurs often in elderly patients, and is more common in patients with total serum calcium concentrations lower than the normal range, and/or in those with positive family history of essential hypertension.
We treated a patient who developed transient multifocal encephalopathy with extrapyramidal symptoms (oromandibular dystonia, oculogyric crisis, and limb dystonia) in temporal proximity to ondansetron administration on emergence from general anesthesia. No other medications known to cause extrapyramidal reactions were administered. Although these symptoms resolved fully, the presentation was dramatic and resembled the symptoms of structural brain injury. Ondansetron is used frequently as an antiemetic agent in many clinical settings and is not limited to surgical patients. Therefore, the entire medical community should be cognizant of this potential adverse reaction.
To investigate the relationship between polymorphism in the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of the thymidylate synthase (TS) gene and sensitivity of gastric cancer to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemotherapy, 106 cases of advanced gastric cancer were analyzed. All patients were treated with 5-FU-based chemotherapy; DNA from peripheral blood leukocytes was obtained before therapy. TS 3'-UTR genotypes were detected by PCR-RFLP. Polymorphism in the TS 3'-UTR can be classified into three groups according to the presence or absence of a 6 bp nucleotide fragment: the -6/-6 bp, -6/+6 bp and +6/+6 bp groups. The response rate of the -6/-6 bp and -6/+6 bp groups was found to be significantly higher than the +6/+6 bp group. These results show that the presence of the TS 3'-UTR 6 bp nucleotide fragment can be correlated with the sensitivity of gastric cancer to 5-FU-based chemotherapy, and that the TS 3'-UTR polymorphism profile can be used to guide the choice of 5-FU-based chemotherapy in advanced gastric cancer.
Eleven hypertensive patients in whom clonidine therapy had to be discontinued, were treated prophylactically with labetalol, in order to avoid a possible hypertensive crisis. Most of the known side effects, which are consistent with the withdrawal phenomenon were observed, e.g. tremor, insomnia and apprehension, but headaches and flushing did not occur. Blood pressure levels remained unchanged, despite up to a 20-fold increase in plasma catecholamines. The lack of change in serial measurements of plasma cyclic AMP level appears to indicate that adequate adrenergic blockade was induced by labetalol. Since labetalol is a potent anti-hypertensive drug, and is also effective in avoiding a possible hypertensive crisis due to withdrawal of clonidine, we propose to use it as the drug of choice whenever discontinuation of clonidine therapy is indicated.
Second generation studies of prenatal cocaine exposure failed to find gross deficits after controlling for confounders. Concern remained that exposure could cause subtle deficits. This prospective, cohort study evaluated effects of cocaine on development at 12, 18, 24, and 36 months. From 1991-1993, 361 mother-infant pairs were recruited from the Children's Hospital of New York, Presbyterian Medical Center's prenatal clinic or delivery room suite. Mothers were assigned to the cocaine group based on report of prenatal cocaine use or positive urine toxicology. Control mothers were enrolled from the same clinic and matched for age and socioeconomic status (SES). Women with serious medical problems were excluded from either group. Of the retained cohort, at 12 months, 147 infants were exposed and 89 were unexposed case controls. Both groups were raised in impoverished environments with few supports. Developmental evaluations were conducted blinded to group. Cross-sectional analysis revealed cocaine-related deficits in neurological exams and speech across all time periods, in spite of catch up in weight, length, and head circumference. Overall analysis of development was evaluated using Generalized Estimating Equations regression analysis. Bayley Mental [Badj = -6.5 (CI--9.4, -3.5, p < or = 0.001)] and Psychomotor [Badj = -3.9 (CI--7.4, -0.5, p = 0.02)] Developmental Indices showed deficits after controlling for confounders. Males were more vulnerable to cocaine exposure for height, motor development, and emotional regulation. Dose-response relationships existed for abnormal neurological exams (Ptrends < 0.08), Mental Development Index (MDI) (Ptrend < 0.001), and Psychomotor Development Index (PDI) (Ptrend < 0.001) deficits. Although nonexposed children performed poorly, cocaine-exposed children showed worse performance. Both groups showed declines at 18 months in mental and psychomotor development from which only nonexposed children rebounded. Overall, cocaine exposure adds an additional risk to disadvantaged children's development. Cocaine-exposed children are less resilient to effects of these multiple risks.
