Tousled-like kinase 1B (TLK1B), a mammalian threonine kinase, facilitates the repair of DNA breaks. Eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) overexpression leads to the upregulation of TLK1B. Doxorubicin, commonly used in the adjuvant setting for breast cancer, causes DNA breaks. We hypothesized that the degree of TLK1B elevation is correlated with eIF4E overexpression and translates clinically to an increased risk for recurrence in breast cancer patients treated with doxorubicin-based adjuvant chemotherapy.
We prospectively accrued 152 patients with stage I to III breast cancer treated with a doxorubicin-based chemotherapy in an adjuvant setting. Standardized treatment and surveillance protocols were used. eIF4E and TLK1B protein levels were quantified using Western blots, and patients were divided into tertiles based on previously reported stratification of eIF4E and TLK1B levels. Primary end points were cancer recurrence and death. Statistical analysis included Spearman's correlation, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, log rank test, and the Cox proportional hazard model.
The degree of TLK1B overexpression was highly correlated with the degree of eIF4E elevation (r=0.25, p=0.0025, Spearman rank correlation). Patients whose tumors were in the highest tertile for eIF4E overexpression had a higher risk for cancer recurrence and cancer death (p=0.015 and 0.049, respectively, log rank test). After adjusting for T-stage, nodal status, age, and estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor status, patients with tumors in the highest tertile of TLK1B overexpression treated with doxorubicin were 1.7-fold more likely to suffer recurrence than those in the low TLK1B group treated similarly (p=0.0078, CI, 1.17 to 2.75, Cox model).
TLK1B overexpression was highly correlated with the level of eIF4E elevation. High TLK1B in cancer specimens was associated with a higher risk for cancer recurrence in patients treated with doxorubicin-based adjuvant chemotherapy.
This study aimed to clarify the long-term efficacy of the lamivudine treatment in Japanese patients with chronic hepatitis B either with or without lamivudine resistance or with or without adefovir add-on treatment.
We followed 110 patients who received lamivudine for more than 12 months, including 67 hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive and 43 HBeAg-negative patients.
The median follow-up after the onset of lamivudine was 48 (range = 12-86) months. In all the patients with or without lamivudine resistance, the level of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) normalization decreased from 70.0% at 1 year to 36.4% at 5 years and the loss of serum HBV DNA level decreased from 72.7% at 1 year to 31.8% at 5 years. Sixty patients (54.6%) developed a lamivudine-resistant mutation, and this occurrence was more frequently observed in those who were HBeAg-positive (P < 0.01), those with a low level of ALT (P < 0.05), and those with a high level of serum HBV DNA (P < 0.01). Thirty-six of 60 patients received adefovir in addition to lamivudine to treat breakthrough hepatitis. A Cox proportional hazards model analysis revealed the level of baseline HBV DNA to be the best predictive factor for the virus recrudescence (risk ratio = 0.466, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.246-0.842, P = 0.011) and the breakthrough hepatitis (risk ratio = 0.444, 95% CI: 0.218-0.879, P = 0.019). We carefully monitored the efficacy of this treatment both in patients who received adefovir and in those who did not since the beginning of the lamivudine treatment. The normalization level of ALT was 61.4% at 5 years and the loss of serum HBV DNA was 61.4% at 5 years since lamivudine was started. A histologic improvement was observed in patients with ALT levels less than two times the upper limit of normal at the time of a second liver biopsy.
Although the efficacy of lamivudine is limited because of breakthrough hepatitis, adefovir was used as a salvage treatment of patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B. In addition, lamivudine was used for the treatment of Japanese patients with chronic hepatitis B with or without lamivudine resistance, and was found to be useful regarding the long-term virologic and biochemical responses.
Distal renal tubular acidosis developed in a patient with polyarteritis nodosa. The acidosis gradually disappeared, together with most of the other symptoms of systemic vasculitis, after treatment with prednisone and cyclophosphamide. Tubular function test results in this patient suggested that the mechanism underlying the acidification disturbance was acid back-leakage.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent stimulator of angiogenesis, which is crucial in cancer progression. We have previously shown that estradiol (E2) increases VEGF in breast cancer. Phytoestrogens are potential compounds in breast cancer prevention and treatment by poorly understood mechanisms. The main phytoestrogens in Western diet are lignans, and flaxseed is a rich source of the mammalian lignans enterodiol and enterolactone.
In the present study, ovariectomized mice were treated with continuous release of E2. MCF-7 tumors were established and mice were fed with basal diet or 10% flaxseed, and two groups that were fed basal diet received daily injections with enterodiol or enterolactone (15 mg/kg body weight).
We show that flaxseed, enterodiol, and enterolactone counteracted E2-induced growth and angiogenesis in solid tumors. Extracellular VEGF in vivo, sampled using microdialysis, in all intervention groups was significantly decreased compared with tumors in the basal diet group. Our in vivo findings were confirmed in vitro. By adding enterodiol or enterolactone, E2-induced VEGF secretion in MCF-7 cells decreased significantly without agonistic effects. The increased VEGF secretion by E2 in MCF-7 cells increased the expression of VEGF receptor-2 in umbilical vein endothelial cells, suggesting a proangiogenic effect by E2 by two different mechanisms, both of which were inhibited by the addition of lignans.
Our results suggest that flaxseed and its lignans have potent antiestrogenic effects on estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer and may prove to be beneficial in breast cancer prevention strategies in the future.
The intravenous 133xenon injection method was used to estimate global cerebral blood flow before and after treatment with captopril in nine patients with severe heart failure. The pretreatment mean blood pressure was 94.9 mm Hg (S.D. 13.9) and fell to 85.1 mm Hg (S.D. 18.1) after treatment with captopril for between four and 15 days. The cerebral blood flow before captopril was 61.1 ml/100 g per minute (S.D. 6.9), which was less than the value of 75.8 ml/100 g per minute found in control subjects. After treatment with captopril the cerebral blood flow increased to 73.8 ml/100 g per minute (S.D. 11.8, p less than 0.01). The fraction of carbon dioxide in the expired air was not significantly different in the two studies (4.1 +/- 0.88 versus 3.97 +/- 0.65). It is concluded that cerebral blood flow is reduced in severe heart failure and can be restored by treatment with captopril, but the reasons for the reduced flow and its improvement after converting enzyme inhibition are not known.
Dapsone, used for prevention of Pneumocystis jirovecii infections, has been reported to cause hemolytic anemia and methemoglobinemia; its tolerability in solid organ transplant recipients is not well described. We investigated dapsone-related adverse events in patients undergoing solid organ transplantation from 1999 to 2004. Transplant providers identified patients for the investigators who then reviewed the patients' hospital and outpatient records. Sixteen solid organ transplant recipients fit case definitions for dapsone-related hemolytic anemia (n = 11) or methemoglobinemia (n = 5). Median time from event to dapsone discontinuation was 15 days; all patients improved after drug discontinuation. G6PD enzyme activity was normal in all patients whose test results were available. Dapsone may be associated with hemolytic anemia or methemoglobinemia, even with normal G6PD levels. These events are often not promptly recognized, and drug discontinuation is delayed. Dapsone-related hemolytic anemia or methemoglobinemia should be considered in solid organ transplant recipients with unexplained anemia or hypoxia.
Defects in apoptotic pathway contribute to uncontrolled proliferation of cancer cells and confer resistance to chemotherapy. Growth arrest and DNA damage inducible, alpha (GADD45alpha) is up-regulated on docetaxel treatment and may contribute to docetaxel-mediated cytotoxicity. We examined the mechanism of regulation of GADD45alpha in prostate cancer cells and the effect of its up-regulation on sensitivity to docetaxel chemotherapy. Expression of GADD45alpha in PC3 cells was higher than that in Du145 and LNCaP cells (17- and 12-fold, respectively; P < 0.05). Although the proximal promoter region was unmethylated in all three cell lines, methylation of a 4 CpG region upstream of the proximal promoter correlated inversely with gene expression levels. Methylation was reversed by treatment of Du145 and LNCaP cells with DNA methyltransferase inhibitors, leading to reactivation of GADD45alpha expression in these cells. The 5' 4 CpG region was also frequently methylated in prostate cancer tissues. Methylation of this region correlated inversely with gene expression in prostate cancer and benign prostate tissues. The methyl binding protein MeCP2 was associated with the methylated 4 CpGs in Du145 cells, and knockdown of MeCP2 in these cells (Du145 MeCP2(-)) led to a significantly increased expression of GADD45alpha (3-fold; P = 0.035) without affecting the methylation status of the gene. Enhanced sensitivity to docetaxel was observed by up-regulation of GADD45alpha in Du145 cells by recombinant expression of GADD45alpha or pretreatment with 5-azacytidine. Our results show that GADD45alpha is epigenetically repressed and is a potential target for treatment of prostate cancer.
Antituberculous treatment is a well-known cause of fulminant hepatic failure (FHF). This could lead to liver transplantation as the only possible treatment, which on the other hand could be contraindicated due to active tuberculosis. The risk of aggressive dissemination of the disease after transplantation is not clearly determined by the current second-line antituberculous therapies. We report a case of vertebral tuberculosis treated with rifampin, isoniazid and pyrazinamide. He developed an FHF that was treated with urgent liver transplantation. Despite the immunosuppression, the disease was well controlled with ciprofloxacin, ethambutol and streptomycin and the patient is in good health 23 months after transplantation. In conclusion, active extrapulmonary tuberculosis should perhaps be considered for liver transplantation when FHF develops due to anti-tuberculous drugs.
Enhanced production of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in diabetes leads to degradation of extracellular matrix in blood vessels and leads to complications of diabetes. In the present study, we have targeted MMP-2 and MMP-9 overactivation in diabetic neuropathy using a known MMP-2 and MMP-9 inhibitor, minocycline, with a non-selective COX inhibitor, aspirin. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy was carried out in male Wistar rats and monitored by measuring the sensory nerve conduction velocity (SNCV), motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV), tail flick latency and hot plate latency. Three weeks of treatment with a combination of minocycline and aspirin showed significant improvement in SNCV, MNCV, hot plate latency and tail flick latency when compared with diabetic control. The results of the present study suggest that MMP-2 and MMP-9 inhibition in the presence of COX inhibitor prevents the development of experimental diabetic neuropathy in rats and can be a potential approach for the treatment.
Common antiepileptic drugs and agents affecting different neurotransmitter systems were studied against aminophylline (280 mg/kg i.p.)-induced convulsions in mice. All drugs and agents were administered i.p. Diazepam and phenobarbital antagonized the whole seizure pattern and the respective ED50 values for the clonic phase were 3.5 and 62 mg/kg. Valproate at 500 mg/kg protected fewer than 50% of mice against the clonic phase. The remaining antiepileptics (acetazolamide, up to 1,000 mg/kg; carbamazepine and diphenylhydantoin, up to 50 mg/kg; ethosuximide, 500 mg/kg and trimethadione, 400 mg/kg) were totally ineffective in this respect. Propranolol (up to 20 mg/kg), baclofen (20 mg/kg), gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (300 mg/kg), aminooxyacetic acid (20 mg/kg), clonidine (up to 0.2 mg/kg), ketamine (30 mg/kg), atropine (20 mg/kg), papaverine (50 mg/kg) and L-phenylisopropyladenosine (2 mg/kg) did not affect the clonic phase either. Only antagonists of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid excitation, 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid and 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid afforded protection against aminophylline-induced clonic seizure activity. The results show that aminophylline convulsions are relatively resistant to antiepileptic drugs and suggest that antagonists of excitatory transmission are potential antiaminophylline drugs.
After perioperative adjuvant chemotherapy of a sigma-adenocarcinoma with 400 mg peptichemio and 500 mg 5-fluorouracil a 61-year-old woman developed a severe intoxication: myelosuppression with pancytopenia, gastroenteritis and ulcerative proctitis, toxic hepato- and myocardiopathy, impaired renal function and alopecia. As a result of reduced resistance pneumonias, urinary tract infection, sepsis, cytomegaly infection and candidiasis of the oral mucosa occurred. The toxic effects are attributed mainly to the high dose of peptichemio.
Hippocampal and cortical EEG recordings in rats were used to monitor the in vivo modulation by lithium of responses to agonists for 5HT2/5HT1c serotonergic (DOI) and cholinergic (pilocarpine) receptors and the influence of inositol administration. Administration of DOI (8 mg/kg) or pilocarpine (30 mg/kg) to rats pretreated with lithium acutely (3 mmol/kg) or chronically (dietary, 4 weeks) resulted in seizures, whereas these doses did not cause seizures without lithium pretreatment. This indicated that lithium most likely affects a signal transduction process common to both systems, which is the phosphoinositide second messenger system. To examine the potential influence of altered inositol levels on these responses, we tested the effects of infusions (10 mg, i.c.v.) of myo-inositol, a precursor of phosphoinositide synthesis, and of epi-inositol, an isomer not used for phosphoinositide synthesis. Administration of myo-inositol (10 mg) slightly reduced the incidence of seizures induced by acute lithium plus DOI but almost completely blocked seizures induced by acute lithium plus pilocarpine. This was surprising since seizures induced by acute lithium plus DOI were less severe than those after acute lithium plus pilocarpine, but myo-inositol was more effective in blocking the latter. Epi-inositol also blocked seizures under both conditions but it was less effective than myo-inositol after treatment with acute lithium plus pilocarpine. The latencies to seizures and/or severity of seizures were potentiated more by chronic than acute lithium pretreatment with both DOI and pilocarpine, but attenuation by myo-inositol was less with each agonist after chronic lithium compared with acute lithium treatment. Peripheral administration of a high dose of myo-inositol blocked seizures induced by acute lithium plus pilocarpine, but the inositol treatment itself was toxic and caused seizures prior to pilocarpine administration, so the mechanism of action cannot simply be attributed to increased brain inositol levels. These results demonstrate that lithium modulates the in vivo responses to DOI and pilocarpine, most probably through an effect on the phosphoinositide signal transduction system. They also show that centrally administered myo-inositol modifies responses to these agents, but the effectiveness of epi-inositol and other results leave unclear the mechanistic basis of its actions.
The anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive effects of the acetylated (2), methylated (3) and aminated (4) derivatives of cubebin (1), obtained by its reaction with acetic anhydride, methyl iodide and dimethylethylamine chloride, respectively, were investigated, using different animal models. The compound (2) was the most effective anti-inflammatory one in the carrageenin-induced paw edema in rats and was the only one which showed dose-response correlation for this assay with r = 0.993 and Y = 64.58x + 0.22. Besides, compounds (2) and (4) were more effective than cubebin in inhibiting acetic acid-induced writhing in mice, producing dose-response correlation with doses of 10, 20 and 30 mg/kg, respectively. Regarding the hot plate and the cell migration tests in rats, none of the four tested compounds showed activity. Overall, the results showed that the acetylation and amination of cubebin were efficient in enhancing its analgesic activity, as well as its anti-inflammatory activity.
Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA) is a congenital erythroid aplasia characterized as a normochromic macrocytic anemia with a selective deficiency in red blood cell precursors in otherwise normocellular bone marrow. In 40% of DBA patients, various physical anomalies are also present. Currently two genes are associated with the DBA phenotype--the ribosomal protein (RP) S19 mutated in 25% of DBA patients and RPS24 mutated in approximately 1.4% of DBA patients. Here we report the identification of a mutation in yet another ribosomal protein, RPS17. The mutation affects the translation initiation start codon, changing T to G (c.2T>G), thus eliminating the natural start of RPS17 protein biosynthesis. RNA analysis revealed that the mutated allele was expressed, and the next downstream start codon located at position +158 should give rise to a short peptide of only four amino acids (Met-Ser-Arg-Ile). The mutation arose de novo, since all healthy family members carry the wild-type alleles. The identification of a mutation in the third RP of the small ribosomal subunit in DBA patients further supports the theory that impaired translation may be the main cause of DBA pathogenesis.
Adult patients suffering from acute asthma presenting to the Emergency Department with an FEV1 of less than 40% of predicted were randomized into four treatment groups. They were treated with nebulized albuterol at a high (7.5 mg) or standard (2.5 mg) dose given either continuously through 1 h, or intermittently every hour, for 2 h. When the FEV1 improvements for the different groups at 2 h were compared, the groups treated with continuous nebulization had the greatest improvement. The improvements (1.07 L for the high-dose group, and 1.02 L for the standard-dose group) were significantly greater than the improvement seen with standard-dose intermittent treatment (0.72 L; p < 0.05). The improvement in FEV1 of the high-dose, hourly treated group was intermediate in magnitude between these (0.09 L). There was no difference in the improvement seen between the two groups treated with continuous nebulization. The potassium fall, present in all groups, was more pronounced in the groups treated with high doses of albuterol. Only one person (high dose, continuous treatment group) developed hypokalemia of less than 3.0 mmol/L. The high-dose hourly treated group had the highest incidence of side effects, and the standard-dose continuously treated group had the lowest. The standard-dose continuous-treatment regimen had the greatest improvement in FEV1 with the least number of side effects.
Cocaine abuse is a significant problem among pregnant women. The present study tested the hypothesis that prenatal cocaine exposure impairs myogenic reactivity of coronary arteries in adult offspring. Pregnant rats received cocaine (30 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) or saline from days 15 to 21 of gestational age, and experiments were conducted in 3-month-old offspring. In pressurized coronary septal arteries, the diameter and vessel wall intracellular Ca2+ concentrations were measured simultaneously in the same tissue as a function of intraluminal pressure. Cocaine did not affect KCl-induced contractions of coronary arteries in either males or females but decreased the distensibility in male vessels. In male offspring, cocaine treatment resulted in a significant decrease in pressure-dependent myogenic contractions. Inhibition of eNOS with NG-nitro-L-arginine did not alter the myogenic response in either saline control or cocaine-treated animals. In females, cocaine caused a significant increase in pressure-dependent myogenic contractions. NG-nitro-L-arginine did not affect the myogenic response in the control animals but blocked the cocaine-mediated effect. In both males and females, the pressure-induced increases in vessel wall Ca2+ concentrations were not significantly different between cocaine and saline groups. The ratio of changes in the diameter to Ca2+ concentrations in the pressurized arteries was significantly less in male but greater in female offspring after cocaine treatment. The results suggest that prenatal cocaine exposure causes reprogramming of coronary myogenic tone via changes in the Ca2+ sensitivity in a sex-dependent manner, leading to an increased risk of dysfunction of coronary autoregulation in adult offspring.
Organophosphates (OPs) are commonly used as pesticides throughout the world. Exposures to OPs cause a significant number of poisonings and deaths every year. Organophosphate-induced delayed polyneuropathy is a sensory-motor distal axonopathy which usually occurs after exposure of certain OP insecticides. Neuropathies due to ingestion of OPs have rarely been reported in the literature. Moreover, until now, there is no report of a patient developing organophosphorus injection-induced delayed neuropathy in the literature. We report a patient with serious organophosphorus-induced delayed neuropathy due to malathion injection. The patient was a 32-year-old female who self-injected undetermined amounts of malathion over the median nerve trace on the forearm crease in a suicide attempt which resulted in peripheral neuropathy.
Epileptic seizures have been reported in patients on imipenem/cilastatin (Imi/Cil) therapy. To investigate contribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in inducing imipenem/cilastatin (Imi/Cil) seizures, the effects of competitive NMDA antagonist, APV [(+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid], non-competitive NMDA antagonist remacemide [(+/-)-2-amino-N-(1-methyl-1,2-diphenylethyl)-acetamidel, and glycine receptor partial agonist HA-966 [(+/-)-(3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one)] on electroencephalographic (EEG) activity and behaviour were studied in rats.
Adult male Wistar albino rats were implanted with electrodes and cannulae were placed into the right lateral ventricle. Animals were divided into five groups: (i) saline (icv)+Imi/Cil (ii) APV (0.2 micromol)+Imi/Cil, (iii) APV (0.4 micromol)+Imi/Cil, (iv) remacemide (100 mg/kg, ip)+Imi/Cil, and (v) HA-966 (200 microg, icv)+Imi/Cil. The drugs were administered 30 min before icv injection of Imi/Cil (100/100 microg), and their effects on incidence of seizures, latencies to EEG changes and convulsions, severity, lethality and time to lethal outcome were studied.
Imi/Cil provoked complete seizure response in all rats and all animals died within 10-18 min after the injection. EEG epileptiform activity preceded behavioral seizures. Clonic-tonic seizures were characterized by continuous bursts of high frequency high amplitude spikes in the EEG. The dose of 0.2 micromol of APV prolonged only the latency to the first EEG changes, while 0.4 micromol dose significantly influenced all seizure parameters. HA-966 increased only the latency to Imi/Cil-induced convulsions, while remacemide had no significant effect on seizure parameters.
The results suggested that excitatory neurotransmission contributed to the generation and/or propagation of Imi/Cil-induced seizures in rats, and that the effects of NMDA antagonists depended on a particular binding site within the NMDA receptor complex, and affinity to that site.
Thalidomide and its more potent immunomodulatory derivative lenalidomide enhance rituximab-mediated antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. We therefore evaluated lenalidomide and rituximab in symptomatic Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia (WM) patients naive to either agent.
Intended therapy consisted of 48 weeks of lenalidomide (25 mg/d for 3 weeks and then 1 week off) along with rituximab (375 mg/m(2)/wk) dosed on weeks 2 to 5 and 13 to 16. Sixteen patients were enrolled, 12 of whom were previously untreated.
Unexpectedly, we observed an acute decrease in hematocrit in 13 of 16 patients (median hematocrit decrease, 4.8%), which was attributable to lenalidomide patients and which led to cessation of further enrollment on this study. Lenalidomide-related anemia was observed even at doses as low as 5 mg/d and occurred in the absence of hemolysis or other cytopenias. The overall response and major response (<50% decrease in serum IgM) rates were 50% and 25%, respectively, on an intent-to-treat basis. With a median follow-up of 31.3 months, 4 of 8 responding patients have progressed with a median time to progression of 18.9 months.
Lenalidomide produces unexpected but clinically significant acute anemia in patients with WM. In comparison with our previous study with thalidomide and rituximab in an analogous patient population, the responses achieved in WM patients with lenalidomide and rituximab appear less favorable.
Proton pump inhibitors (PPI) are widely used for the treatment of peptic ulcer, but cases of anaphylactic reactions have rarely been described. We present a patient who experienced an episode of urticaria 30 minutes after oral intake of an omeprazole capsule. Skin prick tests to omeprazole, pantoprazole and lansoprazole were positive. Challenge test with lansoprazole was carried out and within 45 minutes the patient developed urticaria, facial edema, vomiting, and hypotension. Oral challenge with other imidazole derivatives (ketoconazole, cimetidine, metronidazole) were carried out with good tolerance. Serum tryptase levels determined 3 hours after the adverse reaction to lansoprazole were elevated. Specific IgE to PPI were not detected by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technique. The clinical findings, positive skin prick test to PPI and elevated serum tryptase levels suggest that an IgE-mediated mechanism was implicated in the reactions to both omeprazole and lansoprazole. Skin prick tests may be a useful tool for detecting patients sensitized to PPI. An experimental protocol was used to detect specific IgE antibodies against PPI, which may explain RAST negativity. The previous findings suggest that cross-reactivity between PPI exists, but not with other imidazoles.
To assess the effects of intravesical injection of botulinum toxin type A (BTX) on a model of detrusor overactivity induced by intravesical infusions of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and capsaicin. BTX has recently been used clinically to treat overactive bladder syndromes without a precise knowledge of the mechanism of action.
Twelve Sprague-Dawley rats underwent BTX injections. Six received 1.0 U and 6 received 0.5 U. BTX injections were done at bladder tube placement. Ten rats received saline injections as controls. After 48 hours of recovery, all 22 animals underwent awake, conscious cystometrography (CMG), performed using both saline and ATP (20 mM) intravesical infusion at 0.074 mL/min. In another 4 rats, capsaicin (100 microM) was infused intravesically before and after the BTX injections. The CMG parameters calculated included bladder contraction pressures and contraction frequencies (contractions per minute or Herz).
Intravesical saline CMG produced a contraction frequency of 0.78 +/- 0.10 Hz. Intravesical ATP doubled this voiding frequency to 1.45 +/- 0.18 Hz (P = 0.003). BTX treatment at 1.0 U reduced the frequency to 0.91 +/- 0.13 Hz (P = 0.02). BTX injection significantly decreased the bladder contraction pressure during saline and ATP CMG. However, 0.5 U BTX did not decrease ATP-induced overactivity; therefore, in the capsaicin experiments, 1.0 U BTX was used. Although BTX tended to reverse detrusor overactivity secondary to intravesical capsaicin, this difference was not statistically significant.
Intravesical infusion of either ATP or capsaicin can induce detrusor overactivity. BTX was more effective in blocking the effect of ATP than of capsaicin, although BTX injection did show a trend in reducing the contraction frequencies and amplitudes induced by capsaicin. The clinical utility of using BTX to treat overactive bladder syndromes and bladder hypersensory states, especially those that may be caused by an augmentation of the purinergic pathway, should be studied further.
Resting tremor and hypokinesia of unilateral limbs were produced in monkeys after making a lesion in the mesencephalic tegmentum. The administration of L-dopa or dopamine agonists relieved them and followingly induced dyskinesias. The same effects were produced by the direct injection of dopamine or its agonists into the dorsomedial part of caudate nucleus ipsilateral to the lesion, where spiroperidol binding to the D2 receptor was increased in the affinity. These results suggest that denervation supersensitivity at the postsynaptic D2 receptor is a basic condition for the development of dyskinesias, though they were slightly suppressed by the intracaudate injection of GABA, serotonin and met-enkephalin.
The mean risk of acquiring HIV after an occupational exposure, injecting drug use or sexual exposure varies from < 0.1 to 3%. A high plasma HIV-RNA of the source increases the risk of each of the exposures. Other factors, such as the volume of the inoculum involved to which the individual was exposed, other sexually transmitted diseases and ruptures of mucous membranes are associated with a higher risk of HIV transmission. Based on the calculated risk, post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) should be recommended. In the Netherlands, prescription of PEP in the occupational setting is a standard procedure and has proved to be feasible. This was associated with a high percentage (62%) of mild and reversible toxicity and a small percentage (2%) of serious adverse events related to antiretroviral drugs, i.e. nephrolithiasis (due to indinavir) and toxic hepatitis (due to nevirapine). In The Netherlands so far no HIV-seroconversions have been recorded after an occupational accident.
Oxidative stress-mediated hepatotoxic effect of arsenic (As) is mainly due to the depletion of glutathione (GSH) in liver. Taurine, on the other hand, enhances intracellular production of GSH. Little is known about the mechanism of the beneficial role of taurine in As-induced hepatic pathophysiology. Therefore, in the present study we investigated its beneficial role in As-induced hepatic cell death via mitochondria-mediated pathway.
Rats were exposed to NaAsO(2) (2 mg/kg body weight for 6 months) and the hepatic tissue was used for oxidative stress measurements. In addition, the pathophysiologic effect of NaAsO(2) (10 microM) on hepatocytes was evaluated by determining cell viability, mitochondrial membrane potential and ROS generation. As caused mitochondrial injury by increased oxidative stress and reciprocal regulation of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL/Bad, Bax, Bim in association with increased level of Apaf-1, activation of caspase 9/3, cleavage of PARP protein and ultimately led to apoptotic cell death. In addition, As markedly increased JNK and p38 phosphorylation with minimal disturbance of ERK. Pre-exposure of hepatocytes to a JNK inhibitor SP600125 prevented As-induced caspase-3 activation, ROS production and loss in cell viability. Pre-exposure of hepatocytes to a p38 inhibitor SB2035, on the other hand, had practically no effect on these events. Besides, As activated PKCdelta and pre-treatment of hepatocytes with its inhibitor, rottlerin, suppressed the activation of JNK indicating that PKCdelta is involved in As-induced JNK activation and mitochondrial dependent apoptosis. Oral administration of taurine (50 mg/kg body weight for 2 weeks) both pre and post to NaAsO(2) exposure or incubation of the hepatocytes with taurine (25 mM) were found to be effective in counteracting As-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis.
Results indicate that taurine treatment improved As-induced hepatic damages by inhibiting PKCdelta-JNK signalling pathways. Therefore taurine supplementation could provide a new approach for the reduction of hepatic complication due to arsenic poisoning.
Fibrates, hypolipidemic agents, are reported to be effective in treatment of primary biliary cirrhosis. However, the mechanism involved in therapeutic benefits of fibrates in primary biliary cirrhosis remains unknown. In contrast, hepatic regulated upon activation, normal T-cell expressed and secreted (RANTES) is increased in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis and bile acids up-regulate RANTES expression in hepatocytes. The role of fibrates in bile acid-induced RANTES expression was investigated in human hepatoma cells; 100 microM of bezafibrate and fenofibrate decreased expression of chenodeoxycholic acid-induced RANTES mRNA and protein. In addition, luciferase enzyme assay using RANTES promoter-luciferase reporter plasmid revealed that 100 microM of bezafibrate and fenofibrate transcriptionally reduced chenodeoxycholic acid-induced RANTES gene expression. Moreover, bezafibrate clearly repressed DNA-binding activity of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) induced by chenodeoxycholic acid. Therefore, fibrates might be inhibitory agents of inflammatory cell migration by RANTES to the liver in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis, possibly indicating that fibrates are therapeutic agents in primary biliary cirrhosis.
The purpose of this study was to examine the influence of chronic d-amphetamine (AMPH) treatment (2 mg/kg i.p., for 9 consecutive days) on behavioral and neurochemical responses to a subsequent exposure - 4 days after the last AMPH injection--to the elevated plus-maze (EPM), as well as to determine the involvement of a dopaminergic mechanism in that influence. Results showed that chronic AMPH treatment induced an 'anxiogenic-like' response when animals were evaluated in the EPM test. Pretreatment with either haloperidol (HAL, 1 mg/kg i.p., 20 min prior to each injection) or SCH-23390 (0.1 mg/kg i.p., 10 min prior to each injection) completely abolished the chronic AMPH-induced 'anxiogenic-like' effect displayed in the EPM test. However, sulpiride pretreatment (60 mg/kg i.p., 10 min prior to each AMPH injection) did not modify such effect. In addition, rats treated with AMPH and subsequently exposed to the EPM, showed a decrease in the maximal GABA-stimulated chloride uptake in cortical microsacs. HAL pretreatment restored the maximal chloride uptake induced by chronic AMPH. Altogether, these results suggest that: (1) previous exposure to chronic AMPH treatment induces an increased emotional response following a conflict situation, (2) dopamine D(1) receptors are mainly involved in chronic AMPH-induced changes in the behavior displayed in EPM test, and (3) an interaction between GABAergic and dopaminergic mechanisms may be implicated in neurochemical and behavioral changes induced by chronic AMPH treatment.
15 endogenous-depressive patients were treated with 3 X 20 mg amitriptyline-N-oxide for 20 days. Polygraphic sleep recordings were taken during the first seven and last six nights. In a single-blind study the patients were given placebo for the first four days, amitriptyline-N-oxide was applied during the following 13 days and on the last three days placebo was given again. The statistical evaluation showed the following results: a) Latency times up to the first deep sleep and to the first REM-phase decreased under the effect of the substance. b) Relative sleep duration (without wakefulness) increased. c) Actual sleep duration (without wakefulness and stage A) was similar. d) The frequency of awakenings during the night diminished under amitriptyline-N-oxide and increased somewhat when placebo was given again. The original values were not reached. The frequency of awakenings from REM-phases increased during the first three nights of medication and decreased in the last three nights the substance was administered. When placebo was given again, the original values were exceeded. e) Duration of wakefulness after waking up during the night decreased under amitriptyline-N-oxide and increased when the medication was discontinued. Here again the original values were not reached. After waking up during the night most waking time was spent in stage C. A placebo effect can be excluded. The effects of amitriptyline-N-oxide are compared to those of hypnotics, other antidepressants, antipsychotics and tranquilizers in the discussion.
In mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) pretreatment with progesterone improves clinical signs and decreases the loss of myelin basic protein (MBP) and proteolipid protein (PLP) measured by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Presently, we analyzed if progesterone effects in the spinal cord of EAE mice involved the decreased transcription of local inflammatory mediators and the increased transcription of myelin proteins and myelin transcription factors. C57Bl/6 female mice were divided into controls, EAE and EAE receiving progesterone (100mg implant) 7 days before EAE induction. Tissues were collected on day 17 post-immunization. Real time PCR technology demonstrated that progesterone blocked the EAE-induced increase of the proinflammatory mediators tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) and its receptor TNFR1, the microglial marker CD11b and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) mRNAs, and increased mRNA expression of PLP and MBP, the myelin transcription factors NKx2.2 and Olig1 and enhanced CC1+oligodendrocyte density respect of untreated EAE mice. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated decreased Iba1+microglial cells. Confocal microscopy demonstrated that TNFα colocalized with glial-fibrillary acidic protein+astrocytes and OX-42+microglial cells. Therefore, progesterone treatment improved the clinical signs of EAE, decreased inflammatory glial reactivity and increased myelination. Data suggest that progesterone neuroprotection involves the modulation of transcriptional events in the spinal cord of EAE mice.
