A rash developed in a man consistent with urticarial vasculitis as demonstrated by biopsy on each of two occasions that he was exposed to cimetidine. The vasculitis resolved on discontinuation of the drug. This is the first report demonstrating by biopsy and rechallenge that oral cimetidine therapy may cause type III hypersensitivity.
Hepatic iron overload has been associated classically with the genetic disorder hereditary hemochromatosis. More recently, it has become apparent that mild-to-moderate degrees of elevated hepatic iron stores observed in other liver diseases also have clinical relevance. The goal was to use a mouse model of dietary hepatic iron overload and isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation proteomics to identify, at a global level, differentially expressed proteins in livers from mice fed a control or 3,5,5-trimethyl-hexanoyl-ferrocene (TMHF) supplemented diet for 4 weeks. The expression of 74 proteins was altered by ≥ ±1.5-fold, showing that the effects of iron on the liver proteome were extensive. The top canonical pathway altered by TMHF treatment was the NF-E2-related factor 2 (NRF2-)-mediated oxidative stress response. Because of the long-standing association of elevated hepatic iron with oxidative stress, the remainder of the study was focused on NRF2. TMHF treatment upregulated 25 phase I/II and antioxidant proteins previously categorized as NRF2 target gene products. Immunoblot analyses showed that TMHF treatment increased the levels of glutathione S-transferase (GST) M1, GSTM4, glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL) catalytic subunit, GCL modifier subunit, glutathione synthetase, glutathione reductase, heme oxygenase 1, epoxide hydrolase 1, and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase quinone 1. Immunofluorescence, carried out to determine the cellular localization of NRF2, showed that NRF2 was detected in the nucleus of hepatocytes from TMHF-treated mice and not from control mice. We conclude that elevated hepatic iron in a mouse model activates NRF2, a key regulator of the cellular response to oxidative stress.
In this study in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), off and on dopaminergic therapy, with and without L-dopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs), we tested intermittent theta-burst stimulation (iTBS), a technique currently used for non-invasively inducing long-term potentiation (LTP)-like plasticity in primary motor cortex (M1). The study group comprised 20 PD patients on and off dopaminergic therapy (11 patients without and 9 patients with LIDs), and 14 age-matched healthy subjects. Patients had mild-to-moderate PD, and no additional neuropsychiatric disorders. We clinically evaluated patients using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and the Unified Dyskinesia Rating Scale (UDysRS). The left M1 was conditioned with iTBS at 80% active motor threshold intensity. Twenty motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded from right first interosseous muscle before and at 5, 15 and 30 min after iTBS. Between-group analysis of variance (ANOVA) testing healthy subjects versus patients with and without LIDs, on and off therapy showed a significant interaction between factors "Group" and "Time". After iTBS, MEP amplitudes in healthy subjects increased significantly at 5, 15 and 30 min (p<0.01 at all time-points) but in PD patients with and without LIDs, on and off therapy, remained unchanged. In PD patients with and without LIDs, on and off therapy iTBS fails to increase MEP responses. This finding suggests lack of iTBS-induced LTP-like plasticity in M1 in PD regardless of patients' clinical features.
Standard assays to assess acetaminophen (APAP) toxicity in animal models include determination of ALT (alanine aminotransferase) levels and examination of histopathology of liver sections. However, these assays do not reflect the functional capacity of the injured liver. To examine a functional marker of liver injury, the pharmacokinetics of indocyanine green (ICG) were examined in mice treated with APAP, saline, or APAP followed by N-acetylcysteine (NAC) treatment.Male B6C3F1 mice were administered APAP (200 mg/kg IP) or saline. Two additional groups of mice received APAP followed by NAC at 1 or 4 h after APAP. At 24 h, mice were injected with ICG (10 mg/kg IV) and serial blood samples (0, 2, 10, 30, 50 and 75 min) were obtained for determination of serum ICG concentrations and ALT. Mouse livers were removed for measurement of APAP protein adducts and examination of histopathology. Toxicity (ALT values and histology) was significantly increased above saline treated mice in the APAP and APAP/NAC 4 h mice. Mice treated with APAP/NAC 1 h had complete protection from toxicity. APAP protein adducts were increased in all APAP treated groups and were highest in the APAP/NAC 1 h group. Pharmacokinetic analysis of ICG demonstrated that the total body clearance (Cl(T)) of ICG was significantly decreased and the mean residence time (MRT) was significantly increased in the APAP mice compared to the saline mice. Mice treated with NAC at 1 h had Cl(T) and MRT values similar to those of saline treated mice. Conversely, mice that received NAC at 4 h had a similar ICG pharmacokinetic profile to that of the APAP only mice. Prompt treatment with NAC prevented loss of functional activity while late treatment with NAC offered no improvement in ICG clearance at 24 h. ICG clearance in mice with APAP toxicity can be utilized in future studies testing the effects of novel treatments for APAP toxicity.
The selective breeding of Roman high- (RHA) and low-avoidance (RLA) rats for, respectively, rapid vs extremely poor acquisition of avoidant behavior in a shuttlebox has produced two phenotypes that differ in temperament traits, in mesocortical/mesolimbic dopamine system function, and in the behavioral and neurochemical responses to the acute and repeated administration of psychostimulants and opiates. The phenotypic traits of the RHA line predict higher susceptibility, compared with RLA rats, to the reinforcing properties of addictive substances like cocaine. The present study was designed to compare the acquisition, maintenance, reinstatement of drug-seeking after long-term extinction, and reacquisition of intravenous cocaine self-administration (SA) behavior in the Roman lines. Compared with RLA rats, the rates of responding during cocaine SA acquisition were higher, extinction from cocaine SA was prolonged, and drug-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior was more robust in RHA rats. Moreover, only RHA rats reacquired extinguished lever-pressing activity when a low reinforcing dose of cocaine was available. These findings are consistent with the view that subjects with genetically determined high responsiveness to the acute and chronic (ie, sensitizing) effects of psychostimulants, such as RHA rats, also display a higher propensity to self -administer cocaine. Further comparative studies in the Roman lines, using SA paradigms that distinguish mere drug-taking from the compulsive and uncontrolled drug use that characterizes addiction in humans, may eventually help to characterize the relationships among genotype, temperament traits, and neurobiological mechanisms involved in the individual vulnerability to cocaine addiction.
Memantine, an uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist used for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD), has been hypothesized to have neuroprotective properties. However, the similarity of its mechanism of action to other NMDA receptor antagonists has led to concerns that it may also have neurotoxic effects. To assess both the neuroprotective and neurotoxic potential of memantine in a mouse model of AD (Tg2576 mice), we used quantitative light and electron microscopy to investigate the effects of long-term (6 months) administration of memantine (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg) on plaque deposition and neuronal morphology in the hippocampus and overlying cortex. A fear-conditioning paradigm was used to evaluate the behavioral consequences of any observed changes in structure. Administration of the two higher doses of memantine (10 and 20 mg/kg) was associated with a significant decrease in beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaque deposition, increases in synaptic density and the appearance of degenerating axons; the latter two effects were independent of genotype. Administration of the lowest dose of memantine (5 mg/kg) was associated with a significant decrease in Abeta plaque deposition and a significant increase in synaptic density, but not a significant increase in degenerating axons. However, memantine did not significantly improve behavioral deficits associated with genotype in a fear-conditioning paradigm at any dose. These results suggest that chronic memantine administration may have both neuroprotective and neurotoxic effects in a mouse model of AD.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neuromuscular disease caused by deletions or mutations in the telomeric copy of the survival motor neuron (SMN1) gene. Although the SMN protein has been implicated in the biogenesis of ribonucleoprotein complexes and RNA processing, it is not clear how these functions contribute to the pathogenesis of SMA. To gain a further understanding of SMN function, we have investigated its role in cell survival in skin fibroblasts derived from SMA patients and age-matched controls. SMA fibroblasts exposed to camptothecin, a specific inhibitor of DNA topoisomerase I, consistently showed cell death at a lower concentration than normal controls. Treatment with other cell death-inducing agents did not cause differences in survival of SMA fibroblasts as compared with control fibroblasts. Camptothecin treatment resulted in activation of caspase-3 with generation of the caspase-3 cleavage product, poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP). Depletion of SMN protein by RNA interference in control fibroblasts increased caspase-3 activity, whereas transfection of SMA fibroblasts with wild-type SMN decreased caspase-3 activity. Our data demonstrate that SMA fibroblasts are more prone to some, but not all, death-stimuli. Vulnerability to death-stimuli is associated with decreased levels of SMN protein and is mediated by activation of caspase-3.
To date, the only genes that have been consistently replicated across racial and ethnic groups to influence alcoholism vulnerability are polymorphisms in the alcohol-metabolizing enzymes, i.e. cytosolic alcohol dehydrogenase 1B (ADH1B) and mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2). Both the variant ADHIB*2 and ALDH2*2 alleles significantly protect against developing alcoholism. The protection has been thought to result from accumulation of acetaldehyde after drinking. Unlike ALDH2*2, direct correlation between ADHI1B*2 and blood acetaldehyde has not been verified. ALDH2*2/*2 homozygosity appeared to almost completely protect against alcoholism, whereas ALDH2* 1/*2 heterozygosity appeared to reduce risk of the disease only about threefold. Direct correlations of blood ethanol and acetaldehyde concentrations, cardiovascular haemodynamic responses, and the subjective perceptions after challenge with low (0.2g/kg) to moderate (0.5g/kg) alcohol in individuals with different ALDH2 genotypes support the notion that full protection against alcoholism byALDH2*2/*2 may derive from either abstinence or deliberate moderation in alcohol consumption due to strong discomfort from physiological and psychological responses caused by persistently elevated blood acetaldehyde after ingestion of a small amount of alcohol, and that the partial protection by ALDH2*1/*2 can be ascribed to significantly lower acetaldehyde build-up in blood and the according adverse reactions.
Saliva protects the oral mucosa, inhibiting microbial overgrowth. Hyposalivation, therefore, induces multiple oral disorders, although treatment of hyposalivation is very difficult.
A cholagogue, anethole trithione (AT) was administered to patients with symptomatic hyposalivation (xerostomia) caused by senile hypofunction (4 men and 17 women; senile group), medications (6 men and 17 women; drug group), and oral cancer therapy (two men and three women; cancer group). For control groups, an artificial saliva was administered to 45 patients consisting of senile hypofunction (10 men and 16 women), drug-induced xerostomia (3 men and 10 women) and oral cancer therapy-induced xerostomia (four men and two women).
Two weeks after administration of AT (6 tablets per day), both nonstimulated salivary flow rate (SFR) and stimulated SFR increased in a statistically significantly manner from 0.76 +/- 0.41 and 5.18 +/- 3.02 to 1.54 +/- 1.33 (P<0.05) and 9.07 +/- 4.10 mL/10 min (P<0.05), respectively. Of the three groups, the drug group showed the largest increases in both SFRs, from 0.90 +/- 0.54 and 6.29 +/- 4.12 to 1.69 +/- 1.65 and 12.09 +/- 5.10 mL/10 min (P<0.05 and P<0.02, respectively). Patients in the control group had almost constant SFRs. After AT administration, the salivary viscosity was, however, mildly decreased and concentrations of secretory-immunoglobulin A, lactoferrin, potassium, and chloride in nonstimulated saliva were almost constant. Corresponding with the increase of salivation, oral discomfort and inflammation were improved or resolved in 41 patients of the AT group within about 4 weeks, whereas improvement was observed in only nine patients of the control group.
These results indicate that AT sufficiently stimulates salivation and improves xerostomia.
A prospective, multicentre, randomized, open-label, parallel group study compared the efficacy, safety and tolerability of cefuroxime 750 mg iv administered either twice daily (bd) or three times daily (tds) for 48-72 h, followed by oral cefuroxime axetil 500 mg bd for 5-7 days in a sequential therapy regimen for the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis. A total of 628 adult patients entered the study; 323 in the cefuroxime tds group and 305 in the cefuroxime bd group. For clinically evaluable patients, the post-treatment clinical response rate was 86% and 88% in the cefuroxime tds and bd groups, respectively. Cure was maintained at follow-up (14-28 days after treatment completion) in 85% of the cefuroxime tds group and 84% of patients in the cefuroxime bd group. A total of 189 pathogens was isolated, the most common being Haemophilus influenzae (17%), other Haemophilus spp. (15%), Streptococcus pneumoniae (15%) and Enterobacteriaceae (23%). At the post-treatment assessment, 66% and 70% of pathogens were cleared in the cefuroxime tds and bd groups, respectively. Both treatment regimens were well tolerated. The incidence of drug-related adverse events was 7% in the cefuroxime tds group and 6% in the cefuroxime bd group; the most common side-effects were gastrointestinal. Qualitative and quantitative markers were used to determine the optimal time to switch from iv to oral therapy and, of these, peak expiratory flow rate was shown to be the most useful in the present study. In conclusion, the findings of this study support the use of a bd dosing schedule of cefuroxime in a sequential therapy regimen with oral cefuroxime axetil, demonstrating it to be clinically equivalent to the standard tds dosage currently used, as well as being simpler and more convenient to administer at a lower cost.
Converging evidence suggests a role for noradrenergic mechanisms in stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking in animals. Yohimbine, an alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, is known to be anxiogenic and induce stress-related responses in humans and animals. Here, we tested the ability of yohimbine to reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior and induce behavioral and physiological signs characteristic of stress in squirrel monkeys. Monkeys were trained to self-administer cocaine under a second-order schedule of i.v. drug injection. Drug seeking subsequently was extinguished by substituting saline for cocaine injections and omitting the cocaine-paired stimulus. The ability of yohimbine and the structurally distinct alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist RS-79948 to reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior was assessed by administering priming injections immediately before test sessions in which the cocaine-paired stimulus was either present or absent. Priming injections of yohimbine (0.1-0.56 mg/kg, i.m.) or RS-79948 (0.01-0.1 mg/kg, i.m.) induced dose-related reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. The magnitude of yohimbine-induced reinstatement was similar regardless of the presence or absence of the cocaine-paired stimulus. Yohimbine also significantly increased salivary cortisol levels, a physiological marker of stress, as well as scratching and self-grooming, behavioral markers of stress in nonhuman primates. In drug interaction experiments, pretreatment with the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine (0.1-0.3 mg/kg, i.m.) dose-dependently inhibited yohimbine-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. In contrast, pretreatment with the dopamine receptor antagonist flupenthixol failed to inhibit yohimbine-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. The results show that pharmacological blockade of alpha(2)-adrenoceptors can induce reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior and characteristic stress responses in squirrel monkeys, providing a potentially useful model of stress-induced relapse to drug seeking.
Although more men than women are addicted to cocaine, it has been suggested that women may have an accelerated transition to addiction, and that once addicted they may be more vulnerable to relapse. Here we investigate the effects of extended access to cocaine under a 24-h/day discrete trial procedure on patterns of intake and subsequent motivation to use cocaine as assessed by responding under a progressive-ratio schedule in male and female rats. Rats were initially trained to self-administer cocaine (1.5 mg/kg/infusion) under a fixed-ratio 1 schedule until acquisition occurred, and then responding was assessed under a progressive schedule for three sessions. Subsequently, rats had 24-h access to intravenous cocaine infusions (1.5 mg/kg) that were available in discrete trials (4, 10 min trials/h) for 7 consecutive days. At 10 days after the last discrete trial session, responding was reassessed under a progressive-ratio schedule for three additional sessions to investigate changes in motivation to obtain cocaine. Prior to cocaine self-administration under the 24-h access discrete trial procedure, males and females did not differ on cocaine self-administration under the fixed-ratio or progressive-ratio schedules. However, sex differences emerged under the 24-h access discrete trial procedure with females self-administering higher levels of cocaine, for longer initial periods of time, and showing a greater disruption in the diurnal control over intake than did males. Additionally, following a 10-day forced abstinence period, females responded at higher levels under the progressive-ratio schedule to obtain cocaine infusions than did males. These findings suggest that extended access to cocaine under the discrete trial cocaine self-administration procedure produces sex-dependent patterns of intake and sex-specific changes in motivation to obtain cocaine as measured by progressive-ratio responding.
D-Cycloserine, a partial agonist at the glycine recognition site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex, has been shown to facilitate certain forms of memory formation and to improve visual recognition memory in normal monkeys. In the present study, the effects of D-cycloserine on spatial short-term memory deficits in monkeys induced by chronic low-dose 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) administration were examined. Chronic low-dose MPTP administration resulted in deficits in the performance of a variable delayed-response task (VDR). Single administration of D-cycloserine (320 or 1000 microgram/kg) significantly improved the performance on this task. High-dose D-cycloserine (8000 microgram/kg) or MK-801 (10-32 microgram/kg) administration had no effects on delayed-response performance but impaired performance on a visual discrimination (VD) task that was not adversely affected by MPTP administration. These results show that at low doses, D-cycloserine has cognition-enhancing properties in this model of early Parkinsonism.
We report the case of a 28-year-old-prostitute from Thailand with HIV infection stage B2 associated with retroperitoneal lymph node tuberculosis. 6 days after the beginning of anti-tuberculous therapy (isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamid and ethambutol) the temperature rose to 40.5 degrees C, diarrhea, vomiting, and tachycardia developed and systolic blood pressure fell to 80 mm Hg. Liver function tests revealed acute hepatic failure (ALT 800 IU/l rising to 1500; serum bilirubin 89 mumol/l rising to 238.0; alkaline phosphatase 199 IU/l; glucose 1.8 mmol/l; prothrombin time 20%). Isoniazid, rifampicin, and pyrazinamid were replaced by streptomycin and PAS. A few days after withdrawal the liver profile returned to normal. Hours after the reintroduction of rifampicin total body erythema, pruritus, vomiting and severe hypotension developed, requiring saline methylprednisolone and epinephrine administration. The next reexposure to intravenous rifampicin produced a rash and was rapidly discontinued. Liver function tests remained normal. Later mild adverse reactions to streptomycin and pyrazinamid occurred, two drugs which had been well tolerated before. Subsequently the diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency was established. After initiation of steroid replacement (50 mg prednisolone) the antituberculous therapy with isoniazid, pyrazinamid and ethambutol was well tolerated. We conclude that the shock in this HIV-infected patient was either due to severe anaphylaxis to rifampicin or acute adrenal insufficiency ensuing on this drug. The reversible fulminant acute hepatic failure represents either an adverse effect of antituberculous drugs, especially hepatotoxic interactions of drug combinations, or an ischemic liver injury during hypotension caused by anaphylaxis. The case illustrates the complex nature of side effects of antituberculous drugs in HIV patients and their aggravation by adrenal insufficiency.
The metabolic transformation of acetaminophen to N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine by cytochrome P450 enzymes (e.g., cytochrome P450 1A2) is a prerequisite for acetaminophen-induced cataract formation in mice. Aromatic hydrocarbons, such as beta-naphthoflavone, induce cytochrome P450 1A2 in C57BL6 mice via the mediation of the aromatic hydrocarbon receptor and render the animals susceptible to cataract formation by acetaminophen administration but not in DBA2 mice which do not respond to cytochrome P450 1A2 induction by these compounds. Polycyclic hydrocarbons, such as acenaphthylene, were recently found to induce cytochrome P450 1A2 gene expression in young DBA2 mice by aromatic hydrocarbon receptor-independent pathways. In this work, we investigated whether enhanced metabolism of acetaminophen to N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone by cytochrome P450 1A2 induction by acenaphthylene could produce cataract in young DBA2 mice. Fifteen-day-old DBA2 mice were pretreated with two intraperitoneal injections of acenaphthylene and, 24 hr later, with one injection of acetaminophen. In most mice, cataract developed 18-24 hr after acenaphthylene injection. Acenaphthylene treatment of young DBA2 mice resulted in a 2-fold increase in cytochrome P450 1A2-dependent methoxyresorufin O-demethylase activity in the liver. These results support the hypothesis that the aromatic hydrocarbon receptor-independent induction of cytochrome P450 1A2 enzyme leads to accumulation of sufficient N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone in the liver and cataract development in the eye.
Sexual dysfunction is associated with antidepressant discontinuation. Therefore, there is a need for models that predict antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction.
To develop a predictive method for evaluating antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were allowed access to sexually receptive females during a single overnight mating session and then treated with antidepressants known to produce differing levels of sexual dysfunction in the clinic. Two to three weeks later, following either acute, subchronic (7-day), or chronic (14-day) antidepressant treatment, rats were observed for penile erections (PE) in the presence of sexually receptive females that were not accessible for contact but served as visual, auditory, and olfactory stimuli in the testing area.
Chronic treatment of fluoxetine (10 mg/kg), desipramine (10 mg/kg), and bupropion (20 mg/kg) reduced the number of PE 71, 53, and 8%, respectively, relative to vehicle-treated rats. This rank order of the compounds' propensity for reducing PE is comparable to the rank order of the compounds' ability to produce sexual dysfunction during antidepressant treatment in the clinic. Additionally, drugs used to treat antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction in the clinic, such as sildenafil, yohimbine, and dopamine agonists, were also effective in attenuating the deficits in the number of noncontact PE produced by chronic fluoxetine treatment.
Taken together, this model represents a novel approach for predicting antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction in rats, which parallels the pattern of reports of sexual dysfunction in the clinic associated with different antidepressant treatments and the ability of adjunct treatment to reverse the sexual impairments produced by antidepressants.
In myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), deletions of chromosome 7 or 7q are common and correlate with a poor prognosis. The relevant genes on chromosome 7 are unknown. We report here that EZH2, located at 7q36.1, is frequently targeted in MDS. Analysis of EZH2 deletions, missense and frameshift mutations strongly suggests that EZH2 is a tumor suppressor. As EZH2 functions as a histone methyltransferase, abnormal histone modification may contribute to epigenetic deregulation in MDS.
General anesthesia has been recommended to control convulsive status epilepticus that is refractory to conventional anticonvulsant therapy. Halothane has been the recommended agent, but without experimental justification. Isoflurane, which has no reported organ toxicity and produces electrographic suppression at clinically useful concentrations in normal humans, should be a better volatile anesthetic for this purpose. The efficacy and safety of isoflurane administered to control convulsive status epilepticus were assessed on 11 occasions in nine patients in seven North American hospitals. Isoflurane, administered for 1-55 h, stopped seizures in all patients and was able to be titrated to produce burst-suppression patterns on electroencephalograms. Blood pressure support with iv fluids and/or pressor infusions was required in all of the patients. Seizures resumed upon discontinuation of isoflurane on eight of 11 occasions. Six of the nine patients died. The three survivors sustained cognitive deficits. In one patient urine fluoride concentrations were elevated, although not to nephrotoxic levels. These cases suggest that isoflurane 1) is an effective, rapidly titratable anticonvulsant; 2) does not reverse underlying causes of the refractory seizures; and 3) usually necessitates hemodynamic support with fluids and/or pressors. Isoflurane may be administered for seizures, but only when iv agents in anesthetic doses are ineffective or produce unacceptable side effects.
Abnormalities of chromosome 7q are common in myeloid malignancies, but no specific target genes have yet been identified. Here, we describe the finding of homozygous EZH2 mutations in 9 of 12 individuals with 7q acquired uniparental disomy. Screening of a total of 614 individuals with myeloid disorders revealed 49 monoallelic or biallelic EZH2 mutations in 42 individuals; the mutations were found most commonly in those with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms (27 out of 219 individuals, or 12%) and in those with myelofibrosis (4 out of 30 individuals, or 13%). EZH2 encodes the catalytic subunit of the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), a highly conserved histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27) methyltransferase that influences stem cell renewal by epigenetic repression of genes involved in cell fate decisions. EZH2 has oncogenic activity, and its overexpression has previously been causally linked to differentiation blocks in epithelial tumors. Notably, the mutations we identified resulted in premature chain termination or direct abrogation of histone methyltransferase activity, suggesting that EZH2 acts as a tumor suppressor for myeloid malignancies.
The atherogenic cytokine IL-6 (interleukin-6) induces pro-inflammatory gene expression in VECs (vascular endothelial cells) by activating the JAK (Janus kinase)/STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 3) signalling pathway, which is normally down-regulated by the STAT3-dependent induction of the E3 ubiquitin ligase component SOCS3 (suppressor of cytokine signalling 3). Novel treatments based on the regulation of SOCS3 protein levels could therefore have value in the treatment of diseases with an inflammatory component, such as atherosclerosis. To this end we carried out a screen of 1031 existing medicinal compounds to identify inducers of SOCS3 gene expression and identified the flavanoids naringenin and flavone as effective inducers of SOCS3 protein, mRNA and promoter activity. This was in contrast with the action of traditional JAK/STAT3 inhibitors and the polyphenol resveratrol, which effectively suppress SOCS3 gene expression. Both naringenin and flavone also effectively suppressed IL-6-stimulated phosphorylation of STAT3 (Tyr⁷⁰⁵) which led to suppression of IL-6-induction of the atherogenic STAT3 target gene MCP1 (monocyte chemotactic protein-1), suggesting that their ability to induce SOCS3 gene expression is STAT3-independent. Supporting this idea was the observation that the general kinase inhibitor compound C inhibits flavone- and cAMP-dependent, but not JAK-dependent, SOCS3 induction in VECs. Indeed, the ability of flavanoids to induce SOCS3 expression requires activation of the ERK (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase)-dependent transcription factor SP3, and not STAT3. In the present paper we therefore describe novel molecular actions of flavanoids, which control SOCS3 gene induction and suppression of STAT3 signalling in VECs. These mechanisms could potentially be exploited to develop novel anti-atherogenic therapies.
To evaluate the decrease in nocturnal diuresis, nocturnal polyuria and the safety of oral desmopressin in elderly subjects with nocturia.
After being identified using a population-based questionnaire, subjects were included in the study if they; (i) were healthy and free from medication with possible influence on the diuresis or voiding pattern; (ii) had an increased nocturnal frequency (>/=2 nocturnal voids/night, as reported before screening); (iii) had a nocturnal urinary output of >/=0.9 mL/min; (iv) completed and responded to an initial dose-titration study. Twelve men and five women (mean age 67.7 years, sd 4.6 years) met these criteria and were treated with oral desmopressin or placebo at bedtime for 2 weeks on each medication in a randomized, double-blind, crossover design.
Subjects treated with desmopressin had a significantly reduced nocturnal diuresis of 0.59 mL/min compared with those on placebo (95% confidence interval, CI, 0.33-0.85). The 24-h diuresis was unaffected by desmopressin treatment. Patients treated with desmopressin had fewer micturitions at night than had those on placebo (1.1 and 1.7, respectively; P<0.001; mean difference=0.59; 95% CI, 0.32-0.85). The reduction in nocturnal diuresis was dependent on the baseline level of night-time diuresis (r=0.886; r2=0.785; P<0.0001) and the nocturnal part of the baseline 24 h-diuresis (r=0.708; r2=0.502; P<0.001). After desmopressin treatment was withdrawn, diuresis returned to the levels before treatment. The time from falling asleep to first awakening was improved by 1.4 h in patients treated with desmopressin. There was no change in body weight or ankle circumference during desmopressin treatment. Overall, the treatment was well tolerated and no serious adverse events were observed.
Desmopressin was effective in reducing nocturnal diuresis and nocturnal voids in polyuric elderly subjects, with no significant adverse events or inconvenience to the patient. The length of uninterrupted sleep was also improved.
The aim was to elucidate the personality traits of patients with treated Wilsons disease (WD) in comparison to healthy volunteers.
Twenty-five WD patients, ten females and 15 males, with a mean age of 35.2 +/- 8.3 years completed the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP), a self-report inventory comprising 15 separate scales. The results were compared to a control series comprising 200 men and 200 women drawn from the general population.
The patients with treated WD scored significantly lower than the healthy controls on aggressivity-hostility-related scales and the scale measuring Psychic Anxiety. Patients with predominantly hepatic symptoms had the lowest aggressivity-related scores and patients with predominantly neurological symptoms had the lowest Irritability, Guilt and Detachment scores and the highest Impulsiveness and Muscular Tension scores. Both groups scored low on the Somatic Anxiety scale.
The present results illustrate that patients with treated WD have significant deviations in personality traits, especially in aggressivity-hostility-related scales and Psychic Anxiety, compared to healthy controls when investigated by means of a self-report inventory, the KSP. The deviations were not related to age, age at onset or duration of the disease.
DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) can lead to the development of genomic rearrangements, which are hallmarks of cancer. Fusions between TMPRSS2, encoding the transmembrane serine protease isoform 2, and ERG, encoding the v-ets erythroblastosis virus E26 oncogene homolog, are among the most common oncogenic rearrangements observed in human cancer. We show that androgen signaling promotes co-recruitment of androgen receptor and topoisomerase II beta (TOP2B) to sites of TMPRSS2-ERG genomic breakpoints, triggering recombinogenic TOP2B-mediated DSBs. Furthermore, androgen stimulation resulted in de novo production of TMPRSS2-ERG fusion transcripts in a process that required TOP2B and components of the DSB repair machinery. Finally, unlike normal prostate epithelium, prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia cells showed strong coexpression of androgen receptor and TOP2B. These findings implicate androgen-induced TOP2B-mediated DSBs in generating TMPRSS2-ERG rearrangements.
Soft-tissue sarcomas, which result in approximately 10,700 diagnoses and 3,800 deaths per year in the United States, show remarkable histologic diversity, with more than 50 recognized subtypes. However, knowledge of their genomic alterations is limited. We describe an integrative analysis of DNA sequence, copy number and mRNA expression in 207 samples encompassing seven major subtypes. Frequently mutated genes included TP53 (17% of pleomorphic liposarcomas), NF1 (10.5% of myxofibrosarcomas and 8% of pleomorphic liposarcomas) and PIK3CA (18% of myxoid/round-cell liposarcomas, or MRCs). PIK3CA mutations in MRCs were associated with Akt activation and poor clinical outcomes. In myxofibrosarcomas and pleomorphic liposarcomas, we found both point mutations and genomic deletions affecting the tumor suppressor NF1. Finally, we found that short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-based knockdown of several genes amplified in dedifferentiated liposarcoma, including CDK4 and YEATS4, decreased cell proliferation. Our study yields a detailed map of molecular alterations across diverse sarcoma subtypes and suggests potential subtype-specific targets for therapy.
Case report.
To examine the unusual and unknown, severe side effect of a therapeutic dose of oral Baclofen on cardiac function.
Spinal Cord Unit, Rehabilitation Centre Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
Review of relevant literature.
A 53-year-old patient with an incomplete C2 tetrapareses (ASIA B) developed severe and painful muscle spasms together with respiratory failure and autonomic dysreflexia. Spasmolytic treatment was started. After the first admission of 5 mg of oral Baclofen, he collapsed in bed with extreme bradycardia, hypotension, hyperventilation and decreased oxygen saturation. A second dosage of 5 mg Baclofen resulted in the same complications. After implantation of a pacemaker, restarting oral Baclofen induced a pacemaker rhythm with episode of hypotension and respiratory failure and also a delirium. Intrathecal Baclofen also resulted in a pacemaker rhythm with hypotension and a decreased cardiac output. To our knowledge, this is the first time a severe heart conduction problem was induced in a spinal cord injury patient after a single therapeutic dose of Baclofen.
In this case therapeutic oral Baclofen has caused serious cardiac conduction problems.
One of the major effects of cigarette smoking during pregnancy is bearing a child with lower birth weight. It has previously been demonstrated under experimental conditions in rats that exposure to reference cigarette smoke results in reduced birth weight (E. L. Carmines et al., 2003, Toxicol. Sci. 75, 134-147; C. L. Gaworski et al., 2004, Toxicol. Sci. 79, 157-169). The role of various smoke constituents on lower birth weight was evaluated by exposing time-pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats at the concentrations found in cigarette smoke. The rats were exposed for 2 h/day 7 days/week by nose-only inhalation. The target concentrations were designed to produce the same plasma levels of biomarkers as exposure to 2R4F reference cigarette smoke at a concentration of 600 mg/m(3) total particulate matter. The smoke constituents evaluated included carbon monoxide (CO), nicotine, and a mixture of aldehydes (acrolein, acetaldehyde, and formaldehyde). The smoke constituents were tested individually as well as in mixtures to evaluate potential interactions. Exposure to cigarette smoke during gestation produced a reduction in both maternal body weight gain and fetal weights. Exposure to nicotine reduced maternal body weight gain but had no effect on fetal weight. Exposure to CO had no effect on maternal body weight gain but reduced fetal weight to a degree comparable to cigarette smoke. Exposure to a mixture of aldehydes (acrolein, acetaldehyde, and formaldehyde) had no effect on either maternal body weight gain or fetal weight. Exposure to mixtures of nicotine and CO or nicotine, CO, and aldehydes did not demonstrate any interactions. The results of this study suggest that the observed reduction in fetal weight after exposure to cigarette smoke in rats is due to CO toxicity and not nicotine toxicity.
