The relative intracoronary flow reserve has been found to be reduced during acute transplant rejection, but the effects of rejection on absolute flows at rest and during hyperemia have not been established previously. This has now become possible through noninvasive quantification of myocardial blood flow with positron emission tomography.
Myocardial blood flow (MBF) at rest and during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia was quantified in 10 transplant patients (group A) during an acute, biopsy-proven rejection episode and again after successful immunosuppressive treatment and in 6 transplant patients (group B) without prior rejection episode. In group A patients, MBF during rejection averaged 1.7 +/- 0.3 mL.min-1.g-1 at rest and 2.5 +/- 0.9 mL.min-1.g-1 during hyperemia; after recovery, MBF at rest had declined to 1.2 +/- 0.3 mL.-1.g-1 (P < .001) but had increased to 3.9 +/- 1.1 mL.-1.g-1 (P < .001) during hyperemia. Flows after recovery from rejection were similar to those in the group B patients (0.9 +/- 0.2 and 3.9 +/- 0.7 mL.min-1.g-1). Flow reserve in the group A patients was only 1.5 +/- 0.5 during rejection but improved to 3.4 +/- 0.9 at recovery (P < .001) and thus remained lower than in the control patients (4.5 +/- 0.7, P < .05). Minimal coronary resistance during dipyridamole vasodilation was elevated during rejection (40 +/- 11 mm Hg.mL-1.min-1.g-1); after recovery, it no longer differed from that in the group B patients (26 +/- 11 versus 22 +/- 4 mm Hg.mL-1.min-1.g-1). MBF during rejection was increased relative to cardiac work, as demonstrated by significantly higher ratios of blood flow to rate-pressure product than those at recovery and in the control patients.
A decrease in hyperemic and an increase in resting myocardial blood flow, in excess to cardiac work, account for the previously reported reduction in coronary flow reserve. Because both alterations improve with antirejection treatment, they may reflect reversible alterations, presumably of endothelial function, local coagulation, and edema. The compromise in flow reserve and hyperemic flows may contribute to acute and chronic injury from rejection and thus provides a rationale for exercise restriction during rejection. The results further suggest a potential role for serial noninvasive flow measurements to guide immunosuppressive therapy.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether atorvastatin inhibits epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) activation in cardiomyocytes in vitro and slows the progression of cardiac remodeling induced by pressure overload in mice. Either atorvastatin (5 mg/kg/day) or vehicle was orally administered to male C57BL/6J mice with transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Physiological parameters were obtained by echocardiography or left ventricular (LV) catheterization, and morphological and molecular parameters of the heart were also examined. Furthermore, cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were studied to clarify the underlying mechanisms. Four weeks after TAC, atorvastatin reduced the heart/body weight and lung/body weight ratios (8.69+/-0.38 to 6.45+/-0.31 mg/g (p<0.001) and 10.89+/-0.68 to 6.61+/-0.39 mg/g (p<0.01) in TAC mice with and without atorvastatin, respectively). Decrease of LV end-diastolic pressure and the time constant of relaxation, increased fractional shortening, downregulation of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM)12, ADAM17 and heparin-binding epidermal growth factor genes, and reduction of the activity of EGFR and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) were observed in the atorvastatin group. Phenylephrine-induced protein synthesis, phosphorylation of EGFR, and activation of ERK in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were all inhibited by atorvastatin. These findings indicated that atorvastatin ameliorates cardiac remodeling in mice with pressure overload, and its actions are associated with inhibition of the EGFR signaling pathway.
In order to investigate the significance of the histological change in glomerular epithelial cells in minimal change nephrotic syndrome in man (MCNS) and to help in clarifing the mechanism of action of a steroid in this disease, methylprednisolone was administered to rats with puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN). This is an experimental nephrosis having a close resemblance morphologically and physiologically, to human MCNS. Morphological changes in the glomerulus were observed ultrastructurally. The administration of the steroid to PAN rats showed remarkable changes including, rapid disappearance of proteinuria in PAN rats in a manner similer to that seen in human MCNS, and significantly faster recovery of changes in glomerular epithelial cells when compared with spontaneous recovery. From the present study, it is clear that the steroid is effective in rapidly restoring the normal shape of glomerular epithelial cells in PAN rats. The filtration barrier in the glomerular capillary wall (GCW) is also thought to have recovered and proteinuria is cured. Based on these considerations, it may be suggested that proteinuria in human MCNS is caused by changes in glomerular epithelial cells, and that the clinical treatment of proteinuria in MCNS is effective when glomerular epithelial cells have functionally recovered.
The effects of drugs on the convulsions induced by the combination of a new quinolone antimicrobial, enoxacin, and a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, fenbufen, were studied in mice. The combination of enoxacin at 30 or 100 mg/kg, p.o. and fenbufen at 100 mg/kg, p.o. induced convulsions; and the mice died as a result of the convulsions. Pretreatment with either phenobarbital, phenytoin, valproic acid intraperitoneally, or morphine intravenously did not influence the convulsions. A high dose of diazepam or clonazepam prolonged the survival time, but could not prevent the mice from dying. After the occurrence of convulsions induced by enoxacin with fenbufen, administration of the excitatory amino acid antagonist MK-801 at 1 mg/kg, i.v. extended the survival time, even though all the mice died as a result of the convulsions. Simultaneous intravenous injections of MK-801 and diazepam suppressed the convulsions. This suppression was stronger than that produced by MK-801 or diazepam, injected separately. However, no mouse survived at the end. From these results, participation of both GABA-ergic and excitatory amino acidergic systems in the convulsions induced by enoxacin and fenbufen was discussed.
Insufficient knowledge on the longitudinal fate of renal function in lithium patients incited this retrospective study of 149 patients.
Medical record review of a lithium cohort (N = 149), 8--12 years after an initial renal function study.
Twenty-one patients had died, one from uremia probably not caused by lithium, and 42 had discontinued lithium. Reduced urinary concentrating capacity (Umax) or glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was not more frequent among deceased or off-lithium patients than among the 86 patients who were on lithium at follow-up. In 63 of the latter patients, Umax had been re-examined after the initial study, and GFR in 29 patients. Reduced Umax and GFR had become twice as common, and average Umax and GFR had decreased significantly. The reduction of GFR was associated with lithium treatment duration and age, and reduced Umax with treatment duration only.
Reduced renal function is not a major cause of treatment discontinuation but becomes increasingly common with treatment duration.Limitations. Missing data rendered the interpretation difficult in some respects. Clinical relevance. The increased proportion of patients with reduced GFR and Umax with time implies an increased risk of potentially lethal dehydration and lithium intoxication. Continued surveillance of urinary output and GFR is therefore necessary.
Thalidomide-induced embryopathy has been known for four decades, however, the drug has been reintroduced for human use in a number of countries, including the United States. In utero thalidomide exposure in humans is associated with central nervous system (CNS) effects in addition to the well-known limb, ear and other malformations. Despite knowledge of these CNS effects, not a single experimental study could be found that examined thalidomide for possible developmental neurobehavioral effects. In the present experiment, gravid Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with either thalidomide (100 mg/kg by gavage) or vehicle (propylene glycol) on embryonic days E7-18 and allowed to deliver and raise their own offspring. The offspring were evaluated in a series of neurobehavioral tests (reflexes, locomotor activity, startle reactivity and learning in the Morris and Cincinnati water mazes). There was a small reduction in maternal weight among thalidomide-treated dams during midgestation. Thalidomide offspring showed increased preweaning mortality and male-specific, late onset reduction in growth that persisted until the end of the study. Male thalidomide offspring showed significant increases in errors and latency in the multiple-T Cincinnati water maze. Although rats are refractory to thalidomide-induced teratogenesis, the present results suggest that thalidomide selectively impairs offspring survival and growth and at least one type of learning among male offspring.
Vincristine, adriamycin, and dexamethasone (VAD) chemotherapy protocol is first-choice treatment in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients in many centers. Sudden hearing loss associated with vincristine therapy is a rarely observed event in the VAD protocol. We describe a 69-year old male patient diagnosed with multiple myeloma 7 months ago who developed sudden bilateral hearing loss related to vincristine therapy. This uncommon adverse effect of vincristine is discussed and the literature reviewed.
To evaluate lung development at the level of gene expression, a comparison was made between normal and hypoplastic murine fetal lungs by using the mRNA differential display technique. We focused on altered gene expressions at gestational day (Gd) 19 in normal and hypoplastic murine lungs. Hypoplastic fetal lungs were created by gavaging pregnant mice at Gd8 with 25 mg of nitrofen (2,4-dichlorophenyl-p-nitrophenyl ether) [1]. Normal as well as gavaged mice were euthanized by an overdose of halothane at Gd19, and fetuses were removed by laparotomy. Lungs were excised and total RNA was extracted from normal and hypoplastic fetal lungs. Differential display technique was carried out using the RNAimage kit (GenHunter Corp., TN). Each reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed using one specific anchor primer H-T11M (5'HindIII-T11A/C/G3') and one arbitrary primer. We have used a total of 3 different anchor primers and 24 arbitrary primers for each sample. There were 20 differentially expressed cDNA clones, either induced, inhibited, enhanced, or reduced in hypoplastic fetal lungs as compared to normal. Of these, one clone (NL2) with reduced expression in Gd19 hypoplastic lungs had 100% homology with mouse nucleosome assembly protein I gene. Another clone (NT5) with induced expression in hypoplastic lungs is an unknown gene. Further, analyses of Northern blots of lungs from various gestational ages showed that the expression of NT5 was induced in hypoplastic lungs at Gd18, whereas in normal lungs it was first expressed at the neonatal stage and was increasingly expressed into adulthood. There is a single hybridized band, approximately 400 bp long for NT5 message. Dexamethasone induced expression of NT5 in normal Gd14 pseudoglandular lungs cultured for 7 days; however, different growth factors did not. Northern blot hybridization of multiple adult mice tissues showed NT5 expression in the lung, intestine, and spleen. The thyromimetic action of nitrofen and the interactive functional pathways of dexamethasone with T3 are known. Therefore, we suggest that the isolation and characterization of NT5 may provide valuable information on the regulation of lung development.
In the present study, we analyzed the function of a novel mutation (c.1628T>G, p.Leu543Trp) in the solute carrier organic anion transporter (SLCO) 1B1 gene, encoding organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) 1B1, which was identified in a patient with pravastatin-induced myopathy. OATP1B1 variants carrying the mutation (OATP1B1*1a+c.1628T>G or *1b+c.1628T>G) showed a reduced transporting activity toward typical substrates and pravastatin compared with the activity of the references (OATP1B1*1a or *1b). This was due to reduction in V(max) values of the variants, not due to change in their K(m) values. OATP1B1*1b+c.1628T>G was normally expressed on the plasma membrane of HEK293 cells at the same level as that of OATP1B1*1b. Taken together, our results suggest that the mutation c.1628T>G (p.Leu543Trp) reduced the function of OATP1B1 probably due to decrease in turnover rate of one OATP1B1 molecule rather than impairment of protein sorting to the plasma membrane.
We describe a rare case of chloroquine cardiomyopathy occurring during long term (7 years) treatment for rheumatoid polyarthritis in a 42 year old woman. There was an isolated acute severe conduction defect, which is particularly rare. Histological study with the electron microscope allowed confirmation of this diagnosis. We report here the secondary cardiological effects of this frequently used synthetic antimalarial.
Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid is a widely used antibiotic. Hepatic dysfunction is a rare adverse reaction associated with this combination antibiotic. We report the case of a 40-yr-old woman with a somewhat unusual presentation of amoxicillin/clavulanate-related cholestatic hepatotoxicity and multiple duodenal erosions whose diagnosis was delayed until inadvertent rechallenge with the antibiotic combination. The relevant literature is also reviewed and discussed. The diagnosis may be missed because the onset of signs/symptoms may occur several weeks after the cessation of therapy. The hepatic dysfunction, which may be severe and is more prevalent in elderly patients, is usually reversible, although chronic liver disease and deaths have been reported. Immunological hypersensitivity is considered to be the most likely mechanism resulting in liver injury. Amoxicillin/clavulanate should be used with caution in patients with underlying liver disease and in the elderly.
At present nitrates remain the initial treatment for relief or prevention of angina in patients with coronary artery disease. In cases where nitrates and beta blockers have been used and are ineffective for managing effort angina, calcium antagonists may be substituted or added to the beta-blocking treatment. When the predominant symptom is rest angina, and there is evidence suggesting coronary artery spasm, nitrates and a calcium antagonist can be effective therapy. In patients with heart block, bradyarrhythmias, heart failure, or hypertension nifedipine may be the drug of choice. In contrast verapamil merits choice when supraventricular tachycardia is present. Diltiazem appears intermediate between nifedipine and verapamil and may be particularly useful when hypotension or other side effects must be avoided.
Binding of atrial and brain natriuretic peptides to guanylyl cyclase-A/natriuretic peptide receptor-A produces second messenger cGMP, which plays an important role in maintaining renal and cardiovascular homeostasis. Mice carrying a targeted disruption of the Npr1 gene coding for guanylyl cyclase-A/natriuretic peptide receptor-A exhibit changes that are similar to those that occur in untreated human hypertension, including elevated blood pressure, cardiac hypertrophy, and congestive heart failure. The objective of this study was to determine whether disruption of the Npr1 gene in mice provokes kidney fibrosis, remodeling, and derangement. We found that systemic disruption of the Npr1 gene causes increased renal tubular damage characterized by dilation, flattening of epithelium, and expansion of interstitial spaces in Npr1(-/-) (0-copy) mice. Significant increases occurred in the expression levels of TNF-α (4-fold), IL-6 (4.5-fold), and TGF-β1 (2-fold) in 0-copy null mutant mice compared with 2-copy wild-type mice. An increased epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition indicated by increased expression of α-smooth muscle actin, was observed in Npr1(-/-) mouse kidneys. Treatment with captopril and losartan showed a 38 and 46% attenuation in fibrosis and 30 and 42% reduction in α-smooth muscle actin immunoexpression, respectively, in 1-copy and 0-copy mice compared with 2-copy mice. Although bendroflumethiazide treatment did not show any effect. The present results demonstrate that the disruption of Npr1 gene activates proinflammatory cytokines leading to fibrosis, hypertrophic growth, and remodeling of the kidneys of mutant mice.
This study tests the hypothesis that Cu and Se deficiencies enhance doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity and anemia. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 48) were fed Cu and Se-adequate (+Cu+Se), Cu-deficient (-Cu), Se-deficient (-Se) or Cu and Se-deficient (-Cu-Se) diets for 5.5 wk. Doxorubicin (4 mg/kg body wt) or saline was administered once weekly for the last 4 wk of the study. Copper deficiency was confirmed by 79% lower liver Cu, 67% lower liver Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn SOD) activity and 76% lower erythrocyte Cu,Zn SOD activity. Selenium deficiency was confirmed by 90% lower liver glutathione peroxidase activity. Rats fed the -Cu diet had greater reductions in hematocrit than did those fed the +Cu diet after administration of doxorubicin. Doxorubicin, Cu deficiency and Se deficiency all produced electrocardiographic abnormalities and ultrastructural anatomical lesions. However, the dietary deficiencies did not enhance doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. Doxorubicin, but not Cu or Se deficiency, raised lipid peroxidation 16% in liver (P < 0.01) and 18% in heart (not significant). These data suggest that the cardiomyopathies caused by doxorubicin and Cu and Se deficiencies have some similarities, but cardiac changes may be related to mechanisms other than lipid peroxidation.
Orally administered, neomycin is reported to cause ototoxicity rarely. Most reports on hearing loss due to oral neomycin have been case studies. One prospective study of a pediatric sample demonstrated a significant loss of hearing in the frequency range of 2 to 8 kHz in 9 of 17 children. To our knowledge there are no published prospective studies on this type with adult samples and therefore little is known of the true incidence or nature of ototoxicity from oral neomycin. This prospective study presents the results of long-term use of oral neomycin in 30 adult subjects. Hearing sensitivity was serially monitored in the frequency range 250-20,000 Hz. Two of the 30 subjects subsequently revealed ototoxicity. Thus the results of this investigation suggest that clinical use of oral neomycin implies relatively little risk of ototoxicity.
Use of fluoroquinolones to treat paediatric cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis could affect the emergence of resistance to this class of drugs. Our aim was to estimate the incidence of, and risk factors for, invasive pneumococcal disease caused by fluoroquinolone-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae in children in South Africa.
21,521 cases of invasive pneumococcal disease were identified by active national surveillance between 2000 and 2006, with enhanced surveillance at 15 sentinel hospitals in seven provinces introduced in 2003. We screened 19,404 isolates (90% of cases) for ofloxacin resistance and measured levofloxacin minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) for all isolates that were ofloxacin resistant. Non-susceptibility to levofloxacin was defined as an MIC of 4 mg/L or more. Nasopharyngeal pneumococcal carriage was assessed in 65 children in two tuberculosis hospitals where invasive pneumococcal disease caused by levofloxacin-non-susceptible S pneumoniae had been detected.
12 cases of invasive pneumococcal disease were identified as being non-susceptible to levofloxacin, all in children aged under 15 years. All isolates were rifampicin resistant. Outcome was known for 11 of these patients; five (45%) died. Invasive disease caused by levofloxacin-non-susceptible S pneumoniae was associated with a history of tuberculosis treatment (eight [89%] of nine children with non-susceptible isolates had a history of treatment vs 396 [18%] of 2202 children with susceptible isolates; relative risk [RR] 35.78, 95% CI 4.49-285.30) and nosocomial invasive pneumococcal disease (eight [80%] of ten children with non-susceptible isolates had acquired infection nosocomially vs 109 [4%] of 2709 with susceptible isolates; RR 88.96, 19.10-414.29). 31 (89%) of 35 pneumococcal carriers had bacteria that were non-susceptible to levofloxacin.
Our data suggest that the use of fluoroquinolones to treat multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in children has led to the emergence of invasive pneumococcal disease caused by levofloxacin-non-susceptible S pneumoniae and its nosocomial spread.
Chronic renal hypoxia is suspected to play a pathogenic role in the genesis of diabetic nephropathy (DN). Cobalt enhances the activity of the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF), a key factor in the defence against hypoxia. Its long-term effect on DN is evaluated.
Cobalt chloride was given to hypertensive, type 2 diabetic rats with nephropathy (SHR/NDmcr-cp). Treatment was initiated at the age of 13 weeks and continued for 26 weeks.
Cobalt did not correct hypertension and metabolic abnormalities (obesity, hyperglycaemia and hyperlipidaemia) but reduced proteinuria as well as histological kidney injury. Cobalt upregulated renal HIF-1alpha and HIF-2alpha expression and increased the expression of HIF-regulated genes, including erythropoietin, vascular endothelial growth factor and heme oxygenase-1. The renal expression of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) was significantly reduced by cobalt. The renal expression of NADPH oxidase, a marker of oxidative stress, and the renal content of pentosidine, a marker of advanced glycation, were also significantly reduced by cobalt.
Cobalt achieved renal protection independently of metabolic status and blood pressure. Its effect was attributed to the upregulation of HIF and HIF-regulated genes and to a mitigated advanced glycation and oxidative stress.
Approximately 10 percent of infants with intrauterine growth retardation remain small, and the causes of their growth deficits are often unclear. We postulated that mutations in the gene for the insulin-like growth factor I receptor (IGF-IR) might underlie some cases of prenatal and postnatal growth failure.
We screened two groups of children for abnormalities in the IGF-IR gene. In one group of 42 patients with unexplained intrauterine growth retardation and subsequent short stature, we used single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis, followed by direct DNA sequencing of any abnormalities found. A second cohort consisted of 50 children with short stature who had elevated circulating IGF-I concentrations. Complete sequencing of the IGF-IR gene was performed with DNA from nine children. We also studied a control group of 43 children with normal birth weights.
In the first cohort, we identified one girl who was a compound heterozygote for point mutations in exon 2 of the IGF-IR gene that altered the amino acid sequence to Arg108Gln in one allele and Lys115Asn in the other. Fibroblasts cultured from the patient had decreased IGF-I-receptor function, as compared with that in control fibroblasts. No such mutations were found in the 43 controls. In the second group, we identified one boy with a nonsense mutation (Arg59stop) that reduced the number of IGF-I receptors on fibroblasts. Both children had intrauterine growth retardation and poor postnatal growth.
Mutations in the IGF-IR gene that lead to abnormalities in the function or number of IGF-I receptors may also retard intrauterine and subsequent growth in humans.
Three patients with normal renal function developed ototoxicity during vancomycin therapy. This is an uncommon occurrence and the literature is reviewed. Assumptions on "safe' levels of vancomycin are questioned.
Immunochemical studies of the enzyme defect in the first reported child with acute hepatic porphyria due to homozygous delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase deficiency are described. This enzyme activity was markedly decreased (approximately 2% of the normal control level) in the proband, a 3-year-old boy, and intermediately decreased (23% to 57%) in both parents, in both grandfathers, and in a sister, but it was normal in two siblings and in both grandmothers. In contrast to the profound decrease in delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase activity, the immunoreactive enzyme protein in the child's erythrocytes was decreased to only 28% of the normal control level, suggesting the presence of positive cross-reactive material. In other family members with abnormally decreased delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase activity, and in the proband immediately after transfusion of normal RBCs, the positive cross-reactive material was not detectable. The immunochemical and enzyme activity data support the idea that delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase deficiency in this porphyric child is associated with the production of a catalytically abnormal enzyme protein.
The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that polymorphisms in the promoter region of the glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLC) gene may be associated with coronary endothelial vasomotor dysfunction and myocardial infarction (MI).
Glutamate-cysteine ligase is a rate-limiting enzyme for synthesis of glutathione (GSH) that plays a crucial role in the intracellular antioxidant defense systems. Oxidants transcriptionally upregulate the GCLC gene for GSH synthesis, providing a protective mechanism against oxidant-induced endothelial dysfunction or activation, which plays a pathogenetic role in cardiovascular diseases.
The association of the possible polymorphisms with coronary arterial diameter responses to acetylcholine was determined in 62 male subjects. The frequency of polymorphisms was compared between 255 male patients with MI and 179 male control subjects.
We found a polymorphism (-129C/T) in which the T allele showed lower promoter activity (50% to 60% of the activity of the C allele) in response to H(2)O(2) in human endothelial cells. Endothelium-dependent dilation of coronary arteries was impaired in subjects with the -129T allele (n = 31), as compared with the age-matched subjects without the -129T allele (n = 31). The T allele was highly frequent in patients with MI as compared with control subjects, and it was a significant risk factor for MI, independent of traditional coronary risk factors (odds ratio [OR] 1.81, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.08 to 3.03; p = 0.03).
The -129T polymorphism of the GCLC gene may suppress the GCLC gene induction response to an oxidant, and it is implicated in coronary endothelial vasomotor dysfunction and MI.
In a reference-controlled double-blind trial in patients with acute pharyngitis the effects of a newly developed lozenge containing 8 mg of benzocaine (p-aminobenzoic acid ethyl ester, CAS 94-09-7) were compared with those of an identically dosed commercial pastille. 246 patients were randomized to receive either the lozenges (group A, n = 123) or the pastilles (group B, n = 123). Each patient took a total of six doses within 12 h according to the double-dummy principle, with each single dose spaced by 2 h. The primary parameter was the assessment of the responder rate with = 50 % pain relief within 15 min post application. Further parameters included the relative relief of pain in the course of the study and the tolerability of the formulation. After application of the first unit the comparison of groups yielded very similar and statistically not differing results for efficacy in both groups, with responder rates of 25.2 % and 22.0 % in groups A and B, respectively. One adverse drug reaction was observed in group B (burning and tingling feeling on the tongue), which, however, did not lead to discontinuation of study participation. In all other cases tolerability was stated to be "good to very good". The application of the benzocaine lozenges was statistically non-inferior to the use of the pastilles.
Renal failure occurred in a 14-year-old girl with peripheral arthritis associated with inflammatory bowel disease while she was being treated with naproxen. She had previously received aspirin and tolmetin sodium and had no complications. A renal biopsy showed a severe tubulointerstitial nephritis. Although her renal function improved somewhat with corticosteroid treatment, it worsened when the steroids were discontinued. This case emphasizes that renal failure can develop insidiously in children on nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug therapy and that such children must be monitored closely for signs of nephrotoxicity.
We undertook a study to identify the vestibular and hearing abnormalities associated with phenytoin toxicity. Since October 1977, 23 patients with phenytoin toxicity have been referred to the Department of Otorhinolaryngology by the Department of Neurology for electrooculographic (EOG) evaluation. (There have been no cases of serious phenytoin toxicity seen in our department since August 1989.) In addition to EOG, all patients had undergone otoscopic, audiometric, and neurologic examinations. We found that the most common pathologic findings detected by EOG were abnormalities in pursuit tracking. The most common signs found on clinical exploration were cerebellar dysfunction and facial palsy. EOG findings in patients with phenytoin toxicity are compatible with cerebellar disease.
Leishmaniasis is a chronic infectious disease from the group of anthropozoonoses. It is caused by protozoa in the genus leishmania flagellate. There are five major foci of this disease in the world: India, Mediterranean countries, East Africa, South China and South America. Endemic regions in the Balkans are as follows: Montenegro, Macedonia, Herzegovina and the Morava's valley (1,2). Reservoirs of infection are infected humans and animals (dogs and rodents). Infection is transmitted by insects the most significant representative of which is a sandfly. The course of the disease may be acute, subacute and chronic and several forms are differentiated such as visceral, cutaneous and mucocutaneous. Signs of disease are elevated temperature, gastrointestinal disorders, splenomegaly and hepatomegaly and rarely generalized lymphadenomegaly. Laboratory findings point to pancytopenia. The diagnosis is established on the basis of parasitological findings in macrophages of the bone marrow and is confirmed by serologic tests (4,5). However, mortality is decreased to 5% after the application of 5-valent antimony and amphotericin B (6,7).
A female patient aged 19 year from Novi Sad was admitted at the Clinic of Hematology due to unclear febrile state lasting 3 months accompanied by pancytopenia and enlarged spleen. The first discomforts were experienced in the second half of August in 1997 upon the patient's return from Sutomore. The disease started gradually with uncharacteristic manifestations. Firstly, discomforts developed in the region of the gastrointestinal tract and were characterized by loss of appetite, nausea, and vomiting in addition to drastic weight loss. Secondly, fatigue occurred during effort, later on at rest as well, accompanied by increased body temperature. Temperature increased twice a day and was followed by shuddering, fever, shivering and very often by nocturnal sweating. Antibiotics and antipyretics were used, but without fall of temperature. Subjective discomforts were increasingly pronounced, so that due to unclear febrile state and in addition to the present pancytopenia the patient was referred to hospital treatment and was therefore admitted at the Clinic of Hematology. Febrile state, tachycardia, a striking paleness of the skin and visible mucosa as well as splenomegaly were confirmed. Basic laboratory findings (Table 1) pointed to pancytopenia. Apart from anemia and mild thrombocytopenia, leukopenia with neutropenia, lymphocytosis and monocytosis were pronounced. Sternal puncture was the most significant diagnostic procedure on the basis of which the diagnosis was established. In hypocellular bone marrow in macrophages, both intra- and extracellular, protozoa were found in smaller and greater groups which resembled leishmaniasis (Figure 1). The diagnosis was confirmed by serologic tests to leishmaniasis, antibody titre was > 1:32. In order to exclude other infections and hematologic diseases, other diagnostic tests were performed (Table 1) and the findings were normal. After the establishment of diagnosis the patient was transferred to the Clinic of Infectious Diseases where the causal therapy with 5-valent antimony was introduced, parenterally. As early as the first week of therapy, the patient was afebrile, subjective discomforts disappeared, she regained appetite and put on weight. Also, the decrease of the spleen was observed as well as improvement in hematological findings.
This paper predominantly deals with hematological findings which are characteristic for leishmaniasis on the basis of which the diagnosis of this disease has been quickly established (1,2). Hematological findings were the key of diagnosis being confirmed by serologic and other tests. The disease is very rare in this region, so that there is a difficulty in recognizing it. In our case, the diagnosis was made on the basis of sternal puncture survey, because protozoa were found in hy
The effects of moderate intensity cycling exercise on the soleus H-reflex and state anxiety were examined among 16 individuals whose anxiety was experimentally manipulated by consumption of a large dose of caffeine. The soleus H-reflex and state anxiety were measured before and 1 h after consuming caffeine or placebo and then again 10 min after 30 min of either cycling at an intensity of 60% VO(2peak) or quiet rest. We found that (1) caffeine consumption did not influence the amplitude of the soleus H-reflex, but it did increase state anxiety; (2) acute exercise reduced the soleus H-reflex after consumption of either caffeine or placebo, but it reduced state anxiety only after consumption of caffeine; and (3) there was no evidence of a relationship between changes in the soleus H-reflex and state anxiety. Exercise-induced anxiolysis does not appear to underlie the postexercise reduction of the soleus H-reflex.
We report on a young adolescent with benign intracranial hypertension which we attribute to the use of minocycline for acne.
