Inflammation is a major component of idiosyncratic adverse drug reactions (IADRs). To understand the molecular mechanism of inflammation-mediated IADRs, we determined the role of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway in idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity of the anti-psychotic drug, chlorpromazine (CPZ). Activation of TLRs recruits the first adaptor protein, Toll-interleukin 1 receptor domain containing adaptor protein (TIRAP) to the TIR domain of TLRs leading to the activation of the downstream kinase, c-Jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK). Prolonged activation of JNK leads to cell-death. We hypothesized that activation of TLR2 by lipoteichoic acid (LTA) or TLR4 by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) will augment the hepatotoxicity of CPZ by TIRAP-dependent mechanism involving prolonged activation of JNK. Adult male C57BL/6, TIRAP(+/+) and TIRAP(-/-) mice were pretreated with saline, LPS (2 mg/kg) or LTA (6 mg/kg) for 30 min or 16 h followed by CPZ (5 mg/kg) or saline (vehicle) up to 24h. We found that treatment of mice with CPZ in presence of LPS or LTA leads to ~3-4 fold increase in serum ALT levels, a marked reduction in hepatic glycogen content, significant induction of serum tumor necrosis factor (TNF) α and prolonged JNK activation, compared to LPS or LTA alone. Similar results were observed in TIRAP(+/+) mice, whereas the effects of LPS or LTA on CPZ-induced hepatotoxicity were attenuated in TIRAP(-/-) mice. For the first time, we show that inflammation-mediated hepatotoxicity of CPZ is dependent on TIRAP, and involves prolonged JNK activation in vivo. Thus, TIRAP-dependent pathways may be targeted to predict and prevent inflammation-mediated IADRs.
To investigate changes in axonal persistent Na(+) currents in patients with neuropathic pain and the effects of mexiletine, an analogue of lidocaine, on axonal excitability properties.
The technique of latent addition was used to estimate nodal persistent Na(+) currents in superficial radial sensory axons of 17 patients with neuropathic pain/paresthesias before and after mexiletine treatment. Brief hyperpolarizing conditioning currents were delivered, and threshold change at the conditioning-test interval of 0.2 ms was measured as an indicator of the magnitude of persistent Na(+) currents.
Threshold changes at 0.2 ms in latent addition were greater in the neuropathic patients than in the normal controls (p<0.001). After mexiletine treatment, there was a reduction in clinical pain scores (p<0.001), associated with decreased threshold changes at 0.2 ms (p<0.001).
In patients with neuropathy, nodal persistent Na(+) currents in large sensory fibers increase, and the abnormal currents can be suppressed by mexiletine. Pain reduction after mexiletine treatment raises the possibility that excessive Na(+) currents are also suppressed in small fibers mediating neuropathic pain.
Latent addition can be used for indirect in vivo monitoring of nodal Na(+) currents in large sensory fibers, and future studies using this approach in small fibers would provide new insights into the peripheral mechanism of neuropathic pain.
A 77-year-old female with new onset atrial fibrillation occurring in the absence of structural heart disease developed torsade de pointes during therapy with quinidine bisulfate 500 mg orally every 8 hours. Ten days after quinidine therapy had been discontinued she developed torsade de pointes while receiving propafenone 300 mg orally every 8 hours. This case demonstrates that propafenone may be associated with torsade de pointes and suggests a cross-reactivity between this effect and prior occurrence of torsade de pointes on Class IA antiarrhythmic drug therapy.
Ciprofloxacin, one of the fluoroquinolone antibiotics, has become one of the most widely prescribed antimicrobial agents. It is generally well tolerated with a low incidence of side effects, which are mild in nature. There is a distinct incidence of neuropsychiatric adverse effects, which include psychotic reactions. We describe a case of a woman who experienced an acute psychosis secondary to ciprofloxacin administration, which resolved on cessation of therapy. All urologists should be aware of this problem and be familiar with the recommendations for ciprofloxacin use in patients with underlying neuropsychiatric problems.
Soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) is a cytosolic enzyme whose inhibition has beneficial effects in cardiovascular, inflammatory, and metabolic diseases in murine models. Mice with targeted deletion or pharmacological inhibition of sEH exhibit improved insulin signaling in liver and adipose tissue. Herein, we assessed the role of sEH in regulating endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in liver and adipose tissue. We report that sEH expression was increased in the livers and adipose tissue of mice fed a high fat diet, the adipose tissue of overweight humans, and palmitate-treated cells. Importantly, sEH deficiency or inhibition in mice attenuated chronic high fat diet-induced ER stress in liver and adipose tissue. Similarly, pharmacological inhibition of sEH in HepG2 cells and 3T3-L1 adipocytes mitigated chemical-induced ER stress and activation of JNK, p38, and cell death. In addition, insulin signaling was enhanced in HepG2 cells treated with sEH substrates and attenuated in cells treated with sEH products. In summary, these findings demonstrate that sEH is a physiological modulator of ER stress and a potential target for mitigating complications associated with obesity.
Secondhand smoke (SHS) impairs cardiac function and resveratrol is cardioprotective, possibly via antioxidant and anti-inflammatory capabilities. Previously, it was shown that resveratrol protects against SHS-induced cardiac dysfunction, but the molecular mechanism is not clear.
We measured cardiac function in pigs exposed to SHS alone in a first experiment or with and without resveratrol (5 mg/kg/day) in a second experiment using echocardiography and compared this with proteomic changes.
In the first experiment after 28 days, end-diastolic volume, end-systolic volume, and stroke volume were all impaired in SHS pigs compared with control pigs, with cardiac output significantly depressed as early as 14 days. Depressed function corresponded to increased inflammation, oxidative stress, and matrix metalloproteinase-2, but decreased intact myosin light chain 1 in SHS compared with control pigs at 28 days. In our second study after 14 days, two-dimensional electrophoresis detected 6 significantly increased protein spots in SHS compared with control pigs. Mass spectrometry identified 4 spots as fragments of sarcomeric protein (1 myosin light chain 1, 1 β-myosin heavy chain, and 2 myosin-7), and 2 spots as glucose metabolism enzymes (lactate and pyruvate dehydrogenases). Resveratrol normalized the fragmented protein levels, but not the metabolic enzymes. At 14 days, matrix metalloproteinase-2 activity almost doubled in cardiac tissue from SHS compared with control pigs, and resveratrol appeared to normalize it.
Thus, the ventricular differences in protein expression might explain the mechanism by which SHS reduces critical hemodynamic parameters through the degradation of sarcomeres, appearing to be prevented by resveratrol administration.
A case is reported of the hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) in a woman taking oral contraceptives. She was treated with heparin, dipyridamole and hemodialysis; and after more than three months, her urinary output rose above 500 ml; and six months after the onset of anuria, dialysis treatment was stopped. This case emphasizes the possibility that HUS in adults is not invariably irreversible and that, despite prolonged oliguria, recovery of renal function can be obtained. Therefore, in adult patients affected by HUS, dialysis should not be discontinued prematurely; moreover, bilateral nephrectomy, for treatment of severe hypertension and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, should be performed with caution.
Two case reports of ecstasy abuse and its serious neuropsychiatric complications are presented. The first patient developed a florid paranoid psychosis resembling schizophrenia after repeated long-term recreational ecstasy abuse, and significant alterations with intermittent paroxysmal discharges were found in his electroencephalogram. The second patient showed an atypical paranoid psychosis with Fregoli syndrome and a series of complex-partial epileptic seizures with secondary generalization after a first single ecstasy dose. Both subjects presented considerable vulnerability; the first a minimal brain dysfunction after perinatal asphyxia and a persisting attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, the second a long-lasting opioid addiction. In vulnerable individuals, dose-independent ecstasy abuse can lead to unpredictable and potentially dangerous neuropsychiatric sequelae which require proper initial assessment and adequate treatment.
Evaluate the incidence of mental disorders using pegylated interferon plus ribavirin retreatment in nonresponder hepatitis C virus-infected patients.
The Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) was used to evaluate 30 hepatitis C virus-infected interferon-nonresponder patients at baseline and following 4, 12 and 24 weeks of pegylated interferon retreatment.
During the pegylated interferon/ribavirin retreatment, 5(16.6%) patients developed psychiatric side effects: 3(10%) were diagnosed with major depressive disorder, 1(3.3%) had a brief psychotic disorder and 1(3.3%) presented with panic attacks.
This is the first prospective study evaluating the incidence of neuropsychiatric side effects during interferon retreatment of hepatitis C virus-infected patients, suggesting that the risk of acquiring serious psychiatric symptoms during retreatment with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) may not be higher than during the first antiviral therapy. This finding challenges the hypothesis that during a second treatment with IFN-alpha, patients with hepatitis C may be at greater risk for neuropsychiatric side effects than naïve patients.
We report the case of a patient on antipsychotic medication, who developed an abnormal QTc interval, which normalized following treatment with oral magnesium sulphate.
Pharmacological studies were undertaken to clarify the profile of cis-2-(4-(4-(1,2-benzisothiazol-3-yl)-1-piperazinyl) butyl) hexahydro-1H-isoindole-1,3-(2H)-dione hydrochloride (SM-9018), a new neuroleptic drug. SM-9018 had very high binding affinities for both 5-hydroxytryptamine2 (5-HT2) and dopamine2 (D2) receptors, unlike many other neuroleptics. SM-9018 also strongly inhibited 5-HT2 receptor-mediated behavior such as tryptamine-induced clonic seizure and D2 receptor-mediated behavior such as methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity, apomorphine-induced stereotypy and climbing behavior. SM-9018 possessed only a weak cataleptogenic activity, which may be clinically related to extrapyramidal side effects, despite its potent D2 antagonistic activity. Moreover, SM-9018 induced weak central depressant effects such as inhibition of spontaneous locomotor activity and motor coordination, as compared with classical neuroleptics (haloperidol and chlorpromazine). These results suggest that SM-9018 is a new neuroleptic drug with both potent 5-HT2 and D2 antagonistic activities and with low cataleptogenic and central depressant activities.
A 5-year-old girl, with no underlying immune deficiency or haematologic disease, was treated with ceftriaxone for a urinary tract infection. After receiving ceftriaxone intramuscularly, massive haemolytic anaemia developed. Laboratory studies showed the presence of an antibody against ceftriaxone, and the findings reflected immune complex type haemolysis. High-dose corticosteroids appeared to be effective therapeutically.
Although cocaine is one of the leading causes of drug-related deaths, there is little clinical information describing the precise sequence of events leading to death in the cocaine intoxication. Usually, cocaine-related sudden deaths are unwitnessed, its electrocardiographic features are not attainable, and the majority of these patients have a rapidly fatal course and die before arriving at the hospital. We report a patient with massive cocaine ingestion who developed psychomotor agitation and generalized seizures followed by asystolic cardiac arrest. Ventilation with supplemental oxygen by endotracheal intubation immediately restored spontaneous heart beat. After resuscitation, a severe metabolic acidosis (pH 6.65) and cardiac dysrrhythmias consistent with sodium channel poisoning were detected. The electrocardiogram showed accelerated junctional rhythm at 85 beats/min with right bundle branch block and left anterior hemiblock configuration, prolongation of QRS (0.16 sec) and QTc (0.52 sec) intervals, and terminal J wave associated with coved ST-segment elevation in leads V(1) and V(2) resembling the Brugada syndrome. Sodium bicarbonate administration was quickly followed by normalization of the cardiac conduction disturbances. This article discusses the clinical and electrophysiologic implications of these findings.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage is a rare complication of prolactinoma treated with bromocriptine (BC). BC is known to be effective for reducing the volume of a prolactinoma and for decreasing the serum level of prolactin (PRL). In cases of pituitary tumors, CSF leakage is thought to be caused by shunting between the subarachnoid and extradural spaces. We had a case presenting with CSF rhinorrhea and CSF otorrhea during BC therapy which was treated successfully. The mechanism and treatment of CSF leakage were studied. A 55-year-old woman complaining of nasal obstruction and headache was admitted to our hospital on Nov. 22, 1988. CT scan showed a huge intracranial mass lesion involving the sella and the supra-sellar region and invading the sphenoid sinus and ethmoid sinus. Serum PRL level was 18,000 ng/ml. The patient was diagnosed as having an invasive prolactinoma, and BC therapy (5.0 mg per day) was instituted. Three days later, CSF rhinorrhea developed, and BC treatment discontinued; radiation therapy was started. After 36 Gy irradiation the size of the tumor was same on CT, and serum level of PRL was still high. The patient underwent trans-sphenoidal operation. The tumor was removed partially and the presumed CSF fistula was repaired. The sella and sphenoid sinus were packed with fat. BC treatment was reinstituted, and the serum PRL level decreased gradually without recurrent CSF rhinorrhea. Two weeks later the patient returned complaining of bilateral hearing disturbance. With a diagnosis of exudative otitis media she underwent bilateral tympanostomy. Immediately after tympanostomy, pulsating discharge from the middle ear was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The study evaluates the protective potentials of wild rice against obesity and lipotoxicity induced by a high-fat/cholesterol diet in rats. In addition to the rats of low-fat diet group, others animals were exposed to a high-fat/cholesterol diet condition for 8 weeks. The city diet (CD) is based on the diet consumed by urban residents in modern China, which is rich in fat/cholesterol and high in carbohydrates from white rice and processed wheat starch. The chief source of dietary carbohydrates of wild rice diet (WRD) is from Chinese wild rice and other compositions are the same with CD. Rats fed CD showed elevated body and liver organ weights, lipid profiles, free fatty acids (FFA) and leptin comparable with rats fed high-fat/cholesterol diet (HFD) known to induce obesity and hyperlipidaemia in this species. However, rats consuming WRD suppressed the increase of lipid droplets accumulation, FFA, and leptin, and the decrease of lipoprotein lipase and adipose triglyceride lipase. Meanwhile, WRD prevented high-fat/cholesterol diet-induced elevation in protein expression of sterol-regulatory element binding protein-1c, and gene expression of fatty acid synthase and acetyl-CoA carboxylase. These findings indicate that wild rice as a natural food has the potentials of preventing obesity and liver lipotoxicity induced by a high-fat/cholesterol diet in rats.
The majority of patients with advanced upper abdominal malignancies suffer from moderate to severe pain due to unavailability of morphine in developing world. This study was undertaken to evaluate the role of neurolytic celiac plexus block on pain and quality of life in this patient subpopulation. One hundred consecutive patients receiving opioids for their pain relief were divided in two groups. Group I (control) patients received oral morphine & NSAIDS and group II (study) patients underwent neurolytic celiac plexus block (NCPB) to compare their effects on pain relief, morphine consumption, quality of life (QOL), Karnofsky and performance scores up to one month. NCPB provided statistically significant better pain relief and reduced morphine consumption at one month (P = 0.000). Superior Karnofsky and performance scores also favored NCPB group (P = 0.000); however the difference in overall QOL was not statistically significant (P = 0.24). Patients in oral morphine group had more side effects (94% vs. 58%) as compared to NCPB (P = 0.000). NCPB is an effective tool to reduce opioid requirement and the drug-related adverse effects. It is a rewarding technique, especially when morphine availability and its easy accessibility to the deserving patient is poor.
Genome-wide association studies of the related chronic inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) known as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis have shown strong evidence of association to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). This region encodes a large number of immunological candidates, including the antigen-presenting classical human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules. Studies in IBD have indicated that multiple independent associations exist at HLA and non-HLA genes, but they have lacked the statistical power to define the architecture of association and causal alleles. To address this, we performed high-density SNP typing of the MHC in >32,000 individuals with IBD, implicating multiple HLA alleles, with a primary role for HLA-DRB1*01:03 in both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Noteworthy differences were observed between these diseases, including a predominant role for class II HLA variants and heterozygous advantage observed in ulcerative colitis, suggesting an important role of the adaptive immune response in the colonic environment in the pathogenesis of IBD.
To provide a more comprehensive understanding of the genes and evolutionary forces driving colorectal cancer (CRC) progression, we performed Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon mutagenesis screens in mice carrying sensitizing mutations in genes that act at different stages of tumor progression. This approach allowed us to identify a set of genes that appear to be highly relevant for CRC and to provide a better understanding of the evolutionary forces and systems properties of CRC. We also identified six genes driving malignant tumor progression and a new human CRC tumor-suppressor gene, ZNF292, that might also function in other types of cancer. Our comprehensive CRC data set provides a resource with which to develop new therapies for treating CRC.
Aspirin (ASA) represents an important risk factor for gastric mucosal injury. Recently, vitamin C releasing aspirin (ASA-VitC) has been shown to reduce gastric toxicity of ASA in animal model of gastric injury. The aim of the present study was to compare the effect of ASA and ASA-VitC on the gastric mucosal damage before and after Helicobacter pylori (Hp) eradication in 10 young healthy Hp-positive volunteers. All subjects underwent endoscopy at day 0 (before ASA or ASA-VitC treatment) and at day 3 following treatment (1.6 g ASA/day or 1.6 g ASA + 0.96 g Vit C/day). In addition, in vitro experiments were performed in which gastric mucosal cell line (MKN-45 cells) was incubated with ASA or ASA-VitC alone or in combination with H.pylori. Expression of constitutive and inducible NO synthase (cNOS, iNOS) was analyzed by Western blot. Moreover, COX-2 expression was analyzed in gastric biopsies at mRNA and protein level by RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. In humans, treatment with ASA-VitC induced significantly less gastric mucosal lesions than plain ASA. Furthermore, in comparison to plain ASA, ASA-VitC caused stronger inhibition of cNOS and increase in iNOS expression in the gastric mucosa. In vitro studies demonstrated a significant increase in iNOS expression in MKN-45 cells incubated with Hp. This effect was aggravated by the addition of ASA, but not ASA-VitC, to MKN-45 cells incubated with H.pylori. Both ASA and ASA-VitC stimulated the COX-2 expression in the gastric mucosa. We conclude that ASA-VitC in comparison with ASA induces less gastric mucosal damage and this protective effect may be due to its inhibitory effect on iNOS expression.
One of the most profound increases in vascular responsiveness in hypertension has been observed for serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT). This study investigates the hypothesis that the increase in vascular responsiveness to 5-HT is the result of altered 5-HT receptor signal transduction. Mesenteric arteries were dissected from deoxycorticosterone- (DOCA) salt hypertensive and sham-normotensive rats for use in isolated tissue experiments. Agonist contractile potencies indicated that a 5-HT2 receptor mediates contraction to 5-HT in both sham and DOCA-salt arteries. In arteries from sham rats, ketanserin (5-HT2A/5-HT2C selective), LY53857 (5-HT2 selective) and spiperone (5-HT2A/5-HT2C selective) shifted contraction to 5-HT (pKB = 8.58, 8.35 and 9.52, respectively) indicating that a 5-HT2A receptor mediates contraction in arteries from normotensive rats. By contrast, ketanserin and spiperone did not shift contraction to 5-HT in DOCA-salt mesenteric arteries (pKB > 6.52, > 7.52, respectively). LY53857 did shift the response to 5-HT in DOCA-salt mesenteric arteries (pKB = 7.85). Thus, contraction in arteries from DOCA-salt rats is predominantly mediated by 5-HT2B receptors. Unlike the 5-HT receptor in the sham mesenteric artery and aorta (5-HT2A receptor), the 5-HT receptor in DOCA-salt mesenteric arteries and stomach fundus (5-HT2B receptor) were relatively insensitive to phenoxybenzamine (10-300 nM). These data suggest that the 5-HT2B receptor is insensitive to phenoxybenzamine, is increased in number or, alternatively, has increased G protein coupling. DOCA-salt mesenteric arteries were more sensitive to contraction by the direct G protein stimulator AIF4- (-log EC50 [M]: DOCA-salt = 2.82 +/- 0.04; sham = 2.55 +/- 0.03, P < .05). PCR analyses indicated an increase in mRNA for the 5-HT2B receptor in mesenteric arteries of DOCA-salt hypertensive arteries, supporting an increase in receptor number. Taken together these studies demonstrate significant changes in 5-HT receptor signal transduction in DOCA-salt hypertension, both at the level of the receptor and G protein and may provide one reason why ketanserin has proved to be a relatively ineffective antihypertensive agent in some forms of hypertension.
A chromosomal translocation in a T-cell leukemia involving the short arm of human chromosome 11 at band 11p15 disrupts the rhombotin gene. This gene encodes a protein with duplicated cysteine-rich regions called LIM domains, which show homology to zinc-binding proteins and to iron-sulfur centers of ferredoxins. Two homologues of the rhombotin gene have now been isolated. One of these, designated Rhom-2, is located on human chromosome 11 at band 11p13, where a cluster of T-cell leukemia-specific translocations occur; all translocation breakpoints at 11p13 are upstream of the Rhom-2 gene. Human and mouse Rhom-2 are highly conserved and, like rhombotin, encode two tandem cysteine-rich LIM domains. Rhom-2 mRNA is expressed in early mouse development in central nervous system, lung, kidney, liver, and spleen but only very low levels occur in thymus. The other gene, designated Rhom-3, is not on chromosome 11 but also retains homology to the LIM domain of rhombotin. Since the Rhom-2 gene is such a common site of chromosomal damage in T-cell tumors, the consistency of translocations near the rhombotin gene was further examined. A second translocation adjacent to rhombotin was found and at the same position as in the previous example. Therefore, chromosome bands 11p15 (rhombotin) and 11p13 (Rhom-2) are consistent sites of chromosome translocation in T-cell leukemia, with the 11p15 target more rarely involved. The results define the rhombotin gene family as a class of T-cell oncogenes with duplicated cysteine-rich LIM domains.
Concurrent chemo-radiotherapy before surgery is standard treatment protocol for esophageal cancer with a less than 30% complete response due to resistance to therapy. The aim of this study was to determine whether molecular targeting approach using an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases, flavopiridol, can help overcome the resistance to radiotherapy.
SEG-1 cells (human esophageal adenocarcinoma) were exposed to gamma-rays with and without flavopiridol treatment and assayed for clonogenic survival, apoptosis, cell cycle distribution, and Western blot analysis. Efficacy of flavopiridol in enhancing tumor response to radiation was determined by tumor growth delay assay using SEG-1 tumor xenografts generated in nude mice.
The clonogenic cell survival assay data showed that flavopiridol (300 nM, 24h), when given either before or after radiation, significantly enhanced the radiosensitivity of SEG-1 cells. The cells were accumulated at G1 phase of the cell cycle by flavopiridol that was associated with downregulation of p-cdk-1, p-cdk-2, cyclin D1 and p-Rb expression. Flavopiridol by itself induced apoptosis in SEG-1 cells and also enhanced the radiation-induced apoptosis, associated with an increase in cleaved poly ADP-ribose polymerase. Reduction in phosphorylation of RNA polymerase II by flavopiridol suggested that flavopiridol inhibited the transcriptional activity. In vivo studies with SEG-1 tumor xenografts showed that flavopiridol, either given before or after radiation, greatly enhanced the effect of tumor irradiation.
Flavopiridol treatment significantly enhanced SEG-1 cell radiosensitivity as well as the radioresponse of SEG-1 tumor xenografts. The underlying mechanisms are multiple, including cell cycle redistribution, apoptosis, and transcriptional inhibition. These preclinical data suggest that flavopiridol has the potential to increase the radioresponse of esophageal adenocarcinomas.
We have analysed the side effects of levodopa preparations in patients suffering from Parkinson's disease. The study has begun in 1993. All the patients were initially admitted in the Neurological Clinic of the Recovery Hospital in Iasi, and then followed in ambulatory condition. We have monitorized the apparition of adverse reactions of levodopa therapy, and tried to treat them by modifying doses and patterns of administration, by associating other drugs or by replacing levodopa with other drugs. We have initially included 116 patients, of whom 30 have developed secondary effects until June 2002. The most frequent secondary effects have been coreea, dystonia, mental adverse reactions, yo-yo-ing etc. Each one of the 30 patients has developed one or more types of secondary reaction.
The effects of intravenous (0.4 mg) and oral pindolol (5 mg, t.i.d.) on exercise tolerance and electrocardiographic ST-segment changes were investigated in 20 patients with documented coronary artery disease (16 males and 4 females; mean age, 56.7 years). A randomized double-blind crossover design was used, and graded submaximal exercise was performed on a bicycle ergometer. Pindolol significantly decreased heart rate at rest, and during and after exercise. The time intervals before the appearance of ST depression, before anginal pain, and before the cessation of work were significantly increased after beta-adrenergic blockade, and work tolerance was enhanced, both indicating that pindolol is an effective antianginal agent. Angina appeared at a lower heart rate after pindolol. Anginal pain and cessation of work were associated with significantly less ST-segment depression after pindolol, suggesting that the relation between ST depression and myocardial ischemia is altered by beta-adrenergic blockade. The appearance and disappearance of ST-segment changes correlated closely with heart rate during placebo and pindolol treatment. Heart rate thus seems to be a major determinant of ST-segment depression during and after exercise in coronary artery disease.
May-Hegglin anomaly (MHA) and Fechtner (FTNS) and Sebastian (SBS) syndromes are autosomal dominant platelet disorders that share macrothrombocytopenia and characteristic leukocyte inclusions. FTNS has the additional clinical features of nephritis, deafness, and cataracts. Previously, mutations in the nonmuscle myosin heavy chain 9 gene (MYH9), which encodes nonmuscle myosin heavy chain IIA (MYHIIA), were identified in all three disorders. The spectrum of mutations and the genotype-phenotype and structure-function relationships in a large cohort of affected individuals (n=27) has now been examined. Moreover, it is demonstrated that MYH9 mutations also result in two other FTNS-like macrothrombocytopenia syndromes: Epstein syndrome (EPS) and Alport syndrome with macrothrombocytopenia (APSM). In all five disorders, MYH9 mutations were identified in 20/27 (74%) affected individuals. Four mutations, R702C, D1424N, E1841K, and R1933X, were most frequent. R702C and R702H mutations were only associated with FTNS, EPS, or APSM, thus defining a region of MYHIIA critical in the combined pathogenesis of macrothrombocytopenia, nephritis, and deafness. The E1841K, D1424N, and R1933X coiled-coil domain mutations were common to both MHA and FTNS. Haplotype analysis using three novel microsatellite markers revealed that three E1841K carriers--one with MHA and two with FTNS--shared a common haplotype around the MYH9 gene, suggesting a common ancestor. The two new globular-head mutations, K371N and R702H, as well as the recently identified MYH9 mutation, R705H, which results in DFNA17, were modeled on the basis of X-ray crystallographic data. Altogether, our data suggest that MHA, SBS, FTNS, EPS, and APSM comprise a phenotypic spectrum of disorders, all caused by MYH9 mutations. On the basis of our genetic analyses, the name "MYHIIA syndrome" is proposed to encompass all of these disorders.
Insulin-mediated signal transduction is positively correlated to adiponectin, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), and glucose-transporter-4 (GLUT4) but negatively to oxidative/inflammatory mediators such as nuclear factor-kappaB, activating-protein (AP)-1, AP-2, and c-Jun-N-terminal-kinase. Although hemeoxygenase (HO) suppresses oxidative insults, its effects on insulin-sensitizing agents like AMPK and GLUT4 remains unclear and were investigated using Goto-Kakizaki rats (GK), a nonobese insulin-resistant type-2 diabetic model. HO was induced with hemin or inhibited with chromium mesoporphyrin (CrMP). The application of hemin to GK rats evoked a 3-month antidiabetic effect, whereas the HO-inhibitor, CrMP, exacerbated hyperglycemia and nullified insulin-signaling/glucose metabolism. Interestingly, the antidiabetic was accompanied by a paradoxical increase of insulin alongside the potentiation of insulin-sensitizing agents such as adiponectin, AMPK, and GLUT4 in the gastrocnemius muscle. Furthermore, hemin enhanced mediators/regulators of insulin signaling like cGMP and cAMP and suppressed oxidative insults by up-regulating HO-1, HO activity, superoxide dismutase, catalase, and the total antioxidant capacity in the gastrocnemius muscle. Accordingly, oxidative markers/mediators including nuclear factor-kappaB, AP-1, AP-2, c-Jun-N-terminal-kinase, and 8-isoprostane were abated, whereas CrMP annulled the cytoprotective and antidiabetic effects of hemin. Correspondingly, ip glucose tolerance, insulin tolerance, and homeostasis model assessment insulin resistance analyses revealed improved glucose tolerance, reduced insulin intolerance, enhanced insulin sensitivity, and reduced insulin resistance in hemin-treated GK rats. In contrast, CrMP, abolished the insulin-sensitizing effects and restored and/or exacerbated insulin resistance. Our study unveils a 3-month enduring antidiabetic effect of hemin and unmasks the synergistic interaction among the HO system, adiponectin, AMPK, and GLUT4 that could be explored to enhance insulin signaling and improve glucose metabolism in insulin-resistant diabetes.
