Exposure to air pollutants such as formaldehyde (FA) leads to inflammation, oxidative stress and immune-modulation in the airways and is associated with airway inflammatory disorders such as asthma. The purpose of our study was to investigate the effects of exposure to FA on the allergic lung inflammation. The hypothesized link between reactive oxygen species and the effects of FA was also studied. To do so, male Wistar rats were exposed to FA inhalation (1%, 90 min daily) for 3 days, and subsequently sensitized with ovalbumin (OVA)-alum by subcutaneous route. One week later the rats received another OVA-alum injection by the same route (booster). Two weeks later the rats were challenged with aerosolized OVA. The OVA challenge of rats upon FA exposure induced an elevated release of LTB 4, TXB 2, IL-1 beta, IL-6 and VEGF in lung cells, increased phagocytosis and lung vascular permeability, whereas the cell recruitment into lung was reduced. FA inhalation induced the oxidative burst and the nitration of proteins in the lung. Vitamins C, E and apocynin reduced the levels of LTB 4 in BAL-cultured cells of the FA and FA/OVA groups, but increased the cell influx into the lung of the FA/OVA rats. In OVA-challenged rats, the exposure to FA was associated to a reduced lung endothelial cells expression of intercellular cell adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1). In conclusion, our findings suggest that FA down regulate the cellular migration into the lungs after an allergic challenge and increase the ability of resident lung cells likely macrophages to generate inflammatory mediators, explaining the increased lung vascular permeability. Our data are indicative that the actions of FA involve mechanisms related to endothelium-leukocyte interactions and oxidative stress, as far as the deleterious effects of this air pollutant on airways are concerned.
This report describes peripheral nerve morphology in 3 patients whose acute polyneuropathy followed disulfiram therapy. In all patients a combination of axonal degeneration with segmental demyelination and remyelination was seen, suggesting a varying degree of toxicity to both cytons and Schwann cells. The observed randomness of abnormal internodes argued against primary axonal atrophy and secondary demyelination. While large myelinated fibres were preferentially lost, ultrastructural studies also suggested degeneration of unmyelinated fibres. Because of high chloral consumption at the onset of peripheral nerve disease in 2 patients, the possibility of disulfiram-chloral interaction was considered. Present evidence suggests that the combined use of chloral or its derivatives with disulfiram is best avoided.
It has been shown in previous studies that hypothyroidism prevents the development of liver fibrosis in bile duct ligated rats and in rats chronically treated with thioacetamide (TAA). In recent years, regression of liver fibrosis (occurring spontaneously or during treatment) has been demonstrated in rodent models such as bile duct ligation and CCl(4) administration. Therefore, in the present study, the potential therapeutic effect of hypothyroidism on liver fibrosis was investigated.
Liver fibrosis was induced in rats by administration of TAA (200 mg/kg, i.p., twice weekly) for 12 weeks. Hypothyroidism was then induced by either methimazole (0.04%) or propylthiouracil (0.05%) administered in drinking water for 8 weeks. Control euthyroid rats received normal drinking water. Hypothyroidism was confirmed by a significant elevation of serum thyroid-stimulating hormone levels.
Eight weeks after the cessation of TAA administration, spleen weight, histological score of liver fibrosis, and hepatic hydroxyproline content were significantly lower in both groups of hypothyroid rats as compared to euthyroid controls (P < 0.001). In vitro studies using the rat hepatic stellate cell line HSC-T6 using northern blot analysis and zymography, respectively, showed that high concentrations of triiodotyronine (T(3)) enhanced transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta-induced collagen I gene expression, and reduced metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 secretion, implying that reducing the levels of T(3) may contribute to resolution of fibrosis. Additionally, low T(3) concentration inhibited HSC-T6 proliferation.
Pharmacologically induced hypothyroidism accelerates the resolution of liver fibrosis in rats. This beneficial effect may in part be due to prevention of T(3)-induced stimulation of collagen synthesis and reduction of MMP-2 secretion.
Eight rats were given 500 mg/kg body weight of the antituberculous drug ethambutol orally every day for 3 months (group A), and 7 took 150 mg/kg of the drug for 9 months (group B). The sciatic nerves at midthigh level and the posterior tibial nerves at ankle level were studied with morphometric examination and teased-fiber method. The number of myelinated fiber/mm(2) of fascicular area was significantly reduced in both sciatic and posterior tibial nerves of group B. The pattern of frequency distribution of myelinated nerve fiber diameters of both groups was not different from that of the controls. Teased-fiber study revealed that many fibers were undergoing axonal degeneration in both groups A and B. In addition, regenerating fibers after axonal degeneration were observed in group B. These results showed that the predominant pathologic change in ethambutol neuropathy was axonal degeneration and that regeneration was already occurring in the animals taking a small dose of the drug for a long period. The fact that the degree of pathologic change was rather more severe in the sciatic nerve than in the posterior tibial nerve indicated that this was not a "dying-back" neuropathy.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is known to cause a large number of adverse effects, mediated largely by its binding to the aryl-hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and subsequent modulation of gene expression. It is thought that AhR mediates these effects through the untimely and disproportionate expression of specific genes. However, the exact mechanism, or the genes involved, through which TCDD leads to these effects is still unknown. This study reports the discovery of a novel target gene, epiregulin, which is regulated by TCDD-activated AhR. Epiregulin is a growth regulator which belongs to the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family. Using real time quantitative PCR (qPCR), it was established that TCDD upregulates epiregulin gene expression. The promoter region of epiregulin has a dioxin responsive element (DRE) 56 nucleotides upstream of the transcription start site, along with three potential Sp1 binding sites. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays with an anti-AhR antibody showed promoter occupancy upon TCDD treatment. Luciferase reporter assays using a vector harboring the first 125 base pairs of the epiregulin rat promoter revealed an increase in signal on TCDD treatment, which was lost upon mutation of the DRE. Epiregulin and TCDD treatment mediated a dose-dependent increase in primary mouse keratinocyte growth. These results demonstrate that AhR directly increases epiregulin expression, which could play an important role in TCDD mediated tumor promotion observed in rodent models.
This paper describes the identification and optimization of a novel series of DFG-out binding p38 inhibitors as inhaled agents for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Structure based drug design and "inhalation by design" principles have been applied to the optimization of the lead series exemplied by compound 1a. Analogues have been designed to be potent and selective for p38, with an emphasis on slow enzyme dissociation kinetics to deliver prolonged lung p38 inhibition. Pharmacokinetic properties were tuned with high intrinsic clearance and low oral bioavailability in mind, to minimize systemic exposure and reduce systemically driven adverse events. High CYP mediated clearance and glucuronidation were targeted to achieve high intrinsic clearance coupled with multiple routes of clearance to minimize drug-drug interactions. Furthermore, pharmaceutical properties such as stability, crystallinity, and solubility were considered to ensure compatibility with a dry powder inhaler. 1ab (PF-03715455) was subsequently identified as a clinical candidate from this series with efficacy and safety profiles confirming its potential as an inhaled agent for the treatment of COPD.
Cell transforming activity of palytoxin, a non-TPA type tumor-promoter, was investigated with the two-stage transformation assay using Balb/c 3T3 cells. Palytoxin showed potent promoting activity; treatment at 1.9 pM or more increased the number of transformed foci after initiation by 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA). Determination of prostaglandin (PG) E2 and PGF(2alpha) concentrations in the culture medium revealed that palytoxin (1.9-3.7 pM for 24 h) stimulated the production of PG in Balb/c 3T3 cells (the concentration reached 3-4 microM), and treatment with PGE2 or PGF(2alpha) itself increased the number of transformed foci of Balb/c 3T3 cells after initiation by MCA. Neither palytoxin nor PGs showed initiating activity. Indomethacin suppressed the promoting activity of palytoxin, but not that of PGE2 and PGF(2alpha). Interestingly, concomitant treatment with PGE2 or PGF(2alpha) in addition to indomethacin markedly reversed the suppressive effect of indomethacin. These findings indicated that the in vitro transformation model could reproduce experiments that have been performed in animal models regarding the inhibitory effect of indomethacin on carcinogenic responses and reversal of indomethacin's effect by exogenous prostaglandin and, therefore, may provide insight into molecular modes of action of palytoxin. In the present study, palytoxin also induced prostaglandin synthesis, and therefore, the Balb/c 3T3 cell model should provide insight into the molecular mechanism by which palytoxin regulates prostaglandin biosynthesis.
Common diseases are often complex because they are genetically heterogeneous, with many different genetic defects giving rise to clinically indistinguishable phenotypes. This has been amply documented for early-onset cognitive impairment, or intellectual disability, one of the most complex disorders known and a very important health care problem worldwide. More than 90 different gene defects have been identified for X-chromosome-linked intellectual disability alone, but research into the more frequent autosomal forms of intellectual disability is still in its infancy. To expedite the molecular elucidation of autosomal-recessive intellectual disability, we have now performed homozygosity mapping, exon enrichment and next-generation sequencing in 136 consanguineous families with autosomal-recessive intellectual disability from Iran and elsewhere. This study, the largest published so far, has revealed additional mutations in 23 genes previously implicated in intellectual disability or related neurological disorders, as well as single, probably disease-causing variants in 50 novel candidate genes. Proteins encoded by several of these genes interact directly with products of known intellectual disability genes, and many are involved in fundamental cellular processes such as transcription and translation, cell-cycle control, energy metabolism and fatty-acid synthesis, which seem to be pivotal for normal brain development and function.
Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a chronic cholestatic liver disease primarily affecting middle-aged women. Although little is known about the etiology of PBC, it may be induced by an autoimmune response. Here, we describe a rare case of appearance of PBC following chemotherapy for Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Ten days course of 5'-GMP intramuscular administration at a dose of 25 mg/kg into rats with adrenaline-produced myocarditis led to normalization of NAD content in myocardial tissue which contributed to restoration of NAD-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase activity. During the 5'-GMP administration content of ATP and creatine phosphate was kept at the same low level as compared with controls, while restoration of glycogen content was retarded in the heart muscle. Activity of lactate dehydrogenase and lactic acid content were not altered. The decrease in content of pyruvic acid detected in response to 5'-GMP administration may occur due to elevated decarboxylation of pyruvate as a result of NAD content increase in heart muscle.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common hereditary renal disorder in humans. Hypertension is one of the major complications, and its control might affect the renal survival and disease mortality. Suitable antihypertensive agents have been discussed based on clinical and animal studies, but no definitive conclusion has been reached. Generally, therefore, all antihypertensives are indiscriminately treated as if providing the same level of blood pressure control. In this study, the blood pressure control of two antihypertensives was investigated using a rat model of ADPKD in humans. Twenty-four male Hannover-Sprague Dawley (Han:SPRD) rats were divided into three groups: a group receiving amlodipine (6 mg/day), a group receiving benazepril (6 mg/day) and an untreated control group. Blood pressure, body weight, and urinary protein excretion were regularly measured up to week 52. Amlodipine and benazepril significantly decreased blood pressure and urinary protein excretion to the same degree. Moreover, a remarkably prolonged survival rate was observed in both groups (at week 52, the survival rate was 25% in controls, 50% in the amlodipine group, and 50% in the benazepril group). Examination at autopsy revealed that enlarged cysts were prevalent in the renal tissue of both experimental all three groups, suggesting that the cystic disease had reached the end-stage in all the animals. In conclusion, both amlodipine and benazepril significantly improved blood pressure control, urinary protein excretion, and survival rate, possibly due to their enhancement of renal survival.
A 43-year-old female with a peripheral white cell count of 118.0 x 10(9)/L and 96% blasts was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), FAB M4. Cytogenetics, performed on a bone marrow sample, revealed the following abnormal karyotype: 46,XX,ins(16)(q22p13.1p13. 3). Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) confirmed the inter-arm insertion using a probe for 16p. The result of this structural rearrangement was the fusion of CBF beta to MYH11 seen commonly in inv(16)(p13q22). The patient commenced high-dose intensive combination chemotherapy (big ICE; Idarubicin, Cytarabine, and Etopiside). Five days post chemotherapy, she developed febrile neutropenia. Despite broad spectrum intravenous antibiotics and antifungal therapy, the patient died at day nine post chemotherapy. This case demonstrates a previously unreported structural abnormality of chromosome 16 in a patient with AML M4, which represents a third mechanism to inv(16)(p13q22) and t(16;16)(p13q22) in producing the CBF beta-MYH11 fusion. CBF beta-MYH11 fusions masked by cryptic translocations at the cytogenetic level have been detected by FISH and PCR techniques. Due to the improved prognosis associated with CBF beta-MYH11 fusions compared to the standard risk group for AML, its detection remains important.
To investigate the relationship between gas-challenge blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging measurements and hepatic disease progression in a rat model of diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced liver fibrosis.
The institutional animal care and use committee approved all experiments. Liver fibrosis was induced in 27 male Wistar rats by means of weekly oral gavage with 5 mL of 1.5% DEN solution per kilogram of body weight for 3-11 weeks, which produced varying degrees of liver fibrosis. Eight rats developed nonsubstantial fibrosis; eight rats, substantial fibrosis; and 15 rats, cirrhosis. Four nontreated healthy rats served as controls. Multiple-gradient-echo MR images were acquired in the rats at steady-state normoxia and hyperoxia and then during dynamic gas challenges. The change in R2* (DeltaR2*) during the gas challenge and the ratio of number of activated voxels to total number of voxels in the liver were quantified. Masson trichrome staining of liver tissue was used to identify collagen tissue. Liver fibrosis was assessed by using a semiquantitative METAVIR scoring system and quantitative analysis of the percentage of liver fibrosis. Hepatic hemodynamic responses at BOLD MR imaging were compared across the fibrosis stages at independent-sample t test and linear regression analyses.
DeltaR2* was well correlated with gas-challenge interval. Mean DeltaR2* decreased during liver fibrosis progression, from 19.60 sec(-1) +/- 4.47 (standard deviation) in animals without substantial fibrosis to 14.02 sec(-1) +/- 2.88 and 6.26 sec(-1) +/- 7.40 in animals with substantial fibrosis and cirrhosis, respectively (P = .006 for rats without vs rats with substantial fibrosis, P = .001 for rats with substantial fibrosis vs rats with cirrhosis, P < .001 for rats without substantial fibrosis vs rats with cirrhosis). Mean DeltaR2* (r = -0.773) and liver activation (r = -0.691) were inversely correlated with liver fibrosis (P < .001).
Carbogen gas-challenge BOLD MR imaging can depict hepatic hemodynamic alterations during the progression of fibrosis and has the potential to serve as a noninvasive, nonenhanced imaging method for liver fibrosis diagnosis and staging.
In fawn-hooded hypertensive (FHH) rats, a model of hypertension, impaired preglomerular resistance, hyperfiltration, and progressive renal injury, we recently observed that supporting perinatal nitric oxide (NO) availability with the NO donor molsidomine persistently reduced blood pressure (BP) and ameliorated renal injury in male and female offspring. However, beneficial effects of perinatal molsidomine treatment were more pronounced in female than in male FHH rats.
To evaluate whether such protective effects could also be achieved with micronutrients, and whether the gender-dependent differences could be confirmed, we tested perinatal exposure to the micronutrients L-arginine, taurine, vitamin C, and vitamin E (ATCE) in FHH rats. Perinatal micronutrients increased urinary NO metabolite, sodium and potassium excretion only at 4 weeks of age, i.e., at the end of treatment.
From 12 weeks onwards, control males had a significantly higher systolic BP (SBP) than females (P < 0.01); however after perinatal micronutrients, this difference was no longer present, indicating a pronounced antihypertensive effect of perinatal micronutrients in males (interaction P < 0.001). Development of proteinuria was attenuated by perinatal micronutrients in males and females. However, only females showed reduced glomerular filtration rate, filtration fraction, and glomerulosclerosis (GS) after perinatal micronutrients.
In sum, perinatal micronutrients that enhance NO availability ameliorated development of hypertension and proteinuria in FHH rats. Antihypertensive effects were more pronounced in male FHH offspring, whereas renal protective effects were more pronounced in female FHH offspring. Mechanisms underlying gender-specific consequences of perinatal micronutrients require further study.
Overexpression of c-Myc represents the most frequently deregulated genetic event in cancer, and therefore c-Myc may represent a good molecular target for cancer therapy. The human lung carcinoma cell line, NCI-H1299, shows resistance to conventional cancer treatments, such as ionizing radiation (IR) and cisplatin, while the lung carcinoma cell line, NCI-H460, is sensitive to treatment with these agents. However, when treated with a chalcone compound [toluenesulfonylamido-chalcone, 4'-(p-toluene sulfonyl amino)-3,4-dihydroxy chalcone (TSHDC)], cell death was dramatically induced in NCI-H1299 cells as compared to NCI-H460 cells. TSHDC-mediated cytotoxicity was not dependent on the status of p53 and p21. However, TSHDC exerted increased c-Myc-dependent reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in NCI-H1299 cells in which c-Myc is overexpressed, while increased ROS production did not occur in A549 or NCI-H460 cells with a low c-Myc level. Several colon and brain cancer cells also showed a correlation between c-Myc expression and TSHDC-mediated increased cell death. Tumor regression by TSHDC was more dramatic in NCI-H1299 cells than NCI-H460 cells, when these cells were grafted to nude mice. However, in the case of IR and cisplatin, NCI-H460 cells were more sensitive than NCI-H1299 cells. From these results, c-Myc-mediated ROS production may be a good target for screening of novel cancer drugs and TSHDC might be a good candidate as a cancer drug, specifically in cancer cells that overexpress c-Myc.
A functional and biochemical interaction of TIS21(/BTG2/PC3) with Forkhead box M1 (FoxM1), essential transcription factor for hepatocyte regeneration and a master regulator of mitotic gene expression, was explored. Growth of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), developed by a single injection of diethylnitrosamine (DEN), was the same in both the TIS21(+/+) and TIS21(-/-) mice until 6 months, whereas it was significantly higher in the TIS21(-/-) mice at 9 months. Expression of TIS21 was significantly lower in both human and murine HCCs than in the surrounding tissues. Forced expression of TIS21 impaired growth, proliferation, and tumorigenic potential of Huh7 cells. At the mechanistic level, TIS21 inhibited FoxM1 phosphorylation, a required modification for its activation, by reducing cyclin B1-cdk1 activity, examined by in vitro kinase assay and FoxM1 mutant analyses. These observations were further confirmed in vivo by the reciprocal control of TIS21 expression and FoxM1 phosphorylation in the diethylnitrosamine-induced HCCs and TIS21(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF), in addition to increased expression of cyclin B1 and cdk1 activity.
TIS21 negatively regulated hepatocarcinogenesis in part by disruption of the FoxM1-cyclin B1 regulatory loop, thereby inhibiting proliferation of transformed cells developed in mouse and human livers.
The nephrotoxicity of the aminoglycoside gentamicin was evaluated in an open, controlled study of newborn infants randomly allocated to receive either combination drug therapy with gentamicin and ampicillin or single drug therapy with mezlocillin for treatment of presumed neonatal sepsis. There were no significant differences in initial clinical characteristics between the groups. Neonates receiving gentamicin, in contrast to those receiving mezlocillin, had significant nephrotoxicity manifested by a smaller postnatal fall in mean serum creatinine concentration (-9%, P NS vs -21%, P less than 0.005, respectively) and a diminished postnatal rise in mean creatinine clearance (+ 21%, P NS vs + 51%, P less than 0.01, respectively). In neonates with a fall in creatinine clearance, the mean decline was significantly greater in those receiving gentamicin (44% vs 20%, P less than 0.01). There was no relationship between the incidence of gentamicin nephrotoxicity and either peak or trough gentamicin levels. For treatment of presumed neonatal sepsis, gentamicin proved more nephrotoxic than mezlocillin.
Chlorhexidine digluconate is widely used in dental practice for decreasing plaque control, controlling gingivitis and disinfecting root canals. However, the undesirable effects of chlorhexidine digluconate regarding its genotoxicity are conflicting in the literature. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the genotoxicity of chlorhexidine digluconate in rat peripheral blood and oral mucosal cells by the single cell gel (comet) assay and micronucleus assay.
Thirty male Wistar rats were distributed into three groups: negative control; experimental group orally treated with 0.5 ml of 0.12% chlorhexidine digluconate, twice daily, during 8 days; and positive control, which received 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide at 0.5 g/l by drinking water.
A statistically significant increase of DNA damage was observed in leukocytes and oral mucosal cells of the chlorhexidine digluconate treated group, as assessed by the comet assay. However, no increase of micronucleated cells was detected in reticulocytes from peripheral blood cells.
Taken together, the data indicate that chlorhexidine digluconate is able to induce primary DNA damage in leukocytes and in oral mucosal cells, but no chromosome breakage or loss in erythrocytes.
Iron stores and lipids are related to the development of cardiovascular disease. Given that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-α) regulates important physiological processes that impact lipid and glucose homeostasis, we decided to investigate the effects of iron overload on serum lipids and the liver expression of PPAR-α, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, and cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase. Hamsters were divided into four groups. The standard group (S) was fed the AIN-93M diet, the SI group was fed the diet and iron injections, the hypercholesterolemic group (H) was fed a standard diet containing cholesterol, and the HI group was fed a high-cholesterol diet and iron injections. Serum cholesterol in the HI group was higher than in the H group. Gene expression analysis of PPAR-α showed that the HI group had a lower PPAR-α expression than H. These data show that iron, when associated with a high-fat diet, can cause increased serum cholesterol levels, possibly due to a reduction in PPAR-α expression.
The purpose of this study was to assess exposure to drinking water fluoride and evaluate the risk of dental fluorosis among the Estonian population. The study covered all 15 counties in Estonia and 93.7% of population that has access to public water supplies. In Estonia groundwater is the main source for public water supply systems in most towns and rural settlements. The content of natural fluoride in water ranges from 0.01 to 7.20 mg/L. The exposure to different fluoride levels was assessed by linking data from previous studies on drinking water quality with databases of the Health Protection Inspectorate on water suppliers and the number of water consumers in water supply systems. Exposure assessment showed that 4% of the study population had excessive exposure to fluoride, mainly in small public water supplies in western and central Estonia, where the Silurian-Ordovician aquifer system is the only source of drinking water. There is a strong correlation between natural fluoride levels and the prevalence of dental fluorosis. Risk of dental fluorosis was calculated to different fluoride exposure levels over 1.5 mg/L.
Few reliable and reproducible animal models of acute hepatic failure exist or conform to the criteria proposed by Terblanche and Hickman (Dig. Dis. Sci. 36: 770, 1991). In this prospective randomized study we describe the selective induction of CYP450 enzymes, depletion of glutathione, and hepatotoxic insult using acetaminophen in the development and characterization of a novel rabbit model of acute hepatic failure.
Male New Zealand white rabbits weighing 3-5 kg were used. After preliminary dose ranging experiments, two groups of New Zealand white (n = 8 in each group) rabbits had CYP450 induction with phenobarbitone (40 mg/kg ip for 5 days) or with 20-methylcholanthrene (80 mg/kg ip). The glutathione synthetase inhibitor buthionine sulfoxime (2 mmol/kg iv) was then administered prior to acetaminophen administration (500 mg/kg sc). Clinical observations were recorded and arterial blood was sampled over 72 h.
Grade I-III encephalopathy occurred at 5-12, 12-25, and 28-56 h, respectively, in animals pretreated with 20-methylcholanthrene, but not in the phenobarbitone pretreated group. Mortality was 75% in the 20-methylcholanthrene group compared to 0% in the phenobarbitone group. Blood lactate (P < 0.05), prothrombin time (P < 0.005), aspartate transaminase (P < 0.005), and creatinine (P < 0.05) were higher in the 20-methylcholanthrene group compared to the phenobarbitone group. Histological changes were marked in the 20-methylcholanthrene group with massive coagulative hepatic necrosis compared to minimal histological damage in the phenobarbitone group.
The induction with 20-methylcholanthrene, glutathione depletion with buthionine sulfoxime, and subcutaneous administration of acetaminophen have led to the development of an animal model that parallels clinical, biochemical, and histological features of human hepatic failure.
Large doses of cephaloridine cause acute necrosis of the proximal renal tubule that can be prevented by probenecid and other organic anions. Although there is little or no net secretion of cephaloridine by the mammalian kidney, the degree of cephaloridine uptake by the cortex of the rabbit kidney is substantial; this uptake is also prevented by probenecid and other organic anions. Cortical concentrations of cephaloridine were measured in control and probenecid-treated animals of different mammalian species. Evidence of cephaloridine trnsport was found in the guinea pig and the rat as well as in the rabbit. The degree of reduction of cortex-to-serum ratios by probenecid (control cortex-to-serum minus probenecid-treated cortex-to-serum ratios) correlated with the sensitivity to the nephrotoxicity of the drug. This degree or reduction was greatest in the rabbit, intermediate in the guinea pig, and least in the rat. In addition, the newborn rabbit, which is more resistant to the toxicity of cephaloridine than the adult, also had significantly lower cortical concentrations of cephaloridine. Finally, the acute tubular necrosis produced by extremely large doses of cefazolin in the adult rabbit was prevented by probenecid. It was concluded (1) that the nephrotoxicity of cephaloridine is related to its renal cortical transport with high intracellular concentrations of drug; and (2) that this relationship between transport and toxicity exists for cefazolin as well, although the toxicity is of a different order of magnitude. The unusual mechanism of cephaloridine transport in the proximal tubule was contrasted with that of the other cephalosporins in an attempt to explain its greater degree of nephrotoxicity.
A double-blind study was conducted to assess the efficacy and the side effects of a low dose of clonidine added to an epidural injection of bupivacaine and epinephrine, with or without sufentanil.
One hundred healthy parturients (ASA 1) were randomly allocated into four groups according to the type of epidural analgesia administered. The bupivacaine/epinephrine (BE) group received a 10-mL standard injection of bupivacaine (B) 1.25 mg/mL and epinephrine (E) 1.25 microg/mL. In the bupivacaine/epinephrine/sufentanil (BES) group, 7.5 microg sufentanil (S) was added to the BE mixture. For the bupivacaine/ epinephrine/clonidine (BEC) group, 50 microg clonidine (C) was added to the BE mixture, whereas for the bupivacaine/epinephrine/sufentanil/clonidine (BESC) group, both sufentanil and clonidine were added to BE. Fetal heart rate was monitored by continuous cardiotocography. Duration of analgesia, method of delivery, and neonatal outcome (measured using APGAR score, peripheral oxygen saturation, and neurologic adaptive capacity score) and side effects of clonidine were observed. The parturients were routinely asked for their global appreciation of the epidural analgesia technique by visual analog score, 2 hours postpartum.
The overall quality and duration of analgesia were superior in the BESC group compared with the other groups, as was the global appreciation by the parturient. The frequency of side effects in the clonidine groups was comparable, with the exception of hypotension and sedation. Hypotension was easily treated by fluids or ephedrine and caused no fetal distress. The level of sedation was mild, and all parturients aroused immediately after verbal commands.
The addition of a low dose of clonidine to an epidural injection of bupivacaine with epinephrine and sufentanil provides better analgesia during labor, while keeping the side effects minimal and of minor clinical importance.
The hepatoprotective effects and molecular mechanisms of baicalein on acute liver failure induced by d-galactosamine (d-GalN)/lipopolysaccharides (LPS) were investigated in vivo. Mice were administered with different doses of baicalein (50, 100 or 150mg/kg, p.o.) 1h before injection of d-GalN (700mg/kg)/LPS (10μg/kg) and then sacrificed 6h after treatment with d-GalN/LPS. Pretreatment with baicalein prevented d-GalN/LPS-induced liver damage by preventing associated increases of serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and by reducing serum tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), nitric oxide (NO) or inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expressions. The molecular mechanisms involved in baicalein-induced inhibition of d-GalN/LPS-caused apoptosis were associated with the protection of mitochondria, increasing the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, blocking the release of cytochrome c, and suppressing the phosphorylation of IκBα, ERK and JNK. Moreover, baicalein activated c-FLIP(L), XIAP and cIAP2 proteins, potentially blocking the recruitment of NF-κB signaling molecules. The results support the investigation of baicalein as a therapeutic candidate for acute liver apoptosis or injury and indicate that baicalein might inhibit liver apoptosis by mediating one or more of these pathways.
Patients with psychosomatic complaints of a hypochondriacal nature were treated with a weekly IM dose of 1.2-1.5 mg fluspirilene (0.6-0.75 ml IMAP) for a period of 10 weeks. According to the physicians' ratings, good results were obtained in 58%, moderate ones in 28%. In the patients' ratings, this corresponded to 60 and 26% respectively. Acceptability of the treatment was assessed as good by 88% of the physicians and 90% of the patients. Only two side effects were reported by three patients alike (dry mouth and sweating). The other side-effects were rarer in occurrence and half of them were transient.
In the present study, the value of pimozide, rapidly instituted at an optimal maintenance dose, for facilitating the social re-integration was assessed in 24 psychotic, mainly newly admitted, patients. The study comprised three stages spread over about 2 months, in which an optimal daily dose was individually fixed during stage 2 and maintained during stage 3. At the selection and at the end of stage 1, 2 and 3 (or at discharge) the psychiatric status of the patients was evaluated by means of the "Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale" and the resocialization readiness by means of the "Discharge Readiness Questionnaire". At completion of the trial 16 patients were ready for discharge.
