It has been hypothesized that copper-mediated oxidative stress contributes to the pathogenesis of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a fatal motor neuron disease in humans. To verify this hypothesis, we examined the copper and zinc concentrations and the amounts of lipid peroxides, together with that of the expression of metallothionein (MT) isoforms in a mouse model [superoxide dismutase1 transgenic (SOD1 Tg) mouse] of ALS. The expression of MT-I and MT-II (MT-I/II) isoforms were measured together with Western blotting, copper level, and lipid peroxides amounts increased in an age-dependent manner in the spinal cord, the region responsible for motor paralysis. A significant increase was already seen as early as 8-week-old SOD1 Tg mice, at which time the mice had not yet exhibited motor paralysis, and showed a further increase at 16 weeks of age, when paralysis was evident. Inversely, the spinal zinc level had significantly decreased at both 8 and 16 weeks of age. The third isoform, the MT-III level, remained at the same level as an 8-week-old wild-type mouse, finally increasing to a significant level at 16 weeks of age. It has been believed that a mutant SOD1 protein, encoded by a mutant SOD1, gains a novel cytotoxic function while maintaining its original enzymatic activity, and causes motor neuron death (gain-of-toxic function). Copper-mediated oxidative stress seems to be a probable underlying pathogenesis of gain-of-toxic function. Taking the above current concepts and the classic functions of MT into account, MTs could have a disease modifying property: the MT-I/II isoform for attenuating the gain-of-toxic function at the early stage of the disease, and the MT-III isoform at an advanced stage.
It was shown in the experiments on rats that the repeated picrotoxin administration resulted in the kindling of generalized seizures. Generalized convulsions were followed by the development of either postictal depression or explosiveness. The injection of mu-opiate agonist met-enkephalin into hippocampus of kindled rats resulted in the increase in the severity of seizure reactions which were induced by picrotoxin and also in the increase in the number of animals with postictal explosiveness. The injection of dynorphin-A-1-13 (kappa-opiate agonist) into substantia nigra reticulata induced the locomotor depression which was like one in postictal period and resulted in the decrease of picrotoxin-induced seizures severity. It was concluded that mu-opiate system of hippocampus took part in the formation of generator of pathologically enhanced excitation in the structure during kindling and the development of seizure syndrome, providing also the postictal explosiveness. Kappa-opiate system of substantia nigra plays an important role in the activation of the antiepileptic system, limitation of seizures and the development of postictal depression.
2-Nitroanisole (2-NA) is an important industrial pollutant and a potent bladder carcinogen for rodents. The mechanism of its carcinogenicity was investigated in this study. Here we have used two independent methods, (32)P-post-labeling and (3)H-labeled 2-NA, to show that 2-NA binds covalently to DNA in vitro after reductive activation by human hepatic cytosol and xanthine oxidase (XO). We also investigated the capacity of 2-NA to form DNA adducts in vivo. Male Wistar rats were treated i.p. with 2-NA (0.15 mg/kg body wt daily for 5 days) and DNA from several organs was analyzed by (32)P-post-labeling. Two 2-NA-specific DNA adducts, identical to those found in DNA incubated with 2-NA and human hepatic cytosol or XO in vitro, were detected in the urinary bladder (3.4 adducts/10(7) nt), the target organ, and, to a lesser extent, in liver, kidney and spleen. The two DNA adducts found in rat tissues in vivo were identified as deoxyguanosine adducts derived from a 2-NA reductive metabolite, N-(2-methoxyphenyl)hydroxylamine. This reactive metabolite of 2-NA was identified in incubations with human hepatic cytosol, besides 2-methoxyaniline (o-anisidine). The results of our study, the first report on the potential of human cytosolic enzymes to contribute to the activation of 2-NA by nitroreduction, strongly suggest a carcinogenic potency of this rodent carcinogen for humans.
Revascularization procedures used for treatment of atherosclerosis often result in restenosis. Resveratrol (RSV), an antioxidant with cardiovascular benefits, decreases neointimal formation after arterial injury by a mechanism that is still not fully clarified. Our main objective was to address the role of nitric oxide synthases (NOSes) and more specifically the endothelial-NOS (eNOS) isoform as a mediator of this effect. RSV (4 mg/kg/day, s.c.) alone or in combination with the NOS inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (2 mg/kg/day, s.c.) was given to Sprague-Dawley rats beginning at 3 days before arterial (carotid or aortic) injury. RSV reduced neointimal formation by 50% (P<0.01), decreased intimal cell proliferation by 37% (P<0.01) and reduced inflammatory markers such as PECAM and MMP-9 mRNA. These effects of RSV were all abolished by coadministration of l-NAME. Oral RSV (beginning at 5 days before arterial injury) reduced neointimal thickness after femoral wire injury in mice, however this effect was not observed in eNOS knockout mice. This is the first report of RSV decreasing neointimal cell proliferation and neointimal growth through an eNOS-dependent mechanism.
Although it has been shown that Epac1 mRNA is expressed ubiquitously and Epac2 mRNA predominantly in the brain and endocrine tissues, developmental and pathophysiological changes of these molecules have not been characterized. Developmental changes were analyzed in murine heart, brain, kidneys, and lungs by RT-PCR analysis, which revealed more drastic developmental changes of Epac2 mRNA than Epac1. Only the Epac2 mRNA in kidney showed a transient expression pattern with dramatic decline into adulthood. In addition to developmental changes, we found that Epac gene expression was upregulated in myocardial hypertrophy induced by chronic isoproterenol infusion or pressure overload by transverse aortic banding. Both Epac1 and Epac2 mRNA were upregulated in isoproterenol-induced left ventricular hypertrophy, whereas only Epac1 was increased in pressure overload-induced hypertrophy. Stimulation of H9c2, cardiac myoblast cells, with fetal calf serum, which can induce myocyte hypertrophy, upregulated Epac1 protein expression. We also demonstrated that Epac was the limiting moiety, relative to Rap, in the Epac-Rap signaling pathway in terms of stoichiometry and that Epac stimulation led to the activation of ERK1/2. Our data suggest the functional involvement of Epac in organogenesis and also in physiological as well as pathophysiological processes, such as cardiac hypertrophy. Furthermore, our results suggest the importance of the stoichiometry of Epac over that of Rap in cellular biological effects.
We sought to determine whether or not the causes and consequences of drug-induced seizures have changed in the last decade.
We conducted a retrospective review of all calls to the California Poison Control System in 2003 in which seizures occurred in association with poisoning or drug intoxication. We reviewed the poison center chart of each case to determine the drug(s) involved, the type of seizures, and the medical outcome. We compared the cause of reported seizures to that found in previous investigations.
386 cases were evaluated and related to poisoning or drug intoxication. The leading causes of seizures were bupropion (89 cases, 23%), diphenhydramine (32 cases, 8.3%), tricyclic antidepressants (30 cases, 7.7%), tramadol (29 cases, 7.5%), amphetamines (27 cases, 6.9%), isoniazid (23 cases, 5.9%), and venlafaxine (23 cases, 5.9%). Since 1993, there was a statistically significant increase in antidepressant related seizures but a decrease in TCA and cocaine related seizures. In 265 patients (68.6%) only a single seizure was reported, while 3.6% (14 cases) reported status epilepticus. Two-thirds (65.5%) of the cases involved suicide attempts and 14.8% the direct result of drug abuse. There were 7 deaths. Of the 7 deaths, 4 people had significant hyperthermia. There was a statistically significant increased risk of death associated with stimulant exposure.
While tricyclic antidepressants, antihistamines, stimulants, and isoniazid remain common causes of drug induced seizures, bupropion, tramadol, and venlafaxine have emerged as common causes of drug-induced seizures for which poison center consultation is requested.
Decitabine recovers expression of silenced genes on chromosome 11q13 and has antineoplastic effects in adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) cells.
NCI-H295R cells were treated with decitabine (0.1-1.0 microM) over 5 days. Cells were evaluated at 24-hour intervals for the effects of decitabine on ACC cell proliferation, cortisol secretion, and cell invasion. Expression was quantified for 6 genes on 11q13 (DDB1, MRPL48, NDUFS8, PRDX5, SERPING1, and TM7SF2) that were previously shown to be underexpressed in ACC.
Academic research. Study Specimen Human ACC cell line.
Adrenocortical carcinoma cell proliferation, cortisol secretion, and cell invasion were measured using immunometric assays. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction was used to measure gene expression relative to GAPDH.
Decitabine inhibited ACC cell proliferation by 39% to 47% at 5 days after treatment compared with control specimens (P < .001). The inhibitory effect was cytostatic, time dependent, and dose dependent. Decitabine decreased cortisol secretion by 56% to 58% at 5 days after treatment (P = .02) and inhibited cell invasion by 64% at 24 hours after treatment (P = .03). Of 6 downregulated genes on 11q13, decitabine recovered expression of NDUFS8 (OMIM 602141) (P < .001) and PRDX5 (OMIM 606583) (P = .006).
Decitabine exhibits antitumoral properties in ACC cells at clinically achievable doses and may be an effective adjuvant therapy in patients with advanced disease. Decitabine recovers expression of silenced genes on 11q13, which suggests a possible role of epigenetic gene silencing in adrenocortical carcinogenesis.
A 33-year-old man was prescribed amfepramone 75 mg o.i.d. for the treatment of obesity. One week after onset of therapy, he suddenly became agitated and aphasic for several h. A CT scan of the brain was normal. Amfepramone was discontinued. Three days later, there was a second period of agitation and aphasia with a discrete right hemiparesis lasting 12 h. A repeat CT scan and a MRI of the brain were normal. On EEG and brain mapping, alpha-activity was absent over the left hemisphere and a left fronto-temporal delta-focus was found. A Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT showed a severe hypoperfusion of the left hemisphere. The next day, the neurological examination was completely normal. Two weeks later, EEG and SPECT had completely normalized. Transient ischemic attacks due to vasospasm were considered to be the most probable clinical diagnosis.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders with limited clinical interventions. A number of epidemiological as well as case-control studies have revealed an association between pesticide exposure, especially of paraquat (PQ) and occurrence of PD. Hsp70, a molecular chaperone by function, has been shown as one of the modulators of neurological disorders. However, paucity of information regarding the protective role of Hsp70 on PQ-induced PD like symptoms led us to hypothesize that modulation of hsp70 expression in the dopaminergic neurons would improve the health of these cells. We took advantage of Drosophila, which is a well-established model for neurological research and also possesses genetic tools for easy manipulation of gene expression with limited ethical concern. Over-expression of hsp70 was found to reduce PQ-induced oxidative stress along with JNK and caspase-3 mediated dopaminergic neuronal cell death in exposed organism. Further, anti-apoptotic effect of hsp70 was shown to confer better homeostasis in the dopaminergic neurons of PQ-exposed organism as evidenced by their improved locomotor performance and survival. The study has merit in the context of human concern since we observed protection of dopaminergic neurons in PQ-exposed organism by over-expressing a human homologue of hsp70, HSPA1L, in these cells. The effect was parallel to that observed with Drosophila hsp70. These findings reflect the potential therapeutic applicability of hsp70 against PQ-induced PD like symptoms in an organism.
Eotaxin-1 is a potent chemoattractant for eosinophils and a critical mediator during the development of eosinophilic inflammation. Fumaric acid is an intermediate product of the citric acid cycle, which is source of intracellular energy. Although fumaric acid ameliorates psoriasis and multiple sclerosis, its involvement in eotaxin-1-mediated effects has not been assessed. In this study, we investigated the effects of fumaric acid on eotaxin-1 expression in a mouse fibroblast cell line. We found that fumaric acid significantly inhibited tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α-induced eotaxin-1 expression. This fumaric acid effect was mediated through the inhibition of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-dependent nuclear factor (NF)-κB signaling. We also found that fumaric acid operates downstream of MEKK3 during TNF-α-induced NF-κB signaling, which upregulated eotaxin-1 expression. In addition, fumaric acid attenuated expression of CC-chemokine receptor 3 (CCR3), an eotaxin-1 receptor, and adhesion molecules that play important roles in eosinophil binding to induce allergic inflammation. Taken together, these findings indicate that inhibiting TNF-α-induced eotaxin-1 expression by fumaric acid occurs primarily through suppression of NF-κB signaling, which is mediated by inhibiting p38 MAPK and suggest that fumaric acid may be used as a complementary treatment option for eotaxin-1-mediated diseases.
Targeted disruption of the mouse activin receptor type IIB gene (Acvr2b) results in abnormal left-right (LR) axis development among Acvr2b-/- homozygotes [Oh and Li, 1997: Genes Dev 11:1812-1826]. The resulting malformations include atrial and ventricular septal defects, right-sided morphology of the left atrium and left lung, and spleen hypoplasia. Based on these results, we hypothesized that mutations in the type IIB activin receptor gene are associated with some cases of LR axis malformations in humans. We report here characterization of the ACVR2B genomic structure, analysis of ACVR2B splice variants, and screening for ACVR2B mutations among 112 sporadic and 14 familial cases of LR axis malformations. Two missense substitutions have been identified, one of which appears in two unrelated individuals. Neither of these nucleotide changes has been found in 200 control chromosomes. We conclude that ACVR2B mutations are present only rarely among human LR axis malformation cases.
Histopathologic monitoring of the liver is mandatory during methotrexate (MTX) treatment. Fibrosis is an important histologic feature of liver damage.
Our purpose was to supply an independent measure to histopathologic grading of hepatic changes in MTX-treated patients with psoriasis.
Forty-six liver biopsy specimens from 26 patients with psoriasis evaluated for or treated with MTX were histopathologically classified and their collagen content quantified by image analysis after staining with Sirius Red F3BA.
Fibrosis in normal liver biopsy specimens (controls) amounted to 0.9% +/- 0.1% and in patients with psoriasis varied between 9.3% +/- 1.4% and 24.0% +/- 4.9%. An effect of MTX on liver fibrosis was not discerned. No correlation was obtained between fibrosis and histologic grades, intake of alcohol, lean tissue mass, or age of the patient.
Two changes occurred in the psoriatic liver; the collagen content was increased at least tenfold when compared with controls, and significant heterogeneity in collagen content was present among patients (p < 0.001).
Male Fischer 344 rats classified as young (2-4 months), middle-aged (12-15 months) and aged (22-25 months) were administered 600 mg/kg acetaminophen (APAP) IP. Rats were killed 6 and 12 h after dosing, and renal damage evaluated by blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels and histopathology. In addition, plasma levels of APAP and its sulfate and glucuronide conjugates were determined after 6 h. There was no evidence of renal damage in any age group 6 h after APAP. While no nephrotoxicity was present in young animals after 12 h, BUN was elevated 94% and 214% in middle-aged and aged rats, respectively, compared to young animals. At 12 h, APAP-induced renal lesions were more severe in aged rats compared to middle-aged animals. APAP-induced renal damage, as judged by BUN and histopathology, was not altered in young or middle-aged rats following unilateral nephrectomy. Six hours after APAP, both the middle-aged and aged animals had significantly higher plasma levels of APAP and APAP glucuronide compared to young rats. There were similar amounts of the sulfate conjugate in the plasma of each age group. This suggests pharmacokinetic differences could contribute to the age-related increased susceptibility of male Fischer 344 rats to APAP-induced nephrotoxicity.
Atovaquone represents a class of antimicrobial agents with a broad-spectrum activity against various parasitic infections, including malaria, toxoplasmosis and Pneumocystis pneumonia. In malaria parasites, atovaquone inhibits mitochondrial electron transport at the level of the cytochrome bc1 complex and collapses mitochondrial membrane potential. In addition, this drug is unique in being selectively toxic to parasite mitochondria without affecting the host mitochondrial functions. A better understanding of the structural basis for the selective toxicity of atovaquone could help in designing drugs against infections caused by mitochondria-containing parasites. To that end, we derived nine independent atovaquone-resistant malaria parasite lines by suboptimal treatment of mice infected with Plasmodium yoelii; these mutants exhibited resistance to atovaquone-mediated collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential as well as inhibition of electron transport. The mutants were also resistant to the synergistic effects of atovaquone/ proguanil combination. Sequencing of the mitochondrially encoded cytochrome b gene placed these mutants into four categories, three with single amino acid changes and one with two adjacent amino acid changes. Of the 12 nucleotide changes seen in the nine independently derived mutants 11 replaced A:T basepairs with G:C basepairs, possibly because of reactive oxygen species resulting from atovaquone treatment. Visualization of the resistance-conferring amino acid positions on the recently solved crystal structure of the vertebrate cytochrome bc1 complex revealed a discrete cavity in which subtle variations in hydrophobicity and volume of the amino acid side-chains may determine atovaquone-binding affinity, and thereby selective toxicity. These structural insights may prove useful in designing agents that selectively affect cytochrome bc1 functions in a wide range of eukaryotic pathogens.
Levodopa-induced psychosis may seriously threaten the ability of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) to continue leading an independent life. A retrospective assessment of the therapeutic effects of the globus pallidus internus (GPi) pallidotomy on the activities of daily living (ADL) of seven PD patients presenting with mild or moderate degrees of psychosis was carried out. Their scores according to the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) Part I-2 (maximum=4) were 2 or 3 (mean +/- SD=2.4 +/- 0.5). Bilateral procedure was needed in 5 out of 7 patients to obtain sufficient improvement of motor symptoms. At 3 months after surgery, UPDRS part III motor scores in the 'off' state were significantly decreased and motor fluctuations were abolished. Nevertheless, their score of Schwab and England (S-E) ADL scale scores responded poorly to the surgery, while the scores in other 12 patients without psychosis was significantly improved after pallidotomy. The data indicate that GPi pallidotomy ameliorates the motor symptoms in patients with drug-induced psychosis (DIP), but has no significant impact on their consequent daily activities. A regression model for all 19 patients who underwent pallidotomy revealed that postoperative S-E scale was affected by the preoperative UPDRS Part I-2 rather than by Part III motor score. The present study suggested that DIP, even if its degree is not severe, may be a limiting factor of the therapeutic potential of pallidotomy in patients with PD.
Drug-induced haemolytic anaemia is a commonly encountered clinical situation. Methyldopa-induced haemolytic anaemia, once the most common cause of drug induced haemolysis, is now rarely seen due to decline in its use. We report a case of methyldopa induced immune haemolytic anaemia in a young woman where the diagnosis was initially missed. The major mechanisms of drug induced immune haemolysis and unique characteristics of methyldopa induced haemolysis are also outlined.
A possible mechanism for phenol-induced pemphigus lesions in genetically predisposed individuals is proposed that accounts for in vitro observations and cases of biochemical acantholysis, as well as the in vivo acantholysis in pemphigus induced by phenols. The mechanism involves the induction of interleukin-1a and tumor necrosis factor-a release by keratinocytes. These cytokines in turn have been shown to be involved in the regulation and synthesis of complement and proteases like plasminogen activator, which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of acantholysis in pemphigus vulgaris.
Twelve novel derivatives of the selective class III antiarrhythmic agent sematilide were prepared in an attempt to incorporate both class I and class III electrophysiological properties into a single molecule. Electrophysiological activity was determined by standard microelectrode techniques in canine cardiac Purkinje fibers. Initial assessment of class I efficacy was carried out in a ouabain-induced arrhythmia model in guinea pigs. All of the compounds prolonged action potential duration in Purkinje fibers (class III activity), and three were active against ouabain-induced arrhythmias (class I activity). Selected compounds were evaluated further in dogs for efficacy against arrhythmias occurring 24 h following coronary ligation (automatic arrhythmias) and induced by using programmed electrical stimulation techniques (reentrant arrhythmias). The most effective compounds from the series are 3g and -j, which were effective in both canine models. Molecular modeling and structure-activity relationships are discussed.
The sensitivity to the diabetogenic action of triphenyltin hydroxide (TPTOH) was investigated in 5 species of experimental animals. A single oral administration of TPTOH produced marked hyperglycemia and triglyceridemia in rabbits and hamsters, but no evidence of diabetes was found in mice, rats and guinea-pigs. No morphological abnormality was observed in islet tissue from TPTOH-treated hamsters.
Seventeen metals were measured in scalp hair samples from cerebral palsy patients (CPPs) and controls. Samples were collected from 95 CPPs and 93 controls. The nitric acid-perchloric acid wet digestion procedure was used for quantification of the selected metals by flame atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The concentrations of Ag, Ca, Cd, Co, Cr, Li, and Mg were significantly higher and those of Cu, Fe, K, Mn, Na, Ni, Pb, and Sb were lower in the hair of CPPs compared with controls. Astrong positive correlation was found between Ca and Mg in the hair of controls but not in that of CPPs. Antimony was found significantly negative in terms of its correlation with Co and Cu in CPPs group but not in the controls. Principal component analysis (PCA) of the data extracted seven factors for CPPs and six factors for controls. Cluster analysis (CA) was also used to support the PCA results. The study evidenced some specific source of Mg and Sb in the hair of CPPs.
Antenatal intake of low dose aspirin is advised for prevention of pregnancy induced hypertension, intrauterine growth retardation and pre-term labour. Aspirin has an anticoagulant effect due to its action on Cyclo-oxygenase and vitamin K dependent coagulation factors. It can readily cross the placental barrier and be a potential cause for bleeding tendency in the fetus. Fetal intracranial hemorrhage, following low dose aspirin administration in a mother and subsequent effect after delivery is being reported.
Metrifonate (0,0-dimethyl-(1-hydroxy-2,2,2-trichloroethyl)-phosphonate) is an organophosphorus compound where there are excellent possibilities to make studies in man. Metrifonate and its rearrangement product dichlorvos (2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate, DDVP) were studied in human blood from schistosomiasis patients treated with Bilarcil. A mass fragmentographic technique was employed. Deuterium labelled variants of the substances were used, both as internal standards and to compensate for DDVP formed during the workup procedure. The amount of DDVP in plasma was about 1% of the amount of metrifonate. In erythrocytes the corresponding amount of DDVP in percent of metrifonate was half or less. Both compounds reached peak levels within two hours and were detectable for at least eight hours. The results were compared to erythrocyte and plasma cholinesterase determinations. Levels of metrifonate and DDVP, together with cholinesterase activity, have also been studied in mouse brain, liver and kidney. It is proposed that metrifonate acts as a slow release formulation for DDVP. Clearance of metrifonate in man occurs primarily via DDVP. Mild vertigo subsiding in a few hours was the most common side-effect.
The activity of the combination of carboplatin and liposomal doxorubicin was tested in a Phase II study of patients with recurrent cervical carcinoma.
The combination of carboplatin (area under the concentration curve [AUC], 5) and liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil; starting dose, 40 mg/m(2)) was administered intravenously every 28 days to 37 patients with recurrent squamous cell cervical carcinoma to determine antitumor activity and toxicity profile.
Twenty-nine patients were assessable for response, and 35 patients were assessable for toxicity. The overall response rate was 38%, the median time to response was 10 weeks, the median duration of response was 26 weeks, and the median survival was 37 weeks. The main toxic effect was myelosuppression, with Grade 3 and 4 neutropenia in 16 patients, anemia in 12 patients, thrombocytopenia in 11 patients, and neutropenic fever in 3 patients. Four patients had five infusion-related reactions during the infusion of liposomal doxorubicin, leading to treatment discontinuation in three patients. Grade > or = 2 nonhematologic toxicity included nausea in 17 patients, emesis in 14 patients, fatigue in 9 patients, mucositis and/or stomatitis in 8 patients, constipation in 6 patients, weight loss in 5 patients, hand-foot syndrome in 2 patients, and skin reactions in 3 patients.
The combination of carboplatin and liposomal doxorubicin has modest activity in patients with recurrent cervical carcinoma.
Mannitol is used as a treatment for ischemia/reperfusion (IR) injury of various organs in humans, despite the fact that its effectiveness in vivo is still disputed. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of mannitol on acute lung injury (ALI) induced by infrarenal aortic occlusion.
Male Wistar-albino rats were allocated into five groups: (i) sham-operated group, which received a laparotomy without IR injury (n = 12); (ii) IR group, which received 3 h of ischemia followed by 2 h of reperfusion (n = 12); (iii) IR + inferior caval phlebotomy (ICP) group, which was identical to group 2 except for 1 ml of blood aspiration from the inferior caval vein (n = 12); (iv) IR + mannitol-treated group, for which rats were subjected to IR and received a bolus injection of mannitol (n = 12); and (v) IR + ICP + mannitol-treated group, which underwent the same procedures as described for the previous groups. Arterial blood gas parameters were studied and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was performed. Evans blue dye was injected into half of the rats. We biochemically assessed the degree of pulmonary tissue injury by investigating oxidative stress markers and enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidant markers, and evaluated ALI by establishing pulmonary leukosequestration and ALI scoring, histopathologically. Pulmonary edema was estimated by using Evans blue dye extravasation and wet/dry weight ratios.
Hypertonic mannitol treatment significantly reduced oxidative stress markers, and significantly increased enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidant markers in the lung tissues (P < 0.05). Arterial blood gas parameters were significantly ameliorated (P < 0.05), the BAL cytology was significantly better (P < 0.05), pulmonary leukosequestration and ALI scores were significantly decreased (P < 0.05), and pulmonary edema was significantly alleviated (P < 0.05) by mannitol administration.
This study clearly showed that mannitol treatment significantly attenuated the aortic IR-induced ALI. Further clinical studies are required to clarify whether mannitol has a useful role in ALI during surgeries in which IR-induced organ injury occurs.
The present study was conducted to investigate the possible protective effects of lycopene (LP) and ellagic acid (EA) on aroclor (AR) 1254-induced testicular and spermatozoal toxicity associated with the oxidative stress and apoptosis in male rats. The control group was treated with placebo. LP (10 mg/kg/every other day), EA (2 mg/kg/every other day) and AR (2 mg/kg/day) groups were given alone LP, EA and AR respectively. One of the last two groups received AR + LP, and the other treated with AR + EA. Body and reproductive organ weights, epididymal sperm characteristics, testicular tissue lipid peroxidation levels, antioxidant enzyme activities, histopathological changes and apoptosis via Bax and Bcl-2 genes were investigated. AR administration caused statistically significant decreases in body-weight, epididymal sperm concentration, testicular superoxide dismutase activity, diameters of seminiferous tubules, germinal cell layer thickness and Johnsen's testicular score, and increases in relative weights of testis, epidydimis and seminal vesicles, rates of abnormal sperm and apoptotic cell expression along with degeneration, desquamation and disorganization in spermatogenic cells, and interstitial oedema and congestion in testicular tissue. LP and EA treatments to AR-treated rats markedly decreased abnormal sperm rates, testicular thiobarbituric acid reactive substances level, and increased the glutathione (GSH) level, GSH-peroxidase, catalase activities and epidiymal sperm concentration as compared with the alone AR group. Additionally, the AR-induced histopathological damages were totally or partially recovered by LP or EA administrations respectively. AR damages the testicular tissue and spermatozoa by impairing the oxidant/antioxidant balance and by increasing the apoptotic spermatogenic cell rates. However, both LP and EA have modulator effects on AR-induced reproductive dysfunction in male rats.
