Congenital membranous ventricular septal defects (VSD) have been shown to close during postnatal development in rats [Solomon et al., Teratology 55:185-194, 1997]. Although they may differ in size, spontaneous and treatment-related VSD are histologically similar; however, the postnatal fate of treatment-induced VSD is not known. The objective of this study was to determine if treatment-induced VSD persist throughout postnatal development.
Groups of 40 female rats were given oral doses of trimethadione (TMD) at 400 mg/kg/day (200 b.i.d.) or 600 mg/kg/day (300 b.i.d.) on Gestation Days (GD) 9 and 10. Twenty dams in each group were designated for Cesarean section and 20 were allowed to deliver and rear their offspring to Postnatal Day (PND) 21. The integrity of the ventricular septum was evaluated in fetuses (GD 21) and pups (PND 21).
The incidence of membranous VSD was 0.6, 7.6, and 49.8% per litter in the Control, 400, and 600 mg/kg groups, respectively, on GD 21. Both the incidence and severity of VSD increased with dose. The VSD at 400 mg/kg were small in size and initially detected by the presence of blood flowing through the defect from the closed right ventricle. In the 600 mg/kg dose group, the VSD, although still membranous, were larger and more readily detected without the need to examine the blood flow. At 600 mg/kg, not only were the VSD larger than those in the Control or the 400 mg/kg group, 10.1% per litter of the affected fetuses had other vessel anomalies associated with the VSD, which were incompatible with pup survival. On PND 21, VSD was noted in 0.3, 0, and 6.4% per litter evaluated in the Control, 400, and 600 mg/kg groups, respectively. This demonstrates that the small, isolated treatment-related VSD can resolve postnatally; however, the closure of the larger or more severe VSD may be prolonged or may not occur at all. Although TMD exposure reduced group mean fetal weights at both dose levels, there was no difference between the mean weight of fetuses with VSD and those fetuses without VSD in the same group.
Treatment-induced VSD close postnatally, and appears to be a delay in cardiac development not associated with fetal weight. The timing of closure and survivability during closure is dependent on the severity of the VSD. Further characterization of the two sizes of VSD may provide diagnostic clarity; however, the current data support the smaller VSD as a variation with no significant impact on viability and growth, and the more severe VSD to be a malformation.
To determine the relapse-free survival, overall survival, and response rate of patients with stage III melanoma treated with neoadjuvant biochemotherapy in a multicenter setting.
Patients with pathologically proven stage III melanoma, either via clinical detection or sentinel lymph node positivity, were eligible for enrollment. Patients received two cycles of preoperative biochemotherapy followed by complete regional lymphadenectomy and two postoperative courses of biochemotherapy. The biochemotherapy regimen consisted of the following: cisplatin 20 mg/m2 on days 1 to 4, dacarbazine 800 mg/m2 on day 1 only, vinblastine 1.6 mg/m2 on days 1 to 4, interleukin-2 total dose of 36 MU/m2 during 4 days, and interferon alfa 5 MU/m2 on days 1 to 5. Growth factor support was administered with each cycle.
Ninety-two patients were eligible for the study. At a median follow-up of 40.4 months, relapse-free survival and overall survival are 64% and 78%, respectively. There was a lower relapse rate and improved survival for patients with a positive sentinel lymph node compared with patients with clinically detected lymph nodes, although this difference did not reach statistical significance. Of the 50 patients with measurable disease, the overall response rate was 26%. Toxicity of the biochemotherapy was high but generally manageable.
The current study has expanded the preliminary evidence on neoadjuvant biochemotherapy for stage III melanoma.
The present study has been designed to investigate the role of opioid receptors, mast cells, and histamine receptors (H(1) subtype) in the seizurogenic effect of tramadol on pentylenetetrazole-treated mice. A single injection of pentylenetetrazole (80 mg kg(-1)) was used to elicit seizure activity in mice. Seizures were assessed in terms of the time latency of the onset of Straub-like tail, onset of jerky movements of whole body, convulsions, and death. Tramadol administration (50 mg kg (-1)) caused a marked increase in seizurogenic activity of pentylenetetrazole as measured in terms of a significant decrease in the time latency of the onset of Straub-like tail, jerky movements of whole body, convulsions, and death. Moreover, prior administration of naloxone (2 mg kg(-1)), fexofenadine (100 mg kg(-1)), cetrizine, sodium cromoglycate, and ketotifen (10 mg kg(-1)), respectively, attenuated the seizurogenic activity that tramadol exerted on pentylenetetrazole-treated mice. Therefore, it may be suggested that tramadol exerts a seizurogenic effect on mice via an H(1) receptor activation-linked pathway possibly through an opioid receptor-dependent release of histamine from the mast cells.
Platycodin D (PD), an active triterpenoid saponin from Platycodon grandiflorum, has been known to inhibit the proliferation of a variety of cancer cells, but the effect of PD on the invasiveness of cancer cells is largely unknown. In this study, we first determined the molecular mechanism by which PD inhibits the migratory and invasive abilities of the highly metastatic MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell line. We demonstrated that a non-cytotoxic concentration of PD markedly suppressed wound healing migration, invasion through the matrigel, and adhesion to an ECM-coated substrate in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, PD inhibited cell invasion by reducing matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 enzyme activity and mRNA expression. Western blot analysis indicated that PD potently suppressed the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p38, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) as well as blocked the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway. Furthermore, PD treatment inhibited the DNA binding activity of NF-κB, which is known to mediate the expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), as observed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Specific mechanisms of action exerted by PD involved the downregulation of EGFR and the inhibition of EGF-induced activation of the EGFR, MAPK, and PI3K/Akt pathways. The in vivo studies showed that PD significantly inhibited the growth of MDA-MB-231 xenograft tumors in BALB/c nude mice. These results suggest that PD might be a potential therapeutic candidate for the treatment of breast cancer metastasis.
A 44-year-old woman was scheduled for laparoscopic cholecystectomy and partial thyroidectomy. She had received lithium, 400-1200 mg daily, and other antidepressants for 10 years for her depressive disorder. Preoperative examination revealed a swelling of the right thyroid associated with hypothyroidism. Her heart rate was in the range of 45-70 min-1 preoperatively. After induction of anesthesia with propofol 50 mg, and fentanyl 100 micrograms, heart rate decreased to 36 min-1 and remained low after tracheal intubation. Atropine sulfate 1.1 mg in divided doses, and ephedrine 4 mg i.v. did not change the heart rate. However, a bolus of isoproterenol 0.02 mg i.v. increased the heart rate to 95 min-1. We suspect that atropine-resistant bradycardia was due to sinus node dysfunction produced by interaction of chronic lithium treatment, fentanyl and propofol. Therefore, an intractable sinus node dysfunction may occur in a patient in whom lithium is given chronically, particularly in whom hypothyroidism is associated. In such a patient, a beta-adrenergic stimulant may be effective in treating bradycardia.
The frequent development of multidrug resistance (MDR) hampers the efficacy of available anticancer drugs in treating cervical cancer. In this study, we aimed to use formononetin (7-hydroxy-4'-methoxyisoflavone), a potential herbal isoflavone, to intensify the chemosensitivity of human cervical cancer HeLa cells to epirubicin, an anticancer drug. The reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were correlated with MDR modulation mechanisms, including the transporter inhibition and apoptosis induction. Our results revealed that formononetin significantly enhanced the cytotoxicity of epirubicin. Co-incubation of epirubicin with formononetin increased the ROS levels, including hydrogen peroxide and superoxide free radicals. Epirubicin alone markedly increased the mRNA expression of MDR1, MDR-associated protein (MRP) 1, and MRP2. In contrast, formononetin alone or combined treatment decreased the mRNA expression of MRP1 and MRP2. This result indicates that efflux transporter-mediated epirubicin resistance is inhibited at different degrees by the addition of formononetin. This isoflavone significantly intensified epirubicin uptake into HeLa cells. Apoptosis was induced by formononetin and/or epirubicin, as signified by nuclear DNA fragmentation, chromatin condensation, increased sub-G1 and G2/M phases. The cotreatment triggered the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway indicated by increased Bax-to-Bcl-2 expression ratio, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, and significant activation of caspase-9 and -3. In addition, extrinsic/caspases-8 apoptotic pathway was also induced by the cotreatment. N-acetyl cysteine abrogated these events induced by formononetin, supporting the involvement of ROS in the MDR reversal mechanism. This study pioneered in demonstrating that formononetin may potentiate the cytotoxicity of epirubicin in HeLa cells through the ROS-mediated MRP inhibition and concurrent activation of the mitochondrial and death receptor pathways of apoptosis. Hence, the circumvention of pump and non-pump resistance using formononetin and epirubicin may pave the way for a powerful chemotherapeutic regimen for treating human cervical cancer.
The sydnone SYD-1 (3-[4-chloro-3-nitrophenyl]-1,2,3-oxadiazolium-5-olate] possesses important antitumor activity against Sarcoma 180 and Ehrlich tumors. We previously showed that SYD-1 depresses mitochondrial phosphorylation efficiency, which could be involved in its antitumoral activity. Considering the important role of mitochondria in the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the involvement of ROS in cell death mechanisms, we evaluated the effects of SYD-1 on oxidative stress parameters in rat liver mitochondria. SYD-1 (0.5 and 0.75μmolmg(-1) protein) inhibited the lipoperoxidation induced by Fe(3+)/ADP-oxoglutarate by approximately 75% and promoted total inhibition at the highest concentration tested (1.0μmolmg(-1) protein). However, SYD-1 did not affect lipoperoxidation started by peroxyl radicals generated by α-α'-azodiisobutyramidine dihydrochloride. The mesoionic compound (0.25-1.0μmolmg(-1) protein) demonstrated an ability to scavenge superoxide radicals, decreasing their levels by 9-19%. The activities of catalase and superoxide dismutase did not change in the presence of SYD-1 (0.25-1.0μmolmg(-1) protein). SYD-1 inhibited mitochondrial swelling dependent on the formation/opening of the permeability transition pore induced by Ca(2+)/phosphate by approximately 30% (1.0μmolmg(-1) protein). When Ca(2+)/H2O2 were used as inducers, SYD-1 inhibited swelling only by approximately 12% at the same concentration. NADPH oxidation was also inhibited by SYD-1 (1.0μmolmg(-1) of protein) by approximately 48%. These results show that SYD-1 is able to prevent oxidative stress in isolated mitochondria and suggest that the antitumoral activity of SYD-1 is not mediated by the increasing generation of ROS.
A 59-year-old male developed intractable hiccups during monthly therapy with high dose dexamethasone for multiple myeloma. Hiccups would begin hours after his first dose and continue over the 4 days of therapy. He sought assistance after his attempt at home remedies failed and the hiccups became exhausting.
The strong temporal relation between dexamethasone administration and the occurrence of hiccups indicated that dexamethasone was the cause of the patient's hiccups. Because he was responding to dexamethasone, the decision was made to continue therapy and to relieve his hiccups with metoclopramide.
Low dose oral metoclopramide allowed the patient to continue therapy without a recurrence of the hiccups.
Dexamethasone administration can result in intractable hiccups that persist for the duration of therapy. Low dose oral metoclopramide may prevent hiccups in patients in whom the discontinuation of dexamethasone therapy is not appropriate.
The influence of serotonin (5-HT)1A receptor stimulation on the dopamine (DA)-mediated locomotor and discriminative behaviours was evaluated in rats. The increased locomotor activity induced by the indirect DA agonist amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg) or cocaine (5 mg/kg) was dose-dependently inhibited by 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT; 0.125-0.5 mg/kg), a 5-HT1A agonist. (S)-N-tert-butyl-3-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazin-1-yl]-2-phenylpro panamide (WAY 100135; 10 mg/kg), a selective 5-HT1A antagonist, did not change the hyperactivity induced by amphetamine or cocaine, but it reduced the inhibitory effect of 8-OH-DPAT on the hypermotility evoked by either psychostimulant. In drug discrimination experiments, 8-OH-DPAT (0.125-0.5 mg/kg) did not antagonize the stimulus effects of amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg) or cocaine (5 mg/kg). When given in combination with amphetamine (0.025-0.5 mg/kg) or cocaine (0.25-5 mg/kg), 8-OH-DPAT (0.5 mg/kg) did not modify the dose-response curves of those psychostimulants. The obtained results indicate that 8-OH-DPAT inhibits the amphetamine- or cocaine-induced increases in the locomotor activity in rats via stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors. On the other hand, the lack of the antidiscriminative effects of 8-OH-DPAT suggests that the two effects of amphetamine and cocaine are not modified in the same way by 5-HT1A receptors.
We describe a patient with hematuria, pyuria, eosinophiluria, decreased renal function, and severe anemia that developed while she was receiving chronic therapy with griseofulvin for onychomycosis. We offer evidence that griseofulvin can cause an isolated erythroid hypoplasia and possibly an allergic interstitial nephritis. This is the first documented case of the above entities induced by the agent. We would recommend, based on our report, that otherwise healthy patients, when maintained on the drug for extended periods of time, have periodic determinations of renal function and hematologic status. As drug-induced erythroid hypoplasia typically occurs after a relatively long period of dosing, it may be prudent in certain individuals to monitor the CBC at approximately bimonthly intervals after initiation of therapy. Recommendations regarding monitoring of renal function are more difficult, as acute allergic interstitial nephritis can occur after either short- or long-term exposure to certain drugs.
Reports about chronic-onset dementia due to ACA have been rare. Here we described five patients with chronic dementia induced by ACA. We examined their clinical aspect, neuropsychological aspect, and neuroradiological aspect in detail. Our study suggests the possibility of ACA-induced chronic-onset dementia in PD patients.
We investigated the clinical efficiency and safety of lamoxactam for treatment of 28 episodes of infection in 26 adult patients (15 males and 11 females) whose ages ranged from 17 to 83 years (mean 48.7). 4 patients had 'ultimately fatal diseases' and the remaining 22 had 'nonfatal diseases'. The clinical condition at the beginning of treatment was 'critical' or 'poor' in 15 cases. Episodes of infection treated were: 14 intraabdominal, 9 bacteremia, 5 nephro-urinary, 3 osteomyelitis, and a miscellaneous group including pneumonia, soft tissue, parameningeal focus and infected V-P shunt. A total of 34 microorganisms were responsible for 25 episodes of infection. 15 and 10 episodes were mono- and polymicrobial, respectively. Isolated microorganisms included 13 aerobic facultative gram-negative bacillus, 5 facultative gram-positive cocci, and 16 anaerobes. Total dosage of lamoxactam administered by patient ranged from 24 to 234 g (mean 57.6 g), and mean duration of therapy was 15.2 days (range 8-42 days). The overall rate of clinical response to lamoxactam was excellent, amounting to 84% of episodes and 91% of patients. Local and general tolerance was good, and lamoxactam had to be discontinued only once during therapy due to an episode of neutropenia. Enterococcal colonization (5 of 26 patients, 19%) and superinfections (3 of 26 cases, 11.5%) were undesirably frequent in our patients. Lamoxactam seems to be an effective and safe single-agent therapy for many bacterial infections. The possibility of enterococcal colonization and superinfections should be monitored, specially in patients with urinary or intraabdominal infections.
Mechanisms underlying biological effects of statin and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapies differ. Thus, we studied vascular responses to combination therapy in hypercholesterolemic patients. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial was conducted with 50 hypercholesterolemic patients with simvastatin and either placebo or ramipril (study I) and in 45 hypercholesterolemic diabetic patients with simvastatin or ramipril with placebo or simvastatin combined with ramipril (study II) for 2 months with 2 months washout. In study I simvastatin combined with ramipril significantly reduced blood pressure after 2 months. Simvastatin alone or combined with ramipril significantly changed lipoproteins, improved percent flow-mediated dilator response to hyperemia by 30+/-5% and 53+/-6%, respectively (P<0.001), and reduced plasma levels of malondialdehyde by 4+/-7% (P=0.026) and 25+/-4% (P<0.001), respectively. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels decreased by 3+/-3% and 12+/-2%, respectively (P=0.049 and P=0.001, respectively), C-reactive protein levels changed by 0% and 18%, respectively (P=0.036 and P<0.001, respectively), and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 antigen levels changed by -7+/-7% and 17+/-5%, respectively (P=0.828 and P<0.001, respectively). In study II ramipril alone did not significantly change lipoproteins and C-reactive protein levels, however, simvastatin combined with ramipril significantly changed lipoproteins and C-reactive protein levels more than ramipril alone (P<0.001 and P=0.048 by ANOVA, respectively). Ramipril alone or simvastatin combined with ramipril significantly improved the percent flow-mediated dilator response to hyperemia (both P<0.001), however, simvastatin combined with ramipril showed significantly more improvement than ramipril alone (P<0.001 by ANOVA). Simvastatin combined with ramipril significantly improved endothelium-dependent vasodilation and fibrinolysis potential and reduced plasma levels of oxidant stress and inflammation markers in hypercholesterolemic patients.
The prolonged biological half-life of Ceftriaxone, allowing once-daily dosing, has contributed to the large diffusion of this third-generation cephalosporin in children. Ceftriaxone is known to induce reversible precipitates in the gallbladder of adults and children. A prospective study was conducted during 1997 in 34 children admitted for the treatment of acute pyelonephritis. Ceftriaxone (intravenous daily single-dose of 50 mg/kg under 2g/day) was initially used. A first gallbladder sonogram, performed before the first or second injection, was normal in all cases. A second evaluation was performed before the fifth and last injection. On this second evaluation the presence of one (n = 3) or two gallstones was recorded in 5 children (15%) on a sonogram made after 3 (n = 4) or 5 (n = 1) injections. Their median age was 7 years (range 4 months to 11 years). All five children remained symptom-free and the normalization of the sonographic patterns was constant on the last sonogram performed 2 (n = 1), 3 (n = 2) and 5 months (n = 2) after discontinuation of Ceftriaxone. This study confirms the possibility of precocious biliary lithiasis under Ceftriaxone therapy in childhood and their spontaneous dissolution after discontinuation of the drug. They seem unpredictable and independent of the age, sex in a cohort homogeneous for the nature of the infection, modality of a short- and low-dose therapy. Clinicians and radiologists should be aware of this complication as an etiology of a so-called primary cholelithiasis and to prevent anxiety or unnecessary cholecystectomy. The antibacterial and pharmacokinetic benefits of Ceftriaxone outweigh the problem of reversible biliary pseudolithiasis with this drug.
Twenty-three hours after heart transplantation, life-threatening acute right heart failure was diagnosed in a patient requiring continuous venovenous hemodiafiltration (CVVHDF). Increasing doses of catecholamines, sedatives, and muscle relaxants administered through a central venous catheter were ineffective. However, a bolus of epinephrine injected through an alternative catheter provoked a hypertensive crisis. Thus, interference with the central venous infusion by the dialysis catheter was suspected. The catheters were changed, and hemodynamics stabilized at lower catecholamine doses. When the effects of IV drugs are inadequate in patients receiving CVVHDF, interference with adjacent catheters resulting in elimination of the drug by CVVHDF should be suspected.
We report a case of severe liver injury occurring on two occasions in a patient ingesting large doses of nicotinic acid. The liver architecture was markedly distorted, with both massive and submassive lobular collapse and marked cholestasis. Complete resolution of biochemical and histologic abnormalities occurred after withdrawal of these drugs.
An investigation was undertaken to assess the value of adding streptokinase therapy to standard penicillin treatment of artificially induced infective endocarditis due to Streptococcus sanguis. In pigs a low-grade infection could be induced which closely simulated streptococcal endocarditis in man, but for technical reasons this model proved unsatisfactory for further experimentation. In dogs the induction of S. sanguis endocarditis produced a more severe illness with a short natural history. Dogs were divided into two groups, one treated with penicillin alone, the other with penicillin and streptokinase. A five-day course, in which twice daily injections of an acylated streptokinase-plasminogen complex were given, caused a substantial reduction in the size of vegetations and possibly a higher proportion of cures and less damage to the valves. Infarction of the brain, almost certainly due to embolism, was significantly greater in the streptokinase treated group, but the same was not true of the kidneys. The possible value of such treatment for certain kinds of bacterial endocarditis in man, especially in the right side of the heart, is discussed.
1. We tested the hypothesis that dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), which prevents dexamethasone-induced hypertension in rats, may block adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) hypertension, which has been presumed due to corticosterone excess. The blood pressure and metabolic effects of DHEA (18 mg/kg per day) were examined in sham and ACTH-treated (0.5 mg/kg per day) conscious Sprague-Dawley rates (n = 20). 2. ACTH but not sham injection increased blood pressure, water intake and urine output and decreased bodyweight. 3. DHEA administration for 10 days did not alter blood pressure or metabolic effects in either sham or ACTH-treated rats. 4. DHEA, which is known to block dexamethasone-induced hypertension, did not modify ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat. This suggests either that ACTH-induced hypertension is not simply a consequence of glucocorticoid activity or that the action of DHEA in dexamethasone hypertension is not through blocking the glucocorticoid receptor.
In this prospective, randomized, double-blind study, we evaluated the effect of an ultra-low dose of naloxone added to lidocaine and fentanyl mixture on the onset and duration of axillary brachial plexus block.
One hundred twelve patients scheduled for elective forearm surgery under axillary brachial plexus block were randomly allocated to receive 34 mL lidocaine 1.5% with 3 mL of isotonic saline chloride (control group, n = 28), 34 mL lidocaine 1.5% with 2 mL (100 microg) of fentanyl and 1 mL of isotonic saline chloride (fentanyl group, n = 28), 34 mL lidocaine 1.5% with 2 mL saline chloride and 100 ng (1 mL) naloxone (naloxone group, n = 28), or 34 mL lidocaine 1.5% with 2 mL (100 microg) of fentanyl and 100 ng (1 mL) naloxone (naloxone + fentanyl group, n = 28). A multiple stimulation technique was used in all patients. After performing the block, sensory and motor blockades of radial, median, musculocutaneous, and ulnar nerves were recorded at 5, 15, and 30 min. The onset time of the sensory and motor blockades was defined as the time between the last injection and the total abolition of the pinprick response and complete paralysis, respectively. The duration of sensory and motor blocks was considered as the time interval between the complete block and the first postoperative pain and complete recovery of motor functions.
Sensory and motor onset times were longer in the naloxone (sensory onset time: 15 +/- 3, and motor onset time: 21 +/- 4) and naloxone + fentanyl group than control or fentanyl groups (sensory onset time: 10 +/- 3 min in control group, 10 +/- 4 min in fentanyl group, and 17 +/- 3 min in naloxone + fentanyl group, motor onset time: 15 +/- 5 min in control group, 14 +/- 7 min in fentanyl group, and 17.3 +/- 3.4 min in naloxone + fentanyl group) (P < 0.001). The duration of time to first postoperative pain and motor blockade was significantly longer in the naloxone (92 +/- 10 and 115 +/- 10 min) and naloxone + fentanyl groups (98 +/- 12 and 122 +/- 16 min) than control (68 +/- 7 and 89 +/- 11 min) and fentanyl groups (68 +/- 11 and 90 +/- 12 min) (P < 0.001). The time to first postoperative pain was significantly longer in the naloxone and naloxone + fentanyl groups than in the control or fentanyl groups (P < 0.001).
The addition of an ultra-low dose of naloxone to lidocaine 1.5% solution with or without fentanyl solution in axillary brachial plexus block prolongs the time to first postoperative pain and motor blockade but also lengthens the onset time.
Intact and ovariectomized, non-arteriosclerotic female rats and arteriosclerotic, breeder female rats were subjected to myocardial infarction by the administration of 2 subcutaneous injections, 24 hr apart, of the beta-adrenergic stimulator, isoproterenol. The animals were sacrificed at regular hourly intervals following each injection and then on days 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 16 thereafter. Measurement of serum insulin and free fatty acids (FFA) demonstrated a blunted response in these metabolic parameters in the case of the ovariectomized virgin rats. The non-arteriosclerotic, intact virgin rats exhibited dynamic changes in serum insulin, glucose, FFA and corticosterone (Cmpd. B) following both isoproterenol injections, whereas the arteriosclerotic breeder rats manifested elevated levels of these parameters on Day 1, but did not display any increases in serum levels, except for FFA, following the second isoproterenol injection on Day 2. In spite of the hormonal alterations brought about by the gonadectomy and their differing metabolic response, the ovariectomized females did not have a mortality rate significantly different from the intact females. Thus, the presence or absence of ovarian estrogens seemingly does not affect the progress of an isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction.
Seizures are common in acute exacerbations of hepatic porphyria, even though the etiology is not identified in most cases. We have reported a case of normeperidine-induced seizures in a patient with hereditary coproporphyria. Although meperidine is commonly used for pain control during acute attacks in these patients, this report suggests that meperidine is not a good analgesic choice in porphyria. Normeperidine-induced seizures in patients with porphyria may be treated by withdrawal of meperidine therapy and selective use of anticonvulsants.
Previously we reported that SNAP-25, synaptobrevin II, and syntaxin I, the intracellular substrates of botulinum toxin originally identified in nontarget tissues, were present in a recognized mammalian target tissue, the mouse hemidiaphragm. Furthermore, we reported that SNAP-25, syntaxin I, and synaptobrevin II were cleaved by incubation of the intact hemidiaphragm in botulinum serotypes A, C, and D, respectively. The objective of the current study was to use the mouse phrenic nerve-hemidiaphragm preparation and botulinum serotype A to investigate 1) the relationship of substrate cleavage to toxin-induced paralysis, and 2) the relevance of substrate cleavage to the mechanism of toxin action. Immunoblot examination of tissues paralyzed by botulinum toxin type A (10(-8) M) revealed < or =10% loss of SNAP-25 immunoreactivity at 1 h postparalysis, and > or =75% loss at 5 h postparalysis. Triticum vulgaris lectin, an agent that competitively antagonizes toxin binding, antagonized toxin-induced paralysis as well as SNAP-25 cleavage. Methylamine hydrochloride, an agent that prevents pH-dependent translocation, also antagonized toxin-induced paralysis and SNAP-25 cleavage. Furthermore, zinc chelation antagonized toxin-induced paralysis and SNAP-25 cleavage. These results demonstrate that cleavage of SNAP-25 by botulinum serotype A fulfills the requirements of the multistep model of botulinum toxin action that includes receptor-mediated endocytosis, pH-dependent translocation, and zinc-dependent proteolysis. Furthermore, the minimal amount of SNAP-25 cleavage at 1 h postparalysis suggests that inactivation of only a small but functionally important pool of SNAP-25 is necessary for paralysis.
A two-year-old female child status post-bilateral nephrectomies sustained a cardiac arrest following the central intravenous administration of vancomycin chloride. This report reviews the literature concerning the problems associated with the use of vancomycin chloride in the perioperative period.
The study examined the effectiveness of amantadine in reducing cocaine withdrawal symptoms and improving treatment outcome among cocaine-dependent patients in outpatient treatment.
Sixty-one cocaine-dependent subjects participated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of amantadine.
Among subjects with severe cocaine withdrawal symptoms at the start of treatment, those who received amantadine used significantly less cocaine during the trial than did subjects who received placebo. Compared to subjects who received placebo, subjects who received amantadine submitted significantly more benzoylecgonine-negative urine samples and used cocaine on significantly fewer days during the trial.
Amantadine may be an effective treatment for cocaine-dependent patients with severe cocaine withdrawal symptoms.
The effects of SNC80 and other structurally related delta-opioid receptor agonists were assessed under conditions of chemically induced hypersensitivity to thermal stimuli in four rhesus monkeys. The shaved tail of each monkey was exposed to warm water (38, 42, 46, and 50 degrees C), and the tail-withdrawal latency from each temperature was recorded. The effects of drugs on the temperature that produced a 10-s tail-withdrawal latency (the T(10) value) were examined. Capsaicin (0.01-0.32 mg) injected into the tail of monkeys dose dependently decreased the T(10), indicating that capsaicin increased sensitivity to thermal stimuli. A dose of 0.1 mg of capsaicin decreased the T(10) from 48.0 to 42.1 degrees C (a -5.9 degrees C change) 15 min after injection. SNC80 (1.0-10.0 mg/kg s.c.) dose dependently blocked the capsaicin-induced decrease in the T(10), and 10.0 mg/kg SNC80 fully blocked the effects of capsaicin. The delta-selective antagonist naltrindole (0.1-1.0 mg/kg) dose dependently antagonized the effects of SNC80, whereas a mu-selective dose of the opioid antagonist quadazocine (0.1 mg/kg) did not. Two other delta-selective agonists, SNC162 (1.0-10.0 mg/kg) and SNC243A (1.0-10.0 mg/kg), also dose dependently blocked capsaicin-induced thermal hypersensitivity. In contrast, neither SNC67 (10.0 mg/kg), which is the (-)-enantiomer of SNC80, nor the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) ketorolac (1.0-10.0 mg/kg) modified the effects of capsaicin. SNC80 was also effective in reversing thermal hypersensitivity induced by prostaglandin E(2) (0.0158 mg) and Freund's complete adjuvant (10% concentration). These findings suggest that delta-agonists have antinociceptive effects in primates under conditions of chemically induced thermal hypersensitivity and might be effective under a broader range of conditions than clinically available NSAIDs.
