To assess the potential of the kallikrein-kinin and renin-angiotensin systems in mediating the cardio- and renoprotective effects of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in rats with chronic renal failure.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive control Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats subjected to five-sixths nephrectomy were randomly assigned to treatment with vehicle, a kinin antagonist (Hoe 140) or an ACE inhibitor (cilazapril) or both drugs, intraperitoneally via osmotic minipumps for 4 weeks. In addition, the effects of a chronic infusion of a specific angiotensin receptor antagonist (losartan) alone or in combination with an ACE inhibitor (enalapril) were also investigated in nephrectomized SHR for 2 weeks.
In nephrectomized SHR and WKY rats, cilazapril alone significantly reduced systolic blood pressure, urinary protein excretion, heart weight and serum creatinine. In nephrectomized SHR, Hoe 140 alone or cilazapril in combination with Hoe 140 (7 or 70 mu g/kg per day) induced no changes in these parameters, other than those associated with the effects of cilazapril alone. In nephrectomized WKY rats, cilazapril in combination with Hoe 140 (70 mu g/kg per day) slightly, but not significantly, attenuated the antihypertensive effect of cilazapril but did not affect the other parameters. These results were confirmed by morphological analysis of kidneys. All the drug regimens provided effective protection against an increase in focal glomerular sclerosis. Enalapril did not modify the antihypertensive and renoprotective effects of losartan in nephrectomized SHR.
The present results indicate that the kallikrein-kinin system might not be a major factor in the cardio- and renoprotective effects of ACE inhibitors in rats with chronic renal failure.
To clarify the role of iron in oxidative stress in skeletal muscle atrophied by immobilization, we investigated the effect of deferoxamine--an iron-chelating agent. Deferoxamine, iron-saturated deferoxamine and double-distilled water (control) were administered subcutaneously from the 4th day after immobilization via osmotic pumps to male Wistar rats (14 weeks old), one ankle joint of which was immobilized in the extended position. After 12 days' immobilization, soleus--typical slow red muscles were collected from both hind limbs and their levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) and glutathione were measured. Deferoxamine suppressed the increase of TBARS and glutathione disulfide in atrophied muscle while iron-saturated deferoxamine did not, which strongly suggests that the iron-chelating action of deferoxamine suppressed the increased oxidative stress. This means that iron plays a very important role in increasing oxidative stress in atrophied muscle. In addition, deferoxamine decreased the degree of atrophy, an effect thought to be mediated by the suppression of oxidative stress.
Hepatic lipase (HL) plays a major role in the regulation of plasma lipids. Several groups seeking to find association between the gene encoding HL (LIPC) and plasma concentrations of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLc) using various methods and populations have reported conflicting results. We have approached the problem of demonstrating a relationship between the LIPC locus and HDLc by means of haplotype association using four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (rs12594375G/A, rs8023503C/T, rs4775047C/T, and rs11634134T/A) located in intron 1 of the LIPC gene in two independent Japanese populations consisting of 2,970 and 1,638 individuals, respectively. Significant association between hyperalphalipoproteinemia and a specific haplotype in this intron was detected in both populations. When HDLc levels among the three haplotypic categories were analyzed [haplotype rs8023503C/rs12594375G (haplotype-1; H1) homozygotes (H1H1), haplotype rs8023503T/rs12594375A (haplotype-2; H2) homozygotes (H2H2), and heterozygotes (H1H2)], HDLc levels were lowest among H1H1 [mean +/- standard error (SE) = 58.4 +/- 0.4 mg/dl], highest among H2H2 (62.5 +/- 0.8 mg/dl), and intermediate among H1H2 (59.2 +/- 0.4 mg/dl) (P = 0.00011), indicating that H2 haplotype elevates plasma HDLc levels. This association was validated in the second population (n = 1,638) (P = 0.00070). The results provide convincing evidence that the LIPC locus influences HDL metabolism.
Therapeutic efficacy of two newer cephalosporins, cefmenoxime and ceftriaxone, was evaluated in newborn rats with experimental bacteraemia and meningitis due to an ampicillin-resistant strain of Haemophilus influenzae type b, and the results were compared with those of ampicillin, chloramphenicol and co-trimoxazole (trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole). Measured by MICs and MBCs, cefmenoxime and ceftriaxone were at least a hundred-fold more active in vitro than chloramphenicol. Co-trimoxazole was bacteriostatic in vitro. For in-vivo studies, the following daily doses were used: 200 mg/kg for ampicillin; 100 mg/kg and 200 mg/kg for chloramphenicol; 10/50 mg/kg, 20/100 mg/kg and 100/500 mg/kg for trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole; 10 mg/kg and 50 mg/kg for cefmenoxime; and 10 mg/kg and 25 mg/kg for ceftriaxone. Cefmenoxime and ceftriaxone were highly efficacious, even at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day, in eradicating the organism from blood and CSF, preventing bacteriological relapse and improving the survival rate. In contrast, chloramphenicol was effective in reducing mortality, but failed to eradicate the organism or to prevent relapse, while co-trimoxazole was least effective in that all but one survivors suffered relapse with positive blood and CSF cultures. Ampicillin gave unexpected results in that the organism was eradicated in all survivors and bacteriological relapse was prevented in most animals (73-75%).
The possibility of slowing the progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) with inhibitors of monoamine oxidase B (MAO B) has stimulated the development of new MAO B inhibitor drugs. Ro 19 6327 is a highly selective inhibitor of MAO B currently under clinical investigation. We used positron emission tomography (PET) and the MAO B tracer [11C]L-deprenyl to determine the degree and reversibility of human brain MAO B inhibition by Ro 19 6327 in six early Parkinson's disease patients who were treated with different doses of Ro 19 6327 (25 mg [n = 3], 50 mg [n = 2], and 100 mg [n = 1]; 0.34 to 1.4 mg/kg) every 12 hours for 1 week. Each patient had three PET scans to assess baseline MAO B activity, degree of trough inhibition, and reversibility. A control group of four elderly normal subjects was scanned twice to assess reproducibility of repeated measures. Four of the patients showed reduction of MAO B concentration to 1% to 7% of baseline on doses of 0.43 mg/kg or greater, and the remaining two at 0.34 mg/kg showed significant but incomplete inhibition (10% to 21% of baseline in the global region and in the thalamus, basal ganglia, and mesencephalon). Thus, 0.4 mg/kg or greater of Ro 19 6327 given every 12 hours is the minimum dose necessary to provide > 90% inhibition of brain MAO B in patients with early PD. Brain MAO B activity returned to baseline values by 36 hours after drug discontinuation.
This paper reviews the body of evidence that major depression is accompanied by a decreased antioxidant status and by induction of oxidative and nitrosative (IO&NS) pathways. Major depression is characterized by significantly lower plasma concentrations of a number of key antioxidants, such as vitamin E, zinc and coenzyme Q10, and a lowered total antioxidant status. Lowered antioxidant enzyme activity, e.g. glutathione peroxidase (GPX), is another hallmark of depression. The abovementioned lowered antioxidant capacity may impair protection against reactive oxygen species (ROS), causing damage to fatty acids, proteins and DNA by oxidative and nitrosative stress (O&NS). Increased ROS in depression is demonstrated by increased levels of plasma peroxides and xanthine oxidase. Damage caused by O&NS is shown by increased levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), a by-product of polyunsaturated fatty acid peroxidation and arachidonic acid; and increased 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine, indicating oxidative DNA damage. There is also evidence in major depression, that O&NS may have changed inactive autoepitopes to neoantigens, which have acquired immunogenicity and serve as triggers to bypass immunological tolerance, causing (auto)immune responses. Thus, depression is accompanied by increased levels of plasma IgG antibodies against oxidized LDL; and increased IgM-mediated immune responses against membrane fatty acids, like phosphatidyl inositol (Pi); oleic, palmitic, and myristic acid; and NO modified amino-acids, e.g. NO-tyrosine, NO-tryptophan and NO-arginine; and NO-albumin. There is a significant association between depression and polymorphisms in O&NS genes, like manganese superoxide dismutase, catalase, and myeloperoxidase. Animal models of depression very consistently show lowered antioxidant defences and activated O&NS pathways in the peripheral blood and the brain. In animal models of depression, antidepressants consistently increase lowered antioxidant levels and normalize the damage caused by O&NS processes. Antioxidants, such as N-acetyl-cysteine, compounds that mimic GPX activity, and zinc exhibit antidepressive effects. This paper reviews the pathways by which lowered antioxidants and O&NS may contribute to depression, and the (neuro)degenerative processes that accompany that illness. It is concluded that aberrations in O&NS pathways are--together with the inflammatory processes--key components of depression. All in all, the results suggest that depression belongs to the spectrum of (neuro)degenerative disorders.
The steroidal-based drug 2-ethyloestradiol-3,17-O,O-bis-sulphamate (STX243) has been developed as a potent antiangiogenic and antitumour compound. The objective of this study was to ascertain whether STX243 is more active in vivo than the clinically relevant drug 2-methoxyoestradiol (2-MeOE2) and the structurally similar compound 2-MeOE2-3,17-O,O-bis-sulphamate (STX140). The tumour growth inhibition efficacy, antiangiogenic potential and pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined using four in vivo models. Both STX243 and STX140 were capable of retarding the growth of MDA-MB-231 xenograft tumours (72 and 63%, respectively), whereas no inhibition was observed for animals treated with 2-MeOE2. Further tumour inhibition studies showed that STX243 was also active against MCF-7 paclitaxel-resistant tumours. Using a Matrigel plug-based model, in vivo angiogenesis was restricted with STX243 and STX140 (50 and 72%, respectively, using a 10 mg kg(-1) oral dose), thereby showing the antiangiogenic activity of both compounds. The pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined at two different doses using adult female rats. The compound was orally bioavailable (31% after a single 10 mg kg(-1) dose) and resistant to metabolism. These results show that STX243 is a potent in vivo drug and could be clinically effective at treating a number of oncological conditions.
The administration of intermittent intravenous infusions of cimetidine is infrequently associated with the development of bradyarrhythmias. A 40-year-old man with leukemia and no history of cardiac disease developed recurrent, brief episodes of apparent sinus arrest while receiving continuous-infusion cimetidine 50 mg/hour. The arrhythmias were temporally related to cimetidine administration, disappeared after dechallenge, and did not recur during ranitidine treatment. This is the first reported case of sinus arrest associated with continuous-infusion cimetidine.
In Venezuela, a severe economic crisis starting in 1983 provoked a progressive reduction in the quantity and quality of food consumed by people from the low socioeconomic strata of the population. This situation resulted in a continuous increase in the prevalence of iron deficiency in the 1980s and 1990s. In 1993, an iron-fortification program was started, in which precooked corn and white wheat flours were enriched with iron, vitamin A, thiamine, niacin, and riboflavin. White wheat flour was enriched with the same nutrients, except for vitamin A. In 1996 we published the results of the impact of fortification of precooked corn and white wheat flours on the prevalence of anemia and iron deficiency in the population. A survey carried out in Caracas in 307 children aged 7, 11, and 15 years showed that the prevalence of iron deficiency measured by serum ferritin concentration dropped from 37% in 1992 to 16% in 1994, only one year after the iron-fortification program began. The prevalence of anemia, as measured by the hemoglobin concentration, diminished from 19% to 10% during the same period. This article reports the results of three other surveys carried out in 1997, 1998, and 1999 on children of the same age and socioeconomic groups that were evaluated in 1990, 1992, and 1994. There were no significant differences in anemia or iron deficiency among the last three surveys. The prevalence results from the last seven years seem to indicate that, after a dramatic reduction in 1994, iron deficiency tended to stabilize, while the prevalence of anemia increased to the same level found in 1992, before the fortification program started.
Active immunotherapies are one approach being developed as novel treatments for prostate cancer. Critical to the success of these therapies is the identification of appropriate target antigens. We have been seeking to identify immunologically recognized proteins, cancer-testis antigens (CTA) in particular, in patients with prostate cancer that would be rational target antigens.
Using a previously reported panel of 29 different CTA, we used sera from 98 patients with prostate cancer and 50 healthy male blood donor controls to detect CTA-specific IgG. We then further evaluated the expression of one antigen, SSX-2, in prostate cancer cell lines and tissues.
We identified IgG specific for NY-ESO-1, LAGE-1, NFX-2, and SSX-2 in at least 1/98 individuals with prostate cancer. We demonstrated that SSX-2 is a prostate CTA, and its expression is associated with metastatic prostate cancer. In addition, we report that the treatment of at least two human prostate cancer cell lines with the DNA methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine induced the expression of SSX-2. In contrast, treatment of a normal prostate epithelial cell line (RWPE-1) with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine did not induce SSX-2 expression.
Our findings suggest that SSX-2 could be further pursued as an immunotherapeutic target in prostate cancer, and that treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine could be exploited to modulate antigen expression in combination with immunotherapeutic approaches.
To study the neurotoxicity and toxicokinetics of norfloxacin (NFLX) in freely moving rats.
Rats were assigned randomly to four treatment groups that received a single iv dose of 50, 100, 200 mg/kg of NFLX and 0.9 % saline, respectively. Electroencephalogram (EEG) was continuously recorded with a computerized system in freely moving rats. Venous blood samples were collected for determination of the NFLX concentration by microbioassay method with Escherichia coli 441102 as the test strain. Toxicokinetic parameters were determined from serum concentration-time data with the 3p97 program.
(1) The epileptiform discharges appeared in all NFLX groups with different latent periods, accompanied with limb twitching and clonic-tonic seizures. The relative total power of the EEG increased. (2) Drug serum concentration-time curves of different doses conformed to a two-compartmental model. The values of clearance, volume of distribution, and terminal half-life were dose-independent, while maximum serum concentrations (Cmax) and the areas under the concentration-time curve (AUC(0-infinity)) of NFLX increased with dosage. (3) The relative total powers of EEG were closely correlated with the administered dose, Cmax as well as AUC(0-infinity).
The present study established a suitable approach to quantitatively determine central nervous system (CNS) stimulant effect of NFLX. There is a significant correlation between AUC(0-infinity) and the changes of relative total power, which may serve as the index for judgement and prediction of the CNS toxic effect induced by NFLX.
Pulmonary artery smooth muscle cell (PASMC) proliferation plays a fundamental role in the vascular remodeling seen in pulmonary hypertensive diseases associated with hypoxia. Arginase II, an enzyme regulating the first step in polyamine and proline synthesis, has been shown to play a critical role in hypoxia-induced proliferation of human PASMC (hPASMC). In addition, there is evidence that patients with pulmonary hypertension have elevated levels of arginase in the vascular wall. Resveratrol, a natural polyphenol found in red wine and grape skins, has diverse biochemical and physiological actions including antiproliferative properties. Furthermore, resveratrol has been shown to attenuate right ventricular and pulmonary artery remodeling, both pathological components of pulmonary hypertension. The present studies tested the hypothesis that resveratrol would prevent hypoxia-induced pulmonary artery smooth muscle cell proliferation by inhibiting hypoxia-induced arginase II expression. Our data indicate that hypoxia-induced hPASMC proliferation is abrogated following treatment with resveratrol. In addition, the hypoxic induction of arginase II was directly attenuated by resveratrol treatment. Furthermore, we found that the inhibitory effect of resveratrol on arginase II in hPASMC was mediated through the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. Supporting these in vitro findings, resveratrol normalized right ventricular hypertrophy in an in vivo neonatal rat model of chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension. These novel data support the notion that resveratrol may be a potential therapeutic agent in pulmonary hypertension by preventing PASMC arginase II induction and proliferation.
Bicuculline (0.5-50 ng), injected bilaterally into the zona incerta-lateral hypothalamus (ZI-LH) of the rat, inhibited catalepsy evoked by haloperidol (1 mg/kg s.c.) in a dose-dependent manner. The same effect was obtained by injections of bicuculline directed towards the ventromedial thalamic nucleus (Vm), but then higher doses of the drug were necessary (10-50 ng). Muscimol (10-50 ng), injected into the ZI-LH, evoked a state of catalepsy almost identical to that of haloperidol. Bicuculline (50 ng) abolished the catalepsy evoked by muscimol (25 ng). Bicuculline injected into ZI-LH in doses of 0.5-2.5 ng did not change locomotor activity of rats as measured in photoresistor actometers, whereas it had a slightly stimulating effect at a dose of 5 ng. A comparison between the doses of bicuculline injected into the ZI-LH and Vm suggests that, irrespective of Vm synapses, GABA synapses of this region are involved in the mediation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. A similar conclusion regarding the catalepsy and rigidity induced by morphine was drawn previously. It seems, therefore, that the catalepsy antagonism of bicuculline is independent of the action of the drug which promotes the locomotor stimulation.
Herbs have been used in clinical medicine for thousands of years. However, it is only in recent times that we have been able to employ scientific methods to prove the efficacy of many of these herbs and to give us a better understanding of their mechanisms of action. This article will focus on the use of herbs in various dermatological conditions characterized by inflammation and pruritus. Topical preparations of many of these herbs are more commonplace in Europe. However, their availability is increasing in the US. As this is occurring we are witnessing a growing marriage between alternative and traditional medicines.
Oxidative stress and depleted antioxidant defenses occur in stable cystic fibrosis patients. During acute infection, the balance between oxidants and antioxidants may be further disturbed.
We examined the oxidative stress during acute infection in cystic fibrosis patients by measuring 8-iso-prostaglandin F(2 alpha) (8-iso-PGF(2 alpha)) and antioxidant defenses in relation to dietary intake, fatty acid status, immune function, and clinical status.
Plasma concentrations of total 8-iso-PGF(2 alpha), vitamins E and C, beta-carotene, zinc, selenium, and copper; plasma fatty acid compositions; erythrocyte glutathione concentrations; glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase activity; sputum glutathione and 8-iso-PGF(2 alpha) concentrations; lung function; clinical symptoms; and dietary intake were measured in 15 cystic fibrosis patients before and after 10-14 d of intravenous antibiotic treatment for a pulmonary exacerbation.
After treatment, respiratory status improved (percentage of forced expiratory volume in 1 s: 60 +/- 6% at baseline compared with 74 +/- 7% after treatment, P = 0.01), quality of well-being improved (P = 0.001), and total plasma 8-iso-PGF(2 alpha) concentrations increased from 469 nmol/L at baseline (interquartile range: 373-554 nmol/L) to 565 nmol/L after treatment (interquartile range: 429-689 nmol/L; P = 0.008). Total energy, fat, carbohydrate, and protein intakes per kilogram body weight also increased; however, dietary antioxidant intake was unchanged. Plasma fatty acid concentrations increased after treatment, strongly correlating with plasma 8-iso-PGF(2 alpha) concentrations (r = 0.768, P = 0.001). There were no significant changes in white cell counts or plasma concentrations of vitamins E and C or beta-carotene. Erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase activity was reduced after treatment, whereas there was no significant change in superoxide dismutase activity.
Oxidative stress increased after treatment for pulmonary exacerbations and was strongly linked to increased concentrations of plasma fatty acids. Although intravenous antibiotic therapy and physiotherapy improved lung function within 10-14 d of treatment, the biochemical effects of oxidation continued further. Thus, antioxidant intervention during treatment for and recovery from acute infection in cystic fibrosis should be considered.
A 31-year-old man on phenytoin for post-traumatic epilepsy developed transient hemiparesis contralateral to the injury. This appeared to have been precipitated by phenytoin intoxication. A possible mechanism for focal neurological deficit occurring in brain-damaged patients on phenytoin is discussed.
Since there is limited information concerning caffeine's metabolic effects on the human brain, the authors applied a rapid proton echo-planar spectroscopic imaging technique to dynamically measure regional brain metabolic responses to caffeine ingestion. They specifically measured changes in brain lactate due to the combined effects of caffeine's stimulation of glycolysis and reduction of cerebral blood flow.
Nine heavy caffeine users and nine caffeine-intolerant individuals, who had previously discontinued or substantially curtailed use of caffeinated products because of associated anxiety and discomforting physiological arousal, were studied at baseline and then during 1 hour following ingestion of caffeine citrate (10 mg/kg). To assess state-trait contributions and the effects of caffeine tolerance, five of the caffeine users were restudied after a 1- to 2-month caffeine holiday.
The caffeine-intolerant individuals, but not the regular caffeine users, experienced substantial psychological and physiological distress in response to caffeine ingestion. Significant increases in global and regionally specific brain lactate were observed only among the caffeine-intolerant subjects. Reexposure of the regular caffeine users to caffeine after a caffeine holiday resulted in little or no adverse clinical reaction but significant rises in brain lactate which were of a magnitude similar to that observed for the caffeine-intolerant group.
These results provide direct evidence for the loss of caffeine tolerance in the human brain subsequent to caffeine discontinuation and suggest mechanisms for the phenomenon of caffeine intolerance other than its metabolic effects on elevating brain lactate.
To test whether the silence of painless myocardial ischemia is caused by abnormal handling by the central nervous system of afferent messages from the heart.
Nonrandomized study.
A tertiary referral center (postgraduate medical school).
2 matched groups of nondiabetic patients with coronary artery disease. Group A consisted of nine patients with reproducible stress-induced angina; group B consisted of nine patients with reproducible stress-induced myocardial ischemia but no angina.
Intravenous placebo infusion and low-dose (5 and 10 micrograms/ kg per minute) and high-dose (20 to 35 micrograms/kg per minute) dobutamine infusions.
Positron emission tomography was used to measure regional cerebral blood flow changes as an index of neuronal activation during painful and silent myocardial ischemia induced by intravenous dobutamine.
Regional cerebral blood flow changes during myocardial ischemia were compared with those during baseline conditions and during placebo infusion. During myocardial ischemia, regional cerebral blood flow increased bilaterally in the thalami and prefrontal, basal frontal, and ventral cingulate corticles in patients in group A. Both thalami were activated in group B, but cortical activation was limited to the right frontal region. A formal comparison of groups A and B showed significant differences (P < 0.01) in activation of the basal frontal cortex, ventral cingulate cortex, and left temporal pole. In both groups, thalamic regional cerebral blood flow remained increased after the symptoms and signs of ischemia had ceased.
Bilateral activation of the thalamus can be shown in both angina and silent ischemia; thus, peripheral nerve dysfunction cannot completely explain silent ischemia. Frontal cortical activation appears to be necessary for the sensation of pain. Abnormal central processing of afferent pain messages from the heart may play a determining role in silent myocardial ischemia.
Lidocaine-induced seizures have been reported after topical administration. A 30-year-old, 48-kg women with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, chronic end-stage renal failure, anemia, congestive heart failure (CHF), cardiomyopathy, and increased liver function tests was admitted to the hospital with fever, chills, and dry cough. Bronchoscopy was performed to rule out Pneumocystis carinii pneumonitis; the patient experienced seizure activity after administration of a total dose of topical lidocaine 300 mg. Plasma drug concentration measured shortly after seizure, and at 4 and 22 hours after seizure were 12.0, 7.6, and 1.4 mg/L, respectively. A direct correlation exists between clinical symptoms and blood level of lidocaine; as the level increases to 8-12 mg/L the probability of seizure increases. The extent of absorption and bioavailability after airway administration depends on tissue vascularity, sites and techniques of application, patient's disease state, and, most important, the dose/unit body weight. The lidocaine dose should be titrated slowly and patients monitored for altered mental status. The dose often has to be decreased empirically in patients with liver disease or CHF. Efforts should be made to deliver minimum amounts of the drug to the lower respiratory tract, since its pharmacokinetics at that site are similar to those with intravenous administration.
The thiazolidinedione analogue troglitazone is an antidiabetic agent that improves insulin resistance in rodents and humans. Although coronary artery disease is common in patients with the insulin resistance syndrome, the effects of troglitazone on smooth muscle cells (SMC) have not been fully elucidated. We therefore examined the effects of troglitazone on cell growth and glucose uptake in human aortic SMC. Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activity and glucose transporter (Glut) 1 mRNA levels were also studied. In the absence of troglitazone, insulin (10(-7) M) caused a 2-fold increase of DNA synthesis in SMC and troglitazone suppressed the increase of DNA synthesis in a dose-dependent manner. This growth suppression was accompanied by inhibition of MAP kinase activity. On the other hand, troglitazone significantly increased Glut 1 mRNA and enhanced glucose uptake in SMC. These results suggest that troglitazone affects the insulin signaling pathways in SMC and suppresses growth while promoting glucose uptake. Our findings support the application of troglitazone as an inhibitor of SMC proliferation in patients with insulin resistance.
Fibulins, encoded by FBLN genes, are extracellular matrix proteins influencing cell adhesion and migration. Altered expression of fibulins is associated with progression of several cancer types, but has not been studied in prostate cancer.
Expression of FBLN1 (major splice forms C and D), FBLN4, FBLN5, SPOCK1, and TENC was compared between 47 prostate cancer samples and 13 benign prostatic tissues by quantitative RT-PCR. Fibulin-1 and fibulin-5 expression was studied by immunohistochemistry. Effects of androgens and the DNA methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine on fibulin expression were investigated in different prostate cancer cell lines.
Our recent microarray analysis suggested downregulation of three fibulins, FBLN1, FBLN4, and FBLN5, in prostate cancer, while two further ECM genes, SPOCK1 (testican) and TENC (tenascin C), appeared upregulated or unchanged. These observations were corroborated by quantitative RT-PCR. Accordingly, FBLN1 and FBLN4 were weakly expressed in carcinoma lines compared to normal prostate epithelial cells (PrECs). Only FBLN4 was induced by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, but its promoter was unmethylated. Androgen did not affect expression of FBLN genes. The FBLN1C and FBLN1D splice forms were coordinately expressed. Fibulin-1 protein was weakly detectable in benign PrECs, but tended to accumulate in cancer cells. Fibulin-5 was predominantly located in the stroma with a strong gradient from the periurethral to the peripheral zone, and lost in cancers.
Three FBLN genes are significantly downregulated in prostate cancer, whereas SPOCK1 is often upregulated. FBLN5 downregulation fits its postulated anticancerous function, whereas FBLN1 and FBLN4 behave different than in certain other cancers.
Cocaine hydrochloride is widely used as a topical anesthetic for otolaryngologic surgery. Cardiovascular complications, including myocardial injury, are well-documented side effects of illicit cocaine use. We describe a 23-year-old woman without coronary artery disease who had an acute non-Q-wave myocardial infarction and stunned myocardium after receiving topical phenylephrine hydrochloride and cocaine anesthesia for elective nasal septoplasty. These cases are rare; however, we hope to heighten the awareness of the potential lethal complications of using cocaine, phenylephrine, or the combination of both as topical anesthetics in otolaryngologic practice.
Myeloid cell leukemia-1 (Mcl-1) is an anti-apoptotic protein that is regulated by the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR). Activation of CAR can protect the liver against bile acid-induced toxicity and it may have a role in cell death via apoptosis by altering expression of Bcl-2 family proteins such as myeloid cell leukemia-1 (Mcl-1). Our aim was to determine if activation of CAR reduces hepatocellular apoptosis during cholestasis as a mechanism of hepatoprotection. CAR(+/+) (WT) and CAR(-/-) (CAR-null) mice were pre-treated with compounds known to activate CAR prior to induction of intrahepatic cholestasis using the secondary bile acid lithocholic acid (LCA). Pre-treatment with the CAR activators phenobarbital (PB) and TCPOBOP (TC), as well as the non-CAR activator pregnenolone 16alpha-carbontrile (PCN), protected against LCA-induced liver injury in WT mice, whereas liver injury was more extensive without CAR (CAR-null). Unexpectedly, expression of anti-apoptotic Mcl-1 and Bcl-x(L) was not increased in hepatoprotected mice. Compared to unprotected groups, apoptosis was decreased in hepatoprotected mice as evidenced by the absence of cleaved caspase 3 (cCasp3). In contrast to the cytoplasmic localization in the injured livers (LCA and oltipraz), Mcl-1 protein was localized in the nucleus of hepatoprotected livers to potentially promote cell survival. This study demonstrates that although apoptosis is reduced in hepatoprotected mice pre-treated with CAR and non-CAR activators; hepatoprotection is not directly a result of CAR-induced Mcl-1 expression.
Hemorrhagic cystitis as a complication of cancer chemotherapy has been most commonly associated with cyclophosphamide. We report on a patient who had received cyclophosphamide for treatment of breast carcinoma and had hemorrhagic cystitis temporally associated with subsequent adriamycin therapy. The development of subclinical bladder injury induced by cyclophosphamide and enhanced by adriamycin similar to their combined toxicities at other sites (skin, esophagus and heart) is postulated.
High insulin levels are linked with increased cancer risk, including prostate cancer. We examined the associations between prostate cancer with polymorphisms of the insulin gene (INS) and its neighbouring genes, tyrosine-hydroxylase and IGF-II (TH and IGF2). In this study, 126 case-control pairs matched on age, race, and countries of origin were genotyped for +1127 INS-PstI in INS, -4217 TH-PstI in TH, and +3580 IGF2-MspI in IGF2. The homozygous CC genotype of +1127 INS-PstI occurred in over 60% of the population. It was associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer in nondiabetic Blacks and Caucasians (OR=3.14, P=0.008). The CC genotype was also associated with a low Gleason score <7 (OR=2.60, P=0.022) and a late age of diagnosis (OR=2.10, P=0.046). Markers in the neighbouring genes of INS showed only null to modest associations with prostate cancer. The polymorphism of INS may play a role in the aetiology of prostate cancer. Given the high prevalence of the CC genotype and its association with late age of onset of low-grade tumours, this polymorphism may contribute to the unique characteristics of prostate cancer, namely a high prevalence of indolent cancers and the dramatic increase in incidence with age.
Antithyroid drugs have been used for more than 50 years for the management of hyperthyroidism. Most patients tolerate treatment well but some may develop life threatening side effects such as agranulocytosis and aplastic anemia (AA). We review all cases of antithyroid drug induced AA and describe, as illustrative cases, two women with Graves' disease who developed AA after 8 and 24 weeks of carbimazole (CBM) and methimazole (MMI) treatment respectively.
To date, at least 34 cases of aplastic anemia (AA) due to antithyroid drugs [(1 with CMZ, 31 with MMI, and 2 with propylthiouracil (PTU)] have been published, not including the two patients described here. In addition, at least another 14 patients in whom AA developed after treatment with antithyroid drugs (11 with CMZ, and 3 with MMI) have been reported in Yellow Card Scheme data analysis. Patients with AA usually exhibit sudden onset of symptoms after a relative short time of exposure to the drugs, and all have concomitant agranulocytosis. Most have a rapid recovery following discontinuation of the drug and supportive treatment. Although only two antithyroid drug induced AA deaths have been published, the mortality rate was higher in the Yellow Card Scheme data analysis.
Aplastic anemia associated with antithyroid drug treatment is rarer than antithyroid drug associated agranulocytosis. The prognosis of patients with antithyroid drug induced AA is good overall, but may not be as favorable as that of antithyroid drug induced isolated agranulocytosis.
A patient with intractable aggression was treated with lithium carbonate. On the basis of the authors' study and their review of the literature, they conclude that lithium may exacerbate the interictal aggression sometimes noted in patients with temporal lobe spike activity.
The CXCL12/CXCR4 axis is involved in kidney development by regulating formation of the glomerular tuft. Recently, a second CXCL12 receptor was identified and designated CXCR7. Although it is established that CXCR7 regulates heart and brain development in conjunction with CXCL12 and CXCR4, little is known about the influence of CXCR7 on CXCL12 dependent kidney development.
We provided analysis of CXCR7 expression and function in the developing mouse kidney. Using in situ hybridization, we identified CXCR7 mRNA in epithelial cells including podocytes at all nephron stages up to the mature glomerulus. CXCL12 mRNA showed a striking overlap with CXCR7 mRNA in epithelial structures. In addition, CXCL12 was detected in stromal cells and the glomerular tuft. Expression of CXCR4 was complementary to that of CXCR7 as it occurred in mesenchymal cells, outgrowing ureteric buds and glomerular endothelial cells but not in podocytes. Kidney examination in CXCR7 null mice revealed ballooning of glomerular capillaries as described earlier for CXCR4 null mice. Moreover, we detected a severe reduction of CXCR4 protein but not CXCR4 mRNA within the glomerular tuft and in the condensed mesenchyme. Malformation of the glomerular tuft in CXCR7 null mice was associated with mesangial cell clumping.
We established that there is a similar glomerular pathology in CXCR7 and CXCR4 null embryos. Based on the phenotype and the anatomical organization of the CXCL12/CXCR4/CXCR7 system in the forming glomerulus, we propose that CXCR7 fine-tunes CXCL12/CXCR4 mediated signalling between podocytes and glomerular capillaries.
