Many clinical case reports have suggested that sustained opioid exposure can elicit unexpected, paradoxical pain. Here, we explore the possibility that (1) opioid-induced pain results from tonic activation of descending pain facilitation arising in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) and (2) the presence of such pain manifests behaviorally as antinociceptive tolerance. Rats implanted subcutaneously with pellets or osmotic minipumps delivering morphine displayed time-related tactile allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia (i. e., opioid-induced "pain"); placebo pellets or saline minipumps did not change thresholds. Opioid-induced pain was observed while morphine delivery continued and while the rats were not in withdrawal. RVM lidocaine, or bilateral lesions of the dorsolateral funiculus (DLF), did not change response thresholds in placebo-pelleted rats but blocked opioid-induced pain. The intrathecal morphine antinociceptive dose-response curve (DRC) in morphine-pelleted rats was displaced to the right of that in placebo-pelleted rats, indicating antinociceptive "tolerance." RVM lidocaine or bilateral DLF lesion did not alter the intrathecal morphine DRC in placebo-pelleted rats but blocked the rightward displacement seen in morphine-pelleted animals. The subcutaneous morphine antinociceptive DRC in morphine-pelleted rats was displaced to the right of that in placebo-pelleted rats; this right shift was blocked by RVM lidocaine. The data show that (1) opioids elicit pain through tonic activation of bulbospinal facilitation from the RVM, (2) increased pain decreases spinal opioid antinociceptive potency, and (3) blockade of pain restores antinociceptive potency, revealing no change in antinociceptive signal transduction. These studies offer a mechanism for paradoxical opioid-induced pain and allow the development of approaches by which the loss of analgesic activity of opioids might be inhibited.
Intrauterine environmental pertubations have been linked to the development of adult hypertension. We sought to evaluate the interrelated roles of sex, nitric oxide, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in programmed cardiovascular disease. Programming was induced in mice by maternal dietary intervention (DI; partial substitution of protein with carbohydrates and fat) or carbenoxolone administration (CX, to increase fetal glucocorticoid exposure). Adult blood pressure and locomotor activity were recorded by radiotelemetry at baseline, after a week of high salt, and after a week of high salt plus nitric oxide synthase inhibition (by l-NAME). In male offspring, DI or CX programmed an elevation in blood pressure that was exacerbated by N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester administration, but not high salt alone. Mesenteric resistance vessels from DI male offspring displayed impaired vasorelaxation to ACh and nitroprusside, which was blocked by catalase and superoxide dismutase. CX-exposed females were normotensive, while DI females had nitric oxide synthase-dependent hypotension and enhanced mesenteric dilation. Despite the disparate cardiovascular phenotypes, both male and female DI offspring displayed increases in locomotor activity and aortic superoxide production. Despite dissimilar blood pressures, DI and CX-exposed females had reductions in cardiac baroreflex sensitivity. In conclusion, both maternal malnutrition and fetal glucocorticoid exposure program increases in arterial pressure in male but not female offspring. While maternal DI increased both superoxide-mediated vasoconstriction and nitric oxide mediated vasodilation, the balance of these factors favored the development of hypertension in males and hypotension in females.
The p53 mutation in salamanders can be used as an indicator of arsenic contamination. The influence of arsenic exposure was studied on mutation of tumor suppressor gene in salamanders collected from several As-contaminated mine areas in Korea. Salamander eggs and larvae were exposed to arsenic in a toxicity test, and teratogenic salamanders found in heavy metal- and As-contaminated water from As-Bi mines were evaluated using PCR-SSCP to determine if they would be useful as an ecological indicator species. Changes in amino acids were shown to have occurred as a result of an arsenic-accumulating event that occurred after the DNA damage. In addition, both of the Hynobius leechii exposed groups were primarily affected by forms of skin damage, changes in the lateral tail/dorsal flexure and/or abnormality teratogenesis. Single-base sense mutation in codons 346 (AAG: Lys to ATG: Met), 224 (TTT: Phe to TTA: Leu), 211 (ATG: Met to AAG: Lys), 244 (TTT: Phe to TTTG: insertion), 245 (Glu GAG to Gln CAG) and 249 (TGT Cys to TGA stop) of the p53 gene were simultaneously found in mutated salamanders. Based on the results of our data illustrating the effect of arsenic exposure on the p53 mutation of salamanders in arsenic-contaminated mine areas, these mutated salamanders can be used as potential ecological indicators in the arsenic-contaminated ecosystems.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study in 10 healthy male subjects has been carried out to investigate the non-pulmonary effects of single inhaled doses of salmeterol 100 micrograms, 200 micrograms and 400 micrograms and salbutamol 400 micrograms from a metered-dose inhaler. At all doses tested, salmeterol produced statistically significant changes in pulse rate, tremor, blood glucose and plasma potassium concentrations, compared with placebo. All changes were dosed related. A number of dose-related adverse events including tremor, awareness of heart beat and headache were reported after salmeterol administration.
Storage of motor memory involves the basal ganglia and more precisely the striatum, which receives afferents from all regions of the cerebral cortex. In Parkinsonian (MPTP) monkeys, we observed an increase in the dyskinetic response to dopaminergic agents when combined with opioid antagonists (naloxone or naltrexone) while morphine, attenuated the dyskinetic response. An interesting phenomenon observed after several acute co-administrations of naltrexone with dopaminergic agents was the manifestation of dyskinesias even after the injection of saline or naltrexone alone. However, this phenomenon was not observed when morphine was used in the same conditions. These unexpected observations concerning the acquisition of dyskinesias with saline or naltrexone alone, reported for the first time, might suggest the implication of a learning phenomenon in the induction of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; ecstasy), a drug of abuse commonly consumed at rave parties, is often taken in a polydrug abuse scenario, ethanol being one of the most associated drugs. Both MDMA and ethanol are mainly metabolized in the liver with formation of toxic metabolites. Our working hypothesis is that ethanol can modify the metabolism of MDMA through the cytochrome P450 system, and that this effect may be further potentiated by hyperthermia, a well-known consequence of MDMA abuse. To investigate these putative interactions we used primary rat hepatocyte cultures, which were exposed to 300 mM ethanol, 1.6 mM MDMA and the combination of both, at normothermic (36.5 degrees C) and hyperthermic (40.5 degrees C) conditions. After 24 h, the levels of MDA, HMA and HMMA in the cell culture medium were quantified by GC/MS. In addition, we repeated the same experimental design preceded by 1h incubation with 0.18 microM ketoconazole or 150 microM diallyl sulphide (CYP3A and CYP2E1 inhibitors, respectively), to evaluate the putative role of these isoenzymes in the observed effects. The results obtained showed that ethanol exposure increases the formation of some MDMA metabolites such as HMA (1.8 times increase) and MDA (1.5 times increase). This effect was markedly increased under hyperthermic conditions (HMA, MDA and HMMA formation increased 10, 6 and 16 times, respectively) and is mediated, at least partially, by CYP3A and CYP2E1.
Dual target inhibitors against COX-2 and LTA(4)H were designed by adding functional groups from a marketed COX-2 inhibitor, Nimesulide, to an existing LTA(4)H inhibitor 1-(2-(4-phenoxyphenoxy) ethyl) pyrrolidine. A series of phenoxyphenyl pyrrolidine compounds were synthesized and tested for their inhibition activities using enzyme assays and human whole blood assay. Introduction of small electron withdrawing groups like NO(2) and CF(3) in the ortho-position of the terminal phenyl ring was found to change the original single target LTA(4)H inhibitor to dual target LTA(4)H and COX-2 inhibitors. Compound 5a and 5m showed dual LTA(4)H and COX-2 inhibition activities in the enzyme assays and the HWB assay with IC(50) values in the micromolar to submicromolar range. As their activities in HWB assay were comparable to the two starting single target inhibitors, the two compounds are promising for further studies. The strategy used in the current study may be generally applicable to other dual target drug designs.
We report the first identified mutation in the gene encoding human cytochrome c (CYCS). Glycine 41, invariant throughout eukaryotes, is substituted by serine in a family with autosomal dominant thrombocytopenia caused by dysregulated platelet formation. The mutation yields a cytochrome c variant with enhanced apoptotic activity in vitro. Notably, the family has no other phenotypic indication of abnormal apoptosis, implying that cytochrome c activity is not a critical regulator of most physiological apoptosis.
The effect of chronic subcutaneous administration of haloperidol directly into neonatal rats was investigated as a possible model for the hyperkinetic syndrome in human children in terms of its onset, duration and offset of hyperactivity. In addition, the ability of chronically-administered lithium in the diet of nursing mothers to attenuate the haloperidol-induced hyperactivity was investigated. Experiments with acute administration of the clinically-effective stimulants, amphetamine and methylphenidate, to the pups were also conducted to determine the adequacy of this behavioral model vis-a-vis the human condition. The results indicate that, although chronic haloperidol (2.5 mg/kg) produced hyperactivity relative to controls on the 25th day of life, this hyperactive behavior does not return to control levels at 30 days of age. Moreover, neither the stimulants nor lithium attenuates this hyperactivity and, indeed, lithium, by itself, produces increased activity. Thus, chronic haloperidol administered directly into neonatal rat pups produces hyperactivity possibly by the production of dopaminergic supersensitivity, yet this effect does not model the temporal course seen in hyperkinetic humans. In addition, the administration of drugs that are clinically-useful in treating childhood hyperactivity were unable to decrease the hyperactivity produced by haloperidol in neonatal rats. Taken together, these observations cast doubt upon the usefulness of this animal model to mimic the human condition.
Due to presumed adverse performance impact, a World Health Organization clause currently restricts the use of mefloquine malaria chemoprophylaxis in individuals requiring fine coordination and spatial discrimination. We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study to quantitatively assess the effects of mefloquine at steady state on performance in 23 trainee airline pilots. Flying performance was assessed using a flight simulator, psychomotor function was evaluated, sleep and wake cycles were monitored, and symptoms and moods were assessed using standardized questionnaires. A simplified postural sway meter recorded sway in three test positions. In the mefloquine loading dose phase, there was one withdrawal due to dizziness, diarrhea, and flu-like symptoms, and three volunteers reported nonserious, sleep-related adverse events. There was no significant difference in flying performance, psychomotor functions, or mean sway for any test position. Nonsignificant reductions in mean total nocturnal sleep (mefloquine = 450 min versus placebo = 484 min) and poorer sleep quality were detected in the mefloquine phases. The mood findings indicated a predominance of positive states, with vigor the predominant mood in all phases. No significant performance deficit was documented under laboratory conditions during use of mefloquine at steady state.
Adenovirus is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in the immunocompromised host. The incidence of severe adenovirus disease in pediatrics is increasing in association with growing numbers of immunocompromised children, where case fatality rates as high as 50% to 80% have been reported. There are no approved antiviral agents with proven efficacy for the treatment of severe adenovirus disease, nor are there any prospective randomized, controlled trials of potentially useful anti-adenovirus therapies. Apparent clinical success in the treatment of severe adenovirus disease is limited to a few case reports and small series. Experience is greatest with intravenous ribavirin and cidofovir. Ribavirin, a guanosine analogue, has broad antiviral activity against both RNA and DNA viruses, including documented activity against adenovirus in vitro. Ribavirin is licensed in aerosol form for the treatment of respiratory syncytial virus infection, and orally in combination with interferon to treat hepatitis C. Intravenous ribavirin is the treatment of choice for infection with hemorrhagic fever viruses. The most common adverse effect of intravenous ribavirin is reversible mild anemia. The use of cidofovir in severe adenovirus infection has been limited by adverse effects, the most significant of which is nephrotoxicity.
We report our experience with intravenous ribavirin therapy for severe adenovirus disease in a series of immunocompromised children and review the literature.
We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 5 children treated with intravenous ribavirin for documented severe adenovirus disease. Two patients developed adenovirus hemorrhagic cystitis after cardiac and bone marrow transplants, respectively. The bone marrow transplant patient also received intravenous cidofovir for progressive disseminated disease. An additional 3 children developed adenovirus pneumonia; 2 were neonates, 1 of whom had partial DiGeorge syndrome. The remaining infant had recently undergone a cardiac transplant. Intravenous ribavirin was administered on a compassionate-use protocol.
Complete clinical recovery followed later by viral clearance was observed in 2 children: the cardiac transplant recipient with adenovirus hemorrhagic cystitis and the immunocompetent neonate with adenovirus pneumonia. The remaining 3 children died of adenovirus disease. Intravenous ribavirin therapy was well tolerated. Use of cidofovir in 1 child was associated with progressive renal failure and neutropenia.
Our series of patients is representative of the spectrum of immunocompromised children at greatest risk for severe adenovirus disease, namely solid-organ and bone marrow transplant recipients, neonates, and children with immunodeficiency. Although intravenous ribavirin was not effective for all children with severe adenovirus disease in this series or in the literature, therapy is unlikely to be of benefit if begun late in the course of the infection. Early identification, eg by polymerase chain reaction of those patients at risk of disseminated adenovirus disease may permit earlier antiviral treatment and better evaluation of therapeutic response.
Two of 5 children with severe adenovirus disease treated with intravenous ribavirin recovered. The availability of newer rapid diagnostic techniques, such as polymerase chain reaction, may make earlier, more effective treatment of adenovirus infection possible. Given the seriousness and increasing prevalence of adenovirus disease in certain hosts, especially children, a large, multicenter clinical trial of potentially useful anti-adenoviral therapies, such as intravenous ribavirin, is clearly required to demonstrate the most effective and least toxic therapy.
Ly-6 is a multigene family of murine polymorphic cell membrane proteins that are glycosydlphosphatidylinositol anchored, widely expressed on lymphoid tissue, and homologous to the recently described human CD59. An unexpected feature of Ly-6 is its high level of expression in the kidney. This renal expression and its interferon (IFN)-gamma inducibility in murine strains expressing different Ly-6 haplotypes were studied with monoclonal antibodies and cDNA probes that recognize Ly-6A/E and Ly-6C. Ly-6 expression was much more extensive in the kidney than in other parenchymal organs. Ly-6A.1/E.2 was extensively expressed on vascular endothelium and on tubular epithelium, particularly in the distal nephron. Pattern of expression differed between strains expressing A and E alleles. Ly-6C was not detected by monoclonal antibodies but was detected by oligonucleotide-specific probes. Treatment with recombinant IFN-gamma or IFN-inducing agents increased Ly-6 expression markedly, particularly on the luminal aspect of the proximal tubular epithelium, where Ly-6A/E became prominent. This luminal expression is typical for glycosydlphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins but contrasts with that of other molecules, such as major histocompatibility classes I and II, which are generally expressed on the basolateral surface of the tubular epithelium. Up-regulation occurred within 6 h of IFN-gamma treatment and returned to normal by 48 h. Similar up-regulation of Ly-6 was seen in murine lupus nephritis and in mercuric chloride nephropathy. The characteristics of renal Ly-6, such as its IFN-gamma responsiveness, endothelial and tubular expression, polymorphism, strong antigenicity, and possible allelic regulation, make it a candidate to be a target molecule in alloresponses. The renal expression of Ly-6 is similar to that of CD59 in the human kidney, supporting the suggestion that these proteins are closely related.
A 29-year-old man reported two episodes, 3 months apart, of dysarthria, each lasting for several hours. It was associated with hypaesthesia over the cheeks. Neurological examination several hours later was unremarkable. On direct questioning the patient reported that he had been taking marihuana and cocaine immediately before each episode. There was also a history of regular abuse of various drugs over several years by this socially well integrated young man.
Cranial computed tomography, cranial magnetic resonance imaging and cerebral scintigraphy indicated multiple cortical and subcortical ischaemic lesions of different sizes and ages. ECG, long-term ECG monitoring, transoesophageal echocardiography and upper abdominal sonography were normal. Cerebrospinal fluid revealed a slightly abnormal blood-brain barrier (5.3 g/l protein, albumin ratio of 7.3). Auto-antibody titres and coagulation and serological tests for neurotropic bacteria and viruses were normal. Urinary drug screening was positive for cannabinoids.
We assume that the patient had transitory cocaine-induced ischaemic attacks (TIA) and clinically silent cerebrovascular accidents (CVA). He was discharged without specific treatment after being informed of the severe neurological sequelae of his drug abuse.
The rising abuse of "designer drugs" is of increasing diagnostic significance in TIA-like symptoms and CVAs in young adults, which may be of haemorrhagic or ischaemic aetiology. Thromboembolic, vasospastic or vasculitic factors play a pathogenetic role. Early performance of appropriate blood and urine tests is of great diagnostic importance.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY), an orexigenic peptide, is involved in the control of food intake. Repeated administration of amphetamine (AMPH), an anorectic agent, results in an anorectic effect on day 1 and a tolerant anorectic effect on the followings. In an attempt to know the role of hypothalamic NPY in these effects of AMPH, contents of hypothalamic NPY were determined by radioimmunoassay at first. In AMPH-treated groups, the contents of hypothalamic NPY decreased rapidly on day 1 but restored gradually to the normal level on the following days as observed in repeated AMPH. An involvement of hypothalamic NPY in the feeding change of repeated AMPH can thus be considered. Moreover, daily injection of NPY antisense oligonucleotide into brain (10 microg/10 microl/day, i.c.v.) to inhibit the gene expression of hypothalamic NPY were performed at 1 hour before daily 2 mg/kg AMPH. The reversion of food intake from the anorectic level to the normal level (tolerant anorexia) was abolished by this antisense pretreatment. It is suggested that hypothalamic NPY may play a role in the change of feeding behavior induced by repeated AMPH administration.
Two episodes of hypotension caused by oral beraprost sodium administration following cardiac surgery are described. The first case was a 67-year-old female who underwent concomitant surgery for mitral valve replacement, tricuspid annuloplasty, and a radiofrequency maze procedure for atrial fibrillation. The second case was a 45-year-old female who underwent 4-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting associated with endarterectomy in the right coronary artery. Beraprost sodium was administered for the treatment of residual pulmonary hypertension in the first case, and was initiated as an antiplatelet agent following coronary endarterectomy in the second case. Hypotension occurred at approximately one hour after beraprost sodium administration in both cases. Careful observation to prevent this adverse effect is critical after the administration of beraprost sodium, especially in patients who have undergone cardiac surgery.
Two triphasic oral contraceptives containing either gestodene or norethindrone as the progestogenic compound combined with ethinyl estradiol were compared in a randomized clinical trial to assess their contraceptive reliability, clinical tolerance and cycle control. Both preparations were effective in preventing pregnancy. The gestodene preparation proved significantly superior regarding cycle control and general tolerance.
In Germany, researchers randomly placed 126 women into a group taking a triphasic oral contraceptive (OC) with gestodene and 128 women into another group taking triphasic norethindrone to do a 1-year controlled, multicenter open trial examining contraceptive efficacy, cycle control, and general tolerance. No one became pregnant during the study, despite mistakes in pill intake in 32 (2.5%) and 44 (3.7%) pill cycles of the gestodene group and norethindrone group, respectively. Women in the gestodene group experienced spotting at a higher rate than those in the norethindrone group (27% vs. 15.8%; p .05). The difference remained significant even when the researchers examined only 1st-time OC users (10.2% vs. 5%; p .05). On the other hand, breakthrough bleeding occurred less often in women in the gestodene group (19.3% vs. 29.6%). Over time, women in the norethindrone group were more likely to gain more than 2 kg than those in the gestodene group. Neither group experienced changes in blood pressure. Neither OC caused any serious adverse events, e.g., thromboembolism. The most common subjective adverse events were painful menstrual periods, breast tension, and headache. The incidence of acne increased in the norethindrone group. Adverse events were responsible for 3.5% of women in the gestodene group and 11.3% in the norethindrone group dropping out, sometimes citing more than 1 adverse event. Women in the norethindrone group were more likely to drop out because of adverse events than were those in the gestodene group (50% of all dropouts vs. 25%; p .05). Triphasic gestodene had better cycle control and was better tolerated than triphasic norethindrone. Weight gain and acne were less common in the gestodene group than the norethindrone group. In conclusion, triphasic gestodene is superior to that of triphasic norethindrone.
In breast cancer, inactivation of the RB tumor suppressor gene is believed to occur via multiple mechanisms to facilitate tumorigenesis. However, the prognostic and predictive value of RB status in disease-specific clinical outcomes has remained uncertain. We investigated RB pathway deregulation in the context of both ER-positive and ER-negative disease using combined microarray datasets encompassing over 900 breast cancer patient samples. Disease-specific characteristics of RB pathway deregulation were investigated in this dataset by evaluating correlation among pathway genes as well as differential expression across patient tumor populations defined by ER status. Survival analysis among these breast cancer samples demonstrates that the RB-loss signature is associated with poor disease outcome within several independent cohorts. Within the ER-negative subpopulation, the RB-loss signature is associated with improved response to chemotherapy and longer relapse-free survival. Additionally, while individual genes in the RB target signature closely reproduce its prognostic value, they also serve to predict and monitor response to therapeutic compounds, such as the cytostatic agent PD-0332991. These results indicate that the RB-loss signature expression is associated with poor outcome in breast cancer, but predicts improved response to chemotherapy based on data in ER-negative populations. While the RB-loss signature, as a whole, demonstrates prognostic and predictive utility, a small subset of markers could be sufficient to stratify patients based on RB function and inform the selection of appropriate therapeutic regimens.
Women who received Norplant contraceptive implants from any of fifteen clinical settings in southeast Texas, U.S.A., were followed for one year to determine their reactions to the method. Of 1,385 who enrolled to receive Norplant implants, 1,253 had implants inserted. Side effects were reported by 78% of those receiving implants and 70% described changes in bleeding patterns. Spotting or irregular bleeding, weight gain and headaches were the conditions reported most frequently. Nine pregnancies were reported during the study period. Six of these, however, existed before the implants were inserted. At the one year anniversary, 143 of women receiving implants had had them removed. Those who discontinued method use were less satisfied, reported more side effects and were more likely to have planned to have another child, thus using the method for spacing, or to have had a change in their marital status while they were using the contraceptive. Providers should counsel patients to focus attention on plans for the future in selecting their contraceptive method. In addition, we recommend, as does the product's distributor, that providers confirm that patients are not pregnant prior to inserting implants.
Toluene diisocyanate (TDI)-induced airway disease is a disorder characterized by chronic airway inflammation and airway remodeling. A recently discovered group of cytokines is the IL-17 family, which has been introduced as an important regulator of immune and inflammatory responses, including airway inflammation. Recently, we have reported that phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of bronchial asthma. However, there are no available data for the effects of PTEN or IL-17 on TDI-induced airway disease and the relationship between PTEN and IL-17. We used a murine model to determine the role of PTEN in the pathogenesis of TDI-induced airway disease and the regulation of IL-17 production. These mice developed the typical pathophysiological features of TDI-induced airway disease and increased IL-17 expression in the lungs. Administration of phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitors or adenoviruses carrying PTEN cDNA (AdPTEN) reduced the pathophysiological features of TDI-induced airway disease and decreased the increased levels of IL-17 expression. Our results also showed that PI3K inhibitors or AdPTEN down-regulated a transcription factor, NF-kappaB activity, and BAY 11-7085 substantially reduced the increased levels of IL-17 after TDI inhalation. We also found that inhibition of IL-17 activity with an anti-IL-17 Ab reduced airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness. These results suggest that PTEN plays a protective role in the pathogenesis of TDI-induced airway disease, at least in part through the regulation of IL-17 expression. Thus, PTEN may be a useful target for treating TDI-induced airway disease by modulating IL-17 expression.
Functional activity of neurotransmitter receptor and their sensitivity to regulation are altered in DM. We evaluated the neuroprotective effect of curcumin in glutamate mediated excitotoxicity in cerebral cortex of streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. Gene expression studies in diabetic rats showed a down regulation of glutamate decarboxylase mRNA leading to accumulation of glutamate. Radioreceptor binding assays showed a significant increase in α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors density which was confirmed by immunohistochemical studies. Decreased glutathione peroxidases gene expression indicates enhanced oxidative stress in diabetic rats. This leads to decreased expression of glutamate aspartate transporter, which in turn reduces glutamate transport. All these events lead to excitotoxic neuronal death in the cerebral cortex, which was confirmed by the increased expression of caspase 3, caspase 8 and BCL2-associated X protein. Curcumin and insulin treatment reversed these altered parameters to near control. We establish, a novel therapeutic role of curcumin by reducing the glutamate mediated excitotoxicity in cerebral cortex of diabetes through modulating the altered neurochemical parameters.
Early administration of high doses of dexamethasone may reduce the risk of chronic lung disease in premature infants but can cause complications. Whether moderate doses would be as effective but safer is not known.
We randomly assigned 220 infants with a birth weight of 501 to 1000 g who were treated with mechanical ventilation within 12 hours after birth to receive dexamethasone or placebo with either routine ventilatory support or permissive hypercapnia. The dexamethasone was administered within 24 hours after birth at a dose of 0.15 mg per kilogram of body weight per day for three days, followed by a tapering of the dose over a period of seven days. The primary outcome was death or chronic lung disease at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age.
The relative risk of death or chronic lung disease in the dexamethasone-treated infants, as compared with those who received placebo, was 0.9 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.8 to 1.1). Since the effect of dexamethasone treatment did not vary according to the ventilatory approach, the two dexamethasone groups and the two placebo groups were combined. The infants in the dexamethasone group were less likely than those in the placebo group to be receiving oxygen supplementation 28 days after birth (P=0.004) or open-label dexamethasone (P=0.01), were more likely to have hypertension (P<0.001), and were more likely to be receiving insulin treatment for hyperglycemia (P=0.02). During the first 14 days, spontaneous gastrointestinal perforation occurred in a larger proportion of infants in the dexamethasone group (13 percent, vs. 4 percent in the placebo group; P=0.02). The dexamethasone-treated infants had a lower weight (P=0.02) and a smaller head circumference (P=0.04) at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age.
In preterm infants, early administration of dexamethasone at a moderate dose has no effect on death or chronic lung disease and is associated with gastrointestinal perforation and decreased growth.
We report the case of a 35-year-old man who presented at our institution with intramural aortic hematoma shortly after inhaling cocaine and smoking crack cocaine. To our knowledge, such a case has not previously been reported in the English medical literature. Problems of diagnosis and the mechanisms of intramural hematoma and aortic dissection are discussed.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents are often used to treat acute inflammatory arthritis because of their effectiveness and the infrequency of reported serious side effects. This report describes two patients who had acute intrinsic renal failure that was triggered by indomethacin. Both patients were volume contracted and had other circulatory impairments. Azotemia was so severe as to require temporary hemodialysis in one patient. Intrinsic renal function began to recover within 5 days after discontinuation of indomethacin. At the time that recovery began, urinary prostaglandin excretion increased in both patients. A detailed review of pertinent experimental data indicates that renal production of prostaglandin is an important compensatory response that helps to maintain renal function in the face of diminished renal blood flow. Our cases provide clinical support for this hypothesis and illustrate the fact that indomethacin, by interfering with this protective mechanism, can lead to acute intrinsic renal failure. Clinicians must be aware of this possible complication and use the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs with caution in patients who have compromised prerenal status.
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID) remains a challenge in Parkinson's disease (PD) drug therapy. In the present study, we examined the effect of L-stepholidine (L-SPD), a known dual dopamine receptor agent, on LID in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned PD rat model. Daily administration of L-DOPA to PD rats for 22 days induced steady expression of LID, co-administration of L-SPD with L-DOPA significantly ameliorated LID without compromising the therapeutic potency of L-DOPA, indicating that L-SPD attenuated LID development. L-SPD alone elicited stable contralateral rotational behavior without inducing significant dyskinesia. Acute administration of L-SPD to rats with established LID produced significant relief of dyskinesia; this effect was mimicked by D(2) receptor antagonist haloperidol, but blunted by 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY100635. Furthermore, the mRNA level of 5-HT(1A) decreased significantly on 6-OHDA-lesioned striata, whereas chronic L-SPD treatment restored 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA level on the lesioned striata. The present data demonstrated that L-SPD elicited antidyskinesia effects via both dopamine (D(2) receptor antagonistic activity) and nondopamine (5-HT(1A) agonistic activity) mechanisms.
The cardiotoxic effects of adriamycin were studied in mammalian myocardial cells in culture as a model system. Adriamycin inhibited cell growth and the rhythmic contractions characteristic of myocardial cells in culture. A possible involvement of energy metabolism was suggested previously, and in this study the adenylate energy charge and phosphorylcreatine mole fraction were determined in the adriamycin-treated cells. The adenylate energy charge was found to be significantly decreased, while the phophorylcreatine mole fraction was unchanged. Such disparity suggests an inhibition of creatine phosphokinase. The addition of 1 mM adenosine to the myocardial cell cultures markedly increases the ATP concentration through a pathway reportedly leading to a compartmentalized ATP pool. In the adriamycin-treated cells, the addition of adenosine increased the adenylate charge and, concomitant with this inrcease, the cells' functional integrity, in terms of percentage of beating cells and rate of contractions, was maintained.
Haloperidol (HAL), olanzapine (OLZ), and sulpiride (SULP) are antipsychotic drugs widely used in the pharmacotherapy of psychopathological symptoms observed in schizophrenia or mood-related psychotic symptoms in affective disorders. Here, we tested the in vitro effects of different concentrations of a typical (HAL) and two atypical (OLZ and SULP) antipsychotic drugs on ectonucleotidase activities from zebrafish brain membranes. HAL inhibited ATP (28.9%) and ADP (26.5%) hydrolysis only at 250 microM. OLZ decreased ATPase activity at all concentrations tested (23.8-60.7%). SULP did not promote significant changes on ATP hydrolysis but inhibited ADP hydrolysis at 250 microM (25.6%). All drugs tested, HAL, OLZ, and SULP, did not promote any significant changes on 5'-nucleotidase activity in the brain membranes of zebrafish. These findings demonstrated that antipsychotic drugs could inhibit NTPDase activities whereas did not change 5'-nucleotidase. Such modulation can alter the adenosine levels, since the ectonucleotidase pathway is an important source of extracellular adenosine. Thus, it is possible to suggest that changes promoted by antipsychotic drugs in the bilayer membrane could alter the NTPDase activities, modulating extracellular ATP and adenosine levels.
