Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-like weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK, TNFSF12) is a member of the TNF superfamily. TWEAK activates the Fn14 receptor, and may regulate apoptosis, proliferation, and inflammation, processes that play a significant role in pathological conditions. However, there is little information on the function and regulation of this system in the kidney. Therefore, TWEAK and Fn14 expression were studied in cultured murine tubular epithelial MCT cells and in mice in vivo. The effect of TWEAK on cell death was determined. We found that TWEAK and Fn14 expression was increased in experimental acute renal failure induced by folic acid. Cultured tubular cells express both TWEAK and the Fn14 receptor. TWEAK did not induce cell death in non-stimulated tubular cells. However, in cells costimulated with TNFalpha/interferon-gamma, TWEAK induced apoptosis through the activation of the Fn14 receptor. Apoptosis was associated with activation of caspase-8, caspase-9, and caspase-3, Bid cleavage, and evidence of mitochondrial injury. There was no evidence of endoplasmic reticulum stress. A pan-caspase inhibitor benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-DL-Asp prevented TWEAK-induced apoptosis, but it sensitized cells to necrosis via generation of reactive oxygen species. In conclusion, cooperation between inflammatory cytokines results in tubular cell death. TWEAK and Fn14 may play a role in renal tubular cell injury.
Seventy-nine patients with cutaneous (62) or mucosal (17) infection with Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis in Três Braços, Bahia, Brazil, were followed for at least 4 years after initiating treatment with antimony. Cutaneous relapses occurred in 6/62 (10%), mucosal relapse after cutaneous infection in 2/62 (3%), and mucosal relapse after mucosal disease in 2/17 (17%). It is concluded that relapse (cutaneous and mucosal) is rare after adequate antimony therapy and that no definite prediction of relapse (clinical, serological or by skin reaction) is possible.
Behavioral and microdialysis studies have been performed on antagonistic A(2A)/D(2) interactions in animal models of Parkinson's Disease. The behavioral analysis involved studies on locomotor activity in reserpinized mice, haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats and rotational behavior in rats with unilateral 6-OHDA lesions of the ascending DA pathways (Ungerstedt model). Dual probe microdialysis studies were indirectly performed on the striatopallidal GABA neurons by studying extracellular glutamate levels in the striatum and globus pallidus of the awake freely moving rat. The striatum was perfused with A(2A) and/or D(2) agonists via reverse microdialysis. The results show that the A(2A) antagonists SCH58261 and KF17837 can increase locomotor activity in reserpinized mice and produce contralateral rotational behavior only after administration of subthreshold doses of l-DOPA or the D(2) like agonist quinpirole. Furthermore, antagonizing the A(2A) receptor (R) reduced haloperidol induced catalepsy. The behavioral results underline the view that A(2A) antagonists act by blocking A(2A) R in A(2A)/D(2) heterodimers where A(2A) R inhibits the D(2) R transduction and D(2) inhibits the adenylate cyclase (AC) activated by A(2A) R. The microdialysis studies show that the A(2A) agonist CGS21680 striatally coperfused with the D(2) agonist quinpirole more potently counteract the D(2) agonist (quinpirole) induced reduction of pallidal glutamate levels in the DA denervated vs the control striatum indicating an enhancement of the inhibitory A(2A)/D(2) interaction. In the DA denervated but not in the control striatum the A(2A) agonist CGS21680 could strongly increase striatal glutamate levels, indicating an increased receptor signaling in the A(2A) R located on the striatal glutamate terminals, where also D(2) like R exist, here probably as D(4). Thus, the signaling of this A(2A) R may be set free by the loss of D(4) tone on the AC activated by A(2A) in this postulated A(2A)/D(4) heteromer on the glutamate terminals. Taken together, the results indicate that the antiparkinsonian actions of A(2A) antagonists probably are produced by blockade of A(2A) R in the A(2A)/D(2) heterodimers mainly located in the striatopallidal GABA neurons.
To test whether exposure to known chemical carcinogens in the atmosphere is capable of explaining the association between concentrations of PM2.5 and lung cancer mortality observed in the extended ACS Cohort Study.
Taking account of possible cancer latency periods, lung cancer rates due to exposure to As, Cr(VI), Ni, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were calculated based on a review of historic measurements from the United States and the use of unit risk factors. The predicted rates were compared with rates of cancer attributable to PM2.5 derived from data in the ACS study.
Despite many uncertainties, the lung cancer rates predicted due to exposure to US urban concentrations of the carcinogenic substances arsenic, nickel, chromium, and PAHs measured in 1960 and earlier (and hence allowing for a latency period) were within the range predicted on the basis of the ACS Cohort Study due to exposure of PM2.5. There are, however, many caveats, most particularly that for the chemical carcinogens to be responsible for the effects attributed to PM2.5 by Pope and colleagues, the concentrations of chemical carcinogens at the time of relevant exposures would need to be correlated with the concentrations of PM2.5 in US urban areas measured between 1979 and 2000 and used in the ACS study.
While many uncertainties remain, it appears plausible that known chemical carcinogens are responsible for the lung cancers attributed to PM2.5 exposure in the extended ACS Cohort Study. However, the possibility should not be ruled out that particulate matter is capable of causing lung cancer independent of the presence of known carcinogens.
Twelve parkinsonian patients on long-term levodopa therapy developed intermittent, myoclonic body jerks. The movements consisted of single unilateral or bilateral abrupt jerks of the extremities and occurred most frequently during sleep. Although directly related to daily dosage of levodopa, the myoclonus was specifically blocked by the serotonin antagonist, methysergide. Levodopa-induced myoclonus may be related to intermittent increases of activity of serotonin in the brain and results from levodopa-induced dysregulation of serotonin activity.
To evaluate patient satisfaction of cervical ripening using dinoprostone (PGE2) by either intravaginal gel or pessary.
A group of 173 nulliparous women requiring cervical ripening were recruited in the study and randomized to receive either intravaginal gel (Prepidil, Upjohn, Milan, Italy [group A]) or intravaginal pessary (Propess, Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Malmö, Sweden [group B]). Before administration of PGE2 and after delivery, the patients answered a questionnaire investigating the anxiety and discomfort caused by cervical ripening.
Of the group, 22 women did not adequately complete the questionnaire; therefore 151 women were included in the study. Before cervical ripening, anxiety and discomfort did not significantly differ between the two study groups; more patients in group A than in group B declared they would have preferred the other form of application. The intensity of pain experienced during the application of PGE2 was higher in group B than in group A. For the future opportunity to choose the application necessary for cervical ripening, more patients in group B than in group A would change the form of application.
Patient satisfaction with the two forms of treatment appears to be equally good. The application of the intravaginal pessary causes more discomfort than the vaginal gel.
Accidental injection of local anesthetics containing epinephrine into a digit can cause distal tissue necrosis. Norepinephrine infiltration in subcutaneous tissue also causes tissue necrosis. Phentolamine has been used to prevent necrosis from norepinephrine. Because both epinephrine and norepinephrine are alpha- and beta-adrenergic stimulators, the rat foot model was developed to study the possible use of phentolamine or labetalol in protection against tissue necrosis after injection of epinephrine in the extremity. Phentolamine was found to be useful in preventing tissue necrosis after the injection of local anesthetic containing epinephrine in the skin of the rat foot. Labetalol was found to be less effective in preventing tissue necrosis. Phentolamine may be useful in preventing tissue necrosis after the inadvertent injection of epinephrine containing local anesthetics in the digit.
Toona sinensis Roem (TS) leaf tea as a health food for the improvement of blood sugar and hypertension has been demonstrated. Thioacetamide (TAA), a hepatotoxin, causes the progression of liver fibrosis. In this study, we tested the effects of TS leaf on TAA-induced liver injury. TAA (200mg/kg Bwt/3 days, i.p.) treated rats were orally administrated with TS leaf extract (1g/kg Bwt/10 days) three times. After 30 days treatment, the morphological data showed that TS leaf extract given to TAA-treated rats had less liver fibrosis. The GOT/GPT, collagen 1 and collagen 3 mRNAs of livers in TAA-treated rats were elevated when compared to normal rats. The improvements of GOT/GPT, collagen 1 and collagen 3 mRNAs were shown in the TS leaf extract given to TAA-treated rats. TS leaf extract given to TAA-treated rats showed higher levels of cytochrome P450 (1A1, 2A and reductase) than those of TAA-treated rats. Compared to the TAA-treated group, TGFbeta1 mRNA (RT-PCR) was decreased with an increase of TGFbetaR1 protein (western blot) in the TS leaf extract given to TAA-treated rats. The decreased tendency of FGFR2 was found in the TS leaf extract given to TAA-treated rats. The result implies that TS leaf possesses beneficial effects on liver injury through increments of detoxification and the metabolic pathway.
Macrophage scavenger receptors facilitate the uptake of modified low-density lipoprotein (LDL), formation of foam cells, and development of atherosclerosis. Given that proinflammatory cytokines, including IL-6, can modulate the macrophage foaming process, the aim of the present study was to determine whether the synthetic retinoic acid receptor-alpha/beta-specific agonist Am80, which is also an IL-6 inhibitor, can modulate macrophage lipid accumulation and foam cell formation.
Am80 suppressed IL-6 production induced by 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) or angiotensin II in mouse Raw264 macrophages. It also suppressed expression of the 2 major scavenger receptors (scavenger receptor-A [SR-A] and CD36), in part by inhibiting IL-6, and inhibited macrophage foam cell formation. Systemic administration of Am80 led to reductions in the areas of atherosclerotic lesions and foam cell accumulation in the aortas of apolipoprotein E (apoE)-deficient mice and reduced serum concentrations of IL-6 and IL-1beta without affecting body weights, serum lipid profiles or IL-10 levels.
Am80 suppresses scavenger receptor expression and macrophage foam cell formation in vitro and prevents atherogenesis in apoE-deficient mice in vivo. This suggests Am80 is a novel candidate agent that could be highly useful in the prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis.
Ischemia and reperfusion injury (IRI) is the main etiology of acute renal failure in native and transplanted kidneys. In the transplantation field, immunosuppressive drugs may play an additional role in acute graft dysfunction. Rapamycin may impair renal regeneration post IRI. Heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) is a protective gene with anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic actions. We investigated whether HO-1 played a role in rapamycin-induced renal dysfunction in an established model of IRI. Rapamycin (3 mg/kg) was administered to mice before being subjected to 45 min of ischemia. Animals subjected to IRI presented with impaired renal function that peaked at 24 h (2.05+/-0.23 mg/dl), decreasing thereafter. Treatment with rapamycin caused even more renal dysfunctions (2.30+/-0.33 mg/dl), sustained up to 120 h after reperfusion (1.54+/-0.4 mg/dl), when compared to the control (0.63+/-0.09 mg/dl, P<0.05). Rapamycin delayed tubular regeneration that was normally higher in the control group at day 5 (68.53+/-2.30 vs 43.63+/-3.11%, P<0.05). HO-1 was markedly upregulated after IRI and its expression was even enhanced by rapamycin (1.32-fold). However, prior induction of HO-1 by cobalt protoporphyrin improved the renal dysfunction imposed by rapamycin, mostly at later time points. These results demonstrated that rapamycin used in ischemic-injured organs could also negatively affect post-transplantation recovery. Modulation of HO-1 expression may represent a feasible approach to limit rapamycin acute toxicity.
The relationship between blood cocaine concentrations and pharmacological effects is of both theoretical and practical interest. This study utilized a computer-assisted smoking device for the delivery of three active doses (10, 20, and 40 mg) of cocaine base to seven human volunteers. Doses were administered in an ascending dose design with random placement of placebo. Physiological, subjective, and performance measures were collected concurrently with blood samples. Mean peak plasma cocaine concentrations were achieved at 2 min after the 20-mg and 40-mg doses and at 5 min after the 10-mg dose. Maximal responses in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, "feel", "good" drug, and drug "liking" subjective effects were also achieved immediately after drug administration. Pupil diameter and heart rate increases demonstrated a modest counter-clockwise hysteresis in relation to plasma cocaine concentrations shortly after dosing. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, and some subjective and performance measures of drug effect demonstrated a biphasic response after smoked cocaine. Initial increases above baseline levels were followed by an apparent compensatory decrease below baseline levels at a later time after smoked cocaine. Despite evidence of hysteresis and biphasic responses for some measures, linear correlation was obtained between mean plasma cocaine concentrations and several pharmacological effects over a period of 4 h after dosing. Several subjective and cardiovascular measures returned to baseline levels in the presence of detectable concentrations of cocaine.
Prior studies in adults have shown that metoclopramide (MCP), when given in high intravenous (IV) doses (2 mg/kg), is a highly effective antiemetic for chemotherapy-induced vomiting. It is well-tolerated in older adults, but younger adults have an increased disposition to acute extrapyramidal reactions (EPRs). Before studying the efficacy of MCP as an antiemetic in children, we first had to establish the safe dose range. We performed a dose-increase MCP toxicity study in children receiving highly emetic chemotherapy such as cisplatin (120 mg/m2) or cyclophosphamide (greater than 900 mg/m2), beginning with a dose of 0.2 mg/kg and increasing the dose in nine steps to 3 mg/kg. MCP was given every two hours for four doses beginning one-half hour before chemotherapy. To reduce the incidence of EPRs, we added concomitant diphenhydramine. In MCP doses less than 2 mg, toxicity was minimal. In doses greater than or equal to 2 mg, 4/27 (15%) had EPRs and 9/27 (33%) had akathisia. Children who received two consecutive days of MCP had a higher frequency of EPRs. Metoclopramide (2 mg/kg) had promising antiemetic efficacy in a preliminary nonrandomized trial. Chemotherapy-experienced children vomited fewer than five times in 9/21 (43%) trials, and new patients vomited fewer than five times in 7/10 (70%) trials. MCP will become more useful as an antiemetic in children if better measures to prevent EPRs can be developed. Chemotherapy-induced emesis has the same negative implications in children as it does in adults and optimum antiemetic regimens can only be discovered by conducting randomized clinical trials in children.
We previously showed that chronic cocaine use by active illicit users produced a longer plasma half-life than expected based on acute low-dose cocaine studies. Here we report urinary excretion patterns of cocaine metabolites as benzoylecgonine (BE) equivalents from 18 of the same individuals, housed for up to 14 days on a closed research unit. In addition, we evaluated whether creatinine normalization of BE equivalents increased mean detection time and reduced mean within-subject variability. All urine voids (N = 953) were individually assayed; BE equivalents were determined semi-quantitatively by FPIA. Compared to concentration in first void after admission, BE equivalents decreased to approximately 33%, 8%, and 4% at 24, 48, and 72 h, respectively. Mean +/- SD (range) time to first negative specimen (BE equivalents < 300 ng/mL) was 43.6 +/- 17.1 (16-66) h. BE equivalents fluctuated considerably across successive specimens; 69% of participants tested positive at least once after testing negative, and the mean time to last positive specimen was 57.5 +/- 31.6 (11-147) h after the first specimen. Thus, mean cocaine metabolite detection times were consistent with prolonged elimination, with 63% of participants testing positive longer than the expected 48-h window of detection after admission to the unit. Mean time to last positive after last use of cocaine, known by self-report only, was approximately 81 +/- 34 (34-162) h. Creatinine normalization, with the cut-off of 300 ng BE equivalents/mg creatinine, increased detection time: mean time to first negative specimen was 54.8 +/- 20.7 (20-100) h, and mean time to last positive specimen was 88.4 +/- 51.0 (35.6-235) h. Compared with the concentration in the first void after admission, BE equivalents/creatinine decreased to approximately 56%, 6%, and 5% at 24, 48, and 72 h. However, creatinine normalization did not reduce the fluctuation of BE equivalents across successive specimens. Thus, creatinine normalized values may be useful when the goal is to maximize the probability or duration of cocaine metabolite detection, but may be less useful in determining whether an individual has used cocaine since a previous specimen collection.
We compared the Swedish Coronary Angiography and Angioplasty Registry with the Swedish 'Hospital Discharge Register' to assess contrast media (CM)-induced renal failure. Hospitals used only one type CM. From 2000 to 2003, iodixanol (iso-osmolar) was used in 45 485 patients, ioxaglate (low osmolar) in 12 440 subjects. To include the earlier used CM iohexol (low osmolar), analysis extended back to 1990 (86 334 patients). Incidence of clinically significant renal failure was greatest for patients receiving the iso-osmolar CM iodixanol (1.7%). Ioxaglate-treated patients had a significantly lower renal failure incidence (0.8%, P<0.001). The odds ratio for iodixanol-treated patients was significantly higher than for ioxaglate (1 vs 0.48, P<0.001). In subsets of either diabetic patients or patients with previous renal failure, odds ratios for renal failure remained greater in the iodixanol groups (P<0.01). Hospitals switching CM to iodixanol experienced a doubling in clinically significant renal failure after cardiac procedures. Dialysis was required in 0.2% of patients receiving iodixanol, which was significantly higher (P<0.01) than for ioxaglate-treated patients (0.1%). Iohexol-treated patients had a similar low risk for developing clinically significant renal failure (0.9%) as ioxaglate. In conclusion, risk of developing renal failure and required dialysis after coronary procedures is higher when patients received iodixanol than ioxaglate or iohexol.
Thalidomide has been reported as efficacious in refractory cutaneous lupus erythematosus (LE). The most fearful side-effects are teratogenicity and neuropathy. We reported clinical efficacy of long-term low-dose use of thalidomide in 65 patients with LE, emphasizing the prevalence of adverse effects, especially of neuropathy and its related factors. Data obtained from medical records included age, sex, disease duration, and the presence of diagnostic criteria for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), the extent and activity of cutaneous lesions and previous treatments. Sixty-three patients (98.9%) presented complete or partial improvement with thalidomide therapy. Drowsiness occurred in 50 patients (77%). Twenty-eight patients (43.2%) presented neuropathy symptoms. Nerve conduction studies were done in 21 (75%) of them and were abnormal in 12 (57%). With the interruption of thalidomide, 24 (82.5%) had complete or partial improvement of neuropathy symptoms and 23 (82%) of them had cutaneous relapse. There were no significant differences between those who developed or not neuropathy in treatment duration, age, total dose and systemic versus cutaneous LE. In conclusion, thalidomide can be used in refractory cutaneous LE with great efficacy and relative security. Controlled studies with schemes with lower doses or intermittent usage or alternative drugs are wanted to reduce the burden of cutaneous morbidity of lupus erythematosus.
To evaluate the effect of endovascular embolization with alpha-NBCA on cerebral arteriovenous malformation with NBCA and emphasize the mainpoint of the embolizing technique.
469 patients with cerebral arteriovenous malformation underwent endovascular embolization with alpha-NBCA by using microcatheter under digital subtraction angiography.
469 patients were treated successfully, 467 cases recovered clinically, 2 patients died. 469 patients underwent embolization therapy 1 108 times, ranging 1 to 8 times with an average of 2.3 times. 100% embolization was achieved in 155 cases, 90% approximately 100% in 93, 80% approximately 90% in 105, 70% approximately 80% in 78, 60% approximately 70% in 27, below 60% in 11. Nineteen cases received gamma-knife (or X-knife) therapy alone. 117 cases received gamma-knife (or X-knife) therapy after embolization, 32 cases received operations. Six cases suffered from different complications: 1 case with cerebral infarction recovered after urokinase injection, 4 cases suffered from intracranial hemorrhage, and 1 suffered from catheter resorting in nidus.
Endovascular embolization is a safe, reliable and effective treatment for cerebral arteriovenous malformation.
Randomised, double-blind cross-over trials were performed in seven anephric patients to determine the effect of the orally active angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril on blood pressure in fluid-depleted and fluid-replete patients. Patients were given captopril, 100 mg orally, or placebo one hour after haemodialysis, when they were fluid depleted. Their mean (+/- SEM) supine blood pressure fell from 127 +/- 12/71 +/- 6 mm Hg before captopril to 106 +/- 13/54 +/- 4 mm Hg 24 hours after the drug, while on placebo it rose from 123 +/- 11/73 +/- 5 mm Hg to 134 +/- 10/82 +/- 8 mm Hg. All patients developed orthostatic hypotension after captopril. In the fluid-replete state, two days after haemodialysis, captopril had no effect on blood pressure. The plasma concentration of active renin was extremely low and did not rise after fluid withdrawal or captopril. Thus the hypotensive effect of captopril did not appear to depend on circulating renin concentrations. The concept of "renin-dependent" hypertension, which is responsive to captopril, as opposed to "volume-dependent" hypertension, which is not responsive to captopril, may therefore be invalid.
Recent work with head-up tilt-table testing has suggested that many patients with syncope may have recurrent neurally mediated episodes of bradycardia, hypotension, or both. The purpose of this study was to determine how to identify patients at high risk of a recurrence of neuromediated syncope after a positive isoproterenol/tilt-table test.
A cohort of 101 drug-free patients in a university hospital outpatient clinic with syncope and a positive isoproterenol/tilt-table test underwent baseline assessment of demographic variables, symptomatic burden, and hemodynamic and clinical responses to tilt testing. The primary outcome measure was the time to the first recurrent syncopal spell. The actuarial probabilities of remaining syncope free after 1 and 2 years were 72% and 60%, respectively. Multivariate proportional hazards analysis demonstrated that the most powerful predictor of a recurrence of syncope was the logarithm of the number of preceding syncopal spells (P<.001). Other predictive variables included the duration of syncopal symptoms, tilt test symptomatic outcome, and trough heart rate. The probability of a recurrence of syncope also varied with the logarithm of the frequency of preceding spells (P=.008). The median frequency of pretest spells was 0.3/month; after the tilt test, the median frequency dropped approximately 90% to 0.03 per month.
The risk of a recurrence of syncope after a positive tilt-table test can be predicted with simple pretest and intratest variables.
Antinuclear factors were demonstrated during D-penicillamine treatment in patients with rheumatiod arthritis (72) and scleroderma (7). While in 13 antinuclear factors were demonstrable already before treatment was started, they occurred in the course of treatment in another 34. D-penicillamine administration had to be discontinued in 18 because of severe side effects, with a marked correlation between their severity and the presence of antinuclear factors. Side effects requiring stoppage of the drug were especially common in patients who had antinuclear factors even before onset of treatment. The severest complication of D-penincillamine treatment, renal damage, was found only in patients with antinuclear factors, in this instance antibodies against denatured DNA. The following therapeutic consequences should be drawn from these findings: (1) D-penicillamine should, if possible, not be given to any patient with antinuclear factors; (2) in patients in whom antinuclear factors occur in the course of D-penicillamine treatment but its administration is to be continued, blood picture, renal functions and urine must be regularly tested.
Not all asthma can be adequately controlled, despite the use of high-dose inhaled corticosteroids. Because cysteinyl-leukotrienes (Cys-LT) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of asthma, we hypothesized that the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast, in combination with high-doses of inhaled corticosteroids, might be efficacious in severe asthma. In a double-blind, parallel group study, 368 chronic adult asthmatic patients treated with inhaled corticosteroids (1,000 to 4,000 microgram/d), who had a predefined level of asthma symptoms during the run in period of the study, were randomly assigned to receive additional treatment with a high dose of zafirlukast (80 mg twice daily) (n = 180) or placebo (n = 188) for 6 wk. Compared with placebo, zafirlukast produced a significant improvement over baseline in the primary study endpoint of mean morning peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) (18.7 L/min versus 1.5 L/min, p < 0.001), as well as in evening PEFR (p < 0.01), FEV(1) (p < 0.05), daytime symptom score (p < 0.001), and beta(2)-agonist use (p < 0.001). Furthermore, zafirlukast significantly reduced the risk of an exacerbation of asthma (odds ratio [OR]: 0.61; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.38 to 0.99) and the risk of patients requiring a further increase in asthma controller therapy (OR: 0.4; 95% CI: 0.2 to 0.8). In conclusion, in patients taking high-dose inhaled corticosteroids, zafirlukast improves pulmonary function and asthma symptoms, and reduces the risk of an asthma exacerbation, suggesting that the contribution of leukotrienes to asthma symptoms and exacerbations is not adequately controlled by high-dose inhaled corticosteroids.
In responder mouse strains repeated injections of subtoxic doses of HgCl2 induce formation of antinuclear autoantibodies (ANA) and antinucleolar autoantibodies (ANolA). Others have shown that responsiveness to HgCl2-induced formation of ANA and ANolA is linked to H-2. Here, we extend these studies to a variety of mouse strains not tested previously. After confirming that strain B10.S (H-2s) is a high responder we have shown that strains B10.D2 (H-2d) and B10.BR (H-2k) are nonresponders. By comparing a panel of strains carrying appropriate intra-H-2 recombinant haplotypes derived from d, k and s, we were able to map responsiveness to As. Interestingly, among four strains all of which were As, and thus responsive, only the two H-2E- ones, B10.S and B10.RSD2, were high responders whereas the two H-2E+ ones, B10.HTT and B10.S(9R), were significantly less responsive. Thus, the genetics of HgCl2-induced autoantibody formation follow the rules established for immune responses to a variety of different antigens in that expression of H-2E "suppressed" the response.
To derive risk estimates for venous thromboembolism (VTE) in women prescribed cyproterone acetate combined with ethinyloestradiol (CPA/EE), a drug licensed in the UK for the treatment of women with acne or hirsutism. CPA/EE provides a treatment option for women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). CPA/EE has been associated with an increased risk of VTE.
Using the General Practice Research Database, we conducted cohort and case-control analyses in all women aged 15-39 and then nested in a population of women of the same age with acne, hirsutism or PCOS.
The incidence rate ratio (IRR) for VTE in women exposed to CPA/EE versus conventional combined oral contraceptives (COCs) was significantly raised (all women: 1.92; 95% CI: 1.22,2.88; nested: 2.51; 95% CI: 1.07,5.75). Using exposure to conventional COCs as the reference, the adjusted odds ratio (ORadj) for VTE associated with CPA/EE was 1.45 (95% CI: 0.80,2.64) in all women and 1.71 (95% CI: 0.31,9.49) in women with acne, hirsutism or PCOS.
The risk of VTE associated with CPA/EE use does not differ significantly from that associated with the use of conventional COCs. These data are reassuring and together with knowledge of the risks associated with other treatments for acne, in particular, should influence prescribing practice.
Sunitinib (SUN) is a new tyrosine kinase inhibitor that possesses both anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor activities. Although SUN has improved survival rate in cancer patients, cardiotoxicity has been reported as a significant side effect. Several studies suggested a role for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and its regulated genes such as cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) in the pathogenesis of heart failure and cardiac hypertrophy. To test the hypothesis that SUN induces cardiac hypertrophy through the modulation of AhR, Wistar albino rats were treated for 15 and 30 days with increasing doses of SUN (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg), whereas at the in vitro level, rat cardiomyocyte H9c2 cells were incubated with SUN (1, 2.5, and 5 μM). Thereafter, cardiac hypertrophy parameters were determined at the biochemical, histopathology, and gene expression levels. SUN treatment causes increase in cardiac enzymes, changes in histopathology, and induction in several hypertrophic markers. This was associated with proportional increase in the CYP1A1 gene in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The direct involvement of AhR in the SUN-induced cardiac hypertrophy in H9c2 cells was supported by the ability of resveratrol, an AhR antagonist, to block the SUN-induced hypertrophy and the ability of SB203580, a novel AhR agonist, to potentiate SUN-induced hypertrophic genes. This is the first demonstration that SUN induces hypertrophic genes in vivo and in vitro rat cardiomyocyte through AhR/CYP1A1-mediated mechanism.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the most common form of irreversible blindness in developed countries. Variants in the factor H gene (CFH, also known as HF1), which encodes a major inhibitor of the alternative complement pathway, are associated with the risk for developing AMD. Here we test the hypothesis that variation in genes encoding other regulatory proteins of the same pathway is associated with AMD. We screened factor B (BF) and complement component 2 (C2) genes, located in the major histocompatibility complex class III region, for genetic variation in two independent cohorts comprising approximately 900 individuals with AMD and approximately 400 matched controls. Haplotype analyses identify a statistically significant common risk haplotype (H1) and two protective haplotypes. The L9H variant of BF and the E318D variant of C2 (H10), as well as a variant in intron 10 of C2 and the R32Q variant of BF (H7), confer a significantly reduced risk of AMD (odds ratio = 0.45 and 0.36, respectively). Combined analysis of the C2 and BF haplotypes and CFH variants shows that variation in the two loci can predict the clinical outcome in 74% of the affected individuals and 56% of the controls. These data expand and refine our understanding of the genetic risk for AMD.
Since its initial description by Mollaret in 1944, the etiology of the chronic aseptic meningitis has remained unknown. This rare disease may cause diagnostic problems if bacterial or viral causes are suspected. A different form of aseptic meningitis may be seen following a variety of drug treatments, especially with non-steroidal anti-rheumatic drugs: In many reports since 1978, meningitic attacks following administration of ibuprofen have been reported. We describe two cases of Mollaret-Meningitis with certain specialities: one case shows clear encephalitic involvement with aphasia in all six attacks. In the other case, five meningitic attacks appeared spontaneously, while two were drug-induced: the first attack was seen after a lumbar myelography with lopamidol and one attack appeared two hours after oral administration of 400 mg ibuprofen. It is suggested that Mollaret-Meningitis is a special form of a drug-induced allergic reaction, the provoking agent of which remains unknown.
The authors describe a patient who experienced a prolonged course of intrathecal baclofen withdrawal syndrome after removal of an implantable baclofen pump for treatment of pump infection and meningitis. The current literature outlines management options for the acute management of this syndrome. In this report the authors discuss the long-term presentation of this syndrome and suggest a treatment strategy for management of the syndrome. A 37-year-old man who presented with a baclofen pump infection and meningitis experienced acute onset of intrathecal baclofen withdrawal syndrome 12 hours after the pump had been surgically removed. The patient's symptoms evolved into a severe, treatment-refractory withdrawal syndrome lasting longer than 1 month. Oral baclofen replacement with adjunctive administration of parenteral gamma-aminobutyric acid agonists only served to stabilize the patient's critical condition throughout his hospital course. Replacement of the baclofen pump and restoration of intrathecal delivery of the medication was necessary to trigger the patient's dramatic recovery and complete reversal of the withdrawal syndrome within approximately 48 hours. These findings indicate that a more direct method of treating infected baclofen pumps than immediate surgical removal is necessary to prevent the onset of intrathecal baclofen withdrawal syndrome. Various options for preventing the onset of the syndrome while simultaneously treating the infection are discussed.
