Serum 3 beta-hydroxy-5-cholenoic acid (3 beta-OH-delta 5) was analyzed in 100 cases (90 patients with hepatobiliary diseases, 10 normal subjects) and its clinical significance investigated. The measurement of 3 beta-OH-delta 5 was performed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with immobilized 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3 beta-HSD) as the enzyme column. Esterified 3 beta-OH-delta 5 was measured after enzymatic hydrolysis with sulfatase and beta-glucuronidase. 3 beta-OH-delta 5 was hardly detected in normal cases. On the other hand, serum 3 beta-OH-delta 5 levels were remarkably high in cholestatic cases and also high in other cases with high bilirubin levels. The ratio of glycine- to taurine-conjugates (G/T ratio) was effective in discriminating cholestasis from hepatocellular damage such as in cases of acute hepatitis or fulminant hepatitis. More than 90% of the 3 beta-OH-delta 5, which is toxic, was sulfated or glucuronidated, suggesting detoxification by esterified bile acids. Significant increases of taurine-conjugated 3 beta-OH-delta 5 were observed in cases with pruritus, and a relationship between taurine-conjugated and pruritus was presumed. Therefore, analysis of 3 beta-OH-delta 5 is considered to be effective in clarifying the pathogenesis of hepatobiliary diseases.
Favorable results have been reported for the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer with the combination of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin (LV). In these investigations the highest response rates were obtained in non-pretreated patients. In the present study, 22 patients with primary or acquired resistance to single-agent 5-FU and documented progressive disease on 5-FU were given a bolus injection of LV at a dose of 200 mg/m2, 1 h prior to a 2 h infusion of 5-FU at a dose of 370-770 mg/m2 on 5 consecutive days, and this was repeated every 3 weeks. Whenever possible the dose of 5-FU was escalated to find the maximum tolerable dose. No objective response was observed. Five patients had short-lasting stable disease. Despite 5-FU dose escalation, toxicity was acceptable. One patient developed 5-FU-related angina pectoris with EKG changes. It is concluded that in the schedule used, combined LV/5-FU treatment is ineffective for patients with 5-FU-resistant advanced colorectal cancer.
Due to a policy of no release, oil sands process-affected water (OSPW), produced by the surface-mining oil sands industry in North Eastern Alberta, Canada, is stored on-site in tailings ponds. Currently, ozonation is considered one possible method for remediation of OSPW by reducing the concentrations of dissolved organic compounds, including naphthenic acids (NAs), which are considered the primary toxic constituents. However, further work was needed to evaluate the effectiveness of ozonation in reducing the toxicity of OSPW and to ensure that ozonation does not increase the toxicity of OSPW. This study examined effects of untreated, ozone-treated, and activated charcoal-treated OSPW (OSPW, O3-OSPW, and AC-OSPW) on the early life stage (ELS) of fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas). Success of hatching of eggs, spontaneous movement, and incidences of hemorrhage, pericardial edema, and malformation of the spine of embryos were examined. To elucidate the mechanism of toxicity, concentrations of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were measured, and the abundances of transcripts of genes involved in biotransformation of xenobiotics, response to oxidative stress, and apoptosis were quantified by real-time PCR. Compared to the control group, which had an embryo survival rate of 97.9 ± 2.08%, survival was significantly less when exposed to OSPW (43.8 ± 7.12%). Eggs exposed to untreated OSPW exhibited a significantly greater rate of premature hatching, and embryos exhibited greater spontaneous movement. Incidences of hemorrhage (50.0 ± 3.40%), pericardial edema (56.3 ± 7.12%), and malformation of the spine (37.5 ± 5.38%) were significantly greater in embryos exposed to OSPW compared to controls. These effects are typical of exposure to dioxin-like compounds, however, abundance of transcripts of cyp1a was not significantly greater in embryos exposed to OSPW. Significantly greater concentrations of ROS, and greater abundances of transcripts cyp3a, gst, sod, casp9, and apopen compared to controls, indicated that exposure to OSPW caused oxidative stress, which can result in damage to mitochondria and promote activation of caspase enzymes and apoptotic cell death. Removal of dissolved organic constituents by ozone treatment, or by activated charcoal, significantly attenuated all of the adverse effects associated with untreated OSPW. The results suggest that the organic fraction of OSPW can negatively impact the development of fathead minnow embryos through oxidative stress and apoptosis, and that ozonation attenuates this developmental toxicity.
Preclinical studies indicate that dihydropyridine-type calcium channel antagonists modulate dopamine neurotransmitter function and can reduce cocaine-reinforced behaviors. Amlodipine, a long-acting dihydropyridine-type calcium channel antagonist related to isradipine and nifedipine, was administered in open label fashion for 12 weeks to 26 cocaine-dependent patients. In subjects expressing cocaine craving, craving significantly declined during the course of the 12 weeks. Five individuals reported flushing, headache, fatigue, nocturia, nausea, and lightheadedness. No conclusions regarding efficacy can be made due to the small number of subjects and the open-label design.
A comparison was made of the incidence of postoperative myalgia (POM) and fasciculations when atracurium (ATR) or d-Tubocurarine (DTC) was given prior to succinylcholine (SDC) for facilitation of tracheal intubation. The subjects were 44 ASA physical status I or II outpatient females undergoing laparoscopy. They were assigned to one of three groups: Group 1 received 0.025 mg/kg ATR; Group 2 received 0.05 mg/kg DTC, and Group 3 received saline (NS). Thiopental was administered one minute and 45 seconds after pretreatment. Three minutes after pretreatment, SDC 1.5 mg/kg was given, and fasciculations were recorded on a scale of 0-3. The patients were questioned one and three days postoperatively about POM and their responses recorded using a scale of 0-3. Fasciculations occurred in 79% of patients given saline, in 46% of those receiving ATR and in 12% of those given DTC. Eighty-five percent of ATR patients were free of POM on postoperative day one. The corresponding figures for DTC and NS were 59% and 43%, respectively. The difference between ATR and NS achieved statistical significance, leading to the conclusion that DTC is a better defasciculant than ATR. DTC was, however, not significantly better than NS in the prevention of POM. Findings suggest that ATR may be the drug of choice for the prevention of POM.
In two patients with severe hypertension and moderately severe renal insufficiency, metolazone and furosemide were used in combination with propranolol, methyldopa, and hydralazine to augment control of blood pressure. This combination of diuretics also was used in five patients with refractory congestive heart failure. The patients developed severe electrolyte disturbances with a general pattern of hyponatremia. disproportionate hypochloremia, alkalosis, and phyokalemia. These abnormalities were transient in the patients with severe hypertension and moderately severe renal insufficiency. Effective long-term control of blood pressure was obtained. In the patients with heart failure, edema persisted. Due to the severity of the electrolyte derangements, metolazone and furosemide were discontinued. Because of potential untoward effects, this combination of diuretics should be used with caution.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of mannitol (Man), dexamethasone (DM), dichloroacetic acid (DCA) and 1,3-butanediol (BD) in reduction of posttraumatic cortical edema following brain deformation injury to rats. Ten minutes prior to fluid percussion injury, each animal received one of four pretreatments or placebo: Man, 1 g/kg intravenously, DM 3.0 mg/kg intravenously, DCA 25 mg/kg intraperitoneally BD 0.5 mg/kg intraperitoneally (n = 12 per treatment group), or equivolume saline (n = 8 per corresponding trauma group). Six hours after trauma, cortical tissue was harvested. Using a benzene-kerosene gradient column calibrated with potassium sulfate standards, the specific gravity (SpG) of cortical tissue from each group was measured and compared (ANOVA, P < .05). The measured cortical SpG from traumatized animals receiving Man (mean 1.037 +/- SEM .001), DCA (1.038 +/- .001), and BD (1.039 +/- .001) were equal to SpG from untraumitized cortex (1.041 +/- .001), and were significantly greater than SpG from traumatized cortex for animals receiving DM (1.035 +/- .001) or placebo (1.033 +/- .002). Pretreatment with DCA, Man, and BD appears to protect against development of posttraumatic cortical edema when measured 6 hours after blunt head trauma in the rat. Each of these chemical treatments appears effective in preventing or reducing posttraumatic cortical edema.
Patients and laboratory animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy display loss of layer III pyramidal neurons in medial entorhinal cortex and hyperexcitability and hypersynchrony of less vulnerable layer II stellate cells. We sought to test the hypothesis that loss of layer III pyramidal neurons triggers synaptic reorganization and formation of recurrent, excitatory synapses among layer II stellate cells in epileptic pilocarpine-treated rats. Laser-scanning photo-uncaging of glutamate focally activated neurons in layer II while excitatory synaptic responses were recorded in stellate cells. Photostimulation revealed previously unidentified, functional, recurrent, excitatory synapses between layer II stellate cells in control animals. Contrary to the hypothesis, however, control and epileptic rats displayed similar levels of recurrent excitation. Recently, hyperexcitability of layer II stellate cells has been attributed, at least in part, to loss of GABAergic interneurons and inhibitory synaptic input. To evaluate recurrent inhibitory circuits in layer II, we focally photostimulated interneurons while recording inhibitory synaptic responses in stellate cells. IPSCs were evoked more than five times more frequently in slices from control versus epileptic animals. These findings suggest that in this model of temporal lobe epilepsy, reduced recurrent inhibition contributes to layer II stellate cell hyperexcitability and hypersynchrony, but increased recurrent excitation does not.
Chitinase may play a role in regulating allergic diseases.
We studied the role of chitinase in a mouse model exposed to diesel exhaust particles (DEP). Mice were exposed to intranasal DEP (0.6 mg/mL) for 5 days and challenged with aerosolized DEP (6 mg/m(3)) on days 6-8. Enhanced pause (Penh), as an airway obstruction marker, was measured on day 9, and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and lung tissues were collected on day 10. The expression of Ym1 and Ym2 mRNA was assessed in lung tissue extracts by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
DEP induced significant increases in methacholine-induced Penh and IL-4 levels in BAL fluid relative to the control group. Peribronchial and perivascular inflammatory cell infiltrates were prominent in the DEP group. DEP induced Ym1 and Ym2 mRNA expression in lung tissue extracts relative to the control group.
These results demonstrate that DEP induced airway hyperresponsiveness and Ym mRNA expression via a Th2 cell-biased response, suggesting that chitinase may play an important role in airway inflammation and responsiveness upon exposure to DEP in a mouse model, and may therefore be involved in regulating allergic diseases.
Often, chemotherapy by doxorubicin (Adriamycin) is limited due to life threatening cardiotoxicity in patients during and posttherapy. Recently, we have shown that moderate diet restriction remarkably protects against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. This cardioprotection is accompanied by decreased cardiac oxidative stress and triglycerides and increased cardiac fatty-acid oxidation, ATP synthesis, and upregulated JAK/STAT3 pathway. In the current study, we investigated whether a physiological intervention by feeding 40% high fat diet (HFD), which induces obesity in male Sprague-Dawley rats (250-275 g), sensitizes to doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. A LD(10) dose (8 mg doxorubicin/kg, ip) administered on day 43 of the HFD feeding regimen led to higher cardiotoxicity, cardiac dysfunction, lipid peroxidation, and 80% mortality in the obese (OB) rats in the absence of any significant renal or hepatic toxicity. Doxorubicin toxicokinetics studies revealed no change in accumulation of doxorubicin and doxorubicinol (toxic metabolite) in the normal diet-fed (ND) and OB hearts. Mechanistic studies revealed that OB rats are sensitized due to: (1) higher oxyradical stress leading to upregulation of uncoupling proteins 2 and 3, (2) downregulation of cardiac peroxisome proliferators activated receptor-alpha, (3) decreased plasma adiponectin levels, (4) decreased cardiac fatty-acid oxidation (666.9+/-14.0 nmol/min/g heart in ND versus 400.2+/-11.8 nmol/min/g heart in OB), (5) decreased mitochondrial AMP-alpha2 protein kinase, and (6) 86% drop in cardiac ATP levels accompanied by decreased ATP/ADP ratio after doxorubicin administration. Decreased cardiac erythropoietin and increased SOCS3 further downregulated the cardioprotective JAK/STAT3 pathway. In conclusion, HFD-induced obese rats are highly sensitized to doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity by substantially downregulating cardiac mitochondrial ATP generation, increasing oxidative stress and downregulating the JAK/STAT3 pathway.
The success of antipsychotic drug treatment in patients with schizophrenia is limited by the propensity of these drugs to induce hyperphagia, weight gain and other metabolic disturbances, particularly evident for olanzapine and clozapine. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in antipsychotic-induced hyperphagia remain unclear. Here, we investigate the effect of olanzapine administration on the regulation of hypothalamic mechanisms controlling food intake, namely neuropeptide expression and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation in rats. Our results show that subchronic exposure to olanzapine upregulates neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti related protein (AgRP) and downregulates proopiomelanocortin (POMC) in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (ARC). This effect was evident both in rats fed ad libitum and in pair-fed rats. Of note, despite weight gain and increased expression of orexigenic neuropeptides, subchronic administration of olanzapine decreased AMPK phosphorylation levels. This reduction in AMPK was not observed after acute administration of either olanzapine or clozapine. Overall, our data suggest that olanzapine-induced hyperphagia is mediated through appropriate changes in hypothalamic neuropeptides, and that this effect does not require concomitant AMPK activation. Our data shed new light on the hypothalamic mechanism underlying antipsychotic-induced hyperphagia and weight gain, and provide the basis for alternative targets to control energy balance.
Liver damage induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in actinomycin D-sensitized mice was initiated by a Fas/CD95-independent apoptotic process that produced DNA fragmentation in hepatocytes followed by an increase of plasma ALT. The metabolic inhibitor actinomycin D blocked most of the LPS-induced increase of plasma nitrite/nitrate levels, as did administration of a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N(G)-monomethyl-l-arginine, which also promoted LPS-induced apoptotic liver damage. Administration of nitric oxide donors (hydroxylamine, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine or 2, 2'-(hydroxynitrosohydrazino)bis-ethanamine) resulted in elevation of the plasma nitrite/nitrate level and amelioration of actinomycin D/LPS-induced apoptotic liver damage. The protective effect of nitric oxide against apoptotic liver damage was partially reproduced by a membrane-permeable analog of cyclic GMP. On the other hand, treatment with the soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor LY83583 overcame the protective effect of nitric oxide against apoptotic liver damage. These results suggest that nitric oxide may regulate programmed cell death in the mouse liver and that induction of genes, including inducible nitric oxide synthase, plays an important role in protecting the liver against LPS-induced apoptotic damage. This effect appears to be mediated, at least in part, via the soluble guanylate pathway.
Hemodynamic and humoral events after intraoperative discontinuation of nitroprusside were studied in subjects without and with pretreatment with intravenous propranolol, 0.1 mg X kg-1. Nitroprusside-induced hypotension was associated with increases in heart rate, cardiac output, plasma renin activity (PRA), and catecholamine levels; these changes were prevented by propranolol. In subjects pretreated with propranolol, dose requirements of nitroprusside for hypotension of comparable degree and duration decreased 40%. On discontinuation of nitroprusside, mean systemic pressure rose to 100.2 mm Hg--a level higher than prehypotension and awake values--because of increased systemic vascular resistance. Hemodynamic events were associated with persistent elevations of PRA and catecholamine levels. These rebound changes were maximal 15 min after nitroprusside withdrawal and returned to control levels 30 to 60 min later. Pretreatment with propranolol completely prevented rebound hemodynamic events after nitroprusside. Persistent elevations of PRA and catecholamine levels after nitroprusside action subsided were responsible for the effects of withdrawal.
The present review paper describes results indicating the influence of nitric oxide (NO) on motor control. Our last studies showed that systemic injections of low doses of inhibitors of NO synthase (NOS), the enzyme responsible for NO formation, induce anxiolytic effects in the elevated plus maze whereas higher doses decrease maze exploration. Also, NOS inhibitors decrease locomotion and rearing in an open field arena. These results may involve motor effects of this compounds, since inhibitors of NOS, NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG), N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME), N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), and 7-Nitroindazole (7-NIO), induced catalepsy in mice. This effect was also found in rats after systemic, intracebroventricular or intrastriatal administration. Acute administration of L-NOARG has an additive cataleptic effect with haloperidol, a dopamine D2 antagonist. The catalepsy is also potentiated by WAY 100135 (5-HT1a receptor antagonist), ketanserin (5HT2a and alfal adrenergic receptor antagonist), and ritanserin (5-HT2a and 5HT2c receptor antagonist). Atropine sulfate and biperiden, antimuscarinic drugs, block L-NOARG-induced catalepsy in mice. L-NOARG subchronic administration in mice induces rapid tolerance (3 days) to its cataleptic effects. It also produces cross-tolerance to haloperidol-induced catalepsy. After subchronic L-NOARG treatment there is an increase in the density NADPH-d positive neurons in the dorsal part of nucleus caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, and tegmental pedunculupontinus nucleus. In contrast, this treatment decreases NADPH-d neuronal number in the substantia nigra compacta. Considering these results we suggest that (i) NO may modulate motor behavior, probably by interfering with dopaminergic, serotonergic, and cholinergic neurotransmission in the striatum; (ii) Subchronic NO synthesis inhibition induces plastic changes in NO-producing neurons in brain areas related to motor control and causes cross-tolerance to the cataleptic effect of haloperidol, raising the possibility that such treatments could decrease motor side effects associated with antipsychotic medications. Finally, recent studies using experimental Parkinson's disease models suggest an interaction between NO system and neurodegenerative processes in the nigrostriatal pathway. It provides evidence of a protective role of NO. Together, our results indicate that NO may be a key participant on physiological and pathophysiological processes in the nigrostriatal system.
Gallium nitrate is a metallodrug with clinical efficacy in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Its mechanisms of antineoplastic action are not fully understood. In the present study, we investigated the roles of transferrin receptor (TfR) targeting and apoptotic pathways in gallium-induced cell death. Although DoHH2 lymphoma cells displayed a 3-fold lower number of TfRs than CCRF-CEM lymphoma cells, they were 3- to 4-fold more sensitive to gallium nitrate. Despite a lower TfR expression, DoHH2 cells had greater TfR cycling and iron and gallium uptake than CCRF-CEM cells. In other lymphoma cell lines, TfR levels per se did not correlate with gallium sensitivity. Cells incubated with gallium nitrate showed morphologic changes of apoptosis, which were decreased by the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK and by a Bax-inhibitory peptide. Cells exposed to gallium nitrate released cytochrome c from mitochondria and displayed a dose-dependent increase in caspase-3 activity. An increase in active Bax levels without accompanying changes in Bcl-2 or Bcl-X(L) was seen in cells incubated with gallium nitrate. The endogenous expression of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 was greater in DoHH2 cells than in CCRF-CEM cells, suggesting that endogenous Bcl-2 levels do not correlate with cell sensitivity to gallium nitrate. Gallium-induced apoptosis was enhanced by the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib. Our results suggest that TfR function rather than TfR number is important in gallium targeting to cells and that apoptosis is triggered by gallium through the mitochondrial pathway by activating proapoptotic Bax. Our studies also suggest that the antineoplastic activity of combination gallium nitrate and bortezomib warrants further investigation.
The incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is increasing worldwide and diverse environmental and genetic risk factors are well recognized. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the calpain-10 gene (CAPN-10), which encodes a protein involved in the secretion and action of insulin, and chronic exposure to inorganic arsenic (iAs) through drinking water have been independently associated with an increase in the risk for T2DM. In the present work we evaluated if CAPN-10 SNPs and iAs exposure jointly contribute to the outcome of T2DM. Insulin secretion (beta-cell function) and insulin sensitivity were evaluated indirectly through validated indexes (HOMA2) in subjects with and without T2DM who have been exposed to a gradient of iAs in their drinking water in northern Mexico. The results were analyzed taking into account the presence of the risk factor SNPs SNP-43 and -44 in CAPN-10. Subjects with T2DM had significantly lower beta-cell function and insulin sensitivity. An inverse association was found between beta-cell function and iAs exposure, the association being more pronounced in subjects with T2DM. Subjects without T2DM who were carriers of the at-risk genotype SNP-43 or -44, also had significantly lower beta-cell function. The association of SNP-43 with beta-cell function was dependent on iAs exposure, age, gender and BMI, whereas the association with SNP-44 was independent of all of these factors. Chronic exposure to iAs seems to be a risk factor for T2DM in humans through the reduction of beta-cell function, with an enhanced effect seen in the presence of the at-risk genotype of SNP-43 in CAPN-10. Carriers of CAPN-10 SNP-44 have also shown reduced beta-cell function.
We report the first case of acute cholecystitis due to indinavir-induced cholelithiasis in a patient infected with human immunodeficiency virus who had been receiving indinavir for 56 months. Infrared spectroscopy demonstrated that the gallstone was composed of indinavir monohydrate (50%), calcium bilirubinate (28%), calcium palmitate (10%), cholesterol (7%), and proteins (5%). The role of high-level chronic unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia coupled with high blood concentrations of indinavir is discussed.
Adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) administration has been systematically studied in man and sheep. It raises systolic blood pressure (SBP) in the rat, but this has been little studied. ACTH was injected once daily at 0.5 mg/kg for 12 days in male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 19). Sham-injected animals were studied in parallel (n = 15). ACTH increased SBP from 94 +/- 4 to 121 +/- 4 mmHg (P less than 0.001), significantly greater (P less than 0.02) than sham injection. The SBP of ACTH-treated rats was significantly higher than that of sham-injected rats when the same animals were measured by both the tail-cuff method (ACTH, 126 +/- 3 mmHg; sham, 99 +/- 3 mmHg) and direct arterial cannulation (ACTH, 137 +/- 2 mmHg; sham, 123 +/- 3 mmHg): P less than 0.005 and P less than 0.001, respectively. There was a loss of body weight, and increased water intake and urine output in ACTH-treated animals compared with both control (P less than 0.001) and sham treatments (P less than 0.02). ACTH increased plasma [Na] (sham, 140 +/- 1 mmol/l; ACTH, 145 +/- 1 mmol/l; P less than 0.001) and urinary Na excretion compared with control (P less than 0.01) and sham injection (P less than 0.05), and also decreased plasma [K] (sham, 4.6 +/- 0.2 mmol/l; ACTH, 3.3 +/- 0.8 mmol/l; P less than 0.01) and increased urinary K excretion (P less than 0.01) compared with control. SBP in adrenalectomized animals (n = 10) was unchanged by ACTH. ACTH increased adrenal, renal, cardiac and brain weights compared with sham injection (P less than 0.05). There were no significant changes in vascular morphology, although ACTH treatment increased glomerular epithelial cell droplets and abolished the adrenal zona glomerulosa.
The effects of the organochlorine (OC) liver tumor promoter heptachlor epoxide (HE; 0, 0.1, 1, 10, and 50 microM) on several cellular tumor promoter-sensitive parameters were studied in mouse 1c1c7 hepatoma cells in an effort to identify the most sensitive biomarker for OC promoter exposure and the critical pathway and target of OC promoters. The levels of Ca2+ in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) store, connexin43 (Cx43), PLCgamma(1), nPKCvarepsilon, and AP-1 DNA binding in nucleus were studied to screen for effects induced by submicromolar HE levels. While all the parameters tested elicited effects, particulate PLCgamma(1) and AP-1 DNA binding were found to be the most sensitive parameters affected by HE on both dose and temporal bases. Their levels were increased with 10- to 100-fold lower HE concentrations than were required to affect nPKCvarepsilon or Cx43. Further, with the lower HE dosages, particulate PLCgamma(1) and nuclear AP-1 were positively modulated by HE after 1 h versus 3 or 72 h for nPKCvarepsilon and Cx43. Ca2+ store depletion was probably the third most sensitive parameter, after AP-1 and PLCgamma(1). These results suggest the tyrosine kinase growth factor receptor pathway is the probable critical pathway for HE-induce tumor promotion with the critical target most likely being upstream of PLCgamma(1) and AP-1. This work also demonstates that upon exposure to a tumor promoter such as HE, many hepatocellular effects or changes result, suggesting that a cellular-program shift occurs similar to that described by the resistant hepatocyte model after exposure to a carcinogen or enzyme inducer.
Estrogen-related cardiovascular dysfunction was noted in 23 out of 30 patients with prostatic cancer (PC). Coronary subjects with PC suffered from cardiac pain evident on ECG necessitating correction by effective doses of coronary active drugs. PC patients with essential hypertension exhibited frequent headache, progressive edema of the legs, drastic hypertensive reactions. It is held that estrogen therapy for prostatic cancer should be preceded and monitored by therapeutic evaluation responsible for optimal conditions to prevent and early diagnose cardiovascular complications.
Clinical studies suggest low-dose ketamine may have preemptive effects on postoperative pain in adults. The objective of this study was to determine whether intraoperative low-dose S-ketamine reduces postoperative pain and morphine consumption in children undergoing major urological surgery.
Thirty children scheduled for major urological surgery were included in this prospective study. Anesthesia was performed as total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) with alfentanil and propofol. Fifteen patients additionally received an intravenous bolus of S-ketamine (0.2 mg.kg-1) followed by a continuous infusion of 5 microg.kg-1.min-1, which was stopped immediately after skin closure (Ketamine Group). Another 15 patients received an infusion of saline (CONTROL group). After transfer to the PACU, pain intensity was evaluated using a numeric rating scale (NRS). First patient controlled analgesia (PCA) request, cumulative morphine consumption and pain intensities within the first 72 h were compared.
Morphine consumption was not significantly different during the first 72 h (
0.4 mg.kg-1, 0.24-0.51 mg.kg-1, Ketamine: 0.32 mg.kg-1, 0.19-0.61 mg.kg-1; median, 25-75% percentile; n.s.). However, differences were found in pain intensity during the first postoperative hour (
4.0, 3.2-4.6, Ketamine: 2.5, 1.3-3.5; median, 25-75% percentile; P<0.05) and in the time to first PCA use (
37, 28-46 min, Ketamine: 62, 38-68 min; median, 25-75% percentile; P<0.05).
Intraoperative low-dose S-ketamine had no effect on morphine consumption during the first 72 h after surgery. The differences in pain intensity and time to first PCA use probably reflect additional sedation and antinociceptive effects of S-ketamine rather than a true 'prevention' of pain.
Although single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) of the dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase gene (DPYD) have been reported, which affect enzyme activity and the severity of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) toxicity, no pretherapeutic detection has thus far been developed. We investigated 22 DPYD gene SNPs, their respective incidence, their link with grade 3 to 4 toxic side effects, and their management in practice: 9 were looked for in 487 patients, whereas 13 others were investigated in 171 patients.
SNPs were detected before 5-FU-based treatment in WBC using a Pyrosequencing method. Close clinical and biological follow-up was done.
Five different SNPs were found in 187 patients (IVS14 + 1G>A, 2846A>T, 1679T>G, 85T>C, -1590T>C). Three hundred patients had no SNP. Forty-four patients had grade 3 to 4 toxic side effects in either the first or second cycle. Sixty percent of patients with either IVS14 + 1G>A or 2846A>T SNPs and the only patient with 1679T>G SNP experienced early grade 3 to 4 toxicity, compared with 0%, 5.5%, and 15% of those with either -1590T>C, 85T>C SNP, or no SNP, respectively. In cases with grade 3 to 4 toxicity, treatment either had to be quickly stopped, or could be safely continued with an individual dose adjustment. Sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of the detection of these three major SNPs as toxicity predictive factors were 0.31, 0.98, and 0.62 and 0.94, respectively.
Pretreatment detection of three DPYD SNPs could help to avoid severe toxic side effects. This approach is suitable for clinical practice and should be compared or combined with pharmacologic approaches. In the case of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, 5-FU administration often can be safely continued with an individual dose adjustment.
A novel variant of endemic pemphigus foliaceus (EPF) was described among individuals in an area surrounding El Bagre, Colombia, South America. The population in this rural mining community is exposed to high environmental levels of mercury, used for gold extraction, as well as other minerals, metalloids, and trace elements (e.g., quartz, rutile, granite, magnetite, and almenite) and ultraviolet radiation. Fifty control subjects and fifty EPF patients in the endemic area were examined for the presence of mercury in skin biopsies and hair, using autometallographic and mass spectroscopic analyses, respectively. Simultaneously, serum levels of IgE were measured, and cutaneous tests for hypersensitivity reactions were performed. Using autometallography, mercuric sulfides/selenides were detected in 14 of 51 skin biopsies distributed similarly in the control and patient groups. However, significantly higher serum IgE levels and mercury concentrations in hair, urine, and nails were found in patients compared with controls. Microscopic analysis revealed mercuric sulfides/selenides concentrated within and around the sweat gland epithelium, as well as in dendritic cells. Five skin biopsies from EPF patients and five from controls that tested positive for the presence of mercuric sulfides/selenides by autometallography were randomly selected for electron microscopic analysis. This analysis revealed a mixed electron-dense and electron-light material closely associated with desmosomes in patients. However, there were intracellular vesicles containing an amalgam of electron-dense and electron-light materials only in the EPF patients. Thus, EPF-affected individuals are exposed to high levels of environmental mercuric sulfides/selenides and other elements. This is the first study reporting mercuric sulfides/selenides in skin biopsies from people living in a focus of EPF, and these compounds may play a role in the pathogenesis of autoimmunity.
We present a patient with a Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) acute lymphocytic leukaemia (ALL) refractory to standard induction chemotherapy. Treatment with the ABL-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor STI571 (Glivec, Gleevec, imatinib mesylate) resulted in a complete haematologic and cytogenetic remission. Allogeneic stem cell transplantation from an unrelated donor could be undertaken while the patient was in STI571-induced complete remission from the leukaemia. At present, the patient has a 15-month post-transplantation follow-up and is in stable molecular remission as evaluated by quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) for the BCR/ABL fusion gene transcript. Our case demonstrates that STI571 can act as a bridge to potentially curative allogeneic stem cell transplant in otherwise poor prognosis Ph+ ALL.
4 cases of extrapyramidal disturbances, observed in children with Metoclopramid-medication, are reported. These side-effects may occur already at normal therapeutic dosage, especially in the young patient. The side-effects are reversible, and respond easily to i.v. injection or peroral application of anti-parkinsonian drugs, less severe cases may subside by withdrawal of the drug. The therapeutic use in the pediatric field must be strictly indicated because of the special disposition of children to the side-effects described above.
