The article presents a case of a young pregnant woman with vaginal carcinoma who had been exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES) in utero. Surgical excision of the lesion was attempted but failed. Interstitial irradiation was then applied and proved successful. The patient's infant, as well as two subsequent children, were delivered by cesarean section after normal pregnancies. There was no evidence of metastatic disease or recurrence in 11 1/2 years following the initial diagnosis. Since 1965, a rising incidence of vaginal adenocarcinoma in women who were exposed to (DES) in utero has been reported. These women should be examined regularly after menarche for prompt evaluation and treatment of precancerous lesions such as adenosis, cervical erosion or transverse ridges. Since most of these patients are young, a conservative treatment is recommended. Extensive surgery and pelvic irradiation is indicated, however, in the cases of widespread disease.
In a prospective, randomized study of 16 volunteers, a new galenic formulation of the induction hypnotic etomidate in lipid emulsion was compared with the commercial form in propylene glycol (Hypnomidate). After 0.3 mg/kg etomidate plasma levels (HPLC) and hypnotic effects (visual EEG analysis) of both formulations were almost identical. Onset of action occurred after 41.6 s in the propylene glycol group (group I) and 35.6 s in the lipid emulsion group (group II). The hypnotic effect (greater than or equal to D0) lasted 7 min 20 s in group I and 6 min in group II. Plasma levels in group I decreased from 630 ng/ml after 2 min to 170 after 8 min and 37 after 130 min. With group II the plasma levels decreased from 770 ng/ml after 2 min to 150 after 8 min and 42 after 130 min (Fig. 1). In the propylene glycol experiment, 4 of 8 volunteers reported pain on injection. Within 7 days 4 persons developed phlebitis or thrombophlebitis. One showed signs of an allergic reaction (urticaria). With the new formulation of etomidate in lipid emulsion, neither venous sequelae nor allergic reactions were observed in any of the 8 volunteers (Table 2).
To ascertain the side effects of intravenous meperidine in patient-controlled analgesia under two levels of surveillance: one in the recovery room and one in the hospital's surgical ward.
Patient-controlled analgesia with meperidine was made available to 80 patients who had undergone cholecystectomy by laparotomy. Instances of nausea/vomiting, pruritus, urinary retention and technical problems were recorded, as well as arterial gas levels (cooximetry) on the first, third, twelfth and twenty-fourth hours after surgery. We also recorded meperidine consumption and its relationship to side affects.
Side effects were associated with higher consumption of meperidine (437.0 +/- 117.7 mg vs 297.7 +/- 135.9 mg in those experiencing no side effects), with more episodes of PO2 < 70 mmHg and SO2 < 90% on the ward than in the recovery room (24 and 10 as compared to 85 and 30, respectively). Patients presenting adverse side effects were significantly older (76.6 +/- 13.5 vs 58.1 +/- 11.1 years).
Given that age and higher meperidine consumption were associated with more frequent occurrence of hypoxic episodes, patients should receive greater surveillance on the ward, with oxygen therapy, monitoring of accumulated consumption and caution used with older patients.
Despite extensive biochemical and morphological studied on the degenerative muscle diseases, the primary chemical lesions are still obscure, both in humans and animals. In this report we examine the activities of the lysosomal endoproteinase cathepsin B and its endogenous inhibitor(s) in the red and white skeletal muscles of guinea pigs with nutritional muscular myopathy induced by vitamin E deficiency. We observed a twofold increase (P less than 0.005) in the activity of cathepsin B in the white skeletal muscles of the vitamin E-deficient (E-) animals over that of the normal (N) and control (E+) groups. Assessment of the activity of endogenous cathepsin B inhibitor revealed a one and a half times greater amount of inhibitor in N when compared to E-; this difference in inhibitor activity applied to both red (masseter) and white (medial head, gastrocnemius) muscle. When the specific activity of cathepsin B in the E-tissue was corrected for inhibitor activity, the corrected value was not significantly different from either the E+ or the N tissue.
Monoamine releasers constitute one class of drugs under investigation as candidate medications for the treatment of cocaine abuse. Promising preclinical and clinical results have been obtained with amphetamine, which has high selectivity for releasing dopamine/norepinephrine versus serotonin. However, use of amphetamine as a pharmacotherapy is complicated by its high abuse potential. Recent preclinical studies suggest that nonselective monoamine releasers or serotonin-selective releasers have lower abuse liability and may warrant evaluation as alternatives to amphetamine. To address this issue, the present study evaluated the effects of five monoamine releasers in assays of cocaine discrimination and cocaine self-administration in rhesus monkeys. The releasers varied along a continuum from dopamine/norepinephrine-selective to serotonin-selective [m-fluoroamphetamine (PAL-353), methamphetamine, m-methylamphetamine (PAL-314), 1-napthyl-2-aminopropane (PAL-287), fenfluramine]. In drug discrimination studies, rhesus monkeys were trained to discriminate saline from cocaine (0.4 mg/kg i.m.) in a two-key, food-reinforced drug discrimination procedure. Substitution for cocaine was positively associated with selectivity for dopamine/norepinephrine versus serotonin release. In drug self-administration studies, rhesus monkeys responded for cocaine (0.01 and 0.032 mg/kg/injection) and food (1-g pellets) under a second-order fixed-ratio 2 (variable-ratio 16:S) schedule. In general, monoamine releasers produced dose-dependent and sustained decreases in cocaine self-administration. However, the dopamine/norepinephrine-selective releasers decreased cocaine self-administration with minimal effects on food-maintained responding, whereas the more serotonin-selective releasers produced nonselective reductions in both cocaine- and food-maintained responding. These results are consistent with the conclusion that dopamine/norepinephrine-selective releasers retain cocaine-like abuse-related effects but may also be capable of producing relatively selective reductions in the reinforcing effects of cocaine.
The long-acting somatostatin (SRIF) analogue octreotide decreased nonrapid eye movement sleep (NREMS) in the rat. This effect is opposite to the promotion of sleep after growth hormone (GH)-releasing hormone (GHRH) in various species including humans. Therefore, it appears likely that GHRH and SRIF, besides their opposite action on pituitary GH release, interact reciprocally in sleep regulation. In previous studies, SRIF impaired sleep in elderly subjects, although sleep in young men remained unchanged. We hypothesized that octreotide is a useful tool to study the role of SRIF in human sleep regulation. We examined the effect of subcutaneous administration of 0.1 mg octreotide at 2245 on the sleep EEG of seven young male controls (age, mean+/-SD, 22.3+/-3.0 years). In comparison to placebo, octreotide administration prompted decreases of sleep stage 4 during the total night and of rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) density during the first half of the night. Intermittent wakefulness increased during the second half of the night. The spectral analysis of total night NREMS revealed a significant decrease of sigma power. Similar to the effect of the short-acting SRIF in the elderly, the long-acting SRIF analogue octreotide impaired sleep in young healthy subjects. Obviously, the influence of octreotide on sleep is superior to that of short-acting SRIF, which did not affect sleep in young men. We suggest a reciprocal interaction of GHRH and SRIF in sleep regulation.
Resveratrol, present in grapes and red wine, has been found to prevent diethylnitrosamine (DENA)-initiated rat liver tumorigenesis, though the chemopreventive mechanisms are not completely elucidated. The current study was designed to explore whether the antiinflammatory properties of resveratrol play a role in its antihepatocarcinogenic action.
Liver samples were harvested from a 20-week chemopreventive study in which resveratrol (50, 100 and 300 mg/kg) was shown to inhibit DENA-induced hepatocyte nodules in Sprague-Dawley rats in a dose-responsive manner. Hepatic preneoplastic and inflammatory markers, namely heat shock protein (HSP70), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), were studied using immunohistochemical as well as Western blot techniques.
Resveratrol dose-dependently suppressed DENA-induced increased expressions of hepatic HSP70 and COX-2. Resveratrol also attenuated the DENA-mediated translocation of NF-kappaB p65 from the cytosol to the nucleus with stabilization of inhibitory kappaB.
The present findings indicate that resveratrol exerts chemoprevention of hepatocarcinogenesis possibly through antiinflammatory effects during DENA-evoked rat liver carcinogenesis by suppressing elevated levels of HSP70, COX-2 as well as NF-kappaB. These beneficial effects combined with an excellent safety profile encourage the development of resveratrol for chemoprevention and intervention of human HCC that remains a devastating disease.
ZC88 is a novel non-peptide N-type voltage-sensitive calcium channel blocker synthesized by our institute. In the present study, the oral analgesic activity of ZC88 in animal models of acute and neuropathic pain, and functional interactions between ZC88 and morphine in terms of analgesia, tolerance and dependence were investigated. In mice acetic acid writhing tests, ZC88 (10-80 mg/kg) administered by oral route showed significant antinociceptive effects in a dose-dependent manner. The ED50 values of ZC88 were 14.5 and 14.3 mg/kg in male and female mice, respectively. In sciatic nerve chronic constriction injury rats, mechanical allodynia was ameliorated by oral administration of ZC88 at doses of 14, 28 and 56 mg/kg, suggesting ZC88 relieved allodynic response of neuropathic pain. When concurrently administered with morphine, ZC88 (20-80 mg/kg) dose-dependently potentiated morphine analgesia and attenuated morphine analgesic tolerance in hot-plate tests. ZC88 also prevented chronic exposure to morphine-induced physical dependence and withdrawal, but not morphine-induced psychological dependence in conditioned place preference model. These results suggested that ZC88, a new non-peptide N-type calcium channel blocker, had notable oral analgesia and anti-allodynia for acute and neuropathic pain. ZC88 might be used in pain relief by either application alone or in combination with opioids because it enhanced morphine analgesia while prevented morphine-induced tolerance and physical dependence.
A case is presented in which asystole and convulsions occurred after an attempted induction of anaesthesia with propofol and fentanyl. The case suggests that a history of syncope may be associated with unusual susceptibility to the bradycardic effects of propofol.
Lithium salts can induce a dysfunction of the neuromuscular junction.
A patient given lithium for bipolar psychosis developed a state of major fatigue revealing a myasthenia syndrome which resolved progressively after lithium withdrawal.
In the literature, we found 4 cases of neuromuscular junction disorders in patients treated with lithium. A myasthenia syndrome was induced by lithium in 3 cases and underlying myasthenia was disclosed by lithium in the last one. The long-term course in our patient was in favor of an induced syndrome rather than underlying myasthenia. We discuss the pathophysiological mechanisms. Lithium is a commonly prescribed drug. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of neuromuscular junction disorder in patients taking lithium who develop muscle fatigue.
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, a rate-limiting enzyme of prostaglandin (PG) production, is overexpressed in colorectal adenomas and adenocarcinomas, and its inhibition by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs protects against colorectal cancer. Mechanisms of cancer promotion by COX-2 are not fully understood, but signaling through prostaglandin (PG)E2 receptors is a contributing factor. The major PGE2 receptors on epithelial cells, EP2 and EP4, increase cAMP production, which promotes growth and inhibits apoptosis in some cell types. Here, we show that cAMP agonists, including PGE2, cholera toxin, and a membrane-permeant cAMP analog, protect normal and transformed intestinal epithelial cells from apoptosis induced by diverse stimuli. This protection is associated with cAMP-mediated, rapid induction of cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein (c-IAP)-2 and delayed induction of LIVIN, but not of six other members of the IAP family. Concurrently and characteristic of IAP functions, the activity, but not generation, of the cleaved form of the central executioner caspase 3 is inhibited. Induction of c-IAP2 expression by cAMP agonists is accompanied by phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein and cAMP response element-dependent activation of transcriptional reporters. Furthermore, inhibition of COX-2 in cells overexpressing the enzyme decreases c-IAP2 expression and promotes apoptosis, both of which are reversible by PGE2 addition, suggesting that COX-2-promoted antiapoptosis is mediated by release of PGE2 and subsequent cAMP-dependent c-IAP2 induction. These results help to explain the cancer chemoprotective effects of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs by defining a mechanism through which cAMP signaling can promote the development of colorectal and possibly other epithelial cancers by means of disruption of normal apoptotic processes.
Astrocytes are acutely sensitive to 1,3-dinitrobenzene (1,3-DNB) while adjacent neurons are relatively unaffected, consistent with other chemically-induced energy deprivation syndromes. Previous studies have investigated the role of astrocytes in protecting neurons from hypoxia and chemical injury via adenosine release. Adenosine is considered neuroprotective, but it is rapidly removed by extracellular deaminases such as adenosine deaminase (ADA). The present study tested the hypothesis that ADA is inhibited by 1,3-DNB as a substrate mimic, thereby preventing adenosine catabolism. ADA was inhibited by 1,3-DNB with an IC(50) of 284 μM, Hill slope, n = 4.8 ± 0.4. Native gel electrophoresis showed that 1,3-DNB did not denature ADA. Furthermore, adding Triton X-100 (0.01-0.05%, wt/vol), Nonidet P-40 (0.0015-0.0036%, wt/vol), or bovine serum albumin (0.05 mg/ml or changing [ADA] (0.2 and 2 nM) did not substantially alter the 1,3-DNB IC(50) value. Likewise, dynamic light scattering showed no particle formation over a (1,3-DNB) range of 149-1043 μM. Kinetics revealed mixed inhibition with 1,3-DNB binding to ADA (K(I) = 520 ± 100 μM, n = 1 ± 0.6) and the ADA-adenosine complex (K(IS) = 262 ± 7 μM, n = 6 ± 0.6, indicating positive cooperativity). In accord with the kinetics, docking predicted binding of 1,3-DNB to the active site and three peripheral sites. In addition, exposure of DI TNC-1 astrocytes to 10-500 μM 1,3-DNB produced concentration-dependent increases in extracellular adenosine at 24 h. Overall, the results demonstrate that 1,3-DNB is a mixed inhibitor of ADA and may thus lead to increases in extracellular adenosine. The finding may provide insights to guide future work on chemically-induced energy deprivation.
Isradipine is a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist with a high degree of selectivity for the coronary, cerebral, and skeletal muscle vasculature. The drug has minimal depressant activity on sinoatrial node automaticity and negligible negative chronotropic, dromotropic, and inotropic actions. Isradipine reduces blood pressure and systemic vascular resistance without changes in cardiac output and stroke volume. Renal blood flow is maintained while renal vascular resistance is reduced; this is accompanied by both short- and long-term diuretic and natriuretic effects. Doses of 1.25 to 5 mg twice daily lowers blood pressure effectively over 24 h. In open as well as placebo-controlled trials, 2.5 to 10 mg isradipine twice daily was safe and well tolerated, and reduced systolic and diastolic values in up to 85% of patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Efficacy is similar to those of nifedipine and nitrendipine, and potentially superior to those of propranolol, atenolol, prazosin, hydrochlorothiazide, and diltiazem. The drug can be safely combined with beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and diuretics. Adverse effects are dose-dependent and secondary to arterial vasodilatation, such as headache, flushing, ankle edema, dizziness, palpitations, and tachycardia. At the recommended dose of 2.5 mg twice daily, the total incidence of side effects does not differ from that with placebo. The antiatherosclerotic, antitrophic, and cerebroprotective effects seen in experimental animal models are promising for the drug in the treatment of human hypertension. Isradipine may not only reduce blood pressure, but may also reduce the risk for the consequences of this peril, namely, cerebral stroke and myocardial infarction.
Cases of QT prolongation, torsades de pointes, and sudden death have been reported with arsenic trioxide (As2O3), a highly effective agent for acute promyelocytic leukemia. In this study, we evaluated the effects of As2O3 on repolarizing cardiac ion currents.
In HERG- or KCNQ1+KCNE1-transfected CHO cells (n=32; total), As2O3 caused concentration-dependent block of both IKr and IKs, with an IC50 for tail current block of 0.14+/-0.01 micromol/L for IKr and 1.13+/-0.06 micromol/L for IKs. In contrast to other QT-prolonging drugs, As2O3 also activated a time-independent current that additional experiments identified as IK-ATP.
As2O3 blocks both IKr and IKs at clinically relevant concentrations. On the other hand, it also activates IK-ATP, which maintains normal repolarization. We infer that variability in the extent of QT interval prolongation and onset of ventricular arrhythmias during arsenic therapy represents competing effects to block and activate multiple repolarizing potassium currents.
Radiocontrast media (RCM)-induced nephrotoxicity (CIN) is a major clinical problem accounting for 12% of all hospital-acquired cases of acute kidney injury. The pathophysiology of CIN is not well understood, but direct toxic effects on renal cells have been postulated as contributing to CIN. We have investigated the effect of a white grape (Vitis vinifera) juice extract (WGJe) on human renal proximal tubular (HK-2) cells treated with the radiocontrast medium (RCM) sodium diatrizoate. WGJe caused an increase in phosphorylation of the prosurvival kinases Akt and ERK1/2 in HK-2 cells. Treatment of HK-2 cells with 75 mgI/ml sodium diatrizoate for 2.5h and then further incubation (for 27.5h) after removal of the RCM caused a drastic decrease in cell viability. However, pre-treatment with WGJe, prior to incubation with diatrizoate, dramatically improved cell viability. Analysis of key signaling molecules by Western blotting showed that diatrizoate caused a drastic decrease in phosphorylation of Akt (Ser473), FOXO1 (Thr24) and FOXO3a (Thr32) during the initial 2.5h incubation period, and WGJe pre-treatment caused a reversal of these effects. Further analysis by Western blotting of samples from HK-2 cells cultured for longer periods of time (for up to 27.5h after an initial 2.5h exposure to diatrizoate with or without WGJe pre-treatment) showed that WGJe pre-treatment caused a negative effect on phosphorylation of p38, NF-κB (Ser276) and pERK1/2 whilst having a positive effect on the phosphorylation of Akt, FOXO1/FOXO3a and maintained levels of Pim-1 kinase. WGJe may alleviate RCM toxicity through modulation of signaling molecules that are known to be involved in cell death and cell survival and its possible beneficial effects should be further investigated.
A 74-year-old woman developed acute renal failure and granulomatous interstitial nephritis associated with hydrochlorothiazide/amiloride. On stopping the drug the renal function improved, but not significantly. Around 20 months after prednisone administration, the renal function had stabilized, with a moderate degree of renal insufficiency. The case is discussed, and some aspects of acute interstitial nephritis induced by diuretics are briefly reviewed.
Presented is a case report of an 80-year-old man with dyspnoea and jaundice who died from autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (AIHA) within 12 hours of arrival at the emergency department. The patient had been taking tolmetin for osteoarthritis. On autopsy he was found to have a superficial gastric adenocarcinoma. A brief presentation on AIHA includes primary (idiopathic) and secondary types. Factors associated with AIHA include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and gastric carcinoma, although a direct cause cannot be demonstrated. After a discussion of the autoimmune mechanism of drug-associated hemolysis of which methyldopa is the prototype, a review of NSAIDs associated with AIHA is presented. All (18) NSAID cases of immune haemolysis were reviewed to determine which were more likely due to an autoimmune mechanism. These included 3 cases with tolmetin use: one probable and one possibly having an autoimmune basis for haemolysis, while with the third case immune haemolysis was by the drug adsorption mechanism. A review of gastric carcinoma associated with AIHA reveals only 2 previously reported cases. The associations of tolmetin use, as well as gastric carcinoma with AIHA, both rare, are noteworthy but cannot be proven as causative factors with our current level of knowledge and technology.
Toxic effects of cocaine on the heart muscle have been known for many years. Cardiovascular complications related to cocaine abuse include myocardial ischemia and infarction, inflammation, and disease of the heart muscle, rhythm disturbances, and sudden cardiac death. Cocaine toxicity-related cardiac morbidity and mortality are often due to several interacting mechanisms. Cocaine also has a potent pharmacological effect, indirectly stimulating the sympathetic nervous system, and it has a direct toxic effect on the heart. Although apoptosis (also called programmed cell death) has been shown to play an important role in the pathogenesis of several diseases in the heart, including heart failure and ischemic myocardial infarction, the role of apoptosis in the toxic effect of cocaine on the heart has not been explored. Recent studies indicated that cocaine causes apoptotic cell death in both adult and fetal heart muscles. Increased oxidative stress and reactive oxygen species, and the subsequent activation of a "stress responsive" enzyme (p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase) in the heart may play an important role in cocaine-induced apoptosis in the heart muscle. These findings suggest a new way to understand the cardiotoxic effects of cocaine, and may have potential clinical implications in the better management of cocaine-induced heart diseases. Anat Rec (New Anat): 257:208-216, 1999.
A 43-year-old woman who indiscriminately took colchicine for five years developed a progressive multisystem syndrome that included severe axonal neuropathy and a pathologically striking myopathy. The neuropathy and myopathy were similar to experimental animal colchicine-induced neuromuscular toxicity.
A case of 82 year-old female with schizophrenia treated with thioridazine with a long QT syndrome and polymorphic ventricular tachycardia of torsade de pointes type was presented. Additional predisposing factor for cardiac arrhythmia was diarrhea with subsequent hypokalemia. Infusion of magnesium sulphate, potassium supplementation and thioridazine discontinuation was effective management of the pathient.
A line of mutant mice (114-CH19) exhibiting white spotting and preweaning lethality was identified during an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) mutagenesis screen. The trait segregated as a semidominant bellyspot with reduced penetrance. Homozygous mutant mice showed preweaning lethality, and exhibited white spotting over the majority of the body surface, with pigmented patches remaining around the pinnae, eyes and tail. Linkage analysis localized 114-CH19 on mouse chromosome 2, suggesting endothelin 3 (Edn3) as a candidate gene. Sequence analysis of Edn3 identified a G > A transversion that encodes an arginine to histidine substitution (R96H). This mutation is predicted to disrupt furin-mediated proteolytic cleavage of pro-endothelin that is necessary to form biologically active EDN3. This mutation is novel among human and mouse EDN3 mutants, is the first reported EDN3 ENU mutant, and is the second reported EDN3 point mutation. This study demonstrates the power of using ENU mutagenesis screens to generate new animal models of human disease, and expands the spectrum of EDN3 mutant alleles.
There have been no reports comparing the therapeutic results of adefovir (ADV) and entecavir (ETV) rescue therapy for patients with lamivudine (LAM)-resistant chronic hepatitis B (CHB). We aimed to compare the cumulative efficacy and resistance of ETV 1.0 mg monotherapy, ADV monotherapy and ADV add-on LAM combination therapy in LAM-refractory patients.
One hundred and four patients were included in the following three treatment groups; group 1 (n = 24), LAM was switched to ETV (1.0 mg once a day); group 2 (n = 44), LAM was switched to ADV (10 mg once a day); and group 3 (n = 36), ADV was added to LAM (10 mg once a day).
After 6 months of rescue treatment, alanine aminotransferase normalization was observed in 75.0%, 65.9% and 74.3% of patients receiving ETV monotherapy, ADV monotherapy and ADV add-on therapy, respectively. A significantly higher log(10)HBV-DNA drop at 6 months occurred in the ADV add-on group compared with the ETV group. The rate of HBV-DNA polymerase chain reaction undetectability (<300 copies/mL) 6 months after initiation of ETV monotherapy, ADV monotherapy and ADV add-on therapy was 33.3%, 27.3% and 68.6%, respectively (P = 0.003). The cumulative HBeAg seroconversion rate was significantly higher in ADV add-on/ADV monotherapy groups compared with the ETV monotherapy group (P = 0.022). Viral breakthrough and genotypic resistance were detected in six (25.0%) and six (13.6%) patients in the ETV and ADV monotherapy groups, whereas no cases of genotypic resistance were detected in ADV add-on group 24 months after initiation of antiviral treatment (P < 0.01).
Adefovir add-on treatment in patients with LAM-resistant CHB suppresses HBV replication more effectively than ETV or ADV monotherapy. Additionally, no genotypic resistance was detected in the ADV add-on group.
The provocation of ischaemic cardiac pain by nifedipine, as side effect, is claimed to be rare. We describe one patient treated with nifedipine in whom this effect was accompanied by electrocardiographic changes that suggested subepicardial ischaemia. We believe that these changes were the consequence of a nifedipine-induced coronary spasm.
Osteosarcoma is one of the most common primary malignant bone tumors in children and adolescents. Some patients continue to have a poor prognosis, because of the metastatic disease. YM529/ONO-5920 is a nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate that has been used for the treatment of osteoporosis. YM529/ONO-5920 has recently been reported to induce apoptosis in various tumors including osteosarcoma. However, the mode of metastasis suppression in osteosarcoma by YM529/ONO-5920 is unclear. In the present study, we investigated whether YM529/ONO-5920 inhibited tumor cell migration, invasion, adhesion, or metastasis in the LM8 mouse osteosarcoma cell line. We found that YM529/ONO-5920 significantly inhibited metastasis, cell migration, invasion, and adhesion at concentrations that did not have antiproliferative effects on LM8 cells. YM529/ONO-5920 also inhibited the mRNA expression and protein activities of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). In addition, YM529/ONO-5920 suppressed phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and the serine/threonine protein kinase B (Akt) by the inhibition of Ras prenylation. Moreover, U0126, a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) 1/2 inhibitor, and LY294002, a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor, also inhibited LM8 cell migration, invasion, adhesion, and metastasis, as well as the mRNA expression and protein activities of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-9, and MT1-MMP. The results indicated that YM529/ONO-5920 suppressed the Ras/MEK/ERK and Ras/PI3K/Akt pathways, thereby inhibiting LM8 cell migration, invasion, adhesion, and metastasis. These findings suggest that YM529/ONO-5920 has potential clinical applications for the treatment of tumor cell metastasis in osteosarcoma.
We have taken advantage of a newly described Drosophila model to gain insights into the potential mechanism of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), a group of drugs that are widely used in the treatment of several neurological and psychiatric conditions besides epilepsy. In the recently described Drosophila model that is inspired by pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) induced kindling epileptogenesis in rodents, chronic PTZ treatment for 7 days causes a decreased climbing speed and an altered CNS transcriptome, with the latter mimicking gene expression alterations reported in epileptogenesis. In the model, an increased climbing speed is further observed 7 days after withdrawal from chronic PTZ. We used this post-PTZ withdrawal regime to identify potential AED mechanism. In this regime, treatment with each of the five AEDs tested, namely, ethosuximide, gabapentin, vigabatrin, sodium valproate, and levetiracetam, resulted in rescuing of the altered climbing behavior. The AEDs also normalized PTZ withdrawal induced transcriptomic perturbation in fly heads; whereas AED untreated flies showed a large number of up- and down-regulated genes which were enriched in several processes including gene expression and cell communication, the AED treated flies showed differential expression of only a small number of genes that did not enrich gene expression and cell communication processes. Gene expression and cell communication related upregulated genes in AED untreated flies overrepresented several pathways - spliceosome, RNA degradation, and ribosome in the former category, and inositol phosphate metabolism, phosphatidylinositol signaling, endocytosis, and hedgehog signaling in the latter. Transcriptome remodeling effect of AEDs was overall confirmed by microarray clustering that clearly separated the profiles of AED treated and untreated flies. Besides being consistent with previously implicated pathways, our results provide evidence for a role of other pathways in psychiatric drug mechanism. Overall, we provide an amenable model to understand neuropsychiatric mechanism in cellular and molecular terms.
To investigate the association between maternal exposure to hair dyes and hair straightening cosmetics (HDSC) during pregnancy and leukemia at an early age (<2yr., EAL).
A multicenter hospital-based case-control study was carried out in 13 states in Brazil between 1999 and 2007. Mothers of 176 ALL (acute lymphocytic leukemia) and 55 AML (acute myeloid leukemia) cases and 419 controls were enrolled and interviewed. Data on maternal exposure to HDSC occurring 3months before pregnancy, during pregnancy and during breastfeeding were obtained. Data were also gathered on paternal exposure to HDSC before pregnancy. Unconditional logistic regression was performed and odds ratios (OR) on the association between HDSC use and EAL were obtained after adjustment for hormonal intake during pregnancy, maternal age, education, birth weight, and the child skin color.
An adjusted OR of 1.78 (95% C.I. 1.13-2.81) was observed between maternal exposure to HDSC in the first trimester of pregnancy and ALL. Regarding AML, an adjusted OR of 2.43 (95% C.I. 1.13-5.22) was found for maternal exposure to HDSC during breastfeeding. No association between maternal exposure to HDSC during pregnancy and ALL or AML was observed in children with MLL (Mixed Lineage Leukemia) gene rearrangement.
Results in this study seem to support the hypothesis that maternal exposure to HDSC during pregnancy may be involved in the etiology of leukemia in children under 2years of age.
This double-blind controlled trial compares the relapse rate in 19 duodenal ulcer patients who received cimetidine for eight weeks with that in 19 patients who received cimetidine for four weeks and inactive tablets for four weeks. Only patients who became symptom-free during the initial four weeks' treatment with cimetidine were included. The median period of remission after withdrawal of cimetidine was 50 days in patients treated with cimetidine for eight weeks and 76 days in patients treated with cimetidine for four weeks (P greater than 0.10). Six months after withdrawal of cimetidine 15 relapses had occurred in both groups. It is concluded that patients who become symptom-free during four weeks' cimetidine treatment do not benefit by continuation of treatment for another four weeks.
