To describe a case of myxedema coma (MC) associated with combination aripiprazole and sertraline therapy.
A 41-year-old male presented to the emergency department with confusion, right-sided numbness and tingling, slurred speech, dizziness, and facial edema. His blood pressure was 160/113 mm Hg, with a pulse of 56 beats/min and temperature of 35.4 degrees C. Initial abnormal laboratory values included creatine kinase (CK) 439 U/L; serum creatinine 1.6 mg/dL; aspartate aminotransferase 85 U/L; and alanine aminotransferase 35 U/L. Repeat cardiac markers revealed an elevated CK level of 3573 U/L with a CK-MB of 24 ng/mL. Thyroid function tests showed thyroid-stimulating hormone 126.4 microIU/mL and free thyroxine 0.29 ng/dL. Home medications of unknown duration were sertraline 200 mg and aripiprazole 20 mg daily. He was admitted to the intensive care unit and initially treated with intravenous levothyroxine and dexamethasone. By hospital day 4, the patient was clinically stable and discharged to home.
Myxedema coma, the most significant form of hypothyroidism (HT), is a rare but potentially fatal condition. The known precipitating causes of MC were ruled out in this patient, which left his home medications as the likely cause. Cases of HT caused by certain atypical antipsychotics and antidepressants are found in the literature, but none was reported with aripiprazole therapy. There are also no reported cases of sertraline or aripiprazole inducing MC. Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicates that the combination of aripiprazole and sertraline was a probable inducer of MC in this patient.
Due to the widespread use of psychotropic medications, clinicians should be reminded of the rare, yet life-threatening, occurrence of MC when treating patients, especially with combination therapies such as sertraline and aripiprazole.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis is a progressive disorder characterized by a decreased bone mass and increased susceptibility to fractures. Several investigations have suggested that one of the mechanisms through which estrogen prevents bone loss was a modulation on secretion or release of various cytokines that are known to influence bone remodeling, even if some recent data have challenged this hypothesis. However, in established osteoporosis, the possibility that enhanced cytokines activity may account for the progression of this disease remains unclear and controversial. We sought here to determine whether production of IL-1 beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, GM-CSF and LIF, after direct stimulation in whole blood, was different in healthy (n = 30) or osteoporotic postmenopausal women (n = 24) and whether lumbar bone density (1-BMD) correlated with the values of cytokine production observed in these conditions. A significant difference was observed between the osteoporotic and control subjects for IL-1 beta (p < 0.0001), IL-6 (p < 0.001) and TNF-alpha (p = 0.027) productions, the values being higher in the osteoporotic women. No significant differences between the groups were observed for IFN-gamma (p = 0.51), GM-CSF (p = 0.70) or LIF (p = 0.97). In the whole population, statistically significant negative correlations were observed between lumbar BMD and IL-1 beta (r = -0.46) (p < 0.0005), IL-6 (r = -0.50) (p < 0.0001) and TNF-alpha (r = -0.39) (p < 0.005) production while no such correlations were observed for IFN-gamma, GM-CSF or LIF. In conclusion, the study of cytokine production by immune cells cultured in autologous whole blood suggests that in women more than 10 years past the menopause and presenting a decrease in lumbar bone density corresponding to the new WHO definition of "osteoporosis', production of IL-1 beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha is still increased compared to controls matched for age and ovarian function, while no differences are reported for IFN-gamma, GM-CSF or LIF production.
Spinal cord injury is a major complication of thoracoabdominal aortic operations. We aimed to investigate neuroprotective role of olmesartan administered to rats before ischemia against ischemia-reperfusion (I-R) injury.
Twenty-four Wistar albino rats were randomly divided into three groups (n = 8 per group): group I (control group, the sham-operation group), group II (the I-R group undergoing aortic occlusion without pharmacologic treatment), and group III (olmesartan-treated group receiving 3 mg/kg/d olmesartan for 14 days before ischemia). Spinal cord ischemia was induced by infrarenal aortic clamping for 45 minutes, followed by reperfusion. Neurological status was assessed by using modified Tarlov score preoperatively and at 48 hours postoperatively. Spinal cords were harvested for histopathologic examination with hematoxylin-eosin staining and biochemical analysis for tissue malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase levels.
The rats in the ischemia group had severe deficits including paraplegia after surgery, and they had a worse neurological status compared with the sham group (p < 0.05). The mean Tarlov scores in the ischemia and olmesartan-treated groups at 48 hours postoperatively were 1.6 +/- 0.4 and 2.2 +/- 0.9, respectively (p < 0.05). Histopathologic analyses demonstrated typical changes of ischemic necrosis in the ischemia group; however, olmesartan attenuated tissue necrosis. Decreased spinal cord tissue malondialdehyde (p = 0.047) and increased tissue superoxide dismutase (p = 0.001) and glutathione peroxidase (p = 0.009) levels were measured in the olmesartan-treated group compared with the ischemia group.
Olmesartan may protect the spinal cord from I-R injury and reduce the incidence of associated neurological dysfunction after temporary aortic occlusion.
The authors examined blood pressure, glucose, insulin, and neurotensin before and after intake of 75 g glucose with or without voglibose in 28 neurologic patients and 20 healthy controls. Voglibose significantly prevented hypotension and neurotensin increment after glucose intake and had no influence on glucose or insulin increment. These results suggest that voglibose benefits postprandial hypotension.
Whereas the effects of dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls (DL-PCBs) are well described, less is known about non-dioxin-like PCBs (NDL-PCBs), including influences on the nervous system and related behavioral effects after developmental exposure. Following the examination of the highly purified NDL congeners PCB52 and PCB180, we report here the results of experiments with PCB74 and PCB95. Rat dams were orally exposed to equimolar doses of either congener (40μmol/kg bw - 11.68mg PCB74/kg bw or 13.06mg PCB95/kg bw) from gestational day (GD) 10 to postnatal day (PND) 7. Control dams were given the vehicle. Adult offspring were tested for cataleptic behavior after induction with haloperidol, a classical neuroleptic drug, and brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs), using clicks and tone pips of different frequencies for stimulation. Results revealed slight effects on latencies to movement onset in female offspring exposed to PCB74, whereas PCB74 males and offspring exposed to PCB95 were not affected. Pronounced changes were observed in BAEPs at low frequencies in PCB74 offspring, with elevated thresholds in both sexes. PCB95 increased thresholds in males, but not females. Small effects were detected on latency of the late wave IV in both sexes after developmental exposure to PCB74 or PCB95. Compared with the other NDL-PCB congeners tested, PCB74 caused the most pronounced effects on BAEPs.
During the first 48 hours of life, newborn infants exposed to cocaine in utero have left ventricular diastolic segmental abnormalities. It is unknown whether these abnormalities are transient because of short-term effects or persist in older infants, possibly reflecting a teratogenic effect of cocaine.
This study prospectively evaluated global and segmental systolic and diastolic cardiac parameters by color kinesis. The patients were 2- to 6-month-old infants who were exposed to cocaine in utero (N = 56). Their data were compared with normal control patients with no intrauterine drug exposure (N = 60) and newborns exposed to drugs other than cocaine (N = 72).
At the age of 2 to 6 months, there was no significant difference in the measured color kinesis parameters among the cocaine-exposed and the 2 control groups (infants prenatally exposed to other drugs and no drugs). Infants exposed to heavy cocaine prenatally, as compared with the noncocaine-exposed group, had a significant (P =.007) increase in septal fractional area change during left ventricular filling.
At 2 to 6 months of age, infants have recovered from initial left ventricular diastolic segmental alterations seen in the first 48 hours of life except for the septal wall in the heavily cocaine-exposed group.
We compare etomidate to pentobarbital for sedation of children for head and neck computed tomography imaging.
We performed a prospective, randomized, double-blinded trial of patients aged 6 months to 6 years enrolled from the emergency department or radiology department at a large urban children's hospital. The primary outcome measure was sedation success rate.
A total of 61 patients were enrolled in the study (27 etomidate group, 34 pentobarbital group) at 2 different dosing regimens for etomidate. The final analysis group included 17 etomidate patients and 33 pentobarbital patients. The success rate for the etomidate group was 57% at total doses of up to 0.3 mg/kg (n = 7) and 76% at total doses of up to 0.4 mg/kg (n = 17), in contrast to a success rate of 97% for pentobarbital at a total dose of up to 5 mg/kg (n = 33). The success rate for pentobarbital was significantly greater than the final etomidate group (P = 0.04; difference in proportions 20.5%, 95% CI 1.9% to 44.4%). Patients receiving etomidate had significantly shorter induction times (P = 0.02; difference of means 2.1 minutes, 95% CI 0.35 to 3.86), sedation times (P < 0.001; difference of means 31.3 minutes, 95% CI 24.0 to 38.5), and total examination times (P < 0.001; difference of means 53.1 minutes, 95% CI 40.8 to 65.3). Significantly more parents in the etomidate group perceived their child to be back to baseline by discharge from the hospital (P < 0.001; difference of proportions 60.7, 95% CI 29.1 to 92.4) and expressed fewer concerns about their child's behavior after discharge (P = 0.024; difference of proportions 28.6, 95% CI 6.5 to 50.7).
At the dosing used in this study, pentobarbital is superior to etomidate when comparing success rates for sedation. However, among the successful sedations, the duration of sedation was shorter in the etomidate group than in the pentobarbital group. Pentobarbital is associated with more frequent side effects and parental concerns compared to etomidate.
Adenosine A2A receptor antagonists provide a promising nondopaminergic approach to the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Initial clinical trials of A2A antagonists targeted PD patients who had already developed treatment complications known as L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID) in an effort to improve symptoms while reducing existing LID. The goal of this study is to explore the effect of A2A antagonists and targeted A2A receptor depletion on the actual development of sensitized responses to L-DOPA in mouse models of LID in PD. Hemiparkinsonian mice (unilaterally lesioned with 6-OHDA) were treated daily for 3 weeks with a low dose of L-DOPA (2 mg/kg) preceded by a low dose of selective A2A antagonist (KW-6002 [(E)-1,3-diethyl-8-(3,4-dimethoxystyryl)-7-methyl-3,7-dihydro-1H-purine-2,6-dione] at 0.03 or 0.3 mg/kg, or SCH58261 [5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine] at 0.03 mg/kg) or vehicle intraperitoneally. In control mice, contralateral rotational responses to daily L-DOPA gradually increased over the initial week before reaching a persistent maximum. Both A2A antagonists inhibited the development of sensitized contralateral turning, with KW-6002 pretreatment reducing the sensitized rotational responses by up to threefold. The development of abnormal involuntary movements (a measure of LID) as well as rotational responses was attenuated by the postnatal depletion of forebrain A2A receptors in conditional (Cre/loxP system) knock-out mice. These pharmacological and genetic data provide evidence that striatal A2A receptors play an important role in the neuroplasticity underlying behavioral sensitization to L-DOPA, supporting consideration of early adjunctive therapy with an A2A antagonist to reduce the risk of LID in PD.
Staphylococcus aureus is the most common pathogen isolated in osteomyelitis. This study evaluated the efficacies of telavancin (an investigational, rapidly bactericidal lipoglycopeptide with a multifunctional mechanism of action against Gram-positive bacteria), vancomycin and linezolid in a rabbit methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) osteomyelitis model.
Localized osteomyelitis was induced in New Zealand White rabbits by percutaneous injection of 10(6) cfu of MRSA clinical isolate 168-1 into the intramedullary cavity. Two weeks post-infection, rabbits with radiographically confirmed, localized proximal tibial osteomyelitis were randomized into four groups (n = 15 per group): untreated controls; vancomycin 30 mg/kg subcutaneously every 12 h; linezolid 60 mg/kg orally every 8 h; and telavancin 30 mg/kg subcutaneously every 12 h. After 4 weeks of antibiotic treatment, animals were left untreated for 2 weeks. Rabbits were then euthanized and the tibias harvested. Bone matrix and marrow from each tibia were cultured and bacterial counts determined.
For MRSA isolate 168-1, the MIC was 0.25 mg/L for telavancin, 0.5 mg/L for vancomycin and 0.5 mg/L for linezolid. Tibial cultures were positive for MRSA in 9 of 15 (60%) untreated controls, and 3 of 15 (20%) telavancin-treated, 3 of 15 (20%) vancomycin-treated and 4 of 14 (29%) linezolid-treated rabbits.
Telavancin has comparable efficacy to vancomycin and linezolid in a rabbit model of MRSA osteomyelitis.
GATA3 is a transcription factor closely associated with estrogen receptor alpha in breast carcinoma, with a potential prognostic utility. This study investigated the immunohistochemical expression of GATA3 in estrogen receptor alpha-positive and estrogen receptor alpha-negative breast carcinomas. One hundred sixty-six cases of invasive breast carcinomas with 10-year follow-up information were analyzed. Positive GATA3 and estrogen receptor alpha cases were defined as greater than 20% of cells staining. Time to cancer recurrence and time to death were analyzed with survival methods. Of 166 patients, 40 were estrogen receptor alpha negative and 121 estrogen receptor alpha positive. Thirty-eight (23%) recurrences and 51 (31%) deaths were observed. In final multivariable analyses, GATA3-positive tumors had about two thirds the recurrence risk of GATA3-negative tumors (hazard ratio = 0.65, P = .395) and comparable mortality risk (hazard ratio = 0.86, P = .730). In prespecified subgroup analyses, the protective effect of GATA3 expression was most pronounced among estrogen receptor alpha-positive patients who received tamoxifen (hazard ratio = 0.57 for recurrence and 0.68 for death). We found no statistically significant differences in recurrence or survival rates between GATA3-positive and GATA3-negative tumors. However, there was a suggestion of a modest-to-strong protective effect of GATA3 expression among estrogen receptor alpha-positive patients receiving hormone therapy.
Oxaliplatin has been proven antitumoral activity in numerous clinical trials. Peripheral sensory neuropathy with predominantly hyperpathic symptoms induced by cold is the most severe and dose-limiting toxicity resulting from oxaliplatin therapy. We demonstrated that oxaliplatin alters sodium channel kinetics on sensory neurons. This effect could be antagonized in vitro by the sodium channel blocker carbamazepine. Therefore a pilot study was initiated to investigate if carbamazepine prevents oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy in patients with colorectal cancer.
Ten patients (six males, four females, mean age 56 +/- 12 years) refractory to 5-fluorouracil were treated with oxaliplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and folinic acid. The patients additionally received carbamazepine. Doses were adapted to a serum level of 3 - 6 mg/l. Patients were questioned about side-effects weekly and treatment-related toxicities were documented using the modified WHO scale. Results were compared with 30 historic controls treated with the same chemotherapy without carbamazepine.
The cumulative oxaliplatin dose was higher in the carbamazepine group (median 722 mg/m(2) and 510 mg/m(2), respectively, p = 0.020). Carbamazepine levels were 4.5 +/- 1.5 mg/l. In contrast to the control group no neuropathy higher than grade 1 occurred in the carbamazepine group. Rate of carbamazepine-induced side effects was low.
These observations demonstrate that oxaliplatin-induced sensory neuropathy more than grade 1 may be prevented by carbamazepine. Prevention of oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity by carbamazepine would possibly enable chemotherapy with considerable higher doses of oxapliplatin and thus enhance activity. A multicenter trial will elucidate if more serious distal neurotoxicities, which occur after application of higher cumulative doses of oxaliplatin, can also be prevented by carbamazepine.
To shed light on the possible role of mismatch repair gene Mlh3 in familial esophageal cancer (FEC).
A total of 66 members from 10 families suggestive of a genetic predisposition to hereditary esophageal cancer were screened for germline mutations in Mlh3 with denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC), a newly developed method of comparative sequencing based on heteroduplex detection. For all samples exhibiting abnormal DHPLC profiles, sequence changes were evaluated by cycle sequencing. For any mutation in family members, we conducted a segregation study to compare its prevalence in sporadic esophageal cancer patients and normal controls.
Exons of Mlh3 in all samples were successfully examined. Overall, 4 missense mutations and 3 polymorphisms were identified in 4 families. Mlh3 missense mutations in families 9 and 10 might be pathogenic, but had a reduced penetrance. While in families 1 and 7, there was no sufficient evidence supporting the monogenic explanations of esophageal cancers in families. The mutations were found in 33% of high-risk families and 50% of low-risk families.
Mlh3 is a high risk gene with a reduced penetrance in some families. However, it acts as a low risk gene for esophageal cancer in most families. Mutations of Mlh3 may work together with other genes in an accumulated manner and result in an increased risk of esophageal tumor. DHPLC is a robust and sensitive technique for screening gene mutations.
This study evaluated the effect of switching outpatients with schizophrenia and antipsychotic-induced sexual dysfunction to open-label quetiapine treatment. Secondary objectives were to compare the antipsychotic and prolactin-related effects of quetiapine versus prestudy antipsychotic treatment. Eight patients with at least moderately severe antipsychotic-induced sexual dysfunction (N = 7 taking risperidone, 4-6 mg/d; N = 1 taking haloperidol, 10 mg/d) were evaluated prospectively after they switched to 6 weeks of quetiapine treatment. The assessments that we used included evaluations of sexual functioning (Arizona Sexual Experience Scale [ASEX]; McGahuey et al., 2000), psychopathology (Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale [PANSS]; Kay, Fiszbeinm, & Opler, 1997), adverse events, and plasma prolactin levels. Quetiapine was associated with clinically and statistically significant improvement in ASEX total scores (p = 0.008) and significantly decreased PANSS total scores (p = 0.03). Plasma prolactin levels tended to decrease after the transition to quetiapine (p = 0.09). Quetiapine appears to offer an option to reduce antipsychotic-induced sexual dysfunction for outpatients with schizophrenia.
1. The effects of the endothelin antagonist bosentan on adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)-induced hypertension were examined in the conscious male Sprague-Dawley rat. 2. In order to confirm endothelin antagonism, 18 rats were randomly divided into two groups: receiving either (i) endothelin-1 (0.125, 0.25, 0.5 and 1 nmol/kg, i.v.); or (ii) endothelin-1 at these doses following bosentan (100 mg/kg gavage) and mean arterial pressure recorded (study A). Subsequently, 40 male rats (320 +/- 5 g) were randomly divided into four groups (n = 10): (i) Sham (0.9% saline, s.c.) + 5% acacia gum gavage; (ii) ACTH (500 micrograms/kg per day, s.c.) + 5% acacia gum gavage; (iii) Sham injection + bosentan (100 mg/kg per day) gavage; or (iv) ACTH + bosentan. Six control days (C1-C6) were followed by 11 treatment days (T0-T10). Systolic blood pressure, water intake, urine volume, food intake and bodyweight were measured every second day (study B). 3. Bosentan significantly attenuated the endothelin-1-induced blood pressure rise at 0.125 nmol/kg (P < 0.05), but not at higher doses. 4. Bosentan at a dose which attenuated endothelin-1-induced blood pressure increase had no effect on either blood pressure or metabolic parameters in ACTH-treated rats. 5. These results suggest that endothelin does not play a major role in ACTH-induced hypertension.
The microsomal prostaglandin E(2) synthase (mPGES)-1 is one of the terminal isoenzymes of prostaglandin (PG) E(2) biosynthesis. Pharmacological inhibitors of mPGES-1 are proposed as an alternative to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. We recently presented the design and synthesis of a series of pirinixic acid derivatives that dually inhibit mPGES-1 and 5-lipoxygenase. Here, we investigated the mechanism of mPGES-1 inhibition, the selectivity profile, and the in vivo activity of alpha-(n-hexyl)-substituted pirinixic acid [YS121; 2-(4-chloro-6-(2,3-dimethylphenylamino)pyrimidin-2-ylthio)octanoic acid)] as a lead compound. In cell-free assays, YS121 inhibited human mPGES-1 in a reversible and noncompetitive manner (IC(50) = 3.4 muM), and surface plasmon resonance spectroscopy studies using purified in vitro-translated human mPGES-1 indicate direct, reversible, and specific binding to mPGES-1 (K(D) = 10-14 muM). In lipopolysaccharide-stimulated human whole blood, PGE(2) formation was concentration dependently inhibited (IC(50) = 2 muM), whereas concomitant generation of the cyclooxygenase (COX)-2-derived thromboxane B(2) and 6-keto PGF(1alpha) and the COX-1-derived 12(S)-hydroxy-5-cis-8,10-trans-heptadecatrienoic acid was not significantly reduced. In carrageenan-induced rat pleurisy, YS121 (1.5 mg/kg i.p.) blocked exudate formation and leukocyte infiltration accompanied by reduced pleural levels of PGE(2) and leukotriene B(4) but also of 6-keto PGF(1alpha). Taken together, these results indicate that YS121 is a promising inhibitor of mPGES-1 with anti-inflammatory efficiency in human whole blood as well as in vivo.
New effective cytotoxic agents and combinations are urgently needed in cancer treatment. The enzyme inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase is a potentially useful target for drug development, since its activity has been shown to be amplified in malignant cells. Thiophenfurin, an inhibitor of the enzyme synthesized by us, is endowed with a significant apoptotic activity in promyelocytic leukaemia HL60 cells. Since retinoids were successfully employed in the treatment of patients with leukaemia, demonstrating significant differentiation-inducing and apoptotic effects, we carried out this study to evaluate the effects of the combination of thiophenfurin and several retinoid molecules, acting in different phases of the cell cycle in vitro. The results show that thiophenfurin is capable of eliciting significant S phase-specific antiproliferative effects in different sensitive and resistant cell lines with the IC50s ranging from 6.7 to 26 microM. When HL60 cells were treated with thiophenfurin in combination with retinoids, the effects on cell growth were additive or synergistic, depending on the kind of retinoid used and the sequence of treatment. In particular, we observed additive effects when the cells were exposed to thiophenfurin and all-transretinoic acid either simultaneously or sequentially. Instead, when the new heterocyclic retinoid isoxazole benzoic acid was used, synergism was obtained in the cells treated sequentially. The combination of thiophenfurin and isoxazole benzoic acid determined synergistic apoptotic effects through a mitochondrion-dependent mechanism, suggesting the possible usefulness of this combination in the treatment of leukaemia.
Prostate cancer is one of the most common cancers in men and is the second leading cause of cancer-related death in the USA. Many anti-tumor agents against prostate cancer cells have been developed, but their unacceptable systemic toxicity to normal tissues usually limits their use in the clinic. Apo2 ligand (Apo2L), also called Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), is one of several members of the TNF gene superfamily that induces apoptosis through engagement of death receptors. This protein has generated tremendous enthusiasm as a potential tumor-specific cancer therapeutic because, as a stable trimer, it selectively induces apoptosis in many transformed cells, but not in most normal cells. In this review we discuss its potential use in prostate cancer therapy, the mechanisms by which induces apoptosis or that underlie resistance to it, and strategies for sensitization to overcome them. Conventional chemotherapeutic and chemopreventive drugs, irradiation, and other therapeutic agents, such as histone deacetylase inhibitors or retinoids can sensitize Apo2L/TRAIL-resistant cells and tumors. Investigating the apoptotic effects of Apo2L/TRAIL, a unique tumor-specific cell death ligand, now in clinical trials, alone or in combination may not only help in understanding its antineoplastic role in prostate carcinoma but may also provide insights into basic mechanisms of apoptosis.
The present work is aimed at evaluating the protective effect of ferulic acid (FA), a naturally occurring phenolic compound on CCl4 induced toxicity. The activities of liver markers (alanine transaminase, aspartate transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transferase), lipid peroxidative index (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, hydroperoxides, nitric oxide, protein carbonyl content), the antioxidant status (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and reduced glutathione) were used as biomarkers to monitor the protective role of FA. The liver marker enzymes in plasma and lipid peroxidative index in liver and kidney were increased in CCl4-treated groups, which were decreased significantly on treatment with FA. The antioxidants, which were depleted in CCl4-treated groups, were improved significantly by FA treatment. Administration of FA to normal rats did not produce any harmful effects. Thus our results show that FA is an effective antioxidant without any side-effects and may be a great gain in the current search for natural therapy.
Inflammation plays a critical role in all stages of atherogenesis. Proliferating vascular smooth muscle cells (SMC) and endothelial cells (EC) enhancing the inflammatory response, both contribute to the progression of atherosclerosis. Anti-proliferative, anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative therapy seems to be a promising therapeutic strategy. The aim of this study was to assess the anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory effect of the beta-blocker nebivolol in comparison to metoprolol in vitro and to find out whether nebivolol inhibits neointima formation in vivo.
Real-time-RT-PCR revealed a decrease in VCAM-1, ICAM-1, PDGF-B, E-selectin and P-selectin mRNA expression in human coronary artery EC and SMC incubated with nebivolol for 72 hours while metoprolol did not have this effect. Nebivolol reduced MCP-1 and PDGF-BB protein in the culture supernatant of SMC and EC, respectively. Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with nebivolol for 0 or 35 days before and 28 days after carotid balloon injury. Immunohistological analyses showed that pre-treatment with nebivolol was associated with a decreased number of SMC layers and macrophages and an increased lumen area at the site of the arterial injury. The intima area was reduced by 43% after pre-treatment.
We found that nebivolol reduced the expression of proinflammatory genes in endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro whereas metoprolol did not. In vivo, nebivolol inhibited neointima formation by reducing SMC proliferation and macrophage accumulation.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography is a frequently used noninvasive method for the evaluation of inducible myocardial ischemia, myocardial viability, and preoperative cardiac risk. Although its clinical safety has been validated, side effects and complications especially with the coadministration of atropine can occur. We report a case of generalized tetany in a 49-year-old woman undergoing dobutamine stress echocardiography.
The strategy of diuretic drug administration remains to be defined in heart failure as experimental and clinical evidence have clearly established the benefit of neurohormonal blockade. The impact of addition of diuretic treatment to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition on survival remains to be demonstrated. The objectives of the study were to evaluate cardiovascular and renal effects of addition of diuretic treatment to captopril (2 g/L, in drinking water), on survival, on the experimental model of heart failure. Rats were followed for 10 months after coronary ligation. Echocardiographic, hemodynamic, morphometry and renal function investigations were then performed on surviving rats. Survival (from 34 to 61%), diuresis and natriuresis were significantly improved compared to control group only in animals treated with a combination of captopril + furosemide. In treated group: cardiac dimensions were reduced with left ventricular fractional shortening significantly increased in combination group (from 22.4 to 28%); captopril + furosemide animals had highest heart rate and lowest systolic and diastolic blood pressures; body and heart weight were reduced, but kidney weight was significantly increased with furosemide (1.7 g in control vs. 2 g in capto + furo); plasma renin activity and angiotensin 1 were greatly increased, and moderately stimulated in control. In conclusion, this combination of drugs significantly improved cardiac remodeling and survival of animals, increased diuresis and natriuresis despite stimulation of plasma renin activity and kidney hypertrophy.
From a review of the clinical charts of 198 depressed outpatients, information was extracted on common major treatment emergent side effects associated with phenelzine, tranylcypromine, and imipramine. These included hypertensive reactions, severe orthostatic hypotension, hypomania, significant weight gain, sexual dysfunction, and a residual category of multiple side effects which together culminated in drug discontinuation. In this report, frequency of their occurrence for each drug, level of severity, relation to dose and treatment duration, and physician response at the time the side effect was recorded are described. In addition, procedures found useful in the clinical management of these side effects are discussed.
The study has been designed to investigate the effect of benfotiamine, a thiamine derivative, in nicotine and uric acid-induced vascular endothelial dysfunction (VED) in rats. Nicotine (2 mg kg(-1)day(-1), i.p., 4 weeks) and uric acid (150 mg kg(-1)day(-1), i.p., 3 weeks) were administered to produce VED in rats. The development of VED was assessed by employing isolated aortic ring preparation and estimating serum and aortic concentration of nitrite/nitrate. Further, the integrity of vascular endothelium was assessed using the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of thoracic aorta. Moreover, the oxidative stress was assessed by estimating serum thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and aortic superoxide anion generation. The administration of nicotine and uric acid produced VED by impairing the integrity of vascular endothelium and subsequently decreasing serum and aortic concentration of nitrite/nitrate and attenuating acetylcholine-induced endothelium dependent relaxation. Further, nicotine and uric acid produced oxidative stress, which was assessed in terms of increase in serum TBARS and aortic superoxide generation. However, treatment with benfotiamine (70 mg kg(-1)day(-1), p.o.) or atorvastatin (30 mg kg(-1)day(-1) p.o., a standard agent) markedly prevented nicotine and uric acid-induced VED and oxidative stress by improving the integrity of vascular endothelium, increasing the concentration of serum and aortic nitrite/nitrate, enhancing the acetylcholine-induced endothelium dependent relaxation and decreasing serum TBARS and aortic superoxide anion generation. Thus, it may be concluded that benfotiamine reduces the oxidative stress and consequently improves the integrity of vascular endothelium and enhances the generation of nitric oxide to prevent nicotine and uric acid-induced experimental VED.
The authors examined age effects on adverse events from two randomized, controlled trials of rasagiline, comparing younger (younger than 70 years) and older (70 years and older) subjects. Older patients were more prone to serious adverse effects than younger patients, but there was no statistical interaction between age and rasagiline exposure. This absence of an age-rasagiline interaction suggests that rasagiline does not require special safety precautions for elderly subjects with Parkinson disease.
Dapsone has been used since 1976 in the treatment of relapsing polychondritis. A critical analysis of its therapeutic effectiveness based on 2 personal cases and 14 cases reported in the literature, all treated with dapsone alone, showed that treatment had to be discontinued in 4 on account of side effects (haemolytic anaemia, erythema multiforme, somnolence, headache, nausea); 1 patient showed no improvement and 5 relapsed; 6 responded favourably and without relapse during a 3 months' to 4 years' follow-up. Considering the unpredictable course of relapsing polychondritis and the fact that some of its clinical manifestations, notably auricular chondritis, may spontaneously resolve, the response of the disease to dapsone is difficult to establish and requires to be confirmed by a controlled clinical trial.
