Levodopa (L-DOPA), the metabolic precursor of dopamine, is widely used as a pharmacological agent for the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, long-term L-DOPA use results in abnormal involuntary movements such as dyskinesias. There is evidence that abnormal cell signaling in the basal ganglia is involved in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. The subthalamic nucleus (STN) plays a key role in the circuitry of the basal ganglia and in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. However, the contribution of the STN to L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias remains unclear. The objective of this work was to study the effects of acute or chronic systemic administration of L-DOPA to adult rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of dopamine neurons on c-fos expression in the STN and test the hypothesis that these effects correlate with L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. c-fos mRNA expression was measured in the STN by in situ hybridization histochemistry at the single cell level. Our results confirm earlier evidence that the chronic administration of L-DOPA to rats with a unilateral 6-OHDA lesion increases c-fos expression in the STN. We also report that c-fos expression can be increased following an acute injection of L-DOPA to 6-OHDA-lesioned rats but not following a chronic injection of L-DOPA to sham-operated, unlesioned rats. Finally, we provide evidence that the occurrence and severity of dyskinesia is correlated with c-fos mRNA levels in the ipsilateral STN. These results suggest that altered cell signaling in the STN is involved in some of the behavioral effects induced by systemic L-DOPA administration.
Industrial and occupational exposure to chromium compounds, particularly hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI))-containing compounds are often known to cause acute renal injury (ARI) in humans and animals. Its nephrotoxicity is associated with an increased formation of reactive oxygen species and lipid peroxidation in renal tissue. Recent studies suggest that antioxidants of the vitamin E family have protective effects against metal toxicity. Tocotrienols are known to have greater antioxidant activity than tocopherols and protect more efficiently against some free radical-related diseases than does tocopherols. In the present study, ARI induced by potassium dichromate (K(2)Cr(2)O(7)) has been used as a model to investigate the possible nephroprotective effect of tocotrienol-rich fraction (TRF) from palm oil. Wistar male rats having an average body weight (bw) of 210 g were divided into four groups. The first group was taken as control and injected with vehicle alone while the second group was drug control and ingested with TRF (200mg/kg, bw, orally, once daily for 21 days); the third group served as toxicant and was pre-treated with saline, followed by a single subcutaneous (SC) injection of K(2)Cr(2)O(7) (15 mg/kg bw). The fourth group was pre-treated with TRF and subsequently injected with K(2)Cr(2)O(7) (same dose as for the third group). Renal functions, oxidative and nitrosative stress were evaluated on days 0, 1, 2, 4, 7, 11 and 14 after treatment with K(2)Cr(2)O(7). The results revealed altered proximal tubular function; decreased glomerular filtration accompanied by oxidative damage 48 h after exposure to dichromate; while in the TRF-treated group proximal reabsorptive function, glomerular function and the cellular redox status were sustained. These results were further supported and confirmed by histological findings. The study suggests that TRF is effective in preventing K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-induced acute renal injury, but more studies are needed to confirm the effects of TRF as a nephroprotective agent.
In the present study, pseudoginsenoside-F(11) (PF(11)), a saponin that existed in American ginseng, was studied on its protective effect on methamphetamine (MA)-induced behavioral and neurochemical toxicities in mice. MA was intraperitoneally administered at the dose of 10 mg/kg four times at 2-h intervals, and PF(11) was orally administered at the doses of 4 and 8 mg/kg two times at 4-h intervals, 60 min prior to MA administration. The results showed that PF(11) did not significantly influence, but greatly ameliorated, the anxiety-like behavior induced by MA in the light-dark box task. In the forced swimming task, PF(11) significantly shortened the prolonged immobility time induced by MA. In the appetitively motivated T-maze task, PF(11) greatly shortened MA-induced prolonged latency and decreased the error counts. Similar results were also observed in the Morris water maze task. PF(11) significantly shortened the escape latency prolonged by MA. There were significant decreases in the contents of dopamine (DA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA), and 5-hydroxyindoacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the brain of MA-treated mice. PF(11) could partially, but significantly, antagonize MA-induced decreases of DA. The above results demonstrate that PF(11) is effective in protection of MA-induced neurotoxicity and also suggest that natural products, such as ginseng, might be potential candidates for the prevention and treatment of the neurological disorders induced by MA abuse.
FK973, a substituted dihydrobenzoxazine, is an antitumor antibiotic which has shown high therapeutic efficacy in a phase I study, but its development has been abandoned because of the side effect of vascular leak syndrome (VLS) in the clinical study. This study was performed to investigate whether or not FK317, a new benzmethoxy derivative of FK973, retains the antitumor activity of FK973 without the side effect of VLS.
VLS was evaluated by the volume of pleural effusion in rats. Cytotoxic activities were determined by a tetrazolium-based colorimetric assay (MTT assay) against murine (B16, P388) and human (HeLa S3, KB) tumor cell lines. Antitumor activities against murine ascitic leukemia (P388, L1210), murine solid tumors (reticulum cell sarcoma M5076, Colon 38 carcinoma) and human xenografts (mammary carcinoma MX-1, lung carcinoma LX-1) were examined.
FK973 (1.8 mg/kg) given i.v. to rats induced pleural effusion, one of the elements of VLS, 36 days after the first dosing, but did not 28 days after dosing. This model reflects clinical VLS delayed-type effusion with high protein concentrations. In contrast, FK317 (1.0-3.2 mg/kg) did not induce pleural effusion at all. FK317 had stronger cytotoxic effects against in vitro cultured B16, P388, HeLa S3 and KB tumor cell lines, and in in vivo experiments, FK317 showed equivalent antitumor activity against P388, M5076 and MX-1, and more potent antitumor activity against L1210, Colon 38 and LX-1 compared with FK973.
These results suggest that FK317 retains the antitumor activity of FK973 and does not induce VLS, and FK317 is a drug with high clinical potential for treating tumors in humans.
Learning can be severely impaired as a consequence of exposure to environmental pollutants. Vanadium (V), a metalloid which is widely distributed in the environment, has been shown to exert toxic effects on a variety of biological systems including the nervous system. However, studies exploring the impact of vanadium on learning are limited. Herein, we investigated the effects of oral administration of sodium metavanadate (SMV) (15, 20 and 25mg/kg/day for 2weeks) on spatial learning using Morris water maze (MWM). Our results showed that pre-training administration of sodium metavanadate impaired learning in Morris water maze. Analyzing the role of cholinergic system in SMV-induced learning deficit, we found that bilateral intra-hippocampal infusion of nicotine (1μg/side) during training could significantly diminish the SMV-induced learning impairment. We next examined the expression of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) as cholinergic markers in CA1 region of hippocampus as well as in medial septal area (MSA). Our molecular analyses showed that vanadium administration decreased ChAT and VAChT protein expression, an effect that was attenuated by nicotine. Altogether, our results confirmed the toxic effects of SMV on spatial acquisition, while also pointing to the neuroprotective effects of nicotine on SMV-induced impairments in learning capabilities. These findings might open a new avenue for the prevention of vanadium adverse effects on spatial learning and memory through activation of cholinergic signaling pathway.
Previous research demonstrated that the mesoaccumbens dopamine (DA) pathway played a critical role in the behavioral effects of amphetamine in rodents. Nonetheless, recent findings have also indicated involvement of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) transmission in these effects. In the present study, we investigated the role of 5-HT1B receptors located in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in the amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in rats. Male Wistar rats, implanted bilaterally with cannulae in the VTA were infused with saline (0.2 microl/side), GR 55562 (an antagonist of 5-HT1B receptors; 0.1-1 microg/side) or CP 93129 (an agonist of 5-HT1B receptors; 0.003-0.03 microg/side) immediately prior to the injection of saline (1 ml/kg, ip) or amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg, ip). The monitoring of locomotor activity in photobeam chambers began at once and proceeded for 60 min. Neither GR 55562 nor CP 93129 affected basal locomotor activity. Pretreatment with GR 55562 (0.1-1 microg/side) did not affect the locomotor hyperactivity evoked by amphetamine. On the other hand, microinjections of CP 93129 (0.01-0.03 microg/side) enhanced the amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotor activity. GR 55562 (1 microg/side) markedly reduced the enhancing effects of CP 93129 (0.01 microg/side) on the amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. These findings indicate that 5-HT1B receptors located in the VTA do not play a major role in the hyperlocomotion elicited by amphetamine, whereas their activation may modulate the behavioral response to the psychostimulant.
A 44 year-old woman with acute myeloid leukemia (AML, FAB, M4E) developed heart failure during treatment with anthracyclines for AML. She had not experienced heart disease and her left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 59% at the end of a successful remission induction therapy. Because her LVEF decreased to 33% after early consolidation therapy, the chemotherapy for AML was discontinued. The cumulative dose of daunorubicin, aclarubicin and mitoxantrone was 486 mg/m2, 135 mg/m2 and 55 mg/m2, respectively. In October 1990, four months after the end of the chemotherapy, heart failure (class III, NYHA) developed and did not improve by treatment consisting of dobutamin, digoxin and diuretics. Anthracycline cardiomyopathy was histologically confirmed by endomyocardial biopsy. Then we administered selective beta 1-antagonist, metoprolol (Seloken), with an initial dose of 5 mg/day which was doubled 3 times every 4 or 8 weeks to 40 mg/day, according to the treatment schedule of dilated cardiomyopathy. She recuperated satisfactorily (Class I, NYHA), and was discharged on February '91. Her LVEF gradually improved and it has been maintained at above 50% on an outpatient basis. The patient has been in complete hematological remission during this period. It seems that low dose selective beta 1-antagonist therapy has a potential to improve myocardial function in some patients with anthracycline cardiomyopathy.
Regarding a case of little-differentiated adenocarcinoma of prostate in a 79-year old male patient undergoing antiandrogenic corticosteroid therapy (cyproterone acetate), the authors describe a rare complication related to treatment with the drug. Cytolytic icterus, without cholestasis, occurred eleven weeks after starting the treatment without metastasis of the primary cancerous lesion, and regressed when administration of the antiandrogenic agent was interrupted. This description is compatible with toxic hepatitis. This is a rare complication, which should be differentiated from stasis icterus consecutive to treatment with progestogens. Its diagnosis precludes also primary or drug-induced secondary tumors or degenerative hepatic lesions. A knowledge of this complication by the urologist is important, so the latter might not conclude too hastily to metastatic extension of primary cancer of prostate. Withdrawal of the patient from antiandrogenic therapy is mandatory, and management should incorporate complete biological investigation of liver function, CT scans and, depending upon the case, liver biopsy as the only means of studying this exceptionally rare complication.
Rosiglitazone is a commonly prescribed insulin-sensitizing drug with selective agonistic activity at the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ). Previously, rosiglitazone was shown to attenuate dopaminergic cell loss in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD), an effect attributed to its anti-inflammatory properties. To elucidate the neuroprotective mechanisms of rosiglitazone, we investigated the effects of rosiglitazone on the expressions of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in a 6-OHDA-lesioned rat PD model. Rosiglitazone (3 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally at 24 h and 30 min prior to the creation of an intranigral 6-OHDA lesion. A reduction in TH protein expression began at 3 days and a prominent decrease was observed at 7 days post-lesion, and decreases of dopamine (DA) levels began at 1 day post-lesion. In contrast, GFAP expression was significantly increased at 3 days and preserved for up to 7 days post-lesion and the patterns of GFAP expression was inversely correlated to changes in TH expression. Furthermore, COX-2 expression in the rostral striatum showed a significant increase at 6h post-lesion while that of the caudal striatum was increased at 12 h. In the 6-OHDA-lesioned model, the activation of PPARγ by rosiglitazone significantly prevented TH protein expression reductions, and inhibited 6-OHDA-induced microglia activation in striatum. In addition, rosiglitazone attenuated in production of both COX-2 and TNF-α expression. In contrast, rosiglitazone pretreatment led to greater increases in striatal GFAP expression than 6-OHDA alone and changes in the expression of this protein preceded the changes that were seen with TH expression. These results suggest that the neuroprotection observed with rosiglitazone treatment may be partially due to the attenuation of COX-2 production and the strengthening of astrocyte function. Our results provide insight into the neuroprotective mechanisms of rosiglitazone against 6-OHDA-induced neuronal damages.
We report the case of an ICU patient with previous medical history of head trauma with hydrocephalus requiring ventricular derivation, presenting a coma (Glasgow Coma Score=8) with bilateral mydriasis after the use of transdermal scopolamine (1 mg) for profuse bronchial secretions. Neurological explorations (CT-scan and electroencephalogram) confirmed the absence of organic cause to the neurological deterioration. Neurological status rapidly and completely improved after removal of transdermal scopolamine suggesting a central anticholinergic syndrome.
Immunosuppressive environmental chemicals may exacerbate allergic diseases, including atopic dermatitis (AD). We examined the effects of the immunosuppressive environmental chemicals methoxychlor, parathion, piperonyl butoxide, dexamethasone, and cyclophosphamide on picryl-chloride-induced AD in NC/Nga mice. Mice were orally exposed (age, 5 weeks) to these chemicals; during their sensitization and challenge (age, 8-12 weeks) with picryl chloride, we measured ear thickness and scored skin dryness, erythema, edema, and wounding. After the challenge, we analyzed dermatitis severity and cytokine gene expression in the pinna, serum levels of IgE and IgG2a, T- and B-cell numbers and cytokine production in auricular lymph nodes, and counted splenic regulatory T cells. Exposure to environmental immunosuppressive chemicals markedly increased dermatitis severity and gene expression in the pinna; serum IgE and IgG2a levels; and numbers of helper T cells and IgE-positive B cells, production of Th1 and Th2 cytokines, and production of IgE in auricular lymph-node cells and markedly decreased the numbers of splenic regulatory T cells. Prior exposure to immunosuppressive environmental chemicals aggravates AD; a decrease in the numbers of regulatory T cells may influence this process.
Abnormal regulation of glucose and impaired carbohydrate utilization that result from a defective or deficient insulin are the key pathogenic events in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Experimental and clinical studies have shown the antidiabetic effects of Pycnogenol (PYC). However, the protective effects of PYC on the liver, a major metabolic organ which primarily involves in glucose metabolism and maintains the normal blood glucose level in T2DM model have not been studied. The present study evaluated the beneficial effect of PYC, French maritime pine bark extract, on hyperglycemia and oxidative damage in normal and diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced by feeding rats with a high-fat diet (HFD; 40%) for 2 weeks followed by an intraperitoneal (IP) injection of streptozotocin (STZ; 40 mg/kg; body weight). An IP dose of 10mg/kg PYC was given continually for 4 weeks after diabetes induction. At the end of the 4-week period, blood was drawn and the rats were then sacrificed, and their livers dissected for biochemical and histopathological assays. In the HFD/STZ group, levels of glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), significantly increased, while hepatic glycogen level decreased. PYC supplementation significantly reversed these parameters. Moreover, supplementation with PYC significantly ameliorated thiobarbituric reactive substances, malonaldehyde, protein carbonyl, glutathione and antioxidant enzymes [glutathione-S-transferase, catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase] in the liver of HFD/STZ rats. These results were supported with histopathological examinations. Although detailed studies are required for the evaluation of the exact protective mechanism of PYC against diabetic complications, these preliminary experimental findings demonstrate that PYC exhibits antidiabetic effects in a rat model of type 2 DM by potentiating the antioxidant defense system. These finding supports the efficacy of PYC for diabetes management.
This study aims at investigating the anti-tumor effect of caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) against animal carcinogenesis. In order to substantiate this fact implanted tumor Ehrlich carcinoma cells were assessed in vivo to Swiss mice strain. We found that administrating of CAPE (15 mg/kg S.C.) showed that the tumor volume decreased significantly by 51%. As a result, it improved animal chances of survival and they became healthier. An anti-angiogenic effect of CAPE in vivo was observed, as determined by a significant serum matrix metalloproteinase (MMP-9) reduction (142.1 ng/ml), activation of endostatin serum level (1.9 ng/ml), as well as DNA fragmentation in tumor treated mice when compared with untreated ones.
CAPE has a significant inhibitory effect on tumor in vivo. This inhibition may be related to its angiostatic and apoptotic effects. It also reduced angiogenic factors which may shift the equilibrium to the angiostatic effect of CAPE. These findings provide the possibility for the future use of CAPE as tumor therapy in human clinical trials.
Poisoning via organophosphorus (OP) nerve agents occurs when the OP binds and inhibits the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE). This enzyme is responsible for the metabolism of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) which transmits signals between nerves and several key somatic regions. When AChE is inhibited, the signal initiated by ACh is not properly terminated. Excessive levels of ACh result in a cholinergic crisis, and in severe cases can lead to death. Current treatments for OP poisoning involve the administration of atropine, which blocks ACh receptors, and oximes, which reactivate AChE after inhibition. Efforts to improve the safety, efficacy, and broad spectrum utility of these treatments are ongoing and usually require the use of appropriate animal model systems. For OP poisoning, the guinea pig (Cavia porcellus) is a commonly used animal model because guinea pigs more closely mirror primate susceptibility to OP poisoning than do other animals such as rats and mice. This is most likely because among rodents and other small mammals, guinea pigs have a very low relative concentration of serum carboxylesterase, an enzyme known to bind OPs in vitro and to act as an endogenous bioscavenger in vivo. Although guinea pigs historically have been used to test OP poisoning therapies, it has been found recently that guinea pig AChE is substantially more resistant to oxime-mediated reactivation than human AChE. To examine the molecular basis for this difference, we reverse transcribed mRNA encoding guinea pig AChE, amplified the resulting cDNA, and sequenced this product. The nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of guinea pig AChE were then compared to the human version. Several amino acid differences were noted, and the predicted locations of these differences were mapped onto a structural model of human AChE. To examine directly how these differences affect oxime-mediated reactivation of AChE after inhibition by OPs, human and guinea pig red blood cell ghosts were prepared and used as sources of AChE, and the relative capacity of several different oximes to reactivate each OP-inhibited AChE were determined. The differences we report between human and guinea pig AChE raise additional concerns about the suitability of the guinea pig as an appropriate small animal model to approximate human responses to OP poisoning and therapies.
Praeruptorin A is a coumarin compound naturally occurring in the roots of Peucedanum praeruptorum Dunn., a commonly used traditional Chinese medicine for the treatment of certain respiratory diseases and hypertension. Although previous studies indicated the relaxant effects of (+/-)-praeruptorin A on tracheal and arterial preparations, little is known about the functional characteristics of the enantiomers. In the present study, the two enantiomers were successfully isolated and identified by using a preparative Daicel Chiralpak AD-H column, and their relaxant effects on aorta rings were observed and compared. (+)-Praeruptorin A showed more potent relaxation than (-)-praeruptorin A against KCl- and phenylephrine-induced contraction of rat isolated aortic rings with intact endothelium. Removal of the endothelium remarkably reduced the relaxant effect of (+)-praeruptorin A but not that of (-)-praeruptorin A. Pretreatment of aortic rings with N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase) or methylene blue (MB, a soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor) resulted in similar changes of the relaxant effects of the two enantiomers to endothelium removal. Molecular docking studies also demonstrated that (+)-praeruptorin A was in more agreement to nitric oxide synthase pharmacophores than (-)-praeruptorin A. On the other hand, the two enantiomers of praeruptorin A could slightly attenuate the contraction of rat aortic rings induced by internal Ca(2+) release from sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). These findings indicated that (+)-praeruptorin A and (-)-praeruptorin A exerted distinct relaxant effects on isolated rat aorta rings, which might be mainly attributed to nitric oxide synthesis catalyzed by endothelial nitric oxide synthase.
In different tissues, estrogens, selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs), and anti-estrogens exert different biologic activities. For the endometrium, estradiol and tamoxifen induce proliferation, and because of this, tamoxifen treatment of breast cancer patients results in a two- to sevenfold increased risk for development of endometrial cancer. Use of raloxifene, or the anti-estrogen ICI182780, does not result in such an increased risk. The objective of the current study was to generate and analyze gene expression profiles that reflect the transcriptional response of the human endometrium to estradiol, SERMs like tamoxifen and raloxifene, and anti-estrogens like ICI182780.
Transient transfections were performed to analyze the transcriptional response of ECC-1 cells to estradiol, tamoxifen, raloxifene, and ICI182780. Subsequently, to reveal the molecular mechanism of action, gene expression profiles were generated and some of the observed regulated genes were confirmed by Northern blotting. Biostatistical methods were employed to analyze the expression profile results further, and amphiregulin effects on ECC-1 cell signaling were investigated using Northern and Western blotting, and 3H-thymidine incorporation.
Analysis of the profiles revealed that estradiol, tamoxifen, raloxifene, and ICI182780 influence the same biologic processes, but they do so via regulation of different sets of genes. Upon construction of a genetic network it was observed that the largest possible network centered on epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor signaling. Furthermore, the EGF receptor ligand amphiregulin was differentially regulated by all four ligands. Next it was shown that amphiregulin indeed could stimulate EGF receptor signaling in ECC-1 cells. Based on these results, it was hypothesized that EGF receptor signaling could differentially be affected by estrogen, tamoxifen, raloxifene, and ICI182780 because these four compounds differentially regulate the EGF receptor ligand amphiregulin.
Regulation of amphiregulin coincides with the described in vivo effect of the four ligands on the endometrium. Therefore, it is possible that modulation of EGF receptor signaling is a significant player in estrogen-agonistic growth of the endometrium and needs to be investigated further.
Niacin has proven lipid-modifying efficacy and cardiovascular benefit; however, it is underused because of skin flushing, a process mediated primarily by prostaglandin D(2) (PGD(2)). Laropiprant (LRPT), a PGD(2) receptor (DP1) antagonist that mitigates niacin-induced flushing, has been combined with extended-release niacin (ERN) into a fixed-dose tablet containing 1g of ERN and 20mg of LRPT (ERN/LRPT 1g). In a large-scale (n=∼1600), multinational, 6-month study in dyslipidemic patients, ERN/LRPT 2g produced superior lipid-modifying efficacy vs placebo, whether administered alone or with concomitant statins.
This Phase III, randomized, double-blind study evaluated the lipid-modifying efficacy of ERN/LRPT alone or added to ongoing statins in Asian patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed hyperlipidemia.
After a 4-week placebo run-in, patients were randomized to ERN/LRPT 1g (n=322) or placebo (PBO; n=324). After 4 weeks, the dose was advanced to 2 tablets/d (ERN/LRPT 2g or PBO) for 8 additional weeks. End points included effects of ERN/LRPT 2g vs PBO on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C; primary), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), triglyceride (TG), and other lipids/lipoproteins.
Relative to PBO, ERN/LRPT 2g produced significant (P < .001) changes in LDL-C (-14.7%), HDL-C (15.9%), TG (-23.4%), LDL-C:HDL-C (-25.5%), non-HDL-C (-16.4%), apolipoprotein (Apo) B (-15.4%), and Apo A-I (5.3%) from baseline to week 12 in the total population. Similar results were observed in patients treated with ERN/LRPT alone or added to ongoing statin.
ERN/LRPT 2g, administered alone or with a statin, produced significant improvements in multiple lipid/lipoprotein parameters in dyslipidemic Asian patients.
Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an autoimmune model with inflammation and demyelination in the central nervous system, which resembles the human demyelinating disorder, multiple sclerosis (MS). In this study, we investigated the effect of Am-80, a synthetic retinoid, on EAE in DA rats. DA rats immunized with complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) supplemented with myelin basic protein (MBP) developed severe EAE which reached the peak 12 to 14 days after immunization. Am-80 and prednisolone administered orally for 12 days after immunization diminished the clinical symptoms and infiltration of inflammatory cells in a dose dependent manner. However, after stopping administration, EAE recurred in DA rats treated with Am-80, but not with prednisolone. The different responses between Am-80 and prednisolone were not due to the difference in the tolerability to the MBP because both inhibited the delayed-type hypersensitivity response to MBP only during administration. To investigate the mechanism how Am-80 alone delayed the response, the expressional levels of mRNA for interleukin-6 (IL-6), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in spinal cord were examined. Transcriptional levels of IL-6, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha were parallel with the clinical symptoms of the disease in Am-80-treated rats, that is, expressional levels of their mRNA were diminished during the administration of Am-80, which then increased as soon as the administration was stopped. Among them, the expression of IL-6 mRNA was more rapidly and highly relapsed than that of the other two cytokines mRNA. However, prednisolone attenuated transcriptions of all these cytokines throughout the experiment. Therefore, these findings suggested that the inhibition of EAE is, in part, related to the inhibition of IL-6 production. However, there are many possible mechanism in the suppression of EAE by Am-80, further experiments will be necessary.
Administration of inhibitors of neuronal nitric oxide synthase or deletion of the encoding gene in rodents provided evidence that neuronal nitric oxide synthase activity may contribute to neuronal cell death following global and focal cerebral ischemia. In the present study, we investigated by in situ hybridization the expression of an endogenous inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase activity, designated protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and homologous to cytoplasmic dynein light chain, in the post-ischemic rat brain. Following global ischemia induced by cardiac arrest, messenger RNA expression of protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase was rapidly induced in pyramidal neurons of the hippocampal CA3 region and granule cell of the dentate gyrus which are resistant to ischemic damage. In vulnerable CA1 pyramidal neurons however, protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression remained at basal level after global ischemia and was associated with an increase in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase activity and subsequent DNA fragmentation indicating ischemia-mediated neuronal cell death. Following focal cerebral ischemia induced by permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery, transcripts of protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase progressively accumulated in cortical neurons bordering the infarct area. After transient middle cerebral artery occlusion however, messenger RNA levels of protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase increased in the reperfused neocortex. Our findings indicate that cerebral ischemia leads to an increase in neuronal expression of protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in brain regions where sustained or "uncoupled" nitric oxide synthase activity may be detrimental to neurons. Lack of post-ischemic induction of protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in CA1 pyramidal neurons may result in high nitric oxide synthase activity after global ischemia and could contribute to delayed neuronal cell death.
Mesopontine cholinergic neurons activate dopamine neurons important for reward-seeking and locomotor activity. The present studies tested whether cholinergic receptor blockade in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) altered locomotion induced by scopolamine (3 mg/kg i.p.) or by oxotremorine-M (0.1 microg bilaterally in the VTA). It was predicted that cholinergic blockers in the VTA would attenuate these cholinergic-induced locomotor increases. Locomotor activity was increased by scopolamine and oxotremorine-M administration in all treatments. When dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHBE), a nicotinic receptor antagonist, was applied in VTA prior to oxotremorine-M, locomotion was reduced to slightly above saline baseline levels, but atropine, a muscarinic antagonist, had no effect. This suggests that the locomotor effect of oxotremorine-M at this dose was mediated mainly via nicotinic, not muscarinic, receptors. Intra-VTA injections of DHBE, however, did not attenuate scopolamine-induced locomotion indicating that scopolamine-induced locomotion is not mediated mainly via VTA cholinergic receptors. In mutant mice with a deletion in the M5 muscarinic receptor gene, scopolamine-induced locomotion was increased versus wild type mice after scopolamine injection. This suggests that the M5 receptor has an inhibitory effect on scopolamine-induced locomotion.
Ethambutol (EMB), widely used in the treatment of tuberculosis, has been reported to cause Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy in patients carrying mitochondrial DNA mutations. We study the effect of EMB on mitochondrial metabolism in fibroblasts from controls and from a man carrying an OPA1 mutation, in whom the drug induced the development of autosomal dominant optic atrophy (ADOA). EMB produced a mitochondrial coupling defect together with a 25% reduction in complex IV activity. EMB induced the formation of vacuoles associated with decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and increased fragmentation of the mitochondrial network. Mitochondrial genetic variations may therefore be predisposing factors in EMB-induced ocular injury.
Beta-adrenergic stimulation may increase heart rate and the potential for cardiac arrhythmias. The effect of inhaled long-acting beta2-agonists (LABAs) on these outcomes was evaluated in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in 2 double-blind randomized clinical trials. The pretreatment arrhythmia occurrence frequency in these patients was also described. In this analysis, 24-hour Holter monitoring data were pooled from 2 identically designed Phase III trials. Patients were randomized to LABA treatment or placebo for 12 weeks: a) nebulized arformoterol 15 microg BID, b) 25 microg BID, or c) 50 microg QD; d) salmeterol metered dose inhaler 42 microg BID; or e) placebo. The 24-hour Holter monitoring was performed pretreatment and at Weeks 0 (first day of dosing), 6, and 12. We assessed the proportion of patients with each of 4 arrhythmias: atrial tachycardia, atrial fibrillation/flutter, and "nonsustained"; (4-10 beats) and "sustained"; (>10 beats) ventricular tachycardia. There were 5226 Holter recordings in 1429 treated patients. At baseline, there was a low frequency of occurrence of atrial fibrillation/flutter (0.1%), nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (3.1%), and >10 beat ventricular tachycardia (0.3%). Atrial tachycardia occurred frequently (41.8%). The proportion of patients with treatment-emergent atrial tachycardia ranged from 27% to 32% and was non-significantly higher, by approximately 2%-5% (p = 0.70), in the LABA groups compared with the placebo group. The rates of the other more serious arrhythmias did not increase with LABA treatment and were similar to placebo. All treatment groups (LABA and placebo) had consistent small decreases from baseline in mean 24-hour and maximum hourly heart rate. In conclusion, in this large cohort of COPD patients with no or stable cardiac comorbidities, a high proportion ( approximately 40%) of patients were observed to have atrial tachycardia before treatment, which increased by 2%-5% with LABA treatment. More serious arrhythmias were infrequent and did not increase with inhaled LABA therapy. LABA administration did not increase mean heart rate.
Longitudinal studies of substance users report difficulty in locating and completing 12-month interviews, which may compromise study validity.
This study examined rates and predictors of contact difficulty and in-person follow-up completion among patients presenting with cocaine-related chest pain to an inner-city emergency department (ED). The authors hypothesize that less staff effort in contacting patients and lower follow-up rates would bias subsequent substance use analysis by missing those with heavier substance misuse.
A total of 219 patients aged 19 to 60 years (65% males; 78% African American) with cocaine-related chest pain were interviewed in the ED and then in person at 3, 6, and 12 months. Demographics, substance use measures, and amount/type of research staff contacts (telephone, letters, home visits, and locating patient during return ED visits) were recorded. Poisson and negative binomial regression analyses were conducted to predict quantity of patient contacts for the 12-month follow-up.
Interview completion rates at 3, 6, and 12 months were 78, 82, and 80%, respectively. Average contact attempts to obtain each interview were 10 at 3 months (range 3-44), 8 at 6 months (1-31), and 8 at 12 months (1-49); 13% of patients required a home visit to complete the 12-month interview. Participants requiring more contact attempts by staff were younger and reported more frequent binge drinking at baseline (p < 0.05), but were less likely to meet criteria for substance abuse or dependence (p < 0.5), or to report prior mental health treatment (p < 0.05). Comparisons of parallel regressions predicting contact difficulty based on the entire sample, the low-effort group, and the difficult-to-reach group showed variation in findings.
This study demonstrates that substantial staff effort is required to achieve adequate retention over 12 months of patients with substance misuse. Without these extensive efforts at follow-up, longitudinal analyses may be biased.
The optimum septic shock vasopressor support strategy is currently debated. This study was performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) as the initial vasopressor in septic shock patients who were managed with a specific treatment protocol. A prospective, randomized, open-label, clinical trial was used in a medical intensive care unit comparing DA with NE as the initial vasopressor in fluid-resuscitated 252 adult patients with septic shock. If the maximum dose of the initial vasopressor was unable to maintain the hemodynamic goal, then fixed-dose vasopressin was added to each regimen. If additional vasopressor support was needed to achieve the hemodynamic goal, then phenylephrine was added. The primary efficacy end point was all-cause 28-day mortality. Secondary end points included organ dysfunction, hospital and intensive care unit length of stay, and safety (primarily occurrence of arrhythmias). The 28-day mortality rate was 50% (67/134) with DA as the initial vasopressor compared with 43% (51/118) for NE treatment (P = 0.282). There was a significantly greater incidence of sinus tachycardia with DA (24.6%; 33/134) than NE (5.9%; 7/118) and arrhythmias noted with DA treatment (19.4%; 26/134) compared with NE treatment (3.4%; 4/118; P < 0.0001), respectively. Logistic regression analysis identified Acute Physiologic and Chronic Health Evaluation II score (P < 0.0001) and arrhythmia (P < 0.015) as significant predictors of outcome. In this protocol-directed vasopressor support strategy for septic shock, DA and NE were equally effective as initial agents as judged by 28-day mortality rates. However, there were significantly more cardiac arrhythmias with DA treatment. Patients receiving DA should be monitored for the development of cardiac arrhythmias (NCT00604019).
In a population of patients experiencing thrombocytopenia while treated with heparin, bleeding and thromboses are well-appreciated complications, but their relative contributions to mortality have been less well described. In this population, the aims of this study were (1) to identify the independent predictors of bleeding and (2) to compare the incidence and the strength of association of bleeding and of new thromboses to in-hospital mortality. The independent predictors of bleeding and in-hospital mortality were identified using multivariate logistic regression models on the 1,478 patients who developed thrombocytopenia after their enrollment in the Complications After Thrombocytopenia Caused by Heparin (CATCH) study. The independent predictors of bleeding were chronic hematologic disorders, intra-aortic balloon pump, congestive heart failure, and platelet count nadir <120 x 10(9)/L. Although bleeding (n = 141 [10%]) and thromboembolic complications (n = 135 [9%]) were equally prevalent, the former was less strongly associated than the latter with in-hospital mortality (odds ratio 1.75, 95% confidence interval 1.01 to 3.03, and odds ratio 2.77, 95% confidence interval 1.67 to 4.61, respectively). In conclusion, medical management should be directed mainly at the prevention of thromboembolic complications, while additionally considering the risk for bleeding.
Phenytoin is a first-line drug for the treatment of status epilepticus. We report a case of phenytoin intoxication after intravenous phenytoin loading in a patient with clozapine-related seizures. To our knowledge, this is the first description of phenytoin intoxication due to CYP2C9 inhibition by clozapine. This case report is important because it supports the use of a lower intravenous loading dose of phenytoin in patients with clozapine-related status epilepticus.
