Toluene di-isocyanate (TDI) is widely used in the production of polyurethane foams and paints. As TDI causes respiratory disease in only a fraction of exposed workers, genetic factors may play a key role in disease susceptibility. Polymorphisms in TDI metabolising genes may affect elimination kinetics, resulting in differences in body retention, and in its turn differences in adverse effects.
To analyze how genotype modifies the associations between (i) TDI in air (2,4-TDI and 2,6-TDI) and its metabolites toluene diamine (TDA; 2,4-TDA and 2,6-TDA) in hydrolyzed urine; and (ii) 2,4-TDA and 2,6-TDA in hydrolyzed plasma and 2,4-TDA and 2,6-TDA in urine.
Workers exposed to TDI were analyzed for 2,4-TDI and 2,6-TDI in air (N=70), 2,4-TDA and 2,6-TDA in hydrolyzed urine (N=124) and in plasma (N=128), and genotype: CYP1A1*2A, CYP1A1*2B, GSTA1-52, GSTM1O, GSTM3B, GSTP1 I105V, GSTP1 A114V, GSTT1O, MPO-463, NAT1*3, *4, *10, *11, *14, *15, NAT2*5, *6, *7, and SULT1A1 R213H.
GSTP1 105 strongly modified the relationship between 2,4-TDA in plasma and in urine: ValVal carriers had about twice as steep regression slope than IleIle carriers. A similar pattern was found for 2,6-TDA. CYP1A1*2A, GSTM1, GSTP1, GSTT1, and MPO possibly influenced the relationship between TDA in plasma and urine.
Our results show, for the first time, genetic modification on the human TDI metabolism. The findings suggest that GSTP1 genotype should be considered when evaluating biomarkers of TDI exposure in urine and plasma. Moreover, the results support earlier findings of GSTP1 105 Val as protective against TDI-related asthma.
Painful nerve and tissue injuries can be exacerbated by activity in sympathetic neurons. The mechanisms of sympathetically maintained pain (SMP) are unclear.
To determine the effect of cutaneous sympathetic activity on pain induced by primary afferent C-nociceptor sensitization with capsaicin in humans.
In healthy volunteers capsaicin was applied topically (n = 12) or injected into the forearm skin (n = 10) to induce spontaneous pain, dynamic and punctate mechanical hyperalgesia, and antidromic (axon reflex) vasodilatation (flare). Intensity of pain and hyperalgesia, axon reflex vasodilatation (laser Doppler), and flare size and area of hyperalgesia (planimetry) were assessed. The local skin temperature at the application and measurement sites was kept constant at 35 degrees C. In each individual the analyses were performed during the presence of high and low sympathetic skin activity induced by whole-body cooling and warming with a thermal suit. By this method sympathetic vasoconstrictor activity is modulated in the widest range that can be achieved physiologically. The degree of vasoconstrictor discharge was monitored by measuring skin blood flow (laser Doppler) and temperature (infrared thermometry) at the index finger.
The intensity and spatial distribution of capsaicin-evoked spontaneous pain and dynamic and punctate mechanical hyperalgesia were identical during the presence of high and low sympathetic discharge. Antidromic vasodilatation and flare size were significantly diminished when sympathetic vasoconstrictor neurons were excited.
Cutaneous sympathetic vasoconstrictor activity does not influence spontaneous pain and mechanical hyperalgesia after capsaicin-induced C-nociceptor sensitization. When using physiologic stimulation of sympathetic activity, the capsaicin model is not useful for elucidating mechanisms of SMP. In neuropathic pain states with SMP, different mechanisms may be present.
The long-term use of levodopa as a pharmacotherapy for Parkinson's disease is limited by the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias. However, recent studies have suggested that pharmacological targeting of the endocannabinoid system may provide a viable adjunct to suppress these motor side effects. Thus, this study sought to determine the effect of pharmacologically activating or blocking endocannabinoid signalling on levodopa-induced dyskinesias in a rat model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions were made dyskinetic by 6 weeks of daily levodopa injections (10mg/kg s.c.). Rats that developed stable abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) received acute injections of the cannabinoid receptor agonist, HU210 (0.0, 0.5, 5.0, and 50.0 μg/kg i.p.), or the CB(1) receptor antagonist/inverse agonist, AM251 (0.0 and 3.0mg/kg i.p.), whereas rats that did not develop stable AIMs received injections of the CB(1) receptor antagonist/inverse agonist, rimonabant (0.0 and 3.0mg/kg i.p.), for 18 days. In the dyskinetic rats, the highest dose of HU210 significantly reduced certain subtypes of AIMs but it also impaired normal motor functioning, while AM251 had no effect on AIMs. In the non-dyskinetic rats, rimonabant precipitated certain subtypes of AIMs. Overall, this study demonstrates that the anti-dyskinetic effects of cannabinoid receptor agonists may not be dissociable from their motor suppressant effects thereby limiting their potential usefulness for treating established dyskinesias in parkinsonism. However, it is intriguing that blockade of endocannabinoid-CB(1) signalling can unmask levodopa-induced AIMs, and this finding suggests that endocannabinoid tone may confer protection against the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
A series of vanilloid-type beta-adrenoceptor blockers derived from antioxidant traditional Chinese herbal medicines were synthesized and tested for their antioxidant and adrenoceptor antagonistic activities. They all possessed significant beta-adrenoceptor blocking activities under in vitro experiments and radioligand binding assays. In addition, some compounds were further examined in in vivo tests and produced antagonist effects matching that of propranolol and labetalol by measurements of antagonism toward (-)isoproterenol-induced tachycardia and (-)phenylephrine-induced pressor responses in anesthetized rats. Furthermore, all of the compounds had antioxidant effects inherited from their original structures. In conclusion, compound 11 had the most potent beta-adrenoceptors blocking activity, 12 and 13 possessed high cardioselectivity, whereas 14, 15 and 16 possessed additional alpha-adrenoceptor blocking activity and 15 is the most effective antioxidant of all. The antioxidant activity may be due to their alpha and beta unsaturated side chain at position 1 and ortho-substituted methoxy moiety on 4-phenoxyethylamine.
The ACE gene is a candidate gene for cardiovascular disease. Endothelial dysfunction is considered an intermediate phenotype in the pathogenesis of hypertension and atherosclerosis. We evaluated the role of ACE gene polymorphism in endothelial function of young healthy humans. We assessed ACE genotype (deletion [D]/insertion [I] polymorphism) in 92 young healthy individuals. In 88 of them, endothelium-dependent (flow-mediated) vasodilation and endothelium-independent (nitroglycerin-induced) vasodilation were measured in the common femoral artery and in the brachial (n=84) artery by echo Doppler technique. In 35 subjects, we also applied the forearm perfusion technique to quantify the responses of the forearm vascular bed to 3 increasing doses of 2 endothelium-dependent vasodilators (acetylcholine and bradykinin) and 1 endothelium-independent vasodilator (sodium nitroprusside). The D allele of the ACE gene was associated with a significant blunting (Delta approximately 26%) of endothelium-dependent vasodilation in the femoral artery (P=0.02) but not in the brachial artery (P=0.55) or in the forearm microcirculation (P=0.70 to 0.80). Endothelium-independent vasodilation was unaffected by the ACE genotype. In young healthy humans, the D allele of the ACE gene is associated with selective endothelial dysfunction of the femoral artery. It remains to be determined whether this association discloses a causal role in vascular, particularly peripheral artery, disease.
Twenty inpatients suffering from major depressive illness with melancholia were administered the hostility subscale of the Kellner Symptom Questionnaire and Paykel's Clinical Interview for Depression before and after treatment with amitriptyline. A matched control group of normal subjects had the same assessments at two points in time. Hostility decreased and friendliness increased in depressives after amitriptyline; upon recovery, there were no significant differences in hostility between depressed patients and control subjects, whereas such differences were striking during the illness. Patients who had reported losses before onset of illness rated themselves as more friendly than the other depressives; their hostility did not significantly decrease with recovery. The results suggest that hostility improves with the treatment of depression; life events appear to influence the degree of hostility in depressive illness as well as the response to treatment.
Neurotoxicity of long-term exposure to lead, aluminum and cadmium has been studied in vitro on the human neuroblastoma cell line IMR32 by measuring cytotoxicity, and the effects on neuronal-specific characteristics such as nitrite outgrowth and expression of cholinergic receptors as parameters of toxicity. Cytotoxicity was highest with cadmium, intermediate with lead and lowest with aluminum exposure. Lead, but not cadmium and aluminum, interfered with neurite growth. The expression of alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites and muscarinic receptors was markedly increased by cadmium and not affected by aluminum exposure. Lead induced only an increase of toxin binding sites. These in vitro modifications are discussed in relation to the possible use of neuronal cell lines for detecting neurotoxic effects of heavy metals.
We examined the effect of WIN 55,212-2 (an agonist of cannabinoid receptors) and its enantiomer WIN 55,212-3, as well as of ondansetron (an antagonist of serotonin (5-HT)(3) receptors) on the cocaine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in rats. WIN 55,212-2, but not WIN 55,212-3, in doses of 3 and 6 mg/kg which did not affect the basal locomotor activity, dose-dependently reduced the hyperactivation evoked by cocaine. The inhibitory effect of WIN 55,212-2 was not affected by rimonabant (an antagonist of cannabinoid receptors). Like in the case of WIN 55,212-2, the cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion was reduced in a dose-dependent manner by ondansetron (0.03-0.3 mg/kg). The obtained results indicate that the inhibitory effect of WIN 55,212-2 on cocaine hyperactivation is stereoselective and is not mediated by cannabinoid receptors. Moreover, together with the literature data they may suggest that this effect of WIN 55,212-2 involves inhibition of the 5-HT(3) receptor function.
Pituitary tumors induced by chronic diethylstilbestrol (DES) treatment in female F344 rats were treated subsequently with bromocriptine (BC). Effects of BC on separable subpopulations of lactotrophs were examined. Enzymatically dissociated cells from individual pituitaries were assessed regarding total number, relative lactotroph population, intracellular prolactin (PRL) content, PRL release in primary culture, and density alterations by separation in Ficoll-Hypaque or after sedimentation at unit gravity. In addition to the treatment and analysis of in situ tumors, the effects of BC treatment in vitro were assessed, using tumor cells which were first separated on Ficoll-Hypaque. Cell proliferation was assessed by cell cycle analysis, using DNA measurement by laser flow cytometry. BC treatment of tumors reversed the effects of DES on pituitary weight, PRL content and in vitro PRL release. Total cell recovery was not affected by BC, but cell separation showed that BC reduced the number of larger PRL-containing cells. Cell cycle analysis showed a decrease in numbers of cells in S and G2 cycle phases after BC in only one of four experiments. BC had an effect on proliferation in only the upper gradient fractions, containing the smallest cells. Culture of Ficoll-separated tumor cells revealed greater PRL release among lighter/smaller cells. BC treatment inhibited PRL release from both light and dense cells. The results establish that PRL cell hypertrophy, as well as hyperplasia, results from DES treatment. Bromocriptine treatment reverses this hypertrophy concomitant with inhibiting PRL synthesis and release. Reversal of proliferation in tumor cells is not a major effect of bromocriptine treatment.
Visceral leishmaniasis VL, caused by Leishmania donovani is endemic over several parts of Sudan. The disease is fatal if not treated. Although sodium stibogluconate Pentostam, a pentavalent antimonial is not free from toxicity, it has been in use for treatment of VL for the last 50 years. Like other infectious diseases, neurological manifestations of VL and sodium stibogluconate have been documented. In this report, we present 2 cases of cerebellar ataxia most likely induced by Pentostam, and explain the probable cause.
A 92-year-old man with a history of bronchial asthma and allergic rhinitis received antibiotics for sepsis by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and multidrug-resistant Enterococcus gallinarum. During the antibiotics treatment, skin eruptions, liver dysfunction, and hypereosinophilia developed, followed by dyspnea, congestive heart failure, electrocardiographic abnormalities, and diffuse mild myocardial hypokinesis. After the discontinuation of the antibiotics and the administration of steroid, skin eruptions, liver dysfunction, and hypereosinophilia improved parallel with the improvement of the congestive heart failure. Vancomycin hydrochloride and teicoplanin were suspected as the causative drugs on the basis of the treatment course. Although congestive heart failure is rare in the case of drug-induced hypereosinophilia, it is one of life-threatening complications. We describe herein a case of congestive heart failure associated with hypereosinophilia developed during antibiotics treatment, successfully treated with steroid after the discontinuation of the causative drug.
Diabetes is one of the leading causes of death in developed and developing countries. Oxidative stress has been proposed to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of diabetic vascular complications. In recent years, selenium has been shown to mediate a number of insulinlike actions in a dose-dependent fashion both in vitro and in vivo. In this study, the effect of selenium as sodium selenite was investigated in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats at the dose of 1 μg sodium selenite/kg body weight. Selenium supplementation restored the streptozotocin-induced alterations in the activities of antioxidant enzymes, decreased the serum glucose level, glycated hemoglobin content as well as the levels of lipid peroxidation products, and downregulated the expressions of both NFkB and RAGE. The histopathological studies also reinforce our findings. Hence, selenium has a protective role in streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus.
A 77-year-old woman with refractory multiple myeloma was treated with a 4-day continuous intravenous infusion of vincristine and doxorubicin and 4 days of oral dexamethasone. Nine days after her second cycle she presented with lethargy and weakness associated with hyponatremia. Evaluation revealed the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone, which was attributed to the vincristine infusion. After normal serum sodium levels returned, further doxorubicin and dexamethasone chemotherapy without vincristine did not produce this complication.
Although recently developed drugs have brought significant improvement, the treatment of psychotic disorders still presents serious drawbacks. Because inherent complexity and lack of satisfactory understanding of the underlying pathophysiology impose limits for rational drug design, resourceful approaches in the search for antipsychotics are pertinent. This article reports pharmacological properties of alstonine, a heteroyohimbine-type alkaloid, which exhibited an antipsychotic-like profile, inhibiting amphetamine-induced lethality, apomorphine-induced stereotypy, and potentiating barbiturate-induced sleeping time. Atypical features of alstonine were the prevention of haloperidol-induced catalepsy and lack of direct interaction with D1, D2 and 5-HT2A receptors, classically linked to antipsychotic mechanism of action.
Eleven patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma received combination therapy with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), Cisplatin (CDDP) and Interferon alpha-2b (IFN alpha-2b). For 5 days, 500 mg of 5-FU was administered by continuous intravenous infusion daily; 20 mg/m2 CDDP was injected intravenously daily for 5 days, and 3 or 6 million units of IFN alpha-2b was administered intramuscularly twice a week for 3 weeks. This treatment cycle was repeated every 3 weeks. One of 11 patients achieved a partial response, and the response rate was 9%. High grade toxicities (WHO grade 3 or 4), nausea and vomiting (27%), leukocytopenia (9%), anemia (9%) and thrombocytopenia (18%) were seen. One of the reasons that this regimen dose not appear to be effective may be the low total dose of 5-FU for renal cell carcinoma.
We describe 2 patients who developed ocular side effects during treatment with topiramate. One was a 16-year-old woman with generalized seizures who developed a homonymous hemianopia after using topiramate 125 mg per day for 12 weeks, and the other was a 24-year-old epileptic female who developed a bilateral maculopathy after using topiramate 150 mg per day for 8 weeks.
We identified two severe ocular adverse reactions from topiramate. Both reactions necessitated discontinuing the treatment, but the topiramate-associated maculopathy was irreversible.
Previous reports have shown that the liver-type glucose transporter GLUT2 gene expression is upregulated in the liver of obese and diabetic animals and in human subjects. This phenomenon is correlated with an increased glucose output from the liver; however, the regulatory mechanism is not clear. To investigate the relationship between hepatic steatosis, frequently found in obese and diabetic patients, and GLUT2 gene expression, we developed an oleic acid-induced in vitro fatty liver model. Lipid-accumulated cells morphologically mimicking hepatic steatosis were successfully induced in the human HepG2 cell line by 24-h culture with oleic acid at 1 mM. The cells with steatosis showed increased levels of intracellular triglycerides and apolipoprotein B, which were reduced in the presence of bezafibrate at 100 &mgr;g/ml. GLUT2 mRNA expression estimated by semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was increased in the cells with steatosis. Bezafibrate inhibited GLUT2 mRNA expression in the cells with and without steatosis. These results suggest that hepatic steatosis causes the enhancement of hepatic GLUT2 mRNA expression, which may be associated with gluconeogenesis and insulin resistance.
1. Fourteen asthmatics (mean +/- s.e. mean baseline FEV1 62 +/- 6% of predicted) were given cumulative doubling doses of salbutamol by metered-dose inhaler as follows: 100 micrograms, 200 micrograms, 500 micrograms, 1000 micrograms, 2000 micrograms, 4000 micrograms. 2. Airways, tremor, haemodynamic and cyclic AMP responses were measured at each dose increment (made every 20 min). 3. There was a linear log dose-response relationship for each airways parameter (FEV1, VC, sGaw, FEF 50%). The plateau in the dose-response curve was not reached within our dose range. These changes were also mirrored in cyclic AMP responses. 4. There was a wide range in maximum airways response expressed in terms of absolute increase over baseline (95% confidence intervals: delta FEV1 667-1483 ml; delta VC 689-1695 ml; delta sGaw 0.92-4.50 s-1 kPa-1; delta FEF 50% 0.94-2.15 l s-1). Patients with a lower baseline showed a greater response in terms of percent increase in FEV1 (r = -0.83, P less than 0.001). There was however, no correlation between baseline airway calibre and the dose required for maximum bronchodilatation. 5. There were objective increases (mean +/- s.e. mean) in both heart rate (maximum delta HR of 14 +/- 5 beats min-1 at 4000 micrograms) and tremor power (maximum delta Tr of 115 +/- 44% at 2000 micrograms). These were not dose limiting side-effects as subjective symptoms were infrequent at higher doses. 6. Higher than conventional doses of salbutamol given by metered-dose inhaler may produce a distinct improvement in airways response without significant side-effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An Australian patient with autism was found to be heterozygous for two mutations in the gene encoding adenylosuccinate lyase (ASL), resulting in the protein mutations E80D and D87E. The patient's mother carried only the E80D mutation. The equivalent positions are 62 and 69 in Bacillus subtilis ASL. Although both human and B. subtilis enzymes normally have Asp at position 87 (or 69), the B. subtilis ASL has Ile and Asp at 62 and 65, respectively, whereas human ASL has Glu and Arg at the equivalent positions. We have constructed, expressed, and purified the double mutant I62E/D65R as a "humanized" normal B. subtilis enzyme to compare with enzymes with a single mutation at position 62 (I62D/D65R), at position 69 (I62E/D65R/D69E), or at both positions (I62D/D65R/D69E). V(max) for conversion of adenylosuccinate to AMP and fumarate is 0.57 micromol/min/mg for I62E/D65R, 0.064 micromol/min/mg for I62D/D65R, 0.27 micromol/min/mg for I62E/D65R/D69E, and 0.069 micromol/min/mg for I62D/D65R/D69E. The K(m) for adenylosuccinate is elevated in the X62D mutants, and I62D/D65R is the least stable of these ASLs at 37 degrees C. The CD spectra of mutant and wild type enzymes are similar; thus, there are no appreciable structural changes. Clearly the Asp(62) causes the most drastic effect on ASL function, whereas the Glu(69) mutation produces only modest change. These results emphasize the importance of expanding tests for ASL deficiency to individuals with developmental delay of any severity, including individuals with autistic spectrum disorder. This study further demonstrates the usefulness of the B. subtilis ASL as a model to mimic the defective enzyme in ASL deficiency.
The purpose of the present study is to compare the capacity of opioid antagonists to elicit withdrawal jumping in mice following two acute pretreatment doses of the opioid agonist morphine. Antagonists that precipitate vigorous withdrawal jumping across both morphine treatment doses are hypothesized to be strong inverse agonists at the mu-opioid receptor, whereas antagonists that elicit withdrawal jumping in mice treated with the high but not the low dose of morphine are hypothesized to be weak inverse agonists. Male, Swiss-Webster mice (15-30 g) were acutely treated with 56 or 180 mg kg(-1) morphine 4 h prior to injection with naloxone, naltrexone, diprenorphine, nalorphine, or naloxonazine. Vertical jumping, paw tremors, and weight loss were recorded. Naloxone, naltrexone, and diprenorphine produced withdrawal jumping after 56 and 180 mg kg(-1)morphine pretreatment. Nalorphine and naloxonazine produced moderate withdrawal jumping after 180 mg kg(-1) morphine pretreatment, but failed to elicit significant withdrawal jumping after 56 mg kg(-1) morphine pretreatment. Nalorphine and naloxonazine blocked the withdrawal jumping produced by naloxone. All antagonists produced paw tremors and weight loss although these effects were generally not dose-dependent. Taken together, these findings reveal a rank order of negative intrinsic efficacy for these opioid antagonists as follows: naloxone=naltrexone> or =diprenorphine>nalorphine=naloxonazine. Furthermore, the observation that nalorphine and naloxonazine blocked the naloxone-induced withdrawal jumping provides additional evidence that nalorphine and naloxonazine are weaker inverse agonists than naloxone.
Mercury causes in mouse strains of the H-2s haplotype an autoimmune syndrome with antibodies to the nucleolar protein fibrillarin and systemic immune complex (IC) deposits. Other strains, like BALB/C (H-2d), develop only IC deposits, and most strains are resistant. However, mercury activates the murine immune system and causes lymphoproliferation in most strains: H-2s strains are high-responders also in this respect, while the relation between lymphoproliferation and autoimmune manifestations is unclear for other strains. We examined the B cell response to mercury in order to better understand the relation between lymphoproliferation and systemic autoimmunity, using the high-responder H-2s strains (A.SW and SJL), the intermediate responder strain BALB/C (H-2d), and the A. TL (H-2tl) and DBA/2 (H-2d) strains which are resistant to systemic autoimmunity.
During 4-7 weeks of subcutaneous mercuric chloride injections, the number of B cells and the expression of cell surface activation and proliferation markers was monitored by flow cytometry. The number of cytoplasmic Ig+ splenocytes was determined by direct immunofluorescence technique on slides, and serum Ig isotype levels as well anti-ssDNA and anti-DNP antibodies were determined by ELISA. Serum ANA were monitored weekly by indirect immunofluorescence technique.
Mercury-treated A.SW and SJL mice (H-2s) developed an increased expression of the proliferation marker CD71 on B cells, an increased number of B cells in the spleen, and an early, strong, but transient increase in serum Ig concentrations of Th1- as well as Th2-regulated Ig isotypes. Mercury-treated H-2s mice rapidly developed a polyclonal B cell response including the IgM isotype, but also antinucleolar antibodies (ANoA) of the IgG isotype with a clumpy pattern, characteristic for antifibrillarin antibodies. The IgG ANoA response was of a long duration and high titer. The A.TL strain (H-2tl) showed only a slight, restricted B cell activation. The BALB/C strain developed a slight, transient B cell activation dominated by IgG1 and IgE, and antinuclear antibodies (ANA). The DBA/2 strain showed only a minimal B cell response without ANA.
Mercury induces an early, transient, polyclonal B cell activation linked to the H-2A or H-2K locus in H-2s strains on the A background. This polyclonal response differs from the long-lasting, high-titered IgG autoantibody response to a nucleolar antigen with characteristics of fibrillarin in H-2s strains, which indicates that these responses arise from separate mechanisms. Another group of strains, exemplified by BALB/C (H-2d), responds to mercury with a slight, transient, Th2-dominated B cell response, a restricted antibody specificity targeting the cell nucleus, and systemic IC deposits. Another H-2d strain, DBA, is essentially resistant to mercury, illustrating the importance of non-H-2 genes for regulating the response to mercury.
We report here the confirmation of the quantitative trait locus for haloperidol-induced catalepsy on distal chromosome (Chr) 1. We determined that this quantitative trait locus was captured in the B6.D2-Mtv7a/Ty congenic mouse strain, whose introgressed genomic interval extends from approximately 169.1 to 191.3 Mb. We then constructed a group of overlapping interval-specific congenic strains to further break up the interval and remapped the locus between 177.5 and 183.4 Mb. We next queried single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data sets and identified three genes with nonsynonymous coding SNPs in the quantitative trait locus. We also queried two brain gene expression data sets and found five known genes in this 5.9-Mb interval that are differentially expressed in both whole brain and striatum. Three of the candidate quantitative trait genes were differentially expressed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analyses. Overall, the current study illustrates how multiple approaches, including congenic fine mapping, SNP analysis and microarray gene expression screens, can be integrated both to reduce the quantitative trait locus interval significantly and to detect promising candidate quantitative trait genes.
A 6-year-old girl presented with proximal muscle weakness of lower limbs. She was receiving phenytoin for epilepsy for 2 years. Serum phenytoin level was within therapeutic range. Serum 25(OH) vitamin D was low (5 ng/mL) and serum parathyroid hormone level was high. After administration of oral vitamin D, muscle weakness improved and vitamin D level increased to 39.11 ng/mL. Proximal muscle weakness due to vitamin D deficiency following phenytoin intake is rare in children.
One strategy for treating coronary artery disease (CAD) patients with low HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) is to maximally increase the HDL-C to LDL-C ratio by combining lifestyle changes with niacin (N) plus a statin. Because HDL can prevent LDL oxidation, the low-HDL state also may benefit clinically from supplemental antioxidants. Lipoprotein changes over 12 months were studied in 153 CAD subjects with low HDL-C randomized to take simvastatin and niacin (S-N), antioxidants (vitamins E and C, beta-carotene, and selenium), S-N plus antioxidants (S-N+A), or placebo. Mean baseline plasma cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels of the 153 subjects were 196, 207, 127, and 32 mg/dL, respectively. Without S-N, lipid changes were minor. The S-N and S-N+A groups had comparably significant reductions (P</=0.001) in plasma cholesterol, triglyceride, and LDL-C. However, increases in HDL-C, especially HDL(2)-C, were consistently higher in the S-N group than in the S-N+A group (25% vs 18% and 42% vs 0%, respectively). With S-N, but not with S-N+A, there was a selective increase in apolipoprotein (apo) A-I (64%) in HDL particles containing apo A-I but not A-II [Lp(A-I)] and their particle size. Thus, in CAD patients with low HDL-C, S-N substantially increased HDL(2)-C, Lp(A-I), and HDL particle size. These favorable responses were blunted by the antioxidants used owing to a striking selective effect on Lp(A-I). This unexpected adverse interaction between antioxidants and lipid therapy may have important implications for the management of CAD.
A 46-year-old man with a history of metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder received treatment with ifosfamide/mesna. He had reversible encephalopathy after the first cycle of chemotherapy. Adequate clinical response was achieved, with an obvious decrease in tumor size. Subsequently, an identical treatment was given without adverse central nervous system effects. Few data exist about retreatment with intravenous ifosfamide/mesna after induced encephalopathy, but this case suggests that this adverse effect may not recur in some patients.
Outpatients with major affective disorder, unipolar depressed type (N=101), were treated in a 4-week placebo-controlled double-blind study to compare the efficacy and safety of fluvoxamine, a new serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressant, with imipramine and placebo. Therapy was initiated at 50 mg/day; thereafter, dosage ranged between 100 and 300 mg/day for both drugs. Results indicate statistically significant efficacy, measured by both patient and physician rating scales, for both active drugs over placebo. Fluvoxamine showed some evidence of earlier onset of action. Anticholinergic side effects were more common in the imipramine-treated patients, while fluvoxamine produced more gastrointestinal distress and insomnia.
To report a case of persistent hiccups associated by azithromycin therapy.
A 76-year-old man presented with persistent hiccups after beginning azithromycin for the treatment of pharyngitis. Hiccups were persistent and exhausting. Discontinuation of azithromycin and therapy with baclofen finally resolved hiccups. No organic cause of hiccups was identified despite extensive investigation.
Pharmacotherapeutic agents have been uncommonly associated with hiccups. Corticosteroids (dexamethasone and methylprednisolone), benzodiazepines (midazolam) and general anaesthesia have been the specific agents mentioned most frequently in the literature as being associated with the development of hiccups. Few cases of drug-induced hiccups have been reported related to macrolide antimicrobials. Using the Naranjo adverse effect reaction probability scale this event could be classified as possible (score 5 points), mostly because of the close temporal sequence, previous reports on this reaction with other macrolides and the absence of any alternative explanation for hiccups. Our hypothesis is that a vagal mechanism mediated by azithromycin could be the pathogenesis of hiccups in our patient.
Diagnosis of drug-induced hiccups is difficult and often achieved only by a process of elimination. However, macrolide antimicrobials have been reported to be associated with hiccups and vagal mechanism could explain the development of this side-effect.
