The effect of ritanserin (5-HT2 antagonist) on scopolamine (muscarinic cholinergic antagonist)-induced amnesia in Morris water maze (MWM) was investigated. Rats were divided into eight groups and bilaterally cannulated into CA1 region of the hippocampus. One week later, they received repeatedly vehicles (saline, DMSO, saline+DMSO), scopolamine (2 microg/0.5 microl saline/side; 30 min before training), ritanserin (2, 4 and 8 microg/0.5 microl DMSO/side; 20 min before training) and scopolamine (2 microg/0.5 microl; 30 min before ritanserin injection)+ritanserin (4 microg/0.5 microl DMSO) through cannulae each day. Animals were tested for four consecutive days (4 trial/day) in MWM during which the position of hidden platform was unchanged. In the fifth day, the platform was elevated above the water surface in another position to evaluate the function of motor, motivational and visual systems. The results showed a significant increase in escape latencies and traveled distances to find platform in scopolamine-treated group as compared to saline group. Ritanserin-treated rats (4 microg/0.5 microl/side) showed a significant decrease in the mentioned parameters as compared to DMSO-treated group. However, scopolamine and ritanserin co-administration resulted in a significant decrease in escape latencies and traveled distances as compared to the scopolamine-treated rats. Our findings show that microinjection of ritanserin into the CA1 region of the hippocampus improves the scopolamine-induced amnesia.
No chemotherapy regimen, including the widely used combination of gemcitabine/cisplatin, confers significantly improved survival over any other in metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC); however, the selection of patients according to key genetic characteristics can help to tailor chemotherapy. Ribonucleotide reductase subunit M1 (RRM1) is involved in DNA synthesis and repair and in gemcitabine metabolism, and the excision repair cross-complementing group 1 (ERCC1) gene has been related to cisplatin activity.
Patients were part of a large randomized trial carried out from September 1998 to July 2000, comparing gemcitabine/cisplatin versus gemcitabine/cisplatin/vinorelbine versus gemcitabine/vinorelbine followed by vinorelbine/ifosfamide. We analyzed RRM1 and ERCC1 mRNA expression in paraffin-embedded samples obtained from bronchoscopy by real-time quantitative reverse transcription-PCR. Results were correlated with survival using the Kaplan-Meier method.
A total of 100 patients were assessed. There was a strong correlation between RRM1 and ERCC1 mRNA expression levels (Spearman r = 0.410; P < 0.001). In the gemcitabine/cisplatin arm, patients with low RRM1 mRNA expression levels had significantly longer median survival than those with high levels [13.7 versus 3.6 months; 95% confidence interval (CI), 9.6-17.8 months; P = 0.009]. Median survival was also significantly longer among patients with low mRNA expression levels of both RRM1 and ERCC1 (not reached), than among those with high levels of both genes (6.8 months; 95% CI, 2.6-11.1 months; P = 0.016).
RRM1 mRNA expression is a crucial predictive marker of survival in gemcitabine/cisplatin-treated patients. Genetic testing of RRM1 mRNA expression levels can and should be used to personalize chemotherapy.
X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) is an inhibitor of caspases 3 and 9 which are overexpressed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and may contribute to chemoresistance. We report on a phase I/II trial of the XIAP antisense oligonucleotide AEG35156 in combination with reinduction chemotherapy.
Twenty-four patients with rapidly relapsed or refractory AML were treated with escalating doses of AEG35156 (12 to 250 mg/m(2)) as an intravenous solution over 2 hours and 32 patients were treated with the highest planned dose of 350 mg/m(2) in combination with idarubicin and high-dose cytarabine reinduction chemotherapy. Correlative studies were conducted to determine the effects of AEG35156 on levels of XIAP mRNA.
Knockdown of XIAP mRNA during treatment increased with the dose of the antisense. All patients who received 350 mg/m(2) of AEG35156 had higher than 30% target knockdown with a median maximal knockdown of 90% (range, 48% to 100%). The overall response rate was higher among the patients receiving the highest dose of AEG35156. In this group, 15 (47%) of 32 patients achieved complete response (CR)/CR with incomplete platelet count recovery (CRp) compared with only one (4%) of 24 receiving 12 to 250 mg/m(2) AEG35156. Among the patients receiving 350 mg/m(2) of AEG35156 in combination with chemotherapy, 10 (91%) of 11 who were refractory to a single induction chemotherapy regimen achieved CR/CRp after reinduction with AEG35156 and chemotherapy. AEG35156 was well tolerated save for two cases of peripheral neuropathy in patients receiving multiple doses of AEG35156.
At the highest dose tested, AEG35156 knocks down its target and appears very effective when combined with chemotherapy in patients with AML refractory to a single induction regimen.
Trimethyamine (TMA) and trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) are the most important urine parameters for diagnosing and monitoring trimethylaminuria. A rapid, simple, and specific method based on matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS) was developed to determine the presence of TMA and TMAO in urine samples from patients with trimethylaminuria. Formation of the quaternary tetramethylamino iodide by derivatization of TMA with methyl iodide allows measurement of TMA by MALDI-TOFMS. The method is repeatable and reproducible, with coefficients of variance (CVs)<3%. This new method was used for direct determination of TMA and TMAO in urine specimens obtained from normal children and patients. The proposed method allows for rapid and reliable measurements of TMA and TMAO in urine specimens from patients affected by trimethylaminuria.
Although oxidative stress has been implicated in acute acetaminophen-induced liver failure and in chronic liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), no common underlying metabolic pathway has been identified. Recent case reports suggest a link between the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) enzyme transaldolase (TAL; encoded by TALDO1) and liver failure in children. Here, we show that Taldo1-/- and Taldo1+/- mice spontaneously developed HCC, and Taldo1-/- mice had increased susceptibility to acetaminophen-induced liver failure. Oxidative stress in Taldo1-/- livers was characterized by the accumulation of sedoheptulose 7-phosphate, failure to recycle ribose 5-phosphate for the oxidative PPP, depleted NADPH and glutathione levels, and increased production of lipid hydroperoxides. Furthermore, we found evidence of hepatic mitochondrial dysfunction, as indicated by loss of transmembrane potential, diminished mitochondrial mass, and reduced ATP/ADP ratio. Reduced beta-catenin phosphorylation and enhanced c-Jun expression in Taldo1-/- livers reflected adaptation to oxidative stress. Taldo1-/- hepatocytes were resistant to CD95/Fas-mediated apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. Remarkably, lifelong administration of the potent antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) prevented acetaminophen-induced liver failure, restored Fas-dependent hepatocyte apoptosis, and blocked hepatocarcinogenesis in Taldo1-/- mice. These data reveal a protective role for the TAL-mediated branch of the PPP against hepatocarcinogenesis and identify NAC as a promising treatment for liver disease in TAL deficiency.
Indomethacin in small doses is known to inhibit prostaglandin (PG) production, yet it does not damage the gastrointestinal mucosa. We examined whether a cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor induces gastrointestinal damage in the presence of a low dose of indomethacin and investigated the ulcerogenic mechanism in relation to COX-2 expression. Rats with or without 18-h fasting were administered rofecoxib (a selective COX-2 inhibitor; 10 or 30 mg/kg p.o.) in the absence or presence of indomethacin (3 mg/kg p.o.), and the gastric or intestinal mucosa was examined 8 and 24 h later, respectively. Neither indomethacin nor rofecoxib alone caused damage in the stomach or small intestine. However, indomethacin damaged the small intestine in the presence of rofecoxib, yet the same treatment did not damage the stomach. Indomethacin reduced the mucosal PGE2 content in both tissues, whereas rofecoxib did not. The COX-2 mRNA was up-regulated in the intestine but not the stomach after indomethacin treatment, and the reduced PGE2 content was significantly recovered later only in the small intestine, in a rofecoxib-inhibitable manner. Indomethacin produced hypermotility in the small intestine but not the stomach, whereas rofecoxib had no effect. These results suggest that the PG deficiency caused by a low dose of indomethacin produces hypermotility and COX-2 expression in the small intestine but not the stomach, resulting in damage when COX-2 is inhibited. It is assumed that the hypermotility response is a key event in the expression of COX-2 and thereby important in the development of mucosal damage in the gastrointestinal tract.
Natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (NKTL) is a highly aggressive disease. Despite the use of various treatment regimens, the prognosis of NKTL is poor, and new treatment strategies need to be determined. Because of the significant survival potential, nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB has become one of the major targets for drug development. In this study, we explored the effect and action mechanism of NF-kappaB inhibitors, BAY 11-7082 and curcumin, on NKTL cell lines (NKL, NK-92 and HANK1). Electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed that NF-kappaB was constitutively active in HANK1, a chemoresistant cell line. BAY 11-7082 and curcumin suppressed NF-kappaB activation in a time- and dose-dependent manner, which finally resulted in cell death. BAY 11-7082- and curcumin-induced cell death was associated with downregulation of Bcl-xL, cyclin D1, XIAP and c-FLIP, followed by caspase-8, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage and activation. Given that the chemoresistant NK-92 cells respond to NF-kappaB inhibitors but not to conventional drugs, BAY 11-7082 and curcumin could be potentially useful for achieving improved outcome in chemotherapy-refractory NKTL.
Cerebral hemorrhages are rare complications that occur after the consumption of amphetamine; the mortality rate is estimated at 50 %. It is assumed that cerebral hemorrhages are caused by amphetamine-induced hypertensive crises coinciding with pre-existing vascular alterations (congenital vascular malformations, vasculitis). In the present case report, a 40-year-old man, who is said to have regularly consumed hashish, heroin and speed, died of a massive cerebral hemorrhage located in the region of the basal ganglia shortly after the intravenous administration of amphetamine and heroin. In the course of the post-mortem investigation, neither vascular malformations nor vasculitis could be detected in the brain. Even if the evidence for the existence of such alterations was missing, this does not exclude their presence for certain. Other potential amphetamine-induced vascular alterations are discussed.
Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) is a transcription factor that regulates cellular hypoxic responses. Despite the therapeutic benefits of cyclosporine A (CsA) in organ transplantation, its clinical use is limited due to chronic nephropathy. We investigated whether HIF activation by cobalt could improve CsA-induced nephropathy, and investigated the related mechanism. In animal experiments, rats were kept on a 0.05% low-salt diet and administered CsA subcutaneously for 28 days (15 mg/kg/day). They also received cobalt (10 mg/kg/day) during the entire experimental period. The administration of cobalt significantly increased HIF-1α expression in the kidney. The increased expression of HIF-1α ameliorated CsA-induced afferent arteriolopathy and tubulointerstitial injury in the kidney. Cobalt significantly reduced the infiltration of macrophages/monocytes into the renal tubulointerstitium. In addition, HIF activation by cobalt reduced the number of CsA-induced apoptotic cells in the kidney. Subsequently, HK-2 human renal tubular epithelial cells were used for in vitro experiments. They were pre-treated with 150 µM of cobalt to activate HIF, and then exposed to 10 µM CsA. HIF activation by cobalt decreased the CsA-induced apoptosis in HK-2 cells, as judged by the decreases in the number of apoptotic cells, pro-apoptotic caspase-3 activity, and the expression level of cleaved caspase-3, together with the increase in the expression of anti-apoptotic bcl-2. Cobalt pretreatment also reduced the CsA-induced phosphorylation of NF-κB and the CsA-induced expression of vimentin and α-smooth muscle actin, suggesting the attenuation of inflammation and fibrosis. In conclusion, the activation of HIF by cobalt may ameliorate the CsA-induced nephropathy by inhibiting apoptosis, inflammation, and fibrosis.
A phase I study assessed the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary antitumor effect of mapatumumab, a fully-human agonist monoclonal antibody to the tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand receptor 1 (TRAIL-R1, DR4), in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin.
Patients with advanced solid malignancies received 3, 10, or 20 mg/kg of mapatumumab with standard doses of paclitaxel and carboplatin every 21 days for up to six cycles in the absence of disease progression. Additional cycles of paclitaxel and/or mapatumumab were permissible in selected cases.
Twenty-seven patients (21 males), with a median age of 54 years, received mapatumumab in the following three cohorts: 3 mg/kg (n = 4), 10 mg/kg (n = 11), and 20 mg/kg (n = 12). The median number of cycles was four. Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) were grade 3 hypersensitivity reaction (n = 1) and neutropenic fever (n = 1), both at 10 mg/kg. Non-DLT treatment-related adverse events occurring in more than 10% of administered doses included alopecia, neutropenia, fatigue, nausea, anemia, thrombocytopenia, anorexia, and neuropathy. Paclitaxel and carboplatin exposures were similar in the presence or absence of mapatumumab. Plasma mapatumumab concentrations seemed similar to data from previous phase I monotherapy studies. Five patients (19%) achieved a confirmed radiologic partial response (including one pathologic complete response), and 12 patients (44%) had stable disease as their best response.
Mapatumumab is well-tolerated up to 20 mg/kg in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin. There are no apparent pharmacokinetic interactions among the drugs. Preliminary anticancer activity demonstrated clinical benefit for the majority of these patients.
Labile high blood pressure and associated complaints (eg, severe headache, palpitation, and vague discomfort in the chest) in a 28-year-old woman with pheochromocytoma were stabilized by adding nifedipine to the conventional regimen of alpha- and beta-blocking agents. Electrocardiographic (ECG) data (ST depressions, prolonged QT intervals, and giant negative T waves during a hypertensive attack) and findings in biopsied myocardial specimens (slight cell infiltration composed mainly of lymphocytes associated with interstitial fibrosis) had suggested the presence of catecholamine cardiomyopathy. Oral administration of 10 mg of nifedipine alone had rapidly resulted in normalization of blood pressure and complete relief from associated signs and symptoms. Because conventional preoperative treatment with alpha- and beta-blockers did not alleviate the hypertensive attacks, a 20-mg long-acting nifedipine tablet was added to the regimen. The effect of twice-daily administration of a 20-mg long-acting nifedipine tablet (combined with alpha- and beta-blockers) was so prominent that it was possible for the patient to undergo surgery for removal of the right adrenal gland and a 4-cm tumor at the gland. After surgery there were no abnormal ECG findings.
D-penicillamine, a drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, Wilson's disease, and cystinuria, can cause myasthenia gravis. Fortunately, the myasthenia typically resolves after discontinuation of the drug. The diagnosis may be missed if weakness is blamed on a patient's underlying disease(s), in particular, rheumatoid arthritis. Reported here are the cases of two patients with chronic obstructive lung disease who were taking D-penicillamine for rheumatoid arthritis, then experienced increasing respiratory failure. At first, their problem seemed to stem from chronic lung disease, but further evaluation revealed the cause of the hypoventilation to be D-penicillamine-induced myasthenia gravis.
Previous studies have indicated that corticostriatal glutamatergic pathways are implicated in the regulation of neuroleptic catalepsy. To obtain a better understanding of the way in which dopamine (DA) and glutamate interact within the caudate-putamen (CP) in the development of catalepsy, we investigated the regional distribution within the rat CP of the cataleptogenic effect of haloperidol and its antagonism by D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D(-)AP5), a selective antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor subtype. Bilateral injections of haloperidol (3 micrograms/side) into the rostral ventromedial (VM) CP induced potent catalepsy with a short latency after the injection. In contrast, only a weak cataleptic response, of slower onset, was observed after haloperidol injections into the rostral ventrolateral (VL), rostral dorsomedial (DM), or rostral dorsolateral (DL) CP, or into the nucleus accumbens. D(-)AP5 (5 micrograms/side) injected bilaterally into the dorsorostral CP (DM and DL) strongly inhibited the catalepsy induced by systemic haloperidol (1 mg/kg, i.p.), and this effect lasted longer when the drug was injected into the DM than when it was injected into the DL. D(-)AP5 did not affect haloperidol-induced catalepsy when injected into the ventrorostral (VM and VL) or intermediate dorsal CP. D(-)AP5 injected into the DM, the region most sensitive to the anticataleptic effect of the drug, had no effect on basal levels of DA and its metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid, or on the modification of these levels by haloperidol in either the DM or VM. These findings suggest that, while the catalepsy resulting from DA receptor blockade by haloperidol originates mainly from the VM, the expression of this phenomenon depends on an intact glutamatergic transmission within the dorsorostral CP. In the development of neuroleptic catalepsy, the mesencephalostriatal DAergic and corticostriatal glutamatergic pathways seem to be functionally linked through an indirect, rather than a direct, interaction.
The effects of a pressor dose of angiotensin II on the respiratory pattern of chloralose anaesthetized mongrel dogs was studied. In addition, since the hypertensive action of angiotensin II stimulates baroreflex pathways, the effects on breathing of baroreceptor stimulation were examined using aortic balloon inflation and i.v. phenylephrine. In the baroreceptor-denervated dog, i.v. angiotensin II was associated with a reduction in both inspiratory and expiratory time while both inspiration and expiration proceeded more quickly. Thus breathing became deeper and more rapid. Most of these effects of angiotensin II were opposite to the effects of hypertension caused by phenylephrine and aortic balloon inflation. These two forms of hypertension caused an increase in inspiratory and expiratory time, a decrease in the rate at which inspiration proceeded and a fall in tidal volume. These effects were not seen in baroreceptor denervated animals. In the intact dog angiotensin II caused a marked vagal dependent fall in tidal volume and inspiratory time while the rates at which inspiration and expiration proceeded were unaffected. It is concluded that angiotensin II has three independent effects on respiration. These are a respiratory depressant effect due to stimulation of baroreflex pathways by its pressor action, a 'central' stimulatory effect and an effect on the vagal control of inspiratory time.
We have previously shown that ovarian tumors express prostate-derived Ets transcription factor (PDEF). However, the precise role of PDEF in the prognosis of ovarian cancer is unknown. In our study, we report for the first time that expression of PDEF in tumor lesions of patients with ovarian cancer is associated with favorable prognosis. Evaluation of samples from 40 patients with ovarian cancer showed that early stage (IA) and borderline (IIB, III) ovarian tumors expressed higher levels of PDEF mRNA and protein and lower levels of survivin compared to late stage ovarian tumors (IIIC and IV, p < 0.05). Normal ovarian tissues expressed the highest levels of PDEF mRNA and protein when compared to tumor tissues (p < 0.05). A Log-Rank test showed that overall survival of patients with PDEF-positive and survivin-negative ovarian tumors was significantly longer than those with PDEF-negative and survivin-positive tumors (p < 0.01). Forced expression of PDEF in PDEF-negative ovarian tumor cells inhibited tumor cell growth, induced apoptosis, downregulated survivin expression and its promoter activity. Furthermore, treatment of ovarian cancer cells with vitamin D or a selenium compound resulted in re-expression of PDEF, downregulation of survivin, induction of apoptosis and inhibition of tumor cell growth when compared to untreated controls (p < 0.05). Together, these observations showed an inverse correlation between PDEF and survivin expression and suggested that increased PDEF expression along with reduced survivin was associated with prolonged survival of patients with ovarian cancer.
Brain serotonin has been hypothesized to be involved in the modulation of psychotic symptoms in at least some forms of schizophrenia. We examined the effects of the serotonin precursor L-5-hydroxytryptophan (5HTP) on D-amphetamine induction of acute psychotic symptoms in schizophrenic patients. Preadministration with 5HTP significantly antagonized amphetamine-elicited elevations in thought disturbance, activation, and hallucinations.
To investigate the efficacy and safety of axitinib, an oral, potent, and selective inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors 1, 2, and 3 in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) refractory to prior therapies that included, but were not limited to, sorafenib.
In this multicenter, open-label, phase II study, patients with sorafenib-refractory mRCC received a starting dose of axitinib 5 mg orally twice daily. A one-arm, single-stage design was used to estimate the primary end point of objective response rate (ORR), defined by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors). Secondary end points included safety, duration of response, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and patient-reported outcomes.
Of 62 patients recruited, 100% had received prior sorafenib, and 74.2% had received two or more prior systemic treatments. The axitinib dose was titrated to greater than 5 mg twice daily in 53.2% of patients, and 35.5% of patients had the dose modified to less than 5 mg twice daily. In 62 patients evaluable for response, the ORR was 22.6%, and the median duration of response was 17.5 months. Median PFS and OS times were 7.4 months (95% CI, 6.7 to 11.0 months) and 13.6 months (95% CI, 8.4 to 18.8 months), respectively. All-causality grade 3 to 4 adverse events included hand-foot syndrome (16.1%), fatigue (16.1%), hypertension (16.1%), dyspnea (14.5%), diarrhea (14.5%), dehydration (8.1%), and hypotension (6.5%).
Axitinib has antitumor activity in patients with mRCC refractory to prior VEGF-targeted therapy, including sorafenib. Toxicities were mild to moderate and were manageable. A randomized, phase III trial to compare axitinib with sorafenib in patients who have mRCC refractory to one prior first-line therapy regimen is underway.
To develop new anticancer agents that are effective for treatment of chemoresistant tumors, we screened a chemical library for compounds that can effectively kill both paclitaxel-sensitive lung cancer cell H460 and P-glycoprotein-overexpressing paclitaxel-resistant cell H460/TaxR. A synthetic compound, MMPT (5-[(4-methylphenyl)methylene]-2-(phenylamino)-4(5H)-thiazolone), was identified to induce cytotoxic effects in both H460 and H460/TaxR cells but not in normal fibroblasts. MMPT effectively inhibited the growth of several human lung cancer cell lines in a dose-dependent manner, with 50% inhibitory concentrations ranging from 4.9 to 8.0 microM. The inhibitory effect on cancer cells is independent of the status of p53 and P-glycoprotein. Moreover, MMPT had no obvious toxic effects on normal human fibroblasts and mesenchymal stem cells at the 50% inhibitory concentration for lung cancer cell lines. Treating lung cancer cells with MMPT-induced apoptosis with caspase-3, -8, -9, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage and cytochrome c release from mitochondria. MMPT-induced apoptosis was abrogated when c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation was blocked with a specific JNK inhibitor, SP600125. Furthermore, in vivo administration of MMPT suppressed human H460 xenograft tumor growth in nude mice. Our results suggest that MMPT may induce tumor-selective cell killing in both P-glycoprotein-negative and -positive cancer cells and could be a new anticancer agent for treatment of refractory tumors.
Loracarbef, a member of the carbacephem class of beta-lactam antibiotics, is a potent anti-bacterial agent. In a double-blind, randomized clinical trial to assess the efficacy and safety of loracarbef in the treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis and tonsillitis, 107 adult patients were treated with loracarbef (200 mg capsules twice a day or 15 mg/kg/day suspension) and 111 patients were treated with penicillin VK (250 mg capsules four times a day or 20 mg/kg/day suspension) for 10 days. In the loracarbef treatment group, 96.6% of the evaluable patients had a favorable clinical response 3-5 days after therapy, a result that compared favorably with the 93.9% response rate achieved in the penicillin group. The clinical failure/relapse rates were 3.4% for loracarbef-treated patients and 6.1% for patients receiving penicillin. Bacteriologic response data approximated the clinical results, with a successful response in 89.9% of the loracarbef-treated patients and 91.5% of the penicillin recipients. Two (1.9%) loracarbef-treated patients with rash and one (0.9%) penicillin-treated patient with diarrhea discontinued the study early because of these adverse events. The incidence of adverse events was comparable in the two treatment groups except for increased cough, which was reported by 3.7% of the loracarbef-treated patients and none of the penicillin recipients. These data support the conclusion that loracarbef is comparable to penicillin VK in the treatment of streptococcal pharyngitis and tonsillitis in adults.
Loracarbef (LY163892), a member of the class of beta-lactam antibiotics known as carbacephems, is characterized by a high level of chemical stability and a broad spectrum of antibacterial activity that persists in the presence of beta-lactamase. The efficacy and safety of loracarbef, 200 mg (twice daily), and cefaclor, 250 mg (three times daily) (one patient received 178 mg of cefaclor suspension, three times daily), were compared in a randomized, double-blind, multicenter trial conducted in adults with skin and skin-structure infections due predominantly to Staphylococcus aureus. Examination within 72 hours after the completion of therapy indicated a favorable clinical response in 84 (93.3%) of the 90 loracarbef-treated patients evaluable for efficacy and in 79 (95.2%) of the 83 evaluable patients treated with cefaclor. Pathogens were eradicated in 83 (92.2%) of the patients in the loracarbef group and 74 (89.2%) of those in the cefaclor group. Only four adverse events--headache/migraine, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and nausea--occurred in greater than 2% of the total study population. The overall incidence of adverse events in the 201 loracarbef-treated and 192 cefaclor-treated patients evaluated for safety was 19.9% and 24.5%, respectively. Adverse events that required hospitalization or discontinuation of treatment occurred in four patients in the cefaclor group but in none of those treated with loracarbef. There were no statistically significant differences in the clinical or bacteriologic response or the incidence of side effects between the two treatment groups. These findings indicate that loracarbef given twice daily is comparable in safety and efficacy to cefaclor given three times daily in the treatment of adults with skin and skin-structure infections.
Acute or persistent elevations in serum C-reactive protein (CRP) concentration have been shown to be of value in diagnosing acute rejection episodes in azathioprine (AZA)-treated renal transplant recipients. To assess whether changes in serum CRP level might assist in differentiating nephrotoxicity from acute rejection in cyclosporine (CsA)-treated renal transplant recipients, we measured changes occurring in serum CRP concentrations in 74 CsA patients in response to transplant operation, acute rejection, cyclosporine nephrotoxicity, and serious infection, and compared these values with changes in AZA patients. Serum CRP concentration rose in response to operation in virtually all patients, regardless of immunosuppressive regimen, from mean baselines of 5.9 +/- 2.7 mcg/ml (AZA) and 6.8 +/- 6.5 mcg/ml (CsA) to mean peak levels of 43.8 +/- 33.4 mcg/ml and 65.1 +/- 39.5 mcg/ml, respectively. CRP rose during 76% of acute rejection episodes in AZA patients by a mean of 29.7 +/- 37.4 mcg/ml. In contrast, in 80% of acute rejection episodes of CsA patients, CRP remained undetectable or failed to rise above a stable, minimally elevated baseline. Similarly, there was no elevation in CRP in 9 of 10 episodes of nephrotoxicity. In 14 CSA patients with serious infections (8 pulmonary, 3 intraabdominal, 3 genitourinary), CRP rose by a mean of 67.7 +/- 50.7 mcg/ml. Thus, although CRP rises significantly with operation or serious infection in CsA patients, CRP fails to rise with nephrotoxicity or acute rejection.
Hepatocellular carcinoma, one of the most common virus-associated cancers, is the third most frequent cause of cancer-related death worldwide. By massively parallel sequencing of a primary hepatitis C virus-positive hepatocellular carcinoma (36× coverage) and matched lymphocytes (>28× coverage) from the same individual, we identified more than 11,000 somatic substitutions of the tumor genome that showed predominance of T>C/A>G transition and a decrease of the T>C substitution on the transcribed strand, suggesting preferential DNA repair. Gene annotation enrichment analysis of 63 validated non-synonymous substitutions revealed enrichment of phosphoproteins. We further validated 22 chromosomal rearrangements, generating four fusion transcripts that had altered transcriptional regulation (BCORL1-ELF4) or promoter activity. Whole-exome sequencing at a higher sequence depth (>76× coverage) revealed a TSC1 nonsense substitution in a subpopulation of the tumor cells. This first high-resolution characterization of a virus-associated cancer genome identified previously uncharacterized mutation patterns, intra-chromosomal rearrangements and fusion genes, as well as genetic heterogeneity within the tumor.
Two patients with liver failure secondary to isoniazid hepatotoxicity were successfully treated with orthotopic liver transplantation. A 49-year-old man received isoniazid prophylaxis for a positive tuberculin test, and a 60-year-old woman was treated for active pulmonary tuberculosis with isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide. Both patients developed hepatic failure 4 and 1.5 months after initiation of antituberculous drug therapy, respectively. Liver transplantation was performed for progressive hepatic failure and was successful in both patients. The patient with active pulmonary tuberculosis was successfully treated with a modified antituberculous drug regimen while taking standard doses of immunosuppressive drugs after transplantation. In conclusion, liver transplantation is feasible and effective therapy for patients with isoniazid-induced hepatic failure, and active pulmonary tuberculosis may represent a relative rather than absolute contraindication to transplantation.
The incidence of melanoma is increasing more than any other cancer, and knowledge of its genetic alterations is limited. To systematically analyze such alterations, we performed whole-exome sequencing of 14 matched normal and metastatic tumor DNAs. Using stringent criteria, we identified 68 genes that appeared to be somatically mutated at elevated frequency, many of which are not known to be genetically altered in tumors. Most importantly, we discovered that TRRAP harbored a recurrent mutation that clustered in one position (p. Ser722Phe) in 6 out of 167 affected individuals (∼4%), as well as a previously unidentified gene, GRIN2A, which was mutated in 33% of melanoma samples. The nature, pattern and functional evaluation of the TRRAP recurrent mutation suggest that TRRAP functions as an oncogene. Our study provides, to our knowledge, the most comprehensive map of genetic alterations in melanoma to date and suggests that the glutamate signaling pathway is involved in this disease.
To identify the genetic susceptibility factor(s) for hepatitis C virus-induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCV-induced HCC), we conducted a genome-wide association study using 432,703 autosomal SNPs in 721 individuals with HCV-induced HCC (cases) and 2,890 HCV-negative controls of Japanese origin. Eight SNPs that showed possible association (P < 1 × 10(-5)) in the genome-wide association study were further genotyped in 673 cases and 2,596 controls. We found a previously unidentified locus in the 5' flanking region of MICA on 6p21.33 (rs2596542, P(combined) = 4.21 × 10(-13), odds ratio = 1.39) to be strongly associated with HCV-induced HCC. Subsequent analyses using individuals with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) indicated that this SNP is not associated with CHC susceptibility (P = 0.61) but is significantly associated with progression from CHC to HCC (P = 3.13 × 10(-8)). We also found that the risk allele of rs2596542 was associated with lower soluble MICA protein levels in individuals with HCV-induced HCC (P = 1.38 × 10(-13)).
Most studies agree that males and females respond differently to drugs of abuse. In females, estradiol enhances the behavioral response to cocaine. However, studies on the role of testosterone and the locomotor response to psychostimulants in the male rat are inconclusive. Our study was designed to determine the behavioral effects of testosterone on the development and persistence of cocaine sensitization in male rats. We tested different doses of cocaine (10, 15 and 30mg/kg) to determine which dose induced locomotor sensitization in intact (INT) and gonadectomized (GDX) animals. We also investigated if GDX males with testosterone replacement (GDX-T) showed a similar locomotor response to cocaine as INT males. Our data showed that gonadectomy enhanced the locomotor response to a single cocaine injection. This effect was not observed in gonadectomized rats that received testosterone replacement. However, GDX rats did not show a progressive increase in their locomotor response to repeated cocaine administration (15 and 30mg/kg) (sensitization) as did INT and GDX-T animals. It is possible that in GDX males, the initial high locomotor response to cocaine creates a ceiling effect that limits further increase in cocaine-induced hyperactivity. These findings indicate that testosterone not only modulates the behavioral response to a single and to repeated cocaine injections, but is also essential for male rats to become sensitized to cocaine.
Ascorbic acid has many nonenzymatic actions and is a powerful water-soluble antioxidant. It protects low density lipoproteins from oxidation and reduces harmful oxidants in the central nervous system. Pilocarpine-induced seizures have been suggested to be mediated by increases in oxidative stress. Current studies have suggested that antioxidant compounds may afford some level of neuroprotection against the neurotoxicity of seizures. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of ascorbic acid (AA) in rats, against the observed oxidative stress during seizures induced by pilocarpine. Wistar rats were treated with 0.9% saline (i.p., control group), ascorbic acid (500 mg/kg, i.p., AA group), pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p., pilocarpine group), and the association of ascorbic acid (500 mg/kg, i.p.) plus pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p.), 30 min before of administration of ascorbic acid (AA plus pilocarpine group). After the treatments all groups were observed for 6h. The enzyme activities as well as the lipid peroxidation and nitrite concentrations were measured using spectrophotometric methods and the results compared to values obtained from saline and pilocarpine-treated animals. Protective effects of ascorbic acid were also evaluated on the same parameters. In pilocarpine group there was a significant increase in lipid peroxidation and nitrite level. However, no alteration was observed in superoxide dismutase and catalase activities. Antioxidant treatment significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation level and nitrite content as well as increased the superoxide dismutase and catalase activities in hippocampus of adult rats after seizures induced by pilocarpine. Our findings strongly support the hypothesis that oxidative stress in hippocampus occurs during seizures induced by pilocarpine, proving that brain damage induced by the oxidative process plays a crucial role in seizures pathogenic consequences, and also imply that a strong protective effect could be achieved using ascorbic acid.
1. AH 5158 differs from conventional adrenoceptor blocking drugs in producing competitive blockade of both alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors.2. AH 5158 is 5-18 times less potent than propranolol in blocking beta-adrenoceptors. It resembles propranolol in its non-selective blockade of beta(1)-cardiac and beta(2)-vascular and tracheal adrenoceptors and in its lack of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity.3. AH 5158 is 2-7 times less potent than phentolamine in blocking alpha-adrenoceptors. AH 5158 itself is more active on beta- than alpha-adrenoceptors.4. Blockade of noradrenaline vasopressor responses by AH 5158 in anaesthetized dogs was dose-dependent up to 1 mg/kg but no further blockade was obtained with larger doses of AH 5158. ;Self-limiting' blockade was not observed in dogs pretreated with cocaine, or in untreated dogs if the vasopressor agent was oxymetazoline instead of noradrenaline. A possible cause of ;self-limiting' blockade is discussed.5. In doses higher than those required for either alpha- or beta-adrenoceptor blockade, AH 5158 produced effects on cardiac muscle that are attributable to membrane-stabilizing activity. This was manifested as a negative inotropic action in spinal dogs and in guinea-pig left atrial strips, as a negative chronotropic action in syrosingopine pre-treated dogs, and as an increase in the effective refractory period of guinea-pig left atrial strips. AH 5158 was 3-11 times less potent than propranolol in these tests.6. In open chest dogs AH 5158 resembled propranolol in reducing cardiac output, rate and contractility, effects which are attributable to beta-adrenoceptor blockade. The drug differed from propranolol in decreasing rather than increasing total peripheral resistance and in causing larger decreases in arterial blood pressure at equipotent beta-adrenoceptor blocking doses. These differences are attributable to the alpha-adrenoceptor blocking actions of AH 5158.7. In anaesthetized dogs, intravenously administered AH 5158 antagonized both catecholamine and ouabain-induced arrhythmias. Orally administered AH 5158 lowered systolic arterial pressure in conscious renal hypertensive dogs.8. These results show AH 5158 to possess a novel profile of activity. Possible uses of the drug in cardiovascular disorders such as hypertension, angina pectoris and cardiac arrhythmias are discussed.
