The aim of the present study was to describe a large cohort of fenfluramine-associated pulmonary arterial hypertension (fen-PAH) and its possible prognostic markers. The records of all patients with a diagnosis of fen-PAH evaluated at the present authors' centre from 1986-2004 were retrospectively studied. Baseline clinical and haemodynamic data were collected, as well as survival times. The median duration of fenfluramine exposure was 6 months, with a median of 4.5 yrs between exposure and onset of symptoms. Nine (22.5%) out of 40 patients evaluated resulted positive for the presence of germline bone morphogenetic protein receptor (BMPR) type 2 mutations. In these patients, the duration of exposure to fenfluramine was significantly lower than in patients without mutation. The median survival was 6.4 yrs, without significant difference between fen-PAH and a control group of idiopathic and familial pulmonary arterial hypertension patients referred to the present authors' centre during the same time frame and treated identically. Duration of fenfluramine exposure showed no relation to survival, while cardiac index was the only independent predictor of multivariate analysis. Fenfluramine-associated pulmonary arterial hypertension shares clinical, functional, haemodynamic and genetic features with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension, as well as overall survival rates. Therefore, the present authors conclude that fenfluramine exposure characterises a potent trigger for pulmonary arterial hypertension without influencing its clinical course.
The present study evaluated cardioprotective effect of lyophilized hydroalcoholic extract of Moringa oleifera in the isoproterenol (ISP)-induced model of myocardial infarction. Wistar albino male rats were divided into three groups and orally fed saline once daily alone (sham) or with ISP (ISP control) or ISP with M. oleifera (200 mg/kg), respectively, for 1 month. On days 29 and 30 of administration, rats of the ISP control and M. oleifera-ISP groups were administered ISP (85 mg/kg, s.c.) at an interval of 24 hours. On day 31, hemodynamic parameters (mean arterial pressure [MAP], heart rate [HR], left ventricular end-diastolic pressure [LVEDP], and left ventricular peak positive [(+) LV dP/dt] and negative [(-) LV dP/dt] pressures were recorded. At the end of the experiment, the animals were sacrificed, and hearts were excised and processed for biochemical, histopathological, and ultrastructural studies. Chronic treatment with M. oleifera demonstrated mitigating effects on ISP-induced hemodynamic [HR, (+) LV dP/dt, (-) LV dP/dt, and LVEDP] perturbations. Chronic M. oleifera treatment resulted in significant favorable modulation of the biochemical enzymes (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, lactate dehydrogenase, and creatine kinase-MB) but failed to demonstrate any significant effect on reduced glutathione compared to the ISP control group. Moringa treatment significantly prevented the rise in lipid peroxidation in myocardial tissue. Furthermore, M. oleifera also prevented the deleterious histopathological and ultrastructural perturbations caused by ISP. Based on the results of the present study, it can be concluded that M. oleifera extract possesses significant cardioprotective effect, which may be attributed to its antioxidant, antiperoxidative, and myocardial preservative properties.
Feingold syndrome (FS) is a dominantly inherited combination of microcephaly with or without learning disabilities, hand and foot abnormalities, short palpebral fissures and esophageal/duodenal atresia. The syndrome has autosomal dominant inheritance with full penetrance, and variable expressivity. Digital anomalies are almost always present. The gene for FS is localized to a 2.2 cM region in 2p23-p24. We report on the first Turkish family with Feingold syndrome. The propositus is a male infant with microcephaly, frontal balding, brachymesophalangy of the second and fifth fingers, bilateral syndactyly of toes 2-3, facial anomalies, choanal atresia and focal epilepsy. His father has microcephaly, and more severe hands and feet abnormalities. One of his brothers died because of eosofageal atresia. Clinical presentation of the family was suggestive of Feingold syndrome, and genetic testing of the MYCN gene confirmed the diagnosis. The missense mutation we report here has not been described previously. FS is an autosomal dominant condition, and therefore, the diagnosis has important implications for genetic counseling.
The dopamine D3 receptor has been extensively studied in animal models of drug abuse and psychosis; however, less is known on its possible role in cognitive functions.
This study investigated the effects of different D3 antagonists and a partial agonist on spatial learning performance in a water labyrinth test.
Rats had to swim through a labyrinth system by making correct directional turns at three choice-points. The number of errors was recorded in three daily trials for 3 days.
D3 antagonists such as the highly selective SB-277011 (24 mg/kg p.o.) and RGH-1756 (1 mg/kg p.o.), the moderately selective U-99194A (12 mg/kg s.c.) and the selective partial D3 agonist BP-897 (1 mg/kg i.p.) all significantly attenuated the learning deficit caused by FG-7142. Against scopolamine-induced amnesia, SB-277011 (24 mg/kg p.o.) was equally potent in showing protective efficacy; however, two times higher dose levels of U-99194A (24 mg/kg s.c.) and RGH-1756 (2 mg/kg p.o.) were required to attenuate the scopolamine-induced impairment. In contrast to the full antagonists, against scopolamine-induced amnesia, the partial agonist BP-897 (2 mg/kg i.p.) was inactive, even at the two times higher dose level.
These data suggest that dopamine D3 receptor antagonists possess cognition-enhancing activity which may be of benefit in the treatment of cognitive dysfunction associated with several psychiatric disorders.
Arsenic is a well-known carcinogen, which has been suspected of being a human teratogen, although there is currently insufficient and inadequate supportive data to make any definitive judgments. In addition, the significance of individual genetic differences on pregnancy outcomes following in utero exposure to arsenic is currently unknown. In order to better understand the role of folate transport mechanisms in arsenic-induced neural tube defects, we examined the effect of in utero exposure to sodium arsenate in a genetically altered murine model in which the folate binding protein 2 (Folbp2) gene has been inactivated by homologous recombination. In utero sodium arsenate exposure induced exencephaly in 40.6% of Folbp2(-/-) embryos compared with 24.0% in control Folbp2(+/+) embryos. The differences in response frequencies were further exacerbated when the dams were fed a folate-deficient diet. Under these conditions, exencephaly was observed in 64.0% of Folbp2(-/-) embryos compared with 25.7% in control Folbp2(+/+) embryos. Analysis of arsenic metabolites excreted in the urine following sodium arsenate injection to Folbp2(-/-) and Folbp2(+/+) mice indicated that there were no significant differences in arsenic metabolism between the two groups. Thus, the increased susceptibility of Folbp2(-/-) mice to arsenate-induced teratogenicity may not be due to differences in biomethylation and exposure. In conclusion, the data suggest that impaired folate transport in the developing mouse embryo increases the risk for developmental defects following in utero exposure to sodium arsenate and that these differences are not due to differences in metabolism of arsenic.
Experiments were done to compare the time-courses of the nicotine concentration in the blood, heart, and brain of infant and adult mice after small and large single doses of radioactive nicotine tartrate. In some experiments the nicotine receptors were blocked with mecamylamine or hexamethonium, and their effects on nicotine levels were measured. The nicotine-induced tremor was allowed visually, and its effects on the heart rate were measured by ECG. In adult mice the peak levels of brain nicotine occurred at 10 min, whereas in infant mice the brain nicotine levels were still rising at 20 min. In the latter the blood and heart nicotine levels were higher than the respective brain levels, and the nicotine level in the brain stem exceeded the hemisphere level. The results were reversed in adult mice. A remarkable accumulation of nicotine in the infant heart was measured. Pretreatment with mecamylamine lowered brain nicotine levels in adult mice, and in infant mice the nicotine levels in blood and heart were lowered as well. This pretreatment abolished the nicotine tremor and its effects on the heart rate similarly in both age groups. This suggests that the difference in nicotine levels after mecamylamine in infant and adult mice may not depend solely on possible differences in circulatory changes but can represent differences in "receptor population" as well. Hexamethonium did not abolish the central depressant effect of nicotine on the heart rate nor did it lower the brain nicotine levels. This supports the view that there is some correlation of the central effects of nicotine and its brain levels.
Primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas encompass a spectrum of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas that are characterised by clonal proliferation of skin-homing malignant T lymphocytes. Mycosis fungoides and the leukaemic variant Sézary syndrome, collectively referred to as cutaneous T-cell lymphomas, are the most common entities. No curative therapy exists and patients ultimately develop advanced or relapsed disease that is refractory to standard treatment options. Therefore, there is a great need for the development of novel emerging therapies. Bexarotene is the first synthetic nuclear retinoid X receptor-selective retinoid approved by the FDA for the treatment of refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in all stages, as both an oral capsule and a topical gel formulation. Bexarotene was found to induce apoptosis in a variety of preclinical in vitro and in vivo models including cutaneous T-cell lymphoma cells, and has shown efficacy in two multi-centre, open-label Phase II - III clinical trials for early and advanced stages of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in patients who have failed or were refractory to standard therapies. New insights into the immunomodulatory function of bexarotene have indicated opportunities for combined treatment with IFN-alpha, denileukin diftitox or phototherapy. This article reviews the biological properties, pharmacokinetics, clinical efficacy, safety and role of bexarotene in the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
The aim of our study was to evaluate left ventricular diastolic and systolic performance in women diagnosed with breast cancer and treated with low doses of anthracyclines (epirubicin).
Thirty-four female patients with breast cancer treated with epirubicin up to 450 mg/m2 (study group), and a matched control group of 34 women diagnosed with breast tumours, who had not started chemotherapy, were assessed by echocardiography. Left ventricular diastolic function was evaluated by measuring Doppler transmitral flow: the maximal velocity of the E and A waves (rapid filling and atrial filling), the Emax/Amax ratio, the pressure half time (PHT) of the E wave and the isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT). The left ventricular ejection fraction was calculated to assess systolic performance. We documented a significant decrease of Emax, whereas the A wave was significantly increased in the study group compared to the control group. The mitral E/A ratio was below 1 in the study group. Prolonged PHT and IVRT were also detected in the epirubicin-treated group when compared with the control group. Left ventricular systolic performance was not significantly altered in the study group in comparison with the control group. Although the ejection fraction was lower in the study group the difference did not reach statistical significance.
Our study certified impaired left ventricular diastolic performance in patients with breast cancer treated with low total doses of epirubicin (< or = 450 mg/m2). We concluded that diastolic impairment is due to poor left ventricular compliance being an early marker of epirubicin cardiotoxicity that precedes systolic function alterations.
Chronic cocaine use has been proposed to induce long-lasting alterations in cognitive functions dependent on the prefrontal cortex, and these alterations may contribute to the development of addiction. However, the underlying cellular mechanisms remain largely unknown, in part because of the lack of suitable animal models of cocaine-induced cognitive dysfunction that are amenable to molecular manipulations. Here, we characterized the effects of repeated cocaine administration on multiple aspects of cognitive function in C57BL/6 mice. Mice received 14 daily injections of either cocaine or saline, followed by a drug-free period of 2 weeks. They were then assessed for (i) cognitive flexibility in an instrumental reversal learning task; (ii) attentional function and response inhibition in a three-choice serial reaction time task; and (iii) working memory in a delayed matching-to-position task. Prior chronic exposure to cocaine resulted in impairments in reversal learning and working memory. Although there were no effects on attentional function or response inhibition, a shift in the pattern of errors committed was observed. These results indicate that prior chronic cocaine exposure in mice induces long-lasting alterations in cognitive functions associated with the prefrontal cortex.
In the present study, the role of pentacyclic triterpenes, lupeol and its ester lupeol linoleate, was studied in relation to hepatic oxidative abnormalities and lipoprotein peroxidation in hypercholesterolemic rats. Hypercholesterolemia was induced in male Wistar rats by feeding them with high cholesterol diet (4% cholesterol + 1% cholic acid; HCD) for 30 days. Pentacyclic triterpenes, lupeol and lupeol linoleate were supplemented (50 mg/kg body wt/day) during the last 15 days. After the experimental period, there was a significant depression in hepatic activities of antioxidant enzymes, SOD (38.39%), CAT (25.03%) and GPx (30.26%) along with a marked fall in the levels of non-enzymic antioxidant molecules GSH (31.39%), vitamin C (46.07%) and vitamin E (42.28%), with a concomitant increase (p<0.001) in lipid peroxidation and in the activities of serum alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase and aminotransferases when compared to controls. Treatment with triterpenes decreased lipid peroxidation and reverted the activities of antioxidants (p<0.001 and p<0.01) and marker enzymes to near control. Histopathological findings further confirmed the hepatoprotective nature of triterpenes by showing the normal architecture in treated rats, as against the fatty cellular changes in HCD fed rats. Further, the susceptibility of apo-B containing lipoprotein to oxidation by copper and Fenton's reagent was increased in in vitro condition in HCD fed rats, whereas the lipoproteins were less susceptible to oxidation in triterpenes treated animals. Therefore, it may be concluded that lupeol and its ester afford protection against the hepatic abnormalities and lipoprotein peroxidation in hypercholesterolemic rats.
Glutathione depletion contributes to acetaminophen hepatotoxicity and is known to induce the oxidative stress reactant heme oxygenase-1. The metabolites of the heme oxygenase pathway, biliverdin, carbon monoxide, and iron may modulate acetaminophen toxicity. The aim of this study was to assess cell-type specific expression of heme oxygenase-1 and its impact on liver injury and microcirculatory disturbances in a model of acetaminophen-induced hepatitis.
Gene expression of heme oxygenase-1 was studied by Northern- and Western analysis as well as immunohistochemistry. The time course of heme oxygenase-1 and -2, cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-1, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 was studied by Northern analysis. DNA-binding activity of nuclear factor-kappaB was determined by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Sinusoidal perfusion and leukocyte-endothelial interactions were assessed by intravital microscopy.
Acetaminophen caused a moderate sinusoidal perfusion failure (-15%) and infiltration of neutrophils along with activation of nuclear factor-kappaB and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-1 mRNAs. Induction of heme oxygenase-1 mRNA and protein (approximately 30-fold) in hepatocytes and non-parenchymal cells paralleled the inflammatory response. Blockade of heme oxygenase activity with tin-protoporphyrin-IX abrogated acetaminophen-induced hepatic neutrophil accumulation and nuclear factor-kappaB activation, but failed to affect sinusoidal perfusion and liver injury.
The inflammatory response associated with acetaminophen hepatotoxicity is modulated by the parallel induction of the heme oxygenase-1 gene. However, heme oxygenase-1 has no permissive effect on sinusoidal perfusion and does not affect liver injury in this model. These data argue against a central role of nuclear factor-kappaB activation and neutrophil infiltration as perpetuating factors of liver injury in acetaminophen toxicity.
The chief side effect of phenobarbital is drowsiness, which is usually associated with overdosage. Phenytoin, on the other hand, causes gingival hyperplasia in many patients, irreversible hypertrichosis in some patients and lethal reactions, such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome, in a few patients. Antiepileptic therapy should always be started with one drug. Phenytoin is specifically contraindicated as the drug of first choice for infants, females (especially adolescents) and children receiving orthodontic treatment.
Sirt1, a deacetylase involved in regulating energy metabolism in response to calorie restriction, is up regulated after chronic ethanol feeding using the intragastric feeding model of alcohol liver disease. PGC1 alpha is also up regulated in response to ethanol. These changes are consistent with activation of the Sirt1/PGC1 alpha pathway of metabolism and aging, involved in alcohol liver disease including steatosis, necrosis and fibrosis of the liver. To test this hypothesis, male rats fed ethanol intragastrically for 1 month were compared with rats fed ethanol plus resveratrol or naringin. Liver histology showed macrovesicular steatosis caused by ethanol and this change was unchanged by resveratrol or naringin treatment. Necrosis occurred with ethanol alone but was accentuated by resveratrol treatment, as was fibrosis. The expression of Sirt1 and PGC1 alpha was increased by ethanol but not when naringin or resveratrol was fed with ethanol. Sirt3 was also up regulated by ethanol but not when resveratrol was fed with ethanol. These results support the concept that ethanol induces the Sirt1/PGC1 alpha pathway of gene regulation and both naringin and resveratrol prevent the activation of this pathway by ethanol. However, resveratrol did not reduce the liver pathology caused by chronic ethanol feeding.
The antiinflammatory effects of 10 newly synthesized pyrazole derivatives on formaldehyde-induced rat paw edema were investigated. The most effective of them (K-3) was investigated again in dextran- and carrageenan-induced paw edema. In formaldehyde-induced paw edema, K-3 50, 100, and 200 mg/kg p.o. inhibited the edema by 48.9% (p<0.002), 68.7% (p<0.001), and 79.1% (p<0.001), respectively, 3 h after administration. In dextran-induced paw edema, the same dose of K-3 produced 27.1% (p<0.05), 46.8% (p<0.01), and 63.8% (p<0.002) inhibition, respectively. In the carrageenan-induced paw edema test, K-3 100 mg/kg decreased the inflammatory response by 52.0% after 4 h. Acute toxicity studies revealed that K-3 was nontoxic up to an oral dose of 2500 mg/kg.
We report a case of parkinsonism induced by long term administration of an oral contraceptive. A 38-year-old woman complained of easily stumbling, démarche à petit pas and fatiguability in her lower extremities since January, 1991. When examined on April 5, 1991, she explained taking an oral contraceptive for 7 years on her doctor's recommendation after two times artificial abortions. Her facial expression was mask-like and body was bent forward with knee joints flexed and arms flexed at elbow joints. She had frozen gait with inactive pendulousness of the arms. We could find her muscle rigidity in both upper and lower extremities, especially in her right side extremities. A brain MRI finding was lacunar infarction which proton density weighted and T2-weighted MR images showed small patches of high-signal intensities in white matter of the bilateral frontal lobes and in left periventricular white matter. Her symptoms improved after stopping administration of the oral contraceptive and starting combination therapy with nicergoline and bromocriptine. She had some leg fatiguability at the onset of her next menstruation in May, but it was much less than her previous condition. When her menstruation terminated, those symptoms disappeared and it was possible to stop the administration of bromocriptine and nicergoline, and her symptoms have improved.
Symptoms of Parkinsonism, most likely induced by an oral contraceptive, were greatly reduced by combined therapy of nicergoline and bromocriptine. A 38-year-old housewife had taken an oral contraceptive, which contained .05 mg of ethinyl estradiol and .5mg of norgestrel per tablet, for 7 years, when she presented took the following symptoms: she stumbled easily, took short, quick dancing/skating steps without arm movement, and found it increasingly difficult to keep slippers on while walking. In the afternoons she experienced extreme fatigue and rigidity in her lower limbs. After a while, languor spread to other parts of her body as well, and she was examined on April 5, 1991. The patient's face was mask-like, and her body was bent forward with her forearms flexed. She showed frozen gait and lowered initiation in her movement. Muscle rigidity was found in both upper and lower extremities, and especially on the right side. A brain MRI showed lacunar infraction with small patches of high signal intensities in the white matter of the bilateral frontal lobes and high signal intensities in the left periventricular white matter. Urine was normal; blood cholesterol and iron were slightly raised. Hormonal examinations showed lowered LH, FSH, progesterone and 24-hr 17-KGS. CT was normal. She was ordered to stop taking pills and to take nicergoline and bromocriptine, which greatly reduced these symptoms except during the first menstruation following the treatment. When mask-like facial expressions, demarche a petit pas, and languor in her lower extremities did not recur during the next menstruation, bromocriptine treatment was discontinued. Four months later nicergoline therapy was also discontinued.
The epileptogenic activities induced by histamine H(1) antagonists in amygdala-kindled rats were studied in comparison with activities in nonkindled rats (sham rats). Intraperitoneal injection of pyrilamine, diphenhydramine and ketotifen resulted in behavioral and electroencephalogram (EEG)-detected seizures in amygdala-kindled rats at doses which caused no or negligible seizures in sham rats. On the other hand, loratadine and cetirizine caused no behavioral or EEG seizures in either amygdala-kindled or sham rats even at a dose of 40 mg/kg. In conclusion, first-generation H(1) antagonists likely elicit epileptogenic activity in amygdala-kindled rats more potent than that in sham rats.
Chronic exposure to cadmium can result in renal glycosuria. Previously, we reported that cadmium reduced the relative abundance of the sodium-glucose cotransporter mRNA (Blumenthal et al., Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol.149, 49-54, 1998). To investigate this phenomenon further, we isolated full-length cDNA clones encoding both high- and low-affinity sodium-dependent glucose transporters SGLT1 and SGLT2, respectively, from cultured mouse kidney cortical cells. We also amplified a fragment of another putative sodium-glucose cotransporter with homology to the known SAAT1/pSGLT2 or SGLT3 from our cultured cells and named it SGLT3. In order to examine the effect of cadmium on these transporters, primary cultures of mouse kidney cortical cells were exposed to micromolar concentrations of cadmium for 24 h and levels of SGLT1, SGLT2, and SGLT3 mRNA were determined by semiquantitative RT-PCR. Five to 10 microM of cadmium inhibited sodium-dependent uptake of the glucose analog, alpha-methyl D-glucopyranoside and progressively reduced the level of SGLT1. Cadmium also inhibited SGLT2 mRNA by 37%, but no further decline was observed at concentrations of cadmium greater than 5 microM. While cadmium inhibited SGLT1 and SGLT2, it significantly stimulated the expression of SGLT3 by fivefold. These results imply that individual sodium-glucose cotransporter mRNA species are not regulated in a similar fashion. In addition, the isolation of three separate SGLT species from these cultures suggests that, in addition to SGLT1 and SGLT2, glucose reabsorption by renal epithelial cells might involve additional glucose transporters such as SGLT3.
Because GABA(A) receptors containing alpha2 subunits are highly represented in areas of the brain, such as nucleus accumbens (NAcc), frontal cortex, and amygdala, regions intimately involved in signaling motivation and reward, we hypothesized that manipulations of this receptor subtype would influence processing of rewards. Voltage-clamp recordings from NAcc medium spiny neurons of mice with alpha2 gene deletion showed reduced synaptic GABA(A) receptor-mediated responses. Behaviorally, the deletion abolished cocaine's ability to potentiate behaviors conditioned to rewards (conditioned reinforcement), and to support behavioral sensitization. In mice with a point mutation in the benzodiazepine binding pocket of alpha2-GABA(A) receptors (alpha2H101R), GABAergic neurotransmission in medium spiny neurons was identical to that of WT (i.e., the mutation was silent), but importantly, receptor function was now facilitated by the atypical benzodiazepine Ro 15-4513 (ethyl 8-amido-5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo [1,5-a] [1,4] benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate). In alpha2H101R, but not WT mice, Ro 15-4513 administered directly into the NAcc-stimulated locomotor activity, and when given systemically and repeatedly, induced behavioral sensitization. These data indicate that activation of alpha2-GABA(A) receptors (most likely in NAcc) is both necessary and sufficient for behavioral sensitization. Consistent with a role of these receptors in addiction, we found specific markers and haplotypes of the GABRA2 gene to be associated with human cocaine addiction.
Fifteen of 23 pathologically confirmed cases of multiple system atrophy (MSA) showed some initial response to levodopa and eight of these remained at least partially responsive at the time of death. Eleven developed motor oscillations, and drug-induced dyskinesias, often involving the face and jaw, were also seen in 11 cases. Acute levodopa and apomorphine challenges were administered to 11 patients with clinical MSA who were considered levodopa responsive. A short duration relatively small amplitude response with associated dyskinesias occurred in six and a further three developed dyskinesias without any motor response. Following levodopa withdrawal, a delayed deterioration occurred after three to six days in six patients, five of whom had shown no short duration motor response to the acute challenges. The occurrence of levodopa-induced dyskinesias without a concomitant motor response and delayed deterioration several days after levodopa withdrawal may be more typical of patients with MSA than Parkinson's disease.
Folate transport to the brain depends on ATP-driven folate receptor-mediated transport across choroid plexus epithelial cells. Failure of ATP production in Kearns-Sayre syndrome syndrome provides one explanation for the finding of low spinal fluid (CSF) 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (5MTHF) levels in this condition. Therefore, we suspect the presence of reduced folate transport across the blood-spinal fluid barrier in other mitochondrial encephalopathies. In the present patient with mitochondrial complex I encephalomyopathy a low 5-methyltetrahydrofolate level was found in the CSF. Serum folate receptor autoantibodies were negative and could not explain the low spinal fluid folate levels. The epileptic seizures did not respond to primidone monotherapy, but addition of ubiquinone-10 and radical scavengers reduced seizure frequency. Add-on treatment with folinic acid led to partial clinical improvement including full control of epilepsy, followed by marked recovery from demyelination of the brainstem, thalamus, basal ganglia and white matter. Cerebral folate deficiency is not only present in Kearns-Sayre syndrome but may also be secondary to the failure of mitochondrial ATP production in other mitochondrial encephalopathies. Treatment with folinic acid in addition to supplementation with radical scavengers and cofactors of deficient respiratory enzymes can result in partial clinical improvement and reversal of abnormal myelination patterns on neuro-imaging.
Enzymatic production of prostaglandins (PGs) from exogenous arachidonic acid was studied in brain microsomal fractions prepared from mice following pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced convulsions. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha) measured either by radioimmunoassay or after incubation with [1-14C]arachidonic acid (AA) was significantly increased in microsomes from the convulsed animals. Pretreatment of the mice with the anticonvulsant ethosuximide prevented the enhanced PG production. The increased PG synthesis could not be attributed to an increased substrate availability nor to an activated phospholipase nor to a direct effect of the convulsant on the fatty acid cyclooxygenase. Evidence that a modification of the cyclooxygenase had occurred with seizure activity was obtained from kinetic analysis; the apparent Km for the AA was lowered from 30 +/- 3 microM in the controls to 12 +/- 1 microM in the PTZ-treated mice. Further evidence for a modification of the fatty acid cyclooxygenase was obtained from incubations of the microsomes with catalase to reduce peroxide formation. Limiting peroxide levels did not decrease the microsomal cyclooxygenase activity in the PTZ-treated mice to control levels. Seizure activity induced by picrotoxin and strychnine also increased the microsomal capacity of the convulsed animals to synthesize PGs. The increased brain fatty acid cyclooxygenase activity may result from a biochemical modification of the enzyme induced by seizure activity.
Six Parkinsonian patients on long term levodopa therapy complained of short-lived deterioration of Parkinsonian symptoms immediately after levodopa intake. After withdrawal of the drug overnight, and following an oral challenge with levodopa/carbidopa (250/25) in all six cases, and with subcutaneous apomorphine (3 mg) in two, deterioration below base line levels of disability were observed which would not be explained by loss of sleep benefit. This occurred 10-20 minutes after levodopa challenge and lasted for 10-20 minutes. The latency and duration of this phenomenon were shorter with apomorphine but the characteristics were similar. This phenomenon may be due to an inhibitory effect of levodopa acting via presynaptic dopamine receptors.
Arsenic is well-established as a human carcinogen, but the molecular mechanisms leading to arsenic-induced carcinogenesis are complex and elusive. It is not been determined if the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stem cell-like properties contribute in causing to carcinogen-induced malignant transformation and subsequent tumor formation.
To investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying EMT and the emergence of cancer stem cell-like properties during neoplastic transformation of human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells induced by chronic exposure to arsenite. HBE cells were continuously exposed to arsenite. Spheroid formation assays and analyses of side populations (SPs) were performed to confirm that arsenite induces the acquired EMT and cancer stem cell-like phenotype. Treated HBE cells were molecularly characterized by RT-PCR, Western blots, immunofluorescence, Southwestern assays, reporter assays, and chromatin immunoprecipitation.
With chronic exposure to arsenite, HBE cells undergo an EMT and then acquire a malignant cancer stem cell-like phenotype. Twist1 and Bmi1 are involved in arsenite-induced EMT. The process is directly regulated by HIF-2α. The self-renewal genes, Oct4, Bmi1, and ALDH1, are necessary for arsenite-mediated maintenance of stem cells.
EMT, regulated by HIF-2α, and the development of a cancer stem cell-like phenotype are associated with arsenite-induced transformation of HBE cells.
An extremely unusual case of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH)-producing Grawitz tumor is reported in a 56-year-old female. The clinical feature of the patient was compatible with Cushing's syndrome. The plasma levels of ACTH and cortisol were markedly elevated. At autopsy, a left renal tumor was demonstrated and its histopathological diagnosis was renal cell carcinoma (Grawitz tumor). The adrenal gland was bilaterally enlarged with diffuse hyperplasia of the fasciculate zone. The adenohypophyseal cells were atrophic and showed Crooke's degeneration. The tumor contained extremely high levels of ACTH, beta-lipotropin and beta-endorphin. The presence of large molecular weight forms of ACTH has also been demonstrated by a Sephadex G-50 gel filtration of the tumor extract. We authors believe that this is the first documented case of ACTH-producing Grawitz tumor in the literature.
Curcumin (diferuloylmethane), a yellow pigment in turmeric, has been shown to inhibit the activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), a transcription factor closely linked to chemoresistance in multiple myeloma cells. Whether curcumin can overcome chemoresistance and enhance the activity of thalidomide and bortezomib, used to treat patients with multiple myeloma, was investigated in vitro and in xenograft model in nude mice. Our results show that curcumin inhibited the proliferation of human multiple myeloma cells regardless of their sensitivity to dexamethasone, doxorubicin, or melphalan. Curcumin also potentiated the apoptotic effects of thalidomide and bortezomib by down-regulating the constitutive activation of NF-kappaB and Akt, and this correlated with the suppression of NF-kappaB-regulated gene products, including cyclin D1, Bcl-xL, Bcl-2, TRAF1, cIAP-1, XIAP, survivin, and vascular endothelial growth factor. Furthermore, in a nude mice model, we found that curcumin potentiated the antitumor effects of bortezomib (P<0.001, vehicle versus bortezomib+curcumin; P<0.001, bortezomib versus bortezomib+curcumin), and this correlated with suppression of Ki-67 (P<0.001 versus control), CD31 (P<0.001 versus vehicle), and vascular endothelial growth factor (P<0.001 versus vehicle) expression. Collectively, our results suggest that curcumin overcomes chemoresistance and sensitizes multiple myeloma cells to thalidomide and bortezomib by down-regulating NF-kappaB and NF-kappaB-regulated gene products.
Venoocclusive disease is characterized by the occurrence of occlusive lesions of the central and subhepatic veins, usually involving the liver in a diffuse fashion. We report a case showing venoocclusive lesions of the central veins and the portal vein radicles affecting only a portion of the left lobe of the liver following intraarterial 5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine therapy for metastatic adenocarcinoma of the colon. Possible mechanisms and the significance of venoocclusive lesions of portal vein radicles are discussed.
