In patients who have vascular disease or high-risk diabetes without heart failure, angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors reduce mortality and morbidity from cardiovascular causes, but the role of angiotensin-receptor blockers (ARBs) in such patients is unknown. We compared the ACE inhibitor ramipril, the ARB telmisartan, and the combination of the two drugs in patients with vascular disease or high-risk diabetes.
After a 3-week, single-blind run-in period, patients underwent double-blind randomization, with 8576 assigned to receive 10 mg of ramipril per day, 8542 assigned to receive 80 mg of telmisartan per day, and 8502 assigned to receive both drugs (combination therapy). The primary composite outcome was death from cardiovascular causes, myocardial infarction, stroke, or hospitalization for heart failure.
Mean blood pressure was lower in both the telmisartan group (a 0.9/0.6 mm Hg greater reduction) and the combination-therapy group (a 2.4/1.4 mm Hg greater reduction) than in the ramipril group. At a median follow-up of 56 months, the primary outcome had occurred in 1412 patients in the ramipril group (16.5%), as compared with 1423 patients in the telmisartan group (16.7%; relative risk, 1.01; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.94 to 1.09). As compared with the ramipril group, the telmisartan group had lower rates of cough (1.1% vs. 4.2%, P<0.001) and angioedema (0.1% vs. 0.3%, P=0.01) and a higher rate of hypotensive symptoms (2.6% vs. 1.7%, P<0.001); the rate of syncope was the same in the two groups (0.2%). In the combination-therapy group, the primary outcome occurred in 1386 patients (16.3%; relative risk, 0.99; 95% CI, 0.92 to 1.07); as compared with the ramipril group, there was an increased risk of hypotensive symptoms (4.8% vs. 1.7%, P<0.001), syncope (0.3% vs. 0.2%, P=0.03), and renal dysfunction (13.5% vs. 10.2%, P<0.001).
Telmisartan was equivalent to ramipril in patients with vascular disease or high-risk diabetes and was associated with less angioedema. The combination of the two drugs was associated with more adverse events without an increase in benefit. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00153101 [ClinicalTrials.gov].).
Preventing relapse poses a significant challenge to the successful management of methamphetamine (METH) dependence. Although no effective medication currently exists for its treatment, racemic gamma vinyl-GABA (R,S-GVG, vigabatrin) shows enormous potential as it blocks both the neurochemical and behavioral effects of a variety of drugs, including METH, heroin, morphine, ethanol, nicotine, and cocaine. Using the reinstatement of a conditioned place preference (CPP) as an animal model of relapse, the present study specifically investigated the ability of an acute dose of R,S-GVG to block METH-triggered reinstatement of a METH-induced CPP. Animals acquired a METH CPP following a 20-day-period of conditioning, in which they received 10 pairings of alternating METH and saline injections. During conditioning, rats were assigned to one of four METH dosage groups: 1.0, 2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg/kg (i.p., n = 8/group). Animals in all dosage groups demonstrated a robust and consistent CPP. This CPP was subsequently extinguished in each dosage group with repeated saline administration. Upon extinction, all groups reinstated following an acute METH challenge. On the following day, an acute dose of R,S-GVG (300 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered 2.5 h prior to an identical METH challenge. R,S-GVG blocked METH-triggered reinstatement in all four groups. Given that drug re-exposure may potentiate relapse to drug-seeking behavior, the ability of R,S-GVG to block METH-triggered reinstatement offers further support for its use in the successful management of METH dependence.
Monoamine oxidases (MAOs) are involved in various psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders; hence, MAO inhibitors are useful agents in the therapy of Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's dementia, and depression syndrome. Herein we report a novel series of 3-(1H-pyrrol-3-yl)-2-oxazolidinones 3-7 as reversible, highly potent and selective anti-MAO-A agents. In particular, 4b, 5b, and 4c showed a K(i-MAO-A) of 0.6, 0.8, and 1 nM, respectively, 4c being 200000-fold selective for MAO-A with respect to MAO-B.
Integrin-linked kinase (ILK) facilitates signal transduction between extracellular events and important intracellular survival pathways involving protein kinase B/Akt. We examined the role of ILK in determining pancreatic adenocarcinoma cellular chemoresistance to the nucleoside analogue gemcitabine. Cellular ILK expression was quantified by Western blot analysis. We examined the effects of overexpression of active ILK and of ILK knockdown induced by RNA interference on gemcitabine chemoresistance. We also examined the effects of modulating ILK expression on gemcitabine-induced caspase 3-mediated apoptosis, phosphorylation status of Akt (Ser473) and glycogen synthase kinase. Overexpression of ILK increased cellular gemcitabine chemoresistance, whereas ILK knockdown induced chemosensitization via increased caspase 3-mediated apoptosis. ILK knockdown attenuated Akt Ser473 and glycogen synthase kinase phosphorylation, whereas overexpression of constitutively active myristoylated Akt was sufficient to induce significant recovery in gemcitabine chemoresistance in the presence of ILK knockdown. Levels of ILK expression affect gemcitabine chemoresistance in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells. This novel finding suggests that therapies directed against ILK and its downstream signaling targets may have the potential to enhance the efficacy of gemcitabine-based chemotherapy.
N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-retinamide (fenretinide) is a synthetic derivative of all-trans-retinoic acid and induces apoptosis in several cancer cell lines. We determined the anti-cancer activity of fenretinide using human hepatoma cell lines, Bel-7402, HepG2 and Smmc-7721. An in-vitro 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay showed that fenretinide exhibited growth inhibition in these cell lines, with IC50 values ranging from 13.1 to 15.5 micromol/l. In Bel-7402 cells, apoptosis with 15 micromol/l fenretinide for 0 and 48 h was 3 and 48%, respectively. In-vivo studies using the Bel-7402 xenografted athymic mouse model showed tumor inhibition rates ranging from 37.2 to 57.2%, with fenretinide administration once per 3 days at the rate of 25-100 mg/kg. Western blot analysis further showed down-regulation of procaspase-3, X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage in Bel-7402 cells treated with 15 mumol/l fenretinide for 48 h. Overexpression of p53 was observed in a time-dependent manner, along with a decrease in the Bcl-2/Bax ratio. Depolarized mitochondrial membranes were found in fenretinide-induced apoptotic cells, in a time-dependent manner. We conclude that fenretinide effectively inhibits the proliferation of Bel-7402, both in vitro and in vivo. Both procaspase-3 and p53-mediated apoptotic pathways are involved in its potent anti-cancer activity.
X-linked ichthyosis (XLI) (steroid sulfatase deficiency) is caused by deletions or point mutations of the steroid sulfatase (STS) gene on chromosome Xp22.32. Deletions of this region can be associated with cognitive behavioural difficulties including autism. Animal work suggests the STS gene may be involved in attentional processes. We have therefore undertaken a systematic study of autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in boys with XLI.
Cases of XLI were recruited from families originally ascertained when pregnancies with STS deficiency were identified through a routine maternal screening programme. Boys with XLI were assessed for ADHD and autism using standardised questionnaires and interviews. Deletions of the STS gene were identified and characterised by analysis of genomic DNA and/or fluorescent in situ hybridisation.
25 boys with XLI were assessed for autism and ADHD. 40% fulfilled DSM-IV criteria for a diagnosis of ADHD, 80% of which were inattentive subtype. ADHD diagnoses were present in those with both deletions and presumed point mutations of STS. Additionally, five boys, from three unrelated families, fulfilled criteria for an autistic spectrum disorder or related language/communication difficulty, and all had an unusually large deletion of the STS gene with loss of the neuroligin 4 (NLGN4) gene. None of the boys with the typical deletion or presumed point mutations of STS demonstrated autistic difficulties.
STS deficiency may be a risk factor for ADHD with predominantly inattentive symptoms. Boys with XLI and large deletions encompassing STS and NLGN4 are at increased risk of developing autism and related disorders.
The differentiation-related gene-1 (Drg1) is a recently identified gene down-regulated in malignancy and a putative suppressor of colorectal cancer metastases. Its expression is associated with improved survival in patients with prostate or breast cancer. Drg1 expression is also associated with resistance to irinotecan therapy in preclinical colorectal cancer models. The clinical evaluation of Drg1 in colorectal cancer has been limited. We performed this study to evaluate the role of Drg1 in a large cohort of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who were irinotecan naive.
We examined Drg1 expression by immunohistochemistry in 131 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer enrolled in a clinical trial of adjuvant fluorouracil-based therapy from 1991 to 1995. We correlated expression of Drg1 to numerous clinical and tumor related variables and to patient outcomes, including a subset of patients who recurred and received irinotecan-based therapy.
Drg1 expression was identified in all metastatic tissue samples. There was a trend for unilobar metastases with high Drg1 expression (P = 0.07) and a suggestion of improved 2-year survival (82.4% versus 69.6%, P = 0.148). High Drg1 expression suggested irinotecan resistance (P = 0.07).
In colorectal cancer, Drg1 expression may be associated with a less aggressive, indolent colorectal cancer. High Drg1 may also be associated with relative resistance to irinotecan. The role of Drg1 in malignancy continues to be defined.
The concurrent influence of multiple neurotransmitter systems in mediating cocaine-induced convulsions is predicted by the results of previous receptor binding studies. The present results demonstrate that pharmacological manipulations of these predicted neurotransmitter systems alters the occurrence of cocaine-induced convulsions. The 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine enhanced the occurrence and severity of convulsions produced by 100 mg/kg (-) cocaine, while the 5-HT2 receptor antagonists cinanserin, ketanserin and pirenperone antagonized cocaine-induced convulsions in a dose-dependent manner. Further, the M1 receptor antagonist pirenzepine antagonized cocaine-induced convulsions, but atropine did not. In addition, both the (+) and (-) stereoisomers of the sigma ligand SKF 10047 significantly attenuated cocaine-induced convulsions. (+)SKF 10047 was more potent than (-)SKF 10047 in this effect, suggesting a stereoselective effect at sigma receptor sites. In constrast, DA and NE neurotransmission do not appear to modulate the proconvulsant effects of cocaine in a specific, dose-dependent manner. Thus, of the CNS binding sites with which cocaine is known to interact, the results are consistent with the conclusion that 5-HT transporters and 5-HT2 receptor sites appear to be direct and primary sites related to cocaine-induced convulsions, while M1 and sigma binding sites appear to play important but secondary and modulatory roles in this response.
The relationship between morphine plasma concentration and pupil diameter was evaluated 2-10 h following intravenous administration of morphine sulfate (10 mg). Seven healthy male volunteers received 10 mg of morphine intravenously following pretreatment for 4 d with either cimetidine (300 mg po four times a day) or placebo in a single blind, balanced crossover study. Pupil diameters were measured directly from contact prints using calipers and a photographed millimeter scale. Cimetidine pretreatment had no significant effect on pupil size either before or after morphine administration or on morphine pharmacokinetics. The relationship between morphine plasma concentration (2-10 h postdose) and pupil diameter was evaluated from the pooled data from both morphine treatment periods by perpendicular least-square regression. In each individual, a strong relationship existed between morphine plasma concentrations and pupil diameter (r = -0.76 to -0.91; p less than 0.05). Weaker correlations for both pupil diameter (r = -0.65; p less than 0.0001) and the absolute change in pupil diameter from baseline (r = 0.72; p less than 0.0001) for the grouped data probably reflect intersubject variation in morphine sensitivity. Thus, the miotic response to an intravenous dose of morphine varies in proportion to morphine plasma concentration.
Clinical features associated with chromosome 1p36 deletion include characteristic craniofacial abnormalities, mental retardation, and epilepsy. The presence and severity of specific phenotypic features are likely to be correlated with loss of a distinct complement of genes in each patient. We hypothesize that hemizygous deletion of one, or a few, critical gene(s) controlling neuronal excitability is associated with the epilepsy phenotype. Because ion channels are important determinants of seizure susceptibility and the voltage-gated K(+) channel beta-subunit gene, KCNAB2, has been localized to 1p36, we propose that deletion of this gene may be associated with the epilepsy phenotype.
Twenty-four patients were evaluated by fluorescence in situ hybridization with a probe containing KCNAB2. Clinical details were obtained by neurologic examination and EEG.
Nine patients are deleted for the KCNAB2 locus, and eight (89%) of these have epilepsy or epileptiform activity on EEG. The majority of patients have a severe seizure phenotype, including infantile spasms. In contrast, of those not deleted for KCNAB2, only 27% have chronic seizures, and none had infantile spasms.
Lack of the beta subunit would be predicted to reduce K(+) channel-mediated membrane repolarization and increase neuronal excitability, suggesting a possible relation between loss of this gene and the development of seizures. Because some patients with seizures were not deleted for KCNAB2, there may be additional genes within 1p36 that contribute to epilepsy in this syndrome. Hemizygosity of this gene in a majority of monosomy 1p36 syndrome patients with epilepsy suggests that haploinsufficiency for KCNAB2 is a significant risk factor for epilepsy.
Here, we report high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) findings in a patient who developed sudden hemoptysis, dyspnea and chest pain after smoking crack cocaine. Chest X-rays showed consolidations, primarily in the upper lobes, and HRCT scans showed ground glass attenuation opacities, consolidations and air-space nodules. A follow-up CT, after drug use discontinuation and administration of corticosteroids, showed partial resolution of pulmonary lesions and the appearance of cavitations. Clinical, imaging and laboratory findings led to a diagnosis of 'crack lung'.
It is useful to divide Parkinsonian patients into those whose signs are confined to tremor, rigidity and akinesia, and those with evidence of a more diffuse disturbance. The treatment of choice in the former is levodopa combined with a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor. At the onset of the disease, when disability is minimal, amantadine or anticholinergic drugs may suffice. Bromocriptine is useful in some patients who derive only short-lived benefit from each dose of levodopa. The role of stereotactic surgery is now confined to patients with an incapacitating unilateral tremor which has not improved with drug therapy. In elderly patients with evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction such as dementia, grasp reflex, hyper-reflexia or severe postural hypotension, the beneficial effect of these drugs is often outweighed by the side effects. Small doses of levodopa alone may be tried. Anticholinergic drugs and amantadine should be avoided in such patients.
Early-life chemical exposure may influence immune system development, subsequently affecting child health. We investigated immunomodulatory potentials of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and p,p'-DDE in infants.
Prenatal exposure to PCBs and p,p'-DDE was estimated from maternal serum concentrations during pregnancy. Postnatal exposure was calculated from concentrations of the compounds in mother's milk, total number of nursing days, and percentage of full nursing each week during the 3 month nursing period. Number and types of infections among infants were registered by the mothers (N = 190). White blood cell counts (N = 86) and lymphocyte subsets (N = 52) were analyzed in a subgroup of infants at 3 months of age.
Infants with the highest prenatal exposure to PCB congeners CB-28, CB-52 and CB-101 had an increased risk of respiratory infection during the study period. In contrast, the infection odds ratios (ORs) were highest among infants with the lowest prenatal mono-ortho PCB (CB-105, CB-118, CB-156, CB-167) and di-ortho PCB (CB-138, CB-153, CB-180) exposure, and postnatal mono- and di-ortho PCB, and p,p'-DDE exposure. Similar results were found for pre- and postnatal CB-153 exposure, a good marker for total PCB exposure. Altogether, a negative relationship was indicated between infections and total organochlorine compound exposure during the whole pre- and postnatal period. Prenatal exposure to CB-28, CB-52 and CB-101 was positively associated with numbers of lymphocytes and monocytes in infants 3 months after delivery. Prenatal exposure to p,p'-DDE was negatively associated with the percentage of eosinophils. No significant associations were found between PCB and p,p'-DDE exposure and numbers/percentages of lymphocyte subsets, after adjustment for potential confounders.
This hypothesis generating study suggests that background exposure to PCBs and p,p'-DDE early in life modulate immune system development. Strong correlations between mono- and di-ortho PCBs, and p,p'-DDE exposures make it difficult to identify the most important contributor to the suggested immunomodulation, and to separate effects due to pre- and postnatal exposure. The suggested PCB and p,p'-DDE modulation of infection risks may have consequences for the health development during childhood, since respiratory infections early in life may be risk factors for asthma and middle ear infections.
The objectives of this study were to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of quetiapine for treating psychosis in patients with probable/possible Alzheimer disease and assess its impact on other psychopathology and social and daily functioning.
The authors conducted a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial of flexibly dosed quetiapine and haloperidol. Primary outcomes were change in total Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) and Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness (CGI-S) scores at week 10. Secondary outcomes included BPRS factors, Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), Multidimensional Observation Scale for Elderly Subjects (MOSES), and Physical Self-Maintenance Scale (PSMS).
Two hundred eighty-four participants (mean age: 83.2 years) were randomized; 63.4% completed; and mean Mini-Mental State Examination score was 12.8. Median of the mean daily dose was 96.9 mg for quetiapine and 1.9 mg for haloperidol. No differential benefit was seen on any psychosis measure. BPRS agitation factor scores improved with quetiapine versus placebo and not quetiapine versus haloperidol. BPRS anergia scores worsened with haloperidol versus quetiapine but not quetiapine versus placebo. No NPI factors showed change, including the agitation factor. MOSES Withdrawal Subscale and PSMS total scores worsened with haloperidol versus quetiapine. Somnolence occurred in 25.3%, 36.2%, and 4.1% of the quetiapine, haloperidol, and placebo groups, respectively; parkinsonism was most prevalent in the haloperidol group; other safety and tolerability measures differed little among groups.
All treatment groups showed improvement in measures of psychosis without significant differences between them when planned comparisons were performed. Participants treated with quetiapine or haloperidol showed inconsistent evidence of improvement in agitation. Tolerability was better with quetiapine compared with haloperidol.
A 69-year-old woman with classical rheumatoid arthritis developed a severe dermato-myopathy during treatment with penicillamine. Remission occurred on withdrawal of the drug. Penicillamine (dimethylcysteine) is a pharmacological agent used for its chelating properties in the treatment of Wilson's disease and heavy metal poisoning, and in cysteinuria because of soluble disulphide formation. Within the last 17 years penicillamine has been increasingly applied in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, the mechanism of action still being unknown. A great number of side effects have been reported, including less common auto-immune disorders such as drug-induced systemic lupus erythematosus, myasthenia gravis and polymyositis. These and other possible side effects have been well reviewed by others (1, 2). To our knowledge only a few earlier cases of dermatomyositis as a complication to penicillamine treatment of rheumatoid arthritis have been reported (3, 4, 5). We describe here another case.
Exogenous delivery of neurotrophic factors into the cochlea of deafened animals rescues spiral ganglion cells (SGCs) from degeneration. To be clinically relevant for human cochlear implant candidates, the protective effect of neurotrophins should persist after cessation of treatment and the treated SGCs should remain functional. In this study, the survival and functionality of SGCs were investigated after temporary treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Guinea pigs in the experimental group were deafened, and 2 weeks later, the right cochleae were implanted with an electrode array and drug delivery cannula. BDNF was administered to the implanted cochleae during a 4-week period via a mini-osmotic pump. After completion of the treatment, the osmotic pumps were removed. Two weeks later, the animals were killed and the survival of SGCs was analyzed. To monitor the functionality of the auditory nerve, electrically evoked auditory brainstem responses (eABRs) were recorded in awake animals throughout the experiment. BDNF treatment resulted in enhanced survival of SGCs 2 weeks after cessation of the treatment and prevented the decreases in size and circularity that are seen in the untreated contralateral cochleae. The amplitude of the suprathreshold eABR response in BDNF-treated animals was significantly larger than in deafened control animals and comparable to that in normal-hearing control animals. The amplitude in the BDNF-treated group did not decrease significantly after cessation of treatment. The eABR latency in BDNF-treated animals was longer than normal and comparable to that in deafened control animals. These morphological and functional findings demonstrate that neurotrophic intervention had a lasting effect, which is promising for future clinical application of neurotrophic factors in implanted human cochleae.
This study tests the hypothesis that prenatal exposure to 2,4-dichlorophenyl-p-nitrophenyl ether (nitrofen), an herbicide known to induce pulmonary hypoplasia and other malformations in fetal rats, also may induce ureterohydronephrosis (UHN) and oligohydramnios. Time-dated pregnant Wistar rats were given 100 mg of the chemical on day 9 or 11 of gestation, and the findings in their fetuses were compared with those of suitable controls. Marked bilateral UHN was found in the majority of exposed fetuses, but without evidence of either mechanical obstruction or dysplastic parenchymal lesions. These animals had various degrees of lung hypoplasia. The amount of fluid in their amniotic sacs was increased rather than decreased and it was independent of lung weight but correlated to some extent with UHN grade. Urinary tract dilatation and polyhydramnios in this model most likely are attributable to polyuria caused by nitrofen-induced impairment of renal concentrating capacity. This relatively simple animal model might facilitate research into some aspects of the physiology of nonobstructive, prenatally dilated urinary tracts.
A single-center cohort study of kidney and kidney-pancreas recipients was conducted to evaluate the association between new immunosuppressive regimens and risk of thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA). From January 1st,1996 to December 31, 2002, 368 patients received a kidney or kidney-pancreas transplant at our center. Four immunosuppressive regimens were evaluated as potential risk factors of TMA: cyclosporin + mycophenolate mofetil (CsA + MMF), cyclosporin + sirolimus (CsA + SRL), tacrolimus + myophenolate mofetil (FK + MMF), and tacrolimus + sirolimus (FK + SRL). Thirteen patients developed biopsy-proven TMA in the absence of vascular rejection. The incidence of TMA was significantly different in the four immunosuppressive regimens studied (p < 0.001). The incidence of TMA was highest in the CsA + SRL group (20.7%). The relative risk of TMA was 16.1 [95% confidence interval (CI): 4.3-60.8] for patients in the CsA + SRL group as compared with those in the FK + MMF group. We also investigated in vitro the pathophysiological basis of this association. The CsA-SRL combination was found to be the only regimen that concomitantly displayed pro-necrotic and anti-angiogenic activities on arterial endothelial cells. We propose that this combination concurs to development of TMA through dual activities on endothelial cell death and repair.
Long-term use of cyclosporine after renal transplantation results in nephrotoxicity and an increased cardiovascular risk profile. Tacrolimus may be more favorable in this respect. In this randomized controlled study in 124 renal transplant patients, the effects of conversion from cyclosporine to tacrolimus on renal function, cardiovascular risk factors, and perceived side-effects were investigated after a follow-up of 2 years. After conversion from cyclosporine to tacrolimus renal function remained stable, whereas continuation of cyclosporine was accompanied by a rise in serum creatinine from 142 +/- 48 micromol/L to 157 +/- 62 micromol/L (p < 0.05 comparing both groups). Conversion to tacrolimus resulted in a sustained reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and a sustained improvement in the serum lipid profile, leading to a reduction in the Framingham risk score from 5.7 +/- 4.3 to 4.8 +/- 5.3 (p < 0.05). Finally, conversion to tacrolimus resulted in decreased scores for occurrence of and distress due to side-effects. In conclusion, conversion from cyclosporine to tacrolimus in stable renal transplant patients is beneficial with respect to renal function, cardiovascular risk profile, and side-effects. Therefore, for most renal transplant patients tacrolimus will be the drug of choice when long-term treatment with a calcineurin inhibitor is indicated.
To determine the incidence and type of posterior segment complications associated with the use of interferon alpha 2b and ribavirin in patients with chronic hepatitis C.
A prospective noncomparative case series.
Forty-two patients (84 eyes).
Patients with chronic hepatitis C were evaluated for ocular changes while being treated with interferon alpha 2b and ribavirin. Patients were followed with sequential ocular examinations for 4 to 20 months.
Occurrence of posterior segment complications while on interferon and ribavirin therapy.
Twenty-seven patients developed retinopathy. The retinopathy consisted of single-to-multiple cotton-wool spots and retinal hemorrhage and was transient in all cases. An additional patient (age 46) presented with asymptomatic disc edema and hemorrhage. One other individual developed a symptomatic permanent monocular visual field defect. Therapy was discontinued in three patients because of severe posterior segment pathology.
Our study demonstrated that a high incidence of retinopathy is associated with the treatment of hepatitis C using interferon and ribavirin, but that this form of retinopathy is relatively benign. Regular ophthalmic monitoring should be performed in patients undergoing this treatment.
The authors report the case of a 22 years old woman without psychiatric antecedent who started a prophylaxis with mefloquine for a journey in a chloroquino resistant area. The first tablet induced an acute psychiatric syndrome which lasted five days; the second tablet induced the recidive of the psychiatric data and a suicide attempt by drowning.
While the use of methyldibromo glutaronitrile (MDBGN) in leave-on products is clearly associated with high sensitization or elicitation risk, such a clear-cut relation could be questioned with regard to rinse-off products.
The objective of this study was to find a maximum non-eliciting concentration for rinse-off products in MDBGN patch test-positive patients.
We performed a use-related test [repeated open application test (ROAT)] in patients sensitized to MDBGN with a liquid soap containing three concentrations of MDBGN (50, 200, and 400 p.p.m. MDBGN, respectively). The soap at 50 p.p.m. was used twice daily for 4 weeks. If no reaction of the skin was observed, the product with the next higher concentration was used for another 4 weeks, etc.
In total, 32/37 evaluated cases [86.5%; lower exact one-sided 95% confidence limit (CL): 73.7%] did not react to any of the preparations. The remaining reacted as follows: 1/37 reacted to 50 p.p.m., 3/37 to 200 p.p.m., and 1/37 to 400 p.p.m. The cumulative non-response to 50 p.p.m. was 97.3% (lower CL: 87.8%).
The majority of subjects sensitized to MDBGN-tolerated rinse-off products containing a maximum concentration of 400 p.p.m. A concentration in rinse-off products in the range of 50 p.p.m. could be regarded as safe for most individuals already sensitized. These concentrations will presumably prevent induction (sensitization) also.
