Imatinib mesylate is among a growing number of effective cancer drugs that provide molecularly targeted therapy; however, imatinib causes reproductive defects in rodents. The availability of an in vitro system for screening the effect of drugs on spermatogenesis would be beneficial. The imatinib targets, KIT and platelet derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRB), were shown here to be expressed in "germline stem" (GS) cell cultures that contain spermatogonia, including spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs). GS cell cultures were utilized to determine whether imatinib affects SSC self renewal or differentiation. GS cells grown in imatinib retained self renewal based on multiple assays, including transplantation. However, growth in imatinib led to decreased numbers of differentiated spermatogonia and reduced culture growth consistent with the known requirement for KIT in survival and proliferation of spermatogonia. These results build upon the in vivo studies and support the possibility of utilizing GS cell cultures for preclinical drug tests.
We compared the lipid-lowering, vasodilating, anti-thrombotic and anti-inflammatory properties of NCX 6560, a novel NO-releasing derivative of atorvastatin, with those of atorvastatin. NCX 6560 and atorvastatin induced similar inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis in rat smooth muscle cells (IC(50)=1.9+/-0.4 and 3.9+/-1.0 microM, respectively). However, in hyperlipidemic mice, a 5-week oral treatment with NCX 6560 (46.8 mg/kg/day, p.o.) was more effective than equivalent atorvastatin (40 mg/kg/day, p.o.) at lowering serum cholesterol (NCX 6560: -21% vs controls, P<0.05; atorvastatin: -14% vs control, P=NS). In norepinephrine-precontracted rabbit aortic rings, NCX 6560-induced vasodilation (EC(50)=53.5+/-8.3 microM) and in PC12 cells it stimulated cGMP formation (EC(50)=1.8+/-0.7 microM), while atorvastatin was inactive. In lipopolysaccharide from Escherichia coli (LPS)-treated RAW 264.7 macrophages, NCX 6560 reduced iNOS expression and dimer assembly more efficiently than atorvastatin and inhibited nitrite accumulation (IC(50)=6.7+/-1.6 microM) and TNFalpha release. U46619- or collagen plus epinephrine-induced platelet pulmonary thromboembolism in mice was reduced by NCX 6560 at 46.8 mg/kg p.o. (mortality: -44% and -56% vs vehicle, respectively; P<0.05), but not by atorvastatin 40 mg/kg, p.o. In the U46619-induced mortality model, isosorbide mononitrate (ISMN) (20 mg/kg, p.o.), a pure NO-donor, was also active (mortality: -40%, P<0.05). NCX 6560 significantly reduced ex vivo platelet adhesion to collagen at high shear (-31+/-1.3% vs vehicle), and so did ISMN (-33.3+/-1.7% vs vehicle). Atorvastatin was ineffective. NCX 6560, but not atorvastatin, reduced blood pressure in eNOS knockout mice (-16%, P<0.001 vs vehicle), an effect not observed in wild type mice. On the contrary, ISMN provoked a significant drop of blood pressure both in wild type (-20%, P<0.05 vs vehicle) and in eNOS-/- mice (-21%, P<0.05 vs vehicle). In conclusion, NCX 6560 exerts greater lipid-lowering, anti-thrombotic and anti-inflammatory effects than atorvastatin, due to a large extent to NO release.
We examined whether low-dose L-DOPA treatment induces natriuresis and diuresis in patients with congestive heart failure who have cardiac decompensation despite treatment with digoxin, a diuretic, and an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and who respond acutely to intravenously infused dopamine. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study, 11 patients with severe congestive heart failure received L-DOPA (0.10 g, p.o., t.i.d., for 1 day and then 0.25 g, p.o., t.i.d., for 2 days after a washout period of > or = 1 day), with assessments of plasma and urinary levels of catechols, urinary volume, and sodium content, and clinical and laboratory measures of improvement of congestive heart failure. L-DOPA elicited short-term, dose-related increases in urinary volume and sodium excretion. At the 0.10-g dose, L-DOPA increased plasma L-DOPA levels and urinary L-DOPA excretion by about fivefold, whereas at the 0.25-g dose, L-DOPA increased plasma and urinary L-DOPA by >50-fold. Twenty-four-hour urinary dopamine excretion increased by about fivefold after the low dose of L-DOPA and approximately 50-fold after the high dose. The results demonstrate that oral L-DOPA treatment can produce beneficial natriuretic and diuretic effects in selected patients with congestive heart failure. The bioavailability of oral L-DOPA appears to vary with the dose. These results support findings from previous studies about beneficial cardiac functional effects of L-DOPA in patients with refractory heart failure.
The novel estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) variant ER-alpha36 is reported to be functional in the estrogen signaling pathway and is related to tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer. However, ER-alpha36 tends to be a favorable factor for survival in patients without tamoxifen therapy. To investigate the mechanisms behind this paradox, we determined the differences between the transcriptional profiles of ER-alpha36 and full-length ER-alpha (ER-alpha66) in breast cancers and matched normal tissues.
We analyzed ER-alpha36 and ER-alpha66 messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in 74 pairs of breast cancers and matched normal tissues using a real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay, and correlated the results with their clinicopathological characteristics.
Breast cancers expressed lower ER-alpha36 mRNA levels than matched normal tissues regardless of their ER-alpha66 expression status. Down-regulation of ER-alpha36 mRNA was correlated with local progression, lymph node metastasis, and advanced cancer stage. The level of ER-alpha66 mRNA was lower in ER-alpha negative breast cancers compared with matched normal tissues. No differences in ER-alpha66 mRNA levels were observed during cancer progression.
Down-regulation of ER-alpha36 is associated with carcinogenesis and progression of breast cancer.
The purpose of this study was to assess cognitive functioning in a group of illicit amphetamine users. A neuropsychological test battery (Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised (WMS-R) and the digit symbol, block design and vocabulary subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R) and the National Adult Reading Test (NART)) was administered to 78 amphetamine users (mean age = 22.5 years; 46 males, 33 females). Severity of amphetamine dependence was found to be associated with poorer performance on both memory and attention/concentration indices of the WMS-R. The relative contribution of amphetamine dependence, concurrent drug use and other drug related factors to neuropsychological functioning are discussed.
To assess the short- and long-term safety and efficacy of oral flecainide therapy in patients with symptomatic tachycardia and an extranodal accessory pathway.
Open-label, uncontrolled trial with a mean follow-up of 24 months.
Referral-based, teaching medical center.
Sixty-three patients with symptomatic tachycardia and an extranodal accessory pathway.
Patients had electrophysiologic testing before and after the initiation of oral flecainide therapy and were followed long-term for the presence of symptoms, new physical limitations, and adverse effects of therapy.
Flecainide therapy prevented or slowed (324 +/- 59 ms to 398 +/- 55 ms; P less than 0.001) inducible sustained atrioventricular reciprocating tachycardia in 44 of 63 patients (70%). Of the 44 patients discharged from the hospital, 33 (75%) have continued to receive flecainide therapy and have shown no adverse effects (mean follow-up, 24 +/- 10 months). Adverse cardiac reactions (proarrhythmia or sinus node suppression) attributable to flecainide occurred in 11 of 63 patients (17%); in 9 (82%) of these 11 patients, events were detected during either in-hospital monitoring or the electrophysiologic study done before discharge. Structural heart disease was detected by two-dimensional echocardiography in 8 of 11 patients who had adverse cardiac events and in 6 of 52 patients who did not have such events (P less than 0.001). Isoproterenol reversed the effects of flecainide therapy in 11 of 21 patients; 7 of the 11 patients had spontaneous clinical recurrences of tachycardia or palpitations during the follow-up period, but these symptoms occurred in only 1 of 10 patients who did not show isoproterenol-induced reversal (P = 0.02).
Oral flecainide therapy was effective in 33 of 63 patients who had tachycardia and an extranodal accessory connection. Hospital monitoring during initial therapy is recommended, and flecainide should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with structural heart disease. An isoproterenol challenge appears to be helpful in predicting late recurrence of tachycardia.
To investigate renal sodium handling of ouabain-hypertensive rats and the role of renal sodium handling in pathogenesis of hypertension using endogenous trace lithium as a marker of proximal sodium reabsorption.
Forty male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats weighting 180-220 g were equally divided into normal control group and ouabain group randomly. Rats were infused with normal saline 1 ml/ (kg x d) or ouabain 27.8 microg/ (kg-d) intraperitoneally once a day respectively. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) and body weight were recorded weekly. Rats were sacrificed after 2 and 6 weeks respectively. Blood and 24 hour urine sample were collected to measure the serum and urinary concentration of sodium, potassium, trace lithium, and creatinine. Endogenous creatinine clearance rate (Ccr), fractional excretions of sodium (FE(Na)), and fractional excretions of lithium (FE(Li)), the ratios of urinary lithium to sodium (U(Li)/U(Na)), the ratios of urinary potassium to sodium (U(K)/U(Na)), and fractional reabsorption of sodium in the postproximal tubules (FDR(Na)) were also calculated. All were studied on their normal diet and ate salt freely.
Blood pressure had no significant difference in these two groups after 2 weeks (P > 0.05); After 4 weeks, however, blood pressure was significantly higher in ouabain group than in control group (P < 0.01). Body weight of rats had no significant difference during the experiment period (P > 0.05). Ccr and FE(Na) were similar in these 2 groups (P > 0.05). FE(Li), U(Li)/U(Na), U(K)/U(Na), and FDR(Na) of ouabain group were significantly lower than control group after 2 and 6 weeks (P < 0.05, P < 0.01, P < 0.001 respectively).
The reabsorption of sodium increases in the proximal tubule in ouabain-hypertensive rats, and such increase occurs before the development of hypertension. Therefore, increase of proximal reabsorption of sodium may be involved in the pathogenesis of ouabain-induced hypertension.
Atorvastatin blunts the response of cardiomyocytes to catecholamines by reducing isoprenylation of G gamma subunits. We examined whether atorvastatin exerts similar effects in vivo and protects the rat heart from harmful effects of catecholamines.
Rats were treated with atorvastatin (1 or 10 mg/kg x day) or H(2)O for 14 days per gavage. All three animal groups were subjected to restraint stress on day 10 and to infusions of isoprenaline (ISO; 1 mg/kg x day) or NaCl via minipumps for the last 4 days. Heart rate was measured by telemetry, left ventricular atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) transcript levels by RT-PCR, and left atrial contractile function in organ baths. Heart rate was similar in all six study groups. In animals pre-treated with water, infusion of ISO induced an increase in heart-to-body weight ratio (HW/BW) by approximately 20%, an increase in ANP mRNA by approximately 350%, and a reduction in the inotropic effect of isoprenaline in left atrium by approximately 50%. In animals pre-treated with high-dose atorvastatin, the effects of ISO on HW/BW, ANP, and left atrial force were approximately 40, 50, and 40% smaller, respectively. Low dose atorvastatin had similar, albeit smaller effects. Atorvastatin treatment of NaCl-infused rats had only marginal effects. In cardiac homogenates from atorvastatin-treated rats (both NaCl- and ISO-infused), G gamma and G alpha(s) were partially translocated from the membrane to the cytosol.
In the rat heart, treatment with atorvastatin results in translocation of cardiac membrane G gamma and G alpha(s) to the cytosol. This mechanism might contribute to protecting the heart from harm induced by chronic isoprenaline infusion without affecting heart rate.
In this study we evaluated the effect of a novel, marine-derived, acidic oligosaccharide on scopolamine-induced amnesia in rats using the Morris water maze test. The results show that 30-day administration of this oligosaccharide, referred to as acidic oligosaccharide sugar chain (AOSC), to rats attenuates memory impairment by scopolamine, as evaluated by shortened escape latency, swimming distance, and increased swimming time of rats with memory impairment induced by scopolamine in the quadrant where the platform is placed. The data additionally suggest that an appropriate dose of scopolamine, a traditional muscarinic receptor antagonist, elevates oxidative damage in brain, characterized by inactivation of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and consequently, inhibition of ATPase in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. AOSC ameliorates oxidative injuries caused by scopolamine by increasing the activities of SOD, GSH-Px, and ATPase. Further investigation by flow cytometry revealed that AOSC significantly reduces the overloading of intracellular free calcium ion ([Ca2+]i), thus suppressing apoptosis induced by H2O2 in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. These findings suggest that AOSC can induce cognitive improvement via its antioxidant activity.
The investigation was concerned with the role of enzymouria in the assessment of nephrotoxic effects identified in 19 children with malignant solid tumors who received cisplatin polychemotherapy in a dose of 100 mg/sq.m or iphosphamide in a dose 9 g/sq.m. Chemotherapy application was followed by a persistent hyperenzymouria involving significantly higher levels of N-acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminidase, beta-glutamyl transferase and alanine aminopeptidase in the urine, as compared with basal indices. Iphosphamide treatment showed significantly higher levels of enzymouria than those in cisplatin-treated patients. Higher than normal creatinine and urea concentrations were recorded only in 2 out of 9 patients receiving iphosphamide. Enzymouria evaluation was shown to be an effective method of nephrotoxic diagnosis.
Two patients with cocaine-induced peripheral vascular occlusive disease are presented. A 37-year-old man was admitted to the hospital for evaluation of severe pain and numbness of his feet. He had used cocaine prior to admission. Arteriography showed bilateral occlusions of superficial femoral, popliteal, and trifucation arteries. Despite repeated infusions of urokinase, he developed progressive bilateral gangrene of both legs necessitating bilateral below-knee amputations. The second patient developed similar symptoms after smoking cocaine. Arteriography showed vasospasm bilaterally from the iliac arteries distally. I.v. nitroglycerin infusion caused resolution of the vasospasm and ischemic symptoms.
The effect of olmesartan, an inverse angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker (ARB), on oxidative stress in hemodialysis (HD) patients is not fully understood, and has not been widely investigated in vitro or in vivo. We determined the amount of oxidized albumin and albumin hydroperoxides formed during incubation in the absence and presence of olmesartan by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and by a ferrous oxidation xylenol assay in an in vitro study. Six hypertensive HD patients were treated with 40 mg of olmesartan once daily, and blood pressure monitoring (BPM) was performed after 0, 4, and 8 weeks of treatment. The ratio of oxidized to unoxidized albumin was also determined. The oxidized albumin ratios and levels of albumin hydroperoxides were significantly decreased in a concentration-dependent manner in the presence of olmesartan, compared with the absence of olmesartan (p<0.05) in in vitro studies. In HD patients, olmesartan also significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure after 4 weeks, with a further significant decrease after 8 weeks. The ratio of oxidized to unoxidized albumin was markedly decreased after 4 weeks and these lower levels were maintained at 8 weeks. Olmesartan effectively lowered the extent of oxidation of albumin in both in vitro and in vivo studies, and this effect might confer benefits beyond a reduction in blood pressure.
Aldosterone antagonists have been reported to prevent ventricular remodeling after myocardial infarction (MI) via their action to extracellular matrix (ECM). However, it remains largely unknown whether aldosterone antagonists attenuate myocyte loss in the remodeling process. The present study examined whether spironolactone prevents myocyte apoptosis and improves post-infarct ventricular remodeling in rats. MI was achieved by permanent occlusion of the left coronary artery. Administration of spironolactone (100 mg/kg/day) was started immediately after MI. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: 1) sham, 2) spironolactone-treated sham, 3) untreated MI, 4) spironolactone-treated MI. Echocardiographic parameters (left ventricular [LV] diastolic dimension [LVDd], fractional shortening [%FS]), hemodynamic parameters (LV systolic pressure [LVSP], LV end-diastolic pressure [LVEDP], dP/dt(max) and dP/dt(min)) and collagen accumulation quantitated by Masson's Trichrome staining were significantly improved in the spironolactone-treated MI group on the 14th day, compared with the untreated MI group. Moreover, the percentage of apoptotic myocytes evaluated by terminal deoxynucleotide transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay was significantly lower in the spironolactone-treated MI group on the 2nd (3.54% vs. 5.79% in untreated MI group), 7th (0.65% vs. 1.37% in untreated MI group) and 14th days (0.11% vs. 0.16% in untreated MI group). Real time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis showed that the expression of mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) mRNA and that of 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 (11beta-HSD2) mRNA, which is known to confer aldosterone selectivity on MR, were upregulated in the untreated MI group, and that spironolactone significantly suppressed the expression of these genes. Moreover, spironolactone significantly inhibited aldosterone-induced apoptosis in cultured rat cardiac myocytes in a dose-dependent fashion. Our study demonstrates that, in addition to their effect on ECM, aldosterone antagonists inhibit myocyte apoptosis and prevent post-infarct ventricular remodeling by modulating the expression levels of MR and 11beta-HSD2, which are enhanced in the remodeling heart.
Megacystis-microcolon-intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome (MMIHS) is a rare disorder of enteric smooth muscle function affecting the intestine and bladder. Patients with this severe phenotype are dependent on total parenteral nutrition and urinary catheterization. The cause of this syndrome has remained a mystery since Berdon's initial description in 1976. No genes have been clearly linked to MMIHS. We used whole-exome sequencing for gene discovery followed by targeted Sanger sequencing in a cohort of patients with MMIHS and intestinal pseudo-obstruction. We identified heterozygous ACTG2 missense variants in 15 unrelated subjects, ten being apparent de novo mutations. Ten unique variants were detected, of which six affected CpG dinucleotides and resulted in missense mutations at arginine residues, perhaps related to biased usage of CpG containing codons within actin genes. We also found some of the same heterozygous mutations that we observed as apparent de novo mutations in MMIHS segregating in families with intestinal pseudo-obstruction, suggesting that ACTG2 is responsible for a spectrum of smooth muscle disease. ACTG2 encodes γ2 enteric actin and is the first gene to be clearly associated with MMIHS, suggesting an important role for contractile proteins in enteric smooth muscle disease.
Hippocampal plasticity (e.g. neurogenesis) likely plays an important role in maintaining addictive behavior and/or relapse. This study assessed whether rats with differential propensity to drug-seeking behavior, bred Low-Responders (bLR) and bred High-Responders (bHR) to novelty, show differential neurogenesis regulation after cocaine exposure. Using specific immunological markers, we labeled distinct populations of adult stem cells in the dentate gyrus at different time-points of the cocaine sensitization process; Ki-67 for newly born cells, NeuroD for cells born partway, and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine for older cells born prior to sensitization. Results show that: (i) bHRs exhibited greater psychomotor response to cocaine than bLRs; (ii) acute cocaine did not alter cell proliferation in bLR/bHR rats; (iii) chronic cocaine decreased cell proliferation in bLRs only, which became amplified through the course of abstinence; (iv) neither chronic cocaine nor cocaine abstinence affected the survival of immature neurons in either phenotype; (v) cocaine abstinence decreased survival of mature neurons in bHRs only, an effect that paralleled the greater psychomotor response to cocaine; and (vi) cocaine treatment did not affect the ratio of neurons to glia in bLR/bHR rats as most cells differentiated into neurons in both lines. Thus, cocaine exerts distinct effects on neurogenesis in bLR vs. bHR rats, with a decrease in the birth of new progenitor cells in bLRs and a suppression of the survival of new neurons in bHRs, which likely leads to an earlier decrease in formation of new connections. This latter effect in bHRs could contribute to their enhanced degree of cocaine-induced psychomotor behavioral sensitization.
Vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs), which include VGLUT1, VGLUT2 and VGLUT3, are responsible for the uploading of L-glutamate into synaptic vesicles. The expression pattern of VGLUTs determines the level of synaptic vesicle filling (i.e., glutamate quantal size) and directly influences glutamate receptors and glutamatergic synaptic transmission; thus, VGLUTs may play a key role in learning and memory in the central nervous system. To determine whether VGLUTs contribute to the degeneration or acquisition of learning and memory, we used an animal model for the age-related impairment of learning and memory, senescence-accelerated mouse/prone 8 (SAMP8). KM mice were divided into groups based on their learning and memory performance in a shuttle-box test. The expression of VGLUTs and synaptophysin (Syp) mRNA and protein in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus were investigated with real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR and western blot, respectively. Our results demonstrate that, in the cerebral cortex, protein expression of VGLUT1, VGLUT2, VGLUT3 and Syp was decreased in SAMP8 with age and increased in KM mice, which displayed an enhanced capacity for learning and memory. The protein expression of VGLUT2 and Syp was decreased in the hippocampus of SAMP8 with aging. The expression level of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 proteins were highest in KM mouse group with a 76-100% avoidance score in the shuttle-box test. These data demonstrate that protein expression of VGLUT1, VGLUT2 and Syp decreases age-dependently in SAMP8 and increases in a learning- and memory-dependent manner in KM mice. Correlation analysis indicated the protein expression of VGLUT1, VGLUT2 and Syp has a positive correlation with the capacity of learning and memory.
Post-transplant complications are common among patients receiving immunosuppressive medications, including pain syndromes. Recently, a pain syndrome, calcineurin-inhibitor induced pain syndrome (CIPS) has been described. To our knowledge, this article is the second report of tacrolimus-associated CIPS, and the first report in the pediatric setting.
Life-threatening acute lung injury potentially occurs following high-level accidental exposures to phosgene gas. This situation was mirrored in rats exposed nose-only at 900-1000 mg phosgene/m(3)min. At this exposure level, previous studies on rats demonstrated sustained reflexively induced cardiopulmonary dysfunction and evidence of vascular fluid redistribution. These findings challenge the currently applied treatment strategies to mitigate the presumed non-cardiogenic lung edema by steroidal or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. This study investigates whether high doses of curatively administered dexamethasone (DX; 100 mg/kg bw, ip) and sodium salicylate (SS; 200 mg/kg bw, ip), alone or in combination, show efficacy to mitigate the phosgene-induced lung edema. Exhaled nitric oxide (eNO), animal morbidity and mortality, and increased lung weights one day postexposure served as endpoints of lung injury and drug efficacy. When applying this dosing regimen, SS showed minimal (if any) efficacy while DX, alone or in combination with SS, substantially aggravated the emerging lung edema (lung weights) with 40% mortality. The degree of acute lung injury (ALI) was mirrored by increased eNO. Its direct relationship to ALI-severity was evidenced by decreased eNO following NO-synthetase inhibitor administration (aminoguanidine-aerosol) and associated mitigation of ALI. All non-treated phosgene-exposed as well as treated but non-phosgene-exposed rats survived. This experimental evidence suggests that high-dose corticoid treatments may aggravate the pulmonary toxicity of phosgene. Similarly, this outcome supports the supposition that non-inflammatory, cardiogenic and/or neurogenic factors play a role in this type of acute lung injury.
Aged Lobund-Wistar (L-W) rats develop: (i) spontaneous and induced metastasizing adenocarcinomas in the prostate and seminal vesicle (P-SV) complex; and (ii) spontaneous hepatomas and hepatocarcinomas. Within the time-frame of 14 months, similar adenocarcinomas were induced in the P-SV complex in 70-90% of younger L-W rats by a single i.v. inoculation of methylnitrosourea (MNU) which was followed by slow release s.c. implants of testosterone propionate (TP). Within the same time-frame, neither MNU nor TP alone induced significant incidences of P-SV tumors; and untreated control L-W rats were disease-free. Methylnitrosourea or TP and combinations thereof did not induce liver tumors. However, when MNU-inoculated L-W rats were fed phenobarbital (PB), they developed (i) metastasizing adenocarcinomas in the P-SV complex and (ii) altered cellular foci and nodules in the livers. Methylnitrosourea induced a high incidence of benign lung adenomas which progressed to lung cancers in numbers which were of marginal significance. Thus, dormant MNU-initiated cells in the P-SV complex were activated by phenobarbital, to produce adenocarcinomas in that complex.
We report the case of a patient in whom troleandomycin-induced hepatitis was followed by prolonged anicteric cholestasis. Jaundice occurred after administration of troleandomycin for 7 days and was associated with hypereosinophilia. Jaundice disappeared within 3 months but was followed by prolonged anicteric cholestasis marked by pruritus and high levels of alkaline phosphatase and gammaglutamyltransferase activities. Finally, pruritus disappeared within 19 months, and liver tests returned to normal 27 months after the onset of hepatitis. This observation demonstrates that prolonged cholestasis can follow troleandomycin-induced acute hepatitis.
We evaluated the pharmacological activity of whole-blood serum from atorvastatin- vs. simvastatin- (both 40 mg/day) treated hypercholesterolemic patients (n=10) on cultured smooth muscle cell (SMC) proliferation and cholesterol biosynthesis, as related to lipid-lowering effect. Patients received either single or 2-weeks repeated doses of both simvastatin and atorvastatin, following a randomised, double-blind, cross-over design. Blood samples were collected before drug administration and at the scheduled intervals after administration, and the obtained serum was separated by centrifugation, sterilized and frozen until assayed. Cultured SMC were supplemented with medium plus 15% of separate serum sampled from the patients, and grown for 72 h. Proliferation was assayed by a Coulter Counter, while cholesterol biosynthesis was measured by the incorporation of 14C-acetate into cholesterol, under the same experimental conditions. Atorvastatin was more active vs. simvastatin in reducing total- (-28.3% vs. -20.7%; p=0.045) and LDL-cholesterol (-39.8% vs. -30.1%; p=0.011) after a 2-weeks regimen. Serum from atorvastatin-treated patients inhibited SMC proliferation vs.t=0 after both single (AUC -21.6%) and repeated (AUC -26.9%) doses, while serum from simvastatin-treated patients inhibited SMC proliferation only after repeated doses (AUC -24.5%). Interestingly, in the same experimental conditions, the serum concentrations of both statins (and of their active metabolites) were constantly below the detection limits, as shown from the lack of inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis. The absence of any significant association between the lipid-lowering effects and the inhibition of SMC proliferation, together with no detectable active statin in the serum, suggests that these effects are elicited through independent mechanisms.
The effect of pretreatment with suxamethonium, gallamine or pancuronium on suxamethonium-induced fasciculations and myalgia was studied in a controlled, randomized and double-blind clinical trial. Both fasciculations and myalgia were assessed on a four-point rating scale. There was no significant correlation between fasciculations and postoperative muscle pain at 24, 48 or 72 h, and pretreatment with suxamethonium had no significant effect on fasciculations or myalgia. Gallamine had a more marked effect on fasciculations than pancuronium, and the decrease in the fasciculation score was statistically significant. In contrast, pancuronium had a greater effect on myalgia, and decreased postoperative muscle pain significantly at 24 and 48 h. These differences may reflect the differential activity of gallamine and pancuronium at the neuromuscular junction. Pretreatment had little or no effect on plasma potassium concentrations.
No pharmacotherapies have yet been approved for the treatment of cocaine addiction. One new approach is to block the effects of cocaine with anti-cocaine antibodies induced by a therapeutic cocaine vaccine. A cocaine vaccine has been developed which induces a cocaine-specific antibody response in rodents. The antibody binds to cocaine in the circulation and can be shown to inhibit the ability of cocaine to enter the brain. Furthermore, anti-cocaine antibody can inhibit cocaine self-administration in rats. These data suggest that a cocaine vaccine may be a powerful therapeutic tool. The intent is to immunized motivated patients with the vaccine as part of a comprehensive treatment program. If the patient uses cocaine after being vaccinated, the antibody will inhibit the reinforcing activity of cocaine and decrease the likelihood of relapse.
Danaparoid case reports of 91 pregnancies in 83 patients with a history of thrombophilia and/or intra-uterine growth retardation have been analysed. All had intolerance to the heparins including HIT and acute or past thromboses or a history of repeated pregnancy loss (RPL). Danaparoid was started in the first, second and third trimesters in 60.2%, 19.3% and 20.5% pregnancies respectively at a dosing intensity of 1000 to 7500 U/day. Subcutaneous and/or intravenous administration was continued for a median 105 days (range 1-252) during pregnancy and 7 days (range 2 to 56) post-partum. The live birth rate was 90.4% (75/81) and danaparoid was restarted after 37 deliveries. Maternal adverse events in 46.2% of the pregnancies included 2 post cesarean deaths (a failed post-operative resuscitation and a major bleed in a patient refusing transfusion), 3 non-fatal major bleeds (associated with cesarean section and faulty placental implantation), 3 thrombo-embolic events unresponsive to danaparoid dose increase and 10 recurrent rashes. Seven early miscarriages, 1 therapeutic termination and 1 neonatal death occurred. In 13 reports a maternal, but no fetal, adverse event was attributed to danaparoid. Anti-Xa activity levels in maternal plasma were between 0.1 and 1.2 U/mL, absent from 6 fetal cord blood samples and 0 - 0.07 U/mL in the 5 maternal breast milk samples tested.
The successful birth rate and adverse event profile indicates that danaparoid can be an effective and safe alternative anti-thrombotic in pregnancies complicated by HIT or intolerance or resistance to (LMW)heparins.
