To compare the efficacy and safety of a 40-hour lidocaine infusion after completion of a 8-hour open-label infusion for prophylaxis of primary ventricular fibrillation in patients with uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction.
This was a double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial held in the coronary care unit of a large nonprofit hospital. We studied 200 patients with uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction in Killip class I or II who came to the hospital within 6 hours of onset of symptoms and 22 patients who had ventricular fibrillation before the start of the study. Intervention consisted of an 8-hour lidocaine infusion followed by placebo or lidocaine for an additional 40 hours. The infusion rate was adjusted in patients > or = 70 years old and in those < 50 kg or > or = 90 kg. Measurements recorded were baseline demographic characteristics, incidence of ventricular arrhythmias, adverse reactions, and death.
New congestive heart failure developed during the randomized phase in 9% of patients receiving lidocaine and in 2% of patients receiving placebo (p = 0.03). Ventricular fibrillation did not occur during the treatment period, and sustained ventricular tachycardia developed in one patient receiving placebo. The in-hospital mortality rate was comparable in both groups (4% versus 2%; p = 0.68) but was much higher (13.6%) in patients with initial ventricular fibrillation not included in the randomized study.
A 40-hour age- and weight-adjusted lidocaine infusion administered after an initial 8-hour infusion provoked more congestive heart failure than placebo. In view of the absence of ventricular fibrillation episodes with both infusions, caution should be used when lidocaine is administered for longer than 8 hours in patients with uncomplicated myocardial infarction.
Local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) was evaluated with the [14C]iodoantipyrine quantitative autoradiographic technique in 29 brain structures in conscious control rats and during fentanyl-induced electroencephalographic (EEG) spike and/or seizure activity and in the postseizure EEG suppression phase. During spike activity, LCBF increased in all structures; the increase reached statistical significance (p less than 0.05) in the superior colliculus, sensorimotor cortex, and pineal body (+130%, +187%, and +185% from control, respectively). With progressive development of seizure activity, LCBF significantly increased in 24 brain structures (range, +58% to +231% from control). During the postseizure EEG suppression phase, LCBF remained elevated in all structures (+80% to +390% from control). The local cerebrovascular resistance (LCVR) significantly decreased in 10 of 29 structures with the onset of spike activity (range, -24% to -64%), and remained decreased in all brain structures during seizure activity (range, -34% to -67%) and during the EEG suppression phase (range, -24% to -74%). This reduction of LCVR represents a near maximal state of cerebrovasodilation during fentanyl-induced EEG seizure or postseizure suppression activity. The global nature of the LCBF elevation indicates that factors other than local metabolic control are responsible for CBF regulation during local seizure activity.
Eating disorders and the associated behavioural problems and drug abuse are uncommon in pregnancy. When they do occur they are often unrecognized because of denial but when significant may pose a risk to both the mother and her fetus. This case illustrates a number of problems that may be encountered in women with eating disorders in pregnancy, including prolonged and recurrent metabolic disturbances and diuretic abuse. In particular it illustrates the derangements of thyroid function seen in pregnant women with eating disorders and reminds us that when a cause for thyrotoxicosis remains obscure, thyroxine abuse should be considered and explored.
Neural salient serine/arginine-rich protein 1 (NSSR1) has been found to play important roles in inhibiting alternative splicing during heat shock and mitosis and is predominantly expressed in neural tissues such as cerebral neurons, cerebellar Purkinje cells and bipolar cells of the retina. Recently, NSSR1 has also been shown to be highly expressed in the testes, suggesting its potential roles in reproductive system. In this report, the expression of NSSR1 in the columnar epithelium of the endometrium and gland epithelium during the development of the mouse uterus, the regulation of NSSR1 level by testosterone in the adult mouse uterus, and expression level of NSSR1 in both human endometrial carcinomas and ovarian cancers were analyzed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), Western blot, and immunohistochemistry. We demonstrated that the expression of NSSR1 was developmentally regulated in the columnar epithelium of the endometrium and gland epithelium in the mouse uterus. Additionally, the NSSR1 level in the mouse uterus was maintained and regulated by testosterone. Interestingly, an enhanced level of NSSR1 was observed in both human endometrial carcinomas and ovarian cancers. Our results suggest that expression and distribution of NSSR1 is developmentally and hormonally regulated and up-regulated in endometrial carcinomas as well as ovarian cancers, indicating its potential involvement in uterine development and tumorgenesis.
The effect of a number of chemical and physical agents (cyclophosphamide (CTX) - 50, 100 and 300 mg/kg; N-nitroso-N-methylurea (NMU) - 50 mg/kg; N-nitrosomorpholine (NM) - 50 and 150 mg/kg; CdCl2 - 1, 2 and 4 mg/kg; ZnCl2 - 15 mg/kg; microwaves and gamma-rays 60Co on the frequency of abnormal sperm heads (ASH) in mouse F1 hybrids (C57BL X CBA) was studied. The agents possessing mutagenicity in the dominant lethal mutations (DLM) and bone marrow chromosome aberrations assay (CTX, NMU and gamma-rays) significantly increased the ASH frequency within 35 days after the treatment at maximum doses. CdCl2 inducing no mutagenic effect in the DLM test, increased the ASH frequency too. The increase in the ASH frequency all cases was accompanied by a reduction of the testicular weight and an increase in preimplantation losses and a reduction of the level of efficient matings when premeiotic germ cells were treated. This indicates that the occurrence of ASH may be due not only to the mutagenic but also cytolytic or/and cytotoxic effects of the compounds. The ASH test can be used for mutagenicity prescreening of different factors provided their doses are high enough.
In the present study the general pharmacological properties of ethyl-N-[2-amino-6-(4-fluor-phenylmethylamino)pyridin-3-yl]carbama te (flupirtine, D 9998), a structural new analgesic, are described. In several tests with mice flupirtine shows a centrally depressant component of action. However, regarding undesirable side effects as ataxia, inhibition of motor activity etc. this action is, with respect to the analgesic effective doses less pronounced than those of comparable analgesics, for instance phenacetin. In relatively low doses flupirtine antagonizes tremor induced by oxotremorine in mice. This activity is probably not caused by a central anticholinergic action, because other anticholinergic effects have not been observed. It should be pointed out that flupirtine antagonizes the morphine-induced tail phenomenon in mice in relatively low doses. This action obviously differentiates flupirtine from opiates. Up to high doses flupirtine does not cause catalepsia in mice, consequently its centrally depressant activity does not resemble that of reserpine and also is not comparable with those of neuroleptic agents. The corneal and pinnal reflexes are not influenced by flupirtine and the righting reflex is slightly delayed in high doses. The anticonvulsive activity of flupirtine observed in the pentetrazol shock test (mouse) after high doses probably cannot be considered to occur within the analgesic dose range. Inhibition of amphetamine toxicity in mice observed in doses near the hypnotic doses may be caused by non-specific effects. In vitro tests with isolated trachea or ileum of guinea pigs show that flupirtine possesses no or very weak antagonism against histamine-induced spasms. In spasms caused by barium chloride flupirtine shows a weak musculotropic-spasmolytic activity. Investigations on the circulatory system of dogs do not indicate any incompatibilities with flupirtine. No evidence of antiarrhythmic activity was found in rats. Flupirtine has no local anesthetic activity in mice but some weak effects on the cornea of rabbits. Like several other analgesics flupirtine shows in rats a reversible antidiuretic action including sodium and chloride retention which is of relatively short duration and is not observed in long-term studies in rats and dogs. In contrast to many stronger antiinflammatory compounds, flupirtine does not possess ulcerogenic activity in rats up to high doses. A minimal inhibition of intestinal motility (mouse) is observed only in doses higher than the analgesic effective doses.
The effects of partial D2 dopamine (DA) receptor agonists on the behavioural activation produced by 1.5 and 8.0 mg/kg d-amphetamine were compared with the changes produced by the classical DA antagonist haloperidol. Alterations in behaviour were assessed in standard activity monitoring cages by direct observation of the rats using a rapid time sampling procedure. Haloperidol blocked d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg)-induced increases in photocell counts, ambulation, rearing and sniffing up, and after the highest dose of the DA antagonist the animals were mainly inactive. The partial D2 DA agonist SDZ 208-911 was equipotent to haloperidol in blocking the increase in photocell counts and rearing produced by d-amphetamine. However, even high doses of the drug did not reduce the incidence of sniffing or induce inactivity, but qualitative changes in the form of sniffing did occur. Although considerably less potent, preclamol exerted similar effects to SDZ 208-911. The profiles of SDZ 208-912 and terguride were intermediary to those of SDZ 208-911 and haloperidol. All compounds blocked the repetitive sniffing down produced by 8.0 mg/kg d-amphetamine. After a low dose of haloperidol, these stereotyped behaviours were replaced by a behavioural syndrome similar to that observed with low dose d-amphetamine, but inactivity was observed following a further small increase in antagonist dose. The blockade of stereotypy by SDZ 208-911, preclamol and terguride was accompanied only by the low dose d-amphetamine behavioural syndrome; no inhibition of sniffing or induction of inactivity occurred. SDZ 208-912 exhibited a profile with features very similar to that noted with haloperidol. These findings suggest that partial D2 agonists exert similar, but not identical, behavioural effects to classical DA antagonists when dopaminergic function in increased by d-amphetamine. The differences in behavioural profile are discussed in relation to variations in the intrinsic efficacy of the dopaminergic compounds and to differences in the response capability of D2 receptor populations underlying the different behaviours produced by d-amphetamine.
Apigenin, a dietary flavonoid, is reported to have several therapeutic effects in different diseases including cancer. Toxicity of Apigenin is however, least explored, and reports are scanty in literature. This warrants dose-specific evaluation of toxicity in vivo. In the present study, Apigenin was administered intraperitoneally to Swiss mice at doses of 25, 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg. Serum levels of alanine amino transferase (ALT), aspartate amino transferase (AST) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were measured along with the examination of liver histology, reactive oxygen species (ROS) in blood, lipid peroxidation (LPO), glutathione level, superoxide dismutase activity, catalase activity, glutathione S-transferase activity and gene expression in liver tissue. Increase in ALT, AST, ALP, ROS, ratio of oxidized to reduced glutathione (GSSG/GSH) and LPO, altered enzyme activities along with damaged histoarchitecture in the liver of 100 or 200 mg/kg Apigenin treated animals were found. Microarray analysis revealed the differential expression of genes that correspond to different biologically relevant pathways including oxidative stress and apoptosis. In conclusion, these results suggested the oxidative stress induced liver damage which may be due to the regulation of multiple genes by Apigenin at higher doses in Swiss mice.
To determine whether children with language delays are more likely to have been exposed to cocaine in utero than children with normal language development, a case-control study was undertaken. Based on routine office screening in our primary-care clinic over a 1-year period, we identified 29 consecutive children, aged 24 to 48 months, as language-delayed. They were compared with an approximate 2:1 match of children without language delay who had been seen in the clinic on the same days and who were of similar age. There was more reported cocaine use during pregnancy (six of 29, 21%) among the language-delayed children than among the controls (five of 71, 7%). This difference is statistically significant (P < 0.05, chi 2 = 3.92; odds ratio = 3.4 +/- 2.2). Discriminant analysis revealed that both cocaine and nicotine exposure were associated with delayed language development--with an unexpected negative, i.e., an antagonistic, protective, interactive effect (F[3,96] = 4.66, R2 = 12.7%, P < .005); neither gender nor caretaker contributed to language development in this sample. These results suggest that children with language delay detected in a clinical setting are more likely to have been exposed in utero to cocaine than children with normal language development. Prenatal cocaine exposure should be a risk factor in monitoring development in children.
The effects of 2-chloro-N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CCPA) perfused intrahippocampally (1 microM) and injected intraperitoneally (0.5 mg/kg) were investigated in focally-evoked pilocarpine-induced (10 mM) seizures in freely moving rats. While the intrahippocampal perfusion of this highly selective adenosine A(1) receptor agonist gave complete protection against pilocarpine-induced seizures, systemic administration only partially protected the animals, as evaluated by concomitant behavioural and electrocorticographical (ECoG) observations and monitoring of the neurotransmitter alterations. However, pilocarpine-evoked elevation of hippocampal glutamate overflow was significantly attenuated by CCPA irrespective of the mode of administration. Acute pretreatment with systemic 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine, a selective A(1) antagonist, reversed both the partial protective effect and the attenuating effect on the extracellular glutamate elicited by systemic CCPA administration. Intrahippocampal CCPA markedly reduced basal hippocampal dopamine efflux but not GABA or glutamate and considerably attenuated the pilocarpine-evoked elevation in dopamine levels. Systemic CCPA appeared to have little influence on the overall pattern of dopamine elevation. The findings give evidence that CCPA-elicited abatement of the evoked glutamate release alone, cannot fully account for its anticonvulsant effect and may suggest that the effects mediated by adenosine on postsynaptic adenosine receptors could be more crucial for its anticonvulsant effect.
Male mice were given drinking water alone or containing 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5g/L Pb acetate for 60 days. After the treatment, the concentrations of Pb were determined in the serum and testis of mice by ICP-MS. The gene transcription of Usp9y, Ddx3y and Uty and their protein levels in the testis were examined by real-time PCR, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. The sperm quality, spermatogenesis, and histological alteration of the testis and epididymis were observed by microscope. The probability of impregnating female mice by lead-exposed male was evaluated. It was shown that the concentrations of Pb in serum and testis of mice significantly increased in the groups exposed to Pb in a dose-dependent manner. The male fertility significantly decreased in the groups exposed to 1.0 and 1.5g/L Pb acetate. Moreover, exposure to Pb also inhibited spermatogenesis and sperm development, and significantly downregulated expressions of Ddx3y gene expression in testis of mice, but Usp9y and Uty expressions unaffected.
Recently it was demonstrated that exposure of the developing brain during the period of synaptogenesis to drugs that block NMDA glutamate receptors or drugs that potentiate GABA(A) receptors can trigger widespread apoptotic neurodegeneration. All currently used general anesthetic agents have either NMDA receptor-blocking or GABA(A) receptor-enhancing properties. To induce or maintain a surgical plane of anesthesia, it is common practice in pediatric or obstetrical medicine to use agents from these two classes in combination. Therefore, the question arises whether this practice entails significant risk of inducing apoptotic neurodegeneration in the developing human brain. To begin to address this problem, we have administered to 7-d-old infant rats a combination of drugs commonly used in pediatric anesthesia (midazolam, nitrous oxide, and isoflurane) in doses sufficient to maintain a surgical plane of anesthesia for 6 hr, and have observed that this causes widespread apoptotic neurodegeneration in the developing brain, deficits in hippocampal synaptic function, and persistent memory/learning impairments.
PU.1, a transcription factor of the ETS family, plays a pivotal role in normal hematopoiesis, and particularly in myeloid differentiation. Altered PU.1 function is possibly implicated in leukemogenesis, as PU.1 gene mutations were identified in some patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and as several oncogenic products (AML1-ETO, promyelocytic leukemia-retinoic acid receptor alpha, FMS-like receptor tyrosine kinase 3 internal tandem duplication) are associated with PU.1 downregulation. To demonstrate directly a role of PU.1 in the blocked differentiation of leukemic blasts, we transduced cells from myeloid cell lines and primary blasts from AML patients with a lentivector encoding PU.1. In NB4 cells we obtained increases in PU.1 mRNA and protein, comparable to increases obtained with all-trans retinoic acid-stimulation. Transduced cells showed increased myelomonocytic surface antigen expression, decreased proliferation rates and increased apoptosis. Similar results were obtained in primary AML blasts from 12 patients. These phenotypic changes are characteristic of restored blast differentiation. PU.1 should therefore constitute an interesting target for therapeutic intervention in AML.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is present in a significant number of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) caused by left ventricular dysfunction and is associated with significant morbidity and increased mortality rates. Thus it is necessary to establish therapy to improve the outcome in this high-risk population.
We conducted a retrospective analysis of data from the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Trials Program and identified patients with AF at the time of enrollment. In these trials, 1094 patients with at least 3 months of heart failure symptoms and an ejection fraction < or = 0.35 were randomly assigned to receive carvedilol or placebo in a double-blind, stratified program according to performance on an exercise test.
One hundred thirty-six patients with concomitant AF and CHF were identified during the screening visit (84 assigned to carvedilol and 52 to placebo). Therapy with carvedilol resulted in a significant improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction (from 23% to 33% with carvedilol and from 24% to 27% with placebo, P =.001). The physician global assessment improved in a greater number of patients treated with carvedilol than in those treated with placebo (71% vs 48%, P =.025). A trend toward a reduction in the combined end point of death or CHF hospitalization was also observed (19% in patients treated with placebo and 7% in patients on carvedilol; relative risk, 0.35; 95% confidence interval, 0.12, 1.02; P =.055).
In patients with AF complicating CHF, carvedilol significantly improves left ventricular ejection fraction and physician global assessment and probably reduces the combined end point of CHF hospitalizations or death.
The effect of labetalol on deliberate hypotension was studied in 24 adult patients undergoing middle-ear surgery. Hypotension was induced in Group I (12 patients) with isoflurane 3.0 vol% in inspiratory gas, and in Group II (12 patients) with labetalol 0.5 mg.kg-1 i.v., in addition to isoflurane. The induction time of hypotension was 4.9 +/- 1.0 (s.e.mean) min in Group I, and 1.8 +/- 0.2 min in Group II (P less than 0.01). The mean isoflurane concentration in inspiratory gas for the maintenance of hypotension was 1.4 +/- 0.2 vol% in Group I, and 0.7 +/- 0.1 vol% in Group II (P less than 0.01). There were no differences in urine flow rates (UF) between the groups during any phase, though UF decreased in Group I from the prehypotensive value 0.58 +/- 0.12 ml.min-1 to 0.07 +/- 0.02 ml.min-1 during hypotension (P less than 0.01) and increased to 1.28 +/- 0.17 ml.min-1 after anaesthesia (P less than 0.05). UF in Group II were 0.56 +/- 0.17, 0.25 +/- 0.10 and 0.56 +/- 0.06 ml.min-1, respectively. Creatinine clearances per 1.73 m2 body surface area (CCreat) in Group I were 78 +/- 14 ml.min-1, and in Group II 78 +/- 11 ml.min-1 before hypotension. During hypotension, CCreat were lower in Group I (8 +/- 1 ml.min-1) than in Group II (33 +/- 8 ml.min-1) (P less than 0.01). After anaesthesia, there was no difference in CCreat between the groups (Group I: 110 +/- 17 ml.min-1 and Group II: 120 +/- 17 ml.min-1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acrylamide, a probable human carcinogen, is formed in several foods during high-temperature processing. So far, epidemiological studies have not shown any association between human cancer risk and dietary exposure to acrylamide. The purpose of this study was to conduct a nested case control study within a prospective cohort study on the association between breast cancer and exposure to acrylamide using biomarkers. N-terminal hemoglobin adduct levels of acrylamide and its genotoxic metabolite, glycidamide in red blood cells were analyzed (by LC/MS/MS) as biomarkers of exposure on 374 breast cancer cases and 374 controls from a cohort of postmenopausal women. The adduct levels of acrylamide and glycidamide were similar in cases and controls, with smokers having much higher levels (approximately 3 times) than nonsmokers. No association was seen between acrylamide-hemoglobin levels and breast cancer risk neither unadjusted nor adjusted for the potential confounders HRT duration, parity, BMI, alcohol intake and education. After adjustment for smoking behavior, however, a positive association was seen between acrylamide-hemoglobin levels and estrogen receptor positive breast cancer with an estimated incidence rate ratio (95% CI) of 2.7 (1.1-6.6) per 10-fold increase in acrylamide-hemoglobin level. A weak association between glycidamide hemoglobin levels and incidence of estrogen receptor positive breast cancer was also found, this association, however, entirely disappeared when acrylamide and glycidamide hemoglobin levels were mutually adjusted.
Ten minutes of complete cerebral ischemia was produced in 26 dogs by temporary ligation of the aorta and the venae cavae. Twenty dogs received nimodipine, a calcium entry blocker, 10 micrograms kg-1 i.v. 2 min after the ischemic period, followed by 1 microgram kg-1 min-1 for 2-3 h. Six dogs received only the solvent used for nimodipine. Fourteen dogs received nimodipine for 3 h and were subsequently evaluated neurologically up to 48 h postischemia. In the 12 other dogs, CBF and metabolism were followed for 2 h postischemia while either nimodipine or the solvent only was infused. The results were compared to previously published results for untreated dogs and dogs given nimodipine before the ischemic event. Nimodipine had the same effect on postischemic CBF whether started before or after the ischemic event, nearly doubling the flow when compared with untreated controls, whereas the solvent alone caused only a slight increase in CBF over control. By contrast, nimodipine initiated in the preischemic period significantly improved the neurologic outcome, but when initiated in the postischemic period the results were equivocal, such that the outcome was not significantly different from either the untreated group or the group in which nimodipine was initiated preischemia. Metabolic measurements did not give any indication of a specific effect of nimodipine, nor could the metabolic results be used as an indicator of neurologic outcome. The results are consistent with a beneficial effect of nimodipine following complete cerebral ischemia; however, evaluation of neurologic functional effects will require a more sensitive model.
In the present study, three experiments were conducted to provide a characterization of some of the motor effects of the anticholinesterase tacrine (1.25-5.0 mg/kg I.P.) in rats. In the first experiment, tacrine was found to produce tremulous jaw movements in the dose range of 1.25-5.0 mg/kg. The second experiment examined the effects of tacrine on locomotion, and it was demonstrated that tacrine produced a dose-related suppression of open-field motor activity. In the third experiment, the effects of tacrine were assessed using operant conditioning procedures. Behavioral output during lever pressing on a fixed ratio 5 schedule was recorded by a computerized system that measured response initiation time (time from offset of one response to onset of the next) and duration for each lever press. Tacrine administration substantially depressed lever pressing response rate. This deficit was largely due to a substantial increase in the average response initiation time. Analysis of the distribution of response initiation times indicated that tacrine-treated rats made relatively few responses with fast initiation times (e.g., 0-125 ms), and also that tacrine led to a dramatic increase in the number of pauses in responding (i.e., response initiation times greater than 2.5 s). Tacrine-treated rats showed a slight increase in the average initiation time for fast responses (i.e., a slight decrease in the local rate of responding), and also showed a substantial increase in the average length of pauses greater than 2.5 s. Analysis of response durations indicated that there was an overall increase in average response duration among animals that received the higher doses of tacrine. Although tacrine-induced decreases in the local rate of responding and increases in response duration contribute to the overall deficit, the major reason why tacrine-treated animals responded less was because they took much longer breaks in responding. It is possible that the tacrine-induced increases in pausing reflect a drug-induced akinesia. Thus, the present experiments indicate that tacrine impairs several aspects of motor function in the dose range tested. In view of the fact that tremor and motor slowing are classic symptoms of Parkinsonism, the present results in rats are consistent with the human literature indicating that tacrine (Cognex) can produce Parkinsonian side effects. Studies of the motor dysfunctions produced by tacrine in rats could be useful for investigating the motor side effects of tacrine in humans.
Mutations of the breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 (BRCA1), a tumor suppressor, confer an increased risk for breast, ovarian, and prostate cancers. To investigate the function of the BRCA1 gene, we performed DNA microarray and confirmatory reverse transcription-PCR analyses to identify BRCA1-regulated gene expression changes. We found that BRCA1 up-regulates the expression of multiple genes involved in the cytoprotective antioxidant response, including glutathione S-transferases, oxidoreductases, and other antioxidant genes. Consistent with these findings, BRCA1 overexpression conferred resistance while BRCA1 deficiency conferred sensitivity to several different oxidizing agents (hydrogen peroxide and paraquat). In addition, in the setting of oxidative stress (due to hydrogen peroxide), BRCA1 shifted the cellular redox balance to a higher ratio of reduced to oxidized glutathione. Finally, BRCA1 stimulated antioxidant response element-driven transcriptional activity and enhanced the activity of the antioxidant response transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid-derived 2 like 2 [also called NRF2 (NFE2L2)]. The ability of BRCA1 to stimulate antioxidant response element-dependent transcription and to protect cells against oxidative stress was attenuated by inhibition of nuclear factor erythroid-derived 2 like 2. These findings suggest a novel function for BRCA1, i.e., to protect cells against oxidative stress. This function would be consistent with the postulated role of BRCA1 as a caretaker gene in preserving genomic integrity.
A man in his 40s who had made frequent visits abroad was admitted to our hospital complaining of epigastric pain. Ultrasonography (US) revealed an "inner tube sign" in the gallbladder, which suggested a diagnosis of ascariasis in the gallbladder. Pyrantel pamoate was directly injected into the gallbladder via a percutaneous transhepatic catheter. The worm was dead 10 minutes after the injection. US revealed reduction of the worm's length and then the disappearance of the worm from the gallbladder at both 13 days and 2 months after the injection. This method is less invasive than operation and therefore is possibly more safe. It is known that the number of cases of ascariasis may increase in Japan due to increased organic vegetable consumption and foreign travel. We need to consider this disease in the differential diagnosis of epigastric pain.
A single large dose of butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT, 1000 mg/kg) in male Fischer 344 rats produced some renal damage, reduced accumulation of p-aminohippuric acid in renal slices, proteinuria and enzymuria, in addition to hepatic damage. Further, prior administration of phenobarbital (80 mg/kg, i.p., daily for 4 days) in the high-dose BHT-treated male rats produced renal damage accompanied by slight tubular necrosis. The renal damage was confirmed by biochemical and histological changes. These changes were dose dependent, with a maximum at 24 h after BHT administration, but had returned to the normal range by 48 h. Female rats, on the other hand, were less susceptible to BHT-induced renal and hepatic damage than male rats. The results indicate sex differences in BHT-induced renal or hepatic damage.
Risk for renal insufficiency (RI) resulting from nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) exists in cirrhosis with ascites, nephrotic syndrome, decompensated congestive heart failure, and chronic renal disease. We saw seven cases of NSAID RI that demonstrate important additional clinical risk factors. These include advanced age (mean, 76 years), use of diuretic drugs (6/7 patients), and evidence of renal vascular disease as suggested by long-standing hypertension, diabetes, or atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (7/7 patients). Analysis of past case reports of NSAID RI also showed these features. Treatment of acute gouty arthritis was the most common precipitating event. Evolving NSAID RI was suggested by rising serum urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and serum potassium levels, and body weight gain associated with low fractional excretion of sodium. We conclude that since NSAID RI is preventable and reversible, it is important to recognize and monitor the conditions of those patients at risk.
A case is reported of a patient who developed aortic endocarditis after protracted hospitalization during which time the patient received multiple courses of aminoglycoside and cephalosporin therapy. The infecting organism, an Enterococcus faecalis strain, was resistant to gentamicin and to the combination of ampicillin with gentamicin. Valve replacement was performed after four weeks of therapy with ampicillin, and enterococci were isolated from cardiac vegetations. Valve replacement may be necessary to achieve cure of endocarditis due to enterococci highly resistant to gentamicin.
A number of studies have documented myocardial ischemia and infarction associated with cocaine use. Mismatch between myocardial oxygen supply and demand from cocaine-induced vasoconstriction and increased myocardial workload are often invoked as the major postulated mechanism by which cocaine induces myocardial ischemia. This article reviews the literature studying the effects produced by cocaine on the coronary arteries to provide insight into the various pathophysiologic mechanisms by which cocaine triggers acute cardiac ischemia or infarction.
We reviewed the published literature describing the effects of cocaine on the coronary arteries. A MEDLINE search of English language articles published between 1985 and 2000 was performed. Key words included coronary arteries, coronary vasoconstriction, vasospasm, coronary vasodilation, cardiac vasculature, myocardial ischemia, platelets, thrombosis, and cocaine. Both animal and human studies were included. The bibliographies of identified articles were also explored for additional sources of information.
A recreational dose of cocaine increases the heart rate by approximately 30 beats/min. It also increases the blood pressure by 20/10 mm Hg. These increases are modest, are equivalent to mild exercise, and are not believed to be sufficient to result in myocardial ischemia in the majority of cases. Animal and human studies have documented cocaine-induced early coronary artery vasodilation as shown by a decrease in coronary perfusion pressure ranging from 13% to 68%. This was followed by a more sustained vasoconstriction demonstrated by a decrease in epicardial coronary artery diameter ranging from 5% to 30% with various doses of cocaine by various methods of administration. These changes alone are also an unlikely explanation for cocaine-induced myocardial ischemia. Therefore neither increases in myocardial workload nor hemodynamic changes are sufficient to explain cocaine-induced myocardial ischemia. However, evidence also exists that cocaine activates platelets and promotes thrombosis, resulting in intracoronary thrombus formation. Cocaine may also promote premature and more severe coronary atherosclerosis.
The etiology of cocaine-induced myocardial ischemia is complex and is likely to be multifactorial. It appears to be the result of coronary artery vasoconstriction, intracoronary thrombosis, and accelerated atherosclerosis.
