Mequindox (MEQ) is a novel synthetic quinoxaline 1,4-dioxides antibacterial agent and growth promoter in animal husbandry. This study was to investigate whether reactive oxygen species (ROS), the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway, suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) and inflammatory cytokines were involved in toxicities of MEQ. Our data demonstrated that high dose of MEQ (275 mg/kg) apparently led to tissue impairment combined with imbalance of redox in liver. In liver and spleen samples, hydroxylation metabolites and desoxymequindox were detected, directly confirming the potential link of N→O group reduction metabolism with its organ toxicity. Moreover, up-regulation of JAK/STAT, SOCS family, tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) were also observed in the high-dose group. Meanwhile, significant changes of oxidative stress indices in liver were observed in the high-dose group. As for NADPH subunit, the mRNA levels of many subunits were significantly up-regulated at low doses but down-regulated in a dose-dependent manner in liver and spleen, suggesting an involvement of NADPH in MEQ metabolism and ROS generation. In conclusion, we reported the dose-dependent long-term toxicity as well as the discussion of the potential mechanism and pathways of MEQ, which raised further awareness of its toxicity following with the dose change.
Expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is involved in the chronic inflammation-related development of Barrett's adenocarcinoma and the use of selective COX-2 inhibitors (coxibs) might provide new chemoprevention strategy for Barrett's adenocarcinoma (BA). Despite an excellent gastrointestinal (GI) safety profile of coxibs, their use is limited because of the possible cardiovascular complications. The coupling of NSAIDs with a NO-donating moiety has led to the birth of a new class of anti-inflammatory drugs, called the COX-inhibiting nitric oxide donators (CINODs). The member of this group, NO-aspirin (NO-ASA) retains the anti-inflammatory properties of traditional aspirin (ASA), but the release of NO accounts for anti-thromboembolic effect and better GI safety profile. The role of NO-ASA in the prevention of Barrett's adenocarcinoma (BA) has not been studied so far. Therefore, the aim of the present study was: 1) to analyse the expression of COX-2 in the biopsies obtained from BE; 2) to compare the effect of NO-ASA with that of ASA on proliferation rate in Barrett''s adenocarcinoma cell line (OE-33 cells); 3) to determine the effect of both compounds on the apoptosis rate using FACS analysis and expression of 32-kDa procaspase-3 and active proapoptotic 20-kDa caspase-3 in OE-33 cell line. The expression of COX-2 was assessed in biopsies obtained from the Barrett's mucosa and normal squamous epithelial esophageal mucosa from 20 BE patients by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. The BA cell line (OE-33) was incubated with NO-ASA or ASA (10-1000 microM). The cell proliferation and apoptosis rate was measured by BrdU and FACS-analysis, respectively. The expression of caspase-3 (active and inactive form) was analyzed by Western blot. In Barrett's mucosa a significant up-regulation of COX-2 was observed. Compared with traditional ASA, NO-ASA caused a significantly stronger induction of apoptosis (dose-dependently). Inhibition of cell proliferation in OE-33 cells observed under NO-ASA treatment was due to the apoptosis induction. The increase in apoptotic rate was accompanied by the upregulation of active 20-kDa caspase-3. At the highest concentration (1000 microM), a necrotic death of OE-33 cells was observed under NO-ASA treatment. We conclude that: NO-ASA caused induction of apoptosis in BA cell line and slight growth inhibition. These results indicate that this compound may represent a promising chemopreventive agent for Barrett's adenocarcinoma.
The cases of three children, 16, 12, and 12 years of age, who suffered sudden confusional state and cortical blindness lasting 12 to 30 minutes while under treatment with high-dose methotrexate, cyclophosphamide, and dactinomycin for a lower limb osteosarcoma are reported. Transient neuropsychologic deficits arose after the acute phase of treatment: left hemispatial neglect and constructive apraxia (Patient 1); constructive apraxia (Patient 2); and constructive apraxia and alexia without aphasia (Patient 3). The three patients recovered completely from all their deficits within the time frame of 3 hours to 2 weeks. Arterial hypertension and hypomagnesemia were found during the acute phase in all patients. In Patients 2 and 3, magnetic resonance imaging revealed increased parieto-occipital T(2) signal involving gray and white matter. In Patients 1 and 2, HmPAO-SPECT revealed parieto-occipital hypoperfusion that resolved a few days later. The alterations detected by neuroimaging were concurrent with the appearance and disappearance of the clinical symptoms. Such transient acute episodes have been named occipital-parietal encephalopathy. On the basis of our clinical, laboratory, and neuroimaging findings, an explanation for the origin of this syndrome, a migrainelike mechanism, triggered by chemotherapy-induced hypomagnesemia, is proposed.
Learning to inhibit drug seeking can be an important strategy for inhibiting relapse, and this can be modeled by extinguishing drug seeking in response to a drug-paired context. Rats were either extinguished or withdrawn without extinction training (abstinence) from cocaine self-administration, and measurements of postsynaptic density proteins in the core and shell subcompartments of the nucleus accumbens were compared with yoked-saline controls. Only extinguished rats had elevations of PSD-95, Homer1b/c, and Narp in the postsynaptic density of the core, whereas no proteins measured were altered in the postsynaptic density of the shell in either extinguished or abstinent rats. Using a biotinylation strategy, it was found that surface expression of mGluR5 was reduced only in the core of extinguished animals. Although both extinguished and abstinent animals showed a reduction in long-term potentiation elicited in the core by stimulating prefrontal cortex, blunted long-term depression was observed only in extinguished rats. These data indicate that the elevation in Homer1b/c in the core may have sequestered mGluR5 away from the membrane surface and that the loss of surface mGluR5 inhibits long-term depression. Accordingly, when Homer1c was overexpressed in the core of cocaine-naive rats with an adenoassociated virus, long-term depression was inhibited. This mechanism may contribute to the inhibition of cocaine seeking by extinction training because overexpression of Homer1c in the core also inhibited cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. These data identify a cellular mechanism that may contribute to extinction-induced inhibition of cocaine seeking.
Cisplatin (CP), a broadly used anticancer drug, is widely known to induce acute renal failure as a result of renal tubular injury.
In this study, the effect of N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) or taurine (TAU) for protection against CP-induced nephrotoxicity was investigated.
A single dose of CP 1 mg/kg b.wt. for 4 days was given IP to the rats, 10 days rest, and then the dose was repeated for other 4 days. After CP administration, NAC or TAU was given IP in a dose of 50 mg/kg b.wt. 3 times weekly for 8 weeks.
CP-induced nephrotoxicity is reflected in high values of blood urea and creatinine levels. In addition, the significant increase in the β(2)-MG and N-acetyl-β-glucosaminidase enzymes exhibited a strong correlation with histology scores of overall proximal tubule damage as compared with the normal control values. Treatment with TAU or NAC after CP administration significantly ameliorated CP-induced nephritic oxidation stress markers as compared with CP-treated group. On the other hand, treatment with TAU or NAC after CP administration significantly ameliorated CP-induced nephritic inflammation with possible attenuation of renal injury.
These data suggest that oxidative stress and inflammation are involved in the pathogenesis of CP-induced acute renal failure. The inhibition in oxidative stress and the elevation of the total antioxidant capacity as well as the inhibition of the inflammatory biomarkers by NAC or TAU after CP administration may play a central role in modulation of nephrotoxicity induced by CP.
NAC and TAU have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory against CP-induced nephrotoxicity.
Anthracyclines are widely used in chemotherapy regimens for several malignancies, with cardiotoxicity being the major limiting factor in high-dose schedules. Recently, it was reported that doxorubicin induces apoptosis in cardiac muscle cells in vivo and, as such, is expected to be involved in the genesis of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy. The aim of this study was to validate an animal model for in vivo monitoring of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity by means of scintigraphic detection of apoptosis.
Three groups of 5 male Wistar rats each were treated for 3, 4, and 5 times with a weekly intraperitoneal injection of doxorubicin at 2.5 mg/kg. At 24 h before and 24 h after the final treatment, (99m)Tc-annexin pinhole scintigraphy was performed. A control group of 5 rats was scanned without doxorubicin treatment. A cardiac uptake ratio was calculated from planar scintigraphy results with the following formula: (mediastinum - fat)/fat. After scintigraphy, the rats were sacrificed, and the heart was processed for histologic analysis.
Incremental general signs of illness were observed with increasing total cumulative doxorubicin dose. Rats treated for 3, 4, and 5 wk with doxorubicin showed significantly higher uptake ratios of, respectively, 4.0 +/- 0.52 (mean +/- SEM), 4.8 +/- 0.46, and 5.2 +/- 0.17 after the final treatment; the ratio for controls was 1.84 +/- 0.05 (P < 0.05). Histologic analysis confirmed cardiac stress in treated groups, with an increasing left ventricular atrial natriuretic factor messenger RNA expression level with increasing cumulative doxorubicin dose. Late apoptosis was confirmed by terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling in the rats treated for 5 wk.
Acute doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy based on early apoptosis can be assessed and imaged with annexin V scintigraphy in rats. This finding makes it possible to use this animal model for repetitive noninvasive evaluation of cardioprotective regimens for anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
The aim of the study was to assess omega 3/6 fatty acids (eye q) in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
The study included a randomized, 3-month, omega 3/6 placebo-controlled, one-way crossover trial with 75 children and adolescents (8-18 years), followed by 3 months with omega 3/6 for all. Investigator-rated ADHD Rating Scale-IV and Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scale were outcome measures.
A majority did not respond to omega 3/6 treatment. However, a subgroup of 26% responded with more than 25% reduction of ADHD symptoms and a drop of CGI scores to the near-normal range. After 6 months, 47% of all showed such improvement. Responders tended to have ADHD inattentive subtype and comorbid neurodevelopmental disorders.
A subgroup of children and adolescents with ADHD, characterized by inattention and associated neurodevelopmental disorders, treated with omega 3/6 fatty acids for 6 months responded with meaningful reduction of ADHD symptoms.
We previously reported that lipid-soluble quercetin, not water-soluble dihydroquercetin, protects human red blood cells against oxidative damage. The objectives of this study were to determine if an antihemolytic effect could be produced by other lipid-soluble antioxidants and if anti-inflammatory activity played a role in antihemolysis by quercetin. This study compared three lipid-soluble polyphenols, muscadine, curcumin and quercetin, and three lipid- (alpha-tocopherol and alpha-tocotrienol) or water-soluble (ascorbic acid) vitamins. Among the tested polyphenols, muscadine was the most potent in inhibiting superoxide and 2,2-azobis(2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride (AAPH)-generated peroxyl radicals, whereas ascorbic acid was the most potent inhibitor of hydrogen peroxide. Activities of the polyphenols after lipid extractions showed that curcumin inhibited superoxide production to a greater extent than quercetin and muscadine. All blood cells were tested 20 min after incubation with the selected compounds. All the polyphenols caused inhibition of N-formyl-l-methionyl-l-leucyl-l-phenylalanine-induced neutrophil oxidative bursts. Quercetin, but not other polyphenols, significantly reduced AAPH-induced oxidative hemolysis. No significant effect on neutrophil oxidative burst or oxidative hemolysis was found with any of the tested vitamins. These results suggest that quercetin enhances the resistance of membrane to destruction by free radicals. This effect of quercetin is not directly mediated through antioxidative or anti-inflammatory actions. Antioxidant or anti-inflammatory potency may not be used as a simple criterion to select polyphenols for cell protection benefits.
The present study aimed to investigate the effects of Cordyceps sinensis on renal fibrosis and its possible mechanisms. Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into three groups: sham operation (SHAM) group, 5/6 subtotal nephrectomy (SNx) untreated group, and 5/6 subtotal nephrectomy treated with C. sinensis (2.0 g/kg d) (CS) group. Rats were studied 12 weeks after the surgery, and the CS group presented with significantly lower proteinuria, and better renal function compared with the SNx group (p<0.05). Pathological study showed that the glomerulosclerosis tubulointerstitial injury score was significantly reduced in the CS group compared with the SNx group. Furthermore, the mRNA expression of TGF-β1, Smad2 and Smad3 and the protein expression of TGF-β1, TβRI, TβRII and p-Smad2/3 were attenuated by the C. sinensis treatment. In constrast, the mRNA and protein expression of Smad7 was upregulated. Furthermore, the expression of α-SMA and FSP1 was also significantly attenuated, accompanied by the increasing expression of E-cadherin, suggesting the inhibition of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT).
C. sinensis exerted its antifibrotic effect on the SNx rats through the inhibition of the TGF-β1/Smad pathway.
Sorafenib is associated with adverse cardiac effects, including left ventricular dysfunction. However, the precise mechanism remains unclear. Here, we aimed to establish the genes responsible for this cardiotoxicity using zebrafish and human cardiomyocytes. Fluorescent cardiac imaging using pigmentless zebrafish with green fluorescent protein hearts revealed that the ventricular dimensions of the longitudinal axis with sorafenib were significantly shorter than those of the control group. Transcriptome analysis of their hearts revealed that stanniocalcin 1 (stc1) was downregulated by sorafenib. stc1 knockdown in zebrafish revealed that reduction of stc1 decreased the longitudinal dimensions of zebrafish ventricles, similar to that which occurs during sorafenib treatment. STC1 downregulation and cytotoxicity were also seen in human cardiomyocytes exposed to sorafenib. To clarify the molecular function of stc1 in sorafenib-induced cardiotoxicity, we focused on oxidative stress in cardiomyocytes treated with sorafenib. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production significantly increased in both species of human cardiomyocytes and zebrafish exposed to sorafenib and STC1 knockdown compared with the controls. Finally, we found that forced expression of stc1 normalized impairment, decreasing the longitudinal dimensions in zebrafish treated with sorafenib. Our study demonstrated that STC1 plays a protective role against ventricular dysfunction and ROS overproduction, which are induced by sorafenib treatment. We discovered for the first time that STC1 downregulation is responsible for sorafenib-induced cardiotoxicity through activated ROS generation.
The use of stem cells for reconstructive or neuroprotective strategies can benefit from new advances in neuroimaging techniques to track grafted cells. In the present work, we analyze the potential of a neural stem cell (NSC) line, which stably expresses the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and the firefly luciferase gene (GDNF/Luc-NSC), for cell therapy in a Huntington's disease mouse model. Our results show that detection of light photons is an effective method to quantify the proliferation rate and to characterize the migration pathways of transplanted NSCs. Intravenous administration of luciferine, the luciferase substract, into the grafted animals allowed the detection of implanted cells in real time by an optical neuroimaging methodology, overpassing the limits of serial histological analyses. We observed that transplanted GDNF/Luc-NSCs survive after grafting and expand more when transplanted in quinolinate-lesioned nude mouse striata than when transplanted in non-lesioned mice. We also demonstrate that GDNF/Luc-NSCs prevent the degeneration of striatal neurons in the excitotoxic mouse model of Huntington's disease and reduce the amphetamine-induced rotational behavior in mice bearing unilateral lesions.
Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is the result of interaction between a chronic hemodynamic overload and non-hemodynamic factors. There are several lines of evidence presented in this work suggesting that nitric oxide (NO) may participate in the hypertrophic growth of the myocardium. First, endothelial NO production was shown to be decreased in several types of hemodynamically overloaded circulation both in animals and humans. Second, compounds stimulating NO production were able to diminish the extent or modify the nature of LVH in some models of myocardial hypertrophic growth. Third, arterial hypertension can be induced by inhibition of nitric oxide synthase activity. This NO-deficient hypertension is associated with the development of concentric LVH, myocardial fibrosis and protein remodeling of the left ventricle. The mechanism of LVH development in NO-deficient hypertension is complex and involves decreased NO production and increased activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Cardiovascular protection via ACE inhibition in NO-deficient hypertension may be induced by mechanisms not involving an improvement of NO production. In conclusion, the hypertrophic growth of the LV appears to be the result of interaction of vasoconstrictive and growth stimulating effects of angiotensin II on the one hand and of vasodilating and antiproliferative effects of nitric oxide on the other.
1. The effects of exogenous angiotensins II and III (50 pmol/min i.v.) on plasma renin release following captopril injection (5 mg/kg, i.v.) were studied in anaesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats, to determine whether angiotensin II blockade is the major mechanism by which captopril induces renin release. 2. Captopril produced a 12-fold increase in plasma renin concentration compared with saline-injected controls. This was completely reversed by pre-infusion of angiotensin II or III. 3. The fall in blood pressure following captopril treatment was also abolished by angiotensins II and III pre-infusion. Noradrenaline pre-infusion (200-800 ng/min, i.v.) also prevented the captopril-induced hypotension but did not alter the rise in plasma renin. 4. Ureteric ligation did not significantly reduce captopril-induced renin release suggesting that acute changes in sodium excretion or delivery of electrolyte to the macula densa were not involved in renin release. 5. These findings suggest that captopril induces renin release by inhibiting angiotensin II feedback control of renin secretion and that angiotensin III may also modulate renin release.
Cocaine is one of the most commonly used substances of abuse. The use of beta-blockers in cocaine induced acute coronary syndrome has long been a matter of debate. While it is widely believed that beta-blockers are contraindicated in cocaine toxicity, there appears to be some recognizable role for certain beta-blockers in ameliorating the cardiovascular as well as central nervous system effects of cocaine. This article explores the role of beta-blockers in the management of cocaine toxicity.
Metoclopramide is a dopamine receptor antagonist that is used to treat diabetic gastroparesis, chemotherapy-induced nausea, and migraines. It is known to cause extrapyramidal side effects such as tardive dyskinesia, parkinsonism, dystonia, and akithisia, but not chorea. We describe a patient who presented with choreiform movements shortly after the administration of intravenous metoclopramide. Her work-up for secondary causes of chorea was otherwise negative and her symptoms abated with the administration of oral quetiapine and intravenous diazepam.
The aim of this prospective, randomized, double-blind investigation was to assess the dose-effect characteristics of postoperative nausea and vomiting after intrathecal administration of small doses of morphine (from 0.015 to 0.25 mg) in opioid-naïve, non-surgical patients.
With Ethic Committee approval and written informed consent 144 opioid-naïve patients suffering from non-cancerous chronic back-pain, and receiving intrathecal morphine as diagnostic test for their chronic pain, were randomly allocated to receive intrathecal injection of 0.015 mg (Group I, n=25), 0.03 mg (Group II, n=30), 0.06 mg (Group III, n=31) or 0.25 mg (Group IV, n=33) morphine. The control group consisted in 25 further patients not included in the dose-effect study and receiving a placebo injection of normal saline in the interspinous ligament. A blinded observer recorded the occurrence of pruritus, nausea, vomiting, urinary retention and respiratory depression (respiratory rate<6 bpm) at 2, 4 and 24 h after injection.
Clinically significant pain relief was observed in all patients receiving intrathecal morphine but only six patients (25%) of the control group (P=0.0005). The incidence of pruritus was lower in patients of Groups III (6%) and IV (3%) than in Groups I (12%) and II (20%) (P=0.002). The incidence of nausea and vomiting was higher at 2- and 4-h observation times, and decreased 24 h after intrathecal injection. Surprisingly, nausea was more frequent in Groups I (56%) and II (50%) than in Groups III (33%) and IV (24%) (P=0.0005). Vomiting was higher in patients receiving morphine than in control group, but without differences among the four doses. No urinary retention was observed in the control group, while 2 h after intrathecal injection urinary retention was observed in 20-40% of cases, and decreased to less than 10% 24 h after spinal injection without differences among the four doses.
The onset and incidence of minor opioid-related side-effects after intrathecal morphine administration do not depend on its dose, occurring with even very small doses of morphine. Accordingly, they can be considered as a patient-dependent effect of the drug, suggesting the presence of a primary dose-independent excitatory component that might be related to the theory of the bimodal activation of opioid receptors. The very low incidence major respiratory depression prevents us from drawing any conclusion about the dose-effect relationship for this side-effect, and further properly powered studies should be advocated to evaluate major respiratory depression after spinal morphine.
NO concentration in the femoral artery and femoral vein of anesthetized dogs was found to be 154.2+/-5.6 nM and 90.0+/-12 nM, respectively. Inhibition of NO synthase (NOS) slightly decreased the basal NO concentration in femoral artery from 154.2+/-5.6 to 137.2+/-3.3 nM. Acetylcholine-induced increase in NO concentration was slightly but still significantly attenuated, suggesting that very probably L-NAME did not inhibit all sources of nitric oxide (NO). Local NOS inhibition in the posterior hypothalamus dose-dependently increased systemic blood pressure (BP) in rats. Short-term general NOS inhibition in anesthetized dogs increased diastolic BP but not systolic BP. The heart rate after one-hour down-fluctuation returned to initial values. Proteosynthesis in the myocardium and both branches of the left coronary artery increased, but this was not supported by polyamines, since the activity of ornithine decarboxylase declined. Long-term general NOS inhibition elicited a sustained BP increase, a decrease in heart rate, cardiac hypertrophy and an increase in wall thickness of the coronary and carotid artery. The results indicate that NO deficiency itself plays a role in proteosynthesis and cardiac hypertrophy, in spite of relatively small increase in diastolic blood pressure and no change in systolic blood pressure, at least after an acute L-NAME administration. The hypotension response to acetylcholine and bradykinin studied in anesthetized NO-compromised rats, was unexpectedly enhanced. The elucidation of this paradoxical phenomenon will require further experiments.
Glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) induces delayed migraine attacks in migraine patients. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether pre-treatment with prednisolon could decrease this effect of GTN.
In this double-blind, randomized and placebo-controlled, crossover study 15 migraineurs with migraine without aura were pre-treated with 150 mg of prednisolone or placebo followed by a 20-min infusion of GTN (0.5 ug/kg/min). One hour after the GTN-infusion, the participants were sent home, but continued to rate headache and possible associated symptoms by filling out a headache diary every hour for 12 h. There were two equal primary efficacy end-points: frequency of delayed migraine and intensity of delayed headache.
Nine patients experienced a GTN headache fulfilling the diagnostic criteria for migraine without aura on the placebo day compared with four patients on the prednisolone day (P = 0.14). Prednisolone pre-treatment did not alter the summed or peak immediate headache responses to GTN significantly (P = 0.08, P = 0.07), whereas the peak headache scores during the following 12 h were significantly lower after prednisolone pre-treatment (median peak score = 1, range 0-8) compared with placebo (median = 4, range 0-8) (P < 0.01). There was no difference between the two treatment days in the effect of GTN on blood flow velocity of the middle cerebral artery (a decrease) or on the dilation of the superficial temporal artery or the radial artery.
Pre-treatment with prednisolone did not reduce the immediate GTN-induced headache, did not inhibit the frequency of delayed headache but significantly decreased the intensity of delayed GTN-induced headache. These findings suggest that GTN causes induction of inflammatory mediators, and that this is the mechanism of delayed GTN-induced migraine. They also support a role of inflammatory mediators in spontaneous migraine attacks.
Acute toxic methemoglobinemia is an infrequent complication of the use of topical anesthetics, most notably benzocaine. The clinical picture is characterized by sudden development of tissue hypoxia without underlying cardiac or respiratory dysfunction, and deceptively normal oxygen saturation on conventional arterial blood gas analysis. This condition may be rapidly fatal and management depends upon prompt recognition, confirmation of clinical suspicion using cooximetry of arterial blood, and quick institution of therapy. We describe the first reported case of cardio-respiratory failure associated with acute toxic methemoglobinemia, which was initially misconstrued as an evolving acute coronary event and rapidly responded to methylene blue therapy.
Adrenergic arrhythmias were induced in isolated rat hearts with epinephrine in a concentration of 5.10(-5) M in the perfusing solution. The rhythm disturbance was accompanied by a pronounced depression of contractility. It was found that the preliminary administration of the calmodulin blocker trifluoperazine (10(-6) M) decreased the duration of arrhythmias and the latency of their development, the contractility remaining at a higher level than in control. Verapamil administered into the perfusing solution did not significantly affect the latency of arrhythmias and reduced the duration of arrhythmias and the cardiotonic effect of epinephrine to a lesser extent than trifluoperazine. The mechanism is under discussion, by which the calmodulin blocker has a more pronounced cardioprotective antiarrhythmic effect than the Ca-channel blocker.
Developmental neurotoxicity of organophosphorous insecticides (OPs) involves multiple mechanisms in addition to cholinesterase inhibition. We have found persisting effects of developmental chlorpyrifos (CPF) and diazinon (DZN) on cholinergic and serotonergic neurotransmitter systems and gene expression as well as behavioral function. Both molecular/neurochemical and behavioral effects of developmental OP exposure have been seen at doses below those which cause appreciable cholinesterase inhibition.
We sought to determine if developmental DZN exposure at doses which do not produce significant acetylcholinesterase inhibition cause persisting cognitive deficits.
Rats were exposed to DZN on postnatal days 1-4 at doses (0.5 and 2 mg/kg/d) that span the threshold for cholinesterase inhibition. They were later examined with a cognitive battery tests similar to that used with CPF.
In the T-maze DZN caused significant hyperactivity in the initial trials of the session, but not later. In a longer assessment of locomotor activity no DZN-induced changes were seen over a 1-hour session. Prepulse inhibition was reduced by DZN exposure selectively in males vs. females; DZN eliminated the sex difference present in controls. In the radial maze, the lower but not higher DZN dose significantly impaired spatial learning. This type of nonmonotonic dose-effect function has previously been seen with CPF as well. The lower dose DZN group also showed significantly greater sensitivity to the memory-impairing effects of scopolamine a muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist.
Neonatal DZN exposure below the threshold for appreciable cholinesterase inhibition caused persisting neurocognitive deficits in adulthood. The addition of some inhibition of AChE with a higher dose reversed the cognitive impairment. This non-monotonic dose-effect function has also been seen with neurochemical effects. Some of the DZN effects on cognition resemble those seen earlier for CPF, some differ. Our data suggest that DZN and CPF affect transmitter systems supporting memory function, differently, implying participation of mechanisms other than their common inhibition of cholinesterase.
Hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin (HPFH) is characterized by persistent high levels of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) in adults. Several contributory factors, both genetic and environmental, have been identified but others remain elusive. HPFH was found in 10 of 27 members from a Maltese family. We used a genome-wide SNP scan followed by linkage analysis to identify a candidate region on chromosome 19p13.12-13. Sequencing revealed a nonsense mutation in the KLF1 gene, p.K288X, which ablated the DNA-binding domain of this key erythroid transcriptional regulator. Only family members with HPFH were heterozygous carriers of this mutation. Expression profiling on primary erythroid progenitors showed that KLF1 target genes were downregulated in samples from individuals with HPFH. Functional assays suggested that, in addition to its established role in regulating adult globin expression, KLF1 is a key activator of the BCL11A gene, which encodes a suppressor of HbF expression. These observations provide a rationale for the effects of KLF1 haploinsufficiency on HbF levels.
Comparing patients treated after myocardial infarction with amiodarone or with placebo, we found a significant rate-dependent prolongation of TpTe interval in patients who received amiodarone. Patients who had arrhythmic death had significantly longer TpTe intervals than others on placebo but not on amiodarone. Assuming that TpTe reflects transmural repolarization heterogeneity, our findings suggest that heterogeneity and arrhythmic risk are increased by amiodarone. This contradicts the finding of decreased transmural repolarization heterogeneity by amiodarone and the appreciated antiarrhythmic efficacy of this drug.
Prostate cancer is one of the most common malignancies in males throughout the world, and its incidence is increasing in Asian countries. We carried out a genome-wide association study and replication study using 4,584 Japanese men with prostate cancer and 8,801 control subjects. From the thirty-one associated SNPs reported in previous genome-wide association studies in European populations, we confirmed the association of nine SNPs at P < 1.0 x 10(-7) and ten SNPs at P < 0.05 in the Japanese population. The remaining 12 SNPs showed no association (P > 0.05). In addition, we report here five new loci for prostate cancer susceptibility, at 5p15 (lambda-corrected probability P(GC) = 3.9 x 10(-18)), GPRC6A/RFX6 (P(GC) = 1.6 x 10(-12)), 13q22 (P(GC) = 2.8 x 10(-9)), C2orf43 (P(GC) = 7.5 x 10(-8)) and FOXP4 (P(GC) = 7.6 x 10(-8)). These findings advance our understanding of the genetic basis of prostate carcinogenesis and also highlight the genetic heterogeneity of prostate cancer susceptibility among different ethnic populations.
Neuropsychological and psychopathological modifications induced by dopaminergic drugs in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are invariably not taken into sufficient consideration by the neurologist. Among the former, modifications of sexual urges and behaviours are of particular importance with regard to severity and variety of clinical pictures. Although rare, such modifications may assume the connotations of an aberrant sexual behaviour with criminal implications, in line with a diagnosis of paraphilia. The authors report the case of a 51-year-old male PD patient who, after a few years of dopaminergic treatment with pergolide, developed a paraphilic disorder, consistent with DSM-IV TR diagnosis of frotteurism, and delusional jealousy. The patient presented mild motor impairment and lack of or negligible cognitive deterioration, thus providing evidence that these disorders are not typical of advanced PD. Pergolide was reduced and quetiapine, an atypical neuroleptic, was introduced with subsequent subsiding of the paraphilic disorder and improvement of delusional jealousy.
The standard therapies of surgery, radiotherapy, and hormonal manipulations often fail to control metastatic prostate cancer (PC). Docetaxel and thalidomide may have activity in refractory PC. We highlight the potential pulmonary toxicity when docetaxel is combined with thalidomide. We reviewed three examples of docetaxel and thalidomide pulmonary toxicity at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and summarized the published literature regarding docetaxel and thalidomide pulmonary toxicity. Docetaxel and thalidomide pulmonary toxicity has the following four main presentations: (1). symptomatic effusions; (2). dyspnea on exertion without any objective pathologic evidence; (3). interstitial lung disease; and (4). pulmonary embolus. As chemotherapy becomes more common in the treatment of PC, clinicians must consider possible pulmonary toxicities. If pulmonary symptoms or signs develop, clinicians should consider holding chemotherapy pending a complete evaluation.
A common drawback of propofol is pain on injection and lignocaine is commonly mixed with propofol to reduce the incidence and severity of this pain. In this study we sought to draw a comparison between the effectiveness of propofol medium chain and long chain triglyceride (MCT/LCT) alone, propofol medium chain and long chain triglyceride (MCT/LCT) premixed with lignocaine, and propofol long chain triglyceride (LCT) premixed with lignocaine, in preventing propofol pain on injection. 300 patients were randomly divided into three equal groups. Group A received propofol-MCT/LCT premixed with normal saline, Group B received propofol-MCT/LCT premixed with 20 mg lignocaine and Group C received propofol-LCT premixed with 20 mg lignocaine. The incidence of pain in Group A was 63% compared to 15% in Group B (X2 = 48.242, p < 0.001), whereas in Group C the incidence of pain was 24% compared to 63% in Group A (X2 = 30.247, p < 0.001). There was no significant difference in incidence of pain between Groups B and C (X2 = 2.5, p = 0.11). To conclude, propofol MCT/LCT alone provides no advantage to reduce pain on injection in comparison to propofol MCT/LCT premixed with lignocaine and propofol LCT premixed with lignocaine. Also, there is no significant difference in pain on injection between propofol LCT and propofol MCT/LCT as soon as lignocaine is added.
The effect of neuropeptide Y (NPY) on the picrotoxin-induced activity was studied in rat brain hippocampal slices in vitro and after intrahippocampal injection in vivo. In the hippocampal slices, NPY (0.1-0.5 microM) inhibited the picrotoxin-induced epileptiform activity recorded extracellularly in CA1 and CA3 hippocampal pyramidal cells. Similar inhibition was induced by the Y2 receptor agonist NPY13-36, which indicates that the effect of NPY was due to activation of Y2 receptors. In behavioural studies, rats with chronically implanted cannulae were injected unilaterally into the CA1 hippocampal region with a 1 ml volume of the studied substances. Picrotoxin in a dose of 1 mg (1.6 nmol) induced behavioural excitation, shakes and weak signs of epileptic behaviour. NPY in a dose of 2 mg (470 pmol), but not 1 mg, inhibited some excitatory effects of picrotoxin, but did not change the epileptic symptoms. The obtained results suggest that NPY has an inhibitory action in the hippocampus, which can be observed in vitro and also in a behavioural study.
The present studies examined the effects of acute cocaine administration, chronic cocaine administration and cocaine withdrawal on behavior in the Conditioned Suppression of Drinking (CSD) conflict paradigm, an animal model for the study of anxiety. In daily 10-minute sessions, water deprived rats were trained to drink from a tube that was occasionally electrified (0.25 mA), electrification being signalled by a tone. Within 3-4 weeks, control (i.e., non-drug) CSD behavior stabilized (30-50 shocks and 10-12 ml/session) and drug studies were initiated. Acute administration of cocaine (30-min pretreatment) produced a selective pro-conflict effect only at a dose of 10 mg/kg cocaine, with lower doses (2.5, 5 mg/kg) exerting no effect on CSD behavior and a higher dose (20 mg/kg) depressing both punished and unpunished responding. In a second experiment, cocaine (10 mg/kg, IP, 2/day) or saline was administered to separate groups of subjects for 7 weeks. In this chronic treatment study, CSD testing was conducted 12 hours after each evening cocaine administration. Although it had no effect on CSD behavior during the first week of treatment, this chronic cocaine administration produced a significant and selective pro-conflict effect which was stable during the period from Weeks 2-7. In a final experiment, a high dose of cocaine (20 mg/kg, 3/day) or saline was given to separate groups of subjects for 2 weeks and the behavioral effects of these treatments and their subsequent termination were examined. In this study, CSD testing was conducted 8 hours after each evening cocaine treatment. During the first week of high dose cocaine treatment, a decrease in punished responding was observed; this parameter returned to baseline levels by Week 2. Discontinuation of this high dose chronic cocaine treatment resulted in a selective decrease in punished responding. This pro-conflict effect was greatest at 3 days, and lasted for 6 days after the last cocaine dose. These data are consistent with clinical findings demonstrating the anxiogenic effects of both acute and chronic cocaine treatment as well as cocaine withdrawal and suggest that conflict paradigms such as the CSD may be useful for the study of cocaine-induced anxiety states.
Clinical coagulopathy occurs frequently in the presence of acidosis and hypothermia. The purpose of this study was to determine the relative contributions of acidosis and hypothermia to coagulopathy, as measured by current standard bedside and clinical laboratory analyses (i.e., bleeding time and prothrombin time). In addition, we investigated possible mechanisms of these effects using a modified prothrombin time test, thromboelastography, and thrombin kinetics analyses. An improved understanding of coagulopathy should facilitate hemorrhage control.
Twenty-four pigs were randomly allocated into normal (pH, 7.4; 39 degrees C), acidotic (pH, 7.1; 39 degrees C), hypothermic (pH, 7.4; 32 degrees C), and acidotic and hypothermic (pH, 7.1; 32 degrees C) combined groups. Acidosis was induced by the infusion of 0.2N hydrochloric acid in lactated Ringer's solution. Hypothermia was induced by using a blanket with circulating water at 4 degrees C. Development of a clinical coagulopathy was defined as a significant increase in splenic bleeding time. Measurements were compared before (pre) and 10 minutes after (post) the target condition was achieved.
Acidosis, hypothermia, or both caused the development of coagulopathy, as indicated by 47%, 57%, and 72% increases in splenic bleeding time (p < 0.05, pre vs. post). Plasma fibrinogen concentration was decreased by 18% and 17% in the acidotic and combined groups, respectively, but not in the hypothermic group. Hypothermia caused a delay in the onset of thrombin generation, whereas acidosis primarily caused a decrease in thrombin generation rates. At 4 minutes' quench time, thrombin generation in the acidotic, hypothermic, and combined groups were 47.0%, 12.5%, and 5.7%, respectively, of the value in the control group. There were no changes in serum tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6 in any group during the study.
Acidosis and hypothermia cause a clinical coagulopathy with different thrombin generation kinetics. These results confirm the need to prevent or correct hypothermia and acidosis and indicate the need for improved techniques to monitor coagulopathy in the trauma population.
