Cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity is a serious problem that limits its use in cancer treatment. The present study aimed to investigate the renal protective capacity of pioglitazone to reduce the cisplatin- induced nephrotoxicity. The underlying suggested mechanism(s) and whether this nephroprotective effect (if any) interferes with the cytotoxic effect of cisplatin on cancer cells were also investigated. Pioglitazone, Bisphenol A diglycidyl ether, BADGE, IP injected (Peroxisome proliferator- activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ) antagonist), or their combination were administered to rats one hour before cisplatin injection. Moreover, their effects on the cell viability of human renal adenocarcinoma cell models (ACHN) were studied. The obtained results showed that pioglitazone improved the renal function, structural changes, renal malondialdehyde (MDA), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) genes expression in cisplatin injected rats. It increased both renal reduced glutathione (GSH) content and PPAR-γ gene expression. In contrast to the data obtained by prior administration of BADGE. Pioglitazone also potentiated the cytotoxic effect of cisplatin on human renal adenocarcinoma cells and this effect was abolished by BADGE co administration. In conclusion, these results suggested that pioglitazone protected against cisplatin- induced nephrotoxicity through its interaction with PPAR-γ receptors and antioxidant effects. Furthermore, pioglitazone did not interfere but rather potentiated the cytotoxic effects of cisplatin on human renal adenocarcinoma cells.
Previous studies have demonstrated that in conscious deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats, the hypotensive action of intravenous (i.v.) bromocriptine, a selective dopamine D2 receptor agonist, was mediated partly by peripheral and partly by spinal dopamine D2 receptor stimulation, and that this effect was greater and longer-lasting than that in uninephrectomized control rats. To determine whether this amplification results partly from a putative spinal hypersensitivity phenomenon, cardiovascular responses to intrathecal (i.t.) administration of apomorphine and quinpirole were studied in conscious, 4-week DOCA-salt hypertensive rats and compared with those in uninephrectomized control rats. In both groups, upper thoracic (T2-T4) i.t. injections of apomorphine (9.1, 45.5 and 91.1 microg/rat) induced immediate and dose-dependent decreases in mean aortic pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR), while i.t. quinpirole (38.4 microg/rat) induced only bradycardia. Neither magnitude nor duration of these responses was enhanced in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats when compared to control rats. In DOCA-salt hypertensive rats, apomorphine-induced hypotension and bradycardia remained unaffected by i.v. (500 microg/kg) pretreatment with domperidone, a selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist that does not cross the blood-brain barrier. However, i.t. (40 microg/rat at T2-T4) pretreatment with domperidone significantly reduced apomorphine-induced hypotension, but fully suppressed bradycardia elicited by either apomorphine or quinpirole. These results demonstrated that in conscious DOCA-salt hypertensive rats, intrathecally-injected apomorphine or quinpirole decreased MAP and/or HR through a spinal D2 dopaminergic mechanism, as previously demonstrated in normotensive intact rats. Since both magnitude and duration of these responses were unchanged with respect to uninephrectomized control rats, enhancement of the hypotensive effect of intravenously-administered bromocriptine in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats does not appear to involve spinal dopamine D2 receptors.
A 51-year-old man presented with an 8 month history of migratory pain and weakness.
Conventional X-ray, MRI, laboratory investigations including serum electropheresis and immunofixation, measurement of the glomerular filtration rate and levels of serum creatinine and lactate dehydrogenase, and 24 h urine analysis for proteinuria.
Durie-Salmon stage IIIB multiple myeloma with IgG lambda gammopathy and renal impairment associated with urinary excretion of free lambda light chains.
Initially, the patient received supportive analgesia with metamizol and opioids, erythropoiesis-stimulating agents and monthly administration of bisphosphonates. A standard regimen of bortezomib, doxorubicin and dexamethasone was started, but the patient did not respond and developed severe renal failure. Treatment was switched to low-dose lenalidomide and high-dose dexamethasone. The lenalidomide dose was gradually increased up to 15 mg daily and the dexamethasone dose reduced to 40 mg once a week. Therapy was well tolerated, and the patient underwent autologous stem-cell transplantation around 16 months after start of induction treatment and 12 months after the start of lenalidomide-based therapy. At 2 years after initiation of lenalidomide-based therapy, the patient remains in partial remission with stable renal function and excellent performance status.
To assess the efficacy of combined treatment with doxazosin and tolterodine, as although alpha-blockers are commonly used and generally effective in men with symptomatic bladder outlet obstruction (BOO), a subset of men with BOO and overactive bladder (OAB) symptoms often complain of persistent symptoms.
In a prospective study of 144 consecutive men with BOO at one tertiary urology centre, all had a baseline pressure-flow urodynamic study and were then subdivided into those with BOO or BOO + OAB, based on absence or presence of involuntary detrusor contractions. The Abrams-Griffiths nomogram was used to determine obstructive BOO. After the initial evaluation, all patients were treated with doxazosin 4 mg/day for 3 months. In patients with no symptomatic improvement, tolterodine 2 mg twice daily was added for an additional 3 months.
Of the 144 patients, 76 (53%) were diagnosed as having BOO and 68 (47%) BOO + OAB. The patients with BOO + OAB were older (P < 0.05) and had a higher International Prostate Symptom Score. After 3 months of treatment with doxazosin, 60 (79%) with BOO and 24 (35%) BOO + OAB reported a symptomatic improvement. In those patients with no improvement, six of 16 with BOO and 32 of 44 (73%) with BOO + OAB improved after adding tolterodine. Acute urinary retention developed in only two of 60 men (3.3%) treated with the combined therapy.
About half of men with symptomatic BOO had an OAB; while about three-quarters of men with symptomatic BOO and no OAB improved with doxazosin, only a third with BOO + OAB were helped with doxazosin alone. Combining tolterodine with doxazosin was effective in three-quarters of men with BOO + OAB. Overall, most men with BOO with or with no OAB were helped with doxazosin alone or with the addition of tolterodine.
This study tested whether genetic variation in the CETP gene is consistent with a protective effect of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) inhibition on risk of ischemic events and on total mortality, without the adverse effects reported for torcetrapib.
Torcetrapib, an inhibitor of CETP, increased risk of death and ischemic cardiovascular disease of those randomized to the drug, despite improving the lipid profile.
The Copenhagen City Heart Study is a prospective cohort study of 10,261 individuals, aged 20 to 93 years, who were followed for up to 34 years (1976 to 2010). Of these, 2,087 developed ischemic heart disease, 1,064 developed ischemic cerebrovascular disease, and 3,807 died during follow-up. We selected 2 common genetic variants in CETP previously associated with reductions in CETP activity, thus mimicking the effect of pharmacological CETP inhibition.
In individuals carrying 4 versus 0 high-density lipoprotein cholesterol-increasing alleles, there was an increase in levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol of up to 14% (0.2 mmol/l), and concomitant decreases in triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol of, respectively, 6% (0.1 mmol/l), 3% (0.1 mmol/l), and 4% (0.2 mmol/l) (p for trend 0.004 to <0.001). Corresponding hazard ratios were 0.76 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.68 to 0.85) for any ischemic vascular event, 0.74 (95% CI: 0.65 to 0.85) for ischemic heart disease, 0.65 (95% CI: 0.54 to 0.79) for myocardial infarction, 0.77 (95% CI: 0.65 to 0.93) for ischemic cerebrovascular disease, 0.71 (95% CI: 0.58 to 0.88) for ischemic stroke, and 0.88 (95% CI: 0.80 to 0.97) for total mortality. CETP genotypes did not associate with variation in markers of possible side effects previously reported for torcetrapib.
Genetic CETP inhibition associates with reductions in risk of ischemic heart disease, myocardial infarction, ischemic cerebrovascular disease, and ischemic stroke, with a corresponding antiatherogenic lipid profile, and with increased longevity, without adverse effects.
Dobutamine stress testing is increasingly used for the diagnosis and functional evaluation of coronary artery disease. The aim of this study was to assess the hemodynamic profile, safety, and feasibility of dobutamine stress testing in hypertensive patients. Dobutamine (up to 40 micrograms/kg per minute)-atropine (up to 1 mg) stress echocardiography was performed for the detection of myocardial ischemia in 1164 patients with limited exercise capacity (age, 60 +/- 12 years; 761 men); 446 patients were known to have hypertension. The test was considered feasible when 85% of the maximal heart rate and/or an ischemic end point (new or worsened wall motion abnormalities, ST segment depression, or angina) was achieved. No myocardial infarction or death occurred during the test. Dobutamine induced a significant increase of heart rate in patients with and without hypertension (59 +/- 25 and 63 +/- 23 beats per minute, respectively). Peak rate pressure product was similar in patients with and without hypertension (18,566 +/- 4584 and 18,230 +/- 4508). Hypotension (systolic pressure drop > 40 mm Hg) during the test was more frequent in hypertensive patients (7% versus 4% in normotensive, P < .05). Independent predictors of hypotension were baseline systolic pressure greater than 140 mm Hg (odds ratio, 6.9; 95% confidence interval, 3.4 to 14), older age (odds ratio, 1.04; 95% confidence interval, 1.01 to 1.07), and medication with calcium channel blockers (odds ratio, 1.8; 95% confidence interval, 1.1 to 3.5). The prevalence of ventricular tachycardia was similar (4.1%) in both groups. Episodes of 10 beats or more (0.06% of patients) were terminated promptly by intravenous metoprolol administration. Dobutamine stress testing was considered feasible in 91% of patients with and 92% of patients without hypertension. Dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography is a safe and feasible method for the assessment of hypertensive patients referred for evaluation of myocardial ischemia. Despite the higher prevalence of dobutamine-induced hypotension in these patients, the feasibility of the test is comparable to that in individuals without hypertension.
The need to discover and develop new antimalarial therapeutics is overwhelming. The annual mortality attributed to malaria, currently approximately 2.5 million, is increasing due primarily to widespread resistance to currently used drugs. One strategy to identify new treatment alternatives for malaria is to examine libraries of diverse compounds for the possible identification of novel scaffolds. Beginning with libraries of drug or drug-like compounds is an ideal starting point because, in the case of approved drugs, substantial pharmacokinetic and toxicologic data should be available for each compound series. We have employed a high-throughput screen of the MicroSource Spectrum and Killer Collections, a library of known drugs, bioactive compounds, and natural products. Our screening assay identifies compounds that inhibit growth of Plasmodium falciparum cultured in human erythrocytes. We have identified 36 novel inhibitors of P. falciparum, of which 19 are therapeutics, and five of these drugs exhibit effective 50% inhibitory concentrations within similar ranges to therapeutic serum concentrations for their recently indicated uses: propafenone, thioridazine, chlorprothixene, perhexiline, and azlocillin. The findings we report here indicate that this is an effective strategy to identify novel scaffolds and therefore aid in antimalarial drug discovery efforts.
The antiarrhythmic and cardiovascular effects of the slow channel inhibitor, verapamil, were studied during 1.1 MAC halothane anesthesia in the dog. The control epinephrine arrhythmogenic dose to induce ventricular arrhythmias was 2.58 +/- 0.77 microgram . kg-1 . min-1 (mean +/- SEM). Three consecutive doses of 0.2 mg/kg verapamil each elevated the dose of epinephrine required to produce a ventricular arrhythmia to 5.17 +/- 1.27, 8.07 +/- 1.85, and 12.03 +/- 2.76 microgram . kg-1 . min-1, respectively, all of which were significantly elevated above the control value of the preceding values. A second group of dogs, unperturbed by epinephrine, received the same sequence of verapamil doses at similar time intervals for evaluation of effects on cardiovascular function and atrioventricular conduction. Heart rate remained unchanged. Mean arterial pressure decreased maximally by 37 per cent of control, left ventricular dP/dt by 24 per cent, and systemic vascular resistance by 51 per cent. These effects were transient with recovery times up to one hour. Central venous pressure increased by 44 per cent and left ventricular end diastolic pressure by 27 per cent, while PR interval was prolonged by 40 per cent. Thus, verapamil raised the dose of epinephrine required to elicit a ventricular arrhythmia during halothane anesthesia promptly and cumulatively. At the same time verapamil produced transient peripheral vasodilation, direct depression of myocardial contractility, and prolongation of atrioventricular conduction time that was not cumulative at the intervals studied.
Simvastatin and pravastatin are inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase, and are used as antihypercholesterolemia drugs. Simvastatin, but not pravastatin, binds to the inserted domain of leukocyte function antigen (LFA)-1 and inhibits the function of LFA-1, including adhesion and costimulation of lymphocytes. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) express high levels of LFA-1 on their surface and grow in tight clumps. Here we show that simvastatin (2 microM) inhibits clump formation and induces apoptosis of EBV-transformed LCLs. The apoptosis-inducing effect of simvastatin depends on binding to the inserted domain of LFA-1. Simvastatin, but not pravastatin, dissociates EBV latent membrane protein 1 from lipid rafts of LCLs, resulting in down-regulation of nuclear factor kappaB activity and induction of apoptosis. Analysis of multiple EBV-positive and -negative cell lines indicated that both LFA-1 and EBV latent membrane protein 1 expression were required for simvastatin's effects. Administration of simvastatin to severe combined immunodeficiency mice followed by inoculation with LCLs resulted in delayed development of EBV lymphomas and prolonged survival of animals. To our knowledge, this is the first report in which a drug that targets LFA-1 has been used to treat B cell lymphoma. These data suggest that simvastatin may have promise for treatment or prevention of EBV-associated lymphomas that occur in immunocompromised persons.
The effectiveness of pancuronium (1.0 to 1.5 mg), d-tubocurarine (3 mg), and gallamine (20 mg) administered three minutes before succinylcholine (1 mg/kg) in preventing muscle fasciculations and postoperative muscle pains was compared in 100 patients. Pretreatment with pancuronium abolished fasciculations and produced rapid and excellent muscle relaxation for endotracheal intubation. Both d-tubocurarine (dTc) and gallamine administered prior to succinylcholine (SCh) were inconsistent in prevention fasciculations. Muscle relaxation was significantly delayed in onset, shorter in duration, and was inadequate for intubation in the majority of patients. The 45% incidence of postoperative muscle pains in the control group decreased after pretreatment with gallamine, dTc, and pancuronium to 20%, 15%, and less than 5%, respectively. It was concluded from the present study that pancuronium is superior to dTc and gallamine for preventing SCh-induced fasciculations and postoperative muscle pains without compromising the muscle relaxation for intubation. However, pancuronium administered for pretreatment may significantly prolong the action of succinylcholine and caution is to be exercised in patients having short surgical procedures and when additional doses of muscle relaxants may be required.
Sixty-seven consecutive outpatients with endoscopically verified duodenal ulcer were randomised to a double-blind treatment with either 10 ml of an antacid suspension (buffering capacity 85 mmol/10 ml, packed in single dosage pads) 1 and 3 h after each meal and at bedtime or cimetidine 400 mg b.i.d. The double-dummy technique was employed. Endoscopy was performed after 4 weeks treatment and, if the ulcer had not healed, after 8 weeks treatment. When ulcer healing had occurred, the patient entered a 1 year follow-up study. The cumulative healing rates after 4 and 8 weeks treatment were 83 and 97% vs. 69 and 94% in the antacid and cimetidine groups respectively. No significant differences were observed between the treatment groups regarding ulcer healing, symptom relief or compliance. Adverse reactions were few and only 3 (9%) patients in the antacid group had to discontinue the treatment due to diarrhoea. Of the cimetidine treated patients, 61% had symptomatic relapse during the 1 year follow-up compared to 71% of the antacid treated patients. There were no significant differences in recurrence rate or time to relapse. The moderate dose antacid treatment used here is efficient, well tolerated, safe, convenient and is a good alternative treatment of the duodenal ulcer patient.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether silencing of Hsp27 or Hsp72 expression in glioblastoma multiforme T98G and anaplastic astrocytoma MOGGCCM cells increases their sensitivity to programmed cell death induction upon temozolomide and/or quercetin treatment. Transfection with specific siRNA was performed for the Hsp gene silencing. As revealed by microscopic observation and flow cytometry, the inhibition of Hsp expression was correlated with severe apoptosis induction upon the drug treatment studied. No signs of autophagy were detected. This was correlated with a decreased mitochondrial membrane potential, increased level of cytochrome c in the cytoplasm, and activation of caspase 3 and caspase 9. All these results suggest that the apoptotic signal was mediated by an internal pathway. Additionally, in a large percentage of cells treated with temozolomide, with or without quercetin, granules within the ER system were found, which was accompanied by an increased level of caspase 12 expression. This might be correlated with ER stress. Quercetin and temozolomide also changed the shape of nuclei from circular to "croissant like" in both transfected cell lines. Our results indicate that blocking of Hsp27 and Hsp72 expression makes T98G cells and MOGGCCM cells extremely vulnerable to apoptosis induction upon temozolomide and quercetin treatment and that programmed cell death is initiated by an internal signal.
Reduction of capillary network density occurs early in the development of metabolic syndrome and may be relevant for the precipitation of diabetes. Agonists of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-γ transcription factor are vasculoprotective, but their capacity for structural preservation of the microcirculation is unclear.
Male Wistar rats were rendered diabetic by streptozotocin and treated with pioglitazone in chow for up to 12 weeks. Capillary density was determined in heart and skeletal muscle after platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM-1) immunostaining. Hallmarks of apoptosis and angiogenesis were determined.
Capillary density deteriorated progressively in the presence of hyperglycemia (from 971/mm2 to 475/mm2 in quadriceps muscle during 13 weeks). Pioglitazone did not influence plasma glucose, left ventricular weight, or body weight but nearly doubled absolute and relative capillary densities compared to untreated controls (1.2 vs. 0.6 capillaries/myocyte in heart and 1.5 vs. 0.9 capillaries/myocyte in quadriceps muscle) after 13 weeks of diabetes. No antiapoptotic or angiogenic influence of pioglitazone was detected while a reduced expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-3α and PPAR coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) mRNA as well as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) protein possibly occurred as a consequence of improved vascularization.
Pioglitazone preserves microvascular structure in diabetes independently of improvements in glycemic control and by a mechanism unrelated to VEGF-mediated angiogenesis.
We report the molecular and cytogenetic characterization of a novel variant of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). The bone marrow showed 88% hypergranular promyelocytes, and the karyotype was 47,XY,+22 [5]/46,XY[30]. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) indicated disruption and deletion of the 5'-end of the RARA gene. Treatment with all-trans retinoic acid, idarubicin, and arsenic trioxide induced cytogenetic complete remission without morphologic evidence of residual leukemia. The diagnostic marrow was negative for PML-RARA transcripts by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), but an atypical product was observed. Sequencing showed partial homology to the PRKAR1A gene, encoding the regulatory subunit type I-alpha of cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase. RT-PCR using specific primers for PRKAR1A and RARA amplified 2 transcript splice variants of a PRKAR1A-RARA fusion gene, and PRKAR1A and RARA FISH probes confirmed the fusion. This novel PRKAR1A-RARA gene rearrangement is the fifth variant APL in which the RARA partner gene has been identified and the second known rearrangement of PRKAR1A in a malignant disease. This trial was registered at www.actr.org.au with the Australian Clinical Trials Registry as number 12605000070639.
The mode of cell death in Parkinson's disease (PD) substantia nigra is uncertain. However, evidence is accumulating that certain of the biochemical abnormalities present in PD nigra at the time of death may precipitate apoptosis. We have investigated the mode of death induced by complex I inhibition of dopaminergic cell cultures, and our results suggest that both 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium and rotenone cause apoptosis at low concentrations and necrosis at high concentrations. This dose-dependent shift in the mode of cell death induced by these mitochondrial toxins may have important implications for the mechanisms of neuronal cell death in PD.
Palliation of pain with morphine in cancer patients can be complicated by adverse effects. Tolerance to these effects such as nausea and drowsiness usually occurs within a few days allowing continuation of morphine therapy. However, some patients may develop intolerable adverse effects even after several months on morphine when the dose is increased. A case of morphine-induced hallucinations in a cancer patient who had been on a subcutaneous infusion of diamorphine for several months is discussed. A switch to oxycodone resolved his hallucinations and gave him a new lease of life. The theories behind and evidence for opioid-switching is discussed along with strategies for dealing with intolerable opioid-induced adverse effects.
In the course of adjuvant single-agent chemotherapy with dacarbazine after extirpation of malignant melanoma, a fatal complication was observed in four of our patients. During the second cycle of therapy liver failure due to massive hepatic necrosis supervened, with widespread thrombosis of liver veins. The clinical and pathologic features of our patients are compared with the findings in eight published cases. The possible pathogenesis is discussed in detail, and Budd-Chiari syndrome caused by an allergic thrombophlebitis with secondary liver cell necrosis seems to be most probable.
Epidemiologists have associated particulate matter (PM) air pollution with cardiovascular morbidity and premature mortality worldwide. However, experimental evidence demonstrating causality and pathogenesis of particulate matter (PM)-induced cardiovascular damage has been insufficient. We hypothesized that protracted, repeated inhalation by rats of oil combustion-derived, fugitive emission PM (EPM), similar in metal composition to selected sources of urban air PM, causes exposure duration- and dose-dependent myocardial injury in susceptible rat strains. Zinc was the only primary water-leachable/bioavailable element of this EPM. Male Sprague-Dawley (SD), Wistar Kyoto (WKY), and spontaneously hypertensive (SH) rats were exposed nose-only to EPM (2, 5, or 10 mg/m(3), 6 h/day for 4 consecutive days or 10 mg/m(3), 6 h/day, 1 day/week for 4 or 16 consecutive weeks). Two days following the last EPM exposure, cardiac and pulmonary tissues were examined histologically. The results showed that particle-laden alveolar macrophages were the only pulmonary lesions observed in all three rat strains. However, WKY rats exposed to EPM (10 mg/m(3) 6 h/day, 1 day/week for 16 weeks) demonstrated cardiac lesions with inflammation and degeneration. To further characterize the nature of EPM-associated lesions, more rigorous histopathological and histochemical techniques were employed for WKY and SD rats. We examined the hearts for myocardial degeneration, inflammation, fibrosis, calcium deposits, apoptosis, and the presence of mast cells. Decreased numbers of granulated mast cells, and multifocal myocardial degeneration, chronic-active inflammation, and fibrosis were present in 5 of 6 WKY rats exposed to EPM for 16 weeks. None of these lesions were present in WKY exposed to clean air. EPM-related cardiac lesions were indistinguishable from air-exposed controls in SD and SH rats. This study demonstrates that long-term inhalation exposures to environmentally relevant PM containing bioavailable zinc can cause myocardial injury in sensitive rats. These findings provide supportive evidence for the epidemiological associations of cardiovascular morbidity and ambient PM.
The effects of various alpha adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists injected into the spinal subarachnoid space on blood pressure and heart rate were investigated in pentobarbital-anesthetized male rats. A dose-dependent decrease in blood pressure and heart rate was induced by intrathecal injections of clonidine (0.3-3 micrograms), at the T6-T7 level. Guanabenz (3-30 micrograms) and an azepine derivative B-HT 920 (1-3 micrograms) also reduced blood pressure and heart rate. In contrast, an imidazolidine derivative St 587 (10 micrograms) was ineffective. The clonidine-induced hypotensive effect was antagonized by yohimbine but not by prazosin. Yohimbine (3-10 micrograms) alone caused an increase in blood pressure and heart rate while only a weak hypotenion occurred with prazosin (10 micrograms). Pretreatment with intrathecal 6-hydroxydopamine (50 micrograms X 2) did not impair the hypotensive action of clonidine (1 microgram) whereas the hypertensive effect of yohimbine was reduced markedly by this treatment. When injected i.v. or intrathecally at the C1-C2 level, clonidine (1 microgram) produced only a slight decrease in blood pressure. It is concluded that, in rat spinal cord, alpha-2 adrenoceptors located postsynaptically are involved in blood pressure control. Endogenous catecholamines, especially norepinephrine in the spinal cord seem to activate tonically the alpha-2 adrenoceptors.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HITT) type II is a life-threatening complication of heparin therapy that most often occurs after 5-10 days of exposure to heparin. Anticoagulation is a significant concern for patients with HITT type II being prepared for cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). We report a case series of 12 patients with a history HITT type II who underwent CPB and cardiac surgery. Six patients did not express the antibody that mediates HITT type II immediately before surgery. Heparin was used as the anticoagulant for the duration of CPB only, and all these patients did well without thrombotic complications. Six patients expressed the antibody that mediates HITT type II immediately before surgery. Hirudin was used as the anticoagulant for CPB in these patients. The ecarin clotting time was used to guide hirudin therapy during CPB. The patients receiving hirudin did well, but they had a large amount of bleeding, required transfusions of multiple allogeneic blood products, and had a frequent rate of reexploration of the mediastinum after CPB.
Pretreatment of mice with a low hepatotoxic dose of acetaminophen (APAP) results in resistance to a subsequent, higher dose of APAP. This mouse model, termed APAP autoprotection was used here to identify differentially expressed genes and cellular pathways that could contribute to this development of resistance to hepatotoxicity. Male C57BL/6J mice were pretreated with APAP (400mg/kg) and then challenged 48h later with 600mg APAP/kg. Livers were obtained 4 or 24h later and total hepatic RNA was isolated and hybridized to Affymetrix Mouse Genome MU430_2 GeneChip. Statistically significant genes were determined and gene expression changes were also interrogated using the Causal Reasoning Engine (CRE). Extensive literature review narrowed our focus to methionine adenosyl transferase-1 alpha (MAT1A), nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2), flavin-containing monooxygenase 3 (Fmo3) and galectin-3 (Lgals3). Down-regulation of MAT1A could lead to decreases in S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe), which is known to protect against APAP toxicity. Nrf2 activation is expected to play a role in protective adaptation. Up-regulation of Lgals3, one of the genes supporting the Nrf2 hypothesis, can lead to suppression of apoptosis and reduced mitochondrial dysfunction. Fmo3 induction suggests the involvement of an enzyme not known to metabolize APAP in the development of tolerance to APAP toxicity. Subsequent quantitative RT-PCR and immunochemical analysis confirmed the differential expression of some of these genes in the APAP autoprotection model. In conclusion, our genomics strategy identified cellular pathways that might further explain the molecular basis for APAP autoprotection.
Proteinuria is a known side effect of therapy with sirolimus. The effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin-receptor blockers (ACEI/ARB ) on sirolimus-associated proteinuria has not yet been assessed.
A retrospective cohort study of renal transplant patients treated with sirolimus (n = 55) was performed.
Of 55 patients, 24 (44%) had no proteinuria (<0.15 g/d) prior to conversion. Of 24 patients, 11 (46%) showed de novo proteinuria >0.15 g/d after 12 months, only 2 developed proteinuria > 1 g/d. The total number of proteinuria >1 g/d after 12 months including patients with pre-existing proteinuria >1 g/d (n = 3) was seven of 55 patients (13%). Multivariate regression analysis revealed pre-existing proteinuria > 0.15 g/d and reduced glomerular filtration rate as independent predictors for the development of proteinuria after conversion to sirolimus.
Reduced glomerular filtration rate and pre-existing proteinuria but not therapy with ACEI/ARB are independent predictors for proteinuria after conversion to sirolimus. Treatment with ACEI/ARB did not reduce pre-existing proteinuria after conversion except in single cases with severe proteinuria.
We previously reported that HSP73 and HSP90, major chaperone proteins, accumulated within lysosomes of proximal tubular epithelial cells in rat kidneys with acute gentamicin nephropathy. In this study, we observed serial localization of HSP73 and HSP90 in rat kidneys with acute lysosomal thesaurismosis. Sprague-Dawley rats received poly-D-glutamic acid (PDGA) (250 mg/kg per day) for 3 days, and developed acute lysosomal thesaurismosis of proximal tubular epithelial cells. The intracellular localization of HSP73 and HSP90 was examined by electron microscopy. We also compared the results with those of a non-chaperone protein, a renal isoform of argininosuccinate synthetase, which is an abundant enzyme in proximal tubular epithelial cells. After the PDGA exposure, HSP73 and HSP90 accumulated within enlarged lysosomes of proximal tubular epithelial cells. These accumulations started to appear from day 4 after the first PDGA administration, enlarged in size until day 14, and continued until day 19. Argininosuccinate synthetase also accumulated within the lysosomes, but the magnitude of this lysosomal accumulation was less than those of HSP73 and HSP90. Our findings demonstrated that HSP73 and HSP90 chaperone proteins specifically accumulated within lysosomes of proximal tubular epithelial cells during the course of PDGA-induced acute lysosomal thesaurismosis.
Hemolytic anemia was observed in a 36 year-old liver transplant patient. The immunosuppressive regimen included cyclosporine A and prednisolone. Hemolysis appeared a few days after amoxicillin treatment. The presence of anti-D allo-antibodies, auto-antibodies active against erythrocytes, and an immuno-allergic phenomenon against erythrocytic membrane coated by cyclosporine was demonstrated. Increase of daily dose of prednisolone without modification of cyclosporine doses was followed by the disappearance of allo- and auto-sensitization. The role of amoxicillin in promoting these hemolytic phenomenons may be suggested.
The programme of the current vaccination campaign against hepatitis B in Italy considers the newborn of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive mothers to be high priority. Pregnant women are screened for HBsAg during the third trimester of pregnancy. All newborn of HBsAg positive women, regardless of the mother's status of hepatitis Be antigen (HBeAg), are given a single dose of hepatitis B immune globulin within 24h after birth and the first dose of hepatitis B vaccine within 7 days after birth. During the period 1984-1988 the percentage of pregnant women screened for HBsAg increased from 32% in 1984 to 71% in 1988 (P less than 0.001). The prevalence of HBsAg positive mothers was stable, ranging from 2.2% to 2.5%, but with wide regional differences (range 0.3%-6.4%). The screening compliance of pregnant women has been significantly better (P less than 0.01) in regions at a lower (less than 5%) HBsAg carrier rate. The percentage of children born to carrier mothers, who received active plus passive immunization, ranged from 75% to 85%. The number of infants immunized as percentage of those expected to be immunized (applying the observed prevalence of carrier mothers to the total number of deliveries by year) increased from 29% in 1984 to 62% in 1988 (P less than 0.01). No serious side effects were reported.
