Amyloid peptides (Abeta) can operate as volume transmission (VT) signals since they are continuously released from cells of the central nervous system and diffuse in the extra-cellular space of the brain. They have both regulatory and trophic functions on cellular networks. In agreement with Abeta regulatory actions on glial-neuronal networks, the present paper reports new findings demonstrating that intrastriatal injections of Abeta peptides reduce striatal tyrosine hydroxylase, increase striatal GFAP immunoreactivities and lower pain threshold in experimental rats. Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that exogenous homocysteine (Hcy) binds Abeta(1-40) favouring its beta-sheet conformation both in vitro and in vivo and hence the formation of beta-fibrils and development of neurotoxicity. Thus, the hypothesis is discussed that Abeta peptides represent crucial VT-signals in the brain and their action is altered by dysmetabolic signals such as high Hcy extra-cellular levels, known to be an important risk factor for Alzheimer's disease.
Acrolein exposure represents a significant human health hazard. Repeated acrolein exposure causes the accumulation of monocytes/macrophages and lymphocytes, mucous cell metaplasia, and epithelial injury. Currently, the mechanisms that control these events are unclear, and the relative contribution of T-cell subsets to pulmonary pathologies following repeated exposures to irritants is unknown. To examine whether lymphocyte subpopulations regulate inflammation and epithelial cell pathology, we utilized a mouse model of pulmonary pathology induced by repeated acrolein exposures. The role of lymphocyte subsets was examined by utilizing transgenic mice genetically deficient in either alphabeta T cells or gammadelta T cells, and changes in cellular, molecular, and pathologic outcomes associated with repeated inhalation exposure to 2.0 and 0.5 ppm acrolein were measured. To examine the potential functions of lymphocyte subsets, we purified these cells from the lungs of mice repeatedly exposed to 2.0 ppm acrolein, isolated and amplified messenger RNA, and performed microarray analysis. Our data demonstrate that alphabeta T cells are required for macrophage accumulation, whereas gammadelta T cells are critical regulators of epithelial cell homeostasis, as identified by epithelial cell injury and apoptosis, following repeated acrolein exposure. This is supported by microarray analyses that indicated the T-cell subsets are unique in their gene expression profiles following acrolein exposures. Microarray analyses identified several genes that may contribute to phenotypes mediated by T-cell subpopulations including those involved in cytokine receptor signaling, chemotaxis, growth factor production, lymphocyte activation, and apoptosis. These data provide strong evidence that T-cell subpopulations in the lung are major determinants of pulmonary pathology and highlight the advantages of dissecting their effector functions in response to toxicant exposures.
A patient developed papilloedema and hepatic dysfunction while being treated with perhexiline maleate. These later regressed when the drug was withdrawn. Patients should be monitored for these potentially serious side-effects while on this drug.
To report a case of fatal exertional heat stroke associated with the use of zuclopenthixol, quetiapine and benztropine.
A 36-year-old male with a history of schizophrenia and bipolar disease was working as a roofer during the third day of a heat wave. His medications included zuclopenthixol, quetiapine, benztropine, carbamazepine and levothyroxine. He developed loss of consciousness late in the day and presented to hospital with a Glasgow Coma Scale 3 and a rectal temperature of 42.2 degrees C. He progressed to severe multiple organ dysfunction and asystole, and expired the following morning. Neuroleptic and anticholinergic agents have long been associated with heat alteration, but there are few reports involving the newer antipsychotic agents. Physicians and pharmacists should ensure that appropriate counseling is given to patients receiving these medications regarding early recognition of signs and symptoms and prompt treatment of heat related illness and heat stroke.
Elevated metabolic activity of ovarian cancer cells causes increased ubiquitin-proteasome-system (UPS) stress, resulting in their greater sensitivity to the toxic effects of proteasomal inhibition. The proteasomes and a potentially compensatory histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6)-dependent lysosomal pathway mediate eukaryotic protein turnover. We hypothesized that up-regulation of the HDAC6-dependent lysosomal pathway occurs in response to UPS stress and proteasomal inhibition, and thus, ovarian cancer cell death can be triggered most effectively by coinhibition of both the proteasome- and HDAC6-dependent protein degradation pathways.
To address this hypothesis, we examined HDAC6 expression patterns in normal and cancerous ovarian tissues and used a novel HDAC6-specific inhibitor, NK84, to address HDAC6 function in ovarian cancer.
Abnormally high levels of HDAC6 are expressed by ovarian cancer cells in situ and in culture relative to benign epithelium and immortalized ovarian surface epithelium, respectively. Specific HDAC6 inhibition acts in synergy with the proteasome inhibitor Bortezomib (PS-341) to cause selective apoptotic cell death of ovarian cancer cells at doses that do not cause significant toxicity when used individually. Levels of UPS stress regulate the sensitivity of ovarian cancer cells to proteasome/HDAC6 inhibition. Pharmacologic inhibition of HDAC6 also reduces ovarian cancer cell spreading and migration consistent with its known function in regulating microtubule polymerization via deacetylation of alpha-tubulin.
Our results suggest the elevation of both the proteasomal and alternate HDAC6-dependent proteolytic pathways in ovarian cancer and the potential of combined inhibition of proteasome and HDAC6 as a therapy for ovarian cancer.
The underlying neurochemical basis of social phobia has yet to be fully explained, but there are suggestions of serotonergic and dopaminergic dysfunction. The atypical neuroleptic clozapine has been reported to induce anxiety symptoms, probably owing to its effect on serotonergic pathways. We report 12 cases of schizophrenic patients who developed social phobia during clozapine treatment.
Patients were assessed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R, Patient Version, Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms, Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms, the Liebowitz Social Phobia Scale, and the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. They were reevaluated after 12 weeks of cotreatment with clozapine and fluoxetine.
In 8 of the 12 cases, symptoms responded (> or = 35% reduction in Liebowitz Social Phobia Scale score) with an adjunctive regimen of fluoxetine.
Data are discussed in light of neurochemical mechanisms and cognitive adaptations that could explain the onset of anxiety spectrum disorders (such as social phobia) in clozapine-treated schizophrenic subjects during remission of psychotic symptoms.
Citalopram, the most selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), is a bicyclic phthalane derivative with a chemical structure that is unrelated to that of other SSRIs and available antidepressants. The drug is approved for use in 69 countries. This 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled, parallel-arm, multicenter trial was performed to confirm its efficacy and safety in treatment of outpatients with major depression in the United States.
Six hundred and fifty adult outpatients with moderate-to-severe major depression (DSM-III-R) were randomly assigned to receive citalopram at doses of 10 mg (N = 131), 20 mg (N = 130), 40 mg (N = 131), or 60 mg (N = 129) or placebo (N = 129) once daily. Outcome assessments were the 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D), the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), and the Clinical Global Impressions scale.
Between-group comparisons of the change from baseline to endpoint revealed significantly greater improvement in the citalopram patients relative to the placebo patients on all 3 efficacy measures. Patients randomly assigned to 40 mg/day and 60 mg/day of citalopram showed significantly greater improvement than placebo on all efficacy measures, as well as on the HAM-D symptom clusters measuring depressed mood, melancholia, cognitive disturbance, and psychomotor retardation. Patients who received 10 mg/day and 20 mg/day of citalopram also showed consistent improvement relative to placebo on all efficacy ratings, with statistical significance demonstrated in the MADRS response rate, the HAM-D depressed mood item, and the HAM-D melancholia subscale. Citalopram was well tolerated, with only 15% of patients discontinuing for adverse events. The side effects most commonly associated with citalopram treatment were nausea, dry mouth, somnolence, insomnia, and increased sweating.
Citalopram was significantly more effective than placebo in the treatment of moderate-to-severe major depression, especially symptoms of depressed mood and melancholia, with particularly robust effects shown at doses of 40 and 60 mg/day. Citalopram was well tolerated in spite of forced upward titration to fixed-dose levels, with a low incidence of anxiety, agitation, and nervousness.
This study evaluated epithelial cell death ELISAs that measure circulating cytokeratin 18 in mice bearing small-cell lung cancer xenografts treated with a proapoptotic dose of the BH-3 mimetic ABT-737.
H146 tumor-bearing and non-H146 tumor-bearing severe combined immunodeficient (SCID)/bg mice were treated with ABT-737 or vehicle control. Plasma collected before and 2 to 360 hours after treatment was analyzed by M30 (caspase-cleaved cytokeratin 18) and M65 (intact and cleaved cytokeratin 18) ELISA. In parallel, tumors were interrogated for cleaved caspase-3 and cleaved cytokeratin 18 as biomarkers of apoptosis.
ABT-737-treated tumors regressed by 48 hours (P < 0.01) compared with controls, correlating with increased cleaved cytokeratin 18 (P < 0.01; 6 and 24 hours) and increased intact cytokeratin 18 (P < 0.01; 24 hours). Cleaved cytokeratin 18 levels decreased below baseline between 72 and 360 hours for ABT-737-treated and control mice whereas intact cytokeratin 18 decreased below the level of detection at 8 and 15 days in ABT-737-treated mice only. Apoptosis in tumors reflected changes in circulating cytokeratin 18 (cleaved caspase-3, P < 0.05 at 2 hours and P < 0.001 at 6, 12, and 24 hours; caspase-cleaved cytokeratin 18, P < 0.05 at 15 days, for drug treated versus controls).
ABT-737 caused tumor regression by apoptosis in H146 xenografts that mapped to a drug-specific, early increase in circulating cleaved cytokeratin 18 that subsequently declined. Circulating, intact cytokeratin 18 levels correlated with tumor burden. Cleaved caspase-3 and caspase-cleaved cytokeratin 18 in tumor correlated with treatment (P < 0.05, 2 hours; P < 0.001, 6, 12, and 24 hours; cleaved caspase-3, P < 0.05, 15 days; caspase-cleaved cytokeratin 18), indicating that events in plasma were tumor derived. These circulating biomarker data will be translated to clinical trials wherein serial tumor biopsies are rarely obtained.
We investigated the effect of repeated treatment with fluvoxamine, a selective serotonin uptake inhibitor, on behavioral effects of dopaminomimetics and methoxamine and on the animal behavior in the "behavioral despair" test. A repeated treatment with fluvoxamine (twice daily for 14 days) potentiated in mice and in rats (weaker) the amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. The hyperactivity induced by nomifensine in mice remained unaffected by fluvoxamine. The stimulation of locomotor activity by intracerebroventricularly administered methoxamine was not affected by repeated treatment with fluvoxamine. Given three times fluvoxamine had no effect on the immobilization time in the "behavioral despair" test in rats. The results indicate that fluvoxamine given repeatedly acts differently than citalopram, another selective serotonin uptake inhibitor, and differs also from other antidepressant drugs.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) has been approved for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APML) and it is a promising candidate for the treatment of patients with lymphoproliferative disorders, such as relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma and myelodysplastic syndromes. The effects of As2O3 on B cells, specifically which do not express Bcl-2, have not been studied. In this study, we have demonstrated that As2O3, at clinically achievable therapeutic concentrations, induces apoptosis in Bcl-2 negative human B cell line Ramos. As2O3-induced apoptosis is associated with reduced mitochondrial transmembrane potential (delta psi), enhanced generation of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) from mitochondria into cytoplasm, activation of caspases, and upregulation of Bax and Bim expression. Exogenous glutathione (GSH) reverses the As2O3-induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. Altogether, these data indicate that As2O3 induces apoptosis in B cells, regardless of Bcl-2 expression, via the mitochondrial pathway by enhancing oxidative stress.
For the quantitative evaluation of myocardial damage induced by isoprenaline (ISO) a method based on the uptake of 203Hg-labelled Mercurascan (MSC) in the heart was used. The increase of myocardial uptake of MSC in ISO-treated rats over control values was very rapid and might be directly proportional to the number of damaged myocardial cells actually present in the heart. MSC-uptake method of myocardial damage evaluation was more sensitive and precise than other methods tested (macroscopic evaluation according to Rona, increase of heart weight). Different modifications of MSC-uptake test may be selected in relation to experimental conditions. MSC test is especially useful for evaluation of early myocardial lesions induced by small doses of ISO (0.01 mg/kg).
Chenodeoxycholic acid (CDC), a dihydroxylated primary bile acid, was evaluated for promotional activity in the liver of rats using a two-stage initiation-promotion model. CDC is a primary bile acid that can attain high concentrations in serum and liver during induced or naturally occurring hepatocellular disorders. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were injected once (i.p.) with diethylnitrosamine (DEN, 150 mg/kg) or sterile physiologic saline (SAL, 0.85% NaCl). Two weeks later, rats in each group were placed into one of two subgroups and fed either NIH-31 mash (Control) or NIH-31 mash containing 0.5% CDC for a 10 week period. At the end of the feeding period, blood and liver samples were collected for determination of bile acid profiles and quantitation of hepatocellular foci respectively. Serum samples were analyzed for concentrations of individual bile acids using a HPLC method that utilizes a post-column enzymatic reaction and fluorescence detection. Liver slices from the left hepatic lobe were stained for foci positive for placental glutathione S-transferase. In serum, significant increases occurred in concentrations of all forms of CDC and were accompanied by mild, insignificant increases in lithocholic acid. Decreased serum concentrations occurred in all forms of cholic and deoxycholic acids. Analysis of liver sections revealed that rats treated with DEN-CDC had significant increases in numbers and volume of foci compared to those treated with DEN-Control. For rats in groups DEN-CDC and DEN-Control, the numbers of foci per square centimeter were 32 and 12; per cubic centimeter, 2221 and 937; and the per cent volume of foci, 1.487 and 0.385 respectively. In this study, CDC was a promoter of hepatocellular foci. Because concentrations of CDC in liver and serum increase in a variety of hepatobiliary disorders, the possibility that increases in endogenous concentrations can enhance the formation of hepatocellular foci is being explored.
In a population-based case-control study in California's intensely agricultural Central Valley (2005-2006), the authors investigated relations between environmental pesticide/fungicide exposure and prostate cancer. Cases (n = 173) were obtained from a population-based cancer registry, and controls (n = 162) were obtained from Medicare listings and tax assessor mailings. Past ambient exposures to pesticides/fungicides were derived from residential history and independently recorded pesticide and land-use data, using a novel geographic information systems approach. In comparison with unexposed persons, increased risks of prostate cancer were observed among persons exposed to compounds which may have prostate-specific biologic effects (methyl bromide (odds ratio = 1.62, 95% confidence interval: 1.02, 2.59) and a group of organochlorines (odds ratio = 1.64, 95% confidence interval: 1.02, 2.63)) but not among those exposed to other compounds that were included as controls (simazine, maneb, and paraquat dichloride). The authors assessed the possibility of selection bias due to less-than-100% enrollment of eligible cases and controls (a critical methodological concern in studies of this kind) and determined that there was little evidence of bias affecting the estimated effect size. This study provides evidence of an association between prostate cancer and ambient pesticide exposures in and around homes in intensely agricultural areas. The associations appear specific to compounds with a plausible biologic role in prostate carcinogenesis.
The aim of this prospective observational study was to evaluate the incidence of nephrotoxicity due to combination therapy with vancomycin and aminoglycosides in septic critically ill patients admitted to the intensive care unit.
Thirty consecutive critically ill patients were treated with vancomycin concurrent with aminoglycosides for sepsis. Inclusion criteria were: the need for mechanical ventilation and the presence of severe infection due to bacteria susceptible to vancomycin and aminoglycosides. Exclusion criteria were: age <18 years, impaired renal function (24-hour creatinine clearance <90 ml/min) or previous adverse reaction to either drug. Serum creatinine and urea concentrations, creatinine clearance, 24-hour urinary excretion of proteins, beta2-microglobulin and enzymes were measured immediately before starting therapy and at different times thereafter.
Eleven of the 30 patients had a transient and modest increase in serum urea, 15 patients presented with urinary excretion of beta2-microglobulin and tubular enzymes, and 14 patients had urinary proteins. In the only patient with severe acute renal failure (serum creatinine 8.2 mg/dl), the clinical course was complicated by prolonged hypotension.
Concurrent administration of vancomycin and aminoglycosides to critically ill septic patients with normal renal function at baseline induced mainly slight and transient toxic tubular effects. The only clinically significant nephrotoxic event occurred in a patient with septic shock.
Propionyl- l -carnitine (PLC) is a naturally occurring compound that has been considered for the treatment of many forms of cardiomyopathies. In this study, the possible mechanisms whereby PLC could protect against adriamycin (ADR)-induced cardiomyopathy were carried out. Administration of ADR (3 mg kg(-1)i.p., every other day over a period of 2 weeks) resulted in a significant two-fold increase in serum levels of creatine phosphokinase, lactate dehydrogenase and glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase, whereas daily administration of PLC (250 mg kg(-1), i.p. for 2 weeks) induced non-significant change. Daily administration of PLC to ADR-treated rats resulted in complete reversal of ADR-induced increase in cardiac enzymes except lactate dehydrogenase which was only reversed by 66%. In cardiac tissue homogenate, ADR caused a significant 53% increase in malonedialdehyde (MDA) and a significant 50% decrease in reduced glutathione (GSH) levels, whereas PLC induced a significant 33% decrease in MDA and a significant 41% increase in GSH levels. Daily administration of PLC to ADR-treated rats completely reversed the increase in MDA and the decrease in GSH induced by ADR to the normal levels. In rat heart mitochondria isolated 24 h after the last dose, ADR induced a significant 48% and 42% decrease in(14)CO(2)released from the oxidation of [1-(14)C]palmitoyl-CoA and [1-(14)C]palmitoylcarnitine, respectively, whereas PLC resulted in a significant 66% and 54% increase in the oxidation of both substrates, respectively. Interestingly, administration of PLC to ADR-treated rats resulted in complete recovery of the ADR-induced decrease in the oxidation of both substrates. In addition, in rat heart mitochondria, the oxidation of [1-(14)C]pyruvate, [1-(14)C]pyruvate and [1-(14)C]octanoate were not affected by ADR and/or PLC treatment. Moreover, ADR caused severe histopathological lesions manifested as toxic myocarditis which is protected by PLC. Worth mentioning is that PLC had no effect on the antitumour activity of ADR in solid Ehrlich carcinoma. Results from this study suggest that: (1) in the heart, PLC therapy completely protects against ADR-induced inhibition of mitochondrial beta -oxidation of long-chain fatty acids; (2) PLC has and/or induces a powerful antioxidant defense mechanism against ADR-induced lipid peroxidation of cardiac membranes; and finally (3) PLC has no effect on the antitumour activity of ADR.
Side effects such as cutaneous vasculitis, which occur during prolonged levamisole treatment, may discourage the utilization of the drug in relapsing nephrotic syndrome. We describe a child who developed disseminated vasculitis during prolonged treatment with levamisole. The acute phase was characterized by hepatosplenomegaly, hemolytic anemia, IgM anticardiolipin and p-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies. One month after withdrawal of therapy all symptoms had disappeared and tests normalized. This case report, together with other reports on cutaneous vasculitis, suggest caution and close monitoring during prolonged levamisole therapy.
Field studies of illicit anabolic-androgenic steroid users suggest that some develop manic or aggressive reactions to these drugs-a potential public health problem. However, controlled laboratory evaluations of these effects remain limited.
In a randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial, we administered testosterone cypionate for 6 weeks in doses rising to 600 mg/wk and placebo for 6 weeks, separated by 6 weeks of no treatment, to 56 men aged 20 to 50 years. Psychiatric outcome measures included the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), the Point Subtraction Aggression Paradigm (a computerized provocation test of aggression), the Aggression Questionnaire of Buss and Perry, the Symptom Checklist-90-R, daily diaries of manic and depressive symptoms, and similar weekly diaries completed by a "significant other" who knew the participant well.
Testosterone treatment significantly increased manic scores on the YMRS (P = .002), manic scores on daily diaries (P = .003), visual analog ratings of liking the drug effect (P = .008), and aggressive responses on the Point Subtraction Aggression Paradigm (P = .03). Drug response was highly variable: of 50 participants who received 600 mg/wk of testosterone cypionate, 42 (84%) exhibited minimal psychiatric effects (maximum YMRS score, <10), 6 (12%) became mildly hypomanic (YMRS score, 10-19), and 2 (4%) became markedly hypomanic (YMRS score, > or =20). The 8 "responders" and 42 "nonresponders" did not differ significantly on baseline demographic, psychological, laboratory, or physiological measures.
Testosterone administration, 600 mg/wk increased ratings of manic symptoms in normal men. This effect, however, was not uniform across individuals; most showed little psychological change, whereas a few developed prominent effects. The mechanism of these variable reactions remains unclear.
The aim of the present study was to investigate previously suggested adrenergic and tachykinin activity, as well as the cardiovascular effects, of venom from the stonefish (Synanceja trachynis). Stonefish venom (60-120 micrograms/kg, i.v.) produced dose-dependent bronchoconstriction in anaesthetised guinea-pigs. This response (100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) was significantly reduced by the neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor antagonist CP-99,994 (1 mg/kg, i.v.). Contractile responses to venom (4 micrograms/ml) of guinea-pig isolated ileum (GPI) were significantly inhibited by a combination of the sodium channel blocking drug tetrodotoxin (1 microM) and the ganglion blocking drug mecamylamine (10 microM). However, subsequent administration of CP-99,994 (0.1 microM) did not produce further inhibition. Endogenous tachykinin depletion with capsaicin (1 microM) also significantly attenuated responses to venom (4 micrograms/ml) in GPI. Venom (4 micrograms/ml) produced increases in rate and force of contraction of rat spontaneously beating isolated atria which were significantly inhibited by the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol (5 microM) but not by noradrenergic transmitter depletion with reserpine (4.5 mg/kg, i.p.). In the presence of the alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin (0.3 microM), venom (6 micrograms/ml) significantly inhibited electrically evoked twitches of prostatic segments of rat vas deferens. The inhibitory effect of venom was significantly reduced by the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (1 microM) but not by propranolol (5 microM) or the neurokinin 2 (NK2) receptor antagonist SR-48,968 (0.1 microM). Venom (60-120 micrograms/kg, i.v.) produced dose-dependent increases in mean arterial blood pressure in anaesthetised rats. This pressor response (60 micrograms/kg, i.v.) was significantly reduced by prazosin (10-50 micrograms/kg, i.v.) and the leukotriene receptor antagonist SB205312 (1 mg/kg, i.v.), significantly increased by propranolol (2 mg/kg, i.v.), but not significantly affected by the cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (10 mg/kg, i.v.) or the thromboxane A2/prostaglandin H2 (TP) receptor antagonist GR32191B (1 mg/kg, i.v.). Pressor responses to venom (100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) were also observed in anaesthetised rabbits. These results suggest that stonefish venom contains a component capable of stimulating the release of endogenous tachykinins with subsequent activity at NK1 receptors. The venom also appears to act via stimulation of sodium channels on sensory nerves. The venom also has activity at alpha 2-adrenoceptors and a direct action at beta-adrenoceptors. The effect of venom on blood pressure of anaesthetised rats appears to include a pressor component that is mediated, in part,by alpha-adrenoceptors and leukotriene receptors, and a depressor component that is mediated by beta-adrenoceptors. However, the pressor response does not involve action at TP receptors, or require the production of cyclo-oxygenase metabolites.
The findings of etiological studies show a relationship between secondary hypertension and various chemical agents. The subject populations included males, females, infants, adults (including people of advanced age), and healthy and unhealthy individuals, e.g., those with allergies or liver or digestive deficiencies. Results are presented in a table which shows that effects of drug-induced hypertension include expansion of extracellular fluid volume induced by sodium, antacids, and glycyrrhiza; disturbances of the autonomic nervous system caused by direct or indirect sympathomimetics;mixed or unknown mechanisms caused by poisons and various diagnostic and therapeutic agents, paradoxical response to antihypertensive agents caused by labetalol and saralasin acetate; and rebound hypertension induced by clonidine hydrochloride and methyldopa. Other drugs or chemical agents whose effects were examined include: glycyrrhizic acid, jintan, sulindac, thiazide, indo-methacin, and oral contraceptives. Based on these findings, drug-induced hypertension is observed quite frequently, a fact that has been the basis of considerable study. However, some cases indicate that even when hypertension is observed at experimental stages, insignificant hypertension is found at the clinical stage because of such factors a drug metabolism and patient sensitivity.
Ultrastructural alteration of the coronary artery of the rat induced by a single oral administration of varying doses of vitamin D3 was examined by electron microscopy. Three groups of rats were orally administered 175,000 IU, 350,000 IU and 700,000 IU of vitamin D3/kg body wt. in 1 ml of olive oil, respectively. Another group of rats received 1 ml of olive oil alone as controls. In either group of rats receiving vitamin D3, a significant elevation of serum calcium level was observed at 12, 24 and 48 hours as a maximum level after a single oral administration of vitamin D3, as compared with that of the control group. Ultrastructural changes were first observed mainly in the medial smooth muscle cells of the coronary artery at 24 hours after administration of 700,000 IU of vitamin D3. These were characterized by dissociation of myofilaments, focal necrosis of the cytoplasm and karyolysis. At 48 hours after administration, the coronary arteries of the rats receiving 350,000 IU and 700,000 IU of vitamin D3 showed ultrastructural alteration of medial smooth muscle cells. In the latter group of rats, irregular precipitations of fine, needle-like materials with high electron density were observed in the areas of medial degeneration, and were proved to be calcium salts by X-ray microanalysis. At 72 hours after administration of vitamin D3, such medial structural changes as above were enhanced in the rats receiving both 350,000 IU and 700,000 IU of vitamin D3, but not 175,000 IU. The present study demonstrated that ultrastructural changes of the coronary artery induced by vitamin D3 were, in onset and degree, closely dependent upon the dose of this agent and suggests that the arteriosclerosis induced by vitamin D3 is not initiated by hypercalcemia produced by this agent, but with its direct toxic action to the medial smooth muscle cells.
The effect of hesperidin (Hp) and naringin (Nar), two major citrus flavanones, on the regulation of bone metabolism was examined in male senescent rats. Twenty -month -old gonad-intact male Wistar rats received a casein-based diet supplemented with or without either 0.5% hesperidin (Hp), 0.5% naringin (Nar) or a mix of both flavanones (Hp+Nar, 0.25% each). After 3 months, daily Hp intake significantly improved femoral bone integrity as reflected by improvements in total and regional bone mineral densities (BMD) (9.7%-12.3% improvements, p<0.05) and trabecular bone volume fraction (24.3% improvement, p<0.05) at the femur compared with control group. In contrast, naringin exerted site-specific effects on BMD (10.2% improvement at the distal metaphyseal area, p<0.05) and no further benefit to bone mass was observed with the mix of flavanones. Bone resorption (DPD) was significantly attenuated by Hp and Nar given alone (40.3% and 26.8% lower compared to control, p<0.05, respectively) but not by the mixture of the two. All treatments significantly reduced expression of inflammatory markers to a similar extent (IL-6, 81.0-87.9% reduction; NO, 34.7-39.5% reduction) compared to control. Bone formation did not appear to be strongly affected by any of the treatments (no effect on osteocalcin levels, modest modulation of tibial BMP-2 mRNA). However, as previously reported, plasma lipid-lowering effects were observed with Hp and Nar alone (34.1%-45.1% lower for total cholesterol and triglycerides compared to control, p<0.05) or together (46% lower for triglycerides, p<0.05). Surprisingly the plasma circulating level of naringin (8.15μM) was >5-fold higher than that of hesperidin (1.44μM) at equivalent doses (0.5%) and a linear reduction in plasma levels was observed upon co-administration (0.25% each) indicating absence of competition for their intestinal absorption sites and metabolism. The higher efficacy of Hp at a lower plasma concentration than naringin, as well as the identification of the major circulating metabolite of hesperidin (hesperetin-7-O-glucuronide) underlines the importance of flavanone bioavailability and metabolism in their biological efficacy and suggests a structure-function relationship in the mechanism of action of the active metabolites.
Seventy-nine patients with cyclosporine- and prednisone-dependent myasthenia gravis (MG) after thymectomy received tacrolimus for a mean of 2.5 +/- 0.8 years. Prednisone was withdrawn in all but two patients. Anti-acetylcholine antibodies and MG score for disease severity decreased significantly and muscular strength increased by 39%. Complete stable remission was achieved in 5% of patients and pharmacologic remission in 87.3%. All patients resumed full activities of daily living.
We clinically and pathologically analyzed renal allografts from 1 9 renal transplant patients treated with tacrolimus (FK506) for more than 1 year.
Twenty-six renal allograft biopsy specimens from 1 9 renal transplant patients who underwent transplantations between 1991 and 1993 were evaluated. Thirteen biopsies were performed from stable functioning renal allografts with informed consent (nonepisode biopsy) and the other 13 were from dysfunctional renal allografts with a clinical indication for biopsy (episode biopsy).
The main pathologic diagnoses (some overlap) were acute rejection (AR; n = 4), chronic rejection (CR; n=5), AR+CR (n =4), recurrent IgA nephropathy (n =5), normal findings (n =2), minimal-type chronic FK506 nephropathy (n = 9), and mild-type FK506 nephropathy (n = 11). Of the nonepisode biopsies, 7 and 4 biopsies showed minimal-type and mild-type chronic FK506 nephropathy, respectively. Chronic FK506 nephropathy consisted of rough and foamy tubular vacuolization (5 biopsies), arteriolopathy (angiodegeneration of the arteriolar wall; 20 biopsies), focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (4 biopsies) and the striped form of interstitial fibrosis (11 biopsies). The serum creatinine levels of patients in the mild-type chronic FK506 nephropathy group, which included 7 episode biopsies, were statistically higher than those in the minimum-type chronic FK506-nephropathy group (P< 0.001).
This study demonstrates that chronic FK506 nephropathy consists primarily of arteriolopathy manifesting as insudative hyalinosis of the arteriolar wall, and suggests that mild-type chronic FK506 nephropathy is a condition which may lead to deterioration of renal allograft function.
Heptatocyte growth factor (HGF) having a variety of biological activity was suggested as a protective agent against acute toxic hepatic injury or a potentially therapeutic agent. For the efficient in vivo application of this factor, we employed adenoviral-mediated HGF gene delivery system. In this study, we constructed E1-deleted recombinant adenovirus carrying cDNA of human HGF (Ad.hHGF) and elucidated that HGF was efficiently expressed in the liver of C57/BL mice. A mouse model of acute hepatic failure was induced by high dose (1000mg/kg) of thioacetamide (TA) administration. Mice infected with Ad.hHGF showed a dramatic resistance to TA-induced acute hepatic injury. Serum ALT was increased transiently and then the level was normalized in Ad.hHGF-infected mice with TA administration. Furthermore, the survival rate was remarkably enhanced in the mice infected with Ad.hHGF. In the histological examination, massive hepatic necrosis induced by TA was almost completely protected by HGF produced by Ad.hHGF. Our results indicate that a single dose of HGF-encoding adenoviral vector maintained liver function and prevented the progression of liver necrosis in a mouse model of acute hepatic failure.
It is well established that dioxins cause a variety of toxic effects and syndromes including alterations of lymphocyte development. Exposure to the prototypical dioxin, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) leads to severe thymic atrophy in all species studied. It has been shown that most of this toxicity is due to TCDD binding to and activating the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). Upon activation, the AHR enters the nucleus, dimerizes with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT), and this heterodimer modulates a number of genes that mediate toxicity. The AHR and ARNT are members of the basic-helix-loop-helix-Per, ARNT, and Sim homology (bHLH-PAS) family of transcription factors. In this study, we wanted to determine if another bHLH-PAS transcription factor, ARNT2, which has high amino acid sequence identity to ARNT and has been shown to dimerize with the TCDD-activated AHR, is involved in mediating TCDD's effect on lymphocyte development. We determined by RT-PCR that ARNT2 is expressed at a low level in whole thymus, thymocytes, and bone marrow lymphocytes. We created hemopoietic chimeras by lethally irradiating C57BL/6 mice and reconstituting them with fetal liver stem cells that either have or are deficient in a portion of chromosome 7 that contains ARNT2. Regardless of whether chimeras possessed or lacked this chromosome fragment, equal sensitivity to TCDD-induced thymic atrophy was observed despite expression of ARNT2 in the thymus. Furthermore, the absence of ARNT2 (or any other genes found on this portion of chromosome 7) did not confer any protection against TCDD-induced alterations in bone marrow B-cell subsets. These data indicate that in this model system the effects of TCDD-induced thymic atrophy and alterations in B-cell maturation are not dependent on an AHR-ARNT2 heterodimer.
Heavy metals contamination has become an important risk factor for public health and the environment. Chromium is a frequent industrial contaminant and is also used in orthopaedic joint replacements made from cobalt-chromium-alloy. Since hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)) was reported as genotoxic and carcinogenic in different mammals, to further evaluate its cytotoxicity, we investigated the effect of this heavy metal in the proliferation and differentiation to adipocytes of 3T3-L1 fibroblasts. These cells, after the addition of a mixture containing insulin, dexamethasone and methylisobutylxanthine, first proliferate, a process known as mitotic clonal expansion (MCE), and then differentiate to adipocytes. In this differentiation process a key transcription factor is induced: peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR gamma). We found that treatment of 3T3-L1 fibroblasts with potassium chromate inhibited proliferation in exponentially growing cells and MCE as well as differentiation. A decrease in PPAR gamma content, evaluated by western blot and immunofluorescence, was found in cells differentiated in the presence of chromium. On the other hand, after inhibition of differentiation with chromium, when the metal was removed, differentiation was recovered, which indicates that this may be a reversible effect. We also found an increase in the number of micronucleated cells after treatment with Cr(VI) which is associated with genotoxic effects. According to our results, Cr(VI) is able to inhibit proliferation and differentiation to adipocytes of 3T3-L1 fibroblasts and to increase micronucleated cells, which are all indicative of alterations in cellular physiology and therefore, contributes to further elucidate the cytotoxic effects of this heavy metal.
Tamoxifen, a member of the selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) family, is widely used in the treatment of estrogen receptor (ER)-expressing breast cancer. It has previously been shown that high-dose tamoxifen has cytotoxic activity against glioma cells, but whether this effect is drug specific or represents a general property of SERMs is unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that tamoxifen and CC-8490, a novel benzopyranone with SERM activity, induce glioma cell apoptosis in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Moreover, administration of tamoxifen and CC-8490 suppresses tumor growth in vivo and extends animal survival in glioma xenograft models. None of the eight glioma cell lines examined express either ER-alpha or -beta, suggesting the mechanism for tamoxifen- and CC-8490-induced glioma cell apoptosis is independent of the ER signaling pathway. Complementary DNA microarray expression profiling allowed us to identify a subset of genes specifically regulated by tamoxifen and CC-8490, and not by other apoptotic stimuli, including nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB with its target genes IEX-3, SOD2, IL6, and IL8. We demonstrate that suppression of NF-kappaB activation markedly enhances SERM-induced apoptosis, suggesting a role for NF-kappaB in protecting glioma cells from SERM-induced cytotoxicity. These findings demonstrate for the first time that a SERM other than tamoxifen can induce glioma cell apoptosis in vitro and in vivo and that the clinical efficacy of SERMs for the treatment of malignant gliomas could potentially be enhanced by simultaneous inhibition of the NF-kappaB pathway.
