To determine the incidence and characterize the occurrence of cardiac toxicity with high-dose ifosfamide.
Retrospective chart review.
Biomedical research referral center.
Fifty-two consecutive patients with advanced lymphoma or carcinoma enrolled in phase I trials of high-dose ifosfamide as part of combination chemotherapy with autologous bone marrow transplantation.
Patients were given escalating doses (10 to 18 g/m2) of ifosfamide in combination with carboplatin and etoposide or with lomustine and vinblastine.
The chart review focused on clinical, radiographic, or electrocardiographic evidence of cardiovascular dysfunction. Data from invasive hemodynamic monitoring, radionuclide cineangiography, and echocardiography were also reviewed.
Nine of the patients treated with ifosfamide developed congestive heart failure (17%; 95% Cl, 8% to 30%). Eight of these patients, experiencing dyspnea, tachycardia, weight gain, and signs of pulmonary edema, required admission to an intensive care unit. Left ventricular contractility was found to be depressed when evaluated by radionuclide cineangiography, echocardiography, or both. Most patients responded to diuretic, vasodilator, and inotropic therapies. Two patients developed malignant ventricular arrhythmias. One patient died of intractable cardiogenic shock. Five patients died of multiorgan failure, despite showing improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction. Three patients survived and regained baseline left ventricular ejection fraction.
High-dose ifosfamide is associated with severe but usually reversible myocardial depression and malignant arrhythmias.
To describe a patient who was diagnosed with Raynaud's phenomenon, was prescribed immediate-release nifedipine, and developed a possible erythromelalgia-like syndrome.
A 24-year-old white woman with a history of esophageal spasms and Raynaud's phenomenon was prescribed nifedipine 10 mg po qid. Approximately 1 hour after the patient had taken the fourth dose of nifedipine, she experienced acute erythema and a burning sensation in her feet and lower limbs, light-headedness, and palpitations. Because of a reportedly abnormally low blood pressure, the patient took diphenhydramine 50 mg po and proceeded to the clinic. On arrival, abnormal vital signs were BP 140/48 mm Hg and HR 130 beats/min. Without any other medical intervention, approximately 30 minutes later her blood pressure and heart rate had returned to baseline at 122/60 mm Hg and 96 beats/min, respectively. The nifedipine was permanently discontinued and the patient's symptoms completely resolved over 24 hours.
The characteristic symptoms of erythromelalgia include burning pain, increased skin temperature, and erythema of the extremities, usually to the feet, lower legs, and, less often, the hands. Erythromelalgia-like syndromes secondary to the administration of many medications have been reported. Several nifedipine-related reports describe an erythromelalgia-like syndrome similar to our reported case.
Because the patient was not taking any other medications and the symptoms started with the administration of nifedipine and were relieved after its discontinuation, nifedipine was thought to be the cause of the erythromelalgia-like syndrome.
Caffeine intake has been associated with risk of osteoporosis, breast cancer, endometriosis, and fibrocystic breast disease and has been hypothesized to exert its effects through alteration of endogenous hormone levels. This study examined the cross-sectional association of caffeine intake with endogenous androgens, estrogens, and sex hormone-binding globulin in 728 white postmenopausal women aged 42-90 years in the Rancho Bernardo community-based study in 1984-1987. Caffeine intake was inversely associated with age and waist/hip ratio and positively associated with alcohol consumption. Significant inverse associations were noted between caffeine intake and bioavailable testosterone, which persisted after adjustment for age, waist/hip ratio, body mass index, alcohol intake, cigarette smoking, and physical activity (r = -0.10, p = 0.02). At high doses (equivalent to more than 2 cups of coffee or four cans of caffeinated soda daily), caffeine intake was positively associated with plasma estrone before and after adjustment for confounders (r = 0.26, p = 0.05). Sex hormone-binding globulin levels were positively associated with increasing caffeine intake (adjusted r = 0.09, p = 0.03). The positive association of caffeine with estrone and its inverse association with bioavailable testosterone suggest that caffeine's reported association with several chronic conditions may be mediated by an effect on endogenous sex steroids.
Adult T-cell leukaemia (ATL) is a T-cell lymphoid neoplasm caused by human T-cell leukaemia virus type I (HTLV-I). Radiological findings in central nervous system (CNS) involvement have not been well characterised. We reviewed the MRI of 18 patients with ATL who developed new neurological symptoms or signs, and pathology specimens from a 53-year-old woman who died of ATL. MRI findings were divided into three categories: definite, probable, and other abnormal. Definite and probable findings were defined as ATL-related. The characteristic findings were multiple parenchymal masses with or without contrast enhancement adjacent to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spaced and the deep grey matter of both cerebral hemispheres, plus leptomeningeal lesion. One patient had both cerebral and spinal cord lesions. Other abnormal findings in eight patients included one case of leukoencephalopathy caused by methotrexate. The histology findings consisted of clusters of tumour cells along perivascular spaces, and scattered infiltration of the parenchyma, with nests of tumour cells. Leptomeningeal infiltration by tumour spread into the parenchyma and secondary degeneration of the neuronal tracts was observed. MRI was useful for detecting CNS invasion by ATL and differentiating it from other abnormalities. The MRI findings seemed to correlate well with the histological changes.
Disturbances of colour vision are a frequently reported sign of digoxin toxicity. The aim of this study was to investigate the incidence of acquired colour vision deficiency in elderly hospitalised patients receiving maintenance digoxin therapy.
30 patients (mean age 81.3 (SD 6.1) years) receiving digoxin were tested using a battery of colour vision tests (Ishihara, AO Hardy Rand Rittler plates, City tritan test, Lanthony tritan album, and the Farnsworth D15). These were compared to an age matched control group. Serum digoxin concentrations were determined from venous blood samples.
Slight to moderate red-green impairment was found in approximately 20-30% of patients taking digitalis, and approximately 20% showed a severe tritan deficiency. There was no correlation between colour vision impairment and serum digoxin level.
Formal colour vision testing of elderly patients taking digitalis showed a high incidence of colour deficiency, suggesting that impairment of retinal function can occur even at therapeutic drug levels. As a result, colour vision testing in this population would have limited value for the detection of drug toxicity.
Mood changes, cognitive deficits, and psychosis have been reported during corticosteroid therapy. However, minimal data are available on the treatment of these side effects. This pilot study examined the effect of 12 weeks of open-label lamotrigine treatment (dose: mean=340 mg/day, SD=65) on mood and cognition in five patients receiving prescription corticosteroids continuously for at least 6 months before study entry. The participants showed significant improvement in cognition with lamotrigine. Two subjects who met criteria for a current major depressive episode at baseline had baseline-to-exit reductions in scores on the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale of more than 20 points. These pilot data suggest that lamotrigine may be associated with improved mood and performance on cognitive tasks in steroid-treated patients. Larger controlled trials are needed to confirm these preliminary findings.
Melanoma is the most serious, highly aggressive form of skin cancer with recent dramatic increases in incidence. Current therapies are relatively ineffective, highlighting the need for a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms contributing to the disease. We have previously shown that activation of Rap1 promotes melanoma cell proliferation and migration through the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway and integrin activation. In the present study, we show that expression of Rap1GAP, a specific negative regulator of Rap1, is decreased in human melanoma tumors and cell lines. Overexpression of Rap1GAP in melanoma cells blocks Rap1 activation and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation and inhibits melanoma cell proliferation and survival. In addition, overexpression of Rap1GAP also inhibits focal adhesion formation and decreases melanoma cell migration. Rap1GAP down-regulation is due to its promoter methylation, a mechanism of gene silencing in tumors. Furthermore, treatment of melanoma cells with the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine reinduces Rap1GAP expression, followed by decreased Rap1 activity, ERK phosphorylation, and cell proliferation and survival-changes that are significantly blunted in cells transfected by small interfering RNA-mediated Rap1GAP knockdown. Taken together, our findings indicate that down-regulation of Rap1GAP via promoter hypermethylation promotes melanoma cell proliferation, survival, and migration.
This paper demonstrates marked differences between blood levels and those in the CSF for three anterior pituitary peptide hormones, prolactin, luteinizing hormone (LH) and adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) in the rhesus monkey. CSF levels of endogenous prolactin (measured by radioimmunoassay) are about 20% of those in the blood, and this proportion remains constant under conditions of persistent ('steady-state') hyperprolactinaemia (induced by injecting sulpiride). Acutely elevating prulactin, by either an intravenous injection of exogenous ovine prolactin, or sulpiride, resulted in similar rates of entry by prolactin into the CSF, suggesting that retrograde portal flow is not an important mechanism. LH, measured by bioassay, is also present in the CSF, but the CSF/blood ratio is 5-10 times less than for prolactin. Castration, causing blood LH levels to rise, resulted in equivalent changes in CSF, so that the ratio remains constant, though still much lower than for prolactin. There are significant correlations between individual animals in the blood and CSF content of prolactin and LH. In marked contrast, whilst ACTH is found (by cytochemical assay) in the CSF of both intact and adrenalectomized monkeys, no significant change in CSF levels occurs despite 10-fold changes in the plasma of adrenalectomized animals following withdrawal of cortisol. Nor is there any correlation between blood and CSF ACTH levels over a wide range of concentrations. These results show that each of the three peptides studied has a distinct pattern of entry into the CSF from the vascular compartment.
N'-Nitrosonornicotine was added to the drinking water of outbred Sprague-Dawley rats. Adenocarcinomas of the olfactory epithelium occurred in all 15 rats, squamous papillomas o- the esophagus in 1, squamous papillomas of the nonglandular stomach in 1, and a hepatacellular tumor in 1. The possible ingestion and subsequent in vivo nitrosation of nicotine and/or nornicotine could create a serious carcinogenic hazard to cigarette smokers.
Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) perfusion brain scans with iodine-123 isopropyl iodoamphetamine (IMP) were obtained in 12 subjects who acknowledged using cocaine on a sporadic to a daily basis. The route of cocaine administration varied from nasal to intravenous. Concurrent abuse of other drugs was also reported. None of the patients were positive for human immunodeficiency virus. Brain scans demonstrated focal defects in 11 subjects, including seven who were asymptomatic, and no abnormality in one. Among the findings were scattered focal cortical deficits, which were seen in several patients and which ranged in severity from small and few to multiple and large, with a special predilection for the frontal and temporal lobes. No perfusion deficits were seen on I-123 SPECT images in five healthy volunteers. Focal alterations in cerebral perfusion are seen commonly in asymptomatic drug users, and these focal deficits are readily depicted by I-123 IMP SPECT.
Cytochemical and ultrastructural studies in Wistar rats [Crl: (WI)BR] show that cisplatin treatment (5-9 mg/kg) induces a release of neurosecretory granules from the neurohypophysis with a corresponding decrease in the urine output in a time and dose dependent fashion. Cisplatin induces low blood calcium and phosphate levels with a corresponding increase in the dark cells of the parathyroid gland. Injections of calcium before and during the treatment of cisplatin are effective in combating hypocalcemia, nephrotoxicity and gastrointestinal toxicity due to cisplatin. Carboplatin, a less nephrotoxic agent, does not demonstrate any of these changes.
Predator odors elicit fear and defensive behavioral responses in rats, but a wide range of individual responsivity exists. The aim of this study was to examine whether individual differences in behavioral responsivity correlate with differences in amino acid neurotransmission to a predator fox odor, 2,5-dihydro-2,4,5-trimethylthiazoline (TMT). We investigated the time course of behaviorally evoked amino acid neurotransmitter changes in the nucleus accumbens using on-line microdialysis coupled to capillary electrophoresis with 14-s temporal resolution. One subset of animals (high responders) showed a large, biphasic increase in amino acids, such as glutamate and GABA, which lasted about 3 min. These neurochemical changes were highly correlated with increases in locomotion and burrowing, but lagged behind the behavioral changes by 2 min. A second subset of rats (low responders) showed neither behavioral activation nor changes in amino acid neurotransmission. As a positive control, rats were subjected to tail pinch, which evoked transient changes in amino acids in all animals. Cocaine (2 mg/kg, i.v.) increased locomotion but not amino acid levels. This work demonstrates that rapid and transient increases in amino acid neurotransmitters correlate with behavioral reactivity to salient stimuli.
We report on a GTP cyclohydrolase 1 mutation-confirmed heterozygous case presenting with an infantile hypokinetic rigid syndrome and delay in attainment of motor milestones starting from the first year of life. He had a family history of dopa-responsive dystonia-parkinsonism. CSF neopterin, biopterin and HVA values were decreased. Molecular study of GCH-1 gene showed the Q89X mutation in exon 1. Treatment with l-dopa resulted in a complete remission of symptoms.
Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a widely studied compound due to its role in renal toxicity and carcinogenicity. However, there is still no consensus on the exact mechanisms of toxicity or carcinogenicity. In the current study, we analysed the effect of OTA on three human renal proximal tubular models (human primary, RPTEC/TERT1 and HK-2 cells) and two rat renal proximal tubular models (rat primary and NRK-52E cells). Global transcriptomics analysis at two exposure times was performed to generate a set of 756 OTA sensitive genes. This gene set was then compared in more detail across all models and additionally to a rat in vivo renal cortex model. The results demonstrate a well-conserved response across all models. OTA resulted in deregulation of a number of pathways including cytoskeleton, nucleosome regulation, translation, transcription, ubiquitination and cell cycle pathways. Interestingly, the oxidative stress activated Nrf2 pathway was not enriched. These results point to an epigenetic action of OTA, perhaps initiated by actin binding as the actin remodelling gene, advillin was the highest up-regulated in all models. The largest model differences were observed between the human and the rat in vitro models. However, since the human in vitro models were more similar to the rat in vivo model, it is more likely that these differences are model-specific rather than species-specific per se. This study demonstrates the usefulness of in vitro cell culture models combined with transcriptomic analysis for the investigation of mechanisms of toxicity and carcinogenicity. In addition, these results provide further evidence supporting a non-genotoxic mechanism of OTA-induced carcinogenicity.
Southern blot analysis of the B-chain genes in one of eight C1q-deficient individuals revealed an abnormal banding pattern. The defect, which was homozygous, could be localized by restriction mapping to a single Taq I site within residue 150 in the coding region of the B-chain gene. DNA sequencing across the site revealed a stop codon that would cause premature termination of the protein product. No material corresponding to the A or C chains, or a truncated B chain, could be identified by antigenic analysis of the patient's serum, indicating that a complete B chain is required for secretion of a C1q molecule.
Nattokinase is used as a health-promoting medicine for preventing thrombosis due to its fibrinolytic activity. Cerebral microbleed is remnant of blood extravasations from the damaged vessels related to cerebral microangiopathies. We report a patient, having used aspirin for secondary stroke prevention, who had an acute cerebellar hemorrhage after taking nattokinase 400 mg daily for 7 consecutive days. In addition to the hemorrhagic lesion, multiple microbleeds were demonstrated on brain MR images. We suggest that nattokinase may increase risk of intracerebral hemorrhage in patients who have bleeding-prone cerebral microangiopathy and are receiving other antithrombotic agent at the same time.
A patient had cutaneous vasculitis, leukopenia, and splenomegaly caused by the antithyroid drug, propylthiouracil. Histopathologic changes of acute vasculitis of the superficial and deep dermal blood vessels accompanied by fibrin thrombi formation were found in biopsy specimens of the cutaneous lesions. Direct immunofluorescence studies demonstrated IgM and C3 of the vessel walls suggesting immune complex deposition. The literature disclosed five cases with similar features associated with propylthiouracil therapy. Characteristic cutaneous findings include a recurrent, self-limited, symmetrical purpuric eruption that can involve the face or earlobes. Clinicians should recognize these changes as a cutaneous sign of a vasculitis associated with propylthiouracil therapy.
A 39-y-o male with a history of human immunodeficiency virus infection and depression was admitted for diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis and pneumocystis carinii pneumonia infections. Prior to admission, he was on 50 mg trazodone every evening for 2 mo for depression. He was admitted with a 2-w history of fever chills and fatigue and on admission had hand tremors which disappeared at rest. Four days post-admission the trazodone dose was increased to 100 mg and 20 mg fluoxetine was initiated. He became increasingly anxious and his hand tremor worsened 3 d after initiation of the regimen. To rule out drug induced tremor, both trazodone and fluoxetine were discontinued and symptoms resolved in 7 d. Clinicians should be aware of the potential for excessive seratonergic activities secondary to trazodone + fluoxetine interactions causing a worsening myoclonus adverse event.
Prenatal cocaine use is more accurately measured by maternal hair assay than by urine toxicology screening or self-report. To investigate the consequences of improved measurement, the authors ascertained cocaine use during pregnancy by maternal hair test, urine test, and self-report in a sample of 691 patients recruited from one New York City hospital in 1990-1992. Associations with intrauterine growth retardation, head circumference, and length of gestation were investigated. A positive hair test at delivery was not more strongly associated with birth weight (-38.1 g; 95% CI: -164, 88.3) or head circumference (-1.73 mm; 95% CI: -5.91, 2.44) than a positive urine test at delivery (-182 g (95% CI: -295, -69.8) and -6.11 mm (95% CI: -9.99, -2.24), respectively). Cocaine concentration in hair (which was higher if urine tests were positive) had a dose-response relationship with birth weight: a 27-g decrease (95% CI: -51.9, -1.04) with each log-unit increase in concentration. Birth weights were similar among infants of never users and infants of users who stopped using cocaine before delivery. Heavier use of cocaine, but not lighter use, was associated with intrauterine growth retardation, and exposure in late pregnancy was necessary to the association. Although maternal hair tests were instrumental in clarifying these relations, their clinical use is probably not warranted.
Using probit analysis, dose-response curves for induction of anesthesia with midazolam or ketamine were constructed in ASA class III and IV patients premedicated with morphine, 0.1 mg/kg, and glycopyrrolate, 4 micrograms/kg. For ketamine, ED50 values for abolition of the response to verbal commands, eyelash stimulation, and painful stimulation were 0.9, 1.3, and 1.3 mg/kg, respectively; corresponding ED95 values were 1.6, 2.3, and 4.3 mg/kg, which are within the range of clinically recommended doses. For midazolam, ED50 values for verbal commands, eyelash stimulation, and painful stimulation were 0.19, 0.24, and 0.36 mg/kg, significantly greater than those previously reported for unpremedicated ASA class I and II patients. The corresponding ED95 values, 0.35, 0.43, and 1.04 mg/kg exceed previously reported values and are appreciably greater than the doses used in most previous studies of midazolam induction. Midazolam decreased systolic blood pressure slightly but significantly (from 138 +/- 4 to 128 +/- 4 mm Hg, mean +/- SEM, P less than 0.005), while diastolic blood pressure and heart rate remained unchanged. In contrast, ketamine increased systolic blood pressure (from 141 +/- 4 to 164 +/- 5 mm Hg, P less than 0.005), diastolic blood pressure (from 71 +/- 3 to 88 +/- 4 mm Hg, P less than 0.005), and heart rate (from 84 +/- 2 to 102 +/- 4 beats/min, P less than 0.005). On the basis of these data, we conclude that in ASA class III and IV patients, midazolam induction allows for hemodynamic stability and avoids the significant tachycardia and hypertension associated with equipotent doses of ketamine.
Effects of daily injections of lithium carbonate (20, 40 or 80 mg/kg body weight) during 14 and 28 days were investigated in Wistar mice. Attention was paid (1) to changes in concentrations of lithium, creatinine and urea in serum, (2) to level of oxidative stress by measuring lipids peroxidation level and catalase, superoxide-dismutase and glutathione-peroxidase activities, and (3) to changes in the histological structure of brain. The first intraperitoneal injection was followed by a transitory peak of lithium in the blood, reaching 0.25 mM and 1.1 mM and disappearing 6 and 12 h later for the 20 and 80 mg/kg doses, respectively. From the first to the last day of treatment, lithium concentrations in the blood, measured 12 h after the injections, increased from 0 to 0.11 mM (20 mg/kg dose) or 0.25 mM (80 mg/kg dose). The 80 mg/kg treatment induced a renal insufficiency evidenced by an increase of blood creatinine and urea levels. Lithium treatment was found to trigger an oxidative stress in kidney, but not in brain. In kidney, the lipid peroxidation level (TBARS) and the superoxide dismutase and catalase activities were increased. No change in glutathione peroxidase activity was detected. Histology of the brain cortex revealed interesting modifications: thicker neuronal cells and a denser network of dendrites, as compared to controls.
The authors examined the relation between intrapartum magnesium sulfate exposure and risk of cerebral palsy in a case-control study of low birth weight children designed to control for confounding by the clinical indications for magnesium in pregnancy. Case children (n = 97) included all singleton children with cerebral palsy who were born in 1985-1989 in Atlanta, Georgia with a birth weight less than 1,750 g and whose mothers had not had a hypertension-related disease during pregnancy. Control children (n = 110) were randomly selected from the infant survivors using identical selection criteria. Data on magnesium sulfate exposure, labor and delivery, and infant characteristics were abstracted from hospital records. The authors found no association between exposure to magnesium sulfate and cerebral palsy risk (odds ratio = 0.9; 95% confidence interval: 0.3, 2.6) either in all children or in subgroups with varying likelihoods for exposure to magnesium. However, the association did vary by birth weight, with a protective effect being seen in children born weighing less than 1,500 g and an elevated risk in children with birth weights of 1,500 g or more; all confidence intervals included 1.0 except for the combined <1,500 g group. Several ongoing randomized clinical trials of magnesium and cerebral palsy may shed more definitive light on this relation.
The t(12;21) translocation resulting in TEL/AML1 gene fusion is present in approximately 25% of patients with precursor B-lineage pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Studies suggest an association with a good prognosis; however, relapse can occur. We studied the relation between t(12;21), determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization or polymerase chain reaction, and in vitro drug resistance, measured by the MTT assay, in childhood B-lineage ALL at diagnosis. A total of 180 ALL samples were tested, 51 (28%) of which were positive for t(12;21). The median LC(50) values did not differ significantly between TEL/AML1-positive and -negative samples for prednisolone, dexamethasone, daunorubicin, thiopurines, epipodophyllotoxins, and 4-HOO-ifosfamide. However, the TEL/AML1-positive patients were relatively more sensitive to L-asparaginase (ASP; 5.9-fold; P =.029) and slightly but significantly more resistant to vincristine (1.5-fold; P =.011) and cytarabine (1.5-fold; P =.014). After matching for unevenly distributed patient characteristics-that is, excluding patients younger than 12 months, patients with CD10-negative immature B-lineage ALL, patients with Philadelphia chromosome, and patients who were hyperdiploid (more than 50 chromosomes) from the TEL/AML1 negative group-the only remaining difference was a relative sensitivity for ASP in the TEL/AML1-positive samples (10.8-fold; P =. 012). In conclusion, the presence of TEL/AML1 gene fusion in childhood precursor B-lineage ALL does not seem to be associated with a high in vitro drug sensitivity, except for ASP, indicating that these patients could benefit from treatment schedules with significant use of this drug.
We report a 23-year-old female patient with cystic fibrosis developing severe intravascular hemolysis with a minimal hemoglobin level of 1.6 g/dl after 7 days of treatment with piperacillin, consistent with an immune-mediated hemolytic crisis. Twenty days later, the patient could leave the hospital in good condition without any neurological deficit. To our knowledge, this is the lowest reported hemoglobin value caused by hemolytic anemia with intact survival. As piperacillin is commonly used in patients with cystic fibrosis, it is important to monitor the full-blood counts of patients during treatment with piperacillin and to be aware of the potential for hemolytic anemia to develop. Anti-piperacillin antibodies should be considered whenever these patients develop hemolytic anemia or a positive direct antiglobulin test (DAT). Furthermore, drug-fever under piperacillin application could be a warning sign for the development of hemolytic anemia.
Arsenic is an environmental hazard and the reduction of drinking water arsenic levels is under consideration. People are exposed to arsenic not only through drinking water but also through arsenic-contaminated air and food. Here we report the health effects of arsenic exposure from burning high arsenic-containing coal in Guizhou, China. Coal in this region has undergone mineralization and thus produces high concentrations of arsenic. Coal is burned inside the home in open pits for daily cooking and crop drying, producing a high concentration of arsenic in indoor air. Arsenic in the air coats and permeates food being dried producing high concentrations in food; however, arsenic concentrations in the drinking water are in the normal range. The estimated sources of total arsenic exposure in this area are from arsenic-contaminated food (50-80%), air (10-20%), water (1-5%), and direct contact in coal-mining workers (1%). At least 3,000 patients with arsenic poisoning were found in the Southwest Prefecture of Guizhou, and approximately 200,000 people are at risk for such overexposures. Skin lesions are common, including keratosis of the hands and feet, pigmentation on the trunk, skin ulceration, and skin cancers. Toxicities to internal organs, including lung dysfunction, neuropathy, and nephrotoxicity, are clinically evident. The prevalence of hepatomegaly was 20%, and cirrhosis, ascites, and liver cancer are the most serious outcomes of arsenic poisoning. The Chinese government and international organizations are attempting to improve the house conditions and the coal source, and thereby protect human health in this area.
