To profile the effects of escitalopram with duloxetine on urinary flow rate and symptoms in elderly males aged 55-75 years.
This was an open, randomised pilot study. A total of 34 male volunteers with no existing urinary symptoms were randomised: 17 to escitalopram 10 mg once daily and 17 to duloxetine 60 mg once daily for 16 days. Doses were then tapered to 5 mg and 30 mg, respectively for 14 days. Subjects measured their urinary flow at home using a Urospec device for 48 hours pre-dose, immediately after the first dose, at 2 weeks and 5 days after stopping treatment.
The primary variable was the maximum urinary flow rate (Q(max)). Secondary variables were time to maximum flow rate (TQ(max)) and mean flow rate (Q(m)). The percentage of voided volume voided when the maximum flow was reached (VQ(max)), average voided volume (V(v)) and urinary symptoms assessed using the American Urological Association symptom index were also measured.
Mean Q(max) values increased from baseline in escitalopram-treated subjects and decreased in duloxetine-treated subjects. The maximum difference in treatment effect was observed after 2 days of treatment and was statistically significant (4.27 mL/sec, 95% CI 1.14-7.39, p = 0.009). Similar results were obtained with TQ(max). There were no significant differences between treatments in other urinary flow measures or urinary symptoms. Urinary flow measures reverted towards baseline values after stopping treatment. There were no treatment-related adverse events.
The results of this small, pilot study suggest that duloxetine may cause a decline in urinary flow in elderly men. A larger study in patients with urinary flow symptoms would be required to determine the clinical relevance of these findings.
Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene) is a naturally occurring compound shown to inhibit carcinogen-induced preneoplastic lesion formation in mouse mammary organ culture and tumorigenesis in the two-stage mouse skin model. Cancer chemopreventive potential was also suggested in various assays reflective of the three major stages of carcinogenesis. Anti-initiation activity was indicated by its antioxidant and antimutagenic effects, inhibition of the hydroperoxidase function of cyclooxygenase (COX), and induction of phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes. Antipromotion activity was indicated by antiinflammatory effects, inhibition of production of arachidonic acid metabolites catalyzed by either COX-1 or COX-2, and chemical carcinogen-induced neoplastic transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts. Antiprogression activity was demonstrated by its ability to induce human promyelocytic leukemia (HL-60) cell differentiation. Moreover, pretreatment of mouse skin with resveratrol significantly counteracted 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced oxidative stress, as evidenced by numerous biochemical responses. Resveratrol reduced the generation of hydrogen peroxide, and normalized levels of myeloperoxidase and oxidized-glutathione reductase activities. It also restored glutathione levels and superoxide dismutase activity. As judged by the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, resveratrol selectively inhibited TPA-induced expression of c-fos and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1), but did not affect other TPA-induced gene products including COX-1, COX-2, c-myc, c-jun, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. These data indicate that resveratrol may interfere with reactive oxidant pathways and/or modulate the expression of c-fos and TGF-beta 1 to inhibit tumorigenesis in mouse skin. As reported herein, in addition to the activities described above, resveratrol inhibited the de novo formation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in mouse macrophages stimulated with lipopolysaccharide. This finding suggests an additional mechanism by which resveratrol may function as a cancer chemopreventive agent.
Thyroid function has been related to Alzheimer disease (AD) and neuroimaging markers thereof. Whether thyroid dysfunction contributes to or results from developing AD remains unclear. Variations in the deiodinase type 1 (DIO1) and type 2 (DIO2) genes that potentially alter thyroid hormone bioactivity may help in elucidating the role of thyroid function in AD.
We investigated the association of recently identified polymorphisms in the DIO1 (D1a-C/T, D1b-A/G) and DIO2 (D2-ORFa-Gly3Asp, D2-Thr92Ala) genes with circulating thyroid parameters and early neuroimaging markers of AD.
The Rotterdam Scan Study is a population-based cohort study among 1,077 elderly individuals aged 60-90 yr.
DIO1 and DIO2 polymorphisms and serum TSH, free T4, T3, and reverse T3 (rT3) levels were determined in 995 nondemented elderly, including 473 persons with assessments of hippocampal and amygdalar volume on brain magnetic resonance imaging.
Carriers of the D1a-T allele had higher serum free T4 and rT3, lower T3, and lower T3/rT3. The D1b-G allele was associated with higher serum T3 and T3/rT3. The DIO2 variants were not associated with serum thyroid parameters. No associations were found with hippocampal or amygdalar volume.
This is the first study to report an association of D1a-C/T and D1b-A/G polymorphisms with iodothyronine levels in the elderly. Polymorphisms in the DIO1 and DIO2 genes are not associated with early magnetic resonance imaging markers of AD. This suggests that the previously reported association between iodothyronine levels and brain atrophy reflects comorbidity or nonthyroidal illness rather than thyroid hormones being involved in developing AD.
The effects of 0.2 mg/kg orally administered diazepam and of a placebo on explicit memory, implicit and knowledge memory were assessed using a free recall task, a word-stem completion task and two category-generation tasks. Twenty four healthy volunteers took part in this double-blind study. Diazepam impaired explicit but not implicit memory. The drug also spared knowledge memory. Explicit memory was linked with the diazepam-induced sedation and with the self-rated affective load of to-be remembered words, but implicit memory was not. The diazepam-induced dissociation between explicit and implicit memory supports the notion of two distinct forms of memory and reproduced the dissociation observed in organic amnesia.
A case is presented of a postpartum woman in whom hypertension and pulmonary edema developed after administration of bromocriptine mesylate. Caution is advised when there is additional recent use of cocaine because of a suggested potentiating action of cocaine on the development of adverse cardiovascular and cerebral sequelae in postpartum patients who take bromocriptine.
This report presents a serious adverse reaction to the anticonvulsant compound carbamazepine. A woman was admitted to hospital for recurrent attacks of syncope. She suffered from atrioventricular block of the Mobitz type II. Carbamazepine suppressed the conduction in her already defective Purkinje fibres and induced ventricular stand-still with subsequent Adams-Stokes attacks.
Many individuals with cardiac diseases undergo periodic physical conditioning with or without medication to improve cardiovascular health. Therefore, this study investigated the interaction of physical training and chronic nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor (nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, L-NAME) treatment on blood pressure (BP), cardiac vascular endothelial factor (VEGF) gene expression, and nitric oxide (NO) systems in rats. Fisher 344 rats were divided into four groups and treated as follows: (1) sedentary control, (2) exercise training (ET) for 8 weeks, (3) L-NAME (10mg/kg, s.c. for 8 weeks), and (4) ET+L-NAME. BP was monitored with tail-cuff method. The animals were sacrificed 24h after last treatments and hearts were isolated and analyzed. Physical conditioning significantly increased respiratory exchange ratio, cardiac NO levels, NOS activity, endothelial eNOS, and inducible iNOS protein expression as well as VEGF gene expression. Training also caused depletion of cardiac malondialdehyde (MDA) levels indicating the beneficial effects of the training. Chronic L-NAME administration resulted in a depletion of cardiac NO level, NOS activity, and eNOS, nNOS, and iNOS protein expressions, as well as VEGF gene expression (2-fold increase in VEGF mRNA). Chronic L-NAME administration also enhanced cardiac MDA levels indicating cardiac oxidative injury. These biochemical changes were accompanied by increases in BP after L-NAME administration. Interaction of training and NOS inhibitor treatment resulted in normalization of BP and up-regulation of cardiac VEGF gene expression. The data suggest that physical conditioning attenuated the oxidative injury caused by chronic NOS inhibition by up-regulating the cardiac VEGF and NO levels and lowering the BP in rats.
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a member of the HER/ERB-B family of transmembrane receptor kinases. Overexpression of EGFR confers advantages in cell proliferation, survival, and migration and correlates with decreased survival in multiple solid tumors. However, a proportion of these malignancies have little or no expression of EGFR. CpG island hypermethylation and associated transcriptional silencing are common in solid tumors. The methylation status of the EGFR CpG island was examined in a series of cell lines and tissues. Dense EGFR methylation (90%) was found in the breast cancer cell line CAMA1, and a moderate degree of methylation (30-50%) was observed in the breast cancer cell lines MB435 and MB453. Transcriptional silencing of EGFR in these cell lines closely correlated with methylation. By contrast, no methylation of the HER-2/ neu CpG island was detected. EGFR hypermethylation was also found in a subset of unselected primary breast (20%), head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (35%), and lung tumors (11%). Treatment with decitabine resulted in the reexpression of EGFR in CAMA1 and MB453. Both cell lines are relatively resistant to killing by the EGFR inhibitor gefitinib. However, after cotreatment with decitabine and gefitinib, a significant effect on the induction of apoptosis was observed. In conclusion, EGFR is hypermethylated and silenced in a subset of solid tumor cell lines and primary tumor specimens, and cotreatment with decitabine and gefitinib has an additive effect only in EGFR methylated breast cancer cell lines.
We investigated the role of CB1 receptors in hippocampal-dependent memory consolidation mediated by polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) during contextual fear conditioning (CFC). The CB1 receptor agonist 3-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)-(-)-11-hydroxy-Delta(8)-tetrahydrocannabinol (HU-210) (0.1 mg/kg) was given immediately after training during the memory consolidation phase, and freezing behavior was measured 24 h after conditioning. Administration of HU-210 attenuated freezing behavior measured in CFC. Western blot analysis showed that CFC induced a decrease in the expression of NCAM-180, but did not change the level of NCAM-140 and increased PSA-NCAM expression measured 24 h after training in the rat hippocampus. HU-210 (0.1 mg/kg) injection did not affect the reduction in NCAM-180 levels induced by CFC, but it blocked the increase in PSA-NCAM expression. Since the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus is known to be involved in memory consolidation and expresses a high level of PSA-NCAM protein, we measured the effects of CFC and HU-210 administration on PSA-NCAM-immunoreactive (IR) cells in the DG. CFC caused an increase in the number of PSA-NCAM-IR cells in the DG, but not K(i)-67- or doublecortin (DCX)-IR cells. This increase in PSA-NCAM-IR cells was abolished by HU-210 injection. Administration of the CB1 receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (AM-251) (3 mg/kg immediately before HU-210) inhibited the effects of HU-210 on freezing behavior and PSA-NCAM expression in the DG. These results indicate that activation of CB1 receptors disturbs consolidation of fear memory in CFC, likely by affecting PSA-NCAM expression in the DG, which plays an important role in synaptic rearrangement during the formation of memory traces.
Hepcidin is the principal iron regulatory hormone, controlling the systemic absorption and remobilization of iron from intracellular stores. The expression of the hepcidin gene, HAMP, is increased in patients with anemia of chronic disease. Previously, the synthetic compound K7174 was identified through chemical screening as a novel inhibitor of the adhesion of monocytes to cytokine-stimulated endothelial cells. K7174 also ameliorated anemia induced by inflammatory cytokines in mice, which suggests a possible involvement of hepcidin regulation. The present study was performed to assess the impact of K7174 on hepcidin expression in a human hematoma cell line and in mice in vivo. We first demonstrated that K7174 treatment in HepG2 cells significantly decreased HAMP expression. Then, we conducted microarray analysis to determine the molecular mechanism by which K7174 inhibits HAMP expression. Transcriptional profiling confirmed the downregulation of HAMP. Surprisingly, we found that K7174 strongly induced GDF15, known as a negative regulator of HAMP expression. Western blotting analysis as well as ELISA confirmed the induction of GDF15 by K7174 treatment. Furthermore, K7174-mediated HAMP suppression was rescued by the silencing of GDF15 expression. Interestingly, we found that K7174 also upregulates CEBPB. Promoter analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that CEBPB could contribute to K7174-mediated transcriptional activation of GDF15. Subsequently, we also examined whether K7174 inhibits hepcidin expression in mice. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis with liver samples from K7174-treated mice demonstrated significant upregulation of Gdf15 and downregulation of Hamp expression, as compared to control mice. Furthermore, serum hepcidin concentration was also significantly decreased in K7174-treated mice. In conclusion, K7174 inhibits hepcidin expression partly by inducing GDF15. K-7174 may be a potential therapeutic option to treat anemia of chronic disease.
Acne vulgaris is very common, 85% of teenagers being affected at any one time. In most cases, the disease is mild and patients do not present to the dermatologist. Most are instead treated with over-the-counter products and conventional treatment such as peeling agents or topical and systemic antibiotics. Isotretinoin has revolutionized the treatment of severe acne unresponsive to oral antibiotics. Explosive and very severe acne such as pyoderma faciale, acne conglobata and acne fulminans are rare, the features that distinguish acne fulminans from the other conditions being systemic upset with fever, joint pain, malaise and leucocytosis, while there have been two reports of the condition associated with erythema nodosum. The recommended treatment for acne fulminans is a combination of oral steroids and systemic antibiotics, isotretinoin probably not being the treatment of choice. We now report a patient who developed acne fulminans and erythema nodosum within 3 weeks of starting isotretinoin and then responded to dapsone without oral steroids.
To survey caffeine use by seventh-, eighth-, and ninth-graders and relate its use to age, sex, sleep characteristics, and day of week
Students kept a daily, 2-week diary of their sleep times and use of caffeine containing drinks and foods. Data were analyzed by fitted multiple regression models
A total of 191 students participated. Caffeine intake ranged between 0 and 800 mg/d. Mean use over 2 weeks ranged up to 379.4 mg/d and averaged 62.7 mg/d (corrected for underrepresentation in our sample of boys, who consumed more caffeine). Higher caffeine intake in general was associated with shorter nocturnal sleep duration, increased wake time after sleep onset, and increased daytime sleep. SLEEP PATTERNS: Mean bedtime was 10:57 PM, and mean wake time was at 7:14 AM. Older children delayed bedtime longer on weekends, and younger ones had longer nightly sleep durations. Sleep duration lengthened on weekends, reflecting the combined effects of the circadian timing system and a mechanism that regulates the duration of sleep. Caffeine (soda) consumption also increased on weekends, for reasons that may be primarily social
Regardless of whether caffeine use disturbed sleep or was consumed to counteract the daytime effect of interrupted sleep, caffeinated beverages had detectable pharmacologic effects. Limitation of the availability of caffeine to teenagers should therefore be considered.
The organophosphorus nerve agent soman is an irreversible cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitor that can produce long-lasting seizures and seizure-related brain damage (SRBD) in which acetylcholine and glutamate are involved. Since these neurotransmitters play a key-role in the auditory function, it was hypothesized that a hearing test may be an efficient way for detecting the central effects of soman intoxication. In the present study, distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs), a non-invasive audiometric method, were used in rats administered with soman (70 μg/kg). Four hours post-soman, DPOAE intensities were significantly decreased. They returned to baseline one day later. The amplitude of the temporary drop of the DPOAEs was well related to the severity of the intoxication. The greatest change was recorded in the rats that survived long-lasting convulsions, i.e. those that showed the highest ChE inhibition in brain and severe encephalopathy. Furthermore, the administration, immediately after soman, of a three-drug therapy composed of atropine sulfate, HI-6 and avizafone abolished the convulsions, the transient drop of DPOAEs at 4h and the occurrence of SRBD at 28 h without modifying brain ChE inhibition. This showed that DPOAE change was not directly related to soman-induced inhibition of cerebral ChE but rather to its neuropathological consequences. The present findings strongly suggest that DPOAEs represent a promising non-invasive tool to predict SRBD occurrence in nerve agent poisoning and to control the efficacy of a neuroprotective treatment.
Sodium valproate (VPA) administered to neonatal mice causes cognitive and motor deficits similar to those observed in humans with autism. In an effort to further evaluate similarities between early VPA exposure and autism, the present study examined treated mice for deficits in social behavior and neuronal damage. BALB/c mice injected on P14 with 400 mg/kg VPA engaged in fewer social interactions (including ano-genital sniffs, allogrooming, and crawl-under/over behaviors) than control mice. Treated mice also exhibited reduced motor activity in a social context but were not significantly different from controls when motor activity was assessed in non-social settings. A second set of BALB/c mice were treated with VPA on P14 and sacrificed at different times thereafter for histopathological analysis. At time-points 12 and 24 h following VPA, treated mice had up to a 30-fold increase in the number of TUNEL-positive cells in the external granule cell layer of the cerebellum and a 10-fold increase in TUNEL-positive cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. These observations may provide a histopathological correlate for the social deficits observed following post-natal VPA exposure and supports the use of early VPA administration as an animal model for the study of autism.
The long-term effects of hypertension on the heart culminate in congestive heart failure. The underlying causes are contractile impairment due to myocyte loss and reduced compliance due to myocardial fibrosis. Newer strategies in antihypertensive therapy must, therefore, focus on prevention of myocardial damage ('cardioprotection') or, if an abnormality has occurred, on reversal towards normal myocardial structure and function ('cardioreparation').
To investigate the question of whether angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition can influence myocardial remodelling in hypertension to produce cardioprotective and cardioreparative effects.
Infusion of pathophysiological levels of circulating angiotensin II in rats causes cardiac myocyte necrosis, followed by fibroblast proliferation. This necrosis is not secondary to adrenergic activation or raised blood pressure. Similarly, renovascular hypertension results in cardiac myocyte necrosis, which can be prevented by pretreatment with the ACE inhibitor captopril. In established genetic hypertension in rats, sustained treatment with high-dose lisinopril normalizes the blood pressure, reverses left ventricular hypertrophy, reverses excessive interstitial and perivascular fibrosis (and consequently the impaired compliance), and reverses excessive coronary artery medial thickening (thereby normalizing coronary vascular reserve). With a low dose of lisinopril that does not reduce blood pressure significantly, only the excessive fibrosis is reversed.
ACE inhibition has demonstrated promising myocardial remodelling effects in experimental models of hypertensive heart disease.
Despite the available evidence from randomized clinical trials, beta-blockers are often not used optimally in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). This meta-analysis aims at providing a precise and quantitative estimate of the benefit and risks of long-term bisoprolol on major clinical events in patients with CHF, both overall and in selected subgroups. This may help clinicians in their decisions as to whether to prescribe bisoprolol for their individual patients.
Meta-analysis was performed of results from the 2 randomized, controlled clinical studies in which bisoprolol was compared with placebo (Cardiac Insufficiency Bisoprolol Study [CIBIS and CIBIS II]), which included 3288 patients with proven CHF. The main outcomes were total death, cardiovascular death, sudden death, hospitalization for heart failure, and myocardial infarction.
A highly significant 29.3% relative reduction of death (17%, 40%; P =.00003) was observed, as well as significant risk reduction in cardiovascular death and sudden death in favor of bisoprolol. Also, a highly significant relative reduction of 18.4% (25%, 11%; P =.00001) in hospital admission or death was observed. A similar relative reduction of death was consistently observed in selected subgroups of patients.
Bisoprolol prevents major cardiovascular events in patients with CHF with a high benefit-to-risk ratio and can be recommended for these patients.
Glycerol acute renal failure (ARF) was examined to see if it alters theophylline (Th) neurotoxicity in rats. Concentrations of Th in serum, cerebrospinal fluid and in brain at seizure onset were similar in control and ARF rats infused with Th. Thus, glycerol ARF fails to alter Th neurotoxicity, an effect similar to that noted previously with uranyl nitrate but not with ureter ligation.
Defensins are 20-30 amino acid-long, cystine- and arginine-rich peptides that constitute more than 5% of the total cellular proteins in mature granulocytes and at least 30% of proteins in primary granules. Human defensins were reported to have antimicrobial, antifungal, antiviral and tumor lysis activities. Defensin mRNA was isolated using the differential display technique from the well-characterized all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-responsive acute promyelocytic leukemia cell line, NB4. The differential display analysis showed an up-regulation of defensin mRNA in NB4 cells after treatment with 10(-7) M ATRA for 24 h. This expression was not seen in an NB4:R2 cell line, an ATRA-resistant subclone of NB4 cells. In order to investigate further the effects of this gene on our cellular model, we virally infected our cells with full-length defensin cDNA in the sense and antisense directions. Sense defensin induced cell growth arrest and cell death in both cell lines. While NB4 cells died within 48-73 h, NB4:R2 cells survived for 96 h before dying in culture. Phenotypic analysis showed high expression of Annexin V in sense-infected cells compared with antisense and uninfected cells in both cell lines. There was not a significant increase in CD11b expression in any of the 2 cell lines used. No cellular response was encountered in antisense-infected cells. Our data suggest that defensin is not only a reliable marker for granulocytic differentiation, but can also be considered a candidate target for molecular therapy in acute promyelocytic leukemia.
To report a severe case of cholestatic liver disease successfully treated with corticosteroids following combined therapy with clarithromycin and nimesulide.
A 15-year-old girl was admitted with cholestasis probably related to treatment with clarithromycin and nimesulide for an upper respiratory tract infection. Other causes of liver disease (infections, metabolic liver disorders, genetic cholestatic syndromes, autoimmune diseases, primary biliary tract disorders) were excluded. Liver biopsy showed a severe canalicular cholestasis with bile plugs in dilated bile canaliculi, giant cell transformation, and portal and lobular infiltrate. An objective causality assessment suggested that cholestasis was probably related to clarithromycin and/or nimesulide use. No benefit was derived from a course of ursodeoxycholic acid therapy. Since the patient experienced a progressive worsening in cholestasis, prednisone was started after 20 days. This therapy was promptly followed by improvement in clinical and laboratory test results. After 2 months of prednisone treatment, the patient became symptom-free with normal liver function tests.
The manifestations of drug-induced hepatotoxicity are highly variable, ranging from asymptomatic hypertransaminemia to fulminant hepatic failure. No specific treatment for drug-induced hepatotoxicity exists. Early recognition and drug withdrawal are the keys to management of hepatotoxicity, but in some cases, liver disease may persist despite discontinuation of the drug. Possible advantages of corticosteroid therapy have not been well demonstrated.
Application of the Naranjo probability scale indicates a probable relationship between cholestasis and nimesulide plus clarithromycin use. This case draws attention to a possible therapeutic option for some cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity that show a severe course without any sign of improvement.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given two separate sensitizing regimens of cocaine (7 days on, 7 days off, 7 days on; 40 mg/kg/day s.c.) along with saline controls. Furthermore, animals also received the 5-HT(3) antagonist ondansetron (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) either during the second dosing regimen (3.5 h after each cocaine/saline injection) or during the first five days of the second withdrawal period. Animals were then challenged, on day 10 of withdrawal, with cocaine (7.5 mg/kg i.p.) and assessed by a behavioral rating scale and locomotor activity monitoring. The cocaine regimen induced behavioral and locomotor sensitization on day 10 of withdrawal, further, ondansetron inhibited sensitization regardless of whether given after each second cocaine regimen dose or during the second withdrawal period, although treatment 3.5 h after each cocaine injection appeared more effective. Ondansetron did not inhibit behavior in control animals. In a second experiment animals were trained to self-administer cocaine via an indwelling jugular catheter. After stable fixed-ratio responding (FR1 then FR2) they were given a progressive ratio (PR) schedule until PR each day was stable. During the first five days of withdrawal they were given either ondansetron (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) or saline injections. On day 10 of withdrawal the cocaine PR schedule was reinstated. The ondansetron treated rats showed only a non-significant decrease in break point. After day 2 of the PR session rats were again injected with either ondansetron (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) or saline, 3.5 h after each PR session for five days. Ondansetron inhibited cocaine self-administration on each of the following days. Ondansetron may be a useful treatment for cocaine addicts who have undergone previous sensitization periods.
These studies investigated the effects of antagonists selective for the 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2B), or 5-HT(2C) receptor subtypes on behaviors elicited or maintained by cocaine. The selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist M100907 (0.5 mg/kg, SC) attenuated the locomotor activity elicited by 10 mg/kg cocaine, whereas the selective 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist SB242084 (0.5 mg/kg IP) potentiated the locomotor stimulant effect of 10 mg/kg cocaine. The selective 5-HT(2B) antagonist SB215505 (3 mg/kg PO) did not alter cocaine-induced locomotor activity. In a second series of experiments, the effects of M100907 and SB242084 were examined in rats self-administering cocaine intravenously according to a progressive ratio schedule. M100907 (0.5-2 mg/kg) did not alter responding for cocaine at an infusion dose of 0.25 mg. Similarly M100907 (0.5 mg/kg) failed to alter responding for cocaine at infusion doses of 0.0625, 0.125 and 0.25 mg. SB242084 (0.5-1 mg/kg) increased responding for cocaine with the infusion dose set at 0.125 mg. Examination of the effects of SB242084 (0.5 mg/kg) on the cocaine dose response curve revealed significant increases in responding at the lowest doses of 0.0625 and 0.125 but not 0.25 mg. After completion of the self-administration experiments responding was extinguished. M100907 (0.5 mg/kg) attenuated the ability of experimenter administered cocaine (10 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg) to reinstate lever pressing, whereas the priming effect of cocaine (10 mg/kg) was enhanced by SB242084. These results indicate distinct, and in some cases opposite, effects of a 5-HT(2A) compared with a 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist on various cocaine-mediated behavioral effects.
Elevated endothelin (ET)-1 has been implicated in cerebrovascular complications following brain trauma characterized by dysregulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), protein kinase C (PKC), and cerebral function. Recently, vascular expression of PPARalpha has been observed and suggested to improve vascular dysfunction. We speculate that activation of PPARalpha in cerebral microvessels can improve cerebral dysfunction following trauma, and we tested the hypothesis that activation of cerebral endothelial peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha will attenuate ET-1 production via a mechanism involving nitric oxide (NO) and PKC. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) (1 microM), bradykinin (BK, 1 microM), angiotensin II (AII, 1 microM), or hemoglobin (Hem, 10 microM) increased ET-1 levels by 24-, 11.4-, 3.6-, or 1.3-fold increasing ET-1 levels from 0.36 +/- 0.08 to 8.6 +/- 0.8, 4.1 +/- 0.7, 1.30 +/- 0.1, or 0.47 +/- 0.03 fmol/microg protein (p < 0.05), respectively. Clofibrate (10 microM) reduced basal ET-1 from 0.36 +/- 0.08 (control) to 0.03 +/- 0.01 and blunted vasoactive agent-induced increase to 0.12 +/- 0.07 (PMA), 0.6 +/- 0.04 (BK), 0.25 +/- 0.03 (AII), or 0.12 +/- 0.03 (Hem) fM/microg protein (p < 0.05). L-arginine methyl ester (100 microM) inhibited clofibrate-induced reduction in basal ET-1 production. Clofibrate increased PPARalpha expression, accompanied by increased NO production and eNOS expression. PKC inhibition by calphostin C (10 microM) blocked these effects, whereas activation by PMA reduced basal PPARalpha expression. Thus, PPARalpha activation attenuated ET-1 production by agents that mediate brain injury through mechanisms that probably result from PPARalpha-induced increase in eNOS expression/NO production and complex PKC signaling pathways. Therefore, PPARalpha activators can be appropriate therapeutic agents to alleviate cerebrovascular dysfunction following cerebral vasospasm.
Association studies have become a common and popular method to identify genetic variants predisposing to complex diseases. Despite considerable efforts and initial promising findings, the field of prostate cancer genetics is characterized by inconclusive reports and no prostate cancer gene has yet been established.
We performed a literature review and identified 79 different polymorphisms reported to influence prostate cancer risk. Of these, 46 were selected and tested for association in a large Swedish population-based case-control prostate cancer population.
We observed significant (P < 0.05) confirmation for six polymorphisms located in five different genes. Three of them coded for key enzymes in the androgen biosynthesis and response pathway; the CAG repeat in the androgen receptor (AR) gene (P = 0.03), one SNP in the CYP17 gene (P = 0.04), two SNPs in the SRD5A2 gene (P = 0.02 and 0.02, respectively), a deletion of the GSTT1 gene (P = 0.006), and one SNP in the MSR1 gene, IVS5-59C > A, (P = 0.009).
Notwithstanding the difficulties to replicate findings in genetic association studies, our results strongly support the importance of androgen pathway genes in prostate cancer etiology.
