Genetic factors can contribute to autistic disorder (AD). Abnormal genes of oxidative stress pathways and increased oxidative stress have been reported in autism spectrum disorders. Polymorphisms of genes involved in glutathione metabolism, e.g. GSTP1 and GSTM1 are reportedly associated with autistic disorder. We investigated a GCG repeat polymorphism of a human glutathione peroxidase (GPX1) polyalanine repeat (ALA5, ALA6 and ALA7) in 103 trios of AD (probands and parents) using the transmission disequilibrium test. Significant transmission disequilibrium (p=0.044) was found in the overall transmission of the three alleles. The ALA6 allele was under transmitted (p=0.017). These results suggest that possessing this ALA6 allele may be protective for AD. Future study of interaction of the GPX1 GCG repeat and other gene polymorphisms such as the MnSOD ALA16 or the GPX1 Pro198Leu polymorphism in this cohort of AD families may shed light in whether the combination of the ALA6 allele with another polymorphism of antioxidant allele contributes to the increased oxidative stress in autism.
In rats exposed to a simulated high altitude of 3500 m or 6000 m for 6--7 weeks, myocardial necrosis was produced by ligation of the left coronary artery close to its origin, by ligation of the descending branch of the left coronary artery (true infarcts), or by administration of a large dose of isoprenaline. The same was done in control sea-level animals. The extent of the necrosis 24 hours after its induction was estimated from the activity of creatine phosphokinase in the tissue of the left ventricle and, in rats continuously exposed to 6000 m, also by measuring the surface of necrosis marked histochemically with phosphorylase activity in histological slides. In rats continuously exposed to 3500 m the extent of the isoprenaline-induced necrosis was smaller than in the controls, but there was no difference in true infarction. In rats intermittently exposed to 6000 m, no difference in the extent of any type of experimental necrosis was found when compared with sea-level rats. In rats continuously exposed to 6000 m, the extent of all types of experimental necrosis was smaller than in control animals. In histological sections of hearts with true infarctions it was possible to distinguish between the intact tissue, a zone of total necrosis and a zone of partial necrosis. Whether the main trunk or the descending branch of the left coronary artery was ligated, the extent of the zone of total necrosis in rats continuously exposed to 6000 m was smaller, the zone of partial necrosis was larger only in rats with a ligature of the trunk, and the extent of intact myocardium was not different when compared with control sea-level animals with the same type of myocardial infarction.
A single dose of valproic acid (VPA), which is a widely used antiepileptic drug, is associated with oxidative stress in rats, as recently demonstrated by elevated levels of 15-F(2t)-isoprostane (15-F(2t)-IsoP). To determine whether there was a temporal relationship between VPA-associated oxidative stress and hepatotoxicity, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated ip with VPA (500 mg/kg) or 0.9% saline (vehicle) once daily for 2, 4, 7, 10, or 14 days. Oxidative stress was assessed by determining plasma and liver levels of 15-F(2t)-IsoP, lipid hydroperoxides (LPO), and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARs). Plasma and liver 15-F(2t)-IsoP were elevated and reached a plateau after day 2 of VPA treatment compared to control. Liver LPO levels were not elevated until day 7 of treatment (1.8-fold versus control, p < 0.05). Liver and plasma TBARs were not increased until 14 days (2-fold vs. control, p < 0.05). Liver toxicity was evaluated based on serum levels of alpha-glutathione S-transferase (alpha-GST) and by histology. Serum alpha-GST levels were significantly elevated by day 4, which corresponded to hepatotoxicity as shown by the increasing incidence of inflammation of the liver capsule, necrosis, and steatosis throughout the study. The liver levels of beta-oxidation metabolites of VPA were decreased by day 14, while the levels of 4-ene-VPA and (E)-2,4-diene-VPA were not elevated throughout the study. Overall, these findings indicate that VPA treatment results in oxidative stress, as measured by levels of 15-F(2t)-IsoP, which precedes the onset of necrosis, steatosis, and elevated levels of serum alpha-GST.
Psoralens and ultraviolet light A (PUVA) are used in the treatment of a variety of epidermal proliferative and inflammatory disorders. These compounds are known to intercalate and photo crosslink DNA. Specific receptor proteins for psoralens have also been identified. We describe a novel activity of a thiol reactive derivative, iodomercurio-4',5'-dihydrotrimethylpsoralen (iodomercurio-H2TMP) in keratinocytes. Without UVA, this psoralen was found to be an effective inhibitor of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-signaling as measured by induction of nitric oxide biosynthesis (IC50 = 0.8 microM). This activity was increased (IC50 = 0.1 microM) when the cells were depleted of intracellular glutathione (GSH) with buthionine sulfoximine. In keratinocytes, IFN-gamma stimulates expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2). Although iodomercurio-H2TMP did not alter NOS2 enzymatic activity, it blocked IFN-gamma-induced expression of NOS2 mRNA and protein, an effect that was enhanced in GSH-depleted cells. Iodomercurio-H2TMP was found to readily inhibit IFN-gamma signaling in transient transfection assays using NOS2 promoter/luciferase reporter constructs. NOS2 gene expression is known to require a variety of transcription factors including STAT-1, NF-kappaB and AP-1. Using mobility shift assays the psoralen, at concentrations that inhibit nitric oxide biosynthesis, had no effect on the DNA binding activity of STAT-1 or NF-kappaB. However, iodomercurio-H2TMP was found to suppress AP-1. These data indicate that iodomercurio-H2TMP acts at sulfhydryl-sensitive sites to inhibit NOS2. Moreover, this is dependent on early events in the IFN-gamma signal transduction pathway. Inhibition of AP-1 suggests that the psoralen functions by interfering with an important transcription factor that regulates expression of NOS2 in keratinocytes.
In a 73-year-old female with chronic lymphocytic leukemia we observed an acute illness with shivering, high fever, and hemolytic anemia following chlorambucil administration. Reexposure in a controlled clinical situation suggested an allergic drug reaction. In an in vitro assay, we were able to demonstrate chlorambucil as the causative agent of immune hemolysis.
A controlled randomized double-blind study was done to determine the frequency and severity of leg cramps in 40 patients on dialysis with a history of leg cramps. All patients entered a 2 month placebo washout and were randomized into a 2 month double-dummy phase of quinine 325 mg at bedtime versus vitamin E 400 IU at bedtime. Of the 29 patients completing the study, 16 received quinine and 13 vitamin E. During placebo washout, the vitamin E group had a mean of 10.4 leg cramps per month, and the quinine group had a mean of 10.9. The vitamin E and quinine groups had a 1 month reduction in leg cramps to 3.3 and 3.6, respectively (p < 0.0005 for both groups combined); this was sustained at 2 months. A severity of pain index showed a statistically significant decrease for both groups. The 95% confidence interval for the difference between the number of leg cramps after vitamin E versus quinine treatment (95% confidence interval, -3.8, +3.2) suggests similar efficacy. Quinine and vitamin E were effective treatments for leg cramps in these patients. Considering the potential toxicity of quinine, vitamin E is recommended as the initial treatment of choice for patients on dialysis with leg cramps.
To determine the appropriate diagnostic workup of the emergency department patient with an uncomplicated cocaine-related grand mal seizure.
Retrospective analysis. A city and county ED with 45,000 selected visits per year.
Thirty-seven patients with acute grand mal seizure after cocaine exposure were studied. All had historical or laboratory evidence of cocaine use and no history of prior seizure disorder.
The diagnostic workup varied among patients. Most received computed head tomography (35), whereas fewer received-ECG (18), EEG (16), and lumbar puncture (six).
Thirty-three patients with an uncomplicated cocaine-related seizure had an unremarkable series of diagnostic tests. The four patients with remarkable neurologic manifestations were compared with the remainder of patients who were without neurologic abnormalities. Comparison of groups by route of cocaine intake revealed no significant difference in the time interval to seizure (P = .761).
Diagnostic workup probably is not indicated for the patient experiencing a cocaine-related generalized seizure who will recover promptly and have a normal postictal examination.
Compared with glycopeptides, linezolid achieves higher lung epithelial lining fluid concentrations, which may correlate with improved efficacy in the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia. However, clinical superiority has not been demonstrated.
To test the hypothesis that linezolid may be superior to glycopeptides.
Prospective randomized trials that tested linezolid vs. vancomycin or teicoplanin for treatment of nosocomial pneumonia were included. Heterogeneity was analyzed by I(2) and Q statistics. Meta-analysis relative risks were based on fixed and random-effects models. Outcomes evaluated consisted of clinical cure, microbiological eradication, and side effects.
Nine linezolid trials (vancomycin [7]; teicoplanin [2]) were included (n = 2329). The linezolid vs. glycopeptide analysis shows clinical cure relative risk of 1.01 (95% confidence interval, 0.93-1.10; p = .83; I(2) = 0%) and microbiological eradication relative risk of 1.10 (95% confidence interval, 0.98 -1.22; p = .10; I(2) = 0%). Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus subgroup analysis yielded a microbiological eradication relative risk of 1.10 (95% confidence interval, 0.87-1.38; p = .44; I(2) = 16%). If linezolid is compared with vancomycin only, then clinical cure relative risk is 1.00 (95% confidence interval, 0.90-1.12), microbiological eradication and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus relative risks are 1.07 (95% confidence interval, 0.90-1.26; p = .45) and 1.05 (95% confidence interval, 0.82-1.33; p = .71). The risks of thrombocytopenia (relative risk, 1.93; 95% confidence interval, 1.30-2.87; p = .001) and gastrointestinal events (relative risk, 2.02; 95% confidence interval, 1.10-3.70; p = .02) are higher with linezolid, but no differences are seen for renal dysfunction (relative risk, 0.89; 95% confidence interval, 0.56-1.43; p = .64) or all-cause mortality (relative risk, 0.95; 95% confidence interval, 0.76-1.18; p = .63).
Our study does not demonstrate clinical superiority of linezolid vs. glycopeptides for the treatment of nosocomial pneumonia despite a statistical power of 95%. Linezolid shows a significant two-fold increase in the risk of thrombocytopenia and gastrointestinal events. Vancomycin and teicoplanin are not associated with more renal dysfunction than linezolid.
A phase 2 trial of vincristine infusion was conducted in a group of 21 patients with refractory multiple myeloma. Patients were generally heavily pretreated with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Vincristine was given intravenously (IV) as a 0.5 mg bolus and followed immediately by infusion of 0.25 to 0.50 mg/m2/d for 5 days. Courses were repeated every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or prohibitive toxicity. Objective responses (partial) were noted in two patients (10%), both of whom were administered 0.5 mg/m2/d infusions. Response durations were brief (2.2 and 1.2 months). Toxicity consisted of neurotoxicity and myelosuppression. In addition to the occurrence of paresthesias and myalgias, ileus (two cases) and moderately severe loss of motor function (two cases) were observed. The mean lowest WBC count following treatment was 2.67 X 10(3)/microL v 3.96 X 10(3)/microL pretreatment (P = .008). The mean lowest platelet count was 75.0 X 10(3)/microL v 106.8 X 10(3)/microL pretreatment (P = .008). Vincristine infusion appears to have limited activity in the treatment of refractory multiple myeloma. Additionally, response durations were short lived and toxicity, both neurologic and hematologic, was appreciable.
Doxorubicin provides the most consistent response rate in hepatocellular carcinoma. We therefore initiated a trial with its analog 4'epidoxorubicin. Eighteen patients, all without prior treatment, were given the drug as a single agent every 3 weeks with dose escalation whenever possible. Five patients were treated by six-hour infusion and 13 by intravenous (IV) bolus injection, with the median dose being 90 mg/m2. The patients were of diverse ethnic background and included some with underlying cirrhosis and hepatitis B surface antigenemia. Three patients had partial remissions (6, 12, 48 weeks) for a response rate of 17%. Four patients also had prolonged stable disease (14, 26, 27, 38 weeks). Toxicity was mild, although cardiac toxicity developed in three patients at 685, 825, and 1,460 mg/m2 cumulative dose. The response to 4'epidoxorubicin in this study appears to be equivalent to the reported response rates for doxorubicin, with decreased toxicity.
We conducted a meta-analysis of Parkinson's disease genome-wide association studies using a common set of 7,893,274 variants across 13,708 cases and 95,282 controls. Twenty-six loci were identified as having genome-wide significant association; these and 6 additional previously reported loci were then tested in an independent set of 5,353 cases and 5,551 controls. Of the 32 tested SNPs, 24 replicated, including 6 newly identified loci. Conditional analyses within loci showed that four loci, including GBA, GAK-DGKQ, SNCA and the HLA region, contain a secondary independent risk variant. In total, we identified and replicated 28 independent risk variants for Parkinson's disease across 24 loci. Although the effect of each individual locus was small, risk profile analysis showed substantial cumulative risk in a comparison of the highest and lowest quintiles of genetic risk (odds ratio (OR) = 3.31, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 2.55-4.30; P = 2 × 10(-16)). We also show six risk loci associated with proximal gene expression or DNA methylation.
Effects of 17alpha-ethinylestradiol (EE) on the neutral and acidic biosynthetic pathways of bile salt (BS) synthesis were evaluated in rats with an intact enterohepatic circulation and in rats with long-term bile diversion to induce BS synthesis. For this purpose, bile salt pool composition, synthesis of individual BS in vivo, hepatic activities, and expression levels of cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase (CYP7A), and sterol 27-hydroxylase (CYP27), as well as of other enzymes involved in BS synthesis, were analyzed in rats treated with EE (5 mg/kg, 3 days) or its vehicle. BS pool size was decreased by 27% but total BS synthesis was not affected by EE in intact rats. Synthesis of cholate was reduced by 68% in EE-treated rats, while that of chenodeoxycholate was increased by 60%. The recently identified Delta22-isomer of beta-muricholate contributed for 5.4% and 18.3 % (P < 0.01) to the pool in control and EE-treated rats, respectively, but could not be detected in bile after exhaustion of the pool. A clear reduction of BS synthesis was found in bile-diverted rats treated with EE, yet biliary BS composition was only minimally affected. Activity of CYP7A was decreased by EE in both intact and bile-diverted rats, whereas the activity of the CYP27 was not affected. Hepatic mRNA levels of CYP7A were significantly reduced by EE in bile-diverted rats only; CYP27 mRNA levels were not affected by EE. In addition, mRNA levels of sterol 12alpha-hydroxylase and lithocholate 6beta-hydroxylase were increased by bile diversion and suppressed by EE. This study shows that 17alpha-ethinylestradiol (EE)-induced intrahepatic cholestasis in rats is associated with selective inhibition of the neutral pathway of bile salt (BS) synthesis. Simultaneous impairment of other enzymes in the BS biosynthetic pathways may contribute to overall effects of EE on BS synthesis.
Sotos syndrome is an overgrowth syndrome characterized by macrocephaly, advanced bone age, characteristic facial features, and learning disabilities, caused by mutations or deletions of the NSD1 gene, located at 5q35. Sotos syndrome has been described in a number of patients with autism spectrum disorders, suggesting that NSD1 could be involved in other cases of autism and macrocephaly.
We screened the NSD1 gene for mutations and deletions in 88 patients with autism spectrum disorders and macrocephaly (head circumference 2 standard deviations or more above the mean). Mutation analysis was performed by direct sequencing of all exons and flanking regions. Dosage analysis of NSD1 was carried out using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification.
We identified three missense variants (R604L, S822C and E1499G) in one patient each, but none is within a functional domain. In addition, segregation analysis showed that all variants were inherited from healthy parents and in two cases were also present in unaffected siblings, indicating that they are probably nonpathogenic. No partial or whole gene deletions/duplications were observed.
Our findings suggest that Sotos syndrome is a rare cause of autism spectrum disorders and that screening for NSD1 mutations and deletions in patients with autism and macrocephaly is not warranted in the absence of other features of Sotos syndrome.
Although dysregulation within the dopamine (DA) system is a hallmark feature of chronic cocaine exposure, the question of whether these alterations persist into abstinence remains largely unanswered. Nonhuman primates represent an ideal model in which to assess the effects of abstinence on the DA system following chronic cocaine exposure. In this study, male rhesus monkeys self-administered cocaine (0.3 mg/kg per injection, 30 reinforcers per session) under a fixed-interval 3-min schedule for 100 days followed by either 30 or 90 days abstinence. This duration of cocaine self-administration has been previously shown to decrease DA D2-like receptor densities and increase levels of D1-like receptors and DA transporters (DAT). Responding by control monkeys was maintained by food presentation under an identical protocol and the same abstinence periods. [(3)H]SCH 23390 binding to DA D1 receptors following 30 days of abstinence was significantly higher in all portions of the striatum, compared to control animals, whereas [(3)H]raclopride binding to DA D2 receptors was not different between groups. [(3)H]WIN 35 428 binding to DAT was also significantly higher throughout virtually all portions of the dorsal and ventral striatum following 30 days of abstinence. Following 90 days of abstinence, however, levels of DA D1 receptors and DAT were not different from control values. Although these results indicate that there is eventual recovery of the separate elements of the DA system, they also highlight the dynamic nature of these components during the initial phases of abstinence from chronic cocaine self-administration.
Hypothesizing that propofol's pro and anticonvulsant effects might be dose dependent, we determined the effect of 25, 50, and 100% of a previously determined anesthetic dose of propofol for rats on the amount of lidocaine required to induce seizures. Lidocaine was infused at 2.5 mg kg-1 min-1 into animals that were receiving either (a) 70% N2O balance O2 (n = 10), control group, (b) 2 mg kg-1 bolus followed by 12 mg kg-1 h-1 propofol infusion with 70% N2O (n = 10), group 2, (c) 4 mg kg-1 followed by 24 mg kg-1 h-1 propofol with 70% N2O (n = 20), group 3, (d) 8 mg kg-1 followed by 48 mg kg-1 h-1 propofol with 70% N2O (n = 10), group 4, or (e) 8 mg kg-1 followed by 48 mg kg-1 h-1 propofol without N2O (n = 10), group 5. Temperature PaCO2, and pH were maintained within normal limits until disturbed by seizure activity or lidocaine toxicity. The plasma concentration of lidocaine required to induce electroencephalographically (EEG) detected seizures was 8.7 +/- 0.7 micrograms ml-1 in control animals, 16 +/- 1.7 micrograms ml-1 in group 2, and 32 +/- 4 micrograms ml-1 in 13 animals from group 3 that experienced a seizure (p < 0.01). Seizures did not occur in seven of 20 group 3 rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A treatment regimen consisting of HI-6, scopolamine, and physostigmine (termed the physostigmine regimen) has been based on the serendipitous discovery that it exerts powerful antidotal effects against high levels of soman poisoning if it is administered 1 min after exposure. A medical therapy with corresponding efficacy, but without the time limitation of the latter regimen, has been developed through studies of microinfusions of anticonvulsants into seizure controlling sites in the forebrain of rats. From these studies procyclidine emerged as the most potent anticonvulsant, and its potency was further enhanced when being combined with the antiepileptic levetiracetam during systemic administration. In the present study, the capacity of HI-6, levetiracetam, and procyclidine (termed the procyclidine regimen) was tested against that of the physostigmine regimen. The results showed that both regimens were very effective against supralethal doses of soman (3, 4, 5 × LD₅₀) when given 1 and 5 min after intoxication. When the treatments were administered 10 and 14 or 20 and 24 min after soman exposure, only the procyclidine regimen was able to terminate seizures and preserve lives. When used as prophylactic therapies, both regimens protected equally well against seizures, but only the procyclidine regimen provided neuroprotection. The procyclidine regimen has apparently capacities to serve as a universal therapy against soman intoxication in rats.
Platinum doublets are standard chemotherapy for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The aim of this study was to assess whether neutropenia is: (1) an indicator for treatment efficacy, or (2) associated with specific polymorphisms.
Four hundred ninety-four patients, treated with cisplatin-docetaxel were retrospectively analyzed. Relative dose intensity (RDI) was assessed for both drugs. Neutrophil counts were assessed only on Day 21 of each cycle. Genotyping was performed for 4 different polymorphisms in ERCC1, XRCC3, XPD-23, and XPD-10.
The median overall survival was 9 months. The mean RDI was 0.94 for cisplatin and 0.93 for docetaxel. Four hundred three patients received ≥ 3 cycles of chemotherapy, and 239 received ≥ 6 cycles. Thirty-one percent developed neutropenia, and 19% had Grade (G)3-4 neutropenia. RDI was lower in patients with neutropenia (G1-4; 0.87-0.93) when compared with those without (G0; 0.94-0.95; P < .02). Male patients (P = .02) had inferior survival when compared with female patients, and ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) 1-2 patients (P < .001) had worse survival when compared with ECOG 0. There was no significant survival difference with respect to Grade of neutropenia (G0, 8.7 vs. G1-2, 11.6 vs. G3-4, 9.6 months; P = .41). In ECOG 0 patients, survival was significantly better for neutropenic G1-4 (hazard ratio [HR], 0.55; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.31-0.96; P = .034) when compared with non-neutropenic (G0) patients. No association was observed between examined polymorphisms and neutropenia.
RDI was significantly higher in patients who did not develop neutropenia during treatment, but as the nadir period was not explored in our study, the low occurrence of neutropenia in our cohort is considered underestimated. There was no significant survival difference with respect to grade of neutropenia. Finally, none of the examined single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were associated with the presence of neutropenia, disease characteristics, response rates, or survival.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is an environmental neurotoxicant which induces neuropathological changes in both the central nervous and peripheral sensory nervous systems. Our recent study demonstrated that down-regulation of Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1), which is known to promote neuritic extension, preceded MeHg-induced damage in cultured cortical neurons, suggesting that MeHg-mediated axonal degeneration is due to the disturbance of neuritic extension. Therefore we hypothesized that MeHg-induced axonal degeneration might be caused by neuritic extension/retraction incoordination. This idea brought our attention to the Ras homolog gene (Rho)/Rho-associated coiled coil-forming protein kinase (ROCK) pathway because it has been known to be associated with the development of axon and apoptotic neuronal cell death. Here we show that inhibition of the Rho/ROCK pathway prevents MeHg-intoxication both in vitro and in vivo. A Rho inhibitor, C3 toxin, and 2 ROCK inhibitors, Fasudil and Y-27632, significantly protected against MeHg-induced axonal degeneration and apoptotic neuronal cell death in cultured cortical neuronal cells exposed to 100 nM MeHg for 3 days. Furthermore, Fasudil partially prevented the loss of large pale neurons in dorsal root ganglia, axonal degeneration in dorsal spinal root nerves, and vacuolar degeneration in the dorsal columns of the spinal cord in MeHg-intoxicated model rats (20 ppm MeHg in drinking water for 28 days). Hind limb crossing sign, a characteristic MeHg-intoxicated sign, was significantly suppressed in this model. The results suggest that inhibition of the Rho/ROCK pathway rescues MeHg-mediated neuritic extension/retraction incoordination and is effective for the prevention of MeHg-induced axonal degeneration and apoptotic neuronal cell death.
The effects of the bisphosphonate derivative zoledronic acid (ZA) on the circulating levels of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), matrix metallo-proteinases-9 (MMP-9), cathepsin B (Cath B) and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) in patients with bone metastasis (BMTS) and the possible correlation with the symptomatic response induced by this drug in these patients were evaluated.
Proteinase levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in the plasma of 30 patients with painful bone metastases from breast or prostate cancer undergoing multiple treatment with ZA (4 mg i.v., every 4 weeks). Healthy subjects (HS) of both genders (12 female and 30 male) served as the control group. The symptomatic response to ZA was assessed by the visual analog scale score (VAS).
The median MMP-2 and MMP-9 pretreatment levels were more elevated in BMTS as compared to HS (p < or = 0.0001). Conversely, uPA levels were lower in BMTS p = 0.0033; no significant difference was observed for Cath B. ZA administration was associated with a symptomatic response (VAS score < or =4) in 25/30patients (83.3%) (p < 0.0001). This phenomenon paralleled a decrease of Cath B and MMP-2 plasma concentrations from baseline values on week 12 (p = 0.05). A similar trend, although not statistically significant, was also noted for MMP-9 and uPA. However, no direct relationship was observed between the analgesic effect induced by ZA and changes in the circulating levels of these enzymes.
These data show that ZA administration may provide relief from bone pain in patients with diffuse skeletal metastases and confirm a possible implication of cysteine proteinases and matrix metalloproteinases in bone metastasis formation, but not in the pathogenesis of metastatic bone pain.
A 49-year-old man developed acute renal failure due to interstitial nephritis during treatment with the drug clozapine. Referral and diagnosis were delayed through a failure to consider complications of treatment other than neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Although this association has not previously been reported in the literature, we include details of a further 7 cases of acute renal failure in association with clozapine therapy reported to the Committee On Safety Of Medicines in the UK.
Isotretinoin (Accutane(R)) has been available for the treatment of severe cystic acne for about twenty-five years. There have been several reports of adverse psychiatric reactions to isotretinoin, including depressive symptoms and suicide. However, there have been only three case reports of patients with bipolar disorder (BD) who experienced an untoward psychiatric side effect while receiving isotretinoin treatment. In this study, the psychiatric side effects from isotretinoin were assessed in a larger group of BD patients than has previously been reported.
A retrospective chart review of 300 BD outpatients identified ten patients treated with isotretinoin.
Nine of these ten patients experienced a significant worsening of mood symptoms, and three developed suicidal ideation. Eight experienced a reversal of the relapsed mood symptoms when the isotretinoin was discontinued, whether prematurely or after a full course.
The limitations of this study include small sample size, retrospective data collection, absence of double-blind controlled design, and inability to control for spontaneous mood episodes in patients with BD.
These results indicate that BD patients treated with isotretinoin for acne are at risk for clinically significant exacerbation of mood symptoms, including suicidal ideation, even with concurrent use of psychiatric medicines for BD. The clinical implications of this study are especially relevant to the treatment of patients with BD because acne usually occurs during adolescence, which is often the age of onset of BD and because a common side effect of lithium (a standard treatment for BD) is acne.
Calcineurin inhibitor-related renal toxicity affects patient and graft survival in transplant recipients. Our clinical experience has revealed sirolimus to be an effective agent in treating renal insufficiency related to calcineurin inhibitor toxicity.
We performed a retrospective review of the medical records of OLT recipients suffering from chronic renal insufficiency and treated with sirolimus at the University of Miami.
Fourteen patients (nine men and five women) of mean age 57 years who had been treated with tacrolimus for at least 30 days were converted to sirolimus after developing nephrotoxicity. Mean creatinine clearances collected on day 0, 30, 60, and 90 after conversion were 40.1 mL/min, 49.6 mL/min, 53.9 mL/min, and 51.4 mL/min, respectively. Episodes of acute cellular rejection were not increased during the sirolimus conversion.
This retrospective review suggests that OLT patients suffering from tacrolimus-related renal insufficiency successfully converted to sirolimus may benefit from this therapy.
Sulfadiazine acute nephrotoxicity is reviving specially because of its use in toxoplasmosis in HIV-positive patients. We report 4 cases, one of them in a previously healthy person. Under treatment with sulfadiazine they developed oliguria, abdominal pain, renal failure and showed multiple radiolucent renal calculi in echography. All patients recovered their previous normal renal function after adequate hydration and alcalinization. A nephrostomy tube had to be placed in one of the patients for ureteral lithiasis in a single functional kidney. None of them needed dialysis or a renal biopsy because of a typical benign course. Treatment with sulfadiazine requires exquisite control of renal function, an increase in water ingestion and possibly the alcalinization of the urine. We communicate a case in a previously healthy person, a fact not found in the recent literature. Probably many more cases are not detected. We think that a prospective study would be useful.
The effect of early converting enzyme inhibition with enalapril on the extent of neurohumoral activation in acute myocardial infarction was evaluated in a randomized, placebo-controlled double blind fashion. Plasma levels of atrial natriuretic factor and noradrenaline on day 1, i.e. prior to randomization (n = 99), and on days 3 (n = 145) and 30 (n = 69) following myocardial infarction were determined. Enalapril did not significantly affect neurohumoral activation on day 3 (enalapril vs. placebo (mean (S.E.M.); atrial natriuretic factor: 35.3 (3.0) vs. 37.2 (2.9) pmol/l; noradrenaline: 2.82 (0.20) vs. 3.70 (1.02) nmol/l) or at 1 month (atrial natriuretic factor: 33.1 (3.0) vs. 32.4 (3.9) pmol/l; noradrenaline: 2.77 (0.25) vs. 2.82 (0.28) nmol/l). However, in myocardial infarction patients developing heart failure, a significant attenuation of the day 3 atrial natriuretic factor, but not of the noradrenaline response, was seen (atrial natriuretic factor: 47.0 (7.7) vs. 59.0 (6.4) pmol/l, P < 0.05; noradrenaline: 3.37 (0.42) vs. 6.59 (3.26) nmol/l, P = ns). In conclusion, enalapril did not significantly reduce neurohumoral activation in acute myocardial infarction, possibly because the activation in most patients is modest and confined to the early convalescent phase. However, in patients with myocardial infarction and heart failure enalapril therapy was associated with a reduction in early plasma atrial natriuretic factor levels, compatible with decreased cardiac filling pressures.
Oxazolone (OXA) is a potent contact allergen in man, and it is used as a model Th1-allergen to test (Q)SAR's and screening assays for allergenic potential of chemicals. However, it elevates serum IgE levels and Thelper2 cytokines at relatively low doses in test animals, suggesting that it has also respiratory allergenic potential. The lack of human data on respiratory allergenic potential of OXA may be due to lack of significant inhalation exposure. Here, female Brown Norway rats (BN) were sensitized by two or five dermal applications of OXA at the same total dose of 3.75mg. Controls received vehicle. All animals were challenged by inhalation to 45mg/m(3) OXA on day 21 and necropsy was performed on day 22. All sensitized animals had increased serum IgE. OXA challenge decreased breathing frequency, and induced apnoeic breathing in the sensitized animals - a hallmark of respiratory allergy in our model. An exudative, granulocytic inflammation was observed primarily in the larynx of the sensitized and challenged rats. Microarray analysis of lung tissue, sampled 24h after challenge, revealed upregulation of several genes and activation of Gene Ontology (GO) pathways, which resembled more closely those found previously in lung tissue of rats sensitized and challenged by the respiratory allergen trimellitic anhydride than by the contact allergen dinitrochlorobenzene. The results indicate that the contact allergen OXA can also be a respiratory allergen, provided that it is inhaled. Its use as a model contact sensitizer must be reconsidered.
Previous research has shown that kappa-opioid receptor agonists decrease intravenous cocaine self-administration. These agents also block the development of sensitization that occurs following repeated exposure to cocaine, which is thought to be important in the maintenance and reinstatement of compulsive drug-seeking behavior.
This study was designed to determine the effects of the kappa-opioid receptor agonist, U69593, on the maintenance of cocaine self-administration and on the ability of a priming injection of cocaine to reinitiate drug-seeking.
During daily test sessions, the dose-effect curve (0.015-1.0 mg/kg per infusion) was obtained by either repeatedly reducing the cocaine dose from a starting dose of 1.0 mg/kg per infusion or by repeatedly doubling the cocaine dose from a starting dose of 0.015 mg/kg per infusion. The effect of U69593 (0.0 or 0.32 mg/kg) on responding reinforced by different cocaine doses was determined. The effect of U69593 on the reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-taking behavior was measured in other groups.
U69593 decreased responding maintained by low doses of cocaine, regardless of whether cocaine doses were presented in an ascending or descending order. Responding maintained by high doses was unaffected. In animals which received pretreatment with U69593, the priming effects of cocaine were significantly attenuated. The effects of U69593 were specific, since amphetamine-induced cocaine-seeking was not altered by prior administration of U69593.
These findings demonstrate that U69593 attenuates cocaine self-administration and the reinstatement of drug-taking behavior which occurs in response to experimenter-administered cocaine. It is suggested that U69593 may decrease low dose cocaine self-administration by decreasing the priming effects of cocaine.
In order to study whether the membrane hyperpolarization and firing inhibition caused by dopamine and levodopa on rat midbrain dopamine cells are affected by the inhibition of brain catechol-O-methyl-transferase (COMT), intracellular electrophysiological recordings were made from these neurons maintained in vitro. Here we report that a treatment of the cerebral tissue with tolcapone, a central and peripheral inhibitor of COMT, does not change the membrane responses of midbrain dopamine neurons to dopamine and levodopa. The lack of modification of the dopaminergic effects by tolcapone suggests that the pharmacological inhibition of intracerebral COMT does not have detectable action on dopamine neurotransmission. Therefore, the therapeutic action of tolcapone in Parkinson's disease, might be dependent on the reduction of COMT activity in the extracerebral tissue.
