Cerebellar atrophy (CA) is a frequent finding in patients with chronic epilepsy. Since gaze-evoked nystagmus, dizziness, and ataxia are some of the typical adverse effects (AEs) of the dose-dependent toxicity of carbamazepine, preexisting CA could possible explain in part the interindividual variation in the tolerance of high serum concentrations of carbamazepine.
To determine whether CA reduces the threshold for overdose symptoms with carbamazepine in patients with chronic focal epilepsy in a prospective study.
Cohort study.
A fourth-level epilepsy center to which patients were referred.
Twenty-six consecutive patients with chronic focal epilepsy were prospectively studied while they were receiving high-dose monotherapy with carbamazepine. Patients were slowly titrated to doses at which the first toxic AEs of carbamazepine occurred. The determination of multiple serum levels was carried out, together with an evaluation of toxicity that comprised a standardized neurologic examination, a questionnaire for AEs, and posturography.
Serum concentrations of carbamazepine at the occurrence of the first dose-dependent AEs were related to the presence or absence of CA in magnetic resonance imaging studies as rated by 2 independent and blinded neuroradiologists.
In 9 patients (35%), magnetic resonance imaging scans revealed moderate (n = 7) or severe (n = 2) CA. In these patients, gaze-evoked nystagmus (P = .001, log rank test), dizziness (P = .008), and ataxia of stance as measured by posturography (P = .02) occurred at significantly lower serum concentrations of carbamazepine compared with patients without CA. This was also found for the first individually observed AE (P = .03).
Cerebellar atrophy occurs in a considerable percentage of patients with chronic focal epilepsy and obviously increases the susceptibility for cerebellar AEs of carbamazepine.
The antimicrobial activities of telavancin and six comparators were evaluated against 460 isolates of anaerobic bacteria. Telavancin demonstrated excellent activity against gram-positive anaerobes (MIC90, 2 microg/ml) and was the most potent agent tested against Clostridium difficile (MIC90, 0.25 microg/ml). As expected, gram-negative isolates were not inhibited by telavancin.
To determine whether the combination of the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib and the bcl-2 antisense molecule oblimersen can sensitize human lymphoma to cyclophosphamide.
Cytotoxicity assays were conducted to determine if there was any additive or synergistic interaction between the combinations of bortezomib, oblimersen, and cyclophosphamide using a standard trypan blue exclusion assay. Based on these experiments, in vivo experiments in severe combined immunodeficiency beige mice were done using human lymphoma xenografts in which different schedules were explored. Bcl-2 and oblimersen levels were determined in treated tumors, some of which were resected at the end of the in vivo experiment and evaluated pathologically.
The results suggest that the combination of bortezomib and oblimersen seem to interact in at least an additive fashion, and that the addition of cyclophosphamide to this drug combination can markedly improve tumor cell kill. In addition, it seems that these drug combinations may be schedule-dependent, with a requirement for oblimersen pretreatment. Animals treated with the triplet drug combination in a schedule-dependent manner experienced pathologic complete regression of disease, which was not observed in other treatment cohorts. The addition of bortezomib also seemed to increase the levels of intracellular oblimersen, which resulted in a marked reduction in Bcl-2. Histologic studies confirmed marked necrosis and caspase-3 activation only in the cohort receiving all three drugs.
The use of Bcl-2-directed therapy and a proteasome inhibitor sensitizes human lymphoma cells to cytotoxic drugs like cyclophosphamide. This combination may offer new opportunities for integrating novel targeted therapies with conventional chemotherapy.
Cerebral inositol and inositol monophosphates, products of phosphoinositide (PI) turnover, and neuronal injury were studied in young (10 weeks) and old (24 months) male Wistar rats after pilocarpine-induced convulsions. The goal was to explore the association between short-term cholinergic convulsions, brain PI signaling, and changes in the brain morphology in the young and the old rats. Pilocarpine caused convulsions in young rats at a dose of 300 mg/kg, whereas a dose of 175 mg/kg was required to obtain the same effect in old rats. A dose of 5 mg/kg of diazepam was used to terminate the convulsions 2 hr after their initiation; the rats were then examined on Day 5 postpilocarpine. Inositol and inositol monophosphate levels were similar in both the young and the old control rats. Pilocarpine-induced convulsions decreased cerebral inositol and increased inositol-1-phosphate in both the young and the old rats. Inositol-4-phosphate was stable in the young rats but increased in the frontal cortex and the hippocampus in the old rats. Delayed neuronal death also occurred in the convulsing rats, i.e., a variable proportion of neurons appeared shrunken with eosinophilic cytoplasm and pyknotic nuclei. The hippocampus was the most severely affected brain area. These results show that old rats are more sensitive than young ones to short-term pilocarpine convulsions, associated with sustained PI turnover, and brain injury. Mechanisms in addition to cholinergic ones are likely to be involved in the prolonged cerebral effects of cholinergic convulsions in rats.
Bisphosphonates (such as risedronate and zoledronate) are widely used inhibitors of bone resorption. Despite their in vitro antiproliferative effects in various cancer cells, bisphosphonates have not exhibited significant antitumor efficacy in animal models of visceral cancer, which may be due to their poor bioavailability. The diagnostic use of radioactive bisphosphonates has revealed the accumulation of bisphosphonates in mesothelioma, which prompted us to test the antitumor efficacy of bisphosphonates in this disease.
Treatment with either risedronate or zoledronate (2 x 10(-4) to 2 x 10(-6) mol/L) inhibited the growth of AB12 and AC29 mouse mesothelioma cells and induced the accumulation of unprenylated Rap1A in these cells. Both these in vitro effects were reversed by geranygeraniol, an end product of the mevalonate pathway that these bisphosphonates inhibit. Both bisphosphonates also induced the phosphorylation of the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase in AB12 and AC29 cells. The inhibition of p38 augmented bisphosphonate-induced growth inhibition in these cells. Bisphosphonate-induced p38 phosphorylation was not reversible by geranylgeraniol. Risedronate (15 mg/kg) and zoledronate (0.5 mg/kg) inhibited the growth of s.c. tumors and increased the median survival of mice with i.p. mesothelioma tumors in vivo.
In conclusion, risedronate and zoledronate inhibit the mevalonate pathway and induce p38 activation in mesothelioma cells in vitro. The effects on the mevalonate pathway dominate because the net result is growth inhibition. Both bisphosphonates also inhibit mesothelioma tumor growth in vivo and prolong the survival of mesothelioma-bearing mice. These results support further study of bisphosphonates in the management of mesothelioma.
In a Nordic multi-centre trial, 583 previously untreated multiple myeloma patients were randomized to receive melphalan-prednisone or melphalan-prednisone+ interferon alpha-2b at a dose of 5 million units subcutaneously, 3 d/week. A quality-of-life study was integrated into the trial, using the EORTC QLQ C-30 questionnaire supplemented with 11 questions concerning interferon toxicity. The questionnaire was completed prior to treatment and after 1, 6, 12, 24, 36 and 48 months. 90% of the patients participated in the quality-of-life study, and 83% completed all questionnaires submitted to them. During the first year of treatment the patients on interferon reported significantly more fever, chills, dry skin, fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting and appetite loss than the control patients. There was a moderate reduction of the global quality-of-life score and slight, non-significant, reductions of physical, emotional, cognitive, social and role functioning scores. After the first year there were no statistically significant differences in any toxicity, symptom or quality-of-life score, except for an increased frequency of dizziness in the interferon group. As only 60% of the patients remained on interferon after 24 months, our data probably underestimate the potential toxicity of the drug. Although there was no significant survival benefit for the interferon patients, a 5-6 months prolongation of the response and plateau phase duration was observed. However, by intention-to-treat analysis, there was no late quality-of-life benefit for the interferon patients to compensate for the early impairment. Thus, the clinical significance of the plateau-phase prolongation is uncertain.
Dobutamine myocardial perfusion imaging is being used increasingly for assessment of coronary artery disease. Heretofore, there have been no large series documenting its tolerance and safety. The aims of this study were to assess the tolerance, hemodynamic changes, and safety of dobutamine stress in conjunction with myocardial perfusion imaging.
The tolerance, hemodynamic changes, and safety of dobutamine myocardial perfusion imaging were investigated in a consecutive series of 1012 patients. Dobutamine was infused at incremental doses of 10, 20, 30, and 40 micrograms/kg/min at 3-minute intervals. Perfusion tomography was performed according to standard protocols with either 201Tl or 99mTc-labeled sestamibi. Seven hundred twenty-nine patients (72%) reached a maximal dobutamine dose of 40 micrograms/kg/min. Dobutamine significantly increased heart rate (76 +/- 14 beats/min to 127 +/- 20 beats/min; p < 0.001) and systolic blood pressure (141 +/- 20 mm Hg to 168 +/- 36 mm Hg; p < 0.001) from baseline to peak infusion rate. The most common side effects were chest pain (31%), headache (14%), dyspnea (12%), palpitations (10%), and flushing (10%). There was no death, myocardial infarction, pulmonary edema, ventricular fibrillation, sustained ventricular tachycardia, or cerebral vascular accident. Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia occurred in 43 patients (4.2%) but did not cause any hemodynamic instability.
When done with the necessary caution, dobutamine myocardial perfusion imaging is a safe diagnostic test, although side effects are common.
The study was designed to determine the extent to which respiratory muscle wasting, resulting from corticosteroid-induced atrophy, may affect respiration in normal rats and in rats with denervated diaphragm. Twenty four male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: 1) controls with sham operation (SX) and vehicle injections: 2) SX with eight hydrocortisone (HC) injections (60 mg.kg-1.day-1 i.m.); 3) phrenicotomized (PX), injected with vehicle; 4) PX and HC-treated. HC treatment was started on the thirteenth day after surgery. Under urethane anaesthesia, tidal volume, respiratory rate, arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2) and occlusion pressure were measured at rest and after 5 min of stimulated-breathing induced by added dead space 22nd day after surgery. All HC-treated animals decreased body weight by 32% compared to untreated rats. The diaphragm weight was reduced in PX rats by 29%, and after HC by 44%, while in PX rats with HC treatment diaphragm weight decreased by only 21%. PX rats (HC-untreated) had the lowest minute ventilation and occlusion pressure. There was no difference in ventilation between control and both HC-treated groups at rest. However, ventilation in PX and HC-treated rats did not increase upon stimulation, and the occlusion pressure increased significantly only in the HC-untreated animals. We conclude that in the rat, HC treatment did not affect resting ventilation, but it impaired ventilation performance, during increased demand, in animals handicapped by diaphragm denervation.
A unilateral lesion of the rat nigrostriatal pathway with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) results in a decrease in the basal extracellular level of striatal glutamate, a nearly complete loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunolabeling, an increase in the density of glutamate immunogold labeling within nerve terminals making an asymmetrical synaptic contact, and an increase in the number of apomorphine-induced contralateral rotations. [Meshul et al. (1999) Neuroscience 88:1-16; Meshul and Allen (2000) Synapse 36:129-142]. In Parkinson's disease, a lesion of either the subthalamic nucleus (STN) or the motor thalamic nucleus relieves the patient of some of the motor difficulties associated with this disorder. In this rodent model, either the STN or motor thalamic nucleus was electrolytically destroyed 2 months following a unilateral 6-OHDA lesions. Following a lesion of either the STN or motor thalamic nucleus in 6-OHDA-treated rats, there was a significant decrease (40-60%) in the number of apomorphine-induced contralateral rotations compared to the 6-OHDA group. There was a significant decrease (<30%) in the basal extracellular level of striatal glutamate in all of the experimental groups compared to the sham group. Following an STN and/or 6-OHDA lesion, the decrease in striatal extracellular levels was inversely associated with an increase in the density of nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling. There was no change in nerve terminal glutamate immunogold labeling in either the motor thalamic or motor thalamic plus 6-OHDA lesion groups compared to the sham group. The decrease in the number of apomorphine-induced rotations was not due to an increase in TH immunolabeling (i.e., sprouting) within the denervated striatum. This suggests that alterations in striatal glutamate appear not to be directly involved in the STN or motor thalamic lesion-induced reduction in contralateral rotations.
Zhen-wu-tang (ZWT) is a blended traditional Chinese medicine specifically used for various kidney diseases.
The present study is to evaluate the effects of ZWT on diabetic nephropathy and investigate the potential anti-diabetic mechanisms.
Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats were orally administrated ZWT (80,320 mg/kg b.w.) once a day, for a period of 12 weeks. Body weight, urinary volume, urine protein and blood biochemical parameters were measured every 3 weeks. At the end of the observation period, kidneys were isolated for histology, angiotensin II content determination, real time PCR and Western blot analyses.
ZWT (320 mg/kg b.w.) prevented body weight loss, reduced polyurea, urinary protein excretion, serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, although it did not alter the hyperglycemia. It ameliorated glomerular hypertrophy and expansion of the mesangial area, swell and effacement of foot process. It also suppressed the increased expression of angiotensin II, nephrin and podocin.
Data from this study suggest that ZWT possess a protective effect on renal damage of STZ-induced diabetic nephropathy in rats, by suppressing hyperactivity of renal renin-angiotensin system that turns in to modulate renal nephrin and podocin expressions, thereby protecting podocyte from injury.
The effect of varying doses of captopril, an angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor, on renal hemodynamics, systemic arterial pressure, and the progression of chronic renal disease in conscious, three-quarter nephrectomized adult male Sprague-Dawley rats was studied. Six weeks following nephrectomy (Week 0), rats were randomly divided into five groups. Group 2 (n = 8), 3 (n = 8), 4 (n = 9), and 5 (n = 5) were given 5, 10, 20, and 40 mg/kg captopril, respectively, daily in drinking water. Group 1 (n = 7) and sham-operated controls (n = 7) were given water only. On Weeks -6, 0, 2, and 4, renal function was assessed by 24-hr urinary protein excretion and plasma creatinine. Systolic blood pressure was measured at these times by the tail cuff method. Following Week 4, glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow were measured in conscious rats by single injection clearance of [3H]inulin and [14C]tetraethylammonium bromide, respectively. Group 1 had significantly higher (P less than 0.05) 24-h urinary protein excretion, plasma creatinine, and systolic pressure compared with Group 5 and controls by Week 4, whereas values for these parameters for Groups 2-4 ranged between these extremes. Although systolic pressures were not significantly different (P greater than 0.05), Group 2 had significantly lower proteinuria than Group 1 (P less than 0.05) at Week 4. Total kidney glomerular filtration rate was similarly decreased in Groups 1-5 compared with control rats. Total kidney effective renal plasma flow was higher in captopril-treated groups than in Group 1, whereas systolic blood pressure was similar or lower, indicating that captopril reduced renal vascular resistance. Furthermore, unlike Groups 1-3, the groups receiving higher doses of captopril (4 and 5) did not develop anemia associated with chronic renal disease. In conclusion, captopril attenuated renal functional deterioration in a dose-related manner. The effect on proteinuria was evident at low doses of captopril which did not significantly reduce systemic blood pressure and was accompanied by an increase in effective renal plasma flow and a decrease in renal vascular resistance.
The effects of nitric oxide (NO) in the cardiovascular system are attributed in part to cGMP synthesis by the alpha1beta1 isoform of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC). Because available sGC inhibitors are neither enzyme- nor isoform-specific, we generated knockout mice for the alpha1 subunit (sGCalpha1(-/-) mice) in order to investigate the function of sGCalpha1beta1 in the regulation of blood pressure and cardiac function.
Blood pressure was evaluated, using both non-invasive and invasive haemodynamic techniques, in intact and gonadectomized male and female sGCalpha1(-/-) and wild-type (WT) mice. Cardiac function was assessed with a conductance catheter inserted in the left ventricle of male and female sGCalpha1(-/-) and WT mice. Male sGCalpha1(-/-) mice developed hypertension (147 +/- 2 mmHg), whereas female sGCalpha1(-/-) mice did not (115 +/- 2 mmHg). Orchidectomy and treatment with an androgen receptor antagonist prevented hypertension, while ovariectomy did not influence the phenotype. Chronic testosterone treatment increased blood pressure in ovariectomized sGCalpha1(-/-) mice but not in WT mice. The NO synthase inhibitor Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride raised blood pressure similarly in male and female WT and sGCalpha1(-/-) mice. The ability of NO donor compounds to reduce blood pressure was slightly attenuated in sGCalpha1(-/-) male and female mice as compared to WT mice. The direct sGC stimulator BAY 41-2272 reduced blood pressure only in WT mice. Increased cardiac contractility and arterial elastance as well as impaired ventricular relaxation were observed in both male and female sGCalpha1(-/-) mice.
These findings demonstrate that sGCalpha1beta1-derived cGMP signalling has gender-specific and testosterone-dependent cardiovascular effects and reveal that the effects of NO on systemic blood pressure do not require sGCalpha1beta1.
In rats, 1-nitronaphthalene (1-NN) causes both pulmonary and hepatic toxicity. Pulmonary toxicity is evident as bronchiolar damage, with necrosis of Clara cells and ciliated cells, whereas hepatic injury involves vacuolation of centrilobular hepatocytes. Pretreatment with O,O,S-trimethylphosphorodithioate [OOS-MeP(S)] or p-xylene gave three- to fourfold protection against 1-NN toxicity. These pretreatments also prevented both the increase in lung weight and the rise in gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and alkaline phosphatase activity in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid normally associated with 1-NN toxicity. Pretreatment with Aroclor 1254 or beta-naphthoflavone (beta-NF) did not alter the LD50 of 1-NN. Aroclor or beta-NF pretreatment did, however, prevent morphological signs of lung injury and any increase in either lung weight or enzyme activity in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Liver damage was not prevented by these treatments; indeed, injury was exacerbated and was transferred from centrilobular to periportal areas. In control rats the covalent binding of [1-14C]NN to liver microsomes was eight times greater than to lung microsomes. Pretreatment with OOS-MeP(S) decreased covalent binding to lung microsomes, without affecting binding to liver microsomes. Conversely, both Aroclor and beta-NF slightly increased covalent binding in lung, but increased liver binding by 250-300%. Phenobarbitone also increased binding to liver microsomes by 250-300%, but failed to increase, or alter, the distribution of liver damage. The reported effects of these pretreatments indicate that the toxicity of 1-NN is probably activated by isoenzyme CYP2B1 in lung, but by isoenzymes CYP1A1 or CYP1A2 in the liver.
The P(2) receptor is involved in diverse signal cascades, including the initiation of the rapid release and processing of proinflammatory cytokines, the induction of cytoskeletal rearrangements and transcription factor activation. Therefore, we investigated whether blocking the P(2) receptor would prevent the astroglial death induced by status epilepticus (SE).
We performed seizure induction and drug treatments. After tissue processing, we executed immunoreactivities: mouse anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) IgG (diluted 1 : 200; Chemicon, Billerica, MA, USA rabbit anti-P(2)X(7) receptor IgG (diluted 1 : 200; Chemicon).
In control animals, P(2)X(7) receptor-immunoreactive (P(2)X(7)(+)) microglia had small cell bodies with thin ramified processes. Seven days after SE, P(2)X(7) receptor immunoreactivity in microglia was significantly elevated in the dentate gyrus, and the microglia appeared amoeboid or phagocytic. At this point, loss of GFAP immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus was even more pronounced, indicating that the network of astrocytes was disrupted and a large empty zone was observed. Treatment with pyridoxal phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid and suramin (2, 20 and 200 mg/kg, i.p., respectively) markedly, but not completely, inhibited microglial activation following SE. The morphology of microglia was similar to that of the astrocytes in that they appeared hyper-ramified. In addition, P(2)X(7) receptor antagonist treatments effectively prevented astroglial degeneration.
These findings suggest that astroglial death induced by ATP-mediated microglia activation may be an important pathophysiological pathway in epileptogenesis.
Azathioprine is widely used as an immunosuppressive drug. The side effects of azathioprine include anemia, which has been attributed to bone marrow suppression. Alternatively, anemia could result from accelerated suicidal erythrocyte death or eryptosis, which is characterized by exposure of phosphatidylserine (PS) at the erythrocyte surface and by cell shrinkage.
The present experiments explored whether azathioprine influences eryptosis. According to annexin V binding, erythrocytes from patients indeed showed a significant increase of PS exposure within 1 week of treatment with azathioprine. In a second series, cytosolic Ca2+ activity (Fluo3 fluorescence), cell volume (forward scatter), and PS-exposure (annexin V binding) were determined by FACS analysis in erythrocytes from healthy volunteers.
Exposure to azathioprine (> or =2 microg/mL) for 48 hours increased cytosolic Ca2+ activity and annexin V binding and decreased forward scatter. The effect of azathioprine on both annexin V binding and forward scatter was significantly blunted in the nominal absence of extracellular Ca2+.
Azathioprine triggers suicidal erythrocyte death, an effect presumably contributing to azathioprine-induced anemia.
Gasoline additives ethyl tert butyl ether (ETBE) and tertiary amyl methyl ether (TAME) are used world wide, but the consequence of developmental exposure to these hydrophilic chemicals is unknown for aquatic vertebrates. The effect of ETBE and TAME on zebrafish embryos was determined following OECD 212 guidelines, and their toxicity was compared to structurally related methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE), which is known to target developing vasculature. LC50s for ETBE and TAME were 14 mM [95% CI=10-20] and 10 mM [CI=8-12.5], respectively. Both chemicals caused dose dependent developmental lesions (0.625-10 mM), which included pericardial edema, abnormal vascular development, whole body edema, and craniofacial abnormalities. The lesions were suggestive of a dysregulation of WNT ligands and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) protein families based on their roles in development. Exposure to 5 mM ETBE significantly (p≤0.05) decreased relative mRNA transcript levels of mmp-9 and wnt3a, while 2.5 and 5 mM TAME significantly decreased wnt3a, and wnt8a. TAME also significantly decreased mmp-2 and -9 mRNA levels at 5mM. ETBE and TAME were less effective in altering the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-a and -c, which were the only genes tested that were significantly decreased by MTBE. This is the first study to characterize the aquatic developmental toxicity following embryonic exposure to ETBE and TAME. Unlike MTBE, which specifically targets angiogenesis, ETBE and TAME disrupt multiple organ systems and significantly alter the mRNA transcript levels of genes required for general development.
In mammals, methionine metabolism occurs mainly in the liver via methionine adenosyltransferase-catalyzed conversion to S-adenosylmethionine. Of the two genes that encode methionine adenosyltransferase(MAT1Aand MAT2A), MAT1A is mainly expressed in adult liver whereas MAT2A is expressed in all extrahepatic tissues. Mice lacking MAT1A have reduced hepatic S-adenosylmethionine content and hyperplasia and spontaneously develop nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. In this study, we examined whether chronic hepatic S-adenosylmethionine deficiency generates oxidative stress and predisposes to injury and malignant transformation. Differential gene expression in MAT1A knockout mice was analyzed following the criteria of the Gene Ontology Consortium. Susceptibility of MAT1A knockout mice to CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity and malignant transformation was determined in 3- and 18-month-old mice, respectively. Analysis of gene expression profiles revealed an abnormal expression of genes involved in the metabolism of lipids and carbohydrates in MAT1A knockout mice, a situation that is reminiscent of that found in diabetes, obesity, and other conditions associated with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. This aberrant expression of metabolic genes in the knockout mice was associated with hyperglycemia, increased hepatic CYP2E1 and UCP2 expression and triglyceride levels, and reduced hepatic glutathione content. The knockout animals have increased lipid peroxidation and enhanced sensitivity to CCl4-induced liver damage, which was largely due to increased CYP2E1 expression because diallyl sulfide, an inhibitor of CYP2E1, prevented CCl4-induced liver injury. Hepatocellular carcinoma developed in more than half of the knockout mice by 18 months of age. Taken together, our findings define a critical role for S-adenosylmethionine in maintaining normal hepatic function and tumorigenesis of the liver.
Drug therapy for hypertension has failed to demonstrate a significant reduction in coronary mortality. We compared a calcium-antagonist agent, felodipine, with diuretic therapy as a first-line antihypertensive treatment in a randomized study, to assess the effects of six months of each regimen on over-all cardiovascular risk. Both regimens lowered blood pressure to less than 85 mmHg by one month. Felodipine alone was sufficient to control blood pressure in 90% of patients, while 50% of patients who were receiving diuretic therapy required a second agent for control. Diuretic therapy produced a 10% fall in serum potassium levels (P less than 0.001) and a three-fold increase in plasma renin activity (P less than 0.005) by one month; and a 6% rise in serum cholesterol levels (P less than 0.05) and a 38% rise in serum triglyceride levels (P less than 0.05) by three months. Felodipine did not influence these measurements, but caused a 43% increase in plasma noradrenaline levels by one month of therapy (P less than 0.025). In both groups, a significant fall occurred in the risk percentile score at six months, as calculated from the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial data. However, the decrease was significantly greater in the felodipine group at six months (45% compared with 29%; P less than 0.05). Thus, when doses were titrated to achieve equivalent effects on blood pressure, felodipine had the advantages over diuretic treatment of being effective as monotherapy, of having fewer metabolic effects, and of reducing cardiovascular risk to a greater degree.
The correlation between neuropathic damage and inhibition of neurotoxic esterase or neuropathy target enzyme (NTE) was examined in rats acutely exposed to Mipafox (N, N'-diisopropylphosphorodiamidofluoridate), a neurotoxic organophosphate. Brain and spinal cord NTE activities were measured in Long-Evans male rats 1 hr post-exposure to various dosages of Mipafox (ip, 1-15 mg/kg). These data were correlated with histologically scored cervical cord damage in a separate group of similarly dosed rats sampled 14-21 days post-exposure. Those dosages (greater than or equal to 10 mg/kg) that inhibited mean NTE activity in the spinal cord greater than or equal to 73% and brain greater than or equal to 67% of control values produced severe (greater than or equal to 3) cervical cord pathology in 85% of the rats. In contrast, dosages of Mipafox (less than or equal to 5 mg/kg) which inhibited mean NTE activity in spinal cord less than or equal to 61% and brain less than or equal to 60% produced this degree of cord damage in only 9% of the animals. These data indicate that a critical percentage of NTE inhibition in brain and spinal cord sampled shortly after Mipafox exposure can predict neuropathic damage in rats several weeks later.
Central depressant effects in mice of N3-substituted 6-azauridines (6-AzUd) (1) were examined by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection. Eleven derivatives including alkyl-, benzyl-, xylyl- and phenylethyl-substitution onto the N3-position of 1 were synthesized and their pharmacological effects were evaluated using hypnotic activity, locomotor activity, motor incoordination and pentobarbital-induced sleep prolongation as indices. Six of 12 compounds showed the hypnotic activity. At a dose of 2 mumol/mouse, the mean sleeping time induced by 1, N3-benzyl-6-AzUd (7), N3-o-xylyl-6-AzUd (8), N3-m-xylyl-6-AzUd (9), N3-p-xylyl-6-AzUd (10) and N3-alpha-phenylethyl-6-AzUd (11) was 14, 11, 45, 12, 9 and 16 min, respectively. These derivatives and N3-beta-phenylethyl-6-AzUd (12) (1.5 mumol/mouse) significantly prolonged pentobarbital-induced (40 mg/kg, i.p.) sleeping time, whereas none of the N3-alkylated derivatives (methyl-, ethyl-, n-propyl-, n-butyl- and allyl-substitution) exerted the hypnotic activity or pentobarbital-induced sleep prolongation. Nucleoside 1 and its xylyl-derivatives (1.5 mumol/mouse) significantly decreased locomotor activity of mice, their effects paralleled the hypnotic activity. These compounds (1.5 mumol/mouse) also produced motor incoordination and potentiated the effect of diazepam-induced motor incoordination. These results indicate that 1 and its benzyl-related derivatives, but not alkyl-derivatives have a depressant effect on the central nervous system.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is an immune-mediated syndrome that results from unfractionated heparin or low molecular weight heparin exposure. It often remains unrecognized and undertreated and can cause limb and/or life-threatening thrombosis. The authors present 2 cases of thrombosis: one arterial and the other venous that occurred following endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. To the authors' knowledge, this is only the second report of arterial thrombosis and the first of deep vein thrombosis as a result of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia developing following endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. This underscores the importance of considering heparin-induced thrombocytopenia as a potential cause for postendovascular thrombotic complications in the patient who develops thrombocytopenia following this procedure.
Limited data are available on the cardiac effects of high-dose cyclophosphamide (CY) in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). We prospectively assessed the cardiac effects of high-dose CY in 30 adult NHL patients receiving CY 6 g/m(2) as part of BEAC high-dose therapy (HDT).
Radionuclide ventriculography (RVG) and plasma natriuretic peptide (NT-proANP, NT-proBNP) measurements were performed simultaneously prior to BEAC at baseline (d - 7), 12 days (d + 12) and 3 months (m + 3) after stem cell infusion (D0). In addition to these time points, natriuretic peptides were measured 2 days before (d - 2) and 1 week (d + 7) after stem cell infusion.
Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decreased from d - 7 (53% +/- 2%) to d + 12 (49% +/- 2%, P = 0.009). However, no significant change in cardiac diastolic function was observed. The LVEF returned towards baseline by m + 3. Plasma NT-proANP and NT-proBNP increased significantly from baseline (445 +/- 65 pmol/L and 129 +/- 33 pmol/L) to d - 2 (1,127 +/- 142 pmol/L, P < 0.001 and 624 +/- 148 pmol/L, P < 0.001, respectively). Thereafter, they started to decrease, but on d + 7 NT-proANP (404 +/- 157 pmol/L, P = 0.048) and NT-proBNP (648 +/- 125 pmol/L, P = 0.015) were still significantly higher than at baseline. On d + 12 and m + 3 they no longer differed from baseline.
Our findings suggest that high-dose CY results in acute, subclinical systolic dysfunction in NHL patients previously treated with anthracyclines. Natriuretic peptides seem to be more sensitive than LVEF to reflect this transient cardiac effect. Serial measurements of natriuretic peptides might be a useful tool to assess cardiac effects of high-dose CY.
Overaccumulation of lipids in nonadipose tissues of obese rodents may lead to lipotoxic complications such as diabetes. To assess the pathogenic role of the lipogenic transcription factor, sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP-1), we measured its mRNA in liver and islets of obese, leptin-unresponsive fa/fa Zucker diabetic fatty rats. Hepatic SREBP-1 mRNA was 2.4 times higher than in lean +/+ controls, primarily because of increased SREBP-1c expression. mRNA of lipogenic enzymes ranged from 2.4- to 4.6-fold higher than lean controls, and triacylglycerol (TG) content was 5.4 times higher. In pancreatic islets of fa/fa rats, SREBP-1c was 3.4 times higher than in lean +/+ Zucker diabetic fatty rats. The increase of SREBP-1 in liver and islets of untreated fa/fa rats was blocked by 6 weeks of troglitazone therapy, and the diabetic phenotype was prevented. Up-regulation of SREBP-1 also occurred in livers of Sprague-Dawley rats with diet-induced obesity. Hyperleptinemia, induced in lean +/+ rats by adenovirus gene transfer, lowered hepatic SREBP-1c by 74% and the lipogenic enzymes from 35 to 59%. In conclusion, overnutrition increases and adenovirus-induced hyperleptinemia decreases SREBP-1c expression in liver and islets. SREBP-1 overexpression, which is prevented by troglitazone, may play a role in the ectopic lipogenesis and lipotoxicity complicating obesity in Zucker diabetic fatty rats.
The pharmacology of Australian box jellyfish, Chironex fleckeri, unpurified (crude) nematocyst venom extract (CVE) was investigated in rat isolated cardiac and vascular tissues and in anaesthetised rats. In small mesenteric arteries CVE (0.01-30 μg/ml) caused contractions (EC(50) 1.15±0.19 μg/ml) that were unaffected by prazosin (0.1 μM), bosentan (10 μM), CGRP(8-37) (1 μM) or tetrodotoxin (1 μM). Box jellyfish antivenom (5-92.6 units/ml) caused rightward shifts of the CVE concentration-response curve with no change in the maximum. In the presence of l-NAME (100 μM) the sensitivity and maximum response to CVE were increased, whilst MgSO(4) (6 mM) decreased both parameters. CVE (1-10 μg/ml) caused inhibition of the contractile response to electrical sympathetic nerve stimulation. Left atrial responses to CVE (0.001-30 μg/ml) were bi-phasic, composed of an initial positive inotropy followed by a marked negative inotropy and atrial standstill. CVE (0.3 μg/ml) elicited a marked decrease in right atrial rate followed by atrial standstill at 3 μg/ml. These responses were unaffected by 1 μM of propranolol, atropine or CGRP(8-37). Antivenom (54 and 73 units/ml) caused rightward shifts of the CVE concentration-response curve and prevented atrial standstill in left and right atria. The effects of CVE do not appear to involve autonomic nerves, post-synaptic α(1)- or β(1)-adrenoceptors, or muscarinic, endothelin or CGRP receptors, but may occur through direct effects on the cardiac and vascular muscle. Box jellyfish antivenom was effective in attenuating CVE-induced responses in isolated cardiac and vascular tissues.
Coleus forskohlii root extract (CFE) is popular for use as a weight loss dietary supplement. In this study, the influence of standardized CFE containing 10% active component forskolin on the hepatic drug metabolizing system was investigated to evaluate the safety through its drug interaction potential. Male ICR mice were fed AIN93G-based diets containing 0-5% CFE or 0.05% pure forskolin for 2-3 weeks. Intake of two different sources of 0.5% CFE significantly increased the relative liver weight, total content of hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) and induced CYPs (especially 2B, 2C, 3A types) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities. CFE significantly increased mRNA expression of CYPs and GST with dose related responses. However, unlike the CFE, intake of 0.05% pure forskolin was found to be associated with only weak induction in CYP3A and GST activities with no significant increases in relative liver weight, total hepatic content or other CYPs activities. The inductions of CYPs and GST by CFE were observed at 1 week of feeding and rapidly recovered by discontinuation of CFE. These results indicated the induction potential of CFE on CYPs, and that this effect was predominantly due to other, as yet unidentified constituents, and not forskolin contained in CFE.
Propylthiouracil has been shown experimentally to protect against alcohol-induced hepatocellular necrosis in hypoxic conditions. An earlier, short-term study of patients with alcoholism and liver disease indicated clinical improvement with propylthiouracil, but the effect on mortality could not be assessed. In the present study, we investigated the effect of propylthiouracil on mortality in patients with alcoholic liver disease in a long-term, double-blind, randomized clinical trial involving 310 compliant patients who received propylthiouracil (n = 157) or placebo (n = 153) for a maximum of two years. There were no differences between the two groups in demographic and clinical characteristics and biopsy-confirmed diagnoses at randomization, or in daily urinary alcohol levels during the study. The cumulative dropout rate over two years was not significantly different (propylthiouracil group, 0.68; placebo group, 0.60). The group receiving propylthiouracil (300 mg per day) had a cumulative mortality rate half that in the group receiving placebo (0.13 vs. 0.25 [P less than 0.05] in the total sample, and 0.25 vs. 0.55 [P less than 0.03] in a subgroup of severely ill patients [propylthiouracil group, n = 56; placebo group, n = 41]). Proportional-hazards stepwise regression analyses indicated that only propylthiouracil treatment, prothrombin time, hemoglobin levels, and mean daily urinary alcohol levels significantly affected mortality. The hazards ratio for the complete group indicated that mortality in the propylthiouracil group was 0.38 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.20 to 0.83) that of the placebo group. Protection by propylthiouracil was not observed in patients with high morning urinary alcohol levels. No clinically important side effects of propylthiouracil were observed at the dose used. We conclude that the administration of propylthiouracil can reduce mortality due to alcoholic liver disease.
Chlorpromazine (CPZ) is widely used in South African hospitals. The purpose of this study was to determine whether any physiological parameter (side-effect) could be correlated with plasma concentrations of CPZ or its metabolites. In the absence of a blood level, such a correlation could serve as a qualitative indicator of the amount of chlorpromazine in the body. Such a marker can assist the psychiatrist with therapeutic decisions regarding poor compliance and the lack of response with the drug. Fifteen schizophrenic patients were included in this study and regression analysis was used to determine any correlation between CPZ, 7-hydroxychlorpromazine, Chlorpromazine-N-oxide, Nor1 chlorpromazine, Nor2 chlorpromazine, chlorpromazine sulfoxide, Nor2 chlorpromazine sulfoxide and blood pressure, pulse rate, sedation and finger tremor. No correlation was seen between blood pressure or pulse rate and plasma concentrations of CPZ or the metabolites. A good correlation was seen between sedation, 7- hydroxychlorpromazine (P=0.035) and chlorpromazine sulfoxide (P=0.016). The results suggest that as the levels of chlorpromazine sulfoxide increase, the probability of sedation increases, while increasing levels of 7-hydroxychlorpromazine have the opposite effect. A good correlation was also seen between finger tremor and chlorpromazine levels (P=0.035). These results suggest that there is a 50% probability that the patient would experience finger tremor when the plasma concentration of chlorpromazine is 46 ng/ml. This study demonstrated the potential for the use of sedation and finger tremor as qualitative indicators of the plasma concentration of CPZ and two metabolites. Further studies with larger patient numbers are warranted.
