Puromycin aminonucleoside (PA), injected intravenously into rats in a single dose, causes proteinuria and ultrastructural pathology reminiscent of human lipoid nephrosis (puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN]. Glomerular epithelial cell (GEC) endocytosis was studied in this model and in rats with protein-overload proteinuria using ultrastructural morphometry. Disappearance curves were constructed for protamine-heparin aggregates (PHA), which localized in the subepithelial region of the glomerular basal lamina following intravenous injection of protamine followed by heparin. Five groups were studied: (a) preproteinuric PAN, 4 days after PA (mean 4.5 +/- 1.5 mg of urinary protein/24 hours); (b) proteinuric PAN, 10 days after PA (mean 128 +/- 9.6 mg/24 hours); (c) recovery from PAN (mean 12.5 +/- 1.5 mg/24 hours); (d) protein-overload proteinuria, induced by injecting albumin intraperitoneally (mean 211 +/- 15.9 mg/24 hours); and (e) saline-injected controls (mean 1.2 +/- 0.2 mg/24 hours). Only the proteinuric PAN animals (group 2) had altered GEC endocytosis with a PHA half-disappearance time different from the group 5 saline controls (143.2 versus 72.6 minutes, p less than 0.05). The half-disappearance times in groups 1, 3, and 4 were 74.6, 80.7 and 86.5 minutes, respectively. Altered GEC function was further characterized by comparing PHA disappearance with the abundance of albumin-filled vacuoles in the GEC. Prolongation of PHA disappearance in group 2 correlated with the virtual absence of vacuoles; they were abundant in nonproteinuric phases of PAN and in animals with overload proteinuria. We conclude (a) GEC endocytosis is reduced only during the proteinuric phase of PAN, (b) GEC endocytosis is active during the preproteinuric phase of PAN and is a factor that may account for the absence of protein in the urine despite abnormal GBM permeability, (c) decreased GEC endocytosis during proteinuric PAN reflects abnormal cell metabolism due to PA and is not simply a consequence of albuminuria, as overload proteinuria did not produce diminished PHA or albumin uptake.
Stem cell transplantation is one therapy employed in the management of children with high-risk solid tumors. However, this therapy is not without risk, having been associated with multiple end-organ toxicities. Both acute renal failure and chronic renal insufficiency have been reported in marrow transplant recipients, primarily in the context of the use of calcineurin inhibitors and radiation therapy. This report reviews our experience in managing an adolescent with metastatic Ewing's sarcoma who developed rapid progression to end-stage renal disease following a pretransplant conditioning regimen with high-dose carboplatinum. She had not received radiation or prior cisplatinum therapy. The possible reasons for the patient's highly unusual course and recommendations on ways to prevent this complication are discussed.
The role of amifostine in the prevention of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) was evaluated in the rat model. Urinary bladders from control rats that received no drugs (group I) were compared with those from rats receiving cyclophosphamide alone at a dose of 150 mg/kg (group II), and two other groups receiving amifostine at 100 mg/kg (group III) and 200 mg/kg (group IV), 15 min prior to cyclophosphamide. Bladders were assessed macroscopically and histologically at 24 h and after 7 days. All the animals that received cyclophosphamide alone developed severe HC. On the basis of the scores of macroscopic and histologic changes, animals that received amifostine showed excellent uroprotection. Only 2/6 rats in group III and 1/6 rats in group IV developed mild HC at 24 h. None of the rats in either of these groups showed any evidence of HC at 7 days. It is concluded that amifostine protects the urothelium against cyclophosphamide-induced HC.
This research expands on our prior study, in which we assessed pain reduction after topical doxepin rinse in patients with oral mucositis resulting from cancer and cancer therapy. We continued to enroll patients with painful oral mucositis attributable solely to cancer therapy and performed further analysis on the duration of pain reduction. Fifty-one patients with oral mucositis were enrolled. Mucositis was scored and oral pain was assessed with a visual analog scale before doxepin oral rinse (5 mg/mL) and at regular intervals up to 4 h after rinsing. Of those who reported pain reduction, 95% did so within 15 min of rinsing with doxepin. In the total sample, the average patient reported a 70% maximum decrease in pain (P < 0.0001). Recurrence of pain was slow and at the conclusion of the study 19 patients (37%) still reported a reduction from baseline pain. With this censored data we used Cox-proportional hazards to determine what variables best explained longer duration of pain reduction. Our final model determined that more severe baseline pain, worse mucosal erythema score, or a larger relative maximum reduction in pain were all associated with a slower rate of pain recurrence after oral rinsing (all P < 0.01).
Vitamin C and flavonoids, polyphenols with uncertain function, are abundant in fruits and vegetables. We postulated that flavonoids have a novel regulatory action of delaying or inhibiting absorption of vitamin C and glucose, which are structurally similar. From six structural classes of flavonoids, at least 12 compounds were chosen for studies. We investigated the effects of selected flavonoids on the intestinal vitamin C transporter SVCT1(h) by transfecting and overexpressing SVCT1(h) in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Flavonoids reversibly inhibited vitamin C transport in transfected cells with IC(50) values of 10-50 microm, concentrations expected to have physiologic consequences. The most potent inhibitor class was flavonols, of which quercetin is most abundant in foods. Because Chinese hamster ovary cells have endogenous vitamin C transport, we expressed SVCT1(h) in Xenopus laevis oocytes to study the mechanism of transport inhibition. Quercetin was a reversible and non-competitive inhibitor of ascorbate transport; K(i) 17.8 microm. Quercetin was a potent non-competitive inhibitor of GLUT2 expressed in Xenopus oocytes; K(i) 22.8 microm. When diabetic rats were administered glucose with quercetin, hyperglycemia was significantly decreased compared with administration of glucose alone. Quercetin also significantly decreased ascorbate absorption in normal rats given ascorbate plus quercetin compared with rats given ascorbate alone. Quercetin was a specific transport inhibitor, because it did not inhibit intestinal sugar transporters GLUT5 and SGLT1 that were injected and expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Quercetin inhibited but was not transported by SVCT1(h). Considered together, these data show that flavonoids modulate vitamin C and glucose transport by their respective intestinal transporters and suggest a new function for flavonoids.
Omeprazole; the first proton pump inhibitor (PPI) showing an effective acid inhibitory ability, provides the satisfactory therapy either in gastro-esophageal reflux symptom relief or in healing of erosive esophagitis. It's also effective in peptic ulcer disease. Up to date, omeprazole efficacy and safety are well established in many trials. Omeprazole-related hepatotoxicity is not very well recognized especially in pediatric population. We report a child who developed hepatitis following omeprazole intake. We believe that this is the first case report of omeprazole-induced hepatitis in pediatric population.
We report on a case of serotonin syndrome associated to the use of the paroxetine, a serotonin reuptake inhibitor drug. Serotonin syndrome related to this drug not combined with other drugs had not yet been described in literature.
In general, maternal age affects the quality of oocytes and embryos. The present study aimed to examine the features and age-associated gene expression profiles of bovine oocytes and embryos as well as to discover possible countermeasures against age-associated events. Comprehensive gene expression assays of germinal vesicle and metaphase II (MII)-stage oocytes and 8- to 16-cell-stage embryos were conducted using next-generation sequencing technology. The gene expression profiles of aged cows showed high expression of genes related to oxidative phosphorylation, eIF4 and p70S6K signaling, and mitochondrial dysfunction in MII-stage oocytes. Oocytes derived from aged cows, compared with those derived from their younger counterparts, exhibited high levels of abnormal fertilization and blastocysts with low total cell numbers. Levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and SIRT1 were higher in in vitro-matured oocytes derived from aged cows than in those derived from their younger counterparts. Supplementation of maturation medium with N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC), but not resveratrol, reduced the levels of ROS in the oocytes derived from cows of both age groups; however, resveratrol, but not NAC, improved the fertilization ratio. Conversely, EX 527, an inhibitor of SIRT1, increased the ratio of abnormal fertilization. In conclusion, gene expression profiles of oocytes and embryos derived from aged cows differ from those of oocytes and embryos derived from young cows; in particular, oocytes derived from aged cows show protein and mitochondrial dysfunction. In addition, activation of SIRT1 in oocytes may be a potential countermeasure against age-associated events in oocytes derived from aged cows.
Reduced measures of heart rate variability (HRV) have been shown to be related with prognosis in heart failure. Chronic administration of trimetazidine in addition to the conventional therapy has been shown to improve functional class and left ventricular functions of heart failure patients.
To assess the effects of trimetazidine on HRV in optimally treated patients with heart failure of ischemic origin.
Trimetazidine 20 mg three times/day was added to therapy of 30 patients with heart failure being treated with angiotensinogen converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers, carvedilol, spironolactone, digitalis and furosemide. The etiology of heart failure was coronary artery disease in all patients. Patients were evaluated with echocardiography and 24-hour heart rate variability analysis before and 3 months after addition of trimetazidine.
Mean left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) significantly increased after the addition of trimetazidine (33.5+/-5.1% to 42.5+/-5.8%, p<0.001). Of the HRV parameters, SDNN (97.3+/-40,1 to 110.5+/-29,2 msecs, p=0.049) and SDANN (80.5+/-29,0 to 98.3+/-30,5 msecs) were significantly increased after trimetazidine treatment. Baseline SDNN was significantly correlated with baseline LVEF (r=0.445, p=0.023, p=0.008) and the increment in SDNN was correlated with increase in LVEF (r=0.518, p=0.007).
Adding trimetazidine to optimal medical therapy in patients with heart failure of ischemic origin may improve heart rate variability in association with improved left ventricular ejection fraction.
The effect of long-term (6 months) administration of voglibose in a dietary mixture (10 ppm) on intestinal disaccharidase activity was examined in non obese type 2 diabetes model Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats. The postprandial blood glucose level in voglibose-treated GK rats was significantly lower than in untreated GK rats (190+/-19 vs. 250+/-25 mg/dl, P<0.01; 1 h, 212+/-23 vs. 256+/-20, P<0.05; 2 h), and the activities of maltase, sucrase, and isomaltase remained significantly lower throughout the 6 months of voglibose treatment. The expressions of protein and mRNA of sucrase-isomaltase (SI) complex were significantly higher in voglibose-treated GK rats. Voglibose administration then was stopped after 6 months of treatment. The mRNA level and protein level of the SI complex became normalized during the interruption of drug administration, and disaccharidase activities increased almost to the level of the untreated group 1 month after treatment was stopped. After 1 day of re-administration of the drug, however, disaccharidase activities again became significantly inhibited. These results indicate that voglibose may improve glucose tolerance since it inhibits activities of disaccharidases in spite of increasing the expression of them on intestine, furthermore voglibose may be reversible and reproducible through interruption and re-administration.
The hematotoxicity of benzene exposure has been well known for a century. Benzene causes leukocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, etc. The clinical and hematologic picture of aplastic anemia resulting from benzene exposure is not different from classical aplastic anemia; in some cases, mild bilirubinemia, changes in osmotic fragility, increase in lactic dehydrogenase and fecal urobilinogen, and occasionally some neurological abnormalities are found. Electromicroscopic findings in some cases of aplastic anemia with benzene exposure were similar to those observed by light microscopy. Benzene hepatitis-aplastic anemia syndrome was observed in a technician with benzene exposure. Ten months after occurrence of hepatitis B, a severe aplastic anemia developed. The first epidemiologic study proving the leukemogenicity of benzene was performed between 1967 and 1973 to 1974 among shoe workers in Istanbul. The incidence of leukemia was 13.59 per 100,000, which is a significant increase over that of leukemia in the general population. Following the prohibition and discontinuation of the use of benzene in Istanbul, there was a striking decrease in the number of leukemic shoe workers in Istanbul. In 23.7% of our series, consisting of 59 leukemic patients with benzene exposure, there was a preceding pancytopenic period. Furthermore, a familial connection was found in 10.2% of them. The 89.8% of our series showed the findings of acute leukemia. The possible factors that may determine the types of leukemia in benzene toxicity are discussed. The possible role of benzene exposure is presented in the development of malignant lymphoma, multiple myeloma, and lung cancer.
Patients with mutations predisposing to cardiomyopathy often have routine assessments of left ventricular function. It is unclear whether asymptomatic mild cardiomyopathy should be treated with standard heart failure therapies.
We tested the effect of metoprolol on cardiac haemodynamics and pathology in two animal models for muscular dystrophy and cardiomyopathy. Treatment started at an early stage in the development of the cardiomyopathy. Metoprolol was given orally (2.5 mg/kg/day) over 8 weeks to mdx mice (model for Duchenne muscular dystrophy) and δ-sarcoglycan-deficient (Sgcd(null)) mice (model for Limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2F). In vivo pressure-volume loops, fibrosis, in vivo myocyte sarcolemmal injury, and β-adrenergic receptor mRNA were assessed. In β-blocked mdx mice, there was a beneficial reduction in afterload and restored contractility resulting in an increased stroke volume. In contrast, in Sgcd(null) mice, there was marked deterioration in haemodynamics (prolonged relaxation, Tau, and reduced stroke volume). Furthermore, challenging the β-blocked Sgcd(null) mice with the β-adrenergic agonist dobutamine led to markedly increased mortality. Patterns of sarcolemmal injury or β-adrenergic receptor mRNA could not account for this, though the acute rise in markers of active relaxation suggested abnormally high levels of intracellular calcium.
β-Blockers may not necessarily be beneficial in all cardiomyopathies, even when given at an early stage of development. Clinical trials of β-blockers in muscular dystrophy-associated cardiomyopathy may need to stratify patients by genotype.
Organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) and polymorphisms of xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes are reported to be associated with the possible risk of prostate cancer. OCPs are endocrine disruptors (EDs) which may act by disrupting the physiologic function of endogenous hormones and therefore possibly increase prostate cancer risk. CYP1A1 metabolizes several carcinogens and estrogens, etc. and hence polymorphism of this gene has been reported to be associated with prostate cancer risk. We studied 70 newly diagnosed prostate cancer patients and 61 age-matched healthy male controls. OCP levels in blood were determined by using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and CYP1A1 polymorphisms were analyzed by allele-specific PCR and RFLP-PCR methods. Significantly higher levels of β-HCH, γ-HCH and p,p'-DDE were found in cases as compared to controls (p-values=0.04, 0.008, and 0.01, respectively). Higher levels of γ-HCH were observed in advanced stages of prostate cancer cases (<or=T(2) vs. >or=T(3)), (p-value=0.04). Dieldrin was found significantly higher in cases with initial stages (p-value=0.03). We did not observe any correlation between prostate cancer and CYP1A1 polymorphisms. Hence, higher level of OCPs, especially β-HCH, γ-HCH and p,p'-DDE might be associated with prostate cancer risk.
Oral contraceptives increase the natural incidence of venous thrombosis of 1-2/10,000 women per year 3- to 4-fold. Recent studies have shown that desogestrel or gestodene containing formulations bear twice the risk of older low-dose ovulation inhibitors. During pregnancy, the incidence of thrombosis rises to 10/10,000 women-years and post partum up to 40/ 10,000. For 60% of thromboses no causal explanation can be found. In approximately 40% of the patients an inherited thrombophilia can be presumed. Among the hereditary types of thrombophilia, a resistance to activated protein C (APC-resistance) represents nearly 50%, while in 15 to 20% a deficiency of antithrombin III, protein C or protein S is found. APC-resistance, with a prevalence of 3-5% in the general population, increases the risk of thrombosis 8-fold and in users of oral contraceptives 35-fold. Antithrombin III-deficiency carries a comparable risk. Protein C-deficiency increases the risk of thrombosis 9-fold and in users of oral contraceptives 15-fold. Ovulation inhibitors do not influence the risk of thrombosis in women with protein S-deficiency. Anti-phospholipid-antibodies increase during treatment with oral contraceptives and represent a considerably enhanced risk of thrombosis. Inherent thrombophilia is suspected in a patient with a positive history or family history of thrombosis, especially with thrombosis before the age of 40 or with atypical localisation. Even in these risk groups, the cost-benefit ratio of selective screening is unfavorable, as today at most 70% of the hereditary thrombophilias can be diagnosed by laboratory analysis, and only very few of the patients will actually experience a thrombotic event: only 3 of 1000 carriers of APC-resistance will suffer from thrombosis during oral contraception. On the other hand, a negative result of laboratory tests does not exclude a hereditary thrombophilic disorder. At present, it is unclear whether a selective screening process is superior to a careful assessment of individual and family history. A general screening, however, cannot be justified because of the unfavorable cost/benefit ratio. If the individual or family history or pathological laboratory parameters indicate an increased risk of thrombosis, this risk has to be carefully weighed against the consequences of discontinuation of pill use. Those few individuals with risk factors who will experience a thrombo-embolic event, cannot be identified in advance. If oral contraceptives represent a particularly high risk in patients with thrombophilic disorders and/or other risk factors, other contraceptive methods should be considered. If a patient with risk factors decides on the use of oral contraceptives, she must be informed that in the case of symptoms indicating a thrombosis, a physician should be consulted immediately. The earlier an appropriate therapy is initiated, the more effectively pulmonary thrombo-embolism and permanent damage, such as the post-phlebitic syndrome, can be prevented.
Mydricaine is a mydriatic agent used routinely at the Royal Adelaide Hospital in subconjunctival injections that are given prior to all vitreoretinal surgery. The drug is manufactured by the hospital pharmacy and each vial of 0.4 mL mydricaine number 02 consists of a mixture of 1.3 mg atropine sulphate, 0.12 mg adrenaline and 8.4 mg procaine hydrochloride. Mydricaine is routinely used by many vitreoretinal units, even though the drug is not listed in the British National Formulary (BNF) or Monthly Index of Medical Specialities (MIMS). Therefore, published case reports provide the main forum for reporting side-effects. The case presented is of a patient with no previous ischaemic heart disease who developed transient myocardial ischaemia with tachycardia following the administration of subconjunctival mydricaine number 02. To the authors' knowledge this is the first case report documenting myocardial ischaemia in a patient with no previous ischaemic heart disease following mydricaine administration.
Several lines of evidence suggest that oxidative stress may play a role in the behavioral changes and neurotoxicity in rats after administration of methamphetamine (MAP). N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) is a precursor of glutathione, and it also exerts as an antioxidant. In this study, we investigated the effects of NAC on the behavioral changes (hyperlocomotion and development of sensitization) and neurotoxicity in male Wistar rats after administration of MAP. Pretreatment with NAC (30, 100 or 300 mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated significantly hyperlocomotion in rats induced by a single administration of MAP (2 mg/kg, i.p.), in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, pretreatment with NAC (100 mg/kg, i.p., 15 min before MAP injection, once daily for 5 consecutive days) blocked significantly the development of behavioral sensitization in rats after repeated administration of MAP (2 mg/kg, once daily for 5 consecutive days), whereas the behaviors in rats after repeated administration of NAC plus saline groups were not different from those of control (vehicle plus saline) groups. One week after administration of MAP (7.5 mg/kg x 4, 2-h intervals), levels of dopamine (DA) in rat striatum were significantly decreased as compared with control groups. Pretreatment with NAC (1, 3, 10 or 30 mg/kg, i.p., 30 min before each MAP injection) attenuated significantly the MAP-induced reduction of DA in rat striatum, in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that NAC could prevent the behavioral changes (acute hyperlocomotion and development of behavioral sensitization) in rats and neurotoxicity in rat striatum after administration of MAP, and that NAC would be a useful drug for treatment of several symptoms associated with MAP abuse.
Antiviral treatment can be complex in decompensated hepatitis B virus (HBV) cirrhosis because of potential emergence of lamivudine-resistant mutants and worsening liver function, and to multifactorial nephrotoxicity. Negative HBV-DNA status by hybridization before liver transplantation is a favorable prognostic factor. We present the case of a 54-year-old HBV+ liver transplantation candidate who, after testing negative for HBV-DNA, developed YMDD lamivudine-resistant mutants resulting in a deteriorated clinical condition. After 8 months of adefovir plus lamivudine double therapy, only partial response was achieved. Tenofovir was added to this regimen, and an early decline of HBV-DNA was seen at 4 weeks without adverse events. The patient underwent transplantation. At 21-month postoperative follow-up, the patient's outcome was excellent. Post-transplantation HBV prophylaxis, taking into account the prior development of mutants, consists of hepatitis B immunoglobulin plus lamivudine and adefovir. Tenofovir was well tolerated and produced a fast antiviral response, suggesting its potential value in combined antiviral treatment for liver transplantation candidates.
One hundred sixty-five men and women undergoing open or transurethral urologic surgery participated in a study designed to compare the prophylactic efficacy and safety of piperacillin with those of cefotaxime when administered perioperatively. The piperacillin-treated group received 2 Gm one hour before surgery and 2 Gm three hours later, and the cefotaxime-treated group was administered 1 Gm on the same schedule. In 9 per cent of the piperacillin-treated patients and in 11 per cent of the cefotaxime-treated patients postoperative urinary tract infections developed, although no patient in either group had sepsis. The most frequently isolated pathogens were Escherichia coli and Enterococcus sp. As expected, the females in both surgical groups had a greater incidence of postoperative infections than did the males. No significant drug-related clinical reactions or changes in the results of the laboratory tests were encountered in either treatment group. Thus, a two-dose perioperative prophylactic regimen of piperacillin was as safe and as effective as a two-dose regimen of cefotaxime in preventing postoperative urinary tract infections or sepsis in these patients.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) is a serious and potentially life-threatening disease. Vanishing bile duct syndrome (VBDS) is a rare cause of progressive cholestasis. Both syndromes are mostly related with drugs. We report a case of a patient with ciprofloxacin-induced SJS and acute onset of VBDS, and reviewed the related literature. It is the first case of ciprofloxacin-induced VBDS successfully treated with tacrolimus. This case reminds physicians of the importance of drug reactions, their severity, techniques for diagnosis and methods of management.
Intracavernous injections (ICI) of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) of German produce (Schwarz Pharma A. G.) have been tested for diagnosis of erectile disorders in 63 patients (age 32-71, the majority at the age 45-65) and for autotherapy in 22 patients. In 76% of males with erectile impotency PGE1 ICI in a dose 10-20 micrograms result in marked erection which emerged within 5-15 min after the injection and persisted for 90 min on the average in spite of ejaculation. 86% of patients suffering from erectile dysfunction found this method of impotency correction satisfactory as it warrants normal coitus in 91% of cases (dose regimen 10-20 micrograms). ICI of PGE1 in the above dose 1-2 times a week for 2 months is safe, entail no systemic and insignificant local side effects. The risk of priapism and cavernous body fibrosis is minimal. The duration of the effect is related to the dose. The above advantages make PGE1 superior to papaverin and phentolamine. PGE1 ICI are recommended as the treatment of choice for therapy of erectile dysfunctions.
Hepatic warm ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) during hepatectomy and liver transplantation is a major cause of liver dysfunction in which the pathologic role of free radicals is a major concern. To assess the effect of MCI-186 (edaravone) on hepatic IRI, male Wistar rats were subjected to partial hepatic ischemia for 60 min after pretreatment with vehicle (group C) or MCI-186 (group M), or after both MCI-186 pretreatment and additional administration of MCI-186 12 h after reperfusion (group MX). Groups M and MX showed significantly lower levels of serum alanine aminotransferase and hepatic lipid peroxidation than group C, and also significantly lower expression levels of mRNA for cytokines, chemokines and intercellular adhesion molecule-1. There were fewer tissue monocytes and neutrophils in groups M and MX than in group C. These effects were more marked in group MX than in group M. Our findings suggest that treatment with MCI-186 attenuates hepatic IRI in this rat in vivo model.
We report a patient with Enterococcus faecalis native-valve endocarditis who relapsed after 4 weeks of treatment with ampicillin plus gentamicin. The relapse was cured with ampicillin plus ceftriaxone, which was introduced after gentamicin-induced acute renal failure. This double beta-lactam combination showed a bactericidal effect in time-killing curve studies.
Although ketamine has been administered spinally in humans, previous neurotoxicity studies have shown that it can induce spinal cord lesions in various animal models. The aim of this work was to evaluate by histologic and blood-brain barrier studies whether different components of the commercial ketamine solution might be responsible for the microscopic lesions observed.
Forty white New Zealand rabbits were randomly assigned to four groups of 10. One-percent preservative-free ketamine (0.3 ml), 1% d-ketamine, 0.05% chlorobutanol, and 1% lidocaine were intrathecally injected through the atlantooccipital membrane. Laminectomy was performed on day 8, and the dura was preserved using paraformaldehyde-glutaraldehyde fixative. Light and fluorescence microscopy were performed on transverse spinal cord sections by a neuropathologist unaware of injected agents used. Specimens were then graded as normal or abnormal as compared with a control group receiving lidocaine.
Isomers of ketamine did not induce spinal cord lesions in either study, but chlorobutanol (the preservative used in the ketamine solution) induced significant severe spinal cord lesions in both studies.
The appearance of spinal cord lesions after intrathecal chlorobutanol strongly suggests that this preservative is responsible for apparent toxicity of ketamine and therefore should not be used in any solution intrathecally injected into humans.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and 11-thiol-11-desoxy Prostaglandin E2 (SHPGE2) were evaluated in a variety of behavioral and neuropharmacological procedures that are sensitive to neuroleptics. Clozapine (C), thioridazine (T), haloperidol (H), and fluphenazine (F) were also tested for comparison. All agents except T suppressed avoidance responses in trained rats at one or more doses without concurrently disrupting escape behavior. T, H, and F dose-responsively antagonized lesioned rat rotational behavior at nontoxic doses. T, H, and F induced catalepsy at doses considerably higher than those effective on rotational behavior. SHPGE2, PGE2, and C did not cause catalepsy and did not show statistically significant dose-response antagonism of rotational behavior at less than toxic doses. All agents tested blocked d-amphetamine-induced lethality and caused motor incoordination dose-responsively. SHPGE2, PGE2, C, and T caused statistically significant blockade of physostigmine-induced lethality. H and F were ineffective against physostigmine lethality. It was concluded that SHPGE2 and PGE2 demonstrated, qualitatively, a spectrum of neuroleptic like properties remarkably similar to C.
