Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) is a rare, but well-described complication in organ transplant recipients maintained on cyclosporine immunosuppression. Tacrolimus is a newer agent with similar immunosuppressant efficacy. In cases of cyclosporine-related HUS in renal transplant recipients, tacrolimus has been used successfully without recurrence of HUS. Tacrolimus has been reported to cause HUS in renal and more recently in cardiac transplant patients. We report a case of HUS in a lung transplant recipient receiving tacrolimus who was subsequently converted to cyclosporine without recurrence of HUS.
Prednisone alone or in combination with an immunosuppressive drug is usually effective in controlling bullous pemphigoid. However, corticosteroids often cause potentially hazardous side effects, especially in elderly patients.
Our purpose was to evaluate low-dose treatment with methotrexate in elderly patients with generalized bullous pemphigoid.
Oral methotrexate, at an initial dosage of 5 mg/wk, was given to 11 consecutive patients older than 70 years of age who were not responding to potent topical steroids. If the response was insufficient, the methotrexate dose was increased by 2.5 mg/wk to a maximum of 12.5 mg/wk.
All patients responded with a marked and rapid decrease in disease activity. The disease was controlled in the majority of patients (8 of 11) with 5 to 7.5 mg of methotrexate per week. Three patients required a weekly dose of 10 to 12.5 mg. At 24 months of follow-up 7 patients were in complete remission and did not require methotrexate.
Our study suggests that low-dose oral pulse methotrexate constitutes an effective therapeutic alternative in elderly patients with generalized bullous pemphigoid.
Tungsten alloys (WA) have been introduced in an attempt to find safer alternatives to depleted uranium and lead munitions. However, it is known that at least one alloy, 91% tungsten-6% nickel-3% cobalt (WNC-91-6-3), causes rhabdomyosarcomas when fragments are implanted in rat muscle. This raises concerns that shrapnel, if not surgically removable, may result in similar tumours in humans. There is therefore a clear need to develop rapid and robust in vitro methods to characterise the toxicity of different WAs in order to identify those that are most likely to be harmful to human health and to guide development of new materials in the future. In the current study we have developed a rapid visual in vitro assay to detect toxicity mediated by individual WA particles in cultured L6-C11 rat muscle cells. Using a variety of techniques (histology, comet assay, caspase-3 activity, oxidation of 2'7'-dichlorofluorescin to measure the production of reactive oxygen species and whole-genome microarrays) we show that, in agreement with the in vivo rat carcinogenicity studies, WNC-91-6-3 was the most toxic of the alloys tested. On dissolution, it produces large amounts of reactive oxygen species, causes significant amounts of DNA damage, inhibits caspase-3, triggers a severe hypoxic response and kills the cells in the immediate vicinity of the alloy particles within 24h. By combining these in vitro data we offer a mechanistic explanation of the effect of this alloy in vivo and show that in vitro tests are a viable alternative for assessing new alloys in the future.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that have important roles in gene regulation. We have previously reported that activin receptor-like kinase 7 (ALK7) and its ligand, Nodal, induce apoptosis in human epithelial ovarian cancer cells. In this study, we examined the regulation of ALK7 by miRNAs and demonstrate that miR-376c targets ALK7. Ectopic expression of miR-376c significantly increased cell proliferation and survival, enhanced spheroid formation and blocked Nodal-induced apoptosis. Interestingly, overexpression of miR-376c blocked cisplatin-induced cell death, whereas anti-miR-376c enhanced the effect of cisplatin. These effects of miR-376c were partially compensated by the overexpression of ALK7. Moreover, in serous carcinoma samples taken from ovarian cancer patients who responded well to chemotherapy, strong ALK7 staining and low miR-376c expression was detected. By contrast, ALK7 expression was weak and miR-376c levels were high in samples from patients who responded poorly to chemotherapy. Finally, treatment with cisplatin led to an increase in expression of mRNA encoding Nodal and ALK7 but a decrease in miR-376c levels. Taken together, these results demonstrate that the Nodal-ALK7 pathway is involved in cisplatin-induced cell death in ovarian cancer cells and that miR-376c enhances proliferation, survival and chemoresistance by targeting, at least in part, ALK7.
To report a patient with lung cancer and idiopathic myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia who developed purpura and acute renal failure while receiving levofloxacin, and review the existing literature on quinolone nephrotoxicity.
A 73-year-old white man, with a medical history of non-small-cell lung cancer and idiopathic myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia, was prescribed levofloxacin because of a lower urinary tract infection. Three days later, he presented with palpable purpura and erythematous skin lesions over the lower limbs and trunk, with a markedly reduced urinary output. Serum creatinine and urea nitrogen were 6.4 and 190 mg/dL, respectively. Levofloxacin was discontinued, and prednisone, furosemide, and intravenous fluids were given. The patient fully recovered over the ensuing 4 weeks.
Nephrotoxicity associated with levofloxacin is uncommon. Allergic interstitial nephritis or vasculitis is believed to be the underlying pathologic process. Definitive diagnosis requires performance of renal biopsy, although this is not always feasible. In this case, a return of renal function to normal, with the disappearance of purpura following the discontinuation of levofloxacin and corticosteroid treatment, supports the presumptive diagnosis of a hypersensitivity reaction to levofloxacin.
Van der Woude syndrome (VWS) (OMIM 119300) is a dominantly inherited, developmental disorder that is characterized by pits and/or sinuses of the lower lip and a cleft lip and/or cleft palate. Mutations in the interferon regulatory factor 6 gene (IRF6) have been recently identified in patients with VWS, with more than 60 mutations reported. However, the VWS phenotype, IRF6 mutation genotypes, and their interrelationships in Chinese VWS patients have not been studied. Here, we report 11 Chinese families with variable clinical phenotypes of VWS and identified mutations in all patients. Of the 11 mutations, 8 appeared to be novel: CC5.6GT, T342A, 566delA, C748T, C756A, C989A, C1209G, and 1316delT. Seven mutations caused a change or loss of the IRF6 domain. The marked phenotypic variation may be caused by the action of certain modifier genes on IRF6 function.
Historically, single-patient trials (SPTs) have been specifically designed for each patient, requiring significant time and effort for execution. There has been no previous attempt to standardize an SPT for routine commercial availability.
To validate the use of an SPT method to discriminate effectiveness and adverse events while comparing drugs/doses in patients with allergic rhinitis.
Double-blind, randomized, 4 paired-period, multiple-crossover SPT.
Academic and commercial investigative sites.
Thirty-six patients with allergic rhinitis were evaluated for the most appropriate treatment; 6 of these participated in 2 different SPTs.
Treatment of symptoms of allergic rhinitis by comparing either loratadine with chlorpheniramine maleate or loratadine with placebo in a series of SPTs.
Effectiveness endpoints were selected from a modern, Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved new drug application. Expected adverse events were directly solicited; unsolicited events were also recorded. Total signs and symptoms cumulatively included sneezing, runny nose, itchy nose, teary eyes, and itchy eyes. Quality of life was measured by the most bothersome symptom and the patient's global evaluation.
Of 42 initiated SPTs, 40 (95%) provided complete data and 1 (2%) provided partial data, resulting in 41 (98%) evaluable tests. Thirty-one evaluable SPTs compared loratadine 10 mg/d with chlorpheniramine maleate 12 mg twice daily, and 10 SPTs compared loratadine 10 mg/d with placebo. Four of 31 SPTs (13%) showed significant superiority for loratadine over chlorpheniramine maleate and 5 of 31 (16%) for chlorpheniramine maleate over loratadine. Twenty-two of 31 (71%) showed parity performance between loratadine and chlorpheniramine maleate. Loratadine was significantly superior to placebo in 3 of 10 trials (30%), consistent with rates found in 3 pivotal group trials used for FDA approval (24%, 17%, and 0%). Sleepiness could be discriminated for loratadine versus placebo and for chlorpheniramine maleate versus loratadine.
The allergic rhinitis SPT proved to be acceptable to patients, feasible to administer, and reproducible. It can statistically discriminate effectiveness and adverse events, serving as a useful, prognostic tool in community practice.
A 58 year old woman on long term treatment with chloroquine for systemic lupus erythematosus presented with cardiac conduction disorders and heart failure with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which was confirmed by histology to be related to chloroquine toxicity. The heart failure improved on stopping chloroquine treatment.
To report a case of possible clonidine-induced hypertension (by Naranjo score) in a patient with a C4 spinal lesion.
Clonidine is a medication long used to treat hypertension, and it is still used in the treatment of refractory hypertension. Although effective, clonidine use is hindered by adverse effects and its dual mechanism of action.
A 39-year-old white, quadriplegic man with poorly controlled pain displayed many characteristics consistent with autonomic dysfunction (e.g., C4 spinal lesion, orthostatic hypotension, hypertension). The patient was routinely receiving transdermal clonidine and also received transdermal nitroglycerin paste as needed for control of acute hypertensive episodes. On the recommendation of the home healthcare pharmacists, clonidine was discontinued. Since that time, the patient's blood pressure and the use of emergent antihypertensive treatment have decreased significantly (maximum systolic and diastolic BP by approximately 50 and 25 mm Hg, respectively).
Many of the characteristics of autonomic dysfunction, such as refractory hypertension, can seem selective for the use of clonidine and, because of its reliance on central alpha(2)-activity for its hypotensive effects, clonidine may induce hypertension in patients with autonomic dysfunction. Clonidine should be used with great caution when autonomic dysfunction is suspected.
To determine the benefit of using an H2-receptor antagonist in children with abdominal pain and dyspepsia, 25 such children were enrolled in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of famotidine. Global and quantitative pain assessments were done before and after each treatment period. The quantitative assessment was calculated based on the abdominal pain score that was the sum of three components. Based on the global evaluation, there was a clear benefit of famotidine over placebo (68% vs 12%). Using the quantitative assessment, however, the mean improvement of the score using famotidine versus placebo was not statistically significant (3.37+/-3.53 vs 1.66+/-2.7). There was a significant improvement in this score during the first treatment period regardless of medication used (period effect: P = 0.05). A subset of patients with peptic symptoms demonstrated a significant drug effect that outweighed the period effect (drug effect: P = 0.01; period effect: P = 0.02). We conclude that famotidine subjectively improves the symptoms of children with recurrent abdominal pain but not objectively using the derived score. However, famotidine is significantly more effective than placebo among children with peptic symptoms. The use of this simple scoring scale may facilitate selecting those children who will benefit from H2-receptor antagonist therapy.
To report 3 separate cases of wound dehiscence in liver transplant recipients receiving sirolimus for immunosuppressive therapy.
Three patients who had received liver transplants experienced a delay in wound granulation and healing after being placed on an immunosuppressive regimen containing sirolimus and steroids. Each patient was admitted and treated for wound dehiscence, at which time sirolimus was discontinued. When other immunosuppressive agents were substituted for sirolimus, each incisional wound granulated and closed without complication.
Sirolimus is an important adjunctive immunosuppressant used to prevent acute rejection episodes in patients who have undergone transplant, particularly when nephrotoxic effects from first-line calcineurin inhibitors become problematic. The unique ability of sirolimus to inhibit smooth muscle cell proliferation and intimal thickening by blocking important growth factors may subsequently become a significant feature to prevent the development of chronic rejection. Theoretically, by this same mechanism, sirolimus may play a role in forestalling wound healing and may even promote dehiscence.
These case reports describe patients who underwent liver transplant who developed wound dehiscence possibly secondary to sirolimus therapy. Although the cases were complicated by acute rejection, wound infections, and comorbidities, wound granulation and healing began after discontinuation of sirolimus. Substitution with another immunosuppressant may be necessary for patients who experience wound dehiscence after transplant.
To report 2 cases of metoclopramide-induced supersensitivity psychosis.
A 74-year-old Taiwanese man was treated with metoclopramide 5 mg 4 times daily for 6 months. A second patient, a 65-year-old Taiwanese man, was treated with metoclopramide 5 mg 4 times daily for 3 months. After discontinuation of metoclopramide, both patients developed hallucinatory experiences and delusions.
This is the first report of metoclopramide-induced supersensitivity psychosis. Chronic administration of a dopamine antagonist (e.g., metoclopramide) might induce dopamine receptor supersensitivity. It is hypothesized that exacerbation or occurrence of psychotic symptoms following neuroleptic withdrawal results from mesolimbic dopamine supersensitivity.
The complications of long-term metoclopramide therapy should be seriously considered when the treatment regimens are being planned. Clinicians should attempt to treat patients with the lowest effective dosage of medication for the briefest therapeutic period to minimize the risks of adverse reactions.
The prognosis for patients with relapsed/progressive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains poor. For first-line therapy, a number of platinum-based regimens are standard; second-line therapies include single-agent docetaxel, pemetrexed, and erlotinib. Treatment options for patients whose tumors have failed to respond to two or more conventional chemotherapy regimens are limited, with erlotinib, which targets the epidermal growth factor receptor, and crizotinib, which targets EML4/ALK, the only agents currently approved in the United States as third-line therapy for patients with advanced/metastatic NSCLC. Among the targeted agents that have undergone evaluation for third-line therapy and beyond are afatinib, apatinib, axitinib, AUY922, pazopanib, sorafenib, sunitinib, and vandetanib. Agents that affect multiple pathways have the potential to provide significant clinical benefits. Identifying molecular characteristics that make tumors more likely to respond to a targeted therapy is crucial. This article reviews the hypotheses and data that provide the rationale for the development of targeted agents for third- and fourth-line treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory NSCLC.
Basal-like breast cancer (BBC) is a subtype of breast cancer with poor prognosis. Inherited mutations of BRCA1, a cancer susceptibility gene involved in double-strand DNA break (DSB) repair, lead to breast cancers that are nearly always of the BBC subtype; however, the precise molecular lesions and oncogenic consequences of BRCA1 dysfunction are poorly understood. Here we show that heterozygous inactivation of the tumor suppressor gene Pten leads to the formation of basal-like mammary tumors in mice, and that loss of PTEN expression is significantly associated with the BBC subtype in human sporadic and BRCA1-associated hereditary breast cancers. In addition, we identify frequent gross PTEN mutations, involving intragenic chromosome breaks, inversions, deletions and micro copy number aberrations, specifically in BRCA1-deficient tumors. These data provide an example of a specific and recurrent oncogenic consequence of BRCA1-dependent dysfunction in DNA repair and provide insight into the pathogenesis of BBC with therapeutic implications. These findings also argue that obtaining an accurate census of genes mutated in cancer will require a systematic examination for gross gene rearrangements, particularly in tumors with deficient DSB repair.
The objective of this study was to elucidate the prophylactic effects of 5-alpha reductase inhibitor (e.g., finasteride) and a pure antiandrogen (e.g., casodex) on rat prostate carcinogenesis and to determine whether latent prostate carcinoma can be prevented to develop to clinically significant cancer by use of these drugs.
F344 rats were subcutaneously administered 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) for the first 20 weeks and testosterone propionate throughout the 60-week study. Finasteride (5 mg/kg and 15 mg/kg, 2 times per week) and casodex (15 mg/kg, 30 mg/kg, and 60 mg/kg, 3 times per week) were administered orally during the last 40 weeks of the study. Tumors were classified as visible prostate carcinoma when they could be recognized with the naked eye and as microscopic prostate carcinoma when detectable only with a microscope.
The incidence of visible prostate carcinoma was 51% (18 of 35 rats) in the positive control group, whereas it was 40% (4 of 10 rats) in the finasteride 5 mg/kg group, 16.7% (2 of 12 rats, P = 0.0091) in the finasteride 15 mg/kg group, 20% (4 of 20 rats, P = 0.05) in the casodex 15 mg/kg group, 14.3% (3 of 21 rats, P = 0.0008) in the casodex 30 mg/kg group, and 0% (0 of 11 rats, P = 0.0002) in the casodex 60 mg/kg group. On the other hand, when visible carcinomas and microscopic carcinomas were handled together, only casodex 60 mg/kg significantly inhibited the carcinogenesis rate.
Finasteride achieved dose-dependent inhibition of macroscopic rat prostate carcinogenesis, and casodex also inhibited macroscopic prostate carcinogenesis. However, both drugs showed insufficient prevention of carcinogenesis at the microscopic level. These findings indicate that, in clinical medicine as well, such drugs may also be able to prevent the progression of latent prostate carcinoma to life-threatening disease.
To report a young man on phenytoin who developed acute neurologic symptoms after isradipine was introduced to his treatment regimen and discuss the possible causes of this drug interaction.
A 21-year-old white man, with propionic acidemia and seizures treated with phenytoin and carbamazepine, was started on isradipine for essential hypertension. Soon thereafter, he developed acute and severe lethargy, ataxia, dysarthria, and weakness that resolved once isradipine was withheld. Phenytoin concentrations were within normal limits or elevated, despite sequential reductions of phenytoin dosage, during concomitant isradipine administration.
Isradipine is a known inhibitor of the CYP450 isoenzyme family. Although the daily dose of phenytoin was decreased significantly, phenytoin blood concentrations remained high, suggesting a pharmacokinetic interaction. Previously, the patient had never had neurologic symptoms associated with increased phenytoin concentrations. This also indicates a likely pharmacodynamic interaction between phenytoin and the calcium-channel blocker. Both phenytoin and isradipine have been shown to bind to calcium channels and to inhibit calcium entry into the cells. Binding of isradipine to the brain has been described in humans and animals, and calcium-channel blockers have been shown to cause potentiation of anticonvulsant action of phenytoin.
Acute pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between phenytoin and isradipine were probably responsible for the lethargy, dysarthria, ataxia, and weakness our patient developed. The combination of phenytoin and calcium-channel blockers should be used with caution.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography, a highly useful and safe challenge test for myocardial ischemia, is being used increasingly. We report the case of a 37-year-old man with rest angina, repolarization abnormalities in precordial leads and normal coronary arteries who was referred for dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography, which was negative for ischemia. However, after testing, upon injection of propranolol, the patient suffered chest pain associated with ST elevation and severe regional systolic abnormalities. After intravenous nitroglycerin administration, chest pain and electrocardiographic abnormalities disappeared quickly, and systolic motion became normal. This complication was interpreted as a coronary spasm. We discuss the causes for the spasm and the role that might have been played by the drugs employed.
Caspase-cleaved proteins are released from disintegrated apoptotic cells and can be detected in the circulation. We here addressed whether caspase-cleaved cytokeratin 18 (CK18-Asp396) can be used as a serum biomarker for assessment of the clinical efficiency of chemotherapy in hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC). A total of 82 patients with HRPC were evaluated during 751 treatment cycles, either with estramustine (EMP)/vinorelbine or with EMP/docetaxel. The levels of CK18-Asp396 and of total CK18 were measured in patient serum before and during therapy by ELISA. Docetaxel induced significant increases in serum CK18-Asp396 (P<0.0001) and total CK18 (P<0.0002), suggesting induction of apoptosis. Similarly, vinorelbine induced increases in both CK18-Asp396 and CK18 (P<0.001 and 0.011). In contrast, EMP induced increases in total serum CK18 (P<0.0001), but not in CK18-Asp396 (P=0.13). The amplitudes of docetaxel-induced increases were associated with baseline prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and CK18 serum levels in these patients, consistent with tumoral origin of caspase-cleaved fragments. Docetaxel induced significant increases in CK18-Asp396 during second-, third- and fourth-line therapy and induced increased levels of CK18-Asp396 during treatment cycles 1-8. In contrast, vinorelbine induced significant increases only during cycles 1-3. In a subgroup of 32 patients that received EMP/vinorelbine in second line followed by EMP/docetaxel in third line, docetaxel induced stronger increases than vinorelbine (P=0.008). These results show that the CK18-Asp396 serum marker can be used to assess tumour apoptosis in vivo and suggest that the clinical efficiency of docetaxel in HRPC is due to induction of apoptosis during multiple treatment cycles.
A genome-wide screen using 382 STR markers to localize and identify the gene implicated in early-onset dementia (EOD) without bone cysts in a Lebanese family with three affected subjects was conducted. A unique locus homozygous by descent at chromosome 6p21.2 locus was identified. Candidate genes were explored by fluorescent sequencing and the effect of the identified mutation was confirmed by qualitative and quantitative RT-PCR. The genetic analysis revealed a novel deletion, c.40+3delAGG, in the 5' consensus donor splice site in intron 1 of TREM2 gene which is known to be responsible for PLOSL (Polycystic Lipomembranous Osteodysplasia with Sclerosing Leukoencephalopathy) also designated as Nasu-Hakola disease. In silico analysis predicted a lower strength for the novel donor splice site. Qualitative RT-PCR revealed normal transcript while quantitative RT-PCR showed over twofold down-regulation of TREM2 transcripts. The expression profile of six genes SPP1, NEDD9, FSCN, BCL3, NFKBIA and CCL2 known as disrupted in TREM2-deficient samples was studied and showed same expression profile as TREM2-mutated samples except for CCL2 which was normally regulated. The significantly-reduced expression of TREM2 in our patients and the expression profiles of the six studied genes confirm a role for TREM2 in this distinct phenotype of EOD without bone cysts. To our knowledge, this is the first report of mutations in TREM2 causing a pure dementia.
Efficacy and tolerability of iotrolan, a nonionic isotonic dimer, as a contrast medium for angiography and urography were investigated in animals. In the arteriography of rabbit femur, the efficacy of iotrolan 280 mgI/ml was as good as iopamidol 300 mgI/ml and better than meglumine diatrizoate 306 mgI/ml. In rat urography, the efficacy of iotrolan 280 mgI/ml was better than both iopamidol 370 mgI/ml and iohexol 350 mgI/ml. Vascular pain was less with iotrolan 280 mgI/ml than with iohexol 300 mgI/ml in rats. Effect of iotrolan on the pulmo-cardiovascular parameters, arterial pO2, hematocrit and plasma osmolality was less than iopamidol and diatrizoate in rabbits. Iotrolan induced no renal dysfunction and diuresis where iopamidol induced diuresis in rats. Effect of iotrolan on the blood coagulation was similar to nonionic monomers and less than diatrizoate in rabbits. Because of its isotonicity, iotrolan induced little water shift in the blood vessel and urinary tract, which would result in good efficacy and tolerability. These results suggest that iotrolan is superior to ionic and nonionic monomers for angiography and urography.
Pheripheral edema was observed in five female patients after taking proton pump inhibitors omeprazole, lansoprazole, or pantoprazole for 7-15 days for peptic acid diseases in recommended standard doses. Edema disappeared two to three days after stopping therapy but reappeared in all five patients after being reexposed to the drugs. In three of the patients drug kinetic investigations were performed and revealed a slow metabolizer status. During dose-finding studies for intravenous proton pump inhibitors omeprazole and pantoprazole, three of six young female volunteers receiving omeprazole and two young female volunteers receiving pantoprazole developed peripheral edema within 8 hr when high doses of the proton pump inhibitors were applied by continuous infusion together with large volumes of fluid. The edema disappeared within 24 hr after stopping the infusion therapy. Serum hormone concentrations in these patients did not change during therapy, neither did the edema factor C1-esterase inhibitor. As a possible mechanism, a competitive inhibition at the receptor site of female hormones involved in water regulation is suspected.
The effects of chromium (Cr) supplementation on insulin secretion and glucose clearance (KG) during intravenous glucose tolerance tests (IVGTTS) were assessed in rats with impaired glucose tolerance due to dietary Cr deficiency. Male Wistar rats were maintained after weaning on a basal low-Cr diet containing 55% sucrose, 15% lard, 25% casein. American Institute of Nutrition (AIN)-recommended levels of vitamins, no added Cr, and an altered mineral content as required to produce Cr deficiency and impaired glucose tolerance. The Cr-supplemented group ([+Cr] n = 6) were provided with 5 ppm Cr as CrCl3 in the drinking water, and the Cr-deficient group ([-Cr]n = 5) received purified drinking water. At 12 weeks on the diet, both groups of rats were hyperinsulinemic (+Cr, 103 +/- 13; -Cr, 59 +/- 12 microU/mL) and normoglycemic (+Cr, 127 +/- 7; -Cr, 130 +/- 4 mg/dL), indicating insulin resistance. After 24 weeks, insulin levels were normal (+Cr, 19 +/- 5; -Cr, 21 +/- 3 microU/mL) and all rats remained normoglycemic (+Cr, 124 +/- 8; -Cr, 131 +/- 6 mg/dL). KG values during IVGTTS were lower in -Cr rats (KG = 3.58%/min) than in +Cr rats (KG = 5.29%/min), correlating with significantly greater 40-minute glucose areas in the -Cr group (P < .01). Comparisons of 40-minute insulin areas indicated marked insulin hyperresponsiveness in the -Cr group, with insulin-secretory responses increased nearly twofold in -Cr animals (P < .05). Chromium deficiency also led to significant decreases in cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent phosphodiesterase (PDE) activity in spleen and testis (P < .01). In these studies, Cr deficiency was characterized by both beta-cell hypersecretion of insulin and tissue insulin resistance that were associated with decreased tissue levels of cAMP PDE activity.
One hundred and ninety-one patients treated with gold and penicillamine over a seven-year period were reviewed retrospectively for the occurrence of haematuria. Over this period 10% had shown haematuria, and in over half of these an identifiable cause was found. In the remaining patients, a clear relationship with their treatment seemed likely in only two. Penicillamine therapy was discontinued in all patients with unexplained haematuria, but two patients have continued to show haematuria. Gold therapy has been continued in the presence of haematuria without ill effect. There has been no deterioration in renal function in those patients who have continued to show unexplained haematuria and at no time was proteinuria an accompanying feature.
Estradiol-17beta-D-glucuronide (E(2)17G) induces immediate and profound but transient cholestasis in rats when administered as a single bolus dose. Here, we examined the consequence of sustained E(2)17G cholestasis and assessed the function and localization of the tight junctional proteins zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) and occludin and of the canalicular transporter multidrug resistance-associated protein-2 (Mrp2). An initial dose of E(2)17G (15 mumol/kg iv) followed by five subsequent doses of 7.5 mumol/kg from 60 to 240 min induced a sustained 40-70% decrease in bile flow. Following their biliary retrograde administration, cholera toxin B subunit-FITC or horseradish peroxidase were detected at the sinusoidal domain, indicating opening of the paracellular route; this occurred as early as 15 min after the first dose as well as 15 min after the last dose of E(2)17G, but not following the administration of vehicle in controls. Localization of ZO-1 and occludin was only slightly affected under acute cholestatic conditions but was severely disrupted under sustained cholestasis, with their appearance suggesting a fragmented structure. Endocytic internalization of Mrp2 to the pericanalicular region was apparent 20 min after a single E(2)17G administration; however, Mrp2 was found more deeply internalized and partially redistributed to the basolateral membrane under sustained cholestasis. In conclusion, acute E(2)17G-induced cholestasis increased permeability of the tight junction, while sustained cholestasis provoked a significant redistribution of ZO-1, occludin, and Mrp2 in addition to increased permeability of the tight junction. Altered tight junction integrity likely contributes to impaired bile secretion and may be causally related to changes in Mrp2 localization.
To establish a relationship between the pharmacokinetics of high-dose methotrexate (MTX) and toxicity in children of a pediatric oncology department and to reassess MTX concentrations at which the patients would be at high risk for toxic effects.
This study included 37 patients (227 treatment courses) who received a median dose of 4.87 g/m(2) of MTX in a 4-hour infusion. The population pharmacokinetic parameters of MTX were estimated by parametric (IT2B) and nonparametric methods (NPEM). Gastrointestinal, renal, and hematologic toxicity were evaluated. The relationship between pharmacokinetic parameters and toxicity was analyzed by logistic regression and multiple linear regression.
Equations to predict hematologic and nonhematologic toxicity were obtained. An increase of 100 micro mol/L in the MTX peak concentration meant a 12% (p = 0.03) higher risk of vomiting; a significant delay in MTX elimination implied a 5.76-fold higher risk of mucositis (p < 0.001). An increase of 1 micro mol/L in the MTX concentration 24 hours after the end of the infusion (Cp(24h)) led to a 43% increase in the risk of renal toxicity (p < 0.001). Hematologic toxicity was significantly conditioned by the baseline leukocyte count and Cp(24h) (p < 0.001).
The analysis of high-dose MTX pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship to toxicity has led to equations able to predict toxicity that are easily applicable to daily practice. Cp(24h) >3.5 micro mol/L was confirmed as an indicator of high risk of toxicity.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is efficiently treated with a cell differentiation inducer, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). However, a significant percentage of patients still develop resistance to this treatment. Recently, arsenic trioxide (As2O3), alone or in combination with ATRA, has been identified as an alternative therapy in patients with both ATRA-sensitive and ATRA-resistant APL. Previous investigations restricted the mechanism of this synergism to the modulation and/or degradation of PML-RARalpha oncoprotein through distinct pathways. In this study, using several ATRA maturation-resistant APL cell lines, we demonstrate in vitro that the success of ATRA/As2O3 treatment in APL pathology can be explained, at least in part, by a synergistic effect of these two drugs in triggering downregulation of telomerase efficient enough to cause telomere shortening and subsequent cell death. Such long-term low-dose combinatorial therapy strategies, developed also to avoid acute side effects, reinforce the notion that the antitelomerase strategy, based on a combination of active agents, should now be considered and evaluated not only in APL but also in other malignancies.
