Observed loss in body weight gain, increased lipid peroxidation reaction, decreased concentrations of antioxidants, ascorbic acid, alpha-tocopherol and reduced glutathione and antioxidant enzymes, glutathione peroxidase and catalase and increased concentration of hydroperoxides and hydroxyl radicals in vitamin B6 deficient rat liver [J Nutri Biochem, 2 (1991) 245] and kidney [Biochem International, 21 (1991) 599] were nearly normalized on feeding with vitamin E or methionine. Accumulation of oxalate and calcium during vitamin B6 deficiency was abolished by feeding vitamin E or methionine. Calcium oxalate deposition observed in vitamin B6 deficient kidney was completely prevented when fed along with vitamin E or methionine. However the hyperoxaluria and hypercalciuria persisted even after feeding with vitamin E or methionine.
Antiepileptic drugs provide neuroprotection in several animal models of brain damage, including those induced by status epilepticus (SE). The mechanisms involved in this action are unknown, but neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may play a role. In this study we investigated the changes in BDNF levels in rats in which SE had been induced by pilocarpine injection (400 mg/kg i.p.) and continued for several hours (unprotected group). In other animals (protected groups), SE was suppressed after 30 min by intraperitoneal injection of either diazepam (10 mg/kg) + pentobarbital (30 mg/kg) or paraldehyde (0.3 mg/kg). In diazepam + pentobarbital-treated rats the hippocampal damage caused by SE was significantly lower (p < 0.05) than in unprotected animals. In addition, 2 and 24 h after pilocarpine injection, the levels of BDNF mRNA were moderately increased in the unprotected group, but 'superinduced' in protected animals, especially in the neocortex and hippocampus. A time-dependent increase in BDNF immunoreactivity was also found by western blot analysis in rats treated with diazepam + pentobarbital. In contrast, a decrease of BDNF immunoreactivity occurred in the unprotected group. In conclusion, these results show that neuroprotection induced by anti-epileptic drugs in pilocarpine-treated rats is accompanied by strong potentiation of BDNF synthesis in brain regions involved in SE.
Administration of tridiphane (Tandem, DOWCO 356, 2-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)-2-(2,2,2-trichloroethyl)oxirane) to male Swiss-Webster mice for 3 days at 100, 250, and 500 mg/kg (ip) resulted in increases in liver weight accompanied by an increase in mitotic index and increases in large particle and microsomal protein. Epoxide hydrolase (EH) activity towards cis-stilbene oxide (CSO, microsomal EH) was elevated in microsomes and cytosol, a decrease in microsomal cholesterol EH was found, and hydrolysis of trans-stilbene oxide (TSO, cytosolic EH) was elevated in the cytosol but not in the microsomes. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was elevated in cytosol for CSO, TSO, and 1,2-dichloro-4-nitrobenzene (DCNB), with inconsistent responses found with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane (ENPP). Microsomal GST was not consistently effected by tridiphane. Clofibrate (500 mg/kg, 3 daily ip injections) treatment resulted in similar responses in liver size, microsomal protein, and the EHs. The increase in cytosolic EH activity previously has been noted only in animals treated with peroxisome proliferators. Examination of livers from mice treated with 250 mg/kg tridiphane revealed that an increase in hepatic peroxisomes was apparent after 3 days of treatment. This was accompanied by decreases in serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels and increases in liver carnitine acetyl transferase and cyanide-insensitive oxidation of palmitoyl-CoA. This study demonstrates that tridiphane does have in vivo effects on mammalian epoxide-metabolizing enzymes and extends the association of increased cytosolic epoxide hydrolase activity with peroxisome proliferation.
Since palladium complexes have been reported to show fewer side effects relative to other heavy metal anticancer compounds, in this study a new class of four structurally related anticancer Pd(II) complexes including 2,2'-bipyridin-n-butyl dithiocarbamato Pd(II) nitrate (Com-1), 2,2'-bipyridin-n-hexyl dithiocarbamato Pd(II) nitrate (Com-2), 2,2'-bipyridin glycinato Pd(II) nitrate (Com-3) and 2,2'-bipyridin octylglycinato Pd(II) nitrate (Com-4) was designed. The effect of four synthesized ligands on the protein structure and cell proliferation were investigated. Whey carrier proteins beta-lactoglobulin-A and-B (BLG-A and-B) and chronic myelogenous leukemia cell line K562 were the targets. Fluorescence and CD instruments were used to assess effect of the ligands on the protein structure. Growth inhibitory effect of the Pd(II) complexes towards the cancer cells was measured using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. Results of fluorescence studies revealed that the complexes had no dithiocarbamate moiety (compounds 3 and 4) could quench the intrinsic fluorescence emission of the proteins at lower concentrations than those had such moiety (compounds 1 and 2). The far-UV-CD studies revealed that the regular secondary structure of BLG-A and -B did not show any noticeable alteration upon interaction with different of Pd(II)-complexes. The results of cell proliferation assay also displayed that Com-1 and Com-2 had more growth inhibitory activity against K562, than Com-3 and Com-4. Our results suggested that addition of dithiocarbamate moiety to structure of Pd(II) complexes probably has important role to improve the antiproliferative properties of the anticancer ligands and fewer effects on the carrier protein structure.
1. Suppressing apoptosis and downregulating K(+) channels in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMC) have been implicated in the development of pulmonary vascular medial hypertrophy and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Previous studies have shown that selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs) protected against PAH. The aim of the present study was to investigate the involvement of Kv1.5 channels and apoptosis in the protective effect of the SSRI fluoxetine against PAH. 2. Monocrotaline (MCT) was used to establish PAH in Wistar rats. Fluoxetine (2 and 10 mg/kg per day) was administered by gavage once a day for 3 weeks. Three weeks after the induction of PAH by MCT, pulmonary haemodynamic measurements and pulmonary artery morphological assessments were undertaken, along with detection of apoptosis and Kv1.5. 3. Fluoxetine (2 and 10 mg/kg per day) decreased pulmonary artery pressure, reduced the right ventricular index and inhibited the increase in medial wall thickness of pulmonary arteries in established PAH. Fluoxetine (10 mg/kg per day) reduced the expression of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL protein, increased the expression of cleaved caspase 3 protein and enhanced the expression of Kv1.5 protein and mRNA in pulmonary arteries. Furthermore, fluoxetine (10 mg/kg per day) significantly suppressed proliferation and enhanced apoptosis of PASMC in MCT-induced PAH. 4. In conclusion, fluoxetine protects against MCT-induced PAH by suppressing PASMC proliferation, inducing PASMC apoptosis and upregulating Kv1.5 channels.
Environmental cues previously associated with reinforcing drugs can play a key role in relapse to drug seeking behaviors in humans. The mesocorticolimbic dopamine system plays a critical role in cocaine-induced neurobiological changes. Dopamine D1 and D3 receptors modulate locomotor-stimulant and positive reinforcing effects of cocaine, and cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking. Moreover, activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) induced by acute cocaine administration is regulated by both D1 and D3 receptors. How D1 and D3 receptors modulate the acquisition and extinction of cue-elicited cocaine seeking behavior and associated changes in the MAPK signaling pathway in different brain regions, however, remains unclear. In the present study, we found that D1 receptor mutant mice failed to acquire conditioned place preference (CPP) while D3 receptor mutant mice show delayed CPP extinction compared with wild-type mice. Moreover, ERK, but not the c-jun N-terminal kinase and p38, is activated in wild-type and D3 receptor mutant mice but not in D1 receptor mutant mice following CPP acquisition. D3 receptor mutant mice also exhibit sustained ERK activation compared with wild-type mice following extinction training. Our results suggest that D1 and D3 receptors differentially contribute to learned association between cues and the rewarding properties of cocaine by regulating, at least in part, ERK activation in specific areas of the brain.
Overactivity of striatal alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptors is implicated in the pathophysiology of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we evaluated the behavioural and molecular effects of acute and chronic blockade of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors in animal models of PD and LID. The acute effects of the Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptor antagonist 1-trimethylammonio-5-(1-adamantane-methylammoniopentane) dibromide hydrobromide (IEM 1460) on abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat and LID in the MPTP-lesioned non-human primate were assessed. Subsequently, the effects of chronic treatment of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats with vehicle, L-DOPA/benserazide (6/15 mg/kg, i.p.) + vehicle or L-DOPA + IEM 1460 (3 mg/kg, i.p.) on behavioural and molecular correlates of priming for LID were evaluated. In the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat and MPTP-lesioned non-human primate, acute treatment with IEM 1460 (1-3 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced LID without adverse effects on motor performance. Chronic co-treatment for 21 days with IEM 1460 reduced the induction of AIMs by L-DOPA in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat without affecting peak rotarod performance, and attenuated AIMs score by 75% following l-DOPA challenge (p < 0.05). Chronic IEM 1460 treatment reversed L-DOPA-induced up-regulation of pre-proenkephalin-A, and normalised pre-proenkephalin-B mRNA expression in the lateral striatum, indicating an inhibition of both behavioural and molecular correlates of priming. These data suggest that Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors are critically involved in both the induction and subsequent expression of LID, and represent a potential target for anti-dyskinetic therapies.
Bilateral acute visual loss characterized by cecocentral scotomas and acquired dyschromatopsia developed in a patient receiving large oral doses of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride (Cipro). The visual defects improved after cessation of this antibiotic. To our knowledge, this association has not been described previously. The use of this medication in high doses must be accompanied by careful monitoring of optic nerve function.
Adriamycin (ADR) is effective against a wide range of human neoplasms. However, its clinical use is compromised by serious cardiac toxicity, possibly through induction of peroxidation in cardiac lipids. Ascorbic acid, a potent antioxidant, was examined for effect in reducing ADR toxicity in mice and guinea pigs. Ascorbic acid had no effect on the antitumor activity of ADR in mice inoculated with leukemia L1210 or Ehrlich ascites carcinoma, but it significantly prolonged the life of animals treated with ADR. ADR elevated lipid peroxide levels in mouse heart, and ascorbic acid prevented the elevation. The significant prevention of ADR-induced cardiomyopathy in guinea pigs by ascorbic acid was proved by electron microscopy. Ascorbic acid and the derivatives may delay general toxicity of ADR and also prevent the cardiac toxicity. The results also suggest the clinical efficacy of the combined treatment of ADR and ascorbic acid or the derivatives.
Of 150 consecutive patients with acute myocardial infarction transported by helicopter for acute intervention, 55 had intravenous thrombolytic therapy (tissue plasminogen activator in 12, streptokinase in 43) initiated prior to transfer. Patients were transported 55 +/- 10 ground miles in 17 +/- 6 minutes and no patient died or experienced bleeding or hemodynamic instability during transfer. Patients receiving thrombolytic therapy had a higher incidence of arrhythmias during transit compared to the untreated group, ventricular tachycardia in six and third-degree atrioventricular block in one compared to ventricular tachycardia in one patient, respectively (p = 0.005). However, these arrhythmias were transient and did not require cardioversion, temporary pacing, or further antiarrhythmic medical treatment. Chest pain was relieved or decreased more frequently in the patients receiving thrombolytic therapy vs. those untreated; 21 of 55 vs. 21 of 95 respectively (p = 0.04). Immediate coronary angiography confirmed a higher incidence and more complete infarct vessel patency (34/55 vs. 30/95) in the patients receiving tissue plasminogen activator or streptokinase (p less than 0.001). Thus, helicopter transfer of patients with evolving myocardial infarction is safe, and early initiation of thrombolytic therapy is associated with increased infarct vessel patency and benign reperfusion arrhythmias.
Death due to pulmonary embolism caused by thrombosis formation along a pacing wire has been reported in patients with antibradycardia pacemakers. The purpose of this prospective and randomized study was to evaluate the effects of prophylactically assigned aspirin (100 mg per day) or phenprocoumon (a coumarin derivative) on the incidence of right-sided thromboembolic complications associated with transvenous defibrillation leads. Multiplane transoesophageal echocardiography and pulmonary scintigraphy were performed in 62 consecutive patients immediately and 6 +/- 2 months after transvenous defibrillator implantation. Aspirin or phenprocoumon was administered to the patients in a randomized and parallel manner. By means of multiplane transoesophageal echocardiography and pulmonary scintigraphy no thromboembolic events were observed immediately after transvenous defibrillator implantation. After 6 +/- 2 months, however, multiplane transoesophageal echocardiography disclosed thrombi on the transvenous leads in 13 of 62 patients (21%) despite antithrombotic therapy. At the same time, pulmonary scintigraphy did not reveal any defects compatible with pulmonary embolism. Although thrombi occurred in only four patients treated with phenprocoumon, but in nine patients receiving aspirin, this difference was statistically insignificant. Other variables associated with the occurrence of thrombosis formation were not identified. One fatal intracranial haemorrhage occurred in the phenprocoumon group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To test the hypothesis that oral desogestrel (DSG) plus testosterone would uniformly and rapidly suppress sperm concentrations in young men as effectively as levonorgestrel (LNG) plus testosterone and cause less high-density lipoprotein (HDL) suppression and weight gain.
Single-blind, randomized trial.
VA Puget Sound and University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
Twenty-four healthy young men, aged 20-49.
Subjects were randomized to three groups of men who were administered 6 months of therapy with oral DSG plus im testosterone enanthate: 150 microg of DSG plus 50 mg of testosterone (DSG 150-T 50), 150 microg of DSG plus 100 mg of testosterone (DSG 150-T 100) or 300 microg of DSG plus 100 mg of testosterone (DSG 300-T 100). We compared these three groups to two groups of historical controls of 100 mg of im testosterone alone or 150 microg of oral LNG plus 100 mg of im testosterone (LNG 125-T 100 group) enrolled in similar studies.
Suppression of sperm counts to severe oligoazoospermia (sperm counts <1 x 10(6)/mL) and azoospermia, weight gain, and serum high-density cholesterol (HDL) suppression.
Azoospermia was achieved in all eight men receiving DSG 150-T 100 and seven of the eight men in the DSG 300-T 100 group. DSG 150 or 300 plus T 100 suppressed spermatogenesis as effectively as LNG 125-T 100 and more effectively than DSG 50-T 100 or testosterone alone. All groups tended to gain weight compared with their baseline, but the weight gain was greatest (and statistically significant) in the DSG 150-T 100, DSG 300-T 100, and LNG 125-T 100 groups. Serum HDL levels were modestly suppressed in all groups, and this effect was greatest in the DSG 300-T 100 and LNG 125-T 100 groups.
The combination of DSG plus testosterone is a very effective regimen for suppression of spermatogenesis and has acceptably low side effects.
Antagonists at serotonin type 6 (5-HT(6)) receptors show activity in models of learning and memory. Although the underlying mechanism(s) are not well understood, these effects may involve an increase in acetylcholine (ACh) levels. The present study sought to characterize the cognitive-enhancing effects of the 5-HT(6) antagonist Ro4368554 (3-benzenesulfonyl-7-(4-methyl-piperazin-1-yl)1H-indole) in a rat object recognition task employing a cholinergic (scopolamine pretreatment) and a serotonergic- (tryptophan (TRP) depletion) deficient model, and compared its pattern of action with that of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor metrifonate. Initial testing in a time-dependent forgetting task employing a 24-h delay between training and testing showed that metrifonate improved object recognition (at 10 and 30 mg/kg, p.o.), whereas Ro4368554 was inactive. Both, Ro4368554 (3 and 10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)) and metrifonate (10 mg/kg, p.o., respectively) reversed memory deficits induced by scopolamine and TRP depletion (10 mg/kg, i.p., and 3 mg/kg, p.o., respectively). In conclusion, although Ro4368554 did not improve a time-related retention deficit, it reversed a cholinergic and a serotonergic memory deficit, suggesting that both mechanisms may be involved in the facilitation of object memory by Ro4368554 and, possibly, other 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists.
The enzyme delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD), which catalyzes the second step of heme synthesis, can be inhibited by several chemicals, including lead, a potential risk factor for brain tumors, particularly meningioma. In this study we examined whether the ALAD G177C polymorphism in the gene coding for ALAD is associated with risk of intracranial tumors of the brain and nervous system. We use data from a case-control study with 782 incident brain tumor cases and 799 controls frequency matched on hospital, age, sex, race/ethnicity, and residential proximity to the hospital. Blood samples were drawn and DNA subsequently sent for genotyping for 73% of subjects. ALAD genotype was determined for 94% of these samples (355 glioma, 151 meningioma, 67 acoustic neuroma, and 505 controls). Having one or more copy of the ALAD2 allele was associated with increased risk for meningioma [odds ratio (OR) = 1.6; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.0-2.6], with the association appearing stronger in males (OR = 3.5; 95% CI, 1.3-9.2) than in females (OR = 1.2; 95% CI, 0.7-2.2). No increased risk associated with the ALAD2 variant was observed for glioma or acoustic neuroma. These findings suggest that the ALAD2 allele may increase genetic susceptibility to meningioma.
A combination of dehydroascorbic acid and hydroxycobalamin (vitamin B-12) inhibited mitoses of tumors in mice. The present study was performed to test the effect of these vitamins on the survival of mice bearing carcinomas and leukemias. In each assay 40 mice received 0.1 mL ip tumor cells (x10(5)). After 24 h, 20 mice were injected with 0.2 mL (0.4 g/kg body wt) of the vitamins daily for 10 d. All controls died by day 19, but greater than 50% of the treated mice were alive after 60 d. In vitro findings revealed inhibition of mitoses in L1210 leukemia cells, but not in normal L929 cells. In recent research with cobalt-ascorbate plus vitamin C, we demonstrated that when B-12 is combined with vitamin C, the cobalt nucleus of B-12 attaches to a carbon on vitamin C, forming cobalt ascorbate. Tests proved that cobalt ascorbate plus vitamin C also inhibited tumor cells.
Ranitidine is an H2 blocking agent widely used in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease. Although acute interstitial nephritis has been described in association with a related drug, cimetidine, this complication secondary to ranitidine has been reported only once before. We describe a patient who presented with acute renal failure and features of Fanconi syndrome in association with the use of ranitidine. Renal biopsy showed acute interstitial nephritis. The patient had renal tubular acidosis with alkaline urine, aminoaciduria, renal glycosuria, uricosuria, and phosphaturia. There was a marked disparity between the degree of elevation of urea nitrogen and creatinine concentrations in the serum that was attributable to diminished urea generation, since simultaneous measurement of inulin, creatinine, and urea clearances showed that they were comparably reduced. Urinary nitrogen loss in the form of aminoaciduria contributed significantly to decreased urea generation. Both acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome resolved after treatment with prednisone.
The APC gene plays a major role in human colon carcinogenesis. We determined the genomic structure of the rat Apc gene, and we analyzed mutations in colon tumors induced in F344 rats by 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) and 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), potent carcinogens contained in ordinary daily human food. Of eight PhIP-induced tumors, one tumor had two Apc mutations, two tumors had a mutation with loss of the normal allele, and one had a mutation. Two of the above five mutations were at nucleotide 1903, one at 2605, and two at 4237, all being a deletion of a guanine base at the 5'-GGGA-3' site and resulting in truncation of the APC protein. Of 13 IQ-induced tumors, 2 had an Apc mutation with loss of the normal allele. The two mutations were a missense mutation (T-->C) at nucleotide 1567 and a nonsense mutation (C-->T) at 2761. Alteration of the Apc gene was shown to play a more important role in PhIP-induced than in IQ-induced rat colon carcinogenesis. PhIP-induced tumors are characterized by their specific and unique mutation, which may be useful for mutational fingerprinting of human cancers.
Although acute interstitial nephritis has been well described with the histamine H2-receptor antagonist cimetidine, we found only one previous case report of ranitidine-induced interstitial nephritis in the literature. We describe an additional patient who developed acute interstitial nephritis after taking ranitidine. Electron microscopy showed focal fusion of the epithelial cell foot processes that was not described in the previous report of ranitidine-induced interstitial nephritis.
Five patients with the "on-off" phenomenon of parkinsonism who developed dyskinesias associated with a reduction in akinesia during treatment with lithium carbonate are described. The data show that lithium-induced dyskinesias may occur in the absence of lithium neurotoxicity and at normal serum lithium concentrations. These observations are interpreted in the context of recent evidence that indicates that lithium may "stabilize" dopaminergic and cholinergic receptor sensitivity.
A case of central retinal artery obstruction occurred in a 75-year-old patient after five days of tranexamic acid therapy. The mechanism of this obstruction was discussed in light of data found in the literature.
When treating gout patients, we have incidentally found elevated serum levels of adiponectin in some after administration of benzbromarone. In the present study, we determined whether benzbromarone increases the serum level of adiponectin in gout patients and investigated the mechanism involved. Sixty-nine patients with gout were separated into two groups, and then treated for 1 year with uric acid-lowering therapy using benzbromarone or allopurinol. After overnight fasting, blood samples were drawn before and at 1 year after beginning of treatment. In an in vitro study, 3T3L1 cells were incubated in medium containing benzbromarone, allopurinol, pioglitazone, or uric acid, after which real time PCR assays were performed for messenger RNA of adiponectin, aP2, and CD36. Furthermore, 3T3L1 cells were incubated in medium containing GW9662 (PPARgamma antagonist) together with benzbromarone or pioglitazone, after which real-time PCR assays were performed for messenger RNA of adiponectin. In the in vivo study, benzbromarone increased the serum concentration of adiponectin in the subjects, whereas allopurinol did not. In vitro, benzbromarone and pioglitazone each increased the levels of messenger RNA of adiponectin, aP2, and CD36 in 3T3 cells, whereas allopurinol and uric acid did not. Also, GW9662 suppressed the increase in adiponectin mRNA induced by benzbromarone as well as that by pioglitazone. Together, our results suggest that benzbromarone enhances the production of adiponectin via activation of PPARgamma, which is a weak agonist for PPARgamma.
We wished to determine if nicotine exaggerates the blood pressure increase in deoxycorticosterone (DOCA)-salt hypertension. Uninephrectomized, male Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with DOCA pellets (75 mg) and placed on a 5.2% salt diet for sixteen days and then infused with nicotine (DOCA-Nicotine; 2.4 mg/kg/day) or vehicle (DOCA-Sham). Control animals were treated with vehicle (Control) or nicotine (Control-Nicotine). The DOCA-Nicotine group had significantly greater tail-cuff blood pressures than the DOCA-Sham group by one week of nicotine infusion. At 2.5 weeks of nicotine infusion the DOCA-Nicotine rats had significantly greater tail-cuff blood pressures, direct arterial blood pressures, and cardiac outputs compared to the DOCA-Sham animals. Renal blood flows were similar in the two groups. Control-Nicotine animals demonstrated no response to nicotine during 2.5 weeks of infusion. We conclude that in the DOCA-salt rat nicotine induces an exaggerated rise in blood pressure and that the mechanism involves an increase in cardiac output.
A 35-year-old man with schizophrenia was successfully treated with clozapine at a daily oral dose of 700-725 mg for more than 7 consecutive years. Two weeks after abrupt cessation of chronic heavy cigarette smoking, he suddenly developed tonic clonic seizures followed by stupor and coma. After 2 days of intensive care, the patient recovered completely but could not recall the episode. Clozapine therapy was reinstituted and could be carried out successfully at 425 mg daily, i.e., at an approximately 40% reduction of the daily dose before he stopped smoking. The sudden cessation of smoking most likely caused a rise in plasma concentrations of clozapine and/or clozapine metabolites resulting in the seizure episode. A likely mechanism is that the heavy smoking had induced cytochrome P450-1A2, the main enzyme involved in the metabolism of clozapine.
Gentamicin, a widely used antibiotic for the treatment of bacterial infection, can cause nephrotoxicity. Tetramethylpyrazine (TMP) is a compound purified from the rhizome of Ligusticum wallichi (called chuanxiong in Chinese). Besides its protection against ischaemia-reperfusion injury and nephritis in mice, we previously reported that TMP reverses gentamicin-induced apoptosis in rat kidneys. Haem oxygenase-1 (HO-1) induction by TMP has also been shown to attenuate myocardial ischaemia/reperfusion injury in rats.
We used rat renal tubular (NRK-52E) cells, transformed cells with HO-1 overexpression or knockdown, and an adenovirus carrying the HO-1 gene (Adv-HO-1) as gene therapy targeting murine kidneys to explore the role of HO-1 in protection by TMP against gentamicin-induced toxicity both in vitro and in vivo. We evaluated the protective effects of HO-1 on several apoptotic parameters induced by gentamicin: cleaved caspases-3 and -9, cycloxygenase-2 (Cox-2) and subcellular localization of nuclear factor kappa B-p65 (NF-kappaB-p65), Bcl-xl and HS-1-associated protein (Hax-1) in NRK-52E cells.
NRK-52E cells treated with TMP exhibited transcriptional upregulation of the HO-1 protein by approximately twofold. Overexpression of HO-1 in NRK-52E cells significantly increased mitochondrial protein levels of the antiapoptotic molecules, Bcl-xL and Hax-1, and markedly decreased the NADPH oxidase activity and proinflammatory molecules, NF-kappaB-p65 and Cox-2, which might decrease gentamicin-induced activation of caspases-9 and -3. Conversely, NRK-52E cells with HO-1 knockdown significantly exacerbated gentamicin-induced tubular cell apoptosis. Additionally, the concomitant HO-1 induction by TMP was also evident in vivo, and HO-1 therapy markedly attenuated gentamicin-induced renal apoptosis to a similar extent as TMP pretreatment.
Collectively, we suggest that HO-1 induced by TMP might, at least in part, protect against gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity through antiapoptotic and anti-inflammatory mechanisms, and that it may have therapeutic potential for patients with renal disease. This is also the first demonstration that HO-1 increases Hax-1 mitochondrial localization.
From 1986 to 1989, a study for the treatment of nonmetastatic osteosarcoma of the extremity (IOR/OS-2) was carried out at the Rizzoli Institute. The cumulative dose of doxorubicin delivered was 480 mg/m2, and severe heart failure developed in 5 (3%) of the 164 treated patients. The specific aim of the subsequent study was to assess the efficacy of a protocol, similar to IOR/OS-2, but with a reduced cumulative dose of doxorubicin (390 mg/m2). Additional aims were to assess the role of the route of infusion (intraarterial or intravenous) of cisplatin on histologic response of the primary tumor and the use of ifosfamide as salvage chemotherapy in poor responders.
The new chemotherapy regimen (IOR/OS-3) was comprised of a preoperative phase with methotrexate (10 g/m2), cisplatin (120 mg/m2 intraarterially or intravenously), and doxorubicin (60 mg/m2). After surgery, the same drugs were administered, with the addition of ifosfamide (10 g/m2) in patients who had a poor histologic response to primary chemotherapy.
Ninety-five patients entered the study. The rate of good histologic response was 64% with intraarterial cisplatin and 43% with intravenous cisplatin (P = 0.05). The 8-year event-free survival and overall survival were 54% and 61%, respectively, with no significant difference according to the histologic response. No cases of clinical doxorubicin-induced cardiopathy were recorded. Event-free and overall survival did not significantly differ from those achieved with IOR/OS-2 (8-year disease-free and overall survival, respectively 63% and 72%).
The reduction in the doxorubicin cumulative dose avoided episodes of cardiotoxicity, without consequences on the efficacy of treatment. The addition of ifosfamide was an effective "salvage" therapy for poor responders. A better histologic response with intraarterial cisplatin was observed, but owing to the availability of an effective salvage therapy for poor responders, the advantages in terms of histologic response did not compensate for the cost and discomfort for the patients of this modality of infusion of cisplatin.
