An overall hypothesis for benzene-induced leukemia is proposed. Key components of the hypothesis include a) activation of benzene in the liver to phenolic metabolites; b) transport of these metabolites to the bone marrow and conversion to semiquinone radicals and quinones via peroxidase enzymes; c) generation of active oxygen species via redox cycling; d) damage to tubulin, histone proteins, topoisomerase II, other DNA associated proteins, and DNA itself; and e) consequent damage including DNA strand breakage, mitotic recombination, chromosome translocations, and aneuploidy. If these effects take place in stem or early progenitor cells a leukemic clone with selective advantage to grow may arise, as a result of protooncogene activation, gene fusion, and suppressor gene inactivation. Epigenetic effects of benzene metabolites on the bone marrow stroma, and perhaps the stem cell itself, may then foster development and survival of the leukemic clone. Evidence for this hypothesis is mounting with the recent demonstration that benzene induces gene-duplicating mutations in human bone marrow and chromosome-specific aneuploidy and translocations in peripheral blood cells. If this hypothesis is correct, it also potentially implicates phenolic and quinonoid compounds in the induction of "spontaneous" leukemia in man.
Lower adiponectin levels in circulation are shown to be associated with endothelial dysfunction, which is a crucial feature in the evolution of atherosclerosis. The aim of our study is to evaluate the effect of anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) therapy on adiponectin levels with endothelial function and arterial stiffness. Fifteen Japanese patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) received infusions with infliximab (3 mg/kg) at weeks 0, 2, and 6. Serum concentrations of adiponectin, endothelial function, and pulse wave velocity (PWV) were measured before each infusion. Endothelium-dependent vasodilatation and endothelium-independent vasodilatation were evaluated as forearm blood flow response to reactive and nitroglycerin-induced hyperemia using strain-gauge plethysmography. Endothelium-dependent vasodilatation was significantly improved at 2 weeks and 6 weeks by treatment with infliximab. PWV remained unchanged. Anti-TNF therapy significantly increased serum adiponectin levels at 2 weeks and 6 weeks. The adiponectin levels were positively correlated with the endothelium-dependent vasodilatation, and negatively with the disease activity score of 28 joints. Our study shows a short-term efficacy of infliximab on adiponectin levels and endothelial dysfunction of patients with RA, and provides additional evidence to support the regulatory role of TNF-alpha on the expression of adiponectin in vivo.
The hepatic metabolism of benzene is thought to be a prerequisite for its bony marrow toxicity. However, the complete pattern of benzene metabolites formed in the liver and their role in bone marrow toxicity are not fully understood. Therefore, benzene metabolism was studied in isolated rodent hepatocytes. Rat hepatocytes released benzene-1,2-dihydrodiol, hydroquinone (HQ), catechol (CT), phenol (PH), trans-trans-muconic acid, and a number of phase II metabolites such as PH sulfate and PH glucuronide. Pretreatment of animals with 3-methylcholantrene (3-MC) markedly increased PH glucuronide formation while PH sulfate formation was decreased. Likewise, V79 cells transfected with the 3-MC-inducible rat UGT1.6 cDNA showed a considerable rate of PH and HQ glucuronidation. In addition to inducing glucuronidation of phenols, 3-MC treatment (reported to protect rats from the myelotoxicity of benzene) resulted in a decrease of hepatic CYP2E1. In contrast, pretreatment of rats with the CYP2E1-inducer isopropanol strongly enhanced benzene metabolism and the formation of phenolic metabolites. Mouse hepatocytes formed much higher amounts of HQ than rat hepatocytes and considerable amounts of 1,2,4-trihydroxybenzene (THB) sulfate and HQ sulfate. In conclusion, the protective effect of 3-MC in rats is probably due to a shift from the labile PH sulfate to the more stable PH glucuronide, and to a decrease in hepatic CYP2E1. The higher susceptibility of mice toward benzene may be related to the high rate of formation of the myelotoxic metabolite HQ and the semistable phase II metabolites HQ sulfate and THB sulfate.
A 26-year-old female visited our hospital complaining left flank pain and macroscopic hematuria. She had been suffering ulcerative colitis and administered salazosulphapyridine and predonisolone from 17-year-old. Intravenous urography showed radiolucent multiple stones in the left renal pelvis. Three sessions of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy were performed after ureteral stenting. Although disintegration and discharge of the stones were satisfactory, bladder stone induced by ureteral stent was complicated. The extracted bladder stone showed a yellowish brown color and the surface was granular shape. Composition of the stone was acetyl sulphapyridine which was a metabolite of salazosulphapyridine. After maintenance of the urinary pH ranges between 6.5 and 7.5 by medication of sodium bicarbonate, the patient remains free of stone for 3 years. Drug induced urolithiasis originated from salazosulphapyridine is extremely rare. Satisfactory oral fluid intake and urinary alkalization are important for prevention of sulpha drugs calculi of urinary tract.
Clonidine hydrochloride 5 micrograms/kg and placebo were given orally to 11 patients experiencing well-developed alcohol withdrawal states. Active drug and placebo were given in a randomised, cross-over double blind fashion 2 h apart. Clonidine significantly suppressed heart rate (P = 0.002), arterial blood pressure (P = 0.006), and an accumulated score of withdrawal symptoms and signs (P = 0.004). These data suggest that clonidine may be useful in the management of alcohol withdrawal states, and that the underlying pathophysiology of at least some of these manifestations may be sympathetic nervous system hyperactivity.
This study investigated changes and the time course of these changes in renal function in children following treatment with carboplatin, and identified risk factors for nephrotoxicity. Glomerular and proximal renal tubular function were investigated before and up to 2 years after treatment in 23 children who received carboplatin. The main findings were reduced glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and increased renal tubular loss of magnesium, manifested by a low serum magnesium (S Mg). The mean fall in GFR was 22 ml min(-1) 1.73 m(-2) (P = 0.012), and in S Mg it was 0.17 mmol l(-1) (P = 0.0077). No patient had a clinically important reduction in GFR, and only one patient had symptomatic hypomagnesaemia. GFR and S Mg did not change over time after completion of treatment. Cumulative dose (CD) of carboplatin was inversely related to mean S Mg at the end of treatment (P = 0.031), and directly related to the fall in S Mg (P < 0.001). Calculated cumulative area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of carboplatin was inversely related to S Mg after treatment (P = 0.004). Dose intensity (DI) of carboplatin was not shown to be related to S Mg following treatment. CD, AUC and DI of carboplatin were not related to GFR, nor change in GFR, after treatment. High CDs of carboplatin may be associated with evidence of renal damage qualitatively similar to but less severe than that caused by cisplatin. GFR and SMg should be carefully monitored when high CDs of carboplatin are used, or if carboplatin is combined with other nephrotoxic chemotherapy.
We examined the role of ouabain-like compound (OLC) in hypertension associated with corticotropin (ACTH) excess in rats. Physiological saline solution (1 mL/kg) or synthetic ACTH-Z (0.5 mg/kg) was injected intramuscularly for 15 days to 14 control and 13 male Wistar rats. Significant increases in blood pressure and plasma sodium/potassium ratio, and decreases in plasma potassium concentration and urinary sodium/potassium ratio were observed in ACTH-treated rats. The plasma OLC level was higher in ACTH-treated group (control; 76 +/- 13, ACTH; 202 +/- 48 pmol/L, P < .05). Plasma OLC level correlated with systolic blood pressure (SPB; r = 0.53, P < .01). Urinary OLC excretion was also higher in ACTH-treated group (control; 0.95 +/- 0.01, ACTH; 3.32 +/- 0.67 pmol/day, P < .01). A significant relation was also found between urinary OLC excretion and SBP (r = 0.66, P < .01). Plasma potassium concentration negatively correlated with SBP (r = -0.48, P < .01) and urinary sodium/potassium ratio also correlated inversely with urinary OLC excretion (r = -0.55, P < .01). Measurement of OLC levels after the fractionation of urine by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography showed that the major OLC peak in urine from both groups coincided with that of authentic ouabain. These results suggest the contribution of OLC to ACTH-induced hypertension in rats.
Oxidative damage to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) has been implicated as an important mechanism underlying mitochondrial deficiency in epileptic seizures. In focusing on the role of the DNA repair pathway, we determined the response of the mitochondrial base excision repair (mtBER) pathway in pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) in hippocampi of male Wistar rats. The expression of 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1) and polymerase gamma (polgamma) was decreased at both the cellular mRNA and mitochondrial protein levels at 3, 9 and 25h after the onset of SE. The mRNA and protein levels of APE1 were maintained, but the mitochondrial protein level decreased at 3 and 9h and recovered at 25h. Therefore, the mtBER pathway failed to respond to SE induced by pilocarpine. The failure of mitochondrial import might be an important factor responsible for the lowered mtBER enzymes in mitochondria. We hypothesize that the down-regulation of mtBER enzymes may aggravate mtDNA damage and mitochondrial deficiency after the onset of SE.
We present a case of meningitis that developed following a urinary tract infection caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) after transurethral resection of the prostate. The patient, a 69-year-old man with diabetes mellitis, underwent transurethral resection of the prostate following a diagnosis of benign prostatic hypertrophy. On the 4 th day after surgery, high fever occurred immediately after the removal of the indwelling urethral catheter. Cultures of urine and blood revealed MRSA. On the 6 th day after surgery, severe lumbago was evident and MRSA was isolated from cerebrospinal fluid. Separate administration of arbekacin or vancomycin, to which the isolated MRSA was sensitive, was not effective. Combined therapy with fosfomycin, vancomycin and human immunoglobulin effectively relieved the inflammation. Although it is generally reported that the pathogenicity of MRSA is low in the urinary tract, this case suggests that a urinary tract infection caused by MRSA can advance to sepsis and meningitis.
The relationship between the plasma level of the cardiac glycoside digoxin and performance on a range of cognitive tasks was investigated in a group of cardiac outpatients on maintenance therapy. The cognitive functions assessed were speed of decision-making and recognition memory of nonverbal and verbal material, competitive audio-visual attention performance, visuo-motor-choice reaction time and auditory verbal learning (AVL). Multiple regression analysis of the data revealed a strong relationship between plasma digoxin level at the time of testing and the number of trials to criterion in the AVL task (plasma digoxin level 0.7-1.8 nmol/l). Further data analysis indicated that this association was unlikely to be due to age, education or severity of cardiac disorder. The results strongly suggest that an increasing plasma level of digoxin may produce a progressive deterioration in auditory verbal learning and short-term memory.
Kounis syndrome is the coincidental occurrence of acute coronary syndromes with allergic or hypersensitivity reactions. Clinicians should be aware that various mediators of allergy can cause coronary spasm and even plaque rupture and thrombus formation, thereby causing a serious impact on the course, prognosis and management of the allergic reaction. We report a case of a 20 year old female who developed acute coronary syndrome after anaphylactic reaction to ibuprofen.
Quinolones have traditionally had limited application in the area of community-acquired respiratory tract infections due to poor cover against Streptococcus pneumoniae. This trend is changing with the broader spectrum of newer fluoroquinolones. A rare serious side effect of fluoroquinolones is tendinopathy.
This study describes two cases of levofloxacin-associated tendinopathy in patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and the implications and mechanisms involved are discussed.
The finding of two cases of levofloxacin-induced tendinopathy in our patients suggests that the problem may be more frequent than previously considered. Patients with COPD treated with fluoroquinolones may have other risk factors for tendinopathy such as advanced age, corticosteroid use and renal impairment and merit vigilance for signs of tendonitis.
To study the neuro-psychiatric adverse effects of antimalarial drugs.
Persons who visited a Travel Clinic in Rotterdam over a period of 3 months.
Prospective cohort study on 394 persons taking mefloquine, 493 persons taking proguanil and 340 persons not taking antimalarial drugs who visited Africa, South America, Asia, or the Middle East.
All persons received a structured questionnaire within 14 days of their return to the Netherlands. The questionnaire consisted of questions regarding use of alcohol, smoking, general health, medical history, tropical diseases during the trip, and other medicines, and contained an extensive list of general complaints regarding all body systems at four levels of severity. A modified and validated version of the Profile of Mood States was included.
In the study period, 2541 persons visited the Travel Clinic, of whom 1791 (70%) were both eligible and willing to co-operate. Of these 1791, data were obtained from 1501 (84%). Insomnia was most frequently encountered in users of mefloquine and mouth ulcers in proguanil users. After adjustment for gender, age, destination, and alcohol use, the relative risk for insomnia to mefloquine versus non-users of antimalarials was 1.6, and the excess risk was 6 per 100 users over an average period of 2 months. There were no significant differences between groups in depression, anxiety, agitation, and confusion. Stratification by gender demonstrated that insomnia was more common in women on mefloquine, but not in men. Also, women more frequently mentioned palpitations as an adverse event. After adjustment for age, destination, and alcohol use in women, the relative risks for insomnia and palpitations to mefloquine versus non-use of antimalarials were 2.4, and 22.5, respectively. When travellers were specifically asked for the adverse reactions they had experienced, anxiety, vertigo, agitation, and nightmares were significantly more frequently mentioned by mefloquine users.
Insomnia was more commonly encountered during use of mefloquine than proguanil or during non-use of antimalarials.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play an important role in the pathogenesis of airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness. Recent studies have demonstrated that antioxidants are able to reduce airway inflammation and hyperreactivity in animal models of allergic airway disease. A newly developed antioxidant, small molecular weight thiol compound, N-acetylcysteine amide (AD4) has been shown to increase cellular levels of glutathione and to attenuate oxidative stress related disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis. However, the effects of AD4 on allergic airway disease such as asthma are unknown. We used ovalbumin (OVA)-inhaled mice to evaluate the role of AD4 in allergic airway disease. In this study with OVA-inhaled mice, the increased ROS generation, the increased levels of Th2 cytokines and VEGF, the increased vascular permeability, the increased mucus production, and the increased airway resistance in the lungs were significantly reduced by the administration of AD4. We also found that the administration of AD4 decreased the increases of the NF-kappaB and hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) levels in nuclear protein extracts of lung tissues after OVA inhalation. These results suggest that AD4 attenuates airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness by regulating activation of NF-kappaB and HIF-1alpha as well as reducing ROS generation in allergic airway disease.
A 32-year-old man developed coronary artery spasms after using cocaine. He had no significant coronary stenoses. The reversible spasms were diagnosed during heart catheterisation which was carried out because of typical chest pain and electrocardiographic changes. In young adults the use of cocaine increases the risk of a myocardial infarction by a factor of 6.9. Nevertheless, the number of people using cocaine has increased over the past years. The cardiovascular complications of using cocaine have a multifactorial pathogenesis. The treatment of coronary artery spasms may involve a calcium antagonist. Use of cocaine must be kept in mind as a cardiovascular risk factor in a patient presenting with chest pain.
Multiple chemotherapeutic agents, either alone or in combination, have been implicated in causing hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). Gemcitabine has been reported to cause this condition rarely. A 48-year-old Caucasian woman, gravida 3, para 3 (G3P3), was diagnosed with stage III C ovarian carcinoma and after completing numerous chemotherapeutic regimens, she was started on gemcitabine. During her fourth cycle of gemcitabine, she developed generalized anasarca and presented to hospital with hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and renal failure. A diagnosis of HUS was made, which was confirmed by renal biopsy, and the patient was started on hemodialysis and plasmapheresis. We conclude if a patient has advanced-stage disease and has been heavily treated with chemotherapy before, there is a high risk that, on gemcitabine monotherapy, the patient can develop HUS earlier than expected.
Phenol is not reliable as a biomarker for exposure to benzene at concentrations below 5 ppm (8-hr time-weighted average [TWA]). S-Phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) and trans-trans-muconic acid (tt-MA), two minor urinary metabolites of benzene, have been proposed as biomarkers for low-level exposures. The aim of this study was to compare their suitability as biomarkers. S-PMA and tt-MA were determined in 434 urine samples collected from 188 workers in various settings in the petrochemical industry and from 52 control workers with no occupational exposure to benzene. Benzene concentrations in the breathing zone of the potentially exposed workers were assessed by personal air monitoring. Strong correlations were found between S-PMA and tt-MA concentrations in end-of-shift samples and between either of these parameters and airborne benzene concentrations. Exposure to 1 ppm benzene (8-hr TWA) leads to an average concentration in end-of-shift samples of 21 mol S-PMA and 1.5 mmol tt-MA per mol creatinine. Of an inhaled dose of benzene, on average 0.11% (range 0.05-0.26%) was excreted as S-PMA with an apparent elimination half-life of 9.1 (standard error [SE] 0.7) hr and 3.9% (range 1.9-7.3%) as tt-MA with a half-life of 5.0 (SE 0.5) hr. Due to its longer elimination half-life, S-PMA proved a more reliable biomarker than tt-MA for benzene exposures during 12-hr shifts. Specificity of S-PMA, but not tt-MA, was sufficient to discriminate between the 14 moderate smokers and the 38 nonsmokers from the control group. The mean urinary S-PMA was 1.71 (SE 0.27) in smokers and 0.94 (SE 0.15) mol/mol creatinine in nonsmokers (p = 0.013). The mean urinary tt-MA was 0.046 (SE 0.010) in smokers and 0.029 (SE 0.013) mmol/mol creatinine in nonsmokers (p = 0.436). The inferior specificity of tt-MA was due to relatively high background values of up to 0.56 mmol/mol creatinine, which may be found in nonexposed individuals and limits the use of tt-MA to concentrations of benzene over 1 ppm (8-hr TWA). We conclude that S-PMA is superior to tt-MA as a biomarker for low-level benzene exposures because it is more specific, enabling reliable determination of benzene exposures down to 0.3 ppm (8-hr TWA), and because its longer half-life makes it more suited for biological monitoring of operators working in shifts longer than 8 hr.
The cardiovascular and respiratory effects of an intravenous overdose of thioridazine (125 mg kg-1 h-1) were examined in either spontaneously breathing or artificially ventilated urethane-anaesthetized rats. In both groups PO2, heart rate and mean arterial pressure decreased and atrioventricular and intraventricular conduction time, as well as QT time, increased similarly. PCO2 and pH did not differ significantly except in spontaneously breathing rats where a severe acidosis occurred at the end of the experiments. Haemolysis was suspected. The same dose was administered intravenously to artificially ventilated rats. Plasma concentrations of the drug and its main metabolites, haematocrit and free plasma Hb were determined in separate groups. A severe haemolysis was observed. Thioridazine administered in the same doses intragastrically, intraduodenally or intraperitoneally resulted in lower plasma values than after intravenous administration and there was no haemolysis. Much higher oral doses produced haemolysis at 36 h, at which time plasma concentrations were not higher than those recorded after administration via the other non-intravenous routes. It is probable that the observed changes in cardiovascular and respiratory parameters are partly the result of haemolysis following thioridazine administration.
Stimuli paired with drug use can acquire powerful motivational properties that are believed to induce relapse to drug-seeking in abstinent humans. Behavioural interventions for drug addiction, that have attempted to reduce the probability of relapse by extinguishing the motivational impact of drug-associated conditioned stimuli (CS), have had limited success. One explanation for the ready propensity to relapse to drug-seeking even following extinction of these stimuli may be that abstinence by humans can increase the ability of conditioned stimuli and drug primes to reinstate responding. In the present study, we sought to determine the effects on cocaine-seeking of imposing different periods of drug unavailability on rats, with or without extinction of the drug-seeking response and non-reinforced exposure to drug-associated stimuli. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine under a second-order schedule of reinforcement, under which high response rates are maintained by drug-paired conditioned reinforcers, prior to extinction of the operant response alone or in combination with contingent presentation of the CS. Comparison of cocaine-seeking behaviour during a test session conducted either 1 day or 21 days after a 7-day period of extinction revealed that responding was significantly decreased the day after extinction, but spontaneously recovered following a further imposed period of 21 days during which cocaine and cocaine cues were not available. Self-administered cocaine further potentiated reinstated responding following all withdrawal periods. These findings are discussed with reference to interactions between drug unavailability, conditioned stimuli and cocaine self-administration, on the reinstatement of drug-seeking and the potential utility of extinction therapies for drug addiction.
The presymptomatic phase of Parkinson's disease (PD) is now recognized as a prodromal phase, with compensatory mechanism masking its progression and non-motor early manifestations, such as depression, cognitive disturbances and apathy. Those mechanisms were thought to be strictly dopamine-mediated until recent advances have shed light upon involvement of putative outside-basal ganglia, i.e. cortical, structures. We took advantage of our progressive 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated macaque model to monitor whole genome transcriptional changes in several brain areas. Our data reveals that transcriptomic activity changes take place from early stages, suggesting very early compensatory mechanisms or pathological activity outside the basal ganglia, including the PFC. Specific transcriptomic changes occurring in the PFC of fully parkinsonian MPTP-treated macaques have been identified. Interestingly, a large part of these transcriptomic changes were also observed in human post-mortem samples of patients with neurodegenerative diseases analysed by quantitative PCR. These results suggest that the PFC is able to detect the progression of dopamine denervation even at very early time points. There are therefore mechanisms, within the PFC, leading to compensatory alterations and/or participating to pathophysiology of prodromal PD manifestations.
The efficacy and safety of the oral leukotriene receptor antagonist Zafirlukast ('Accolate') was assessed as maintenance therapy for black (Nigerian) patients with mild to moderate asthma. A total of eighty-one patients aged 16-70 years were screened and sixty patients were enrolled in a 7-week multicenter open study to receive 20 mg of 'Accolate' twice daily. Those enrolled had FEV1 > or = 60%, reversibility > or = 15% and cumulative daytime asthma symptoms score > or = 10 over seven consecutive days before visit 2 to be considered eligible to receive trial therapy, and the patients were maintained on as required beta 2-agonist therapy. Efficacy was assessed by changes in symptoms, number of times beta 2-agonist was used and results of pulmonary function tests. Safety was assessed by adverse event experiences, results of laboratory tests and physical examination. At the endpoint, patients reported a statistically significant increase in lung function and a significant reduction in episodes of asthma symptoms either in the morning, day or night. The mean beta 2-agonist use was also statistically reduced over the weeks as treatment progressed while the cumulative daytime total asthma score showed a sharp decline following drug use. Change in symptoms, beta 2-agonist use and pulmonary function occurred within one week of Zafirlukast treatment and continued throughout the trial. Zafirlukast was well tolerated. Headaches and pneumonia were the only side effects in three patients and these were not considered to be related to trial therapy. No clinically significant changes were observed in laboratory test results, or on physical examination. We conclude that Zafirlukast ('Accolate') 20 mg b.d. is an effective and well tolerated medication for maintenance therapy in black (Nigerian) patients with mild-to-moderate asthma.
Millions of individuals worldwide are chronically exposed to arsenic through their drinking water. In this study, the effect of arsenic exposure and arsenical skin lesion status on genome-wide gene expression patterns was evaluated using RNA from peripheral blood lymphocytes of individuals selected from the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study. Affymetrix HG-U133A GeneChip (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA) arrays were used to measure the expression of approximately 22,000 transcripts. Our primary statistical analysis involved identifying differentially expressed genes between participants with and without arsenical skin lesions based on the significance analysis of microarrays statistic with an a priori defined 1% false discovery rate to minimize false positives. To better characterize differential expression, we also conducted Gene Ontology and pathway comparisons in addition to the gene-specific analyses. Four-hundred sixty-eight genes were differentially expressed between these two groups, from which 312 differentially expressed genes were identified by restricting the analysis to female never-smokers. We also explored possible differential gene expression by arsenic exposure levels among individuals without manifest arsenical skin lesions; however, no differentially expressed genes could be identified from this comparison. Our findings show that microarray-based gene expression analysis is a powerful method to characterize the molecular profile of arsenic exposure and arsenic-induced diseases. Genes identified from this analysis may provide insights into the underlying processes of arsenic-induced disease and represent potential targets for chemoprevention studies to reduce arsenic-induced skin cancer in this population.
At first the aim of our study was to observe the simultaneous responses of two hearts after intraarterial (into a. femoralis) adrenaline administration, in the rat with its own heart and a transplanted one--hence non-innervated. After these, some next experiments were performed: in some rats the His bundle of the heterotopically transplanted heart was damaged before transplantation. In all experiments the heart rate was observed on ECG and simultaneously, the arterial blood pressure was recorded from femoral artery in Vetbutal-anaesthetized rats.
1) both the heterotopically transplanted, non-innervated heart and the animal's own heart reacted to adrenaline administeration by producing bradycardia, 2) the heterotopically transplanted heart with the damaged His bundle--hence with a ventricular block reacted to adrenaline administration by raising the heart rate, whereas at the same time and in the same animal its own heart reacted by producing bradycardia.
1) the cause of bradycardia after adrenaline administration does not lie in the reflex from the arcus aortae, since we observed bradycardia after adrenaline administration also in the transplanted, non-innervated heart; therefore the baroreceptor reflex is not the cause of bradycardia after adrenaline administration; 2) bradycardia after adrenaline occurs in both the proper heart and the transplanted, non-innervated one, as a result of an interaction between two cholinergic centres which must be situated above and below the point of the His bundle interruption. The role of acetylcholine in the heart results from the interaction between these two centres.
The effects on rat serum prolactin level of the two isomers constituting the racemic form of amisulpride were compared. (S-)-amisulpride induced hyperprolactinemia at lower doses (ED(50) = 0.09 +/- 0.01 mg/kg) than racemic- (ED(50) = 0.24 +/- 0.03 mg/kg) and (R+)-amisulpride (ED(50) = 4.13 +/- 0.05 mg/kg), in accord with their affinities for pituitary dopamine D(2) receptor (K(i) = 3.8 +/- 0.2, 6.4 +/- 0.2 and 143.3 +/- 2.3 nM, respectively). At doses twice the ED(50), (S-)-amisulpride produced a maximal increase in prolactin level similar to that of the racemic form (403 +/- 21% and 425 +/- 15%, respectively), but higher than that of (R+)-amisulpride (198 +/- 8%). These results suggest that the hyperprolactinemia induced by the racemic-amisulpride is mostly due to its (S-)-isomer.
Folate, other vitamin B cofactors, and genes involved in folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism all may play important roles in colorectal neoplasia. In this study, we examined the associations between dietary and circulating plasma levels of vitamins B(2), B(6), and B(12) and risk colorectal adenomas.
The Aspirin/Folate Polyp Prevention Study is a randomized clinical trial of folic acid supplementation and incidence of new colorectal adenomas in individuals with a history of adenomas (n = 1,084). Diet and supplement use were ascertained through a food frequency questionnaire administered at baseline. Blood collected at baseline was used to determine plasma B-vitamin levels. We used generalized linear regression to estimate risk ratios (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) as measures of association.
We found a borderline significant inverse association with plasma B(6) [pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP)] and adenoma risk (adjusted RR Q4 versus Q1, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.61-1.00; P(trend) = 0.08). This association was not modified by folic acid supplementation or plasma folate. However, the protective association of PLP with adenoma risk was observed only among subjects who did not drink alcohol (P(interaction) = 0.03). Plasma B(2) (riboflavin) was inversely associated with risk of advanced lesions (adjusted RR Q4 versus Q1, 0.51; 95% CI, 0.26-0.99; P(trend) = 0.12). No significant associations were observed between adenoma risk and plasma vitamin B(12) or dietary intake of vitamin B(2) and B(6). When we examined specific gene-B-vitamin interactions, we observed a possible interaction between methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase -C677T and plasma B(2) on risk of all adenomas.
Our results suggest that high levels of PLP and B(2) may protect against colorectal adenomas.
While clinical characteristics of diabetic painful neuropathy are well described, the underlying electrophysiological basis of the exaggerated painful response to stimuli, as well as the presence of spontaneous pain, are poorly understood. In order to elucidate peripheral contributions to painful diabetic neuropathy, we quantitatively evaluated the function of C-fibers in a rat model of painful diabetic neuropathy, diabetes induced by the pancreatic beta-cell toxin streptozotocin. While there was no significant effect of diabetes on conduction velocity, mechanical threshold or spontaneous activity, the number of action potentials in response to sustained threshold and suprathreshold mechanical stimuli was significantly increased in the diabetic rats. Moreover, there was a clustering of responses of C-fibers in diabetic rats; while two-thirds of C-fibers fired at the same mean frequency as C-fibers in control rats, one-third of C-fibers in diabetic rats were markedly hyper-responsive, demonstrating a threefold increase in firing frequency. The high-firing-frequency C-fibers in rats with diabetes also had faster conduction velocity than the low-firing-frequency C-fibers in rats with diabetes or in C-fibers in control rats. The hyper-responsiveness was characterized by a selective increase of the shortest interspike intervals (<100ms) in the burst component (first 10s) of the response to a sustained suprathreshold stimulus; in the plateau phase (last 50s) of the response to a 60-s suprathreshold stimulus, we found a selective increase of interspike intervals between 100 and 300ms in hyper-responsive C-fibers in rats with diabetes. The hyper-responsiveness did not correlate with mechanical threshold, presence of spontaneous activity or location of the fiber's receptive field. In summary, in an established model of painful diabetic neuropathy in the rat, a subset of C-fibers demonstrated a marked hyper-responsiveness to mechanical stimuli. The subset was also found to have a greater mean conduction velocity than the fibers not demonstrating this hyper-responsivity. The present findings suggest that study of individual neurons in vitro may allow elucidation of the ionic basis of enhanced nociception in diabetic neuropathy.
Cognitive impairment occurs after malignant brain tumor treatment in children, following brain radiotherapy and systemic and intrathecal chemotherapy.
1) To compare two groups of children who underwent surgery for cerebellar medulloblastoma with their cousins and siblings, assessing intelligence, executive function, attention, visual perception, and short-term memory. Both groups were treated with the same combined radiotherapy-chemotherapy, but differed in that only one group received intrathecal methotrexate (MTX+). 2) To relate these measures to MRI findings (leukomalacia).
The two groups performed worse than their control subjects in all tests. The MTX+ group younger than 10 years performed significantly worse in all tests, particularly executive ones. The group older than 10 years performed significantly worse only in short-term memory. Younger patients without MTX performed significantly worse than controls only in some neuropsychological measures; there were no differences between older patients and control subjects. Only in the MTX+ group was there a direct correlation between extent of leukomalacia and performance in some tests.
The administration of intrathecal methotrexate to children with medulloblastoma worsens the cognitive deficits induced by chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The use of intrathecal methotrexate in the treatment of medulloblastoma and other malignancies should be reassessed.
The severity of late cardiotoxicity after anthracycline treatment for childhood cancer relates mainly to the cumulative anthracycline dose received, but all dose ranges cause some cardiac dysfunction. Anthracycline administration by infusion in order to lower peak drug concentration has been used in an attempt to reduce cardiotoxicity. Cardiac performance was assessed by echocardiography in children who were relapse-free survivors of treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). They received the same cumulative anthracycline dose (daunorubicin 180 mg/m2) either by bolus injection (UKALL X protocol, n = 40) or by infusion (UKALL XI protocol, n = 71) with a follow-up duration of 5.3 +/- 2.0 and 5.4 +/- 1.0 years respectively. On analysis, both the bolus administration and infusion groups showed similar mild impairment of cardiac performance, characterized by increased left ventricular end systolic stress and impaired left ventricular function. In conclusion, subclinical abnormality of left ventricular performance was confirmed in both groups despite the relatively modest cumulative anthracycline dose received. We were unable to demonstrate an advantage of anthracycline administration by 6-h infusion with respect to late cardiotoxicity at this dose.
