Individuals with chronic psychiatric conditions display a high rate of cocaine use. Gabapentin was hypothesized to reduce cocaine use by restoring inhibitory GABAergic feedback on ascending dopaminergic projections to nucleus accumbens neurons.
Nine participants with DSM-IV cocaine dependence were selected from patients attending a large community psychiatric clinic. During a 24-week open-label trial of gabapentin (800-2400 mg/day), qualitative urine drug screens were collected from the participants up to 3 times per week. Data were collected from September 1999 to May 2001.
With gabapentin, the mean +/- SD number of cocaine-positive urine screens decreased from 53.11 +/- 13.23 to 35.22 +/- 14.84 (t = 3.58, N = 9, p <.01). The number of weeks of abstinence from cocaine increased from 2.1 +/- 1.5 to 8.0 +/- 5.5 (t = 3.21, N = 9, p <.01).
Gabapentin appeared to be a safe and efficacious medication to reduce cocaine usage in a community sample of psychiatric patients.
The influence of controlled hypotension (mean arterial pressure 60 mmHg) induced by sodium nitroprusside and trimethaphan on systemic circulation and myocardial oxygen consumption was studied in 7 anaesthetized closed chest dogs. The hypotensive effect of both drugs was primarily mediated by a reduction in total peripheral resistance. No change in cardiac output was observed. Stroke volume decreased in the presence of tachycardia. Left ventricular max dp/dt remained unaffected during sodium nitroprusside hypotension and was reduced by trimethaphan. Max dp/dt, load data and heart rate indicated that trimetaphan possesses negative inotropic properties. Sodium nitroprusside induced a hyperperfusion of the heart with a marked decrease in myocardial arteriovenous difference in oxygen. Myocardial oxygen consumption remained unchanged. Trimethaphan, on the other hand, induced only small increments in coronary blood flow and a rise in the arteriovenous difference in oxygen of the heart. This resulted in a higher myocardial oxygen consumption (+16%). Cardiac efficiency was lessened by trimethaphan and remained unaffected in the presence of sodium nitroprusside. As sodium nitroprusside neither affects myocardial oxygen consumption nor alters myocardial contractility, we conclude that sodium nitroprusside has advantages over trimethaphan in the management of controlled hypotension and in the therapy of hypertensive crisis and cardiogenic shock.
Exposure to mustard gas causes inflammatory lung diseases including acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). A defect in the lung surfactant system has been implicated as a cause of ARDS. A major component of lung surfactant is dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine (DPPC) and the major pathway for its synthesis is the cytidine diphosphocholine (CDP-choline) pathway. It is not known whether the ARDS induced by mustard gas is mediated by its direct effects on some of the enzymes in the CDP-choline pathway. In the present study we investigated whether mustard gas exposure modulates the activity of cholinephosphotransferase (CPT) the terminal enzyme by CDP-choline pathway. Adult guinea pigs were intratracheally infused with single doses of 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES) (0.5 mg/kg b.wt. in ethanol). Control animals were injected with vehicles only. The animals were sacrificed at different time and the lungs were removed after perfusion with physiological saline. CPT activity increased steadily up to 4 h and then decreased at 6 h and stabilized at 7 days in both mitochondria and microsomes. To determine the dose-dependent effect of CEES on CPT activity we varied the doses of CEES (0.5-6.0 mg/kg b.wt.) and sacrificed the animals at 1 h and 4 h. CPT activity showed a dose-dependent increase of up to 2.0 mg/kg b.wt. of CEES in both mitochondria and microsomes then decreased at 4.0 mg/kg b.wt. For further studies we used a fixed single dose of CEES (2.0 mg/kg b.wt.) and fixed exposure time (7 days). Lung injury was determined by measuring the leakage of iodinated-bovine serum albumin into lung tissue and expressed as the permeability index. CEES exposure (2.0 mg/kg b.wt. for 7 days) caused a significant decrease of both CPT gene expression (approximately 1.7-fold) and activity (approximately 1.5-fold) in the lung. This decrease in CPT activity was not associated with any mutation of the CPT gene. Previously we reported that CEES infusion increased the production of ceramides which are known to modulate PC synthesis. To determine whether ceramides affect microsomal CPT activity the lung microsomal fraction was incubated with different concentrations of C(2)-ceramide prior to CPT assay. CPT activity decreased significantly with increasing dose and time. The present study indicates that CEES causes lung injury and significantly decreases CPT gene expression and activity. This decrease in CPT activity was not associated with any mutation of the CPT gene is probably mediated by accumulation of ceramides. CEES induced ceramide accumulation may thus play an important role in the development of ARDS by modulating CPT enzyme.
The renal risks associated with long-term lithium treatment are a growing concern. We have therefore studied renal function by means of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and maximum urinary concentrating capacity (Umax) in 142 of 215 patients with more than 15 years of lithium treatment in nine psychiatric clinics. Data on psychiatric and somatic diseases, hospital admissions, cumulative lithium doses, and other psychotropic treatments were extracted from the medical records. The patients were investigated according to a standardized protocol. GFR was measured as 51Cr EDTA clearance and Umax using the DDAVP test. Thirteen patients had had signs of lithium intoxication. GFR was reduced in 21% of the patients and Umax in 44%. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus was present in 12%. Umax but not GFR was inversely correlated to the cumulative lithium dose. Kidney function was more reduced in patients on lithium combined with psychotropic treatment and/or concomitant treatment for somatic disorders. Thirst was a complaint of 53% of the patients, predominantly those with additional psychotropics. We conclude that kidney damage is common in patients on long-term lithium treatment and that both glomerular and tubular function are affected.
Ten nuclei from the endomyocardial biopsies for each of the following 32 patients were examined by electron microscopy: seven patients before and then four and 24 hours after treatment with first-dose doxorubicin; seven patients before and four and 24 hours after treatment with first-dose doxorubicin plus N-acetyl cysteine; nine patients with doxorubicin induced cardiomyopathy; and nine patients with idiopathic congestive cardiomyopathy. Five criteria were used to semiquantitatively compare nuclei and nucleoli from each group. The most dramatic changes in nuclear and nucleolar morphology were seen four hours after doxorubicin administration. Nucleoli were smaller, contracted or segregated and contained fewer fibrillar centers and a collapsed or fragmented nucleolonema. The addition of N-acetylcysteine to treatment did not alter these results. By 24 hours, nuclei had returned to the pre-treatment status. Long-term doxorubicin therapy produced increased chromatin clumping and slightly contracted nucleoli. The idiopathic congestive cardiomyopathic nuclei differed significantly from these doxorubicin cardiomyopathic nuclei in the decreased amount of chromatin clumping and the increase in fibrillar centers and nucleonema pattern. It is concluded from this study that: (1) doxorubicin markedly alters the morphology of the human myocardial nucleus and nucleolus four hours after treatment, but these changes diminish by 24 hours; (2) N-acetylcysteine treatment fails to prevent these changes; and (3) the nuclei and nucleoli of chronic doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy differ significantly from other congestive cardiomyopathies, but do resemble changes seen four hours after the first dose of doxorubicin.
A patient with normal preoperative hepatic and renal laboratory findings was exposed to relatively low concentrations of methoxyflurane during a routine anaesthetic procedure. For at least 12 postoperative days, the patient showed unusually high level of inorganic serum fluoride; his urinary excretion of fluoride and oxalic acid were also increased. However, he had no clinical signs of nephrotoxicity. This observation suggests that some patients with presumably normal renal function may have a low threshhold for the nephrotoxic effects of methoxyflurane.
Epomediol is a synthetic terpenoid compound that has been reported to reduce ethinyloestradiol-induced cholestasis. The choleretic action of epomediol is related to an increase in both the bile acid-dependent and independent fractions of bile flow, but the role of glutathione metabolism and transport is still unknown. This study was aimed to evaluate if changes in glutathione homeostasis could contribute to the beneficial effects of epomediol in rats with ethinyloestradiol-induced cholestasis. When compared to control animals, ethinyloestradiol treatment resulted in a significant decrease in the liver concentration of reduced (GSH) and oxidized glutathione. Both GSH and oxidized glutathione concentrations returned to normal in animals receiving ethinyloestradiol plus epomediol. Ethinyloestradiol administration induced a significant decrease in plasma and renal GSH and the tripeptide was almost absent from bile. Combined treatment with epomediol plus ethinyloestradiol normalised renal GSH and both biliary and liver cysteine were significantly increased. Liver and kidney gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activities were higher in rats receiving ethinyloestradiol and still remained elevated in animals with the combined treatment. Liver gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase activity rose significantly by administration of ethinyloestradiol plus epomediol but the corresponding mRNA levels were not modified. Changes in glutathione homeostasis and higher biliary levels of GSH amino acid constituents could contribute to the beneficial effects of epomediol in rats with ethinyloestradiol-induced cholestasis.
Mutations of the nucleophosmin gene (NPM1), in the absence of concurrent FLT3-internal tandem duplication (FLT3-ITD) have impressive prognostic value in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), carrying normal karyotype (NK). In this study we describe treatment results from a series of 19 patients with NPM+/FLT3- autografted in first complete remission (CR) after conditioning with a regimen, named BuI, based on high-dose continuous infusion of idarubicin and Busulfan. Ninety-nine consecutive patients (median age of 54 years) with NK AML autografted in first CR were analyzed. Nineteen of 99 patients (19%) had NPM1 mutation in the absence of FLT3 mutations. The control group, accounting for 80 patients, included 16 cases (15%) with both mutations, 10 (12%) with FLT3/ITD mutation and no NPM mutation, and 54 (68%) in whom neither NPM1 nor FLT3 mutations were detectable. The median overall survival (OS) for the whole patient population was 34 months, the median disease-free survival (DFS) was 22 months. Median OS and DFS were significantly longer for patients with isolated NPM1 mutation as opposed to controls (OS: not reached versus 25 months, P = .02; DFS: not reached versus 16 months, P = .007, respectively). Of interest, patients with isolated NPM1 mutation had a better outcome in terms of either OS or DFS compared to the group of 16 NMP1+/FLT3+ patients. In conclusion, our study suggest that BuI regimen results in favorable clinical outcome in patients with isolated NPM1 mutation, and could be investigated in a randomized study versus other regimes or repeated courses of high dose cytosine-arabinoside.
The antiarrhythmic efficacy and safety of oral mexiletine hydrochloride and quinidine sulfate were compared at 29 clinical centers in a double-blind, parallel-group trial involving 491 patients with benign or potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias. Responders were defined as those who had at least a 70% reduction in the frequency of ventricular premature complexes (VPCs) that persisted for 12 weeks, and who experienced no intolerable side effects that required discontinuation of therapy. Of the patients available for analysis, 71 of 232 (31%) in the mexiletine and 73 of 225 (32%) in the quinidine group met these criteria. The dose range used for mexiletine was 200 to 400 mg every 8 hours, and that for quinidine 200 to 400 mg every 6 hours. More than half of the patients in each group were successfully treated with the smallest dose (200 mg every 8 hours mexiletine vs 200 mg every 6 hours for quinidine). Quinidine significantly prolonged the QT interval, whereas mexiletine did not. Proarrhythmic reactions were recorded in 18 of 221 (9%) patients taking quinidine and 10 of 217 (5%) patients taking mexiletine. There was no difference in the incidence of adverse reactions between the 2 groups; in both, the most common side effects were related to the gastrointestinal and central nervous systems. Mexiletine thus represents an alternative to quinidine for the treatment of patients with ventricular arrhythmias.
The high mortality associated with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is due to pulmonary hypoplasia and hypertension, structural and functional abnormalities which can to some extent be ameliorated by prenatal administration of glucocorticoids. In the hypoplastic, hypertensive lungs of neonatal rats in which CDH has been induced by nitrofen, those pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNCs) containing calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) increase in number, and it has been suggested that this might be due to inhibition of secretion of the peptide, the consequent decrease in its vasodilatory effects contributing to the hypertension. Whether this increase affects the entire population of PNCs, however, and how these cells are affected by administration of prenatal glucocorticoids, is unknown. As revealed by immunolabelling for protein gene product (PGP) 9.5, a general marker of NCs and expressed per cm2 tissue section, the total PNC population in rats with nitrofen-induced CDH was significantly greater than in controls receiving only olive oil (672 vs 375/cm2, P = 0.03) and was further increased (824 per cm2) in animals treated prenatally with dexamethasone (n = 8 in all groups). The increase in the total PNC population in rats with CDH is similar in magnitude to that described for the CGRP-containing subpopulation. Since the major role of the products of PNCs is now thought to be the regulation of development of pulmonary tissues and their response to injury, it is probable that the expansion of their population in the abnormal lungs associated with CDH is an adaptive response to pulmonary maldevelopment, a response possibly augmented by exogenous corticosteroids.
There is increasing evidence to suggest that insulin-like growth factors (IGF) I and II play a crucial role in fetal lung development. Expression of IGF-I and II has been demonstrated to be predominant during fetal life and decreases prior to birth. Antenatal glucocorticoids are reported to improve lung immaturity. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of antenatal glucocorticoid administration on IGF-I and II expression in nitrofen-induced congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) in rats. A CDH model was induced in pregnant rats following administration of 100 mg nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation (term = 22 days). Dexamethasone (0.25 mg/kg) was given intraperitoneally on days 18.5 and 19.5 of gestation. Cesarean section was performed on day 21. The fetuses were divided into three groups: I, normal controls; II, nitrofen-induced CDH; and III, nitrogen-induced CDH with antenatal dexamethasone treatment. mRNA was extracted from whole lung and a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to evaluate the relative amounts of IGF I and II mRNA. Levels of mRNA were expressed as a ratio of the band density divided by that of beta-actin, a housekeeping gene known to be expressed at a constant level. Immunohistochemistry using anti-rat IGF I and II antibody was also performed in each group. Levels of IGF I mRNA were significantly increased in group II (0.50 +/- 0.08) compared to group I (0.34 +/- 0.10) or group III (0.32 +/- 0.06) (P < 0.05). Levels of IGF II mRNA were also significantly increased in group II (0.95 +/- 0.20) compared to group I (0.42 +/- 0.07) or group III (0. 31 +/- 0.09) (P < 0.05). Strong IGF I and II expression was observed in the hypoplastic CDH lung (group II), mainly in the bronchiolar epithelium. IGF I and II expression in group I and III lungs was either absent or weak. The finding of significant reductions in IGF I and II mRNA and protein levels in dexamethasone-treated CDH lung suggest that dexamethasone may accelerate the fetal stage of lung development.
The nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) is the primary site of the cardiovascular afferent information about arterial blood pressure and volume. The NTS projects to areas in the central nervous system involved in cardiovascular regulation and hydroelectrolyte balance, such as the anteroventral third ventricle region and the lateral parabrachial nucleus. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of electrolytic lesion of the commissural NTS on water and 0.3 M NaCl intake and the cardiovascular responses to subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol. Male Holtzman rats weighing 280 to 320 g were submitted to sham lesion or electrolytic lesion of the commissural NTS (N = 6-15/group). The sham-lesioned rats had the electrode placed along the same coordinates, except that no current was passed. Water intake induced by subcutaneous isoproterenol (30 microg/kg body weight) significantly increased in chronic (15 days) commissural NTS-lesioned rats (to 2.4 +/- 0.2 vs sham: 1.9 +/- 0.2 mL 100 g body weight-1 60 min-1). Isoproterenol did not induce any sodium intake in sham or in commissural NTS-lesioned rats. The isoproterenol-induced hypotension (sham: -27 +/- 4 vs commissural NTS-lesioned rats: -22 +/- 4 mmHg/20 min) and tachycardia (sham: 168 +/- 10 vs commissural NTS: 144 +/- 24 bpm/20 min) were not different between groups. The present results suggest that the commissural NTS is part of an inhibitory neural pathway involved in the control of water intake induced by subcutaneous isoproterenol, and that the overdrinking observed in lesioned rats is not the result of a cardiovascular imbalance in these animals.
The application of benzo(a)pyrene (BaP)-toxic equivalent factor to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) concentrations can provide a more accurate risk assessment from environmental exposure to PAH. We hypothesized that BaP-equivalent toxicity determined following residential air monitoring among young urban children may vary by season. Residential indoor and outdoor air levels of PAH measured over two-weeks in a cohort of 5-6 year old children (n = 260) in New York City were normalized to the cancer and mutagen potency equivalent factor of BaP (BaP = 1). Data are presented as carcinogenic equivalents (BaP-TEQ) and mutagenic equivalents (BaP-MEQ) for the sum of 8 PAH (Sigma(8)PAH; MW >or= 228) and individual PAH and compared across heating versus nonheating seasons. Results show that heating compared to nonheating season was associated significantly with higher (BaP-TEQ)(Sigma8PAH) and (BaP-MEQ)(Sigma8PAH) both indoors and outdoors (p < 0.001). Outdoor (BaP-TEQ)(Sigma8)(PAH) and (BaP-MEQ)(Sigma8PAH) were significantly higher than the corresponding indoor measures during the heating season (p < 0.01). These findings suggest that at levels encountered in New York City air, especially during the heating season, residential exposure to PAH may pose an increased risk of cancer and mutation.
Few studies have examined the relative risks of switching into hypomania or mania associated with second-generation antidepressant drugs in bipolar depression.
To examine the relative acute effects of bupropion, sertraline and venlafaxine as adjuncts to mood stabilisers.
In a 10-week trial, participants receiving out-patient treatment for bipolar disorder (stratified for rapid cycling) were randomly treated with a flexible dose of one of the antidepressants, or their respective matching placebos, as adjuncts to mood stabilisers.
A total of 174 adults with bipolar disorder I, II or not otherwise specified, currently in the depressed phase, were included. All three antidepressants were associated with a similar range of acute response (49-53%) and remission (34-41%). There was a significantly increased risk of switches into hypomania or mania in participants treated with venlafaxine compared with bupropion or sertraline.
More caution appears indicated in the use of venlafaxine rather than bupropion or sertraline in the adjunctive treatment of bipolar depression, especially if there is a prior history of rapid cycling.
We used immunocytochemistry to determine the regional and temporal distribution of Fos protein expression in awake and unrestrained rats after a unilateral stereotaxic microinjection of a cholinergic agonist, carbachol, in the thalamic ventroposterolateral and reticular nuclei, previously shown to cause limbic and generalized convulsive seizures. The microinjection of carbachol elicits behavioral alterations including immobilization, staring, facial and jaw clonus, rearing, and falling, followed by recurrent generalized convulsive seizures, and a pattern of c-fos expression throughout the brain. In addition to the hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei, the initial induction of c-fos expression was observed as early as 15 minutes after the carbachol microinjection, in the piriform and entorhinal cortices, the thalamic paraventricular, the supramammilary, the lateral parabrachial nuclei, and the central gray. From 30 minutes to 2 hours, corresponding to the occurrence of motor expression of limbic and recurrent generalized convulsive seizures, Fos immunoreactivity was seen in a number of functionally related brain regions including the hippocampus, the amygdala, and the anterior thalamic nucleus (limbic system); the thalamus, the basal ganglia, and the cortex (thalamo-striatal-cortical system); and the hypothalamus, the central nucleus of the amygdala, the pons, and the medulla (central autonomic system). On the basis of the present results showing regional and temporal c-fos expression and well known neuroanatomical connections, we have constructed a neural network relating the limbic, thalamo-striatal-cortical, and central autonomic systems. This analysis provides, for the first time, neuronal circuits and pathways relating epilepsy-elicited behavioral expression of convulsive seizures and adaptive homeostatic responses and could serve as a basis for studying central autonomic regulation during epileptic disorders.
A case is presented of a 47-year-old man who died as a result of sevoflurane abuse. Sevoflurane was identified and confirmed by headspace gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The heart blood sevoflurane concentration was 16 mg/L, and the peripheral blood sevoflurane concentration was 8.0 mg/L. No drugs or other volatile substances were found in the heart blood. The medical examiner ruled that the cause of death was cardiac arrhythmia due to sevoflurane toxicity. Cardiomegaly was listed on Part II of the death certificate. The manner of death was undetermined.
1 Bladder smooth muscle sensitivity to muscarinic agonists is increased in the overactive bladder. Treatment of rats with streptozotocin induces a diabetic state in which the bladder muscle is overactive and also supersensitive to muscarinic agonists. This study has examined bladder contraction, muscarinic receptor density and receptor/G-protein coupling in the streptozotocin-induced overactive bladder of the rat. 2 Diabetes was induced by a single intraperitoneal dose of streptozotocin. Seven days later contraction of isolated detrusor muscle strips was assessed in tissue bath experiments, while receptor density was assayed in saturation experiments with [3H]-QNB (quinuclidinyl benzilate, L-[benzilic-4,4'-3H]) and receptor/G-protein coupling was determined in agonist displacement experiments with this radioligand. 3 Isolated detrusor strips from diabetic animals displayed an enhanced degree of spontaneous activity (0.060 +/- 0.016 g mg(-1), compared with 0.015 +/- 0.004 g mg(-1), P < 0.05). Carbachol produced contractile responses in tissues from both control and diabetic rats, but the diabetic tissues were more sensitive to this agonist, the pEC50 being 6.52 +/- 0.17 compared with 5.93 +/- 0.06 in controls (P < 0.001). Maximum responses to carbachol were similar in both groups of animals. The increase in carbachol potency was accompanied by a 40% increase in receptor density from 158 +/- 5 to 221 +/- 22 fmol mg(-1) protein (P < 0.05), but this was not enough to fully account for the change in tissue sensitivity. 4 In the absence of GTP-gamma-S, carbachol displaced [3H]-QNB from two binding sites, the high-affinity site (pKi = 7.06 +/- 0.26) which represents the receptors coupled to G-proteins made up 43.1 +/- 5.9% of the total binding sites in control tissues and this value was similar (41.0 +/- 4.0%) in the diabetic tissues (pKi = 6.64 +/- 0.31). In the presence of GTP-gamma-S, carbachol displaced [3H]-QNB from a single binding site which had a low-affinity, similar to the low-affinity site observed in the absence of GTP-gamma-S. 5 These data demonstrate that detrusor supersensitivity is observed after only 1 week of untreated diabetes in the rat. The overactivity is associated with an enhanced sensitivity to carbachol, which is partly explained by an increase in receptor density, but there appears to be no change in receptor/G-protein coupling.
The following case reports describe the clinical presentation, diagnosis and management of two patients who attended Liverpool University Dental Hospital with rapidly increasing swelling of the lips and tongue. Both patients were suffering from angioedema and were taking an angiotension-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (ACEI). A provisional diagnosis of ACEI-induced angioedema was made. An intramuscular injection of chlorpheniramine maleate was given to both patients and they were immediately transferred to the local accident and emergency department. These cases illustrate the potential role of the general dental practitioner in the early recognition and management of this potentially life-threatening condition.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are important in the initiation and promotion of cells to neoplastic growth. In this context, cigarette smoke exposure, the primary risk factor in lung cancer development, leads to high levels of ROS within the human airway. Although well-equipped with an integrated antioxidant defense system consisting of low-molecular weight antioxidants such as glutathione and intracellular enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and glutathione peroxidase, the lungs are vulnerable to increased endogenous and exogenous oxidative insults. Antioxidants increase in response to oxidative stress and minimize ROS-induced injury in experimental systems, indicating that antioxidant levels may determine whether ROS can initiate lung carcinogenesis. On this basis, we hypothesized that antioxidants would be decreased in lung carcinoma cells as compared with tumor-free adjacent lung tissues. Antioxidant expression was evaluated in 16 lung tumor and 21 tumor-free lung tissues collected between the years 1993 and 2001 from 24 individuals with surgically resectable non-small cell lung cancer, i.e., adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. Total SOD activity was increased (P = 0.035), catalase activity decreased (P = 0.002), and glutathione and glutathione peroxidase were similar in tumors compared with tumor-free lung tissues. Alterations in antioxidant activities were attributable to increased manganese SOD and decreased catalase protein and mRNA expression in tumors. Immunohistochemical localization of catalase in the lung revealed decreased or no expression in the tumor cells, although healthy adjacent airway epithelial cells were strongly positive for catalase. Parallel changes in antioxidant activities, protein, and mRNA expression were noted in A549 lung carcinoma cell lines exposed to cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin 1beta, and IFN-gamma). Thus, inflammation in the lung may contribute to high levels of manganese SOD and decreased catalase, which together may lead to increased hydrogen peroxide intracellularly and create an intracellular environment favorable to DNA damage and the promotion of cancer.
Parity profoundly reduces breast cancer (BC) risk later in life. It has been reasoned that hormones (either estradiol E2 or estriol E3), progesterone (P) or human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in the serum of pregnant women might lead to that reduction in risk. These agents have been shown to reduce BC incidence in nonpregnant rats. We investigated the hypothesis that exogenously added E2, E3, P, or hCG are not the proximal effectors of risk reduction, but that they elicit alpha-fetoprotein (alphaFP) from the nonpregnant liver, and that cFP is the proximal agent by which reduction of BC risk is obtained. Methylnitrosourea (MNU)-exposed animals were treated with saline, E3, E2 + P, E3 + P, hCG, or were allowed to experience pregnancy, and AFP levels were measured in the serum and subsequent tumor incidence was recorded. Human HepG2 liver cells in culture were treated with E3, E2 + P, P, or hCG and elicited AFP was measured in the media. The HepG2 culture media containing elicited AFP was assessed for its ability to inhibit proliferation of T47D cells when applied to these human BC cells in culture, and to inhibit the estrogen-induced phosphorylation of the estrogen receptor in T47D cells. For each condition in the prevention studies, hormone treatment reduced the incidence of BC to an extent similar to that reported by the original studies. In each condition, alphaFP levels in serum were elevated over that in control animals. In culture, treatment of human liver cells with E3, E2 + P, or hCG, but not P alone, led to increased levels of AFP in the media. Media containing hCG-elicited AFP inhibited the estrogen-stimulated proliferation of T47D cells in culture, and inhibited phosphorylation of the estrogen receptor, whereas, estrogens and hCG did not inhibit the growth of these tumor cells in culture. In conclusion, since the hormones of pregnancy elicit alphaFP from the liver, and alphaFP but not the hormones of pregnancy has direct antitumor properties, it is concluded that alphaFP is the proximal agent through which reduction in BC incidence is realized from the experience of pregnancy.
The psychosis-inducing effect of ketamine is important evidence supporting the glutamate hypothesis of schizophrenia. However, the symptoms the drug produces have not been described systematically.
To examine the effects of ketamine in healthy people using a structured psychiatric interview.
Ketamine (200 ng/ml) or placebo was administered by continuous infusion to 15 healthy volunteers. Symptoms were rated using the Present State Examination, the Thought, Language and Communication Scale and the Scale for Assessment of Negative Symptoms.
Ketamine induced a range of perceptual distortions, but not hallucinations. Referential ideas were seen in nearly half the sample. There were only mild and infrequent ratings on the thought disorder scale. Affective flattening and alogia were seen in some volunteers.
Ketamine does not reproduce the full picture of schizophrenia. The main point of similarity concerns referential thinking. Phenomena resembling negative symptoms are also seen, but the distinction of these from the drug's sedative effects requires further elucidation.
Ibutilide is a novel class III antiarrhythmic agent used for the termination of atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation. It mainly affects membrane potassium currents (IKr) and prolongs the cardiac action potential. This effect is reflected as QT-interval prolongation in the ECG. Drugs that affect IKr-currents are known to cause malignant ventricular arrhythmia.
We report three patients with heart failure where ibutilide triggered malignant ventricular arrhythmias (sustained torsades de pointes).
All patients experienced dramatic haemodynamic deterioration. One patient died because of sustained arrhythmia. Mode of action for ibutilide is described. Precautions that should be observed when using ibutilide are outlined.
Ibutilide is contraindicated in patients with heart failure and should be used with caution in patients with ischaemic heart disease or previous myocardial infarction. Ibutilide-induced ventricular arrhythmias may be particularly difficult to treat in patients with heart failure.
Cytoprotection utilising amifostine (Ethyol, WR-2721) is an evolving strategy to protect normal cells from the toxicity of chemotherapy. The dosing and administration guidelines are reviewed. The recommended dose of amifostine is 910 mg/m2 as a 15-min infusion prior to chemotherapy. Toxicity of this agent is moderate with hypotension and nausea/vomiting being observed in variable numbers of patients. Administration of amifostine with chemotherapy is simple and is associated with acceptable toxicity.
Irritative toxic rhinitis is a nasal disorder induced by chemical compounds like ozone, formaldehyde, nickel, chrome, solvents and tobacco smoke. These noxious stimuli may have effects on the nasal innervation leading to a cascade of neuro-immune interactions and an augmentation of the symptoms. Here we examined changes in the neuropeptide content of mucosal parasympathetic, sympathetic and sensory nerves of patients with toxic rhinitis caused by chronic cigarette smoke exposure. Semiquantitative immunohistochemistry using antibodies against calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P (SP), neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY), and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) was carried out on cryostat sections of human nasal mucosa obtained from normal subjects and patients with toxic rhinitis and revealed significant differences between both groups. Toxic rhinitis patients had significantly elevated expression scores for VIP (2.83 +/- 0.31 vs 1.27 +/- 0.47 control group) and NPY (3.17 +/- 0.31 vs 0.91 +/- 0.37 control group) revealing an increase of mediators in distinct subpopulations of airway nerves. In summary, the present studies indicate a differential participation of subclasses of mucosal nerves in the pathophysiology of toxic rhinitis. Airway innervation may have a major role in the pathophysiology of toxic rhinitis associated with chronic cigarette smoke exposure.
We describe a patient in whom continuous extradural analgesia with bupivacaine resulted in toxic plasma concentrations causing severe cerebral irritation. We discuss recent studies using continuous extradural bupivacaine, reports of toxicity and comment on the importance of monitoring drug concentrations.
A 76-year-old women presented with digoxin toxicity four days after starting a course of roxithromycin. In 10%-15% of the population, digoxin is degraded extensively by bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract, and antibiotic-induced changes in the bacterial flora may lead to digoxin toxicity.
