A 79-year-old female was admitted to our hospital because of a malignant pleural effusion following mastectomy 4 years ago. In the patient's history arterial hypertension and previous inferior myocardial infarction have been known. Two doses of 20 mg mitoxantrone were installed intrapleurally at an interval of 4 weeks. Six hours after the second mitoxantrone application and the patient had increasing dyspnea with consecutive left heart failure, pulmonary congestion, and a drop of blood pressure. The white-cell count was 14800/mm3. The levels of creatinine phosphokinase (CPK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and serum aspartate aminotransferase (SGOT) were in the normal range. Transthoracic echocardiography showed concentric left ventricular hypertrophy and a markedly decreased fractional shortening, but no left ventricular dilatation. The electrocardiogram showed newly appeared down-sloping ST-segments and inverted T-waves. Clinical recovery was achieved after 6 days by application of oxygen, dobutamine and furosemide followed by angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition and digitalis. In the echocardiographic control examination 14 days later left ventricular function had normalized. The changes of electrocardiogram normalized 4 weeks later.
The studies were performed on intact and pregnant rats after the administration of 10(-2) U of oxytocin. Oxytocin-induced increase in spasm duration and microvascular dilatation was noted both in intact and pregnant animals. However, in the former case spasm duration was markedly increased, while in the latter case there was an equal increase both in spasm duration and dilatation. Dilatation phase was characterized by an increase in microvessel diameter, as compared to the initial one. Maximal spasm phase after oxytocin administration in intact rats was characterized by hemostasis. In pregnant animals blood flow was delayed, with no marked spasm present. The initial level of microcirculation was restored 38-40 minutes later.
Dopaminergic agents reverse parkinsonism but commonly induce dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) on long-term levodopa therapy. The aim of this study was to determine the neurophysiologic correlates of the amelioration of parkinsonism and the involuntary movements produced by the dopamine agonist apomorphine. Seventeen PD patients were given apomorphine (2-6 mg) before surgery. Neural activity was recorded for individual neurons and for populations of neurons before and after apomorphine. Both internal (GPi) and external (GPe) segments of the globus pallidus were sampled in patients undergoing pallidal surgery. The subthalamic nucleus (STN) was sampled in STN surgery patients. Results suggest that dopaminergic agents act by decreasing GPi and STN activity, and increasing GPe activity, and that drug-induced dyskinesias results from a large reduction in GPi firing.
The effect of bezafibrate on plasma lipids, lipoproteins, apolipoproteins AI, AII and B, and LCAT activity was investigated in 16 hyperlipidemic, non-insulin-dependent diabetes, who were treated for 8 weeks with either placebo or bezafibrate in a double-blind cross-over design. Bezafibrate induced a significant decrease in plasma triglycerides (P less than 0.01), cholesterol (P less than 0.05), VLDL triglycerides (P less than 0.05) and VLDL cholesterol (P less than 0.01), and a significant increase in HDL cholesterol (P less than 0.01), whereas LDL cholesterol remained unchanged. The apolipoprotein AI/apolipoprotein B ratio increased significantly (P less than 0.05), although individual changes in these apolipoproteins were not significant. Apolipoprotein AII increased significantly (P less than 0.05), although individual changes in these apolipoproteins were not significant. Apolipoprotein AII increased significantly (P less than 0.0001) and the apolipoprotein AI/apolipoprotein AII ratio decreased (P less than 0.0001), indicating an increase in the HDL3 rather than the HDL2 fraction. No significant change in LCAT activity was observed.
A number of patients who have undergone adjuvant (CMF) chemotherapy for operative primary breast carcinoma have reported impaired cognitive function, sometimes even years after completion of therapy. The possible role of cytostatic treatment as a causative factor has scarcely been investigated. The objective of the current study was to examine the late effects on neuropsychologic functioning of CMF adjuvant chemotherapy given to patients with breast carcinoma.
Thirty-nine breast carcinoma patients who had been treated with adjuvant CMF (6 courses) followed (n = 20) by 3 years of tamoxifen 20 mg daily or not (n = 19) were examined with neuropsychologic tests and interviews. The control group consisted of 34 age-matched axillary lymph node negative breast carcinoma patients who received the same surgical and radiation therapy but no systemic adjuvant treatment. The CMF patients were examined a median of 1.9 years after the sixth CMF course, and the controls a median of 2.4 years after surgery of the primary tumor.
Patients treated with CMF reported significantly more problems with concentration (31% vs. 6%, P = 0.007) and with memory (21% vs. 3%, P = 0.022) than the control patients. No relation was found between reported complaints and results on the neuropsychologic tests. Impairment in cognitive function was found in 28% of the patients treated with chemotherapy compared with 12% of the patients in the control group (odds ratio 6.4 [95% confidence interval 1.5-27.6] P = 0.013). Hormonal therapy had no influence on patients' self-reports of symptoms or cognitive function. Cognitive impairment following chemotherapy was noticed in a broad domain of functioning, including attention, mental flexibility, speed of information processing, visual memory, and motor function.
Breast carcinoma patients treated with adjuvant CMF chemotherapy have a significantly higher risk of late cognitive impairment than breast carcinoma patients not treated with chemotherapy (OR 6.4). This cognitive impairment is unaffected by anxiety, depression, fatigue, and time since treatment, and not related to the self-reported complaints of cognitive dysfunction.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the association between mortality from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and exposure to fluoro-edenite, a newly discovered amphibolic fiber found in Biancavilla (Sicily), a municipality on the slope of the Etna volcano, where a high mortality from malignant mesothelioma had been previously observed.
Thirty-six municipalities located in the volcanic area of mount Etna were selected for study. An ecological regression model was applied with mortality from COPD as the dependent variable, mortality from mesothelioma as a proxy for exposure to fluoro-edenite, and lung cancer mortality, an urban-rural index, a deprivation index and an aging index as the predictors of COPD mortality. For each municipality, risk classes were determined for the continuous variables with the use of a finite mixture model.
A significant association was found between COPD mortality and pleural neoplasm mortality among the women in this study. The association was less consistent for the men.
Despite the limitations of this ecological study, the results cohere with the results of toxicologic and observational studies and suggest an etiologic role for fluoro-edenite in nonmalignant respiratory diseases.
Nifedipine, a calcium-channel blocking agent, has been reported to cause many side effects, particularly in the cardiovascular system. A case of nifedipine-induced hypokalemia is presented, with a discussion on the presumable mechanism involved in this phenomenon.
There is relatively little documentation on the common side effects associated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) and their frequency of occurrence. A retrospective chart review of patient records in a Mood Disorders Service was completed. Side effects of patients receiving phenelzine (N = 42) and tranylcypromine (N = 19) were rated as mild (resulting in no change in treatment), moderate (some modification in treatment plan necessary), and severe (definite change in treatment plan or drug discontinuation due to MAOI side effect). A total of 35 reports of side effects were noted in 15 of 19 tranylcypromine patients (1.84 per patients) and a total of 125 side effect reports were noted in 39 of 42 phenelzine patients (2.98 per patient). Only two severe tranylcypromine side effects occurred (resulting in drug cessation for one of these patients - hypotension), while 9 severe reactions occurred with phenelzine, resulting in drug discontinuation in 6 of these patients. The side effects for tranylcypromine and the number of reports were insomnia (N = 10), sedation (N = 8), hypotension (N = 5), sexual dysfunction (N = 3), hypomania (N = 3), weight gain/edema (N = 2), hypertensive episode (N = 2), and myoclonic jerking (N = 2). The number of reports of phenelzine side effects were insomnia (N = 26), hypomania/mania (N = 27; most common reason for drug cessation - 4), hypotension (N = 16; three cases considered severe), weight gain/edema (N = 15), sedation (N = 15), sexual dysfunction (N = 13), hypertensive episode (N = 6), and myoclonic jerking (N = 7).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Obesity and its physiological consequences are increasingly prevalent among women of reproductive age and are associated with infertility. To investigate, female mice were fed a high-fat diet until the onset of insulin resistance, followed by assessments of ovarian gene expression, ovulation, fertilization, and oocyte developmental competence. We report defects to ovarian function associated with diet-induced obesity (DIO) that result in poor oocyte quality, subsequently reduced blastocyst survival rates, and abnormal embryonic cellular differentiation. To identify critical cellular mediators of ovarian responses to obesity induced insulin resistance, DIO females were treated for 4 d before mating with an insulin-sensitizing pharmaceutical: glucose and lipid-lowering AMP kinase activator, 5-aminoimidazole 4-carboxamide-riboside, 30 mg/kg.d; sodium salicylate, IkappaK inhibitor that reverses insulin resistance, 50 mg/kg.d; or peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma agonist rosiglitazone, 10 mg/kg.d. 5-aminoimidazole 4-carboxamide-riboside or sodium salicylate treatment did not have significant effects on the reproductive parameters examined. However, embryonic development to the blastocyst stage was significantly improved when DIO mice were treated with rosiglitazone, effectively repairing development rates. Rosiglitazone also normalized DIO-associated abnormal blastomere allocation to the inner cell mass. Such improvements to oocyte quality were coupled with weight loss, improved glucose metabolism, and changes in ovarian mRNA expression of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-regulated genes, Cd36, Scarb1, and Fabp4 cholesterol transporters. These studies demonstrate that peri-conception treatment with select insulin-sensitizing pharmaceuticals can directly influence ovarian functions and ultimately exert positive effects on oocyte developmental competence. Improved blastocyst quality in obese females treated with rosiglitazone before mating indicates that peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma is a key target for metabolic regulation of ovarian function and oocyte quality.
This study reports the efficacy and safety of trazodone as an antidepressant drug in a national telematic multicenter outpatient open clinical trial. In less than 3 months, 1,700 patients completed a 1-month treatment and among them, 65% were considered as responders. The side effect profile of the drug included sedation, gastrointestinal discomfort and moderate hypotension. One case of trazodone-induced priapism is presented and briefly discussed.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been implicated as mediators of tissue damage in several inflammatory diseases. Since the multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) is thought to result from systemic inflammation, overactivation of MMPs could contribute to the organ damage observed. The expression and activity of several MMPs were studied in a murine model for MODS. Sixty mice were given an aseptic intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide, followed, after 6 days, by zymosan. At days 2, 5, 8, 12, and 16 after the injection of zymosan, the liver, lungs, spleen, and kidneys were collected from groups of mice for either RNA extraction, gelatinase zymography and collagenase (MMP-1 and -13) assays (six mice per time point), or immunohistochemistry (three mice per time point). A group of nine mice did not receive zymosan and acted as controls. The expression of MMP-2 mRNA in zymosan-treated mice was strongly up-regulated in liver tissue only. For MMP-9, this was the case in all organs examined. Quantitative gelatin zymography demonstrated the near complete absence of any gelatinase activity in tissues from control mice. However, in the liver, lungs, and especially the spleen of zymosan-treated animals, significantly increased activity of proform and active MMP-2 and -9 was observed with time. Overall, MMP-1 and -13 activities were very low in all samples from the liver and lungs. In the spleen, however, high levels of MMP-1 and -13 were observed in zymosan-treated animals. Immunohistochemical staining for MMP-2 was detected in the liver and spleen, but not in lung and kidney tissue of zymosan-treated animals. Staining for MMP-9 could be detected in liver, lung, and spleen tissues of zymosan-treated mice. For both MMPs, staining appeared to be limited to phagocytes. In conclusion, the data suggest a role for MMPs, especially MMP-9, in the pathogenesis of MODS.
Patients with methadone-induced long-QT syndrome may experience Torsades de Pointes (TDP) or aborted sudden death requiring the placement of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs). Outcomes after ICD implantation in these patients are unknown. Eight patients presenting with methadone-induced long-QT syndrome and episodes of symptomatic TDP were followed after having undergone ICD implantation. The study group included 5 women and 3 men (mean age 48.5 +/- 5 years) receiving methadone doses of 204 +/- 173 mg. All but 1 subject had preserved ventricular function (mean left ventricular ejection fraction 61 +/- 1.1%). All of the patients had prolonged QTc intervals (mean 613 +/- 71 ms) while taking methadone. After ICD implantation, 6 of the 8 patients continued treatment with methadone as a result of intractable dependence. Over a mean follow-up period of 27 months, 1 patient expired from unknown causes. Three of those patients had interrogation-proved ICD shocks for TDP. In conclusion, patients with methadone-induced long-QT syndrome and TDP are at high risk for recurrent arrhythmic events if methadone is continued. This small cohort of patients suggests that ICDs may be lifesaving in those subjects who continue taking methadone after initial episodes of TDP.
Octreotide, a kind of somatostatin analogue, may inhibit the growth of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study was to investigate the mechanism of inducing necrosis of HCC xenografts in nude mice by octreotide.
The proliferation of HepG2 cells was determined by MTT assay. Nude mice bearing HepG2 xenografts were treated with octreotide [100 microg times; (kg times; d)(-1)] or normal saline (as control) for eight weeks. The necrosis of HCC was estimated by histology. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was detected by immunohistochemistry. Somatostatin receptor 2 (SSTR2) was quantified by Western blot and located with immunohistochemistry.
The proliferation of HepG2 cells was not obviously affected by 24-hour treatment of octreotide (0.1-1000 nmol/L) in vitro. The tumor weight was significantly heavier in octreotide group than in control group [(7.15+/-2.96) g vs. (4.21+/-3.11) g, P<0.05], while the proportion of necrotic volume was significantly higher in octreotide group than in control group [(81.86+/-0.05)% vs. (43.75+/-0.06)%,P<0.05]. In contrast with control group, VEGF was undetected in the xenografts in octreotide group. SSTR2 expression in xenograft sinusoids was similar in both groups.
With active proliferation of HCC cells, octreotide can induce necrosis in HCC xenografts only through the inhibition of angiogenesis mediated by SSTR2 in the tumor.
There is little information on the incidence of acute lung injury or changes in the pulmonary circulation in acute liver failure. The aim of this study was to record the incidence of acute lung injury in fulminant hepatic failure caused by paracetamol poisoning, to document the associated pulmonary circulatory changes, and to assess the impact of lung injury on patient outcome.
The degree of lung injury was retrospectively assessed by a standard scoring system (modified from Murray) in all patients with fulminant hepatic failure caused by paracetamol poisoning, admitted to the intensive care unit over a one year period. The severity of liver failure and illness, other organ system failure, and patient outcome were also analysed.
Twenty four patients with paracetamol-induced liver failure were admitted and nine developed lung injury of whom eight (33%) had severe injury (Murray score > 2.5). In two patients hypoxaemia contributed to death. Patients with lung injury had higher median encephalopathy grades (4 v 2 in the non-injured group) and APACHE II scores (29 v 16). Circulatory failure, requiring vasoconstrictor support, occurred in all patients with lung injury but in only 40% of those without. Cerebral oedema, as detected by abnormal rises in intracranial pressure, also occurred in all patients with lung injury but in only 27% of the non-injured patients. The incidence of renal failure requiring renal replacement therapy was similar in both groups (67% and 47%). Pulmonary artery occlusion pressures were normal in the lung injury group. Cardiac output was high (median 11.2 1/min), systemic vascular resistance low (median 503 dynes/s/cm-5), and pulmonary vascular resistance low (median 70 dynes/s/cm-5), but not significantly different from the group without lung injury. Mortality was much higher in the lung injury group than in the non-injured group (89% v 13%).
Acute lung injury was common in patients with paracetamol-induced fulminant hepatic failure and was associated with systemic circulatory failure and cerebral oedema. The development of acute lung injury was associated with high mortality.
The neuropeptide C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) is the primary biologically active natriuretic peptide in brain. Using in situ hybridization, the present report demonstrates that CNP regulates egr-1, c-fos and junB immediate early gene expression in rat brain. In the frontal cortex, CNP induced immediate early gene expression whereas it inhibited dose-dependently the cocaine-induced early gene expression in the dopaminergic projection fields nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen. CNP may produce its effect directly on dopaminergic neurons because we found that its receptor, guanylyl cyclase GC-B, was expressed in the mesencephalon where dopaminergic neurons originate, as well as in their projection fields. The inhibition by CNP of the early gene expression elicited by cocaine in the caudate-putamen is correlated with a CNP-evoked decrease in cocaine-induced rise in extracellular dopamine, measured by in vivo microdialysis experiments. The significance of the inhibition of cocaine-induced dopamine release and early gene induction by the endogenous peptide CNP is demonstrated by data indicating that CNP reduced the cocaine-induced spontaneous locomotor activation. By inhibiting dopaminergic neuronal activity, CNP represents a potential negative regulator of related behavioural effects of cocaine.
Voltage-gated Na+ channels are a main target of many first-line anticonvulsant drugs and their mechanism of action has been extensively investigated in cell lines and native neurons. Nevertheless, it is unknown whether the efficacy of these drugs might be altered following chronic epileptogenesis. We have, therefore, analysed the effects of phenytoin (100 micro m), lamotrigine (100 micro m) and valproate (600 micro m) on Na+ currents in dissociated rat hippocampal granule neurons in the pilocarpine model of chronic epilepsy. In control animals, all three substances exhibited modest tonic blocking effects on Na+ channels in their resting state. These effects of phenytoin and lamotrigine were reduced (by 77 and 64%) in epileptic compared with control animals. Phenytoin and valproate caused a shift in the voltage dependence of fast inactivation in a hyperpolarizing direction, while all three substances shifted the voltage dependence of activation in a depolarizing direction. The anticonvulsant effects on Na+ channel voltage dependence proved to be similar in control and epileptic animals. The time course of fast recovery from inactivation was potently slowed by lamotrigine and phenytoin in control animals, while valproate had no effect. Interestingly, the effects of phenytoin on fast recovery from inactivation were significantly reduced in chronic epilepsy. Taken together, these results reveal that different anticonvulsant drugs may exert a distinct pattern of effects on native Na+ channels. Furthermore, the reduction of phenytoin and, to a less pronounced extent, lamotrigine effects in chronic epilepsy raises the possibility that reduced pharmacosensitivity of Na+ channels may contribute to the development of drug resistance.
Research into the cause of dyskinesias arising from levodopa treatment has been vexingly limited, partly due to the lack of an inexpensive and widely available animal model. Rodents do not develop levodopa-induced dyskinesias in a clinically recognizable form. However, nonhuman primates with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced parkinsonism readily develop levodopa-induced dyskinesias that are virtually indistinguishable from those seen in patients with Parkinson's disease. We have developed and validated a five-point Global Primate Dyskinesia Rating Scale to accurately measure these dyskinesias. Monkeys with MPTP-induced parkinsonism were then investigated to evaluate the relationship between dyskinesias, parkinsonism and severity of the nigrostriatal lesion. All parkinsonian animals were responsive to levodopa, and developed dyskinesias within 2-3 days of levodopa administration. Monkeys treated with only a single injection of MPTP also developed dyskinesias, even though they were not parkinsonian. It would appear that there is a different threshold of striatal dopamine depletion for parkinsonism and dyskinesias in the monkey. Finally, three hypotheses, put forward to explain the genesis of dyskinesias, are reviewed, and various experimental approaches suggested for each.
Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) is widely distributed and persistent in the environment and wildlife. The main aim of this study was to investigate the impact of long-term exposure to low concentrations of PFOS in zebrafish. Zebrafish fry (F(0), 14 d post-fertilization, dpf) were exposed via the water for 70 d to 0 (control), 10, 50 and 250 microg L(-1) PFOS, followed by a further 30 d to assess recovery in clean water. The effects on survival and growth parameters and liver histopathology were assessed. Although growth suppression (weight and length) was observed in fish treated with high concentrations PFOS during the exposure period, no mortality was observed throughout the 70 d experiment. Embryos and larvae (F(1)) derived from maternal exposure suffered malformation and mortality. Exposure to 50 and 250 microg L(-1) PFOS could inhibit the growth of the gonads (GSI) in the female zebrafish. Histopathological alterations, primary with lipid droplets accumulation, were most prominently seen in the liver of males and the changes were not reversible, even after the fish were allowed to recover for 30 d in clean water. The triiodothyronine (T(3)) levels were not significantly changed in any of the exposure groups. Hepatic vitellogenin (VTG) gene expression was significantly up-regulated in both male and female zebrafish, but the sex ratio was not altered. The overall results suggested that lower concentrations of PFOS in maternal exposure could result in offspring deformation and mortality.
Excitotoxic cell death is one of the precipitating events in the development of temporal lobe epilepsy. Of particular prominence is the loss of GABAergic hilar neurons. Although the molecular mechanisms responsible for the selective vulnerability of these cells are not well understood, activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK/MAPK) pathway has been implicated in neuroprotective responses to excitotoxicity in other neuronal populations. Here, we report that high levels of the striatal-enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase (STEP), a key regulator of ERK/MAPK signaling, are found in vulnerable somatostatin-immunoreactive hilar interneurons. Under both control conditions and after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE), ERK/MAPK activation was repressed in STEP-immunoreactive hilar neurons. This contrasts with robust SE-induced ERK/MAPK activation in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus, a cell region that does not express STEP. During pilocarpine-induced SE, in vivo disruption of STEP activity allowed activation of the MAPK pathway, leading to immediate-early gene expression and significant rescue from cell death. Thus, STEP increases the sensitivity of neurons to SE-induced excitotoxicity by specifically blocking a latent neuroprotective response initiated by the MAPK pathway. These findings identify a key set of signaling events that render somatostatinergic hilar interneurons vulnerable to SE-induced cell death.
Our overall goal is to elucidate progressive changes, in expression and methylation status, of genes which play key roles in phenobarbital (PB)-induced liver tumorigenesis, with an emphasis on their potential to affect signaling through critical pathways involved in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation. PB-elicited unique expression changes of genes, including some of those identified previously as exhibiting regions of altered DNA methylation, were discerned in precancerous liver tissue and/or individual liver tumors from susceptible constitutive active/androstane receptor (CAR) wild-type (WT) compared with resistant CAR knockout (KO) mice. Many of these function in crucial cancer-related processes, for example, angiogenesis, apoptosis, cell cycle, DNA methylation, Hedgehog signaling, invasion/metastasis, Notch signaling, and Wnt signaling. Furthermore, a subset of the uniquely altered genes contained CAR response elements (CAREs). This included Gadd45b, a coactivator of CAR and inhibitor of apoptosis, and two DNA methyltransferases (Dnmt1, Dnmt3a). The presence of CAREs in Dnmts suggests a potential direct link between PB and altered DNA methylation. The current data are juxtaposed with the effects of PB on DNA methylation and gene expression which occurred uniquely in liver tumor-prone B6C3F1 mice, as compared with the resistant C57BL/6, following 2 or 4 weeks of treatment. Collectively, these data reveal a comprehensive view of PB-elicited molecular alterations (i.e., changes in gene expression and DNA methylation) that can facilitate hepatocarcinogenesis. Notably, candidate genes for initial "fingerprints" of early and late stages of PB-induced tumorigenesis are proposed.
The effect of cyclophosphamide therapy was evaluated in the treatment of children with nephrotic syndrome due to minimal lesions. Most of the children, 37 out of 43, presented with frequent relapsing nephrotic syndrome. Cyclophosphamide was given in a dose of 3 mg/kg body weight/day for a period of 8 weeks. Two patients received two courses, one patient received three courses. Only one patient, who was steroid-resistant, did not respond to cyclophosphamide therapy (therapy was, however, stopped after 3 weeks because of haemorrhagic cystitis). 57% of the patients were still in remission after 18 months (n = 37) and 50% after 30 months (n = 34). A haemorrhagic cystitis developed in 3 patients and leucopenia in 2 patients. From this study, which confirms data reported in literature, it can be concluded that cyclophosphamide has a beneficial effect in children with minimal lesion nephrotic syndrome and steroid toxicity.
The effects of two doses (1 and 2 mg/kg, i.p.) of haloperidol (HAL) on catalepsy, on concentrations of DA and DOPAC in frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens and striatum and on serum levels of oestradiol were investigated in intact female rats during the 4-day oestrous cycle. Catalepsy induced by haloperidol did not vary much during phases of the cycle. The turnover of DA in the cortex induced by haloperidol was significantly greater on proestrus and smaller on oestrus. The effect of haloperidol on the turnover of DA in the nucleus accumbens and in striatum was marginally affected by the oestrous cycle being greatest on oestrus. The levels of serum oestradiol were higher on proestrus and lower on oestrus. No significant differences were detected between diestrus and metestrus. After haloperidol there was a dramatic increase in serum oestradiol on oestrus, a slight increase on metestrus and diestrus and a decrease on proestrus. However, serum levels of oestradiol were not significantly different between phases of the cycle in rats treated with haloperidol. The results indicate that the oestrous cycle has a detectable influence on DAergic mechanisms in the frontal cortex and possibly in the tuberoinfudibular system, brought about by treatment with haloperidol.
Exposure to tobacco smoke is a major risk factor for the sudden infant death syndrome. Nicotine is thought to be the ingredient in tobacco smoke that is responsible for a multitude of cardiorespiratory effects during development, and pre- rather than postnatal exposure is considered to be most detrimental. Nicotine interacts with endogenous acetylcholine receptors in the brain and lung, and developmental exposure produces structural changes as well as alterations in neuroregulation. Abnormalities have been described in sympathicovagal balance, arousal threshold and latency, breathing pattern at rest and apnea frequency, ventilatory response to hyperoxia or hypoxia, heart rate regulation and ability to autoresuscitate during severe hypoxia. This review discusses studies performed on infants of smoking mothers and nicotine-exposed animals yielding varying and sometimes inconsistent results that may be due to differences in experimental design, species and the dose of exposure. Taken together however, developmental nicotine exposure appears to induce vulnerability during hypoxia and a potential inability to survive severe asphyxia.
To describe the time course and management of methotrexate (MTX) toxicity in a 14-year-old Hispanic boy with osteosarcoma treated with high-dose MTX.
During the sixth cycle of high-dose MTX, severe intoxication was observed with high MTX plasma concentrations, acute renal failure, and hepatitis, followed by mucositis and moderate myelosuppression. Intensification of urine alkalinization and increased leucovorin dosages did not decrease plasma concentrations of MTX or prevent systemic toxicities. Carboxypeptidase G2 and aminophylline were thus administered as a second-intention rescue strategy. Within 2 weeks, a recovery of clinical symptoms and normalization of the biological abnormalities were observed. Limb salvage surgery was performed, which permitted classifying the patient as an MTX high-responder. Thereafter, MTX was successfully resumed, leading to clinical recovery of the patient. Concomitantly, homocysteine plasma levels, a marker of the pharmacodynamic effect of MTX, were measured. During the intoxication, homocysteine plasma levels were significantly increased, parallel to the excessive MTX plasma concentrations observed.
According to the excessive MTX levels measured in this patient, along with the observed clinical (mucositis) and biological (hepatitis, renal injury) adverse effects, we suggest that MTX may be a cause of these complications. Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between the complications and MTX.
This observation shows that severe complications observed during one cycle of high-dose MTX is not predictive of the tolerability of further courses. Optimal management of such complications, using specific therapeutic intervention, may be considered.
An association has recently been proposed between the incidence of seizures and prolonged consumption of the phenylalanine-containing artificial sweetener, aspartame. Since consumption of aspartame, unlike dietary protein, can elevate phenylalanine in brain, and thereby inhibit the synthesis and release of neurotransmitters known to protect against seizure activity, the effect of oral doses of aspartame on the sensitivity of mice to the proconvulsant agents, pentylenetetrazole and fluorothyl was studied. Doses of aspartame were used which increased phenylalanine more than tyrosine in brain, as occurs in humans after the consumption of any dose of aspartame. Pretreatment with aspartame significantly increased the percentage of animals convulsing after administration of pentylenetetrazole and significantly lowered the CD50 for this convulsant. The average time to onset of seizures induced by fluorothyl in control mice was 510 sec; pretreatment with oral doses of 1000, 1500 and 2000 mg/kg of aspartame 1 hr earlier significantly reduced the time required to elicit seizures (394, 381 and 339 sec, respectively). The seizure-promoting effect of aspartame could be demonstrated 30, 60 or 120 min after the 1000 mg/kg dose. The seizures induced by either convulsant were potentiated by equimolar amounts of phenylalanine, a major endogenous metabolite of aspartame, while the other metabolites, aspartic acid and methanol, were without effect. Administration together with aspartame of the large neutral amino acid valine, which competes with phenylalanine for entry into the brain, completely abolished the seizure-promoting effect of aspartame.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
