The Lipoprotein profile of 24 patients with endometriosis was determined before, during and after the treatment with the two steroid hormones Lynestrenol (10 mg/day) and Danazol (600-800 mg/day). The total cholesterol triglycerides, beta-, prebeta-, and Alphalipo -protein bound to cholesterol were determined. Both hormones cause a marked lowering of the Alpha-Lp-cholesterin. In addition, the beta-LP-cholesterin was elevated and the beta-alpha-LP-ratio was elevated. In the dosage used by us, Lynestrenol showed less effect on the Lipoprotein profile. Danazol caused changed in the beta- and alpha-lipoprotein pattern of highly pathological atherogenic types. The total cholesterol was not influenced. Since women in the fertile age group will suffer a higher risk of arteriosclerosis from an elevation of the beta-LP-cholesterin, the treatment with Danazol calls for a sophisticated monitoring of the lipid metabolism and care in the indication for long term treatment with Danazol or with Lynestrenol.
This double-blind, randomized study was aimed at detecting the effect of three different volumes of intrathecal levobupivacaine on the minimum local analgesic dose in early labor.
Ninety-three nulliparous women requesting combined spinal-epidural analgesia, at more than 37 weeks gestation, with spontaneous onset of labor, cervical dilatation from 2 to 5 cm, were enrolled. Parturients received 10 ml (group 10), 5 ml (group 5), or 2.5 ml (group 2.5) of the spinal solution containing plain levobupivacaine diluted with 0.9% wt/vol saline to achieve the desired dose and volume at room temperature. A lumbar epidural catheter was then placed. The initial dose for each group was 2.0 mg, and the following doses were determined by the response of the previous patient using up-down sequential allocation. The authors required the test solution to achieve a visual analog pain score of 10 mm or less to be considered effective. The up-down sequences were analyzed using the Dixon and Massey formula and regression logistic model.
The minimum local analgesic dose of spinal levobupivacaine in spontaneously laboring women was 1.35 mg (95% confidence interval, 1.25-1.45 mg) in group 10, 1.63 mg (95% confidence interval, 1.51-1.76 mg) in group 5, and 1.97 mg (95% confidence interval, 1.89-2.05 mg) in group 2.5. A unit change in volume increased the odds of an effective response multiplicatively by a factor of 1.8.
Analgesia can be achieved using lower doses and higher volumes even in subarachnoid space. The important role of the volume should be considered not only in epidural but also in spinal analgesia.
Although there is no generally accepted therapy for ergotamine-induced vasoconstriction, infusion of directly acting vasodilators is regarded presently as the treatment of choice. We present a case of peripheral arterial ischaemia secondary to excessive use of ergotamine suppositories, which was reversed with oral thymoxamine hydrochloride (an alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist) and ergotamine withdrawal. We suggest that in patients with ergotamine-induced peripheral arterial vasoconstriction with no evidence of gangrene, oral thymoxamine may be considered as a useful adjunct or possible alternative to infused vasodilator treatment.
Meta-analyses report similar numbers needed to treat for nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and opioids. Differences in baseline pain intensity among the studies from which these numbers needed to treat were derived may have confounded the results. NSAIDs have an opioid-sparing effect, but the importance of this effect is unclear. Therefore, the authors sought to compare the proportions of subjects who obtain pain relief with ketorolac versus morphine after surgery and to determine whether the opioid-sparing effect of an NSAID reduces the magnitude of opioid side effects.
The study was a double-blind, randomized controlled trial. The authors randomly assigned 1,003 adult patients to receive 30 mg ketorolac or 0.1 mg/kg morphine intravenously. They calculated the proportion of subjects who achieved at least 50% reduction in pain intensity 30 min after analgesic administration. Further, so long as pain intensity 30 min after analgesic administration was 5 or more out of 10, patients received 2.5 mg morphine every 10 min until pain intensity was 4 or less out of 10. The authors assessed the presence of opioid-related side effects.
Five hundred patients received morphine and 503 received ketorolac. Fifty percent of patients in the morphine group achieved pain relief, compared with 31% in the ketorolac group (difference, 19%; 95% confidence interval, 13-25%). The ketorolac-morphine group required less morphine (difference, 6.5 mg; 95% confidence interval, -5.8 to -7.2) and had a lower incidence of side effects (difference, 11%; 95% confidence interval, 5-16%) than the morphine group.
Opioids are more efficacious analgesics than NSAIDs, although historic data for these two drugs yield similar numbers needed to treat. Adding NSAIDs to the opioid treatment reduces morphine requirements and opioid-related side effects in the early postoperative period.
Sulindac (Clinoril) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. It is an indene derivative with therapeutic efficiency comparable with that of indomethacin. We report a case of encephalopathy associated with the intake of sulindac.
S-100beta is an astroglial-derived protein, which plays a role in brain development and maintenance, and is known to play a specific role in the regulation of growth of the serotonergic neuronal system. In humans, the gene for S-100beta is found on chromosome 21, within the region that is considered important for the phenotype of Down syndrome (DS). Thus, we have been studying a model of DS, the S-100beta transgenic mouse. In the current study, we have examined anxiety and responses to novelty in adolescent (60-90 days) animals, at a time when we have shown the animals to be relatively lacking in serotonin innervation, compared to their CD-1 nontransgenic controls. In a test for approach/avoidance, the light/dark test, the S-100beta transgenic mice animals showed no differences from control CD-1 mice. However, in the hole-board test for exploratory behavior, the S-100beta animals were found to be less responsive to the inhibiting effects of the serotonin receptor 5-HT1A agonist, buspirone. Three tests were used to measure response to novelty. In the open field, the S-100beta animals showed greater activity longer than the control animals, and in the Y-maze test, the S-100beta animals spent more time in the novel arm. In a test for novelty-induced gnawing, the S-100beta animals were also more active than control animals. All of these suggest that the S-100beta transgenic mice are slower to habituate to novelty than control animals. Finally, we tested the animals in a new procedure that we are proposing as a test for harm avoidance. In this apparatus, the S-100beta animals showed more approaches to a novel and potentially harmful object than the control mice did. These results are discussed in reference to the known lack of serotonin in the animals, and to the behavioral phenotype of DS.
Pentoxifylline (PTX) has pharmacological properties that suggest potential utility as a radiation sensitizer, and preclinical animal studies have been promising. In a non-randomized phase II trial, we used PTX plus standard-dose external-beam whole-brain radiation treatment (WBRT) in patients with brain metastases. Seventeen patients were entered; 14 received both WBRT and PTX and were considered evaluable. Nine of the 14 completed treatment. Analyzing data on all 14 evaluable patients according to intent to treat, median survival time was 33 days, comparable to published data from historical controls. PTX toxicity was not a common cause of patient dropout, supporting higher PTX doses in future trials.
The murine Pax3 gene encodes a transcription factor containing a paired domain as well as a paired-type homeodomain. Its expression during embryonic development is temporally and spatially restricted, including mainly the dorsal part of the neural tube, the mesencephalon, the neural crest derivatives, and the dermomyotome. Development in the absence of Pax3 can be studied in Splotch mutant mice, which bear mutations within the Pax3 gene. Various alleles have been phenotypically and molecularly characterized. Abnormalities have been observed in the brain, the neural tube, the trunk neural crest derivatives and in muscles of these mutants. The importance of PAX3 during human embryonal development is readily seen in Waardenburg patients, who present a dominant inherited syndrome consisting mainly of craniofacial abnormalities, pigmentation deficiencies, and deafness, consecutive to PAX3 mutations. In order to analyze the nervous system of Splotch embryos in more detail, we employed the transgenic mouse line L17. These transgenic mice harbor a beta-galactosidase marker gene under the control of Hoxa-7 promoter elements. Probably in combination with cis-elements adjacent to the integration site of the L17 transgene, the Hoxa-7 elements drive the expression of the marker gene in major parts of the peripheral nervous system, as well as in more restricted parts of the central nervous system. These structures can be visualized during embryonic development, allowing detailed neuroanatomical studies in midgestation embryos. We describe the beta-galactosidase expression in wild-type L17 mice and demonstrate the applicability of L17 mice to the study of the nervous system. We then apply this experimental system to the analysis of Splotch embryos. Our findings underline the importance of Pax3 in the development of neural crest-derived structures, especially of cranial ganglia and nerves. We suggest the use of L17 mice as a valuable tool to perform similar analysis for other embryonal mutant phenotypes.
We report the cases of three elderly patients presenting with insidious mental impairment whilst receiving both lipophilic and hydrophilic beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents (propranolol and atenolol respectively). In each case marked improvement occurred on drug withdrawal. Two of our cases probably had early senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type and continued to exhibit signs of mild mental impairment, but the third was restored to normal functioning. We found no evidence of impaired perfusion to suggest a vascular basis for the effect or of depression. We believe that beta-blockade may cause or exacerbate mental impairment in the elderly.
Injecting drug users (IDUs) seeking treatment for drug dependence were selected in two groups according to their HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) status. Thirty HIV-positive and 30 HIV-negative patients were submitted to a structured interview to assess psychiatric disorders. Initially, depressive disorders, suicide attempts and disorders related to substance use were analyzed. The results showed that the diagnosis of cocaine dependence was more frequent among HIV-infected patients than in the non-infected. Being HIV-positive was not associated with higher prevalence of depression. Suicide attempts were frequent in this sample, but the frequencies were equal in both groups. Concluding, the results did not show any association between the HIV-positive serology and depressive disorders and suicide attempts when IDUs are compared to the control group, also IDUs but HIV-negative.
Expression of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) displays a regular daily oscillation in nonmalignant cells. In colorectal cancer cells, the expression of this 5-fluorouracil-metabolizing enzyme is decreased, but the reason remains unclear. In this study, we analyzed by real-time reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) the expression of DPD and of members of the cellular oscillation machinery, period 1 (Per1), period 2 (Per2), and CLOCK, in primary colorectal tumors and normal colon mucosa derived from the same patients. Analysis of tumors according to differentiation grade revealed a 0.46-fold (P = 0.005) decrease for DPD mRNA and a 0.49-fold (P = 0.004) decrease for Per1 mRNA in undifferentiated (G3) tumors compared with paired normal mucosa. In this tumor cohort, the correlation between DPD and Per1 levels was r = 0.64, P < 0.01. In moderately differentiated (G2) colon carcinomas, reduction of DPD and Per1 mRNA levels did not reach significance, but a significant correlation between the respective mRNA levels was detectable (r = 0.54; P < 0.05). The decrease and correlation of DPD and Per1 mRNA levels were even more pronounced in female (G3) patients (DPD: female, 0.35-fold, P < 0.001 versus male, 0.58-fold, P < 0.05; and Per1: female, 0.47-fold, P < 0.01 versus male, 0.52-fold, P < 0.01). The highly significant correlation of DPD mRNA with Per1 mRNA expression suggests control of DPD transcription by the endogenous cellular clock, which is more pronounced in women. Our results also revealed a disturbed transcription of Per1 during tumor progression, which might be the cause for disrupted daily oscillation of DPD in undifferentiated colon carcinoma cells.
Ovarian failure (OF) at age <40 years occurs in approximately 1% of all women. Other than karyotype abnormalities, very few genes are known to be associated with this ovarian dysfunction. We studied eight patients who presented with premature OF and white-matter abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging. Neurological signs may be absent or present after OF. In seven patients, we report for the first time mutations in three of the five EIF2B genes (EIF2B2, -4, and -5) that were recently shown to cause childhood ataxia with central nervous system hypomyelination/vanishing white-matter disease leukodystrophy. The correlation we observed between the age at onset of the neurological deterioration and the severity of OF suggests a common pathophysiological pathway.
To investigate the effects of Danshaohuaxian (DSHX), a Chinese herbal recipe, on the apoptosis and cell cycles of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) in rat hepatic fibrosis and its possible mechanisms.
Seventy-six male Wistar rats were randomly divided into normal control group, hepatic fibrosis group, non-DSHX-treated group and DSHX-treated group. Except for the normal control group, rat hepatic fibrotic models were induced by subcutaneous injection of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4), drinking alcohol, giving diet of hyperlipid and hypoprotein for 8 wk. When the hepatic fibrotic models were produced, 12 rats of hepatic fibrosis group (15 rats survived, others died during the 8 wk) were sacrificed to collect blood and livers. HSCs were isolated from the other 3 rats to detect the apoptotic index (AI) and cell cycles by flow cytometry. DSHX was then given to the DSHX-treated group (1.0 g/kg, PO, daily) for 8 wk. At the same time, normal control group and non-DSHX-treated group were given normal saline for 8 wk. At end of the experiment, some rats in these three groups were sacrificed to collect blood and livers, the other rats were used for HSC isolation to detect the apoptotic index (AI) and cell cycles. Then the liver index, serum hyaluronic acid (HA) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), degree of hepatic fibrosis, urinary excretion of hydroxyproline (Hyp) and expression of collagen types I and III (COL I and III) in these four groups were detected respectively.
Compared with the indexes of the hepatic fibrosis group and non-DSHX-treated group, the DSHX-treated group revealed a liver index of (0.0267+/-0.0017 vs 0.0423+/-0.0044, 0.0295+/-0.0019, P<0.05), levels of serum HA (200.78+/-31.71 vs 316.17+/-78.48, 300.86+/-72.73, P<0.05) and ALT (93.13+/-5.79 vs 174.5+/-6.02, 104.75+/-6.54, P<0.01), and stage of hepatic fibrosis (1.30 vs 4.25, 2.60, P<0.01) all reduced. The urinary excretion of Hyp increased (541.09+/-73.39 vs 62.00+/-6.40, 182.44+/-30.83, P<0.01), the COL I and III expression decreased (COL I: 1.07+/-0.96 vs 4.18+/-2.26, 3.22+/-1.44, P<0.01; COL III: 1.09+/-0.58 vs 3.04+/-0.62, 2.23+/-0.58, P<0.01), the HSCs apoptotic index of HSCs (7.81+/-0.47 vs 1.63+/-0.25, 1.78+/-0.4, P<0.05) and the ratio of G0-G1 phase cells increased (94.30+/-1.33 vs 62.27+/-17.96, 50.53+/-2.25, P<0.05). The ratios of S-phase cells (3.11+/-1.27 vs 9.83+/-1.81, 11.87+/-1.9, P<0.05) and G2-M phase cells (2.58+/-0.73 vs 23.26+/-10.95, 13.60+/-1.15, P<0.01) declined.
DSHX capsule shows certain therapeutic effects on hepatic fibrosis in rats and inhibits abnormal deposition of COL I and III in rat livers by promoting the apoptosis of HSCs and preventing their proliferation.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesia can result in significant functional disability and reduced quality of life in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). The goal of this study was to determine if the addition of once-daily ropinirole 24-hour prolonged-release (n = 104) in PD patients not optimally controlled with levodopa after up to 3 years of therapy with less than 600 mg/d delays the onset of dyskinesia compared with increasing doses of levodopa (n = 104). During the study, 3% of the ropinirole prolonged-release group (mean dose 10 mg/d) and 17% of the levodopa group (mean additional dose 284 mg/d) developed dyskinesia (P < 0.001). There were no significant differences in change in Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale activities of daily living or motor scores, suggesting comparable efficacy between the two treatments. Adverse events were comparable in the two groups with nausea, dizziness, insomnia, back pain, arthralgia, somnolence, fatigue, and pain most commonly reported. Ropinirole prolonged-release delayed the onset of dyskinesia with comparable efficacy to increased doses of levodopa in early PD patients not optimally controlled with levodopa.
Cerebral microbleeds are known to be indicative of bleeding-prone microangiopathy and may predict incident intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). In this study, we investigated whether microbleeds are associated with the incidence of warfarin-related ICH.
Twenty-four patients with ICH while on outpatient treatment with warfarin were selected from a consecutive cohort. Control, warfarin-using subjects with no history of ICH were randomly selected during the same time period (n = 48). We compared demographic factors, vascular risk factors, laboratory findings, and radiologic findings including microbleeds between the groups.
There were more cases of patients with microbleeds in the ICH than control group (79.2% vs 22.9%: p < 0.001), and the number of microbleeds was much higher for the ICH group (9.0 +/- 26.8 vs 0.5 +/- 1.03: p < 0.001). Moreover, the number of microbleeds was significantly correlated with the presence of warfarin-related ICH (r = 0.299; p < 0.001). Conditional logistic regression analysis showed that increased prothrombin time and the presence of microbleeds were independently related to the incidence of warfarin-related ICH (microbleeds: adjusted OR, 83.12).
This study suggests that underlying microbleeds are independently associated with an incidence of warfarin-related intracerebral hemorrhage. Future research should focus on elucidating the risks and benefits of warfarin medication in patients with microbleeds.
Transcriptional coactivator PPARγ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) and corepressor receptor-interacting protein 140 (RIP140) are opposing-functional regulators in maintaining energy balance of most metabolic tissues and cells. However, the relative contributions of both factors to energy metabolism in cardiomyocytes remain largely unknown. Herein, we reported that the relative protein levels of RIP140/PGC-1α were up-regulated in the failing hearts after chronic myocardial infarction (MI), and correlated negatively with the energy state index phosphocreatine (PCr)/ATP ratios. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that mRNA expressions of estrogen related receptor α (ERRα), peroxisome proliferate activated receptor α and β (PPARα, PPARβ), nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF1) and their target genes were repressed by RIP140 and induced by PGC-1α in a dose dependent manner in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes. We also observed that overexpression of RIP140 through adenovirus delivery can abrogate the PGC-1α-mediated induction of mitochondrial membrane potential elevation and mitochondrial biogenesis, and activate both autophagy and apoptosis pathways. We conclude that RIP140 and PGC-1α exert antagonistic role in regulating cardiac energy state and mitochondrial biogenesis.
Disruption of the Esr1 gene encoding estrogen receptor α (ERα) by insertion of a neomycin resistance gene (neo) into exon 2 (αERKO mice) was shown previously to cause infertility in male mice. While full-length ERα protein was not expressed in αERKO mice, alternative splicing resulted in the low-level expression of a truncated form lacking the N-terminus A/B domain and containing the DNA- and ligand-binding domains. Thus, it was unclear whether the reproductive phenotype in αERKO males was only due to the lack of full-length ERα or was affected by the presence of the variant ERα isoform. The present study examined male mice with deletion of exon 3 of Esr1 gene, lacking the DNA-binding domain, and null for ERα (Ex3αERKO). Dilation of some seminiferous tubules was apparent in male Ex3αERKO mice as early as postnatal day 10 and was pronounced in all tubules from day 20 onward. At 6 weeks of age, sperm numbers and sperm motility were lower in Ex3αERKO mice than in wild-type (WT) mice, and the rete testis and efferent ductules were dilated. Mating studies determined that adult Ex3αERKO males were infertile and failed to produce copulatory plugs. Serum testosterone levels and Hsd17b3 and Cyp17a1 transcript levels were significantly higher, but serum estradiol, progesterone, LH, and FSH levels and Cyp19a1 transcript levels were not significantly different from those in WT mice. These results confirm and extend those seen in other studies on male mice with deletion of exon 3 of Esr1 gene. In addition, the reproductive phenotype of male Ex3αERKO mice recapitulated the phenotype of αERKO mice, strongly suggesting that the αERKO male infertility was not due to the presence of the DNA-binding domain in the truncated form of ERα and that full-length ERα is essential for maintenance of male fertility.
The protein BCL-X(L) and protein product of proto-oncogene bcl-2 act as apoptosis antagonists, and BCL-X(S) serve as a dominant death promoter, including apoptosis following exposure to chemotherapeutic drugs. This investigation examined whether some aspects of the highly integrated process of acetaminophen (AAP)-induced hepatotoxicity involve down-regulation or upregulation of expression of BCL-2, BCL-X(L) and BCL-X(S) in mouse liver in vivo. Male ICR mice (CD-1; 35-45 g) were treated ip with a hepatotoxic dose of AAP (500 mg/kg) and sacrificed 0, 6, and 18 h later. Blood was collected upon sacrifice for determination of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity and the liver was sectioned for histopathological diagnosis of necrosis/apoptosis. Portions of liver tissues were also used for DNA extraction (for gel electrophoresis) and Western blot analysis. This study demonstrates that administration of a hepatotoxic dose of AAP to ICR mice results in severe liver injury (ALT leakage >200-fold at 6 h and >600-fold at 18 h) leading to massive cell death by apoptosis (diagnosed by nuclear ultrastructure, histopathology, and DNA ladder), in addition to necrosis coupled with spectacular changes in the BCL-X(L) expression (6 and 18 h after AAP administration). Western blot analysis of the liver proteins revealed that mouse liver expresses two proteins, BCL-X(L) and BCL-X(S), and does not express BCL-2. As the toxicity progressed, during 6 and 18 h post-AAP administration, the BCL-X(L) protein band shifted to a slower mobility band which might represent a phosphorylated form of BCL-X(L). Appearance of this higher molecular weight BCL-X(L) protein band correlated with massive apoptotic death of liver cells along with ladder-like DNA fragmentation. In the same time period, death inhibitory gene bcl-2 remained unexpressed, and the level of expression of BCL-X(S) remained unaltered. Whether the consistent level of expression of BCL-X(S) reflected inability of AAP to influence its expression remains unknown. Unaltered expression of BCL-X(S) in the near total absence of BCL-2 expression raises questions regarding the death promoting role of BCL-X(S) in vivo. The precise role of modified form of BCL-X(L) remains elusive. However, this study may have demonstrated for the first time drug-induced changes in the expression of anti-apoptotic gene BCL-X(L), and a positive link between AAP-induced apoptotic death and modification of BCL-X(L) protein in vivo.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO) metabolizes heme to form the vasodilator carbon monoxide and antioxidant biliverdin. Upregulation of HO-1 by hemin, which is also a substrate attenuates thrombosis in rodent models, however, whether protection is due to HO-1 upregulation or to increased substrate availability is unknown. This study tested the hypothesis that treatment of mice with cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP), a non-substrate HO-1 inducer, would protect the endothelium from laser injury. C57Bl/J6 mice were treated with vehicle, CoPP (20 mg/kg), CoPP plus the HO-1 inhibitor tin protoporphyrin (SnPP; 20 mg/kg) or SnPP alone for 18 h. Intravital microscopy was used to quantitate thrombus formation in cremaster arterioles in response to laser ablation of the endothelium. CoPP treatment inhibited thrombosis by 43% compared to vehicle (P<0.05). SnPP co-treatment negated the inhibitory effect of CoPP while SnPP alone potentiated thrombosis compared to vehicle. In CoPP-treated animals, cremaster HO-1 mRNA expression was increased 59+/-17-fold over vehicle (P<0.001). Co-treatment with CoPP+SnPP attenuated this effect by 36%, however the increase in HO-1 protein induced by CoPP was unaffected by SnPP. Induction of HO-1 by the non-substrate inducer CoPP protects against laser induced endothelial injury without the need for increased substrate. Small molecule, substrate-independent upregulation of HO-1 expression represents a feasible approach to ameliorate endothelial dysfunction in cardiovascular disease.
Cocaine dependence (CD) is often accompanied by major depressive disorder (MDD). The comorbid condition (CD + MDD) is especially difficult to treat, with relapse possibly made more likely by intensified dysphoria during abstinence in the setting of MDD. We studied treatment-seeking CD + MDD volunteers, currently depressed, and a comparison CD group over three days of inpatient monitored abstinence. At admission, Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and anxiety scores differed significantly between groups. By Day 3, BDI scores improved for both CD and CD + MDD groups. The mood response to cocaine cessation among CD + MDD individuals resembled that of CD participants, contrary to some expectations.
A 74-year-old woman developed a slowly progressive hemichorea starting 3 weeks after discontinuation of low-dose amitriptyline and perphenazine. The duration of neuroleptic exposure was 3 months. The chorea was initially well controlled on 5.25 mg/day of reserpine, but after 21 months, required 2.0 mg/day. No complications of reserpine occurred.
Arsenic trioxide and 1,25-(OH)2D3 (vitamin D3) are used for the treatment of lymphocytic leukemia. However, the effects of combined treatment of these drugs are controversial. In this study, the combined effects of these drugs on the induction of apoptosis in NB4 cells were investigated using the neutral comet assay.
NB4 cells were treated with various doses of arsenic trioxide (0.1 - 3 microM) and vitamin D3 (100 - 600 nM (alone or in combination. Twenty-four hours after treatment, neutral comet assay was performed and apoptotic cells were scored under a fluorescent microscope following staining with ethidium bromide.
Results show that all doses of arsenic trioxide used in this study induced apoptosis in NB4 cells. The frequency of induced apoptosis was dose dependent and significantly higher than the controls (P<0.05 - 0.01). In contrast, vitamin D3 at concentrations of 100 - 600 nM produced no significant effect on apoptosis induction compared to the controls. Treatment of NB4 cells with a combination of arsenic trioxide and vitamin D3 resulted in reduction of apoptosis induced by arsenic trioxide which was not dependent on the dose of vitamin D3 (P<0.05).
Results indicate that arsenic trioxide is a potent inducer of apoptosis in NB4 cells and vitamin D3 significantly decreased the sensitivity of cells to the induction of apoptosis by arsenic trioxide. These findings suggest that 1,25-(OH)2D3 might be involved in anti-apoptotic processes via reactive oxygen species scavenging or other mechanisms not yet known.
The effect on interictal EEG epileptic activity (IEA) of oral flumazenil, a benzodiazepine antagonist and potential antiepileptic drug, was studied in 12 adults with refractory epilepsy. Comparisons were made with placebo and 15 mg diazepam using a double-blind, randomised, cross-over design. A significant reduction in IEA from the baseline epileptic discharges was observed after flumazenil administration (at a dose of 30 or 100 mg) with a low incidence of adverse events. In patients who achieved > 50% reduction in the frequency of IEA, the median duration and extent of action of flumazenil (at either dose) were greater than for diazepam 15 mg or placebo. The frequency of response and duration of action with oral flumazenil were comparable to those obtained via the intravenous route. These results suggest that oral flumazenil may have an intrinsic antiepileptic activity and provide a rationale for a new approach in the treatment of intractable epilepsy.
Nefiracetam is a novel pyrrolidone derivative which attenuates scopolamine-induced learning and post-training consolidation deficits. Given that apomorphine inhibits passive avoidance retention when given during training or in a defined 10-12h post-training period, we evaluated the ability of nefiracetam to attenuate amnesia induced by dopaminergic agonism. A step-down passive avoidance paradigm was employed and nefiracetam (3 mg/kg) and apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) were given alone or in combination during training and at the 10-12h post-training period of consolidation. Co-administration of nefiracetam and apomorphine during training or 10h thereafter produced no significant anti-amnesic effect. However, administration of nefiracetam during training completely reversed the amnesia induced by apomorphine at the 10h post-training time and the converse was also true. These effects were not mediated by a dopaminergic mechanism as nefiracetam, at millimolar concentrations, failed to displace either [3H]SCH 23390 or [3H]spiperone binding from D1 or D2 dopamine receptor subtypes, respectively. It is suggested that nefiracetam augments molecular processes in the early stages of events which ultimately lead to consolidation of memory.
The therapeutic efficacy of intravenous nimodipine to treat the syndrome of delayed ischemic deterioration or vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm was investigated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicenter study. A total of 188 patients (nimodipine (N) = 102, placebo (P) = 86) were enrolled in the study, both pre- and postoperatively, within 24 hours of clinical deterioration connected with vasospasm or within 24 hours of arteriography that identified vasospasm. After 61 patients were excluded for not meeting study criteria or for protocol violation, the results were supported by 127 validated case reports: 73 patients received intravenous treatment with nimodipine, and 54 were given placebo. Analysis of the main criterion of efficacy, the number of deaths and of patients with severe deficit related to vasospasm alone, showed a significant statistical difference (N = 8 (19%), P = 17 (49%), P = 0.01). The risk of death or disability was reduced by 66% in the treated group. Analysis of this criterion by type of inclusion (clinical or angiographic) also showed a significant reduction in the clinical group (P = 0.05), but there was no difference in the angiographic group. The risk of mortality connected with vasospasm was reduced by 82%, but analysis by group showed that there was no significant difference for those patients included on clinical criteria, whereas mortality was reduced to a much greater extent in the angiographic group. These results demonstrate the therapeutic efficacy of nimodipine in reducing secondary ischemic brain damage in patients already suffering from angiographic vasospasm or delayed ischemic deterioration.
