Activated T cells selectively induced by concanavalin A (Con A) in liver are subsequent efficient resolution of inflammation. Activated T cells infiltrating in liver combined with pro-inflammatory cytokines are the major causes in Con A-induced liver injury. In our study, C57/BL mice were injected with Con A combined with dexmedetomidine or not. ALT and AST in blood and histopathology of liver were measured. T cell infiltration in liver was examined by flow cytometry and pro-inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, IL-10, TNF-α, and IFN-γ in blood were measured by ELISA. The mRNA level of CXCL10 was detected by RT-PCR and the protein level of NF-κB was measured by Western-blot. We found that dexmedetomidine alleviated Con A-induced liver injury by down-regulating levels of ALT and AST in blood and the severity of histopathology, which reflect the severity of hepatitis induced by Con A. In addition, pro-inflammatory cytokines in blood were attenuated by dexmedetomidine. Dexmedetomidine restrained the phosphorylation of NF-κB IκBα and P-65 dramatically which may participate in the regulation of cytokines secretion. Moreover, CXCL10 mRNA attenuated by dexmedetomidine in liver may result in the lower level of CD4(+) T cells infiltration in liver. These results suggested that dexmedetomidine might be a potential compound in treating T cell-mediated liver injury.
Naturally occurring low-molecular weight compounds with a chemical structure like that of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, such as 1-benzyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline(1BnTIQ), are candidates for the endogenous neurotoxins that cause Parkinson's disease (PD). 1BnTIQ is an endogenous amine in human CSF and increases in the CSF of patients with PD. It inhibits complex Iand elicits PD-like behavioral abnormalities in monkey and mouse. In this study, we searched metabolites of 1BnTIQ by rat liver S9 using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, and identified a dehydrated metabolite, 1-benzyl-3,4-dihydroisoquinoline (1BnDIQ). 1BnDIQ was identified by corresponding mass spectra and precursor ion scans in authentic and complete enzyme samples. Multiple reaction monitoring analysis showed microsome-dependent 1BnDIQ production. We previously reported that 1BnDIQ is more toxic than 1BnTIQ in cytotoxicity study in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. In addition, 1BnTIQ is reported to pass through the blood-brain barrier of the rat brain, and 1BnDIQ is supposed to be more lipophilic than 1BnTIQ. 1BnDIQ may easily reach the brain, and it might contribute to PD-related neurotoxicity.
Heparin induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a life-threatening complication that can be seen in the course of heparin treatment. The syndrome is much likely to be seen during treatment with standard heparin but it can also be seen due to low molecular weight heparins. In this article, we presented a case of HIT who was given low molecular weight heparin for prophylaxis that developed massive pulmonary thromboembolism. The patient was successfully treated with lepirudin infusion and no complications due to treatment was seen.
Immunosuppressive therapy with azathioprine has been documented to cause squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) at various sites. We report possibly the first case of SCC of the kidney in a young male who received azathioprine for a long time. Discontinuation of azathioprine post-radical nephrectomy probably increased the patient's metastatic disease-free survival.
The perfect analgesic regimen is constantly sought, no matter how labor is conducted. The quest for an effective drug that will afford maximum relaxation and pain relief with minimum interruption of any natural homeostatic mechanism is a foremost subject in present obstetric analgesics research. Synthetic alternatives are being offered, promising perfect compatibility with the clinician's demands. Nalbuphine, a semisynthetic narcotic agonist-antagonist analgesic of the penanthren series, is supposed not to be liable to cause respiratory depression and is expected to have fewer side effects. A double-blind, randomised prospective study of 137 patients who received 10 mg nalbuphine or 50 mg pethidine i.v. during the active phase of labor in term was carried out. Maternal cardiovascular variables, pain intensity, progress of labor and fetal heart rate during labor were related to side effect and neonatal outcome (1- and 5-min Apgar scores and umbilical venous pH). Neither regimen showed an advantage over the other. Data analysis points to a possible transient depressive effect induced by nalbuphine on the fetal or neonatal central nervous system.
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is an autosomal dominantly inherited syndrome in humans. The Apc(Min/+) mouse, which expresses a mutant homolog of the adenomatous polyposis coli gene, is a model of FAP in humans. Treatment with the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) sulindac or celecoxib can suppress polyp development in FAP patients, but responses are generally transient and incomplete. Combination chemoprevention with the ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) and either celecoxib or sulindac was evaluated in the Apc(Min/+) mouse. Combinations of DFMO and either NSAID reduced intestinal tumor number by more than 80% (P < 0.0001) compared to untreated controls. In addition to the dramatic reduction in tumor number, the combination of DFMO and sulindac reduced the development of high-grade intestinal adenomas compared to sulindac alone (P = 0.003). The fraction of high-grade intestinal adenomas remaining after treatment was similar for the combination of DFMO and celecoxib and celecoxib alone. Only combinations of DFMO plus sulindac reduced total intestinal polyamine contents compared to untreated mice. These data support the rationale for treatment of FAP patients postcolectomy with DFMO combined with either celecoxib or sulindac but indicate that sulindac may be more effective than celecoxib in reducing intestinal polyamine contents and the incidence of high-grade intestinal adenomas when combined with DFMO.
Increased levels of glutamate and aspartate have been detected after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) that correlate with neurological status. The NMDA receptor antagonist felbamate (FBM; 2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate) is an anti-epileptic drug that elicits neuroprotective effects in different experimental models of hypoxia-ischemia. The aim of this dose-response study was to evaluate the effect of FBM after experimental SAH in rats on (1) behavioral deficits (employing a battery of assessment tasks days 1-5 post-injury) and (2) blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability changes (quantifying microvascular alterations according to the extravasation of protein-bound Evans Blue by a spectrophotofluorimetric technique 2 days post-injury). Animals were injected with 400 muL of autologous blood into the cisterna magna. Within 5 min, rats received daily oral administration of FBM (15, 30, or 45 mg/kg) for 2 or 5 days. Results were compared with sham-injured controls treated with oral saline or FBM (15, 30, or 45 mg/kg). FBM administration significantly ameliorated SAH-related changes in Beam Balance scores on days 1 and 2 and Beam Balance time on days 1-3, Beam Walking performance on days 1 and 2, and Body Weight on days 3-5. FBM also decreased BBB permeability changes in frontal, temporal, parietal, occipital, and cerebellar cortices; subcortical and cerebellar gray matter; and brainstem. This study demonstrates that, in terms of behavioral and microvascular effects, FBM is beneficial in a dose-dependent manner after experimental SAH in rats. These results reinforce the concept that NMDA excitotoxicity is involved in the cerebral dysfunction that follows SAH.
The arginine-clonidine growth hormone (GH) stimulation test causes hypotension, requiring intravenous fluids to stabilize blood pressure (BP) and delaying departure from clinic. We hypothesized that oral hydration during the stimulation test would decrease need for intravenous fluids and shorten clinic stay. Children drank a diet electrolyte drink (10 ml/kg) on arrival to the test, which was repeated after clonidine. Fifteen children (7 girls) were tested without oral hydration, and 23 (6 girls) were tested with oral hydration (age range, 2-15 years). Compared with no oral hydration, intake of >13 ml/kg rarely required intravenous fluids, improved diastolic BP, and permitted discharge at the end of the GH test, with a higher BP.
To investigate the impact of alcohol intoxication and withdrawal on the course of social phobia and panic disorder.
A group of 41 alcoholic inpatients undergoing detoxification therapy were interviewed using the SCID-I (DSM-IV) and questions to detect fluctuations in the course of social phobia and panic disorder as a function of the different phases in alcohol dependence (intoxication, withdrawal, and lucid interval).
Only 1 (2.4%) patient presented panic disorder throughout life, and 9 (21.9%) had panic attacks during alcohol intoxication or during the withdrawal syndrome. Sixteen (39%) alcoholic patients showed social phobia with onset prior to drug use. However, drinking eventually became unable to alleviate social phobia symptoms or worsened such symptoms in 31.2% of social-phobic patients. While patients with social phobia reported a significant improvement in psychiatric symptoms during alcohol intoxication, patients experiencing panic attacks worsened significantly during intoxication. In the withdrawal phase, patients with social phobia tended to have more and more intense phobic symptoms.
Our findings indicate that the impact of alcohol intoxication is different for social phobia as compared to panic disorder, at first decreasing the social-phobic symptoms but later aggravating them. In panic disorder, the impact of intoxication by alcohol is more harmful, at least in the short term.
1,2,3-Trichloropropane is a colorless liquid used as a paint and varnish remover, solvent, and degreasing agent, and as a crosslinking agent in the synthesis of polysulfides and hexafluoropropylene. 1,2,3-Trichloropropane may be found as an impurity in certain nematocides and soil fumigants and as a contaminant of drinking and ground water. Studies on the toxic and carcinogenic effects of 1,2,3-trichloropropane were initiated because of the close structural relationship of this chemical to other short-chain halogenated compounds that were demonstrated to be carcinogenic in experimental animals, and because of the potential for human exposure. Toxicology and carcinogenicity studies were conducted by administering 1,2,3-trichloropropane (greater than 99% pure) in corn oil by gavage to groups of F344/N rats and B6C3FI mice for 17 weeks and 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium strains, mouse lymphoma cells, and Chinese hamster ovary cells. 17-Week Studies: Groups of 20 male and 20 female rats received 1,2,3-trichloropropane in corn oil by gavage at doses of 8, 16, 32, 63, 125, or 250 mg/kg body weight 5 days per week for up to 17 weeks; 30 male and 30 female rats received corn oil alone and served as controls. Animals were evaluated at 8 or 17 weeks. All rats in the 250 mg/kg groups died by week 5. One male and four female rats in the 125 mg/kg groups died during the study. The mean body weight gains and final mean body weights of males receiving 63 mg/kg and of males and females receiving 125 mg/kg were lower than those of the controls. Hematocrit values, hemoglobin concentrations, and erythrocyte counts decreased with dose in males and females. Serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and sorbitol dehydrogenase activities were significantly increased in some female rats receiving 125 mg/kg. Serum pseudocholinesterase activity decreased with dose in females. Increases in kidney and liver weights were related to chemical administration. The principal toxic lesions associated with the administration of 1,2,3-trichloropropane to rats were hepatocellular necrosis, karyomegaly, and biliary hyperplasia of the liver; renal tubule necrosis, regeneration, and karyomegaly of the kidney; and necrosis and inflammation of the nasal olfactory and respiratory epithelium. Groups of 20 male and 20 female mice received 1,2,3-trichloropropane in corn oil by gavage at doses of 8, 16, 32, 63, 125, or 250 mg/kg 5 days per week for up to 17 weeks; 30 male and 30 female mice received corn oil alone and served as controls. Sixteen male and seven female mice in the 250 mg/kg groups died by week 4. The final mean body weights and mean body weight gains of dosed mice were similar to those of the controls, except those of 250 mg/kg males, which were lower than those of controls. The principal toxic lesions associated with the administration of 1,2,3-trichloropropane were hepatocellular necrosis and karyomegaly of the liver; necrosis, regeneration, and hyperplasia of the bronchiolar epithelium in the lung; and acanthosis (hyperplasia) and hyperkeratosis of the forestomach epithelium. 2-Year Studies: Groups of 60 male and 60 female rats received 0, 3, 10, or 30 mg 1,2,3-trichloropropane/kg body weight in corn oil by gavage 5 days per week for up to 104 weeks. Selection of 30 mg/kg as the high dose in these studies was based on the following chemical-related effects in the 17-week studies: deaths and liver and kidney lesions at 125 and 250 mg/kg and reduced final mean body weights and mean body weight gains at 63 mg/kg or greater. Groups of 60 male and 60 female mice received 0, 6, 20, or 60 mg 1,2,3-trichloropropane/kg body weight in corn oil by gavage 5 days per week for up to 104 weeks. Selection of 60 mg/kg as the high dose was based on chemical-related deaths and lesions of the liver, lung, and forestomach at 125 and 250 mg/kg in the 17-week studies. 15-Month Interim Evaluations: Up to 10 rats and 10 mice from each dose group were evaluated at 15 months. Absolute and relative liver and kidned kidney weights of dosed rats were significantly greater than those of the controls. Chemical-related nonneoplastic lesions and neoplasms of the forestomach, oral mucosa, pancreas (males), kidney, mammary gland (females), preputial gland, and clitoral gland were observed in dosed rats. Chemical-related nonneoplastic lesions and neoplasms of the forestomach and liver (females) were observed in dosed mice. Survival and Body Weight in the 2-Year Studies: Survival of male and female rats receiving 10 or 30 mg/kg 1,2,3-trichloropropane was significantly lower than that of controls. Two-year survival rates of male rats were: control, 34/50; 3 mg/kg, 32/50; 10 mg/kg, 14/49; 30 mg/kg, 0/52; and of females were: 31/50, 30/49, 8/52, 0/52. At 30 mg/kg, survival was markedly reduced due to chemical-related neoplasms, and survivors were killed in weeks 67 (females) or 77 (males). Final mean body weights of 30 mg/kg rats were 13&percnt; lower for males and 12&percnt; lower for females than those of controls; mean body weights of 3 and 10 mg/kg rats were similar to controls. Survival rates of mice receiving 6, 20, or 60 mg/kg 1,2,3-trichloropropane were also significantly lower than those of controls. Two-year survival rates of male mice were: 42/52, 18/51, 0/54, 0/56; and of female mice were: 41/50, 13/50, 0/51, 0/55. Because of reduced survival at 20 and 60 mg/kg due to chemical-related neoplasms, survivors were killed in weeks 73 (60 mg/kg females), 79 (60 mg/kg males), or 89 (20 mg/kg males and females). Final mean body weights were 16&percnt; lower for 60 mg/kg males, 18~ lower for 60 mg/kg females, and 13&percnt; lower for 20 mg/kg males than those of controls. Final mean body weights of 6 mg/kg males and females and 20 mg/kg females were similar to controls. Neoplasms and Nonneoplastic Lesions in the 2-Year Studies: Administration of 1,2,3-trichloropropane to rats induced benign and malignant neoplasms of the oral mucosa (pharynx and tongue), forestomach, and preputial and clitoral glands in males and females; benign neoplasms of the exocrine pancreas and kidney in males, and malignant neoplasms of the mammary gland in females. The incidences of squamous cell papillomas and carcinomas of the oral mucosa were significantly increased in 10 and 30 mg/kg rats, while the incidences of squamous cell papillomas or carcinomas (combined) of the forestomach were significantly increased in all dosed groups. The incidence of pancreatic acinar adenoma was significantly increased in dosed males, but not in dosed females. Similarly, the incidence of adenoma of the kidney was significantly increased in 10 and 30 mg/kg male rats only. The incidences of adenoma or carcinoma (combined) of the preputial gland in 30 mg/kg males and of the clitoral gland in 10 and 30 mg/kg females (homologous organs) were significantly increased. The incidence of adenocarcinoma of the mammary gland was significantly increased in the 10 and 30 mg/kg females. The incidences of Zymbal's gland carcinomas were increased in 30 mg/kg males and females. Adenocarcinomas of the intestine occurred in small numbers of dosed rats and may have been chemical related. In mice, the incidence of squamous cell carcinoma of the oral mucosa was significantly increased only in 60 mg/kg females. In contrast, the incidences of squamous cell papilloma and carcinoma of the forestomach were significantly increased in all groups of dosed mice. The incidences of hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma (combined) were significantly increased in all dosed groups of males and 60 mg/kg females. The incidences of harderian gland adenoma were significantly increased in 20 mg/kg males and in 60 mg/kg males and females. The incidences of uterine adenoma, adenocarcinoma, and stromal polyp were significantly increased in 60 mg/kg females. Genetic Toxicology: 1,2,3-Trichloropropane was mutagenic in vitro in the presence of S9 metabolic activation. At two laboratories, positive responses were obtained for mutagenicity in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA97, TA98, TA100, and TA1535 in the presence of S9; no mutagenic activity was observed in TA1537, with or without S9. 1,2,3-Trichloropropane induced trifluorothymidine resistance in L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells with, but not without, S9. In cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, sister chromatid exchanges and chromosomal aberrations were induced by 1,2,3-trichloropropane; however, significant increases in the endpoints of both cytogenetic effects occurred only in the presence of S9. Conclusions: Under the conditions of these 2-year gavage studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 1,2,3-trichloropropane in male F344/N rats based on increased incidences of squamous cell papillomas and carcinomas of the oral mucosa and forestomach, adenomas of the pancreas and kidney, adenomas or carcinomas of the preputial gland, and carcinomas of the Zymbal's gland. Adenomatous polyps and adenocarcinomas of the intestine may have been related to chemical administration. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 1,2,3-trichloropropane in female F344/N rats based on increased incidences of squamous cell papillomas and carcinomas of the oral mucosa and forestomach, adenomas or carcinomas of the clitoral gland, adenocarcinomas of the mammary gland, and carcinomas of the Zymbal's gland. Adenocarcinomas of the intestine may have been related to chemical administration. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 1,2,3-trichloropropane in male B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of squamous cell papillomas and carcinomas of the forestomach, hepatocellular adenomas or carcinomas of the liver, and harderian gland adenomas. Squamous cell papillomas of the oral mucosa may have been related to chemical administration. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 1,2,3-trichloropropane in female B6C3F1, mice based on increased incidences of squamous cell carcinomas of the oral mucosa, squamous cell papillomas and carcinomas of the forestomach, hepatocellular adenomas or carcinomas of the liver, harderian gland adenomas, and uterine adenomas, adenocarcinomas, and stromal polyps. Nonneoplastic lesions associated with exposure to 1,2,3-trichloropropane included increased severity of nephropathy in male rats and increased incidences of basal cell and squamous hyperplasia of the forestomach, acinar hyperplasia of the pancreas, renal tubule hyperplasia, and preputial or clitoral gland hyperplasia in male and female rats. Increased incidences of squamous hyperplasia of the forestomach and eosinophilic foci in the liver in male and female mice were chemical related. Synonyms: Allyl trichloride, glycerol tnchlorohydrin, glyceryl tnchlorohydrin, trichlorohydrin
In a study of 90 patients with post-stroke depression the Hamilton Depression Scale was used together with a clinical psychopathological study. One group of patients was treated with amitriptyline, another with minor tranquilizers (seduxen), and the third (controls) received neither antidepressants, nor tranquilizers. Only treatment in the first group was effective, i.e. depressions were reduced after therapy with amitriptyline So amitriptyline was demonstrated to be the most effective drug of choice in the treatment of non-psychotic post-stroke depressions.
There is emerging evidence that the neuropeptide oxytocin may be utilised as a treatment for various psychopathologies, including drug addictions. Here we used an animal model to assess whether oxytocin might be effective in the treatment of methamphetamine addiction. Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to lever press to intravenously self-administer methamphetamine under a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement. Once responding had stabilised, one group of rats received escalating doses of oxytocin (0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 0.3, 1 mg/kg) administered intraperitoneally (IP) prior to daily self-administration tests, while other rats received vehicle. After these tests, lever-pressing was extinguished and the ability of methamphetamine primes (IP, 1 mg/kg) to reinstate responding was studied with and without co-administration of oxytocin (IP, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg). Results showed that oxytocin dose-dependently reduced responding for intravenous methamphetamine with an almost complete absence of responding at the highest oxytocin dose (1 mg/kg). Hyperactivity during methamphetamine self-administration was also dose-dependently reduced by oxytocin. Oxytocin (1 but not 0.3 mg/kg) also reduced the ability of methamphetamine to reinstate methamphetamine-seeking behaviour. In separate tests, oxytocin (IP, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg) robustly decreased the hyperactivity and rearing induced by methamphetamine challenge (IP, 1 mg/kg), producing activity levels similar to control animals. This study suggests that oxytocin may have a powerful inhibitory effect on the motivation to consume methamphetamine and on hyperactivity associated with acute methamphetamine intoxication. These results point to the potential utility of human trials of oxytocin as a therapeutic treatment for methamphetamine addiction.
The gamma amino butyric acid B (GABA(B)) receptor is a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) involved in synaptic transmission. Recent data indicate it to be also expressed on immune cells, along with chemokine receptors, which are also GPCRs. As GPCRs can undergo heterologous desensitization, we have examined the ability of baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor selective agonist, to interfere with the function of pro-inflammatory chemokine receptors known to be upregulated in cutaneous inflammation. In vitro, baclofen reduces chemotaxis of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells towards CCL2, CCL5, CXCL10, CXCL2 and CX3CL1 in a dose-dependant manner. Protein kinase C inhibitors calphostin C and G0 6976 could reverse this effect, pointing towards the involvement of both calcium-dependent and -independent protein kinase C in baclofen-induced inhibition of chemokine receptors. In an in vivo model of contact hypersensitivity in C57BL/6 mice, intraperitoneal injection of baclofen markedly alleviated signs of inflammation as well as recruitment of neutrophils, monocytes and lymphocytes into the skin. This study demonstrates a new role for the GABA(B) receptor in inflammation, making it a potential new therapeutic target to treat inflammatory skin diseases.
1-Amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone is an anthraquinone-derived vat dye, a member of a class of insoluble dyes that are impregnated into textile fibers. Five anthraquinone-derived dyes with representative and diverse structures, as well as the parent chemical, anthraquinone, were selected for NTP Toxicology and Carcinogenesis evaluation. Similar to the benzidine dye initiative, the rationale for selecting these vat dyes was to generate sufficient toxicologic data to permit more reliable predictions of carcinogenicity to be made on other chemicals in this class, thereby eliminating or reducing the need to study every anthraquinone dye. 1-Amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone is the last anthraquinone-derived dye in this group to be studied. Groups of male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were exposed to 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone (87% to 97% pure) for 13 weeks or for 9, 15, or 24 months. Because 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone was predicted to be carcinogenic, these studies were designed to evaluate the potential for tumor progression and regression. Absorption and excretion studies were carried out in male F344/N rats. Genetic toxicity was determined in vitro using Salmonella typhimurium and cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells. Extensive chemical analyses were performed to identify and characterize impurities of the 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone used in these studies. 13-WEEK STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 10 male and 10 female rats were given 0, 2,500, 5,000, 10,000, 25,000, or 50,000 ppm 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone in feed for 13 weeks. These levels correspond to approximately 150 to 3,200 mg 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone/kg body weight per day for males and to approximately 170 to 3,200 mg/kg for females. Chemical-related mortality was limited to one male and one female in the 50,000 ppm groups. Final mean body weights and body weight gains of all exposed groups of rats were significantly lower than those of the controls. Feed consumption by all exposed groups was less than that by the controls throughout the study and generally decreased with increasing exposure concentration. Pink-red staining of the fur and tail was observed in all exposed groups. Absolute and relative liver weights of all exposed groups were generally significantly greater than those of the controls. Chemical-related lesions were present in the liver, kidney, and spleen of male and female rats. Nonneoplastic lesions in the liver included foci of hepatocellular alteration, diffuse hepatocellular hypertrophy (cytomegaly), hepatocellular cytoplasmic vacuolation, bile duct hyperplasia, inflammation, and pigmentation. These differences were observed primarily in the 25,000 and 50,000 ppm groups of males and females; the spectrum of proliferative lesions of the bile ducts (hyperplasia, fibrosis, and necrotizing cholangitis) in the 25,000 and 50,000 ppm groups was morphologically consistent with the lesion described as cholangiofibrosis. Pigmentation was present in the renal tubule epithelium of all groups of exposed rats; nuclear enlargement (karyomegaly) was also present in the renal tubule epithelium in some of the exposed rats. Accumulation of hyaline droplets in the cytoplasm of the renal tubule epithelium and tubule lumina was present in 2,500, 5,000, 10,000, and 25,000 ppm males. Incidences of hematopoiesis of the spleen in exposed groups of males and females were increased compared to those in the controls. 13-WEEK STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 10 male and 10 female mice were given 0, 2,500, 5,000, 10,000, 25,000, or 50,000 ppm 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone in feed for 13 weeks. These levels correspond to approximately 500 to 10,600 mg 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone/kg body weight per day for males and approximately 660 to 11,700 mg/kg per day for females. There was no chemical-related mortality. Feed consumption and final mean body weights of exposed groups were similar to those of the controls. Red staining of the fur was observed in all exposed groups. Absolute and relative liver weights of the exposed groups were greater than those er than those of the controls except for the absolute liver weight of 2,500 ppm males. Absolute and relative kidney weights of 25,000 and 50,000 ppm males were lower than those of the controls. Chemical-related lesions were limited to the livers of males and consisted of pigmentation of hepatocytes at all exposure concentrations and centrilobular hepatocellular hypertrophy at 10,000, 25,000, and 50,000 ppm. Minimal pigment was present in the liver of one female in the 25,000 ppm group and in one female in the 50,000 ppm group. 2-YEAR STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 70 male and 70 female rats were given 0, 5,000, or 10,000 ppm 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone in feed for 103 weeks. In addition, groups of 50 male and 50 female rats were given 2,000 ppm 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone in feed for 104 weeks. These exposure concentrations were approximately equal to 90, 240, or 490 mg 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone/kg body weight for males and 110, 285, or 600 mg/kg for females. Ten animals from each group were evaluated for histopathology at 9 months. Additional groups of 10 animals from the 0 and 10,000 ppm groups were evaluated for histopathology at 15 months. Survival, Body Weights, Feed Consumption, and Clinical Findings In the 2-year study, survival of the 10,000 ppm males and females was significantly lower than that of the controls. Survival of the 2,000 and 5,000 ppm groups was similar to that of the controls. During the last year of the study, the mean body weights of exposed males were 80&percnt; to 91&percnt; those of controls, and the mean body weights of exposed females were 67&percnt; to 84&percnt; those of controls. Feed consumption among exposed groups was generally similar, but was less than that by controls. The fur and urine of all exposed male and female groups were discolored. Pathology Findings In the 2-year study, 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone was associated with significant chemical-related increases in the incidences of benign and malignant neoplasms in the liver, large intestine, kidney, and urinary bladder of males and females. Chemical-related nonneoplastic proliferative and degenerative lesions occurred in the liver, kidney, urinary bladder, and forestomach of males and females. The incidences of foci of hepatocellular alteration and pigmentation in the liver of males and females were increased at the 9-month interim evaluation, and a hepatocellular adenoma was present in one 5,000 ppm male. At the 15-month interim evaluation, hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma (combined) occurred in all males and nine females in the 10,000 ppm groups. By the end of the 2-year study, hepatocellular adenoma, carcinoma, cholangioma, or cholangiocarcinoma were observed in males and females in the 5,000 and 10,000 ppm groups. In the 2,000 ppm groups, similar liver neoplasms were present in 63&percnt; of the males and in 83&percnt; of the females. Of the hepatocellular carcinomas in the 5,000 and 10,000 ppm groups of males and females, 31&percnt; to 49&percnt; were metastatic to the lungs or other sites. Increases in the incidences of foci of hepatocellular alteration (basophilic, eosinophilic, and clear cell) and pigmentation of the liver were also observed in exposed groups of males and females. Adenomatous polyps (adenoma) of the large intestine were present in six 10,000 ppm males at the 15-month interim evaluation. Incidences of adenomatous polyp (adenoma) and carcinoma of the large intestine were significantly increased in exposed groups of males and females after 2 years; multiple benign and malignant intestinal neoplasms were observed in many of these rats. In the kidney, incidences of renal tubule adenoma and carcinoma were significantly increased in exposed groups of males and females after 2 years. Renal tubule adenomas were present in two 10,000 ppm males at 15 months. There were also chemical-related increases in the incidences and severities of renal tubule epithelial hyperplasia, pigmentation, and transitional cell hyperplasia in the kidney of males and females. Hyaline droplet accumulation was present in all exposed male rats at 9 months. Incidences of transitional cell papilloma and carcinoma of the urinary bladder were increased at 2 years in males and females in the 10,000 ppm groups. Transitional cell hyperplasia was observed in exposed males and females at the 15-month interim evaluation. Other nonneoplastic lesions observed in the urinary bladder at 2 years included metaplasia of the transitional epithelium and submucosal stromal tissue. In the forestomach, the incidences and severities of inflammation, ulceration, hyperkeratosis, and hyperplasia of the squamous mucosa were increased in all exposed groups of males and females at 2 years, but not at the 9- or 15-month interim evaluations. In exposed males and females, the incidences of mononuclear cell leukemia were significantly decreased. The incidences of atrophy of the seminal vesicle were increased in exposed male rats in the 2-year study. Stop-Exposure Evaluation in Rats Groups of 40 male and 40 female rats were given 20,000 ppm 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone in feed for 9 or 15 months. At 9 months, 10 males and 10 females were evaluated for histopathology (9-month interim evaluation groups). After 9 months of exposure, an additional 10 males and 10 females were fed control diet until the end of the 15-month evaluation (9-month stop-exposure groups), and 20 males and 20 females continued to receive 20,000 ppm 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone until the end of the evaluation (15-month exposure groups). The approximate daily consumption of 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone was 1,335 mg/kg for males and 1,790 mg/kg for females in the 9-month stop-exposure groups and 1,115 mg/kg for males and 1,435 mg/kg for females in the 15-month exposure groups. Survival was similar among groups except for the females in the 15-month exposure group; the survival of this group was lower than that of the controls. Lower mean body weights were related to increased exposure duration. The mean body weights of exposed males were 76&percnt; to 82&percnt; that of controls, and the mean body weights of exposed females were 73&percnt; to 84&percnt; that of controls. For the stop-exposure evaluation, similar chemical-related neoplasms and nonneoplastic lesions were observed in the same sites as in the 2-year study: liver, large intestine, kidney, urinary bladder, and forestomach. After 9 months of dietary exposure to a concentration of 20,000 ppm 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone, hepatocellular adenoma and carcinoma occurred in males and females. Nonneoplastic chemical-related lesions in the liver of exposed rats included pigmentation, focal hepatocellular alteration, and bile duct hyperplasia. Neoplasms at other sites in males included one adenomatous polyp (adenoma) in the large intestine and one transitional cell papilloma in the urinary bladder. Hyaline droplet accumulation was present in the kidney of exposed males at 9 months. In the stop-exposure groups examined at 15 months, hepatocellular adenoma and carcinoma were present in most males and females. Adenomatous polyp (adenoma) of the colon, renal tubule cell adenoma, and urinary bladder transitional cell papilloma and carcinoma also occurred in males and females. Nonneoplastic chemical-related lesions included foci of hepatocellular alteration in the liver and hyperplasia of the renal tubule epithelium and urinary bladder transitional epithelium. Hyperplasia, hyperkeratosis, inflammation, and ulceration were observed in the forestomach of some male and female rats continuously exposed for 15 months. 2-YEAR STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 60 male and 60 female mice were given 0, 10,000, or 20,000 ppm 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone in feed for 104 weeks. The daily compound consumption was approximately 1,690 or 3,470 mg 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone/kg body weight for males and 1,950 or 4,350 mg/kg for females. Ten animals from each group were evaluated for histopathology at 15 months. Survival, Body Weights, Feed Consumption, and Clinical Findings In the 2-year study, survival of exposed males was significantly lower than that of the controls. Survival of exposed females was similar to that of the controls. The final mean body weights of exposed males were 83&percnt; to 85&percnt; that of controls, and the final mean body weights of exposed females were 81&percnt; to 86&percnt; that of controls. Feed consumption by exposed groups was generally similar to that by controls. Discoloration of the fur, urine, and feces was observed in all exposed groups. Pathology Findings In the 2-year study, 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone was associated with significant chemical-related increases in the incidences of benign and malignant neoplasms in the liver, forestomach, and lung of males and females. Incidences of hepatocellular adenoma and carcinoma were increased in exposed groups at the 15-month interim evaluation and at 2 years. At 2 years, there were significant increases in the incidences of multiple hepatocellular adenoma and carcinoma in males and females and in the incidences of hepatoblastoma in males. Centrilobular hypertrophy of hepatocytes in males and foci of hepatocellular alteration and pigmentation in the liver of males and females were also chemical-related changes. Sqamous cell papilloma of the forestomach mucosa occurred in 10,000 ppm females and 20,000 ppm males and females at the 15-month interim evaluation, and the incidences of squamous cell papilloma and carcinoma were significantly increased in exposed groups of males and females at 2 years. Chemical-related hyperplasia of forestomach epithelium was also present at 15 months and at 2 years. Alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas were present only in the exposed groups of males and females at 15 months, and the incidences of alveolar/bronchiolar adenoma were significantly increased in exposed males and females at 2 years. The incidences of multiple alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas were also increased in exposed males. In the kidney, pigmentation was present in the renal tubules of most mice after 2 years of exposure. DISPOSITION AND METABOLISM STUDIES: Adult male F344/N rats were given [14C]-labeled 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone as a single intravenous dose of 0.4 mg/kg body weight or as a single oral dose of 2, 23, 118, 814, or 1,473 mg/kg. A 6-hour bile cannulation study was also performed. From day 0 through day 3 after intravenous administration, about 50&percnt; of the 14C was excreted in the feces, 15&percnt; in the urine, and 6&percnt; in expired air. Unmetabolized 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone accounted for less than 3&percnt; of the excreted 14C after intravenous administration. For oral doses administered, the amount of the dose that was absorbed fit the equation: absorbed dose = 6.6 x log(dose). After intravenous administration, the metabolites of 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone in blood were primarily in the plasma fraction (blood:plasma ratio of approximately 0.5:1). The highest concentrations of 14C in tissues 15 minutes after intravenous dosing were in excretory organs, lung, kidney, small intestine, liver, adipose tissue, and adrenal gland. GENETIC TOXICOLOGY: 1-Amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone was mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98 and TA1537 in the absence of S9; with S9, an equivocal response was observed in TA1537. 1-Amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone resulted in an equivocal response in TA100 with and without S9, and no mutagenic activity was detected with strain TA1535. In cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone induced sister chromatid exchanges with and without S9; chromosomal aberrations were induced in the absence of S9. CONCLUSIONS: Under the conditions of these 2-year feed studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone in male and female F344/N rats based on increased incidences of neoplasms in the liver, large intestine, kidney, and urinary bladder. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone in male and female B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of neoplasms in the liver, forestomach, and lung. Exposure of male and female rats to 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone for 2 years was associated with basophilic focus (males only), clear cell focus, eosinophilic focus, and pigmentation in the liver; renal tubule hyperplasia, renal tubule pigmentation, and transitional cell hyperplasia in the kidney; transitional cell hyperplasia, squamous metaplasia, and stromal metaplasia (females only) in the urinary bladder; squamous hyperplasia, hyperkeratosis, ulceration, and inflammation of the forestomach mucosa; and seminal vesicle atrophy. Exposure of male and female mice to 1-amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone for 2 years was associated with centrilobular hepatocellular hypertrophy (males only), basophilic focus, clear cell focus (females only), eosinophilic focus, and pigmentation in the liver; pigmentation in the kidney; and hyperplasia, basal cell hyperplasia, hyperkeratosis, and inflammation of the forestomach mucosa. Synonym: ADBAQ
Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor (pPNET) is aggressive and rare, comprising 1% of soft tissue sarcomas. Involvement of the reproductive tract is unusual.
A 35-year-old woman had a pelvic mass and omental cake. Frozen-section examination at laparotomy revealed small round cell tumor confirmed as pPNET. Chemotherapy with vincristine, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide alternating with ifosfamide and etoposide with mesna yielded complete response. The patient's mother died of a similar tumor at age 52 years, and the patient's husband had adult Ewing sarcoma, constituting an unusual cluster of related tumors.
Genetic recombination resulting in a chimeric transcript of the Ewing sarcoma gene and the Friend leukemia virus integration site is characteristic of these tumors. Surgical resection and multiagent chemotherapy may enhance survival.
The authors studied the effects of imipramine hydrochloride at plasma concentrations associated with antidepressant activity in seven patients hospitalized for severe depressive illness. They found that the drug usually produced prolongation of intraventricular cardiac conduction. Although this was generally well tolerated, the authors suggest that patients with preexisting conduction system disease may be at increased risk when taking tricyclic antidepressants. They feel that the orthostatic hypotension seen in all seven patients represents a potentially serious problem with tricyclic antidepressants. They discuss the antiarrhythmic properties associated with imipramine and significant interactions between imipramine and drugs taken by patients with cardiovascular disease.
We previously reported a toxicogenomics-based prediction model for hepatocarcinogens in which the expression patterns of signature genes following repeated doses of either genotoxic or non genotoxic compounds were similar. Based on the results of our prediction model, we hypothesized that repeated doses of non-genotoxic carcinogens might have initiating potential. Here, we conducted a two stage hepatocarcinogenesis study in rats exposed to the initiating agent nitrosodiethylamine (DEN), and hepatotoxic compounds thioacetamide (TAA), methapyrilene (MP) and acetaminophen (APAP) for 1-2 weeks followed by the liver tumor promoter phenobarbital (PB). The duration of initial treatment was determined based on positive results from our prediction model. Combined treatment of 3 or 30 mg/kg of genotoxic DEN and PB induced marked increases in altered hepatocellular foci and a DEN dose-dependent increase in the number and area of glutathione S-transferase-placental form (GST-P)-positive foci. A low number of altered hepatocellular foci were also observed in rats treated with TAA at a dose of 45 mg/kg.MP at a dose of 100 mg/kg induced a very low number of foci, but APAP did not. Hierarchical clustering analysis using gene expression data revealed that 2-week treatment with TAA at a dose of 30 mg/kg and MP at 45 mg/kg induced specific expression of DNA damage-related genes, similar to 1-week treatment with DEN at a dose of 30 mg/kg. These results suggest that TAA and MP induce DNA damage, which partially supports our hypothesis. Although this study does not indicate whether tumor growth in response to these compounds can be assessed in this model, our results suggest that cumulative treatment with non genotoxic TAA might have initiating potential in the liver.
Inhaled steroids play a very important role in the prevention and treatment of asthma. Previous studies indicated that fluticasone propionate (FP) had low bioavailability and high local potency. However, the laboratory data in these studies were not obtained among Taiwan population. It is very important that native data should be established. Thus a 12-week research program was designed, involving 77 patients, 51 for FP group and 26 for beclomethasone dipropionate (BD) group. The objects were victims of moderate to severe asthma and their age ranged from 4 to 14 years old. An open, comparative and randomized method was adopted. Except for the 4-week-later daytime symptom score(P = 0.033, BD group was better), no other significant differences were found between the two groups in the symptom score improvement(P > 0.05). All the P-values for the daytime & night-time scores were lower than 0.001, which means obvious improvement after treatment in both groups. P-value for PEF improvement was 0.003 after 4 weeks (BD group was better) and 0.943 after 8 weeks; for FEV1 improvement, it was 0.005 after 4 weeks(BD group was better) and 0.252 after 8 weeks; and for FEV1/FVC improvements, it was 0.067 after 4 weeks and 0.097 after 8 weeks. There was no statistic significance in total eosinophil count (TEC), IgE, eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) serum level changes after 4 or 8 weeks. Adverse effects were all anticipated and no statistic significance showed up, either, between the two groups or in the cortisol levels (P > 0.05). In conclusion, native data indicated that the potency of 100 micrograms of FP was equal to that of 200 micrograms of BD and that few side effects were noted in FP group. It is recommended that this drug be introduced for clinical use.
Lynch syndrome (LS) is an autosomal dominant disorder that predisposes to colon, endometrial, and other cancers. LS is caused by a heterozygous germline mutation in one of the DNA mismatch repair (MMR) genes. A significant proportion of all mutations found in suspected LS patients comprises single amino acid alterations. The pathogenicity of these variants of uncertain significance (VUS) is difficult to assess, precluding diagnosis of carriers and their relatives. Here we present a rapid cell-free assay to investigate MMR activity of MSH2 or MSH6 VUS. We used this assay to analyze a series of MSH2 and MSH6 VUS, selected from the Leiden Open Variation Database. Whereas a significant fraction of the MSH2 VUS has lost MMR activity, suggesting pathogenicity, the large majority of the MSH6 VUS appears MMR proficient. We anticipate that this assay will be an important tool in the development of a comprehensive and widely applicable diagnostic procedure for LS-associated VUS.
Limbic seizures were provoked in freely moving rats by intrahippocampal administration of the muscarinic receptor agonist pilocarpine via a microdialysis probe (10 mM for 40 min at 2 microliters/min). Changes in extracellular hippocampal and cerebellar glutamate, aspartate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels were monitored during and after pilocarpine administration. Effects of systemic or local administration of anticonvulsants on the seizures and concomitant changes in amino-acid concentrations, were investigated. Pilocarpine-induced seizures were completely abolished after intraperitoneal premedication for 7 days with phenobarbital (15 mg/kg per day) and after intrahippocampal administration of 10 mM phenobarbital and 1 mM carbamazepine (180 min at 2 microliters/min). Rats premedicated with carbamazepine (5 mg/kg per day) still developed seizures. The changes in extracellular hippocampal amino-acid levels suggest that glutamate, aspartate and GABA are not involved in seizure onset, but may play a role in seizure maintenance and/or spread in the pilocarpine animal model of epilepsy. The increases in extracellular amino acids in ipsi- and contralateral cerebellum following limbic seizures provoked in the hippocampus, probably play a role in the 'reversed' diaschisis phenomenon.
Etodolac is a new pyranocarboxylic acid nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent with a unique chemical structure indicated for use in patients with painful musculoskeletal disorders and rheumatoid disease. Hepatotoxicity, in the form of reversible elevations in transaminases or bilirubin, occurs rarely. We present the first reported case of fulminant hepatic failure related to etodolac.
