The semisynthetic lisuride derivative transdihydrolisuride (terguride, TDHL) is an effective antiparkinsonian drug. In animals, TDHL appears to possess mixed dopamine agonist-antagonist effects, but this may not be the case in man. Single doses of TDHL were given to 21 subjects with parkinsonism. Overall, TDHL 0.25-0.5 mg caused dose-related improvement in parkinsonism for periods of up to 6 h, although 8 of 21 subjects showed no improvement or deterioration with TDHL 0.5-1 mg. In three patients with levodopa-induced psychosis, the addition of TDHL 0.75 mg daily for 5-10 days did not alter the psychotic state. In three subjects with levodopa-induced dyskinesias, the addition of TDHL 0.75 mg daily for 14 days resulted in a slight increase in the severity of involuntary movements. Side-effects of TDHL, sickness and hypotension, were similar to those observed with levodopa. Transdihydrolisuride caused prolonged inhibition of prolactin release, but unlike levodopa did not elevate plasma growth hormone levels. Additionally, TDHL did cause considerable sedation. These results may be due to combined effects of TDHL on nondopamine as well as dopamine neurotransmitter systems, rather than to partial or incomplete dopamine agonist effects.
We investigated into HDL (high density lipoprotein) catabolism with primary cultured hepatocytes to elucidate the causes of increased HDL apolipoproteins in the plasma of daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats (D rats). The phospholipid, triglyceride, cholesterol, cholesteryl ester and apolipoprotein contents in HDL increased in D rats compared with control rats (C rats). The uptake (binding plus internalization) of (125)I-HDL from D rats to two groups of hepatocytes was significantly greater than that of (125)I-HDL from C rats. Uptake of (125)I-HDL from D rats to D rats' hepatocytes was significantly greater than that of (125)I-HDL from C rats to C rats' hepatocytes. The degradation of (125)I-HDL from D rats was greater than that of (125)I-HDL from C rats using two groups of hepatocytes. These results demonstrated that the uptake and degradation of HDL to D rats' hepatocytes were greater than those of HDL to C rats' hepatocytes. The increased HDL apolipoprotein content in the plasma of D rats may not be due to decreased uptake and degradation of HDL in hepatocytes compared with C rats.
The toxicity to mice of intraperitoneally-administered polychlorocycloalkane (PCCA) insecticides is generally correlated with their potency as in vitro inhibitors of the brain specific [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate [( 35S]TBPS) binding site with correction for metabolic activation and detoxification. These findings from our earlier studies are extended here to in vivo investigations relating convulsant action to inhibition of the TBPS binding site in poisoned mice. Radioligand binding assays involved brain P2 membranes washed three times with 1 mM EDTA to remove endogenous gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or other modulator(s) which otherwise serves as a noncompetitive inhibitor of [35S]TBPS binding at the GABA-regulated chloride ionophore. Examination of lindane, technical toxaphene, toxaphene toxicant A, and 10 polychlorocyclodiene insecticides revealed 62 +/- 4% binding site inhibition 30 min after their LD50 doses with 32 +/- 3% inhibition at one-half and 6 +/- 3% inhibition at one-quarter of their LD50 doses. This correlation between binding site inhibition and convulsant action is also evident in dose- and time-dependency studies with endosulfan sulfate. The brain P2 membranes of treated mice contain the parent compound with each of the PCCAs plus activation products of some of the cyclodienes, i.e. endosulfan sulfate from alpha- and beta-endosulfan and 12-ketoendrin from isodrin and endrin. The finding that the brains of treated mice contain sufficient PCCA or its activation products to achieve a magnitude of [35S]TBPS binding site inhibition correlated with the severity of the poisoning signs supports the hypothesis that the acute toxicity of PCCA insecticides to mammals is due to disruption of the GABA-regulated chloride ionophore.
The current study intended to determine the incidence, severity and reversibility of paclitaxel plus carboplatin (CP)-induced peripheral neuropathy (CPPN) and to describe its clinical and electrophysiological features.
We prospectively studied 21 adult patients scheduled to be treated with 6 courses of cumulative carboplatin plus paclitaxel (CP) regimens for a non-myeloid malignancy. They were followed-up by neurological examination and electrophysiological study during chemotherapy and 3 months after its discontinuation. The severity of neurotoxicity was assessed by means of a modified peripheral neuropathy (PNP) score.
Evidence of CPPN was recorded in 14 of the 21 patients (66.6 %). The sensory symptoms were present in the lower limbs first and then involved the upper limbs. No statistical significance, concerning the changes from baseline to subsequent mean scores in all motor conduction parameters examined,was revealed. By contrast, comparisons of the mean changes at baseline and each of the follow-up studies showed significant decrease in all sensory action potentials examined. The mean PNP scores for patients that manifested some grade of neurotoxicity were 17.9 +/- 9.8. The followup data 3 months after the discontinuation of chemotherapy showed that the CP-induced neuropathy was at least partially reversed.
CP-induced neuropathy was symmetrical, distal and predominantly sensory in character, though minor to moderate motor signs were only evident in severely affected patients. Reversibility of CP-induced neuropathy was partially observed after the suspension of chemotherapy.
Acute blockade of the renin-angiotensin system with the parenterally active angiotensin II antagonist saralasin has been shown to effectively lower blood pressure in a large fraction of patients with essential hypertension and to improve hemodynamics in some patients with congestive heart failure. It is now possible to antagonize chronically angiotensin II at its receptor using the non-peptide angiotensin II inhibitor losartan (DuP 753, MK 954). When administered by mouth, this compound induces a dose-dependent inhibition of the pressor response to exogenous angiotensin II. This effect is closely related to circulating levels of the active metabolite E3174. Preliminary studies performed in hypertensive patients suggest that losartan has a blood pressure lowering action equivalent to that of an ACE inhibitor. Whether this compound will compare favorably with ACE inhibitors requires however further investigation.
Dofetilide is a 'pure' class III antiarrhythmic agent which has demonstrated efficacy in the conversion of atrial fibrillation or flutter to sinus rhythm and the maintenance of sinus rhythm. By blocking the rapid component of the cardiac delayed rectifier potassium current (I(Kr)), dofetilide prolongs the cardiac action potential duration and the effective refractory period. This is thought to increase the likelihood of a re-entrant wavefront encountering refractory tissue and terminating the arrhythmia. Preliminary findings from the EMERALD (European and Australian Multicenter Evaluative Research on Atrial Fibrillation Dofetilide) and SAFIRE-D (Symptomatic Atrial Fibrillation Investigation and Randomized Evaluation of Dofetilide) studies suggest that oral dofetilide is effective in the conversion of atrial fibrillation or flutter to sinus rhythm. Both studies have yet to be published in full. In SAFIRE-D, dofetilide 500microg twice daily for 3 days achieved a conversion rate of 32% compared with a 1% rate for placebo. A similar conversion rate was achieved after 3 days in EMERALD with dofetilide 500microg twice daily (29%) which was significantly greater than that achieved with sotalol 80mg twice daily (6%; p < 0.05). Oral dofetilide also appears to be effective in the maintenance of sinus rhythm. An abstract report of EMERALD participants who had been converted to sinus rhythm showed that 71% of patients who received oral dofetilide remained in sinus rhythm after 6 months (compared with 26% of placebo and 59% of sotalol recipients: both p < 0.05). Restoration of sinus rhythm using intravenous dofetilide is more likely in patients with recent-onset versus prolonged-duration arrhythmia, and in those with atrial flutter rather than atrial fibrillation. Limitations of comparative data for intravenous dofetilide are such that few conclusions can be drawn. Although generally well tolerated in clinical trials, dofetilide has proarrhythmic potential. Torsade de pointes ventricular tachycardia was reported in up to 3.3% of patients who received oral dofetilide in the DIAMOND (Diamond Investigations of Arrhythmia and Mortality on Dofetilide) studies, although only a small proportion of patients in these studies had atrial fibrillation; most episodes occurred within the first 3 days. Whether the propensity of dofetilide for this life-threatening arrhythmia is similar to that of other class III antiarrhythmic agents has yet to be determined. Importantly, the long term use of oral dofetilide in patients at high risk for sudden cardiac death is not associated with an increased risk of mortality, although these DIAMOND findings cannot necessarily be extrapolated to patients with atrial fibrillation.
Dofetilide offers an alternative to currently available antiarrhythmic agents for the pharmacological conversion of atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter to sinus rhythm and for the maintenance of sinus rhythm after cardioversion. However, further comparative data are necessary before its definitive place can be determined.
Studies were performed in nine patients with essential hypertension to explore the effect of the calcium antagonist felodipine on the exercise-induced responses of the sympathetic and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone systems as well as of blood pressure and heart rate. The patients were subjected to an individually graded submaximal work test (bicycling) after administration of placebo and a single dose of felodipine (10 mg) in a double-blind design and following long-term (8 weeks) felodipine treatment (10 mg twice daily). After a single dose of felodipine sitting preexercise blood pressure was decreased, whereas heart rate, plasma noradrenaline, adrenaline, renin activity, and angiotensin II increased. After long-term felodipine treatment blood pressure was reduced, heart rate was unchanged, and plasma noradrenaline and renin activity increased. The exercise-induced increases in plasma catecholamines, renin activity, angiotensin II, aldosterone, blood pressure, and heart rate were similar after acute and long-term felodipine administration as compared with placebo. In conclusion, acute and long-term felodipine treatment influences neither reflex activation of the sympathetic nervous system and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system nor the cardiovascular responses to physical exercise in patients with essential hypertension.
1 The topoisomerase II inhibitor amsacrine is used in the treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia. Although most anticancer drugs are believed not to cause acquired long QT syndrome (LQTS), concerns have been raised by reports of QT interval prolongation, ventricular fibrillation and death associated with amsacrine treatment. Since blockade of cardiac human ether-a-go-go-related gene (HERG) potassium currents is an important cause of acquired LQTS, we investigated the acute effects of amsacrine on cloned HERG channels to determine the electrophysiological basis for its proarrhythmic potential. 2 HERG channels were heterologously expressed in human HEK 293 cells and Xenopus laevis oocytes, and the respective potassium currents were recorded using patch-clamp and two-microelectrode voltage-clamp electrophysiology. 3 Amsacrine blocked HERG currents in HEK 293 cells and Xenopus oocytes in a concentration-dependent manner, with IC50 values of 209.4 nm and 2.0 microm, respectively. 4 HERG channels were primarily blocked in the open and inactivated states, and no additional voltage dependence was observed. Amsacrine caused a negative shift in the voltage dependence of both activation (-7.6 mV) and inactivation (-7.6 mV). HERG current block by amsacrine was not frequency dependent. 5 The S6 domain mutations Y652A and F656A attenuated (Y652A) or abolished (F656A, Y652A/F656A) HERG current blockade, indicating that amsacrine binding requires a common drug receptor within the pore-S6 region. 6 In conclusion, these data demonstrate that the anticancer drug amsacrine is an antagonist of cloned HERG potassium channels, providing a molecular mechanism for the previously reported QTc interval prolongation during clinical administration of amsacrine.
50 year old suffering from breast carcinoma, treated with adriamycin developed heart failure with 22.82% ejection fraction. Added garlic pearl to routine anti-failure measures for 9 months to achieve 51.6% ejection fraction.
O6-methylguanine-methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter methylation has been shown to predict survival of patients with glioblastomas if temozolomide is added to radiotherapy (RT). It is unknown if MGMT promoter methylation is also predictive to outcome to RT followed by adjuvant procarbazine, lomustine, and vincristine (PCV) chemotherapy in patients with anaplastic oligodendroglial tumors (AOT).
In the European Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer study 26951, 368 patients with AOT were randomly assigned to either RT alone or to RT followed by adjuvant PCV. From 165 patients of this study, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissue was available for MGMT promoter methylation analysis. This was investigated with methylation specific multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification.
In 152 cases, an MGMT result was obtained, in 121 (80%) cases MGMT promoter methylation was observed. Methylation strongly correlated with combined loss of chromosome 1p and 19q loss (P = .00043). In multivariate analysis, MGMT promoter methylation, 1p/19q codeletion, tumor necrosis, and extent of resection were independent prognostic factors. The prognostic significance of MGMT promoter methylation was equally strong in the RT arm and the RT/PCV arm for both progression-free survival and overall survival. In tumors diagnosed at central pathology review as glioblastoma, no prognostic effect of MGMT promoter methylation was observed.
In this study, on patients with AOT MGMT promoter methylation was of prognostic significance and did not have predictive significance for outcome to adjuvant PCV chemotherapy. The biologic effect of MGMT promoter methylation or pathogenetic features associated with MGMT promoter methylation may be different for AOT compared with glioblastoma.
Inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta2-agonists effectively control asthma symptoms and improve airway function. The effects of beclomethasone were compared with those of salmeterol on markers of eosinophilic inflammation in induced sputum in steroid-naive asthmatic subjects with moderate asthma. Fifteen moderate asthmatics were treated with either beclomethasone dipropionate (500 microg b.i.d.) or salmeterol (50 microg b.i.d.) for 4 weeks, according to a randomised, double-blind, parallel-group study design. All patients underwent spirometry, methacholine test, sputum induction, and blood sampling before and after 2 and 4 weeks of treatment. They also recorded daily symptoms and peak expiratory flow (PEF). Sputum eosinophils, eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) and eosinophil protein X (EPX), and blood eosinophils, as well as the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and morning PEF, significantly improved after beclomethasone but not after salmeterol. PEF variability, the symptom score and rescue beta2-agonist use significantly improved after both treatments, although the improvement in the symptom score tended to be greater after beclomethasone. After 2 and 4 weeks of beclomethasone treatment, both serum ECP and EPX decreased. With salmeterol, only serum EPX decreased, after 4 weeks. Bronchial hyperresponsiveness to methacholine did not change after either treatment. The authors conclude that beclomethasone, but not salmeterol, substantially improves airway inflammation in asthma. Beclomethasone also had an overall greater clinical effect, although the improvement in symptoms and peak expiratory flow variability was similar after both treatments.
Results of preclinical studies suggest that pergolide, a mixed D(1)/D(2) dopamine receptor agonist, may be useful in treating cocaine dependence. To empirically investigate this possibility, we conducted a 5-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of two doses of pergolide (0.05 and 0.25 mg bid) in subjects with cocaine dependence and combined cocaine/alcohol dependence. Data analysis was performed on an intent to treat population (N=358) and a per protocol population (N=108) with urine drug screens (UDS) used as the main outcome measure. There were no significant effects on UDS at either pergolide dose. Pergolide had no significant effect on alcohol use in the comorbid alcohol/cocaine dependence group. Pergolide does not appear to have clinical value in the treatment of cocaine dependence or in decreasing alcohol use in cocaine-dependent individuals at the presently studied doses.
A seventy-three year-old patient with prostate cancer underwent radical prostatectomy, followed by total androgen brocking therapy using flutamide and LH-RH agonist. As Hepatic dysfunction (GPT = 3.045 IU/l) was noticed by periodic blood analysis, flutamide was stopped and he was hospitalized immediately without any subjective symptoms. Ten days after the admission, he developed massive bleeding from duodenal ulcer, resulting in duodenal perforation. Following the emergency operation, plasma exchange therapy was repeated against serious hepatic dysfunction. However, he was dead of pneumonia two months after the admission. Autopsy revealed biliary congestion in a small liver, although it was not cirrhotic. In our patient, hepatic dysfunction was irreversible and prolonged. We strongly recommend to perform serial liver function test from the start of treatment with flutamide, especially during the initial three months. Flutamide should be stopped promptly it significant liver abnormalities are detected.
Recent association studies suggest that genetically determined deficiencies in GSTs might be a risk factor for idiosyncratic adverse drug reactions resulting from the formation of reactive drug metabolites. hGSTP1-1 is polymorphic in the human population with a number of single nucleotide polymorphisms that yield an amino acid change in the encoded protein. Three allelic variants of hGSTP1-1 containing an Ile105Val or Ala114Val substitution, or a combination of both, have been the most widely studied and showed different activity when compared to wild-type hGSTP1-1*A (Ile105/Ala114). In the present study, we studied the ability of these allelic variants to catalyze the GSH conjugation of reactive metabolites of acetaminophen, clozapine, and diclofenac formed by bioactivation in in vitro incubations by human liver microsomes and drug metabolizing P450 BM3 mutants. The results show that effects of the change of amino acid at residue 105 and 114 on conjugation reactions were substrate dependent. A single substitution at residue 105 affects the ability to catalyze GSH conjugation, while when both residue 105 and 114 were substituted the effect was additionally enhanced. Single mutation at position 114 did not show a significant effect. The different hGSTP1-1 mutants showed slightly altered regioselectivities in formation of individual GSH conjugates of clozapine which suggests that the binding orientation of the reactive nitrenium ion of clozapine is affected by the mutations. For diclofenac, a significant decrease in activity in GSH-conjugation of diclofenac 1',4'-quinone imine was observed for variants hGSTP1-1*B (Val105/Ala114) and hGSTP1-1*C (Val105/Val114). However, since the differences in total GSH conjugation activity catalyzed by these allelic variants were not higher than 30%, differences in inactivation of reactive intermediates by hGSTP1-1 are not likely to be a major factor in determining interindividual difference in susceptibility to adverse drug reactions induced by the drugs studied.
This article reports the changes in gallbladder function examined by ultrasonography in 20 Chinese patients with active acromegaly treated with sc injection of the somatostatin analog octreotide in dosages of 300-1500 micrograms/day for a mean of 24.2 +/- 13.9 months. During treatment with octreotide, 17 patients developed sludge, 10 had gallstones, and 1 developed acute cholecystitis requiring surgery. In all of 7 patients examined acutely, gallbladder contractility was inhibited after a single 100-micrograms injection. In 8 patients followed for 24 weeks, gallbladder contractility remained depressed throughout therapy. After withdrawal of octreotide in 10 patients without gallstones, 8 patients assessed had return of normal gallbladder contractility within 1 month. In 8 of the remaining 10 patients who developed gallstones during treatment, gallbladder contractility normalized in 5 patients (3 of whom has disappearance of their stones within 3 weeks), and remained depressed in 3 (2 of whom had stones present at 6 months). Our results suggest that the suppression of gallbladder contractility is the cause of the successive formation of bile sludge, gallstones, and cholecystitis during octreotide therapy in Chinese acromegalic patients. It is therefore very important to follow the changes of gallbladder function during long-term octreotide therapy of acromegalic patients.
Fitting due to aluminium toxicity has been previously reported in chronic dialysis patients with prolonged exposure to aluminium, resulting in excessive aluminium accumulation. However, we report a case of a patient who fitted whilst receiving Desferrioxamine therapy, following a fall with the consequent sudden release of aluminium from fractured ribs. This suggests that sudden increases in serum aluminium levels may carry neurological sequelae.
Twenty-four patients with advanced breast cancer were studied with serial determinations of the radionuclide ejection fraction at rest (RST-LVEF) during anthracycline chemotherapy (CT) and with a mean follow-up (FU) of 8 months. We had 2 cases of anthracycline congestive heart failure (CHF) during FU, 3 and 12 months respectively after the end of CT. The RST-LVEF changes observed during CT were not able to predict which patients were to develop a symptomatic cardiomyopathy. The type of RST-LVEF change that is generally considered a worsening of cardiac performance is a decline greater than or equal to 15%. We had this type of RST-LVEF change, in addition to the 2 CHF, in 5 other patients without symptomatic cardiomyopathy. Nevertheless none of these 5 patients attained pathological values of RST-LVEF, while the 2 CHF showed symptomatic cardiomyopathy only when RST-LVEF became clearly pathologic (less than or equal to 46%). Therefore, although in our study the RST-LVEF changes during CT did not have predictive value for CHF, the method may give a notable clinical contribution all the same. In fact, by submitting the patients with a RST-LVEF fall greater than or equal to 15% to frequent sequential RST-LVEF determinations and stopping the CT if the RST-LVEF becomes pathologic it is possible to avoid severe and irreversible CHF.
Experimental and clinical studies demonstrate the antifibrillatory effectiveness of bretylium tosylate: Experimental ventricular fibrillation induced either by electrical stimulation or by ischemia is prevented by bretylium. In 2,000 acute myocardial infarction patients who received bretylium prophylactically primary ventricular fibrillation occurred in less than 1% of cases. In a randomized hemodynamic study in acute myocardial infarction patients bretylium induced a significant decrease in heart rate, systolic and mean left ventricular pressures, and in systolic and mean aortic pressures. In addition, a parallel and significant decrease in total pulmonary and systemic resistances was seen, accompanied by decreases in tension time and left ventricular (delta P/delta V) indexes. Bretylium tosylate induces stabilization of electrical systole duration (QTc) in acute myocardial infarction patients. The conclusions of the present review strongly support those of the United States Food and Drug Administration, approving bretylium for prophylaxis and treatment of ventricular fibrillation.
Two patients, a girl and a boy, both aged 8.5 years, presented with serious side effects caused by ceftriaxone and co-trimoxazole, respectively. The first patientwas treated with ceftriaxone (100 mg/kg/day with a body weight of 35.6 kg) on suspicion of a neuroborreliosis, but developed an acute cholecystitis with cholelithiasis 3 weeks after the antibiotic had been withdrawn. He underwent a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Ceftriaxone binds calcium in the biliary tract, forming biliary sludge or stones. The second patient developed thrombocytopenia during treatment with co-trimoxazole (58 mg/kg/day with a body weight of 25.4 kg) because of a urinary-tract infection. After discontinuation of the co-trimoxazole the thrombocytopenia resolved spontaneously. The pathophysiological mechanism involved may be either a direct toxic effect of trimethoprim or an immune-mediated reaction to sulfamethoxazole. According to current guidelines, the dosage of the drug was too high in both cases. It is important to ensure a correct dosage in children, since side effects are potentially dose-related.
The influence of cyproheptadine on the neuroleptic-catalepsy in rats was studied. Cyproheptadine antagonized dose-dependently the catalepsy induced by spiroperidol, pimozide, fluphenazine and reserpine. The anticataleptic effect of two antiparkinsonian drugs, L-DOPA or amantadine was potentiated by cyproheptadine.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of osteopontin (OPN) in diabetic hearts. Diabetes was induced in wild-type (WT) and OPN knockout (KO) mice by using streptozotocin (150 mg/kg) injection. Left ventricular (LV) structural and functional remodeling was studied 30 and 60 days after induction of diabetes. Induction of diabetes increased OPN expression in cardiac myocytes. Heart weight-to-body weight ratio was increased in both diabetic (D) groups. Lung wet weight-to-dry weight ratio was increased only in the WT-D group. Peak left ventricular (LV) developed pressures measured using Langendorff perfusion analyses were reduced to a greater extent in WT-D versus KO-D group. LV end-diastolic pressure-volume curve exhibited a significant leftward shift in WT-D but not in KO-D group. LV end-diastolic diameter, percent fractional shortening, and the ratio of peak velocity of early and late filling (E/A wave) were significantly reduced in WT-D mice as analyzed by echocardiography. The increase in cardiac myocyte apoptosis and fibrosis was significantly higher in the WT-D group. Expression of atrial natriuretic peptide and transforming growth factor-beta1 was significantly increased in the WT-D group. Induction of diabetes increased protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylation in both groups. However, phosphorylation of PKC-betaII was significantly higher in the WT-D group, whereas phosphorylation of PKC-zeta was significantly higher in the KO-D group. Levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma were significantly decreased in the WT-D group but not in the KO-D group. Thus increased expression of OPN may play a deleterious role during streptozotocin-induced diabetic cardiomyopathy with effects on cardiac fibrosis, hypertrophy, and myocyte apoptosis.
The effects of the NO donor molsidomine and the inhibitors of the NO synthase (NOS) 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) and NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) on the motor hyperactivity induced by indirect (amphetamine and cocaine) or direct (SKF 38393 and bromocriptine) dopamine (DA) agonists were studied in rats. The hyperactivity induced by 0.5 mg/kg of amphetamine or 5 mg/kg of cocaine was potentiated in a dose-dependent manner by molsidomine (30-100 mg/kg), but attenuated by 7-NI (3-30 mg/kg) or L-NAME (3-30 mg/kg). The NOS inhibitors also inhibited the locomotor hyperactivity evoked by 15 mg/kg of SKF 38393 (a DA D1 agonist) or 5 mg/kg of bromocriptine (a DA D2 agonist). On the other hand, the hyperactivity induced by those direct DA receptor agonists was potentiated by molsidomine. The present findings provide further evidence for an interaction at the behavioral level between NO and the DA-mediated effects of amphetamine and cocaine; moreover, they seem to indicate that both DA D1 and DA D2 receptor subtypes are under such influence.
Two patients with bilateral kidney stones had been taking methyldopa for 8 years and 10 years respectively. Their urine contained a brown pigment which darkened and precipitated on standing. This substance was identified as methlydopa. No other cause for stone formation was found, so it is suggested that the methyldopa, because of its poor solubility, provided a nidus for stone formation.
Chemotherapy is one of the main treatment options for cancer, but the effectiveness of chemotherapeutic drugs is severely limited due to their systemic toxicity. Therefore, the need for a more targeted approach in tumor treatment is obvious. A tumor-activated agent would decrease systemic toxicity as well as increase the efficacy of the treatment. It has previously been shown that the latency of pro-TGF-beta is conferred by dimerization of two latency-associated peptides (LAP) that form a protective shield, which is cleaved off upon activation by matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). It has also been shown that the fusion of this LAP peptide with other cytokines can confer their latency. In the present study, a recombinant adenovirus with a fusion gene encoding a tumor-activated pro-cytolytic peptide was made in which the LAP domain of TGF-beta was fused with melittin, a potent cytolytic toxin, with an MMP2 cleavage site in between the two. In vitro studies show that the melittin-MMP2-LAP recombinant adenovirus can be activated by MMP2 which leads to the release of free melittin to lyse the target cells. In vivo studies show approximately a 70% decrease in B16 tumor volume in melittin-MMP2-LAP recombinant adenovirus-treated mice as compared to control mice. No significant systemic toxicity was observed in the treated mice.
A 63 year old man developed generalized scleroderma with massive sclerotic areas, particularly in the abdominal region, four years after being diagnosed with porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT). He had almost daily exposure to organic solvents (benzene, trichlorethylene) for many years. The cutaneous fibrosis progressed dramatically leading to a pansclerosis, even though the uroporphyrin levels were borderline and the liver enzyme values were normal. Organic solvents are among those substances which can cause a cutaneous fibrosis. The unusually complicated clinical development in our patient was a combination of the two initial factors, the PCT and the long term exposure to organic solvents. The pansclerotic PCT was differentiated from a systemic sclerosis, a disabling pansclerotic morphea and a generalized morphea by means of histological examinations, the absence of a Raynaud phenomenon and the non-involvement of additional organs. Auto-antibodies typical for systemic sclerosis were negative. Using a medium dosage of UVA1 phototherapy and intensive physiotherapy, the progression of the skin disease was stopped and the sclerosis improved.
To compare outcomes of patients with HIV-Burkitt's lymphoma (HIV-BL) and HIV-diffuse large-cell lymphoma (HIV-DLCL) after treatment with CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone) or M-BACOD (methotrexate, bleomycin, cyclophosphamide, etoposide) in pre-highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) versus HAART eras.
Three hundred sixty-three patients with AIDS-related lymphoma diagnosed from 1982 to 2003 were reviewed retrospectively, including 262 in the pre-HAART (HIV-BL, 117; HIV-DLCL, 145) and 101 in the HAART era (HIV-BL, 18; HIV-DLCL, 83). Pre-HAART included those who did not receive HAART, and HAART era included those diagnosed after January 1997 who received HAART.
There were no significant differences between groups in terms of age, sex, history of injection drug use, prior AIDS, lactate dehydrogenase level, and disease stage at diagnosis. Compared with HIV-BL, HIV-DLCL was associated with significantly lower CD4 counts in the pre-HAART but not the HAART era. Although the overall median survival was similar for both groups in the pre-HAART era (HIV-BL, 6.4 months v HIV-DLCL, 8.3 months; P = .43), survival was significantly worse in patients with HIV-BL in the HAART era (HIV-BL, 5.7 months v HIV-DLCL, 43.2 months; P = .0003). Failure to attain complete remission and CD4 count less than 100 cells/mm(3) independently predicted for poor survival in the pre-HAART era. In comparison, histology of HIV-BL and no attainment of complete remission were independent poor prognostic factors in the HAART era.
Survival of patients with HIV-DLCL has improved in the HAART era, along with CD4 count, whereas survival of similarly treated patients with HIV-BL remained poor. The current practice of using the same regimen for both groups of patients should be re-evaluated.
