The molecular mechanisms underlying the cell cycle growth-inhibitory and apoptotic effects of flavopiridol (FP) were determined in human breast cancer cells. Treatment with FP caused accumulation in the G(1) phase of the cell cycle and induced apoptosis of SKBR-3 and MB-468 cells. This was associated with down-regulation of the levels of cyclins D1 and B1, as well as with inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) 1, cdk2, and cdk4. FP-induced apoptosis was accompanied by a conformational change and mitochondrial localization of Bax. This resulted in the accumulations of cytochrome c, Smac, and Omi/HtrA2 in the cytosol and induced the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage activity of caspase-3. Treatment with FP also attenuated the mRNA and protein levels of XIAP, cIAP-2, Mcl-1, Bcl-x(L), and survivin. In MB-468 cells with overexpression of Bcl-2 (468/Bcl-2), FP-induced Bax conformational change and apoptosis were inhibited, whereas the FP-mediated decline in the levels of IAP proteins, Mcl-11 and Bcl-x(L) remained unaltered. The effects of cotreatment with FP and the nontaxane tubulin-polymerizing agent epothilone (Epo) B were also determined in MB-468 cells. Sequential treatment with Epo B followed by FP induced significantly more apoptosis of MB-468 cells than treatment with the reverse sequence of FP followed by Epo B or treatment with either agent alone (P < 0.05). Treatment with Epo B followed by FP induced more Bax conformational change and was associated with a greater decline in the levels of XIAP, cIAP-2, Mcl-1, and Bcl-x(L). However, MB-468/Bcl-2 cells remained relatively resistant to Epo B followed by FP. Taken together, these findings suggest that the superior sequence-dependent anti-breast cancer activity of Epo B followed by FP may be due to FP-induced Bax conformational change and down-regulation of the antiapoptotic IAP, Bcl-x(L), and Mcl-1 proteins, but this treatment may not overcome the resistance to apoptosis of breast cancer cells conferred by overexpression of Bcl-2.
A 50-year-old man developed acute liver failure 7 months after nefazodone treatment was initiated. There was no evidence of any aetiology apart from the exposure to the antidepressant drug nefazodone, while the results of repeated histological examinations of the liver were compatible with serious progressive drug-induced hepatitis. This diagnosis was initially disregarded because in the literature no patients with nefazodone-induced hepatitis were reported. However, the drug had only recently been introduced, which meant that relatively infrequent adverse drug reactions might not have been published. Further analyses of databases of the marketing pharmaceutical industry and of the World Health Organization revealed more cases of liver toxicity ascribed to nefazodone, which showed that liver failure may indeed be associated with nefazodone use. Consequently, prescribing doctors have been warned by the pharmaceutical company about this possible adverse drug reaction.
Iron deficiency and helminth infections are two common conditions of children in developing countries. The consequences of helminth infection in young children are not well described, and the efficacy of low dose iron supplementation is not well documented in malaria-endemic settings. A 12-mo randomized, placebo controlled, double-blind trial of 10 mg daily iron and/or mebendazole (500 mg) every 3 mo was conducted in a community-based sample of 459 Zanzibari children age 6-71 mo with hemoglobin > 70 g/L at baseline. The trial was designed to examine treatment effects on growth, anemia and appetite in two age subgroups. Iron did not affect growth retardation, hemoglobin concentration or mild or moderate anemia (hemoglobin < 110 g/L or < 90 g/L, respectively), but iron significantly improved serum ferritin and erythrocyte protoporphyrin. Mebendazole significantly reduced wasting malnutrition. but only in children <30 mo old. The adjusted odds ratios (AORs) for mebendazole in this age group were 0.38 (95% CI: 0.16, 0.90) for weight-for-height less than -1 Z-score and 0.29 (0.09, 0.91) for small arm circumference. In children <24 mo old, mebendazole also reduced moderate anemia (AOR: 0.41, 0.18, 0.94). Both iron and mebendazole improved children's appetite, according to mothers' report. In this study, iron's effect on anemia was limited, likely constrained by infection, inflammation and perhaps other nutrient deficiencies. Mebendazole treatment caused unexpected and significant reductions in wasting malnutrition and anemia in very young children with light infections. We hypothesize that incident helminth infections may stimulate inflammatory immune responses in young children, with deleterious effects on protein metabolism and erythropoiesis.
With the entry of a large number of Albanians in the area of Epirus over the past 8 months, a significant number of children with hearing problems or deafness has been examined in the out patient ward of the University Hospital of Ioannina. From the Pediatric-Neurologic-Psychiatric and Otorhinolaryngologic examination of these children, 18 cases with hearing problems and vestibular dysfunction due to administration of streptomycin sulfate have been defined. This article reports the ototoxic drug which has been used and is still being used in Albania, the procedure of audiological and vestibular investigation, and the damage which has been evoked in the auditory and vestibular pathway of the children in whom it has been administered.
The effect of a widely used organic solvent, polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG 400), on the toxic action of an acute or chronic treatment with adriamycin (ADR) was evaluated in mice. PEG 400 impressively decreased both acute high-dose and chronic low-dose-ADR-associated lethality. Light microscopic analysis showed a significant protection against ADR-induced cardiac morphological alterations. Such treatment did not diminish the ADR antitumor activity in L1210 leukemia and in Ehrlich ascites tumor.
Caffeine toxicity remains a rarely reported condition, which may mimic anxiety disorders. Anxiety disorder patients do not consume toxic amounts of caffeine. However, increased sensitivity to caffeine in these patients has been suggested as contributing to their symptoms. Six cases of anxiety disorder are presented who improved with only caffeine abstention, and remained well for at least a six-month follow-up period.
3 cases of women becoming hypertensive while taking oral contraceptives are presented. The first was a 35-year-old mother of 4 who had developed hypertensive kidney disease in her last pregnancy. Before contraception her blood pressure was 130/75; it rose to 140/80 in 3 months and 160/100 in 6 months after taking Ovariostat (2.5-mg lynestrenol and .075-mg mestranol, combined). 2 months after discontinuing usage her pressure was 140/80. The second was a 45-year-old mother of 2 whose pressure climbed from 120/70 to 180/120 within 3 months of starting Planor (2-mg norgestrienone and .05-mg ethinyl estradiol, combined), and fell to 130/80 3 weeks after discontinuing usage. The third was a 32-year-old woman with blood pressure of 120/70 before taking Ovaristat. Within 15 days her pressure was 170/90, accompanied by severe headaches. 1 month after discontinuing usage it returned to 120/70. The discussants mention several cases in their experience, and agree with the authors that women with hypertension in pregnancy, obesity, or diabetes should not be given the pill. Normal patients should be followed carefully and advised to keep a low salt diet and normal weight.
Anthracyclines are highly efficacious antineoplastic agents but they become cardiotoxic after repeated dosing. For the major anthracycline, doxorubicin (Dox), this toxicity is thought to be associated with the formation of the 13-dihydro metabolite. Paced mouse left atria were used to assess the cardiotoxicity of Dox, 4'-epidoxorubicin (Epi), daunorubicin (Dauno) and their major metabolites. Apart from the aglycons, all compounds (1-500 microM) reduced the contractile force. To correct for differences in cellular uptake, anthracycline concentrations were determined in the atria after 1 h of incubation. IC50 values ranged from 0.33 mumol/g for 13-dihydro-Dox to 3.5 mumol/g for Dauno. The toxicities relative to Dox, i.e., the ratio of IC50,Dox/IC50,anthracycline, ranged from 0.19 for Dauno to 2.1 for 13-dihydro-Dox (the most toxic). For Dox, Epi and Dauno, the 13-dihydro metabolite had greater toxicity than the corresponding parent compound. The pharmacokinetics of Dox and Epi in the murine heart are comparable and, thus, cannot explain the reduced cardiotoxicity of Epi. However, when pharmacokinetic data of Dox and Epi in murine heart tissue were interpreted using the relative toxicity factors, Epi would be expected to be threefold less cardiotoxic than Dox, thus providing a better correlation with in vivo data. This simple pharmacological model in combination with preclinical pharmacokinetics may contribute to the prediction of the cardiotoxic potency of new anthracyclines relative to Dox.
Following logarithmic transformation (ln) of total duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy in the rat, measured by means of the bar test, a normalization of the results is achieved. With the help of this transformation we have been able to study what are probably the most important variables involved in the measuring of experimental catalepsy and to establish some criteria for a better use of such measures: 1) repeated measures of catalepsy have to be taken in order to avoid the stress-induced inhibition of catalepsy caused by the new experimental situation, 2) the dose of neuroleptic used has to be sufficiently low to permit the measurement of total or real duration of catalepsy between two determinations, and 3) the dose of neuroleptic has to be sufficiently high to prevent the development of a learned "pseudocatalepsy."
Dual-specificity phosphatase 6 (DUSP6, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatase 3 or PYST1) dephosphorylates phosphotyrosine and phosphothreonine residues on extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2; MAPK1/2) to inactivate the ERK1/2 kinase. DUSP6 is a critical regulator of the ERK signaling cascade and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor. We report here experimental evidences that DUSP6 is transcriptionally upregulated in primary and long-term cultures of human glioblastoma, as assayed by northern hybridization and real-time quantitative PCR, producing constitutive high level of protein expression. Functional assays were performed with adenovirus-mediated expression of DUSP6 in glioblastoma cultures. Protein overexpression inhibits growth by inducing G1-phase delay and increased mitogenic/anchorage dependence and clonogenic potential in vitro. Changes in cell morphology were associated with an increased tumor growth in vivo. Chemoresistance is a major cause of treatment failure and poor outcome in human glioblastomas. Importantly, DUSP6 overexpression increased resistance to cisplatin-mediated cell death in vitro and in vivo. Antisense-mediated depletion of DUSP6 acted in lowering the threshold to anticancer DNA-damaging drugs. We conclude that upregulation of DUSP6 exerts a tumor-promoting role in human glioblastomas exacerbating the malignant phenotype.
Two patients are described who developed neuroleptic drug-induced tardive dyskinesia (TD) secondary to the treatment of schizophrenia. In both patients, neuroleptic drug discontinuation brought about a decrease in the severity of the TD and an increase in schizophrenic symptomatology. Reserpine was added for both antipsychotic coverage and reported beneficial effects in the treatment of TD. The patients' schizophrenia was controlled using reserpine 1 mg/d; the TD dissipated in one patient and decreased in the other. After about seven weeks of reserpine therapy, both patients developed depressive symptoms that required the addition or alprazolam. Within a month of the initiation of alprazolam, the depressions had cleared. Alprazolam may block reserpine-induced increases in beta-adrenergic receptors in the brain and may account for the antidepressive effects in these two patients.
Six patients treated with a combination of amiodarone and class I antiarrhythmic agents for a minor arrhythmia developed atypical ventricular tachycardia "en torsades de pointe". All patients had QT-interval prolongation in the ECG. Combined administration of quinidine and amiodarone in a normal volunteer resulted in an increase in plasma quinidine concentration and in QT prolongation, thus confirming the clinical observation of a clinically relevant interaction between the two drugs.
In the present study, we investigated the participation of chemical mediators in the development of experimental allergic conjunctivitis in rats. Cetirizine (a histamine H1 receptor antagonist), ramatroban (a thromboxane A2 (TXA2) receptor antagonist) and zafirlukast (a cysteinyl leukotrienes (cys-LTs) receptor antagonist) were orally administered from day 14 to day 42 during repeated topical antigen challenge. An increase in reactivity to antigen- and histamine-induced eye scratching behavior was observed by topical sensitization in sensitized rats. Although increased reactivity to antigen was not influenced by cetirizine, ramatoroban and zafirlukast, increased reactivity to histamine was significantly inhibited by ramatroban. The development of conjunctival edema was also observed for topical sensitization. Cetirizine caused no inhibition of the development of conjunctival edema, but ramatroban and zafirlukast inhibited the development of conjunctival edema. In addition, the number of eosinophils in the conjunctiva was increased by topical sensitization. Cetirizine had no significant effect on the increase in the number of eosinophils. However, ramatroban and zafirlukast were effective in inhibiting an increase in the number of eosinophils induced by topical sensitization. These results indicate that TXA2 is involved in increased histamine reactivity, and TXA2 and cys-LTs are associated with not only the conjunctival edema but also eosinophil infiltration during the development of experimental allergic conjunctivitis in rats.
Simultaneous abuse of cocaine and ethanol affects 12 million Americans annually. In combination, these substances are substantially more toxic than either drug alone. Their combined cardiac toxicity may be due to independent effects of each drug; however, they may also be due to cocaethylene (CE), a cocaine metabolite formed only in the presence of ethanol. The purpose of this study was to delineate the role of CE in the combined cardiotoxicity of cocaine and ethanol in a model simulating their abuse.
Twenty-three dogs were randomized to receive either 1) three intravenous (IV) boluses of cocaine 7.5 mg/kg with ethanol (1 g/kg) as an IV infusion (C+E, n = 8), 2) three cocaine boluses only (C, n = 6), 3) ethanol infusion only (E, n = 5), or 4) placebo boluses and infusion (n = 4). Hemodynamic measurements, electrocardiograms, and serum drug concentrations were obtained at baseline, and then at fixed time intervals after each drug was administered.
Two of eight dogs in the C+E group experienced cardiovascular collapse. The most dramatic hemodynamic changes occurred after each cocaine bolus in the C+E and C only groups; however, persistent hemodynamic changes occurred in the C+E group. Peak CE levels were associated with a 45% (SD +/- 22%, 95% CI = 22% to 69%) decrease in cardiac output (p < 0.05), a 56% (SD +/- 23%, 95% CI = 32% to 80%) decrease in dP/dt(max) (p <.006), and a 23% (SD +/- 15%, 95% CI = 7% to 49%) decrease in SVO(2) (p < 0.025). Ventricular arrhythmias were primarily observed in the C+E group, in which four of eight dogs experienced ventricular tachycardia.
Cocaine and ethanol in combination were more toxic than either substance alone. Co-administration resulted in prolonged cardiac toxicity and was dysrhythmogenic. Peak serum cocaethylene concentrations were associated with prolonged myocardial depression.
A 27 years old woman was admitted due to abdominal cramps, jaundice and oligoanuria, starting 48 hours after eating Chinese food. Hepatic biochemical tests, abdominal ultrasound and retrograde pyelography were normal. The urine was intensely orange colored and microscopic analysis was normal. The serum creatinine and urea nitrogen on admission were 4.59 and 42.5 mg/dl and rose to 13.5 and 72.4 mg/dl, respectively, at the 6th hospital day. Oliguria lasted only 48 hours. Dialysis was not used, since the patient was in good general condition and uremic symptoms were absent. On the 7th day, azotemia began to subside and at the 14th day, serum creatinine was 1.0 mg/dl. Before hospital discharge, she confessed the ingestion of 2.000 mg of phenazopyridine, during a nervous breakdown, aiming to sleep deeply. Remarkable was the persistence of the orange color of her urine during several days and the dissociation between the rate of increase of serum creatinine with respect to urea nitrogen. This is an unusual case of acute renal failure caused by an overdose of a drug, commonly prescribed for urinary tract infections.
To identify subtypes among individuals undergoing treatment for cocaine dependence, we evaluated 115 people with regard to sociodemographic, drug-related and psychopathological characteristics. Ten variables were preselected as the basis for a two-step cluster analysis with the aim of identifying subtypes. Two subtypes were identified (Type A, N = 37, and Type B, N = 78 subjects). The variable that best discriminated the two subtypes was occasional heroin consumption. In addition, there were significant differences in mean age, mean age at onset of cocaine consumption, mean number of years consuming cocaine, and principal route of ingestion. None of the psychopathological variables considered significantly differentiated the two groups.
Ifosfamide is an alkylating agent used in the treatment of germ-cell tumors, sarcomas and lymphomas. One of its main side effects is the encephalopathy of which the incidence may reach 30% in the literature, in adults and children just as well.
Based on both our experience and a review of the literature, we propose some recommendations for the management of this complication.
We report 15 encephalopathy cases in non-brain tumor patients, which occurred between January 1987 and March 2002 in children from 2 to 17 years old, treated for solid tumors at the Institut Gustave Roussy. Ifosfamide was administered at a posology between 5.4 and 15 g/m(2)/course, associated with other antimitotics such as actinomycin D, etoposide or vincristine.
Six patients experienced a grade III neurological toxicity according to the NCI classification, which developed as excess drowsiness lasting up to 36 hours. Six other patients developed grade IV neurotoxicity, including two comas resolving within 4 days and four short generalized convulsions. Three other children experienced grade II drowsiness. Brain MRIs were normal and EEG showed an aspecific encephalopathy tracing. This early central neurotoxicity appeared right from the first administration, and occurred immediately after the first injection or during the second or third day of treatment. It was most often reversible, usually 3 to 5 days after the last ifosfamide administration. Five patients were administered a treatment with Methylene Blue with a demonstrable efficacy in only one case. No death or neurological sequelae have been noted. Ifosfamide has been renewed after the neurological accident in 7 of those patients. Only 1 of those 7 patients developed grade IV neurotoxicity during the next course of treatment. In 2 of those 7 children, Methylene Blue was used in a prophylactic way. No neurological disorders have been noted during the next courses of treatment.
In the literature, the following are described as risk factors for ifosfamide encephalopathy: advanced pelvic disease, previous cisplatyl treatment and renal failure. We have not found any of these predisposing factors in our series, but three of the fifteen patients had severe neurotoxicity associated with Vincristin during previous treatments.
Facing a clinical diagnosis of ifosfamide encephalopathy, it is recommended to discontinue administration of ifosfamide and inject by intravenous route 50 mg Methylene Blue every 4 hours until the symptomatology recedes. The re-challenge of Ifosfamide is not contra-indicated and should be performed under prophylactic treatment with Methylene Blue by intravenous route at the dose of 50 mg every 6 hours.
We have previously demonstrated that the antiepileptic drug zonisamide supraspinally generates analgesic effects on thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity in mice after peripheral nerve injury. To further establish the neurochemical basis for the supraspinally mediated analgesic action of zonisamide, we measured spinal noradrenaline (NA), 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyleneglycol (MHPG), serotonin (5-HT), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and dopamine (DA) contents using HPLC with electrochemical detection in a murine neuropathic pain model that was prepared by partial ligation of the sciatic nerve (Seltzer model). Intraperitoneally or intracerebroventricularly administered zonisamide (50 mg/kg, i.p. and 30 mug, i.c.v., respectively), which almost completely reduced mechanical hypersensitivity, did not elicit any changes in spinal NA, MHPG, 5-HT, 5-HIAA, and DA contents. Moreover, the effectiveness of i.p. or i.c.v. administered zonisamide at reducing thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity was not influenced by intrathecally administered yohimbine (3 mug), an alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor antagonist. Thus, it appears that the supraspinally mediated analgesic effects of zonisamide are independent of the descending monoaminergic pain inhibitory system.
The trigeminovascular system is involved in migraine. Efficacy of Botulinum Toxin type A (BoNT-A) in migraine has been investigated in clinical studies but the mechanism of action remains unexplored. It is hypothesized that BoNT-A inhibits peripheral sensitization of nociceptive fibers and indirectly reduces central sensitization. We examined the effect of intramuscular injection of BoNT-A on an experimental human model of trigeminal sensitization induced by intradermal capsaicin injection to the forehead. BoNT-A (BOTOX) or saline was injected intramuscularly in precranial, neck and shoulder muscles to 32 healthy male volunteers in a double blind-randomized manner. Intradermally capsaicin-induced pain, flare and secondary hyperalgesia were obtained before and 1, 4 and 8 weeks after the above treatments. A significant suppressive effect of BoNT-A on pain, flare and hyperalgesia area was observed. The pain intensity area was significantly smaller in BoNT-A group (9.16+/-0.83 cm x s) compared to saline group (15.41+/-0.83cm x s) (P=0.011). The flare area was also reduced significantly in BoNT-A group (29.81+/-0.69 cm2) compared to saline group (39.71+/-0.69 cm2) (P<0.001). Similarly, the mean area of secondary hyperalgesia was significantly smaller in BoNT-A group (4.25+/-0.91 cm2) compared to saline group (7.03+/-0.91 cm2) (P=0.040). Post hoc analysis showed significant differences across the trials with a remarkable suppression effect of BoNT-A on capsaicin-induced sensory and vasomotor reactions as early as week1 (P<0.001). BoNT-A presented suppressive effects on the trigeminal/cervical nociceptive system activated by intradermal injection of capsaicin to the forehead. The effects are suggested to be caused by a local peripheral effect of BoNT-A on cutaneous nociceptors.
Patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) may develop depression. This may be related to adjustment to living with an SCI in addition to dealing with complications of the injury, such as spasticity. Pharmacologic treatment of depression can be difficult because of neurochemical and receptor changes that are associated with SCI. Newer antidepressant agents are purported to have selective activity by alteration of serotonergic neurotransmission. A case report is presented that illustrates exacerbation of spasticity by this family of antidepressant medications. Mechanisms possibly explaining this exacerbation of spasticity are the effects of serotonin on motor neuron and reflex activity, denervation supersensitivity, and the serotonin syndrome. Understanding the relationship between serotonergic systems and spasticity can be important in treating depression in patients with spasticity.
Previous studies have shown that iodinated contrast media may cause further renal dysfunction in tubulointerstitial nephropathy induced by gentamicin. The current investigation was undertaken to study whether the dysfunction after intravenous injection of a low-osmolar contrast medium is due to a chemotoxic and/or an osmotic effect.
Urine profiles were followed for 3 or 9 days after intravenous injection of saline, mannitol, and varying dosages of iohexol (1, 2.5, 5, and 10 mL/kg body weight (BW); 350 mg I/mL) in 60 rats, in which intramuscular injection of 40 mg/kg BW gentamicin had been administered daily nine times. A seventh group of 10 rats was given 20 mg/kg BW gentamicin and 5 mL/kg BW of 350 mg I/mL iohexol. Another 10 rats injected with saline served as controls.
Both mannitol and iohexol increased the excretion of albumin and the enzyme N-acetyl-B-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) temporarily; the effect was independent of the dose of iohexol. There was a dose-dependent effect on the transient increase in excretion of the enzymes lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT), and alkaline phosphatase (ALK); mannitol did not increase the excretion of these enzymes. In the group given 20 mg/kg BW gentamicin, only the dose-dependent effects of iohexol were seen. Neither various plasma components nor light/electron microscopy showed any changes that could solely be related to the contrast medium.
Iohexol produces transient renal effects in gentamicin nephropathy, which may be due to both chemotoxic and osmotic mechanisms.
In a series of 111 patients with Wegener's granulomatosis who were given cyclophosphamide therapy, hemorrhagic cystitis, diagnosed on the basis of gross hematuria or at cystoscopy (or both), developed in 17 (15%). Most of these patients recovered uneventfully, with or without the discontinuation of cyclophosphamide, but 4 patients suffered a significant loss of blood, and bladder carcinoma developed in 3. New microhematuria also occurred in 52 patients (47%). The dose and duration of cyclophosphamide were greater in the group that had urotoxicity. Long-term followup of patients with hemorrhagic cystitis is mandatory for the detection of late recurrences or the development of bladder malignancy. New therapies are being directed at protecting the bladder from urotoxicity during cyclophosphamide treatment.
The p53 tumor suppressor protein plays a pivotal role in preventing uncontrolled cellular proliferation. By contrast, zinc deprivation enhances esophageal cell proliferation and the induction of esophageal tumors in rodents by N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA). We investigated whether p53 deficiency rendered zinc-deficient (ZD) mice more susceptible to NMBA-induced esophageal/forestomach carcinogenesis. At 6-7 weeks of age, p53 null (-/-), heterozygous (+/-), and wild-type (+/+) mice were placed on ZD or zinc-sufficient (ZS) diets to form six experimental groups: ZD:p53-/-; ZD:p53+/-; ZD:p53+/+; ZS:p53-/-; ZS:p53+/-; and ZS:p53+/+. After 3 weeks, 15-23 mice in each group were treated once with NMBA (2 mg/kg body weight). Control animals were untreated. Zinc deficiency alone induced unrestrained cellular proliferation in the esophagus and forestomach of p53-/- mice. Forestomach tumors were first detected in a ZD:p53-/- mouse at 13 days. By 30 days, 100% (21 of 21) of ZD:p53-/- mice developed forestomach tumors and 38% showed esophageal tumors versus 42 and 0% in ZS:p53-/- mice (P < 0.004, esophagus; P < 0.001, forestomach). ZD:p53-/- mice showed an accelerated progression to malignancy, with 10% of esophageal tumors and 38% of forestomach tumors presenting as carcinomas. Nearly 20% of ZD:p53-/- mice developed esophageal Barrett's metaplasia, a lesion not previously seen in NMBA-induced neoplasia. ZD:p53+/- mice had significantly higher tumor incidence than ZS:p53+/- mice. The order of tumor incidence in forestomach was as follows: naught incidence in ZS:p53+/+ mice; ZD:p53-/- > ZD:p53+/- > ZS:p53-/- > ZD:p53+/+ >/= ZS:p53+/- > ZS:p53+/+. The rapid rate of tumor induction/progression in ZD:p53-/- mice was accompanied by an increase in the rate of cell proliferation and a decrease in apoptosis. cDNA array expression analysis of known genes identified a 5-fold up-regulation of cytokeratin 14 mRNA expression in ZD:p53-/- versus ZS:p53-/- forestomach, a result showing gene-modulating effects of zinc deficiency. Cytokeratin 14 is a biomarker in human esophageal carcinogenesis. Our findings provide in vivo evidence for the collaboration of a deficiency of both p53 and zinc in esophageal carcinogenesis and reveal molecular targets of this collaboration.
Four monkeys were seated in primate restraint chairs and the terminal 10 cm of their shaved tails were dipped into water maintained at a series of temperatures ranging from 38-54 degrees C. The latency to tail withdrawal from several temperatures was measured and temperature-effect curves for each monkey were generated. When administered s.c. into the tail, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2; 0, 1.58, 5.0 and 15.8 micrograms) produced a dose-dependent hyperalgesia manifested as dose-dependent leftward shifts in the temperature-effect curves. This hyperalgesia peaked 15 to 45 min after administration and lasted for approximately 2 hr. PGE2-induced hyperalgesia was mediated locally, because administration of 15.8 micrograms of PGE2 into the back had no effect on the temperature-effect curve. The hyperalgesic effects of PGE2 were reversed potently by morphine (0.32-3.2 mg/kg), and the effects of morphine were antagonized in a surmountable manner by both the opioid antagonist quadazocine (0.1 mg/kg) and by systemic administration of the charged opioid antagonist quaternary naltrexone (3.2 mg/kg). These results indicate that PGE2 produces thermal hyperalgesia in rhesus monkeys and also suggests that this hyperalgesia may be reversed by activation of peripheral opioid receptors. PGE2-induced hyperalgesia in the warm-water tail-withdrawal procedure may provide a useful assay for evaluating the effects of pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatments on hyperalgesia associated with inflammation in primates.
To report unilateral pupil-sparing third nerve palsy after use of sildenafil citrate (Viagra).
Case report.
A 56-year-old man with a history of tobacco abuse was treated for erectile dysfunction. Viagra, 50 mg, was taken once without adverse effect. Three weeks later, the patient took a second dose of Viagra (50 mg); 36 hours later he experienced a complete pupil-sparing third nerve palsy. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate, blood glucose level, magnetic resonance imaging, and magnetic resonance angiography were normal.
In a patient with microvascular disease, use of sildenafil may be associated with pupil-sparing third nerve palsy.
Due to ifosfamide urotoxicity, encephalopathy is a frequent complication accompanying treatment with this drug. The various clinical, physiological and therapeutical aspects of ifosfamide-related encephalopathy are reviewed. We report two cases and review current literature.
Ifosfamide-related encephalopathy has polymorphous and non-specific clinical picture. The disease severity is variable, as related deaths have been reported. Clinical signs disappear with treatment discontinuation. Routes of administration, doses, tumoral site and gender have been implicated in the disease physiopathology. Admittedly, metabolite mitochondrial toxicity would be the underlying mechanism. Treatment would be based on intravenous methylene blue. A clinical trial aimed at studying prophylaxis is in progress. A few number of patients have been cured until now.
Further studies are required to confirm the involved physiopathological mechanisms and methylene blue effects.
To study the effects of total flavonoids of Hippophae rhamnoides L. (TFH) on the expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP-1) in aorta of Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats (SHR) and to study the relationship of expression of MCP-1 in aorta and intimal medial thickness (IMT) of aorta.
Twelve-week-old male SHR (n=12) were randomly devided into three groups to receive TFH [30 mg/(kg x d), n=4], Enalapril [10 mg/(kg x d), n= 4] and Hydrochlorothiazide [25 mg/(kg x d), n=4] for 12 weeks, respectively. Another 4 SHR and 4 WKY which receive placebo served as positive control group and negative control group. The systolic blood pressure (SBP), intimal medial thickness and inside diameter of aorta of the rats were measured. The expression of MCP-1 in aorta was examined by real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry and the concentration of serum MCP-1 protein by ELSA.
Twelve weeks later, systolic blood pressure in TFH was significantly decreased, compared with that in Enalapril and Hydrochlorothiazide without statistical differences. TFH markedly reduced the intimal medial thickness of aorta and expression of MCP-1 in aorta, similar with Enalapril, stronger than Hydrochlorothiazide.
TFH can markedly decrease SBP of SHR and the decrease value of the TFH group was similar with that of the Enalapril and Hydrochlorothiazide group. TFH may inhibit the expression of MCP-1 in aorta and intimal medial thickness of aorta beyond BP Lowering effect. The effect of THF on the expression of MCP-1 and intimal medial thickness of aorta was similar with Enalapril. TFH may through inhibite the expression of MCP-1 in aorta to reduce the intimal medial thickness of aorta and protect hypertensive injury in target organs.
