The correlations between mRNA expressions of 5-fluorouracil(5-FU)-related enzymes; thymidylate synthase(TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase(DPD), thymidine phosphorylase(TP), and orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT)in breast cancers, along with disease-free survival(DFS), were investigated in 35 patients treated with postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy using cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil(CMF). The patients treated with CMF were divided into two groups, a lower group(L group)and a higher group(H group), according to the median value of the mRNA expression for each enzyme in 220 breast cancer specimens, which were resected between 1996 and 1998 in our institute. 5-year DFS was not significantly different between TS-L and H group(60% and 80%, p=0.38), DPD-L and H group(57.9% and 86.7%, p=0.088), and TP-L and H group(70% and 73.3%, p=0.89), respectively. 5-year DFS in the OPRT-H group(88.9%)was significantly better than that in the OPRT-L group(50%) (p=0.024). In the OPRT-H group, despite the fact that the proportion of patients with lymph node involvement in the CMF group was significantly higher than that in the postoperative adjuvant hormone therapy group, 5-year DFS was not significantly different between the two groups(p=0.10). Our results suggest that OPRT level was the significant predictive marker for DFS in the breast cancer patients treated with postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy using CMF.
Serial neurological evaluation was performed on 40 consecutive children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) at the time of diagnosis and during treatment. Abnormal neurological signs were found in 23% of the patients, including some without neurological symptoms on admission. Six patients (15%) had abnormal funduscopy findings, papilloedema or preretinal haemorrhages, and 3 of them had increased intracranial pressure measured in connection with a diagnostic lumbar puncture but without blasts in their CSF. The reason for the increased intracranial pressure remained unclear. The development of neurological symptoms caused by peripheral neuropathy during induction therapy was related to the total dose and duration of vincristine therapy. The most severe walking difficulties, patients moving about on all fours for as long as 6 weeks-5 months, occurred in a group who were significantly younger than the other children (P < 0.03). Fine and gross motor disturbances occurred in 18% and 30% of the whole patient group, respectively, after 2-3 years of therapy. Impaired short-term memory was observed in 21% of the patients after 2-3 years of therapy, indicating impaired CNS function. The results indicate that chemotherapy also seems to influence CNS abilities, since there was no significant difference between the patients treated with or without cranial irradiation. Neurological evaluation of children with ALL at diagnosis and during treatment is of value with respect to abnormal findings which persist and are not caused by leukaemia, in order to determine the types of difficulties involved and to consider intervention.
To compare the efficacy and safety of itraconazole and griseofulvin in a double-blind parallel study of 20 patients with microscopically and/or culturally proven tinea pedis and/or tinea manus.
A 4 week study was undertaken with patients randomised to receive either itraconazole 100 mg or griseofulvin 500 mg once daily for 4 weeks. Microscopy and cultures were performed prior to and at the end of the treatment and 2 weeks posttreatment.
After 4 weeks therapy, 50% of itraconazole-treated patients and 30% of griseofulvin-treated patients had negative microscopy; 70% and 50% of these patients, respectively, had negative microscopy at follow up 2 weeks later. A combined score of all clinical assessments showed a statistically significant (p < 0.05) difference at the follow up visit in favour of itraconazole. There was no statistically significant difference with regard to haematological or biochemical measurements, or in urinalysis results, either within or between treatment groups. Six patients reported mild adverse effects (itraconazole = 5, griseofulvin = 1), none of which warranted treatment withdrawal.
The findings of this study suggest that itraconazole is more effective than griseofulvin in the symptomatic treatment of tinea pedis and/or manus.
For the classification of respiratory sensitizing chemicals, no validated in vivo nor in vitro tests are currently available. In this study, we evaluated whether respiratory sensitizers trigger specific signals in human bronchial epithelial (BEAS-2B) cells at the level of the transcriptome. The cells were exposed during 6, 10, and 24h to 4 respiratory sensitizers and 6 non-respiratory sensitizers (3 skin sensitizers and 3 respiratory irritants) at a concentration inducing 20% cell viability loss after 24h. Changes in gene expression were evaluated using Agilent Whole Human Genome 4×44K oligonucleotide arrays. A limited number of 11 transcripts could be identified as potential biomarkers to identify respiratory sensitizers. Three of these transcripts are associated to immune system processes (HSPA5, UPP1, and SEPRINE1). In addition, the transcriptome was screened for transcripts that are differentially expressed compared to vehicle control for each chemical. The results show that the NRF2-mediated oxidative stress response is activated in the cell line after stimulation with all of the chemicals that were selected in our study, and that - at the level of gene expression - this pathway shows no potential to discriminate between any of the three compound groups: respiratory sensitizers, skin sensitizers, or electrophilic respiratory irritants.
Nicardipine, a new calcium channel blocking drug of the dihydropyridine family, was administered to 63 patients at a dose of 30 or 40 mg 3 times daily in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial. Nicardipine midly increased heart rate (HR) at rest and midly decreased the blood pressure (BP) at rest. When generally similar responses to the 30- and 40-mg doses were averaged, nicardipine produced a 7% increase in peak exercise HR, which was balanced by a 6% decrease in peak exercise BP. Thus, no change occurred in the exercise HR-BP product. With nicardipine, treadmill exercise duration increased 9%, time to angina increased 15%, time to 1-mm ST-segment depression increased 16%, and oxygen consumption at peak exercise increased 13%. Mean anginal frequency declined, as did mean weekly sublingual nitroglycerin consumption, but not significantly. There were more cardiovascular side effects with nicardipine than with placebo, with at least 3 patients having increased angina judged by investigators as probably related to the drug. Vasodilatory side effects were also more frequent with nicardipine, but were generally mild and well tolerated; the drug had to be discontinued in only 1 patient, because of vasodilatory effects. Nicardipine is effective and generally well tolerated in patients with chronic stable angina.
Cinnarizine and flunarizine are selective calcium blockers that have been used to treat and prevent vertigo. We studied 15 patients who had extrapyramidal syndromes after taking these drugs. Eleven patients had parkinsonism, one with persistent akathisia as well; one had an orofacial tremor; one, acute akathisia alone; and one an acute dystonic reaction. All but one improved when the drug therapy was discontinued. Seven patients were also depressed during treatment. Cinnarizine and flunarizine must therefore be added to the list of potentially risky drugs known to induce extrapyramidal reactions and depression.
Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) have been suggested to act beneficially on pancreatic islet function and on beta-cell viability but data concerning direct effects on isolated islets are controversial. Therefore, we have examined parameters of pancreatic insulin and glucagon secretion and biosynthesis in TZD-exposed rat pancreatic islets under physiological glucose level conditions and under conditions of glucolipotoxicity. Primary rat islets were incubated for 2.5 h with or without troglitazone (10 microM) in 5.6 mM glucose (standard glucose levels) and 16.7 mM glucose (high glucose levels); a subgroup was additionally treated with oleate (200 microM) to simulate acute glucolipotoxicity. Insulin and glucagon secretion, intracellular content and their respective mRNAs were quantified. Newly synthesized insulin was determined by pulse-labeling experiments. Troglitazone reduced insulin secretion at standard and high glucose levels by about one-third (P<or=0.05). Insulin content was decreased at 5.6 mM glucose but increased at 16.7 mM glucose by the presence of troglitazone (P<or=0.05). Newly synthesized insulin mRNA and preproinsulin mRNA decreased by about 20% at standard glucose levels (P<or=0.05). Glucagon secretion was augmented by troglitazone in islets under high glucose conditions by an additional 50% (P<or=0.05). No clear beneficial troglitazone effects were observed under glucolipotoxic conditions. The reduced insulin secretion and biosynthesis at standard glucose levels can be interpreted as an insulin-sparing effect. Troglitazone effects were less pronounced at high glucose alone or in combination with oleate. From a clinical point of view, these results indicate a greater benefit of troglitazone for beta-cell function in hyperinsulinemic, but normoglycemic patients with insulin resistance or early type 2 diabetes without major insulin secretion deficits and/or pronounced hyperglycemia.
Abnormal Zinc and Copper metabolism were studied in rats with tetracycline-induced fatty liver and compared with normal rats. The present work recorded decreased serum zinc concentration with increased copper concentration in the tetracycline-injected rats. The results also showed that the liver and heart zinc were significantly decreased; meanwhile it was observed that the concentration of zinc in the kidney tissue of fatty liver rats was significantly raised in comparison with those of normal rats. Histopathological studies of the kidney tissue showed degenerative changes in the tables with areas of focal necrosis. Renal tubular necrosis in such cases is largely caused by the toxic degradation products of tetracycline metabolism. The kidney lesion together with impaired gastrointestinal absorption contributed to the hypozincaemia observed in the present results. Although the present data showed a significant reduction in serum zinc and significant rise in plasma insulin in the fatty liver rats there was nonsignificant correlation between the two variables as compared with the normal rats. The positive correlation between serum zinc concentration and reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) emphasizes the role of zinc deficiency in atherosclerotic disease in fatty liver.
Acyclovir produces neurologic symptoms that resemble extension of viral infection into the central nervous system. We discuss our observations in the cases of two patients with acyclovir neurotoxicity and review the findings of all previous reports in the English language literature. Systemic disease, most commonly renal dysfunction, preceded all 30 reported cases of acyclovir neurotoxicity. The most common symptoms were mental status disorder and involuntary movements. Measurement of serum acyclovir levels substantiated the diagnosis in only a subset of patients. Although all patients recovered, hemodialysis hastened the rate of recovery.
The pulmonary pathogenesis triggered by benzene exposure was studied. Since the role of the connexin 32 (Cx32) gap junction protein in mouse pulmonary pathogenesis has been suggested, in the present study, we explored a possible role of Cx32 in benzene-induced pulmonary pathogenesis using the wild-type (WT) and Cx32 knockout (KO) mice. The mice were exposed to 300 ppm benzene by inhalation for 6 h per day, 5 days per week for a total of 26 weeks, and then sacrificed to evaluate the pneumotoxicity or allowed to live out their life span to evaluate the reversibility of the lesions and tumor incidence. Our results clearly revealed exacerbated pneumotoxicity in the benzene-exposed Cx32 KO mice, characterized by diffuse granulomatous interstitial pneumonia, markedly increased mucin secretion of bronchial/bronchiolar and alveolar epithelial cells, and hyperplastic alveolar epithelial cells positive for CYP2E1. But the results did not indicate any enhancement of pulmonary tumorigenesis in the Cx32 KO mice though the number of animals was small.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a multispecies reproductive toxicant, and it has been recently classified by IARC as a known human carcinogen. Here, we report that TCDD promotes the development of ovarian tumors in an initiation-promotion model in female Sprague Dawley rats. Rats were initiated with diethylnitrosamine (DEN) or vehicle at 70 days of age. Starting 2 or 18 weeks after initiation, rats were exposed biweekly to TCDD at a daily average dose of 125 ng/kg/day for 14, 30, or 60 weeks continuously or for 30 weeks plus withdrawal periods of 16 or 30 weeks. Fifteen of 76 (20%) rats initiated with DEN and promoted with TCDD for various lengths of time developed ovarian sex cord-stromal tumors of Sertoli cell type, whereas no ovarian tumors developed in 86 rats used as vehicle controls or that received DEN alone or TCDD alone. The highest tumor incidence occurred in 6 of 14 rats (43%) after 60 weeks of continuous TCDD after DEN initiation. One of six rats developed a tumor by 30 weeks of exposure. Because most effects of TCDD can be attributed to its activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), the presence and localization of AhR was determined in the rat ovary and in the ovarian tumors by reverse transcription-PCR, immunohistochemistry, and in situ hybridization. AhR was localized to oocytes, granulosa and thecal cells of growing follicles, surface epithelial cells, and epithelial cells lining single tubules in ovaries from adult control Sprague Dawley rats. Neoplastic cells in the ovarian tumors were also positive for both AhR message and protein. These results indicate that the ability of TCDD to cause ovarian tumors is dependent on initiation, length of promotion, and age of the animal when exposed and evaluated. The tumor type induced by TCDD in this experimental system is the same histological subtype as that reported from an early study of youngsters exposed during an industrial accident in Seveso, Italy.
To provide additional quantification of the risk of flucloxacillin-related liver disease and to describe time trends in flucloxacillin prescribing in the UK.
This was a cohort study using data from the UK General Practice Research Database. We identified patients with a first-time prescription for flucloxacillin or, for comparison, oxytetracycline from 1992 to 2002 and cases who developed clinically documented cholestatic liver disease of uncertain origin after first-time use of these drugs. We also determined the annual frequency of first-time use of flucloxacillin from 1991 to 2000.
We identified 283 097 and 131 189 first-time users of flucloxacillin and oxytetracycline, respectively. The risk of cholestatic liver disease per 100 000 first-time users was 8.5 (95% CI 5.4, 12.6) in the 1-45 days and 1.8 (95% CI 0.6, 4.1) in the 46-90 days after starting flucloxacillin, and 0.8 (95% CI 0.02, 4.3) in the 1-45 days after starting oxytetracycline. The frequency of first-time use of flucloxacillin remained stable between 1991 and 2000.
Flucloxacillin is now established as an important cause of cholestatic liver disease. Warnings about the risk have not had an impact on prescribing practices in the UK, where it remains the predominantly prescribed antistaphylococcal oral antibiotic. This situation in the UK is in sharp contrast to regulatory actions and changes in prescribing habits in Australia after identification of the risk of cholestasis associated with flucloxacillin, and to the predominant use of the alternative drug dicloxacillin in the USA.
The neuroprotective effect of BGP-15 against peripheral sensory neuropathy was studied in rats that were exposed to short-term cisplatin or taxol administration. The changes of nerve conduction velocity were determined in situ after treating the Wistar rats with BGP-15 (50, 100, and 200 mg/kg po daily doses throughout the experiment), cisplatin (1.5 mg/kg ip daily dose for 5 days), or taxol (5.0 mg/kg ip daily dose every other day in a 10-day interval) alone or giving the test compound in combination with cisplatin or taxol. Electrophysiological recordings were carried out in vivo by stimulating the sciatic nerve at both sciatic notch and ankle site. Neither motor nor sensory nerve conduction velocity was altered by any dose level of BGP-15 tested. Both anticancer drugs decreased the sensory nerve conduction velocity (SNCV). BGP-15 treatment prevented the impairment of SNCV either in part or totally in the cisplatin- or taxol-treated groups. This neuroprotective potential of BGP-15 could be well correlated with its recently described poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase- inhibitory effect and its ability to protect against the damages induced by the increased level of reactive oxygen species in response to anticancer treatment.
A variety of hemostatic agents and techniques have been used in an attempt to reduce intraoperative blood loss and postoperative bleeding in tonsillectomy. The efficacy of most of these substances and techniques has been judged primarily on clinical impressions. Because of the paucity of prospective studies, a randomized, prospective, double-blind study, using the patients as their own controls, was conducted. Ninety-two patients were injected before tonsillectomy in a random, double-blind fashion with normal saline solution in one tonsil and 1:100,000 epinephrine in the other. The blood loss, time of dissection, and postoperative bleeding were recorded separately for each tonsil. Cardiac manifestations were also monitored. The tonsils injected with epinephrine had a statistically significant reduction in blood loss and dissection time when compared with those injected with normal saline. Subjectively, dissection was easier on the epinephrine-injected side. There was no difference in the incidence of postoperative hemorrhage. Cardiac manifestations of epinephrine were minimal and transient. This study demonstrates that epinephrine is useful in reducing hemorrhage during tonsillectomy and can be used safely with the appropriate inhalation anesthetics.
Surfactant protein D (SP-D) has important immuno-modulatory properties. The absence of SP-D results in an inducible NO synthase (iNOS, coded by NOS2 gene) related chronic inflammation, development of emphysema-like pathophysiology and alterations of surfactant homeostasis.
In order to test the hypothesis that SP-D deficiency related abnormalities in pulmonary structure and function are a consequence of iNOS induced inflammation, we generated SP-D and iNOS double knockout mice (DiNOS).
Structural data obtained by design-based stereology to quantify the emphysema-like phenotype and disturbances of the intracellular surfactant were correlated to invasive pulmonary function tests and inflammatory markers including activation markers of alveolar macrophages and compared to SP-D (Sftpd(-/-)) and iNOS single knockout mice (NOS2(-/-)) as well as wild type (WT) littermates.
DiNOS mice had reduced inflammatory cells in BAL and BAL-derived alveolar macrophages showed an increased expression of markers of an alternative activation as well as reduced inflammation. As evidenced by increased alveolar numbers and surface area, emphysematous changes were attenuated in DiNOS while disturbances of the surfactant system remained virtually unchanged. Sftpd(-/-) demonstrated alterations of intrinsic mechanical properties of lung parenchyma as shown by reduced stiffness and resistance at its static limits, which could be corrected by additional ablation of NOS2 gene in DiNOS.
iNOS related inflammation in the absence of SP-D is involved in the emphysematous remodeling leading to a loss of alveoli and associated alterations of elastic properties of lung parenchyma while disturbances of surfactant homeostasis are mediated by different mechanisms.
Persistent hyperparathyroidism is observed in 17% to 50% of patients at 1 year after renal transplantation. In 10% of these patients, hypercalcemia is also present. This condition increases the risk of vascular calcification, correlating with inferior graft function among patients with interstitial calcification in the renal allograft. Hypertension is appears in 60% to 90% of patients after transplantation, favoring progressive graft dysfunction. Hypercalcemia per se causes hypertension. Parathyroid hormone can potentiate the pressor effects of hypercalcemia. Fourteen renal transplant recipients were included based upon: total serum calcium > 10.0 mg/dL, intact parathyroid hormone levels > 70 pg/mL, graft function > 6 months, creatinine clearance > 50 mL/min, and stable immunosuppressive therapy. We also examined blood pressure and antihypertensive treatment. Initially patients received 30 mg of cinacalcet once a day. The follow-up was up to 6 months. The mean cinacalcet dose was 40 mg/24 h. Five patients received 60 mg/24 h. Both serum calcium and iPTH decreased significantly from 10.6 (DE 0.4) to 9.8 (DE Both serum calcium and iPTH decreased significantly from 10.6 (DE 0.4)to 9.8 (DE 0.6) mg/dL (P < .001) and from 195.0 (DE 140.0) to 118.62 (DE 102.2; P < .0001). There were no significant changes in renal function, proteinuria, or tacrolimus levels. Mean blood pressure diminished from 94.1 (DE 12.0) to 88.0 (DE 7.5) mm Hg (P < .019) with no changes in antihypertensive treatment. Cinacalcet was suspended in one patient because of gastrointestinal discomfort and in another one because the iPTH was reduced to 51 pg/mL. Cinacalcet is an effective treatment for persistent hyperparathyroidism associated with hypercalcemia among renal transplant patients and may be helpful for hypertension control.
The rapid development of hyperkalemia leading to cardiac arrest can occur in patients with spinal cord injuries and other conditions when succinylcholine is used during the induction of anesthesia. Three patients with thoracolumbar spinal cord injuries resulting in lower motor neuron lesions or lesions above the lower extremity motor units developed hyperkalemia followed by cardiac arrest after succinylcholine administration. The mechanism by which succinylcholine leads to hyperkalemia from denervated muscle is described and precautions to be taken are mentioned. Physicians caring for patients with denervated muscle due to spinal cord injuries should be aware of this danger and nondepolarizing muscle relaxants should be used instead of succinylcholine.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is closely related to exposure to asbestos, and a rapid increase in the number of MPM patients is therefore estimated to occur from 2010 to 2040 in Japan. Because MPM is refractory to conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy, the prognosis of MPM patients is extremely poor. MYO18B, a novel member of the myosin family, is a tumor suppressor gene isolated from a homozygously deleted region at 22q12.1 in a lung cancer cell line. The inactivation of the MYO18B gene plays an important role in several malignant diseases. However, the role of MYO18B in the progression of MPM is still unknown. Six different human MPM cell lines were used in this study. Western blot revealed that none of the cell lines expressed a detectable level of MYO18B protein. One of the MPM cell lines, EHMES-10, was transfected with the MYO18B gene. We found that a restored expression of the MYO18B protein in EHMES-10 cells resulted in the inhibition of their anchorage-independent growth and motility in vitro. In addition, it also inhibited their ectopic (subcutaneous space) and orthotopic (thoracic cavity) growth in SCID mice, in association with an increased degree of cell apoptosis. Furthermore, it also suppressed the production of bloody pleural effusion after orthotopic injection. These findings suggest that the restored expression of MYO18B may be a useful therapeutic strategy for the treatment of locally advanced MPM in humans.
I report a 35-year-old woman with occult coronary artery disease who experienced cardiac arrest within minutes after receiving a first-time dose of subcutaneous sumatriptan for migraine. The patient was resuscitated, and subsequent serial cardiac enzymes indicated myocardial infarction. Because sumatriptan can cause coronary artery vasospasm, patients with significant risk factors for coronary artery disease should be carefully evaluated for cardiovascular disease prior to the use of sumatriptan.
Gemcitabine therapy has been associated with radiation recall reactions when used in the treatment of carcinoma. We report four cases of hemodynamically significant pericardial effusion in patients with refractory lymphoma who were receiving gemcitabine, all of whom had a history of mediastinal radiation without subcarinal blocking. All four patients had pericardial abnormalities on echocardiography prior to receiving gemcitabine. Two patients required emergent surgical procedures. Of twenty other patients in our practice who received gemcitabine for refractory lymphoma without developing pericardial effusion, none had received prior direct radiation to the heart. The overall response rate of these 24 refractory lymphomas to gemcitabine-containing regimens was 46%. Although gemcitabine-based regimens have clear efficacy in refractory lymphoma, prior mediastinal radiation without subcarinal blocking may be a relative contraindication, especially in the presence of pericardial abnormalities on echocardiography. Physicians should be aware of the potential for developing a gemcitabine-induced radiation recall reaction resulting in hemodynamically significant pericardial effusion.
A 58-year-old schizophrenic male who had been drinking at least 4-5 l of pure water every day for 30 years was admitted to a hospital with complaints of nausea, fatigue, and irregular, fluctuating fevers (up to 39 degrees C). He had previously been prescribed fluoxetine at a dose of 20 mg/day and had been using the drug for 28 days.
Review of medical history, physical examination, blood analysis, urine analysis, chest radiography and abdominal ultrasound.
Psychogenic polydipsia and fluoxetine-induced syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion.
Fluid restriction and discontinuation of fluoxetine.
Fourteen patients suffering from rosacea treated by prolonged topical applications of fluorinated steroids showed adverse effects. Aggravation and extension of telangiectasia occurred in all, and in most cessation of the treatment was followed by severe rebound inflammatory oedema and acute pustular eruption. The telangiectasia cleared or was much improved within three months of cessation of the use of fluorinated steroids. Hydrocortisone did not produce the same effect, and hence it was used, together with oral tetracycline, for treatment.
During neuroleptic treatment with clozapine, transitory reversible rise in transaminases is not rare, while severe parenchymal damage with icterus has not previously been reported. Such a case is now described: a 54-year-old woman developed clozapine-induced cholestasis with severe liver damage.
We report on an 11-year-old pupil who present-ed to a neurological practice in the company of his parents because of migraine and strong headaches. Precise anamnesis of drugs yielded the diagnosis of a drug-induced headache with underlying migraine disease. The boy was afflict-ed with a hereditary taint, as both parents also suffered from migraine. The mother was also continuously in treatment because of a chronic pain disorder. Therapy with up to 50 mg per day of amitriptyline enabled the boy to stop consuming analgesics without suffering from head-aches. Moreover, under 47.5 mg per day of metoprolol, the migraine symptoms did not re-occur.
To evaluate the possible association between all kinds of drug treatments during pregnancy and isolated cleft lip with or without cleft palate (CL/P) and posterior cleft palate (PCP) in the offspring.
The dataset of the large population-based Hungarian Case-Control Surveillance of Congenital Abnormalities, 1980-1996, was evaluated.
One thousand three hundred seventy-four cases with isolated CL/P and 601 with PCP, plus 38,151 population controls (without birth defects) and 20,868 malformed controls with other defects.
In this observation case-control study the data collection was based on prospective medical records particularly prenatal logbook, retrospective maternal data via a self-reported questionnaire, and home visits of nonresponding mothers.
Isolated CL/P and PCP associated with drug treatments during pregnancy.
An increased risk for isolated CL/P was found in cases born to mothers treated with amoxicillin, phenytoin, oxprenolol, and thiethylperazine during the second and third month of pregnancy, i.e., the critical period of isolated CL/P. Risk of isolated PCP was increased in mothers with oxytetracycline and carbamazepine treatment during the third and fourth month of pregnancy, i.e., the critical period of PCP.
This study confirmed the orofacial cleft (OFC) inducing effect of phenytoin, carbamazepine, oxytetracycline, and thiethylperazine and suggested a possible association between OFCs and oxprenolol and amoxicillin. However, drugs may have only a limited role in the origin of isolated OFCs.
The pharmacology of central alpha-adrenoceptor-stimulating agents is discussed, with particular reference to clonidine (Catapres; Boehringer Ingelheim) and guanfacine (Estulic; Sandoz), and their haemodynamic effects are compared and contrasted. The main differences between the effects of clonidine and guanfacine on hypertension are: guanfacine activates presynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors 10 times more selectively than clonidine; guanfacine has an alpha 2/alpha 1-selectivity ration 25 times higher than clonidine; clonidine decreases cardiac output and guanfacine decreases peripheral resistance, clonidine has no effect on stroke volume but guanfacine increases it; and when the clonidine withdrawal syndrome in the spontaneously hypertensive rat is compared with cessation of guanfacine treatment at an equipotent antihypertensive dose, the withdrawal syndrome after guanfacine appears later and is much less severe. Guanfacine may be preferable to clonidine as a central alpha-adrenoceptor stimulant in the treatment of hypertension.
The antiestrogen tamoxifen is commonly used to treat breast cancer, but it also has therapeutic activity in several other types of cancer. Many of these tumors, including malignant gliomas, are estrogen receptor negative. Nonetheless, high concentrations of tamoxifen can directly reduce cell proliferation in some of these tumors and induce apoptosis. In this study, the role of tamoxifen in calcium signaling and calcium-induced cell death was studied in both malignant glioma cell lines and MCF-7 breast cancer cells. Tamoxifen potently increased the spatial expansion of calcium waves by 30-150% while significantly enhancing and prolonging agonist-induced calcium elevations. Furthermore, tamoxifen pretreatment accelerated calcium ionophore-induced death by more than 20 min, suggesting that tamoxifen lowered cellular resistance to calcium loads. In contrast to its potentiating of calcium signaling in tumors, tamoxifen had no significant effect on calcium signaling in cultures of primary astrocytes from either human or rat brain. This study demonstrates the existence of calcium signaling in breast cancer and glioma cells and identifies tamoxifen as a potential modulator of tumor-associated calcium signaling.
