Amphotericin B's (Amp B) usefulness is associated with a number of toxic cellular side effects. We investigated the in vivo effects of Amp B on the lipid peroxide (malondialdehyde [MDA]) levels in various organs of rats infused with 1.5 mg/kg body weight of Amp B. The rats (n = 8) experienced cardiac arrest following Amp B infusion. Among the organs, the kidney exhibited higher levels of MDA and was followed by brain > liver > lung > heart. Pretreatment of rats with 0.35 g/kg body weight of fructose-1,6-diphosphate (FDP) prior to Amp B infusion reduced the extent of MDA formation in all organs. These studies suggest that Amp B-associated toxicity in rats may involve the formation of lipid peroxide damage and FDP, in part by reducing these effects, may afford partial protection.
The effects of regression of left ventricular hypertrophy following atenolol and bunazosin therapy on ischemic cardiac function and myocardial metabolism in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were studied. Atenolol (50 mg/kg/day) and bunazosin (5 mg/kg/day) were administered to SHR from 19 to 26 weeks of age, whereas tap water was given to control SHR and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). Both atenolol and bunazosin significantly decreased arterial blood pressure and significantly decelerated the increase in left ventricular weight in SHR. At the end of the long-term treatment, hearts were removed and perfused by the working heart technique for 15 min, and then global ischemia was induced for either 10 or 30 min. The ischemic heart was reperfused for 30 min. The pressure-rate product and the extent of recovery of the coronary flow after reperfusion following 30 min of ischemia in the bunazosin-treated SHR were significantly higher than those in the control SHR and the atenolol-treated SHR. The levels of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), creatine phosphate (CrP), and energy charge potential in the SHR heart reperfused after 30 min of ischemia were significantly lower than those in the reperfused WKY. Both atenolol and bunazosin improved the restoration of ATP and CrP in SHR after reperfusion following 30 min of ischemia. In conclusion, antihypertensive therapy with either atenolol or bunazosin was effective in preventing cardiac hypertrophy and ischemic damage caused by different mechanisms. Factors resulting from stimulation of the cardiac alpha 1 adrenoceptor may play an important role in the development of hypertensive cardiac hypertrophy, just as factors resulting from stimulation of the beta 1-adrenoceptor do.
A 27-year-old woman experienced feelings of unreality and fear after taking an oral contraceptive in the form of birth control pills. She subsequently experienced a panic attack just after she had stopped taking the pills. This was characterized by palpitation, general fatigue, trembling of the whole body, and dyspnea. The panic disorder experienced by the patient could have been due to the drug's potentiating of the sympathoadrenal response to simple physiological stimuli, or possibly to a disorder in psychological functioning caused by an anxiotropic effect of rapid endocrinological change.
Panic attacks occur more often in females than males with onset usually in the late 20s. A 27-year old woman who experienced a panic attach (heart palpitations, fatigue, bodily shaking, labored breathing, and feelings of terror and being out of control) after she stopped taking a combined oral contraceptive (COC) (.5 norgestrel and .05 mg ethinyl estradiol) was admitted to Osaka Medical College in Takatsuki, Japan. She experienced depression at 18 and took limited amounts of antidepressants for only 1 year. When she started taking the COC at 27, she experienced feelings of unreality and fear, hyperventilation, and heart palpitations. Laboratory results showed lower than normal levels of plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and a low estradiol level. Yet the plasma cortisol level was much high than normal (22.5 mcg/d1 vs. 3-15.2 mcg/d1). Administration of 200 mg sulpiride/day and 1.2 mg alprazolam/day alleviated almost all symptoms. She did experience mild phobic avoidance and anxiety, however. After successful treatment in the hospital, she discharged herself. Because she was concerned that the panic attacks would recur, she was provided with information on her disorder. She agreed to continue the medication. 1 possible explanation for this case is rapid endocrinological change induced by the ingestion and stopping of the COC which in turn induced a sympatho-adrenal response (her high cortisol levels) to several simple physiological stimuli. Another possible explanation is the COC induced rapid endocrinological changes that may have brought on an anxiotropic effect in someone who had earlier experienced depression.
Amphetamine and cocaine dependence present significant public health concerns, yet no broadly effective pharmacotherapy for stimulant dependence has been developed. Two human laboratory studies are reviewed that tested the ability of aripiprazole, a novel antipsychotic with partial agonist activity at D2 dopamine receptors, to alter the behavioral effects of stimulants using d-amphetamine as a model agent. In each of these experiments, volunteers learned to discriminate 15 mg d-amphetamine (i.e., > or =80% drug-appropriate responding over 4 consecutive sessions). The effects of a range of doses of d-amphetamine (0, 2.5, 5, 10, and 15 mg) were then tested alone and following pretreatment with aripiprazole (20 mg in Experiment 1; 10 mg in Experiment 2). In Experiment 1, aripiprazole (20 mg) attenuated the discriminative stimulus and many of the subject-rated effects of amphetamine. Aripiprazole alone produced performance decrements. To determine whether a lower dose of aripiprazole would also attenuate the behavioral effects of d-amphetamine without impairing performance, Experiment 2 was conducted. Aripiprazole (10 mg) failed to alter the discriminative-stimulus effects but attenuated some of the subject-rated effects of d-amphetamine. This dose of aripiprazole did not impair performance. The results of these experiments indicate that aripiprazole may have clinical utility in treating stimulant dependence. Future human laboratory research should better model the clinical use of aripiprazole by examining the effects of chronic aripiprazole combined with either methamphetamine or cocaine in dependent individuals. A large-scale clinical trial is also needed to evaluate the efficacy of aripiprazole for the treatment of stimulant dependence.
A key question in hypertension is: How is long-term blood pressure controlled? A clue is that chronic salt retention elevates an endogenous ouabain-like compound (EOLC) and induces salt-dependent hypertension mediated by Na(+)/Ca(2)(+) exchange (NCX). The precise mechanism, however, is unresolved. Here we study blood pressure and isolated small arteries of mice with reduced expression of Na(+) pump alpha1 (alpha1(+/-)) or alpha2 (alpha2(+/-)) catalytic subunits. Both low-dose ouabain (1-100 nm; inhibits only alpha2) and high-dose ouabain (> or =1 microm; inhibits alpha1) elevate myocyte Ca(2)(+) and constrict arteries from alpha1(+/-), as well as alpha2(+/-) and wild-type mice. Nevertheless, only mice with reduced alpha2 Na(+) pump activity (alpha2(+/-)), and not alpha1 (alpha1(+/-)), have elevated blood pressure. Also, isolated, pressurized arteries from alpha2(+/-), but not alpha1(+/-), have increased myogenic tone. Ouabain antagonists (PST 2238 and canrenone) and NCX blockers (SEA0400 and KB-R7943) normalize myogenic tone in ouabain-treated arteries. Only the NCX blockers normalize the elevated myogenic tone in alpha2(+/-) arteries because this tone is ouabain independent. All four agents are known to lower blood pressure in salt-dependent and ouabain-induced hypertension. Thus, chronically reduced alpha2 activity (alpha2(+/-) or chronic ouabain) apparently regulates myogenic tone and long-term blood pressure whereas reduced alpha1 activity (alpha1(+/-)) plays no persistent role: the in vivo changes in blood pressure reflect the in vitro changes in myogenic tone. Accordingly, in salt-dependent hypertension, EOLC probably increases vascular resistance and blood pressure by reducing alpha2 Na(+) pump activity and promoting Ca(2)(+) entry via NCX in myocytes.
An open trial was carried out on ten middle-aged and elderly patients in cardiac failure to assess the effect on plasma potassium levels of one or more tablets containing 40 mg frusemide and a controlled-release formulation containing 600 mg potassium chloride. Patients had previously been maintained on frusemide and potassium supplements given as separate tablets. No significant rise or fall was observed when treatment was changed to the combined tablet.
Nine patients with intracerebral metastasis from lung carcinoma were treated with intracarotid and intravertebral artery infusion of 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU). Four of these patients considered definite responders showed unequivocal clinical improvement and definite decreases in the size of tumors evaluated by neurologic examination, computerized tomographic (CT) scan and radionuclide brain scan (RBS). One patient's clinical condition stabilized with doubtful improvement of diagnostic tests (probable responder). The remaining four patients had further unfavorable progression of the clinical and scan findings and were clearly nonresponders. Complications were transient and included: local pain in the eye, orbit, and occipital-nuchal area during infusion in 7 patients, focal seizure in 3 patients, mild confusion with disorientation in 2 patients, and nausea in 2 patients. Our findings suggest that intra-arterial BCNU therapy may be effective and may be used as an adjuvant to surgery and/or radiotherapy for the treatment of metastatic brain tumor from lung carcinoma.
People with intellectual disabilities may be at greater risk of developing movement disorders as a consequence of their underlying neurological damage, especially when they are treated with typical antipsychotic agents. Aripiprazole is a novel antipsychotic quinolone derivative that has been approved for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults. However, there are few reports on the use of aripiprazole in people with intellectual disabilities. Herein, we report on the use of aripiprazole in five individuals with intellectual disabilities and psychotic illness (four cases) or challenging behaviour (one case). Four of the five patients had an additional diagnosis of schizophrenia and one had autism spectrum disorder and challenging behaviour. Issues related to the usefulness of aripiprazole in the management of schizophrenia and challenging behaviour in people with intellectual disabilities are also discussed. Aripiprazole was well tolerated and effective in each of the cases and appears to be a safe and efficacious alternative in the management of patients with both intellectual disabilities and schizophrenia. It can also be a useful treatment option in the management of challenging behaviour, especially when it is used as a part of a biopsychosocial approach.
The experimental model of cortical dysplasia (CD) obtained by administering carmustine (1-3-bis-chloroethyl-nitrosurea [BCNU]) in pregnant rat uterus mimics the histopathological abnormalities observed in human CD patients: altered cortical layering, and presence of heterotopia and dysmorphic/heterotopic neurons. To investigate further the cortical layering disruption and the neuronal composition of heterotopia in BCNU-exposed cortex, we analyzed the expression pattern of the transcription factors Nurr1, Er81, Ror-beta, and Cux2 (respectively specific markers of layers VI, V, IV and superficial layers) in the cortical areas of BCNU-treated rats by means of in situ hybridization, and compared the findings with those observed in adult control rats. Combining in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry we also investigated the origin of dysmorphic or heterotopic neurons. The main results of the present study are (i) the analysis of cortical layer thickness revealed that the cortical thinning in the BCNU model was prevalently restricted to the superficial layers; (ii) in cortical and periventricular heterotopia, the prevalent presence of superficial layer neurons in the internal areas, and deeper layer neurons in a more peripheral region, demonstrated a rudimentary pattern of laminar organization in nodule formation; and (iii) the Er81 signal in the dysmorphic and heterotopic pyramidal neurons located in layers I/II showed that they belong to layer V. These results shed light on the disorganization of the laminar architecture of the BCNU model by providing correlations with normal cortical layering and revealing the ontogenesis of heterotopia and heterotopic/dysmorphic neurons. They also provide strong evidence of the usefulness of layer-specific markers in investigating the neuropathology of CD, thus opening up the possibility of expanding their application to human neuropathology.
Only recently has a new experimental technique been developed which combines tonic and phasic painful stimulation. By means of this technique the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) ibuprofen has been shown to produce a dose-related decrease in heterotopically applied phasic and tonic pain. The present study aimed to investigate the dose-related effects of the NSAID ketoprofen (50, 100, and 150 mg i.v.) when tonic and phasic stimuli were applied homotopically. Eighteen healthy volunteers participated in the double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. After an initial training session subjects took part in four experiments, each of which was divided into three sessions (before, 30, and 120 min after drug administration). During each session 45 painful phasic CO2 stimuli of three concentrations were presented to the left nostril in randomized order (duration 200 ms; interval 40 s; 45%, 52%, and 59% v/v CO2). The left nostril was additionally stimulated with a constant stream of dry air, which produced a tonic painful sensation described as dull and burning. Subjects rated the intensity of the painful stimuli by means of visual analogue scales. Chemosomatosensory event-related potentials (CSSERPs) were recorded in response to phasic painful CO2 stimuli. Ketoprofen reduced the subjects' estimates of tonic pain in a dose-related manner. In contrast, given the special conditions of homotopic application of tonic and phasic painful stimuli, estimates of phasic pain increased significantly, corresponding to a significant increase in CSSERP amplitudes. An explanation of this inverse effect of the drug on responses to tonic and phasic pain may be a lateralized interaction between both C-fiber and A delta-fiber systems at a spinal or peripheral level.
We have already reported that the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk) is critical in the stimulation of cell proliferation during the promotion stage of urethane-induced lung tumorigenesis in mice. Also, we have found that vitamin E suppresses lung tumorigenesis by inhibiting cell proliferation at the promotion stage. However, it is still unclear whether this inhibitory effect at the promotion stage is based on the antioxidative effect of vitamin E or not. In order to address this question, we examined the inhibitory effect of alpha-tocopheryloxybutyric acid (TSE), an ether derivative of vitamin E that cannot act as an antioxidant in vivo, on cell proliferation and the activation of Erk during promotion of lung tumorigenesis. On day 30 after urethane injection (750 mg/kg, i. p.) in A/J mice, TSE or vitamin E at 100 micromol/kg, p.o. was administered. Twenty-four hours after the final administration, the mice were killed to analyze cell proliferation and related parameters. The labeling index of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (a marker of cell proliferation) and ornithine decarboxylase activity (a marker of the promotion stage in lungs) were attenuated by treatment with TSE or vitamin E. TSE or vitamin E treatment also inhibited urethane-induced activation of Erk and suppressed the activation of other essential members of the Erk cascade (Ras, Raf and Mek). These results suggest that vitamin E inhibits cell proliferation and activation of the Erk cascade during promotion of urethane-induced lung tumorigenesis in mice, independent of its antioxidative effect.
Topiramate, an anticonvulsant medication, is an efficacious treatment for alcohol dependence. To date, little is known about genetic moderators of side effects from topiramate. The objective of this study was to examine 3 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the glutamate receptor GluR5 gene (GRIK1) as predictors of topiramate-induced side effects in the context of a laboratory study of topiramate. Heavy drinkers (n=51, 19 women and 32 men), 75% of whom met criteria for an alcohol use disorder, completed a 5-week dose escalation schedule to a target dose of either 200 or 300 mg or matched placebo. The combined medication groups were compared with placebo-treated individuals for side effects at target dose. Analyses revealed that an SNP in intron 9 of the GRIK1 gene (rs2832407) was associated with the severity of topiramate-induced side effects and with serum levels of topiramate. Genes underlying glutamatergic neurotransmission, such as the GRIK1 gene, may help predict heterogeneity in topiramate-induced side effects. Future studies in larger samples are needed to more fully establish these preliminary findings.
The aromatic hydrocarbon responsiveness (Ah) locus has been correlated with genetic differences in the risk of drug toxicity, teratogenesis, chemical carcinogenesis, and mutagenesis. Hepatic cytosolic Ah receptor levels, 2-amino-5-chlorobenzoxazole (zoxazolamine) paralysis time following beta-naphthoflavone treatment and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH3, acetanilide 4-hydroxylase (Ac4H), and NAD(P)H:menadione oxidoreductase (NMOR)4, induction by 3-methylcholanthrene were studied in (a) the progenitors C57BL/6J (Ahb/Ahb) and DBA/2J (Ahd/Ahd) and 25 BXD recombinant inbred lines, (b) the progenitors C57BL/6N and C3H/HeN and 14 B6NXC3N recombinant inbred lines, and (c) the progenitors C57BL/6J and C3H/HeJ and 12 BXH recombinant inbred lines. The Ahb phenotype exhibits greater than 5 femtomole receptor/mg of cytosolic protein, less than or equal to 15 minutes zoxazolamine paralysis time, and twofold to 15-fold induction of these three hepatic enzyme activities; the Ahd phenotype exhibits less than or equal to 2 fmol receptor/mg protein, greater than 15 minutes zoxazolamine paralysis time, and less than 30% induction of these three activities. Among the BXD lines but especially among the B6NXC3N and BXH lines, high frequencies of recombination were found; the phenotype of each of the five parameters did not segregate with the phenotype of each of the other parameters in four or more recombinant lines. This report shows for the first time that AHH induction by 3-methylcholanthrene can occur in the Ahd phenotype mouse. These data underline the complexity of this genetic system when genes from C57BL/6 and DBA/2 are combined and particularly when genes from C57BL/6 and C3H/He inbred mouse strains are combined.
A role for enhanced opioid peptide transmission has been suggested in the genesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesia. However, basal ganglia nuclei other than the striatum have not been regarded as potential sources, and the opioid precursors have never been quantified simultaneously with the levels of opioid receptors at the peak of dyskinesia severity.
The levels of messenger RNA (mRNA) encoding the opioid precursors preproenkephalin-A and preproenkephalin-B in the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus and the levels of mu, delta, and kappa opioid receptors were measured within the basal ganglia of four groups of nonhuman primates killed at the peak of effect: normal, parkinsonian, parkinsonian chronically-treated with levodopa without exhibiting dyskinesia, and parkinsonian chronically-treated with levodopa showing overt dyskinesia.
Dyskinesia are associated with reduction in opioid receptor binding and specifically of kappa and mu receptor binding in the globus pallidus internalis (GPi), the main output structure of the basal ganglia. This decrease was correlated with enhancement of the expression of preproenkephalin-B mRNA but not that of preproenkephalin-A in the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus.
Abnormal transmission of preproenkephalin-B-derived opioid coming from the striatum and the subthalamic nucleus converges upon GPi at the peak of dose to induce levodopa-induced dyskinesia.
The present study was designed to compare the anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive effects of different classes of antidepressant drugs on the carrageenan paw oedema and tail-electric stimulation assays in the rat. Drugs were intraperitoneally administered 30 min prior to carrageenan or nociceptive testing. The non-selective noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitors imipramine, amitriptyline and clomipramine displayed anti-inflammatory activity in the carrageenan model of paw inflammation. The maximal degree of oedema inhibitions seen with these agents were 28.8, 41.5 and 46.8% for 5, 10 and 20 mg kg(-1) amitriptyline, 26.2, 38.2 and 51.4% for 3.75, 7.5 and 15 mg kg(-1) imipramine and 51.2 and 54.1% for 16 and 32 mg kg(-1) clomipramine, respectively. The heterocyclic agent trazodone significantly inhibited paw oedema by 46 and 41% at 1 and 2h after dosing at the highest dose (40 mg kg(-1)) examined. Fluoxetine, a selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) caused dose-related reduction of paw oedema, with 20.7% inhibition at the dose of 10 mg kg(-1). In contrast, sertraline, another SSRI caused dose-dependent enhancement of paw oedema. All antidepressant drugs in the study showed anti-nociceptive properties in the tail-electric stimulation assay with amitriptyline and trazodone being the most effective in this respect. Taken together, data in the present study confirm anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive effect for some antidepressant drugs and indicate that SSRIs differently affects inflammation.
Adefovir dipivoxil (ADV), a new nucleotide analogue, has demonstrated activity against lamivudine-resistant HBV both in vivo and in vitro. Herein, we present eight lamivudine-resistant patients with chronic anti-HBe positive hepatitis B treated orally with adefovir dipivoxil at 10 mg/die to evaluate the efficacy and safety of this drug and to determine the possible development of clinical ADV resistance. After 48 weeks of therapy, 4/8 (50%) patients demonstrated a complete response with normalization of alaninoaminotransferase levels (ALT, normal value < 40 IU/L) and undetectable serum HBV- DNA (< 100 copies/ml tested by a PCR assay). In 3/8 subjects (37.5%), we observed a partial response with a > 50% reduction of both ALT and HBV DNA levels. Only one patient did not respond. Adefovir was well-tolerated and no patient presented adverse events related to treatment; there were no changes in renal parameters. We conclude that in patients with anti-HBe positive chronic hepatitis B resistant to lamivudine, a 48-week ADV treatment resulted in significant biochemical and virological improvement without major adverse effects.
A pharmacogenetic predisposition to thalidomide-induced neuropathy has been investigated. Differences of drug metabolism were examined in 16 patients with severe orogenital ulceration, who were treated with thalidomide (< or = 200 mg/day) for 0.3-5.0 years. Eight had evidence of early peripheral neuropathy according to nerve conduction studies. Rates of C-hydroxylation, N-acetylation, and conjugation reactions with sulphate, glucuronide and glycine, were tested with the probe compounds debrisoquine, sulphadimidine, paracetamol and aspirin, respectively. Urinary drug metabolites were analysed by high pressure liquid chromatography. Results were compared with 16 healthy age- and sex-matched volunteers. Of the patients 6.25% and 13.3% of the controls had a poor Debrisoquine Hydroxylator Ratio (DMR); none of the patients with neuropathy had a poor DMR as compared to 12.5% without neuropathy. Of the patients 40.0% and 35.7% of the controls were slow acetylators; 28.6% with neuropathy were slow acetylators as opposed to 50% without neuropathy. Similarly, there were no significant differences in rates of conjugation between groups. All unaffected patients were active smokers, whereas only two of those with neuropathy smoked. Cumulative dose or duration of therapy were unrelated to risk of neuropathy. In conclusion, changes of nerve conductivity are a frequent and unpredictable adverse effect of thalidomide (< or = 200 mg/day), although smoking may have a protective action against their development. Nerve conduction studies are required before and during treatment, irrespective of the prescribed dose.
A patient is presented who used apomorphine, a potent dopamine agonist in the treatment of Parkinson patients. He suffered of severe dystonia of the legs, which did not respond to conservative treatment. The apomorphine was delivered bij intranasal spray. The patient developed an allergic reaction with swollen nose and lips, which disappeared within one day after discontinuation of the treatment. Subcutaneous administration caused no symptoms. Cutaneous challenge with apomorphine caused a positive reaction. We raise the hypothesis that the allergic reaction was due to the binding of apomorphine to certain proteins in cutis or nasal mucosa.
A 63-year-old woman was found to have thrombocythemia and was referred to our hospital for further evaluation in September 1990. Peripheral blood showed platelet 170.0 x 10(4)/microliter, WBC 14,900/microliter and Hb 9.8 g/dl. Bone marrow was hypercellular with increased megakaryocytes and normal karyotype. She was diagnosed as essential thrombocythemia (ET), and treated with 2 mg of busulfan daily for 3 months until her platelet count decreased to 33.1 x 10(4)/microliter. Busulfan was given again for 40 days (a total of 80 mg) in another hospital when the platelet count increased to 71.1 x 10(4)/microliter in September 1991. In December 1991, she was admitted to our hospital because of pancytopenia. Examination of blood revealed platelet 0.4 x 10(4)/microliter, WBC 1,800/microliter and Hb 7.0 g/dl with hypocellular marrow. A diagnosis of busulfan-induced severe bone marrow aplasia was made. We administered metenolone acetate 15 mg and G-CSF 300 micrograms daily. Blood transfusions were given frequently. However, no effect was observed during her hospitalization. After discharge, G-CSF 600 micrograms and erythropoietin 24,000 units were continued twice a week in combination with metanolone acetate. Pancytopenia gradually began to improve as of June 1992, and then trilineage recovery was achieved in March 1994 with platelet 13.3 x 10(4)/microliter, WBC 5,500/microliter and Hb 12.1 g/dl. The platelet count has been within the normal range for more than 2 years after recovery.
The combined effects of high doses of tetracycline and progesterone on parameters indicative for liver function (serum transaminases and urea, serum and liver triglycerides and cholesterol) have been studied in mice. Apart from disturbance of cholesterol metabolism tetracycline-induced liver dysfunction was not aggravated by progesterone.
To date, few studies have investigated the effects of combined renin-angiotensin system blockade/calcium channel blockade on central aortic blood pressure. The Conduit Artery Function Evaluation (CAFE) sub-study of the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial (ASCOT) investigated the effects of amlodipine/perindopril and atenolol/bendroflumethiazide on central aortic blood pressure (CABP). Similar brachial blood pressure levels were achieved; however, there was a significant difference, in favor of the amlodipine/perindopril combination, on the effects of CABP. No study has investigated the effects of a combination of an angiotensin receptor blocker/calcium channel blocker compared to those of a calcium channel blocker/angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor combination. To confirm and support previous findings, the SEVITENSION study will assess the effects on CABP of treatment with the high dose combination of perindopril plus amlodipine as used in ASCOT-CAFE compared with the high dose combination of olmesartan/amlodipine in patients with moderate-to-severe hypertension uncontrolled on amlodipine monotherapy.
To demonstrate non-inferiority of fixed-dose olmesartan/amlodipine combination therapy compared with the combination of perindopril plus amlodipine on the mean change from baseline in central aortic systolic blood pressure.
A multicenter, double-blind, parallel-group, non-inferiority study comprising a 2-4-week open-label run-in period with amlodipine and a 24-week active treatment period. CABP will be measured by the SphygmoCor® Vx Pulse Wave Velocity System.
720 moderate-to-severe hypertensive patients aged ≥ 40 to ≤ 80 years and ≥ 3 additional risk factors will be enrolled.
Study treatment will comprise orally-administered combination of olmesartan/amlodipine (40/10mg) or perindopril (8 mg) plus amlodipine (10mg), and matching placebos. (EudraCT number: 2009-012966-30; ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01101009).
Recently, the copper efflux transporters ATP7B and ATP7A have been implicated in the transport of and resistance to platinum drugs in breast and ovarian cancers. Because of the extensive use of oxaliplatin in colorectal cancer (CRC), we examined the expression of both transporters in tumors from CRC patients treated with oxaliplatin/5FU and sought to determine whether their expression can predict clinical outcome in these patients. ATP7B and ATP7A levels were determined by quantitative real-time PCR in 50 primary tumors of previously untreated patients with advanced colorectal adenocarcinoma who were subsequently treated with oxaliplatin/5FU. Additionally, ATP7B protein expression was assessed by immunohistochemical staining using a tissue microarray. Patients with the lowest mRNA expression levels of ATP7B had a significantly longer time to progression (TTP) (p = 0.0009) than patients with the highest levels (12.14 months vs. 6.43 months) who also had an increased risk of progression (HR = 3.56; 95% CI, 1.6-7.9; p = 0.002). Furthermore, patients with low levels of both protein and mRNA of ATP7B derived the maximum benefit from oxaliplatin/5FU with the longest TTP as compared with patients with high levels of ATP7B protein and mRNA (14.64 months vs. 4.63 months, respectively, p = 0.01) and showed a nonsignificant trend toward a lower response rate (37.5% and 75%, respectively). In conclusion, ATP7B mRNA and protein expression in colorectal tumors is associated with clinical outcome to oxaliplatin/5FU. Prospective studies are required to evaluate the role of this marker in tailoring chemotherapy.
2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), a heterocyclic amine found in cooked meat, induces mammary gland cancer when administered to adolescent female rats (43-day-old). In contrast, mature virgin rats (150-day-old) were resistant to mammary carcinogenesis by PhIP. To explore the possible mechanisms for the age-related differences in susceptibility, PhIP-DNA adduct levels, mutations, and gene expression were examined in glands from 43-day and 150-day-old PhIP-treated rats. In rats of different ages, PhIP-DNA adduct levels detected by the (32)P-post-labeling assay and mutant frequency measured in the lacI reporter gene of Big Blue rats were not statistically different. PhIP-DNA adduct levels, adduct removal, and mutation burden did not appear to account for the variation in carcinogen susceptibility with age. However, cDNA microarray analysis indicated that PhIP treatment differentially altered the profile of gene expression in glands from 43-day-old and 150-day-old rats. In 150-day-old rats, PhIP enhanced the expression of genes associated with differentiation (eg, beta-casein, kappa-casein, whey acidic protein) and induced morphological differentiation. In contrast, in 43-day-old rats, PhIP inhibited the expression of differentiation genes and enhanced cellular proliferation. From 3 hours to 6 weeks after PhIP dosing, the number of clones showing altered expression declined more than 50% in 150-day-old rats but increased fourfold in 43-day-old rats (29 clones versus 194, respectively) suggesting that PhIP induced a cascade of gene expression alterations only in susceptible rats. Genes showing altered expression specifically in 43-day-old rats included the Ras superfamily genes and genes associated with protein synthesis/degradation (lysosomal proteins, heat shock proteins, and proteasomes). The microarray data support the notion that the mechanism of age-dependent susceptibility to mammary gland cancer is largely associated with differential responses in expression of genes involved in cellular differentiation, proliferation, and protein homeostasis.
Methotrexate-induced neurotoxicity (MTX-Ntox) is a frequent complication of methotrexate (MTX) therapy for patients with both malignant and inflammatory diseases. MTX-Ntox can occur after intrathecal MTX or after low-, intermediate-, or high-dose systemic administration. Symptoms can present in the acute, subacute, or late setting form, and can range from affective disorders, malaise, and headaches, to somnolence, focal neurologic deficits, and seizures. While the pathogenesis of MTX-Ntox is likely multifactorial, one potential biochemical pathway leading from MTX to neurotoxicity involves the folate dependent remethylation of homocysteine (Hcy). MTX therapy is known to cause elevations of both plasma and CSF Hcy. Hcy is directly toxic to vascular endothelium and it and its metabolites are excitatory agonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Competitive or noncompetitive antagonists might afford protection from or reversal of MTX-Ntox. Using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with coulometric electrochemical detection, the authors measured CSF Hcy in sequential patients with severe subacute MTX-Ntox. CSF Hcy was higher in these patients (n = 9, median = 0.93 microM) than in asymptomatic patients (n = 11, median 0.2 microM, p < .01). Five patients with severe subacute MTX-Ntox (most with dysarthria and/or hemiplegia) were treated with 1-2 mg/kg oral dextromethorphan (DM), a noncompetitive antagonist of the N-methyl-1-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. All five had resolution of symptoms. These data provide additional clinical support for elevated CSF Hcy in the induction of MTX-Ntox through activation of the NMDA-receptor. These data provide support for a placebo-controlled clinical trial to examine the ability of DM to prevent or alleviate MTX-Ntox.
Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is classified as a human carcinogen and exerts toxic effects on the skin (chloracne). Effects on reproductive, immunological, and endocrine systems have also been observed in animal models. TCDD acts through the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) pathway influencing largely unknown gene networks. An industrial accident in Seveso, Italy in 1976 exposed thousands of people to substantial quantities of TCDD. Twenty years after the exposure, this study examines global gene expression in the mononuclear cells of 26 Seveso female never smokers, with similar age, alcohol consumption, use of medications, and background plasma levels of 22 dioxin congeners unrelated to the Seveso accident. Plasma dioxin levels were still elevated in the exposed subjects. We performed analyses in two different comparison groups. The first included high-exposed study subjects compared with individuals with background TCDD levels (average plasma levels 99.4 and 6.7ppt, respectively); the second compared subjects who developed chloracne after the accident, and those who did not develop this disease. Overall, we observed a modest alteration of gene expression based on dioxin levels or on chloracne status. In the comparison between high levels and background levels of TCDD, four histone genes were up-regulated and modified expression of HIST1H3H was confirmed by real-time PCR. In the comparison between chloracne case-control subjects, five hemoglobin genes were up-regulated. Pathway analysis revealed two major networks for each comparison, involving cell proliferation, apoptosis, immunological and hematological disease, and other pathways. Further examination of the role of these genes in dioxin induced-toxicity is warranted.
