Central nervous system toxicity associated with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) therapy (HD Ara-C) is well known. The authors report the case of a severe isolated peripheral polyneuropathy due to HD Ara-C. Electrophysiologic changes and histologic observations were consistent with axonal degeneration and scattered destruction of myelin sheaths. This observation emphasizes the need for careful complete neurologic evaluation for patients receiving HD Ara-C treatment.
Taste disorders are a common complaint among cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy on an ambulatory basis. We conducted a survey on the incidence of such disorders among 74 patients, and 45.95% (34 of 74 patients) developed taste disorders. When stratified by medication into a regimen including 5-FU and one including taxanes, taste disorders were found in 59.0% (23 of 39 patients) of the former and 60.0% (9 of 15) of the latter. The survey also included the effects of taste disorders on patients appetites. Both regimens led to reduced appetite in a number of these patients (39.1% and 44.4%, respectively). Among patients on the 5-FU-containing regimen, the FOLFOX/FOLFIRI therapy was found to be responsible for loss of appetite. Regarding change in tastes, many patients stated that the medication dulled their taste sensation except for bitterness; their capacity to sense intensity of taste remained unchanged. It was found that acute taste disorders develop frequently among patients on a high dosage of 5-FU or a taxane-containing regimen.
Although asbestos is carcinogenic to humans, the mechanism(s) by which it induces cancer is unknown. Using tumor cell lines generated previously by asbestos treatment of immortalized human bronchial epithelial (BEP2D) cells, we examined alterations in p16 and p21(Cip1) genes together with their protein levels. Results were compared with untreated BEP2D cells, normal human bronchial epithelial cells (NHBE), as well as non-tumorigenic fusion cell lines generated by fusing tumor cells with BEP2D cells. No deletion in the p16 gene was found in any of the tumor cell lines examined. Although p16 protein was expressed at a similar level in tumor and BEP2D cells, there was a fourfold decrease in its expression among NHBE cells. In contrast, both the protein and mRNA expression levels of p21(Cip1) were decreased by about threefold in tumor cell lines when compared with either BEP2D or NHBE cells, which had a similar expression level. Expression of p21(Cip1) mRNA was restored to the control level in all the fusion cell lines examined. The results suggested that down regulation of p21(Cip1) expression is linked to the tumorigenic conversion of BEP2D cells by asbestos.
To evaluate the effectiveness of a vitamin-fortified maize meal to improve the nutritional status of 1-3-year-old malnourished African children.
A randomised parallel intervention study was used in which 21 experimental children and their families received maize meal fortified with vitamin A, thiamine, riboflavin and pyridoxine, while 23 control children and their families received unfortified maize meal. The maize meal was provided for 12 months to replace the maize meal habitually consumed by these households.
Sixty undernourished African children with height-for-age or weight-for-age below the 5th percentile of the National Center for Health Statistics' criteria and aged 1-3 years were randomly assigned to an experimental or control group. Baseline measurements included demographic, socio-economic and dietary data, as well as height, weight, haemoglobin, haematocrit, serum retinol and retinol-binding protein (RBP). Anthropometric, blood and serum variables were measured again after 12 months of intervention. Complete baseline measurements were available for 44 children and end data for only 36. Changes in these variables from baseline to end within and between groups were assessed for significance with paired t-tests, t-tests and analysis of variances using the SPSS program, controlling for expected weight gain in this age group over 12 months. Relationships between changes in variables were examined by calculating correlation coefficients.
The children in the experimental group had a significantly (P < or = 0.05) higher increase in body weight than control children (4.6 kg vs. 2.0 kg) and both groups had significant (P < or = 0.05) but similar increases in height. The children in the experimental group showed non-significant increases in haemoglobin and serum retinol, while the control children had a significant (P = 0.007) decrease in RBP. The change in serum retinol showed a significant correlation with baseline retinol (P = 0.014), RBP (P = 0.007) and weight (P = 0.029), as well as with changes in haemoglobin (P = 0.029).
Despite a small sample size, this study showed positive effects of a vitamin-fortified maize meal on weight gain and some variables of vitamin A status in 1-3-year-old African children. The study confirmed the relationship between vitamin A and iron status. The results suggest that fortification of maize meal would be an effective strategy to address micronutrient deficiencies in small children in South Africa.
Mutations in the human ABCC6 gene are responsible for the disease pseudoxanthoma elasticum, although the physiological function or substrate of the gene product (an ABC transporter known also as MRP6) is not known. We found that the expression of this gene in cells of hepatic origin (where this gene is predominantly expressed in the body) is significantly upregulated by retinoids, acting as agonists of the retinoid X receptor (RXR) rather than the retinoid A receptor (RAR). The direct involvement of this nuclear receptor in the transcriptional regulation of ABCC6 gene expression was confirmed by transient transfection and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. This constitutes the first direct proof of previously suggested involvement of nuclear hormone receptors in ABCC6 gene expression and the first identification of a transcription factor which may be relevant to regulation of ABCC6 level in tissues and in some PXE patients.
Forty three patients with histologically confirmed malignant mesothelioma were entered onto an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group phase II study of ifosfamide given with mesna. Eligibility criteria included adequate performance status, hemogram and renal functions. Ifosfamide was given at 1.5 g/m2 in 200 ml of normal saline over 30 minutes by intravenous infusion on days 1 to 5 of each 21 day cycle. Mesna was given at 300 mg/m2 on each day of ifosfamide at 0, 4 and 8 hours. Two patients were cancelled and one patient was ineligible. The most common toxicity was haematologic. More than 50% of the patients had at least one episode of severe or life threatening toxicity and 2 patients had lethal toxicity (1 renal and 1 pulmonary oedema attributed to treatment), and an additional 4 patients died while on study (2 of cardiac and 2 of cerebral vascular disease not considered directly related to treatment). Of the 40 eligible patients one was unevaluable for response, and one patient had a partial response lasting 6.3 months. Twenty four patients had a no change status with a median duration of 5 months. The median time to treatment failure for all eligible patients was 2.5 months. The median overall survival time (from registration) for all eligible patients was 6.9 months. In multi variable models, factors that predicted for a statistically significant poorer survival were age > or = 62, stage > or = 3, performance status poorer than 0 to 1 and prior surgery (i.e.: more than biopsy).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The proapoptotic protein encoded by Par4 (prostate apoptosis response 4) has been implicated in tumour suppression, particularly in the prostate. We report here that Par4-null mice are prone to develop tumours, both spontaneously and on carcinogenic treatment. The endometrium and prostate of Par4-null mice were particularly sensitive to the development of proliferative lesions. Most (80%) Par4-null females presented endometrial hyperplasia by 9 months of age, and a significant proportion (36%) developed endometrial adenocarcinomas after 1 year of age. Similarly, Par4-null males showed a high incidence of prostate hyperplasia and prostatic intraepithelial neoplasias, and were extraordinarily sensitive to testosterone-induced prostate hyperplasia. Finally, the uterus and prostate of young Par4-null mice have increased levels of the apoptosis inhibitor XIAP (X-chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis), supporting the previously proposed function of Par4 as an inhibitor of the (zeta)PKC (atypical protein kinase)-NF-(kappa)B (nuclear factor-(kappa)B)-XIAP pathway. These data show that Par4 has an important role in tumour suppression, with a particular relevance in the endometrium and prostate.
Serial audiometry was performed in ten patients receiving quinine treatment for acute falciparum malaria. Quinine reduced high tone auditory acuity in all patients, resulting in flattening of the audiograms. The effect was rapid in onset, usually unnoticed (although tinnitus was reported in seven patients), and resolved completely after treatment was completed.
Spironolactone is recommended as fourth-line therapy for essential hypertension despite few supporting data for this indication. We evaluated the effect among 1411 participants in the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial-Blood Pressure Lowering Arm who received spironolactone mainly as a fourth-line antihypertensive agent for uncontrolled blood pressure and who had valid BP measurements before and during spironolactone treatment. Among those who received spironolactone, the mean age was 63 years (SD: +/-8 years), 77% were men, and 40% had diabetes. Spironolactone was initiated a median of 3.2 years (interquartile range: 2.0 to 4.4 years) after randomization and added to a mean of 2.9 (SD: +/-0.9) other antihypertensive drugs. The median duration of spironolactone treatment was 1.3 years (interquartile range: 0.6 to 2.6 years). The median dose of spironolactone was 25 mg (interquartile range: 25 to 50 mg) at both the start and end of the observation period. During spironolactone therapy, mean blood pressure fell from 156.9/85.3 mm Hg (SD: +/-18.0/11.5 mm Hg) by 21.9/9.5 mm Hg (95% CI: 20.8 to 23.0/9.0 to 10.1 mm Hg; P<0.001); the BP reduction was largely unaffected by age, sex, smoking, and diabetic status. Spironolactone was generally well tolerated; 6% of participants discontinued the drug because of adverse effects. The most frequent adverse events were gynecomastia or breast discomfort and biochemical abnormalities (principally hyperkaliemia), which were recorded as adverse events in 6% and 2% of participants, respectively. In conclusion, spironolactone effectively lowers blood pressure in patients with hypertension uncontrolled by a mean of approximately 3 other drugs. Although nonrandomized and not placebo controlled, these data support the use of spironolactone in uncontrolled hypertension.
This study was designed to compare the effect of Aspirin (AS) and Nimesulide (NM) on renal failure and vascular disorder in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Rats were divided into four groups; control, diabetic rats, diabetic rats plus AS and diabetic rats plus NM, which are COX inhibitors. The renal and aorta tissues morphology were investigated by light microscopy. Trunk blood was also obtained to determine plasma lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA) and plasma activity of antioxidant enzymes. MDA levels were increased in the diabetic rats when compared to the control group. AS and NM administration caused a significant decrease in MDA production. Morphological damage in diabetic rats was severe in the kidney and in the aorta tissue. Treatment of AS reduced these damages, but NM did not exert positive effect on these damages in diabetic rats. As a result, although both AS and NM corrected lipid peroxidation parameters such as MDA via their antioxidant properties, only AS ameliorated pathological alteration in tissues. These findings indicate that there may be another mechanism in beneficial effect of AS in diabetic rats.
The antitumor activity of docetaxel in human prostate tumor cells and correlation between cell-growth inhibition and prostate specific antigen (PSA) secretion were investigated. Cultured human prostate tumor cell lines (LNCaP, DU1 45 and PC-3) were treated with test drugs,after which the number of viable cells and PSA levels in the medium were determined. Apoptosis was assessed by changes in chromatin structure, DNA fragmentation, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL) and Annexin V assay. Docetaxel inhibited cell proliferation in a dose-dependent fashion in all cell lines,with IC50 levels from 0.90 to 4.2 nM,which were similar to those of paclitaxel,but more potent than mitoxantrone,estramustine,or cisplatin. Docetaxel-treated cells underwent cell-cycle arrest in the G2/M phase and apoptosis as indicated by chromatin condensation and DNA fragmentation. In docetaxel-treated LNCaP cells,there was a linear correlation between growth inhibition and the decline in PSA level in the culture medium. It was demonstrated that docetaxel had potent antitumor activity against human prostate tumor cells,and the decrease in cell growth was associated with a decrease in PSA secretion,suggesting that PSA would be a useful biological marker for monitoring the efficacy of docetaxel in a clinical setting.
The modifying potential of clofibrate and di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) on second stage, N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN)-initiated urinary bladder carcinogenesis was investigated in male F344 rats, using a uracil-accelerated transitional cell proliferation model. Six-week-old animals received 0.05% BBN in their drinking water for 4 weeks and then clofibrate (1.0, 0.5, and 0.25%) and DEHP (1.2, 0.6, and 0.3%) were given during experimental weeks 5-8 and weeks 12-20. Uracil was administered during weeks 9-11 at a dietary level of 3.0%. Control rats were treated with BBN and uracil without peroxisome proliferator. Surviving animals were killed at the end of week 20 of the experiment, when the densities of putative preneoplastic, papillary or nodular (PN) hyperplasias (numbers per 10 cm of basement membrane) were significantly increased in all clofibrate-treated, but not the DEHP groups. The incidences of PN hyperplasia were similar in both treated animals and controls. In a second experiment, rats fed diets containing 1.0% clofibrate or 1.2% DEHP were assessed for levels of DNA synthesis in urinary bladder epithelium by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine immunohistochemistry. Numbers of labeled nuclei remained within normal levels, and no proliferative changes were evident. Thus, the present experiments indicated that while clofibrate, but not DEHP, exerts weak enhancing effects on BBN-initiated urinary bladder carcinogenesis in rats this is not associated with increased levels of DNA synthesis in the affected epithelium.
Fourteen patients with advanced breast cancer were treated with a combination of vincristine, mitozantrone and prednisolone. Before, during and after cessation of treatment radionuclide assessment of ventricular performance was obtained at rest, in response to cold pressor-induced stress and on recovery from stress. Six of 14 patients (46%) developed abnormalities of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). One patient developed clinical signs of cardiac failure. Mitozantrone is an active agent in the treatment of advanced breast cancer but it can produce cardiotoxicity. In this particular middle-aged population, changes in LVEF occurred over a wide range of cumulative doses. Further investigation is required to determine the nature and prognosis of this iatrogenic toxicity.
Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured using the stable xenon enhanced CT method in previously untreated 13 patients with Parkinson's disease to evaluate CBF abnormality related to dysfunction of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. The patients comprised 5 men, 8 women with Hoehn-Yahr stage II-III. Age at onset ranged from 51 to 73 years (mean +/- SD, 61.8 +/- 8.9) and the duration of illness ranged from 1 to 96 months (15.1 +/- 24.1 months). In this series, there was no clinical evidence of hypertension, diabetes mellitus and cognitive impairment. rCBF was measured during 4-5-minutes inhalation of 33% stable xenon gas-67% oxygen. The first measurement of rCBF was performed in all of the patients before L-dopa treatment. After initiation of L-dopa treatment (333.3 +/- 47.1 mg/day), the second measurement was carried out in 6 patients (1 man and 5 women) who had shown symptomatic improvement. The interval between both measurements was 57.7 +/- 16.9 days. The following results were obtained. 1) No significant CBF asymmetry was noted in any of the striatum, pallidum, thalamus, cerebrum, cerebellum and frontal lobe in untreated patients with Parkinson's disease. 2) After L-dopa treatment, rCBF was significantly increased only in the striatum as compared with the pretreatment level (51.9 +/- 9.3-->63.1 +/- 9.9 ml/100 g/min, p < 0.01). 3) This increase was significantly greater on the more severely affected side (contralateral to the predominantly symptomatic limb) (p < 0.05). These results suggest that the increase of rCBF in the striatum is closely related to functional improvement of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons.
We report two cases of Waldenström's macroglobulinemia with an unusual aggressive transformation following treatment with cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine, 2-CdA), a purine analogue. The first patient developed transformation to a diffuse large-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, while the second developed extensive extramedullary involvement. Both patients displayed rapid progression following transformation and were refractory to chemotherapy. Both patients were pretreated with multiple courses of prednisone and chlorambucil, and transformation occurred shortly after therapy with cladribine. We propose that immune suppression from alkylating agents and purine analogues may have contributed to the unusual progression, resulting in a dismal outcome.
Treatment of female CD-1 mice with the synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES) on days 1 through 5 after birth results in a 90% incidence of endometrial adenocarcinomas by 18 months of age Three cell lines were established from DES-induced uterine carcinomas and studied for specific chromosomal changes. Each cell line exhibited numerical decreases in chromosomes 9, 11, 13, and X as common abnormalities. Structural alterations involving chromosomes 3, 6, 11, and 19 occurred nonrandomly among the three cell lines. Every cell line showed a rearrangement in the long arm of chromosome 3 (3q+), a translocation between chromosomes 3 and 19 [t(3;19)], isochromosome of chromosome 11 [i(11)], and a marker chromosome (M2) either as common abnormalities or recurrent abnormalities. t(3;19), i(11), and M2 were observed also in the primary colonies from which the cell lines arose. The changes were not observed in a cell line derived from the uterus of one untreated control mouse, suggesting that these chromosomal alterations may have occurred during DES-induced neoplastic transformation. The chromosomal alterations found in the present study may prove useful in investigating the genetic changes involved in DES carcinogenesis.
To investigate the mechanism by which HSulf-1 expression is downregulated in ovarian cancer, DNA methylation and histone acetylation of HSulf-1 was analysed in ovarian cancer cell lines and primary tumors. Treatment of OV207 and SKOV3 by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine resulted in increased transcription of HSulf-1. Sequence analysis of bisulfite-modified genomic DNA from ovarian cell lines and primary tumors without HSulf-1 expression revealed an increase in the frequency of methylation of 12 CpG sites in exon 1A. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays showed an increase in histone H3 methylation in cell lines without HSulf-1 expression. To assess the significance of HSulf-1 downregulation in ovarian cancer, OV167 and OV202 cells were transfected with HSulf-1 siRNA. Downregulation of HSulf-1 expression in OV167 and OV202 cells lead to an attenuation of cisplatin-induced cytotoxicity. Moreover, patients with ovarian tumors expressing higher levels of HSulf-1 showed a 90% response rate (27/30) to chemotherapy compared to a response rate of 63% (19/30) in those with weak or moderate levels (P=0.0146, chi(2) test). Collectively, these data indicate that HSulf-1 is epigenetically silenced in ovarian cancer and that epigenetic therapy targeting HSulf-1 might sensitize ovarian tumors to conventional first-line therapies.
To investigate the mechanism of chlorpromazine(CPZ)-induced ventricular arrhythmia, the changes in ventricular fibrillation threshold (VFT) were followed after intravenous injection of CPZ (1 mg/Kg) in dogs. Following injection, VFT was decreased to 56.6 +/- 5.4% (mean +/- SE) of the initial level. Since flavin-adenine-dinucleotide (FAD) combines specifically with CPZ in vitro, we investigate whether or not prior treatment with FAD prevents the CPZ effect. With FAD (2 mg/Kg), the CPZ-induced decrease in VFT was significantly cancelled (92.2 +/- 4.2% of the initial level). Mitochondria isolated from canine heart after CPZ injection showed a significant decrease in respiratory control index and ADP/O. Effects of CPZ on canine heart mitochondria were also well cancelled by prior administration of FAD. The findings suggest that the arrhythmogenic action of CPZ might be associated in part with impaired function of heart mitochondria. These results also suggest that FAD might be useful in the treatment of the cardiac disturbances associated with overdosage of CPZ.
Skeletal muscle injury by hypolipidemic drugs is not fully understood. An extensive analysis of the effect of chronic treatment with fluvastatin (5 mgkg(-1) and 20 mgkg(-1)), atorvastatin (10 mgkg(-1)) and fenofibrate (60 mgkg(-1)) on rat skeletal muscle was undertaken.
Myoglobinemia as sign of muscle damage was measured by enzymatic assay. Histological and immunohistochemical techniques were used to estimate muscle integrity and the presence of aquaporin-4, a protein controlling water homeostasis. Electrophysiological evaluation of muscle Cl(-) conductance (gCl) and mechanical threshold (MT) for contraction, index of intracellular calcium homeostasis, was performed by the two-intracellular microelectrodes technique.
Fluvastatin (20 mgkg(-1)) increased myoglobinemia. The lower dose of fluvastatin did not modify myoglobinemia, but reduced urinary electrolytes, suggesting direct effects on renal function. Atorvastatin also increased myoglobinemia, with slight effects on urinary parameters. No treatment caused any histological damage to muscle or modification in the number of fibres expressing aquaporin-4. Either fluvastatin (at both doses) or atorvastatin reduced sarcolemma gCl and changed MT. Both statins produced slight effects on total cholesterol, suggesting that the observed modifications occur independently of HMGCoA-reductase inhibition. Fenofibrate increased myoglobinemia and decreased muscle gCl, whereas it did not change the MT, suggesting a different mechanism of action from the statins.
This study identifies muscle gCl and MT as early targets of drugs action that may contribute to milder symptoms of myotoxicity, such as muscle cramps, while the increase of myoglobinemia is a later phenomenon.
Haloperidol is widely considered a reference standard in antipsychotic therapy and is commonly used in comparative studies of the efficacy and safety of antipsychotic medication. Comparative clinical trials have shown that the novel antipsychotic agent risperidone tends to have greater efficacy (i.e., clinical response defined as a > or = 20% reduction in total scores on the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale) than haloperidol in patients with chronic schizophrenia and poses less risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). We used DerSimonian and Laird's random-effects model to analyze pooled patient data from available randomized, double-masked, comparative trials of risperidone and haloperidol in patients with schizophrenia treated for at least 4 weeks at recommended doses. The purpose of the analysis was to determine whether there are significant overall differences in the rates of patient clinical response, prescription of anticholinergic agents, and treatment dropout. Six of the nine trials revealed in a literature search met all criteria for inclusion in the meta-analysis. The meta-analysis showed that in patients with chronic schizophrenia, risperidone therapy is associated with significantly higher response rates, significantly less prescribing of anticholinergic medication, and significantly lower treatment dropout rates than haloperidol. These results demonstrate the greater treatment efficacy associated with risperidone compared with haloperidol and suggest both a lower incidence of EPS and improved treatment compliance.
Hyperalgesia and allodynia, lasting for months or even years, occurs in the form of post-herpetic neuralgia in approximately 70% of adults previously infected with the varicella herpes zoster virus. The present study aimed at testing the analgesic desensitising actions and reversibility of repeated application of topical capsaicin on disordered polymodal nociceptors and peptidergic sensory fibres mediating warm and pain sensation. Cutaneous nociceptor desensitisation was measured using the Glasgow automated thermal threshold test (Medelec TTT). For normal subjects (n = 69) the mean forearm warm threshold was 0.15 +/- 0.07 degrees C and the cold threshold was 0.14 +/- 0.10 degrees C. A variable degree of partial desensitisation of herpes-affected skin was found in 15 patients with post-herpetic neuralgia before capsaicin treatment where the mean threshold elevation for warm detection was 1.19 degrees C and 0.7 degrees C for cold detection, compared with the corresponding normal skin. In preliminary studies of 15 patients with post-herpetic neuralgia, good pain relief averaging 30% or 77% occurred in the affected dermatome(s) after 3 to 4 weeks of 0.01% or 0.05% capsaicin cream respectively, applied 3-4 times daily. The warm thresholds, after chronic capsaicin treatment, increased between 0.1 and 7.60 degrees C, the average elevation being 3.69 degrees C. By contrast cold thresholds after capsaicin altered inconsistently and by only an average of 0.08 degrees C. The results suggest that elevation of the warm threshold may indicate the desensitisation achieved by capsaicin treatment of skin polymodal nociceptors. Cold detection, being dependent upon A-delta cold fibre function, is unaffected by capsaicin treatment. There was a poor correlation between pain relief and elevation of warm detection in response to capsaicin treatment. Generally, it was found that those patients with less initial desensitisation to warm detection as a consequence of post-herpetic neuralgia experienced better pain relief after capsaicin was applied. The method used permits determination of the minimum effective desensitising dose of capsaicin, enables patient compliance and progress to be monitored and should allow the prediction of patients likely to achieve the best response to treatment.
DepoCyte is a slow-release formulation of cytarabine designed for intrathecal administration. The goal of this multi-centre cohort study was to determine the safety and efficacy of DepoCyte for the intrathecal treatment of neoplastic meningitis due to breast cancer. DepoCyte 50 mg was injected once every 2 weeks for one month of induction therapy; responding patients were treated with an additional 3 months of consolidation therapy. All patients had metastatic breast cancer and a positive CSF cytology or neurologic findings characteristic of neoplastic meningitis. The median number of DepoCyte doses was 3, and 85% of patients completed the planned 1 month induction. Median follow up is currently 19 months. The primary endpoint was response, defined as conversion of the CSF cytology from positive to negative at all sites known to be positive, and the absence of neurologic progression at the time the cytologic conversion was documented. The response rate among the 43 evaluable patients was 28% (CI 95%: 14-41%); the intent-to-treat response rate was 21% (CI 95%: 12-34%). Median time to neurologic progression was 49 days (range 1-515(+)); median survival was 88 days (range 1-515(+)), and 1 year survival is projected to be 19%. The major adverse events were headache and arachnoiditis. When drug-related, these were largely of low grade, transient and reversible. Headache occurred on 11% of cycles; 90% were grade 1 or 2. Arachnoiditis occurred on 19% of cycles; 88% were grade 1 or 2. DepoCyte demonstrated activity in neoplastic meningitis due to breast cancer that is comparable to results reported with conventional intrathecal agents. However, this activity was achieved with one fourth as many intrathecal injections as typically required in conventional therapy. The every 2 week dose schedule is a major advantage for both patients and physicians.
To determine the risk of developing acute bronchial spasm and bronchial hyperreactivity in healthy subjects after inhaling hydrochloric acid aerosol of different pH, since various characteristics of inhaled aerosol, particularly its acidity, contribute to the reduction in lung function in patients with a pre-existing disease.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial included 79 healthy volunteers. After submitting a written consent, they were randomized in 4 groups with approximately equal number of participants. Each group was exposed to acid aerosol of different pH. The respiratory lung function expressed by forced expiratory volume (FEV1), forced expiratory flow at 50% (FEF50), 75% (FEF25), and between 25% and 75% of vital capacity (FEF25/75), and non-specific bronchial reactivity were measured after inhalation of hydrochloric acid aerosol of pH 7.0, pH 5.0, pH 3.0, and pH 2.0 and compared with baseline values. Twelve subjects, who reached the threshold doses in both bronchial challenges, were tested again after receiving a systemic beta-blockade with a single oral dose of propranolol.
Significant bronchospasm developed after the inhalation of hydrochloric acid aerosol of pH 5.0, 3.0, and 2.0. After the inhalation of aerosols of pH 5.0 and pH 2.0, all parameters of respiratory lung function (FEV1, FEF50, FEF25, and FEF25/75) significantly decreased. After the inhalation of aerosol of pH 3.0, all parameters significantly decreased except for FEF25, which showed no significant difference (1.84+/-0.46 before vs 1.58+/-0.49 after inhalation; p=0.07). The inhalation of hydrochloric acid aerosol had no significant effect on the level of non-specific bronchial reactivity irrespective of its pH. Eight out of 12 subjects tested again after pretreatment with propranolol and with no significant change in the heart rate showed no change in non-specific bronchial reactivity in comparison with the 4 subjects who reacted with a significant decrease in the heart rate (>10%), as well as in non-specific bronchial reactivity (p=0.023).
Inhalation of acid aerosol in healthy subjects induced a bronchial spasm, but had no effect on non-specific bronchial reactivity except in subjects under systemic adrenergic inhibition.
Transmembrane 4 superfamily member 4 (TM4SF4) is up-regulated in regenerating liver after partial hepatectomy in rats, but the in vivo functions of this protein are still largely unknown. Therefore, we investigated the role of TM4SF4 during liver injury.
Expression of TM4SF4 was analyzed by RT-PCR and Western blotting in normal and CCl4-injured rats. Overexpression or reduced expression of TM4SF4 in the liver was achieved by injection of sense or antisense TM4SF4 expression plasmids. Assessment of liver injury (histology, serum ALT and AST levels), apoptosis by TUNEL assay were performed. Expression of injury-related genes was analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR.
Overexpression of TM4SF4 in rats after CCl4 treatment showed extensive liver damage and increased levels of serum ALT and AST. Decreased TM4SF4 gene expression showed minimal liver necrosis and depressed ALT and AST levels. Increased expression of TM4SF4 affected the expression levels of growth factors and receptors, such as TNF-alpha, TNFR1 and c-met. Furthermore, pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic gene expression was altered after TM4SF4 administration.
Rat TM4SF4 is overexpressed in acutely injured liver induced by CCl4 and plays a crucial role in accelerating liver injury, which may be mediated by the TNF-alpha and HGF/c-met signaling pathways.
Clozapine is a valuable drug for patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia. Myocarditis is the most publicised cardiac complication of clozapine treatment, but cardiomyopathy and pericarditis have also been reported. Myocarditis has heterogeneous and non-specific presenting features, making it difficult to identify patients with clozapine-related myocarditis clinically. A high index of suspicion is required. The gold standard for diagnosis of myocarditis is an endomyocardial biopsy, but this is not a practical initial approach. Transthoracic echocardiography is a valuable, reproducible and widely available tool to assist in diagnosis of clozapine-induced cardiotoxicity. The level of B-type natriuretic peptide, a hormone secreted in response to ventricular wall stress, may be useful for evaluating patients with clozapine-induced cardiac dysfunction and may in the future be useful for screening asymptomatic patients. The mainstay of treatment of clozapine-induced cardiotoxicity is cessation of clozapine and provision of supportive care.
The present study showed that in the dimethylbenz[a]anthracene-induced mammary tumor model in rats, the anticarcinogenic efficacy of selenium was much attenuated when the intake of vitamin E was deficient. Selenium supplementation at 2.5 mg/kg in the diet reduced the total tumor yield by 45% and 25%, respectively, in rats with an adequate or low vitamin E intake. Measurements of selected hepatic phase I and phase II detoxifying enzymes indicated that they were not responsive to changes in dietary vitamin E or selenium levels. However, a low vitamin E intake significantly increased lipid peroxidation in the mammary fat pad regardless of selenium status, suggesting that selenium supplementation was less effective under this nutritional condition and might be associated with the higher degree of oxidant stress in the cellular environment.
