Impaired magnesium (Mg) homeostasis has been implicated in a variety of cardiovascular disturbances, including ventricular arrhythmias and changes in the interval between the onset of wave Q to the end of wave T (QT interval) on electrocardiogram. Cardiac arrhythmias are common in patients on hemodialysis therapy.
We investigated the relationship between QT interval corrected for heart rate (QTc) dispersion and Mg content in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of chronic hemodialysis patients treated with high-dose calcium carbonate providing Mg in excess (group I; n = 18) or low-dose calcium carbonate and smaller Mg load (group II; n = 13).
Mean Mg content in PBMC of group I patients (27.9 +/- 4.2 [SD] micromol/L/mg protein) was significantly greater than in group II patients (10.4 +/- 4.1 micromol/L/mg protein; P < 0.05) and greater in both groups than in healthy control subjects (2.75 +/- 0.6 micromol/L/mg protein; P < 0.05). Mean QTc dispersion was significantly longer (74.6 +/- 21.4 milliseconds) in group I than group II (37.8 +/- 13.1 milliseconds; P < 0.02) and longer in both groups than in controls (27.3 +/- 9.6 milliseconds; P < 0.05). After dialysis, in both groups of patients, cell-associated Mg (c-a Mg) levels and QTc dispersion were significantly greater (P < 0.05) than before dialysis started. One week after stopping calcium carbonate treatment, group 1 patients showed significant reductions in predialytic c-a Mg levels (to 19.5 +/- 9.8 micromol/L/mg protein; P < 0.05) and QTc dispersions (to 48.9 +/- 23.7 milliseconds; P < 0.05). Plasma Mg and other electrolyte concentrations prior to and during hemodialysis did not correlate with QTc dispersion.
Prolongation of QTc dispersion in patients on chronic hemodialysis therapy could be, at least in part, a consequence of increased concentrations of c-a Mg resulting from excess daily Mg intake.
We previously observed that a chemokine, macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha/CCL3, and its receptor, CCR1, were aberrantly expressed in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissues. Here, we show that CCL3 and CCR1 are also expressed in 2 different models of this cancer; N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN)-induced HCC and HCC induced by hepatitis B virus surface (HBs) antigen-primed splenocyte transfer to myelo-ablated syngeneic HBs antigen transgenic mice. At 10 months after DEN treatment, foci number and sizes were remarkably reduced in CCR1- and CCL3-deficient mice, compared with those of wild-type (WT) mice, although tumor incidence were marginally, but significantly, higher in CCR1- and CCL3-deficient mice than in WT mice. Of note is that tumor angiogenesis was also markedly diminished in CCL3- and CCR1-deficient mice, with a concomitant reduction in the number of intratumoral Kupffer cells, a rich source of growth factors and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Among growth factors and MMPs that we examined, only MMP9 and MMP13 gene expression was augmented progressively in liver of WT mice after DEN treatment. Moreover, MMP9, but not MMP13, gene expression was attenuated in CCR1- and CCL3-deficient mice, compared with that of WT mice. Furthermore, MMP9 was expressed mainly by mononuclear cells but not hepatoma cells, and MMP9-expressing cell numbers were decreased in CCR1- or CCL3-deficient mice, compared with WT mice. These observations suggest the contribution of the CCR1-CCL3 axis to HCC progression.
A case of severe febrile reaction to INH is described. The patient had a mild febrile reaction two weeks following INH prophylaxis. Isoniazid was discontinued. Two weeks later and on rechallenge with INH she developed a severe febrile reaction with protracted hypotension. An initial mild febrile reaction to INH is a warning sign that rechallenge can result in a life-threatening situation.
Cocaine abuse has been implicated in multiple cardiovascular complications. Coronary artery aneurysms (CAAs) and ectasia occur in 0.2% to 5.3% of patients referred for angiography and are associated with atherosclerosis, Kawasaki's disease, and several rare disorders. After observing CAAs in multiple young cocaine users, we investigated the prevalence of CAAs among cocaine users undergoing coronary angiography.
Clinical and angiographic characteristics of 112 consecutive patients with a history of cocaine use and coronary angiography were compared with a control group of similar age and risk factors from an existing angiographic database over the same time period. Coronary angiograms were independently read by 3 reviewers blinded to cocaine use. Cocaine users were young (mean age, 44 years), predominantly male (80%), and cigarette smokers (95%). Control patients had higher rates of diabetes (33%) and more severe coronary artery disease (P=0.01). Previous myocardial infarction was common in both groups (45% of cocaine users, 38% of control patients). Despite the frequent history of myocardial infarction among cocaine users, 48% had nonobstructive coronary artery disease. Among cocaine users, 34 of 112 (30.4%) had CAAs compared with 6 of 79 (7.6%) in the control group (P<0.001). Cocaine use was a strong predictor of CAA by univariate and multivariate analyses.
This is the first description of an association between cocaine use and CAA. The prevalence of CAA among cocaine users was higher than expected (30.4%), given such a young cohort. Cocaine use may predispose to the formation of CAA, which may in turn be a contributing factor to myocardial infarction.
Exposure to traffic-related air pollutants, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), can induce asthma. However, the effects of early repeated PAH exposure over time on different asthma phenotypes have not been examined.
To assess associations between repeated PAH exposure, measured from prenatal personal and residential indoor monitors in children's homes, and asthma in an inner-city cohort.
Prenatal exposure was assessed by personal air monitoring during 48 hours and exposure at 5 to 6 years of age by 2-week residential monitoring in the Columbia Center for Children's Environmental Health cohort. PAH was dichotomized into pyrene (representative semivolatile PAH) and the sum of 8 nonvolatile PAHs. High exposure to each was defined as measures above the median at both repeated time points. Asthma and wheeze were determined by validated questionnaires at ages 5 to 6 years. Children with specific IgE levels greater than 0.35 IU/mL to any of 5 indoor allergens were considered seroatopic.
Among all 354 children, repeated high exposure to pyrene was associated with asthma (odds ratio [OR], 1.90; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.13-3.20). Among 242 nonatopic children, but not those sensitized to indoor allergens (n = 87) or with elevated total IgE levels (n = 171), high pyrene levels were associated positively with asthma (OR, 2.89; 95% CI, 1.77-5.69), asthma medication use (OR, 2.28; 95% CI, 1.13-4.59), and emergency department visits for asthma (OR, 2.43; 95% CI, 1.20-4.91). Associations between the levels of the 8 nonvolatile PAHs and asthma were not observed, even when stratifying by seroatopy.
Nonatopic children may be more susceptible to the respiratory consequences of early pyrene exposures.
To assess the effects of ethinyl estradiol on the incidence of death in ventricular fibrillation induced by isoproterenol in DOCA-salt pretreated rats we implanted male and female rats simultaneously with a 20 mg DOCA pellet and pellets containing either ethinyl estradiol or vehicle (wax). Rats drank saline after implantation. After 6 days rats were challenged with a single, sc dose of 150 micrograms of isoproterenol. The average daily dose of estradiol per rat was estimated on the basis of the quantity of pellet lost during 6 days. In male rats the average daily dose of 61.2 +/- 20.2 micrograms/rat of ethinyl estradiol decreased the incidence of mortality by 80%, from 73.3% (11/15) in vehicle treated to 13.3% (2/15) in estradiol treated rats. Death occurred within 19.2 +/- 8.0 minutes from the injection of isoproterenol and was due to ventricular fibrillation. Serum levels of magnesium and potassium were comparable in the two groups both before and after isoproterenol. Isoproterenol induced death in 9 of 11 DOCA-salt pretreated, ovariectomized rats within 22.3 +/- 9.8 minutes. Only 3 of 11 DOCA-salt ovariectomized rats receiving the average daily dose of 28.4 +/- 12.1 micrograms/rat of ethinyl estradiol died. None of 10 ovariectomized untreated rats died from isoproterenol challenge. Serum levels of magnesium and potassium were comparable in the estradiol and vehicle treated groups. The average daily dose of 2.8 +/- 0.42 micrograms/rat of ethinyl estradiol elicited uterine growth but did not influence the incidence of mortality, since 9 out of 16 and 10 out of 16 rats died following isoproterenol in vehicle and estradiol treated DOCA-salt ovariectomized rats. We conclude that only pharmacological doses of estradiol exert protective effects against DOCA-salt induced myocardial sensitization to isoproterenol and that this protection is not associated with relevant changes in serum potassium or magnesium.
A previously healthy 30-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of impaired consciousness after convulsion. A temporary diagnosis of herpes simplex encephalitis was made, and intravenous acyclovir (ACV) therapy (250 mg four times daily in normal saline over 2 hours) was started. Three days later, she became confused, and was having hallucinations, dysarthria and generalized painful seizures occurred without focal neurologic deficit. Whether the neuropsychiatric symptoms were related to herpes simplex encephalitis or acyclovir neurotoxity was initially unclear. The brain MRI and lumbar puncture findings were initially normal, but abnormal FLAIR lesions appeared later. ACV-associated encephalopathy was considered. ACV was discontinued, and she recovered from the neurological disorder within 24 hours. Although blood levels of acyclovir were not determined, it is unlikely that they were in a toxic range, in view of her normal renal function.
The purpose of this work was to assess neuropsychological functioning of individuals in early abstinence from methamphetamine dependence and to test for cognitive change over the first month of abstinence.
Methamphetamine-dependent subjects in very early abstinence from methamphetamine (4-9 days; n = 27) were compared with healthy comparison subjects (n = 28) on a test battery that evaluated five cognitive domains (attention/processing speed, learning/memory, working memory, timed executive functioning, and untimed executive functioning). A subsample of the methamphetamine-dependent subjects (n =18), who maintained abstinence for 1 month, as well as a subsample of the comparison subjects (n = 21), were retested.
At the first assessment, the methamphetamine-dependent subjects showed significantly worse performance than the comparison group on a test of processing speed; they also performed 0.31 SDs worse than the control group on a global battery composite score (p < .05). After a month of abstinence, methamphetamine-dependent subjects demonstrated slightly more cognitive improvement than healthy control subjects on the entire cognitive battery, but this difference did not approach statistical significance (p = .33).
Our findings suggest that methamphetamine-dependent subjects do not show considerable cognitive gains in the first month of abstinence. A greater length of abstinence may be needed for cognitive improvement.
Twenty-seven of eighty-eight (30.7%) Parkinsonian patients on chronic levodopa or levodopa/carbidopa therapy developed drug related dream phenomena. The patients reported three separate types of new dreams which we have classified as vivid dreams, night terrors and nightmares. These dreams are correlated to the duration of levodopa therapy although the mechanism of their production is unclear.
The study the effects of oral administered icariin on intracavernosal pressure (ICP) and on expression of the nitrogen oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms in corpus cavernosum (CC) of arteriogenic erectile dysfunction (A-ED) rat model.
Forty adult male Wistar rats were randomly divided into 4 groups of 10 rats: shame operated group (group A) and three A-ED model groups (group B, C and D). The internal pudendal arteries were isolated and ligated with 7-O nylon thread at both the main trunk and the penile branches to establish the A-ED model. ICP were tested after the operation to make sure the successful model establishment. The groups A and B were treated with saline: and the groups C and D were treated with icariin (5 mg/kg/day and 10mg/kg/day respectively) orally for 30 days. Then the ICP was measured again. The tissues of corpus cavernosum were taken and RT-PCR was used to detect the mRNA expression of nNOS, iNOS and eNOS in CC, and Western-blot was used to detect the protein expression of these NOS isoforms.
The ICP in the group B was significantly decreased compared to the group A (P < 0.01), but the ICP values in the groups C and D were both increased compared to those in the group B (both P < 0.01). The expressions of the mRNA and protein of nNOS, iNOS, and eNOS were all decreased in the group B, however, the mRNA and protein expressions of eNOS were increased a in the groups C and D. In the group C, iNOS also increased. The expression of nNOS showed no obvious changes in the group C and group D.
Chronic oral treatment with Icariin increases the erectile function (ICP) and restores the eNOS expression in CC of A-ED rats. Icariin may have a long-term therapeutic effect on ischemia/hypoxia induced ED.
To investigate the role of the PER3 circadian rhythm gene, located within the commonly deleted region of chromosome 1p36, in human breast cancer development.
The frequency of genetic alterations at 1p36 and PER3 gene copy number status were analyzed in 180 lymph node-negative breast cancers from patients who had received treatment with chemotherapy and/or tamoxifen. The expression levels of PER3 were also analyzed using published microarray profiles from > 400 breast cancer samples. Finally, the effect of loss of Per3 on tumor susceptibility was tested using two mouse models of breast cancer.
Deletion of PER3 is directly related to tumor recurrence in patients with estrogen receptor (ER) - positive breast cancers treated with tamoxifen. Low expression of PER3 mRNA is associated with poor prognosis, particularly in a subset of tumors that are ER positive, and either luminal A or ERBB2-positive tumors. Mice deficient in Per3 showed increased susceptibility to breast cancer induced by carcinogen treatment or by overexpression of Erbb2.
Disruption of PER3 function may serve as an indicator of probability of tumor recurrence in patients with ER-positive tumors. Further investigations of this pathway may reveal links between deregulation of sleep homeostasis and breast tumorigenesis.
Vitamin D may contribute to cardiovascular disease in the absence of hypercalcemia in patients with chronic kidney disease.
We investigated the effects of long-term (6-week) treatment with 1,25(OH)2D3, at a non-hypercalcemic dosage (0.25 microg/kg per day per orally) in 5/6 nephrectomized rats: (i) vehicle-treated, sham-operated rats; (ii) 1,25(OH)2D3-treated, sham-operated rats; (iii) vehicle-treated, 5/6 nephrectomized rats; and (iv) 1,25(OH)2D3-treated, 5/6 nephrectomized rats.
Creatinine clearance after 6 weeks was significantly lower and parathyroid hormone levels were significantly higher in 1,25(OH)2D3-treated uremic rats, compared with uremic controls (P < 0.01). Serum calcium levels, as well as the calcium-phosphorus product, did not differ between both groups. Mean systolic blood pressure in 1,25(OH)2D3-treated animals was significantly increased, compared with vehicle (each P < 0.01). In addition, 1,25(OH)2D3-treated uremic animals showed left ventricular hypertrophy. Diffuse aortic calcification involving the intima and media layer occurred in 1,25(OH)2D3-treated uremic animals, but not in other groups. The mean aortic wall area and lumen area were increased two-fold in 1,25(OH)2D3-treated uremic animals compared with vehicle (P < 0.01), whereas the wall/lumen ratio remained unchanged, indicating fusiform aneurysm formation.
Hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, aortic calcification, and aneurysm, without hypercalcemia, occurred in 1,25(OH)2D3-treated, 5/6 nephrectomized rats. These data indicate a permissive effect of uremia for cardiovascular damage induced by non-hypercalcemic doses of 1,25(OH)2D3.
Investigations were performed on isolated rat aortic strips and in pithed rats in order to elucidate the mechanism of vasorelaxation or the acute blood pressure lowering effect induced by carvedilol. In particular, the possible role of the beta-receptor-stimulating activities or alpha-blocking properties has been investigated. beta 2-stimulation can be ruled out, since preincubation of isolated vessels with the beta 2-receptor blocker ICI 118.551 does not influence the vasorelaxing activity of carvedilol. Additionally, its optical enantiomers also induce the same vasorelaxing effect in vitro. In contrast to the standard alpha-blocking agents phentolamine or prazosin, carvedilol does not inhibit effects of alpha-receptor agonists at hypotensive doses, but inhibition of the effects of alpha-receptor agonists has been found in vitro and in vivo at high concentrations or doses and indicates a potential alpha-blocking activity of carvedilol. For example, the dose required for a specific inhibitory effect on norepinephrine responses observed in pithed rats is at least 20 times higher than that required for a decrease in blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Furthermore, the alpha-blocking activity is at least 20 times lower than the beta-blocking activity, whereas hypotension and beta-blockade can be observed in intact animals after acute administration in the same dose range of carvedilol. It can therefore be assumed that the alpha-blocking activity does not contribute substantially to the decrease in blood pressure at doses normally used. It is suggested that a not yet defined postreceptor mechanism is involved in the vasorelaxing and acute blood pressure lowering activity of carvedilol.
The kidney is one of the organs affected in patients with propylthiouracil (PTU)-associated antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-positive vasculitis. We present a series of Chinese patients with renal involvement in PTU-associated ANCA-positive vasculitis and describe their clinical and pathological characteristics.
Clinical and pathological data from patients with PTU-associated ANCA-positive vasculitis with renal involvement, diagnosed in Peking University First Hospital, were collected and analyzed retrospectively.
Nineteen patients with PTU-associated ANCA-positive vasculitis were treated at Peking University First Hospital between December 1999 and December 2005, and 15 of them had renal involvement. Of the 15 patients, 13 were female and 2 were male, with an average age of 26.3 +/- 11.8 years. All 15 patients were perinuclear ANCA positive with specificities to myeloperoxidase (15 of 15), cathepsin G (9 of 15), human leukocyte elastase (8 of 15), lactoferrin (7 of 15), azurocidin (5 of 15), and proteinase 3 (4 of 15). Duration of PTU administration was 43.0 +/- 31.2 months. All 15 patients had clinical markers of renal involvement, including hematuria (100%), proteinuria (100%), and renal function abnormality (47%). All 15 patients underwent percutaneous renal biopsy. Ten patients had necrotizing crescentic glomerulonephritis, and 7 of these 10 patients had immune complex deposition. Three patients had minimal involvement, 2 patients had immunoglobulin A nephropathy, and 2 patients had membranous nephropathy. PTU treatment was discontinued in all 15 patients. All except 2 patients with minimal renal involvement received immunosuppressive treatment. Eleven of 15 patients achieved complete clinical remission.
Renal involvement in our case series of patients with PTU-associated ANCA-positive vasculitis was heterogeneous, and nearly half our patients had renal immune complex deposition.
S-1 is a newly developed oral fluoropyrimidine derivative that is now widely used as a chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of various carcinomas. This study was performed to assess the efficacy and safety profile of the combination of S-1 and cisplatin(S-1/CDDP)in patients with oral cancer as neo-adjuvant chemotherapy. We reviewed our experience of 12 patients diagnosed with oral carcinoma, who were treated with S-1/CDDP. S-1 was administered orally at a dose of 50mg twice a day for 21 consecutive days, followed by a 14-day rest period. CDDP(60mg/m2)in 500 mL physiological saline was administered by intravenous drip as a 120-min infusion on day 8, together with standard premedications and hydration. Seven partial responders were obtained. The median follow-up duration was 54. 8 months, and all patients were alive excluding one case. This regimen was well tolerated, with only one case of grade 3 thrombocytopenia, and no grade 4 patient. No treatment-related death was observed. Moreover, we evaluated immunohistochemical expressions of thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase(DPD), and orotate phosphoribosyl transferase(OPRT)which are associated with chemosensitivity to 5-FU-based therapies. We investigated the relation between the immunohistochemical score and clinicopathological factors, however we could not clarify the relationship between the efficacy of chemotherapy and results of immunohistochemistry.
The comparative effects of prolonged chronic therapy with diltiazem, nicardipine, tiapamil and verapamil on exercise tolerance, ST-segment changes and heart rate were examined in 63 patients with established chronic stable angina pectoris. Multistage computer-assisted symptom-limited treadmill exercise tests were performed after 2 weeks of placebo ("baseline") and then after 4 months of open-label chronic drug therapy. Diltiazem improved the exercise duration by 95% (p less than 0.001), nicardipine by 45% (p less than 0.001), tiapamil by 69% and verapamil by 79% (p less than 0.001). Maximal ST-segment depression was not altered by any of the drugs, but time to the development of 1 mm ST-segment depression was significantly improved in all cases. Diltiazem and verapamil reduced the heart rate at rest significantly by 6 and 8 beats/minute, respectively, whereas nicardipine increased it by 10 beats/minute (p less than 0.02), and tiapamil did not produce any significant change. Maximal heart rate at the peak of exercise was increased by 14% with nicardipine (p less than 0.001) and 6% with verapamil (p less than 0.05), whereas diltiazem and tiapamil did not produce any appreciable effect. The rate-pressure product at the peak of exercise remained unaltered with diltiazem, tiapamil and verapamil, but with nicardipine it increased significantly to 222 +/- 10 units from a baseline of 175 +/- 6 units with placebo.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The co-administration of aspirin with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide (FANFT) to rats resulted in a reduced incidence of FANFT-induced bladder carcinomas but a concomitant induction of forestomach tumors. An autoradiographic study was performed on male F-344 rats fed diet containing FANFT at a level of 0.2% and/or aspirin at a level of 0.5% to evaluate the effect of aspirin on the increased cell proliferation induced by FANFT in the forestomach and bladder. FANFT-induced cell proliferation in the bladder was significantly suppressed by aspirin co-administration after 4 weeks but not after 12 weeks. In the forestomach, and also in the liver, aspirin did not affect the FANFT-induced increase in labeling index. The present results are consistent with the carcinogenicity experiment suggesting that different mechanisms are involved in FANFT carcinogenesis in the bladder and forestomach, and that aspirin's effect on FANFT in the forestomach is not due to an irritant effect associated with increased cell proliferation. Also, there appears to be an adaptation by the rats to the chronic ingestion of aspirin.
The most common form of congenital muscular dystrophy is caused by a deficiency in the alpha2 chain of laminin-211, a protein of the extracellular matrix. A wide variety of mutations, including 20 to 30% of nonsense mutations, have been identified in the corresponding gene, LAMA2. A promising approach for the treatment of genetic disorders due to premature termination codons (PTCs) is the use of drugs to force stop codon readthrough.
Here, we analyzed the effects of two compounds on a PTC in the LAMA2 gene that targets the mRNA to nonsense-mediated RNA decay, in vitro using a dual reporter assay, as well as ex vivo in patient-derived myotubes.
We first showed that both gentamicin and negamycin promote significant readthrough of this PTC. We then demonstrated that the mutant mRNAs were strongly stabilized in patient-derived myotubes after administration of negamycin, but not gentamicin. Nevertheless, neither treatment allowed re-expression of the laminin alpha2-chain protein, pointing to problems that may have arisen at the translational or post-translational levels.
Taken together, our results emphasize that achievement of a clinical benefit upon treatment with novel readthrough-inducing agents would require several favourable conditions including PTC nucleotide context, intrinsic and induced stability of mRNA and correct synthesis of a full-length active protein.
Benzo[α]pyrene (B[α]P) is a ubiquitous environmental pollutant exhibiting adverse effects on cognitive function and behaviour. In this study, depressive or antidepressive effects of B[α]P were investigated. Here, we report that a subacute B[α]P oral exposure (0.02-0.2 mg/kg) increases mobility behaviour in female adult mice in the tail suspension test, but not in the forced swimming test, without altering locomotion, suggesting that the tail suspension test was a more sensitive indicator of B[α]P-induced neurobehavioural disturbance. This might be because of differences in neurochemical substrates and pathways, mediating the performance in these behavioural models of depression. The effect of B[α]P on female adult mice in the tail suspension test was similar to that obtained with subacute treatment of the antidepressant reference drug imipramine (10 mg/kg). Therefore, B[α]P at 0.02 mg/kg and 0.2 mg/kg induces an antidepressant-like effect in mice, suggesting a neurobehavioural disturbance after oral exposure to this environmental compound. Furthermore, oral exposure to B[α]P at 0.02 mg/kg significantly increased gene expression levels of the brain receptors 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) 1A (5HT(1A)) and alpha-1D adrenergic (ADRA(1D)). In summary, the presented findings suggest that subacute oral exposure to B[α]P results in behavioural changes in female adult mice, possibly caused by alterations in the serotoninergic and adrenergic systems.
The influence of increasing doses of doxorubicin on the heart was examined in 30 patients with solid tumors, M-mode echocardiography being used to evaluate left ventricular contractility. The function of the left ventricle remained normal in 26 subjects, whereas four patients had evidence of cardiotoxicity after cumulative doses of 220, 380, 420, and 450 mg/m2. Transient overt heart failure was noted in one subject only. Doxorubicin cardiotoxicity can be detected by M-mode echocardiography, a simple and non-invasive technique, prior to the appearance of overt congestive heart failure. Patients demonstrating left ventricular dysfunction are probably not candidates for receiving further therapy with anthracycline antibiotics. Limitation of M-mode echocardiography include a 28% incidence of inadequate studies in this group of patients, and a relative inaccuracy of the technique in evaluating patients with prior myocardial infarction.
Despite extensive investigations of portal vein thrombosis, no underlying cause is identifiable in up to 30% of patients. A recently described mutation of the prothrombin gene at nucleotide position 20210 is associated with history of venous thrombosis and was assessed in this study.
We compared the frequency of factor II G20210A and factor V G1691A (factor V Leiden) mutations in 10 patients with idiopathic portal vein thrombosis, 10 patients with nonidiopathic portal vein thrombosis, 60 patients with deep vein thrombosis of the legs, and 42 control subjects.
The frequency of factor II G20210A mutation was increased in patients with idiopathic portal vein thrombosis (40.0%; confidence interval, 3.1%-76.9%) compared with controls (4.8%; confidence interval, 0%-11.5%) or patients with nonidiopathic portal vein thrombosis or deep vein thrombosis (P = 0.0001). In contrast, the frequency of the factor V G1691A mutation was similar in subjects with portal vein thrombosis and in controls but was increased in patients with deep vein thrombosis (P = 0.0001).
The factor II G20210A mutation is frequent in patients with idiopathic portal vein thrombosis and should therefore be assessed under this circumstance.
