This study compared the neurobehavioral toxicities of three mercurial compounds: methyl mercury (MeHg) which is soluble and organic. and mercuric sulfide (HgS) and cinnabar (naturally occurring HgS), which are insoluble and inorganic. Cinnabar, a Chinese mineral medicine, is still used as a sedative in some Asian countries, but there is relatively little toxicological information about it. These mercurial compounds were administered intraperitoneally (MeHg, 2 mg/ kg) or orally (HgS and cinnabar, 1.0 g/kg) to male rats once every day for 13 consecutive days with assays conducted during or after discontinuous administration for 1 h, 2, 8 and 33 weeks. Neurotoxicity was assessed based on the active avoid-ance response and locomotor activity. The results obtained showed that MeHg and cinnabar prominently and irreversibly caused a decrease in body weight, prolongation of latency for escape from electric shock, a decrease in the percentage for the conditioned avoidance response (CAR) to electric shock, impairment of spontaneous locomotion and inhibition of Na+/K+-ATPase activity of the cerebral cortex. In contrast. HgS reversibly inhibited spontaneous locomotion and Na+/K+-ATPase activity. It was noted that HgS significantly decreased the latency of escape from electric shock during the ad-ministration period, which lasted for 33 weeks after discontinuous administration. In fact that pretreatment with arecoline (a cholinergic receptor agonist) but not fipexide (a dopaminergic receptor agonist) could significantly shorten the prolonged latency for escape caused by MeHg and cinnabar, suggested that the deficit in the active avoidance response was perhaps, at least in part, mediated by the dysfunction of the cholinergic rather than the dopaminergic system. Determination of the Hg levels of the whole blood and cerebral cortex revealed that the tissue mercury content was highly correlated with the degree of neurobehavioral toxicity of these Hg compounds. These findings suggest that insoluble HgS and cinnabar can be absorbed from the G-I tract and distributed to the brain. The possibility that contamination due to other minerals in the cinnabar is responsible for the greater neurotoxic effects compared to HgS is under investigation.
Angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor blockers decrease ischemia by mechanisms dependent on and independent of arterial blood pressure in hypertensive rats and AT1-R knockout mice, respectively. However, the detailed mechanisms underlying the effects of AT1 receptor blockers remain unclear.
To elucidate the systemic and focal effects of AT1 receptor blockers against cerebral ischemia in in-vivo and in-vitro studies.
Normotensive Wistar rats were treated for 2 weeks with 0.5 or 1 mg/kg candesartan cilexetil and then subjected to 2-h middle cerebral artery occlusion-reperfusion. Human umbilical endothelial cells were stimulated with the active form of candesartan and angiotensin II in the absence and presence of an angiotensin II type 2 (AT2) receptor antagonist.
In candesartan-pretreated hypotensive and nonhypotensive rats, blood pressure was moderately increased during middle cerebral artery occlusion and fell gradually to the baseline after the reperfusion; it remained elevated in the control even after the reperfusion occlusion. Candesartan treatment resulted in a decrease in the cortical infarct volume and oxidative damage, the hypoxic status was improved, and the expression of repair-associated and growth-associated proteins in the cortical penumbra was augmented. Candesartan also increased the eNOS mRNA level and the lumen size of the middle cerebral artery. In human umbilical endothelial cells, candesartan increased the eNOS protein level AT2-R dependently, inhibited the expression of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase subunits and angiotensin II-induced intracellular reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide, and promoted the extracellular release of nitric oxide, suggesting that it augmented the bioavailability of nitric oxide.
Among the mechanisms candesartan exerts in its protection against cerebral ischemia, restoration of endothelial function may represent an attractive therapeutic goal to address cerebral ischemia.
Autistic disorder is a complex genetic disease. Because of previous reports of individuals with autistic disorder with duplications of the Prader-Willi/Angelman syndrome critical region, we screened several markers across the 15q11-13 region, for linkage disequilibrium. One hundred forty families, consisting predominantly of a child with autistic disorder and both parents, were studied. Genotyping was performed by use of multiplex PCR and capillary electrophoresis. Two children were identified who had interstitial chromosome 15 duplications and were excluded from further linkage-disequilibrium analysis. Use of the multiallelic transmission-disequilibrium test (MTDT), for nine loci on 15q11-13, revealed linkage disequilibrium between autistic disorder and a marker in the gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptor subunit gene, GABRB3 155CA-2 (MTDT 28.63, 10 df, P=.0014). No evidence was found for parent-of-origin effects on allelic transmission. The convergence of GABRB3 as a positional and functional candidate along with the linkage-disequilibrium data suggests the need for further investigation of the role of GABRB3 or adjacent genes in autistic disorder.
It has been hypothesized that exposure to neurotoxins may result in accelerated ageing of the central nervous system (CNS). The present study investigated the effects of a 3-month (6 hr daily, 5 days/week) inhalation exposure of rats to m-xylene, at concentrations of 100 and 1000 ppm, on the spontaneous neocortical spike and wave discharges (SWD) and spatial learning in an eight-arm radial maze. According to the literature, the SWD activity increases and the ability to solve spatial problems worsens as the animal gets older. The testing in the maze (one trial daily for five days) was performed two months after the exposure. The SWD activity was assessed on the basis of the number and duration of SWD bursts in one-hour EEG recordings performed before the exposure, on day 28, 56 and 84 of exposure, and then on day 14, 28, 42, and 84 after the exposure. In rats exposed to 1000 ppm m-xylene, unlike in the controls, neither decrease in the number of omission errors nor decrease in response speed was noted in the course of training in the radial maze, which suggested a learning deficit. However, the development of the age-related SWD activity was significantly retarded in these rats when compared with the controls. In rats exposed to 100 ppm m-xylene, the effects on maze behaviour and the SWD activity were similar as in rats exposed to 1000 ppm m-xylene but they were less pronounced. The study has provided an experimental evidence for persistent changes in the CNS functions, resulting from a subchronic exposure to m-xylene. The changes, however, cannot be interpreted simply as an accelerated brain ageing.
The circadian rhythms of melatonin and cortisol were evaluated in seven outpatients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) before and after 8 weeks of fluoxetine treatment (20 mg/day in the first 2 weeks, and 40 mg/day afterwards), and in seven healthy subjects matched to patients on age, sex and season of testing. The results confirm our previous findings of a decreased 24-h production of melatonin (p < .05; two-way ANOVA with repeated measures) and of an increased circadian secretion of cortisol (p < .01) in OCD patients with respect to matched controls, and show, for the first time, that these hormonal alterations do not significantly change after 2 months of fluoxetine administration, in spite of a good clinical improvement. These data suggest that the normalization of the biochemical changes underlying the altered endocrine parameters in obsessive-compulsive patients is not necessary for effective therapy or clinical remission.
In lightly-anesthetized dogs, ionic or non-ionic RCM (Iotalamato and iohexol, respectively) when injected by intracarotid route (i.c.), elicit a pain response comparable to that caused by bradykinin (BK) or capsaicin (CAP). This response, which is characterized by vocalization, hyperpnea, bradycardia and neck muscle contraction, was dose dependent and related to the osmolarity of the RCM. In the present study we observed that indomethacin did not interfere with CAP and RCM-induced pain at dose (2 mg/kg i.c.) that reduced BK-elicited responses. In contrast, Ruthenium Red (RR), in dose (1 mg/kg i.c.) that reduced CAP and/or RCM-induced effects did not affect BK-induced phenomena. We also verified that L-NAME (50 mg/kg i.c.) reduced the BK-, but not the CAP- and/or RCM-induced pain responses which suggests that an L-arginine-derived NO or related compound is involved in BK activation of perivascular nociceptors. Indeed, we found that i.c. injection of 20 mg of S-nitrosocysteine, a putative EDRF, caused BK-like responses. On the other hand, RCM and CAP appear to activate the same RR sensitive ionic channels of primary afferent endings. Therefore, RR-analogues could constitute a novel approach to minimizing or eventually abolishing the RCM side effects.
The case of toxic melanoderma in female patient 32 years aged is described. The erythematous and pigmented lesions are present on the face, neck and upper part of breast. The disease developed after 4 months exposure to vinilchloride in workplace. The diagnosis was made in 2 years after the beginning of the disease.
From May 1990 to November 1994, 70 consecutive patients suffering from glioblastoma multiforme were treated following surgery with conventional radiotherapy and adjuvant IV BCNU administered alone or in combination with tamoxifen. Twenty-five patients received BCNU alone (control group A) while 24 patients also received 40 mg of tamoxifen (TMX) PO daily (group B) and 21 received 100 mg of TMX PO daily (group C). There were no significant differences between the 3 groups concerning age, type of resection and median post-operative Karnofsky performance status (KPS). Blood toxicity over grade II occurred in 33.5% of patients receiving TMX versus 12% of patients treated with BCNU alone (p < 0.05). Deep venous thrombosis complications were observed in 4 patients of each TMX group, whereas they were not observed in the control group (p < 0.04). Median time to tumor progression (MTTP) was 35 weeks in the control group and 27 weeks in both TMX groups B and C. Median survival time (MST) was 56, 66 and 51 weeks, respectively. These results suggest that the addition of TMX to standard treatment of glioblastomas does not affect the time to tumor progression and overall survival but may increase the risk of deep venous thrombosis or nitrosourea-induced blood toxicity.
Elevated concentrations of arsenic in groundwater pose a public health threat to millions of people worldwide. The authors aimed to evaluate the association between arsenic exposure and skin lesion incidence among participants in the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study (HEALS). The analyses used data on 10,182 adults free of skin lesions at baseline through the third biennial follow-up of the cohort (2000-2009). Discrete-time hazard regression models were used to estimate hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals for incident skin lesions. Multivariate-adjusted hazard ratios for incident skin lesions comparing 10.1-50.0, 50.1-100.0, 100.1-200.0, and ≥200.1 μg/L with ≤10.0 μg/L of well water arsenic exposure were 1.17 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.92, 1.49), 1.69 (95% CI: 1.33, 2.14), 1.97 (95% CI: 1.58, 2.46), and 2.98 (95% CI: 2.40, 3.71), respectively (P(trend) = 0.0001). Results were similar for the other measures of arsenic exposure, and the increased risks remained unchanged with changes in exposure in recent years. Dose-dependent associations were more pronounced in females, but the incidence of skin lesions was greater in males and older individuals. Chronic arsenic exposure from drinking water was associated with increased incidence of skin lesions, even at low levels of arsenic exposure (<100 μg/L).
A delayed effect of fentanyl used for anesthesia may be respiratory distress several hours after surgery. The findings are muscular rigidity, fall in chest wall compliance, hypoventilation, respiratory acidosis, and hypotension. In the past, to our knowledge, this complication was exclusively reported in patients undergoing cardiac surgery, when large fentanyl dosages are employed. This article describes three general surgical patients in whom respiratory distress developed three to five hours following colon surgery when a moderate dose of fentanyl citrate, 55 to 75 micrograms/kg, was used. Initially, all patients had a normal recovery from anesthesia. Later, respiratory distress was successfully treated with a fentanyl antagonist and ventilatory assistance. This delayed toxic phenomenon is thought to be due to the reentry of fentanyl into plasma from deposits in adipose tissue, muscle, and the gastrointestinal tract, leading to a secondary rise in the plasma concentration. It is more likely to be encountered when hypothermia, rewarming, and acidosis are present in the postoperative period. This life-threatening complication is treacherous, since it may occur when the patient has been transferred to the surgical ward and is less closely monitored.
Alosetron hydrochloride (Lotronex, GlaxoSmithKline, Inc) is a safe and effective agent for selective patients with severe irritable bowel syndrome when prescribed as recommended. We describe the first reported case of acute liver injury in a 39-year-old white woman who developed symptomatic hepatitis 28 days after starting alosetron. All other competing causes of acute hepatitis were excluded by radiologic and laboratory studies and the liver injury resolved after drug discontinuation. Although the mechanism of alosetron hepatotoxicity is unknown, metabolic idiosyncrasy is suspected since the drug is known to be extensively metabolized by cytochrome-P450 enzymes. Clinicians prescribing alosetron should be aware of this potential side effect if unexplained abdominal pain, jaundice,or abnormal liver biochemistries are encountered in a treated patient.
We assessed the peripheral neuropathic changes induced by biweekly combination chemotherapy including paclitaxel 100-165 mg/m2 (in a 3-h infusion), epirubicin 75 mg/m2 and cisplatin 50 mg/m2 (TEC) in patients with advanced ovarian cancer. Neurologic evaluation, including a standardized questionnaire, bed-side neurological examination, and quantitative determination of vibratory perception thresholds (VPT) and grip strength took place before therapy, after 3 and 6 cycles, and thereafter whenever possible. During chemotherapy all patients received granulocyte colony-stimulating factor from days 2 to 12. Pretreated patients received amifostine two times, before epirubicin and before cisplatin administration. Neuropathic symptoms developed in 11/13 non-pretreated patients and in 7/9 chemotherapy-pretreated patients. Neuropathic signs developed in all patients. Neuropathic symptoms and signs were predominantly sensory in character. VPT changes developed primarily in the feet. According to National Cancer Institute of Canada Common Toxicity Criteria, grade 3 peripheral neuropathy after 6 cycles developed in 1/6 and 2/4 non-pretreated patients who received TEC containing paclitaxel 150 and 165 mg/m2, respectively. We conclude that peripheral neuropathy is dose-limiting in chemonaïve patients treated with biweekly TEC combination chemotherapy, at paclitaxel dose level 165 mg/m2 in a 3-h intravenous administration.
Memory deficits associated with aging and Alzheimer's disease have been linked to cholinergic dysfunction. The present study investigated this hypothesis by comparing the effects of the muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonist scopolamine on recent memory performance and by examining muscarinic receptor density in aged and young dogs. Scopolamine (15 μg/kg; SC) was administered prior to testing young (M=2.8 years) and aged (M=13.0 years) dogs on a delayed-non-matching-to-position task (DNMP). Scopolamine significantly impaired performance of aged, but not young dogs. Muscarinic receptor density was assessed autoradiographically using the non-selective radioligand [(3)H]quinuclidinylbenzilate. Aged dogs (M=14.1 years) showed significantly decreased density of muscarinic receptors in all brain regions examined except the cerebellum compared to young dogs (M=3.7 years). The results are consistent with those seen in aged humans and Alzheimer's patients and support the hypothesis of age-dependent cholinergic dysfunction in the dog, although this was not directly determined in the current study. These findings demonstrate that markers of cholinergic hypofunction, in addition to the natural cognitive decline and amyloid pathology previously noted, are seen in canine aging. Collectively, this supports the use of the aged dog as a model for examining early pathological events in the development of Alzheimer's disease.
Flavonoid family is a rich source of polyphenolic compounds and hence possess strong antioxidant and anti inflammatory properties. The aim of this study was to determine the efficacy of chrysin; a bio-active flavonoid as an anticancer agent. Renal cancer was initiated by single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN 200 mg/kg BW body weight) and promoted by twice weekly administration of ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA) 9 mg Fe/kg BW for 16 wk. In the present study, we report the chemopreventive effects of chrysin against (Fe-NTA) induced renal oxidative stress, inflammation, hyperproliferative response, and two-stage renal carcinogenesis. To ascertain the molecular mechanism implicated in the antitumor promoting activity of chrysin, its effect was investigated on markers of tumor promotion and inflammation: ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression, and on levels of proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)). Pretreatment of animals with chrysin at both doses (20 and 40 mg/kg body weight) markedly inhibited all. Further, Fe-NTA enhances renal lipid peroxidation, with concomitant reduction in reduced glutathione content (GSH), antioxidant enzymes, and phase II metabolizing enzymes. It induces serum toxicity markers, viz., blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Prophylactic treatment of animals with chrysin before the administration of Fe-NTA was effective in modulating oxidative and renal injury markers and resulted in the diminution of Fe-NTA mediated injury. These results suggest chrysin as an effective chemopreventive agent having the capability to obstruct DEN initiated and Fe-NTA promoted renal cancer in the rat model.
Human endometrial carcinomas, as well as complex atypical hyperplasias (CAH), are estrogen related and frequently have mutations in the PTEN gene. However, the mutual contribution of estrogen and PTEN mutations to endometrial carcinogenesis in vivo is unknown. To address this issue, we investigated whether neonatal estrogenic treatments augment the incidence of CAH and carcinomas in murine PTEN (mPTEN) heterozygous (+/-) mutant mice, an animal model for endometrial carcinoma. Low doses of diethylstilbestrol (1 ng/g/day), genistein (50 microg/g/day) in phytoestrogens, estriol (E(3)) (4 microg/g/day), and vehicle (ethanol and corn oil) were administered subcutaneously daily to neonatal pups from the 1st to 5th day after birth. At 52 weeks of age, the morphological changes in the endometrium, and uterine expression of Hoxa 10 and Hoxa 11, were evaluated. These Hoxa genes are abdominal B-type homeobox genes, which normally regulate differentiation of the Müllerian duct. The incidence of CAH and adenocarcinomas of the endometrium was significantly decreased by the neonatal estrogenic treatments in the mPTEN+/- mice. Coincidentally, all treatments significantly decreased the stromal cell density, and CAH and adenocarcinomas rarely developed in the epithelium adjacent to the affected endometrial stroma. Moreover, the uterine expression of Hoxa 10 in mice with neonatal genistein and E(3) treatments, and that of Hoxa 11 in mice with all treatments, was significantly lower when compared with vehicle alone. Taken together, neonatal estrogenic exposure induced stromal atrophy and/or hyalinization accompanied by repressed expression of Hoxa 10 and Hoxa 11, and exerted an inhibitory effect on PTEN-related tumorigenesis. These findings provide new insight into the interaction between endometrial epithelium and stroma in endometrial carcinogenesis in vivo.
The biologic basis of autism is complex and is thought to involve multiple and variable gene-environment interactions. While the logical focus has been on the affected child, the impact of maternal genetics on intrauterine microenvironment during pivotal developmental windows could be substantial. Folate-dependent one carbon metabolism is a highly polymorphic pathway that regulates the distribution of one-carbon derivatives between DNA synthesis (proliferation) and DNA methylation (cell-specific gene expression and differentiation). These pathways are essential to support the programmed shifts between proliferation and differentiation during embryogenesis and organogenesis. Maternal genetic variants that compromise intrauterine availability of folate derivatives could alter fetal cell trajectories and disrupt normal neurodevelopment. In this investigation, the frequency of common functional polymorphisms in the folate pathway was investigated in a large population-based sample of autism case-parent triads. In case-control analysis, a significant increase in the reduced folate carrier (RFC1) G allele frequency was found among case mothers, but not among fathers or affected children. Subsequent log linear analysis of the RFC1 A80G genotype within family trios revealed that the maternal G allele was associated with a significant increase in risk of autism whereas the inherited genotype of the child was not. Further, maternal DNA from the autism mothers was found to be significantly hypomethylated relative to reference control DNA. Metabolic profiling indicated that plasma homocysteine, adenosine, and S-adenosylhomocyteine were significantly elevated among autism mothers consistent with reduced methylation capacity and DNA hypomethylation. Together, these results suggest that the maternal genetics/epigenetics may influence fetal predisposition to autism.
Thirty-five dogs with appendicular osteosarcoma were treated with 5 doses of doxorubicin (30 mg/m2 of body surface, i.v., every 2 weeks). Surgical excision of the primary tumor was performed 13 days after the second (n = 18) or third (n = 17) treatment, and the subsequent doxorubicin treatment was given the day following surgery. Resected tumors were evaluated histologically to determine response to preoperative chemotherapy (ie, percentage of the tumor that was necrotic). Survival data for the 35 dogs were compared with survival data for a historical control group, consisting of 162 dogs with appendicular osteosarcoma treated by amputation alone. Administration of doxorubicin at 2 week intervals was well tolerated. Three dogs were alive and did not have evidence of disease at the time of reporting. Of the remaining 32 dogs, 3 died or were euthanatized because of cardiomyopathy presumably caused by doxorubicin; 1 died suddenly 116 weeks after initiation of treatment; and the remaining 28 were euthanatized because of problems documented to be related to distant metastases. Thirteen dogs (40.6%) were euthanatized because of pulmonary metastases, 10 dogs (31.3%) were euthanatized because of bone metastases, and 5 dogs (15.6%) were euthanatized because of metastases in other sites. The proportion of dogs euthanatized because of bone metastases was significantly (P < 0.001) higher for the study group than for the control group. Median survival time for the 35 dogs that received doxorubicin was estimated to be 52.3 weeks, and 1- and 2-year survival rates were estimated to be 50.5 and 9.7%, respectively. Survival time was significantly (P < 0.0001) longer for these dogs than for control dogs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Three stable carcinoma cell lines, designated PLS10, PLS20 and PLS30, have been established from 3,2'-dimethyl-4aminobiphenyl plus testosterone-induced carcinomas in the dorsolateral prostate of male F344 rats. The cells are keratin-positive and grow as typical epithelial monolayers in culture. When injected into intact male nude mice, PLS10 and PLS30 cells form well-differentiated adenocarcinomas with abundant connective tissue stroma, while PLS20 cells give rise to poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas. Growth of all PLS cell lines in nude mice is not affected by castration and the cells are immunohistochemically negative for androgen receptors. Tumor growth rates in nude mice were found to be PLS20 > PLS10 > PLS30, with significant in vitro stimulation by insulin/transferrin, but not epidermal growth factor, dexamethasone or basic fibroblast growth factor. Spontaneous lung metastases were observed in all cases. However, skeletal invasion including bone is essentially observed only with the PLS20 tumors. Gelatin zymography showed predominant secretion of the active form of gelatinase B (Mr 92,000 type IV collagenase) by all the cell lines. Karyotype analysis revealed PLS10, PLS30 and PLS20 to be diploid, hyperdiploid and hypertetraploid, respectively. The results demonstrate that the three PLS cell lines are androgen-independent and metastatic in common, but have different histology, growth potential and invasiveness. They may therefore be useful models for understanding progression and metastasis of human prostatic carcinomas.
Sugar consumption affects insulin release and, in hypertension, may stimulate cardiac signaling mechanisms that accelerate left ventricular hypertrophy and the development of heart failure. We investigated the effects of high-fructose or sucrose diets on ventricular function and mortality in hypertensive Dahl salt-sensitive rats.
Rats were fed chows that were either high starch (70% starch, 10% fat by energy), high fat (20% carbohydrates, 60% fat), high fructose (61% fructose, 9% starch, 10% fat), or high sucrose (61% sucrose, 9% starch, 10% fat). Hypertension was induced by adding 6% salt to the chow (n = 8-11/group).
After 8 weeks of treatment, systolic blood pressure and left ventricular mass were similarly increased in all rats that were fed high-salt diets. Hypertension caused a switch in mRNA myosin heavy chain isoform from alpha to beta, and this effect was greater in the high-salt sucrose and fructose groups than in starch and fat groups. The cardiac mRNA for atrial natriuretic factor was also increased in all high-salt groups compared to respective controls, with the increase being significantly greater in the hypertensive sucrose fed group. Mortality was greater in the sucrose group (44%) compared to all the other hypertensive groups (12-18%), as was cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Left ventricular ejection fraction was lower in the high-salt sucrose group, which was due to an increase in end-systolic volume, and not increased end-diastolic volume.
Diets high in sugar accelerated cardiac systolic dysfunction and mortality in hypertension compared to either a low-carbohydrate/high-fat or high-starch diet.
Left coronary arteriography and left coronary artery injections of Tyrode's solution and glucose solutions were performed in 12 anesthetized dogs. The contrast medium was found to prolong the conduction time through the AV junctional tissue and through the most distal part of the conduction network as verified by His-bundle electrogram and by surface ECG (lead II). The results indicate that for evaluation of the effects on conductivity of various media, it is most reliable to measure the altered conduction velocity in the AV nodal region. The prolongation of conduction time produced by contrast medium explains heart conduction blocks and may contribute to the genesis of ventricular fibrillation, frequent complications to coronary arteriography. The data suggest that anoxemia does not cause this delayed conduction. Hyperosmolarity contributes to the alterations of the conductivity, but the ionic composition and anion toxicity of the contrast medium also may be of importance.
An 18-year-old woman suffered cardiac arrest and became comatose after ingesting a large amount of proxyphene and salicylates. Six days after admission, her pupils, initially miotic, became fixed and dilated. On the seventh day disc edema developed. This was due to optic neuritis from acute Darvon overdose. Within eight weeks the disc edema resolved into a pale white atrophy with severe loss of vision. This is the first reported case of optic atrophy after propoxyphene overdose.
Administration of progestins in the dog may result in overproduction of growth hormone, suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis, and insulin resistance. In this paper we present a comparison of the histological findings in control dogs and dogs treated with either medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) or proligestone (PROL). Depot preparations of MPA or PROL were administered (SC) at 3-week intervals in two groups of seven ovariohysterectomized beagle dogs, after which three dogs of each group were killed. After a 6-month period without hormone treatment during which recovery was studied, the remaining dogs received five additional injections at the same interval and were subsequently killed. Tissue samples of four intact female beagle dogs served as controls. Progestin treatment resulted in atrophy of the adrenal cortex. In both MPA- and PROL-treated dogs, the thickness of the combined zona fasciculata and reticularis was significantly smaller than in control animals. In the mammary glands of progestin-treated dogs there were well developed alveoli and normal ducts adjacent to foci of hyperplastic ductular epithelium. Five dogs in each treatment group had developed benign mammary tumours which varied from simple tubular and papillary adenomas to benign complex and mixed tumours, whereas no mammary tumours were observed in the control animals. In each treatment group, steroid-induced hepatopathy was observed in the liver of three dogs. Vacuolation of the cells of the islets of Langerhans and the epithelium of the intercalated ducts was present in two dogs of each treatment group and was only observed after the second series of progestin administrations. Incidental findings included chronic pyelonephritis, aspecific dermatitis, and mucinous dysplasia of the gall bladder. No abnormalities were found in sections of spleen, lung, brain, or pituitary gland. There were no significant differences in the frequencies of the various abnormalities between MPA- and PROL-treated dogs. Our findings correspond with the clinical and biochemical results after treatment of dogs with MPA and PROL. The high incidence of mammary tumours might be associated with our recent finding that in the dog progestins induce ectopic production of growth hormone in the mammary gland. The dog might be a good model for further studies on hormonally induced breast cancers.
Nausea and vomiting are symptoms resulting from a triggered emetic reflex. Many endogenous and exogenous triggering factors can activate the emetic reflex, making understanding difficult and therapy challenging. The key to managing most cases of nausea and vomiting lies in a good history and a detailed physical examination. Most episodes of acute vomiting (lasting < 48 hours) have an evident triggering factor (eg, infection, viral illness, or food poisoning) and can be managed by removing the triggering agent and via supportive therapy. Chronic and unexplained nausea and vomiting can be a challenge. The cause is often obscure and requires special investigation. Functional gastroduodenal disorders such as cyclic vomiting syndrome, functional vomiting, and chronic idiopathic nausea should be considered if investigations are unrevealing. Knowledge regarding various emetic pathways and the specific neurotransmitters involved helps to target therapy. Histamine-1 receptor antagonists and muscarinic antagonists are suitable candidates for motion sickness and labyrinthine disorders. Phenothiazines, 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor antagonists, corticosteroids, and benzodiazepines have a role in postchemotherapy and postoperative nausea and vomiting. Cannabinoid and neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists are best reserved for refractory cases of nausea and vomiting. Motilin agonists and metoclopramide are useful for treating impaired gastric motility disorders.
A male patient receiving azathioprine treatment for discoid lupus erythematodes developed severe cholestatic hepatitis between 14 and 21 days after initiation of the treatment with peak bilirubin levels of 62.4 mg/dL. Other causes of hepatic dysfunction including viral hepatitis were clinically and serologically excluded. Liver biopsy revealed cholestatic hepatocellular damage. At 14 days after discontinuation of azathioprine the liver function (transaminases and bilirubin) began to improve. Only alcaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transferase remained elevated even after 4 months. This case argues for an idiosyncratic cholestatic hepatocellular damage caused by azathioprine.
We present a first case of Parkinson's disease with neuroleptic malignant syndrome by Paroxetine, one of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). The patient was a 73-year-old woman who had been diagnosed as Parkinson's disease for one and half year. The severity of her disease was categorized as Hoehn & Yahr 2nd degree and she had taken 0.25 mg/day of Pramipexole. Four days after the addition of 10 mg/day of Paroxetine for the treatment of her depression, she developed consciousness disturbance, severe muscular rigidity, tremor, fever, hyperhidrosis, incontinence and elevated serum creatine kinase level. According to diagnostic criteria, she was diagnosed as neuroleptic malignant syndrome probably induced by Paroxetine. Her clinical symptoms and laboratory data were improved seven days after intravenous drip infusion. We should recognize that SSRI could induce neuroleptic malignant syndrome in patients with Parkinson's disease.
The renal functions in pediatric cancer patients who received ifosfamide (IFO) treatment were evaluated and the risk factors related to IFO nephrotoxicity were determined. The medical records of all children treated with IFO were reviewed, and 62 with normal renal function before IFO treatment were selected. Nephrotoxicity was diagnosed by measuring urine beta2-microglobulin and glucose, and serum phosphate, bicarbonate, and creatinine. Forty-eight (77.4%) had a history of previous cisplatin treatment. Nephrotoxicity was detected in 20 patients (32.3%). beta2-Microglobulinuria was observed in all 20, hypophosphatemia in 10 (16.1%), hypocarbia in 2 (3.2%), glucosuria in 5 (8.1%), and decreased creatinine clearance in 7 (11.3%). The cumulative dose of IFO and a history of previous cisplatin therapy were related to nephrotoxicity. Among the 20 patients with nephrotoxicity, the median cumulative dose of IFO in patients with a low (<500 mg/m2) and high (>500 mg/m2) cumulative dose of previous cisplatin was 80 g/m2 (73-102 g/m2) and 45 g/m2 (11-76 g/m2), respectively. Most of the nephrotoxicity persisted after cessation of IFO treatment. In conclusion, close monitoring of IFO nephrotoxicity should be started earlier in patients with high-dose cisplatin pretreatment. Tubular proteinuria, as indicated by beta2-microglobulinuria, was the most-sensitive marker for IFO nephrotoxicity. Long-term follow-up study for reversibility of IFO nephrotoxicity is in progress.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by a selective loss of dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). Although current therapy can control symptoms of this disorder, there is no effective therapy available to halt its progression. Recently, neuroinflammation has been recognized as an important contributor to the pathogenesis of PD, and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) plays a key role in regulating neuroinflammation. Hence, the modulation of NF-kappaB pathway may have therapeutic potential for PD. Activation of NF-kappaB depends on the phosphorylation of its inhibitor, IkappaB, by the specific IkappaB kinase (IKK) subunit IKK-beta. Compound A (7-[2-(cyclopropylmethoxy)-6-hydroxyphenyl]-5-[(3S)-3-piperidinyl]-1, 4-dihydro-2H-pyrido[2,3-d][1,3]oxazin-2-one hydrochloride), a potent and selective inhibitor of IKK-beta, has recently been reported to provide cardioprotection through specific suppression of NF-kappaB signaling. The present study, for the first time, elucidates neuroprotective effects of compound A. Daily subcutaneous injection of compound A (1 mg/kg) for 7 days inhibited the activation of microglia induced by nigral stereotaxic injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and significantly attenuated LPS-induced loss of DA neurons in the SN. In vitro mechanistic studies revealed that neuroprotective effects of compound A were mediated by 1) suppressing the activity of microglial NADPH oxidase and decreasing the production of reactive oxygen species, and 2) inhibiting NF-kappaB-mediated gene transcription of various proinflammatory mediators in microglia via IKK-beta suppression. These findings indicate that compound A afforded potent neuroprotection against LPS-induced neurodegeneration through selective inhibition of NF-kappaB activation and may be of potential benefit in the treatment of PD.
