Many patients receiving allogeneic stem cells develop chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD), which remains as the main cause of morbidity and mortality. Although the first line of therapy is generally with steroids, it is not well known how to manage refractory cases. Those patients are usually treated with alternative experimental agents. Sirolimus (Rapamycin), a new immunosuppressive agent, inhibits signal transduction and cell cycle progression after binding to FKBP12. We report a retrospective analysis with sirolimus in transplant recipients with cGVHD refractory to previous immunosuppressive therapy. Forty-seven patients with refractory or relapsed cGVHD were treated with the combination of sirolimus and calcineurin inhibitors (n = 33), mycophenolate (n = 9), or prednisone (n = 5). Thirty-eight of 47 (81%) patients had clinical responses (complete = 18, partial = 20). The main toxicity was mild renal failure, particularly at the start of therapy. Four patients who presented thrombotic microangiopathy were managed with plasmapheresis and the discontinuation of sirolimus and calcineurin inhibitors. Statistical analysis showed the type of cGVHD onset and presirolimus clinical status as the main variables influencing the response to treatment. The Kaplan-Meier estimate of survival was 57.4% at 3 years. The current study shows the efficacy and safety of sirolimus in refractory cGVHD patients. Further investigation is warranted to elucidate the role of sirolimus in cGVHD, and find the best combination (sirolimus + calcineurin inhibitors versus others) for therapeutic use.
To investigate the effects of indomethacin on the human fetal renal blood flow velocity waveform, 17 fetuses whose mothers were treated for preterm labor (N = 8) or polyhydramnios (N = 9) were studied. There were five growth-retarded fetuses (all in the group with polyhydramnios), 11 normal fetuses, and one fetus with red-cell alloimmunization. The indomethacin dose in all patients was 25 mg orally every 6 hours. The gestational age of the fetuses studied varied between 24-35 weeks (mean +/- SD 29.6 +/- 2.8). The fetal renal artery was studied at its origin from the aorta before and during the first 24 hours of indomethacin therapy. Seven fetuses manifested ductal constriction. Three fetuses also manifested tricuspid regurgitation. All ductal constrictions and the tricuspid regurgitations resolved in utero after discontinuation of indomethacin. There were no significant differences in the pulsatility index values of the renal artery before and during indomethacin therapy. These results suggest that there is no change in fetal renovascular parameters detectable with pulsatility index measurements during the first 24 hours of maternal indomethacin therapy.
Previous observations suggest that Ca(2+)-dependent K+ efflux is increased in erythrocytes from spontaneously hypertensive rats. On the other hand, it has been reported that hyperparathyroidism induces an increase in Ca(2+)-dependent K+ efflux of human erythrocytes. To investigate whether Ca(2+)-dependent K+ efflux is altered in essential hypertension quinine-sensitive K+ efflux was measured in erythrocytes from 20 normotensive controls and 30 nontreated essential hypertensives. The quinine-sensitive K+ efflux was similar for hypertensive patients (593 +/- 20 mmol/L cells/h) as compared with normotensive controls (532 +/- 34 mmol/L cells/h). Ten hypertensives exhibited values of quinine-sensitive K+ efflux above an upper normal limit of 650 mmol/L cells/h. As compared with controls those patients presented elevated plasma levels of parathyroid hormone (P less than .05). In addition, a positive correlation was found between parathyroid hormone and quinine-sensitive K+ efflux in the above ten hypertensives (R = 0.85, P less than .001). These results suggest that an excess of parathyroid hormone may be involved in the increase of Ca(2+)-dependent K+ efflux present in some essential hypertensive patients.
Nitric oxide synthase activity is increased in the stomach in association with Helicobacter pylori infection and portal hypertension, but the mechanism by which nitric oxide contributes to mucosal damage remains unclear.
To examine whether nitric oxide injures gastric mucosal cells and whether cellular glutathione affects nitric oxide-induced cytotoxicity.
A confluent monolayer of RGM-1 gastric mucosal cells was exposed to nitric oxide donors (NOC5 or NOC12). Cell viability was determined by trypan blue dye exclusion, lactate dehydrogenase release and supravital staining with Hoechst 33342 and propidium iodide. The kinetics of the reduced/oxidized forms of glutathione were also measured, as well as the effect of glutathione-depletion or glutathione-precursor treatment on nitric oxide-induced cytotoxicity.
Excess exogenous nitric oxide produced by NOC5 or NOC12 induced necrosis in RGM-1 cells in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. The level of reduced glutathione drastically decreased prior to the loss of cell viability and remained low, but oxidized glutathione was not affected. Glutathione depletion increased necrosis of both NOCs in an NOC-concentration-related fashion, while pre-treatment with gamma-glutamylcysteine ethyl ester reduced their necrotic susceptibility.
Exogenous nitric oxide induced necrosis in gastric mucosal cells, and intracellular reduced glutathione protects gastric mucosal cells from damage by nitric oxide.
To elucidate and compare the effects of nifedipine (NIF) and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) on blood pressure (BP) and sodium (Na) balance, we conducted a randomized, double-blind, crossover study with 50 mg/day HCTZ and 90 mg/day NIF (as the sustained-release gastrointestinal therapeutic system preparation) in 10 mildly hypertensive patients over approximately 8 weeks. Prior to treatment, the subjects were brought into balance at an intake of 150 mmol/day. During treatment, Na intake was lowered and raised to 50 and 300 mmol/day, respectively, in random order. Then, the subjects were brought into balance on treatment at a level of 150 mmol/day. Balance observations were made during and after the drugs were discontinued. Both HCTZ and NIF lowered BP similarly. When Na intake was lowered from 150 to 50 mmol/day, a significant decrease in diastolic BP was observed with HCTZ. Increasing Na intake to 300 mmol/day did not affect BP. At an intake of 150 mmol/day, HCTZ caused prompt natriuresis, with a negative balance of 150 mmol by 3 days. No initial natriuresis could be shown with NIF. Decreasing Na intake to 50 mmol/day caused prompt negative Na balance with both drugs; increasing it to 300 mmol/day was associated with +150 mmol Na balance with HCTZ while no significant increase was seen with NIF. Discontinuing both drugs caused prompt increase in BP and Na retention over 6 days, which was not different for the drugs. Plasma renin activity (PRA) increased with HCTZ but not with NIF. Further, changing Na intake affected PRA with HCTZ. With NIF, PRA appeared to be uncoupled from the effects of dietary Na intake. In contrast to HCTZ, no adverse metabolic effects were observed with NIF. The data suggest that NIF results in chronic mild natriuresis similar in magnitude to HCTZ. The PRA appears inactivated, although not lowered. The effects of NIF on BP may be at least in part related to the natriuresis and blunting of PRA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Severe copper deficiency leads in humans to a treatable multisystem disease characterized by anaemia and degeneration of spinal cord and nerves, but its mechanisms have not been investigated. We tested whether copper deficit leads to alterations in fundamental copper-dependent proteins and in iron metabolism in blood and muscles of patients affected by copper deficiency myeloneuropathy, and if these metabolic abnormalities are associated with compensatory mechanisms for copper maintenance.
We evaluated the expression of critical copper enzymes, of iron-related proteins, and copper chaperones and transporters in blood and muscles from five copper-deficient patients presenting with subacute sensory ataxia, muscle paralysis, liver steatosis and variable anaemia. Severe copper deficiency was caused by chronic zinc intoxication in all of the patients, with an additional history of gastrectomy in two cases.
The antioxidant enzyme SOD1 and subunit 2 of cytochrome c oxidase were significantly decreased in blood cells and in muscles of copper-deficient patients compared with controls. In muscle, the iron storage protein ferritin was dramatically reduced despite normal serum ferritin, and the expression of the haem-proteins cytochrome c and myoglobin was impaired. Muscle expression of the copper transporter CTR1 and of the copper chaperone CCS, was strikingly increased, while antioxidant protein 1 was diminished.
copper-dependent enzymes with critical functions in antioxidant defences, in mitochondrial energy production, and in iron metabolism are affected in blood and muscles of patients with profound copper deficiency leading to myeloneuropathy. Homeostatic mechanisms are strongly activated to increase intracellular copper retention.
The influence of renal insufficiency on melphalan-induced myelosuppression was examined during the initial 10 weeks of treatment in 295 patients with multiple myeloma. Patients were randomized to receive either oral melphalan (0.15 mg/kg/day for 7 days, followed by 0.05 mg/kg/day after recovery from the wbc count nadir) or iv melphalan (16 mg/m2 every 2 weeks for four doses, followed by a single dose every 4 weeks). All patients received a 6-week tapering course of prednisone. Patients with renal insufficiency (BUN greater than or equal to 30 mg/100 ml) had a significantly higher frequency of severe leukopenia (less than or equal to 1000 cells/mm3) following iv melphalan than did patients with normal renal function (50% vs 15%, respectively; P = 0.007). The latter effect resulted in an increased frequency of drug-related deaths secondary to infection. The frequency of severe thrombocytopenia (less than or equal to 25,000 cells/mm3) was also greater in patients with renal failure following iv melphalan therapy. Reduction of iv melphalan dose to 50% in patients with elevated BUN reduced the frequency of these complications to levels that were not significantly different from those observed in patients with normal renal function. The frequency of severe myelosuppression was independent of renal function in patients receiving oral melphalan. Possible explanations for these findings are discussed.
The tumor-promoting activity of two beta-adrenoreceptor blocking agents, propranolol and atenolol, was tested in a two-stage protocol of hepatocarcinogenesis in male and female Fischer 344 rats. Propranolol is a lipophilic non-selective beta-blocker mainly eliminated via the liver; atenolol is a hydrophilic beta 1-selective blocking agent, mainly eliminated via the kidney. Animals were initiated with a single dose of diethylnitrosamine (DEN, 200 mg/kg, i.p.) and, after 17 days of recovery, were continuously treated with propranolol (75-100 mg/kg) or atenolol (300 mg/kg) by gavage for up to 21 months. Rats given phenobarbital (0.05% in the diet) were used as positive controls. After 2, 4 and 8 months of promotion, preneoplastic lesions were quantified by staining sections of liver for gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT). In non-initiated rats, neither propranolol nor atenolol influenced the development of spontaneous preneoplastic or neoplastic liver lesions. The results obtained in DEN-initiated rats given propranolol cannot be unequivocally interpreted. In the male, propranolol seemed to be ineffective. In the female, there was weak enhancement of DEN-induced GGT foci at 4 and 8 months and of neoplastic lesions thereafter. However, there was great interindividual variability in focus and tumor yields. Unfortunately, due to the high incidence of liver tumors in rats given DEN alone and the small number of propranolol-treated rats that survived until the end of the experiment, no definite conclusion can be drawn about the modifying potential of this beta-blocker on liver carcinogenesis. There was no evidence of liver tumor promotion in DEN-initiated rats of either sex given atenolol.
Coronary spasm plays an important role in the pathogenesis of not only variant angina but also ischemic heart disease in general. However, the precise mechanism(s) by which coronary spasm occurs remains to be elucidated. Coronary spasm may arise from interactions between environmental and genetic factors. Endothelial-derived nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated in the control of vascular tone. We have recently shown that both basal and acetylcholine (ACh)-induced NO activities are impaired in the coronary arteries of patients with coronary spasm. The purpose of this study has been to elucidate the possible variants that occur in the coding region of the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) gene and that may be associated with coronary spasm. After initial screening in the entire 26 coding regions of the eNOS gene, we found a missense Glu298Asp variant in exon 7 in patients with coronary spasm. We subsequently performed a larger scale study involving 113 patients with coronary spasm and 100 control subjects, who were all diagnosed by intracoronary injection of ACh. The analysis revealed a significant difference in the distribution of the variant between the coronary spasm group (21.2%) and control group (9.0%; P=0.014 for dominant effect). Thus, we have found the missense Glu298Asp variant in the eNOS gene by the analysis of its entire 26 coding regions. The variant is significantly associated with coronary spasm.
The Cilostazol Stroke Prevention Study found that cilostazol, a phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitor, can reduce the risk of subsequent stroke in Japanese patients with cerebral infarction. Here, we measured the effects of cilostazol in vitro on shear-induced platelet aggregation, an important mechanism of thrombosis at arterial bifurcations or stenotic lesions. We also evaluated the influences of intrinsic adenosine on the ability of cilostazol to inhibit shear-induced platelet aggregation by investigating the effect of dipyridamole, an inhibitor of cellular adenosine reuptake, in combination with cilostazol in vitro.
We measured platelet aggregation induced by a shear rate of 10,800 s(-1) in whole blood and in platelet-rich plasma from healthy volunteers using a cone-plate streaming chamber.
Both cilostazol and adenosine dose-dependently inhibited shear-induced platelet aggregation in platelet-rich plasma samples. Adding a low concentration of adenosine (0.3 microM) did not inhibit shear-induced platelet aggregation, but significantly enhanced the inhibitory effect of cilostazol in platelet-rich plasma. Dipyridamole dose-dependently inhibited shear-induced platelet aggregation in whole blood and significantly enhanced the inhibitory effect of cilostazol on shear-induced platelet aggregation, but did not affect shear-induced platelet aggregation in platelet-rich plasma. The inhibitory effects of cilostazol combined with dipyridamole in whole blood were almost completely reversed by adenosine deaminase.
Dipyridamole appears to synergistically enhance the inhibitory effect of cilostazol on shear-induced platelet aggregation by maintaining high plasma levels of adenosine.
Increased levels of serum human kallikrein-2 (hK2) and an hK2 gene (KLK2) variant are positively associated for prostate cancer, but the relationships between them remain unclear. We examined five variants of the KLK2 gene to further define its relevance to prostate cancer susceptibility and hK2 levels.
We genotyped 645 men with biopsy-proven prostate cancer (cases) and 606 males with biopsies negative for prostate cancer (controls) for five additional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) across the KLK2 gene and also tested for serum hK2 levels. These SNPs were identified from sequencing the KLK2 gene among 20 patients with aggressive prostate cancer. Odds ratios (OR) for prostate cancer detection and haplotype analysis were done.
Among the SNPs studied, the A allele of the KLK2-SNP1 (G>A, rs2664155) and the T allele of the KLK2-SNP5 (C>T, rs198977) polymorphisms showed positive associations with prostate cancer, adjusted ORs for KLK2-SNP1 AG and AA genotypes being 1.4 [95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.2-1.8; P=0.002] and for KLK2-SNP5 TT or CT genotypes being 1.3 (95% CI, 1.1-1.6; P=0.05). Haplotype analyses also revealed a significant association between prostate cancer and the haplotype containing both risk alleles (ACCTT), OR being 5.1 (95% CI, 1.6-6.5; P=0.005). Analysis of serum hK2 revealed hK2 levels to be significantly increased in association with KLK2-SNP1 AA and AG risk genotypes compared with the GG genotype (P=0.001) and also in association with the ACCTT risk haplotype compared with the most common non-risk haplotype (P=0.05).
These findings suggest a role for the KLK2 gene in prostate cancer susceptibility and imply that this role may be realized at least in part by the induction of increases in hK2 production.
Dichloroacetate (DCA) is one of the toxic by products that are formed during the chlorine disinfection process of drinking water. In this study, the developmental toxicity of DCA has been determined in zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos. Embryos were exposed to different concentrations (4, 8, 16, and 32 mM) of the compound at the 4 h postfertilization (hpf) stage of development, and were observed for different developmental toxic effects at 8, 24, 32, 55, 80, and 144 hpf. Exposure of embryos to 8-32 mM of DCA resulted in significant increases in the heart rate and blood flow of the 55 and 80 hpf embryos that turned into significant decreases at the 144 hpf time point. At 144 hpf, malformations of mouth structure, notochord bending, yolk sac edema and behavioral effects including perturbed swimming and feeding behaviors were also observed. DCA was also found to produce time- and concentration-dependent increases in embryonic levels of superoxide anion (O2*-) and nitric oxide (NO), at various stages of development. The results of the study suggest that DCA-induced developmental toxic effects in zebrafish embryos are associated with production of reactive oxygen species in those embryos.
C57BL/6N mouse embryos exposed to hydrocortisone (HC) or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) develop cleft palate. An interaction between these agents produces clefts at doses which alone are not teratogenic. The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and dioxin receptor (AhR) mediated these responses and their gene expression was altered by TCDD and/or HC in palates examined on gestation day (GD) 14 by Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization. The present study quantifies AhR, AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT), and GR mRNA at 4, 12, 24, and 48 h after exposure (time 0 = dose administration at 8 A.M. on gestation day 12) on GD12 to TCDD (24 micrograms/kg), HC (100 mg/kg) or HC (25 mg/kg) + TCDD (3 micrograms/kg). The induction of CYP1A1 mRNA was also quantified at 2, 4, 6, 12, 24, and 48 h for control and TCDD-exposed samples. Total RNA was prepared from midfacial tissue of 4-6 embryos/litter at each time and dose. An RNA internal standard (IS) for each gene was synthesized, which included the gene's primer sequences separated by a pUC19 plasmid sequence. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed on total RNA + IS using a range of 5-7 IS concentrations across a constant level of total RNA. PCR products were separated in gels (mRNA and IS-amplified sequences differed by 30-50 bases), ethidium bromide-stained, imaged (Hamamatsu Photonics Systems, Bridgewater, NJ), and quantified with NIH Image. CYP1A1 mRNA was significantly induced in the TCDD-exposed samples at all time points examined (p = 0.005 at 2 h and 0.001 after 2 h). During palatal shelf outgrowth on GD12, AhR mRNA levels increased significantly and this was not affected by treatment with TCDD or HC + TCDD. A significant increase in GR was detected at 24 h (p < 0.05) and this was unaffected by any of the exposures. Expression of ARNT increased at 12 h (p < 0.001); however, treatment with HC or HC + TCDD blocked this increase (p < 0.05). At 24 h, the TCDD-treated embryos had significantly lower ARNT mRNA compared with controls (p < 0.001). The relative overall expression level of the genes was AhR > ARNT > GR. Within individuals, expression of AhR and/or ARNT was highly correlated with GR level. In conclusion, CYP1A1 mRNA was expressed in developing craniofacial tissue and was highly induced by TCDD exposure. AhR, ARNT, and GR mRNA are upregulated in early palatogenesis, although not on the same schedule. The TCDD-induced decrease in ARNT at 24 h after dosing and the HC and HC + TCDD-induced delay in upregulation of ARNT may affect the dynamics of heterodimer formation between AhR and ARNT. The changes in ARNT mRNA level could also affect availability of this transcriptional regulator to interact with other potential partners, and these effects, separately or in combination, may be involved in disruption of normal embryonic development.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) mediates many of the biological effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and transcriptional activation of genes encoding a number of xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes. Prenatal exposure of mice to TCDD causes severe alterations in embryo and fetal development, including hydronephrosis and cleft palate. However, the mechanisms underlying these effects are unclear. In this work, the teratogenicity of TCDD in AhR-null mice was evaluated to determine if this effect is mediated by the AhR. Homozygous wild-type (+/+) or AhR-null (-/-) female mice were mated with males of the same genotype overnight. On gestation day (GD)-10, mice were intubated orally with either corn oil (vehicle control) or 25 micrograms/kg TCDD. Fetuses were examined on GD18 for visceral and skeletal alterations. For non-TCDD-exposed litters, all developmental endpoints were comparable between genotypes, with the exception of a lower incidence of large interfrontal bones in (-/-) mice. For TCDD-exposed litters, (+/+) fetuses had a significantly greater incidence of cleft palate, hydronephrosis, small kidneys, tortuous ureters and greater dilation of the renal pelves and ureters compared to (-/-) fetuses. Interestingly, an increased resorption rate was observed in (-/-) fetuses exposed to TCDD. Results from this work demonstrate that fetal development per se is generally unaffected by the absence of the AhR or that other genes may have compensated for the loss of the AhR. More importantly, these data indicate that the AhR mediates TCDD-induced teratogenicity. Further, since a higher percentage of resorptions was observed in (-/-) litters from TCDD-treated dams, it is possible that AhR-independent mechanisms contribute to TCDD-induced developmental toxicity.
Animal experiments and cell biology studies have provided evidence that both estrogens and androgens can play a protective role against Alzheimer's disease (AD) related neurodegeneration. Males who become hypogonadal in later life often report problems with their memory. Lower than normal testosterone levels have also been detected in patients prior to the onset of AD, as well as in younger late-onset male AD patients, when compared to appropriate controls. The results of some small clinical trials suggest that testosterone can improve cognitive function in andropause. Although such improvement in cognitive function is subtle, patients on testosterone replacement therapy have reported memory improvements in both declarative and procedural domains. In contrast, there is no clinical evidence to date which suggest that the hormone dihydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) can improve cognitive function. Rises in the levels of the gonadotropins, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH), have been associated with AD, but the clinical effects of reducing their levels remain to be determined. We hypothesize that androgens, gonadotropin modulators, or perhaps selective androgen receptor modulators may be useful components of therapy aimed at preventing the onset or delaying the progression of AD in male patients.
Leishmaniasis refers to a spectrum of diseases caused by Leishmania. Clinically, three types of leishmaniasis can be distinguished: the cutaneous, mucous and visceral leishmaniasis, the latter being caused by Leishmania donovani.
An 11-year-old Thai, living in Belgium for 6 years, had surgery for a vertebral osteosarcoma with pulmonary metastases, followed by polychemotherapy, then pulmonary metastasectomy. During a post-chemotherapy bone marrow aplasia, febrile episode with a general condition impairment was noted and first treated by broad-spectrum antibiotherapy, then by amphotericin B, in the absence of any accurate etiology. The outcome first was favorable. Nevertheless, 7 months later, the visceral leishmaniasis diagnosis was made because of the recurrence of the same symptoms. Classical treatments by antimony derivatives (Glucantim), then liposomal amphotericin (Ambisome) proved to be inefficient. A liposomal amphotericin-gamma interferon association suppressed the symptoms without eradicating the parasite. The patient was given a maintenance therapy based on liposomal amphotericin.
The stubborn and recurring nature of this chronic visceral leismaniosis can be due to the immune deficit inherent in the polychemotherapy performed in order to treat the metastatic osteosarcoma which currently is in first full remission.
Neurogenic pulmonary edema (NPE) is an acute life-threatening complication following an injury of the spinal cord or brain, which is associated with sympathetic hyperactivity. The role of nitric oxide (NO) in NPE development in rats subjected to balloon compression of the spinal cord has not yet been examined. We, therefore, pretreated Wistar rats with the NO synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) either acutely (just before the injury) or chronically (for 4 wk prior to the injury). Acute (but not chronic) L-NAME administration enhanced NPE severity in rats anesthetized with 1.5% isoflurane, leading to the death of 83% of the animals within 10 min after injury. Pretreatment with either the ganglionic blocker pentolinium (to reduce blood pressure rise) or the muscarinic receptor blocker atropine (to lessen heart rate decrease) prevented or attenuated NPE development in these rats. We did not observe any therapeutic effects of atropine administered 2 min after spinal cord compression. Our data indicate that NPE development is dependent upon a marked decrease of heart rate under the conditions of high blood pressure elicited by the activation of the sympathetic nervous system. These hemodynamic alterations are especially pronounced in rats subjected to acute NO synthase inhibition. In conclusion, nitric oxide has a partial protective effect on NPE development because it attenuates sympathetic vasoconstriction and consequent baroreflex-induced bradycardia following spinal cord injury.
Hallmark signs of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) toxicity in rainbow trout sac fry, are yolk sac edema, hemorrhage, craniofacial malformation, and growth retardation culminating in mortality. Our objective was to determine the role of cardiovascular dysfunction in the development of this toxicity. An embryotoxic TCDD dose (385 pg/g egg) caused a progressive reduction in blood flow in rainbow trout sac fry manifested first and most dramatically in the 1st and 2nd branchial arches and vessels perfusing the lower jaw. Blood flow was reduced later in the infraorbital artery and occipital vein of the head as well as segmental vessels and caudal vein of the trunk. Reduced perfusion occurred last in gill branchial arteries involved with oxygen uptake and the subintestinal vein and vitelline vein involved with nutrient uptake. Although heart rate throughout sac fry development was not affected, heart size at 50 days post-fertilization (dpf) was reduced far more than body weight or length, suggesting that the progressive circulatory failure caused by TCDD is associated with reduced cardiac output. Craniofacial development was arrested near hatch, giving rise to craniofacial malformations in which the jaws and anterior nasal structures were underdeveloped. Unlike the medaka embryo, in which TCDD causes apoptosis in the medial yolk vein, endothelial cell death was not observed in rainbow trout sac fry. These findings suggest a primary role for arrested heart development and reduced perfusion of tissues with blood in the early-life stage toxicity of TCDD in trout.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is developmentally toxic in many species and induces cleft palate in the C57BL/6N mouse embryo. Palatogenesis in mouse and human embryos involves homologous processes at the morphological, cellular, and molecular levels. In organ culture, mouse and human palates respond similarly to TCDD. The present study quantitates the expression of AhR, ARNT, and CYP1A1 mRNA in human embryonic palates in organ culture. Palatal tissues were exposed to 1 x 10(-10), 1 x 10(-9), or 1 x 10(-8) M TCDD or control medium and sampled at 0, 2, 4, and 6 hours for quantitative RT-PCR using a synthetic RNA internal standard. Similar measurements of CYP1A1 gene expression were collected for mouse palates cultured in this model. In human palates, AhR expression correlated with ARNT and CYP1A1 mRNA expression. TCDD induction of CYP1A1 was time- and concentration-dependent. The expression of these genes presented a uniform and continuous distribution across the group of embryos, with no subset of either high or low expressors/responders. The ratio of AhR to ARNT was approximately 4:1. AhR mRNA increased during the culture period in both treated and control subjects; however, ARNT expression was relatively constant. TCDD did not alter either AhR or ARNT expression in a consistent dose- or time-related manner. Comparison of human and mouse data showed a high correlation across species for the induction of CYP1A1. Human embryos expressed approximately 350 times less AhR mRNA than the mouse, and in earlier studies it was shown that human palates required 200 times more TCDD to produce the same effects. When the morphological, cellular, and molecular responses to TCDD between mouse and human are compared, it seems highly unlikely that human embryos could be exposed to sufficient TCDD to achieve changes in palatal differentiation that would lead to cleft palate.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is the most abundant of the heterocyclic amines, a group of potent carcinogens contained in cooked meat and fish. Female F344 rats fed a diet containing 100 or 400 ppm PhIP developed mammary carcinomas within 104 or 52 wk, respectively, at the rate of 47% for each group; these carcinomas were examined for mutations in three members of the ras gene family and in the p53 gene. Single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and direct sequencing demonstrated a G-->A transition at the second position of Ha-ras codon 12, with the resultant substitution of glutamic acid for glycine, in two of 10 carcinomas induced by 100 ppm PhIP and in one of seven induced by the 400 ppm dose. No mutations in Ki-ras or N-ras were detected. cDNA polymerase chain reaction-SSCP analysis and direct sequencing demonstrated a G-->T transversion at the third position of p53 codon 130, with the resultant substitution of asparagine for lysine, in one of the 10 carcinomas induced by 100 ppm of PhIP for which freshly frozen samples were available. PhIP-induced rat mammary carcinogenesis can be regarded as a unique system in that rat mammary carcinomas are negative for ras and p53 mutations.
We conducted a case-control study to investigate the efficacy of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) and ribavirin combination therapy for patients with chronic hepatitis C and B virus (HCV/HBV) coinfection and to elucidate the interaction of these two viruses.
Forty-two chronic HCV/HBV-coinfected patients (29 IFN-naive, 13 IFN-relapsed) and 84 HCV-monoinfected controls, matched for age, sex and previous history of IFN-alpha therapy, were enrolled. All patients were treated with IFN-alpha-2b 6 MU three-times weekly plus ribavirin 1000-1200 mg daily for 24 weeks. Serum HCV RNA and HBV DNA were determined every 24 weeks for 72 weeks.
The rate of HCV sustained virological response (SVR) was comparable among IFN-naive and IFN-relapsed HCV/HBV-coinfected patients and IFN-naive and IFN-relapsed HCV-monoinfected patients (69.0%, 69.2%, 67.2% and 57.7%, respectively; intention-to-treat analysis). HCV genotype 1b, high pretreatment HCV RNA levels and liver fibrosis were significantly associated with a lower HCV SVR. Of 16 baseline HBV viraemic patients, five (31.3%) achieved HBV SVR, which correlated negatively to HCV genotype non-1b and HCV SVR. Only one (6.3%) had simultaneous seroclearance of HCV and HBV. Antibodies to HBV surface antigen seroconversion developed in five (11.9%) patients during long-term follow-up. HCV responders had significantly higher rates of HBV DNA resurgence than HCV non-responders during and after treatment. Reciprocal viral interference was noted between HCV and HBV after IFN-alpha/ribavirin therapy.
IFN-alpha/ribavirin combination therapy is effective for HCV/HBV-coinfected patients in eradicating HCV infection and might promote HBV seroclearance, and there is a mutual viral response and reciprocal viral interaction between HBV and HCV.
Glioblastoma patients undergoing treatment with surgery followed by radiation and temozolomide chemotherapy often develop a state of immunosuppression and are at risk for opportunistic infections and reactivation of hepatitis and herpes viruses. We report the case of a 48-year-old glioblastoma patient who developed acute cholestatic hepatitis with hepatic failure during adjuvant treatment with temozolomide and the integrin inhibitor cilengitide. A viral hepatitis was excluded and valproic acid treatment was stopped. Upon normalisation of the liver tests, temozolomide treatment was resumed without perturbation of the liver tests. Valproic acid related idiosyncratic drug induced hepatotoxicity should be considered as a differential diagnosis in glioblastoma patients undergoing adjuvant therapy.
Metallothioneins (MTs) are small, cysteine-rich polypeptides, but the role of MTs in inducing the formation of adaptive response is still largely unknown. We investigated the roles of metallothionein genes (mtl-1 and mtl-2) in the formation of cross-adaptation response to neurobehavioral toxicity from metal exposure in Caenorhabditis elegans. Pre-treatment with mild heat-shock at L2-larva stage effectively prevented the formation of the neurobehavioral defects and the activation of severe stress response in metal exposed nematodes at concentrations of 50 and 100 µM, but pre-treatment with mild heat-shock did not prevent the formation of neurobehavioral defects in 200 µM of metal exposed nematodes. During the formation of cross-adaptation response, the induction of mtl-1 and mtl-2 promoter activity and subsequent GFP gene expression were sharply increased in 50 µM or 100 µM of metal exposed Pmtl-1::GFP and Pmtl-2::GFP transgenic adult animals after mild heat-shock treatment compared with those treated with mild heat-shock or metal exposure alone. Moreover, after pre-treatment with mild heat-shock, no noticeable increase of locomotion behaviors could be observed in metal exposed mtl-1 or mtl-2 mutant nematodes compared to those without mild heat-shock pre-treatment. The defects of adaptive response to neurobehavioral toxicity induced by metal exposure formed in mtl-1 and mtl-2 mutants could be completely rescued by the expression of mtl-1 and mtl-2 with the aid of their native promoters. Furthermore, over-expression of MTL-1 and MTL-2 at the L2-larval stage significantly suppressed the toxicity on locomotion behaviors from metal exposure at all examined concentrations. Therefore, the normal formation of cross-adaptation response to neurobehavioral toxicity induced by metal exposure may need the enough accumulation of MTs protein in animal tissues.
5 patients receiving continuous busulphan and 6-thioguanine for chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) were found to have oesophageal varices associated with abnormal liver function tests. 3 of these cases presented with gastrointestinal haemorrhage and 1 patient died. The 2 other cases had varices discovered at endoscopy. Nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH) of the liver was identified as the cause of portal hypertension in the 4 patients on whom liver biopsies were done. The administration of busulphan and thioguanine in combination is likely to be associated with the development of NRH, with portal hypertension and oesophageal varices occurring in a substantial proportion of cases.
Cidofovir is an antiviral drug with activity against a wide array of DNA viruses including poxvirus. The therapeutic use of cidofovir is marred by a dose-limiting side effect, nephrotoxicity, leading to proximal tubular cell injury and acute renal failure. Treatment with cidofovir requires the routine use of prophylactic measures. A correct knowledge of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of cidofovir toxicity may lead to the development of alternative prophylactic strategies. We recently cared for a patient with irreversible acute renal failure due to cidofovir. Renal biopsy showed tubular cell apoptosis. Cidofovir induced apoptosis in primary cultures of human proximal tubular cells in a temporal (peak apoptosis at 7 days) and concentration (10-40 microg/ml) pattern consistent with that of clinical toxicity. Apoptosis was identified by the presence of hypodiploid cells, by the exposure of annexin V binding sites and by morphological features and was associated with the appearance of active caspase-3 fragments. Cell death was specific as it was also present in a human proximal tubular epithelial cell line (HK-2), but not in a human kidney fibroblast cell line, and was prevented by probenecid. An inhibitor of caspase-3 (DEVD) prevented cidofovir apoptosis. The survival factors present in serum, insulin-like growth factor-1 and hepatocyte growth factor, were also protective. The present data suggest that apoptosis induction is a mechanism contributing to cidofovir nephrotoxicity. The prophylactic administration of factors with survival activity for tubular epithelium should be further explored in cidofovir renal injury.
The aim of the performed studies has been to find out wether or not the ultrastructural alterations of the epithelial cells in the rat's epididymal caput occur in hyperprolactinemia induced by metoclopramide and to see if the observed changes are of reversible character. It has been revealed that prolactin concentration was twice as high as in control animals due to peritoneal administration of metoclopramide in a dose of 2.2 mg/kg body mass, given for 14 days. The ultrastructural alterations in the principal cells of epididymal caput affected cellular organelles being involved in proteins synthesis, glycosylation, secretion as well as energetic processes. They were manifested by decreased amount of rough endoplasmic reticulum, widening of its cisternae combined with degranulation, distension of Golgi apparatus cisternae, elevated number of vesicles in apical part of the cells, and changes in mitochondria. The termination of metoclopramide administration made prolactin concentration exhibit values being almost similar to those determined in control rats, whereas the ultrastructural changes in the principal cells were found to be reversible.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common cancer-related causes of death, and conventional treatments offer unsatisfactory response. We have previously reported that kallistatin gene therapy suppressed the growth of HCC tumors by its anti-angiogenic activity, and meloxicam, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis of human HCC cells in vitro. The aim of this study was to determine whether combining kallistatin gene therapy and meloxicam could offer a better therapeutic effect to combat HCC in mice. A kallistatin expression plasmid was constructed and its expression was detected after intratumoral gene transfer. Both kallistatin gene therapy and meloxicam suppressed the growth of subcutaneous human HepG2 tumors established in BALB/c nude mice, and the combinational therapy showed a stronger effect in suppressing tumor growth, tumor angiogenesis and cell proliferation, and increasing cell apoptosis, than the respective monotherapies. Gene transfer of kallistatin inhibited tumor angiogenesis, and slightly inhibited cell proliferation and increased cell apoptosis in situ, but had no effect on expression of vascular endothelial growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, proliferating cell nuclear antigen, Bcl-2, Bax, or activation of caspase-3. Meloxicam therapy inhibited cell proliferation, induced cell apoptosis, reduced expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen, increased activation of caspase-3, and upregulated Bax. Meloxicam also slightly inhibited tumor angiogenesis with no effect on the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor or basic fibroblast growth factor. Combining two novel anticancer agents, kallistatin targeting tumoral vascularization and meloxicam targeting cell proliferation and apoptosis, warrants investigation as a therapeutic strategy to combat HCC.
