The effects of 3 mg lorazepam on polysomnographic recordings, performance, anxiety, and perceived sleep were examined. Six insomniac subjects slept in the sleep laboratory for 18 consecutive nights after having taken placebo or lorazepam. Polysomnographic data and subjective reports indicated hypnotic efficacy in terms of sleep initiation and maintenance. There was some evidence of rebound insomnia after drug withdrawal, although it was not evident from all measures. Clear performance decrements occurred during lorazepam use.
Between October 1985 and January 1989, 33 patients with stage I (31) or clinically occult stage II (2) endometrial cancer at a high risk for recurrence were entered in a prospective study evaluating adjuvant cisplatin, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (PAC) chemotherapy. Eligibility criteria included grade 2 tumors with middle- or outer-third myometrial invasion (16), grade 3 tumors with any degree of myometrial invasion (17), presence of extrauterine disease with no gross residual (17), or a high-risk histologic subtype including papillary serous (4), adenosquamous (5), or clear cell (1) tumors. Patients received PAC (50/50/500 mg/m2) at 4-week intervals for six cycles. Thirty patients (90%) completed therapy. Toxicity included severe neutropenia in 14 patients, neutropenic sepsis in 2 patients, and doxorubicin-related cardiomyopathy in 1 patient. There were no treatment deaths. Current median follow-up is 25 months. Nine patients (27%) have developed a recurrence, 7 of whom died, after a median interval of 14 months. Eight of the 9 with recurrence initially had extrauterine disease (P = 0.02). The resulting 2-year actuarial progression-free and overall survival rates were 79 and 83%, respectively. The median progression-free interval was 29 months for patients with extrauterine disease and 45+ months for those with no extrauterine disease (P = 0.02). These results suggest that a phase 3 randomized trial comparing adjuvant PAC with radiation therapy is warranted.
Effects of excitatory aminoacids (EAAs) aspartate (ASP) and glutamate (GLU) in a low (50 ng, i.c.) and high dose (20 micrograms, i.c.), were studied on nociception, catalepsy and rectal temperature in albino rats. Both ASP and GLU altered the tail flick reaction time to thermal stimulation in a dose dependent manner, increasing it with low doses and reduced with high doses. Naloxone (10 micrograms, ic) antagonized the anti-nociceptive effect of EAAs while ketamine (10 micrograms, ic)-a NMDA receptor antagonist antagonized the hyperalgesic effect. These EAAs also antagonized catalepsy induced by haloperidol, chlorpromazine, trifluoperazine and morphine. Both ASP and GLU produced a hyperthermic response in all animals, including those in which hypothermia was induced by reserpine. These EAAs produced a comparable central modulatory effects on nociception, catalepsy and core temperature.
The neurosteroids allopregnanolone (5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one; 5alpha,3alpha-P) and its 5beta-epimer pregnanolone (5beta,3alpha-P), and pregnenolone sulfate (PS) were examined for effects on spontaneous epileptiform discharges induced by 100 microM picrotoxin (PTX) and 55 microM 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) in the CA3 region of the rat hippocampal slice. At a concentration of 10 microM, 5alpha,3alpha-P partially reduced PTX-induced bursting and at 30 and 90 microM completely suppressed bursting. In contrast, 100 microM 5beta,3alpha-P failed to alter the discharge frequency. 5alpha,3alpha-P depressed 4-AP-induced bursting with similar potency as in the PTX model; 100 microM 5beta,3alpha-P was also partially effective. In the 4-AP model, 5alpha,3alpha-P inhibited both the more frequent predominantly positive-going potentials as well as the less frequent negative-going potentials that may be generated by synchronous GABAergic interneuron firing. PS enhanced the PTX bursting frequency and, in the 4-AP model, increased the frequency of negative potentials but did not alter the frequency of positive potentials. By itself, PS did not induce bursting. The effects of the steroids in the in vitro seizure models largely correspond with their activities on GABA(A) receptors; suppression of discharges may occur as a result of direct activation of these receptors rather than modulation of GABA-mediated synaptic responses. PTX and 4-AP-induced bursting in the hippocampal slice are useful models for directly assessing neurosteroid effects on seizure susceptibility under conditions that eliminate the factor of brain bioavailability.
Reinstatement of extinguished drug-seeking behavior following chronic drug self-administration has been demonstrated in rats in the presence of conditioned cues. This experimental model of cue-induced relapse can be used to assess the neural circuitry involved in relapse. We have previously shown that blockade of dopamine D1 receptors in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) abolishes conditioned cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. The present study tested the hypothesis that D-amphetamine-induced facilitation of monoamine neurotransmission in the BLA would potentiate conditioned cue-induced reinstatement of extinguished drug-seeking behavior. During daily self-administration sessions over 10 consecutive days, rats pressed a lever to receive cocaine infusions (0.2 mg/0.05 ml) paired with a light+tone compound stimulus. Following self-administration, rats underwent daily extinction sessions, during which no stimuli were presented. On the test days, rats received intra-BLA D-amphetamine (10 or 30 micro g/side) or vehicle infusions followed by extinction or conditioned cue-induced reinstatement testing. D-amphetamine infusions did not alter extinction responding relative to vehicle infusions. During reinstatement testing, conditioned cue presentation significantly increased responding over extinction levels, and intra-BLA D-amphetamine produced a dose-dependent increase in lever responding relative to vehicle infusions. These findings suggest that enhanced monoamine tone in the BLA potentiates the motivational effect and/or salience of cocaine-paired cues during reinstatement.
Penicillin administration is usually contraindicated in penicillin-allergic patients with positive skin test results.
To examine whether penicillin oral challenge for patients with a history of remote non-life-threatening allergic reaction to penicillin can be well tolerated irrespective of skin test results.
In a prospective open-label trial, 8,702 individuals were screened between November 1998 and January 2000. Of 687 patients with a non-life-threatening allergic reaction to penicillin, occurring longer than 3 years earlier, 169 were enrolled. Regardless of the response to penicillin skin testing, patients received the usual 1-day dosage of penicillin and amoxicillin, on 2 separate occasions. Two to 6 years later, a follow-up was conducted to assess the outcomes of further penicillin administration.
A total of 272 combined skin tests and oral challenges were performed on 169 patients. Among 137 challenges with a positive skin test result and 135 patients with a negative skin test result, 9 (6.6%) and 5 (3.7%) (P = .29), respectively, developed a mild rash to oral challenge. At follow-up, 2 to 6 years afterward, 3 of 55 patients (5.5%) who were given a full treatment course of penicillin developed a mild skin eruption.
Positive penicillin skin test results for patients with a remote history of non-life-threatening allergic reaction to penicillin were not associated with a greater prevalence of adverse reactions to oral challenge with penicillin than negative results. Because skin testing is considered the gold standard and the safest method for predicting tolerance to penicillin administration, oral penicillin challenge may be used as a diagnostic method only in these specific patients when skin testing is not feasible.
Prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) is associated with adverse health outcomes, including anatomic anomalies of the reproductive tract in women and of the genitourinary tract in men. The mouse model, which replicates many DES-related effects seen in humans, suggests that prenatal DES exposure causes alterations that may affect the next generation of offspring. We asked women participating in a large, multi-centre study of prenatal DES exposure to report birth defects occurring among 4029 sons and 3808 daughters (i.e., the third generation). A subcohort of 793 third generation daughters was also queried for birth defects. We used logistic regression models to generate odds ratio and 95% confidence intervals for the association between prenatal DES exposure in the mother and birth defects in the offspring. Based on the mothers' reports, overall birth defects were elevated in the sons (OR = 1.53; 95% CI = 1.04, 2.23) and in the daughters (OR = 2.35; 95% CI = 1.44, 3.82). Most estimates of association were imprecise, but daughters appeared to have an excess of heart conditions (OR = 4.56; 95% CI = 1.27, 16.34). Our data suggest a possible association between the mother's prenatal DES exposure and birth defects in their offspring, particularly in daughters. We cannot, however, rule-out the possible influence of reporting bias. In particular, the exposed daughters' elevated risk of cardiac defects may be as a result of the underreporting of these conditions by unexposed mothers.
We present the case of a 32-year-old man suffering from recurrent episodes of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). He was heterozygous for the G1691A mutation in the Factor V gene. His father was heterozygous for the same mutation and had a unique episode of DVT after a fracture of the tibia. Genetic predisposition significantly influences the prevalence of thrombotic events, however, additional unknown factors may be involved in the initiation and recurrence of venous thromboembolism.
A high proportion of purebred Hampshire pigs carries the dominant RN- mutation, which causes high glycogen content in skeletal muscle. The mutation has beneficial effects on meat content but detrimental effects on processing yield. Here, it is shown that the mutation is a nonconservative substitution (R200Q) in the PRKAG3 gene, which encodes a muscle-specific isoform of the regulatory gamma subunit of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Loss-of-function mutations in the homologous gene in yeast (SNF4) cause defects in glucose metabolism, including glycogen storage. Further analysis of the PRKAG3 signaling pathway may provide insights into muscle physiology as well as the pathogenesis of noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in humans, a metabolic disorder associated with impaired glycogen synthesis.
Recent clinical experience with Tourette syndrome (TS) patients suggests that the nicotinic receptor antagonist, mecamylamine (Inversine), may be a useful adjunct to neuroleptic therapy for controlling tic symptom. This is consistent with previous preclinical findings demonstrating that mecamylamine can potentiate the cataleptic effects of neuroleptics in rats. However, these earlier preclinical studies employed high doses (1-2.5 mg/kg) of mecamylamine that may not be clinically relevant since human doses of mecamylamine used to treat TS have been much lower (0.03-0.1 mg/kg). In order to test the potential therapeutic properties of mecamylamine preclinically, we conducted catalepsy experiments in rats employing both a low and high dose of mecamylamine in combination with haloperidol. Sixty-four male Sprague Dawley rats were randomized into four treatment groups (n = 16/group). Each rat received an injection of either saline or mecamylamine (0.1 or 3.0 mg/kg s.c.) followed one hour later with a second injection of either saline or haloperidol (0.4 mg/kg s.c.). The bar test was used to measure duration of catalepsy at 3 hrs following the second injection. The results demonstrated that only the mecamylamine treated rats showed statistically significant haloperidol-induced catalepsy when measured at 3 hrs. In addition, haloperidol-induced defecation was not affected by the 0.1 mg/kg mecamylamine dose, but completely abolished by the 3.0 mg/kg dose. These findings suggest that a clinically relevant dose of mecamylamine (0.1 mg/kg) can affect the duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy without having significant effects on gastrointestinal function.
Salicylate-kodein is a widely used analgesic agent, particularly in outpatient practice. Salicylates have been incriminated in hepatic injury while kodein may induce biliary spasm. We report here a case of granulomatous hepatitis attributed to prolonged intake of this combination, which has never been reported previously to our knowledge.
Portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE) is a serious neuropsychiatric condition that results from chronic liver failure and portal-systemic shunting of venous blood. PSE is particularly prevalent following treatment of portal hypertension or ascites by the TIPS procedure. Recent studies both in autopsied brain tissue from PSE patients as well as in experimental animal models of PSE reveal that chronic liver failure results in altered expression of several genes coding for proteins having key roles in the control of neuronal excitability. Such alterations include increased expression of monoamine oxidase (MAO-A isoform), the "peripheral-type" benzodiazepine receptor (PTBR) as well as constitutive, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). Such changes result in altered protein expression and in increased degradation of monoamine neurotransmitters, increased synthesis of neurosteroids with inhibitory properties and increased production of nitric oxide (respectively) in brain in chronic liver failure. In the case of PTBR and nNOS, increases in expression result from exposure to ammonia and/or manganese, two neurotoxic agents shown previously to be increased in brain in chronic liver failure. Further elucidation of the consequences of neurotransmitter-related gene expression could identify new pathophysiologic mechanisms and result in new approaches to the prevention of PSE in chronic liver disease in humans.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is rapidly induced in myenteric plexus neurons (MPNs) in acute colitis and may protect cells from nitric oxide toxicity. Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) regulation was examined in acute colitis, and MnSOD and iNOS were examined in primary cultures of MPNs.
Acute colitis in rats was induced with 5% acetic acid. iNOS messenger RNA (mRNA) was analyzed by Northern analysis, and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase was used to identify potential NO synthase activity. MnSOD and iNOS mRNA levels were evaluated in cultured MPNs after treatment with tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin (IL) 1beta, or IL-6. iNOS and MnSOD protein expression in control and IL-1beta-treated neurons was evaluated by immunofluorescence microscopy.
iNOS mRNA was detected in the mucosal and muscularis layers after the initiation of colitis. Reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase localized NO synthase activity to MPNs in controls and in epithelial cells and MPNs in the inflamed colon. In MPN cultures, tumor necrosis factor alpha and IL-1beta treatment resulted in induction of MnSOD, but only IL-1beta induced iNOS. Immunolocalization confirmed that the neurons were the primary source of iNOS and MnSOD.
Induction of MnSOD and iNOS are coordinated and may limit NO cytotoxicity. The function of iNOS in gut neurons remains to be delineated.
To compare the duration of spinal block with 5% prilocaine and 2% mepivacaine in short procedures for transurethral resection and to assess possible complications in the immediate postoperative period.
Fifty-seven patients scheduled for transurethral resection of the prostate or a vesical tumor. Patients were ASA I-III, over 55 years of age and randomly assigned to two groups to receive 5% prilocaine (1 mg/kg, n = 27) or 2% mepivacaine (0.8 mg/kg, n = 30). We collected data on anesthetic technique, levels of extension of motor and sensory blockades, duration of blockades and complications within the first 24 hours after surgery.
Demographic data, ASA classification and duration of surgery were similar in both groups. We found statistically significant differences (p < 0.05) in duration of sensory blockade (120.92 +/- 36.21 min with prilocaine and 145.83 +/- 35.81 min with mepivacaine) and in motor blockade (106.29 +/- 38.16 min with prilocaine and 133.16 +/- 42.21 min with mepivacaine). Five cases of hypotension and 4 of bradycardia occurred in each group and one patient in the mepivacaine group suffered slight postoperative cephalea.
Both local anesthetics offer good surgical conditions with hemodynamic stability and few complications. The duration of sensory and motor blockade is shorter with prilocaine than with mepivacaine, making prilocaine more appropriate for short interventions.
This study was carried out to determine the effect of injection duration on bruising and pain following the administration of the subcutaneous injection of heparin.
Although different methods to prevent bruising and pain following the subcutaneous injection of heparin have been widely studied and described, the effect of injection duration on the occurrence of bruising and pain is little documented.
This study was designed as within-subject, quasi-experimental research.
The sample for the study consisted of 50 patients to whom subcutaneous heparin was administered. Heparin was injected over 10 seconds on the right abdominal site and 30 seconds on the left abdominal site. Injections areas were assessed for the presence of bruising at 48 and 72 hours after each injection. Dimensions of the bruising on the heparin applied areas were measured using transparent millimetric measuring paper. The visual analog scale (VAS) was used to measure pain intensity and a stop-watch was used to time the pain period. Data were analysed using chi-square test, Mann-Whitney U, Wilcoxon signed ranks tests and correlation.
The percentage of bruising occurrence was 64% with the injection of 10 seconds duration and 42% in the 30-second injection. It was determined that the size of the bruising was smaller in the 30-second injection. Pain intensity and pain period were statistically significantly lower for the 30-second injection than for the 10-second injection.
It was determined that injection duration had an effect on bruising and pain following the subcutaneous administration of heparin. This study should be repeated on a larger sample.
When administering subcutaneous heparin injections, it is important to extend the duration of the injection.
A 46-year-old man with hypokalemic periodic paralysis (HypoPP) and diabetes mellitus (DM) had worsened muscle weakness after acetazolamide (ACZ) treatment. During the paralytic episode, serum potassium levels were reduced, and serum chloride and insulin levels were increased. The data suggested proximal renal tubular acidosis due to ACZ. We determined arterial-venous concentrations of potassium, insulin and glucose across the forearm. Venous potassium levels were markedly reduced. ACZ is thought to potentiate potassium uptake into muscles. Hyperinsulinemia and DM could contribute to ACZ-induced exacerbation in our patient. We should pay more attention to ACZ-treated HypoPP patients with hyperinsulinemia and DM.
Injection pain caused by propofol is an important disadvantage, especially in children, incompletely reduced by adding lidocaine intravenously. Nitrous oxide's analgesic effects, well known, have never been evaluated on pain due to propofol.
To compare the effects of nitrous oxide with lidocaine on pain on injection caused by propofol in children.
Double blind, randomised, prospective study.
48 children aged more than 5 were randomly allocated to one of the 2 groups: N2O group, breathed 50% N2O + 50% O2 than received propofol only and Lido group breathed 100% O2 and received a mixture of propofol with lidocaine. The possible pain was scored during injection by a behavioural scale and once again in the recovery room by the child himself with a VAS.
There was no significant difference in behavioural pain scores among the 2 groups; pain was assessed as being moderate or severe in 6/24 patients in N2O group and 10/24 in Lido group (behavioural scores > 1). Significantly more children in the N2O group had low VAS scores compared with the Lido group (no child/24 scored a VAS > 4 and 7/23 in the Lido group) demonstrating that N2O amnesic effects would omit the memory of pain caused by propofol.
The use of nitrous oxide is an easy, cheap and efficient method to reduce the incidence of pain injection of propofol and his amnesic effects can provide real advantages in paediatric anaesthesia.
Xerostomia is a symptom rooted in many causes. Considering the physiology of salivary secretion and its various mechanisms, a systematical classification of these causes can be given. Disorders in reflex evocation and transmission, disorders in the innervation of the salivary glands, in the production and transport of saliva as well as excessive depletion of saliva may lead to xerostomia. Chronic dryness of the mouth can in most instances be attributed today to disturbed innervation of the salivary glands (antidepressive and antihypertensive drugs) and to diseases of the salivary glands (Sjögren syndrome, irradiation). Depending on duration and extent of salivary deficiency, severe changes of the oral mucosa and teeth will develop. Treatment of xerostomia may be performed causally (withdrawal or exchange of drugs inhibiting salivary secretion) but will often only be possible as a symptomatic therapy. For this purpose there are available today saliva surrogate solutions ('artificial saliva') and substances that stimulate the secretion of the still intact salivary gland parenchyma.
Clinical trials of risperidone, a recently approved novel antipsychotic, included elderly healthy patients, but more data are needed on the effects of risperidone in this population, especially those with comorbid medical illnesses.
Risperidone was used to treat 11 elderly hospitalized patients between 61 and 79 years of age who manifested signs of psychoses related to schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, bipolar disorder, or senile dementia. All patients had been treated previously with classic antipsychotics. Response was assessed by clinical observation of the patients' behavior.
Eight patients responded to treatment, 1 did not respond, and 2 had treatment discontinued because of hypotension or dizziness. Positive and negative symptoms decreased markedly in 7 of the responding patients. Four patients had preexisting extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia that also decreased in response to risperidone treatment. In addition, 4 patients were able to discontinue anti-parkinsonian medications, and 2 were able to discontinue antihypertensive medications. Side effects related to blockade of dopamine, histamine, and serotonin were negligible. No adverse consequences occurred when electroconvulsive therapy, carbamazepine, or lithium was given concurrently.
The reduction of both positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia and the lack of significant EPS, tardive dyskinesia, sedation, and anticholinergic side effects indicate that risperidone is a safe and effective medication for the elderly.
Azithromycin, a semi-synthetic azalide antibiotic, is a macrolide that thus far has not shared the neuropsychiatric side effects of other macrolides such as erythromycin and clarithromycin.
We now report significant delirium associated with conventional dosing of azithromycin in two geriatric patients who were being treated for lower respiratory tract infection.
The onset of delirium was apparent within 72 hours of initiating azithromycin therapy and lasted 48 to 72 hours after discontinuing treatment with the drug.
In contrast to the adverse central nervous system symptoms associated with clarithromycin, those induced by azithromycin seem to take longer to resolve, perhaps based upon the longer elimination half-life of the latter antimicrobial, particularly in geriatric women.
This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial evaluated the impact on withdrawal symptoms of (i) combining naltrexone with a 4-day buprenorphine taper for short opioid detoxification (NB Group), compared to (ii) using a 4-day buprenorphine taper alone, followed by naltrexone on day 8 (PB Group). Sublingual buprenorphine was administered on days 1-4 (26 mg total). For the NB Group (n = 32) escalating doses of oral naltrexone were given on days 2-8 (placebo day 1). For the PB Group (n = 28) placebo was given on days 1-7 and naltrexone on day 8. Main outcome measures were Observed Opioid Withdrawal scores (OOW, 0-30) and use of medications to treat opioid withdrawal. Of 32 patients in the NB group, 59% experienced clinically relevant withdrawal (defined as OOW > or = 5) on day 2, but, after day 5, none experienced withdrawal. In the PB group, the number of patients experiencing withdrawal increased over time. The first naltrexone dose induced comparable withdrawal in both groups: peak OOW scores were (mean +/- SD) 5.2 +/- 3.3 on day 2 for the NB group, and 4.0 +/- 3.9 on day 8 for the PB group (NS), though, on day 2, 7 patients dropped out in the NB group and none in the PB group, while only one patient dropped out in the PB group on day 8. Throughout the 8-day study, patients in both groups received similar amount of adjunct medication: 0.64 +/- 0.07 mg (NB group) of clonidine vs 0.73 +/- 0.15 mg (PB group; NS). Only 25% of patients required use of sedatives (up to 20 mg diazepam). Starting naltrexone on day 2 appeared to abolish withdrawal symptoms after day 5 and, thus, to shorten the duration of withdrawal symptoms. Peak withdrawal symptoms after naltrexone were of moderate intensity, suggesting that naltrexone combined with buprenorphine is an acceptable and safe treatment for shortened opioid detoxification and induction of naltrexone maintenance.
A benzodiazepine (oxazepam) was given to nulliparous mice on days 12-16 of pregnancy, and the development and young adult behaviour of the offspring were studied. Experiment 1, using 5, 15, and 50 mg/kg doses given PO twice daily, showed a dose-dependent retardation of postnatal development of several responses such as righting, bar holding, limb placing, and auditory startle. These changes were maximal in the first 2 postnatal weeks and then were markedly attenuated, or disappeared, being apparently related to a temporary retardation of body growth. A reduction of locomotor activity at 60 days was found only in the 50 mg/kg group. The effects of the 15 mg/kg dose on postnatal body growth and neurobehavioural development were replicated in Experiments 2 and 3. Moreover, in these experiments prenatal oxazepam reduced open field activity at 14-16 days and attenuated the hyperactivity induced by dl-amphetamine sulphate (2 mg/kg IP). On the other hand activity, habituation, and response to a scopolamine challenge (2 mg/kg IP) at 21-23 days were not significantly different from those of appropriate controls. Experiment 3, using a cross-fostering procedure, showed that postnatal maternal effects were not responsible for the changes so far mentioned. Experiment 2 also investigated the acquisition of several go-no go avoidance discriminations in a shuttle-box, using either light (L) or buzzer noise (N) as the "go" signal, a compound "no go" signal (NL in the L-"go" groups and LN in the N-"go" groups), and either an extinction or a passive avoidance contingency during the "no go" signal (4 weeks of training, starting at 60 days).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Speech lateralization was assessed in 25 patients with epilepsy by direct carotid injection of carotid catheterization from a femoral approach. Hemispheric anesthesia was induced by intracarotid injection of the rapidly acting barbiturate methohexital. This technique allowed same-day study of both hemispheres, permitted repeated injection of either carotid artery without accumulation of methohexital sufficient to cause systemic effects, and added little to the total time required for three-vessel cerebral angiography. Unilateral seizures were induced by methohexital injection in 4 patients. No other complication secondary to the methohexital study was observed.
Neuroleptics induce several extra-pyramidal side effects, such as akathisia, acute dystonia and parkinsonism. Although recently developed atypical neuroleptics ameliorate some of these side effects, akathisia remains a common and severely distressing adverse reaction. Several drugs are reported to be of clinical use for the pharmacological treatment of akathisia. In particular, the beta-adrenoceptor blocker, propranolol, has been widely used for the treatment of akathisia, but it does not ameliorate other extra-pyramidal side effects. To identify the neural substrates of akathisia, we investigated the effects of propranolol on haloperidol-induced Fos expression in rat brain. Haloperidol (1 mg/kg) induced Fos-positive nuclei in several regions of the brain, including the cingulate cortex area 3, piriform cortex nucleus accumbens, caudate-putamen, ventral lateral septum and parietal cortex. Pretreatment with propranolol (5 mg/kg) reduced the number of Fos-positive nuclei in the cingulate cortex area 3, the piriform cortex and area 1 of the parietal cortex. Injection of vehicle by itself tended to increase Fos expression in the cingulate cortex area 3 and the piriform cortex. Considering the functions of these brain regions, we speculate that the most plausible neural framework for haloperidol-induced akathisia involves area I of the parietal cortex, but possible roles for the cingulate cortex area 3 and the piriform cortex cannot be ruled out.
Resveratrol is a naturally occurring polyphenolic phytoalexin with chemopreventive properties. We previously reported a synergistic anti-proliferative effect of resveratrol and clofarabine against malignant mesothelioma (MM) cells. Here, we further investigated molecular mechanisms involved in the synergistic interaction of these compounds in MM MSTO-211H cells. Resveratrol, in combination with clofarabine, time-dependently induced a strong cytotoxic effect with the nuclear accumulation of phospho-p53 (p-p53) in MSTO-211H cells, but not in normal mesothelial MeT-5A cells. Combination treatment up-regulated the levels of p-p53, cleaved caspase-3, and cleaved PARP proteins. Gene silencing with p53-targeting siRNA attenuated the sensitivity of cells to the combined treatment of two compounds. Analyses of p53 DNA binding assay, p53 reporter gene assay, and RTP-CR toward p53-regulated genes, including Bax, PUMA, Noxa and p21, demonstrated that induced p-p53 is transcriptionally active. These results were further confirmed by the siRNA-mediated knockdown of p53 gene. Combination treatment significantly caused the accumulation of cells at G1 phase with the increases in the sub-G0/G1 peak, DNA ladder, nuclear fragmentation, and caspase-3/7 activity. Taken together, these results demonstrate that resveratrol and clofarabine synergistically elicit apoptotic signal via a p53-dependent pathway, and provide a scientific rationale for clinical evaluation of resveratrol as a promising chemopotentiator in MM.
Forty percent to 60% of patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) remain unimproved after adequate treatment with serotonin uptake inhibitors (SUIs). The addition of low-dose haloperidol and pimozide to ongoing SUI treatment has been shown to be effective in up to 65% of SUI-refractory OCD patients, particularly in those with comorbid chronic tic disorder. Because OCD patients typically require prolonged pharmacotherapy, they are subject to the development of tardive dyskinesia during neuroleptic treatment. Risperidone is a highly potent and selective serotonin2 and dopamine2 receptor antagonist with a side effect profile that appears to be much more tolerable and safer than that of typical neuroleptics.
We report our experience with three OCD patients who were unimproved after a minimum of 12 weeks of treatment with the potent and selective SUI fluvoxamine, in whom we added risperidone in an open-label manner.
All three patients showed significant improvement in their obsessive-compulsive symptoms as measured by the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) after risperidone 1 mg/day was added to ongoing fluvoxamine (250-300 mg/day). Within 4 weeks of adding risperidone, the three patients' Y-BOCS scores had decreased by 65%, 56%, and 43%, respectively. Other than mild or moderate sedation, no side effects were observed.
These results suggest that risperidone addition to ongoing SUIs may be an effective treatment strategy for refractory OCD.
