Although various function of chemerin have been suggested, its physiological role remains to be elucidated. Here we show that chemerin-deficient mice are glucose intolerant irrespective of exhibiting reduced macrophage accumulation in adipose tissue. The glucose intolerance was mainly due to increased hepatic glucose production and impaired insulin secretion. Chemerin and its receptor ChemR23 were expressed in β-cell. Studies using isolated islets and perfused pancreas revealed impaired glucose-dependent insulin secretion (GSIS) in chemerin-deficient mice. Conversely, chemerin transgenic mice revealed enhanced GSIS and improved glucose tolerance. Expression of MafA, a pivotal transcriptional factor for β-cell function, was downregulated in chemerin-deficient islets and a chemerin-ablated β-cell line and rescue of MafA expression restored GSIS, indicating that chemerin regulates β-cell function via maintaining MafA expression. These results indicate that chemerin regulates β-cell function and plays an important role in glucose homeostasis in a tissue-dependent manner.
The hepatocyte-derived hormone fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is a hormone-like regulator of metabolism. The nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent deacetylase SIRT1 regulates fatty acid metabolism through multiple nutrient sensors. Hepatic overexpression of SIRT1 reduces steatosis and glucose intolerance in obese mice. We investigated mechanisms by which SIRT1 controls hepatic steatosis in mice.
Liver-specific SIRT1 knockout (SIRT1 LKO) mice and their wild-type littermates (controls) were divided into groups that were placed on a normal chow diet, fasted for 24 hours, or fasted for 24 hours and then fed for 6 hours. Liver tissues were collected and analyzed by histologic examination, gene expression profiling, and real-time polymerase chain reaction assays. Human HepG2 cells were incubated with pharmacologic activators of SIRT1 (resveratrol or SRT1720) and mitochondrion oxidation consumption rate and immunoblot analyses were performed. FGF21 was overexpressed in SIRT1 LKO mice using an adenoviral vector. Energy expenditure was assessed by indirect calorimetry.
Prolonged fasting induced lipid deposition in livers of control mice, but severe hepatic steatosis in SIRT1 LKO mice. Gene expression analysis showed that fasting up-regulated FGF21 in livers of control mice but not in SIRT1 LKO mice. Decreased hepatic and circulating levels of FGF21 in fasted SIRT1 LKO mice were associated with reduced hepatic expression of genes involved in fatty acid oxidation and ketogenesis, and increased expression of genes that control lipogenesis, compared with fasted control mice. Resveratrol or SRT1720 each increased the transcriptional activity of the FGF21 promoter (-2070/+117) and levels of FGF21 messenger RNA and protein in HepG2 cells. Surprisingly, SIRT1 LKO mice developed late-onset obesity with impaired whole-body energy expenditure. Hepatic overexpression of FGF21 in SIRT1 LKO mice increased the expression of genes that regulate fatty acid oxidation, decreased fasting-induced steatosis, reduced obesity, increased energy expenditure, and promoted browning of white adipose tissue.
SIRT1-mediated activation of FGF21 prevents liver steatosis caused by fasting. This hepatocyte-derived endocrine signaling appears to regulate expression of genes that control a brown fat-like program in white adipose tissue, energy expenditure, and adiposity. Strategies to activate SIRT1 or FGF21 could be used to treat fatty liver disease and obesity.
To elucidate the anticancer mechanism of Huqi San by assessing the expression of G-6-Pase, SDH, ATPase and AFP in N-nitrosodiethylamine-mediated hepatocarcinogenesis in rats.
A Solt-Farber two-step test model of hepatocarcino genesis was established by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and 2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF) in rats to investigate the modifying effects of expression of 6-glucosephosphatase (G-6-Pase), succinodehydrogenase (SDH), adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) in N-nitrosodiethylamine-mediated hepatocarcinogenesis. Hu Qisan compounded by eight medicinal herbs was prepared in glycoprival granules with wich 0.38 g crude herbs/mL solution was prepared for administration. gamma-Glutamy-transpeptidase (gamma-GT), G-6-Pase, SDH and ATPase were immunohistochemically determined. The activity of alpha-fetoglobulin (AFP) in the livers was measured with Immunofluorescence.
Huqi San treated rats showed significant decrease in areas of gamma-GT positive foci (P< 0.001). On the other hand, the expression of G-6-Pase, SDH and ATPase has obviously altered in Huqi San treated group. The activity of AFP also significantly decreased after the treatment with Huqi San (8 g/kg body weight or 4 g/kg body weight) or total alkali of mistletoe (0.12 g/kg body weight).
Huqi San can obviously increase these activities of G-6-Pase, SDH and ATPase, and at the same time significantly decrease the expression of gamma-GT and AFP. Therefore, it can obstruct or inhibit the rat's liver preneolastic lesion induced by DEN.
The aim of the present study is to determine the effect of inorganic arsenic (As) and its metabolites on the viability of the neural progenitor cell (NPC) line C17.2, in order to evaluate cellular mechanisms involved in As developmental neurotoxicity. Moreover, we analyzed the effects of the coexposure to As and fluoride (F), a situation to which some populations are commonly exposed. Our results show that NPCs are not susceptible to pentavalent As species [arsenate, monomethylarsonic acid, and dimethylarsinic acid] and F alone. However, the trivalent metabolites of arsenate [arsenite, monomethylarsonous acid, and dimethylarsinous acid] are toxic at concentrations below 1 mg/l, and this susceptibility increases when there is coexposure with F (≥ 5 mg/l). Arsenite triggers apoptosis after 24 h of exposure, whereas monomethylarsonous acid produces necrosis at very short times (2 h). Arsenite leads to an increase in intracellular Ca levels and generation of reactive oxygen species, which may cause a decrease in mitochondrial transmembrane potential, release of cytochrome c, and consequent activation of caspases. A slight activation of calpain also takes place, which might favor activation of the mitochondrial pathway or might activate other pathways. The treatment with some antioxidants such as quercetin and α-tocopherol shows only a partial reduction of the cytotoxicity.
A 13 year old boy is described with hypereosinophilia associated with Kimura's disease, who showed repeated life threatening syncopal attacks during daily activities or at rest. Coronary arteriography demonstrated small aneurysms with irregular vessel walls of both coronary arteries, and the absence of organic stenotic lesions. Infusion of a minimal dose of ergonovine into the right coronary artery induced severe spasm of the vessel. Ventricular fibrillation recurred even after administration of nifedipine and isosorbide was started, but was completely inhibited by prednisolone.
To determine the activity of fenretinide in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes, 15 patients were treated (300 mg/d starting dose, escalated to 400 mg/d) for a 12-week course. No responses were observed in 14 evaluable patients. Exacerbation of thrombocytopenia occurred in one patient with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, who succumbed to an intracerebral hemorrhage after 3 weeks of treatment. Two patients with long-standing stable sideroblastic anemia experienced interval leukemic progression. In one patient, clinical features of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia appeared, characterized by a striking rise in peripheral monocyte count (0.49 x 10(9)/l to 10.8 x 10(9)/l) and hepatosplenomegaly, which resolved promptly after cessation of treatment. The second patient experienced evolution into acute myelomonocytic leukemia with cytogenetic progression. The drug was well tolerated with no patient having to discontinue treatment because of toxicity. We conclude that fenretinide lacks clinical efficacy in the treatment of myelodysplasia and in some patients may enhance leukemic progression.
Hyponatremia is common after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). It is caused by natriuresis, which induces osmotic diuresis and decreases blood volume, contributing to symptomatic cerebral vasospasm (SCV). Hypervolemic therapy to prevent SCV will not be efficient under this condition. We conducted a randomized controlled trial to assess the efficacy of hydrocortisone, which promotes sodium retention in the kidneys.
Seventy-one SAH patients were randomly assigned after surgery to treatment with either a placebo (n=36) or 1200 mg/d of hydrocortisone (n=35) for 10 days and tapered thereafter. Both groups underwent hypervolemic therapy. The primary end point was the prevention of hyponatremia.
Hydrocortisone prevented excess sodium excretion (P=0.04) and urine volume (P=0.04). Hydrocortisone maintained the targeted serum sodium level throughout the 14 days (P<0.001), and achieved the management protocol with lower sodium and fluid (P=0.007) supplementation. Hydrocortisone kept the normal plasma osmolarity (P<0.001). SCV occurred in 9 patients (25%) in the placebo group and in 5 (14%) in the hydrocortisone group. No significant difference in the overall outcome was observed between the 2 groups.
Hydrocortisone overcame excess natriuresis and prevented hyponatremia. Although there was no difference in outcome, hydrocortisone supported efficient hypervolemic therapy.
Acute renal failure is a dose-limiting factor of cisplatin chemotherapy. Here, we show the protective effect of edaravone, a recently developed radical scavenger for clinical use, against cisplatin-induced renal dysfunction in rats. A marked increase in blood urea nitrogen and creatinine in serum, and histological changes including vacuolation, necrosis and protein casts were observed in proximal renal tubules at the fourth day after cisplatin injection (5-10 mg/kg). Repeated injection of edaravone (1-10 mg/kg, i.v. twice a day for 3 days) reversed the cisplatin-induced elevation of blood urea nitrogen and creatinine, and morphological changes in a dose-dependent manner. In particular, the protective effect of edaravone was almost complete at 10 mg/kg. Moreover, the compound was still fully effective, when it was administered only at the second day after cisplatin injection. On the other hand, the glutathione content in renal tissues lowered at the fourth day after cisplatin injection, which was reversed by the late treatment with edaravone. These findings suggest that the clinically available radical scavenger edaravone is potentially useful for the prevention of cisplatin-induced renal toxicity.
Sniffing and licking components of amphetamine-induced stereotypy were studied separately during chronic drug treatment. Sniffing showed a gradual increase, or sensitization, in intensity and duration. By contrast, licking developed tolerance for approximately the first 21 days, followed by a progressive increase. Stereotypy is therefore not a homogeneous phenomenon, and sniffing and licking are probably subserved by distinct neuroanatomic substrates. The sensitization of sniffing behavior may be related to the induction of amphetamine-induced paranoid psychosis in humans.
We show a novel drug delivery system (DDS) for improved all-trans retinoic acid (atRA) therapy for external treatments of photo-damaged skin. We prepared inorganic-coated atRA nanoparticles, in turn an egg-like structure in nano-scale (Nano-atRA), using boundary-organized reaction droplets. The interfacial properties of organic architectures, in atRA micelles, were used to template the nucleation of inorganic minerals. As a result, irritation and inflammation associated with atRA therapy were substantially reduced due to the complete encapsulation of the carboxylic function. Both irritative symptoms and physicochemical instability of the atRA micelle were improved. Since Nano-atRA which is prepared following to this new DDS system developmentally improved the permeability to the stratum corneum, the remarkable pharmacological effects were resulted in comparison with atRA as such as follows: (1) thicker epidermis than classical atRA treatment and (2) the overexpression of mRNA for heparin-binding epidermal growth factor (HB-EGF) as the provocation epidermal hyperplasia. Furthermore, we found a surprising boost in production of hyaluronan (HA) among the intercellular spaces of the basal and spinous cell layers in epidermis. Nano-atRA technology for atRA therapy could not only efficiently regulate keratinocyte cell proliferation and differentiation, but also markedly produce the additional benefit. Severely injured human skin by chronic ultraviolet irradiation will completely repair due to the accelerated turnover of skin tissue, which is induced by Nano-atRA.
To investigate the effects of different management strategies for non-localized prostate cancer on men's quality of life and cognitive functioning.
Men with prostate cancer were randomly assigned to one of four treatment arms: leuprorelin, goserelin, cyproterone acetate (CPA), or close clinical monitoring. In a repeated-measures design, men were assessed before treatment (baseline) and after 6 and 12 months of treatment. A community comparison group of men of the same age with no prostate cancer participated for the same length of time. The men were recruited from public and private urology departments from university teaching hospitals. All those with prostate cancer who were eligible for hormonal therapy had no symptoms requiring immediate therapy. In all, 82 patients were randomized and 62 completed the 1-year study, and of the 20 community participants, 15 completed the study. The main outcome measures were obtained from questionnaires on emotional distress, existential satisfaction, physical function and symptoms, social and role function, subjective cognitive function, and sexual function, combined with standard neuropsychological tests of memory, attention, and executive functions.
Sexual dysfunction increased for patients on androgen-suppressing therapies, and emotional distress increased in those assigned to CPA or close clinical monitoring. Compared with before treatment there was evidence of an adverse effect of leuprorelin, goserelin, and CPA on cognitive function.
In deciding the timing of androgen suppression therapy for prostate cancer, consideration should be given to potential adverse effects on quality of life and cognitive function.
Chlorpromazine, cis(Z)-chlorprothixene (Truxal), and the non-neuroleptic trans(E)-chlorprothixene and trans(E)-flupenthixol were studied in vitro for possible antiviral effect on Herpes simplex virus 2 and for toxic effect on human diploid fibroblasts. Based on an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) antiviral activity was demonstrated for all the compounds in the concentration range 0.39 micrograms/ml-25 micrograms/ml. A cell-toxic effect was shown in the higher concentration range for all the compounds except cis(Z)-chlorprothixene. A cell-stimulatory effect was also detected at the lower concentration range (about 3.13 micrograms/ml) for all compounds. Thus both cell stimulation and antiviral effect can be found for the same agent within the same concentration range. The results point to the possibility of creating different antiviral drugs--which would also include a cell-stimulatory activity--among psychopharmacological drugs and their stereoisomeric analogues.
Induction of endotoxin tolerance or acute chlorpromazine treatment caused a decrease in bile and perfusate flow in the isolated perfused rat liver. The primary effects of each appeared to be on the bile acid-independent fraction of bile. Both the induction of endotoxin tolerance and the in vitro treatment of the perfused rat liver with endotoxin partially blocked the adverse effects of chlorpromazine on bile formation and perfusate flow. Although the "protective" effects of the in vitro endotoxin treatment were dose-dependent, the protection afforded by endotoxin tolerance was greater. Preincubation of isolated hepatocytes with endotoxin, before the addition of chlorpromazine, caused dose-dependent reductions in the chlorpromazine-induced release of aspartate transaminase. However, neither the incubation of endotoxin with chlorpromazine, before addition of membranes isolated from control rats, nor isolation of membranes from endotoxin-tolerant rats affected the inhibitory effects of chlorpromazine on sodium, potassium-, or magnesium-activated adenosine triphosphatase. If endotoxin exerts its protective effects at the membrane level, these data suggest that endotoxin is able to protect the intact, but not the isolated, hepatocyte membrane or that inhibition of adenosine triphosphatases by chlorpromazine is not important in the adverse effects of chlorpromazine on the perfused rat liver and isolated rat hepatocytes.
A Phase II trial comprising patients with metastatic uveal melanoma (Stage IVB) was undertaken to determine the activity of bleomycin, vincristine, lomustine, and dacarbazine (BOLD) chemotherapy with human leukocyte interferon, as well as the progression-free and overall survival of the patients according to the substage before treatment.
Twenty-two patients with histologically proven metastatic uveal melanoma received 15 mg of bleomycin (Days 2 and 5), 1 mg/m(2) vincristine (Days 1 and 4), 200 mg/m(2) dacarbazine (Days 1 to 5), and 80 mg lomustine (Day 1) every 4 weeks together with a leukocyte interferon preparation (3 x 10(6) IU daily for 6 weeks followed by 6 x 10(6) IU three times per week).
Of 20 evaluable patients, 3 (15%; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0-38) obtained a partial objective response in hepatic and extrahepatic sites and 11 (55%; 95% CI 32-77) showed stable disease after receiving more than two cycles. The median progression-free survival was 4 months (95% CI 2-10) and the median overall survival was 12 months (95% CI 8-22). Eleven patients who had favorable pretreatment characteristics (Stage IVBa) survived a median of 17 months (95% CI 4-37) whereas 10 patients with less favorable characteristics (Stage IVBb) survived a median of 11 months (95% CI 1-23). Moderate toxicity occurred with this outpatient regimen.
The BOLD/human leukocyte interferon regimen had modest activity against metastatic uveal melanoma in hepatic and extrahepatic sites. The median overall survival approached that reported for more aggressive intrahepatic therapy regimens. Substage differences can significantly impact study outcomes. Therefore, substage information should be reported to facilitate comparisons between studies.
Spinal block is commonly used in cesarean sections and, if some prophylactic measures are not taken, the incidence of hypotension is higher than 80%. The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of the administration of therapeutic or prophylactic doses of phenylephrine to maintain blood pressure in patients undergoing spinal block for elective cesarean section.
One hundred and twenty gravidas undergoing elective cesarean sections under spinal block, randomly divided in three equal groups according to the regimen of phenylephrine administered, were included in this study. In Group 1, continuous infusion of phenylephrine, using an infusion pump at 0.15 microg.kg(-1).min(-1) was administered after the spinal block. In Group 2, a single dose of prophylactic phenylephrine 50 microg was administered after the spinal block, and Group 3 received a single dose of phenylephrine 50 microg in case of hypotension, which was defined as a drop in SBP and/or DBP of up to 20% of baseline levels. The incidence of hypotension, nausea, and vomiting as well as the Apgar score were evaluated.
The incidence of hypotension was significantly greater in Group 3, affecting 85% of the gravidas. In Groups 1 and 2 hypotension was seen in 17.5% and 32.5% of the cases respectively (p < 0.001). The incidence of nausea was much higher in Group 3 affecting 40% of the patients while in Groups 1 and 2 it was 10% and 15% respectively which was statistically significant.
According to the methodology used, this study showed that prophylactic continuous infusion of phenylephrine initiated immediately after the spinal block for cesarean section is more effective in reducing the incidence of hypotension and maternal and fetal side effects.
A 54-year-old woman had been administered propylthiouracil (PTU) for Graves' disease for 4 years. Recently, she complained of hemoptysis due to pulmonary alveolar hemorrhage causing anemia, and also had microhematuria. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody against myeloperoxidase (MPO-ANCA) was positive, and she was diagnosed with PTU-induced vasculitis. Cessation of PTU and the administration of corticosteroids ameliorated these manifestations.
The possible relationship between A1 adenosine receptors and the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptor complex was evaluated in the mouse brain. We studied the effect of in vitro addition and in vivo administration of 2-chloro-N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CCPA), the most selective ligand for A1 receptors, on the biochemical parameters used currently to evaluate GABAergic function. In vitro, CCPA (0.01-100 microM) failed to modify [3H] GABA binding, [3H]flunitrazepam binding, t-[35S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([35S]TBPS) binding and muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake. On the contrary, in vivo, CCPA (1.4-27.6 mumol/kg i.p.) increased [35S]TBPS binding in membranes from the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum and substantia nigra, but not from the cerebellum, thalamus, hypothalamus and olfactory tubercle. The specific A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxantine (9.8 mumol/kg i.p.) abolished the effect of CCPA on [35S]TBPS binding, indicating that the action of this compound is mediated by its interaction with A1 receptors. Diazepam (1.7 mumol/kg i.p.), a positive modulator of GABAergic transmission, antagonized the increase of [35S]TBPS binding induced by CCPA. CCPA (2.8-8.3 mumol/kg i.p.) antagonized convulsions induced by isoniazid, an inhibitor of GABA synthesis, but neither antagonized nor potentiated isoniazid-induced increase of [35S]TBPS binding. CCPA (2.8-8.3 mumol/kg i.p.) antagonized the convulsions induced by pentylenetetrazol (398 mumol/kg i.p.), methyl 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (50 mumol/kg i.p.) and bicuculline methiodide (9.8 mumol/kg i.p.). The results show that, in spite of its anticonvulsant activity, CCPA reduces the function of the GABA-coupled chloride channel function. This finding suggests that the anticonvulsant target sites are different from those involved in the action of CCPA on GABAA receptors.
AIOT (Italian Association of Thoracic Oncology) produces up-to-date, clinical practice guidelines for the management of lung cancer in Italy. Guidelines were developed by answering clinical relevant questions. Here we report only major clinical issues concerning the management of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
A PubMed search was performed to identify published data until December 2009. Abstracts presented at the main International meetings between 2004 and 2009 were also searched. The writing committee developed and graded recommendations, which were subsequently revised by experts. The search has been subsequently updated for this manuscript in December 2010.
In patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation positive tumour, gefitinib is recommended as first-line treatment. In presence of EGFR mutation negative or unknown status, patients with advanced squamous NSCLC, with good performance status (PS) and without major co-morbidities, chemotherapy with third-generation regimens containing cisplatin is the recommended treatment. In non-squamous NSCLC patients, also cisplatin plus pemetrexed and platinum-based chemotherapy plus bevacizumab should be considered. Carboplatin is a valid option for patients unsuitable for cisplatin. Maintenance therapy with pemetrexed or erlotinib is a reasonable choice if allowed by reimbursement procedures and discussed with patients. Elderly patients, defined as ≥ 70 years old, should receive third-generation single-agent chemotherapy, but in elderly patients with good PS, without major co-morbidities and with adequate organ function, platinum-based doublets with attenuated doses can be a valid option. In PS 2 patients, single-agent third-generation drug is a reasonable choice. Combination chemotherapy with carboplatin or low doses of cisplatin is a suitable alternative. For second-line treatment, two cytotoxic drugs (docetaxel and pemetrexed, the latter only in non-squamous tumours), and erlotinib, an EGFR inhibitor, are available. There are no strong data to help the choice between chemotherapy and erlotinib.
Many developments have been made in advanced NSCLC treatment, and the appropriate use of available therapeutic approaches and the improved understanding of lung cancer molecular abnormalities continue to enhance the outcomes on the basis of well-designed clinical trials which address critical issues in this population.
Recent studies have revealed that the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) pathway is involved in apoptotic cell death after experimental cerebral ischemia. The serine-threonine kinase, Akt, functions in the PI3-K pathway and prevents apoptosis by phosphorylation at Ser473 after a variety of cell death stimuli. After phosphorylation, activated Akt inactivates other apoptogenic factors, including glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta), thereby inhibiting cell death. However, the role of Akt/GSK3beta signaling in the delayed death of hippocampal neurons in the CA1 subregion after transient global cerebral ischemia (tGCI) has not been clarified. Transient global cerebral ischemia for 5 mins was induced by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion combined with hypotension. Western blot analysis showed a significant increase in phospho-Akt (Ser473) and phospho-GSK3beta (Ser9) in the hippocampal CA1 subregion after tGCI. Immunohistochemistry showed that expression of phospho-Akt (Ser473) and phospho-GSK3beta (Ser9) was markedly increased in the vulnerable CA1 subregion, but not in the ischemic-tolerant CA3 subregion. Double staining with phospho-GSK3beta (Ser9) and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine 5'-triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling showed different cellular distributions in the CA1 subregion 3 days after tGCI. Phosphorylation of Akt and GSK3beta was prevented by LY294002, a PI3-K inhibitor, which facilitated subsequent DNA fragmentation 3 days after tGCI. Moreover, transgenic rats that overexpress copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase, which is known to be neuroprotective against delayed hippocampal CA1 injury after tGCI, had enhanced and persistent phosphorylation of both Akt and GSK3beta after tGCI. These findings suggest that activation of the Akt/GSK3beta signaling pathway may mediate survival of vulnerable hippocampal CA1 neurons after tGCI.
Lung fibrosis is an ultimate consequence of pulmonary oxygen toxicity in human and animal models. Excessive production and deposition of extracellular matrix proteins, e.g., collagen-I, is the most important feature of pulmonary fibrosis in hyperoxia-induced lung injury. In this study, we investigated the roles of RhoA and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in collagen-I synthesis in hyperoxic lung fibroblasts and in a mouse model of oxygen toxicity. Exposure of human lung fibroblasts to hyperoxia resulted in RhoA activation and an increase in collagen-I synthesis and cell proliferation. Inhibition of RhoA by C3 transferase CT-04, dominant-negative RhoA mutant T19N, or RhoA siRNA prevented hyperoxia-induced collagen-I synthesis. The constitutively active RhoA mutant Q63L mimicked the effect of hyperoxia on collagen-I expression. Moreover, the Rho kinase inhibitor Y27632 inhibited collagen-I synthesis in hyperoxic lung fibroblasts and fibrosis in mouse lungs after oxygen toxicity. Furthermore, the ROS scavenger tiron attenuated hyperoxia-induced increases in RhoA activation and collagen-I synthesis in lung fibroblasts and mouse lungs after oxygen toxicity. More importantly, we found that hyperoxia induced separation of guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (GDI) from RhoA in lung fibroblasts and mouse lungs. Further, tiron prevented the separation of GDI from RhoA in hyperoxic lung fibroblasts and mouse lungs with oxygen toxicity. Together, these results indicate that ROS-induced separation of GDI from RhoA leads to RhoA activation with oxygen toxicity. ROS-dependent RhoA activation is responsible for the increase in collagen-I synthesis in hyperoxic lung fibroblasts and mouse lungs.
Fluconazole is an antifungal medication that has been reported to cause prolongation of the QT interval and Torsades de Pointes (TdP) ventricular tachycardia in adults. We describe the case of an 11-year-old child treated with fluconazole who developed ventricular arrhythmia culminating in TdP. We discuss the possible roles played by genetic and environmental factors in this child's rhythm disturbances. After briefly summarizing similar cases from the adult literature, we outline the putative mechanism by which fluconazole may cause arrhythmia. This case should alert pediatricians to the possible risks of fluconazole use, especially in the presence of electrolyte abnormalities, diuretic use, therapy with other pro-arrhythmic agents, or suspicion of congenital Long-QT Syndrome.
Hyperglycemia-mediated oxidative stress plays a crucial role in the progression of diabetic nephropathy. Hence, the present study was hypothesized to explore the renoprotective nature of resveratrol by assessing markers of oxidative stress, proinflammatory cytokines and antioxidant competence in streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced diabetic rats. Oral administration of resveratrol to diabetic rats showed a significant normalization on the levels of creatinine clearance, plasma adiponectin, C-peptide and renal superoxide anion, hydroxyl radical, nitric oxide, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and NF-κB p65 subunit and activities of renal aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase and alkaline phosphatase in comparison with diabetic rats. The altered activities of renal aldose reductase, sorbitol dehydrogenase and glyoxalase-I and elevated level of serum advanced glycation end products in diabetic rats were also reverted back to near normalcy. Further, resveratrol treatment revealed a significant improvement in superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-S-transferase and glutathione reductase activities and vitamins C and E, and reduced glutathione levels, with a significant decline in lipid peroxides, hydroperoxides and protein carbonyls levels in diabetic kidneys. Similarly, mRNA and protein analyses substantiated that resveratrol treatment notably normalizes the renal expression of Nrf2/Keap1and its downstream regulatory proteins in the diabetic group of rats. Histological and ultrastructural observations also evidenced that resveratrol effectively protects the kidneys from hyperglycemia-mediated oxidative damage. These findings demonstrated the renoprotective nature of resveratrol by attenuating markers of oxidative stress in renal tissues of diabetic rats.
Thalidomide therapy was shown to be effective in numerous dermatologic diseases. As reliable methods of contraception are now available, neurotoxicity has become the most important side effect limiting the use of thalidomide. The incidence of this neuropathy and its relationship to thalidomide doses are still matters of debate. In a retrospective study, we reviewed the files of 42 patients who had received thalidomide between 1987 and 1992 for various dermatologic diseases. The incidence and the conditions of occurrence of the neuropathy were analyzed.
Evidence of a thalidomide-induced neuropathy was present in nine patients (21%), who had both clinical and electrophysiologic typical abnormalities. Twelve other patients (28%), however, presented with isolated clinical or electrophysiologic signs. Thus, the diagnosis of thalidomide neuropathy could not be affirmed. The occurrence of the neuropathy did not appear to be related to the daily dose nor to the duration of treatment. The highest risk of developing a thalidomide neuropathy was found in female and elderly patients. Two monozygotic twin sisters, who received thalidomide for Behçet's disease, both developed a neuropathy.
These data suggest that the incidence of thalidomide neuropathy may be between 21% and 50%. Individual susceptibilities with possible genetic predisposition seem to be more important than daily dose and duration of thalidomide therapy.
Here, we evaluated the relationships between ABCB1 (P-glycoprotein, MDR1) polymorphisms and paclitaxel (Taxol)-induced toxicity and pharmacokinetics. Twenty-six patients were assessable for pharmacogenetics and pharmacokinetics, 22 for neurotoxicity and 18 for myelotoxicity. Patients carrying two reference alleles for the ABCB1 3435C>T polymorphism trended toward a reduced risk to develop neuropathy as compared to patients carrying at least one variant allele (P=0.09). Additionally, patients who were homozygous variant at the 2677 and 3435 loci had a significantly greater percent decrease in absolute neutrophil count at nadir (P=0.02). Neither polymorphism correlated with paclitaxel pharmacokinetics. This pilot study suggests that paclitaxel-induced neuropathy and neutropenia might be linked to inherited variants of ABCB1 through a mechanism that is unrelated to altered plasma pharmacokinetics.
Hemolysis induced by ceftriaxone is a complication that has been described in sickle cell anemia. Albuterol is known to induce myocardial ischemia. We describe a case of albuterol-induced cardiac dysfunction in a patient with sickle cell anemia who developed severe anemia after administration of ceftriaxone.
A 77-year-old male with thoracic esophageal cancer (cT3N3M0, Stage III) received nedaplatin at 80mg/m2 for 1 day and 5-fluorouracil at 800mg/m2 for 5 days as neoadjuvant treatment. On the fifth day of treatment, he lapsed into a coma (Japan Coma Scale 30), and his serum sodium concentration was found to be decreased to 116mEq/L. We concluded hyponatremia due to SIADH (syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone) induced by chemotherapy based on the fact that the patient had no finding of dehydration, particular history of related disorders, serum hypoosmolality accompanied by urine hyperosmolality and persistent urinary sodium excretion. We treated him with fluid restriction, sodium supplement and administration of loop diuretic. Then he regained consciousness and appropriate serum sodium level. Thereafter, hyponatremia was corrected without recurrence, and the patient underwent radical esophagectomy safely. He has been in good condition without recurrence of esophageal cancer after surgery.
The effects of Madopar (levodopa plus benserazide) on the cataleptic behavioral response to haloperidol and on the locomotor activity in mice were quantitatively compared before and after the administration of 3-O-methyldopa (3OMD). The intraperitoneal administration of 3OMD (200-400 mg/kg) alone did not modify the haloperidol (1.0 mg/kg s.c.)-induced catalepsy. Madopar, depending on the dose regimen, markedly antagonized the haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Pretreatment with 3OMD tended to reverse the antagonistic property of Madopar on the cataleptic behavior in response to haloperidol. The ability of 3OMD to significantly inhibit Madopar effects was observed in the locomotor testing paradigm; the locomotor hyperactivity in Madopar-treated animals was significantly inhibited by a prior intraperitoneal injection of 3OMD. The results from our animal experiments may provide further evidence that impediment of 3OMD formation is meaningful in the treatment of Parkinson's disease with Madopar or levodopa.
