Twenty-three male patients with herpes simplex virus type 2 blisters on the prepuce, glans penis, and penile shaft were divided into two groups. Ten patients served as controls, and thirteen patients were treated with ultrasound (1 watt/cm2 for 60 seconds) and Herpigon on three consecutive days. Results showed a negative virus culture after three days of treatment and significant reduction of recurrent infection in the treated group while the control group experienced recurrent infection within 62-80 days. This method offers a new therapeutic treatment for genital herpes simplex virus.
Three groups of female C57BL/Tw mice given 5 daily injections of 2, 20 or 100 micrograms tamoxifen (Tx) starting on the day of birth were killed at 35 and 150 days of age. About a half of the mice killed at 150 days had been ovariectomized at 90 days. Uterine hypoplasia, myometrial involution and suppression of the uterine-gland genesis were found in the 2 age-groups of Tx-treated mice. Vaginal hypoplasia and hypospadia were common abnormalities in 150-day-old Tx-treated mice. Vaginal adenosis was encountered in 35-day-old mice treated neonatally with 20 or 100 micrograms Tx, but not in 150-day-old group. Permanent proliferation of vaginal epithelium was not induced by Tx. More than 80% of oocytes in small follicles were degenerated in Tx-exposed mice at 150 days, but not so in those at 35 days. Ovaries of neonatally Tx-exposed mice lacking corpora lutea made no luteinizing response to human chorionic gonadotropin injected prepubertally. Urinary-bladder hernia with or without caecum hernia frequently occurred in 150-day-old mice given 20 or 100 micrograms Tx. The present study revealed that neonatally administered Tx causes various abnormalities in gonad and genito-urinary tract of female C57BL/Tw mice.
In a placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomised, cross-over study the metabolic and hormonal responses to standard food and exercise challenge have been evaluated in seven patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension after treatment with nicardipine 30 mg three times daily for four weeks. There were no significant differences between nicardipine and placebo for any of the measured hormonal and metabolic indices following food or exercise. These results indicate that nicardipine has no clinically important effects on serum lipids or hormonal or metabolic responses to food and exercise.
Few cases of pamidronate (bisphosphonate class of drugs) nephrotoxicity in humans have been previously reported in the literature. In 7 patients, the pamidronate-related nephrotoxicity was attributed to focal collapsing glomerulosclerosis [Markowitz et al. 2001], and in 1 patient was related to tubulo-interstitial inflammatory nephritis [Van Doom et al. 2001]. We report herein on a 65-year-old Caucasian female patient who presented with acute chronic renal failure due to pamidronate-induced toxic proximal tubular necrosis without immunologic or inflammatory tubulo-interstitial involvement. The acute pattern of renal failure resolved following cessation of pamidronate administration in this patient for osteoporosis; the patient also had a monoclonal gammopathy of unspecific origin (MGUS).
The glutamate receptor 6 (GluR6 or GRIK2, one of the kainate receptors) gene resides in a genetic linkage region (6q21) associated with bipolar disorder (BPD), but its function in affective regulation is unknown. Compared with wild-type (WT) and GluR5 knockout (KO) mice, GluR6 KO mice were more active in multiple tests and super responsive to amphetamine. In a battery of specific tests, GluR6 KO mice also exhibited less anxious or more risk-taking type behavior and less despair-type manifestations, and they also had more aggressive displays. Chronic treatment with lithium, a classic antimanic mood stabilizer, reduced hyperactivity, aggressive displays and some risk-taking type behavior in GluR6 KO mice. Hippocampal and prefrontal cortical membrane levels of GluR5 and KA-2 receptors were decreased in GluR6 KO mice, and chronic lithium treatment did not affect these decreases. The membrane levels of other glutamatergic receptors were not significantly altered by GluR6 ablation or chronic lithium treatment. Together, these biochemical and behavioral results suggest a unique role for GluR6 in controlling abnormalities related to the behavioral symptoms of mania, such as hyperactivity or psychomotor agitation, aggressiveness, driven or increased goal-directed pursuits, risk taking and supersensitivity to psychostimulants. Whether GluR6 perturbation is involved in the mood elevation or thought disturbance of mania and the cyclicity of BPD are unknown. The molecular mechanism underlying the behavioral effects of lithium in GluR6 KO mice remains to be elucidated.
Symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (sICH) is the most unfavorable complication after IV thrombolytic treatment. We aimed to determine the relationship between early recanalization and the risk of sICH.
Patients with acute stroke received IV tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) within 3 hours of symptom onset with transcranial Doppler (TCD) monitoring at four academic centers. sICH was defined as parenchymal hemorrhage on CT in relation to neurologic worsening (NIH Stroke Scale [NIHSS] > or = 4) within 72 hours after treatment. Poor outcome was defined as modified Rankin Scale 3-6 at 3 months. Early recanalization was graded with Thrombolysis in Brain Ischemia (TIBI) system. Multiple logistic regression analyses were used to identify predictors of sICH.
A total of 349 patients received rt-PA at median 134 +/- 32 minutes (mean age 69 +/- 13 years, 186 men [53%]). Median pretreatment NIHSS score was 16 points (interquartile range: 12-20). Median time to TCD was 130 +/- 40 minutes. At the end of rt-PA infusion, 135 patients (38%) had no recanalization, 101 (29%) partial, and 113 (32%) complete recanalization. sICH occurred in 26 patients (7.4%). Of the 135 patients without early recanalization, 18 (13%) had sICH, as compared to 4 (4%) of the 109 subjects with partial recanalization and 4 (3.5%) of 113 with complete recanalization, p = 0.005. After adjustment for age, sex, baseline NIHSS score, glucose, blood pressure, and time to treatment, patients with persistent occlusion had sixfold higher risk of sICH (OR = 6, 95% CI 1.5-21.3, p = 0.01).
The risk of tPA-related symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (sICH) is low after early and complete restoration of blood flow. Arterial occlusion persistent beyond tissue plasminogen activator infusion emerges as an independent predictor of higher risk of sICH in patients treated with systemic thrombolysis.
Patients with stroke may have cognitive deficits that impact their capacity to provide informed consent for research. Some institutional review boards restrict surrogate consent to persons who have specific legal authority to provide it. We examined the importance of surrogate consent in the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA Stroke Trial, the study that led to the only US Food and Drug Administration-approved treatment for acute ischemic stroke.
The NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial randomized subjects with ischemic stroke to treatment with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) or placebo. We compared the baseline characteristics and clinical outcomes of subjects enrolled by self-consent with those of subjects enrolled by surrogate consent.
Surrogate consent was used to enroll 439 of 624 (70%) subjects. Subjects enrolled by surrogate consent were older (68.5 vs 63.4 years, p < 0.001), had more severe strokes (median NIH Stroke Scale score 17 vs 9, p < 0.001), and were less likely to make a good recovery (p < 0.001 for all measures) than patients who provided their own consent. There was no interaction between method of consent and response to rt-PA. If the trial had used the same sample size and recruited at the same rate but excluded patients who could not provide their own consent, it would have taken 12.5 years to complete.
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) Stroke Trial would not have been completed in a timely fashion without subjects enrolled by surrogate consent. Furthermore, exclusion of subjects who could not provide their own consent would have severely limited the generalizability and value of trial results.
Thoracotomy is associated with severe pain. We hypothesized that the concomitant use of a subanesthetic dose of ketamine plus a two-third-standard morphine dose might provide more effective analgesia with fewer side effects than a standard morphine dose for early pain control.
We conducted a 6-month randomized, double-blind study in patients undergoing thoracotomy for minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass or for lung tumor resection. After extubation, when objectively awake (>or= 5/10 visual analogue scale [VAS]) and complaining of pain (>or= 5/10 VAS), patients were connected to patient-controlled IV analgesia delivering 1.5 mg of morphine plus saline solution (MO) or 1.0 mg of morphine plus a 5-mg ketamine bolus (MK), with a 7-min lockout time. Rescue IM diclofenac, 75 mg, was available. Follow-up lasted 4 h.
Forty-one patients completed the study. MO patients (n = 20) used 6.8 +/- 1.9 mg/h (mean +/- SD) and 5.5 +/- 3.6 mg/h of morphine during the first and second hours, respectively; MK patients (n = 21) used 3.7 +/- 1.2 mg/h and 2.8 +/- 2.3 mg/h, respectively (p < 0.01). The 4-h activation rate of the device was double in the MO patients than in the MK patients (66 +/- 54 vs 28 +/- 20, p < 0.001). The maximal self-rated pain score was 5.6 +/- 1.0 for the MO group vs 3.7 +/- 0.7 for the MK group (p < 0.01). Four MO patients vs one MK patient required diclofenac; 6 MO patients but no MK patients had oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry < 94% on a fraction of inspired oxygen of 0.4 (p < 0.01); two MO patients required reintubation. Paco(2) was higher in the MO group (40 +/- 6 mm Hg vs 33 +/- 5 mm Hg, p < 0.05). Heart rate, BP, and incidence of nausea/vomiting were similar; no ketamine-related hallucinations were detected.
Subanesthetic ketamine combined with a 35%-lower morphine dose provided equivalent pain control compared to the standard morphine dose alone, with fewer adverse side effects and a 45% reduction in morphine consumption.
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00625911.
A 36-year-old Chinese man presented to the Queen Mary Hospital in August 1999 with a 2-week history of jaundice due to propylthiouracil treatment for thyrotoxicosis. He had previously received carbimazole but had developed an urticarial skin rash after 2 weeks of treatment. The patient developed liver failure and fulminant pneumonitis shortly after hospital admission. Despite receiving treatment with broad-spectrum antibiotics and intravenous immunoglobulin, he died 11 days after the onset of the respiratory symptoms. Postmortem examination using electron microscopy showed typical glycogen bodies within the cytoplasm of the hepatocytes, which corresponded to eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusion bodies visible under light microscopy. Immunohistochemical studies of the inclusion bodies were positive for carcinoembryonic antigen and albumin, and negative for fibrinogen, complement protein C3, immunoglobulins G, M, and A, alpha-fetoprotein, and alpha-1-antitrypsin. This is the first report of a patient who received two sequential antithyroid drugs and developed predominate cholestasis with unique histological features. Extreme caution should be taken when a patient develops allergy to one type of antithyroid drug, because cross-reactivity may develop to the other type.
We examined the influence of chronic treatment with angiotensin-(1-7) [Ang-(1-7)] on renox (renal NADPH oxidase, NOX-4) and the development of renal dysfunction in streptozotocin-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats (diabetic SHR).
Mean arterial pressure, urinary protein and vascular responsiveness of the isolated renal artery to vasoactive agonists were studied in vehicle- or Ang-(1-7)-treated SHR and diabetic SHR.
Ang-(1-7) decreased the elevated levels of renal NADPH oxidase (NOX) activity and attenuated the activation of NOX-4 gene expression in the diabetic SHR kidney. Ang-(1-7) treatment increased sodium excretion but did not affect mean arterial pressure in diabetic SHR. There was a significant increase in urinary protein (266 +/- 22 mg/24 h) in the diabetic compared to control SHR (112 +/- 13 mg/24 h) and treatment of diabetic SHR with Ang-(1-7) reduced the degree of proteinuria (185 +/- 23 mg/24 h, p < 0.05). Ang-(1-7) treatment also attenuated the diabetes-induced increase in renal vascular responsiveness to endothelin-1, norepinephrine, and angiotensin II in SHR, but significantly increased the vasodilation of the renal artery of SHR and diabetic SHR to the vasodilator agonists.
These results suggest that treatment with Ang-(1-7) constitutes a potential therapeutic strategy to alleviate NOX-mediated oxidative stress and to reduce renal dysfunction in diabetic hypertensive rats.
In a patient with advanced cancer, neurosurgery relieved severe pain that had been uncontrolled by very high doses of opioids. On reduction of opioid dosage he had visual and auditory hallucinations and showed deterioration of consciousness progressing to coma. Naloxone worsened his mental state whereas morphine restored it to normal. This syndrome may be related to opioid withdrawal at receptors other than the mu receptors that have been linked to analgesia and drug abuse.
The common ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel variants E23K and S1369A, found in the KCNJ11 and ABCC8 genes, respectively, form a haplotype that is associated with an increased risk for type 2 diabetes. Our previous studies showed that KATP channel inhibition by the A-site sulfonylurea gliclazide was increased in the K23/A1369 haplotype. Therefore, we studied the pharmacogenomics of seven clinically used sulfonylureas and glinides to determine their structure-activity relationships in KATP channels containing either the E23/S1369 nonrisk or K23/A1369 risk haplotypes.
The patch-clamp technique was used to determine sulfonylurea and glinide inhibition of recombinant human KATP channels containing either the E23/S1369 or the K23/A1369 haplotype.
KATP channels containing the K23/A1369 risk haplotype were significantly less sensitive to inhibition by tolbutamide, chlorpropamide, and glimepiride (IC50 values for K23/A1369 vs. E23/S1369=1.15 vs. 0.71 μmol/l; 4.19 vs. 3.04 μmol/l; 4.38 vs. 2.41 nmol/l, respectively). In contrast, KATP channels containing the K23/A1369 haplotype were significantly more sensitive to inhibition by mitiglinide (IC50=9.73 vs. 28.19 nmol/l for K23/A1369 vs. E23/S1369) and gliclazide. Nateglinide, glipizide, and glibenclamide showed similar inhibitory profiles in KATP channels containing either haplotype.
Our results demonstrate that the ring-fused pyrrole moiety in several A-site drugs likely underlies the observed inhibitory potency of these drugs on KATP channels containing the K23/A1369 risk haplotype. It may therefore be possible to tailor existing therapy or design novel drugs that display an increased efficacy in type 2 diabetes patients homozygous for these common KATP channel haplotypes.
The mechanism of glucocorticoid-induced hypertension is not known. Although glucocorticoids can exert an inhibitory effect on prostaglandin synthesis in vitro, their in vivo influence on this system is controversial. The goal of the present study was to determine whether dexamethasone-induced hypertension in Wistar rats is due to inhibition of the synthesis of the vasodilator prostaglandin I2 (PGI2) in vivo. Dexamethasone caused a profound reduction (7 +/- 1 versus 21 +/- 5 ng per 24 h) in the urinary excretion of PGI-M (PGI-M), a major metabolite of PGI2, and a sustained rise in systolic arterial pressure which was maximal after 5 days (144 +/- 9 versus 103 +/- 3 mmHg). A study of the metabolism of [3H]-labeled 6-oxo-PGF1 alpha and PGI2 revealed that dexamethasone exerted a dual action on the prostaglandin system in vivo: an inhibition of PGI2 biosynthesis and an alteration of its metabolism, both effects contributing to the observed reduction in urinary levels of PGI-M. Exogenous arachidonic acid induced a fourfold increase in urinary PGI-M in normal rats (from 14 +/- 3 to 61 +/- 6 ng per 24 h). Despite a large decrease upon addition of dexamethasone, urinary PGI-M remained in the high-normal range in arachidonic acid-treated rats (21 +/- 8 ng per 24 h). Arachidonic acid exerted antihypertensive effects which were marginal initially but significant in the later phase of dexamethasone-induced hypertension (124 +/- 8 versus 139 +/- 8 mmHg in arachidonic acid-treated versus control rats after 7 days of dexamethasone).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To evaluate the adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy in the dog for research on partial left ventriculectomy (PLV).
An intracoronary catheter was introduced into the left main stem via the first diagonal branch in a retrograde fashion in 6 adult FBI (Foxhound Boehringer Ingelheim) dogs weighing 30 to 35 kg. The catheter was connected to a percutaneous access port that was used for weekly adriamycin administration (10 mg over a 1-hour period for 5 times). Follow-up examinations (transthoracic echocardiography, hemodynamic parameters, cardiopulmonary status, and neurohormones) were done before, 1 week after the last adriamycin administration, and 6 weeks later. After the last measurements, all dogs were euthanized with saturated potassium chloride under general anesthesia and the hearts were excised for histologic examinations. All data were calculated as mean values and standard error of the mean. Differences were calculated by the Wilcoxon signed rank test for paired and unpaired data. p values less than 0.05 were considered significant.
Central venous pressure (2.2 +/- 0.8 vs 5.2 +/- 0.4 mm Hg, p = 0.03), mean pulmonary artery pressure (8.6 +/- 1.1 vs 12.4 +/- 0.5 mm Hg, p = 0.03), pulmonary wedge pressure (2.6 +/- 0.9 vs 7.0 +/- 0 mm Hg, p = 0.03), left ventricular endsystolic diameter (2.5 +/- 0.2 vs 3.1 +/- 0.4 cm, p = 0.03), and enddiastolic (4.5 +/- 0.2 vs 4.9 +/- 0.2 cm, p = 0.03) diameter increased significantly after adriamycin administration, whereas cardiac output (4.0 +/- 0.3 vs 3.3 +/- 0.1 liter/min, p = 0.03), stroke volume index (66.0 +/- 7.4 vs 54.0 +/- 3.9 ml/beat/m(2), p = 0.03), and ejection fraction (61.1 +/- 5.1 vs 37.7 +/- 5.7%, p = 0.03) decreased markedly. These changes were accompanied by a significant decline of oxygen delivery (1130 +/- 170 vs 790 +/- 65 ml/min, p = 0.03), which led to an enhanced oxygen extraction (0.12 +/- 0.01 vs 0.24 +/- 0.01, p = 0.03). Consequently, venous oxygen saturation (82.7 +/- 4.1 vs 71.3 +/- 2.5%, p = 0.03) decreased. Troponin I (0.02 +/- 0.025 vs 1.7 +/- 0.6 ng/ml, p = 0.03) and the anti-diuretic hormone (1.9 +/- 0.9 vs 20.0 +/- 1.9 pg/ml, p = 0.03) increased significantly after adriamycin administration. Deterioration of cardiac function continued after termination of adriamycin administration, albeit slower than during adriamycin administration. All hearts had severe histologic alterations, which were characteristic of adriamycin-induced toxicity: cytoplasmic vacuolation, myocyte degeneration, and increased fibrosis.
The adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy in the dog is similar to the dilated cardiomyopathy in humans and may be an appropriate model for PLV.
Three patients are described with serious psychiatric complications related to use of simvastatin. The psychiatric symptoms concerned were mainly depression, anxiety and suicidal tendencies but also psychotic symptoms. The hypothesis is developed that in a particular population psychiatric (mood) disorders may be triggered by use of simvastatin or other cholesterol lowering compounds. A low or lowered cholesterol level may be related to disturbances in the cerebral serotonin metabolism. It may be necessary to be more alert for psychiatric (mood) disorders when a cholesterol lowering treatment (with simvastatin) is started and to stop it when psychiatric symptoms develop, or grow worse.
Effects of 1-(o-chlorophenyl)-1-(p-chlorophenyl)-2,2-dichloroethane (o,p'-DDD) (Lysodren; Mitotane) (I) and 1-(o-chlorophenyl)-1-(p-chlorophenyl)-2, 2-dichloropropane (Mitometh) (II) were investigated. Ultrastructural and toxicity studies were conducted with male Hartley outbred guinea pigs given 300 mg/kg/day ip for 14 days. Profound mitochondrial damage in the guinea pig adrenal cortex, an index of Lysodren's action as a cancer chemotherapeutic, reversible necrosis of the zona fasciculata and zona reticularis with swelling, disrupted cristae, and organelles destroyed in the mitochondria from these areas. Yet guinea pigs given Mitometh tolerated the drug better than those given an equivalent amount of Lysodren. In general the animals treated with Mitometh showed less alopecia, diarrhea, and weakness. The only deaths recorded in our study were in the Lysodren group. In addition po administration of these two drugs to male Sprague-Dawley rats and male Hartley guinea pigs for 4 days allowed for a direct comparison of urinary metabolites. Metabolites were identified from urine extracts by computerized mass spectrometry interfaced with capillary gas chromatography. Both compounds were shown to undergo dehydrohalogenation and side-chain cleavage to a limited extent; however, only Lysodren afforded side-chain oxidation metabolites. In fact, the dominant metabolite from Lysodren biotransformation was the corresponding carboxylic acid o,p'-DDA (III). On the other hand, Mitometh resisted side-chain oxidative metabolism and was less toxic than Lysodren. Therefore, when given to guinea pigs and rats, Mitometh had Lysodren-like biologic activity, did not undergo rapid inactivation, and was less toxic than Lysodren. Mitometh represents a potential alternative to Lysodren which should be investigated further for its possible use in the treatment of adrenal cortical carcinoma and Cushing's syndrome.
Bile acids (BAs) have been studied as potential biomarkers of drug-induced liver injury. However, the relationship between levels of individual BAs and specific forms of liver injury remains to be fully understood. Thus, we set out to evaluate cholic acid (CA), glycocholic acid (GCA), and taurocholic acid (TCA) as potential biomarkers of liver injury in rodent toxicity studies. We have developed a sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) assay applicable to rat and mouse serum and evaluated levels of the individual BAs in comparison with the classical biomarkers of hepatotoxicity (alanine aminotransferase [ALT], aspartate aminotransferase [AST], glutamate dehydrogenase (GLDH), alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin, gamma-glutamyl transferase, and total BAs) and histopathology findings in animals treated with model toxicants. The pattern of changes in the individual BAs varied with different forms of liver injury. Animals with histopathologic signs of hepatocellular necrosis showed increases in all 3 BAs tested, as well as increases in ALT, AST, GLDH, and total BAs. Animals with histopathologic signs of bile duct hyperplasia (BDH) displayed increases in only conjugated BAs (GCA and TCA), a pattern not observed with the other toxicants. Because BDH is detectable only via histopathology, our results indicate the potential diagnostic value of examining individual BAs levels in serum as biomarkers capable of differentiating specific forms of liver injury in rodent toxicity studies.
Drug toxicity to T-antigen-immortalized human liver epithelial (THLE) cells stably transfected with plasmid vectors that encoded human cytochrome P450s 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, or 3A4, or an empty plasmid vector (THLE-Null), was investigated. An automated screening platform, which included 1% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) vehicle, 2.7% bovine serum in the culture medium, and assessed 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium reduction, was used to evaluate the cytotoxicity of 103 drugs after 24h. Twenty-two drugs caused cytotoxicity to THLE-Null cells, with EC₅₀ ≤ 200 μM; 21 of these drugs (95%) have been reported to cause human liver injury. Eleven drugs exhibited lower EC₅₀ values in cells transfected with CYP3A4 (THLE-3A4 cells) than in THLE-Null cells; 10 of these drugs (91%) caused human liver injury. An additional 8 drugs, all of which caused human liver injury, exhibited potentiated THLE-3A4 cell toxicity when evaluated using a manual protocol that included 0.2% or 1% DMSO, but not bovine serum. Fourteen of the drugs that exhibited potentiated THLE-3A4 cell toxicity are known to be metabolized by P450s to reactive intermediates. These drugs included troglitazone, which was shown to undergo metabolic bioactivation and covalent binding to proteins in THLE-3A4 cells. A single drug (rimonabant) exhibited marked THLE cell toxicity but did not cause human liver injury; this drug had very low reported plasma exposure. These results indicate that evaluation of toxicity to THLE-Null and THLE-3A4 cell lines during drug discovery may aid selection of drugs with reduced propensity to cause drug-induced liver injury and that consideration of human exposure is required to enhance data interpretation.
To explore dysfunction mechanism of rat alveolar type II (AT-II) injured by bleomycin (BLM).
SD rats were injected with a single intratracheal dose of bleomycin or control saline. On day 7, 14, and 28 following intratracheal bleomycin or saline instillation, animals were killed under overdose of 1.5% sodium pentobarbital (0.25 ml/100 g, i.p.) and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from the lung was tested for the activity of pulmonary surfactant (PS) by the Whihelmy Film Balance. Several concentrations of bleomycin stimulated the culture of rat AT-II cells, and surfactant protein (SP) A, B, and aquaporin-1 (AQP) mRNA were analyzed by fluorescent quantitative polymerase chain reaction (FQ-PCR).
The activity of PS and hypoxemia significantly decreased on day 7 and improved on day 14 and completely recovered to normal status on day 28. SP-A, B, and AQP-1 mRNA expression in BLM-stimulated group were significantly lower than those in the control group (P<0.001).
BLM-injured AT-II cells decrease the levels of SP-A, B, and AQP-1 mRNA and cause PS dysfunction, resulting in hypoxemia and pneumonedema.
Angiotensin II is elevated in malignant hypertension. We tested the hypothesis that angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockade can prevent the development of malignant hypertension even in the absence of a blood pressure-lowering effect.
Two-kidney, 1-clip rats were followed up for 28 days; blood pressure was measured by tail-cuff plethysmography and intra-arterially. After a 2-week run-in phase, rats received valsartan at a dose of 0.3 (n=14) or 3 (n=12) mg. kg(-1). d(-1) or solvent (n=27). Only the higher dose of valsartan, but not the lower dose, decreased blood pressure. Both doses of valsartan prevented the development of lethal malignant hypertension. Twenty of 27 solvent-treated renovascular hypertensive rats died, but only 3 of 14 rats treated with the low dose and 1 of 12 rats treated with the high dose of valsartan died. Histological signs of malignant nephrosclerosis were found in all rats examined that had died throughout the study and in 6 of 7 surviving solvent-treated renovascular hypertensive animals. Increased expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and prominent interstitial influx of macrophages occurred in the nonclipped kidneys exposed to high pressure in solvent-treated rats. These alterations were prevented by valsartan at both doses, irrespective of blood pressure effects.
Angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockade by valsartan prevents lethal malignant hypertension independently of blood pressure. The results suggest that reduction of angiotensin-induced inflammation in the kidney may contribute to the protective effects of valsartan.
The authors report the cases of 4 patients with jaundice following the administration of ajmaline. The disease had a pseudo- angiocholitic onset with fever, chills and pruritus in the 4 patients and abdominal pains in 2 patients. Serum transaminase activity and serum alkaline phosphatase activity were increased in the 4 patients. Blood eosinophilia was found in 3 patients. Liver lesions included predominantly centrilobular cholestasis, mild hepatocytic lesions, and portal inflammation. After the interruption of the drug administration, recovery occurred in the 4 patients. Two patients resumed the intake of ajmaline; transient hepatitis recurred in these 2 patients.
Major depression is a chronic psychiatric illness that is highly prevalent and disabling. The available medications are ineffective for many patients suggesting that differents molecular pathways could be specifically altered in the unresponsive patients. Recently, the glutamatergic system has emerged as a target in the research on depression and acute NMDA receptor blockade has been shown to produce strong antidepressant effects. We have studied the adaptations of four mice strains (C57BL/6, DBA/2, C3H and BALB/c) to a chronic unpredictable stress protocol, a widely used model of depression in rodents. BALB/c mice displayed strikingly different behavioral and neurochemical adaptations compared to the other strains tested, suggesting that different molecular pathways are involved in their specific vulnerability. They became hyperactive during the dark period, anhedonic-like and displayed no alterations in the tail suspension test (TST). After chronic stress, only the BALB/c displayed an increased frontocortical VGLUT1 expression which is suggestive of a dysregulation of their prefrontal glutamatergic system, and no BDNF mRNA alteration, although the acute stress modulation of this mRNA is similar to the other strains. Chronic administration of an antagonist of NMDA receptors, MK-801, induced antidepressant-like effects in the TST for stressed BALB/c, but was ineffective for the hyperactivity and anhedonia-like behavior, in contrast to fluoxetine. Chronic MK-801 was totally inactive on the behavior of stressed C57BL/6 mice. MK-801, but not fluoxetine, inhibited the VGLUT1 prefrontal increase in BALB/c. Fluoxetine increased VGLUT1 and BDNF mRNA expression in the hippocampus of the C57BL/6 but not in the BALB/c strain, suggesting a different reactivity in-between strain to both stress and antidepressant. Interestingly enough, the BDNF or VGLUT1 increase is not necessary to reverse the stress induced behavioral alterations in our experimental settings. This observation supports the conclusion that BDNF and VGLUT1 are depressive state markers, but not involved in its etiology. Finally, there is a substantial similarity between the phenotypes that are observed in the BALB/c mice and endogenous depression in humans, as well as between C57BL/6 mice and atypical depression. To have a better understanding of the variability of depression etiologies in human, and the implication of the glutamatergic system, it may be suggested that future animal studies in the mouse would systematically compare the two strains BALB/c and C57BL/6 for the identification of relevant biological mechanisms. This article is part of a special Issue entitled 'Anxiety and Depression'.
Pregnant ICR mice were exposed to caffeine at levels of 0, 4, 20 and 100 mg/kg during pregnancy. The behavioral-teratological tests indicated that the retardation of development, the obstruction of early reflexes and sensation and decline of learning ability existed in the offsprings of 20 and 100 mg/kg groups. The number of the dead fetus increased in the group of 100 mg/kg coffeine treated mice. No morphological changes were found.
An epileptic patient well controlled on valproic acid (VPA) developed a prolonged episode of status epilepticus 12 days after initiation of 75 mg of clomipramine (CMI) to treat depression. Serum level of VPA in the emergency room was unchanged from her previous levels; serum level of CMI was very elevated despite the relatively small dose of CMI. A pharmacokinetic interaction between VPA, an enzyme inhibitor, and CMI has not been described but seemed to have occurred in this patient. Decreased metabolism of CMI and its metabolites, increased free CMI fraction, and precipitation of a nonlinear saturation kinetic state has been described when CMI was used concomitantly with other highly protein-bound, enzyme-inhibiting compounds. This case provides reasonable evidence that the combination of VPA and CMI may result in elevation of levels of CMI and possibly of its metabolites and may precipitate seizures in patients with an underlying predisposition. The elevated serum level of CMI at the time of the seizures, despite the relatively small oral dose of the drug, suggests that VPA may have inhibited its metabolism and/or elimination.
Generation of angiotensin II (Ang II) contributes to the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases. Owing to the existence of high levels of Ang II within the kidney, blockade of the intrarenal Ang II levels may be important since long term outcome seems not only to be related to blood pressure per se. This was a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, with crossover design. We examined in 13 patients with mild to moderate hypertension the specific systemic and renal blocking properties of two different Ang II receptor blockers during a wide range of Ang II concentrations, 24 h post dose. The effects were evaluated after 4 weeks treatment with candesartan cilexetil (16 mg OD), losartan (50 mg OD) and placebo using clearance techniques. Candesartan reduced the 24 h blood pressure better than losartan (138(*)/87+/-12/8 vs 145/89+/-12/7 mmHg, (*)P<0.05 vs losartan) and placebo. Despite the lower blood pressure, candesartan attenuated the Ang II-induced response on ERPF and RVR markedly better than losartan or placebo. The GFR decreased, as expected, with placebo, but remained stable with candesartan. The present study demonstrates that in hypertensive patients candesartan and to a lesser degree losartan are effective in blocking the systemic and renal effects of Ang II during a wide range of Ang II infusion rates. Interestingly, 24 h post dose, candesartan effectively diminished the change in ERPF as well as GFR. This sustained renal effect of candesartan may be of importance, especially in pathophysiological circumstances in which (high renal levels of) Ang II contributes to cardiovascular damage.
Alcohol use disorders (AUDs) are complex, and developing effective treatments will require the combination of novel medications and cognitive behavioral therapy approaches. Epidemiological studies have shown there is a high correlation between alcohol consumption and tobacco use, and the prevalence of smoking in alcoholics is as high as 80% compared to about 30% for the general population. Both preclinical and clinical data provide evidence that nicotine administration increases alcohol intake and non-specific nicotinic receptor antagonists reduce alcohol-mediated behaviors. As nicotine interacts specifically with the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) system, this suggests that nAChRs play an important role in the behavioral effects of alcohol. In this review, we discuss the importance of nAChRs for the treatment of AUDs and argue that the use of FDA approved nAChR ligands, such as varenicline and mecamylamine, approved as smoking cessation aids may prove to be valuable treatments for AUDs. We also address the importance of combining effective medications with behavioral therapy for the treatment of alcohol dependent individuals.
We report a case of acne secondary to amineptine (Survector) in a 54-year-old woman. Clinical picture and relationship with excessive drug intake of this drug define this new iatrogenic acne. To our knowledge, this is the first case described in Spain.
