This study quantified the impact of drug pathway-associated genetic variants on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of gemcitabine and cisplatin in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Thirty-seven patients with advanced NSCLC were sampled for plasma concentrations of gemcitabine, difluoro-deoxy uridine (dFdU), intracellular gemcitabine triphosphates (dFdCTP), and unbound platinum concentrations after gemcitabine 1,250 mg/m(2) i.v. followed by cisplatin 75 mg/m(2). We analyzed 13 germline single nucleotide polymorphisms and one deletion-glutathione S-transferase (GST) M1-within six drug pathway-associated genes (GSTM1, GSTP1, cytidine deaminase (CDA), solute carrier (SLC) 28A1, SLC28A2, and deoxycytidine kinase). PK models were fitted to the data using nonlinear mixed-effects modeling, and genetic data were tested on drug PK and hematological toxicity.
Patients carrying the nonsynonymous CDA SNP 79A >C (CDA*2) had a 21% lower gemcitabine clearance as compared to wild-type patients (outcomes and complications.0.0009), but the risk for chemotherapy-associated neutropenia (61% vs. 32%, P = 0.07) and severe neutropenia (17% vs. 5%, P = 0.26) was not significantly higher. Other gene polymorphisms were not associated with drug PK parameters or hematological toxicity. The known functional mutant variant CDA*3 was not found in any of the patients.
Although the mutant CDA*2 allele results in an increased exposure to gemcitabine in Caucasian patients, this study gives no definite conclusion on the clinical relevance of this finding. Further studies should look into the relationship between CDA genotypes, plasmatic CDA activity, and clinical outcome in patients receiving gemcitabine-based chemotherapy.
Resveratrol has been shown to attenuate cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH); however, no study has explored its neuroprotective effect in early brain injury (EBI) after experimental SAH. The aim of this study was to evaluate the antiapoptotic function of resveratrol in EBI and its relationship with the PI3K/Akt survival pathway.
Experimental SAH was induced in adult male rats by prechiasmatic cistern injection. Control and SAH rats were divided into six groups and treated with low (20 mg/kg) or high (60 mg/kg) concentrations of resveratrol with or without LY294002 cotreatment. Brain samples of the rats were analyzed by immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence staining, Western blotting, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) apoptosis assays.
High-concentration but not low-concentration resveratrol treatment in SAH rats led to a significant increase in phosphorylated Akt (p-Akt) protein levels compared with SAH rats without treatment. In addition, p-Akt-positive cells mainly colocalized with NeuN-positive cells. Neuronal apoptosis in SAH rat brain was attenuated by high-concentration resveratrol treatment. The antiapoptotic effect of resveratrol in SAH rats could be partially abrogated by the PI3K/Akt signaling inhibitor LY294002.
Our results show that resveratrol has an antiapoptotic effect in EBI and that resveratrol might act through the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway.
The large prospective studies on adverse effects of oral contraceptives have unanimously revealed an increased risk of thromboembolic diseases, which seem to be associated with the dose of ethinylestradiol (EE). According to the recommendations of several medical committees, the dose of EE has, therefore, been more and more reduced; in some countries there are now ovulation inhibitors containing 20 micrograms EE. Since serious reactions, which have a relatively low incidence, are highly underreported (less than 10%), it is difficult to prove dose-dependent differences in the rates of cardiovascular diseases. There is, however, virtually no doubt that not only the incidence of thromboembolic diseases and stroke, but also that of benign liver tumours and gall bladder diseases is increased in relation to the EE-dose. A series of metabolic serum parameters, e.g. serum binding proteins, coagulation and fibrinolysis factors, angiotensinogen, is changed by EE in a dose-dependent manner which is, however, limited when the effects are receptor-mediated. Higher doses of EE have been shown to facilitate fibrin deposits on vascular subendothelium. The pharmacological effects of EE are to a large extent dependent on the dose, e.g. the irreversible reactions of EE and other ethinylated steroids with hepatic enzymes which are involved in the metabolism of steroids, drugs and toxic compounds. After long-term treatment with combinations containing 50 micrograms EE, in half of the women, abnormal liver function tests with pathological morphological alterations have been found. As combinations with low EE doses and a sufficiently effective progestogen component do not differ from higher dosed oral contraceptives in their contraceptive safety and cycle control, there are no indications for pills containing 50 micrograms EE, except the normophasic sequential preparations for women with sustained irregular bleedings when taking low dose combinations.
Twenty percent azelaic acid gel is recommended as a topical treatment for acne due to its favorable profile.
Our objective in this study was to evaluate the efficacy of 20% azelaic acid gel in the treatment of mild to moderate acne vulgaris.
This was a double blind, randomized clinical trial. Sixty patients with mild to moderate acne vulgaris were selected randomly to receive either azelaic acid gel or the vehicle gel alone. Patients were followed up every 15 days for a period of 45 days. The number of lesions and the acne severity index (ASI) were recorded and compared using Student's t-test.
Total lesion count was reduced by 60.6% and 19.9% by azelaic acid gel and the placebo respectively (P = 0.002). ASI was reduced by 65.2% and 21.3% by azelaic acid gel and the placebo respectively (P = 0.001), i.e, azelaic acid gel was 3.06 times more effective than the placebo in reducing ASI.
Azelaic acid gel can be used as an effective treatment in mild to moderate acne vulgaris.
The formaldehyde (FA) genotoxic potential in occupationally exposed individuals is conflicting. A relevant indoor-air FA pollution was found in hospitals and scientific institutions where FA is used as a bactericide and tissue preservative. In the present study, we evaluated the frequency of chromosomal aberrations (CAs) in peripheral blood lymphocytes from workers in pathology wards who have been exposed to FA, compared with a group of unexposed subjects. The subjects were also analyzed for the GSTM1 and GSTT1 metabolic gene polymorphisms. The exposed subjects showed a significant increase in the frequency of CA per cell and in the percentage of cells with aberrations compared to control subjects. The different GST genotypes did not affect the level of cytogenetic damage since CA frequencies were not statistically different between the GST "null" genotypes and the GST "positives". The generalized linear models showed that the number of CAs and cells with CAs increased with age, but, independent of age, it was significantly higher in the experimental rather than in the control group. Cubic-spline regression confirmed the linear relationship between CAs and age, but it provided evidence for a non-linear relationship between CAs and the number of years of FA exposure. Similar results were observed when the model included the number of cells with CAs as dependent variables. Our results demonstrate that air FA induces CAs even consequently to low levels of daily exposure, indicating an increased risk of genetic damage for workers exposed to this air pollutant.
To determine whether there is a relationship between exposure to heparin and an increased risk of intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), we analyzed data from a cohort of infants who had been subjects in a randomized clinical trial of umbilical artery catheter placement. Data from 862 infants who survived the first 6 days of life were used for analysis. The incidence of IVH (grades 1 through 4) was 28.6%. The mean (SD) birth weight for infants with IVH was 954 gm (247 gm) compared with 1053 gm (253 gm) among infants without IVH (p < 0.01). The mean (SD) heparin intake among infants with an IVH was 83.5 units/kg/day (48.7) compared with 59.4 units/kg/day (48.7) among infants without an IVH (p < 0.01). With the use of logistic regression modeling to adjust for a number of potentially confounding variables, including fluid intake and birth weight, we observed an odds ratio for an IVH of 1.96 (95% confidence interval = 1.32, 2.91) for infants with second through fourth quartile intakes of heparin compared with that for infants with first quartile heparin intakes. Although we cannot rule out the possibility that the observations from this model may be confounded by factors associated with the severity of illness of the infant, these data support the findings of previous reports of an association between heparin exposure and the risk for an IVH.
The anticonvulsive activity (ED50), acute toxicity (LD50), and minimal neurotoxicity (TD50) of diazepam in an emulsion form (Diazemuls) were compared with two different water-based diazepam solutions (Valium and Stesolid). The diazepam preparations were administered intravenously to male mice. After determination of time of peak drug activity, the ED50's were established against pentetrazol-induced convulsions, at peak drug activity. The most important difference between the three diazepam preparations was a significantly higher LD50 of diazemuls (275 mg/kg) compared to valium (49 mg/kg) and stesolid (51 mg/kg). ED50 was: diazemuls 0.24 mg/kg, valium 0.14 mg/kg and stesolid 0.10 mg/kg. The therapeutic indices (LD50/ED50) were thus calculated to be 1146 for diazemuls, 350 for valium and 510 for stesolid. Time of peak drug activity and TD50 were equal for all three drugs. No signs of pain on injection or necrosis were observed following diazemuls, whereas this was common after valium and stesolid.
A case is described of a 22 years old, high risk female patient who underwent an ophtalmological operation. She developed a ventricular fibrillation during halothane anesthesia by an excess of adrenaline (epinephrine) administered in eye drops.
Nitric oxide donors have been used in the management of hypertensive emergencies (HE). Isosorbide dinitrate aerosol (ISA) is a nitric oxide fast-acting donor. The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of ISA and nifedipine in the treatment of HE.
Sixty adult patients with an HE were randomised to receive either ISA (2.5 mg) or nifedipine (10 mg). Patients were given an electrocardiogram (ECG) immediately prior, and 30 min after administering the medication. Blood pressure (BP) was measured every 5 min for the first 30 min, and then every 30 min for a period of 6 h.
Blood pressure values for all patients in the ISA group decreased significantly (187 +/- 13/121 +/- 6 to 153 +/- 15/92.3 +/- 7.6 mmHg, P < 0.005). Two of the patients in this group had angor pectoris with evidence of subepicardial ischaemia as seen in the first ECG, both of which disappeared with the drug. Heart rate decreased by 14%. Similarly, all patients in the nifedipine group had significant decreases in BP (190 +/- 23/115 +/- 7 to 153 +/- 26/86 +/- 6 mm Hg, P < 0.005). Their first ECG was normal. Two patients suffered angor pectoris after nifedipine, with subepicardial ischaemia registering in the second ECG. Heart rate increased 11.9% in this group. During the follow-up period, no clinically significant side effects or cases of rebound hypertension were observed in the ISA group, whereas in the nifedipine group, eight patients reported having headaches and four others rebound hypertension.
Our results show a favourable effect of ISA in the treatment of HE.
Ecstasy use has often been found to be associated with psychopathology, yet this research has so far been based largely on subjective symptom ratings.
To investigate whether ecstasy users suffered from long-term psychopathological consequences.
We compared the prevalence of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual version IV (DSM-IV) mental disorders in 30 current and 29 former ecstasy users, 29 polydrug and 30 drug-naive controls. Groups were approximately matched by age, gender and level of education. The current ecstasy users reported a life-time dose of an average of 821 and the former ecstasy users of 768 ecstasy tablets.
Ecstasy users did not significantly differ from controls in the prevalence of mental disorders, except those related to substance use. Substance-induced affective, anxiety and cognitive disorders occurred more frequently among ecstasy users than polydrug controls. The life-time prevalence of ecstasy dependence amounted to 73% in the ecstasy user groups. More than half of the former ecstasy users and nearly half of the current ecstasy users met the criteria of substance-induced cognitive disorders at the time of testing. Logistic regression analyses showed the estimated life-time doses of ecstasy to be predictive of cognitive disorders, both current and life-time.
The motivation for ecstasy use is not likely to be self-medication of pre-existing depressive or anxiety disorders as these did not occur more frequently in the ecstasy users than in control groups or in the general population. Cognitive disorders still present after over 5 months of ecstasy abstinence may well be functional consequences of serotonergic neurotoxicity of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA).
Several zebrafish mutants identified in large-scale forward genetic screens exhibit notochord distortion. We now report the cloning and further characterization of one such mutant, gulliver(m208) (gul(m208)). The notochord defect in gul(m208) mutants is exacerbated under conditions of copper depletion or lysyl oxidase cuproenzyme inhibition that are without a notochord effect on wild-type embryos. The gul(m208) phenotype results from a missense mutation in the gene encoding Col8a1, a lysyl oxidase substrate, and morpholino knockdown of col8a1 recapitulates the notochord distortion observed in gul(m208) mutants. Of interest, the amino acid mutated in gul(m208) Col8a1 is highly conserved, and the equivalent substitution in a closely related human protein, COL10A1, causes Schmid metaphyseal chondrodysplasia. Taken together, the data identify a new protein essential for notochord morphogenesis, extend our understanding of gene-nutrient interactions in early development, and suggest that human mutations in COL8A1 may cause structural birth defects.
To characterize the natural history of methamphetamine withdrawal during the first 3 weeks of abstinence.
Cross-sectional study with comparison group. Setting A substance use treatment facility in Chiang Mai Province, Thailand.
The sample comprised 21 in-patients undergoing treatment for methamphetamine dependence. Nine age- and sex-matched non-dependent individuals provided comparison data.
Instruments including: the Amphetamine Withdrawal Questionnaire, a modified version of the Cocaine Selective Severity Assessment, Clinical Global Impression scale and the St Mary's Hospital Sleep Questionnaire were completed daily for the first 3 weeks of abstinence.
Methamphetamine withdrawal severity declined from a high initial peak within 24 hours of the last use of amphetamines reducing to near control levels by the end of the first week of abstinence (the acute phase). The acute phase of amphetamine withdrawal was characterized by increased sleeping and eating, a cluster of depression-related symptoms and less severely, anxiety and craving-related symptoms. Following the acute withdrawal phase most withdrawal symptoms remained stable and at low levels for the remaining 2 weeks of abstinence.
This study has provided evidence of a methamphetamine withdrawal syndrome that can be categorized into two phases, the acute phase lasting 7-10 days during which overall symptom severity declined in a linear pattern from a high initial peak, and a subacute phase lasting at least a further 2 weeks.
Olive oil, the main fat component of the Mediterranean diet, has been found to be protective against oxidative stress and could be beneficial in inflammatory and gastrointestinal disorders. First-pressed, extra-virgin olive oil (EVOO) has appreciable amounts of powerful antioxidants such as polyphenolic compounds that prevent its autoxidation and are responsible for its high stability. The aim of the present study was to determine whether diets supplemented with EVOO could reduce the severity of indomethacin-induced gastric oxidative damage and also to study changes in the activities of certain oxidative stress-related enzymes such as xanthine oxidase, myeloperoxidase as a marker of neutrophil infiltration, and the antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase. Lipid peroxidation and possible modifications in gluthatione metabolism were also studied. Weanling rats were maintained on semisynthetic diet for 6 weeks; a standard diet containing 5% (w/w) of fat as control or EVOO supplemented diets (5% and 20% w/w). Gastric lesions were induced on the last day by oral administration of indomethacin (60 mg/kg body wt). In animals fed EVOO diets, gastric lesions were decreased significantly and in parallel with dietary fat, when compared to animals consuming a standard diet. These protective effects were related to a reduction of lipid peroxides generation, neutrophil infiltration, and xanthine oxidase activity. Superoxide dismutase, an important enzyme to scavenger of lipid peroxides, was unaffected by feeding conditions. On the other hand, dietary supplementation with EVOO significantly increased both glutathione peroxidase activity and total glutathione content. In conclusion, this study provides evidence that fat diets containing EVOO reduces indomethacin-induced gastric damage in rats. This effect may be partly due not only to reducing oxidative stress and neutrophil-induced toxicity but also to enhancing the glutathione antioxidant defense system.
Fluoxetine is a relatively new antidepressant, reported to have minimal side-effects. Seizures associated with fluoxetine therapy are uncommon. The five cases reported so far are reviewed. A case of fluoxetine induced seizures, in a person with Down syndrome, is described.
Several studies have reported associations between respiratory outcomes in children and a range of self-reported, administrative or geographical indicators of traffic pollution. First-time investigation into the frequency of asthmatic symptoms among 7-8 year-old Cypriot children in 1999-2000 showed increased prevalence in the capital Nicosia compared to other areas. Geographical differences on an island the size of Cyprus may reflect environmental and/or lifestyle factors. This study investigates the relationship between self-reported symptoms and residential exposure to motor vehicle emissions among Nicosia schoolchildren.
The addresses of children in the metropolitan area of Nicosia who participated in the original survey (N = 1,735) were geo-coded and the level of exposure of each child was assessed using distance- and emission-based indicators (i.e. estimated levels of particulate matter and nitrogen oxides emissions due to motor vehicles on main roads around the residence). Odds ratios of wheezing and asthma diagnosis in relation to levels of exposure were estimated in logistic regression models adjusting for person-based factors, co-morbidity and intra-school clustering.
We found an increased risk of wheezing at distances less than 50 m from a main road and/or only among those experiencing the highest levels of exposure. The strongest effect estimates were observed when exposure was defined in terms of the cumulative burden at all roads around the residence. Adjusted odds ratios for current wheezing were 2.33 (95% CI 1.27, 4.30) amongst the quartile of participants exposed to the highest levels of PM at all roads 50 m of their residence and 2.14 (95% CI 1.05, 4.35) for NOx, with no effect at intermediate levels of exposure. While the direction of effect was apparent at longer distances, differences were generally not statistically significant.
Children experiencing the highest burden of emissions in Nicosia seem to be at a higher risk of reporting asthmatic symptoms. Due to the small number of children residing at close proximity to main roads and lack of evidence of risk at intermediate levels of exposure or longer distances, the observed pattern alone does not explain the generally higher prevalence observed in urban Nicosia compared to other areas.
The aim of this study was to determine the possible involvement of the neurosteroid dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) in cocaine-seeking behavior in a self-administration model in rats. DHEA pretreatment (continued thereafter concomitantly with cocaine self-administration) attenuated cocaine-seeking behavior and elevated the levels of dopamine and serotonin in several brain regions relevant to cocaine addiction. Chronic cocaine self-administration induced elevation in brain DHEA, its sulfate ester, DHEAS, and pregnenolone. The increased brain DHEA following cocaine self-administration may serve as a compensatory protective mechanism geared to attenuate the craving for cocaine. Such anti-craving activity is further enhanced by DHEA treatment before and during cocaine self-administration.
Although vinyl chloride is an established cause of liver angiosarcoma, the evidence is inconclusive on whether it also causes other neoplastic and nonneoplastic chronic liver diseases as well as neoplasms in other organs. Furthermore, the shape of the dose-response relation for angiosarcoma is uncertain. We have extended for approximately 8 years the mortality and cancer incidence follow-up of 12,700 male workers in the vinyl chloride industry in four European countries. All-cause mortality was lower than expected, whereas cancer mortality was close to expected. A total of 53 deaths from primary liver cancer (standardized mortality ratio 2.40, 95% confidence interval = 1.80-3.14) and 18 incident cases of liver cancer were identified, including 37 angiosarcomas, 10 hepatocellular carcinomas, and 24 liver cancers of other and unknown histology. In Poisson regression analyses we observed a marked exposure response for all liver cancers, angiosarcoma, and hepatocellular carcinoma. The exposure-response trend estimated for liver cancer in analyses restricted to cohort members with cumulative exposures of <1,500 parts per million-years was close to that estimated for the full cohort (relative risk of 2.0 per logarithmic unit of cumulative dose). No strong relation was observed between cumulative vinyl chloride exposure and other cancers. Although cirrhosis mortality was decreased overall, there was a trend with cumulative exposure.
Intravenous N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) 0.3, 3 and 30 mg/kg produced a dose-dependent increase of blood pressure in urethane-anesthetized rats. Similar pressure responses occurred in rats after ganglionic or adrenergic blockade, hemorrhage or acetylcholine infusion. L-NAME potentiated the pressor response to phenylephrine in pentolinium-treated rats. L-NAME increased the depressor effect of acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside and shortened the acetylcholine response. Phenylephrine potentiated the magnitude but not the duration of the acetylcholine response and had no effect on the duration or magnitude of sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension. L-NAME potentiated the initial fall of blood pressure induced by a 5 min acetylcholine infusion but had no effect on the pressure drop at the end of infusion. These results suggest that basal production of nitric oxide (NO) is not related to vascular tone and do not support the view that acetylcholine releases NO from resistance vessels in vivo.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) is a commonly used anti-cancer drug which causes toxicity by its reactive metabolites such as acrolein and phosphoramide mustard. In the present study modulation of toxicity caused by concomitant exposure to CP and l-buthionine-SR-sulfoximine (BSO) by fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graecum L.) extract was evaluated by measuring lipid peroxidation (LPO) and anti-oxidants in urinary bladder in mice. Fenugreek, a common dietary and medicinal herb, showed protective effect not only on LPO but also on the enzymatic anti-oxidants. CP-treated animals exhibited a significant decrease in the activities of glutathione S-transferase (GST), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GP) and catalase (CAT) when compared to the controls. Level of reduced glutathione (GSH) was also reduced with an increase in LPO in CP-treated animals. BSO treatment depicted an additive toxic effect in CP-treated animals. Pre-treatment of herbal extract restored activities of all the enzymes and thus showed an overall protective effect on additive effect of CP and BSO. Restoration of GSH by extract treatment may play an important role in reversing CP-induced apoptosis and free radical-mediated LPO in urinary bladder. Fenugreek, known for its hypoglycemic, anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory activity, may be a promising protective medicinal herb for consideration in complementary therapy in cancer patients under chemotherapeutic interventions.
Quantitative evaluation of respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) may provide important information in clinical practice of anesthesia and postoperative care. In this paper, we apply a point process method to assess dynamic RSA during propofol general anesthesia. Specifically, an inverse Gaussian probability distribution is used to model the heartbeat interval, whereas the instantaneous mean is identified by a linear or bilinear bivariate regression on the previous R-R intervals and respiratory measures. The estimated second-order bilinear interaction allows us to evaluate the nonlinear component of the RSA. The instantaneous RSA gain and phase can be estimated with an adaptive point process filter. The algorithm's ability to track non-stationary dynamics is demonstrated using one clinical recording. Our proposed statistical indices provide a valuable quantitative assessment of instantaneous cardiorespiratory control and heart rate variability (HRV) during general anesthesia.
In liver diseases, reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in cell death and liver injury, but the mechanisms are not completely elucidated. To elucidate the mechanisms of hepatocyte cell death induced by the ROS superoxide anions and hydrogen peroxide, primary cultures of hepatocytes were exposed to the superoxide anion donor menadione (10-50 micromol/L) or H2O2 (1-5 mmol/L). Hepatocytes were also treated with caspases and MAPKs inhibitors, superoxide dismutase (PEG-SOD) and SNAP, a nitric oxide donor. Apoptosis was determined by measuring caspase-9, -6, -3 activation and cleaved PARP, and necrotic cell death by Sytox Green staining.
(1) Menadione (50 micromol/L) induces JNK phosphorylation, caspase-9, -6, -3 activation, PARP cleavage and apoptosis. Superoxide anions-induced apoptosis is dependent on JNK activity. Menadione (50 micromol/L) induces the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and this attenuates cell death. (2) H2O2 increases necrotic cell death at high concentration or when H2O2 detoxification is impaired. H2O2 does not activate MAPKs signalling. (3) PEG-SOD prevents ERK1/2-, JNK- phosphorylation, caspase activation and apoptosis induced by menadione. Glutathione depletion increases menadione-induced apoptosis. (4) SNAP abolishes menadione-induced apoptosis but increases necrotic cell death.
In normal hepatocytes, superoxide anions-induced caspase activation and apoptosis is dependent on JNK activity and totally abolished by superoxide scavengers.
Endothelin (ET)-1 is an autocrine/paracrine growth factor or an antiapoptotic factor in human cancers, and blockade of ET-1 receptors can sensitize human tumor cells to apoptosis. The role of the ET-1 axis in the proliferation and/or apoptosis of melanoma cells and in their response to the alkylating agent, dacarbazine (DTIC), used in clinical treatment of human melanoma were investigated in five human melanoma cell lines obtained form surgical resection specimens. Melanoma cells expressed the messenger RNAs (mRNAs) for the components of the ET-1 axis. ET-1 binding was mediated by ET(B) but was inhomogeneous among melanoma cells. Exogenous ET-1 did not induce human melanoma cell proliferation. Bosentan, a dual ET(A/B)-receptor antagonist, decreased melanoma cell viability and DNA synthesis and induced melanoma cell apoptosis in defined human melanoma cells. Bosentan potentiated Fas ligand-induced apoptosis only in one melanoma cell line. Variants of ET(B)were determined using reverse transcriptase (RT) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and primers spanning the whole sequence of the ET(B)gene. ET(B)variants were demonstrated only in one of the five cell lines, corresponding to the absence of ET-1 binding by these cells. Bosentan did not inhibit the effects of alkylating agents, and the effects of bosentan and alkylating agents were additive in melanoma cells. In conclusion, exogenous ET-1 is not a growth factor for human melanoma cells, but blockade of ET receptors decreases proliferation, induces apoptosis, and potentiates the effects of anticancer agents in defined melanoma cells, suggesting that combination therapy of ET-receptor antagonists with alkylating agents may improve their efficacy.
Report on a patient with osteomalacia due to renal phosphate loss. At onset the patient was aged 43 years. No other tubular defects were detected except glycinuria. The patient was followed over a period of 12 years. 3 years after treatment with oral phosphate and vitamin D3 persistent hypercalcemia developed with highly elevated levels of parathyroid hormone. After removal of one enlarged parathyroid gland serum calcium normalized, but elevated parathyroid hormone levels still persist. The spontaneous occurrence of hypophosphatemic osteomalacia in an adult male and its connections with the development of hyperparathyroidism are discussed.
Pentavalent antimony is still the drug of choice in the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis. Pantavalent antimony can cause a wide range of adverse effects, the most serious of which are cardiotoxicity and hepatotoxicity. Acute pancreatitis is a rarely reported adverse effect. An infant who developed pancreatitis during meglumine antimoniate treatment for visceral leishmaniasis and who was successfully treated with a combination of allopurinol and ketoconazole is reported.
The effects of age on the neurotoxicity of phenobarbital and its anticonvulsant effect were examined in female BDF1 mice of different ages by means of a rotorod test and the pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-induced maximal seizure, respectively. The minimal neurotoxic concentrations (MTCs) of phenobarbital in both plasma and brain evaluated by a rotorod test were 50% lower (p less than 0.05) in old (24-months-old) mice compared with the respective values in young (6-months-old) mice, while 12-months values were the highest of the three groups. Mice given some dosages of phenobarbital, particularly old (24-months-old) mice, died within the 15-min observation period after an i.p. injection of PTZ (150 mg/kg) without demonstrating a hindlimb extensor component (HLE) of maximal seizure. When these animals were classified as responders with regard to the anticonvulsant effect of phenobarbital, the minimal effective concentrations (MECs) in plasma and brain required for abolishing the PTZ-induced maximal seizure in old mice were only 10-20% those of young mice. Present results coupled with our past studies using electroshock seizure suggest that both the neurotoxicity and the efficacy of phenobarbital increase with age in mice.
Inorganic lead compounds are carcinogenic in animals and have carcinogenic potential in humans. In mice, lead (Pb) is a transplacental carcinogen in the kidney. Metallothionein (MT) is a metal-binding protein that can reduce the toxicity of various metals, including Pb, either by direct sequestration or as an antioxidant for metals that generate reactive oxygen species. Although MT appears to reduce Pb carcinogenicity in adult mice it is unknown how MT deficiency may affect Pb carcinogenicity from early life exposure. Thus, groups (n=10) of pregnant MT-I/II double knockout (MT-null) or 129/SVJ MT wild type (WT) mice were exposed to Pb acetate in the drinking water (0, 2000, 4000ppm Pb) from gestation day 8 through birth and during lactation. Maternal drinking water Pb exposure continued to wean at 4 weeks of age and the male offspring were then directly exposed to Pb until 8 weeks of age and observed until 2 years old. High dose (4000ppm) but not low dose (2000ppm) Pb reduced survival in the latter part of the study in both MT-null and WT mice. In MT-null mice, but not WT, early life Pb exposure caused a dose-related increase in testicular teratomas, to a maximum incidence of 28% compared to control (4%). Pb-induced renal cystic hyperplasia, considered preneoplastic, was a prominent occurrence in MT-null mice but nearly absent in WT mice. Pb dose-related increases in renal cystic hyperplasia occurred in adult MT-null with early life exposure with maximal incidence of 52%. Pb-treated MT-null mice also showed dose-related increases in urinary bladder hyperplasia with occasional papilloma that were absent in WT mice. Thus, MT deficiency made mice more sensitive to early life Pb exposure with regard to testes tumors, and renal and urinary bladder preneoplastic lesions.
1. Prazosin (2 mg, p.o.) was administered to nine patients with essential hypertension while intra-arterial pressure was recorded by an Oxford portable apparatus. In all patients, 30 min-3 h after the administration, systolic and diastolic pressure fell on assuming the upright posture and four patients fainted. No correlation was found between the degree of fall in pressure and the plasma concentration of the drug. Acute expansion of the plasma volume by means of 6% Dextran infusion reduced the orthostatic blood pressure fall in all cases and a significant inverse correlation was found between plasma volume and orthostatic fall of pressure. 2. After ten days of continuous treatment with prazosin, 2 mg daily, a significant decrease in blood pressure was observed while orthostatic hypotension disappeared, probably due to the plasma volume expansion induced by the drug.
