The concept that thresholds exist for the induction of allergic contact dermatitis by chemicals with skin sensitizing properties has been used for a quantitative risk assessment approach. In this approach the potency of skin sensitizers as determined in the Local Lymph Node Assay is used to calculate the threshold for induction of sensitization. These are then used to estimate safe exposure levels for consumers. Whether these exposure levels will protect subjects that are already sensitized is unknown. The elicitation of allergic contact dermatitis supposedly occurs above a certain threshold as well and this threshold is most likely lower than that for the induction. It is unclear if induction thresholds can be extrapolated to elicitation thresholds. The aim of this study was to assess the potency of sensitizers with different sensitizing potencies in the elicitation phase in a mouse model for elicitation. Mice were sensitized by topical application on days 0 and 7 using equipotent concentrations of oxazolone, 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) and eugenol to ensure that the sensitization strength would not influence the elicitation potency. Mice were challenged on day 21 by topical application on the ears in a dose-dependent manner and dose-response data were used to calculate the elicitation potency. Unexpectedly, sensitizers with different sensitizing potencies induced not the same dose-response curves in sensitized mice. The most potent sensitizer in the elicitation phase was oxazolone, followed by DNCB and eugenol. Similar to the induction phase, under equipotent sensitization conditions strong sensitizers such as oxazolone and DNCB elicit allergic reactions at lower concentrations than weak sensitizers such as eugenol. Our results indicate that elicitation thresholds cannot be readily deduced from sensitization thresholds.
Vinyl chloride (VC) is a potent liver carcinogen that induces angiosarcomas in humans and animals. Recent evidence shows that liver tumors from patients with VC exposure may have a specific K-ras mutation pattern. This study was performed to determine the status of K-ras-2 in liver angiosarcomas (LAS) from workers occupationally exposed to VC. We examined the presence of K-ras-2 mutations in 15 LAS from patients with known exposure to VC (median exposure: 8,260 ppm [range 3,900- 21,000 ppm]]. In all cases, other risk factors for the development of LAS were excluded. Direct DNA sequencing after microdissection of the tumor cells was used for the analysis. Heterozygous mutations of K-ras-2 were detected in 8/15 LAS (53%). Five patients (33%) had a mutation of codon 12 and three of codon 13 (20%). The most common changes were G-->A transitions in five LAS which lead to the substitution of aspartic acid for glycine in the resulting p21 protein. In two patients (13%), mutations of the K-ras-2 gene were identified in the adjacent nonneoplastic liver tissue. These data indicate that VC induces a high frequency of G-->A transitions in human LAS. This mutation pattern is likely a consequence of VC-DNA-adduct formation.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a psychostimulant that induces excessive release of dopamine (DA) in the striatum. In this study we have assessed the role of DA D1 and D2 receptors (D1R and D2R) on striatal METH-induced apoptosis and depletion of DA-terminal markers. Male mice were given one i.p. injection of METH (30 mg/kg). Apoptosis was assessed at 24 h, and DA-terminal marker depletion 3 days, after METH. A single toxic dose of METH induced apoptosis in approximately 10-13% of striatal neurons. This was completely prevented by pretreatment (30 min before METH) with either the D1R antagonist SCH-23390 (0.1 mg/kg) or the D2R antagonist raclopride (1 mg/kg). The same dose of METH induced depletion of DA transporter sites up to 61, 56, 71, and 69% in dorsal-medial, ventral-medial, dorsal-lateral, and ventral-lateral striatum, respectively, relative to vehicle-injected controls. Similarly, METH induced depletion of TH protein levels up to 80, 72, 87, and 90% in those respective quadrants. METH induced the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein throughout the striatum. All these neurochemical changes were significantly attenuated by pretreatment with SCH-23390 (0.1 mg/kg) or raclopride (1 mg/kg). However, pretreatment with either raclopride or SCH-23390 did not prevent METH-induced hyperthermia in mice. These data demonstrate that the induction by METH of both striatal apoptosis and DA-terminal damage requires the activity of the postsynaptic DA receptors in the mouse brain. Moreover, since blockade of either receptor subtype protected from METH, the activity of both DA receptor subtypes is required for the induction of toxicity by METH in the striatum.
Cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of hippocampus was assessed using in vivo labeling with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) in adult rats that were administered cocaine (20 mg/kg) for 14 consecutive days. Rats showed increased stereotypy at a challenge dose of cocaine after 1 week of withdrawal, suggesting the acquisition of behavioral sensitization. Twenty-four hours after final injection of repetitive cocaine administration, a 26% decrease in BrdU-positive cells was observed, compared with control rats. However, this returned to control level within 1 week. No differences were observed in rats that received a single injection of cocaine. Differentiation of newly formed cells was not influenced. These data imply that the regulation of hippocampal cell proliferation by cocaine may be involved in the development of certain symptoms of addiction, such as cognitive impairment and acquisition of behavioral sensitization.
We describe the case of a 36 year old patient who was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for an acute asthma attack that failed to respond to conventional treatment and required mechanical ventilation. The patient's condition improved after halothane was administered; treatment with this inhalational anaesthetic lasted 7 h, and the beneficial effect was obtained by employing concentrations between 0.5 and 2%. Under constant mechanical ventilator settings, a highly significant linear correlation between peak airway pressure and arterial pCO(2)(r: 0.98 P<0.001) was observed. The decrease in p(a)CO(2)induced by halothane may be explained by the diminished dead space that results from the drop in peak airway pressure. Arterial hypotension, which improved with inotropic agents, was the only complication that seemed related to the inhaled anaesthetic. The patient was extubated 24 h after her arrival to the ICU and discharged 72 h later. A causal relationship between the administration of halothane and clinical improvement is suggested.
Fulminant hepatitis is a rare but potentially fatal adverse reaction that may occur after the use of disulfiram. A patient without a known history of liver disease was transplanted for fulminant hepatic failure secondary to disulfiram. A high index of suspicion and aggressive therapeutic approaches are essential for the prompt diagnosis and treatment of disulfiram-induced hepatic failure. The clinical presentation, histopathology, treatment, and all cases of disulfiram-induced hepatic failure reported in the English literature are reviewed. The role of orthotopic liver transplantation in a case of disulfiram-induced hepatic failure is discussed.
A patient with Ewing's sarcoma and demyelinating type Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) developed severe neuropathy after receiving a total vincristine dose of 6 mg. Recovery was slow and incomplete. A second patient with axonal type CMT developed moderate neuropathy but tolerated extended vincristine administration and recovered quickly. Possible underlying neuropathy should be excluded before vincristine treatment is begun by careful examination including inspection of the feet, followed by electrophysiologic studies as indicated. In demyelinating CMT, vincristine should be avoided; in axonal form cautious use may be considered.
The effects of atropine and methotrimeprazine on epinephrine-induced ventricular arrhythmias were evaluated in halothane-anesthetized dogs. Ten mixed-breed dogs were assigned to 3 treatments (saline, atropine, and methotrimeprazine) in a randomized complete block design. Anesthesia was induced and maintained with halothane (1.5 minimum alveolar concentration) in oxygen. Controlled ventilation was used throughout to maintain eucapnia. Saline, atropine (0.05 mg/kg, i.v.) or methotrimeprazine (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.) were administered and, 5 minutes later the arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine (ADE) was measured by i.v. infusion of progressively increasing infusion rates of epinephrine, until the ventricular arrhythmia criterion was met (at least 4 ectopic ventricular contractions (EVCs) during a 15-second period). Data were analyzed using a student's t-test for ADE values and multivariate profile analysis for heart rate (HR), arterial blood pressure (ABP), and rate pressure product (RPP). The ADE increased in atropine- and methotrimeprazine-treated groups, whereas 1 and 4 animals from these groups did not develop any ventricular arrhythmia, respectively. Epinephrine induced multiform premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) in the atropine group, whereas ventricular escape beats were observed in the control and methotrimeprazine groups. Heart rate and RPP decreased, and ABP increased at the time of ADE observation in the control group. Epinephrine infusion in the atropine group caused marked increases in HR, ABP, and RPP, which were associated with pulsus alternans in 2 animals. It was concluded that 1) the presence of cholinergic blockade influences the type of ventricular arrhythmia induced by epinephrine; 2) increased ADE values recorded following atropine administration must be cautiously interpreted, since in this situation the PVCs were associated with signs of increased myocardial work and ventricular failure; and 3) the use of a broader arrhythmia criterion (EVCs instead of PVCs) may not allow a direct comparison between ADE values, since it includes ventricular arrhythmias mediated by different mechanisms.
Although one of the histamine-2 (H2) receptor antagonists, oxmetidine, has been shown to be intrinsically hepatotoxic, overt liver injury attributable to the commonly used analogues such as ranitidine is rare, given the millions of patients who have received this medication. However, isolated cases of hepatitis associated with ranitidine have been reported in the literature since the early 1980s when this drug was first introduced. We report a case of cholestatic hepatitis associated with ranitidine use. Liver biopsy showed diffuse panacinar canalicular cholestasis and cholestatic rosettes in zone 3. The clinical syndrome and the laboratory abnormalities resolved completely after discontinuation of the drug. There have been a few other published reports of ranitidine associated acute cholestatic hepatitis, and in this case ranitidine was temporally related to the onset of symptoms and liver enzyme abnormalities. With recent over-the-counter (OTC) availability of the H2 receptor antagonists and the increasing use of these drugs in the general population, physicians need to be aware of this rare but potentially serious side effect of ranitidine.
Male Munich-Wistar rats were subjected to 1 2/3 nephrectomy. One group received no therapy (C). A second group received daily doses of methylprednisolone (MP). A third group received MP plus the angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitor (CEI) benzazepril. A fourth group received CEI alone. Half of the rats in each group underwent micropuncture study 2 weeks after ablation. Untreated rats exhibited systemic hypertension and elevation of the single nephron glomerular filtration rate (SNGFR), due to glomerular capillary hyperperfusion and hypertension. Administration of MP resulted in comparable systemic hypertension with further elevation of SNGFR due to even higher values for glomerular perfusion and hydraulic pressure (PGC). Concurrent treatment with CEI-controlled systemic and glomerular hypertension despite equivalent renal ablation and comparable doses of MP. After 12 weeks untreated rats demonstrated continued systemic hypertension, progressive proteinuria, and eventual glomerular sclerosis. Addition of MP dramatically accelerated the development of proteinuria and glomerular sclerosis, while CEI afforded striking protection against disease progression. Thus, potent vasodilator glucocorticoids may amplify hemodynamically mediated glomerular injury, whereas control of systemic and glomerular hypertension prevents this undesirable consequence of chronic steroid therapy.
H1-antihistamines induce vacuolation in vascular smooth muscle cells, which may contribute to their cardiovascular toxicity. The CNS toxicity of H1-antihistamines may also be related to their non-receptor-mediated activity. The aim of this study was to investigate whether H1-antihistamines induce vacuolation in astrocytes and the mechanism involved. The H1-antihistamines induced large numbers of giant vacuoles in astrocytes. Such vacuoles were marked with both the lysosome marker Lysotracker Red and the alkalescent fluorescence dye monodansylcadaverine, which indicated that these vacuoles were lysosome-like acidic vesicles. Quantitative analysis of monodansylcadaverine fluorescence showed that the effect of H1-antihistamines on vacuolation in astrocytes was dose-dependent, and was alleviated by extracellular acidification, but aggravated by extracellular alkalization. The order of potency to induce vacuolation at high concentrations of H1-antihistamines (diphenhydramine>pyrilamine>astemizole>triprolidine) corresponded to their pKa ranking. Co-treatment with histamine and the histamine receptor-1 agonist trifluoromethyl toluidide did not inhibit the vacuolation. Bafilomycin A1, a vacuolar (V)-ATPase inhibitor, which inhibits intracellular vacuole or vesicle acidification, clearly reversed the vacuolation and intracellular accumulation of diphenhydramine. The macroautophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine largely reversed the percentage of LC3-positive astrocytes induced by diphenhydramine, while only partly reversing the number of monodansylcadaverine-labeled vesicles. In Atg5⁻/⁻ mouse embryonic fibroblasts, which cannot form autophagosomes, the number of vacuoles induced by diphenhydramine was less than that in wild-type cells. These results indicated that H1-antihistamines induce V-ATPase-dependent acidic vacuole formation in astrocytes, and this is partly mediated by macroautophagy. The pKa and alkalescent characteristic of H1-antihistamines may be the major determinants of vacuolation, which may contribute to their CNS toxicity.
Between January and December 1985, 17 children with advanced neuroblastoma who were greater than 1 year old (16 stage IV, one stage III) were administered cisplatin (CPDD, 200 mg/m2) and etoposide (VP-16, 500 mg/m2) as a pilot study of toxicity and response rates for the European Neuroblastoma Study Group (ENSG). The study was designed to assess toxicity of two courses of treatment, and evaluate response rates after this short therapy. The creatinine clearance declined in seven of 15 patients. No patient experienced clinically significant hearing loss, but formal audiometric assessment of nine children revealed characteristic high tone loss in seven patients. Peripheral neuropathy was not seen. Asymptomatic hypomagnesemia (less than 0.7 microEq/L) was frequent, despite routine supplementation. Asymptomatic electrolyte imbalances occurred frequently, but were generally transient. Myelosuppression was severe, but brief. Seven patients required platelet transfusions and seven were readmitted between courses due to febrile episodes while neutropenic. There were no treatment-related deaths. According to strictly defined criteria, 12 of 17 patients showed a partial response (PR), and extensive marrow evaluation showed complete clearing of disease in six of 15 patients. This high-dose regimen, if carefully supervised, is associated with acceptable toxicity, comparable to that seen when the dose of CPDD is spread over several months. The rapidity and degree of response was encouraging and merits further evaluation.
The study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of paclitaxel in metastatic breast cancer patients. The design was motivated by a report from FDA and NCI staff proposing assessment of pre- and post-treatment symptoms as a means of evaluating treatment effectiveness [1].
Patients with symptomatic and/or measurable metastatic breast cancer with prior treatment received paclitaxel 210 mg/m2 as a 3 hour infusion every three weeks until toxicity or progression. A unique endpoint was subjective symptomatic response, defined as an improvement in the Symptom Distress Scale score by > or = 3 points at two successive evaluations before treatment failure. Patients were also evaluated for objective response and toxicity.
Of 135 patients registered, 123 were eligible and treated. The subjective symptomatic response rate for 93 symptomatic patients who completed forms was 40%, 95% confidence interval 29-51%. The objective response rate in 77 patients with measurable disease was 19%, 95% confidence interval 11-30%. In patients with both measurable and symptomatic disease, 37% had symptomatic and 13% had objective responses. Median times to treatment failure and death were 4 and 11 months, respectively. Toxicity was greater than anticipated: 12% discontinued treatment due to toxicity, 29% developed at least one Grade 3 neuromuscular toxicity, and two patients died of sepsis while neutropenic.
Paclitaxel by 3 hour infusion at a dose of 210 mg/m2 produced excessive neurotoxicity in patients with previously treated metastatic breast cancer. Both sustained subjective symptom reduction and objective responses were demonstrated, but dose reduction for routine practice is recommended.
The mRNA differential display technique was used to compare mRNAs between normal mammary gland and tumor-derived epithelial cells from female Sprague-Dawley rat mammary gland tumors induced by the heterocyclic amine 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) and promoted by a high-fat diet (23.5% corn oil). Two genes, beta-casein and transferrin, were identified as differentially expressed. The expression of these genes was examined across a bank of rat mammary gland tumors derived from animals on a low-fat diet (5% corn oil) or the high-fat diet. Carcinomas had over a 10- and 50-fold lower expression of beta-casein and transferrin, respectively, than normal mammary gland. In addition, carcinomas from animals on the high-fat diet showed on average a 5-fold higher expression of beta-casein and transferrin than carcinomas from animals on the low-fat diet. The results indicate the process of mammary gland tumorigenesis alters the expression of certain genes in the mammary gland, and that the level of dietary fat further modulates the expression of these genes.
1. Ototoxicity is a common and troublesome side-effect of high-dose aspirin treatment but there has been little previous study of the relationships between the degree of ototoxicity and the plasma concentrations of salicylate. 2. In order to investigate the relationships between aspirin dose, total and unbound plasma salicylate concentrations and ototoxicity, eight normal volunteers were dosed with aspirin 1.95, 3.25, 4.55 and 5.85 g day-1 for 1 week at each dose level, the doses being administered in random order and double-blind, 2 weeks apart. 3. Ototoxic effects measured were hearing loss in decibels (dB) over six frequencies and tinnitus intensity, estimated both by electronic matching and a fixed interval scale (FIS). Measurements were taken after steady-state concentrations of salicylate had been achieved. 4. Total and unbound plasma salicylate concentrations increased disproportionately with increasing daily doses of aspirin. The increase in the unbound salicylate was relatively greater since the percentage of salicylate unbound in plasma increased over the dose range investigated from a mean of 3.9% to 10.4%. 5. Hearing loss and tinnitus intensity increased progressively with the aspirin dosage and increasing concentrations of total and unbound plasma salicylate concentrations. These ototoxic symptoms were observed at lower concentrations of total salicylate than previously reported. 6. There was a linear relationship between hearing loss and unbound salicylate concentrations. 7. Further work is required to test the hypothesis that unbound plasma salicylate concentration is a better predictor of salicylate-induced ototoxicity than total plasma salicylate concentration.
An analysis of 41 trials of angina of all varieties confirms that calcium antagonists are an important advance and are now established therapy for these syndromes. In effort angina, verapamil in a dose of 360-480 mg daily is better than propranolol in standard doses. Although nifedipine is highly effective against vasospastic angina, its use in threatened myocardial infarction or severe unstable angina is not supported by recent studies, unless combined with a beta-blocker. Diltiazem has recently been tested with apparent benefit in non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. Otherwise, these calcium antagonist agents all seem to have approximate equipotency in clinical ischemic syndromes including effort and vasospastic angina. Subjective side effects seem most troublesome in the case of nifedipine. All three calcium antagonists, especially nifedipine, have been successfully combined with beta-blocker therapy, yet occasional additive negative inotropic or chronotropic or dromotropic interactions may occur when verapamil or diltiazem is added to beta-blockade, and occasionally the direct negative inotropic potential of nifedipine may become evident. The choice between the calcium antagonists is determined not only by the clinical picture but also by the anticipated side effects in a given patient and by the overall cardiovascular status. In patients with supraventricular tachycardias or sinus tachycardia, verapamil or diltiazem is preferred, whereas in patients with a resting bradycardia or borderline heart failure nifedipine is likely to be chosen.
We report a case of multiple hepatic adenomas developed in a 32-year-old man with renal allograft after long-term therapy with testosterone enanthate. Histological assessment showed a benign hepatocellular adenoma, which has not regressed over a 6-month follow-up since androgen withdrawal. A review of primary hepatic tumors associated with androgenic-anabolic steroid therapy published in the English literature has been carried out, concentrating on the more relevant recent publications. No previous case of hepatic adenoma with possible relationship to the use of non-17-alpha alkylated compounds has been reported.
A standardized diagnostic evaluation was performed on 200 consecutive patients over age 60 with suspected dementia. Diagnoses were confirmed by consensus and subsequently by follow up. Over 70% had Alzheimer's type dementia; 31% had more than one illness contributing to the dementia state, with overlap between the two groups. The most common so-called "treatable" illnesses were drug toxicity, hypothyroidism, and other metabolic diseases; 248 other medical diseases were recognized in 124 patients. Improvement occurred in 55 patients (27.5%) and persisted in 28 (14%) for at least a year during follow up, but only 2 patients recovered normal mental function. Our results emphasize the importance of recognizing and treating the multiple illnesses that contribute to dementia in elderly adults. The distribution of illnesses in demented elderly outpatients is different from that reported in younger patients with dementia. Diagnostic strategies and expectations need to be based on data obtained from studies of elderly patients with suspected dementia.
The systemic and renal hemodynamic effects of diltiazem were determined in patients with mild to moderately severe essential hypertension and in rats with spontaneous hypertension (SHR). Seven patients were treated for one full year (300 mg/day, average dose) and 10 SHR and 10 normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats received 1 and 2 mg/kg, intravenously. In both man and rat with genetic hypertension, arterial pressure was reduced through a fall in total peripheral resistance without associated reflexive increases in heart rate and cardiac index; and the patients demonstrated no change in plasma volume. In both man and the SHR: renal blood flow increased (in SHR not statistically significant) as arterial pressure and renal vascular resistance fell; glomerular filtration rate (GFR) remained unchanged and the filtration fraction (FF) significantly fell; and calculated intrarenal hemodynamic indices (using the Gomez formulae) demonstrated falls in afferent and efferent glomerular arteriolar pressures and resistances and in intraglomerular pressures, thereby explaining the unchanged GFRs and the decline in FF. These findings in both hypertensive man and rat are in contrast with those of the normotensive WKY that only demonstrated a fall in afferent glomerular arteriolar resistance. Thus, these data demonstrate that diltiazem controlled arterial pressure in both forms of genetic hypertension associated with falls in systemic and renal arteriolar resistances and with improved intrarenal hemodynamics without glomerular hyperfiltration.
To evaluate the comparative efficacy and safety of oral almotriptan in treating acute migraine attacks.
Almotriptan is an oral selective sertonin(1B/1D) receptor agonist (triptan) with a high bioavailability and short half-life, developed for the treatment of migraine. In recent years, a number of randomized controlled trials have been published examining the efficacy and safety of almotriptan in the acute treatment of migraine.
Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) using a random-effects model to estimate the pooled rate ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) for the proportions of patients achieving headache relief and pain-free responses at 1 or 2 hours post-dose, sustained pain-free response at 2-24 hours post-dose, and safety outcomes (proportions of patients experiencing any adverse events, dizziness, somnolence, asthenia, and chest tightness) comparing almotriptan against placebo, other triptans, and different dosages of almotriptan. Absolute rate differences (ARDs) for 2-hour headache relief, pain free, and sustained pain free responses between almotriptan and placebo were also calculated.
Eight RCTs involving 4995 patients were included in the analysis. Almotriptan 12.5 mg was significantly more effective than placebo for all efficacy outcomes (RRs ranged from 1.47 to 2.15; ARDs ranged from 0.01 to 0.28) and there were no significant differences in any of the safety outcomes. There were also no significant differences in efficacy outcomes comparing almotriptan 12.5 mg against sumatriptan 100 mg and zolmitriptan 2.5 mg, but almotriptan 12.5 mg was associated with significantly fewer adverse events than sumatriptan 100 mg (RR: 0.39, 95%CI: 0.23, 0.67). However, there was no significant difference between almotriptan and sumatriptan in terms of clinically important adverse effects, such as dizziness, somnolence, asthenia, and chest tightness. Almotriptan 12.5 mg was significantly less effective than almotriptan 25 mg for 1-hour pain-free response (RR: 0.45, 95%CI: 0.21, 0.95), but associated with significantly fewer patients experiencing adverse events (RR: 0.61, 95%CI: 0.41, 0.91) than almotriptan 25 mg.
Almotriptan 12.5 mg is an effective treatment for acute attacks of migraine, in particular, it has been found to be as effective as sumatriptan 100 mg and zolmitriptan 2.5 mg. The risk of adverse events associated with almotriptan 12.5 mg was similar to placebo and significantly lower than sumatriptan 100 mg. Further research is required to assess the comparative efficacy of almotriptan against other triptans.
Preclinical and clinical studies have emphasized that persistent small afferent input will induce a state of central facilitation that can be attenuated by systemically administered nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. However, these studies have been performed using cutaneous models of hyperalgesia. In this study we evaluated the effects of IV ketorolac on an experimental model of deep tissue hyperalgesia using IM capsaicin. We used a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design. Ten subjects received 60 mg of ketorolac or placebo in 2 sessions separated by 1 wk. Capsaicin (100 microg in 10 microL) was then injected into the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle of the left forearm. After injection, spontaneous pain scores, pressure pain scores, gripping pain, pain distribution, and pain quality were recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25 min. Cutaneous allodynia and dysesthesia were then mapped and thermal and mechanical thresholds were measured. The IM injection of capsaicin resulted in a reliable report of pain, hyperalgesia, and referred pain. Ketorolac had no effect on spontaneous pain, elicited pain, pain distribution, or secondary hyperalgesia induced by capsaicin. The findings of this study support the feasibility of further pharmacological studies using the IM capsaicin pain model.
In gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD), the majority of patients are endoscopy negative. However, symptoms can affect the quality of life irrespective of the presence of oesophagitis. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are far more effective than H2 receptor antagonists (H2RAs) or prokinetics with regard to the speed of symptom relief. Despite this undisputed progress, there is some conflict on whether symptoms should be managed until full resolution in endoscopy-negative patients or in those with mild oesophagitis. Considering that GORD is not a life-threatening condition, some authorities admit that patients should accept minimal residual symptoms. They argue that PPIs are expensive while healthcare resources are limited, and that long-term safety of PPIs has not been completely established. Moreover, they underline that many patients do not seek medical help and are satisfied with self-medication (with antacids/alginates or even over-the-counter H2RAs). On the other hand, some clinicians prefer a full resolution of symptom strategy because this is now achievable with modern PPIs without serious concerns in terms of tolerance and safety. Indeed, quality of life is rapidly restored by PPIs. Moreover, symptom relief by PPIs is highly predictive of healing, making endoscopic control unnecessary at least for mild/moderate oesophagitis. Finally, there is also some controversy over whether we should start treatment with PPIs or use less potent drugs as first-line therapy. If one considers not only the direct cost of drugs, but also the indirect ones (e.g. sick leave days), it is reasonable to think that PPIs may be more cost-effective than H2RAs or prokinetics, at least when the disease is of moderate or severe intensity. In conclusion, with modern PPIs like lansoprazole, rapid and full resolution of symptoms is now achievable in the large majority of patients.
Nephrotic syndrome is often accompanied by sodium retention and generalized edema. However, the molecular basis for the decreased renal sodium excretion remains undefined. We hypothesized that epithelial Na channel (ENaC) subunit dysregulation may be responsible for the increased sodium retention. An experimental group of rats was treated with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN; 180 mg/kg iv), whereas the control group received only vehicle. After 7 days, PAN treatment induced significant proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia, decreased urinary sodium excretion, and extensive ascites. The protein abundance of alpha-ENaC and beta-ENaC was increased in the inner stripe of the outer medulla (ISOM) and in the inner medulla (IM) but was not altered in the cortex. gamma-ENaC abundance was increased in the cortex, ISOM, and IM. Immunoperoxidase brightfield- and laser-scanning confocal fluorescence microscopy demonstrated increased targeting of alpha-ENaC, beta-ENaC, and gamma-ENaC subunits to the apical plasma membrane in the distal convoluted tubule (DCT2), connecting tubule, and cortical and medullary collecting duct segments. Immunoelectron microscopy further revealed an increased labeling of alpha-ENaC in the apical plasma membrane of cortical collecting duct principal cells of PAN-treated rats, indicating enhanced apical targeting of alpha-ENaC subunits. In contrast, the protein abundances of Na(+)/H(+) exchanger type 3 (NHE3), Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter (BSC-1), and thiazide-sensitive Na(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter (TSC) were decreased. Moreover, the abundance of the alpha(1)-subunit of the Na-K-ATPase was decreased in the cortex and ISOM, but it remained unchanged in the IM. In conclusion, the increased or sustained expression of ENaC subunits combined with increased apical targeting in the DCT2, connecting tubule, and collecting duct are likely to play a role in the sodium retention associated with PAN-induced nephrotic syndrome. The decreased abundance of NHE3, BSC-1, TSC, and Na-K-ATPase may play a compensatory role to promote sodium excretion.
Severe hemorrhage leads to decreased blood flow to tissues resulting in decreased oxygen and nutrient availability affecting mitochondrial function. A mitoscriptome profiling study demonstrated alteration in several genes related to mitochondria, consistent with the mitochondrial functional decline observed after trauma hemorrhage (T-H). Our experiments led to the identification of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) as a potential target in T-H. Administration of resveratrol (a naturally occurring polyphenol and activator of SIRT1) after T-H improved left ventricular function and tissue ATP levels. Our hypothesis was that mitochondrial function after T-H depends on SIRT1 activity. In this study, we evaluated the activity of SIRT1, a mitochondrial functional modulator, and the mitochondrial-glycolytic balance after T-H. We determined the changes in protein levels of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase (PDK)-1 and nuclear c-Myc, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator (PGC)-1α and NF-E2-related factor (NRF)2 after T-H and after treatment with resveratrol or a combination of sirtinol (a SIRT1 inhibitor) and resveratrol. We have also tested the activity of mitochondrial complex 1. SIRT1 enzyme activity was significantly decreased after T-H, whereas resveratrol treatment restored the activity. We found elevated PDK1 and c-Myc levels and decreased PGC-1α, NRF2 and mitochondrial complex I activity after T-H. The reduced SIRT1 activity after T-H may be related to declining mitochondrial function, since resveratrol was able to reinstate SIRT1 activity and mitochondrial function. The elevated level of PDK1 (an inhibitor of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex) after T-H indicates a possible shift in cellular energetics from mitochondria to glycolysis. In conclusion, SIRT1 modulation alters left ventricular function after T-H through regulation of cellular energetics.
To establish the association between genetic polymorphisms of HLA-DMA and HLA-DMB and risk of developing trichloroethylene-induced medicamentosa-like dermatitis (TIMLD).
Sixty-one cases were medically confirmed to have been affected with TIMLD and 60 controls were selected from exposed workers who were free from TIMLD. The TIMLD cases and controls were similar in terms of age, sex, and duration of exposure. DNA was extracted both from the TIMLD cases and controls, HLA-DMA and HLA-DMB loci were amplified by using Touchdown PCR, and the alleles and genotypes were confirmed by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and direct sequencing. Finally, the frequencies of HLA-DMA and HLA-DMB variants were compared between the two groups.
The results showed that the frequency of HLA-DMA*0101 and HLA-DMB*0103 alleles was significantly increased in TIMLD patients than in controls (71.3% vs. 55.0% for HLA-DMA*0101; P<0.05) (11.5% vs. 3.3% for HLA-DMB*0103; P<0.05). In addition, the frequency of HLA-DMA*0102-*0102 homozygous genotype was also significantly higher in the controls than in the patients (25.0% vs. 8.2%, P<0.05), whereas the frequency of heterozygous HLA-DMB *0101-*0102 genotype was lower in the patients in comparison with the controls. Conclusion The polymorphisms of HLA-DM may be associated with the susceptibility to TIMLD.
A 51 year old man developed Herpes zoster on the right arm (C5/C6) treated subsequently with aciclovir infusions (500 mg, 3/day). Ten months before hospital admission he did have a radical resection of a epi-oro-hypopharyngeal carcinoma (T4/N1/G2, M0; lymphangiosis carcinomatosa) as well as a partial laryngeal resection for a recurrence 3 months later and removal of a cervical lymph node metastasis after two further months. During aciclovir treatment the patient experienced repeated bradycardia with hypotension verifiable with the tilt-table test. The bradycardias could not be further characterized by ECC. Neither sonography nor CT-scans gave an indication for infiltration of the cervical course of the vagus or glossopharyngeal nerves. Serum catecholamines were, however, markedly reduced. After cessation of aciclovir the bradycardias and hypotensive episodes disappeared. A final tilt-table test was unremarkable. A reversible autonomic neuropathy induced by aciclovir seems a possible explanation.
Three female patients with cholestatic jaundice related to methimazole therapy are presented. The jaundice appeared after more or less 30 days of therapy. Markers for hepatitis A and B were negative in all. None of them had previous history of alcoholism or ingestion of potentially hepatotoxic drugs. Characteristically there was a marked elevation of alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase with only moderate increase of the aminotransferases. Liver biopsy performed in all showed intensive cholestasis with low degree of inflammatory reaction confined to the portal tracts. The three patients presented a prolonged duration of the liver injury in spite of the interruption of the drug lasting in one of them up to one year, but all ultimately resolved.
Pharmacokinetics and therapeutic effects of oltipraz were evaluated after consecutive (once per day at 30 mg/kg/day for 7 and 14 days) or intermittent (once per week at 100 mg/kg/week for 1-3 weeks) oral administration to rats with liver cirrhosis induced by dimethylnitrosamine. The AUC of oltipraz was significantly greater in cirrhotic rats than controls (890 compared with 270 microg . min/mL) due to impaired liver function in cirrhotic rats. However, the AUC values after consecutive 7 (421 compared with 753 microg . min/mL) and 14 (309 compared with 821 microg . min/mL) days oral administration of oltipraz in cirrhotic rats were significantly smaller than those in respective vehicle-treated cirrhotic rats. Moreover, the AUC values after intermittent 2 and 3 weeks in cirrhotic rats were also significantly smaller than that in 1 week vehicle-treated cirrhotic rats (2370 and 1690 compared with 4760 microg . min/mL). This could be due to induction of CYP isozymes and considerably greater numbers of normal liver cells in cirrhotic rats by oral administration of oltipraz. Improved liver function by oltipraz in cirrhotic rats was proved by liver microscopy; livers are free of significant fibrosis, although evidence of bridging necrosis is still present in many rats.
Therapy of seizure activity following exposure to the nerve agent soman (GD) includes treatment with the anticonvulsant diazepam (DZP), an allosteric modulator of γ-aminobutyric acid A (GABA(A)) receptors. However, seizure activity itself causes the endocytosis of GABA(A) receptors and diminishes the inhibitory effects of GABA, thereby reducing the efficacy of DZP. Treatment with an N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist prevents this reduction in GABAergic inhibition. We examined the efficacy of the NMDA receptor antagonist caramiphen edisylate (CED; 20mg/kg, im) and DZP (10mg/kg, sc), administered both separately and in combination, at 10, 20 or 30min following seizure onset for attenuation of the deleterious effects associated with GD exposure (1.2 LD(50); 132μg/kg, sc) in rats. Outcomes evaluated were seizure duration, neuropathology, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, body weight, and temperature. We also examined the use of the reversible AChE inhibitor physostigmine (PHY; 0.2mg/kg, im) as a therapy for GD exposure. We found that the combination of CED and DZP yielded a synergistic effect, shortening seizure durations and reducing neuropathology compared to DZP alone, when treatment was delayed 20-30min after seizure onset. PHY reduced the number of animals that developed seizures, protected a fraction of AChE from GD inhibition, and attenuated post-exposure body weight and temperature loss independent of CED and/or DZP treatment. We conclude that: 1) CED and DZP treatment offers considerable protection against the effects of GD and 2) PHY is a potential therapeutic option following GD exposure, albeit with a limited window of opportunity.
