Heavy male Sprague-Dawley rats die of ventricular fibrillation within 2 to 3 h after isoproterenol administration. Thus, the isoproteronol-treated heavy rat would be a useful model for screening drugs that may prevent sudden cardiac death. Isoproterenol (1 mg/kg s.c.) caused ventricular fibrillation in 79% of 121 vehicle-pretreated heavy rats (greater than 500 g); 82% of the fibrillating rats died, but the remaining 18% spontaneously reverted and survived. A protecting agent should increase the number of survivors by reducing the incidence of ventricular fibrillation and/or by increasing the incidence of spontaneous reversions. Pretreatment (i.p.) with quinidine (40 mg/kg), procainamide (40 mg/kg), phenytoin (40 mg/kg), clofilium (5 mg/kg), verapamil (10 mg/kg), or propranolol (10 mg/kg) reduced the incidence of isoproterenol-induced ventricular fibrillation and death; bretylium (10 mg/kg) and nicotinic acid (100 mg/kg) had no effect. A lower dose of propranolol (2.5 mg/kg) or clofilium (1.5 mg/kg) but not quinidine (10 mg/kg), procainamide (10 mg/kg), or phenytoin (10 mg/kg) also reduced the incidence of ventricular fibrillation. Only clofilium tended to increase the incidence of spontaneous reversions.
Octreotide treatment may be associated with gall stone development in up to 50% of patients with acromegaly. Two new sustained-release formulations of somatostatin analogue have been recently developed: lanreotide SR (Somatuline) and octreotide LAR (Sandostatin LAR). The incidence of gall-stone development in patients receiving these drugs has been shown to be less than 20%, but the duration of follow-up has been limited.
Prospectively to assess and compare the effects of the two new long-acting somatostatin agonists on gall bladder motility in patients with acromegaly.
Eleven patients with active acromegaly were studied. Three patients had asymptomatic gall stones at the start of the study. Ultrasound scans were performed before commencement of the treatment, and repeated during treatment with lanreotide SR and octreotide LAR. The presence of gall stones, fasting gall bladder volume (FV), residual volume (RV) and maximal percentage gall bladder emptying were measured.
One patient developed asymptomatic small gall stones after treatment with octreotide LAR for 4 months. FV and RV were both significantly larger when patients received treatment with lanreotide SR or octreotide LAR compared with pretreatment values (P<0.05 for both). Maximal percentage gall bladder emptying was significantly reduced in patients receiving lanreotide SR or octreotide LAR compared with pretreatment (P<0.01), but was less impaired in patients receiving lanreotide SR than in those receiving octreotide LAR (P<0.01).
Gall bladder motility is impaired in patients receiving either of these new long-acting preparations, and long-term follow-up will be needed to establish the true incidence of gall stones.
Many forms of hypertension are associated with increased oxidative stress. This study investigated the effects of Tempol, a superoxide scavenger, on prevention and reversal of hypertension induced by the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (Dex) in the rat.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 10 in each group) were treated with saline or Dex (10 microg/kg/day subcutaneously) for 13 days. Tempol (1 mmol/L) was given in drinking water from 4 days before treatment (prevention) or from treatment day 8 (T8) (reversal). Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured by the tail-cuff method. Plasma F(2)-isoprostane concentrations were measured as a highly specific marker of oxidative stress. Thymus weight was measured as a marker of glucocorticoid activity.
Dex treatment increased SBP (122 +/- 5 to 136 +/- 3 mm Hg, P <.05) and plasma F(2)-isoprostane concentrations (P =.005). Tempol alone did not alter SBP, but Tempol pretreatment prevented Dex-induced hypertension compared with that in rats treated with Dex alone (128 +/- 4 and 144 +/- 7 mm Hg respectively, P' <.05). Tempol partially reversed Dex-induced hypertension (122 +/- 5 and 136 +/- 3 mm Hg, respectively, P' =.057). Thymus weight was decreased in Dex-treated rats compared with saline treated rats (157 +/- 10 saline and 105 +/- 6 mg/100 g body weight Dex, P <.0005). Tempol affect neither thymus weight nor F(2)-isoprostane concentrations.
Chronic Dex treatment increased SBP and tended to increase oxidative stress shown as increased plasma F(2)-isoprostane concentrations. Tempol prevented and partially reversed Dex-induced hypertension, independent of improvement in systemic oxidative stress measured by F(2)-isoprostane concentrations.
This study set out to document the early electrophysiological and immunohistochemical changes that occur in the retina of experimentally induced diabetic rats.
Diabetes was induced in rats by intraperitoneal injection of 60 mg/kg of streptozotocin (STZ). Electroretinogram readings were taken monthly under either short-duration or long-duration stimuli for up to 3 months after STZ. Oscillatory potentials (OP) and the amplitudes and implicit times of a- and b-waves were analysed, and b-wave amplitudes were analysed using a Naka-Rushton fit. Scotopic a-waves were analysed with photoreceptor models, and Rmp3 (the maximum a-wave amplitude) and S (sensitivity) were calculated. Three months after STZ injection, immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein was performed on the retinas of the STZ-treated rats and age-matched controls.
The implicit OP times were significantly longer in the diabetic rats as compared with the controls, and this difference was noted as early as 1 month following STZ treatment. Other electrophysiological parameters, such as OP amplitudes, a- and b-wave amplitude as well as the implicit times, did not differ from controls at this stage. The sacrificed STZ-treated rats also demonstrated marked enhancement of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity, suggesting that at least in experimentally induced diabetic retinopathy there is increased Müller cell reactivity.
The results of this study indicated that functional alterations in the retina develop rapidly after the onset of diabetes. Analysis of each electroretinogram component may be useful in further investigating the development mechanisms of diabetic retinopathy.
Nephrolithiasis is a known complication of the use of sulfadiazine in the treatment of cerebral toxoplasmosis. Radiographic diagnosis of this complication has historically been challenging. Between March 1999 and June 2002, 11 patients were treated for cerebral toxoplasmosis with sulfadiazine-containing therapy. Four of these patients (36.4%) developed nephrolithiasis during this period. Case patients had received sulfadiazine for a median of 35.5 days prior to nephrolithiasis. All cases were diagnosed by spiral CT scans. Although studies are needed to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of this modality, spiral CT may aid in the diagnosis of sulfadiazine-induced nephrolithiasis.
Exposure to estrogens is associated with increased risk of breast and other types of human cancer. Estrogens are converted to metabolites, particularly the catechol estrogen-3,4-quinones (CE-3,4-Q), that can react with DNA to form depurinating adducts. These adducts are released from DNA to generate apurinic sites. Error-prone base excision repair of this damage may lead to the mutations that can initiate breast, prostate and other types of cancer. The reaction of CE-3,4-Q with DNA forms the depurinating adducts 4-hydroxyestrone(estradiol) [4-OHE1(E2)-1-N3Ade and 4-OHE1(E2)-1-N7Gua. These two adducts constitute more than 99% of the total DNA adducts formed. Increased levels of these quinones and their reaction with DNA occur when estrogen metabolism is unbalanced. Such an imbalance is the result of overexpression of estrogen activating enzymes and/or deficient expression of the deactivating (protective) enzymes. This unbalanced metabolism has been observed in breast biopsy tissue from women with breast cancer, compared to control women. Recently, the depurinating adduct 4-OHE1(E2)-1-N3Ade has been detected in the urine of prostate cancer patients, but not in urine from healthy men. Mutagenesis by CE-3,4-Q has been approached from two different perspectives: one is mutagenic activity in the lacI reporter gene in Fisher 344 rats and the other is study of the reporter Harvey-ras gene in mouse skin and rat mammary gland. A-->G and G-->A mutations have been observed in the mammary tissue of rats implanted with the CE-3,4-Q precursor, 4-OHE2. Mutations have also been observed in the Harvey-ras gene in mouse skin and rat mammary gland within 6-12 h after treatment with E2-3,4-Q, suggesting that these mutations arise by error-prone base excision repair of the apurinic sites generated by the depurinating adducts. Treatment of MCF-10F cells, which are estrogen receptor-alpha-negative immortalized human breast epithelial cells, with E2, 4-OHE2 or 2-OHE2 induces their neoplastic transformation in vitro, even in the presence of the antiestrogen ICI-182,780. This suggests that transformation is independent of the estrogen receptor. The transformed cells exhibit specific mutations in several genes. Poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas develop when aggressively transformed MCF-10F cells are selected and injected into severe combined immune depressed (SCID) mice. These results represent the first in vitro/in vivo model of estrogen-induced carcinogenesis in human breast epithelial cells. In other studies, the development of mammary tumors in estrogen receptor-alpha knockout mice expressing the Wnt-1 oncogene (ERKO/Wnt-1) provides direct evidence that estrogens may cause breast cancer through a genotoxic, non-estrogen receptor-alpha-mediated mechanism. In summary, this evidence strongly indicates that estrogens can become endogenous tumor initiators when CE-3,4-Q react with DNA to form specific depurinating adducts. Initiated cells may be promoted by a number of processes, including hormone receptor stimulated proliferation. These results lay the groundwork for assessing risk and preventing disease.
Currently much attention has been given to the neurotoxicity of zinc, yet little is known about the influence of the counterions present. Therefore, we investigated the influence of different Zn(2+)-salts (concentrations range 0.05-0.3 mM) on cell viability, ATP and glutathione concentration and caspase activation in differentiated PC12 cells as a model for neuronal cells. Generally, at concentrations of 0.05 mM most Zn(2+)-salts were not cytotoxic except for zinc-citrate. At concentrations between 0.1 and 0.3 mM Zn(2+) a significant decrease in GSH and ATP levels preceded cell death induced by all salts, except of zinc-histidinate. Zinc-citrate and zinc-sulphate turned out to be the most toxic salts particularly at low concentrations. Analyses of caspase 3/7 activity showed that dependent on the concentration and the type of the salt used cell death may show more or less signs of both, necrosis and apoptosis. Interestingly, the uptake of Zn(2+) from zinc-sulphate and zinc-citrate was significantly higher than that of other salts, implicating a correlation between uptake and toxicity. In conclusion, Zn(2+)-salts could be divided into three categories with high (zinc-citrate, zinc-sulphate), moderate (zinc-orotate, zinc-acetate, zinc-chloride(,) zinc-gluconate) and low cytotoxicity (zinc-histidinate).
We investigated the effects of antcin A, antcin C, and methyl antcinate A (MAA) isolated from Antrodia camphorata on the proliferation of human liver cancer cell lines Huh7, HepG2, and Hep3B and the normal cell rat hepatocytes. The three compounds selectively inhibit the proliferation of tumor cells rather than normal cells, with IC(50) values ranging from 30.2 to 286.4 microM. The compound MAA was a more potent cytotoxic agent than antcins A and C with IC(50) values of 52.2, 78.0, and 30.2 microM against HepG2, Hep3B, and Huh7 cells, respectively. To elucidate the molecular mechanism, treatment of Huh7 cells with 100 microM MAA induced an apoptotic cell death, which was characterized by the appearance of sub-G1 population, DNA fragmentation, TUNEL positive cells, and caspase activation. MAA triggered the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway, as indicated by an increase in the protein expression of Bax, Bak, and PUMA, as well as a decrease in Bcl-(XL) and Bcl-2 and disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential and promotion of mitochondrial cytochrome c release, as well as activation of caspases-2, -3, and -9. We also found that pretreatment with inhibitors of caspases-2, -3, and -9 noticeably blocked MAA-triggered apoptosis. Furthermore, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and NADPH oxidase activation were observed in MAA-stimulated Huh7 cells. Mechanistic studies showed that MAA induces mitochondrial translocation of cofilin. When Huh7 cells were treated with cyclosporine A and bongkrekic acid, an inhibitor of the mitochondria permeability transition pore, the levels of cell death induced by MAA were significantly attenuated. Additionally, pretreatment of Huh7 cells with antioxidants ascorbic acid and N-acetyl cysteine markedly attenuated the MAA-induced apoptosis by upregulation of Bax, Bak, and PUMA, mitochondrial translocation of cofilin, activation of caspase-3, and cell death. Taken together, our results provide the first evidence of the activation of the ROS-dependent cofilin- and Bax-triggered mitochondrial pathway as a critical mechanism of MAA-induced cell death in liver cancer cells.
Intravenous injection of opiate agonists produces in the rat a precipitous but transient fall in heart rate. This bradycardia, which may be a vagal chemoreflex, appears to originate from peripheral opiate receptors because the onset is faster after injections of morphine into the peripheral circulation than after central injections. The bradycardia is blocked by i.v. administration of tertiary and quaternary naloxone at doses which are not effective centrally. Tolerance develops to morphine bradycardia after s.c. infusions of morphine sulfate (e.g., 74 nmol/hr/rat s.c. for 2 days elevated the morphine ED50 by 22 times), but not after central infusions of morphine at doses which are sufficient to produce physical dependence and tolerance to morphine analgesia. Subcutaneously infused morphine animals are cross-tolerant to FK33,824 (Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-NMePhe-Met(O)-ol), a potent enkephalin analog, and vice versa, but are not tolerant to serotonin or phenyldiguanide. Vagal bradycardia may be a convenient index for studying the peripheral action of opioid agonists.
The effect of the intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of ACTH 1-24 (1, 5 and 10 micrograms) or the subcutaneous administration of apomorphine (20 and 80 micrograms/kg SC) on spontaneous penile erection and yawning was studied in rats treated with monosodium glutamate (MSG), a treatment that depletes hypothalamic ACTH, alpha-MSH and endorphin-like peptides. Neonatal MSG treatment failed to antagonize either apomorphine- or ACTH-induced yawning in male and female rats, or to alter the number of penile erection episodes induced by the two substances in male rats. In contrast, hypophysectomy, that does not alter the concentration of hypothalamic ACTH and alpha-MSH, caused a marked prevention of apomorphine- and ACTH-induced responses, in agreement with previous studies. The results suggest that the integrity of opiomelanotropinergic neurons in the hypothalamus is not necessary for the induction of yawning and penile erection by ACTH-derived peptides, and that apomorphine and other dopamine agonists apparently do not induce penile erection and yawning by releasing an ACTH-derived peptide in brain.
The cerebro-oculo-facio-skeletal syndrome (COFS syndrome) is an autosomal recessive disorder which was initially described in a specific aboriginal population from Manitoba. In recent years, COFS syndrome has been linked in this original population to a defective DNA repair pathway and to a homozygous mutation in the major gene underlying Cockayne syndrome (CSB). However, most reports of suspected COFS syndrome outside this population have not been confirmed at the molecular level, leading to considerable heterogeneity within the syndrome and confusing overlaps between COFS syndrome and other eye and brain disorders.
To refine the delineation of the syndrome on genetically proven COFS cases.
We report the exhaustive clinical, cellular and molecular data of three unrelated COFS patients with mutations in the CSB gene.
All three patients present the cardinal features of COFS syndrome including extreme microcephaly, congenital cataracts, facial dysmorphism and arthrogryposis. They also exhibit a predominantly postnatal growth failure, a severe psychomotor retardation, with axial hypotonia and peripheral hypertonia and neonatal feeding difficulties. Fibroblasts from the patients show the same DNA repair defect which can be complemented by transfection of the CSB wild-type cDNA. Five new mutations in the CSB gene have been identified in these patients.
Our data indicate that COFS syndrome represents the most severe end of the Cockayne spectrum. New diagnostic criteria for COFS syndrome are proposed, based on our findings and on the few genetically proven COFS cases from the literature.
A 67 year old woman developed acute renal failure with serum potassium 9.4 mmol/l requiring emergency dialysis after seven days of diarrhoea while taking an ACE inhibitor for vascular disease. Review of the literature, the British National Formulary, and the patient information leaflets for each of the 11 ACE inhibitors currently marketed in the UK suggests that this potentially life threatening complication of ACE inhibition is not yet widely recognised.
The distal to proximal degeneration of axons, or "dying back" is a common pattern of neuropathology in many diseases of the PNS and CNS. A long-standing debate has centered on whether this pattern of neurodegeneration is due to an insult to the cell body or to the axon itself, although it is likely that mechanisms are different for specific disease entities. We have addressed this question in a model system of vincristine-induced axonal degeneration. Here, we created a novel experimental apparatus combining a microfluidic divider with a multielectrode array substrate to allow for independent monitoring of injury-induced electrical activity from dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cell bodies and axons while isolating them into their own culture microenvironments. At specified doses, exposure of the cell body to vincristine caused neither morphological neurodegeneration nor persistent hyperexcitability. In comparison, exposure of the distal axon to the same dose of vincristine first caused a decrease in the excitability of the axon and then axonal degeneration in a dying back pattern. Additionally, exposure of axons to vincristine caused an initial period of hyperexcitability in the cell bodies, suggesting that a signal is transmitted from the distal axon to the soma during the progression of vincristine-induced axonal degeneration. These data support the proposition that vincristine has a direct neurotoxic effect on the axon.
The electrophysiologic effects and therapeutic efficacy of intravenous and oral flecainide were studied in 15 patients with spontaneous and inducible sustained paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (SVT). Twelve patients had atrioventricular (AV) reentrance using an accessory pathway for retrograde conduction and 3 had AV nodal reentrance. Fourteen patients received intravenous flecainide (2 mg/kg body weight over 15 minutes) during an initial electrophysiologic study. Nine patients were restudied during oral flecainide administration (200 to 400 mg/day). After intravenous or oral flecainide therapy, reentrant SVT was noninducible in 6 patients with AV reentrance and in the 3 with AV nodal reentrance. In these 9 patients, intravenous flecainide prevented induction of reentrant SVT by depressing conduction over the retrograde limb of the reentry circuits. In the 6 patients with inducible sustained AV reentrant SVT before and after flecainide therapy, the cycle length of tachycardia increased significantly, mainly as the result of an increase in ventriculoatrial conduction time. There was concordance between the intravenous and the oral effects of flecainide on the mechanism of the SVT. Twelve patients continued oral flecainide treatment for a mean of 16 months (range 5 to 28). Tachycardia recurred in 3 of 4 patients whose arrhythmia remained inducible after flecainide therapy and in 1 of 8 patients whose SVT was suppressed. It is concluded that flecainide is an effective and convenient antiarrhythmic agent to treat patients who have AV nodal or AV reentrant SVT.
A multicenter case-control study (588 cases and 1807 controls) was performed to assess the risk of syncope in the elderly according to drug consumption within the three days before syncope, controlling the underlying cardiovascular diseases. Pair-matched and non-pair-matched analyses using logistic regression were performed, providing consistent results. After adjustment for age, sex, and cardiovascular disease, cases were shown to consume more often than non-cases drugs in classes of non-tricyclic antidepressants, neuroleptic drugs, and antiparkinsonians. A detailed analysis has shown that only four drugs were significantly associated with an excess risk of syncope: fluoxetine (OR = 2.6; 95% CI: [1.8-3.5]), aceprometazine (OR = 2.0; [1.5-2.5]), haloperidol (OR = 2.8; [2.0-3.6]), and L-dopa (OR = 2.8; [2.2-3.7]). This analysis shows that these drugs should be prescribed with special caution in the elderly.
Previous studies have indicated that cephaloridine nephrotoxicity was reduced in diabetic rats. This study determined whether the reduction in toxicity was due to streptozotocin or the diabetic state. Male Fischer-344 rats were injected intraperitoneally with 35 mg/kg streptozotocin to induce diabetes. Insulin (5 U/day, subcutaneously) was begun within 72 h and continued for 10 days. Toxicity was quantitated 48 h after injection of cephaloridine (1500 mg/kg, i.p.) in normoglycemic (NC), diabetic (DC) and diabetic animals treated with insulin (DIC). Cephaloridine produced diuresis, glucosuria, proteinuria, elevated kidney weight and decreased renal cortical slice accumulation of organic ions in the NC group. Cephaloridine toxicity was reduced in the DC group since kidney weight, BUN level and renal cortical slice accumulation of organic anions were similar between treated and control animals. Cephaloridine treatment of the DIC group was associated with increased BUN levels, proteinuria and diminished renal cortical slice accumulation of organic cations. These results indicated that the diabetic state, and not streptozotocin, reduced cephaloridine nephrotoxicity.
Female fertility requires normal ovarian follicular growth and ovulation. The nuclear receptor liver receptor homolog 1 has been implicated in processes as diverse as bile acid metabolism, steroidogenesis, and cell proliferation. In the ovary, Lrh1 is expressed exclusively in granulosa and luteal cells. Using somatic targeted mutagenesis, we show that mice lacking Lrh1 in granulosa cells are sterile, due to anovulation. The preovulatory stimulus fails to elicit cumulus expansion, luteinization, and follicular rupture in these mice. Multiple defects, including severely reduced transactivation of the Lrh1 target gene, nitric oxide synthase 3, leads to increased intrafollicular estradiol levels in the absence of Lrh1. This further causes dysfunction of prostaglandin and hyaluronic acid cascades and interrupts cumulus expansion. Lack of Lrh1 also interferes with progesterone synthesis because of failure of normal expression of the Lrh1 targets, steroidogenic acute regulatory protein and cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage. In addition, expression of extracellular matrix proteases essential for ovulation is compromised. These results demonstrate that Lrh1 is a regulator of multiple mechanisms essential for maturation of ovarian follicles and for ovulation. Lrh1 is therefore a key modulator of female fertility and a potential target for contraception.
Patients initiated on fluconazole and levofloxacin should be closely monitored for QTc-interval prolongation. While there have been published reports of fluconazole and levofloxacin causing QTc-interval prolongation when given alone, coadministration of these two agents may further increase this risk. This case describes an episode of TdP in which levofloxacin and fluconazole were likely significant factors. QT prolongation was present at baseline prior to drug initiation (QTc = 454-505 ms) and levofloxacin resulted in further prolongation (QTc = 480-536 ms). After two days of therapy with fluconazole, overlapping with levofloxacin, the patient had an episode of PMVT with syncope, and progressive QT prolongation was evident (QTc = 554 ms). Only mild hypokalemia (potassium concentration = 3.6 meq/L) was present, and not additional etiologies for TdP were identified. Levofloxacin and fluconazole were discontinued and no further PMVT was observed, but the QT interval did not return to normal until after an additional 11 days (QTc = 436 ms). As in many cases of TdP, multiple factors were involved. Renal failure, drug dosing, mild hypokalemia, and a baseline abnormal QT interval potentiated the role of levofloxacin and fluconazole in the development of TdP. We recommend that neither drug be used alone or in combination when there is baseline QT prolongation. We also recommend that concomitant use of these agents be avoided when possible. If combination therapy is required, caution is warranted, particularly in patients with risk factors for QT prolongation. Specific attention should be given to drug dosing, interactions, electrolytes, and ECG monitoring.
Catalepsy induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of haloperidol (2.5 mg/kg) was consolidated and without additional influences and retained within 2 week (being tested on the 2nd, 7th, and 14th days after injection). Enhancement of catalepsy retrieval was observed during testing of the same animals on the 14th day as compared with the 7th day. Maximal catalepsy expression was reached after 2 hours of testing procedure which points to the existence of the mechanism of autoenhancement of retrieval which is probably underlain by the automodulation of the long-lasting modulatory DA receptors. The retrieval of catalepsy is suggested to be induced by a situational conditioned stimulus, since on the 2nd, 7th and 14th days it may be reproduced without repeated haloperidol injection only in the testing box.
Hemodynamic factors may play a role in the development of acute renal failure following administration of contrast media (CM). In this study the effect of intravenous injection of contrast media and mannitol on red blood cell velocity (VRBC) and red blood cell aggregation in renal medullary vessels was studied in 58 rats. Renal medullary blood flow was investigated by a cross-correlation technique and by a visual aggregation score. The CM, namely diatrizoate, iopromide, iohexol, ioxaglate, iotrolan, were given in iodine equivalent doses (1600 mg/kg body wt). Mannitol (950 mOsm/liter) and Ringer's solution were used as controls. The same vessels were studied 30 minutes before and 30 minutes after injections. VRBC decreased significantly after injection of diatrizoate, iopromide, iohexol, iotrolan and mannitol. Ringer's solution and ioxaglate did not significantly alter medullary blood flow, while iotrolan and mannitol caused the largest decreases in VRBC. All CM and mannitol caused both red cell aggregation and cessation of blood flow. The decrease in blood flow and increase in red blood cell aggregation after injection of CM and mannitol may partly explain the occurrence of contrast medium-induced acute renal failure.
Aspirin increases fibrin clot porosity and susceptibility to lysis. It is unknown whether other drugs, in combination with aspirin, used in the treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD) might affect clot structure and resistance to lysis.
The aim of the study was to assess the effects of statins, fibrates, or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) on fibrin clot properties.
In a randomized double-blind study, men with advanced CAD taking low-dose aspirin were assigned to receive one of the four drugs: simvastatin 40 mg day(-1) (n = 13), atorvastatin 40 mg day(-1) (n = 12), fenofibrate 160 mg day(-1) (n = 12), and quinapril 10 mg day(-1) (n = 11) for 28 +/- 2 days. Moreover, CAD patients (n = 13) taking aspirin (75 mg day(-1)) for 8 weeks were studied after additional 4 weeks on an open-label basis. Thirty men served as healthy controls. Plasma clot permeability and tissue plasminogen activator-induced fibrinolysis were evaluated at baseline and after drug administration.
Permeability increased following the administration of simvastatin (by 20%; P = 0.01), atorvastatin (by 22%; P = 0.001), fenofibrate (by 16%; P = 0.02), and quinapril (by 13%; P = 0.04) like for aspirin (P < 0.001). Turbidity analysis showed that administration of any of the drugs was associated with higher maximum absorbancy, suggesting thicker fibers, and shorter fibrinolysis time (P < 0.001). Post-treatment reduction in lysis time correlated with an increase in clot porosity in all the groups (r from 0.42 to 0.61; P from 0.01 to 0.001).
Statins, fibrates, and ACEIs may increase plasma clot permeability and susceptibility to fibrinolysis in CAD patients receiving aspirin. This novel antithrombotic mechanism might contribute to clinical benefits of the drugs tested.
Opiate addiction is accompanied by long-term structural and functional changes in brain regions persisting during abstinence, this status being an experimental model of the aberrant neuroplasticity. Nitric oxide is known to be involved in mechanisms of psychopathological events during opiate abstinence. In this study, indices of a nitregic system (nitric synthase activity--NOS, nitrites and nitrates concentration--NOx-) were measured in the rat brain region during morphine abstinence. Prior to this, the rats were tested for anxiety in an elevated plus maze. NOS activity increased in hippocampus 3 days after morphine withdrawal, while NOx--6 days after withdrawal. No changes of the nitrergic system could be revealed in other brain regions under study. Six days (but not 3 days) after morphine withdrawal, rats visited the open arms of the plus maze more frequently and spent more time in these arms as compared with respective controls. The data suggest that nitrergic system changes in the hippocampus may be involved in molecular mechanisms of behavioural alteration during morphine abstinence in rats.
Tyrosinase (Tyr) and tyrosinase-related proteins (Tyrps) 1 and 2 are the enzymes responsible for mammalian melanogenesis. They display high similarity but different substrate and reaction specificities. Loss-of-function mutations lead to several forms of albinism or other pigmentation disorders. They share two conserved metal binding sites (CuA and CuB) which, in Tyr, bind copper. To define some structural determinants for these differences, we mutated Tyr at selected residues on the basis of (i) conservation of the original residues in most tyrosinases, (ii) their nonconservative substitution in the Tyrps, and (iii) their possible involvement as an endogenous bridge between the copper pair. Two mutations at the CuA site, S192A and E193Q, did not affect Tyr activities, thus excluding S192 and E193 as endogenous ligands of the copper pair. Concerning CuB, the H390Q mutation completely abolished Tyr activity, whereas Q378H and H389L mutants showed 10-20% residual specific activities. Their kinetic behavior suggests that (i) H390 is the actual third ligand for CuB, (ii) H389 is critical for stereospecific recognition of o-diphenols but not monophenols, and (iii) the involvement in metal binding of the central extra H residue at the Tyrps CuB site is unlikely. However, replacement of Q (in Tyr) by H (in Tyrps) greatly diminished the affinity for L-dopa, consistent with the low/null tyrosinase activity of the Tyrps. These are the first data showing a physical difference in docking of mono- and o-diphenols to the Tyr active site, and they are used to propose a revised scheme of the catalytic cycle.
A phytochemical reinvestigation of the aerial parts of Artemisia sieversiana gave a new guaianolide and two known flavones (chrysosplenetin and 5-hydroxy-3',4',6,7-tetramethoxyflavone). Antifungal fractions derived from the chloroform extract of A. annua afforded two cadinane derivatives (arteannuin B and artemisinin), oleanolic acid, beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, and the four flavones artemetin, bonanzin, eupalitin and chrysosplenetin. Their structures were elucidated by spectral methods. All isolates from the two species were tested in vitro for antifungal activity. Arteannuin B, a main sesquiterpenoid in A. annua, showed antifungal activity against one human (Candida albicans, MIC: 100 micrograms/ml) and four plant pathogenic fungi (Gaeumannomyces graminis var. tritici, Rhizoctonia cerealis, Gerlachia nivalis and Verticillium dahliae, MICs: 150, 100, 150 and 100 micrograms/ml, respectively) whereas others showed no antifungal activity. The MIC value of ketoconazole to C. albicans was 1.0 microgram/ml, and those of triadimefon to G. graminis var. tritici and R. cerealis 150 and 100 micrograms/ml.
