Pharmacological properties of 2-(4-methylamino-butoxy)-diphenylmethane hydrochloride (MCI-2016) were examined in comparison with those of other antidepressants. MCI-2016 significantly antagonized the hypothermia and depression-like syndrome produced by reserpine injection. Furthermore, the drug exhibited such activities as antitetrabenazine and anti-cataleptic actions, and potentiation of the behavioural excitation induced by yohimbine, methamphetamine and L-dopa. MCI-2016 showed a definite suppressive effect on muricidal activity in olfactory bulb removed rats and the long-term isolation-induced fighting in mice without causing apparent motor disturbance. Judging from the effects of the drug on in vitro response to noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5-HT), and on p-chloramphetamine-induced hypermotility, it is suggested that MCI-2016 is a selective potentiator of NA presumably due to an inhibition of NA uptake. Anticholinergic and sedative actions of MCI-2016 were considerably weaker than those of amitriptyline and imipramine. Acute toxicity of MCI-2016 was the weakest among the drugs tested. These pharmacological profiles may suggest a potential clinical utility of MCI-2016 as a new psychotropic agent having an antidepressant activity.
Chronic drug use weakens excitatory neocortical input to the nucleus accumbens (NAc). We previously reported that extinction training, a form of inhibitory learning that progressively reduces cocaine-seeking behaviour when reward is withheld, reverses this deficit by up-regulating GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptors in the NAc. The level of GluR1 up-regulation is positively associated with a reduction in cocaine seeking, suggesting that extinction-induced up-regulation in AMPA receptors in the NAc opposes motivational influences that maintain cocaine seeking. This hypothesis is supported by the finding that over-expression of GluR1 and GluR2 in the NAc facilitates extinction of cocaine self-administration. Furthermore, a single extinction training session conducted during GluR1 and GluR2 over-expression strongly and selectively attenuates the ability of an environmental stressor to trigger relapse to cocaine seeking long after GluR1 and GluR2 over-expression declines. These results could suggest that excitatory input to the NAc promotes extinction learning, but only when memory is recalled under stressful situations. Recent studies indicate that both environmental stress and the frustrative stress of withholding reward during extinction of drug self-administration induce similar neurochemical events in the NAc. These neurochemical events could impose a "state-dependency" on extinction learning such that subsequent exposure to stress acts as a cue to enhance retrieval of extinction memory. Our results suggest that extinction-induced up-regulation in NAc AMPA receptors acts reciprocally to facilitate state-dependent extinction learning, as stressful situations evoke extinction memories that exert powerful inhibitory control over drug-seeking behaviour. These results may have important therapeutic implications for behaviour-based approaches aimed at treating drug addiction.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) as a class have been shown to increase the risk of congestive heart failure (CHF) compared with celecoxib. The magnitude of the risk for individual NSAIDs is not known.
Using administrative databases, we performed a nested case-control study in a population-based cohort of patients ages >or=66 years admitted for CHF between January 1998 and March 2003. Cases were patients readmitted for CHF after cohort entry (index date). Four controls were matched to each case on date of cohort entry and time between cohort entry and index date. Exposure was the current use of an NSAID or a coxib in the 7 days prior to CHF readmission. Using conditional logistic regression, we calculated the odds of readmission for CHF in patients exposed to naproxen, diclofenac, ibuprofen, indomethacin, or rofecoxib compared with celecoxib, after adjusting for possible confounding variables.
We identified 8,512 cases and 34,048 controls. The baseline characteristics between the groups were similar in general. The odds of being readmitted for CHF were higher in patients currently exposed to indomethacin (odds ratio [OR] 2.04, 95% confidence interval [95% CI] 1.16-3.58) or rofecoxib (OR 1.58, 95% CI 1.19-2.11) compared with celecoxib. There was no difference between naproxen, diclofenac, and ibuprofen compared with celecoxib, although the numbers of exposed cases and controls were small.
In elderly patients with known CHF, indomethacin and rofecoxib are associated with a greater risk of recurrent CHF compared with celecoxib. Alternatives should be considered for patients with CHF who require antiinflammatory drugs.
We report a case of potential cardiovascular toxicity including syncope, bradycardia, and ECG pauses associated with the use of rivastigmine and atenolol. A 65-year-old African American female with a medical history of dementia, hypertension, seizure disorder, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease was admitted to the hospital with shortness of breath and syncope. She was witnessed to have experienced a presyncopal episode followed by a true syncopal episode in which she was unresponsive for 20-30 s. On day two of hospital stay, the patient's ECG showed a sinus bradycardia with a heart rate in the 40 s and sinus pauses greater than 2 s in duration. Atenolol was immediately discontinued, with a continuance of the bradycardia despite one missed dose. The potentially toxic combination of rivastigmine and atenolol was then identified as a plausible causative factor of this patient's syncope and was subsequently discontinued. This patient's Naranjo adverse reaction probability score was five, which indicates a probable association between syncope and bradycardia with the combination of rivastigmine and atenolol [13]. Following the discontinuation of rivastigmine, the ECG pauses resolved and the patient's heart rate returned to normal levels. The patient did not experience any further dizziness or syncope. A 65-year-old female developed syncope and subsequent ECG pauses with sinus bradycardia after being treated with rivastigmine for dementia. Atenolol may have further compounded this toxic effect by its pharmacodynamic mechanisms.
One hundred children aged 1 to 15 years were randomly allocated to two equal groups. All underwent cold orthopedic surgery to the lower limb, of more than 1 hour's duration with a standard anesthetic technique. One group received caudal bupivacaine 0.25%, 0.7 mL/kg, and one group acted as controls. There were no cases of fecal incontinence in the theater complex but urinary incontinence in the immediate recovery phase increased from 14% in the control group to 34% in the caudal group (P < .05). The caudal block had a duration of effect lasting 5 to 6 hours, and provided better recovery room analgesia (P < .01). The advantages for the child are discussed.
In recent years, general and urinary tract infections caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) have became an increasing problem worldwide. Catheterization of the urinary bladder is one of the most significant risk factors for MRSA contamination of the urine. In vitro tests have documented the antimicrobial activity of the catheter lubricants Instillagel and Endosgel against MRSA specimens within 5 min. These findings support recommending the use of these lubricants in high-risk patients in hospitals and old people's homes for prophylaxis of MRSA bacteriuria.
The development of biliary strictures simulating sclerosing cholangitis is now well-known. We report a patient undergoing intraarterial chemotherapy for metastatic colon cancer of the liver in whom segmental intrahepatic biliary strictures occurred remote from known metastases. The patient remains alive 3-4 years after documented liver metastases with severe progressive portal hypertension, hypersplenism, and fat malabsorption. A table of cases so far reported is given.
Scopolamine-treated normal young human subjects exhibit memory dysfunctions analogous to those observed in demented patients. The dysfunctions are reversible by physostigmine but not by d-amphetamine which suggests that the memory impairment is specifically related to reduced cholinergic transmission caused by scopolamine. Scopolamine-induced amnesia has been proposed as a model for dementia where reduced cholinergic function is the suspected cause. We report seven experiments in young adult mice which examine scopolamine's effects on memory retention and whether its amnestic effects are specifically blocked by cholinergic agonists or cholinomimetics. Young adult mice were trained to avoid footshock in a T maze and their retention tested 1 week after training. Pretraining subcutaneous injection of scopolamine improved retention scores of "undertrained" mice at a dose of 0.01 mg/kg but impaired at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg. Post-training injection showed no effect at 0.01 mg/kg, enhanced retention scores at 0.1 mg/kg, and impaired at 1.0 mg/kg. The impairment by 1.0 mg/kg was blocked by injection 45 min post-training of each of two cholinergic drugs but was also counteracted by six drugs which act upon five other neural systems (catecholamine, serotonin, glycine, GABA, and hormonal). When scopolamine was injected 40 min pretraining, and each of eight drugs was injected immediately after training, the amnestic effect of scopolamine was only partially counteracted. This suggests that scopolamine impaired acquisition, in addition to some impairment of memory processing. This was confirmed by a direct study of acquisition rates of the avoidance response; 0.1 mg/kg of scopolamine impaired acquisition. The overall results indicate that pretraining administration of scopolamine impairs learning and to some degree memory processing. Counteracting scopolamine-induced amnesia, by either pretraining or post-training drug administration, is not specific to the cholinergic system.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of oxaliplatin (L-OHP) fractionated over two days with bimonthly 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin (LV), as first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (MCC) patients.
Fifty-four patients with inoperable MCC (median age, 60 years) were entered into the study. Outpatient treatment consisted of L-OHP 50 mg/m2 and LV 200 mg/m2 administered in a 2-hour i.v. infusion, followed by 5-FU 400 mg/m2 bolus and 5-FU 600 mg/m2 in a 22-hour continuous infusion, on days 1 and 2 every 2 weeks.
A total of 488 courses of chemotherapy were administered. Responses were as follows: 3 complete responses (5.6%) and 24 partial responses (44.4%) giving an overall response rate of 50% (95% CI: 36% to 64%). Median time to progression and overall survival were 10.3 and 19.2 months, respectively. Grade 3-4 neutropoenia, leucopoenia, thrombocythopoenia and anaemia occurred in 33%, 9%, 2% and 2% of patients, respectively, while peripheral neuropathy occurred in 10% of patients.
The fractionated bimonthly schedule of L-OHP plus de Gramont gave a less than anticipated neurological toxicity profile, while maintaining expected efficacy.
Investigated was the effect of high albumin concentrations on proximal tubular cell expression of fractalkine. Human proximal tubular cells (HK-2) were incubated with human serum albumin (HSA), which induced a dose-dependent increase in fractalkine mRNA associated with increased levels of both membrane-bound and soluble forms of the protein. To evaluate the role of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation in HSA-induced fractalkine mRNA, HK-2 cells were infected with a recombinant adenovirus encoding the natural inhibitor of NF-kappaB, IkBalpha; a 43% reduction of fractalkine mRNA levels resulted. Similarly, when cells were infected with the recombinant adenovirus expressing dominant negative mutant of the IkB kinase 2, a 55% inhibition of fractalkine mRNA was achieved. p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase was activated by HSA and was involved in NF-kappaB-dependent transcription of fractalkine. In kidneys of mice with bovine serum albumin overload proteinuria, fractalkine mRNA levels were 2.3-fold greater than those of controls. Fractalkine expression was also induced in tubular epithelial cells in this model. Anti-CXCR1 antibody treatment limited interstitial accumulation of mononuclear cells. Protein overload is a promoter of fractalkine gene induction mediated by NF-kappaB and p38 activation in proximal tubular cells. Fractalkine might contribute to direct mononuclear cells into peritubular interstitium and enhance their adhesion property, which in turn would favor inflammation and disease progression.
A 61-yr-old man with chronic myelocytic leukemia treated continuously for 8 yr with busulfan presented with fever, abdominal pain, and elevated liver enzymes in a cholestatic pattern. Evaluation of his liver and biliary tract with ultrasound and computerized tomography disclosed no structural abnormality. A percutaneous needle liver biopsy revealed cellular cholestasis with focal liver cell necrosis accompanied by a mild inflammatory infiltrate. Busulfan was discontinued, with subsequent normalization of liver enzymes and resolution of fever. These findings are interpreted as being compatible with busulfan-induced hepatitis.
The role of oxidative stress in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced toxicity and its prevention by a xanthone glucoside, mangiferin was investigated. To induce diabetes mellitus, adult male Wistar rats were injected STZ intravenously at 55 mg/kg body weight. The effect of mangiferin (10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p., 28 days) was investigated in STZ-induced diabetic male rats. Insulin-treated rats (6 U/kg, i.p., 28 days) served as positive control. Diabetic rats given normal saline served as negative control. Normal rats that neither received STZ nor drugs served as normal control. On day 28, the diabetic rats showed significant increase in serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) and total glycosylated haemoglobin. Kidney revealed tubular degeneration and decreased levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) with an elevation of malonaldehyde (MDA). Cardiac SOD, CAT and lipid peroxidation were significantly increased. Histopathological findings revealed cardiac hypertrophy with haemorrhages. Analysis of erythrocyte revealed significantly elevated levels of MDA with insignificant decrease in CAT and SOD. Repeated intraperitoneal injections of mangiferin (10 and 20 mg/kg) and insulin (6 U/kg) controlled STZ-induced lipid peroxidation and significantly protected the animals against cardiac as well as renal damage. From the study, it may be concluded that oxidative stress appears to play a major role in STZ-induced cardiac and renal toxicity as is evident from significant inhibition of antioxidant defence mechanism in renal tissue or a compensatory increase in antioxidant defence mechanism in cardiac tissue. Intraperitoneal administration of mangiferin exhibited significant decrease in glycosylated haemoglobin and CPK levels along with the amelioration of oxidative stress that was comparable to insulin treatment.
The main familial focal epilepsies are autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy, familial temporal lobe epilepsy and familial focal epilepsy with variable foci. A frameshift mutation in the DEPDC5 gene (encoding DEP domain-containing protein 5) was identified in a family with focal epilepsy with variable foci by linkage analysis and exome sequencing. Subsequent pyrosequencing of DEPDC5 in a cohort of 15 additional families with focal epilepsies identified 4 nonsense mutations and 1 missense mutation. Our findings provided evidence of frequent (37%) loss-of-function mutations in DEPDC5 associated with a broad spectrum of focal epilepsies. The implication of a DEP (Dishevelled, Egl-10 and Pleckstrin) domain-containing protein that may be involved in membrane trafficking and/or G protein signaling opens new avenues for research.
This study was performed to identify safe and more effective acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The total methanol extract of Citrus junos had a significant inhibitory effect on AChE in vitro. By sequential fractionation of C.junos, the active component was finally identified as naringenin. Naringenin inhibited AChE activity in a dose-dependent manner. In this study, we also evaluated the anti-amnesic activity of naringenin, a major flavanone constituent isolated from C. junos, in vivo using ICR mice with amnesia induced by scopolamine (1 mg/kg body weight). Naringenin, when administered to mice at 4.5 mg/kg body weight, significantly ameliorated scopolamine-induced amnesia as measured in both the passive avoidance and the Y-maze test. These results suggest that naringenin may be a useful chemopreventive agent against Alzheimer's disease.
Anemia, which may develop due to direct effect of the virus or indirect effect of zidovudine a widely used antiviral agent for the treatment, is not an uncommon complication in human immundeficiency virus (HIV) infections. In this report, a 26 years old male HIV positive patient who developed rapid anemia in the HAART (Highly active anti-retroviral therapy) protocol including zidovudine, was presented. The patient has been followed since May 2003 without anti-retroviral therapy. He was diagnosed as alpha-thalassemia trait, because of the low mean red blood cell volume (MCV), high red blood cell count and living in an Mediterranian country. However, no treatment for thalassemia had been given in this period, since the other laboratory findings [hemoglobin, hematocrit, red cell distribution width index (RDWI), iron and iron binding capacity, transferrin saturation and ferritin levels] were normal. During the follow-up of patient, HAART protocol with zidovudine, lamivudine and indinavir, was started depending on the findings of low CD4+ T-cell count (443/mm3) and high HIV serum load (1,330,000 copies/ml). In the second month of the therapy the hemoglobin level decreased to 12.9 gr/dL, and then to 9.9 gr/dL in the fourth month, while it was 14.5 gr/dL before anti-retroviral therapy. Although the patient had no hemolysis findings, and his serum folic acid level was normal, folbiol treatment was initiated with the possibility of the presence of folic acid deficiency at cellular level. Anemia resolved with folic acid replacement without discontinuation of zidovudine or a reduction in dosage. It was thought that the presence of alpha-thalassemia co-morbidity has facilitated the development of anti-retroviral-induced anemia in this patient. As a result, it is concluded that thalassemia should be considered in the differential diagnosis of anemia in HIV positive patients, especially for the ones from Mediterranian countries.
Preclinical studies of intrathecal adenosine suggest it may be effective in the treatment of acute and chronic pain in humans, and preliminary studies in volunteers and patients with a Swedish formulation of adenosine suggests it may be effective in hypersensitivity states but not with acute noxious stimulation. The purpose of this study was to screen for efficacy of a different formulation of adenosine marketed in the US, using both acute noxious stimulation and capsaicin-evoked mechanical hypersensitivity.
Following Food and Drug Administration and institutional review board approval and written informed consent, 65 volunteers were studied in two trials: an open-label, dose-escalating trial with intrathecal adenosine doses of 0.25-2.0 mg and a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of adenosine, 2 mg. Cerebrospinal fluid was obtained for pharmacokinetic analysis, and pain ratings in response to acute heat stimuli and areas of mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia after intradermal capsaicin injection were determined.
Adenosine produced no effect on pain report to acute noxious thermal or chemical stimulation but reduced mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia from intradermal capsaicin injection for at least 24 h. In contrast, residence time of adenosine in cerebrospinal fluid was short (< 4 h).
These results show selective inhibition by intrathecal adenosine of hypersensitivity, presumed to reflect central sensitization in humans after peripheral capsaicin injection. The long-lasting effect is consistent with that observed in preliminary reports of patients with chronic neuropathic pain and is not due to prolonged residence of adenosine in cerebrospinal fluid.
With the increasing use of ifosfamide in pediatric tumors, nephrotoxicity became the point of interest since it may cause chronic morbidity. In this study, the renal glomerular and tubular functions of 25 cases with solid tumors aged between 2-17 years (median 9) who were treated with ifosfamide, were investigated. For this purpose, routine blood urea, creatinine, calcium, phosphorus, electrolytes, urinary creatinine, phosphorus, glucose, protein and urinary retinol binding protein as well as microglobulin were evaluated. Except for two patients who had hypophosphatemia, phosphaturia, and proteinuria, all the cases had normal blood biochemistry, creatinine clearance, tubular phosphate reabsorption; and none had proteinuria, hematuria, or glycosuria. In spite of these findings, urine beta 2 microglobulin and retinol binding protein were found to be high in 11 patients and this elevation persisted during the following one year in 8 cases whose treatments were stopped and their levels increased in three patients who continued to receive fosfamide therapy. In correlation with the increasing cumulative dose of ifosfamide (32-126 g/m2), urinary retinol binding protein or beta 2 microglobulin of patients who are treated with ifosfamide may predict the existence of renal toxicity even if other routine renal function tests are normal. Thus, the periodic evaluation of urinary beta 2 microglobulin and retinol binding protein in patients receiving chemotherapy containing ifosfamide is recommended.
The precise mechanism of pulmonary hypoplasia (HP) associated with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) remains unclear. Insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) play an essential role in fetal lung development through IGF receptors (IGFRs) by regulating cellular proliferation, differentiation and survival. It has been reported that the expression of genes involved in IGF-IGFR signaling is altered in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung during the later stages of lung development. IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs) control bioavailability, activity and disruption of IGFs through the high affinity IGFBP/IGF complexes. IGFBP-4 is a key inhibitor of IGF-IGFR signaling-mediated cell proliferation. It has been revealed that cell proliferation in fetal lung fibroblasts is inhibited by increased IGFBP-4 production. We hypothesized that IGFBP-4 gene expression is increased during the later stages of lung development in the nitrofen-induced CDH lung.
Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to either olive oil or nitrofen on day 9 (D9) of gestation. Fetuses were harvested by cesarean section on D18 and D21. Fetal lungs were divided into 3 groups: control, nitrofen without CDH [CDH(-)] and nitrofen with CDH [CDH(+)] (n=24 at each time point). Relative mRNA levels of IGFBP-4 were determined using real-time RT-PCR. Immunohistochemistry was performed to evaluate the protein expression of IGFBP-4.
The relative expression levels of IGFBP-4 mRNA were significantly increased in CDH(-) and CDH(+) groups on D18 and D21 compared to controls. Immunohistochemistry showed increased IGFBP-4 expression in mesenchymal compartments on D18 and D21 in hypoplastic lungs compared to controls.
Overexpression of pulmonary IGFBP-4 during the later stages of lung development may contribute to pulmonary hypoplasia in the nitrofen-induced CDH model by inhibiting IGF-mediated cell proliferation.
Interactions among zinc (Zn), insulin, and glucose metabolism are complex. Maternal Zn deficiency affects maternal carbohydrate metabolism, but the mechanisms underlying changes in glucose homeostasis of offspring are not well understood. Rats consumed Zn-deficient (ZnD; 7 microg/g) or control (ZnC; 25 microg/g) diets ad libitum from 3 wk preconception to 21 d postparturition. Litters were culled to 7 pups/dam postnatally and pups were allowed to nurse their original mothers; after weaning, pups were fed nonpurified diet. Insulin and glucose tolerance tests were performed on the pups at wk 5 and 10. Although there was no difference in birth weight between groups, ZnD pups weighed significantly more than controls by d 10 (+5%) and 20 (+10%). Both blood glucose and serum insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) concentrations at wk 3 were significantly higher in ZnD pups than in controls. Both male and female ZnD rats were less sensitive to insulin and glucose stimulation than controls at wk 5 and 10. At wk 15, serum leptin concentrations were higher in male ZnD rats than in controls. Phosphorylation of muscle Akt protein, an insulin receptor (IR) signaling intermediate, was lower in female ZnD rats than in controls at wk 15, but they did not differ in phosphorylation of IR. Maternal Zn deficiency resulted in greater serum IGF-1 concentrations and the excessive postnatal weight gain in their offspring as well as impaired subsequent glucose sensitivity. It was associated with gender-specific alterations in the serum leptin concentration and the insulin signaling pathway. These findings suggest that suboptimal maternal Zn status induces long-term changes in the offspring related to abnormal glucose tolerance.
Although patients with ESRD experience markedly higher rates of stroke, no studies in the US have identified risk factors associated with stroke in this population. It was hypothesized that black race, malnutrition, and elevated BP would be associated with the risk of stroke among patients with ESRD. Data from the United States Renal Data Systems were used. Adult Medicare-insured hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients without a history of stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) were considered for analysis. The primary outcome was hospitalized or fatal stroke. Cox proportional hazards models were used to determine the associations between the primary predictor variables and stroke. The rate of incident stroke was 33/1,000 person-years in the study sample. After adjustment for age and other patient characteristics, three markers of malnutrition were associated with the risk of stroke-serum albumin (per 1 g/dl decrease, hazard ratio [HR] = 1.43), height-adjusted body weight (per 25% decrease, HR = 1.09), and a subjective assessment of undernourishment (HR = 1.27)-as was higher mean BP (per 10 mmHg, HR = 1.11). The association between black race varied by cardiac disease status, with blacks estimated to be at lower risk than whites among individuals with cardiac disease (HR = 0.74), but at higher risk among individuals without cardiac disease (HR = 1.24). This study confirms the extraordinarily high rates of stroke in ESRD patients on dialysis and identifies high mean BP and malnutrition as potentially modifiable risk factors. The association between black race and stroke differs by cardiac disease status; the reasons for this differing effect of race deserve further investigation.
Autosomal dominant optic atrophy (ADOA) is a slowly progressive optic neuropathy that has been associated with mutations of the OPA1 gene. In patients, the disease primarily affects the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and causes optic nerve atrophy and visual loss. A subset of RGCs are intrinsically photosensitive, express the photopigment melanopsin and drive non-image-forming (NIF) visual functions including light driven circadian and sleep behaviours and the pupil light reflex. Given the RGC pathology in ADOA, disruption of NIF functions might be predicted. Interestingly in ADOA patients the pupil light reflex was preserved, although NIF behavioural outputs were not examined. The B6; C3-Opa1(Q285STOP) mouse model of ADOA displays optic nerve abnormalities, RGC dendropathy and functional visual disruption. We performed a comprehensive assessment of light driven NIF functions in this mouse model using wheel running activity monitoring, videotracking and pupillometry. Opa1 mutant mice entrained their activity rhythm to the external light/dark cycle, suppressed their activity in response to acute light exposure at night, generated circadian phase shift responses to 480 nm and 525 nm pulses, demonstrated immobility-defined sleep induction following exposure to a brief light pulse at night and exhibited an intensity dependent pupil light reflex. There were no significant differences in any parameter tested relative to wildtype littermate controls. Furthermore, there was no significant difference in the number of melanopsin-expressing RGCs, cell morphology or melanopsin transcript levels between genotypes. Taken together, these findings suggest the preservation of NIF functions in Opa1 mutants. The results provide support to growing evidence that the melanopsin-expressing RGCs are protected in mitochondrial optic neuropathies.
Arsenic (As) is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant. Excess As exposure is considered one of the top health threats worldwide. As-induced Male reproductive toxicity is causing wide concern. The goal of this study is to determine whether subchronic As exposure inhibits Ddx3y expression, an Y-linked gene important in spermatogenesis and sperm maturation, and whether the inhibited expression of Ddx3y is closely associated with As-induced male reproductive toxicity Adult mice were given drinking water alone or water containing 1, 2, and 4mg/l arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) for 60 days. After the treatment, the weights of testis and epididymis were analyzed. The sperm quality, spermatogenesis, and histological alteration of the testis and epididymis were observed by microscope. Furthermore, the expressions of Ddx3y gene and its protein in the testis and epididymis were examined by real-time reverse transcription PCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. Compared with untreated mice, the weights of testis and epididymis were reduced, sperm motility and the number of stage VII cells in the seminiferous epithelium section were decreased, sperm malformation ratio was increased, and histopathological alterations were observed in As-treated mice. The gene and protein expression of Ddx3y in testis and epididymis were significantly downregulated in As-exposed mice. Subchronic As exposure has detrimental effects on spermatogenesis and sperm development. It also downregulates Ddx3y expressions in testis and epididymis. Our results indicated that Ddx3y may be an important target gene of As and the downregulated expression of Ddx3y may be closely related to male reproductive toxicity induced by As.
Acetaminophen is a widely used analgesic and antipyretic drug that exhibits toxicity at high doses to the liver and kidneys. This toxicity has been attributed to cytochrome P-450-generated metabolites which covalently modify target proteins. Recently, acetaminophen, in its unmetabolized form, has been shown to affect a variety of cells and tissues, for instance, testicular and lymphoid tissues and lymphocyte cell lines. The effects on cell viability of acetaminophen at a concentration comparable to that achieved in plasma during acetaminophen toxicity have now been examined with a hepatoma cell line SK-Hep1, primary human peripheral blood lymphocytes and human Jurkat T cells. Acetaminophen reduced cell viability in a time-dependent manner. Staining of cells with annexin-V also revealed that acetaminophen induced, after 8 hr of treatment, a loss of the asymmetry of membrane phospholipids, which is an early event associated with apoptosis. Acetaminophen triggered the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria into the cytosol, activation of caspase-3, 8, and 9, cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, and degradation of lamin B1 and DNA. Whereas cleavage of DNA into internucleosomal fragments was apparent in acetaminophen treated SK-Hep1 and primary lymphocytes, DNA was only degraded to 50-kb fragments in treated Jurkat cells. Overexpression of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-XL prevented these various apoptotic events induced by acetaminophen in Jurkat cells. Caspase-8 activation was a postmictochondrial event and occurred in a Fas-independent manner. These results demonstrate that acetaminophen induces caspases-dependent apoptosis with mitochondria as a primary target. These results also reiterate the potential role of apoptosis in acetaminophen hepatic and extrahepatic toxicity.
For evaluation of subchronic toxicity of the two single-ring nitroaromatics, p-nitroaniline (PNA) and p-nitrochlorobenzene (PNCB), groups of 10 male and 10 female Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to an aerosol/vapor of PNA in isopropanol at target concentrations of 0, 10, 30, or 90 mg/m3 or to PNCB vaporized from a solution in ethylene glycol monoethyl ether at target concentrations of 0, 5, 15, or 45 mg/m3 for 6 hr/day, 5 days/week for 4 weeks. Clinical signs of toxicity, body weights, results of ophthalmoscopic exam, hematology and clinical chemistry tests, organ weights, gross and histopathological changes were recorded. Exposure to PNA or PNCB resulted in a dose-related increase in blood methemoglobin levels. Mean red blood cell counts, hematocrit, and hemoglobin were significantly decreased in mid and high level animals exposed to PNCB. Mean spleen weights (absolute and relative to body weight) were significantly increased at the high dose levels in the two studies. A slight increase in spleen weights was also observed at the low concentration level in the PNA study. Absolute and relative liver weights also were increased among animals exposed to 45 mg/m3 PNCB. Microscopic changes were observed mainly in the spleen and included an increase in intensity of extramedullary hematopoiesis and hemosiderosis with both compounds. Spleens of animals exposed to PNCB also exhibited congestion. Neither PNA nor PNCB exhibited significant toxicological effects other than those of methemoglobinemia, anemia, and splenic changes classically associated with nitroaromatics at levels significantly above presently accepted occupational standard. Our data suggest that the current TLV for PNA which is 3 mg/m3 will provide adequate protection to the workers. OSHA's PEL of 1 mg/m3 for PNCB is to be preferred over the current TLV of 3 mg/m3 to provide a comparable margin of safety.
Neurotoxicity induced by caffeine in auditory-neuron cultures was studied in rat pups. For possible protective effect, reactive blue (RB) alone and in combination with dantrolene were tested in subsequent doses. RB was found to have a U-shape neuroprotective effect in caffeine neurotoxicity. Dantrolene was also tested in combined application in caffeine neurotoxicity. Despite the existing neuroprotection, no additional protection was obtained with various doses of dantrolene. In conclusion, RB may exert neuroprotective effect by increasing intracellular ATP levels in caffeine toxicity. High ATP levels may postpone the toxic cascade. Dantrolene as an endoplasmic reticulum calcium release blocker had no additional protective effect, suggesting that the increased intracellular calcium levels may be involved in later states of the toxic cascade, occurring after the compensatory phase of the cell death.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the United States. The majority of patients with non-small cell lung cancers present with inoperable disease because of the presence of metastases to regional lymph nodes or other metastatic sites. About one third of patients have stage IV disease with metastases to distant organs at the time of diagnosis. The prognosis for these patients is very poor. With best supportive care the median survival is only 4 months and the 1-year survival rate is 10% to 15%. Current chemotherapy combinations improve the survival and quality of life for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. With two-drug combinations, median survival is increased to 8 months or more and 1-year survival is increased to 35% to 40%. Still, complete response rates are low and more than 80% of patients die within 1 year of diagnosis. The improvements created by current therapies led to studies of chemotherapy in the second-line setting. Docetaxel has been shown to improve survival of patients who failed platinum-based chemotherapy and was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for therapy in this setting. However, response rates were very low and survival very short. Therefore, new therapies are urgently needed. Exisulind is a novel oral anticancer agent that holds promise for the treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Exisulind was originally developed as a chemoprevention agent for colorectal cancer. Preclinical studies showed that exisulind could prevent polyp formation and inhibit the growth of colorectal cancers. Subsequent preclinical studies showed that exisulind also inhibited the growth of human breast, prostate, and lung cancers. Phase I clinical studies showed that twice-daily oral doses could be given safely and would provide peak concentrations that were equivalent to those required for in vitro effects. These observations lead to the studies of the combination of exisulind and docetaxel in preclinical and clinical studies in human lung cancer described in this article.
Occupational exposure and experimental intoxication with n-hexane or its metabolite 2,5-hexanedione (HD) produce a central-peripheral neuropathy. However, the mechanism remains unknown. We hypothesized that HD affected the expression of Bcl-2, Bax and Caspase-3 in the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Male adult Wistar rats were administered by intraperitoneal injection at a dosage of 200 or 400 mg/kg HD, five days per week for 8 weeks. Samples of the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, spinal cord and sciatic nerves were collected and examined for Bcl-2, Bax and Caspase-3 expression using Western blotting. Subchronic exposure to HD resulted in significantly increased expression of both anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 and pro-apoptotic protein Bax and Caspase-3 in cerebral cortex and cerebellum, which exhibited a dose-dependent pattern. Though little change was detected in spinal cord, our results showed that the expression of Bcl-2, Bax and Caspase-3 was markedly enhanced in the sciatic nerves. These findings suggested that the changes of apoptosis-related protein level in rat nerve tissues were associated with the intoxication of HD, which might be involved in early molecular regulatory mechanism of apoptosis in the HD-induced neuropathy.
A subgroup analysis of the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT) was performed to evaluate the effects of the angiotensin II receptor blocker, valsartan, in the patients with chronic heart failure (HF) not receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors.
The ACE inhibitors reduce mortality and morbidity in patients with HF. Nonetheless, nearly 20% of potentially eligible patients may not be prescribed ACE inhibitors.
Val-HeFT was an international, randomized, double-blinded trial that compared valsartan with placebo when added to the prescribed treatment of patients with HF. The two primary end points of the study were all-cause mortality and the composite of all-cause mortality and morbidity (sudden death with resuscitation, hospital admission for HF, or administration of intravenous inotropic or vasodilator drugs for >or=4 h without hospital admission). Of the 5,010 patients enrolled in the trial, 366 (7.3%) were not treated with ACE inhibitors at baseline. The effects of valsartan on the primary and secondary end points of the study were assessed in this subgroup of patients.
Both all-cause mortality and combined mortality and morbidity for patients not treated with ACE inhibitors were significantly reduced in the valsartan treatment group compared with the placebo group (17.3% vs. 27.1%, p = 0.017 and 24.9% vs. 42.5%, p < 0.001, respectively). Consistent with the data on clinical events, patients randomized to valsartan showed improvements in physiologic variables, such as ejection fraction, left ventricular internal diameter in diastole, and plasma neurohormone levels. Permanent discontinuation of study treatment because of adverse experiences was comparable between the two groups.
Val-HeFT has provided the first placebo-controlled outcome data demonstrating a favorable effect of an angiotensin receptor blocker on mortality and morbidity in patients with HF not treated with ACE inhibitors. Based on these results, valsartan appears to be an effective therapy in ACE inhibitor-intolerant patients.
