Chronic and acute exposure to organophosphate pesticides or related nerve agents may lead to persistent neurological and neurobehavioral effects, which cannot be explained by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition alone. In the present study, the effects of mecamylamine (2mg/kg), or atropine (10mg/kg) alone, or in combination, on the expression of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) subunits, functional signs of toxicity and lethality in paraoxon-treated rats were investigated. Surviving animals were sacrificed after 48h of paraoxon administration. Paraoxon, at dosage of 1× LD50, significantly reduced expression of α(4) and β(2) nAChR subunits mRNA and protein in rat brain homogenates. Mecamylamine, efficiently prevented reduction of the α(4) and β(2) nAChR mRNA and protein in paraoxon exposed rat brains, but atropine was not efficient. Concurrent treatment with mecamylamine and atropine restored nAChRs mRNA and protein level and prevented lethality and severe involuntary movements induced by paraoxon. Nicotinic receptors antagonists may be included in the cocktail of therapeutic agents targeting the various mechanisms for neuronal injury by organophosphates.
Most of the human teratogens were discovered as a result of case reports and not primarily through epidemiological studies. We report the detection of a teratogenic effect based both clinical experience and epidemiological analysis. The possibility that anticonvulsant drugs might be teratogenic has been discussed in the literature for several decades. In 1982, we suggested a specific association between valproic acid and spina bifida. The observation was coming both from personal interviews with families of liveborn infants operated upon for spina bifida and from registry data: among 200,000 infants born in the Rhône-Alpes region between August 1979 and August 1982, 11 had spina bifida and were born to epileptic women, 9 of them treated with valproate. Further data confirmed these findings and led to an estimation of about 1-2% for the risk to have an infant with spina bifida after use of valproic acid. The detection of valproic acid teratogenicity raised from an unusual set of circumstances in the Rhône-Alpes region: the existence of a birth defects registry, a special interest for spina bifida, a questionnaire with a routine question on epilepsy, a high prescription rate of valproic acid (28% of women in childbearing age) and the registry status of member of the International Clearinghouse for Birth Defects Monitoring Systems. From a public health point of view, this finding has led doctors to consider treatment with valproic acid as a new indication for prenatal diagnosis. 20 new cases were prenatally detected in 10 years in the Central East region of France.
Estrogens can be converted to electrophilic metabolites, particularly the catechol estrogen-3,4-quinones, estrone(estradiol)-3,4-quinone [E(1)(E(2))-3,4-Q], which react with DNA to form depurinating adducts. These adducts are released from DNA to generate apurinic sites. Error-prone repair of this damage leads to the mutations that initiate breast, prostate, and other types of cancer. The reaction of E(1)(E(2))-3,4-Q with DNA forms the depurinating adducts 4-hydroxyE(1)(E(2))-1-N3adenine [4-OHE(1)(E(2))-1-N3Ade] and 4-OHE(1)(E(2))-1-N7guanine(Gua). These two adducts constitute >99% of the total DNA adducts formed. The E(1)(E(2))-2,3-Q forms small amounts of the depurinating 2-OHE(1)(E(2))-6-N3Ade adducts. Reaction of the quinones with DNA occurs more abundantly when estrogen metabolism is unbalanced. Such an imbalance is the result of overexpression of estrogen-activating enzymes and/or deficient expression of deactivating (protective) enzymes. Excessive formation of E(1)(E(2))-3,4-Q is the result of this imbalance. Oxidation of catechols to semiquinones and quinones is a mechanism of tumor initiation not only for endogenous estrogens, but also for synthetic estrogens such as hexestrol and diethylstilbestrol, a human carcinogen. This mechanism is also involved in the initiation of leukemia by benzene, rat olfactory tumors by naphthalene, and neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease by dopamine. In fact, dopamine quinone reacts with DNA similarly to the E(1)(E(2))-3,4-Q, forming analogous depurinating N3Ade and N7Gua adducts. The depurinating adducts that migrate from cells and can be found in body fluids can also serve as biomarkers of cancer risk. In fact, a higher level of estrogen-DNA adducts has been found in the urine of men with prostate cancer and in women with breast cancer compared to healthy controls. This unifying mechanism of the origin of cancer and other diseases suggests preventive strategies based on the level of depurinating DNA adducts that generate the first critical step in the initiation of diseases.
A 39-year-old woman was evaluated for possible liver transplantation due to rapidly developing hepatic failure 4 weeks after initiation of oral minocycline 100 mg twice a day for the treatment of acne. The patient developed a maculopapular rash, malaise, fever, nausea, and vomiting 2 weeks prior to admission to the hospital. On admission, her symptoms rapidly progressed to liver failure characterized by rapidly rising liver enzyme levels, worsening encephalopathy, and coagulopathy. Viral hepatitis serologies and blood cultures were all negative. After intensive supportive care for 2 weeks, the patient's condition gradually improved and she was discharged with mildly elevated liver enzyme levels and pruritus, without need of liver transplantation. Minocycline-induced hepatic injury is an idiosyncratic reaction with a sensitization period that appears to be 3-4 weeks in duration. The characteristic features include rash, fever, lymphadenopathy, and eosinophilia, as well as severe alterations in liver function. The high liver enzyme levels and the significant prolongation of the prothrombin time suggest massive hepatocellular damage. In light of the profound liver damage that occurs with this adverse reaction, care should be taken in administering minocycline to patients who have concomitant liver disease. It is recommended that patients should be instructed as to the possible signs and symptoms of toxicity and be monitored for evidence of idiosyncratic reaction or liver failure.
Diuron (3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea) is a substituted urea herbicide that induces rat urinary bladder urothelial tumors at high dietary levels (2500 ppm). The specific mode of action and molecular alterations triggered by diuron, however, have not been clarified. The present study evaluated the dose-dependent effects of mucosal alterations and transcriptional changes in the urinary bladder of rats exposed to diuron. Six-week-old male Wistar rats were treated with 0, 60, 125, 1250, and 2500 ppm of diuron in the diet for 20 weeks. Histologic examination showed urothelial hyperplasia present in rats treated with either 1250 or 2500 ppm of diuron but not 60 or 125 ppm. Comprehensive gene expression analyses of urothelial cell RNA were conducted using Affymetrix microarrays. The numbers of differentially expressed transcripts between each treatment group and control increased with diuron dose. Based on similar histology and gene expression responses, the treatment groups were regrouped into a high-dose (1250 and 2500 ppm) and low-dose group (60 and 125 ppm). These data suggest that persistent exposure to high dietary concentrations of diuron induces oxidative stress, increases cellular metabolism, and enhances cell death that is associated with sustained urothelial hyperplasia.
We have previously reported the results of a randomized trial that demonstrated the survival benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of patients with high-grade extremity sarcomas compared with no chemotherapy. This regimen included doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and methotrexate. This report updates and extends our experience. The median follow-up of this trial is now 7.1 years and reveals a 5-year disease-free survival of 75% and 54% for chemotherapy and no chemotherapy groups, respectively (two-sided P [P2] = .037). The 5-year overall survival for patients in this trial was 83% and 60% for the chemotherapy and no chemotherapy groups, respectively, with a trend towards improved survival in the chemotherapy arm (P2 = .124). Because of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy we performed a subsequent randomized trial comparing this high-dose regimen to reduced cumulative doses of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide without methotrexate. Eighty-eight patients were entered into this trial which has a median follow-up of 4.4 years. The 5-year disease-free and overall survival for patients treated with the reduced doses of chemotherapy was 72% and 75%, respectively, and was not significantly different from the high-dose regimen. No patients developed congestive heart failure on this study. We conclude that adjuvant chemotherapy improves disease-free survival in patients with extremity soft-tissue sarcomas. The overall survival advantage in patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy in our initial randomized high-dose chemotherapy trial has diminished though it continues to favor the chemotherapy group. A reduced-dose chemotherapy regimen was found to be comparable to the high-dose regimen.
Over a six-year period, 6 cases of local toxicity produced by gentamicin and dexamethasone ear drops were observed in Sant Pau Hospital, Barcelona. No cases due to neomycin or polymixin B were seen. All patients consulted for dizziness. Audiometric and vestibular examination revealed only involvement of the vestibular labyrinth and recovery was spontaneous. Most cases occurred during prolonged treatment without medical control and patients had extensive tympanic perforation or suppuration had ceased. In contrast with findings in animal studies, the risk of topical toxicity in humans is limited and avoidable if the necessary precautions are taken with ear-drop prescriptions.
Deep-brain lacunar infarct represents a significant clinical problem as it produces severe symptoms highly resistant to rehabilitation. The limited area of necrosis may facilitate neurorepair via the action of various novel neuroprotective strategies including cell-based therapies. The lesion was induced by stereotactic injection of ouabain into adult rat brains. Subsequent behavioral testing involved beam walking task, rotarod, visual discrimination task and apomorphine rotation. For morphological and topographical analysis brain slices were stained with H-E and evaluated under light microscopy. Lesion size was measured in absolute terms and in relation to the whole brain volume. Immunohistochemical analysis for the co-localization of BrdU with specific cell-type markers (PSA-NCAM, NG2, beta-tubulin III, GFAP, ED1) have has been performed, to determine the fate of newly generated cells with emphasis on evidence of neurogenesis. The lesion involved the basal ganglia, basal forebrain nuclei, internal capsule and striatum (just 1-2% of total brain volume). Significant and relatively stable behavioral deficits were observed up to 30 days. Furthermore, large numbers of cells are seen to be newly generated in response to injury with a significant proportion of these being present on account of neurogenesis.
A 67-year-old female diabetic is presented who developed a Coombs'-positive hemolytic anemia after a year of treatment with tolbutamide. An IgG antibody was identified in the patient's serum that caused the agglutination of both the patient's red blood cells and tolbutamide-coated erythrocytes in the absence of complement. Such a reaction did not occur with the patient's erythrocytes when not exposed to tolbutamide. Agglutination of the patient's serum also occurred with erythrocytes treated with other sulfonylureas (chlorpropamide, glibenclamide, carbutamide) but not with phenacetin.
A 26-year-old white nulliparous woman, karyotype 45X-O, had consulted her physician at age 17 with primary amenorrhea, short stature, and sexual infantilism; she had been diagnosed as having Turner's syndrome. Diethylstilbestrol (DES), 1 mg/day for 28 consecutive days every 35 days, had been prescribed and taken. After 9 years, she developed endometrial adenocarcinoma. The DES was discontinued and progesterone was prescribed in an attempt to reverse the neoplastic process. When, after 4 months, the tumor was not responsive to progesterone, a hysterectomy was performed. Adenocarcinoma of the endometrium in patients with Turner's syndrome has been recorded in 4 patients previously, all of whom had received DES orally; this case is unusual because of the young age of the patient and the unresponsiveness of the tumor to progesterone therapy. The use of DES in patients with Turner's syndrome should be challenged; cyclic estrogen with cyclic progesterone supplementation is recommended instead.
The purpose of this report is to summarize information on drugs recently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Three drugs have recently been approved: Gleevec (imatinib mesylate) at a starting dose of 400 or 600 mg daily for the treatment of malignant unresectable and/or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors; Mesnex (mesna) tablets as a prophylactic agent to reduce the incidence of ifosfamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis, and Zometa (zoledronic acid) for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma and for patients with documented bone metastases from solid tumors, in conjunction with standard antineoplastic therapy. Prostate cancer should have progressed after treatment with at least one hormonal therapy. The recommended dose and schedule is 4 mg infused over 15 minutes every 3-4 weeks. These three drugs represent three different types of drug approval: Gleevec is an accelerated approval and supplemental new drug application (NDA); Mesnex tablets represent an oral formulation of a drug approved 14 years ago as an intravenous formulation, and Zometa represents a standard NDA for a noncytotoxic, supportive-care drug. Information provided includes rationale for drug development, study design, efficacy and safety results, and pertinent literature references.
Intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of small doses of capsaicin has been shown to produce hyperalgesia and upregulation of the levels of proinflammatory cytokines. The present work aimed at investigating the possible mediation of these effects by sensory neuropeptides and mast cells. Various groups of rats received i.pl. injection of capsaicin alone or preceded by the injection of antagonists to substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related protein (CGRP) and histamine (H1, H2) or the mast cell blocker ketotifen. All pretreatments prevented, in a dose-related manner, the capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia. The SP, H2 antagonists and ketotifen prevented the upregulation of all cytokines and nerve growth factor (NGF) levels, while the CGRP and H1 antagonists showed only attenuation of the NGF level.
Anabolic-androgenic steroid abuse is prevalent and has been associated with numerous adverse effects. The case being presented is of an amateur weight trainer, who suffered an acute myocardial infarction; his only significant risk factor was his nonmedical use of an anabolic steroid, nandrolone decanoate. This case presentation discusses the hematologic effects of this class of drugs and the subsequent impact on ischemic heart disease.
Hyperthyroidism may lead to a loss of sperm motility and an increase in oxidative stress (OS) in testes and may cause male reproductive disorders. Thus, the use of compounds with antioxidant properties may be a strategy for preventing these disorders. The effect of resveratrol (RSV) on sperm motility and on variables of the antioxidant status in the testes of rats with triiodothyronine-induced hyperthyroidism (100μg/kg) was investigated. Hyperthyroid rats presented lower sperm motility, higher levels of lipid hydroperoxides and thiobarbituric reactive substances, lower catalase and glutathione peroxidase activities and higher glutathione-S-transferase activity in their testes than control animals. RSV treatment (1mg/kg and 10mg/kg) was able to prevent these effects in the hyperthyroid rats and had no effect in the control animals. In conclusion, RSV might be a strategy for therapeutic intervention to preserve sperm motility and to prevent OS in testes, preserving testicular function in those with hyperthyroidism.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether weekend drug holidays would improve sexual functioning in recovered depressed patients with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)-induced sexual dysfunction.
Thirty outpatients who reported worsening of sexual functioning during SSRI treatment were instructed to discontinue their SSRIs after the Thursday morning dose and to restart the SSRIs (at their previous dosage) on Sunday at 12:00 noon for four weekends.
Significant improvement in sexual functioning was reported by the patients taking sertraline and paroxetine but not by those taking fluoxetine. There were no statistically significant increases in mean Hamilton depression scores after discontinuation of the SSRIs; two patients had increases in scores from the 4-8 range to the 10-14 range.
For some patients taking sertraline and paroxetine who experience sexual dysfunction side effects, brief drug holidays may allow for significant improvement in sexual functioning without a significant return of depressive symptoms.
Epidemiological and experimental studies have suggested that dietary supplementation with selenium can inhibit the development of cancers at several organ sites. We have consistently shown that 1, 4-phenylene bis(methylene) selenocyanate (p-XSC) is a highly effective cancer chemopreventive agent against the development of chemically induced cancers in several laboratory animal species. This is the first report describing the preventive effects of p-XSC in an animal model of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) containing a germline mutation of the APC gene. Six-week old male (heterozygous) C57BL/6J-APC(min) or wild-type mice were fed high fat diets containing 0, 10 or 20 p.p.m. p-XSC. After 80 days, the mice were killed and their intestines were excised and evaluated for polyps. Multiple samples were also harvested from normal appearing small intestine and colon for molecular analysis. Both the mucosa and polyps from the intestine and colon were assayed for beta-catenin, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 expression and COX isoform activities. Administration of p-XSC in the diet significantly decreased the rate of formation of small intestinal tumors (P < 0. 0001) and colon tumors (P < 0.002) in APC(min) mice. p-XSC produced a dose-dependent inhibition of tumors in both small intestine (P < 0. 0001) and colon (P < 0.035). Mice fed 20 p.p.m. p-XSC had significantly lower levels of beta-catenin expression and COX-2 activity in polyps. These observations demonstrate for the first time that the synthetic organoselenium compound p-XSC possesses antitumor activity against genetically predisposed neoplastic lesions, such as FAP. While the exact mechanism(s) for this antitumor activity of p-XSC remains to be elucidated, it appears that modulation of beta-catenin expression and COX-2 activity is associated with inhibition of intestinal polyps.
Our previous acute study on urocortin (Ucn) demonstrated that Ucn altered serum and tissue angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) activity in rats. Therefore, the present investigation was designed to explore the effect of long-term treatment with Ucn on somatic ACE (sACE) and other components of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). After 8 weeks of intravenous administration of Ucn in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), serum and tissue sACE, angiotensin II (Ang II), nitric oxide (NO), Ang-(1-7), and tissue chymase activities were evaluated. RT-PCR analysis was performed to determine the quantity of tissue sACE mRNA. Serum sACE activity was reduced by Ucn, although tissue sACE activity and tissue sACE mRNA were elevated. Chymase activity was observed to be enhanced by Ucn, whereas the ACE inhibitor enalapril failed to influence chymase. Serum and tissue Ang II activity was reduced, but NO and Ang-(1-7) production was increased in a concentration-dependent manner after Ucn treatment. Meanwhile, a significant decrease of the systolic blood pressure (SBP) was observed after the long-term Ucn administration, and there was a significant positive correlation (r2 = 0.6993) between serum ACE activity and SBP. Pretreatment with the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) blocker astressin and the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) pathway blocker PD98059 abolished these effects of Ucn. Our findings further support the hypothesis that the changes of sACE activity and the production of other RAS components may play roles in the vasodilatory property of Ucn via the activation of the ERK1/2 pathway.
To determine if the presence of asbestosis is a prerequisite for lung cancer in subjects with known exposure to blue asbestos (crocidolite).
Former workers and residents of Wittenoom with known amounts of asbestos exposure (duration, intensity, and time since first exposure), current chest x ray and smoking information, participating in a cancer prevention programme (n = 1988) were studied. The first plain chest radiograph taken at the time of recruitment into the cancer prevention programme was examined for radiographic evidence of asbestosis according to the UICC (ILO) classification. Cox proportional hazards modelling was used to relate asbestosis, asbestos exposure, and lung cancer.
Between 1990 and 2002 there were 58 cases of lung cancer. Thirty six per cent of cases had radiographic evidence of asbestosis compared to 12% of study participants. Smoking status was the strongest predictor of lung cancer, with current smokers (OR = 26.5, 95% CI 3.5 to 198) having the greatest risk. Radiographic asbestosis (OR = 1.94, 95% CI 1.09 to 3.46) and asbestos exposure (OR = 1.21 per f/ml-year, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.42) were significantly associated with an increased risk of lung cancer. There was an increased risk of lung cancer with increasing exposure in those without asbestosis.
In this cohort of former workers and residents of Wittenoom, asbestosis is not a mandatory precursor for asbestos related lung cancer. These findings support the hypothesis that it is the asbestos fibres per se that cause lung cancer, which can develop with or without the presence of asbestosis.
Whether inducing catalepsy in the rat by an intraperitoneal injection of haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) had an effect on metabolism in the striatum and in the hippocampus, as determined by lactography, and whether reducing the cataleptic state with stress or theophylline (8 mg/kg i.v.) had any impact on metabolism in these two regions of the brain was investigated. Furthermore, whether theophylline reduced catalepsy in rats through the adrenals was investigated. Haloperidol caused a significant increase in the metabolism of lactate, both in the striatum and in the hippocampus. Reducing haloperidol-induced catalepsy with short-term immobilisation stress did not affect the metabolism of lactate, neither in the striatum nor in the hippocampus. Reducing haloperidol-induced catalepsy with theophylline caused a significant rise in the metabolism of lactate in the striatum, while no effect was seen in the hippocampus. Adrenalectomy did not compromise the anti-cataleptic property of theophylline. It is concluded theophylline is a potent antagonist of haloperidol-induced catalepsy, and that this effect is not mediated by the adrenals. Furthermore, it is reported that haloperidol influenced metabolism in regions of the brain not considered to be its primary target. Lactography is considered to be a very useful tool in the study of metabolism during activity.
Penta-acetyl geniposide [(Ac)(5)GP], an acetylated geniposide product from Gardenia fructus, has been known to have hepatoprotective properties and recent studies have revealed its anti-proliferative and apoptotic effect on C6 glioma cells. In this study, we first report the anti-metastastic effect of (Ac)(5)GP in the rat neuroblastoma line: C6 glioma cells. First (Ac)(5)GP exhibited an inhibitory effect on abilities of adhesion and motility by cell-matrix adhesion assay, wound healing assay and Boyden chamber assay. Second, the decreasing activity of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) was noted by gelatin zymography assay. Further analysis with semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed the mRNA levels of MMP-2 and membrane type I matrix metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP) were significantly reduced, while the tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2) was elevated by (Ac)(5)GP treatment. Further (Ac)(5)GP also exerted an inhibitory effect on phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) protein expression, phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) and inhibition of activation of transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB), c-Fos, c-Jun. These findings proved (Ac)(5)GP is highly likely to be a inhibiting cancer migration agent to be further developed in the future.
Estrogen-related receptor alpha (ERRalpha) is primarily thought to regulate energy homeostasis through interacting with peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1alpha and -1beta (PGC-1alpha and -1beta). They coordinately control the transcription of genes in the oxidative phosphorylation pathway. In addition to its role in energy metabolism, ERRalpha has also been implicated as a prognostic marker for breast, ovarian, colon and prostate cancers. In this study, we found that an ERRalpha inverse agonist XCT-790 induced cell death in HepG2 hepatocarcinoma and its multi-drug resistance (MDR) sub-line R-HepG2. Using a dye Mitotracker Green which stains mitochondrion independent of mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)), we found that XCT-790 dose-dependently decreased mitochondrial mass. Intriguingly, XCT-790 increased DeltaPsi(m) upon short term treatment but decreased DeltaPsi(m) upon longer term treatment. The changes of DeltaPsi(m) in turn promoted the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and led to ROS-mediated caspases 3/7, 8, 9 activation and cell death. Importantly, we established that an anti-oxidative compound Mn(III) Tetra(4-benzoic acid) porphyrin chloride (MnTBAP) blocked the caspases activities and cell death increased by XCT-790 treatment. Finally, we found that XCT-790 synergized with paclitaxel to induce cell death in multi-drug resistance sub-line R-HepG2. Our results provide a conceptual framework for further developing chemotherapeutics based on suppressing ERRalpha activity.
Dichlorvos is an organophosphate insecticide that is widely used in pest control. Vitamin C (200mg/kg)+vitamin E (200mg/kg), dichlorvos (1.6mg/kg), or a combination of vitamin C (200mg/kg)+vitamin E (200mg/kg)+dichlorvos (1.6mg/kg) was given to rats via oral gavage for 7 weeks. When rats of the dichlorvos-treated group and the vitamins+dichlorvos-treated group were compared with the control group, body weights were decreased and liver weights were increased significantly at the end of the 4th and 7th week. Serum total protein, albumin, triglyceride, low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (VLDL-cholesterol) levels were decreased, and serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), γ-glutamyl-transferase (GGT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and total cholesterol levels were increased significantly at the end of the 4th and 7th week in the dichlorvos- and vitamins+dichlorvos-treated rats. There was a statistically significant difference for all biochemical parameters when the vitamins+dichlorvos-treated group was compared with the dichlorvos-treated group at the end of the 4th and 7th week. In an electron microscopic investigation, swelling of mitochondria and dilatation of endoplasmic reticulum were observed in liver cells of the dichlorvos- and vitamins+dichlorvos-treated rats at the end of the 4th and 7th week. As a result, vitamins C and E reduced dichlorvos hepatotoxicity, but vitamins C and E did not confer complete protection.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) show an antiproteinuric and thus nephroprotective effect in patients suffering from glomerulonephritis. Angiotensin II-receptor-antagonists (AT1RA) are also efficacious in reducing proteinuria. The study was performed to investigate the antiproteinuric effect of AT1RA candesartan in patients diagnosed with chronic glomerulonephritis by biopsy, and who were already being treated with an ACEI.
A total of 12 patients with a persistent proteinuria of at least 1 g/day who were already being treated with an ACEI for more than 3 months were included. The study was performed using a double-blind, placebo-controlled and randomized method with two treatment periods of 8 weeks (placebo or candesartan 8 mg/day) and a wash-out period of 4 weeks in between. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and effective renal plasma flow (ERPF) were measured by inulin- and PAH-clearances at the beginning and the end of each treatment period.
Proteinuria significantly decreased from 2 +/- 0.4 g/day to 1.3 +/- 0.3 g/day (P < 0.05) with the addition of candesartan treatment, whereas it remained unchanged (from 1.8 +/- 0.3 g/day to 1.9 +/- 0.3 g/day) under placebo. GFR (candesartan: from 66 +/- 13 to 58 +/- 11 ml/min per 1.73 m2, placebo: from 64 +/- 11 to 62 +/- 13 ml/min per 1.73 m2) and ERPF (candesartan: from 329 +/- 44 to 304 +/- 37 ml/min per 1.73 m2, placebo: from 362 +/- 48 to 315 +/- 46 ml/min per 1.73 m2) did not alter significantly after 8 weeks of treatment. The addition of candesartan treatment significantly reduced systolic blood pressure (from 129 +/- 3 to 123 +/- 2 mmHg, P < 0.05) and diastolic blood pressure (from 79 +/- 2 to 76 +/- 2 mmHg, P < 0.05) compared with placebo (systolic: 128 +/- 3 to 127 +/- 3 mmHg, diastolic: 79 +/- 2 to 79 +/- 2 mmHg).
Candesartan promotes a complementary antiproteinuric and a small antihypertensive effect after a treatment period of 8 weeks in patients with chronic glomerulonephritis when given in conjunction with an ACEI. Renal hemodynamics did not vary significantly.
Biological mechanisms underlying the association between particulate matter (PM) exposure and increased cardiovascular health effects are under investigation. Water-soluble metals reaching systemic circulation following pulmonary exposure are likely exerting a direct effect. However, it is unclear whether specific PM-associated metals may be driving this. We hypothesized that exposure to equimolar amounts of five individual PM-associated metals would cause differential pulmonary and cardiac effects. We exposed male WKY rats (14 weeks old) via a single intratracheal instillation (IT) to saline or 1 micromol/kg body weight of zinc, nickel, vanadium, copper, or iron in sulfate form. Responses were analyzed 4, 24, 48, or 96 h after exposure. Pulmonary effects were assessed by bronchoalveolar lavage fluid levels of total cells, macrophages, neutrophils, protein, albumin, and activities of lactate dehydrogenase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, and n-acetyl glucosaminidase. Copper induced earlier pulmonary injury/inflammation, while zinc and nickel produced later effects. Vanadium or iron exposure induced minimal pulmonary injury/inflammation. Zinc, nickel, or copper increased serum cholesterol, red blood cells, and white blood cells at different time points. IT of nickel and copper increased expression of metallothionein-1 (MT-1) in the lung. Zinc, nickel, vanadium, and iron increased hepatic MT-1 expression. No significant changes in zinc transporter-1 (ZnT-1) expression were noted in the lung or liver; however, zinc increased cardiac ZnT-1 at 24 h, indicating a possible zinc-specific cardiac effect. Nickel exposure induced an increase in cardiac ferritin 96 h after IT. This data set demonstrating metal-specific cardiotoxicity is important in linking metal-enriched anthropogenic PM sources with adverse health effects.
Hypertension guidelines recommend initial treatment with a beta-blocker or diuretic and adding the other drug where blood pressure is not controlled. We hypothesized that systematic rotation through the major classes of antihypertensive drugs would demonstrate substantial differences in the pattern of an individual patient's response, and suggest a more rational approach to choosing best treatment.
Thirty-four young hypertensives (age 28-55, median 47) rotated in a double-blind, Latin-square, crossover fashion through 6 weeks of treatment each with amlodipine, doxazosin, lisinopril, bisoprolol, bendrofluazide and placebo. Blood pressure was measured at each visit. 'Best' drug, defined by efficacy and tolerability, was repeated at the end.
Rotation doubled the number of patients reaching target blood pressure (systolic < 140 mmHg) on one drug (P = 0.03). All five drugs were represented among the 'best' drugs. In six patients, the blood pressure on 'best' drug was at least 10 mmHg lower than on any other. Response to the 'best' drug was highly correlated (r = 0.79) with its previous administration. By contrast, there were only weak correlations between responses to pairs of drugs, except for angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (A) with beta-blocker (B), and calcium blocker (C) with diuretic (D) - each r = 0.71, P < 0.005). In these young patients, the majority of patients (23/34) responded best to a drug suppressing the renin system (A and B).
Patients vary reproducibly in their response to initial treatment, and switching among drugs can increase the efficacy of monotherapy. The results support an AB/CD scheme for choosing therapy, in which the first drug is taken from one of these pairs, and uncontrolled patients switch to one of the other pair.
The aim of the study was to investigate the effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) on histone deacetylase-mediated proliferation inhibition. In the colon cancer cell line HT29 butyrate-mediated proliferation inhibition was enhanced by the additional presence of indomethacin (IM) and/or nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA). Sensitisation to butyrate-mediated proliferation inhibition was abolished by the general caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-fmk, however, only IM-induced cell detachment was prevented by the caspase inhibitor but not that induced by NDGA or NDGA plus IM. In contrast to the parental cell line HT29, in the methotrexate-resistant sub-lines HT29-12 and HT29-21, IM counteracted butyrate-mediated proliferation inhibition, which was abrogated by NDGA. In all the investigated cell lines, proliferation inhibition was most effectively achieved under the combined application of butyrate with IM and NDGA, suggesting that inhibition of both cyclooxygenase (COX) and lipoxygenase (LOX) isoenzymes is needed for proliferation inhibition by NSAIDs in tumour cells.
