To assess by electrophysiologic testing the effect of photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) on the retina and optic nerve.
Eye Clinic, S. Salvatore Hospital, L'Aquila University, Italy.
Standard pattern electroretinograms (P-ERGs) and standard pattern visual evoked potentials (P-VEPs) were done in 25 eyes of 25 patients who had myopic PRK for an attempted correction between 5.00 and 15.00 diopters (D) (mean 8.00 D). Testing was done preoperatively and 3, 6, 12, and 18 months postoperatively. The contralateral eyes served as controls. During the follow-up, 3 patients (12%) developed steroid-induced elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) that resolved after corticosteroid therapy was discontinued.
No statistically significant differences were seen between treated and control eyes nor between treated eyes preoperatively and postoperatively.
Myopic excimer laser PRK did not seem to affect the posterior segment. The transient steroid-induced IOP rise did not seem to cause functional impairment.
Meperidine is an opioid with local anesthetic properties that produces spinal anesthesia after subarachnoid injection for surgical procedures. The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical relevance of spinal meperidine for cesarean delivery.
Twenty-eight ASA I-III parturients scheduled for cesarean delivery were included in the study. Meperidine 1 mg/kg was administered subarachnoid. Patients were monitored for appropriate anesthesia and side effects.
Cesarean delivery was successfully performed under spinal meperidine in 22 cases: two cases required general anesthesia before incision and the duration of sensory anesthesia was too short in four cases. Side effects included moderate hypotension (decrease in arterial blood pressure > 30 mm Hg in 36% of the cases), nausea (32%), and pruritus (10.7%). No respiratory depression was documented in mothers and newborns.
Although short-acting, meperidine can be used as a substitute for local anesthetics for cesarean delivery, especially when local anesthetics are not available.
Two cases of cardiac arrest about 30 min after intramuscular administration of premedication are analyzed. The patients were two young men without serious diseases in the history. The premedication consisted of Thalamonal (Innovar) and atropine. The cardiac arrest responded readily to treatment and there were no further problems. The indication for Thalamonal for premedication is critically analyzed; our conclusion is that it should be used only with caution.
The presence of bisphenol A (BPA) in consumer products has raised concerns about potential adverse effects on reproductive health. Testicular Leydig cells are the predominant source of the male sex steroid hormone testosterone, which supports the male phenotype. The present report describes the effects of developmental exposure of male rats to BPA by gavage of pregnant and lactating Long-Evans dams at 2.5 and 25 μg/kg body weight from Gestational Day 12 to Day 21 postpartum. This exposure paradigm stimulated Leydig cell division in the prepubertal period and increased Leydig cell numbers in the testes of adult male rats at 90 days. Observations from in vitro experiments confirmed that BPA acts directly as a mitogen in Leydig cells. However, BPA-induced proliferative activity in vivo is possibly mediated by several factors, such as 1) protein kinases (e.g., mitogen-activated protein kinases or MAPK), 2) growth factor receptors (e.g., insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor-beta and epidermal growth factor receptors), and 3) the Sertoli cell-secreted anti-Mullerian hormone (also called Mullerian inhibiting substance). On the other hand, BPA suppressed protein expression of the luteinizing hormone receptor (LHCGR) and the 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzyme (HSD17B3), thereby decreasing androgen secretion by Leydig cells. We interpret these findings to mean that the likely impact of deficits in androgen secretion on serum androgen levels following developmental exposure to BPA is alleviated by increased Leydig cell numbers. Nevertheless, the present results reinforce the view that BPA causes biological effects at environmentally relevant exposure levels and its presence in consumer products potentially has implication for public health.
We have examined postoperative muscle pain and early increases in serum concentrations of myoglobin after administration of suxamethonium to see if these changes were dependent on the dose of drug. Thirty ASA I and II adult patients undergoing day-case surgery received a standard anaesthetic technique, including one of three doses of suxamethonium: 0.5, 1.5 or 3.0 mg kg-1. The incidence of postoperative myalgia and the severity of fasciculations were greater after suxamethonium 1.5 mg kg-1 than after a dose of 0.5 or 3.0 mg kg-1. Serum concentrations of myoglobin increased in a dose-dependent manner. Intubating conditions were significantly better with suxamethonium 1.5 or 3.0 mg kg-1 than with 0.5 mg kg-1. Changes in serum concentrations of calcium and potassium were small and similar in the three groups. We conclude that a dose of 3.0 mg kg-1 of suxamethonium provided a better combination of intubating conditions and minimal postoperative myalgia than the two lower doses.
Abnormalities in sodium homeostasis and in atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) behavior could play a role in determining and accelerating the development of glomerular hypertension, hypertension, and microalbuminuria in insulin-dependent diabetes. The aim of the present study was to investigate in 32 hypertensive insulin-dependent diabetic patients (HD) with an altered albumin excretion rate the natriuretic response and ANP release to saline load (2 mmol/kg 90 min, and the effects angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor therapy 2.5 to 5.0 mg cilazapril, once daily), and calcium antagonists (sustained release verapamil: 120 to 240 mg Isoptin Press, once daily, and long acting nifedipine: 20 to 40 mg Adalat AR, twice daily) on sodium homeostasis and albumin excretion rate. Eight normal subjects matched for sex, age, and weight served as controls. The 32 HD patients showed a blunted response in ANP release and sodium excretion during saline infusion in comparison with controls. The cilazapril and verapamil treatments were tested in 16 of the 32 HD patients and were both effective in ameliorating natriuretic and ANP response to saline load and in decreasing albumin excretion rate. The combined cilazapril and verapamil treatment further improved both these parameters in these patients, although blood pressure levels were comparable. The other 16 HD patients underwent sequential verapamil and nifedipine treatment. Verapamil was more effective than nifedipine in improving natriuresis and ANP release to saline load and in lowering the albumin excretion rate. The results of the present study demonstrate that sodium homeostasis and ANP release are altered in hypertensive nephropathic patients, and both cilazapril and verapamil are more effective than nifedipine in ameliorating natriuresis, ANP release, and albumin excretion rate.
Thromboembolic complications are well known side effects of treatment with tamoxifen in patients with breast cancer. The authors review the pathophysiology and the risk factors that increase the probability to develop these complications. The most appropriate treatment is discussed.
A patient with Hodgkin's disease and renal insufficiency became deaf while being treated with high dose oral furosemide. Cessation of furosemide was associated with improvement in his hearing. However, at the time of his death, 11 days after stopping the furosemide, significant hearing impairment was still present. It is suggested that oral furosemide be considered potentially ototoxic, particularly in patients with compromised renal function.
Similar to lipid emulsion propofol, microemulsion propofol also causes a high incidence of pain during intravenous injection. Various methods have been used to minimize the incidence and severity of pain on injection of lipid emulsion propofol. In this study, we investigated the effect of a lidocaine mixture on pain induced by microemulsion propofol injection, and sought to determine the optimal dose of lidocaine that could reduce pain on injecting a propofol-lidocaine mixture.
One hundred sixty (n = 160) patients of American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status class I or II were randomly allocated to four groups: Group A, control; Group B, 20 mg lidocaine; Group C, 30 mg lidocaine; Group D, 40 mg lidocaine. In each patient, pain on microemulsion propofol solution injection was graded as none, mild, moderate, or severe.
The incidence of pain in groups A, B, C, and D was 97.5%, 80%, 65%, and 50%, respectively. Increasing the lidocaine dose significantly reduced pain (P < 0.05). One patient in Group D (2.5%) had moderate to severe pain, which was significantly lower than groups B (42.5%) and C (32.5%) (P < 0.05).
The lidocaine and propofol mixture is effective in alleviating pain associated with microemulsion propofol injection. Within this dose range and in this patients population, increasing lidocaine dosage significantly reduced pain during injection of microemulsion propofol.
The carcinogenic tryptophan pyrolysis products, 3-amino-1,4-dimethyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-1) and 3-amino-1-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-2), have been measured in plasma and red blood cells (RBC) of patients with uremia and normal subjects by using a high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method. In both uremic patients and normal subjects, these carcinogens have been detected in RBC as well as plasma. Trp-P-1 and Trp-P-2 levels in plasma of uremic patients were significantly higher than those of normal subjects. Moreover, these carcinogen levels in RBC (per hemoglobin) were significantly elevated in uremic patients in spite of the presence of severe anemia. These results suggest that patients with uremia are continuously exposed to higher levels of these carcinogens as compared with normal subjects. Our data also support the idea that these carcinogens in plasma and RBC are suitable for monitoring exposure levels in humans.
Previous case reports of seizures following fluoxetine overdose have not adequately ruled out ingestion of other substances and have lacked documentation of increased serum drug levels. We present a case of seizure following fluoxetine overdose in a previously well patient with a clear history of sole ingestion. We ruled out the presence of other substances with comprehensive drug screening and documented increased serum levels of fluoxetine and its active metabolite.
The effect of the dentifrice ingredient triclosan (2,4,4'-trichloro-2'-hydroxyldiphenyl ether) on the production of interleukin (IL)-1beta and IL-6 was studied in human gingival fibroblasts challenged with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) in vitro. When gingival fibroblasts were treated simultaneously with triclosan (0.25, 0.5 microg/ml) and TNFalpha (10 ng/ml), the stimulatory effect of TNFalpha on IL-1beta production was reduced by the agent. In situ hybridisation showed that the TNFalpha-induced expression of IL-1beta mRNA was significantly reduced by triclosan. Furthermore, when the cells were treated simultaneously with a known protein kinase C (PKC) activator, phorbol 12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) and TNFalpha in the presence of triclosan (0.5 microg/ml), the agent reduced the production of IL-1beta. In contrast to its effect on IL-1beta, triclosan did not influence the mRNA expression or the production of IL-6 induced by TNFalpha. The finding that triclosan reduces the production of the inflammatory mediator IL-1beta in gingival fibroblasts further supports the view that triclosan exhibits an anti-inflammatory effect.
A patient with biopsy-proven interstitial nephritis associated with nafcillin and dicloxacillin therapy developed fever, hematuria, pyuria, and renal insufficiency after the administration of carbenicilin five months later. Cephalosporin therapy was given to this patient without signs of renal toxicity. This is the first reported case of probable carbenicillin-induced interstitial nephritis and serves to emphasize the danger of giving any penicillin analogue to patients with a history of pencillin-induced interstitial nephritis.
The last decade has witnessed a development in the phenomenon 'ecstasy'. Several substances, with more or less the same effects, are grouped together by the term ecstasy, the best-known one being 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). The psychopathological consequences of MDMA in humans are relatively poorly understood. In addition, the treatment approach is complicated by the lack of documented studies. Topiramate is an antiepileptic drug that has a broad spectrum of antiseizure effects, which appear to be the result of several neurostabilizing pharmacological mechanisms including facilitation of GABAergic neurotransmission and inhibition of glutametergic activity at AMPA/kainate receptors. As both GABAergic and glutametergic neurons appear to be important modulators of the brain reward system, it was postulated that topiramate would be an effective treatment for reducing MDMA consumption through the attenuation of MDMA-induced euphoria. The case of an ecstasy consumer, who started to discontinue ecstasy under topiramate treatment is presented here. Antiepileptics/mood stabilizers with glutamate inhibition activity like topiramate may present a promising new approach for challenging the consequence of drug abuse.
Ambient particulate matter (PM) exposure is linked to cardiovascular events and death, especially among individuals with heart disease. A model of toxic cardiomyopathy was developed in Spontaneously Hypertensive Heart Failure (SHHF) rats to explore potential mechanisms. Rats were infused with isoproterenol (ISO; 2.5 mg/kg/day subcutaneous [sc]), a beta-adrenergic agonist, for 28 days and subsequently exposed to PM by inhalation. ISO induced tachycardia and hypotension throughout treatment followed by postinfusion decrements in heart rate, contractility, and blood pressures (systolic, diastolic, pulse), and fibrotic cardiomyopathy. Changes in heart rate and heart rate variability (HRV) 17 days after ISO cessation indicated parasympathetic dominance with concomitantly altered ventilation. Rats were subsequently exposed to filtered air or Harvard Particle 12 (HP12) (12 mg/m(3))--a metal-rich oil combustion-derived PM--at 18 and 19 days (4 h/day) after ISO infusion via nose-only inhalation to determine if cardio-impaired rats were more responsive to the effects of PM exposure. Inhalation of PM among ISO-pretreated rats significantly increased pulmonary lactate dehydrogenase, serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and heart-to-body mass ratio. PM exposure increased the number of ISO-pretreated rats that experienced bradyarrhythmic events, which occurred concomitantly with acute alterations of HRV. PM, however, did not significantly affect mean HRV in the ISO- or saline-pretreated groups. In summary, subchronic ISO treatment elicited some pathophysiologic and histopathological features of heart failure, including cardiomyopathy. The enhanced sensitivity to PM exposure in SHHF rats with ISO-accelerated cardiomyopathy suggests that this model may be useful for elucidating the mechanisms by which PM exposure exacerbates heart disease.
We evaluated an amphotericin treatment strategy on the basis of duration of candidemia and clinical findings. Patients without neutropenia who had uncomplicated candidemia received 200 mg of amphotericin B over 5-7 days if they had had </=1 day of documented positive blood cultures (SC group) or a total of 500 mg of amphotericin B over 14-20 days if they had had >1 day of positive cultures (PC group). The clinical cure rate was 93% (95% confidence interval [CI], 77%-99%; n=29 episodes) in the SC group, with no relapses (median follow-up, 272 days). The clinical cure rate was 83% (95% CI, 64%-94%; n=29 episodes) in the PC group, with 1 relapse (4.2%). The results of this pilot study suggest that patients with candidemia may be stratified into risk groups on the basis of the duration of positive blood cultures and other clinical findings. Decisions about the duration of therapy can be made 4-7 days after initiation of treatment. Carefully selected patients with transient uncomplicated candidemia may be safely treated with a short course of amphotericin B. Further prospective validation of this concept should be undertaken particularly to evaluate the impact on low-frequency late complications (e.g., endophthalmitis).
Cirrhosis is a gradually developing, chronic disease which involves the whole liver. Here, we have shown that CD38 undergoes altered expression upon thioacetamide-induced cirrhosis in rats. CD38 is a type II transmembrane glycoprotein that exhibits ADP-ribosyl cyclase and cADPR hydrolase activities. In this study, the gene and protein expressions of CD38 were investigated in a thioacetamide-induced rat model of cirrhosis.
CD38 expression was studied by using real-time RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, and immunoblotting. cADPR content in liver was measured using cycling assay.
There was a significant increase in CD38 mRNA and protein expressions as well as ADP-ribosyl cyclase activity in cirrhotic liver compared to the control liver. cADPR level was found to be modestly but significantly augmented in cirrhotic liver.
These results raised the possibility that altered CD38 expression and a concomitant elevation of the enzymatic activity as well as cADPR may be involved in the pathogenesis of liver cirrhosis.
Massive bleeding owing to cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis was not affected by intravesical instillation of 4 per cent formalin or 1 per cent silver nitrate. After initiation of a continuous systemic infusion of vasopressin hematuria and transfusion requirements diminished markedly. Adverse reactions were mild. Intravenous vasopressin was a safe and effective means to control temporarily life-threatening hemorrhagic cystitis.
Martin--Probst syndrome (MPS) is a rare X-linked disorder characterised by deafness, cognitive impairment, short stature and distinct craniofacial dysmorphisms, among other features. The authors sought to identify the causative mutation for MPS.
Massively parallel sequencing in two affected, related male subjects with MPS identified a RAB40AL (also called RLGP) missense mutation (chrX:102,079,078-102,079,079AC→GA p.D59G; hg18). RAB40AL encodes a small Ras-like GTPase protein with one suppressor of cytokine signalling box. The p.D59G variant is located in a highly conserved region of the GTPase domain between β-2 and β-3 strands. Using RT-PCR, the authors show that RAB40AL is expressed in human fetal and adult brain and kidney, and adult lung, heart, liver and skeletal muscle. RAB40AL appears to be a primate innovation, with no orthologues found in mouse, Xenopus or zebrafish. Western analysis and fluorescence microscopy of GFP-tagged RAB40AL constructs from transiently transfected COS7 cells show that the D59G missense change renders RAB40AL unstable and disrupts its cytoplasmic localisation.
This is the first study to show that mutation of RAB40AL is associated with a human disorder. Identification of RAB40AL as the gene mutated in MPS allows for further investigations into the molecular mechanism(s) of RAB40AL and its roles in diverse processes such as cognition, hearing and skeletal development.
In the present study, we investigated the response of A549 (non-small cell lung-cancer), HepG2 (human hepatoma) and MCF-7 (human breast adenocarcinoma) cell lines to treatment with aclarubicin (ACL). The aim of this research was to compare the ability of ACL to induce apoptosis or necrosis in solid tumours. The mode of cell death induced by ACL was evaluated by flow-cytometry and fluorescence microscopy. We show that the drug induced both apoptosis and necrosis in the cells. Apoptotic cell death was associated with morphological changes, DNA fragmentation, changes in activity of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP) and drug-mediated activation of caspase-3 and caspase-8. The occurrence of all these events was time-dependent. The extent of apoptosis was also dependent on the kind of cell line, the sensitivity to ACL and the intracellular drug content. This study demonstrates that the cells most sensitive to ACL, A549, accumulated a significantly higher level of the drug and were also more susceptible to apoptosis than the other cells. In contrast, the relatively less sensitive HepG2 and MCF-7 cell lines appeared more resistant to apoptosis induction. On the basis of these results, it seems that aclarubicin is able to induce apoptosis in human solid tumours.
Amphotericin B (AmB) continues to be the mainstay of therapy for serious fungal infections, despite its relatively toxic side-effect profile. Lipid preparations of the medication have been marketed in the past few years in an attempt to reduce some of these side effects, especially nephrotoxicity. Although 6 cases of severe hypertension associated with the use of AmB deoxycholate have been reported in the literature, no cases of hypertension associated with a lipid-containing preparation of the medication have been reported. We report here the first case of severe hypertension associated with the infusion of AmB lipid complex (ABLC) in a patient with multiple intraperitoneal and urinary fungal pathogens. We also provide a brief review of the previously reported cases of hypertension associated with the deoxycholate formulation of AmB.
OFF-period dyskinesias have been reported as a consequence of fetal nigral transplantation for Parkinson's disease. This type of dyskinesias may appear in patients even in the prolonged absence of antiparkinson medication and be aggravated by levodopa. Therefore, pharmacological therapeutic approaches in these patients are limited. Here we report two patients with bilateral fetal nigral grafts in the caudate and putamen subjected to deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the globus pallidus internus (GPi) or subthalamic nucleus (STN). Clinical assessment was performed according to UPDRS and the clinical dyskinesia rating scale. In both patients, we found significant improvement in OFF-period symptoms as well as levodopa-induced dyskinesias. However, only GPi-DBS led to a significant reduction of OFF-period dyskinesias whereas STN-DBS did not influence dyskinesias unrelated to external dopaminergic application. These findings, based on two case reports, highlight the pivotal role of the GPi in mediating dyskinesia-related neural activity within the basal ganglia loop.
Gastrointestinal side-effects of prolonged therapy (greater than 2 yr) with the long-acting somatostatin analog octreotide were studied in 10 acromegalic patients. After 2 yr of therapy, 6 of 10 patients had newly developed gallstones, complicated by cholangitis and jaundice in 1. Serum vitamin B-12 concentrations declined in all 10 patients [from 380 +/- 32 to 172 +/- 21 pmol/L (mean +/- SE); P = 0.023] and became abnormally low in 4. Gastric biopsy specimens, obtained during gastroscopy (9 patients), showed moderate to severe active gastritis, with damage to the superficial and deeper layers of the mucosa in 9 of 9 and focal atrophy in 7 of 9 patients. Campylobacter pylori was found in the antral mucosa in 8 of 9 patients. Although information is lacking on similar studies in untreated acromegalic patients, we suggest that patients receiving chronic octreotide therapy be closely monitored for these and possible other side-effects related to gastrointestinal actions of octreotide.
Cystometric recordings were performed in pentobarbitone anaesthetized rats and the effects of gammaaminobutyric acid (GABA) mechanisms on urinary bladder function were evaluated as their influence on a bladder hyperactivity induced by 1-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) after peripheral decarboxylase inhibition. The bladder response was inhibited by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v., 4th ventricle) injections of GABA (250 microgram), muscimol (0.2 microgram) and glycine (1,000 microgram) as well as by systemically administered muscimol (4 mg/kg) and diazepam (2 mg/kg). Intravenous (i.v.) bicuculline, but not i.v. strychnine, antagonized the inhibitory actions of intraperitoneal (i.p.) and i.c.v. muscimol and i.v. diazepam while the opposite was true for the inhibitory action of i.c.v. glycine. In rats not pretreated with L-DOPA, i.p. administration of bicuculline (4 mg/kg) after 15 min caused prominent detrusor contractions that were prevented by an infracollicular brain transection. It is suggested that GABA synapses in the pontinemesencephalic brain region may be involved in the modulation of urinary bladder function.
Ceftriaxone, a third generation cephalosporin, is widely used for treating infection during childhood. The kidneys eliminate approximately 33-67% of this agent, and the remainder is eliminated via the biliary system. Ceftriaxone may bind with calcium ions and form insoluble precipitate leading to biliary pseudolithiasis. The aim of this study was to assess whether ceftriaxone associated nephrolithiasis develops by the same mechanism, and whether this condition is dose related.
The study involved 51 children with various infections. Of these, 24 were hospitalized with severe infection and received 100 mg/kg/day ceftriaxone divided into two equal intravenous doses. The other 27 patients received a single daily intramuscular injection of 50 mg/kg/day. Serum and urine parameters were evaluated before and after treatment, and abdominal ultrasonographic examinations were also carried out before and after treatment.
Serum urea, creatinine, and calcium levels were normal in all patients before and after treatment. Post-treatment ultrasound identified nephrolithiasis in four (7.8%) of the 51 subjects. The stones were all of small size (2 mm). Comparison of the groups with and without nephrolithiasis revealed no significant differences with respect to age, sex distribution, duration of treatment, or dose/route of administration of ceftriaxone. The renal stones disappeared spontaneously in three of the four cases, but were still present in one patient 7 months after ceftriaxone treatment.
Conclusions: The study showed that children taking a 7 day course of normal or high dose ceftriaxone may develop small sized asymptomatic renal stones. The overall incidence of nephrolithiasis in this study was 7.8%.
