Successful treatment of advanced-stage Hodgkin's disease (HD) may critically depend on dose intensity. Because mechlorethamine, Oncovin, procarbazine, and prednisone (MOPP), and Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) are not suitable for major dose escalation, we evaluated the activity and toxicity of combined cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone, and etoposide (CHOPE) in advanced HD, here used at conventional dose intensity, as a preparatory study prior to using this regimen at higher dose intensity. Ninety-two patients were treated with CHOPE (cyclophosphamide, 750 mg/m2, day 1; doxorubicin, 50 mg/m2, day 1; vincristine, 1.4 mg/m2, days 1 and 8; prednisone, 100 mg/day, days 1-5; and etoposide, 80 mg/m2, days 1, 2, and 3) every 21 days. All had advanced HD with no prior chemotherapy with 46% stage IV, 63% with B symptoms, and 57% with bulky disease (> 5 cm). Radiation and growth factor support were not permitted. Full-dose vincristine (not capped at maximum 2 mg/dose) was used in the first 33 patients. An initial cohort of 41 patients was treated with four cycles of CHOPE to evaluate safety and efficacy followed by four cycles of ABVD. A second cohort of 51 patients was treated with 6-8 cycles of CHOPE alone. Toxicity was generally acceptable and primarily hematologic, with neutrophils < 500 in 63% of cohort I and 90% of cohort II, and platelets < 25,000 in 7% of cohort I and 8% of cohort II. The long-term neurotoxicity of full-dose, high-intensity vincristine was acceptable and largely reversible. In cohort I, 92% of patients achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) with four cycles of CHOPE and 85% were in CR after four additional cycles of ABVD. In cohort II, 77% achieved a CR with 6-8 cycles of CHOPE alone. FFS was 76% in cohort I and 59% in cohort II, with a median follow-up of 8.2 and 5.7 years, respectively. CHOPE, at conventional dose intensity as used here, is an effective first-line regimen for the treatment of advanced-stage HD and may warrant evaluation using higher doses of cyclophosphamide and etoposide with granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) support.
This experiment was designed to determine how the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, lisinopril, acts on left ventricular wall stress and cardiac polyamine concentrations in Tsukuba hypertensive mice (THMs) carrying both human renin and angiotensinogen genes. Twelve-week-old THMs were treated with either lisinopril or hydralazine, or were left untreated, for 8 weeks. C57BL/6 mice of similar age were used as normal controls. Each group consisted of 14 mice. The systolic blood pressure of each mouse was measured once a week. Mice were euthanized at 20 weeks of age, and the left ventricular weight, left ventricular diameter, left ventricular wall stress, and left ventricular polyamine concentrations were measured. The systolic blood pressure of the untreated group was approximately 35 mmHg higher than that of the C57BL/6 mice. The left ventricular weight, left ventricular diameter, left ventricular wall stress, and left ventricular polyamine concentrations in the untreated group were significantly higher compared to those in the C57BL/6 mice. The lisinopril group had significantly decreased systolic blood pressure and other measurement items, except the left ventricular wall stress, in comparison with the untreated group. The hydralazine group also had significantly decreased systolic blood pressure and left ventricular wall stress when compared with the untreated group, but no significant differences in other measurement items when compared with the untreated group. These findings indicate that lisinopril reduces left ventricular hypertrophy and polyamine concentration without reducing left ventricular wall stress, and that simply decreasing blood pressure does not suppress left ventricular hypertrophy.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is associated with an increased risk of macrovascular disease. Epidemiological studies suggest that plant polyphenol resveratrol (REV) is associated with reduced risk of cardiovascular diseases. Since chronic inflammatory and endothelial cell activation play a critical role in vascular aging and atherogenesis, we evaluated whether REV can inhibit inflammatory-induced vascular injury in T2DM. We found that REV (50mg/kg/d) can regulate glucose and lipid metabolism, improve insulin resistance and vascular permeability, and protect against the foam cells and cholesterol crystals formation in arterial vessel walls of T2DM rats. The protective effects of REV were consistent with the decrease in nuclear translocation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappa B) and the downregulation of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levers in blood and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) expressions in vascular wall. In addition, REV (10 and 100nmol/L) treatment protected cultured endothelial cells against increases in the expression of TNF-α, ICAM-1, and MCP-1 mRNA and protein induced by high glucose via inhibiting nuclear translocation of NF-kappa B p65. The specific NF-kappa B inhibitor pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate- (PDTC-) or small interfering RNA directed against NF-kappa B p65-mediated downregulation of NF-kappa B p65 was further enhanced by REV (100nmol/L) in the human endothelial cell line EA. hy926. In conclusion, these observations suggest that chronic treatment of T2DM rats with REV attenuates the inflammatory injury of the vascular wall and the effects are associated with down-regulation of the NF-kappa B signal pathway.
Aluminum chloride induces neuroblastoma cell (SH-SY5Y) death following in vitro exposure. The objective of this study is to define apoptosis and necrosis in an in vitro model system of SH-SY5Y cells, and to investigate appropriate defense mechanisms with caspase-3 small interference RNA (siRNA) and necrostatin-1 (Nec-1). SH-SY5Y cells were treated with aluminum chloride for 24 h, followed by analysis of cell death rates and alterations in morphology. The results show that aluminum chloride could induce cell death by a combination of apoptosis and necrosis. Treatment with caspase-3 siRNA resulted in inhibition of caspase-3 gene and protein expression, both indicatives of apoptosis reduction. In addition, decrement of apoptotic rate was evident. Interestingly, treatment with caspase-3 siRNA could markedly up-regulate the expression of LC3- II, indicating a shift of cell death mode, from apoptosis to autophagy. Nec-1 treatment significantly affected necrosis induced by aluminum chloride, resulting in decreased necrotic rates and marked inhibition of LC3- II expression. Results showed for the first time that cell death induced by aluminum chloride could be rescued by caspase-3 siRNA and Nec-1 in SH-SY5Y cells, and co-administration of both produced an additive effect on reducing cell death. These data will pave the way for future studies investigating the prevention of cell death in Al neurotoxicity both in vivo and in vitro.
The case is presented of a 6-month-old girl with theophylline-induced focal seizures associated with tachycardia, tremor and irritability. The serum level of theophylline was 20.0 micrograms/ml 30 min after the onset of seizures, and declined to half this level at 19 h. The ratio of the concentration in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF; 8.9 micrograms/ml) to serum (16.4 micrograms/ml) was 0.54 at 4.5 h after the onset. Despite the cessation of seizures, the EEG showed periodic high voltage delta waves over the right hemisphere and left-sided flatness. Since theophylline diffuses easily through the blood-brain barrier in infancy, serum levels should be maintained below 15 micrograms/ml unless severe bronchial asthma occurs.
We report 3 cases of patients presenting with lid cutaneous leishmaniasis in which clinical presentation was a true diagnostic problem. The patients were 3 women aged 46, 36, and 60 years. The first patient presented with an ulceration of the superior eyelid that had been treated as chalazion. The second patient had a chronic lesion of the eyelid, present for 1 year, fitting the criteria for tuberculosis, syphilis, or sarcoidosis. The last patient had an erosive lesion of the internal canthus, which was suspicious of basal cell carcinoma. The presence of other cutaneous lesions and the chronic progression led to a biopsy for anatomopathology and parasitology analysis. These analyses confirmed the diagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis. The patients were then treated with antimony derivatives. Progression of the disease was marked by the appearance of a pigmented nonretractile scar. The different clinical characteristics, epidemiology, and treatment of this affection are reviewed.
To compare the haemodynamic effect of low dose midazolam and etomidate as induction agent in emergency department rapid sequence intubation.
A prospective observational study in two phases. In phase one, midazolam 2-4 mg was used as induction agent and in phase two, etomidate 0.2-0.3 mg/kg was used. The haemodynamic data were recorded before and after intubation for comparison. Changes in mean systolic blood pressure were analysed with SPSS software.
A 10% decrease in mean systolic blood pressure was observed in the midazolam group (p = 0.001) while there was no significant change in the etomidate group. Some 19.5% of patients had hypotension after being given midazolam while only 3.6% with etomidate (p = 0.002). Patients older than 70 tended to have more hypotension episodes but the difference was not statistically significant.
Midazolam, even in low dose, was more likely than etomidate to cause significant hypotension when used as an induction agent for rapid sequence intubation. Etomidate is a better alternative.
The effects of hypertension induced by norepinephrine and dopamine infusion on the relationship between local cerebral blood flow (CBF) and local glucose use (GU) were examined in rats with the use of quantitative autoradiographic techniques. After rats recovered from anesthesia, dopamine or norepinephrine was infused at a rate that ensured moderate hypertension [mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) approximately 150 mmHg]. During dopamine infusion (approximately 200 micrograms X kg-1 X min-1), overall CBF-to-GU ratio throughout the brain was elevated (P less than 0.0001) when compared with saline controls. In contrast, during norepinephrine infusion (approximately 10 micrograms X kg-1 X min-1), the overall CBF-to-GU relationship was not altered significantly. The differential effect of the catecholamines was a consequence of the marked increases in local CBF and moderate decreases in GU observed during dopamine infusion, whereas during norepinephrine administration CBF and GU were not significantly altered in most brain regions. Blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability was increased during moderate hypertension induced by dopamine and not when induced by norepinephrine. During extreme hypertension (MABP greater than 165 mmHg), heterogeneous increases in CBF and BBB permeability occurred (e.g., in the cerebellum and thalamus). Thus the cerebrovascular response to catecholamine infusion was critically dependent on the agent administered, the level of hypertension achieved, and the brain region examined.
Systems developed to assay oncogenic transformation in vitro represent a rapid and powerful tool to screen and compare carcinogens for their relative oncogenic potential as well as to search for compounds that reduce or inhibit carcinogenesis produced by both physical and chemical agents. An established line of mouse fibroblasts (10T1/2 cells) cultured in vitro were used to compare the incidence of oncogenic transformation produced by X-rays, heat, various hypoxic cell radiosensitizers and a range of commonly used chemotherapy agents. A variety of 2 and 5 substituted nitroimidazoles were tested; these included metronidazole, desmethylmisonidazole, misonidazole, SR-2508, SR-2555, Ro-0741, RSU-1047 and RSU-1021. Most of these sensitizers produced a similar level of transformation; for example a three day exposure of aerated cells to a concentration of 1 mM of the drug resulted in a transformation incidence comparable to 1 Gy of X-rays. The notable exception was SR-2508 which produced a five-fold higher incidence of transformation. The potential carcinogenicity of sensitizers must be considered in choosing which of the currently available new drugs is to be used in clinical trials as an alternative to misonidazole. A variety of chemotherapy agents were tested at a concentration comparable to those used clinically and matched to produce about the same amount of cell killing. It was found that the incidence of oncogenic transformation varied widely. Some agents, such as Vincristine did not produce transformation at a level that could be detected above background, while others such as cis-Platinum appear to be potent carcinogens and produced transformation at a rate an order of magnitude higher than can be achieved by any dose of X-rays. Hyperthermia in the range of 40 degrees C caused no transformation, whether or not the heat treatment was associated with significant cell killing. In addition modest hyperthermia appreciably reduced the transformation frequencies associated with X-ray doses. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), a known space free radical scavenger, has been shown to reduce the level of transformation produced by radiation and sensitizers. To be effective, SOD must be present for prolonged periods during the fixation and expression period of the transformation process.
The ALK(F1174L) mutation is associated with intrinsic and acquired resistance to crizotinib and cosegregates with MYCN in neuroblastoma. In this study, we generated a mouse model overexpressing ALK(F1174L) in the neural crest. Compared to ALK(F1174L) and MYCN alone, co-expression of these two oncogenes led to the development of neuroblastomas with earlier onset, higher penetrance, and enhanced lethality. ALK(F1174L)/MYCN tumors exhibited increased MYCN dosage due to ALK(F1174L)-induced activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and MAPK pathways, coupled with suppression of MYCN pro-apoptotic effects. Combined treatment with the ATP-competitive mTOR inhibitor Torin2 overcame the resistance of ALK(F1174L)/MYCN tumors to crizotinib. Our findings demonstrate a pathogenic role for ALK(F1174L) in neuroblastomas overexpressing MYCN and suggest a strategy for improving targeted therapy for ALK-positive neuroblastoma.
The roots of Averrhoa carambola L. (Oxalidaceae) have a long history of medical use in traditional Chinese medicine for treating diabetes and diabetic nephropathy. 2-Dodecyl-6-methoxycyclohexa-2,5-diene-1,4-dione (DMDD) was isolated from the tuberous roots of A. carambola L. The purpose of this study was to investigate the beneficial effect of DMDD on the advanced glycation end-product-mediated renal injury in type 2 diabetic KKAy mice with regard to prove its efficacy by local traditional practitioners in the treatment of kidney frailties in diabetics. KKAy mice were orally administrated DMDD (12.5, 25, 50mg/kg body weight/d) or aminoguanidine (200mg/kg body weight/d) for 8 weeks. Hyperglycemia, renal AGE formation, and the expression of related proteins, such as the AGE receptor, nuclear factor-κB, transforming growth factor-β1, and N(ε)-(carboxymethyl)lysine, were markedly decreased by DMDD. Diabetes-dependent alterations in proteinuria, serum creatinine, creatinine clearance, and serum urea-N and glomerular mesangial matrix expansion were attenuated after treatment with DMDD for 8 weeks. The activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase, which are reduced in the kidneys of KKAy mice, were enhanced by DMDD. These findings suggest that DMDD may inhibit the progression of diabetic nephropathy and may be a therapeutic agent for regulating several pharmacological targets to treat or prevent of diabetic nephropathy.
Cocaine interacts with dopamine transporters and sigma receptors at concentrations that are achievable in vivo, suggesting that they may both be viable targets for the development of anti-cocaine agents. Rimcazole binds to both of these targets and also attenuates cocaine-induced locomotor activity and sensitization. To further characterize the mechanism(s) underlying the attenuation of cocaine-induced convulsions and lethality, rimcazole and three analogs (SH3/24, SH2/21, SH1/57), with a range of affinities for dopamine transporters and sigma receptors, were evaluated. The highly selective and potent sigma receptor ligand LR176 was used as a reference. Competition binding studies confirmed that the rank order of the compounds at dopamine transporters vs. sigma receptors differed, thus enabling a correlation between the relative anti-cocaine activities of the compounds in behavioral studies and their affinities for dopamine transporters vs. sigma receptors. In behavioral studies, male Swiss Webster mice were pre-treated with one of the compounds (0-60 mg/kg, i.p.), then challenged 15 min later with either a convulsive (60 mg/kg, i.p.) or lethal (125 mg/kg, i.p.) dose of cocaine. When the compounds were ranked according to their protective effect, there was a significant correlation between their anticonvulsant actions and their affinities for sigma receptors, but not dopamine transporters. Although the rimcazole analogs were ineffective against the lethal effects of cocaine, the selective sigma receptor ligand LR176 provided significant protection. These data thus suggest that sigma receptors may mediate some of the toxic effects associated with cocaine and that sigma receptor antagonists may be developed as pharmacotherapeutic agents for this application.
Phenytoin and carbamazepine are effective and inexpensive anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs). As with many AEDs, a broad range of doses is used, with the final "maintenance" dose normally determined by trial and error. Although many genes could influence response to these medicines, there are obvious candidates. Both drugs target the alpha-subunit of the sodium channel, encoded by the SCN family of genes. Phenytoin is principally metabolized by CYP2C9, and both are probable substrates of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein. We therefore assessed whether variation in these genes associates with the clinical use of carbamazepine and phenytoin in cohorts of 425 and 281 patients, respectively. We report that a known functional polymorphism in CYP2C9 is highly associated with the maximum dose of phenytoin (P = 0.0066). We also show that an intronic polymorphism in the SCN1A gene shows significant association with maximum doses in regular usage of both carbamazepine and phenytoin (P = 0.0051 and P = 0.014, respectively). This polymorphism disrupts the consensus sequence of the 5' splice donor site of a highly conserved alternative exon (5N), and it significantly affects the proportions of the alternative transcripts in individuals with a history of epilepsy. These results provide evidence of a drug target polymorphism associated with the clinical use of AEDs and set the stage for a prospective evaluation of how pharmacogenetic diagnostics can be used to improve dosing decisions in the use of phenytoin and carbamazepine. Although the case made here is compelling, our results cannot be considered definitive or ready for clinical application until they are confirmed by independent replication.
Androgen and estrogen play an important role in the pathogenesis of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Estrogen exerts its action through two distinct estrogen receptors (ERs) either ER-α or ER-β. The phytoestrogenic property of silymarin (SIL) has been previously characterized. Thus, this study examined the protective effect of SIL against testosterone-induced BPH in rats. In an initial dose-response study, SIL in a dose of 50mg/kg was the most effective in preventing the rise in prostate weight, prostate weight/body weight ratio and histopathologic changes induced by testosterone. Testosterone significantly decreased ER-β and increased ER-α and AR expressions as compared to the control group and these effects were significantly ameliorated by SIL. Furthermore, SIL significantly protected against testosterone-provoked decline in mRNA expression of P21(WAF1/Cip1) and Bax/Bcl-xl ratio as well as caspase-3 activity. SIL minimized the number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) positive cells as compared to testosterone-treated group. Moreover, SIL significantly blunted the inducible NF-κB expression and restored the oxidative status to within normal values in the prostatic tissues. Collectively these findings elucidate the effectiveness of SIL in preventing testosterone-induced BPH in rats. This could be attributed, at least partly, to its phytoestrogenic, pro-apoptotic and anti-oxidative properties.
Benoxaprofen (BPF) induces a clinical photosensitivity which resembles idiopathic solar urticaria. This response is mediated by degranulation of mast cells. Since mast-cell degranulation is known to be modulated by phospholipid alteration, we examined the effect of BPF and ultraviolet radiation (UV) on phospholipid metabolism of C3H 10 T1/2 cells in culture. BPF + UVB (280-320 nm) induced release of [3H]arachidonic acid (AA) but did not alter the release of [3H]choline from prelabelled cells. This suggests that BPF photosensitizes phospholipase A2 activation. Such activation probably represents an integral step in the mechanism of BPF photosensitization of mast-cell degranulation.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a life-threatening disorder that is associated with heparin exposure. The incidence of HIT in patients undergoing cardiac surgery is relatively rare. We present a case of intratumor haemorrhage in the cavernous sinus 1 week after cardiac surgery. The pathogenesis may be venous thrombosis and haemorrhagic infarct caused by HIT following cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. This is a rare case and has not been reported previously.
An open-label, dose-escalation study was conducted to determine doses of lorazepam required to induce anterograde amnesia and sedation in children without producing excessive toxicity. Oncology patients 4 to 17 years of age undergoing lumbar puncture or bone marrow aspiration were eligible; a patient could be entered in the study for a second procedure at a different lorazepam dose. A single oral dose of lorazepam was administered 45-60 minutes before the procedure. Starting with 0.02 mg/kg, the same dose was given to three patients; if no dose-limiting effects occurred, dose was increased by 0.01 mg/kg. Before the procedure the patient was shown a toy that he or she was later asked to identify. Immediately after the procedure (usually 60-75 minutes after the lorazepam dose), sedation was assessed on a scale of 0 (alert) to 4 (coma), and the clinician performing the procedure was asked to subjectively evaluate sedation. Patients were rated for amnesia 24 hours after the procedure; a scale of 0 (recalls procedure and toy without prompting) to 4 (recalls nothing since procedure) was used. Twenty patients received 28 doses of lorazepam. The study was terminated when two patients who received 0.10 mg/kg had excessive ataxia. Sedation was subjectively considered adequate for 24 of the procedures. Sedation and amnesia scores were not well correlated with increased dose. Amnesia occurred in some patients with doses as low as 0.03 mg/kg. In children undergoing lumbar puncture or bone marrow aspiration, premedication with oral lorazepam 0.02-0.09 mg/kg generally produced adequate sedation for the procedure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Intravenous (10 micrograms/kg) or intracisternal (1 microgram/kg) clonidine inhibited the diuretic response elicited by negative pressure breathing (NPB) or left atrial distension (LAD) in chloralose anaesthetized dogs. The drug reduced the induced tachycardia, but not the increase in respiratory rate elicited by NPB. Blood pressure was unchanged. 2. Propranolol (1 mg/kg IV) did not change NPB-induced diuresis. 3. Intravenous yohimbine (1 mg/kg IV) restored these two diuresis inhibited by intravenous or intracisternal clonidine, whereas prazosin (0.05 mg/kg IV) was without effect. 4. These results show that the adrenergic receptor implicated in the volumetric control of vasopressin secretion could be of the alpha 2 subtype. This alpha 2 adrenoceptor could be localized at a central level. 5. The possible clinical consequences (hydrosaline retention and antihypertensive drugs; use of clonidine in aerospace medicine) of these data are discussed.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor antagonist (Ra) is a naturally occurring IL-1 blocker with a cardioprotective effect during acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Anakinra, recombinant-human IL-1Ra, has been used to prevent heart failure in a mouse model of AMI. The aim of this study was to determine the optimal therapeutic regimen for anakinra in AMI.
We performed dose-response experiments comparing anakinra 1 mg/kg with 100 mg/kg doses, and duration-response experiments comparing 1-week to 2-week treatment. Echocardiography was used to assess cardiac remodeling and systolic function. Histopathology was used to detect apoptotic cardiomyocytes.
A higher dose of anakinra was not associated with additional improvement in cardiac remodeling or function. The 2-week anakinra treatment had sustained and more favorable remodeling and systolic function compared to 1-week treatment with significantly smaller left ventricular end-systolic diameter and greater fractional shortening 4 weeks after AMI.
Anakinra inhibits apoptosis and ameliorates cardiac remodeling up to 4 weeks after infarction. A 2-week regimen is superior to a 1-week regimen, whereas a higher dose did not provide any further benefit over standard doses.
Two well documented cases of torsades de pointes under amiodarone therapy are discussed. This special form of ventricular tachycardia is also known as "twisting around the points" or "cardiac ballet". Our first case involves recurrent torsades de pointes manifesting almost 2 weeks following onset of amiodarone therapy. They were successfully treated by overpacing. In the second case the isolated torsade de pointes was probably not caused by the longlasting and successful use of amiodarone but reflected severe ischemic heart disease and slight hypokalemia. This was confirmed in the one year follow-up, as torsade de pointes was no longer present despite increased dosage of amiodarone. Amiodarone-induced torsades de pointes is very rare. Most cases reported in the literature are poorly documented or were caused by other factors (electrolyte disturbances, other antiarrhythmic medication). If amiodarone has been administered as a matter of utmost necessity, other etiologies must be excluded or eliminated before amiodarone therapy is stopped when torsades de pointes occurs. Torsade de pointes due to amiodarone arises independently of the duration of therapy, the administered dosage and the extent of QT-prolongation. Holter monitoring does not allow a prediction and the benefit of electrophysiological studies is still controversial. The management of patients with amiodarone-induced torsades de pointes includes administration of magnesium and, frequently, overpacing. Due to the long half-life of amiodarone, prolonged temporary pacing may be required. General experience suggested that amiodarone can be used safely in patients who have developed torsades de pointes with other agents.
Caffeine is one of the most frequently ingested neuroactive compounds. All known mechanisms of apoptosis induced by caffeine act through cell cycle modulation or p53 induction. It is currently unknown whether caffeine-induced apoptosis is associated with other cell death mechanisms, such as autophagy. Herein we show that caffeine increases both the levels of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3-II and the number of autophagosomes, through the use of western blotting, electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry techniques. Phosphorylated p70 ribosomal protein S6 kinase (Thr389), S6 ribosomal protein (Ser235/236), 4E-BP1 (Thr37/46) and Akt (Ser473) were significantly decreased by caffeine. In contrast, ERK1/2 (Thr202/204) was increased by caffeine, suggesting an inhibition of the Akt/mTOR/p70S6K pathway and activation of the ERK1/2 pathway. Although insulin treatment phosphorylated Akt (Ser473) and led to autophagy suppression, the effect of insulin treatment was completely abolished by caffeine addition. Caffeine-induced autophagy was not completely blocked by inhibition of ERK1/2 by U0126. Caffeine induced reduction of mitochondrial membrane potentials and apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner, which was further attenuated by the inhibition of autophagy with 3-methyladenine or Atg7 siRNA knockdown. Furthermore, there was a reduced number of early apoptotic cells (annexin V positive, propidium iodide negative) among autophagy-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts treated with caffeine than their wild-type counterparts. These results support previous studies on the use of caffeine in the treatment of human tumors and indicate a potential new target in the regulation of apoptosis.
Acrolein, the most reactive of the alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehydes, is endogenously produced by lipid peroxidation, and has been found increased in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Although it is known that acrolein increases total protein carbonylation and impairs the function of selected proteins, no study has addressed which proteins are selectively carbonylated by this aldehyde. In this study we investigated the effect of increasing concentrations of acrolein (0, 0.005, 0.05, 0.5, 5, 50 microM) on protein carbonylation in gerbil synaptosomes. In addition, we applied proteomics to identify synaptosomal proteins that were selectively carbonylated by 0.5 microM acrolein. Acrolein increased total protein carbonylation in a dose-dependent manner. Proteomic analysis (two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by mass spectrometry) revealed that tropomyosin-3-gamma isoform 2, tropomyosin-5, beta-actin, mitochondrial Tu translation elongation factor (EF-Tu(mt)) and voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) were significantly carbonylated by acrolein. Consistent with the proteomics studies that have identified specifically oxidized proteins in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, the proteins identified in this study are involved in a wide variety of cellular functions including energy metabolism, neurotransmission, protein synthesis, and cytoskeletal integrity. Our results suggest that acrolein may significantly contribute to oxidative damage in AD brain.
Ivermectin (IVM) is exceptionally safe in humans, and is used for mass treatment of onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis. However, cases of encephalopathy, sometimes fatal, have been reported in a small number of individuals who harbored large numbers of Loa loa microfilariae (mf). A loss-of-function mutation in the mdr-1 gene in some dog breeds and in mice leads to accumulation of the drug in the brain, causing coma and death. This hypothesis was tested in four individuals from Cameroon who experienced a post-IVM serious adverse event (SAE) and in nine non-SAE matched controls. No loss-of-function mutation was detected in mdr-1 in any subject. However, haplotypes, associated with altered drug disposition, were present as homozygotes in two of the SAE patients (50%), but absent as homozygotes in the controls (0%). An association of high Loa mf load and a genetic predisposition to altered IVM distribution could be involved in IVM SAEs.
Methotrexate is a folic acid antagonist recognised as one of the most important DMARD's in the rheumatoid arthritis treatment. Although the indisputable efficacy and the good tolerance profile, the broad toxicity spectrum is very variable with respect both to symptoms and intensity. The side effects vary from malaise and asthenia to pneumonitis or pancytopenia, which can be fatal.
To review the adverse effects of methotrexate in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
Literature review, using Medline as a starting point, searching with the keywords "methotrexate", "toxic effects", "adverse effects", "rheumatoid arthritis". The relevant papers and selected references found therein were used.
The gastrointestinal symptoms are the most frequent, but myelossupression and pneumonitis are the most feared ones. Elevation of transaminases could indicate hepatic toxicity, placing the risk of cirrhosis. Cutaneous lesions, neurologic symptoms, changes in the bone metabolism, teratogenecity and hyperhomocysteinemia are other examples of the adverse effects of methotrexate. The post-dosing reactions are still not well known. The folate supplementation is important in the prevention of folate metabolism dependent symptoms. The farmacogenomics may help to identify patients in greater risk for multiple side effects.
Knowing and monitoring the methotrexate side effects is extremely important and should be carefully considered in order to prevent both therapeutic withdrawals due to toxicity as well as fatal outcomes.
Since we may soon be able to choose between primarily CsA- or FK506-based immunosuppression, it is important to establish the superior immunosuppressive agent for the individual patient. In the present study, 121 patients, 61 randomly assigned to FK506- and 60 assigned to CsA-based immunosuppression, were analyzed according to the primary diagnosis for liver transplantation. One-year patient survival was similar in all groups. However, the incidence and severity of acute rejection within the 1st year after transplantation was significantly higher in patients transplanted due to HCV disease who were receiving FK506 (58.8%) compared with those patients receiving CsA (27.8%; p < or = 0.05). Furthermore, the incidence of moderate and severe neurotoxicity was significantly higher during the 1st month after LTX in patients transplanted owing to HCV disease treated with FK506 (35.3%) compared with those patients receiving CsA (16.7%; p < or = 0.05). Irrespective of the immunosuppressive regimen, the incidence of early postoperative neurotoxicity was significantly lower in patients transplanted owing to HBV disease, alcoholic cirrhosis and various other liver diseases summarized than in patients transplanted due to HCV disease receiving FK506 therapy. During the 1st year, the incidence and severity of rejection in patients transplanted due to alcoholic cirrhosis and PBC was significantly lower in patients treated with FK506 (11.1% for both groups) compared with those patients receiving CsA (54.5% and 60.0%, respectively; p < or = 0.05. Furthermore, this was accompanied by a lower incidence of toxicity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
9-Amino-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroacridine (THA) has been reported to cause improvement in patients with senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type. We have examined some effects of THA in vitro and in vivo to define its mechanism of action. In vitro, THA inhibits acetylcholinesterase (AChE) (IC50 = 223 nM) and blocks [3H]AFDX-116 (M2) and [3H]telenzepine (M1) binding (IC50 s of 1.5 and 9.1 microM respectively). In vivo levels of THA were 10-fold higher in brain than plasma following 3.2 mg/kg i.p., a dose which was found to be active in reversing amnesia induced by scopolamine assessed in T-maze tests in rats and passive avoidance tests in mice. Additionally, these brain concentrations were above the IC50 of THA for AChE inhibition. THA (5.6-17.8 mg/kg i.p.) also elevated acetylcholine levels in the rat CNS. THA-induced side effects were blocked by the central muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine, but not by the peripheral antagonists methscopolamine and glycopyrrolate, nor by nicotinic antagonists. We conclude that brain AChE inhibition by THA is sufficient to explain its purported therapeutic activity in Alzheimer's disease and that its favorable brain/plasma distribution in vivo may account for its central cholinergic action without inducing the severe peripheral cholinergic effects typically seen with other AChE inhibitors.
A 62-year-old man who was under observation following an episode of severe chest pain developed complete heart block and hypotension after receiving sublingual nitroglycerin. The reaction occurred while the patient was receiving an intravenous maintenance infusion of lidocaine but did not occur in response to either nitroglycerin alone or lidocaine alone. There was no evidence of acute cardiac ischemia nor of clinically significant underlying heart disease. Complete heart block after sublingual nitroglycerin in the absence of significant cardiac disease is an exceedingly rare phenomenon.
Adopting thrombolytic therapy with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) in clinical practice presents many challenges. One major factor is the restrictive time window of 0-3 hours after symptom onset, for the commencement of treatment.
To test the efficacy of a newly developed plasminogen activator (human tissue urokinase type plasminogen activator [HTUPA]) for the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke within 5 hours of symptom onset.
An open-label, dose escalation trial. The initial dose was 0.3 mg/kg and could be increased or decreased depending on tolerability.
Three teaching hospitals in Taiwan.
Thirty-three patients who presented with National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) scores of between 9 and 20, who had evidence of ischaemic stroke confirmed by CT.
Efficacy was assessed by the NIHSS, the Modified Rankin Scale (MRS), the Barthel Index and the Glasgow Outcome Scale. Preliminary efficacy endpoints included major neurological improvement at 24 hours and favourable outcome at 90 days after administration of HTUPA.
Of the 33 patients who received HTUPA, 29 received 0.3 mg/kg, 3 received 0.35 mg/kg and 1 received 0.4 mg/kg. Major neurological improvement, defined as improvement of > or =4 points on the NIHSS 24 hours after treatment, was observed in 45% of all patients treated (15/33) and in 48% (14/29) of those treated with 0.3 mg/kg. Ninety days after symptom onset, in those who received HTUPA 0.3 mg/kg, the proportion of patients with a favourable outcome was 34% on the NIHSS (< or =1), 45% on the MRS (0 or 1), 41% on the Barthel Index (> or =95) and 45% on the Glasgow Outcome Scale (1). Eighty six percent of the patients treated with 0.3 mg/kg within 0-3 hours of symptom onset reached scores of 0-1 on both the NIHSS and the MRS.
Approximately 50% of patients treated with HTUPA 0.3 mg/kg within a 5-hour window after symptom onset experienced major neurological improvement within 24 hours of drug administration. Thrombolytic agents, in this case HTUPA, may be suitable for Taiwanese or Asian patients with acute ischaemic stroke who meet the inclusion criteria.
Over the last 20 years, mannitol has replaced other osmotic diuretics. Its beneficial effects on intracranial pressure (ICP), cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP), cerebral blood flow (CBF) and brain metabolism are widely accepted. In the present study, we tested the effect of mannitol injection on brain hemodynamic, metabolic, ionic and electrical state in rats exposed to intracranial hypertension.
The parameters monitored simultaneously included ICP, CBF using the laser Doppler flowmetry, mitochondrial NADH redox state by the fluorometric technique, extracellular K(+) and H(+) levels, DC potential, ECoG, blood pressure and calculated CPP. ICP was elevated to 30 mmHg for 30 minutes and mannitol was injected 15 minutes post-ICP elevation.
Our results showed that mannitol decreased ICP, and improved the levels of MAP, CPP and CBF. Moreover, mannitol completely prevented mortality following intracranial hypertension in rats.
It seems that the multiparametric monitoring approach, used in intracranial hypertension models, is an important tool for brain functional state evaluation.
