Benzene is an established human and animal carcinogen. While many of the key mechanisms underlying its carcinogenic effects remain unknown, there is increasing evidence that chromosomal alterations play an important role in the development of the induced leukemias. Inhibition of enzymes involved in DNA replication and maintenance such as topoisomerases by benzene metabolites represents a potential mechanism by which benzene may induce its chromosome-altering effects. Previous work from our laboratory and others has demonstrated that bioactivated benzene metabolites are capable of inhibiting topoisomerase II (topo II) in isolated enzyme and cell systems as well as in mice administered benzene in vivo. The current studies were designed to build upon this hypothesis, and show that in the presence of human myeloperoxidase and H2O2, hydroquinone can be activated to a potent topo II inhibitor. In the absence of dithiothreitol, partial inhibition can be seen at hydroquinone concentrations as low as 50 nM. The potential role of topo II inhibition in the development of benzene-induced leukemia is also discussed in the context of other known leukemia-inducing agents. Current evidence indicates that multiple mechanisms are likely to contribute to benzene-induced leukemias, and that inhibition of topo II could represent an important step in the development of certain leukemia subtypes.
By immunoelectron microscopy the modulation of cytoskeletal organization of podocytes during the course of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis was examined. In control rats, tubulin and vimentin were present, limited to the podocyte cell body and the major processes. Their distribution in the foot processes was virtually negative. Myosin exhibited the same distribution pattern, albeit much more scattered, with no relation to any podocyte organelles or cell structures. Actin was scattered over the fibrillar zones of the cell body and its processes, including the foot processes. In proteinuric rats, loss of foot processes occurred and the glomerular basement membrane was covered by broad cytoplasmic sheets of podocytes, which contained these four subunits of cytoplasmic filaments. Accompanied by the disappearance of proteinuria, the structural organization of the foot processes was completely restored, in which tubulin, vimentin, and myosin were scarcely observed. Our results confirmed that the loss of foot processes is caused by their retraction, and indicated that the specific localization of the podocytic cytoskeleton contributes to the maintenance of the particular cell shape. Its reorganization may account for the structural modification of podocytes.
The formation of thioether conjugates is an important pathway for inactivation of certain carcinogens. This study assessed the mechanism by which the bladder carcinogen 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-thiazole (ANFT) forms a glutathione conjugate (ANFT-SG). Peroxidatic metabolism of ANFT, in the presence of glutathione, results in ANFT-SG formation. Both prostaglandin H synthase and horseradish peroxidase can catalyze this reaction. Metabolism of the reducing co-substrates ANFT, phenol, and aminopyrine elicit increases in oxidized glutathione (GSSG). ANFT-SG formation is potentiated by phenol and aminopyrine. tert-Nitrosobutane (tNB), a thiyl radical trap, prevented increases in both GSSG and ANFT-SG. Increasing concentrations of ANFT elicited corresponding increases in both GSSG and ANFT-SG. Peroxidatic metabolism of ANFT in the presence of glutathione, but not in the absence of glutathione, resulted in oxygen uptake. The formation of GSSG and oxygen uptake are consistent with the presence of thiyl radicals during ANFT metabolism. 5,5-Dimethyl-1-pyrroline N-oxide, a thiyl radical trap, was not as effective as tNB in inhibiting the formation of ANFT-SG and GSSG. Ascorbic acid, a reducing cosubstrate and antioxidant, was very effective in preventing ANFT-SG and GSSG formation, while the strong nucleophile methionine was ineffective. To clarify effects of different test agents, their effects on aminopyrine cation radical formation were assessed. Results are consistent with ANFT reacting with thiyl radicals to form ANFT-SG. ANFT appears to be a thiyl radical trap. Peroxidatic metabolism of ANFT probably results in the formation of a cation radical rather than a carbon-centered radical.
Intra-arterial injections of synthetic double-stranded RNA (polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid, PIPC) at a dose of 500 microg/kg evoked pronounced fever in guinea-pigs. PIPC-induced fever could be antagonized by treatment with the non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor diclofenac and was, in part, attenuated by the administration of the selective COX-2-inhibitor nimesulide (dose: 5 mg/kg for both COX inhibitors). We further investigated whether direct activation of brain cells during PIPC-induced fever could be demonstrated. Using radioactive in situ hybridization, we demonstrated that treatment with PIPC resulted in an upregulation of COX-2 and interleukin-1 beta mRNA in the guinea-pig brain. Thus, COX-2-specific hybridization signals seemed to be mainly associated with brain blood vessels. Intra-arterial injections of PIPC further induced the pronounced nuclear translocation of the transcription factor STAT3 in the endothelium of various fore- and hindbrain areas and in the meninges. In brain structures that lacked a tight blood-brain barrier, i.e. the sensory circumventricular organs (area postrema, vascular organ of laminae terminalis, subfornical organ), the astrocytes and a population of still undetermined cellular phenotype also showed marked STAT3 activation in response to PIPC. The Toll-like receptor-3 agonist PIPC therefore caused a similar activation of brain cells as that reported for other experimental models of systemic inflammation.
The authors hypothesized that the outcomes for young patients who present with primary osteosarcoma of flat bones or secondary osteosarcoma after other primary malignancies are similar because the sites of these tumors rarely makes them amenable to complete surgical resection.
The authors reviewed their experience with 27 patients with primary osteosarcomas involving flat bones and 18 patients with secondary osteosarcomas of any site, evaluating treatment, metastatic patterns, and outcome.
Eleven of the 27 primary osteosarcomas and 10 of the 18 secondary osteosarcomas were at least partially resectable at the time of initial diagnosis. At last follow-up, 10 of the 27 patients with primary flat bone osteosarcoma were alive, eight of whom were disease free. Three of 18 with the secondary osteosarcoma patients were alive, including one with locally recurrent disease after recent disease resections. Chemotherapy with single or combinations of agents rarely yielded responses for primary flat bone or secondary osteosarcomas.
Outcome for both groups of patients was poor due to metastases and failure of local control. Sixteen of the 27 patients with primary osteosarcoma of flat bones died of their tumor; an additional patient died of doxorubicin-related cardiomyopathy and had microscopic disease in the primary site at autopsy. Thirteen of the 18 patients with secondary osteosarcoma died of their second metastatic cancer, 2 additional patients died of doxorubicin-related cardiomyopathy/coccidioidomycosis, and another of acute renal toxicity.
The long-term use of tenofovir, a commonly used anti-HIV drug, can result in renal damage. The mechanism of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) nephrotoxicity is not clear, although it has been shown to target proximal tubular mitochondria. In the present study, the effects of chronic TDF treatment on the proximal tubular function, renal mitochondrial function, and the activities of the electron transport chain (ETC) complexes were studied in rats. Damage to proximal tubular mitochondria and proximal tubular dysfunction was observed. The impaired mitochondrial function such as the respiratory control ratio, 2-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-3,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction, and mitochondrial swelling was observed. The activities of the electron chain complexes I, II, IV, and V were decreased by 46%, 20%, 26%, and 21%, respectively, in the TDF-treated rat kidneys. It is suggested that TDF induced proximal tubular mitochondrial dysfunction and ETC defects may impair ATP production, resulting in proximal tubular damage and dysfunction.
A 39-year-old white man who was taking quinidine developed a purpuric eruption in a photodistributed livedo reticularis-like pattern. This is the fourth reported case of a similar eruption in patients taking quinidine. Possible pathophysiologic mechanisms for nonthrombocytopenic drug-induced purpuras are discussed.
Elderly patients are at a higher risk for inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion when treated with antidepressants. In response to severe depressive symptoms, we initiated treatment with citalopram of an 81-year-old female patient with slightly reduced sodium and chloride levels. The sodium and chloride levels decreased continuously during treatment with citalopram; six days after the citalopram was discontinued, sodium and chloride levels returned to normal. We then switched treatment to mirtazapine. Close monitoring revealed that the patient's sodium and chloride levels never decreased and the patient did not relapse for more than two months. This case study indicates that treatment with citalopram may worsen preexisting hyponatremia. Mirtazapine appears to be safe for use in high-risk, elderly patients.
Two patients with coronary artery disease who developed severe bradycardia (less than 40 beats/min) and hypotension (less than 65/...mmHg) in supine position following the administration of sublingual nitroglycerin in the course of an anginal pain are reported. The administration of intravenous atropine sulfate (1-1.5 mg) readily reverted both hypotension and bradycardia. In one patient this complication was observed three times; in this patient sublingual nifedipine (10 mg) was successfully used to treat subsequent anginal crisis.
microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as regulators of a broad spectrum of neurodevelopmental processes, including brain morphogenesis, neuronal differentiation, and survival. While the role of miRNAs in establishing and maintaining the developing nervous system is widely appreciated, the developmental neurobehavioral role of miRNAs has yet to be defined. Here we show that transient disruption of brain morphogenesis by ethanol exposure results in behavioral hyperactivity in larval zebrafish challenged with changes in lighting conditions. Aberrations in swimming activity persist in juveniles that were developmentally exposed to ethanol. During early neurogenesis, multiple gene expression profiling studies revealed widespread changes in mRNA and miRNA abundance in ethanol-exposed embryos. Consistent with a role for miRNAs in neurobehavioral development, target prediction analyses identified multiple miRNAs misexpressed in the ethanol-exposed cohorts that were also predicted to target inversely expressed transcripts known to influence brain morphogenesis. In vivo knockdown of miR-9/9* or miR-153c persistently phenocopied the effect of ethanol on larval and juvenile swimming behavior. Structural analyses performed on adults showed that repression of miR-153c during development impacts craniofacial skeletal development. Together, these data support an integral role for miRNAs in the establishment of vertebrate neurobehavioral and skeletal systems.
A comprehensive review is presented of the world literature on adverse reactions to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) since its first use in 1968, when concern was expressed about possible hematologic toxicity. Serious toxicity is a rare event, but when it occurs severe skin lesions and thrombocytopenia/leukopenia are the most likely complications. Like other antibacterial agents, TMP-SMZ is associated with gastrointestinal upset, but adverse reactions affecting the kidney, liver, and fetus are rare. If the use of TMP-SMZ in pregnant women and in those known to be sensitive to the drug is avoided and if there is an awareness of possible drug interactions, therapy with the combination in the usual clinical setting is not associated with serious toxicity.
Cirrhosis is characterized by altered lipid and protein metabolism and an excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix components. The aim of this work was to determine the effect of dietary nucleotide intake on the intracellular pools of nucleic acids and nucleotides, hepatic redox state, and protein synthesis during cirrhosis. Rats were given 300 mg/L thioacetamide (TAA) in drinking water and were fed diets without (TAA-Nt) or with nucleotides (Nt) (TAA+Nt, 3 g each of AMP, inosine 5'-monophosphate, CMP, GMP, and UMP per kg diet) for 4 mo. The degree of liver histological injury was less in group TAA+Nt than in TAA-Nt. The intake of nucleotides significantly increased the hepatic concentration of total nucleotides, adenine nucleotides, and ATP+ADP+AMP. Interestingly, the concentration of CDP-choline, a nucleotide necessary for phospholipid synthesis, was significantly higher in TAA+Nt than in TAA-Nt. The hepatic pyruvate:lactate (P = 0.075) and acetoacetate:beta-hydrodybutyrate (P < 0.05) ratios, indicators of cytosolic and mitochondrial redox states, were lower in TAA-Nt than in TAA+Nt. The total protein concentration was higher in the livers of TAA+Nt than in TAA-Nt. Although there were no differences in the expression of the albumin gene, the hepatic albumin concentration was significantly higher in TAA+Nt than in TAA-Nt. These data indicate that the reduction of liver injury in nucleotide-supplemented rats may be due to the increased intracellular availability of key metabolic nucleotides, the restoration of mitochondrial function, and the augmentation of protein synthesis.
A null mutation was prepared in the mouse for CD18, the beta2 subunit of leukocyte integrins. Homozygous CD18 null mice develop chronic dermatitis with extensive facial and submandibular erosions. The phenotype includes elevated neutrophil counts, increased immunoglobulin levels, lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, and abundant plasma cells in skin, lymph nodes, gut, and kidney. Very few neutrophils were found in spontaneously occurring skin lesions or with an induced toxic dermatitis. Intravital microscopy in CD18 null mice revealed a lack of firm neutrophil attachment to venules in the cremaster muscle in response to N-formyl- methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine. A severe defect in T cell proliferation was found in the CD18 null mice when T cell receptors were stimulated either by staphylococcal enterotoxin A or by major histocompatibility complex alloantigens demonstrating a greater role of CD11/CD18 integrins in T cell responses than previously documented. The null mice are useful for delineating the functions of CD18 in vivo.
This study aimed to analyze the impact of replacing heparin with bivalirudin in octogenarians undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) on postprocedure hemorrhage and 6-month mortality.
Randomized trials comparing the antithrombin agent bivalirudin with heparin as the intraprocedural anticoagulant identify a reduction in periprocedural bleeding after PCI. Further, the occurrence of such bleeding seems to predict an increased risk of death or myocardial infarction both in-hospital and at long-term follow-up. Importantly, elderly people who are at the greatest risk of post-PCI bleeding complications are underrepresented in these randomized trials.
From 2000 to 2007, 2,766 consecutive patients from our center who were > or = 80 years of age underwent PCI with stent implantation and were included in this analysis. Bivalirudin was used in 1,207 (43.6%) patients and heparin in 1,559 (56.4%). We compared the rates of post-PCI bleeding complications and 6-month mortality.
The overall in-hospital bleeding and 6-month mortality rates were 4.6% and 11.8%, respectively. By multivariate logistic regression and after adjustment by propensity score analysis, bivalirudin was associated with a significant decrease in in-hospital bleedings (HR = 0.41, 95% CI = 0.23-0.73, P = 0.003). By multivariate Cox analysis, bivalirudin was also associated with a significant decrease (HR = 0.6, 95% CI = 0.4-0.9, P = 0.01) and in-hospital bleedings with a significant increase in the 6-month mortality (HR = 2.5, 95% CI = 1.6-3.9, P < 0.001).
This study suggests an important subset for use of bivalirudin in lieu of heparin that will benefit the very elderly.
Vascular beta 2-adrenergic blocking effects of the water-soluble drugs atenolol (beta 1-selective) and nadolol (nonselective) were evaluated. Twenty-four healthy young men were studied in three dosing groups (eight subjects per group) before and after 1 wk on placebo, atenolol (50 mg twice a day), or nadolol (40 mg twice a day). Maximal treadmill exercise heart rates were reduced to a similar degree by atenolol (-48 +/- 3 bpm) and nadolol (-48 +/- 4 bpm) but were not affected by placebo. Trough blood levels were 226 +/- 9 ng/ml for atenolol and 43 +/- 9 ng/ml for nadolol. Calf blood flow was measured with a plethysmograph and calf vascular resistance was calculated from blood pressure and flow. beta 2-Adrenergic blockade was determined at rest with epinephrine infused intravenously in graded doses from 0.001 to 0.032 micrograms/kg/min. Mean arterial pressure and calf vascular resistance rose markedly after nadolol but not after atenolol or placebo. Marked bradycardia developed after nadolol, probably by baroreceptor stimulation. Thus at an equivalent, substantial degree of beta 1-adrenergic blockade, nadolol blocks vascular beta 2-adrenergic receptors and atenolol does not. Measurement of the peripheral vascular response to epinephrine infusion is an effective means of assessing the impact of beta-adrenergic blockers on vascular beta 2-adrenergic receptors.
Approximately 30-40% of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha)-positive breast tumors express high levels of the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein, and these high levels have been associated with a poorer prognosis in breast cancer patients. We speculate that high levels of COX-2 induce drug resistance in ERalpha-positive breast tumors, thus reducing the survival rate of patients with such tumors. Human breast cancer cell lines that express high levels of COX-2 are generally ERalpha negative. To determine whether COX-2 induces drug resistance, plasmids encoding the COX-2 gene were stably transfected into ERalpha-positive MCF-7 human breast cancer cells (MCF-7/COX-2). MCF-7/COX-2 cells were resistant to the selective estrogen receptor modulator tamoxifen but not to its analog, raloxifene. MCF-7/COX-2 cells were also resistant to the retinoid N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)retinamide (4-HPR) but not to its analog, all-trans retinoic acid. In contrast, the sensitivities of MCF-7/COX-2 cells to doxorubicin and paclitaxel were similar to those of the parental MCF-7 cells. We then determined which COX-2 product, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) or prostaglandin F2alpha is involved in the COX-2-mediated drug resistance. PGE2, but not PGF2alpha, blocked the antiproliferative effects of tamoxifen and 4-HPR. Agonists that activate PGE2 receptors and their downstream kinase effectors, protein kinases A and C, also blocked the growth inhibitory effects of these drugs. Increased levels of Bcl-2 and Bcl-XL proteins have been reported in mammary tumors of COX-2 transgenic mice and in human colon cancer cell lines that have high levels of COX-2. However, we did not observe any changes in Bcl-2, Bcl-XL, or Bax expression induced by COX-2 or PGE2. Here we report the novel findings that COX-2 uses PGE2 to stimulate the activities of protein kinases A and C to induce selectively tamoxifen and 4-HPR resistance in ERalpha-positive breast cancer cells.
Azaspirane (N-N-diethyl-8,8-dipropyl-2-azaspiro [4.5] decane-2-propanamine; trade name, Atiprimod) is an orally bioavailable cationic amphiphilic compound that significantly inhibits production of interleukin 6 (IL-6) and inflammation in rat arthritis and autoimmune animal models. We here characterize the effect of atiprimod on human multiple myeloma (MM) cells. Azaspirane significantly inhibited growth and induced caspase-mediated apoptosis in drug-sensitive and drug-resistant MM cell lines, as well as patient MM cells. IL-6, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), or adherence of MM cells to bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) did not protect against atiprimod-induced apoptosis. Both conventional (dexamethasone, doxorubicin, melphalan) and novel (arsenic trioxide) agents augment apoptosis induced by atiprimod. Azaspirane inhibits signal transducer activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and a PI3-K (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase) target (Akt), but not extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), inhibits phosphorylation triggered by IL-6, and also inhibits inhibitorkappaBalpha (IkappaBalpha) and nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB) p65 phosphorylation triggered by tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). Of importance, azaspirane inhibits both IL-6 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) secretion in BMSCs triggered by MM cell binding and also inhibits angiogenesis on human umbilical vein cells (HUVECs). Finally, azaspirane demonstrates in vivo antitumor activity against human MM cell growth in severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice. These results, therefore, show that azaspirane both induces MM cell apoptosis and inhibits cytokine secretion in the BM milieu, providing the framework for clinical trials to improve patient outcome in MM.
Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced hepatic fibrosis has been considered to be linked to oxidative stress and mediated by aldehydic lipid peroxidation products. In the present study, we investigated whether collagen synthesis is induced by F2-isoprostanes, the most proximal products of lipid peroxidation and known mediators of important biological effects. By contrast with aldehydes, F2-isoprostanes act through receptors able to elicit definite signal transduction pathways. In a rat model of CCl4-induced hepatic fibrosis, plasma F2-isoprostanes were markedly elevated for the entire experimental period; hepatic collagen content also increased. When hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) from normal liver were cultured with F2-isoprostanes in the concentration range found in the in vivo studies (10(-9)-10(-8) M), a striking increase in DNA synthesis (reversed by the thromboxane A2 antagonist SQ 29 548), in cell proliferation and in collagen synthesis was observed. Total collagen content was similarly increased. Moreover, F2-isoprostanes markedly increased the production of transforming growth factor-beta1 by U937 cells, considered a model of liver macrophages. The data provide evidence for the possibility that F2-isoprostanes generated by lipid peroxidation in hepatocytes mediate HSC proliferation and collagen production seen in hepatic fibrosis.
Benzene can result in bone marrow suppression. Chronic benzene poisoning (CBP) can be found among workers with excessive benzene exposure. CBP could give the appearance of different types of disorders such as leukopenia, agranulocytosis, anemia, pancytopenia, aplastic anemia (AA), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and leukemia. This paper describes 43 CBP cases with the patients' ages ranging from 18 to 36 years (average: 23 years). Among them, 13 (30%) were male and 30 (70%) were female. Their job titles were furniture maker, shoemaker, industrial painter and metal shop worker. Their work durations ranged from 1.5 to 72 months (average: 14 months). Benzene levels in these workplaces exceeded 30 mg/m3. Ten of the 43 cases (23%) were diagnosed as mild cases of CBP, another 10 (23%) were moderate, and 23 (53%) were severe. Treatment for CBP included the following: cessation of benzene exposure, general supportive therapy, antibiotics, vitamins, corticosteroids, androgens, colony-stimulating factors (G-CSF, GM-CSF), blood component therapy, and traditional Chinese medicine. Thirty-three (77%) of the cases recovered completely, nine (21%) cases improved, and one (2%) died. In general, prognosis of CBP cases is optimistic when appropriate treatment is given. However, a few of the benzene-induced AA cases showed no response to treatment, which raises questions about the traditional view of the pathogenesis of the illness. Furthermore, only a part of the population with the same level of benzene exposure would suffer from the disease. Still, CBP cases with the same benzene exposure level exhibited different extents of severity of the illness. This evidence suggests strongly the existence of individual susceptibility. Detection of the biological markers regarding the individual susceptibility would be valuable for screening workers who are not suitable to be exposed to benzene.
One hundred children, aged 1-9 yr, undergoing adenoidectomy were randomized to receive ketoprofen 1 mg kg-1 either i.v. with an oral placebo (n = 40) or ketoprofen 1 mg kg-1 orally with an i.v. placebo (n = 40), or both oral and i.v. placebo (n = 20). The study design was prospective and double blind with parallel groups. The pain was assessed at rest and during swallowing using the Maunuksela pain scale (0 = no pain, 10 = worst possible pain) after surgery for 3 h. Fentanyl 0.5 microgram kg-1 i.v. was given for rescue analgesia. Children in the i.v. group needed significantly less doses (1, 1-3; median and 10th/90th percentiles) of rescue analgesic compared with the oral group (2, 1-3; P = 0.024). Of those who needed rescue analgesic, three out of 30 children in the i.v. group required three or more doses of fentanyl compared with 10 out of 28 children in the oral group. There were no differences between the groups with respect to pain scores, operation times, perioperative bleeding or frequency of adverse events.
A 69-year-old man developed pure red cell aplasia after taking fenoprofen for ten months. The erythroid defect fully reversed after the drug was discontinued and could not be attributed to the patient's previously treated lung carcinoma. This case represents the third example of erythroid aplasia associated with an anti-inflammatory agent and the first instance due to fenoprofen.
Following an elective Caesarean section under extradural anaesthesia, a 30-yr-old known epileptic woman (gravida 4, para 3) developed a tonic-clonic seizure, 6 h after the administration of morphine 3 mg into the extradural space. Possible aetiological factors are discussed.
Inadvertent intraneural injection of local anesthetics may result in neurologic injury. We hypothesized that an intraneural injection may be associated with higher injection pressures and an increase in the risk of neurologic injury.
The study was conducted in accordance with the principles of laboratory animal care, and was approved by the Laboratory Animal Care and Use Committee. Fifteen dogs of mixed breed (16-21 kg) were studied. After general endotracheal anesthesia, the sciatic nerves (n= 30) were exposed bilaterally. Under direct vision, a 25-gauge, long-beveled needle (30 degrees) was placed either epineurally (n= 10) or intraneurally (n= 20), and 4 ml of preservative-free lidocaine 20 mg/ml was injected using an automated infusion pump (4 ml/min). Injection pressure data were acquired using an in-line manometer coupled to a computer via an analog-to-digital conversion board. After injection, the animals were awakened and subjected to serial neurologic examinations. One week later, the dogs were killed, the sciatic nerves excised and histologic examination was performed by pathologists blind to the purpose of the study.
All perineural injections resulted in low pressures (< or = 5 psi). In contrast, eight of 20 intraneural injections resulted in high pressures (20-38 psi) at the beginning of the injection. Twelve intraneural injections, however, resulted in pressures of less than 12 psi. Neurologic function returned to baseline within 3 h after perineural injections and within 24 h after intraneural injections, when the measured injection pressures were less than 12 psi. Neurologic deficits persisted throughout the study period after all eight intraneural injections that resulted in high injection pressures. Histologic examination of the affected nerves revealed fascicular axonolysis and cellular infiltration.
The data in our canine model of intraneural injection suggest that intraneural injections do not always lead to nerve injury. High injection pressures during intraneural injection may be indicative of intrafascicular injection and may predict the development of neurologic injury.
The antidepressant amitriptyline is used as an adjuvant in the treatment of chronic pain conditions. Among its many actions, this drug also blocks ion channels, such as Na channels. Preliminary animal studies suggested that amitripty-line would be a longer-lasting local anesthetic than bupivacaine, with potentially fewer side effects. Therefore, the authors investigated the adverse effects and effectiveness of this drug when given for ulnar nerve blockade in human volunteers.
After obtaining written institutional review board approval and informed consent, a typical phase Ia trial was conducted by administration to the ulnar nerve at the level of the wrist in an open-label, dose-escalating fashion. Amitripty-line hydrochloride, 4 ml, at concentrations of 5, 10, and 20 mM (n = 4-9/group) was used for each volunteer. If no major side effects and nerve block were encountered, comparison in a randomized, double-blinded trial of amitriptyline (20 mM) to placebo and bupivacaine (4 mM) (n = 4-9/group), was to follow. A blunt needle was used to grade the pain, and motor blockade was assessed by the Froment test.
There was no significant statistical difference in terms of side effects (pain, swelling, erythema, and sedation) among any groups. The analgesic effects of 20 mM amitriptyline and 4 mm bupivacaine solution were significantly higher than those of the placebo solution.
Because of the lack of evidence that amitripty-line provides better nerve blockade than current local anesthetics and the potential for neurotoxicity, its use for peripheral nerve blockade in humans seems limited.
From 1985 to 1995, 172 patients (149 on self intracavernous injection of vasoactive drugs, 16 with Sickle cell disease, 6 surgical patients under heparin therapy, and 1 after oral administration of trazodone), having experienced one or several episodes of priapism, lasting from 3 h to 8 days have been treated or submitted to self medication with alpha-agonist agents (eprephrine, phenylephrine or etilefrine) with an eventual drainage of the corporae. All episodes have disappeared and sexual function was preserved. A conservative treatment of priapism has been designed using corporal drainage and intracavernous etilefrine for acute priapism; as well as preventive treatment for those of the patients exposed to Sickle cell disease to avoid surgery and its frequent fribrotic sequelae, leading to impotence in 50% of the cases.
