Clinical and experimental studies implicate the use of serotonin (5-HT)1A receptor agonists for the reduction of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID). Although raphe nuclei likely play a role in these antidyskinetic effects, an unexplored population of striatal 5-HT1A receptors (5-HT1AR) may also contribute. To better characterize this mechanism, L-DOPA-primed hemiparkinsonian rats received the 5-HT1AR agonist +/-8-OH-DPAT (0, 0.1, 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) with or without cotreatment with the 5-HT1AR antagonist WAY100635 (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) 5 min after L-DOPA, after which abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), rotations, and forelimb akinesia were quantified. To establish the effects of 5-HT1AR stimulation on L-DOPA-induced c-fos and preprodynorphin (PPD) mRNA within the dopamine-depleted striatum, immunohistochemistry and real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, respectively, were used. Finally, to determine the contribution of striatal 5-HT1AR to these effects, L-DOPA-primed hemiparkinsonian rats received bilateral intrastriatal microinfusions of +/-8-OH-DPAT (0, 5, or 10 microg/side), WAY100635 (5 microg/side), or both (10 microg + 5 microg/side) 5 min after L-DOPA, after which AIMs and rotations were examined. Systemic +/-8-OH-DPAT dose- and receptor-dependently attenuated L-DOPA-mediated AIMs and improved forelimb akinesia. Striatal c-fos immunoreactivity and PPD mRNA ipsilateral to the lesion were strongly induced by L-DOPA, while +/-8-OH-DPAT suppressed these effects. Finally, intrastriatal infusions of +/-8-OH-DPAT reduced AIMs while coinfusion of WAY100635 reversed its antidyskinetic effect. Collectively, these results support the hypothesis that the cellular and behavioral properties of 5-HT1AR agonists are conveyed in part via a population of functional 5-HT1AR within the striatum.
Cyclosporine (CsA) immunosuppressive therapy of renal allograft recipients at Brigham and Women's Hospital yielded a 20% increase in 12- and 24-month allograft survival over azathioprine (Aza) treated controls. A trend towards increased allograft survival with better HLA-A,B, or DR matching in recipients of cadaver allografts treated with CsA was appreciated, but it fell short of statistical significance. Nephrotoxicity is common in CsA-treated patients and is manifested by a largely reversible increase in the serum creatinine. It is possible to convert patients from CsA to Aza without adverse effects on allograft survival or allograft function.
Prostaglandins (PGs) might play a role as putative transmitters or as modulators in the central nervous system (CNS). In the present study, haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.)-treated mice showed significant cataleptic behaviour. Naproxen, a nonselective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor, dose-dependently (5 and 10 mg/kg) antagonized the haloperidol-induced catalepsy in mice. Nimesulide, a preferential COX inhibitor, also dose-dependently reduced the cataleptic score in haloperidol treated animals at the first and second hour but not at the third and fourth hour of haloperidol treatment. Rofecoxib, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, did not show any effect on haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The major findings of the present study suggest that PGs might play a significant role in haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The findings of the present study further suggested that COX-1 derived rather than COX-2 derived PGs might play a potential role in haloperidol-induced catalepsy. In conclusions COX inhibitors can be screened as potential drug candidates for the treatment of neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal side effects (EPS).
To study the in vitro adhesion of polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMNLs) to endothelial cells in patients with Behçet's disease (BD), and the humoral and cellular factors which may contribute to adhesion.
A total of 118 patients with BD and 60 healthy controls were studied. In vitro adhesion of chromium-51 labelled normal neutrophils to human umbilical vascular endothelial cell (HUVEC) monolayers were studied in the presence of normal serum or serum obtained from patients with BD. Adhesion of neutrophils from patients with BD to HUVEC stimulated with tumour necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin-1 (IL-1), and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and adhesion molecule (CD11a, CD11b, CD18 and L-selectin) expression on the patient's neutrophils and lymphocytes were determined, and the serum concentration of IL-8 was measured.
Sera from patients with BD were found to enhance the adherence of normal PMNLs to HUVEC monolayers in vitro. Patients' sera induced an increase in surface expression of CD11a and CD18 on normal neutrophils and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression on HUVECs. The number of CD11a positive neutrophils was greater in the blood of patients with BD than in that of healthy controls (89.4% v 71%; p < 0.001). Pretreatment of HUVECs with IL-1 alpha, TNF alpha or LPS resulted in an increased adhesion of patients' PMNLs greater than that observed for normal PMNLs. Monoclonal antibodies to CD11a, CD11b, CD18, and ICAM-1 caused varying degrees of inhibition of neutrophil adhesion. The concentration of IL-8 was also found to be significantly increased in sera of patients with BD (490 (SD 470) pg/ml) compared with normal controls (97.5 (56.3) pg/ml).
Abnormalities of neutrophils, endothelial cells, or both, have been suggested to be responsible for many of the clinical manifestations of BD. Our findings may explain the underlying mechanism of neutrophil accumulation in Behçet's lesions.
The effects of administration of taurine, GABA and glycine, into the lateral cerebral ventricle, on cardiovascular function were assessed in urethane-anaesthetized rats. Intraventricular administration of either taurine (10-30 micrograms), GABA (5-20 micrograms) or glycine (5-20 micrograms) caused a dose-dependent decrease in both the heart rate and the mean arterial pressure. For example, both the heart rate and the mean arterial pressure fell almost immediately and reached their minimum levels about 5 min after an injection of 20 micrograms of taurine. The cardiovascular responses recovered about 30 min after the injection of taurine. Also, reflex bradycardia was produced in the rats by intravenous infusion of adrenaline (1-5 micrograms/kg). Intraventricular pretreatment of the rats with either taurine, GABA or glycine, although causing no change in the adrenaline-induced pressor effect, did enhance the adrenaline-induced reflex bradycardia. However, pretreatment of the rats intravenously with the same dose of taurine, GABA or glycine had no effect on the adrenaline-induced bradycardia. These data indicate that these amino acids act through a central mechanism to facilitate reflex bradycardia mediated through baroceptor reflexes in response to an acute increase in arterial pressure.
To assess the risk of serious gastrointestinal and thromboembolic complications with approved doses of meloxicam.
We pooled data from clinical trials of meloxicam at doses of 7.5 or 15 mg/d. A blinded gastrointestinal adjudication committee used prespecified criteria to identify gastric or duodenal perforation, gastric outlet obstruction, or hemodynamically important upper gastrointestinal bleeding. For analysis of thromboembolic complications, investigator-reported events were analyzed without adjudication.
We analyzed data from 24,196 patients from 28 trials, most of whom had been followed for up to 60 days. Of these patients, 13,118 received meloxicam (10,158 received a daily dose of 7.5 mg and 2960 received 15 mg), 5283 were treated with diclofenac 100 mg, 181 received diclofenac 150 mg, 5371 were treated with piroxicam 20 mg, and 243 received naproxen 500 mg twice daily. Patients who received 7.5 mg of meloxicam daily had a 0.03% risk of serious upper gastrointestinal events, which was significantly lower than the risk in those who received diclofenac, naproxen, or piroxicam (P <0.02). With the 15 mg daily dose of meloxicam, this risk was significantly different only when compared with piroxicam (P = 0.03). The risk of thromboembolic events in patients treated with meloxicam at either dose was lower than with diclofenac, but similar to that observed with piroxicam and naproxen.
This pooled analysis of 24,196 patients demonstrates that meloxicam has a favorable gastrointestinal and thromboembolic safety profile. However, only a small number of patients were followed for more than 60 days, and meaningful comparisons were not possible in this subgroup.
In this study, we demonstrated a decreased level of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) with a large number of oxidized bases in hippocampi of rats with epilepsy induced by pilocarpine. In order to verify the underlying mechanism of mtDNA impairment, we detected the response of antioxidant defense system and mitochondrial base excision repair (mtBER) pathway. Superoxide dismutase2 (SOD-2) and glutathione (GSH) were significantly decreased in the experimental group, manifesting a decreased capacity of scavenging free radicals. Mitochondrial base excision repair (mtBER) pathway, which is the main repair pathway for the removal of oxidative base modifications, displayed unbalanced expression in epileptic group. DNA polymerasegamma (polgamma) increased, while apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease (APE1), one of mtBER initiators, decreased in mitochondria in the chronic phase of epileptogenesis. In conclusion, mtDNA was impaired during chronic recurrent seizures, whereas the endogenous antioxidants and the mtBER pathway failed to respond to the elevated mtDNA damage.
Changes in plasma lipids and abnormal lipoproteins in a patient with ticlopidine hydrochloride-induced hepatitis were studied. Total cholesterol, free cholesterol and phospholipids increased markedly during cholestasis. Lipoprotein electrophoresis showed a large lipoprotein-X band and a relatively small alpha-lipoprotein band. As cholestatic hepatitis improved, all plasma lipids were progressively decreased. A broad band of abnormal alpha-lipoprotein appeared for the first time with the decrease in the lipoprotein-X band. Both abnormal lipoproteins decreased further and eventually disappeared. The appearance of abnormal alpha-lipoprotein was accompanied by changes in apoproteins. These findings suggest that abnormal alpha-lipoprotein might be an intermediate metabolite of lipoprotein-X.
Gambogic acid (GA), a major active component of gamboge, exhibits potent anticancer activity in many kinds of cancer cells. However, the anticancer mechanism of GA is not clearly understood. Here we showed that GA could cause growth inhibition, induce the G0/G1 phase cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in human chronic myelogenous leukemia cell line K562 cells. Since steroid receptor coactivator-3 (SRC-3), overexpressed in many human malignancies including leukemia, is a central target for cancer therapy, we also explored the effects of GA on SRC-3 and SRC-3-regulated gene products in K562. GA treatment downregulated the expression of SRC-3 and then inhibited the activity of Akt kinase and its downstream targets p70 S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) without changes in total protein levels of these three proteins, which thus influenced the expression of the apoptosis related gene Bcl-2 in K562 cells. These results suggest that GA might exhibit its strong antitumor effects via the interruption of SRC-3.
The etiology of seizures associated with cocaine use is unclear. Because cocaine seizures are relatively uncommon, they should be diagnosed by exclusion and a neurological workup to rule out central nervous system (CNS) catastrophe should be made. This report describes the clinical findings, treatment, and blood cocaine and metabolite concentrations in a patient who, on two separate occasions, had seizures associated with crack cocaine ingestion. Approximately 1 hour after the ingestion incidents, the patient had multiple, generalized seizures that abated spontaneously. His workup for CNS bleeding, infection, and trauma was negative. Cocaine concentrations on the first incident peaked at 2.48 mg/L and on the second incident peaked at 3.9 mg/L. Other clinical findings included tachycardia, hypertension, diaphoresis, and disorientation. Blood cocaine and metabolite analysis revealed extremely high concentrations. Other than the incident of seizures and transient cardiovascular aberrations, these high concentrations were tolerated by the patient without further sequelae. A review of cocaine-induced seizures and treatment is included.
To assess the efficacy of telavancin, a rapidly bactericidal lipoglycopeptide, and three comparator agents in a murine model of pneumonia induced by methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA).
Female Bagg inbred albino c-strain (BALB/c) mice were rendered neutropenic and infected by intranasal inoculation (50 microL) of 10(7) cfu of S. aureus ATCC 29213. Infected mice were then allocated to one of five treatment arms: subcutaneous (sc) telavancin 40 mg/kg every 12 h, sc nafcillin 40 mg/kg every 4 h, sc vancomycin 110 mg/kg every 12 h, intravenous linezolid 80 mg/kg every 12 h or no drug (control group). Test compounds were studied under low and high pre-treatment titre conditions by initiating drug treatment at 4 and 8 h post-inoculation, respectively. Drug doses were calculated to simulate human exposures (area under the curve or t > MIC) at therapeutic doses. Lungs were harvested and homogenized 24 and 48 h after inoculation to determine the bacterial titre.
At 48 h post-inoculation in the low and high pre-treatment titre groups, respectively, telavancin produced greater reductions (from pre-treatment values) in bacterial burden (-4.3 and -3.2 log(10) cfu/g) than nafcillin (-1.3 and -1.8 log(10) cfu/g), vancomycin (-2.9 and -2.2 log(10) cfu/g) and linezolid (-0.4 and +0.3 log(10) cfu/g).
These findings support the potential clinical utility of telavancin in the treatment of MSSA pneumonia.
We have identified truncating mutations in the human DLG3 (neuroendocrine dlg) gene in 4 of 329 families with moderate to severe X-linked mental retardation. DLG3 encodes synapse-associated protein 102 (SAP102), a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase protein family. Neuronal SAP102 is expressed during early brain development and is localized to the postsynaptic density of excitatory synapses. It is composed of three amino-terminal PDZ domains, an src homology domain, and a carboxyl-terminal guanylate kinase domain. The PDZ domains interact directly with the NR2 subunits of the NMDA glutamate receptor and with other proteins responsible for NMDA receptor localization, immobilization, and signaling. The mutations identified in this study all introduce premature stop codons within or before the third PDZ domain, and it is likely that this impairs the ability of SAP102 to interact with the NMDA receptor and/or other proteins involved in downstream NMDA receptor signaling pathways. NMDA receptors have been implicated in the induction of certain forms of synaptic plasticity, such as long-term potentiation and long-term depression, and these changes in synaptic efficacy have been proposed as neural mechanisms underlying memory and learning. The disruption of NMDA receptor targeting or signaling, as a result of the loss of SAP102, may lead to altered synaptic plasticity and may explain the intellectual impairment observed in individuals with DLG3 mutations.
The spread of chemicals, including insecticides, into the environment often raises public health concerns, as exemplified by a recent epidemiologic study associating in utero piperonyl butoxide (PBO) exposure with delayed mental development. The insecticide synergist PBO is listed among the top 10 chemicals detected in indoor dust; a systematic assessment of risks from PBO exposure, as for many toxicants unfortunately, may be underdeveloped when important biological targets that can cause toxicity are unknown. Hedgehog/Smoothened signaling is critical in neurological development. This study was designed to use novel high-throughput in vitro drug screening technology to identify modulators of Hedgehog signaling in environmental chemicals to assist the assessment of their potential risks. A directed library of 1408 environmental toxicants was screened for Hedgehog/Smoothened antagonist activity using a high-content assay that evaluated the interaction between Smoothened and βarrestin2 green fluorescent protein. PBO was identified as a Hedgehog/Smoothened antagonist capable of inhibiting Hedgehog signaling. We found that PBO bound Smoothened and blocked Smoothened overexpression-induced Gli-luciferase reporter activity but had no effect on Gli-1 downstream transcriptional factor-induced Gli activity. PBO inhibited Sonic Hedgehog ligand-induced Gli signaling and mouse cerebellar granular precursor cell proliferation. Moreover, PBO disrupted zebrafish development. Our findings demonstrate the value of high-throughput target-based screening strategies that can successfully evaluate large numbers of environmental toxicants and identify key targets and unknown biological activity that is helpful in properly assessing potential risks.
Deferoxamine or desferrioxamine (DFO) is a chelating agent, largely used in patients with chronic renal failure, although it has many side effects, being ototoxicity one of them. In this paper we studied the eventually adverse otologic effects of DFO in 20 patients receiving haemodialysis. A complete audiological evaluation, including pure-tone audiometry, brainstem auditory evoked potentials and high-frequency audiometry, was performed. The results showed a sensorineural hearing loss of retrocochlear origin in 3/20 cases (15%). We can accept that ototoxic effects of DFO are minimal, but no inexistent. Because of these we considered highly recommendable an accurate control of hearing in patients with renal disease receiving DFO.
Phthalates are environmental hormone-like molecules that are associated with breast cancer risk and are involved in metastasis, a process that requires the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, few studies have addressed the potential effects of phthalates on stem cells. Here we tested the hypothesis that phthalates such as butyl benzyl phthalate and di-n-butyl phthalate induce EMT in R2d cells, a stem cell-derived human breast epithelial cell line that is responsive to estradiol for tumor development. We observed that phthalates induced EMT as evidenced by morphological changes concomitant with increased expression of mesenchymal markers and decreased expression of epithelial markers. Molecular mechanism studies revealed that histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) is required for phthalate-induced cell migration and invasion during EMT in vitro and metastasis into the lungs of nude mice. We also constructed a series of mutant HDAC6 promoter fragments and found that the transcription factor AP-2a plays a novel role in regulating the HDAC6 promoter. Furthermore, phthalates stimulated estrogen receptors and triggered the downstream EGFR-PKA signaling cascade, leading to increased expression of AP-2a in the nucleus. We also observed that phthalates increased expression of the PP1/HDAC6 complex and caused Akt activation and GSK3β inactivation, leading to transcriptional activation of vimentin through the β-catenin-TCF-4/LEF1 pathway. Understanding the signaling cascades of phthalates that activate EMT through HDAC6 in breast epithelial stem cells provides the identification of novel therapeutic target for human breast cancer.
Eighty-six participants wishing to stop benzodiazepine and who met DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th ed. American Psychological Association, 1994) criteria for anxiety disorder or insomnia were assessed pre- and post-taper on clinical, pharmacological and psychosocial measures. An initial cohort of 41 participants received treatment as usual (taper only) plus physician counselling in the same clinic setting. A second cohort of 45 participants were randomly allocated to group cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) plus taper, or group support (GS) plus taper. At 3 months follow-up, the outcomes in both the CBT and the GS subgroups were equivalent. Intention to treat analysis revealed a slight advantage to the CBT over the GS group and the CBT group showed higher self-efficacy post-taper.Over all 86 participants, a high-baseline level of psychological distress, anxiety and dosage predicted a poor outcome, but increase in self-efficacy contributed to a successful outcome particularly in those with initially poor baseline predictors. Although there was a decrease in positive affect during preliminary stages of tapered discontinuation compared to baseline, there was no significant overall increase in negative affect.
CYP1B1-null mice, created by targeted gene disruption in embryonic stem cells, were born at the expected frequency from heterozygous matings with no observable phenotype, thus establishing that CYP1B1 is not required for mouse development. CYP1B1 was not detectable in cultured embryonic fibroblast (EF) or in different tissues, such as lung, of the CYP1B1-null mouse treated with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonist 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin whereas the equivalent wild-type EF cells express basal and substantial inducible CYP1B1 and lung expresses inducible CYP1B1. CYP1A1 is induced to far higher levels than CYP1B1 in liver, kidney, and lung in wild-type mice and is induced to a similar extent in CYP1B1-null mice. 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) was toxic in wild-type EFs that express CYP1B1 but not CYP1A1. These cells effectively metabolized DMBA, consistent with CYP1B1 involvement in producing the procarcinogenic 3,4-dihydrodiol as a major metabolite, whereas CYP1B1-null EF showed no significant metabolism and were resistant to DMBA-mediated toxicity. When wild-type mice were administered high levels of DMBA intragastrically, 70% developed highly malignant lymphomas whereas only 7.5% of CYP1B1-null mice had lymphomas. Skin hyperplasia and tumors were also more frequent in wild-type mice. These results establish that CYP1B1, located exclusively at extrahepatic sites, mediates the carcinogenicity of DMBA. Surprisingly, CYP1A1, which has a high rate of DMBA metabolism in vitro, is not sufficient for this carcinogenesis, which demonstrates the importance of extrahepatic P450s in determining susceptibility to chemical carcinogens and validates the search for associations between P450 expression and cancer risk in humans.
Emodin, a bioactive anthraquinone widely used in Chinese traditional medicine, disrupts mouse testicular gene expression in vivo. In this study, we investigated the toxicity of emodin to human sperm in vitro. Different doses of emodin (25, 50, 100, 200 and 400μM) were applied to ejaculated human sperm. The results indicated that 100, 200 and 400μM emodin significantly inhibited the total motility, progressive motility and linear velocity of human sperm. In addition, sperm's ability to penetrate viscous medium together with progesterone induced capacitation and acrosome reaction was also adversely affected by emodin. In contrast, emodin did not affect sperm viability. Furthermore, intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]i) and tyrosine phosphorylation, which serve as key regulators of sperm function, were dose-dependently reduced by emodin (50-400μM). These results suggest that emodin inhibits human sperm functions by reducing sperm [Ca(2+)]i and suppressing tyrosine phosphorylation in vitro.
We constructed an ileal neobladder in three patients using Hautmann's technique. The patients were men 51 and 67 years old with invasive bladder cancer and a 45-year-old woman with intractable hemorrhagic cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide. The urethral catheter was removed on the 21st postoperative day. At 2 to 5 months following operation, 3 patients had a vesical capacity of 270 to 500 ml and the maximum volume of urine excreted at one voiding was 130 ml to 400 ml. Voiding cystography disclosed no vesico-ureteral reflux. Two patients required abdominal straining at urination and another patient complained of a slight degree of nocturnal incontinence. Intravesical pressure was retained below 10 cm in hydrostatic height in two patients. On the other hand, it gradually increased as the neobladder was extended in another one. No uninhibited contraction was demonstrated by cystometric examination. The serum chloride level indicated almost the maximum normal value in all patients. Neither hydronephrosis nor residual urine was seen on drip infusion pyelography. The postoperative results indicate that the ileal neobladder using Hautmann's technique may become a very useful way to reconstruct the urinary tract.
We describe three cases of extrapyramidal reactions apparently caused by epidural administration of droperidol. These patients suffered from chronic pain and was treated with epidural lidocaine and droperidol. Two patients received continuous administration of droperidol, and experienced acute dystonia and another after a single dose, developed akathisia. Adverse reactions occurred at 15, 20 and 24 hours after the administration of droperidol. The first patient received droperidol 6 mg, the second 8.5 mg and the third 5 mg. We consider that extrapyramidal reactions are due to overdoses because the patients who had been given less than 2.5 mg of droperidol a day, showed no adverse reaction. Although we use higher doses with NLA or for management of fever than with epidural administration of droperidol, we seldom encounter cases of side effects with droperidol. Epidurally administrated droperidol spreads rostral within the neuraxis and causes delayed extrapyramidal reactions as epidural morphine develops delayed respiratory depression. We must be careful in caring patients suffering from chronic pain with continuous epidural administration of droperidol.
A 48-year-old woman was scheduled for total hysterectomy under spinal anesthesia in a local hospital. Large doses of diazepam (20 mg) and pentazocine (30 mg) were administered for sedation five minutes after starting the operation. Four minutes later, cardiac arrest occurred. The patient did not respond to closed chest massage and was transferred to our institution. As closed chest massage was not effective because the patient was moderately obese and her abdomen was open, open chest massage was initiated with administration of a large dose of epinephrine. Five minutes later, cardiac rhythm was restored, but it had taken a total of 75 minutes to restore cardiac rhythm and the patient suffered brain death. The cause of cardiac arrest was suspected to be a lethal dose of sedatives under spinal anesthesia. CT revealed massive cerebral edema soon after resuscitation. Serum NSE (neuron specific enolase) was within normal limits (< 10 ng.ml-1) at that time, but on the following day the CT demonstrated low attenuation area of white matter and gray matter in the cerebrum and brainstem, and serum NSE increased to 357 ng.ml-1, indicating massive necrosis of neuronal cells. The high concentration of serum NSE persisted for four days, and subsequently decreased to 112 ng.ml-1. This may have been a sign of completion of washout after brain death with no cerebral perfusion. It was concluded that if a case of cardiac arrest does not respond to closed chest massage, immediate open chest massage should be considered and that serum NSE may be an indicator of prognosis of hypoxic cerebral injury.
The treatment approaches to antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA) small vessel vasculitis expose patients to the risks associated with long-term use of corticosteroids and cytotoxic agents. In an effort to explore approaches to minimize risks, we conducted a pilot efficacy and safety study of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in the treatment of subjects with nonlife-threatening recurrent or cyclophosphamide-resistant ANCA-vasculitis.
MMF was initiated at 500 mg orally twice daily and gradually increased to a target dose of 1000 mg twice daily for a duration of 24 weeks. Concomitant therapy with corticosteroids was allowed. The Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score (BVAS) was used to assess disease activity and treatment efficacy. ANCA titres, serum creatinine and adverse events were secondary measures of efficacy and/or toxicity.
Twelve subjects were enrolled in the study. Treatment with MMF led to an improvement in disease activity as measured by the BVAS at 24 weeks (P = 0.0013) and 52 weeks (P = 0.0044) as compared to baseline. The BVAS decreased from an average of 9.1+/-3.5 at baseline (range, 3-17) to an average of 2.8+/-1.9 (range, 1-6) at 24 weeks and to 2.8+/-4.3 (range, 0-13) at 52 weeks. Early and sustained reductions in BVAS occurred in subjects initially classified as disease relapses vs those with treatment resistance. Side effect profile was consistent with the mechanism of action and pharmacokinetic disposition of MMF.
MMF is a reasonable option in the treatment of non-life-threatening recurrent or resistant vasculitis and may obviate the immediate need for recurrent use of cytotoxic agents.
Pharmacological evidence suggests a functional role for spinal nitric oxide (NO) in the modulation of thermal and/or inflammatory hyperalgesia. To assess the role of NO in nerve injury-induced tactile allodynia, we examined neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) expression in the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of rats with tactile allodynia because of either tight ligation of the left fifth and sixth lumbar spinal nerves or streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy. RNase protection assays indicated that nNOS mRNA (1) was upregulated in DRG, but not spinal cord, neurons on the injury side beginning 1 d after nerve ligation, (2) peaked (approximately 10-fold increase) at 2 d, and (3) remained elevated for at least 13 weeks. A corresponding increase in DRG nNOS protein was also observed and localized principally to small and occasionally medium-size sensory neurons. In rats with diabetic neuropathy, there was no significant change in DRG nNOS mRNA. However, similar increases in DRG nNOS mRNA were observed in rats that did not develop allodynia after nerve ligation and in rats fully recovered from allodynia 3 months after the nerve ligation. Systemic treatment with a specific pharmacological inhibitor of nNOS failed to prevent or reverse allodynia in nerve-injured rats. Thus, regulation of nNOS may contribute to the development of neuronal plasticity after specific types of peripheral nerve injury. However, upregulation of nNOS is not responsible for the development and/or maintenance of allodynia after nerve injury.
There is increasing evidence that the use of cocaine can trigger lethal cardiac events, including ventricular fibrillation. The mechanism responsible for these lethal cardiac arrhythmias remains to be determined. Therefore, 13 mongrel dogs were instrumented so that heart rate, left ventricular pressure (LVP), and d(LVP)/dt could be measured. After a 3- to 4-wk recovery period, the left circumflex coronary artery was occluded for 2 min, beginning with the last minute of an exercise stress test and continuing for 1 min after the cessation of exercise. None of the dogs developed cardiac arrhythmias during the control exercise plus ischemia test. On a subsequent day, the test was repeated after the injection of cocaine HCl (1.0 mg/kg). Cocaine significantly (P less than 0.01) elevated heart rate, systolic LVP, and d(LVP)/dt, and it elicited cardiac arrhythmias in 12 of the 13 animals during the exercise plus test. In fact, 11 animals developed ventricular fibrillation. Verapamil, a calcium channel antagonist (250 micrograms/kg), attenuated the hemodynamic effects of cocaine and prevented the development of ventricular arrhythmias. These data suggest that cocaine can induce ventricular fibrillation during myocardial ischemia and that these lethal arrhythmias may be prevented by a calcium channel antagonist.
The aim of this study is to find the relationship between visual function changes and vigabatrin treatment continuation or discontinuation.
19 patients (11 males, 8 females) from 8 to 20 years old, treated with vigabatrin because of partial epilepsy, were examined. Best corrected visual acuity, contrast sensitivity and static visual field were done. The examinations were repeated after 1-2 months and after 1-2 years. The longest follow-up was about three years (one girl). In some children from this group additional elctrophysiologic tests (ERG, EOG according to ISCEV standards), were done.
Corrected visual acuity was 5/5 in all eyes. Contrast sensitivity was normal and it was not changed in follow-up period. Abnormal visual field was found in more than half of examined patients. The improvement of visual field occurred after vigabatrin discontinuation, but in one patient the improvement occurred although vigabatrin treatment was continued. Most of the patients refused control ERG and EOG, but in first examination decreased or border b-wave amplitude after "flicker 30Hz" was found.
In some patients treated with vigabatrin reversible visual field changes occurred. Multicentre study should be performed, to solve the problem of relationship between visual field changes, vigabatrin and other antiepileptic treatment. All tests in group of epileptic patients are difficult because of poor cooperation.
The beta-adrenoceptor blockers propranolol, PhQA33 and LB-46 exhibited appreciable activity against tremorine-(TMN) and oxotremorine-(OTMN) induced tremor, whereas pronethalol, (+)-H56/28, (-)-H56/28, Kö-592 and L(+)-INPEA possessed weak action. The two beta-blockers, namely D,L(+/-)-INPEA and D(-)-INPEA acted as weak tremorgens. None of the above compounds suppressed the induced peripheral cholinergic phenomena; or possessed any central anticholinergic activity, as they were unable to afford protection against physostigmine-induced death. Propranolol, PhQA33 and LB-46 antagonized TMN-induced hypothermia and analgesia, but were inactive against OTMN-induced changes. A correlation of the beta-blocking and anti-tremor activity of these agents is unlikely.
