Limited data are available on the clinical course of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection after discontinuation of lamivudine prescribed for kidney or heart posttransplantation hepatitis flare
The purpose of this study was to investigate the reasons for discontinuation, subsequent reappearance of HBV DNA, and mortality in heart and kidney transplant recipients who discontinued lamivudine treatment.
This retrospective case series followed up male and female hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive Taiwanese transplant recipients from the National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, between July 1989 and January 1999. Biochemical, virologic, and serologic parameters and liver-related mortality of patients who discontinued lamivudine 100 mg QD prescribed for posttransplantation hepatitis flare were compared with those in a group of patients who continued use of lamivudine administered for the same indication over the same period of time. Serum HBV DNA levels were checked in all patients before and after discontinuation of lamivudine, and after resumption of lamivudine treatment and in patients with breakthrough hepatitis flare.
A total of 39 HBsAg-positive transplant recipients (mean [SD] age, 45 [10.0] years) were identified during regular follow-up visits. Nine patients discontinued lamivudine use; 11 patients who continued it were selected as a control group. No significant between-group differences were observed in mean (SD) age (46 [14.0] vs 45 [6.9] years), sex (men/women,vs 1), type of transplant received (heart/kidney,vs ), or pretransplantation liver function test results. The reasons for discontinuation were informed patient decision (4 patients); YMDD mutation (2); self-discontinuation without physician consultation (2); and pregnancy (1). Of those who discontinued lamivudine, serum HBV DNA was undetectable at a mean of 30 (range, 9-47) months' follow-up in 6 (66.7%) of 9 patients. Lamivudine treatment was resumed in 3 patients on reappearance of HBV DNA, and a subsequent rapid decline in the serum HBV DNA was observed. The liver-related mortality rate was not significantly higher in patients who discontinued treatment compared with continuously treated patients (both, 0%). The between-group difference in overall mortality rates was not significant (22.2% and 18.2%, respectively).
This case series illustrated a variety of clinical situations in which discontinuation of lamivudine treatment prescribed for posttransplantation hepatitis flare may occur. However, liver-related mortality was not increased in these patients compared with those who continued lamivudine treatment.
To examine the use of analgesics as a cause of chronic renal disease, we performed a multicenter case-control study of 554 adults with newly diagnosed kidney disease (serum creatinine, greater than or equal to 130 mumol per liter [1.5 mg per deciliter]) and 516 matched control subjects selected randomly from the same area of North Carolina. Histories of use of analgesics (phenacetin, acetaminophen, and aspirin) were obtained by telephone interview with the patients or their proxies. Daily users of analgesics had significantly more renal disease than infrequent users (odds ratio, 2.79; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.85 to 4.21). The risk of renal disease was highest in daily users of phenacetin (odds ratio, 5.11; confidence interval, 1.76 to 14.9, after adjustment for the effects of other analgesics). The risk of renal disease was also increased in daily users of acetaminophen; after adjustment for the use of aspirin and phenacetin, the odds ratio was 3.21 (confidence interval, 1.05 to 9.80). There was no increased risk in daily aspirin users (adjusted odds ratio, 1.32; confidence interval, 0.69 to 2.51). The risks with daily use of either phenacetin or acetaminophen changed little after adjustment for diabetes, hypertension, and the indication for analgesic use. We conclude that the long-term, regular use of phenacetin may increase the risk of chronic renal disease. The long-term, daily use of acetaminophen, the major metabolite of phenacetin, is associated independently with an increased risk of chronic renal disease. We could find no increased risk in daily users of aspirin.
The cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor p16(INK4a) and the MDM2 ubiquitin ligase inhibitor p19(ARF) are critical to the regulation of cell cycle progression. Their loss by deletion, mutation or epigenetic silencing is a common molecular alteration in many human cancers. To investigate the role of p16(INK4a)/p19(ARF) deficiency in CNS tumor pathogenesis, pregnant mice bearing p16(-/-)/p19(-/-), p16(+/-)/p19(+/-), and p16(+/+)/p19(+/+) embryos were exposed transplacentally on gestation day 14 to a single dose of the potent carcinogen, ethylnitrosourea (ENU). p16(+/-)/p19(+/-) male mice treated with ENU developed meningial proliferative lesions with a high incidence (5/10). The incidence was lower in other ENU-treated animals of both sexes and none occurred in saline-treated control animals. The lesions ranged from widespread meningeal proliferation and plaque-like thickening by neoplastic spindle cells consistent with meningiomatosis to a larger discrete mass consistent with a meningioma. Ultrastructural analysis revealed the presence of intercellular junctions between cells, supporting a meningothelial histogenesis. Spontaneous meningiomas occur rarely in wild-type mice but are a common neoplasm afflicting humans, accounting for between 13 and 26% of primary intracranial neoplasms. This ENU inducible meningeal lesion in p16(+/-)/p19(+/-) mice may provide additional insight into the pathogenesis of meningeal neoplasia and aid the development of therapeutics.
Labdane derivatives obtained from the diterpenoid labdanediol suppressed NO and PGE(2) production in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages. However, mechanisms involved in these inhibitory effects are not elucidated. In this study, we investigated the signaling pathways involved in the anti-inflammatory effects of labdanolic acid methyl ester (LAME) in peritoneal macrophages and examined its therapeutic effect in a mouse endotoxic shock model. LAME reduced the production of NO and PGE(2) in LPS-activated macrophages. This effect involved the inhibition of NOS-2 and COX-2 gene expression, acting at the transcription level. Examination of the effects of the diterpene on NF-κB signaling showed that LAME inhibits the phosphorylation of IκBα and IκBβ, preventing their degradation and the nuclear translocation of the NF-κB p65 subunit. Moreover, inhibition of MAPK signaling was also observed. A further experiment revealed that LAME inhibited the phosphorylation of transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), an upstream signaling molecule required for IKK and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) activation. Inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6, TNF-α and IP-10 were downregulated in the presence of this compound after stimulation with LPS. Additionally, LAME also improved survival in a mouse model of endotoxemia and reduced the circulatory levels of cytokines (IL-6, TNF-α). In conclusion, these results indicate that labdane diterpene LAME significantly attenuates the pro-inflammatory response induced by LPS both in vivo and in vitro.
Crack cocaine use is more associated with impulsivity and a propensity to take risks than heroin use, yet no studies have examined this relationship in the absence of acute drug effects. The current study examined impulsivity (using the Delay Discounting Task) and risk-taking propensity (using the Balloon Analogue Risk Task) across independent groups of primary crack cocaine users with minimal heroin use (n = 16) and primary heroin users with minimal crack cocaine use (n = 11) in residential treatment, with all participants drug abstinent during participation. Crack cocaine users evidenced greater levels of impulsivity and risk-taking propensity, with only the difference in impulsivity persisting after controlling for age and gender. These data hold potential theoretical importance in understanding differences between crack cocaine and heroin users, as the findings cannot be attributed solely to acute pharmacological drug effects.
19 patients with locally advanced or cutaneous metastatic breast cancer were treated with the topical vitamin D analogue calcipotriol 100 micrograms daily. 14 patients completed 6 weeks' treatment; 3 showed a 50% reduction in the bidimensional diameter of treated lesions and 1 other patient showed a minimal response. 2 patients became hypercalcaemic during treatment. In all patients who responded the tumours contained receptors for 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, shown by immunocytochemistry.
Vitamin A participates in the maintenance of normal hippocampal function during embryonic and postnatal stages of the vertebrate life. Some works demonstrated that vitamin A metabolites impair learning and induce a depression-like behavior in mice, among other effects. Since vitamin A has prooxidant effects on other experimental models, we decided to investigate whether vitamin A can induce oxidative stress in the adult rat hippocampus. We analyzed the sub acute effects of therapeutic (1000 and 2500 I.U./kg) or excessive (4500 and 9000 I.U./kg) vitamin A doses on the hippocampal redox state, as well as on levels of anxiety, and locomotory and exploratory activity. Vitamin A supplementation induced lipid peroxidation, protein carbonylation, and oxidation of the protein thiol content in the rat hippocampus in all periods analyzed. Increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and decreased catalase (CAT) activity were also observed, which gives rise to an imbalance in the principal cellular enzymatic antioxidant system. Then, our results show, for the first time, that vitamin A induced oxidative stress in the adult rat hippocampus, is anxiogenic, and decreases locomotion in and exploration of an open field.
Intraperitoneal administration of cholecystokinin octapeptide sulphate ester (CCK-8-SE) and nonsulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8-NS) enhanced the latency of seizures induced by picrotoxin in mice. Experiments with N- and C-terminal fragments revealed that the C-terminal tetrapeptide (CCK-5-8) was the active centre of the CCK octapeptide molecule. The analogues CCK-8-SE and CCK-8-NS (dose range 0.2-6.4 mumol/kg) and caerulein dose range 0.1-0.8 mumol/kg) showed bell-shaped dose-effect curves, with the greatest maximum inhibition for CCK-8-NS. The peptide CCK-5-8 had weak anticonvulsant activity in comparison to the octapeptides, 3.2 mumol/kg and larger doses of the reference drug, diazepam, totally prevented picrotoxin-induced seizures and mortality. The maximum effect of the peptides tested was less than that of diazepam. Experiments with analogues and derivatives of CCK-5-8 demonstrated that the effectiveness of the beta-alanyl derivatives of CCK-5-8 were enhanced and that they were equipotent with CCK-8-SE. Of the CCK-2-8 analogues, Ser(SO3H)7-Ac-CCK-2-8-SE and Thr(SO3H)7-Ac-CCK-2-8-SE and Hyp(SO3H)-Ac-CCK-2-8-SE were slightly more active than CCK-8-SE.
To report 3 cases of accidental dexmedetomidine overdose in the perioperative setting and review the pathophysiology of alpha2-agonist overdose. case summaries: Three patients accidentally received overdoses of dexmedetomidine, one intraoperatively (192 microg over 20 min) and 2 postoperatively (4 and 2 rather than 0.4 and 0.2 microg/kg/h; 0.5 microg/kg/min rather than 0.5 microg/kg/h). Hemodynamic parameters remained stable for all 3 patients. The most notable sign was oversedation diagnosed either clinically or using a bispectral index monitor; Naranjo criteria suggest possible or probable association of the reactions with dexmedetomidine. In all 3 cases, oversedation resolved within one hour of drug discontinuation. There were no other sequelae, and the remainder of each patient's hospital course was unremarkable.
As of this writing, dexmedetomidine dosing in excess of the label recommendation has been reported, but accidental dexmedetomidine overdose in clinical practice has not been described. Excessive levels of sedation were the only significant finding in all 3 patients. Dexmedetomidine's short redistribution half-life of 6 minutes should lead to rapid resolution of oversedation induced by overdoses if the overall duration of infusion is short (< or =8 h). While the patients reported here were hemodynamically stable, dexmedetomidine may engender significant hemodynamic changes either because of sympatholysis at normal doses or vasoconstriction at higher than recommended doses. The absence of a significant hypertensive response to high dexmedetomidine concentrations suggests that dexmedetomidine-induced hypertension may be multifactorial, not simply related to plasma drug concentrations.
Practitioners presented with dexmedetomidine overdose should be prepared to manage oversedation. While hemodynamic alterations may be seen with dexmedetomidine use, hypertension from high dexmedetomidine plasma concentrations is not a consistent response. Practitioners using dexmedetomidine should carefully note that dosing for this agent is described by the manufacturer in microg/kg/h, not microg/kg/min.
Triclosan is a broad-spectrum antibacterial agent, which has been shown previously to alleviate human allergic skin disease. The purpose of this study was to investigate the hypothesis that the mechanism of this action of triclosan is, in part, due to effects on mast cell function. Mast cells play important roles in allergy, asthma, parasite defense, and carcinogenesis. In response to various stimuli, mast cells degranulate, releasing allergic mediators such as histamine. In order to investigate the potential anti-inflammatory effect of triclosan on mast cells, we monitored the level of degranulation in a mast cell model, rat basophilic leukemia cells, clone 2H3. Having functional homology to human mast cells, as well as a very well defined signaling pathway leading to degranulation, this cell line has been widely used to gain insight into mast-cell driven allergic disorders in humans. Using a fluorescent microplate assay, we determined that triclosan strongly dampened the release of granules from activated rat mast cells starting at 2 μM treatment, with dose-responsive suppression through 30 μM. These concentrations were found to be non-cytotoxic. The inhibition was found to persist when early signaling events (such as IgE receptor aggregation and tyrosine phosphorylation) were bypassed by using calcium ionophore stimulation, indicating that the target for triclosan in this pathway is likely downstream of the calcium signaling event. Triclosan also strongly suppressed F-actin remodeling and cell membrane ruffling, a physiological process that accompanies degranulation. Our finding that triclosan inhibits mast cell function may explain the clinical data mentioned above and supports the use of triclosan or a mechanistically similar compound as a topical treatment for allergic skin disease, such as eczema.
Glioblastoma is a malignant astrocytic tumor with a median survival of about 12 months for which new therapeutic strategies are required. We therefore examined the cytotoxicity of anticancer drugs with different mechanisms of action on two human glioblastoma cell lines expressing various levels of EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor). Apoptosis induced by these anticancer agents was evaluated by flow cytometry. The cytotoxicity of alkylating drugs followed a dose-effect curve and cytotoxicity index values were lower with carboplatin than with BCNU and temozolomide. Anti-EGFR gefitinib (10 microM) cytotoxicity on DBTRG.05-MG expressing high levels of EGFR was significantly higher than on U87-MG expressing low levels of EGFR. Carboplatin and temozolomide cytotoxicity was potentiated with the addition of gefitinib on DBTRG.05-MG. Among the anticancer agents tested, the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib was the most cytotoxic with very low IC50 on the two cell lines. Moreover, all anticancer drugs tested induced apoptosis in a concentration-dependent manner. Bortezomib proved to be a more potent inductor of apoptosis than gefitinib and alkylating agents. These results show the efficacy of bortezomib and of the association between conventional chemotherapy and gefitinib on glioblastoma cells and therefore suggest the interest of these molecules in the treatment of glioblastoma.
Cocaine hydrochloride (C(17)H(21)NO(4)) is a powerful neuro-stimulatory alkaloid salt which has been abused by many cultures for thousands of years. Crack-cocaine, a derivative of cocaine, has gained notoriety for giving a quick "high" at a relatively lower cost. Crack-cocaine exposure has been reported to cause corneal disturbances ranging from subtle superficial punctuate keratitis to perforation.
A 42-year-old African-American female presented complaining of mucopurulent discharge and pain in her left eye for a month. No history of trauma, contact lens wear or surgery was elicited and she admitted to chronic polysubstance abuse. A deep, paracentral stromal ulcer was present in the left cornea. The patient was hospitalized for culturing and empiric topical therapy. Toxicology screens proved positive for cocaine and heroine. Initial response to treatment was promising yet the patient discharged herself against medical advice and was lost to follow-up. Cultures were positive for Candida albicans.
Practitioners should be familiar with the toxic effects that crack-cocaine abuse may have on ocular tissues, particularly the cornea. This case demonstrated the value of hospitalization, toxicology screenings and cultures in the management of the atypical keratopathy associated with substance abuse, specifically that of crack cocaine use. Corneal epithelial disruption and stromal ulceration without a history of contact lens wear, trauma, surgery, predisposing keratopathy or immunodeficiency warrants thorough investigation of patient social habits, including substance abuse.
The neurobiologic basis of pancreatic hyperalgesia in chronic pancreatitis (CP) is understood poorly and there is a need to identify novel therapeutic targets. Our aim was to study the role of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), a key integrator of noxious stimuli, in the pathogenesis of pancreatic pain in a rat model of CP.
CP was induced in rats by intraductal injection of trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid. TRPV1 currents in pancreas-specific DRG neurons were measured using perforated patch-clamp techniques. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction was used to measure mRNA expression of TRPV1 in these neurons after laser capture microdissection. Immunofluorescence and Western blot analysis, using TRPV1-specific antibodies, also were performed. Pancreatic hyperalgesia was assessed by rat's nocifensive behavior to electrical stimulation of the pancreas.
CP was associated with a 4-fold increase in capsaicin-induced current density (P < .02), along with an increase in the proportion of pancreas-specific DRG neurons that responded to capsaicin (52.9% in controls vs 79.0% in CP; P < .05). CP also was associated with a significant increase in TRPV1 expression both at the messenger RNA and protein level in whole thoracic DRGs and pancreas-specific sensory neurons. Systemic administration of the TRPV1 antagonist SB-366791 markedly reduced both visceral pain behavior and referred somatic hyperalgesia in rats with CP, but not in control animals.
TRPV1 up-regulation and sensitization is a specific molecular mechanism contributing to hyperalgesia in CP and represents a useful target for treating pancreatic hyperalgesia caused by inflammation.
Long term administration of calcitriol (1,25 - dihydroxyvitamin D) is recommended for the treatment of a number of endocrine and renal disorders associated with impaired calcium - phosphate metabolism. Administration of calcitriol, however, may give rise to undesirable side effects, such as hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria. The magnitude of hypercalcemia is the key consideration in determining the need for immediate and aggressive therapy. There are four main strategies for lowering serum calcium: decreasing intestinal calcium absorption; increasing urinary excretion; decreasing bone resorption; and removing excess calcium through dialysis. We report on an adolescent with thalassemia who developed severe hypercalcemia during regular clinical follow-up for hypoparathyroidism treatment with calcitriol and calcium. He was also receiving levothyroxine for primary hypothyroidism and iron chelation therapy with desferioxamine mesylate for the severe iron overload.
We recently developed a new group of folate-conjugated Vinca alkaloids, one of which, EC145, emerged as a candidate for clinical development. Brief treatment of nude mice bearing approximately 100 mm(3) folate receptor-positive human xenografts led to complete response (CR) in 5/5 mice and cures (i.e., remission without a relapse for >90 days post-tumor implantation) in 4/5 mice. Multiple CRs and cures were also noted when EC145 was used to treat mice initially bearing tumors as large as 750 mm(3). Likewise, complete cures (5/5) resulted following the treatment of an aggressive folate receptor-positive J6456 lymphoma model. The activity of EC145 was not accompanied by noticeable weight loss or major organ tissue degeneration. Furthermore, no significant antitumor activity (0/5 CR) was observed in EC145-treated animals that were co-dosed with an excess of a benign folate ligand, thus demonstrating the target-specific activity of EC145. The enhanced therapeutic index due to folate conjugation was also evidenced by the fact that the unconjugated drug (desacetylvinblastine monohydrazide) was found to be completely inactive when administered at nontoxic dose levels and only marginally active when given at highly toxic dose levels. Subsequent dose regimen studies confirmed that EC145 given on a more frequent, qdx5 schedule resulted in the most effective antitumor response as compared with an equivalent total dose given on thrice- or single-injection-per-week schedule. Taken together, these studies show that EC145 has significant antiproliferative activity and tolerability, thus lending support to an ongoing phase 1 trial for the treatment of advanced malignancies.
Weak peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) α agonists (fibrates) are used to treat dyslipidemia. This study compared the effects of the potent and selective PPARα agonist CP-778875 on peroxisomal β-oxidation and cardiac and/or skeletal muscle injury with those of the weak PPARα agonist fenofibrate. We hypothesized that these muscle effects are mediated through the PPARα receptor, leading to increased β-oxidation and consequent oxidative stress. CP-778875 (5 or 500 mg/kg) and fenofibrate (600 or 2,000→1,200 mg/kg, dose lowered because of intolerance) were administered to rats for six weeks. Standard end points, serum troponin I, heart and skeletal muscle β-oxidation of palmitoyl-CoA, and acyl co-oxidase (AOX) mRNA were assessed. Both compounds dose-dependently increased the incidence and/or severity of cardiomyocyte degeneration and necrosis, heart weight, troponin I, and skeletal muscle degeneration. Mean heart β-oxidation (3.4- to 5.1-fold control) and AOX mRNA (2.4- to 3.2-fold control) were increased with CP-778875 500 mg/kg and both doses of fenofibrate. β-Oxidation of skeletal muscle was not affected by either compound; however, a significant increase in AOX mRNA (1.6- to 2.1-fold control) was observed with CP-778875 500 mg/kg and both doses of fenofibrate. Taken together, these findings were consistent with PPARα agonism and support the link between increased cardiac and skeletal muscle β-oxidation and resultant muscle injury in the rat.
Canavan disease is an autosomal-recessive neurodegenerative disorder caused by a lack of aspartoacylase, the enzyme that degrades N-acetylaspartate (NAA) into acetate and aspartate. With a view to studying the mechanisms underlying the action of human aspartoacylase (hASP), this enzyme was expressed in a heterologous Escherichia coli system and characterized. The recombinant protein was found to have a molecular weight of 36 kDa and kinetic constants K(m) and k(cat) of 0.20 +/- 0.03 mM and 14.22 +/- 0.48 s(-1), respectively. Sequence alignment showed that this enzyme belongs to the carboxypeptidase metalloprotein family having the conserved motif H(21)xxE(24)(91aa)H(116). We further investigated the active site of hASP by performing modelling studies and site-directed mutagenesis. His21, Glu24 and His116 were identified here for the first time as the residues involved in the zinc-binding process. In addition, mutations involving the Glu178Gln and Glu178Asp residues resulted in the loss of enzyme activity. The finding that wild-type and Glu178Asp have the same K(m) but different k(cat) values confirms the idea that the carboxylate group contributes importantly to the enzymatic activity of aspartoacylase.
Psychiatric patients who excreted larger amounts of urinary free dopamine before treatment were significantly more likely than patients excreting smaller amounts to develop parkinsonian side effects during moderate-dose trifluoperazine therapy. If this finding is replicated, urinary free dopamine determinations could prove valuable in indicating which patients should receive those antipsychotic drugs least likely to produce extrapyramidal side effects.
N-phenylanthranilic acid is a chloride channel blocker that causes renal papillary necrosis in rats. Studies were conducted in two strains of male rats to evaluate novel biomarkers of nephrotoxicity. Han-Wistar rats were given daily oral doses of 50, 350, or up to 700 mg/kg/day of NPAA, and Sprague-Dawley rats were given 50 or 400 mg/kg/day of NPAA. Rats were euthanized on days 8 and 15. The candidate kidney injury biomarkers renal papillary antigen-1 (RPA-1, for collecting duct injury), clusterin (for general kidney injury), α-glutathione-S-transferase (a proximal tubular marker), and µ-glutathione-S-transferase (a distal tubular marker) were measured in urine by enzyme immunoassay. Characteristic degeneration and necrosis of the collecting duct and renal papilla were observed in Han-Wistar rats at the high dose on day 8 and at the mid and high doses on day 15, and in Sprague-Dawley rats given the high dose on days 8 and 15. Increases in urinary RPA-1, and to a lesser extent urine clusterin, were generally associated with the presence of collecting duct injury and were more sensitive than BUN and serum creatinine. On the other hand, decreases in α-glutathione-S-transferase without proximal tubule lesions in both strains and decreases in µ-glutathione-S-transferase in Sprague-Dawley rats only were not associated with morphological proximal or distal tubule abnormalities, so both were of less utility. It was concluded that RPA-1 is a new biomarker with utility in the detection of collecting duct injury in papillary necrosis in male rats.
Cyproterone acetate is a steroidal anti-androgen that has been used in human medicine for contraceptive purposes as well as treatment of medical conditions responsive to suppression of testosterone production. While serious side effects are considered to be rare, sporadic cases of severe hepatitis have been reported, including several fatal cases. This report describes a case of fatal fulminant hepatitis in one of four male chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) that were undergoing trial treatment with cyproterone acetate to decrease inter-male aggression.
To examine at a molecular level the repair process during recovery from acute renal failure, we determined, after nephrotoxic acute renal injury, levels for several RNAs associated with differentiated functions in the kidney. To delineate changes in different regions, we determined RNA levels separately in cortex, outer medulla, and inner medulla of adult rat kidney. Several RNAs were regionally distributed in control kidneys, including epidermal growth factor (EGF, highest in cortex and outer medulla), aldose reductase (highest in inner medulla), and prostaglandin synthase (highest in inner medulla). Futhermore, RNA for the heat shock protein Hsp70 was present at high levels in the inner medulla of controls. A single intraperitoneal dose of folic acid caused reversible, nonoliguric acute renal failure with impairment of glomerular filtration, tubular sodium reabsorption, and urinary concentration. Fractional excretion of sodium returned to normal by day 3, while serum creatinine, serum urea nitrogen, and urinary osmolality remained abnormal until day 7. During acute renal failure there was a marked, reversible decrease in the regional mRNA levels for EGF, aldose reductase, prostaglandin synthase, and Hsp70. Aldose reductase, prostaglandin synthase, and Hsp70 RNA levels returned to control levels by 7 to 10 days, while EGF remained depressed for a more prolonged period. High levels of aldose reductase, prostaglandin synthase, and Hsp70 RNAs in the inner medulla and their loss/recovery during acute renal failure with a time course similar to alterations in urinary osmolality were consistent with regulation in response to changes in inner medullary osmolality, as has been demonstrated for aldose reductase in normal animals. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Myocardial tissue obtained by endomyocardial biopsy was semiquantitatively evaluated for nuclear and nucleolar characteristics in six groups of patients: patients with normal cardiac function (group 1), doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy (group 2), idiopathic cardiomyopathy (group 3), alcoholic cardiomyopathy (group 4), post-viral cardiomyopathy (group 5), and chronic valvular heart disease (group 6). From each patient, ten nuclei containing nucleoli were examined and rated on the basis of the following characteristics: chromatin clumping, number of fibrillar centers per nucleolus, nucleolonemal structure, size of nucleolus, number of nucleoli per nucleus, and stage of nucleolar change. Mean values for the nuclear characteristics in each group were compared with normal values using the unpaired t test. In the doxorubicin treated group there were significantly increased chromatin clumping, decreased fibrillar centers, decreased nucleolonemal structure, and increased numbers of contracted nucleoli (indicating later stage). These changes may be linked to lowered nuclear and nucleolar activity. In the idiopathic and post-viral groups, characteristics were consistent with increased nuclear and nucleolar activity. There were no significant changes from normal in the nucleolar features of either the alcoholic or valvular groups. Further comparisons between groups using one-way analysis of variance and multivariate statistical analysis support the conclusion that there are significant differences in the nuclear and nucleolar characteristics of these groups.
The utility of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is limited by graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. Patients with GVHD exhibit cutaneous manifestations with histological features of interface dermatitis followed by scleroderma-like changes. JAK inhibitors represent a class of immunomodulatory drugs that inhibit signaling by multiple cytokines. Herein we report the effects of tofacitinib in a murine model of GVHD. Oral administration of tofacitinib prevented GVHD-like disease manifested by weight loss and mucocutaneous lesions. More importantly, tofacitinib was also effective in reversing established disease. Tofacitinib diminished the expansion and activation of murine CD8 T cells in this model, and had similar effects on IL-2-stimulated human CD8 T cells. Tofacitinib also inhibited the expression of IFN-γ-inducible chemoattractants by keratinocytes, and IFN-γ-inducible cell death of keratinocytes. Tofacitinib may be an effective drug for treatment against CD8 T-cell-mediated mucocutaneous diseases in patients with GVHD.
In a group of 269 untreated hypertensive patients the effect of a single oral dose of captopril (25 mg) on blood pressure was studied for 90-120 minutes. The systolic blood pressure decreased by more than 20% in 9.5% and by more than 30% in 1.1% of the patients. In 22.6% the diastolic blood pressure decreased by more than 20%; in 4.5% it fell more than 30%. The calculated mean arterial pressure (MAP) was reduced by more than 20% in 12.3% of the patients and by more than 30% in 3%. Three patients showed transient neurological deficits. Factors related to a strong blood pressure drop were: renal artery disease and resistant hypertension. However, a potentially dangerous fall in blood pressure, i.e. an acute fall of MAP of over 30%, was also observed in the absence of these risk factors. Therefore not all patients at risk can be identified in advance, and treatment with ACE-inhibitors has to be started under well-controlled circumstances especially in elderly patients.
To test the clinical use of octreotide in the treatment of sulfonylurea-induced hypoglycemia.
A case is reported of sulfonylurea-induced hypoglycemic coma in a nondiabetic subject, which was complicated by relapse of hypoglycemia after resuscitation with intravenous dextrose. Subcutaneous octreotide, 50 micrograms 12 hourly, suppressed stimulated endogenous insulin secretion, thereby preventing a further recurrence of hypoglycemia.
No adverse effects of treatment were observed.
These results suggest a significant role for octreotide as an adjunct to intravenous dextrose in the management of severe and refractory cases of sulfonylurea-induced hypoglycemia.
To analyze the relationship between the fragnent deletion of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of inner ear in rats and aminoglycoside antibiotic induced deafness (AAID), and to investigate the possible role of mtDNA deletion in the sensitivity to aminoglycoside antibiotic induced deafness in old rat.
Thirty wistar rats were divided into group A (old rat, > 24 months, n = 15) and group B (young rat, 4 months, n = 15) according to the age. Kanamycin (KM) was intraperitoneally injected 500 mg/kg per day for 10 consecutive day in all rats. The threshold of the auditory brainstem response (ABR) was measured before and after the drug administrations. The inner ear tissue was harvested and the mtDNA was amplified to identify the 4834 bp deletion by PCR technique.
The elevation of the mean ABR thresholds in group A (42.08 +/- 8.19) dB peSPL was significantly higher than that in group B (12.71 +/- 4.42) dB peSPL (P < 0.01). In group A, 10 of the 15 rats demonstrate the mtDNA4834 deletion and the elevation of the mean ABR thresholds in the rats with mtDNA4834 deletion (45.00 +/- 7.67) dB peSPL was significantly higher than that without so deletion (33.33 +/- 4.08) dB peSPL (P < 0.01). However, mtDNA4834 deletion was negative in group B.
Deletion of mtDNA of inner ear tissue in old rat is found. The mtDNA deletion may play an important role in the hypersensitivity to aminoglycoside antibiotic ototoxiciy in old rats.
The direct effect of intravascularly injected vincristine on the rat brain was investigated after the osmotic opening of the blood-brain barrier. This was opened unilaterally by injecting 2.5 ml of 1.4 molal mannitol solution into the right carotid artery through a cannula inserted in the external carotid artery in retrograde fashion. Vincristine (0.75 mg/kg) was then injected into either the carotid artery or into a vein. Animals, thus treated, developed left hemiparesis and choreo-athetoid head motion within several days. Microscopical analysis revealed 1 intracytoplasmic eosinophilic inclusions at an early period, 2 neuronal argyrophilic change and axonal thickening with spheroid formation at later times, and 3 glial mitotic arrest, a finding not reported in the previous studies with intrathecal injection of vincristine. Neuronal changes were usually confined to the selected area in the midbrain, whereas glial mitotic figures were seen in the hippocampus, midbrain and cerebellum. These changes are thought to be direct effects of the vincristine binding with cellular microtubules, including mitotic spindle tubules and neurotubules. The transient opening of the blood-brain barrier seems to be a useful technique for studying the experimental neurotoxicology of drugs to which the blood-brain barrier is impermeable.
