To determine the association between indomethacin tocolysis and neonatal intraventricular hemorrhage.
Fifty-six preterm neonates with intraventricular hemorrhage were matched by gestational age with neonates (n = 224) without this morbidity. Maternal and neonatal charts were reviewed to ascertain the type of tocolytic exposure experienced by the neonate. Other maternal and neonatal demographic and outcome data were also abstracted. Results were analyzed using the Student t test, chi(2) analysis, and multivariable logistic regression. The number of studied subjects provided 80% power to determine if antenatal exposure to indomethacin was twice as likely among infants with intraventricular hemorrhage.
Univariate analysis revealed that there were no significant differences between the study and control groups with respect to maternal age, parity, or betamethasone exposure. Infants with intraventricular hemorrhage were significantly more likely to be born at an earlier gestational age, a lower birth weight, after maternal chorioamnionitis, after vaginal delivery, and after exposure to either indomethacin alone or a combination of indomethacin and magnesium. Additionally, their neonatal course was significantly more likely to be complicated by sepsis and respiratory distress syndrome. In a multivariable logistic model, only gestational age, chorioamnionitis, vaginal delivery, and respiratory distress syndrome continued to be significantly associated with intraventricular hemorrhage. Indomethacin exposure, either as single-agent (adjusted odds ratio 1.3, 95% confidence interval 0.5, 3.3) or combination tocolytic therapy (adjusted odds ratio 2.0, 95% confidence interval 0.8, 4.8), was not significantly associated with intraventricular hemorrhage.
Indomethacin tocolysis is not associated with an increased risk of intraventricular hemorrhage.
The prevalence of iron deficiency anemia is 2 percent in adult men, 9 to 12 percent in non-Hispanic white women, and nearly 20 percent in black and Mexican-American women. Nine percent of patients older than 65 years with iron deficiency anemia have a gastrointestinal cancer when evaluated. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force currently recommends screening for iron deficiency anemia in pregnant women but not in other groups. Routine iron supplementation is recommended for high-risk infants six to 12 months of age. Iron deficiency anemia is classically described as a microcytic anemia. The differential diagnosis includes thalassemia, sideroblastic anemias, some types of anemia of chronic disease, and lead poisoning. Serum ferritin is the preferred initial diagnostic test. Total iron-binding capacity, transferrin saturation, serum iron, and serum transferrin receptor levels may be helpful if the ferritin level is between 46 and 99 ng per mL (46 and 99 mcg per L); bone marrow biopsy may be necessary in these patients for a definitive diagnosis. In children, adolescents, and women of reproductive age, a trial of iron is a reasonable approach if the review of symptoms, history, and physical examination are negative; however, the hemoglobin should be checked at one month. If there is not a 1 to 2 g per dL (10 to 20 g per L) increase in the hemoglobin level in that time, possibilities include malabsorption of oral iron, continued bleeding, or unknown lesion. For other patients, an endoscopic evaluation is recommended beginning with colonoscopy if the patient is older than 50.
In several epidemiological studies, a phytoestrogen-rich diet containing lignans and isoflavones is associated with reduced breast cancer risk, but experimental findings are controversial. In postmenopausal mammary cancer xenograft model, flaxseed (FS), a rich source of plant lignans, reduced breast cancer growth, while soy protein (SP), a rich source of isoflavones, enhanced it. The intake of phytoestrogens is increasing particularly among postmenopausal women, emphasizing the importance of elucidating their interactive effects on breast cancer. Our study determined the effect of FS and SP diets, alone and in combination, on the established human breast cancer MCF-7 tumor growth in ovariectomized athymic nude mice. Tumor bearing mice were divided into 4 groups and fed for 25 weeks either the basal diet (BD), or BD supplemented with 10% FS, 20% SP or 10% FS and 20% SP. After estrogen deprivation, FS regressed the tumor size similar to that of control. SP initially regressed the tumors but starting at week 13, the tumors regressed significantly less than in control and 43% of the tumors were regrowing until the end of the experiment and were significantly larger in size than in control. The combination of SP with FS reduced the tumor growth similar to that of control, as suggested also by the reduced tumor cell proliferation index. In conclusion, dietary FS did not stimulate the growth of estrogen responsive MCF-7 cancers in ovariectomized mice, while long-term consumption of SP did. Furthermore, FS reduced the tumor growth stimulating effect of SP to the same level as control, suggesting tumor growth attenuating effect of FS.
1. L-arginine prevents adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH)-induced hypertension in the rat. To confirm that this effect is mediated through the nitric oxide (NO) system, we examined whether N-nitro-L-arginine (NOLA) could reverse the L-arginine-induced blockade of ACTH-induced hypertension. 2. Blood pressure and metabolic parameters were examined in sham-, ACTH-, L-arginine + sham-, NOLA + sham-, ACTH + L-arginine- and ACTH + L-arginine + NOLA-treated Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 40). 3. Adrenocorticotrophin treatment increased systolic blood pressure (SBP), water intake and urine output and decreased bodyweight. N-Nitro-L-arginine alone increased SBP without affecting metabolic variables. L-Arginine alone did not affect blood pressure. The SBP was lower in L-arginine + ACTH- than ACTH-treated rats (P < 0.001), but was higher following ACTH + L-arginine + NOLA than ACTH + L-arginine (P < 0.05). 4. N-Nitro-L-arginine reversed the blood pressure-lowering effect of L-arginine in ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat, supporting the notion that NO plays a role in the hypertension.
Methamphetamine is a popular drug of abuse, readily synthesized in clandestine laboratories. Illicitly obtained methamphetamine is frequently impure, containing various purposefully added diluents and adulterants, as well as impurities of manufacture and origin. Few impurities have been studied in vivo and limited information exists concerning their pharmacology/toxicology. One such impurity of manufacture is alpha-benzyl-N-methylphenethylamine (BNMPA). Acute toxicity and spontaneous activity (locomotor) studies were conducted with this compound alone and in combination with S(+)-methamphetamine (METH) in male, ICR mice. In the acute toxicity studies, BNMPA was evaluated for convulsant activity. While BNMPA also produced some behavioral disturbances similar to those seen with methamphetamine (e.g., stereotopy) at doses greater than 30 mg/kg, no tonic-clonic convulsions were noted until pre-terminal convulsion at 50 mg/kg. METH alone produced tonic-clonic convulsions at terminal doses of 70 mg/kg. When BNMPA was given in combination with METH, there was no readily apparent change in the convulsion profile from that of METH given alone. In spontaneous activity studies, doses of BNMPA ranging from 1 mg/kg to 50mg/kg failed to alter locomotor activity significantly from controls though 5 mg/kg METH alone significantly increased spontaneous activity. In addition, increases in spontaneous activity elicited by 5 mg/kg METH were not affected when METH was given with 5 mg/kg BNMPA. While BNMPA appears to have toxic effects in the central nervous system (CNS), the failure to affect locomotor activity or alter either METH-induced increases in spontaneous activity or METH-induced convulsions suggests that the two agents are producing their effects through distinct mechanisms.
A 58 year-old woman developed an acute renal failure very quickly after ingestion of two 500 mg tablets of ciprofloxacin, without any other identifiable risk factor. Renal biopsy was performed. No sign of acute interstitial nephritis was observed but tubular lesions were found, accompanied by deposits of a brown-yellowish substance identified by infrared microscopy as a ciprofloxacin salt. The outcome was favourable. This observation gives the opportunity to remind the different forms of quinolone-induced renal injury and to discuss the possible ways for preventing renal side-effects related to the quinolone use.
We have recently demonstrated in a Phase I/II study that combination chemotherapy with docetaxel (TXT) and S-1 is active against metastatic gastric carcinomas. To elucidate the mechanisms underlying the synergistic effects of these drugs, both the growth inhibitory effects and the expression profiles of enzymes involved in fluorouracil (5-FU) metabolism were examined in vitro and in vivo. TXT alone and in combination with 5-FU inhibited the growth of each of the 5 gastric cancer cell lines that we examined (TMK-1, and MKN-1, -28, -45 and -74), in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Moreover, striking synergistic effects were observed in TMK-1 cells in vitro with IC50 values of between 4.73 and 0.61 nM 5-FU. Furthermore, in TMK-1 xenografts, 5-FU/TXT cotreatments exhibited synergistic antitumor effects. The combination of S-1 and TXT, however, exhibited greater growth-inhibitory effects than the 5-FU/TXT cotreatments. The mechanisms underlying these synergistic effects of S-1 and TXT were examined by expression and activity analyses of the 5-FU metabolic enzymes. The expression of thymidylate synthase (TS), and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) were decreased 50 and 73% of control levels, respectively, and that of orotate phosphorybosyl transferase (OPRT) was increased by 3.9-fold at the protein level. These findings suggested that biochemical modulation of the 2 drugs had occurred, which was further confirmed by the results of the activity assays. These data strongly indicate that a combination chemotherapy of TXT and S-1 is effective against gastric carcinomas and is therefore a good candidate as a standard chemotherapeutic strategy in treating these tumors.
The therapeutic effects and side effects of mefloquine in falciparum malaria were investigated in an open prospective trial involving 20 patients. None of them had a history of neurologic or psychiatric disorders. Mefloquine was given in a total dose of 1500 mg base. The cure rate was 100%, fever and parasitemia subsided within 3 days. Side effects were vomitus and nausea in 25% of the patients. No neurological or psychiatric disorders were observed. Mefloquine was shown to be a safe therapeutic agent in the dosage used. However, regular follow-up examinations should be done in short intervals because of the possibility of late neuropsychiatric side effects; the patients and their relatives should be informed about this fact.
The effect of the liver tumor promoters phenobarbital (PB), 1,1-bis(4-chlorophenyl)-2,2,2-trichlorethane (DDT), and dieldrin on gap junction-mediated intercellular communication between primary cultured hepatocytes from male mice (B6C3F1), C3H, C57BL, and Balb/c strains) and male F344 rats was determined. Intercellular communication was detected autoradiographically as the passage and incorporation of [5-3H]uridine nucleotides from prelabelled donor hepatocytes to donor-contacting recipient hepatocytes. At non-toxic concentrations, PB (20-500 micrograms/ml) inhibited intercellular communication between B6C3F1, C3H, and Balb/c mouse hepatocytes and F344 rat hepatocytes, but not between C57BL mouse hepatocytes. DDT (1-10 micrograms/ml) inhibited intercellular communication between hepatocytes from all 4 strains of mice and the F344 rat. Dieldrin (1-10 micrograms/ml) inhibited intercellular communication between hepatocytes from the 4 strains of mice but not between rat hepatocytes. These findings showed a good correlation with the in vivo liver tumor promoting/hepatocarcinogenic actions of PB, DDT and dieldrin in the 4 mouse strains and the F344 rat strain.
The purpose of these studies was, first, to determine whether hypertonic saline (HS) infusion or nitroprusside (NiPr)-induced hypotension augments the vasopressin (AVP) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) responses to insulin (Ins)-induced hypoglycemia and, second, to determine whether neurohypophysectomy could attenuate the augmentation. Conscious, male dogs (n = 8) underwent two different types of experiments. In the first, Ins was preceded by either a 30-min infusion of normal saline (control) or HS to raise plasma osmolality and AVP. HS augmented the AVP response but diminished the ACTH response to Ins. In the second group of experiments, Ins was preceded by a controlled decrease in mean arterial pressure using NiPr, which led to an increase in AVP and ACTH. The initial ACTH and AVP response to Ins was augmented by NiPr, but this early augmentation was not sustained. Neurohypophysectomy attenuated the early augmentation of the ACTH response to Ins by NiPr, but did not alter the final ACTH level achieved. We conclude that HS augmented the AVP but inhibited the ACTH response to Ins probably because of expansion of plasma volume. Concomitant hypotension led to an augmentation of the early but not sustained AVP and ACTH response to Ins. Neurohypophysectomy eliminated this augmentation, suggesting a role for AVP from the neural lobe in the early ACTH response to combined hypotension and Ins-induced hypoglycemia.
The mechanism underlying the vulnerability of the brain to status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine remains unknown. Oxidative stress has been implicated in a variety of acute and chronic neurologic conditions, including SE. The present study was aimed at was investigating the changes in catalase activity after pilocarpine-induced seizures and SE. The Control group was treated with 0.9% saline (NaCl, subcutaneously (s.c.)) and sacrificed 1h after the treatment. Another group was treated with pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, s.c., Pilocarpine group) and sacrificed 1h after treatment. The catalase activity in the cerebellum, hippocampus, frontal cortex and striatum of Wistar rats was determined. The results have shown that pilocarpine administration and resulting SE produced a significant increase in the catalase activity in the hippocampus (36%), striatum (31%) and frontal cortex (15%) of treated adult rats. Nevertheless, in the adult rat cerebellum after SE induced by pilocarpine no change was observed in the catalase activity. Our results demonstrated a direct evidence of an increase in the activity of the scavenging enzyme (catalase) in different cerebral structures during seizure activity that could be responsible for eliminating oxygen free radicals and might be one of the compensatory mechanisms to avoid the development of oxidative stress during the establishment of SE induced by pilocarpine. Our reports also indicate clear regional differences in the catalase activity caused by pilocarpine-induced seizures and SE and the hippocampus might be the principal area affected and cerebellum does not modify for this parameter studied during epileptic activity.
Clozapine is an antipsychotic medication associated with a lower suicide rate compared with other antipsychotic agents. Clozapine is used specifically in patients for whom previous therapy was inadequate or not tolerated, and is the only antipsychotic agent associated with the development of myocarditis.
To retrospectively review all adverse drug reaction reports voluntarily submitted to the Australian Adverse Drug Reactions Unit mentioning suspected myocarditis in clozapine-treated patients.
We accessed all electronic database entries and case reports citing suspected myocarditis associated with clozapine therapy from January 1993 through to December 2003, inclusive.
116 case reports of suspected myocarditis amongst clozapine-treated patients were identified during the specified time frame (incidence between 0.7% and 1.2% of treated patients). Median patient age for these cases was 30 years (SD 11.1 years) compared with 37 years from the Clopine registry. The condition developed within a median 16 days (mean 19.8 days; SD 17.3 days) of commencing clozapine for the bulk of patients developing myocarditis within 6 months (n=93, 80.2%). For all cases with known treatment commencement and cessation dates (n=106), the condition developed within a median 17 days (mean 171.7 days, SD 530.9 days). Over nine-tenths of cases were prescribed clozapine within the dose range of 100 mg/day to 450 mg/day. Sixty patients (51.8%) recovered from their episode when reported or during follow-up reports, whereas 17 patients (14.7%) had not yet recovered: 27 patients (23.3%) had unknown outcome when reported and the remaining 12 patients (10.3%) died.
Clozapine is uncommonly but importantly related to myocarditis, often fatal or near fatal and sometimes in relatively young patients with early onset after treatment initiation. The most striking feature about this condition is the wide diversity of nonspecific symptoms that occur in afflicted patients. Additional pharmacovigilance, improved reporting systems and further investigation of mechanisms of drug-induced myocarditis and related cardiovascular conditions (such as heart failure) are clearly warranted. A case-control study would be suitable for investigation of baseline predictors.
Hemodynamic and oxygen transport effects of PGE1 were observed in the early postoperative period before development of ARDS in two series of general surgical patients with circulatory deficiencies. The first was a series of 19 studies in 18 patients, the second was a placebo-controlled series of 20 patients (ten received PGE1 and ten received a placebo). In the first series, PGE1 was given as a trial of therapy after fluid therapy to pulmonary wedge pressures greater than 15 mm Hg failed to correct satisfactorily circulatory and metabolic functions. There were two deaths in the placebo group and none in the PGE1 group. Previous studies indicated that PGE1 disaggregates platelets and reduces local vasoconstriction in pulmonary circulation; this study suggests that PGE1 improves tissue perfusion of systemic circulation. After fluid therapy to PAOP greater than 15 mm Hg fails to restore circulatory function to optimal values. PGE1 should be considered as ancillary therapy in critically ill postoperative patients.
Normally menstruating volunteers as well as patients with hyperprolactinaemic menstrual disorders were treated with lisuride hydrogen maleate (200 micrograms b.i.d.), an ergoline derivative with dopaminergic properties. Within 3 h after an oral dose of 200 micrograms lisuride, PRL levels decreased significantly in all subjects to a plateau which lasted up to 3 h. Thereafter a gradual increase of serum PRL was noted. In the normally menstruating volunteers lisuride treatment did not result in any significant change of gonadotrophin or of sex steroid secretion, while both, basal as well as metoclopramide (MTCL) stimulated PRL release were significantly diminished. The inhibition of PRL secretion in patients with short luteal phases resulted in an increase of luteal progesterone output. In both treated groups ovulation occurred 1 to 5 days earlier in cycles on lisuride than in control cycles. LF-RH/MTCL tests performed in the patient bearing a pituitary prolactinoma before and after lisuride treatment revealed a continuous increase of pituitary LH pools, while PRL secretion decreased under lisuride therapy. Subsequently ovulation and menstruation occurred. The data presented demonstrate that lisuride is a potent inhibitor of PRL secretion and has proven its clinical usefulness for treatment of hyperprolactinaemic menstrual disorders. Application of lisuride resulted in an increase of luteal progesterone secretion in previously demonstrated corpus luteum insufficiency as well as in restoration of normal cyclical feedback mechanisms in tumorous hyperprolactinaemic anovulation. The MTCL-PRL stimulation test is suitable to monitor PRL suppression during lisuride treatment, while LH-RH testing reveals the effectiveness of lisuride by demonstrating an increase of pituitary gonadotrophin pools.
The effects of gomisin A, a lignan component of Schizandra fruits, on the promotion stage of hepatocarcinogenesis initiated by 3'-methyl-4-dimethylamino-azobenzene (3'-MeDAB) in male Donryu rats were investigated. When different types of tumor promotors, phenobarbital (PB) and deoxycholic acid (DCA), were administered for 5 weeks after initiation by 3'-MeDAB, preneoplastic alterations in the liver, determined by glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P), were markedly increased. Gomisin A significantly inhibited the increase in number and size of GST-P positive foci, regardless of the promotor. This lignan inhibited the increase in serum bile acid concentration by administration of DCA, but hardly influenced the serum bile acids in the PB-combined group. These results suggest that the inhibitory effect of gomisin A on the promotive action of DCA is based on improving bile acid metabolism, but regarding the action of PB, the effect could not be elucidated from the metabolism of bile acids.
Insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) is a mitogen for many cell types and an important modulator of muscle growth and differentiation. IGF-II gene is prevalently expressed during prenatal development and its gene activity is regulated by genomic imprinting, in that the allele inherited from the father is active and the allele inherited from the mother is inactive in most normal tissues. IGF-II expression is activated in several types of human neoplasms and an alteration of IGF-II imprinting has been described in Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and Wilms' tumor. Here we show that monoallelic expression of IGF-II gene is conserved in normal adult muscle tissue whereas two or more copies of active IGF-II alleles, arising by either relaxation of imprinting or duplication of the active allele, are found in 9 out of 11 (82%) rhabdomyosarcomas retaining heterozygosity at 11p15, regardless of the histological subtype. Since IGF-II has been indicated as an autocrine growth factor for rhabdomyosarcoma cells, these findings strongly suggest that acquisition of a double dosage of active IGF-II gene is an important step for the initiation or progression of rhabdomyosarcoma tumorigenesis. Among different types of muscle tumors, relaxation of imprinting seems to arise prevalently in rhabdomyosarcomas, since we have detected only one case of partial reactivation of the maternal IGF-II allele out of 7 leiomyosarcomas tested.
Patent ductus arteriosus is a common morbidity associated with preterm birth. The incidence of patent ductus arteriosus increases with decreasing gestational age to approximately 70% in infants born at 25 weeks' gestation. Our major goal was to determine if genetic risk factors play a role in patent ductus arteriosus seen in preterm infants.
We investigated whether single-nucleotide polymorphisms in genes that regulate smooth muscle contraction, xenobiotic detoxification, inflammation, and other processes are markers for persistent patency of ductus arteriosus. Initially, 377 single-nucleotide polymorphisms from 130 genes of interest were evaluated in DNA samples collected from 204 infants with a gestational age of <32 weeks. A family-based association test was performed on genotyping data to evaluate overtransmission of alleles.
P values of <.01 were detected for genetic variations found in 7 genes. This prompted additional analysis with an additional set of 162 infants, focusing on the 7 markers with initial P values of <.01, and 1 genetic variant in the angiotensin II type I receptor previously shown to be related to patent ductus arteriosus. Of the initial positive signals, single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the transcription factor AP-2 beta and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 1 genes remained significant. Additional haplotype analysis revealed genetic variations in prostacyclin synthase to be associated with patent ductus arteriosus. An angiotensin II type I receptor polymorphism previously reported to be associated with patent ductus arteriosus after prophylactic indomethacin administration was not associated with the presence of a patent ductus arteriosus in our population.
Overall, our data support a role for genetic variations in transcription factor AP-2 beta, tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 1, and prostacyclin synthase in the persistent patency of the ductus arteriosus seen in preterm infants.
Kidney transplant biopsies from 55 patients immunosuppressed with cyclosporin A and 35 treated with conventional immunosuppression were evaluated by 14 pathologists. In cyclosporin treated cases the following morphologic features were more frequent and/or severe: isometric tubular vacuolization; tubular microcalcification, tubular atrophy, interstitial fibrosis striped form, focal interstitial infiltrates and arteriolopathy. Six different morphologic reaction patterns in cyclosporin treated patients were distinguished and possible pathogenetic factors discussed: 1. Classical rejection, 2. Diffuse interstitial fibrosis, 3. Toxic tubulopathy with giant mitochondria, isometric vacuolization and microcalcification, 4. Peritubular capillary congestion with mononuclear cell accumulation, 5. Arteriolopathy similar to benign/malignant hypertension or hemolytic uremic syndrome, 6. Interstitial fibrosis (striped form) with tubular atrophy. This preliminary morphologic classification may be helpful in the biopsy interpretation and the selection of therapeutic strategies and should stimulate further studies.
To explore the relationship between genetic polymorphism of XRCC1 194, 280, 399 and susceptibility of chromosomal damage induced by 1,3-butadiene (BD).
138 workers occupationally exposed to BD and 41 normal individuals were involved. Cytokinesis-block micronucleus (CB-MN) assay was used to detect chromosome damage in peripheral lymphocyte. PCR-RFLP technique was applied to detect polymorphisms in XRCC1 194, 280 and 399.
The MN frequencies (3.39 +/- 2.42) per thousand of workers exposed to BD were more higher than those of the non-exposed groups (1.48 +/- 1.26) per thousand (P < 0.01). Workers receiving mere exposures had higher MN values than those of lower-exposed workers: frequency ratios (FR) = 1.30 (95% CI 1.14 - 1.53, P < 0.05). Workers with XRCC1 194 Arg/Trp genotype had more susceptibility for chromosome damage, FR = 1.13 (95% CI 1.07 - 1.27). Workers with XRCC1 280 Arg/His genotype had more susceptibility for chromosome damage, FR = 1.67 (95% CI 1.10 - 2.42). XRCC1 399 Arg/Gln and combined group of Arg/Gln and Gln/Gln genotype carrier had higher MN frequency, FR = 1.26 (95% CI 1.03 - 1.53) and 1.24 (95% CI 1.03 - 1.49) respectively. The haplotypes CAG/TGG could associate with the decreased frequencies of total micronucleus (P < 0.05).
Genotype of XRCC1 could associated with the chromosome damage induced by BD.
In a previous study, it was reported that secondary untreated melanoma tumors implanted several weeks after and at distance from primary chloroethylnitrosourea (CENU)-treated tumors underwent differentiation and growth inhibition. To see whether the primary treated tumor released soluble factors that mediated the secondary tumor response, serum transfer experiments were performed in vivo. Administration of serum from CENU-treated tumor-bearing donors arrested tumor proliferation, decreased vessel formation and induced tumor metabolite alterations encompassing glutathione decrease and polyunsaturated fatty acid and phosphoethanolamine increase. These changes mimicked secondary tumor phenotype. To reproduce the model in vitro, cell culture supernatant transfer experiments were performed. CENU-treated cell cultures showed polyploidy and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Cell cultures challenged by a conditioned medium of CENU-treated cells underwent growth inhibition, cytoskeleton disorders, cytokinesis retardation, metabolite alterations, glutathione decrease and phosphoethanolamine increase, without ROS elicitation. Proteomics of CENU-treated cell conditioned media revealed altered protein secretion activity by CENU-treated cells. Among de novo secreted proteins, the most expressed were phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein (PEBP), cardiovascular heat shock protein (cHsp), Rho-associated coiled-coil forming kinase 2 (ROCK) and actin fragments. These proteins testified of cytoskeleton disorders, growth inhibition and metabolite alterations. This article demonstrates the release by CENU-treated tumors of growth inhibitory differentiation-inducing soluble factors. These factors mediate remote bystander effects and attest persistent biological activity of residual tumors after chemotherapy.
[Arg(8)]vasopressin (AVP) produces vasoconstriction via V(1a) receptor (V(1a)R)-mediated vascular smooth muscle cell contraction and is being used to increase blood pressure in septic shock, a form of vasodilatory hypotension. However, AVP also induces V(2) receptor (V(2)R)-mediated antidiuresis, vasodilation, and coagulation factor release, all deleterious in septic shock. The V(1a)R agonist terlipressin (H-Gly(3)[Lys(8)]VP) also lacks selectivity vs the V(2)R and has sizably longer duration of action than AVP, preventing rapid titration of its vasopressor effect in the clinic. We designed and synthesized new short acting V(1a)R selective analogues of general structure [Xaa(2),Ile(3),Yaa(4),Zaa(8)]VP. The most potent and selective compounds in in vitro functional assays (e.g., [Phe(2),Ile(3),Asn(Me(2))(4),Orn(8)]VP (31), [Phe(2),Ile(3),Asn((CH(2))(3)OH)(4),Orn(8)]VP (34), [Phe(2),Ile(3),Hgn(4),Orn(iPr)(8)]VP (45), [Phe(2),Ile(3),Asn(Et)(4),Dab(8)]VP (49), [Thi(2),Ile(3),Orn(iPr)(8)]VP (59), [Cha(2),Ile(3),Asn(4),Orn(iPr)(8)]VP (68)) were tested by intravenous bolus in rats for duration of vasopressive action. Analogues 31, 34, 45, and 49 were as short-acting as AVP. Compound 45, FE 202158, is currently undergoing clinical trials in septic shock.
Ketamine has been associated with a unique spectrum of subjective "psychedelic" effects in patients emerging from anesthesia. This study quantified these effects of ketamine and related them to steady-state plasma concentrations.
Ketamine or saline was administered in a single-blinded crossover protocol to 10 psychiatrically healthy volunteers using computer-assisted continuous infusion. A stepwise series of target plasma concentrations, 0, 50, 100, 150, and 200 ng/ml were maintained for 30 min each. After 20 min at each step, the volunteers completed a visual analog (VAS) rating of 13 symptom scales. Peripheral venous plasma ketamine concentrations were determined after 28 min at each step. One hour after discontinuation of the infusion, a psychological inventory, the hallucinogen rating scale, was completed.
The relation of mean ketamine plasma concentrations to the target concentrations was highly linear, with a correlation coefficient of R = 0.997 (P = 0.0027). Ketamine produced dose-related psychedelic effects. The relation between steady-state ketamine plasma concentration and VAS scores was highly linear for all VAS items, with linear regression coefficients ranging from R = 0.93 to 0.99 (P < 0.024 to P < 0.0005). Hallucinogen rating scale scores were similar to those found in a previous study with psychedelic doses of N,N-dimethyltryptamine, an illicit LSD-25-like drug.
Subanesthetic doses of ketamine produce psychedelic effects in healthy volunteers. The relation between steady-state venous plasma ketamine concentrations and effects is highly linear between 50 and 200 ng/ml.
Past studies have suggested that the adrenergic system becomes abnormally activated in chronic volume overload, such as in severe aortic valve regurgitation (AR). However, the effectiveness of agents directed against this adrenergic activation has never been adequately tested in chronic AR. We therefore tested the effects of metoprolol treatment on the left ventricular (LV) function and remodeling in severe chronic AR in rats.
Severe AR was created in adult male Wistar rats by retrograde puncture of the aortic leaflets under echocardiographic guidance. Two weeks later, some animals received metoprolol treatment (25 mg/kg) orally for 24 weeks, and some were left untreated. LV dimensions, ejection fraction, and filling parameters were evaluated by echocardiography. Hearts were harvested at 1, 2, 14, and 180 days for the evaluation of hypertrophy, beta-adrenergic receptor status, and extracellular matrix remodeling. We found that metoprolol treatment prevented LV dilatation and preserved the ejection fraction and filling parameters compared with untreated animals. Metoprolol increased the expression of beta1-adrenoreceptor mRNA and reduced G protein receptor kinase 2 levels. Collagen I and III mRNA levels were reduced. Cardiac myocyte hypertrophy was also prevented.
In our experimental model of severe AR, metoprolol treatment had a significant beneficial global effect on LV remodeling and function. These results suggest that the adrenergic system is important in the development of volume-overload cardiomyopathy in AR and that adrenergic-blocking agents may play a role in the treatment of this disease.
Rotenone is a widely used pesticide. Administration of rotenone can induce biochemical and histological alterations similar to those of Parkinson's disease in rats, leading to the selective loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. However, it remains unclear why rotenone seems to affect preferentially dopaminergic cells. To address this question, we studied the effects of rotenone on dopamine distribution and metabolism to determine the role of endogenous dopamine in rotenone-induced PC12 cells toxicity. Results showed that cell viability was decreased and intracellular dopamine concentration was increased with rotenone administration in a dose-dependent manner. Rotenone exposure led to changes of proteins and enzymes associated with dopamine synthesis and transportation in PC12 cells. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT(2)) were markedly down-regulated, and dopamine transporter (DAT) was up-regulated in the cells. The activity of monoamine oxidase (MAO) was also increased. In addition, rotenone increased ROS formation, which was clearly inhibited by the pretreatment of GSH. Similar inhibitions of ROS formation were also observed in PC12 cells pretreated with the classical dopamine transporter inhibitor of GBR-12909 and the MAO inhibitor L-deprenyl. Moreover, opposite effects were observed in PC12 cells pretreated with the specific VMAT(2) inhibitor reserpine. These results suggest that rotenone administration may interfere with dopamine distribution and metabolism, leading to dopamine accumulated in the cytoplasm of PC12 cells, which may contribute to the ROS formation and cell death. Therefore, the endogenous dopamine resulted from the altered dopamine metabolism and redistribution may play an important role in rotenone toxicity in dopamine neurons.
A 28-year-old female undergoing elective total hip replacement experienced an anaphylactic reaction to succinylcholine. Hemodynamics, plasma histamine and catecholamines were measured. The tachycardia experienced during the reaction appeared to be secondary to the sympathoadrenal response rather than a direct chronotropic effect of histamine.
