The Carvedilol or Metoprolol European Trial (COMET) compared the effects of a comprehensive adrenergic antagonist, carvedilol (target dosage 25 mg twice daily), with a beta-1-selective agent, metoprolol tartrate (target dosage 50 mg twice daily), in 3029 patients with chronic heart failure caused by left ventricular systolic dysfunction. The study showed that, compared with metoprolol, long-term treatment with carvedilol exerted a substantially greater reduction in mortality and led to improvement in well-being in these patients. The superiority of carvedilol over metoprolol is readily explained by differences in their pharmacologic profiles. There is no evidence, within the trial or from other sources, that the relative dose of each agent or their formulation explained the observed difference. The result of COMET is entirely consistent with the results of previous placebo-controlled trials of beta-1-selective blockers and carvedilol.
Shiga toxin type 2, a major virulence factor produced by the Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli, is a potential toxin agent of bioterrorism. In this study, iodine-125 (125I) was used as an indicator to describe the in vivo Stx2 biodistribution profile. The rats were injected intravenously (i.v.) with 125I-Stx2 at three doses of 5.1-127.5 μg/kg body weight. Stx2 had a short distribution half-life (t (1/2)α, less than 6 min) and a long elimination half-life in rat. The toxicokinetics of Stx2 in rats was dose dependent and nonlinear. Stx2 concentrations in various tissues were detected at 5-min, 0.5-h, and 72-h postinjection. High radioactivity was found in the lungs, kidneys, nasal turbinates, and sometimes in the eyes, which has never been reported in previous studies. In a preliminary assessment, lesions were found in the kidney and thymus.
Etoposide is active against a number of solid tumors when used in a standard dose. The toxicity at a standard dose level is mild myelosuppression without extramedullary toxicity. Recent studies in man support the dose-response relationship of etoposide. In a group of 22 patients with progressive disseminated malignancies, the dose of etoposide was escalated to define dose-limiting extramedullary toxicity, which was oropharyngeal mucositis at a dose level of 3.5 g/m2. Bone marrow toxicity was completely reversible. No cumulative toxicity was seen. Partial responses were seen in nine patients. In two of three patients with CNS metastases, improvement was seen. Etoposide is a suitable drug for high-dose chemotherapy.
Chronic beryllium disease (CBD) provides a model for study of the Ag-stimulated, cell-mediated immune response that, over time, progresses to granulomatous lung disease. Using cells obtained with bronchoalveolar lavage from patients with CBD and normal individuals, we evaluated beryllium salt-stimulated T lymphocyte proliferation and production of proinflammatory cytokines. Our findings demonstrate that beryllium sulfate stimulates production of both IL-2 and IFN-gamma, not IL-4 and IL-7. We observed a brief time course for IL-2 protein (6-48 h after BeSO4 stimulation) and mRNA production (3-6 h) and a protracted time course for IFN-gamma protein (24-168 h) and mRNA (0.25-168 h). Beryllium-stimulated T lymphocyte proliferation and IFN-gamma release were only partially inhibited by neutralization of IL-2. On the basis of these findings, we hypothesized that IFN-gamma and the IL-2/IFN-gamma-inducible alpha subunit of the soluble IL-2 receptor were elevated in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of individuals with disease and were molecular markers of granulomatous disease. The data demonstrate that levels of the alpha subunit of the soluble IL-2 receptor, but not IFN-gamma, are elevated in the serum (median = 1428 U/ml; interquartile range = 823-2137 U/ml) and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (median = 1.56 U/ml, interquartile range = 1.04-4.22 U/ml) of patients with CBD and correlate with the degree of pulmonary lymphocytosis and clinical measures of disease severity. We conclude that IL-2 and IFN-gamma are produced in the beryllium-stimulated, cell-mediated immune response with different time courses and that the alpha subunit of the soluble IL-2 receptor may serve as a biomarker of disease progression.
Fetal alcohol exposure during development results in a host of cardiac abnormalities including atrial and ventricular septal defects, teratology of Fallot, d-transposition of the great arteries, truncus arteriosus communis, and aortico-pulmonary window. The mechanisms behind these ethanol-induced deficits are unknown. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the zebrafish, a simple model in which heart development and the sequence of gene expression is well elucidated and comparable to that in higher vertebrates, is sensitive to developmental exposure of pharmacologically relevant concentrations of ethanol.
Zebrafish eggs of the AB strain were raised in egg water or in 0.5% (v/v) ethanol solution for either 54 hpf (hours postfertilization) or 72 hpf. Heart pathology and volumes were evaluated on the latter group at 5 dpf (days postfertilization) on tissue sections from fixed larvae embedded in glycolmethacrylate. Heart rates were determined in embryos of 54 hpf and larvae of 5 dpf. The functional maturity of the heart's conducting system was measured by determining the response of ethanol-treated and control embryos and larvae to the adrenergic agonist, isoproterenol, and the cholinergic agonist, carbachol.
Ethanol-induced alterations occurred in heart morphology and heart volume. A developmental lag in the isoproterenol response and the absence of carbachol-mediated bradycardia were also observed following ethanol treatment.
These results show that exposure of the zebrafish to ethanol during development results in structural and functional changes in the heart that mimic malformations that occur in patients with fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). These findings promote the zebrafish heart as a future model for investigating the mechanisms responsible for ethanol's adverse effects on vertebrate heart development.
Lung cancer causes over one million deaths per year worldwide and cigarette smoking, the proximate cause, results in a field cancerization of the respiratory track. Lung cancer cells or premalignant cells may be susceptible to apoptosis or necrosis-inducing agents. Statins inhibit the acetyl coenzyme A pathway reducing L-mevalonate that is a precursor to isoprenoids necessary for post-translational processing, resulting in apoptosis. Lovastatin was added to four lung cancer cell lines and normal human bronchial epithelial cells followed by Western blots to evaluate proteins in the cell cycle, oxidant, and apoptotic pathways. Flow cytometry revealed significant increases in three of four lung cancer cell lines in apoptosis and necrosis after lovastatin treatment at 10 microM for 72 h. Lovastatin adversely affected lung cancer cell survival with increases in cell-cycle check-point inhibitors p21WAF and/or p27KIP and a decrease in cyclin D1. All four lung cancer cell lines had a decrease in glutathione after lovastatin treatment consistent with reduced protection against reactive oxidant species. Three of four lung cancer cell lines had increased cytochrome c release with reduced pro-caspase-3 and increases in activated caspase-3. Lovastatin induces apoptosis and necrosis in lung cancer cell lines by causing alterations in the cell cycle, reducing glutathione, and activating p53, Bax protein, and caspases while increasing cytochrome c in apoptosis pathways. Targeting HMG-CoA reductase may represent an approach to lung cancer chemotherapy, e.g., reversing ground glass opacities detected on CT scans or resolving airway preneoplasias detected by bronchoscopy before they progress to malignant transformation.
Five out of forty-five adult men, 50 years of age or less, who had received, for at least six months, medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA, Depo Provera) IM, 200-400 mg/week, for prevention of sex-offending or genital-mutilating behavior developed symptomatic cholelithiasis. Thirty of these men were studied with gallbladder ultrasound prospectively off MPA and at six-month intervals while taking the medication and then six months off MPA. Gallstones recovered from two patients were found to have very high cholesterol content, suggesting they were formed in cholesterol supersaturated bile. These findings are consistent with the increased incidence of gallbladder disease related to high-progesterone states and suggest that MPA may be a causative agent in cholelithiasis. The physiologic studies on gallbladder contraction and cholecystokinin release in a subset of the patients failed to provide information on a mechanism for the possible increased incidence of gallbladder disease.
Inherited predisposition to phaeochromocytoma (MIM No 171300) occurs in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN 2) (MIM No 171400), von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease (MIM No 199300), and neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) (MIM No 162200). In addition, familial phaeochromocytoma alone has also been reported and we and others have identified germline VHL mutations in five of six kindreds analysed previously. Germline mutations in the RET proto-oncogene, which encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase, and in the VHL tumour suppressor gene cause MEN 2 and VHL disease, respectively. To further investigate the genetics of phaeochromocytoma predisposition, we analysed three groups of patients with no evidence of VHL disease, MEN 2 or NF1: Group A, eight kindreds with familial phaeochromocytoma; Group B, two patients with isolated bilateral phaeochromocytoma; and Group C, six cases of multiple extra-adrenal phaeochromocytoma or adrenal phaeochromocytoma with a family history of neuroectodermal tumours. Germline missense VHL mutations were identified in three of eight kindreds with familial phaeochromocytoma. A germline VHL mutation was also characterised in one of the two patients with bilateral phaeochromocytoma. No VHL or RET mutations were detected in the final group of patients with multiple extra-adrenal phaeochromocytoma or adrenal phaeochromocytoma with a family history of neuroectodermal tumours. The absence of germline VHL and RET gene mutations in many of these families suggested that other phaeochromoeytoma susceptibility loci may exist. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been recently identified as a natural ligand for RET. Thus, it seems plausible that GDNF is a good candidate gene to play a role in phaeochromocytoma susceptibility. We searched for germline mutations in GDNF in 16 cases of familial phaeochromocytoma (groups A, B and C) and looked for evidence of somatic change in GDNF in 28 sporadic phaeochromocytomas, 12 MEN 2 phaeochromocytomas and five VHL phaeochromocytomas. No GDNF mutations were identified in patients with familial phaeochromocytoma disease, but a c277C-->T (R93W) sequence variant was identified in one of 28 sporadic tumours. This candidate mutation was identified in the germline and tumour tissue but was not present in 104 control GDNF alleles. GDNF sequence variants including R93W have been suggested previously to represent low penetrance susceptibility mutations for Hirschsprung disease and the R93W was not identified in 376 control alleles studied by others. These findings suggest that although GDNF mutations do not appear to have a major role in the pathogenesis of familial or sporadic phaeochromocytomas, allelic variation at the GDNF locus may modify phaeochromocytoma susceptibility.
The National Wilms' Tumor Study (NWTS) was initiated in 1969. One of its objectives was to modulate treatments according to risk factors to minimize the number and severity of treatment-related short-term and long-term iatrogenic complications. The NWTS has therefore incorporated a Long Term Follow-up Study (LTFS) within its framework to monitor late effects. The LTFS is confined to relapse-free survivors alive 5 years or longer after initial surgery, and data are collected using specifically designed forms. A total of 787 patients registered on NWTS-1 or NWTS-2 (1969 to 1979) were eligible, of whom 680 (86%) were available for analysis regarding musculoskeletal, cardiovascular, and neuropsychologic status, and the presence of benign and malignant tumors. Patients with early-stage disease who were treated with radiation had scoliosis reported, along with other musculoskeletal abnormalities (32 versus 2), nearly seven times as often as did the members of the cohort population who did not undergo radiation (35 of 57 versus 5 of 53, respectively). The difference in cardiovascular problems recorded in survivors who did and did not receive Adriamycin (Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH) (2.4 versus 1.1 per 100-person years at risk) had borderline statistical significance (P = 0.06). No excess in neuropsychologic events was reported for those given the neurotoxin vincristine. When considering patients with disease of all stages, all 5 second malignant tumors occurred in the 623 patients who underwent radiation (RT patients); benign tumors were also more frequent in RT patients than in those patients who did not undergo radiation (41 of 486 or 8% versus 4 of 194 or 2%). Continuing study of this unique body of patients is needed, especially for those given Adriamycin, because of the known long interval needed for latent cardiomyopathy to become clinically manifest in some patients.
Pain control measures in sickle cell diseases are not uniform. Most clinicians use parenteral morphine or meperidine for severe pain. Reports of seizures associated with meperidine have led to a growing reliance on intravenous morphine, usually with patient-controlled devices. Acceptance of morphine has been poor among patients, and many prefer meperidine. The aim of this retrospective study was to determine the incidence of meperidine-associated seizures in a large, mostly pediatric population with sickling disorders. The results suggest that the incidence of seizures with meperidine is extremely small (0.4% of patients; 0.06% of admissions). The risk of seizures should not dissuade clinicians from using this drug.
To clarify the relationship between lipid and glucose metabolism abnormalities in fructose-fed rats, we examined whether an improvement of insulin sensitivity by troglitazone (CS-045) or a decrease in plasma lipids by bezafibrate affects the relationship between serum levels of lipid and glucose. In addition, we also examined changes in liver glycogen metabolism and beta-oxidation in fructose-fed rats. Troglitazone ameliorated fasting hyperlipidemia, hyperglycemia, and hyperinsulinemia. In addition, it augmented glycogen synthase activity by 53%, and decreased the mitochondrial palmitic acid beta-oxidation rate and ketone body production rate by 27% and 55%, respectively. However, hyperglycemia and liver glycogen synthase activity were not improved by bezafibrate treatment despite a marked reduction of serum triglyceride (TG) levels resulting from a 1.76-fold increase in mitochondrial oxidation and a 2.04-fold increase in hepatic ketone body production. These results suggest that abnormalities in glucose and lipid metabolism in fructose-fed rats, which are ameliorated by troglitazone, may be closely linked to reduced glycogen synthase activity in the liver.
We report two cases of complex movement disorders induced by fluoxetine. A 72-year-old woman developed rhythmic palatal movements, myoclonus, chorea, and possibly dystonia after 2 years of therapy with fluoxetine. On withdrawal of fluoxetine, the movements abated after 5 days and did not recur. The second patient, a 58-year-old man, developed myoclonic jerking and rapid, stereotypic movements of his toes after a year of fluoxetine therapy. These complex movements have not been reported previously as an adverse effect of fluoxetine.
Pathogen virulence factors and the host inflammatory response cause tissue injury associated with respiratory tract infections. The azalide azithromycin has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of these infections. It has been demonstrated previously that induction of polymorphonuclear leucocyte (PMN) apoptosis is associated with minimization of tissue damage and inflammation in the lung. We hypothesized that, in addition to its antibacterial effects, azithromycin may promote apoptosis. The aim of the study was to determine the effects of azithromycin on PMN apoptosis, oxidative function and interleukin-8 (IL-8) production in the presence or absence of Streptococcus pneumoniae, in comparison with penicillin, erythromycin, dexamethasone or phosphate-buffered saline. Human circulating PMNs were assessed for apoptosis (by annexin V labelling and ELISA), oxidative function (by nitroblue tetrazolium reduction) and IL-8 production (by ELISA). Azithromycin significantly induced PMN apoptosis in the absence of S. pneumoniae after 1 h (10.27% +/- 1.48%, compared with 2.19% +/- 0.42% in controls) to levels similar to those after 3 h induction with tumour necrosis factor-alpha (8. 73% +/- 1.86%). This effect was abolished in the presence of S. pneumoniae. Apoptosis in PMNs exposed to the other drugs was not significantly different from that in controls. Azithromycin did not affect PMN oxidative metabolism or IL-8 production. In summary, azithromycin-induced PMN apoptosis may be detected in the absence of any effect on PMN function, and the pro-apoptotic properties of azithromycin are inhibited in the presence of S. pneumoniae.
A rare and unusual case of hallucinations following triazolam administration is reported. A review of the literature suggests that hallucinations following triazolam are rare; this is the first report of such a reaction when triazolam was used for oral conscious sedation in dentistry. A discussion of dental implications follows with emphasis on complete medical history evaluation before administering oral sedatives. We conclude that the proper selection of oral sedation candidates, coupled with recognition and management of adverse events, is essential.
Starting again a Rifampicin treatment gave rise to an acute renal insufficiency, reversible by hemodialysis. This incident resulted from an immunopathological conflict revealed by the presence of anti-Rifampicin antibodies. Renal needle biopsy did not show any immune deposits. The mechanism of these incidents is discussed. Authors draw attention to the necessity of avoiding discontinuous Rifampicin treatment.
An 11-year-old girl was scheduled for alveolar cleft bone grafting with an iliac bone under general anesthesia. Anesthesia was performed with 70% nitrous oxide, 30% oxygen, and propofol. On the first and second postoperative day, persistent hyperthermia was observed. Because the administration of diclofenac sodium had not been effective for the hyperthermia, dantrolene sodium was given. Her body temperature gradually dropped and returned to normal level on the fifth postoperative day. The hyperthermia in the present case might have been caused by a rapidly elevated muscle metabolism in response to pain and stress after the propofol anesthesia. The oral administration of dantrolene sodium successfully lowered the patient's high body temperature.
Lymph node metastasis is a critical event in the progression of tongue squamous cell carcinoma (TSCC). The identification of biomarkers associated with the metastatic process would provide critical prognostic information to facilitate clinical decision making. Previous studies showed that deregulation of manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2) expression is a frequent event in TSCC and may be associated with enhanced cell invasion. The purpose of this study is to further evaluate whether the expression level of SOD2 is correlated with the metastatic status in TSCC patients.
We first examined the SOD2 expression at mRNA level on 53 TSCC and 22 normal control samples based on pooled-analysis of existing microarray datasets. To confirm our observations, we examined the expression of SOD2 at protein level on an additional TSCC patient cohort (n = 100), as well as 31 premalignant dysplasias, 15 normal tongue mucosa, and 32 lymph node metastatic diseases by immunohistochemistry (IHC).
The SOD2 mRNA level in primary TSCC tissue is reversely correlated with lymph node metastasis in the first TSCC patient cohort. The SOD2 protein level in primary TSCC tissue is also reversely correlated with lymph node metastasis in the second TSCC patient cohort. Deregulation of SOD2 expression is a common event in TSCC and appears to be associated with disease progression. Statistical analysis revealed that the reduced SOD2 expression in primary tumor tissue is associated with lymph node metastasis in both TSCC patient cohorts examined.
Our study suggested that the deregulation of SOD2 in TSCC has potential predictive values for lymph node metastasis, and may serve as a therapeutic target for patients at risk of metastasis.
Chloroquine, a common quinolone derivative used in the treatment of malaria, has been associated with neurologic side-effects including depression, psychosis and delirium. The neuropharmacologic effects of chloroquine were examined on cultured cortical neurons using microelectrode array (MEA) recording and the whole-cell patch clamp technique. Whole-cell patch clamp records under current-clamp mode also showed a chloroquine-induced depression of the firing rate of spontaneous action potentials by approximately 40%, consistent with the observations with the MEA recording, although no changes in either the baseline membrane potential or input resistance were observed. Voltage clamp recordings of spontaneous post-synaptic currents, recorded in the presence of tetrodotoxin, revealed no obvious changes in either the amplitude or rate of occurrence of inward currents with application of chloroquine at 10 microM, suggesting that the fundamental molecular mechanisms underlying spontaneous synaptic transmission may not be affected by acute application of the drug. In contrast, a concentration-dependent inhibition of whole-cell calcium current was observed in the presence of chloroquine. These acute neuropharmacologic changes were not accompanied by cytotoxic actions of the compound, even after exposure of up to 500 microM chloroquine for 7 h. These data suggest that chloroquine can depress in vitro neuronal activity, perhaps through inhibition of membrane calcium channels.
Inhaled hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)) promotes lung injury and pulmonary diseases through poorly defined mechanisms. One hypothesis for this lung pathogenesis is that Cr(VI) silences induction of cytoprotective genes, such as heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), whose total lung mRNA levels were reduced 21 days after nasal instillation of potassium dichromate in C57BL/6 mice. To investigate the mechanisms for this inhibition, Cr(VI) effects on basal and arsenic (As(III))-induced HO-1 expression were examined in cultured human bronchial epithelial (BEAS-2B) cells. An effect of Cr(VI) on the low basal HO-1 mRNA and protein levels in BEAS-2B cells was not detectible. In contrast, Cr(VI) added to the cells before As(III), but not simultaneously with As(III), attenuated As(III)-induced HO-1 expression. Transient transfection with luciferase reporter gene constructs controlled by the full length ho-1 promoter or deletion mutants demonstrated that this inhibition occurred in the E1 enhancer region containing critical antioxidant response elements (ARE). Cr(VI) pretreatment inhibited As(III)-induced activity of a transiently expressed reporter construct regulated by three ARE tandem repeats. The mechanism for this Cr(VI)-attenuated transactivation appeared to be Cr(VI) reduction of the nuclear levels of the transcription factor Nrf2 and As(III)-stimulated Nrf2 transcriptional complex binding to the ARE cis element. Finally, exposing cells to Cr(VI) prior to co-exposure with As(III) synergized for apoptosis and loss of membrane integrity. These data suggest that Cr(VI) silences induction of ARE-driven genes required for protection from secondary insults. The data also have important implications for understanding the toxic mechanisms of low level, mixed metal exposures in the lung.
Endometriosis is a benign chronic gynecological disease of reproductive-age women characterized by the presence of functional endometrial tissues outside the uterine cavity. It is an estrogen-dependent disease. Current treatment modalities to inhibit biosynthesis and actions of estrogen compromise menstruation, pregnancy, and the reproductive health of women and fail to prevent reoccurrence of disease. There is a critical need to identify new specific signaling modules for non-estrogen-targeted therapies for endometriosis. In our previous study, we reported that selective inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 prevented survival, migration, and invasion of human endometriotic epithelial and stromal cells, which was due to decreased prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) production. In this study, we determined mechanisms through which PGE(2) promoted survival of human endometriotic cells. Results of the present study indicate that 1) PGE(2) promotes survival of human endometriotic cells through EP2 and EP4 receptors by activating ERK1/2, AKT, nuclear factor-kappaB, and beta-catenin signaling pathways; 2) selective inhibition of EP2 and EP4 suppresses these cell survival pathways and augments interactions between proapoptotic proteins (Bax and Bad) and antiapoptotic proteins (Bcl-2/Bcl-XL), facilitates the release of cytochrome c, and thus activates caspase-3/poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-mediated intrinsic apoptotic pathways; and 3) these PGE(2) signaling components are more abundantly expressed in ectopic endometriosis tissues compared with eutopic endometrial tissues during the menstrual cycle in women. These novel findings may provide an important molecular framework for further evaluation of selective inhibition of EP2 and EP4 as potential therapy, including nonestrogen target, to expand the spectrum of currently available treatment options for endometriosis in women.
To compare the safety and effectiveness of propofol (2,6-diisopropylphenol) to midazolam for sedation of mechanically ventilated patients after coronary artery bypass grafting.
Open, randomized, prospective trial.
Cardiothoracic intensive care unit (ICU), Cleveland Clinic Foundation.
Eighty-four patients with normal or moderately impaired left ventricular function who underwent elective coronary artery bypass graft surgery under high-dose opioid anesthesia.
Patients were randomly selected to receive either propofol (mean loading dose 0.24 mg/kg; mean maintenance dose 0.76 mg/kg/hr) or midazolam (mean loading dose 0.012 mg/kg; mean maintenance dose 0.018 mg/kg/hr). Infusion rates were titrated to keep patients comfortable, drowsy, and responsive to verbal stimulation. Study duration, 8 to 12 hrs; infusions were started in the ICU when patients were awake and hemodynamically stable.
During therapy, both groups had lower mean arterial pressures and heart rates compared with baseline measurements; however, the propofol group had significantly lower heart rates than the midazolam group during the first 2 hrs of infusion. The propofol group also had significantly lower blood pressure measurements 5 and 10 mins after the initial dose, although there was no difference during infusion. Baseline cardiac output was measured before starting the infusion, and measurements were repeated during continuous infusion at 4, 8, and 12 hrs. Cardiac output values were similar. Propofol maintenance infusions ranged from 3 to 30 micrograms/kg/min and midazolam infusions ranged from 0.1 to 0.7 micrograms/kg/min. At these infusion rates. both groups had adequate sedation, based on nurse and patient evaluations; however, the propofol group used significantly lower total doses of sodium nitroprusside and supplemental opioids.
Both propofol and midazolam provided safe and effective sedation of coronary artery bypass graft patients recovering from high-dose opioid anesthesia. The reduced need for both antihypertensive medication and opioids seen in the propofol group may be advantageous. However, the hypotension seen after the initial bolus dose of propofol may be a concern. No difference between the two drugs could be demonstrated in time to extubation or ICU discharge, although it is probable that time to extubation was governed more by residual operative opioids than the study agents.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) 1 receptor (CRF(1)) activation in the brain is a core pathway orchestrating the stress response. Anatomical data also support the existence of CRF signaling components within the colon. We investigated the colonic response to intraperitoneal (ip) injection of cortagine, a newly developed selective CRF(1) peptide agonist. Colonic motor function and visceral motor response (VMR) were monitored by using a modified miniaturized pressure transducer catheter in adult conscious male Sprague-Dawley rats and C57Bl/6 mice. Colonic permeability was monitored by the Evans blue method and myenteric neurons activation by Fos immunohistochemistry. Compared with vehicle, cortagine (10 microg/kg ip) significantly decreased the distal colonic transit time by 45% without affecting gastric transit, increased distal and transverse colonic contractility by 35.6 and 66.2%, respectively, and induced a 7.1-fold increase in defecation and watery diarrhea in 50% of rats during the first hour postinjection whereas intracerebroventricular (icv) cortagine (3 microg/rat) had lesser effects. Intraperitoneal (ip) cortagine also increased colonic permeability, activated proximal and distal colonic myenteric neurons, and induced visceral hypersensitivity to a second set of phasic colorectal distention (CRD). The CRF antagonist astressin (10 mug/kg ip) abolished ip cortagine-induced hyperalgesia whereas injected icv it had no effect. In mice, cortagine (30 microg/kg ip) stimulated defecation by 7.8-fold, induced 60% incidence of diarrhea, and increased VMR to CRD. Stresslike colonic alterations induced by ip cortagine in rats and mice through restricted activation of peripheral CRF(1) receptors support a role for peripheral CRF(1) signaling as the local arm of the colonic response to stress.
Considerable evidence indicates that serotonergic mechanisms, particularly the serotonin transporter (5HTT), may mediate central effects of cocaine and may also be involved in impulsive and aggressive behavior. We investigated whether polymorphisms in the 5HTT gene were related to traits of impulsivity, sensation seeking, and aggression among cocaine abusers. Standardized measures of these personality traits were obtained in a sample of 105 severely affected cocaine-dependent African-American subjects and 44 African-American controls. Two polymorphisms of the 5HTT gene were examined involving the 5' promoter (5HTTLPR) region and a 17 base pair variable-number-tandem-repeat (VNTR) marker among cocaine patients. No significant relationships were observed between polymorphic variants of the 5HTTLPR and VNTR regions and scores on any of the trait measures. Similarly, demographic variables and measures of severity of substance use and depression were unrelated to allele frequencies or genotype distributions of the variants among cocaine patients. As expected, cocaine patients scored significantly higher on total scores of impulsivity, aggression, and sensation seeking compared to controls. The findings do not seem to support an association between these polymorphisms in the 5HTT gene and impulsive-aggressive traits among cocaine-dependent African-American individuals.
Amlodipine is a new long-acting calcium antagonist that has a long half-life and appears to be suitable for once-daily administration. A double-blind, randomized, parallel, placebo-controlled study was conducted to evaluate the effect of amlodipine on ambulatory blood pressures in hypertensive patients. The study consisted of a 4-week single-blind placebo run-in phase, followed by 4 weeks of double-blind therapy. Ambulatory blood pressure was measured for 24 h at the end of the placebo run-in phase and after double-blind therapy. Sixteen patients were randomized to receive either amlodipine 5 mg or placebo in a 2:1 ratio. Amlodipine 5 mg daily significantly reduced supine and standing blood pressure 24 h postdose. Ambulatory blood pressure recordings revealed adequate blood pressure control throughout the 24-h dosing interval. Amlodipine was well tolerated and only two patients reported side effects--neither was withdrawn from therapy. No treatment-related abnormalities were noted. It was concluded that amlodipine 5 mg daily was effective antihypertensive therapy throughout the 24-h dosing period in the patients studied, and it was well tolerated.
Palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE) is a characteristic cutaneous toxicity associated with pegylated liposomal doxirubicin (PLD). Different therapies have been proposed to alleviate PPE onset. We performed a prospective study to evaluate preventive strategies to reduce PPE incidence in patients treated for gynecologic cancers.
Fifty-three patients were treated from 2001 to 2006 with PLD as single agent therapy or in combination with carboplatin or paclitaxel. PLD dosages were in the range of 30-50 mg/m2 every 21-28 days. All patients received premedication with dexamethasone and pyridoxine. Twenty-eight patients received application of ice packs on extremities during PLD infusion.
PPE was observed in 11 patients (20.8%). PLD administration as single agent or in combination and schedule of PLD therapy did not affect PPE incidence. A significant reduction in PPE onset was observed if PLD dosage was 30-35 mg/m2 (p=0.03) and when patients were submitted to regional cooling protocol (p=0.0097).
The use of ice packs around wrists and ankles is a simple and well tolerated prevention strategy and its efficacy is demonstrated in this study.
We report a case of theophylline-induced hypercalcemia. The patient, a 51 year old women, had been administered theophylline for about five years because of bronchial asthma. She was referred to us in March 2003 for the treatment of renal failure and hypercalcemia(15.2 mg/dL), which had been increasing since 2001. Clinical and laboratory findings were not consistent with any endocrinopathy. We suspected drug induced hypercalcemia. Three months after discontinuation of theophylline therapy, the hypercalcemia was completely cured. When admitted to our hospital, the patient was diagnosed as also having Hashimoto's disease. Hyperthyroidism might enhance the effect of theophylline on parathyroid hormone action. Therefore, theophylline induced hypercalcemia even though she was taking the therapeutic level. Moreover, her calcium excretion did not increase despite hypercalcemia. We concluded that her hypercalcemia was induced by theophylline and hyperthyroidism, and that hypocalciuria might have enhanced these conditions.
The cardiovascular responses to i.v. doses of epinephrine were assessed in vehicle-controlled, dopamine-treated, apomorphine-treated, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid-treated, haloperidol-treated and pimozide-treated rats, under urethan anesthesia. Previous exposure to several injections of epinephrine did not change the basal values of arterial pressure and heart rate. It was found that dopaminergic transmission alterations within the brain did produce some influence on the reflex bradycardia in response to an elevation in arterial pressure. Blockade of dopaminergic receptors in brain with either haloperidol or pimozide produced a significant recution in reflex bradycardia compared to the controls. In contrast, either direct activation of central dopamine receptors witth dopamine and apomorphine or indirect activation of central dopamine receptors with gamma-hydroxybutyric acid led to an enhancement in epinephrine-induced bradycardia. The data indicate that central dopmaine systems play a role in the elaboration or modulation of reflex bradycardia. Specifically, brain dopamine appears to facilitate reflex bradycardia since activation of dopamine systems facilitated and blockade inhibited reflex bradycardia.
Humic acid, a group of polymer, resulting from the decomposition of organic matter has been implicated as a possible etiological factor for Black foot disease and cancer. However, the role of humic acid in carcinogenesis is not well clarified. In this study, we evaluated the enhancement effect of humic acid on the progression of A549 human lung cancer cells. Our findings showed that humic acid increased the migration, adhesion and invasion of A549 cells significantly after treatment at the concentration of 50 and 100 microg/ml for 24 and 48 h as compared with the untreated group. Results of zymography assay indicated that humic acid enhanced the activity of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9). By western blotting analysis, humic acid increased the expression of phosphorylated focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and integrin alpha2 that may mediate cell motility and adhesion. Since the activation of signal pathways such as phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt (PI3K/Akt) and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) may play a role in the cell invasion, we detected the expression of phosphorylated Akt and phosphorylated MAPKs including extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), Jun N-terminus kinase (JNK), and p38. The result indicated that all kinases stated above were activated by humic acid in A549 cells. However, by adding an inhibitor respectively in the invasion assay, only Akt, ERK, and JNK pathways were found to be involved in the enhancing the invasion of A549 cells by humic acid. In addition, results of electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) demonstrated that humic acid increased nuclear extract binding to the DNA probe of activator protein 1 (AP-1) and nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB) respectively, implying that humic acid enhanced the progression of A549 lung cancer cells through activating multiple signaling pathways including ERK, JNK, and PI3K/Akt and increasing the transcription activation of AP-1 and NFkappaB.
