To investigate blood flow velocities in the ophthalmic and central retinal arteries (CRAs) in patients with diabetic retinopathy before and after atorvastatin treatment.
45 patients with type 2 diabetes were included in this double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The patients with diabetes were divided into three subgroups: group 1 (n = 15) included patients with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR); group 2 (n = 15) had patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR); and group 3 (n = 15; placebo group) included 8 patients with NPDR and 7 patients with PDR. The patients in groups 1 and 2 (atorvastatin group) received 10 mg atorvastatin daily for 10 weeks. Pre-treatment and post-treatment serum levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride were recorded before and after treatment. Ocular blood flow velocities of the ophthalmic artery and CRA were evaluated by colour Doppler imaging before and after treatment in each group.
The baseline haemodynamic parameters were similar between atorvastatin and placebo groups (p>0.05 for both). Atorvastatin significantly decreased serum levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides in groups 1 and 2 compared with pretreatment levels (p<0.001 for both). The mean peak systolic flow velocities (PSVs) of the ophthalmic artery in group 2, and the mean PSV and resistive indices of the CRA in groups 1 and 2 decreased significantly after atorvastatin treatment (p<0.05 for both), whereas the mean end diastolic flow velocity of the ophthalmic artery and CRA did not change (p>0.05). There was no significant difference in ocular blood flow velocities in the placebo group (p>0.05).
Atorvastatin may have a role in reducing diabetic retinal complications, with improvement in vascular resistance and decrease in the mean PSVs of the ophthalmic artery and CRA. However, further studies with large numbers of patients are needed to obtain the long-term results of this drug.
The peroxisomal proliferator-activated nuclear receptor-alpha (PPARalpha), the target for most hypolipidemic drugs in current clinical use, regulates the transcription of genes involved in lipid metabolism and transport, and energy homeostasis. More recently, PPARalpha and its ligands have been implicated in inflammatory responses and the regulation of cell proliferation. PPARalpha also regulates the expression of Cyp4a fatty acid omega-hydroxylases and Cyp2c arachidonic acid epoxygenase genes. To study the role of the PPARalpha receptor and of its Cyp2c epoxygenase gene target in tumorigenesis, we treated mice injected with tumor cells with Wy-14,643, a PPARalpha-selective ligand. Compared with untreated controls, Wy-14643-treated animals showed marked reductions in tumor growth and vascularization, which were accompanied by decreases in the plasma levels of pro-angiogenic epoxygenase metabolites (EETs), hepatic EET biosynthesis, and Cyp2c epoxygenase expression. All these Wy-14643-induced responses were absent in PPARalpha(-/-) mice and are thus PPARalpha-mediated. Primary cultures of mouse lung endothelial cells treated with Wy-14643 showed reductions in cell proliferation and in the formation of capillary-like structures. These effects were absent in cells obtained from PPRAalpha(-/-) mice and reversed by the addition of EETs. These results identify important anti-angiogenic and anti-tumorigenic roles for PPARalpha, characterize the contribution of its Cyp2c epoxygenases gene target to these responses, and suggest potential anti-cancer roles for this nuclear receptor and its ligands.
Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are widely used in industry and medicine but the recent evidence for their cytotoxicity rise a concern about the safety of their use. We have previously shown that human A549 cells are resistant to AgNPs cytotoxicity, as compared with similarly treated HepG2 cells. In order to check for the role of the NF-κB signaling pathway in response of A549 and HepG2 cell lines to the treatment with 20 nm and 200 nm AgNps, we analyzed the expression of 84 key genes related to the functionality of the NF-κB signaling pathway. We observed considerable alternations in gene expression in HepG2 cells treated with 20 nm AgNPs, and minor changes when exposed to 200 nm AgNPs. Surprisingly, no changes in gene expression were observed in A549 cells treated with both size AgNPs. Using the NF-κB luciferase reporter system, we further tested the basal activity and inducibility of the NF-κB pathway in both cell lines and found that the inducibility of NF-κB signaling in A549 cells is approximately 5 times lower than this of HepG2 cells, but the basal activity is approximately 3.5 times higher. In accordance, the NF-κB activation after AgNPs treatment was observed in HepG2 but not in A549. Altogether indicate that NF-kB mediated cellular response to AgNPs is cell type specific and related to the basal activity of NF-κB.
Prolonged immunosuppressive therapy with cyclophosphamide increases the prevalence of neoplasms in NZB/NZW mice, an animal model of systemic lupus erythematosus. The current study was designed to compare the oncogenic properties of high dose cyclophosphamide with a low dose therapeutic regimen. Female NZB/NZW mice received life-long therapy with "high dose" cyclophosphamide, 16 mg/kg/day, or "low-dose" cyclophosphamide, 5.7 mg/kg/day; control mice received saline. High dose therapy clearly accelerated appearance of neoplasms. Seventeen of 19 mice treated with high-dose cyclophosphamide developed neoplasms at the mean age of 61 weeks. Fifty-seven percent of these tumors were mammary carcinomas. Neoplasms appeared in all mice treated with low dose; mean longevity in this treatment group was 80 weeks (compared to high dose treated mice, P less than 0.001). Carcinomas, pulmonary adenomas, and lymphomas were the most common tumors in mice receiving low dose therapy. Positive tests for ANA were suppressed in high dose treated mice. AntiDNA antibody levels and glomerulonephritis were decreased significantly in both groups of cyclophosphamide-treated mice compared to controls. It was concluded that the high daily dose of immunosuppressive drug was related to early oncogenesis in autoimmune NZB/NZW mice.
We demonstrated previously that a knockout (KO) of the lactate dehydrogenase type C (Ldhc) gene disrupted male fertility and caused a considerable reduction in sperm glucose consumption, ATP production, and motility. While that study used mice with a mixed genetic background, the present study used C57BL/6 (B6) and 129S6 (129) Ldhc KO mice. We found that B6 KO males were subfertile and 129 KO males were infertile. Sperm from 129 wild-type (WT) mice have a lower glycolytic rate than sperm from B6 WT mice, resulting in a greater reduction in ATP production in 129 KO sperm than in B6 KO sperm. The lower glycolytic rate in 129 sperm offered a novel opportunity to examine the role of mitochondrial respiration in sperm ATP production and motility. We observed that in media containing a mitochondrial substrate (pyruvate or lactate) as the sole energy source, ATP levels and progressive motility in 129 KO sperm were similar to those in 129 WT sperm. However, when glucose was added, lactate was unable to maintain ATP levels or progressive motility in 129 KO sperm. The rate of respiration (ZO2) was high when 129 KO or WT sperm were incubated with lactate alone, but addition of glucose caused a reduction in ZO2. These results indicate that in the absence of glucose, 129 sperm can produce ATP via oxidative phosphorylation, but in the presence of glucose, oxidative phosphorylation is suppressed and the sperm utilize aerobic glycolysis, a phenomenon known as the Crabtree effect.
The molecular mechanisms behind acquired nephrotic syndrome (NS) are still largely unknown. One possible explanation for the development of proteinuria is oxidative damage to the glomerular cells. Our hypothesis was that the oxidative defense is weakened in NS, and we focused on measurements of the oxidative-antioxidative status in the glomerular and tubular parts of the nephron. Gene expression was analyzed in renal biopsies from patients with NS. In addition, to compare the acute and chronic phases of the disease, we studied puromycin-treated rats. In the biopsy material, the expression of enzymes involved in the antioxidative defense was higher in the tubulointerstitial compartment than in the glomerular cells. Real-time PCR analysis revealed a decreased glomerular expression in nephrotic kidneys for the antioxidant enzymes catalase and glutathione peroxidase-3, and -4. The tubular gene expression was downregulated for catalase, glutathione peroxidase-3, and thioredoxin reductase-1 and -2. The altered gene expression was accompanied by increased lipid peroxidation in urine. In rats, serum concentrations of ascorbyl-free radicals, measured with electron spin resonance, were elevated in the acute phase of the disease, suggesting increased oxidative stress in the circulation. In addition, we saw an increase in the plasma antioxidant capacity combined with a decreased oxidation of proteins in sera from nephrotic rats, but not from humans. In conclusion, there is a marked downregulation of several antioxidative enzymes in nephrotic kidneys, especially in glomerular structures. Our data suggest that oxidative damage to glomerular cells may contribute significantly to the course and prognosis of nephrotic syndrome.
The therapeutic efficacy of cyclosporine (CsA) as an immunosuppressive agent was complemented by a modest, long-term incidence of toxic complications in 402 renal allograft recipients engrafted one to five years prior to analysis. The overall patient and graft survivals at one year were 97% and 84% (actual), and at five years 92% and 67% (actuarial). The immunosuppressive therapeutic index was excellent: only 12% of allografts were lost from rejection, with 5% of patients succumbing to infection. While infections were common, tending to emanate in the urinary tract or to be viral in etiology, they were generally mild and readily controlled. Only four patients displayed malignancies; none succumbed to this cause. The most common toxic complication was hypertrichosis, which was accentuated in pediatric patients. While tremors occurred in 20% of patients, primarily during the first three months, other neuroectodermal complications of parethesias, depression, somnolence, and seizures were rare. Hepatotoxicity, which was noted in 50% of patients, particularly recipients of cadaveric grafts, generally was first seen as a transaminase elevation, at least partially reversible by dose-reduction and abating by the third year. Associated disturbances of cholelithiasis and pancreatitis were occasionally observed. Nephrotoxicity was the only persistent, long-term complication. Hypertension occurred in 72% of patients during the first month, 36% in the second year, and about 15% thereafter. Hyperuricemia, which occurred in about 30% of recipients during the first two years, was occasionally associated with symptomatic gout. The mean serum creatinine level remained elevated throughout the follow-up period at 1.8-1.9 mg/dl, suggesting persistent, but nonprogressive, drug-induced renal injury. The present analysis documents the relative safety of CsA for long-term therapy, and highlights the need for new approaches to ameliorate drug-induced nephrotoxicity.
12 subjects, 8 women and 4 men, presented with extrapyramidal motor signs and psychic depression after treatment with flunarizine for between 3 weeks and 15 months. One woman presented with severe symptoms and 20 months after stopping flunarizine she still had dyskinesia and akathisia. The other patients showed partial or complete improvement after withdrawal of the drug.
Chronic exposures to cadmium compounds are carcinogenic. It was hypothesized that the development of resistance to cadmium may drive carcinogenesis. This is achieved by selection of resistant cells in which the apoptotic response is significantly attenuated. The induction of cadmium resistance in rat lung epithelial cells (LEC) was used to explore the mechanisms of cadmium-induced adaptation and carcinogenesis. Our previous results showed that LECs developed resistance to apoptosis during cadmium adaptation possibly due to perturbation of the c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase pathway. Here, we further study these cells by comparative proteomics. Interestingly, we showed that two intermediate filament proteins, cytokeratin 8 (CK8) and cytokeratin 14 (CK14), were increased significantly and stably maintained only in the adapted cells but not in cadmium-treated parental cells. It has been documented that CK8/cytokeratin 18 provided resistance to tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-induced apoptosis and CK14 may function as an inhibitor of TNF-TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1) signaling through an association with TNFR1-associated death domain protein, suggesting that up-regulation of CK8 and CK14 may be responsible for apoptotic resistance. Finally, we showed that small interfering RNA-specific knockdown of CK8 in cadmium-adapted cells attenuated the cadmium resistance, indicating the potential role of CK8 in cadmium resistance. This acquired self-resistance to apoptosis could account for cadmium-induced carcinogenesis, as this promotes neoplastic cell survival as well as subsequent clonal expansion and then progression of tumor development. Thus, increased expression of these cytokeratins represents an adaptive survival mechanism that resists cadmium-induced apoptosis and it is unprecedented that cells respond to long-term cadmium exposure by modulating keratin dynamics.
To evaluate the intestinal ulcerogenic property of nitric oxide-releasing indomethacin (NCX-530) in the rat, in comparison with indomethacin.
Animals were given indomethacin or NCX-530 subcutaneously and killed 24 h later for macroscopic examination of the small intestine.
A single administration of indomethacin (10 mg/kg) provoked damage, mainly in the jejunum and ileum, accompanied by an increase in myeloperoxidase and inducible nitric oxide synthase activities as well as bacterial translocation. NCX-530 at an equimolar dose (14.2 mg/kg) caused no gross damage in the small intestine, nor any significant change in inducible nitric oxide synthase and myeloperoxidase activities or bacterial translocation. NOR-3, the nitric oxide donor (6.0 mg/kg), when administered subcutaneously together with indomethacin, significantly prevented the occurrence of intestinal lesions and other mucosal changes. Indomethacin reduced mucus and fluid secretions in the small intestine, while both NCX-530 and NOR-3 enhanced these secretions. NCX-530 reduced the mucosal prostaglandin E2 contents and exhibited an anti-inflammatory action against carrageenan-induced paw oedema, with equal effectiveness to indomethacin.
NCX-530 does not cause intestinal damage, despite inhibiting cyclooxygenase activity. The reduced intestinal toxicity of NCX-530 may be attributable to inhibition of enterobacterial translocation, partly by increasing the mucus and fluid secretions mediated by nitric oxide released from this compound.
Retinoid signaling plays a well-established role in neuronal differentiation, neurite outgrowth, and the patterning of the anteroposterior axis of the developing neural tube. However, there is increasing evidence that nutritional vitamin A status and retinoid signaling play an important role in the function of the adult brain. 13-Cis-retinoic acid (13-cis-RA) (isotretinoin or Accutane), a synthetic retinoid that is an effective oral treatment for severe nodular acne, has been linked with depression and suicide in patients. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that chronic administration of 13-cis-RA would lead to depression-related behaviors in mice. Young, adult male mice received 13-cis-RA (1 mg/kg) by daily intraperitoneal injection for 6 weeks. This treatment paradigm produced plasma levels of 13-cis-RA that are comparable to those reported in human patients taking Accutane. In both the forced swim test and the tail suspension test, we found that 13-cis-RA-treated mice spent significantly more time immobile compared to vehicle-treated controls. In the open field test, there was no change in anxiety-related behavior in 13-cis-RA-treated mice. Furthermore, chronic administration of 13-cis-RA did not impair locomotion in either the open field or the rotarod test. Taken together, these results suggest that administration of 13-cis-RA increases depression-related behaviors in mice.
We reported a patient with probable dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) showing cervical dystonia during treatment with donepezil. A 78-year-old female had been treated with donepezil 5 mg/day for 18 months. The patient admitted to our hospital because of severe antecollis. Antecollis disappeard three weeks after discontinuation of donepezil. Five months later the patient received donepezil 3-5 mg/day for disease progression. The patient showed laterocollis again after a month-treatment with donepezil. Physical examination and labolatory tests were nomal. Magnetic resonance imaging of the neck showed no abnormal finding, but electromyography revealed dystonic changes in the neck muscles. Three weeks after discontinuation of donepezil, laterocollis disappeared. These findings suggest that treatment with donepezil induced cervical dystona in a patient with DLB.
Several mechanisms other than the inhibition of systemic and local formation of angiotensin II (Ang II) have been proposed to play a role in mediating the hypotensive effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. In the present study, we measured plasma levels of nitric oxide (NO) and the related vasoactive factors bradykinin, 6-keto prostaglandin F1alpha (6-keto PGF1alpha) a stable metabolite of prostacyclin, and cyclic guanosine-3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) before and after a 4-week treatment with the ACE inhibitor lisinopril in 17 patients with essential hypertension. Plasma NO levels were measured by the Griess method after conversion of nitrate to nitrite. Long-term lisinopril treatment significantly reduced blood pressure and increased plasma NO and 6-keto PGF1alpha. The treatment also tended to increase plasma levels of bradykinin and cGMP, but not to a significant extent. The posttreatment NO level was inversely correlated with posttreatment systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressure (n = 17, r= -.68, P< .01, n = 17, r= -.54, P < .05, and n = 17, r= -.66, P< .01, respectively). The posttreatment bradykinin level was also modestly correlated with posttreatment systolic and mean blood pressure (n = 17, r = -.51, P < .05 and n = 17, r = -.55, P < .05, respectively). In contrast, posttreatment 6-keto PGF1alpha and cGMP levels were not correlated with posttreatment systolic, diastolic, or mean blood pressure. These findings raise the possibility that increased formation of NO and bradykinin, as well as inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system, contribute to the hypotensive effect of the ACE inhibitor observed in our hypertensive patients.
Niacin is the most effective medication in current clinical use for increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. We tested the hypothesis that niacin treatment of stroke promotes synaptic plasticity and axon growth in the ischemic brain.
Male Wistar rats were subjected to 2 hours of middle cerebral artery occlusion and treated with or without Niaspan (a prolonged-release formulation of niacin, 40 mg/kg) daily for 14 days starting 24 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion. The expression of synaptophysin, Nogo receptor, Bielschowsky silver, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and its receptor tropomyosin-related kinase B were measured by immunohistostaining and Western blot, respectively, in the ischemic brain. Complementing in vivo studies, primary cultured neurons were used to test the effect of niacin and high-density lipoprotein on neurite outgrowth and brain-derived neurotrophic factor/tropomyosin-related kinase B expression.
Niaspan treatment of stroke significantly increased synaptophysin, Bielschowsky silver, brain-derived neurotrophic factor/tropomyosin-related kinase B expression, and decreased Nogo receptor expression in the ischemic brain compared with middle cerebral artery occlusion control animals (P<0.05, n=8/group). Niacin and high-density lipoprotein treatment significantly increased neurite outgrowth and brain-derived neurotrophic factor/tropomyosin-related kinase B expression in primary cultured neurons. Tropomyosin-related kinase B inhibitor attenuated niacin-induced neurite outgrowth (P<0.05, n=6/group).
Niacin treatment of stroke promotes synaptic plasticity and axon growth, which is mediated, at least partially, by the brain-derived neurotrophic factor/tropomyosin-related kinase B pathways.
A patient who experienced partial complex seizures while receiving therapeutic doses of trazodone is described. Only one previous report in the literature involved seizures (grand mal) associated with the administration of trazodone.
The data from this study document that dobutamine is a powerful inotropic agent in anesthetized dogs with acute myocardial ischemia and in awake, unsedated ones with chronic myocardial infarction. Dobutamine significantly increases heart rate at relatively small doses in anesthetized dogs with acute myocardial ischemia but considerably larger amounts of dobutamine are required to significantly increase heart rate in awake, unsedated dogs with myocardial infarction. Dobutamine also significantly increases regional myocardial blood flow to all areas of the heart at 20mug/kg/min in both anesthetized dogs with acute myocardial ischemia and awake, unsedated ones with myocardial infarction. However, in anesthetized dogs 20mug/kg/min of dobutamine significantly increases epicardial ST-segment elevation during acute myocardial ischemia. Propranolol prevents the inotropic and chronotropic effects of dobutamine in both anesthetized and awake, unsedated dogs. This study suggests that during experimental acute myocardial ischemia dobutamine given at doses that significantly increase heart rate and contractility may increase the extent of myocardial damage. The data also suggest that this agent should be of value in the setting of severe myocardial depression without associated severe coronary artery disease to increase cardiac contractility at doses that do not markedly alter heart rate. The hemodynamic and coronary blood flow effects of dobutamine in patients with and without severe coronary artery disease should be evaluated.
The implication of inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS) on peripheral tolerance to morphine was evaluated in wild-type (WT) and iNOS knockout mice. Chronic inflammation was induced by subplantar (s.p.) injection of Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA), and morphine tolerance by subcutaneous implantation of a 75 mg morphine-pellet. Withdrawal was assessed after the intraperitoneal injection of 2 mg/kg naloxone. Antinociception was assessed (Randall-Selitto test) 5 min after a fixed dose of s.p. morphine (16 microg). In the absence of inflammation, s.p. morphine did not induce antinociception, while during CFA-inflammation produced 47.4 +/- 0.8 and 38.8 +/- 2.7% inhibitions respectively, in each genotype (P < 0.05). In morphine-tolerant mice with CFA-inflammation, no antinociception could be elicited in WT mice (2.4 +/- 0.3% inhibition); however, iNOS knockout mice showed significant antinociception (33.1 +/- 0.9%) (P < 0.001). Thus, iNOS gene deletion partially prevented tolerance to the peripheral effects of morphine, and significantly attenuated withdrawal-induced hyperactivity.
There is a striking similarity between the migraine-provoking effect of the nitric oxide (NO) donor glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) and that of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). We tested the hypothesis that NO releases CGRP to cause the delayed migraine attack after GTN.
In a double-blind-cross-over study, 13 migraine without aura (MO) patients were administered GTN 0.5 µg/kg/minute for 20 minutes and subsequently BIBN4096BS (olcegepant) 10 mg or placebo. Headache scores and development of MO were followed for 24 hours.
MO developed in seven of 13 with olcegepant and in nine of 13 with placebo (p=0.68). The headache scores were similar after the two treatments (p=0.58). Thus CGRP receptor blockade did not prevent GTN-induced migraine.
The present study indicates that NO does not induce migraine by liberating CGRP. The most likely explanation for our findings is that CGRP has its effect higher than NO in the cascade of events leading to MO attacks.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia in infants (< 1 year-of-age) is characterized by a high incidence of MLL rearrangements. Recently, direct targets of the MLL fusion protein have been identified. However, functional validation of the identified targets remained unacknowledged. In this study, we identify CDK6 as a direct target of the MLL fusion protein and an important player in the proliferation advantage of MLL-rearranged leukemia. CDK6 mRNA was significantly higher expressed in MLL-rearranged infant ALL patients compared with MLL wild-type ALL patients (P < 0.001). Decrease of MLL-AF4 and MLL-ENL fusion mRNA expression by siRNAs resulted in downregulation of CDK6, affirming a direct relationship between the presence of the MLL fusion and CDK6 expression. Knockdown of CDK6 itself significantly inhibited proliferation in the MLL-AF4-positive cell line SEM, whereas knockdown of the highly homologous gene CDK4 had virtually no effect on the cell cycle. Furthermore, we show in vitro sensitivity of MLL-rearranged leukemia cell lines to the CDK4/6-inhibitor PD0332991, inducing a remarkable G 1 arrest, and downregulation of its downstream targets pRB1 and EZH2. We therefore conclude that CDK6 is indeed a direct target of MLL fusion proteins, playing an important role in the proliferation advantage of MLL-rearranged ALL cells.
Phytochemicals constitute a heterogeneous group of substances with an evident role in human health. Their properties on cancer initiation, promotion and progression are well documented. Particular attention is now devoted to better understand the molecular basis of their anticancer action. In the present work, we studied the effect of resveratrol on the ovarian cancer cell line OVCAR-3 by a proteomic approach. Our findings demonstrate that resveratrol down-regulates the protein cyclin D1 and, in a concentration dependent manner, the phosphorylation levels of protein kinase B (Akt) and glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β). The dephosphorylation of these kinases could be responsible for the decreased cyclin D1 levels observed after treatment. We also showed that resveratrol reduces phosphorylation levels of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2. Chemical inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and ERK both increased the in vitro therapeutic efficacy of resveratrol. Moreover, resveratrol had an inhibitory effect on the AKT phosphorylation in cultured cells derived from the ascites of ovarian cancer patients and in a panel of human cancer cell lines. Thus, resveratrol shows antitumor activity in human ovarian cancer cell lines targeting signalling pathway involved in cell proliferation and drug-resistance.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) was initially characterized as a potent vasoconstrictor. However, the expected role of ET-1 as a major blood pressure controlling peptide could not be clearly established. Moreover, ET-1 transgenic mice are not hypertensive. We assume that counter-regulating mechanisms such as the nitric oxide (NO) system or an altered expression of endothelin receptors might cause this finding.
An intravenous (i.v.) bolus injection of N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) resulted in a significantly higher blood pressure increase in ET-1 transgenic mice, as compared to non-transgenic littermates. On the other hand, blood pressure increased similarly after an i.v. injection of ET-1 in ET-1 transgenic mice and non-transgenic littermates. Pretreatment with dexamethasone abolished the higher blood pressure increase after L-NAME in ET-1 transgenic mice. Urinary excretion of NO metabolites was elevated in ET-1 transgenic mice and decreased significantly after dexamethasone treatment. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the inducible NO synthase (iNOS) was highly expressed in intrarenal arteries in these mice. Dexamethasone pretreatment abolished vascular iNOS expression. No vascular iNOS expression was detectable in non-transgenic littermates. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry revealed that ET-1 transgenic mice are characterized by an increased tissue density of CD4-positive lymphocytes and macrophages. Analysis of endothelin receptor expression and function revealed that the endothelin subtype A (ETA) receptor was not differently expressed in ET-1 transgenic mice as compared to age-matched littermates. The blood pressure response to an ETA receptor antagonist was likewise similar in ET-1 transgenic mice and age-matched littermates. The endothelin subtype B (ETB) receptor density was decreased in ET-1 transgenic mice. Treatment with an ETB receptor antagonist led to a non-significant slightly higher blood pressure increase in ET-1 transgenic mice as compared to controls.
The endothelin receptor expression pattern and the blood pressure responses to ETA and ETB receptor antagonists could not explain the lack of hypertension in ET-1 transgenic mice. Overexpression of the human ET-1 gene causes chronic kidney inflammation with an induction of vascular iNOS expression. The induction of iNOS expression might cause a new local balance between vascular ET-1 and nitric oxide, resulting in no alterations of blood pressure.
The effects of chloroquine on resting blood pressure, forearm blood flow (FBF), and forearm vascular resistance (FVR) and on the responses to cold stimulation were studied in healthy young adults. Chloroquine sulphate (800 mg) reduced systolic pressure and increased FBF (P < 0.05) but had no effect on resting FVR. Cold immersion increased systolic pressure (from 108.8 +/- 1.7 mmHg to 127.8 +/- 6.9 mmHg; P < 0.05) diastolic pressure (from 73.4 +/- 2.7 to 95.2 +/- 6.2 mmHg; P < 0.01) and FVR (from 5.9 +/- 0.9 to 13.0 +/- 1.9 a.u.; P < 0.001) but reduced FBF (from 14.3 +/- 1.64 to 10.1 +/- 1.29 ml min-1; P < 0.05). Chloroquine reduced the increase in FVR reduced by cold stimulation (P < 0.01), but had little effect on the BF and FBF responses to cold stimulation. The hypotensive effect of chloroquine could be attributed, at least in part, to the observed fall in vascular resistance.
Pharmacological studies on trithio-p-methoxy-phenylpropene (anethole trithione, ANTT, Felviten) were performed. ANTT at a dose of 100 mg/kg, p.o. lowered the increased serum transaminases GOT and GPT, and protected the liver from injuries caused by CCl4 in mice. In other studies in vivo, ANTT at a dose of 1000 mg/kg showed no effect on the central nervous system or the autonomic nervous system. In vitro experiments with smooth muscle preparations showed no significant effects of ANTT.
Effectiveness of enalapril was studied in hypertensive patients with or without diabetes-mellitus. All the patients received enalapril, 5-20 mg per day for 9 months. Enalapril effectively controlled the blood pressure and favourably altered the lipid levels and did not affect the glucose level in diabetics as well as non-diabetics. Enalapril may be considered as a better therapeutic option for the treatment of hypertension associated with diabetes mellitus.
The pharmacological actions of N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-8-pyrrolizidineacetamide hydrochloride hemihydrate (SUN 1165), a new antiarrhythmic agent, on the central nervous system were studied in various experimental animals as compared with those of disopyramide, mexiletine and lidocaine, and the following results were obtained. 1. Acute toxicity of SUN 1165 in mice was similar to that of mexiletine, and twice as potent as compared with that of disopyramide and lidocaine. Main acute toxic symptoms of SUN 1165 were muscle relaxation, ataxia, clonic convulsions, tremor and a decrease in spontaneous activity in mice, rats and rabbits. In addition to these symptoms, vomiting in dogs was observed. These toxic symptoms were similar to those of lidocaine. In the case of disopyramide, ataxia, tremor and a decrease in spontaneous activity were observed in mice and rats. On the other hand, mexiletine caused central nervous excitatory symptoms, that is, tremor, Straub tail, clonic convulsions, jumping, running and opisthotonus in mice and rats, and vomiting in dogs. 2. SUN 1165 even at large doses (50-100 mg/kg p.o.) exerted no significant effects on the following changes: hexobarbital-induced induced hypnosis, oxotremorine-induced tremor, apomorphine-induced hypothermia, reserpine-induced ptosis and hypothermia, 5-hydroxytryptophan syndrome and fighting behavior in mice, and conditioned avoidance response in rats. 3. An ineffective dose of SUN 1165 (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) on spontaneous locomotor activity was lower than of disopyramide and lidocaine, however, higher than that of mexiletine. 4. SUN 1165 at large doses showed antagonistic action on toxic extensor seizures induced by maximal electroshock, picrotoxin, or strychnine in mice, but anticonvulsive effects of SUN 1165 were less potent than those of mexiletine and lidocaine. SUN 1165 had no effect on clonic convulsions induced by pentetrazol and pictrotoxin in mice, while both mexiletine and lidocaine prolonged the duration of clonic convulsions. 5. The muscle relaxant effect of SUN 1165 (50%-toxic dose, TD50 = 30 mg/kg p.o.) was more marked than that of lidocaine (TD50 = 92 mg/kg p.o.) on traction test in mice. However, effect of SUN 1165 (TD50 = 62 mg/kg p.o.) on motor incoordination was similar to that of disopyramide, mexiletine and lidocaine on the rotarod test in mice. 6. The analgesic effect of SUN 1165 was as weak as that of disopyramide, mexiletine and lidocaine on chemically and mechanically-induced pain response in mice.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Copper, an essential nutrient, has been implicated in vascular remodeling and atherosclerosis with unknown mechanism. Bioavailability of intracellular copper is regulated not only by the copper importer CTR1 (copper transporter 1) but also by the copper exporter ATP7A (Menkes ATPase), whose function is achieved through copper-dependent translocation from trans-Golgi network (TGN). Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) promotes vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) migration, a key component of neointimal formation.
To determine the role of copper transporter ATP7A in PDGF-induced VSMC migration.
Depletion of ATP7A inhibited VSMC migration in response to PDGF or wound scratch in a CTR1/copper-dependent manner. PDGF stimulation promoted ATP7A translocation from the TGN to lipid rafts, which localized at the leading edge, where it colocalized with PDGF receptor and Rac1, in migrating VSMCs. Mechanistically, ATP7A small interfering RNA or CTR small interfering RNA prevented PDGF-induced Rac1 translocation to the leading edge, thereby inhibiting lamellipodia formation. In addition, ATP7A depletion prevented a PDGF-induced decrease in copper level and secretory copper enzyme precursor prolysyl oxidase (Pro-LOX) in lipid raft fraction, as well as PDGF-induced increase in LOX activity. In vivo, ATP7A expression was markedly increased and copper accumulation was observed by synchrotron-based x-ray fluorescence microscopy at neointimal VSMCs in wire injury model.
These findings suggest that ATP7A plays an important role in copper-dependent PDGF-stimulated VSMC migration via recruiting Rac1 to lipid rafts at the leading edge, as well as regulating LOX activity. This may contribute to neointimal formation after vascular injury. Our findings provide insight into ATP7A as a novel therapeutic target for vascular remodeling and atherosclerosis.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the possible modifications of the plasma and urine short-chain-fatty acid (SCFA) patterns indiced by treatment with valproic acid (VPA). Increased amounts of SCFAs in patients under VPA treatment may explain the presence of VPA-induced hyperammonemia, toxic encephalopathies and rarer Rey-like syndromes recently observed. For this reason we assayed SCFA levels in the plasma and looked for propionic acid in the urine of 10 epileptic patients to whom it was decided to add VPA to their previously unsatisfactory anti-epileptic treatment. This was carried out prior to and during therapy with VPA. 5 of these patients developed toxic encephalopathy with hyperammonemia induced by VPA. Our data show that plasma and urine SCFAs are not modified by VPA treatment. This is so even in patients who have toxic encephalopathy with hyperammonemia indiced by this drug.
