Three cases of myocardial infarction (MI) in women taking bromocriptine for milk suppression are presented. The incidents occurred in 1993 and 1994, the last only two weeks before the withdrawal of the drug from the American market as a drug suitable for ablactation. In one patient, the MI presented on the 12 day postpartum and was accompanied by signs and symptoms reminiscent to ergotism. Another mother suffered MI, accompanied by hypertension, six days after a vaginal delivery complicated by postpartum haemorrhage. The third patient began to take bromocriptine more than 2 weeks postpartum and died suddenly 24 days after her childbirth. To the knowledge of the authors, these are the 12th to 14th literary reports describing an apparent association between the use of bromocriptine for ablactation and the occurrence of MI in the puerperium.
Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is a maternally inherited disorder with point mutations in mitochondrial DNA which result in loss of vision in young adults. The majority of mutations reported to date are within the genes encoding the subunits of the mitochondrial NADH-quinone oxidoreductase, complex I. Establishment of animal models of LHON should help elucidate mechanism of the disease and could be utilized for possible development of therapeutic strategies.
We established a rat model which involves injection of rotenone-loaded microspheres into the optic layer of the rat superior colliculus. The animals exhibited the most common features of LHON. Visual loss was observed within 2 weeks of rotenone administration with no apparent effect on retinal ganglion cells. Death of retinal ganglion cells occurred at a later stage. Using our rat model, we investigated the effect of the yeast alternative NADH dehydrogenase, Ndi1. We were able to achieve efficient expression of the Ndi1 protein in the mitochondria of all regions of retinal ganglion cells and axons by delivering the NDI1 gene into the optical layer of the superior colliculus. Remarkably, even after the vision of the rats was severely impaired, treatment of the animals with the NDI1 gene led to a complete restoration of the vision to the normal level. Control groups that received either empty vector or the GFP gene had no effects.
The present study reports successful manifestation of LHON-like symptoms in rats and demonstrates the potential of the NDI1 gene therapy on mitochondrial optic neuropathies. Our results indicate a window of opportunity for the gene therapy to be applied successfully after the onset of the disease symptoms.
To evaluate the effects of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) on the prevention of scar formation and the promotion of wound healing by gene transfer.
A total of 12 female New Zealand rabbits were used in this study. Rabbits were anesthetized with an intravenous injection of sodium pentobarbital, and identical wounds were made over the ventral surface of each ear. Five circular wounds, 7 mm in diameter, were created in each ear by excision through the skin to the underlying cartilage using sterile technique. After the surgical procedures, 10 of the rabbits were randomly allocated to five groups, with 2 rabbits in each group: Ad-HGF group 1, Ad-HGF group 2, Ad-HGF group 3, Ad-GFP (a reporter gene) group and the solvent group. Immediately after surgery, 6 x 10(7) pfu Ad-HGF, 6 x 10(8) pfu Ad-HGF, 6 x 10(9) pfu of Ad-HGF, 6 x 10(9) pfu of Ad-GFP, or same volume of solvent (PBS, pH 7.2) was applied once to each wound in groups 1 to 5, respectively. One additional rabbit was used to evaluate the transfer efficiency of the adenovirus vector by transferring Ad-GFP (6 x 10(9) pfu) into its wounds. Ice slides of wounds from this animal were observed under fluorescence microscopy. Another additional rabbit was used to evaluate the expression of HGF and TGFbeta1 after transferring Ad-HGF (6 x 10(9) pfu) into each of its wound. Immunohistochemistry was used for detection.
The effect of HGF on reducing excessive dermal scarring was observed by adenovirus-mediated gene transfer. Transfection of the human HGF cDNA into skin wounds through an adenoviral vector suppressed the over-expression of TGFbeta1, which plays an essential role in the progression of dermal fibrogenesis. Application of HGF to the wounds significantly enhanced wound healing and inhibited over scarring.
HGF gene therapy could be a new approach for preventing excessive dermal scarring in wound healing.
Blood chloroquine concentrations were measured in 5 patients having complications related to this treatment. No significant differences were noted when compared to controls. Further studies are required however before drawing any definite conclusions. The persistence of fairly high residual levels, several months after stopping treatment, is evidence of chloroquine retention in these patients.
The aim of this study was to investigate the haemodynamic effects of amrinone in patients with pulmonary hypertension and impaired right ventricular function. Twelve patients with mitral stenosis (NYHA classification III and IV) took part in the study. The haemodynamic measurements were performed in the steady state under anaesthesia prior to surgery. The patients received a bolus injection of 1.5 mg kg-1 amrinone; haemodynamic measurements were taken at 3, 5, 10, 15, 20 and 30 min. Amrinone increased cardiac index by approximately 30%, heart rate rose from on average 76 to 82 beats per minute. Whereas pulmonary capillary pressure did not change significantly, mean pulmonary artery pressure fell clearly from 33 to 28 mmHg. A decrease in the elevated pulmonary vascular resistance of about 40% was calculated. The higher the initial value for resistance in the pulmonary circulatory system, the more marked was the reduction (r = 0.96). The study shows that amrinone induces a vasodilation in the pulmonary circulatory system. A reduction in ventricular afterload is of great significance particularly for the therapy of right heart insufficiency. Amrinone therefore appears to be a suitable substance with its observed vasodilating and its well known positive inotropic effects for the treatment of right heart failure in cases of pulmonary hypertension.
Optimizing oral therapy in patients with unstable decompensated and/or dobutamine-dependent congestive heart failure (CHF) is a challenge.
We investigated the effects of high doses of recombinant human growth hormone (GH) in 6 patients with cardiac cachexia and unstable decompensated CHF (5 dobutamine-dependent), including its influence in the optimization of oral CHF treatment. Patients received 8 IU of subcutaneous GH per day for median 26 (range 61) days. GH improved the systolic systemic blood pressure (SSBP, in mm Hg) from median 85 (range 34) to 100 (20) (p<.01), and the left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (in %) from median 23 (range 22) (pretreatment) to 28 (18) (posttreatment) and 38 (28) (later) (p<.007). The NYHA functional class improved from IV to I in 2 patients, from IV to II in 3, and from IV to II-III in one. All patients were discharged from the hospital. It was possible in the hospital to initiate and after discharge to optimize long-term CHF treatment from 37.5 to 50 mg of carvedilol in 5 patients and with higher doses of captopril (from 50 to 150 mg) in all patients. Three patients are alive after 67, 75, and 11 months of follow-up. The remaining 3 patients died from a pulmonary abscess at 9 months, septicemia at 21 months, and progressive heart failure due to unplanned withdrawal of carvedilol at 36 months.
The use of GH in patients with decompensated CHF and cardiac cachexia provided clinical stability without the need for inotropic drugs permitting introduction of nonpreviously tolerated drugs. This could represent a new option for optimizing long-term CHF therapy and discharging hospitalized patients who are dobutamine-dependent.
To investigate the neural activation in the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) that is induced by capsaicin-evoked secondary Abeta-fiber-mediated hyperalgesia with magnetic source imaging (MSI) in healthy humans.
Dynamic mechanical hyperalgesia, i.e. pain to innocuous light touching, is a symptom of painful neuropathies. Animal experiments suggest that alterations in central pain processing occur so that tactile stimuli conveyed in Abeta low threshold mechanoreceptive afferents become capable of activating central pain signalling neurons. A similar state of central sensitization can be experimentally produced with capsaicin.
In six individuals the somatosensory evoked magnetic fields (SEFs) induced by non-painful electrical stimulation of Abeta-afferents at the forearm skin were recorded. Capsaicin was injected adjacent to the stimulation site to induce secondary dynamic Abeta-hyperalgesia. Thereafter, the SEFs induced by the identical electrical stimulus applied within the secondary hyperalgesic skin were analyzed. The electrical stimulus was subsequently perceived as painful without changing the stimulus intensity and location. Latencies, anatomical source location and amplitudes of SEFs during both conditions were compared.
Non-painful electrical stimulation of Abeta-afferents induced SEFs in SI at latencies between 20 and 150 ms. Stimulation of Abeta-afferents within the capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesic skin induced SEFs at identical latencies and locations as compared with the stimulation of Abeta-afferents within normal skin. The amplitudes, i.e., the magnetic dipole strengths of the SEFs were higher during Abeta-hyperalgesia.
Acute application of capsaicin produces an increase in the excitability of central neurons, e.g., in SI. This might be due to sensitization of central neurons so that normally innocuous stimuli activate pain signalling neurons or cortical neurons might increase their receptive fields.
We describe a patient who presented with Wegener's granulomatosis associated with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) directed against proteinase 3 (PR3) with a cytoplasmic immunofluorescence pattern (cANCA), whose ANCA type changed to antimyeloperoxidase antibodies with a perinuclear immunofluorescence pattern (pANCA) when treated with propylthiouracil, and changed back to anti-PR3 antibodies with cANCA after the medication was discontinued. The patient developed flares of vasculitis symptoms associated with rises in either type of ANCA. Tests for antimyeloperoxidase ANCA were repeatedly negative before the drug was started, strongly implicating the drug as the cause of the episode. This case demonstrates that patients with idiopathic ANCA-positive vasculitis may quickly develop a superimposed drug-associated ANCA-positive vasculitis. Iatrogenic vasculitis should be suspected when a patient with idiopathic vasculitis with one type of ANCA develops the other type of ANCA.
Mangiferin (MF) and its glucosides (mangiferin-7-O-beta-glucoside) (MG) isolated from Anemarrhena asphodeloides Bunge rhizome, were tested for their antidiabetic activity in KK-Ay mice, an animal model of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). MF and MG lowered the blood glucose level of KK-Ay mice after oral administration. However, no affect on the blood glucose level in normal mice was seen, indicating that MF and MG are useful in treating NIDDM. In addition, MF or MG improved hyperinsulinemia in KK-Ay mice. From these findings, it seems likely that MF and MG exert their its antidiabetic activity by increasing insulin sensitivity.
To determine the occurrence of and risk factors for opioid withdrawal in critically ill neonates receiving continuous infusions of fentanyl.
A prospective interventional cohort study was conducted in a university hospital neonatal intensive care unit with 19 neonates who received a minimum of 24 hours of fentanyl by continuous infusion.
Fentanyl total dose, duration of infusion, and peak infusion rate were recorded. Patients were evaluated for withdrawal using the Neonatal Abstinence Scoring System of Finnegan. Patients with a score >/=8 were considered to have opioid withdrawal.
Withdrawal was observed in 10 (53%) of 19 neonates. The fentanyl total dose (median 525 vs. 168 micro g/kg, respectively; p = 0.03) and infusion duration (median 10 vs. 7 d, respectively; p = 0.04) were significantly greater in neonates with withdrawal compared to those without withdrawal. A fentanyl total dose >/=415 micro g/kg predicted withdrawal with 70% sensitivity and 78% specificity. A fentanyl infusion duration >/=8 days predicted withdrawal with 90% sensitivity and 67% specificity. The most frequent symptoms of withdrawal were sleeping <3 hours after feeding (81%) and increased muscle tone (55%). In all neonates with withdrawal, onset occurred within 24 hours of fentanyl discontinuation.
Opioid withdrawal occurs frequently in critically ill neonates who receive continuous infusions of fentanyl. Longer infusion duration and higher total dose were associated with withdrawal symptoms.
To investigate the effect of methylation transferase inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycitydine (5-aza-2 dC) on the growth, differentiation and apoptosis of human acute myeloid leukemia(AML) cell line HL-60, and to explore the possible anti-leukemia mechanism of 5-aza-2 dC.
HL-60 cells were treated by 5-aza-2 dC at various concentrations for different periods of time. The effect of 5-aza-2 dC on the growth of HL-60 cells were detected by MTT assay. The effect on the cell cycle and differentiation were detected by flow cytometry. The effect on the apoptosis were detected by Hochest33342 staining and flow cytometry. The expression of S100A8 and S100A9 was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
(1) 5-aza-2 dC inhibited the growth of HL-60 cells in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, and HL-60 cells were arrested at G2/M phases; (2) 5-aza-2 dC enhanced the expression of cell differentiation antigen CD11b at HL-60 cells, especially at the low drug concentration; (3) 5-aza-2 dC induced HL-60 cell apoptosis in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, especially at the high drug concentration; (4) 5-aza-2 dC increased the expression levels of S100A8 and S100A9 mRNA in HL-60 cells.
5-aza-2 dC can inhibit the growth of HL-60 cells accompanied with G2/M phase arrest, induce the differentiation and apoptosis of the cells, and increase the expression levels of S100A8 and S100A9 mRNA, which may be the anti-AML mechanism of 5-aza-2 dC.
We explored the predictive significance of BRCA1, TXR1 and TSP1 expression in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients treated with docetaxel in association with cisplatin or gemcitabine.
To analyse BRCA1, TXR1 and TSP1 mRNA expression from microdissected primary tumours of 131 patients with stage IIIB (wet) and IV NSCLC, RT-qPCR was used.
The mRNA levels of TXR1/TSP1 were inversely correlated (Spearman's test: -0.37; P=0.001). Low TXR1 mRNA levels were associated with higher response rate (RR; P=0.018), longer median progression-free survival (PFS; P=0.029) and median overall survival (mOS P=0.003), whereas high TSP1 expression was correlated with higher RR (P=0.035), longer PFS (P<0.001) and mOS (P<0.001). Higher BRCA1 mRNA expression was associated with higher RR (P=0.028) and increased PFS (P=0.021), but not mOS (P=0.4). Multivariate analysis demonstrated that low TXR1/high TSP1 expression was an independent factor for increased PFS (HR 0.49; 95% CI 0.32-0.76; P<0.001) and mOS (HR 0.37; 95% CI 0.2-0.58; P<0.001), whereas high BRCA1 expression was correlated with increased PFS (HR 0.53; 95% CI 0.37-0.78; P=0.001).
These data indicate that TXR1/TSP1 and BRCA1 expression could be used for the prediction of taxanes' resistance in the treatment of NSCLC.
Excessive glutamatergic neurotransmission is considered an underlying factor of epilepsy. The modulation of the synaptic activity occurs both by the removal of glutamate from the synaptic cleft and by excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) and by modulation of glutamate receptors. The spontaneously epileptic rat (SER), a double mutant (zi/zi, tm/tm), exhibits both tonic convulsions and absence-like seizures from the age of 8 weeks. However, there are no reports that can elucidate the effects of EAATs and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in SER. The present study was undertaken to detect EAATs (GLAST, GLT-1 and EAAC-1) and Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1) in SER hippocampus from both the level of mRNA and protein in SERs hippocampus compared with control Wistar rats. In this study, the glutamate concentration in SERs hippocampus was increased compared with that of control rats by high performance liquid chromatography; the mRNA expressions of GLAST and mGluR1 in SERs hippocampus were significantly lower than those in control rats hippocampus, whereas an abundant increase in mRNA for GLT-1 was observed by RT-PCR; EAAC-1 and mGluR1 protein in SERs and control rats were localized widely in the hippocampus including CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus regions by immunohistochemistry; the number of GLAST and mGluR1-positive cells in the hippocampus of SERs were less than those in control rats, especially for CA3 and DG region; the protein expression of GLT-1 was up-regulated, but the protein expressions of GLAST and mGluR1 were down-regulated in SER hippocampus by western blot. Our data show that epileptogenesis in SER are associated with regulations of glutamate transporters and mGluR1, which might be potential targets for therapy in genetic epilepsy.
Anomalies of neural tube closing are serious malformations which are encountered most often in babies of epileptic women treated with anti-epileptic drugs during pregnancy. Dietary supplementation of folic acid has been suggested as a preventive measure in these cases, based on the long suspected association between folic acid deficiency and congenital malformations. Folic acid deficiency usually results from insufficient dietary intake, or increased requirements during pregnancy. Moreover, certain anti-epileptic drugs can reduce the availability of folic acid. In secondary prevention, the protective effect of folic acid has been clearly demonstrated, whilst epidemiological data suggest that such treatment is also useful in primary prevention. With respect to women with epilepsy, there is a clear consensus as to the interest of dietary supplementation with folic acid before conception and during the first three months of pregnancy (the period of organogenesis), particularly given the fact that side-effects are extremely rare. Apart from recurrence prevention, where a dose of 4mg/day is recommended, no standard dosing guidelines exist. We would suggest that this same dose be used for epileptic patients in pregnancy, particularly if they are treated with barbamazepine or valproic acid.
Liver fibrosis, a common scarring response to chronic liver injury, is a precursor to cirrhosis and liver cancer. Here, we identified signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) as an important negative regulator in liver fibrosis. Our findings show that disruption of the STAT1 gene accelerated liver fibrosis and hepatic stellate cell (HSC) proliferation in an in vivo model of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced liver fibrosis. In vitro treatment with IFN-gamma inhibited proliferation and activation of wild-type HSCs, but not STAT1-/- HSCs. Moreover, compared to wild-type cells, cellular proliferation stimulated by serum or platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) was enhanced and accelerated in STAT1-/- HSCs, which was partially mediated via elevated PDGF receptor beta expression on such cells. Polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly I:C) or IFN-gamma treatment inhibited liver fibrosis in wild-type mice but not in STAT1-/- mice. Induction of NK cell killing of activated HSCs by poly I:C was attenuated in STAT1-/- mice compared to wild-type mice, which was likely due to reduced NKG2D and TRAIL expression on STAT1-/- NK cells. Finally, activation of TGF-beta/Smad3 signaling pathway was accelerated, whereas induction of Smad7 was diminished in the liver of STAT1-/- mice after CCl4 administration compared to wild-type mice. In conclusion, activation of STAT1 attenuates liver fibrosis through inhibition of HSC proliferation, attenuation of TGF-beta signaling, and stimulation of NK cell killing of activated HSCs. STAT1 could be a new therapeutic target for treating liver fibrosis.
Eight nitropolycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), including 1- and 4-nitropyrene, 1,3-, 1,6- and 1,8-dinitropyrene, 7-nitrobenz[a]anthracene, 6-nitrochrysene and 6-nitrobenzo-[a]pyrene and their parent PAHs were tested fro tumorigenicity in the newborn mouse model by i.p. administration at 1, 8, and 15 days after birth. Both pyrene and 1-nitropyrene induced similar incidences of hepatic tumors in males, yielding a 12-15% and a 21-28% tumor incidence at total doses of 700 and 2800 nmol per mouse, respectively. Liver tumors did not occur in females and the 3-10% lung tumor yield in both sexes was similar to that found in solvent-treated controls. The presumed proximate carcinogen, 1-nitrosopyrene, administered at 700 nmol per mouse, caused liver tumors in 45% of the males and in 9% of the females. 4-Nitropyrene was more tumorigenic than pyrene or 1-nitropyrene; at a dose of 2800 nmol, it induced liver tumors in 83% of the males and 7% of the females, with a lung tumor yield of 38 and 31%, respectively. Female mice treated with 200 nmol of 1,3-, 1,6- or 1,8-dinitropyrene did not develop liver tumors but the hepatic tumor incidence in males was 20, 32 and 16%, respectively, which was significantly greater than that found in mice treated with pyrene. In male mice administered 2800 nmol of benz[a]anthracene, the hepatic tumor incidence was 79%, while treatment with 7-nitrobenz[a]anthracene showed an incidence of only 28%. Similarly, 560 nmol of benzo[a]pyrene caused a 49% liver tumor yield in males while those given 6-nitrobenzo[a]pyrene had a 28% incidence. Treatment with benzo[a]pyrene also induced a 35 and 48% lung tumor incidence in males and females while the comparable values in 6-nitrobenzo[a]pyrene-treated mice were 14 and 2%. Chrysene administered at 2800 nmol per mouse induced hepatic and lung tumors in 41% and 21% of the males, respectively; at the 700-nmol dose, it induced only liver tumors in 29% of the males and in none of the females. In contrast, treatment with 6-nitrochrysene at 700 nmol per mouse resulted in a 76 and 23% hepatic tumor incidence in males and females, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Reg2/RegIIIbeta is the murine homologue of the human secreted HIP/PAP C-type lectin. HIP/PAP transgenic mice were protected against acetaminophen-induced acute liver failure and were stimulated to regenerate post-hepatectomy. To assess the role of Reg2, we used Reg2-/- mice in a model of fulminant hepatitis induced by Fas and in the post-hepatectomy regeneration. Within 4 hours of J0-2 treatment (0.5 microg/g), only 50% of the Reg2-/- mice were alive but with an increased sensitivity to Fas-induced oxidative stress and a decreased level of Bcl-xL. In contrast, HIP/PAP transgenic mice were resistant to Fas, with HIP/PAP serving as a sulfhydryl buffer to slow down decreases in glutathione and Bcl-xL. In Reg2-/- mice, liver regeneration was markedly impaired, with 29% mortality and delay of the S-phase and the activation of ERK1/2 and AKT. Activation of STAT3 began on time at 3 hours but persisted strongly up to 72 hours despite significant accumulation of SOCS3. Thus, Reg2 deficiency induced exaggerated IL-6/STAT-3 activation and mito-inhibition. Because the Reg2 gene was activated between 6 and 24 hours after hepatectomy in wild-type mice, Reg2 could mediate the TNF-alpha/IL-6 priming signaling by exerting a negative feed-back on STAT3/IL-6 activation to allow the hepatocytes to progress through the cell cycle. In conclusion, Reg2 deficiency enhanced liver sensitivity to Fas-induced oxidative stress and delayed liver regeneration with persistent TNF-alpha/IL6/STAT3 signaling. In contrast, overexpression of human HIP/PAP promoted liver resistance to Fas and accelerated liver regeneration with early activation/deactivation of STAT3. Reg2/HIP/PAP is therefore a critical mitogenic and antiapoptotic factor for the liver.
A 73-year-old woman developed mental confusion and finger pain after treatment with enoxaparin following arthroplasty. A platelet count was 163,000/microL. Because digital embolism was suspected, she was emergently treated with heparin and recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rTPA). During rTPA infusion, she reported sudden hemifield loss, so the infusion was aborted. Brain CT disclosed a non-hemorrhagic occipital infarct. Platelets had fallen to 63,000 over eight days, and antibodies against a complex of heparin and platelet factor 4 were detected. These findings led to the diagnosis of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome (HITTS), an immune-mediated disorder in which venous and arterial thromboses occur. Right lower extremity deep venous thromboses were later diagnosed, and an MRI disclosed multiple cerebral infarcts of recent onset but different ages. Previous reports have documented brain arterial strokes in HITTS, mostly in the distribution of the middle cerebral artery, but clinical documentation is sparse, and there have been no imaging reports. This is the first report to document the clinical and imaging features of a HITTS stroke and the first to describe a stroke presumptively caused by a low molecular weight heparin. It emphasizes that HITTS may cause stroke even when the platelet count is normal. Diagnosis of HITTS should prompt immediate cessation of heparin treatment and substitution of a direct thrombin inhibitor or fondaparinux.
Variations in the strength of scopolamine-induced amnesia as a function of age of the habit were studied in Swiss Webster mice. Animals were trained in an active avoidance task to a criterion of 9/10 avoidances and immediately following training injected with scopolamine hydrochloride (1.0 mg/kg) or saline. Retention of the avoidance learning was evaluated by testing different groups of animals 1, 3, 7, 10, 14, and 28 days following training. The retention test consisted of five trials in which the CS but not the UCS was presented. Results indicated that saline-treated mice exhibited near-perfect retention up to 14 days post-training with forgetting beginning to be apparent at 28 days. Scopolamine treatment produced strong amnesia in animals tested 1 and 3 days post-training but normal retention in animals tested 7 and 10 days after learning. The amnesia abruptly reappeared at 14 days after which time it remained stable. The marked similarity of the scopolamine retention curve to changes in the strength of memory of discrimination learning in undertrained rats reported by Deutsch suggested that scopolamine resulted in the storage of a weak memory of the avoidance response. To explore this idea further we trained mice to a criterion (4/5) which would result in a weak avoidance response and tested different groups 1, 3, 10, 14, and 28 days following learning. Results showed that strength of the memory of avoidance learning increased up to 10 days and then decreased abruptly at 14 days thus replicating the general shape of the retention curve produced by injecting scopolamine following strong training. These data suggest that scopolamine disrupts processes essential for the formation of durable memories.
JunD is implicated in the regulation of hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation and liver fibrosis via its transcriptional regulation of the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) gene. In the present study we found in vivo evidence of a role for JunD in fibrogenesis. Expression of JunD was demonstrated in alpha-SMA-positive activated HSCs of fibrotic rodents and human livers. The junD-/- mice were protected from carbon tetrachloride-induced fibrosis. The livers of injured junD-/- mice displayed significantly reduced formation of fibrotic crosslinked collagen and a smaller number of alpha-SMA-positive HSCs compared with those of wild-type (wt) mice. Hepatic TIMP-1 mRNA expression in injured junD-/- mice was 78% lower and in culture activated junD-/- HSCs was 50%-80% lower than that in wt mice. In examining the signal transduction mechanisms that regulate JunD-dependent TIMP-1 expression, we found a role for phosphorylation of the Ser100 residue of JunD but ruled out JNK as a mediator of this event, suggesting ERK1/2 is utilized. In conclusion, a signaling pathway for the development of fibrosis involves the regulation of TIMP-1 expression by phosphorylated JunD.
We recently found that glucose injections attenuate amnesia and hyperactivity produced by scopolamine, a muscarinic antagonist. The present study examined whether glucose would augment behavioral effects produced by a muscarinic agonist, physostigmine. In experiment I, doses were first determined for which neither glucose (10 mg/kg) nor physostigmine (0.05 mg/kg) altered scopolamine-induced hyperactivity. However, combined glucose-physostigmine injections significantly reduced scopolamine hyperactivity. Experiment II evaluated the effects of glucose on physostigmine-induced tremors. Glucose (10, 100, and 250 mg/kg) or saline injections were given 20 min before physostigmine injections (0.4 or 0.05 mg/kg). Observations of glucose effects on the severity of physostigmine-induced tremors were then obtained at 5-min intervals for 25 min after physostigmine injections. Glucose (100 mg/kg) significantly facilitated the onset of tremors when injected before either dose of physostigmine, and augmented (at 100 and 250 mg/kg) tremor severity when injected before the lower dose of physostigmine. These findings indicate that glucose can facilitate the actions of a cholinergic agonist on two behaviors, locomotor activity and tremors, adding support to the view that circulating glucose levels can modulate central cholinergic function. More generally, the results provide additional evidence that circulating glucose levels can influence brain function.
Despite its increasing use as an animal model of memory deficit in human dementia, relatively few studies have attempted to assess the memory processes involved in the anticholinergic-induced impairment of passive avoidance retention. In the present experiments, the influence of scopolamine administered prior to or immediately following training on 24-h retention of step-through passive avoidance was studied in NMRI mice. In low doses (0.3-3.0 mg/kg ip) pretraining administration (-5 min) of scopolamine induced a very strong amnesia. Post-training scopolamine induced a significant effect only at the highest dose tested (30 mg/kg). In a retention test of longer than normal duration (600 vs 180 s), which resulted in a more favorable comparison value in the control group, an intermediate post-training dose (10 mg/kg) induced a small effect which approached significance; a finding which may account for conflicting reports in the literature concerning the ability of scopolamine to induce a post-training deficit. The pretraining effect does not appear to have been solely the result of state-dependent learning; scopolamine (3 mg/kg) administered before both the training and test sessions induced a deficit of approximately the same magnitude as that found when administered before training or before testing only. The results indicate that scopolamine can induce a small post-trial effect, presumably through an influence on consolidation processes. The much larger effect of pretrial scopolamine, however, indicates a primary influence on processes related to information acquisition. Together with findings from the literature, the present experiments suggest that scopolamine-induced amnesia partially, but not completely, models the memory deficits of human dementia.
Doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiotoxicity is thought to be mediated by the generation of superoxide anion radicals (superoxide) from redox cycling of DOX in cardiomyocyte mitochondria. Reduction of superoxide generates H(2)O(2), which diffuses throughout the cell and potentially contributes to oxidant-mediated cardiac injury. The mitochondrial and cytosolic glutathione peroxidase 1 (Gpx1) primarily functions to eradicate H(2)O(2). In this study, we hypothesize that Gpx1 plays a pivotal role in the clearance of H(2)O(2) generated by DOX. To test this hypothesis, we compared DOX-induced cardiac dysfunction, mitochondrial injury, protein nitration, and apoptosis in Gpx1-deficient and wild type mouse hearts. The Gpx1-deficient hearts showed increased susceptibility to DOX-induced acute functional derangements than wild type hearts, including impaired contractility and diastolic properties, decreased coronary flow rate, and reduced heart rate. In addition, DOX treatment impaired the mitochondrial function of Gpx1-deficient hearts. Specifically, Gpx1-deficient hearts treated with DOX demonstrated an increased rate of NAD-linked state 4 respiration and a decline in the P/O ratio relative to wild type hearts, suggesting that DOX uncouples the electron transfer chain and oxidative phosphorylation in Gpx1-deficient hearts. Finally, apoptosis and protein nitration were significantly increased in Gpx1-deficient mouse hearts compared to wild type hearts. These studies suggest that Gpx1 plays significant roles in protecting DOX-induced mitochondrial impairment and cardiac dysfunction in the acute phase.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the most frequent cause of drug-induced acute liver failure. Schisandra fructus is widely-used traditional Chinese medicine which possesses hepato-protective potential. Schisandrin A (SinA), Schisandrin B (SinB), Schisandrin C (SinC), Schisandrol A (SolA), Schisandrol B (SolB), and Schisantherin A (SthA) are the major bioactive lignans. Most recently, we found SolB exerts significant hepato-protection against APAP-induced liver injury. In this study, the protective effects of the other five schisandra lignans against APAP-induced acute hepatotoxicity in mice were investigated and compared with that of SolB. The results of morphological and biochemical assessment clearly demonstrated significant protective effects of SinA, SinB, SinC, SolA, SolB, and SthA against APAP-induced liver injury. Among these schisandra lignans, SinC and SolB exerted the strongest hepato-protective effects against APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. Six lignans pretreatment before APAP dosing could prevent the depletions of total liver glutathione (GSH) and mitochondrial GSH caused by APAP. Additionally, the lignans treatment inhibited the enzymatic activities of three CYP450 isoforms (CYP2E1, CYP1A2, and CYP3A11) related to APAP bioactivation, and further decreased the formation of APAP toxic intermediate N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine (NAPQI) in mouse microsomal incubation system. This study demonstrated that SinA, SinB, SinC, SolA, SolB and SthA exhibited significant protective actions toward APAP-induced liver injury, which was partially associated with the inhibition of CYP-mediated APAP bioactivation.
The effects of prenatal administration of tributyltin (1 and 5 mg/kg) and trihexyltin (5 mg/kg) upon the development and behavioural repertoire of rats were studied. The dose levels were selected so as not to induce maternal toxicity. No consistent delay upon occurrence of various maturation markers of the organotin-treated offspring was seen. As adults the tributyltin-treated offspring showed considerable hyperactivity following the initial habituation whereas the trihexyltin-treated offspring showed hyperactivity to a lesser degree. In the spatial learning tasks applied, the radial arm maze and the circular swim maze, tributyltin-treated rats demonstrated a clearly retarded aquisition of the radial arm maze task whereas trihexyltin-treated rats performed as well as the control rats; no differences were obtained in the swim maze task. The tributyltin-treated offspring showed a drastic potentiation of d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, whereas trihexyltin treatment induced only a marginal increase.
Cyclophosphamide is a potent anticancer agent. However its clinical use is restricted because of its marked organ toxicity associated with increased oxidative stress and inflammation. The present study was designed to demonstrate the protective effects of rutin, a naturally occurring bioflavonoid against the hepatotoxicity induced by CP. Rats were subjected to oral pretreatment of rutin (50 and 100 mg/kg b wt) against hepatotoxicity induced by i.p. injection of CP (150 mg/kg b wt) and were sacrificed after 24 h. Hepatoprotective effects of rutin were associated with upregulation of antioxidant enzyme activities and down regulation of serum toxicity markers. Rutin was able to down regulate the levels of inflammatory markers like TNF-α, IL-6 and expressions of p38-MAPK, NFκB, i-NOS and COX-2. Histopathological changes further confirmed the biochemical and immunohistochemical results showing that CP caused significant structural damage to liver which were reversed by pretreatment of rutin. Therefore, our study revealed that rutin may be a promising modulator in attenuating CP induced oxidative stress, inflammation and hepatotoxicity via targeting NFκB and MAPK pathway.
