Deficiency of plasma platelet-activating factor (PAF) acetylhydrolase is an autosomal recessive syndrome that has been associated with severe asthma in Japanese children. Acquired deficiency has been described in several human diseases usually associated with severe inflammation. PAF acetylhydrolase catalyzes the degradation of PAF and related phospholipids, which have proinflammatory, allergic, and prothrombotic properties. Thus, a deficiency in the degradation of these lipids should increase the susceptibility to inflammatory and allergic disorders. Miwa et al. reported that PAF acetylhydrolase activity is absent in 4% of the Japanese population, which suggests that it could be a common factor in such disorders, but the molecular basis of the defect is unknown. We show that inherited deficiency of PAF acetylhydrolase is the result of a point mutation in exon 9 and that this mutation completely abolishes enzymatic activity. This mutation is the cause of the lack of enzymatic activity as expression in E. coli of a construct harboring the mutation results in an inactive protein. This mutation as a heterozygous trait is present in 27% in the Japanese population. This finding will allow rapid identification of subjects predisposed to severe asthma and other PAF-mediated disorders.
Chronic beryllium disease (CBD) is a granulomatous lung disease that occurs primarily in workers who are exposed to beryllium dust or fumes. Although exposure to beryllium is a necessary factor in the pathobiology of CBD, alleles that code for a glutamic acid residue at the 69th position of the HLA-DPbeta1 gene have previously been found to be associated with CBD. To date, 43 HLA-DPbeta1 alleles that code for glutamic acid 69 (E69) have been described. Whether all of these E69 coding alleles convey equal risk of CBD is unknown. The present study demonstrates that, on the one hand, E69 alleloforms of major histocompatibility complex class II antigen-presenting proteins with the greatest negative surface charge convey the highest risk of CBD, and on the other hand, irrespective of allele, they convey equal risk of beryllium sensitization (BeS). In addition, the data suggest that the same alleles that cause the greatest risk of CBD are also important for the progression from BeS to CBD. Alleles convey the highest risk code for E26 in a constant region and for E69, aspartic acid 55 (D55), E56, D84 and E85 in hypervariable regions of the HLA-DPbeta1 chain. Together with the calculated high binding affinities for beryllium, these results suggest that an adverse immune response, leading to CBD, is triggered by chemically specific metal-protein interactions.
Doxorubicin (DXR) causes dose dependent cardiotoxicity in experimental animals and in humans. In chronic doxorubicin cardiotoxicity model mice, the role of G. biloba extract (Gbe) which has an antioxidant property, was investigated. Doxorubicin treated animals showed higher mortality (68%), increased ascites, marked bradycardia, prolongation of ST and QT intervals and widening of QRS complex. Myocardial SOD and glutathione peroxidase activity were decreased and lipid peroxidation was increased. Ultrastructure of heart of DXR treated animals showed loss of myofibrils, swelling of mitochondria, vacuolization of mitochondria. G. biloba extract significantly protected the mice from cardiotoxic effects of doxorubicin as evidenced by lowered mortality, ascites, myocardial lipid peroxidation, normalization of antioxidant enzymes, reversal of ECG changes and minimal ultrastructural damage of the heart. The results indicate that administration of G. biloba extract protected mice from doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
Evaluate the efficacy of potential therapeutics in Rdh8(-/-)Abca4(-/-) mice, a rodent model of human age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
Therapeutic efficacy of several antioxidant agents (ascorbic acid, alpha-lipoic acid, alpha-tocopherol, Mn(III)-tetrakis(4-benzoic acid)-porphyrin, and butylated hydroxytoluene), an immunosuppressive agent with antivascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) activity (sirolimus, also known as rapamycin), a retinoid cycle inhibitor (retinylamine), and an artificial chromophore (9-cis-retinyl acetate) were evaluated side by side in a recently described murine model of AMD, the Rdh8(-/-)Abca4(-/-) mouse. This animal exhibits a retinopathy caused by delayed all-trans-retinal clearance resulting from the absence of both ATP-binding cassette transporter 4 (Abca4) and retinol dehydrogenase 8 (Rdh8) activities. Drug efficacy was evaluated by retinal histologic analyses and electroretinograms (ERGs).
All tested agents partially prevented atrophic changes in the Rdh8(-/-)Abca4(-/-) retina with retinylamine demonstrating the greatest efficacy. A significant reduction of complement deposition on Bruch's membrane was observed in sirolimus-treated mice, although the severity of retinal degeneration was similar to that observed in antioxidant- and 9-cis-retinyl acetate-treated mice. Sirolimus treatment of 6-month-old Rdh8(-/-)Abca4(-/-) mice for 4 months prevented choroidal neovascularization without changing retinal VEGF levels.
Mechanism-based therapy with retinylamine markedly attenuated degenerative retinopathy in Rdh8(-/-)Abca4(-/-) mice. Further understanding of pathogenic mechanisms involved in AMD is needed to develop more effective therapeutics.
The effect of phospholipid and MgATPase modulation was evaluated on the cardiovascular actions of vasopressin in normal and lithium carbonate- (Li2CO3) induced polyuric rats. We examined the effects of the phospholipase inhibitor neomycin, the diacylglycerol kinase II inhibitor R59949 and the MgATPase activator sphingosine on heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) responses to vasopressin analogues lysine vasopressin (LVP) and arginine vasopressin (AVP). R59949 (20 microg/kg) produced an increase while sphingosine (30 microg/kg) caused a decrease in HR responses in both control and polyuric rats. Pretreatment with sphingosine caused significant enhancement of LVP- (10 microg/kg) induced bradycardia in polyuria rats compared with control animals (p < 0.01). R59949 induced a potentiation of vasopressin-induced bradycardia in control animals compared with polyuria rats. Pretreatment with sphingosine and R59949 produced a significant increase in BP per se and potentiated the actions of LVP in control animals, while the response in the lithium-treated animals was attenuated. Neomycin caused a reduction in HR and BP in control and lithium-treated animals. To evaluate the central role of the MgATPase enzyme we used sphingosine, which significantly increased the locomotor activity of lithium-treated animals, suggesting a possible central interaction of lithium and MgATPase (p < 0.05). These results strongly suggest that phospholipid mediators and MgATPase modulation contribute to the alteration of the cardiovascular effects of vasopressin in lithium carbonate-induced polyuric rats.
Parkinson's disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders affecting large majority of population who are older than age of 65. Apart from dopamine, acetylcholine and glutamate, adenosinc has also been identified in the basal ganglia. Adenosine modulates the release of a variety of neurotransmitters including dopamine. In order to establish adenosine-dopamine interactions in drug-induced catatonia we studied the effect of adenosine in drug-induced catatonia in mice. In the present study adenosine dose dependently produced catatonia when assessed on rota-rod and bar tests in mice. Adenosine also potentiated the catatonic effect of perphenazine. L-dopa plus carbidopa or OR-486 (a potent centrally acting COMT inhibitor) completely reversed adenosine-induced catatonia. Since reversal by scopolamine of adenosine-induced catatonia was not to the same extent as with l-dopa and OR-486 it appears that catecholamines particularly dopamine rather than cholinergic modulation is more important in adenosine induced catatonia. The motor dysfunction (catatonia) could be easily assessed using rota-rod test apparatus in mice.
We have studied the impact of genetic background on susceptibility to spontaneous or 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP)-induced intestinal tumorigenesis. The increase in small intestinal tumor number after PhIP exposure was 3.8- and 3.7-fold above the spontaneous levels in multiple intestinal neoplasia (Min)/+ F1 mice with AKR/J and A/J backgrounds, respectively, compared with only 3-fold in C57BL/6J mice. In the colon, PhIP increased the number of tumors slightly more in C57BL/6J mice (3.3-fold) than in A/J mice (3.0-fold). AKR/J mice had no colonic tumors. Most of the tumors were located in the distal two-thirds of the small intestine in all three strains.
Hypersensitivity myocarditis is a well-known complication of pharmaceutical therapy, often requiring heart transplantation. We report the unusual case of pre-transplant hypersensitivity myocarditis with eosinophilic myocardial infiltration in the donor heart, demonstrated by needle biopsy at the time of transplant ('time-zero' biopsy). At first the myocarditic process was temptatively attributed to a pre-transplant pathology in the donor heart, but the close similarity between the pre-transplant and the post-transplant infiltrate and the clinical data of an eosinophilic peak of the recipient during the transplant procedure brought to the diagnosis of early recurrent hypersensitivity myocarditis.
Histamine released from mast cell degranulation participates in the pathogenesis of ischemia/reperfusion injury. The purpose of our study was to define the role of histamine in hypoxia/reoxygenation mediated liver cell injury and to elucidate the underlying mechanism in vitro.
Histamine alone or in combination with H1 receptor antagonist (pyrilamine), H2 receptor antagonist (cimetidine) or H3/4 receptor antagonist (thioperamide) at different concentrations before hypoxia was added to rat liver BRL-3A cell which was subjected to 24h hypoxia followed by 4h reoxygenation. Cell proliferation, apoptosis and the changes of ultrastructure were assessed, and MDA contents, SOD activities and ALT levels were quantified as well.
Histamine (from 10(-3) to 10(-9) M) did not affect the growth of BRL-3A cells without hypoxia treatment. However, histamine 10(-8)M significantly lowered the growth of BRL-3A cells challenged by hypoxia/reoxygenation, accompanied with concomitant elevations in MDA contents and decreases in SOD activities, all these changes were blocked by cimetidine, not by pyrilamine or thioperamide. However, histamine (above 10(-6) M) did not show exacerbating effects in BRL-3A cell subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation.
Histamine at low concentrations (10(-7)-10(-9) M) aggravates hypoxia/reoxygenation mediated BRL-3A damage through histamine H2 receptor.
1. Plasma noradrenaline was measured in fifty-nine patients with mild to severe essential hypertension and in fifteen normotensive control subjects under basal and orthostatic conditions. 2. In patients with essential hypertension mean plasma noradrenaline concentrations were significantly higher than in control subjects under basal and orthostatic conditions. 3. In patients with essential hypertension basal diastolic blood pressure correlated closely with the corresponding plasma noradrenaline concentrations. 4. Long-term treatment with prindolol of patients with essential hypertension led to a significant fall in diastolic and systolic blood pressure and heart rate and to a significant decrease in plasma noradrenaline concentrations under basal and orthostatic conditions. 5. The adrenergic response to upright posture, reflected by an increase in plasma noradrenaline, was not abolished by prindolol. 6. It is concluded that the anti-hypertensive effect of prindolol in patients with essential hypertension is at least partially mediated by a decrease of sympathetic nervous activity.
Treatment of Parkinson's disease with levodopa is associated with fluctuations in motor function and dyskinesias, which may in part depend upon the mode of levodopa treatment. In rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, intermittent levodopa results in sensitization to apomorphine-induced rotation, associated with massive ipsilateral increases in nigral dynorphin. We assessed the effects of nigral infusion of the selective kappa opioid antagonist nor-binaltorphomine (nor-BNI) in this model. Nor-BNI reduced apomorphine-induced rotation in animals receiving intermittent levodopa to a level comparable with that seen in animals treated with continuous levodopa or with saline. These data suggest that behavioural sensitization arising from intermittent levodopa therapy in a rodent model of parkinsonism depends upon increased expression of dynorphin in the striatonigral pathway and provides further insight into the mechanisms underlying motor fluctuations which develop during the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Recent reports suggested that the activation of Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) receptors in the gastrointestinal tract has pro-inflammatory effects. In this study, we demonstrated for the first time that TRPV4 mRNA expression is up-regulated in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). Furthermore, selective blockade of TRPV4 in the 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid animal model alleviates colitis and pain associated with the intestinal inflammation. Our study indicates that TRPV4 may play a role in mechanisms of defense in intestinal inflammation and that TRPV4 may be an attractive target for future systemic or topic anti-inflammatory treatment in patients with IBD.
Neuromuscular/neurodegenerative disorders, such as the death of spinal cord motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or the degeneration of spinal cord motor neuron axons in certain peripheral neuropathies, present a unique opportunity for therapeutic intervention with neurotrophic proteins. We have found that in mixed rat embryonic spinal cord cultures or in purified motor neuron preparations, recombinant human insulin-like growth factor 1 (rhIGF-1) enhances the survival of motor neurons at EC50 concentrations of 2 nM, consistent with an interaction at the tyrosine kinase-coupled rhIGF-1 receptor. In a model of programmed cell death in ovo, administration of rhIGF-1 produces a marked survival of motor neurons. In a variety of models of predominantly motor neuron or nerve injury in rodents, administration of rhIGF-1 prevents the death of motor neurons in neonatal facial nerve lesions, attenuates the loss of cholinergic phenotype in adult hypoglossal nerve axotomy and hastens recovery from sciatic nerve crush in mice. In a genetic model of motor neuron compromise, the wobbler mouse, rhIGF-1 (1 mg/kg s.c. daily) delayed the deterioration of grip strength and provided for a more normal distribution of fibre types. In addition, rhIGF-1 (0.3-1.0 mg/kg s.c. daily) prevents the motor and/or sensory neuropathy in rodents caused by vincristine, cisplatinum or Taxol. These combined data indicate that rhIGF-1 has marked effects on the survival of compromised motor neurons and the maintenance of their axons and functional connections. They also suggest the potential utility of rhIGF-1 for the treatment of diseases such as ALS and certain neuropathies.
The past decade has seen many important advances in the pathogenesis, clinical and laboratory diagnosis, and management of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), one of the most common immune-mediated adverse drug reactions. HIT is caused by IgG antibodies that recognize complexes of heparin and platelet factor 4, leading to platelet activation via platelet Fc gamma IIa receptors. Formation of procoagulant, platelet-derived microparticles, and, possibly, activation of endothelium generate thrombin in vivo. Thrombin generation helps to explain the strong association between HIT and thrombosis, including the newly recognized syndrome of warfarin-induced venous limb gangrene. This syndrome occurs when acquired protein C deficiency during warfarin treatment of HIT and deep venous thrombosis leads to the inability to regulate thrombin generation in the microvasculature. The central role of HIT antibodies in causing HIT, as well as refinements in laboratory assays to detect these antibodies, means that HIT should be considered a clinicopathologic syndrome. The diagnosis can be made confidently when one or more typical clinical events (most frequently, thrombocytopenia with or without thrombosis) occur in a patient with detectable HIT antibodies. The central role of thrombin generation in this syndrome provides a rationale for the use of anticoagulants that reduce thrombin generation (danaparoid) or inhibit thrombin (lepirudin).
To observe the morphological features of the lumbosacral neural tube defects (NTDs) induced by all-trans retinoic acid (atRA) and to explore the pathogenesis of these defects.
Rat embryos with lumbosacral NTDs were obtained by treating pregnant rats with administration of atRA. Rat embryos were obtained by cesarean. Fetuses were sectioned and stained with hematoxylin-eosin (H&E). Relevant structures including caudal neural tube were examined. In the atRA-treated rats, about 48% embryos showed lumbosacral NTDs. There appeared a dorsally and rostrally situated, neural-plate-like structure (myeloschisis) and a ventrally and caudally located cell mass containing multiple canals (hamartoma) in the lumbosacral NTDs induced by atRA.
Retinoic acid could disturb the notochord and tail bud development in the process of primary and secondary neurulation in rat embryos, which cause lumbosacral NTDs including myeloschisis and hamartoma. The morphology is very similar to that happens in humans.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related mortality in the United States. CRC is initiated by mutations of the tumor suppressor gene, adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), or β-catenin gene. These mutations stabilize β-catenin and constitutively activate Wnt/β-catenin target genes, such as c-Myc and cyclin D1, ultimately leading to cancer. Naturally occurring stilbene derivatives, resveratrol and pterostilbene, inhibit Wnt signaling and repress CRC cell proliferation but are ineffective at concentrations less than 10 μM. To understand the structure--activity relationship within these stilbene derivatives and to develop more efficacious Wnt inhibitors than these natural products, we synthesized and evaluated a panel of fluorinated N,N-dialkylaminostilbenes. Among this panel, (E)-4-(2,6-difluorostyryl)-N,N-dimethylaniline (4r) inhibits Wnt signaling at nanomolar levels and inhibits the growth of human CRC cell xenografts in athymic nude mice at a dosage of 20 mg/kg. These fluorinated N,N-dialkylaminostilbenes appear to inhibit Wnt signaling downstream of β-catenin, probably at the transcriptional level.
1. A possible cerebroprotective effect of nicorandil was investigated in a canine model of 5 min global cerebral ischaemia, and compared with protective effects of nitroglycerin and nicardipine. 2. Cerebral ischaemia was produced by occlusion of the left subclavian and the brachiocephalic arteries with preceding ligation of the intercostal arteries. The decrease in baroreflex sensitivity (BRS), measured by phenylephrine-induced reflex bradycardia, was used to assess the cerebroprotective effect. 3. Nicorandil (10 or 30 micrograms kg-1 min-1, i.v.), nitroglycerin (3 micrograms kg-1 min-1, i.v.) or nicardipine (0.3 micrograms kg-1 min-1, i.v.) were infused for 60 min just before ischaemia. Nitroglycerin and nicardipine decreased mean arterial blood pressure to an extent similar to that induced by the lower dose of nicorandil. Blood flow in the dorsal medulla oblongata was increased by nicorandil and nicardipine, but not by nitroglycerin. 4. Nicorandil at both doses and nitroglycerin prevented the post-ischaemic decrease in BRS. In these cases, bilateral vagotomy during the reperfusion period decreased BRS, indicating that the vagal component of BRS was protected from ischaemia. On the other hand, nicardipine failed to exert a cerebroprotective effect. 5. The present study suggests that nicorandil may possess a direct cerebroprotective effect and that its property as a nitrate might, at least in part, be important for the observed cerebral protection.
Tris(4-chlorophenyl)methanol (TCPM) is a by-product in the manufacture of technical grade DDT, which is known to alter properties and functions of the female reproductive system. We investigated whether in vitro TCPM has an influence on the function of gap junction-mediated intercellular communication (GJIC) and gap junction protein expression of connexin 43 (Cx43) in cultured bovine granulosa cells. GJIC was assessed by fluorescent dye microinjection (dye-coupling). After a 1-h exposure to TCPM at a concentration of 32 microM, a significant (P<0.05) reduction in dye coupling occurred. The same result was obtained with o,p'-DDT. At a concentration of 32 microM both pesticides were cytotoxic as indicated by significant (P<0.05) increased propidium iodide staining of the cell nuclei. Little or no effect on the stainable pattern of connexons occurred after 1 h incubation time, while after 3 h treatment from 16 to 64 microM TCPM, a significant inhibition in the immunostaining resulted and the concentrations of 32 and 64 microM TCPM were cytotoxic for the granulosa cells. The freeze-fracture electron microscopy resulted in small differences in the morphology of gap junction plaques of cell cultures treated for 3 h with 8 or 16 microM TCPM in comparison to untreated cells. After treatment with 32 microM TCPM, gap junction plaques were very rarely detected and the lateral intramembraneous particles (IMP) distribution of many plasma membranes was strongly altered. Estimation of the cellular parameters may lead to an enhanced understanding of the mechanism of chemically induced toxicity by TCPM, that causes a general toxic effect on granulosa cells. We can conclude that TCPM is a toxic risk in the same manner as DDT.
An 11-year-old girl who had been given antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) for occipital lobe epilepsy was hospitalized with alternative psychosis and dysgraphia accompanied by forced normalization of the EEG. Her epileptic seizures and psychosis disappeared after administration of carbamazepine. She developed dysgraphia for Kanji words (Japanese morphograms). The EEG showed sporadic spikes predominantly in the left occipital region, and [123I]iomazenil single-photon-emission computed tomography (IMZ-SPECT) imaging revealed an area of hypoperfusion in the left occipital lobe. Interestingly, the left posterior inferior temporal area is known to play an important role in writing Kanji words. It is assumed that abnormal discharges in the left occipital lobe were projected into the left posterior inferior temporal area and that a functional disorder in that area led to dysgraphia; however, further exploration is needed.
The effects of noradrenaline (NA) depletion upon amphetamine-induced hyperactivity were examined in five experiments. Central NA depletion via either systemic DSP4 or neonatal 6-OHDA antagonised the amphetamine-induced (2 mg/kg SC) increase in rearing behaviour, whereas lesions of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle using 6-hydroxydopamine antagonised the increase in locomotor activity. Peripheral NA depletion following systemic 6-hydroxydopamine to adult rats did not cause any changes in motor activity after acute amphetamine administration. Desipramine, the selective NA uptake inhibitor, blocked the effects of DSP4 upon amphetamine-induced rearing. NA depletion antagonised hyperactivity produced by the 2 mg/kg dose of amphetamine, but not the hyperactivity (rearing or locomotion) effects of amphetamine at 1, 4 or 8 mg/kg.
The records of 15 patients with cortisone psychoses were studied retrospectively. We observed two types of these substance-induced mental disorders: 1. rapidly reversible organic psychoses with peracute onset and 2. cortisone-induced schizophrenic psychoses with prolonged remission and typical follow-up. Depressive moods, dysthymia, anxiety, psychomotor agitation or euphoric symptoms are features occurring in initial states or mild forms of transit syndromes. More severe forms of cortisone induced transit syndromes are dominated by delusions and hallucinations, whereas most severe transit syndromes are characterized by reversible dementia. Females were affected more frequent than males. 40% of our patients developed steroid psychoses after treatment with a daily dose of 5-20 mg prednisolone or its equivalent. Neither dosage nor duration of treatment influenced severity, onset or duration of this mental disorders. Neuroleptic treatment and dose reduction led in 87% of patients to remission within four weeks.
This article reports some observations made in a woman who developed myasthenia gravis after treatment with D-penicillamine. Withdrawal of the drug was not followed by spontaneous remission of the myasthenic syndrome.
Adherence of neutrophils to the vascular endothelium is an early and critical event in the pathogenesis of gastric injury induced by NSAIDs. Pretreatment with glucocorticoids has been shown to prevent NSAID-induced neutrophil adherence and, in turn, to protect the stomach from injury. Some of the anti-inflammatory effects of glucocorticoids, including inhibition of neutrophil adherence, are mediated via the release of annexin-1. In this study, we assessed the contribution of annexin-1 to the protective actions of a glucocorticoid (dexamethasone) against indomethacin-induced gastric damage. Dexamethasone pretreatment markedly reduced the extent of indomethacin-induced gastric damage in rats. Immunoneutralization of annexin-1 resulted in a reversal of the gastroprotective actions of dexamethasone. Similarly, pretreatment with either of two antagonists of the formyl peptide receptor family, to which annexin-1 binds, reversed the gastroprotective effects of dexamethasone. The inhibitory effects of dexamethasone on indomethacin-induced leukocyte adherence in the mesenteric microcirculation were abolished by pretreatment with an antibody directed against annexin-1 or with an antagonist of the formyl peptide receptors. These results demonstrate that annexin-1 mediates the gastroprotective effects of a glucocorticoid against NSAID-induced damage. We propose that in some circumstances, annexin-1 plays an important role as an endogenous mediator of mucosal defense.
Use of fenfluramines, either alone or co-administered with phentermine ("fen-phen") as anorexic agents in obesity, has been associated with the development of clinically significant cardiac valve disease. We present the macroscopic and histologic findings in cardiac valves explanted from three patients who presented with valvular disease after fenfluramine or fenfluramine-phentermine use and underwent single valve replacement surgery. Paraffin sections were prepared with hematoxylin and eosin, trichrome, elastic-van Gieson, and Giemsa stains, as well as immunostains using antibody to CD3 and CD20. All three patients (two females, ages 37 and 43, and a 49-year-old male) developed progressively symptomatic mitral (2 patients) or aortic (1 patient) valvular insufficiency following dexfenfluramine (2 patients) or fenfluramine-phentermine (1 patient) use. Macroscopic changes included irregular leaflet thickening, accompanied by chordal fusion in the mitral valves, but without vegetations, commissural fusion, or evidence of annular dilation. Histologically, fibromyxoid plaques and nodules just below the valve surface, superficial to a generally intact elastic fiber layer, were associated with CD3-positive lymphocytes. Valves from all three patients had central myxoid degenerative changes, which were focal/mild in one mitral valve, diffuse/moderate in one mitral valve, and diffuse/marked in one aortic valve. Focal areas of superficial fibromyxoid change or intimal thickening may also be seen in cardiac valves from patients with drug-unrelated processes leading to symptomatic or asymptomatic valvulopathy. Therefore, when valve tissue is available for histopathologic examination, valvular disease can be attributed to use of fenfluramines only if the following criteria are satisfied: (i) the macroscopic and microscopic features are consistent with fenfluramine-related valvulopathy, (ii) clinical, echocardiographic, and intraoperative findings support the diagnosis, and (iii) the history of drug exposure predates the development or exacerbation of valvular dysfunction.
The cardiotoxic effect of isoproterenol (ISO) is associated with, and possibly due to, calcium overload. Prior work suggests that calcium entry into cardiac myocytes after ISO administration occurs in two phases: an early rapid phase, followed by a slow phase beginning about 1 hour after ISO injection, leading to a peak myocardial calcium level after about 4 hours. We have tested the relationship of these phases to myocardial necrosis (MN) by determining the time after ISO administration at which the commitment to MN occurs. This was done by administration of propranolol at various times before and after ISO. In addition, since ISO induces lipolysis, and lipids can be toxic, experiments were conducted to determine if adrenergically-activated lipolysis could play a significant role in ISO-MN. We found that propranolol protected the myocardium equally well when administered anytime within 2 hours of ISO injection, but had no effect when given 4 hours after ISO. This showed that metabolic events taking place more than two hours after ISO injection are required for ISO-MN. As expected from prior work, there was a small and consistent amount of propranolol-resistant ISO-MN. Lipolysis, assessed by measuring serum glycerol levels, increased to tenfold above base line at one hour after ISO administration and returned to near basal levels at 4 hours. Potentiation of lipolysis by intravenous injections of phospholipase A2 (PLA2) or lipoprotein lipase (LPL) to rats treated with ISO substantially augmented MN. Propranolol completely blocked the increase in necrosis produced by PLA2 when given with ISO. Lipases induced only minimal necrosis in the absence of ISO. Administration of adenosine (an anti-lipolytic agent), oxfenicine (an inhibitor of mitochondrial palmitoyl carnitine transferase), or vitamin C (an anti-oxidant) resulted in a 55-60% reduction in MN. These results suggest that critical necrosis-determining events occur between 2 and 4 hours after ISO administration and imply a relationship between ISO-induced lipolysis, calcium influx, and ISO-MN. We hypothesize that importance of lipolysis as a determinant of ISO-MN is related to the generation of free fatty acids, their oxidized/metabolic products, or direct damage to plasma membrane.
To evaluate alterations in central retinal sensitivity following intravitreal triamcinolone injection in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema that persisted after laser treatment.
Fourteen eyes of 14 patients that received 4 mg 0.1 cc intravitreal triamcinolone underwent macular threshold test using computerized visual field analyzer before and after 1, 2, 3, and 5 months of triamcinolone injection. Pre- and postinjection values of total defect depth, total threshold, and best-corrected visual acuity were compared and correlated.
At the last follow-up, compared to baseline, visual acuity improved from 1.4+/-0.4 (logMAR, mean +/- standard deviation) to 1.0+/0.4 (p=0.01). Total defect depth tended to recover from 148+/-64 dB to 121+/-48 dB (p=0.12), and total threshold tended to increase from 241+/-87 dB to 271+/-68 dB (p=0.16), but these values did not reach significance. There was a significant correlation between baseline and 5 months postinjection values of total defect depth (rho=0.60, p=0.02), and of total threshold of light sensitivity (rho=0.55, p=0.04).
Best-corrected visual acuity was found improved in patients with diabetic macular edema 5 months after triamcinolone injection. Improvement in central retinal sensitivity did not reach significant level at the last follow-up. Macular threshold test may be a valuable tool in the follow- up of patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema after intravitreal triamcinolone injection.
A regulator of the protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), α4, has been implicated in a variety of functions that regulate many cellular processes. To explore the role of α4 in human cell transformation and tumorigenesis, we show that α4 is highly expressed in human cells transformed by chemical carcinogens including benzo(a)pyrene, aflatoxin B(1), N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, nickel sulfate and in several hepatic and lung cancer cell lines. In addition, overexpression of α4 was detected in 87.5% (74/80) of primary hepatocellular carcinomas, 84.0% (21/25) of primary lung cancers and 81.8% (9/11) of primary breast cancers, indicating that α4 is ubiquitously highly expressed in human cancer. Functional studies revealed that elevated α4 expression results in an increase in cell proliferation, promotion of cell survival and decreased PP2A-attributable activity. Importantly, ectopic expression of α4 permits non-transformed human embryonic kidney cells (HEKTER) and L02R cells to form tumors in immunodeficient mice. Furthermore, we show that the highly expressed α4 in transformed cells or human tumors is not regulated by DNA hypomethylation. A microRNA, miR-34b, that suppresses the expression of α4 through specific binding to the 3'-untranslated region of α4 is downregulated in transformed or human lung tumors. Taken together, these observations identify that α4 possesses an oncogenic function. Reduction of PP2A activity due to an enhanced α4-PP2A interaction contributes directly to chemical carcinogen-induced tumorigenesis.
L-dopa induced dyskinesia is a complication of long-term L-dopa administration in patients with Parkinson's disease. This study uses the rodent model of dyskinesia to determine whether prior dopamine agonist treatment causes long-term changes that influence the development of L-dopa mediated behaviours. Rats with unilateral 6-OHDA lesions were injected with dopamine agonists (ropinirole, piribedil bromocriptine, all 1mg/kg) or saline (0.9%) daily for 21 days. Following a 1-week drug free interval L-dopa was administered for 15 days (10mg/kg with benserazide 15 mg/kg in saline s.c.). Rotational behaviour and abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) were recorded at regular intervals. All dopamine agonists induced a contralateral rotational response on day 1, which increased in response to repeated administration but did not by themselves induce overt dyskinesias. On day 1 of L-dopa administration animals pre-treated with piribedil and ropinirole produced a more severe rotational response. In the saline pre-treated group, AIMs developed with repeated L-dopa administration, which was reflected in the increased expression of PPE-B mRNA. There was a trend for the same pattern in the dopamine agonist treated groups but this was non-significant. Therefore, while locomotor sensitivity is altered by the pre-treatment with dopamine agonists, there appears to be no increased risk of developing AIMs.
The major risk of therapy with platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors is bleeding. We reviewed trials using these agents to determine if bleeding risks include an increased incidence of intracranial hemorrhage.
A Medline search identified 14 randomized trials of intravenous platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors for patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention or who had an acute coronary syndrome. We compared the incidence of intracranial hemorrhage among 15,850 patients treated with glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors with that among 12,039 patients treated with placebo.
The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage with heparin plus any IIb/IIIa inhibitor was similar to placebo with heparin (0.12% vs 0.09%, odds ratio = 1.3, 95% confidence interval: 0.6 to 3.1, P = 0.59). The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage with glycoprotein IIb/IIIa drugs alone was similar to that with heparin alone (0.07% vs 0.06%), albeit with a wide confidence interval (odds ratio = 1.2, 95% confidence interval: 0.1 to 16, P = 1.0).
Intravenous glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors alone or in combination with heparin do not cause a statistically significant excess of intracranial hemorrhage as compared with heparin alone. Because of small numbers, the data do not exclude the possibility of an excess of intracranial hemorrhage in some groups of patients treated with glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor inhibitors.
