Speech and language disorders are some of the most common referral reasons to child development centers accounting for approximately 40% of cases. Stuttering is a disorder in which involuntary repetition, prolongation, or cessation of the sound precludes the flow of speech. About 5% of individuals in the general population have a stuttering problem, and about 80% of the affected children recover naturally. The causal factors of stuttering remain uncertain in most cases; studies suggest that genetic factors are responsible for 70% of the variance in liability for stuttering, whereas the remaining 30% is due to environmental effects supporting a complex cause of the disorder. The use of high-resolution genome wide array comparative genomic hybridization has proven to be a powerful strategy to narrow down candidate regions for complex disorders. We report on a case with a complex set of speech and language difficulties including stuttering who presented with a 10 Mb deletion of chromosome region 7q33-35 causing the deletion of several genes and the disruption of CNTNAP2 by deleting the first three exons of the gene. CNTNAP2 is known to be involved in the cause of language and speech disorders and autism spectrum disorder and is in the same pathway as FOXP2, another important language gene, which makes it a candidate gene for causal studies speech and language disorders such as stuttering.
We present a rare case of 26-year-old male patient without a history of epilepsy, who underwent a voice monitoring surgery under local anesthesia plus sedation using modified neuroleptanalgesia. As he developed generalized tonic-clonic seizure probably due to pentazocine, the operation was cancelled. Later, the same surgery was rescheduled. After a premedication with intramuscular phenobarbital, the patient was sedated with dexmedetomidine and locally anesthetized, showing sedation of high quality with no respiratory depression and no seizure. Dexmedetomidine was used succesfully for voice monitoring surgery.
Aristolochic acid (AA), derived from the Aristolochia species, has been associated with aristolochic acid nephropathy (AAN), which has emerged as a worldwide disease. Aristolochic acid I (AAI) is the main ingredient of AA, and the underlying mechanisms for AAI-induced nephrotoxicity are still unclear. In this study, we investigated whether endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress was involved in AAI-induced nephrotoxicity. The results showed that treatment of HK-2 cells (a human proximal tubular epithelial cell line) with AAI caused an increase in eukaryotic initiation factor-2α (eIF2α) phosphorylation, X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA splicing and the expression of glucose-regulated protein (GRP) 78 and CAAT/enhancer-binding protein-homologous protein (CHOP). These events represent typical markers of the ER stress-related signaling pathway. Pretreatment with 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PBA) or salubrinal (Sal) significantly inhibited AAI-induced apoptosis, indicating the role of ER stress in AAI-induced apoptosis. In addition, AAI-induced cell death followed an increase of reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation in HK-2 cells. Pretreatment with N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) or glutathione (GSH) significantly inhibited AAI-induced ER stress proteins and cell death, suggesting that ROS mediate AAI-induced ER stress. Taken together, these results suggest that the ER stress response is involved in apoptosis induced by AAI in HK-2 cells, thus offering a new insight into the nephrotoxicity of AAI.
The p53 tumor suppressor protein is involved in cellular defense against agents that can cause genetic damage. Induction of p53 gene expression at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels by such agents results in p53-regulated gene activation or suppression. Docetaxel (DOC), a member of the taxanes family that is widely used in cancer chemotherapy, activates p53 at the transcriptional level. We demonstrated that p53 is induced by low dose DOC treatment, resulting in MDR-1 gene suppression in human lung cancer cells. To identify the cis-element of p53 promoter that responds to DOC, p53 promoter region was cloned and promoter activity was analyzed on luciferase gene reporter assay. Promoter region (-78 to +129) contained the highest basal p53 promoter activity and deletion of +86 to +129 severely reduced basal promoter activity. Basal promoter region included the 21-bp element (PE21) that determines UV-inducible expression of p53 and mediates DOC-inducible p53 expression. On site-specific mutagenesis of PE21 (-78 to -58), with mutation of ATTG (-62 to -59) to CGGT, completely diminished the response to DOC. The same mutations also inhibited 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-inducible p53 expression. Our data revealed that a sequence located at PE21 of p53 core promoter regulates p53 induction by chemotherapeutic agents.
Vindesine, a semisynthetic derivative of vinblastine sulfate, was tested for antitumor activity and clinical toxicity in 36 children. The drug was administered to the initial 13 patients entered into the study a 2 mg/m2/day for five days by IV bolus. Because of severe neurotoxicity and life-threatening gastrointestinal toxicity, the regimen in 23 patients was modified to 4mg/m2 IV infusion over four hours, weekly. This latter regimen was well tolerated, with acceptable gastrointestinal, hematological, and neurotoxicity. One child with acute lymphocytic leukemia resistant to vincristine had a transient M1 remission bone marrow. Improvement or stable disease was noted in one patient each with Ewing's sarcoma, neuroblastoma, and Hodgkin's disease.
The ergoline derivative FCE 23,884 acts as a dopamine D1 agonist in untreated parkinsonian animals and as a D2 antagonist in animals whose dopamine system is intact or levodopa treated. To evaluate whether this dual action might benefit patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) who have developed levodopa-induced dyskinesias, the motor effects of FCE 23,884 were examined in seven such individuals using a double-blind, placebo-controlled design. At doses up to the maximum tolerated dose (3.5 +/- 0.5 mg), FCE 23,884 monotherapy did not affect parkinsonian severity. On the other hand, coadministration of FCE 23,884 with a mildly dyskinetic dose of levodopa, infused intravenously under steady-state conditions, reduced the antiparkinson response by 54 +/- 19% and tended to diminish dyskinesia severity. The results thus fail to suggest any useful role for FCE 23,884 in the symptomatic treatment of PD. Although D2 receptor blockade provided by FCE 23,884 antagonizes both the antiparkinson and dyskinesigenic responses to levodopa, the degree of D1 receptor stimulation appears insufficient to ameliorate parkinsonian symptomatology.
Advances in proteomics have led to the identification of sensitive urinary biomarkers of renal dysfunction that are increasingly used in toxicology and epidemiology. Recent animal data show that combined exposure to inorganic arsenic (As) and cadmium (Cd) gives rise to more pronounced renal toxicity than exposure to each of the agents alone. In order to examine if similar interaction occurs in humans, renal dysfunction was studied in population groups (619 persons in total) residing in two metal contaminated areas in China: mainly a Cd contaminated area in Zhejiang province (Z-area) and mainly a As contaminated area in Guizhou province (G-area). Nearby control areas without excessive metal exposure were also included. Measurements of urinary beta(2)-microglobulin (UB2MG), N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase (UNAG), retinol binding protein (URBP) and albumin (UALB) were used as markers of renal dysfunction. Urinary Cd (UCd) and total As (UTAs) were analyzed by graphite-furnace atomic absorption spectrometry. Urinary inorganic As and its mono- and di-methylated metabolites (UIAs) were determined by Hydride generation. Results. As expected, the highest UCd values occurred in Z-area (Geometric mean, GM 11.6 microg/g crea) while the highest UTAs values occurred in G-area (GM = 288 microg/g crea). Statistically significant increases compared to the respective control area were present both for UTAs, UCd and for UB2MG, UNAG and UALB in Z-area as well as in G-area. UIAs was determined only in Z area. In G-area, there was a clear dose-response pattern both in relation to UTAs and UCd for each of the biomarkers of renal dysfunction. An interaction effect between As and Cd was demonstrated at higher levels of a combined exposure to As and Cd enhancing the effect on the kidney. In Z-area an increased prevalence of B2MG-uria, NAG-uria and ALB-uria was found in relation to UCd, but no relationship to UTAs was found. A statistically significant relationship between UIAs and UB2MG was found among women in this area and an interaction between As and Cd was indicated for B2MG. Conclusion. The present studies, which employed sensitive biomarkers of renal dysfunction, give support to the idea that human co-exposure to Cd and inorganic arsenic gives rise to more pronounced renal damage than exposure to each of the elements alone, but further studies are needed to establish and clarify this interaction.
Anthracyclines, such as doxorubicin and daunorubicin, continue to be widely used in the treatment of cancer, although they share the adverse effect of chronic, cumulative dose-related cardiotoxicity. The only approved treatment in prevention of anthracycline cardiotoxicity is dexrazoxane, a putative iron chelator. Previous in vitro studies have shown that disorders of iron metabolism, including altered IRP1-IRE binding, may be an important mechanism of anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
This study examined the role of IRP1-IRE binding ex vivo in a chronic model of daunorubicin cardiotoxicity in the Fischer 344 rat and whether dexrazoxane could prevent any daunorubicin-induced changes in IRP1 binding. Young adult (5-6 months) Fischer 344 rats received daunorubicin (2.5 mg/kg iv once per week for 6 weeks) with and without pretreatment with dexrazoxane (50 mg/kg ip). Other groups received saline (controls) or dexrazoxane alone. Rats were killed either 4 h or 2 weeks after the last dose of daunorubicin to assess IRP1-IRE binding.
Contractility (dF/dt) of atrial tissue, obtained from rats 2 weeks after the last dose of daunorubicin, was significantly reduced in daunorubicin-treated compared to control rats. Dexrazoxane pretreatment protected against the daunorubicin-induced decrease in atrial dF/dt. However, left ventricular IRP1/IRE binding was not affected by daunorubicin treatment either 4 h or 2 weeks after the last dose of daunorubicin.
IRP1 binding may not be altered in the rat model of chronic anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
Previously Haley et al. described six possible syndromes identified by factor analysis of symptoms in Gulf War veterans and demonstrated that veterans with these symptom complexes were more neurologically impaired than age-sex-education-matched well controls. They also uncovered strong associations (relative risks 4-8) suggesting that these symptom complexes were related to wartime exposure to combinations of organophosphate pesticides, chemical nerve agents, high concentration DEET insect repellant, and symptoms of advanced acute toxicity after taking pyridostigmine. Here we have shown that compared to controls, ill veterans with the neurologic symptom complexes were more likely to have the R allele (heterozygous QR or homozygous R) than to be homozygous Q for the paraoxonase/arylesterase 1 (PON1) gene. Moreover, low activity of the PON1 type Q (Gln192, formerly designated type A) arylesterase allozyme distinguished ill veterans from controls better than just the PON1 genotype or the activity levels of the type R (Arg192, formerly designated type B) arylesterase allozyme, total arylesterase, total paraoxonase, or butyrylcholinesterase. A history of advanced acute toxicity after taking pyridostigmine was also correlated with low PON1 type Q arylesterase activity. Type Q is the allozyme of paraoxonase/arylesterase that most efficiently hydrolyzes several organophosphates including sarin, soman, and diazinon. These findings further support the proposal that neurologic symptoms in some Gulf War veterans were caused by environmental chemical exposures.
Antithrombotic activity of ten pyrazolo pyrimidine derivatives was tested in mouse pulmonary thromboembolism model. Out of these compounds, Thiopurinol (C5H4N4S) showed dose-dependent protection in mice from death/paralysis induced by collagen + adrenaline. It also caused dose-dependent inhibition of thrombus formation in the cat. Thiopurinol inhibited aggregation of platelets induced by ADP and arachidonic acid but did not inhibit superoxide generation. It had no antiinflammatory activity nor any effect on cardiovascular system. The results indicate that the antithrombotic activity of the compound is mediated via inhibition of platelet aggregation.
Antipsychotic medications are commonLy associated with adverse cutaneous reactions (ACRs) in approximately 5% of patients. Angio-oedema accompanying urticaria is one of the most serious ACRs. The 36-year-old female patient who was diagnosed with ;Paranoid schizophrenia' 6 years ago, was commenced on ziprasidone 120 mg/day. On day 30 of the treatment, the patient presented urticarial papules and plaques all over the body and angio-oedema in the face. The patient was diagnosed as ;Urticaria + Angio-oedema'. The development of ACRs after the initation of ziprasidone monotherapy, disappearance of lesions after the discontinuation of this antipsychotic, and positive intradermal skin test all suggests a possible causal relationship between ACRs and ziprasidone. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of urticaria and angio-oedema due to ziprasidone monotherapy. Ziprasidone is a valid and effective choice amongst antipsychotic medications, but this case calls for caution regarding ACRs at the time of prescribing.
Overexpression of colony-stimulating factor-1 (CSF-1) and its receptor in breast cancer is correlated with poor prognosis. Based on the hypothesis that blockade of CSF-1 would be beneficial in breast cancer treatment, we developed a murinized, polyethylene glycol-linked antigen-binding fragment (Fab) against mouse (host) CSF-1 (anti-CSF-1 Fab). Mice bearing human, chemoresistant MCF-7 breast cancer xenografts were treated with combination chemotherapy (CMF: cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil; cycled twice i.p.), anti-CSF-1 Fab (i.p., cycled every 3 days for 14 days), combined CMF and anti-CSF-1 Fab, or with Ringer's solution as a control. Anti-CSF-1 Fab alone suppressed tissue CSF-1 and retarded tumor growth by 40%. Importantly, in combination with CMF, anti-CSF-1 Fab reversed chemoresistance of MCF-7 xenografts, suppressing tumor development by 56%, down-regulating expression of the chemoresistance genes breast cancer-related protein, multidrug resistance gene 1, and glucosylceramide synthase, and prolonging survival significantly. Combined treatment also reduced angiogenesis and macrophage recruitment and down-regulated tumor matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and MMP-12 expression. These studies support the paradigm of CSF-1 blockade in the treatment of solid tumors and show that anti-CSF-1 antibodies are potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of mammary cancer.
Aberrant promoter methylation is an important mechanism for gene silencing.
To evaluate the promoter methylation status of p300 gene in patients with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).
The methylation status of p300 promoter was analysed by methylation-specific PCR (MSP) in 50 OSCC tissues and the matching non-cancerous tissues. Oesophageal cancer cell lines (ECa-109 and TE-10) were treated with the demethylation agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-CdR), and p300 mRNA expression was detected by RT-PCR.
p300 methylation was found in 42% (21/50) of the OSCC tissues, but in only 20% (10/50) of the corresponding non-cancerous tissues (p = 0.017). In OSCC samples, 65% of those with deep tumour invasion (adventitia) and 63% samples with metastasis revealed p300 promoter methylation (p<0.05). p300 mRNA expression was observed in 19.0% (4/21) of methylated tumours and 58.6% (17/29) of unmethylated tumours (p = 0.005). In addition, p300 mRNA expression was observed in 40% (4/10) of methylated non-neoplastic tissues and 87.5% (35/40) of unmethylated non-tumours (p = 0.001). The demethylation caused by 5-Aza-CdR increased the p300 mRNA expression levels in oesophageal cancer cell lines.
p300 transcription silenced by promoter hypermethylation could play a role in the pathogenesis of oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
The factors of age and gender, which have been linked to development of fulminant halothane hepatitis in humans, were evaluated in a guinea pig model of acute halothane-associated hepatotoxicity. Since nitrous oxide is commonly coadministered with halothane and has been shown to exacerbate halothane-associated liver injury in rats; this combination of anesthetics was also evaluated in guinea pigs. Male and female strain 13 guinea pigs (300-1000 g) were exposed to 1% v/v halothane and 39% O2 for 4 h with a balance of either 60% N2 or 60% N2O. Both animal age, as determined by body weight, and gender proved to be factors in the model with older (approximately 6.2 +/- 1.0 month) guinea pigs of both sexes, demonstrating significantly greater elevations in plasma ALT and a greater incidence of centilobular necrosis versus younger (approximately 3.1 +/- 0.6 month) animals. Older females showed a greater hepatotoxic response than older males. There were no significant differences in halothane plasma metabolite levels between older and younger animals of either gender. The addition of nitrous oxide affected neither plasma concentrations of halothane metabolites nor the degree of resultant hepatic injury. Older (approximately 5-6 month) male guinea pigs, from a strain (inbred Hartley) previously shown to be resistant to the halothane lesion, did not develop centrilobular necrosis following halothane exposure even though they generated plasma metabolite concentrations equivalent to those generated by strain 13 animals. The lack of differences in the biotransformation of halothane between groups indicates that other intrinsic factors must be involved in the observed variations in susceptibility to hepatic injury.
Medulloblastoma is an embryonal tumor thought to arise from the granule cell precursors (GCPs) of the cerebellum. PATCHED (PTCH), an inhibitor of Hedgehog signaling, is the best-characterized tumor suppressor in medulloblastoma. However, <20% of medulloblastomas have mutations in PTCH. In the search for other tumor suppressors, interest has focused on the deletion events at the 17p13.3 locus, the most common genetic defect in medulloblastoma. This chromosomal region contains HYPERMETHYLATED IN CANCER 1 (HIC1), a transcriptional repressor that is a frequent target of epigenetic gene silencing in medulloblastoma. Here we use a mouse model of Ptch1 heterozygosity to reveal a critical tumor suppressor function for Hic1 in medulloblastoma. When compared with Ptch1 heterozygous mutants, compound Ptch1/Hic1 heterozygotes display a fourfold increased incidence of medulloblastoma. We show that Hic1 is a direct transcriptional repressor of Atonal Homolog 1 (Atoh1), a proneural transcription factor essential for cerebellar development, and show that ATOH1 expression is required for human medulloblastoma cell growth in vitro. Given that Atoh1 is also a putative target of Hh signaling, we conclude that the Hic1 and Ptch1 tumor suppressors cooperate to silence Atoh1 expression during a critical phase in GCP differentiation in which malignant transformation may lead to medulloblastoma.
The effects of MgSO4 or MgCl2 infusion on the duration of epinephrine-induced cardiac arrhythmia were evaluated in male rats anesthetized with either halothane or pentobarbital. In addition, the duration of epinephrine-induced arrhythmia in pentobarbital (50 mg/kg) anesthetized rats was compared with the duration of arrhythmia in halothane (1.5%) anesthetized rats. During halothane anesthesia MgSO4 or MgCl2 infused at a dose rate of 8 mg.kg-1.min-1 for 20 min caused a significant reduction in the duration of arrhythmia (100% and 80%, respectively) following a 4-microgram/kg injection of epinephrine and a significant threefold reduction in arrhythmia duration for each salt following an 8- or 16-micrograms/kg injection of epinephrine. Significantly shorter periods of arrhythmia after each dose of epinephrine were seen in rats anesthetized with pentobarbital than were seen in rats anesthetized with halothane. No significant difference was seen between MgSO4 or MgCl2 infusions in any of these studies. Twenty-minute infusions of MgSO4 (8 mg.kg-1.min-1) were compared with propranolol (0.03 mg.kg-1.min-1) and verapamil (0.5 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) infusions on the duration of arrhythmia after epinephrine (8 micrograms/kg) injections in halothane anesthetized rats. MgSO4 and propranolol infusion caused a significant reduction in the duration of arrhythmia (81% and 70%, respectively). Verapamil infusion caused only a 48% reduction in arrhythmia duration. While there was no significant difference between MgSO4 or propranolol, both caused a significantly greater reduction in arrhythmia than verapamil. CaCl2 (0.15 mM.kg-1.min-1) infusion for 5 min caused a significant fivefold increase in the duration of arrhythmia during halothane anesthesia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To examine whether the development of hard metal (HM)-induced occupational asthma and interstitial lung disease involves alterations in nitric oxide (NO) pathways, we examined the effects of an industrial HM mixture on NO production, interactions between HM and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on NO pathways, and alterations in airway reactivity to methacholine in rat lungs. HM (2.5 to 5 mg/100 g intratracheal) increased NO synthase (NOS; EC 1.14.23) activity of rat lungs at 24 h without increasing inducible NOS (iNOS) or endothelial NOS (eNOS) mRNA abundance or iNOS, eNOS, or brain NOS (bNOS) proteins. The increase in NOS activity correlated with the appearance histologically of nitrotyrosine immunofluorescence in polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) and macrophages. Intraperitoneal injection of LPS (1 mg/kg) caused up-regulation of iNOS activity, mRNA, and protein at 8 h but not at 24 h. HM at 2.5 mg/100 g, but not at 5 mg/100 g, potentiated the LPS-induced increase in NOS activity, iNOS mRNA, and protein. However, HM decreased eNOS activity at 8 h and eNOS protein at 24 h. Whole body plethysmography on conscious animals revealed that HM caused basal airway obstruction and a marked hyporeactivity to inhaled methacholine by 6-8 h, which intensified over 30-32 h. HM-treatment caused protein leakage into the alveolar space, and edema, fibrin formation, and an increase in the number of inflammatory cells in the lungs and in the bronchoalveolar lavage. These results suggest that a HM-induced increase in NO production by pulmonary inflammatory cells is associated with pulmonary airflow abnormalities in rat lungs.
Foscarnet (FC) is a new antiviral agent which has been recently proposed for the treatment of severe cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections in immunocompromised patients. When used intravenously (i.v.), main adverse effects of FC are a fall in hemoglobin, and an increase in liver enzymes and serum calcium. Although increased serum creatinine have been noted in several patients, deterioration of renal function is often accounted for by the concomitant use of other nephrotoxic drugs, the severity of underlying disease or the presence of graft rejection. Consequently FC is often considered as a non or poorly nephrotoxic drug. We report 4 cases of acute renal failure (ARF) which can be exclusively attributed to FC. FC was used for CMV chorioretinitis in 3 AIDS patients and in one non-immunocompromised patient. ARF was diagnosed between the 6th and 15th day of treatment, with oligoanuria in two patients (one of whom required two hemodialysis periods). ARF was most likely secondary to acute toxic tubulopathy. Three patients did not receive any other nephrotoxic drug. The fourth patient received concomitantly sulfadiazine but renal function returned to baseline value after FC completion although sulfadiazine was continued. In conclusion, our 4 observations suggest that FC may be responsible for acute tubulopathy. We suggest that in these patients renal function should be carefully monitored and dehydration promptly corrected to limit the risk of nephrotoxicity.
We evaluated the antithrombotic effects of statins and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) drugs in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).
Blood coagulation at the site of microvascular injury was assessed in 26 males with CAD before and after treatment with quinapril (10 mg day-1; n=13) or atorvastatin (40 mg day-1; n=13) for 4 weeks and an additional 4 weeks of combined therapy (quinapril+atorvastatin). Rates of prothrombin and factor V activation (FVa), fibrinogen (Fbg) cleavage and FVa inactivation showed that both quinapril and atorvastatin decreased the rates of: formation of thrombin B-chain (by 30.6%, P=0.007; and by 34.3%, P=0.003), formation of thrombin-antithrombin complexes (by 30.4%, P=0.0002; and by 40%, P=0.001), FV activation (by 19.1%, P=0.03; and by 21.8%, P=0.005) and Fbg depletion (by 29.2%, P=0.004; and by 32.7%, P=0.001). Atorvastatin alone accelerated FVa inactivation (P=0.005). A further 4 weeks of combined therapy enhanced most anticoagulant effects only when atorvastatin was added to quinapril.
In CAD patients, atorvastatin and quinapril slowed blood clotting at the site of microvascular injury after 28 days of therapy. Addition of atorvastatin to quinapril, but not quinapril to the statin, enhanced the anticoagulant effects. Our findings might help explain the reduced risk of myocardial infarction or stroke in patients treated with statins and/or ACEIs and the lack of clinical benefits from ACEI added to prior statin therapy in patients at cardiovascular risk.
Duplications of 7q11.23, deleted in Williams-Beuren Syndrome, have been implicated in autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). A 1.5 Mb duplication was identified in one girl with severe expressive language deficits and anxiety among 1,142 ASD individuals screened for this duplication. Family-based association studies of Tag-SNPs in three genes (STX1A , CYLN2 and GTF2i) in two multiplex autism family cohorts revealed strong association of two GTF2i SNPs and their haplotype in Cohort 1 and the combined families. The risk alleles and haplotype were associated with severe problems in social interaction and excessive repetitive behaviors. Our findings suggest the GTF2i gene is important in the etiology of autism in individuals with this duplication and in non-duplication cases with severe social interaction problems and repetitive behaviors.
Tamoxifen, a synthetic antiestrogen, has been shown to be effective in reducing mortality from breast cancer and the occurrence of contralateral breast cancer. Tamoxifen is now being studied as a preventive of breast cancer among healthy women considered to be at high risk; preventive trials are now under way both in the USA and in Europe. We undertook a case-control study in Lyon and Dijon, France, to assess the effect of tamoxifen and other treatments for breast cancer on subsequent endometrial cancer. Through the use of clinicians' surveys in Lyon and a population-based cancer registry in Dijon, we identified 43 cases of endometrial cancer diagnosed at least 1 year after the diagnosis of breast cancer. We matched 177 controls to the cases for age, region, year of diagnosis of breast cancer, and survival from breast cancer. Tamoxifen had been used in 67% of cases and 60% of controls [odds ratio (OR) = 1.4; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.60-3.5]. Relative risk of endometrial cancer increased with duration of tamoxifen use: less than 2 years, 1.5; 95% CI = 0.44-4.9; 2-5 years, 1.5; 95% CI = 0.42-5.6; more than 5 years, 3.5; 95% CI = 0.94-12.7. Radiotherapeutic castration increased the risk for endometrial cancer more than tamoxifen (OR = 7.7; 95% CI = 1.8-32.8).
Hexavalent chromium has been extensively investigated regarding its mutagenicity and carcinogenicity; however, its mechanism for initiating and enhancing the development of lung cancer is still obscure. Biomarkers of exposure, effect or susceptibility are required for risk assessment and for epidemiologic research studies especially in occupational settings. Since the surfactant protein system (SP) is very important for normal lung function and for mediating local airway conditions and in the clearance of the upper respiratory tract from the occupational and environmental dusts, we hypothesize that SP genes may represent good candidates to study susceptibility for lung cancer.
Using PCR genotyping methods with gel electrophoresis and confirmation of results with precise DNA fragment size measurement on microchip electrophoresis, we analyzed SP-B intron-4 polymorphism in 230 subjects who were classified into groups; chromate-related lung cancer, control chromate workers who had not developed lung cancer, control individuals with non chromate-related adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma of the lungs, or healthy Japanese control individuals.
Our results indicated that the SP-B variants (deletion/insertion) were significantly overrepresented (61.3%) in the chromate-related lung cancer group than other groups (X2 = 47.6; DF = 4, P = 0.0001). There was a significant difference between the chromate lung cancer group and both of the control groups, healthy individuals and chromate workers who did not develop lung cancer, showing odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) of 21.9 (7.3-65.7) and 19.0 (3.78-95.4), respectively. Compared with 46 non chromate-related SCC of the lung, the SP-B variants were significantly overrepresented in the chromate-related SCC (18/28; 64.3%) than the non-chromate SCC (11/46; 23.9%) of the lung samples (X(2) = 10.27, P = 0.01), OR with 95% CI is 5.73 (2.05-16.01).
These findings indicate a very strong association of the SP-B intron-4 variants with mechanisms that may enhance lung cancer susceptibility, especially in workers who are employed in chromate industry. Moreover, confirmation of such results may help to suggest adding the SP-B intron-4 typing to be one of the screening tests of the pre-placement medical examination to confirm that the worker has no variations of the SP-B gene before being engaged in a chromium-related industry, with the intention of providing proper medical counseling.
The system that regulates insulin secretion from beta-cells in the islet of Langerhans has a capsaicin-sensitive inhibitory component. As calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-expressing primary sensory fibers innervate the islets, and a major proportion of the CGRP-containing primary sensory neurons is sensitive to capsaicin, the islet-innervating sensory fibers may represent the capsaicin-sensitive inhibitory component. Here, we examined the expression of the capsaicin receptor, vanilloid type 1 transient receptor potential receptor (TRPV1) in CGRP-expressing fibers in the pancreatic islets, and the effect of selective elimination of capsaicin-sensitive primary afferents on the decline of glucose homeostasis and insulin secretion in Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats, which are used to study various aspects of human type 2 diabetes mellitus. We found that CGRP-expressing fibers in the pancreatic islets also express TRPV1. Furthermore, we also found that systemic capsaicin application before the development of hyperglycemia prevents the increase of fasting, non-fasting, and mean 24-h plasma glucose levels, and the deterioration of glucose tolerance assessed on the fifth week following the injection. These effects were accompanied by enhanced insulin secretion and a virtually complete loss of CGRP- and TRPV1-coexpressing islet-innervating fibers. These data indicate that CGRP-containing fibers in the islets are capsaicin sensitive, and that elimination of these fibers contributes to the prevention of the deterioration of glucose homeostasis through increased insulin secretion in ZDF rats. Based on these data we propose that the activity of islet-innervating capsaicin-sensitive fibers may have a role in the development of reduced insulin secretion in human type 2 diabetes mellitus.
We investigated the pharmacological effect of TRPV1 antagonists in anesthetized rodent models of bladder function.
The TRPV1 antagonists JNJ17203212 and JYL1421 were evaluated in the anesthetized rat volume induced micturition reflex model. JNJ17203212 was further evaluated in this model in capsaicin (Sigma) desensitized rats, and in rat capsaicin and mouse citric acid models of irritant induced detrusor overactivity.
Systemic JNJ17203212 and JYL1421 administration in the anesthetized rat volume induced micturition reflex model resulted in an increased micturition threshold volume. JNJ17203212 also decreased bladder contraction amplitude but JYL1421 had no effect. Capsaicin desensitization significantly increased baseline micturition threshold volume and decreased bladder contraction amplitude in the volume induced micturition reflex model compared to those in sham treated controls and JNJ17203212 produced no further effect after capsaicin desensitization. JNJ17203212 was also effective in 2 models of irritant induced detrusor overactivity, preventing the decrease in micturition threshold volume and the increase in bladder contraction amplitude observed with intravesical instillation of 10 microM capsaicin, and the decreased voiding interval induced by intravesical citric acid.
The TRPV1 antagonists JNJ17203212 and JYL1421 increased the threshold for activation of the micturition reflex in the anesthetized rat volume induced micturition reflex model. This effect appeared to be mediated by capsaicin sensitive afferents. JNJ17203212 also inhibited detrusor overactivity induced by intravesical capsaicin and intravesical citric acid. These data extend our understanding of the role of TRPV1 in sensory modulation of the micturition reflex under nonirritant and inflammatory conditions.
Exocrine pancreatic cancer is an aggressive disease with an exceptionally high mortality rate. Genetic analysis suggests a causative role for environmental factors, but consistent epidemiological support is scarce and no biomarkers for monitoring the effects of chemical pancreatic carcinogens are available. With the objective to identify common traits for chemicals inducing pancreatic tumors we studied the National Toxicology Program (NTP) bioassay database. We found that male rats were affected more often than female rats and identified eight chemicals that induced exocrine pancreatic tumors in males only. For a hypothesis generating process we used a text mining tool to analyse published literature for suggested mode of actions (MOA). The resulting MOA analysis suggested inflammatory responses as common feature. In cell studies we found that all the chemicals increased protein levels of the inflammatory protein autotaxin (ATX) in Panc-1, MIA PaCa-2 or Capan-2 cells. Induction of MMP-9 and increased invasive migration were also frequent effects, consistent with ATX activation. Testosterone has previously been implicated in pancreatic carcinogenesis and we found that it increased ATX levels. Our data show that ATX is a target for chemicals inducing pancreatic tumors in rats. Several lines of evidence implicate ATX and its product lysophosphatidic acid in human pancreatic cancer. Mechanisms of action may include stimulated invasive growth and metastasis. ATX may interact with hormones or onco- or suppressor-genes often deregulated in exocrine pancreatic cancer. Our data suggest that ATX is a target for chemicals promoting pancreatic tumor development.
Twenty patients with documented reflex sympathetic dystrophy were treated with a series of regional intravenous guanethidine blocks. The mean delay between the first clinical symptoms and the start of guanethidine blocks was 3.6 months. The overall result was good in 11 patients, moderate in two patients and poor in seven patients. Poor results are due mainly to incorrect diagnosis and to application either too late in the third phase or too early in the first phase when only signs of increased blood flow are part of the symptomatology. Side effects, except pain after the injection, were few and of minor importance. The tolerance of the procedure may be improved by preceding the injection of guanethidine by an injection of a local anaesthetic agent. It may be concluded that with correct diagnosis and indication, guanethidine injections may play an important part in the treatment of reflex sympathetic dystrophy and may replace sympathetic blocks with local anaesthetics because of the longer duration of action and lower incidence of serious side-effects.
A genome-wide scan was conducted in two F(2) intercrosses, C57BL/6J (B6)xDBA/2J (D2) and BALB/cJ (C)xLP/J (LP), for three different phenotypes: basal locomotor activity, ethanol-induced locomotor activity, and haloperidol-induced catalepsy. For basal activity, significant quantitative trait loci (QTLs, LOD> or =4.3) were detected on chromosomes 9 and 19 for the CxLP intercross and chromosome 1 for the B6xD2 intercross. Significant QTLs for ethanol-induced activation were detected on chromosome 6 for the CxLP intercross, and on chromosomes 1 and 2 for the B6xD2 intercross. For haloperidol-induced catalepsy, significant QTLs were detected on chromosome 14 (two different QTLs) in the CxLP intercross, and chromosomes 1 and 9 in the B6xD2 intercross. These data illustrate the importance of the genetic cross for QTL detection. Finally, the data reported here, and elsewhere, are also used to demonstrate a novel approach to QTL detection and localization.
Proteinuria and renal xanthine metabolising enzymes, xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase, were evaluated in Adriamycin-treated rats fed standard (21% casein) and low-protein (6% casein) diets. In rats fed a standard diet Adriamycin was associated with increased activities in the kidney of xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase and induced massive proteinuria. The pharmacological block of both enzymes by allopurinol and tungsten block of both enzymes by allopurinol and tungsten reduced proteinuria to one-third of the original levels. Rats fed a low-protein diet presented decreased levels of renal xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase and were only slightly proteinuric. Finally, rats shifted from a low-protein diet to a normal one developed massive proteinuria in spite of normal or slightly decreased levels of renal xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase. We conclude that a low-protein diet is effective in decreasing the levels of xanthine metabolising enzymes that are in part responsible for the renal damage due to Adriamycin. This is not however the unique mechanism by which the low-protein diet protects against the development of proteinuria in Adriamycin nephrosis; other factors must also be hypothesised.
