Results from several radical scavenger studies indirectly suggested an involvement of reactive oxygen species in the pathogenesis of puromycin aminonucleoside glomerulopathy. In this study, generation of reactive oxygen species was examined directly in glomeruli isolated from rats in the acute phase of puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis and related to the changes in the glomerular antioxidant defense. Five and nine days after puromycin aminonucleoside injection, gross proteinuria, reduced creatinine clearances, and typical changes of glomerular morphology were present. Levels of reactive oxygen species were increased eightfold in glomeruli isolated 15 min after puromycin aminonucleoside injection, returned to baseline levels on days 1 and 5 after injection, and rose again to 14-fold on day 9 after injection, as determined by chemiluminescence with luminol. Further analysis of increased glomerular radical generation, using the chemiluminescence enhancer lucigenin and different radical scavengers, suggested a predominant involvement of hydroxyl radical and hydrogen peroxide in the initial increase in reactive oxygen species 15 min after puromycin aminonucleoside. Nine days after induction of nephrosis, primarily superoxide anion and hydroxyl radical were found to contribute to increased reactive oxygen species. Despite oxidative stress, antioxidant enzymes were not induced in the course of nephrosis. On the contrary, catalase and glutathione peroxidase activities declined 9 d after puromycin aminonucleoside injection. The results indicate that a transient increase in glomerular reactive oxygen species is sufficient to induce the oxidative glomerular injury observed in this model and that the glomerulus may not necessarily respond to oxidative stress with an induction of antioxidant enzymes.
An interaction between angiotensin (Ang) II and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta 1 is gaining increasing recognition. Ang II has been implicated in the progression of renal disease, and TGF-beta 1 is a potent fibrosis-promoting cytokine. We sought to determine whether the beneficial effects of renin-angiotensin system blockade on remnant kidney function were associated with a reduction in renal TGF-beta 1 in this model of chronic renal failure. After subtotal renal ablation, rats fed a 40% protein diet and treated with losartan not only had a reduction in systolic BP (96 +/- 8 versus 130 +/- 8 mmHg, P < 0.05, losartan versus control) and urinary protein excretion (4 +/- 5 versus 23 +/- 20 g/d, P < 0.05, losartan versus control), but also exhibited a reduction in renal TGF-beta 1 mRNA (194 +/- 64 versus 411 +/- 101 optical density units, P < 0.05, losartan versus control) and TGF-beta 1 protein levels (9.8 +/- 2.5 versus 18.6 +/- 5.8 ng/g of renal tissue, P < 0.05, losartan versus control). The elevation of TGF-beta 1 in the remnant kidney was most pronounced in the scar region (22.9 +/- 13.1 versus 5.8 +/- 3.7 ng/g, P < 0.05, scar versus nonscar). A combination of reserpine, hydralazine, and hydrochlorothiazide, although effective in lowering systemic BP in this model of chronic renal failure, was not associated with a reduction in proteinuria or TGF-beta 1. We conclude that in this model of progressive renal injury, Ang II antagonism may exert a beneficial effect in part by its negative influence on TGF-beta 1.
Pharmacologic stress testing with adenosine in heart transplant recipients implies a high risk of atrioventricular block. Dipyridamole is preferable as a coronary vasodilator.
The present study has demonstrated that tauroursodeoxycholate (TUDC), but not taurocholate, can reverse chlorpromazine (CPZ)-induced cholestasis in the isolated perfused rat liver. At an infusion rate of 1.5 mumol/min, TUDC led to restoration of bile flow in the perfused rat liver made cholestatic by the addition of 250 microM CPZ. This reversal was accompanied by an increased excretion of CPZ and its metabolites. A higher infusion rate of 5.0 mumols TUDC/min, however, led to only a transient increase in bile flow and to no increase in CPZ excretion. In contrast to the effects of TUDC, infusion of taurocholate led to an exacerbation of CPZ-induced cholestasis. The differences in the efficacy of the two bile salts may be due to their relative detergent (hydrophobic) properties.
Global hypomethylation, gene-specific methylation, and genome instability are common events in tumorigenesis. To date, few studies have examined the aberrant DNA methylation patterns in coke oven workers, who are highly at risk of lung cancer by occupational exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). We recruited 82 PAH-exposed workers and 62 unexposed controls, assessed exposure levels by urinary 1-hydroxypyrene, and measured genetic damages by comet assay, bleomycin sensitivity, and micronucleus assay. The PAHs in coke oven emissions (COE) were estimated based on toxic equivalency factors. We used bisulfite-PCR pyrosequencing to quantitate DNA methylation in long interspersed nuclear element-1 (LINE-1) and O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT). Further, the methylation alteration was also investigated in COE-treated human bronchial epithelial (16HBE) cells. We found there are higher levels of PAHs in COE. Among PAH-exposed workers, LINE-1 and MGMT methylation levels (with CpG site specificity) were significantly lowered. LINE-1, MGMT, and its hot CpG site-specific methylation were negatively correlated with urinary 1-hydroxypyrene levels (r = -0.329, p < 0.001; r = -0.164, p = 0.049 and r = -0.176, p = 0.034, respectively). In addition, LINE-1 methylation was inversely associated with comet tail moment and micronucleus frequency, and a significant increase of micronucleus in low MGMT methylation group. In vitro study revealed that treatment of COE in 16HBE cells resulted in higher production of BPDE-DNA adducts, LINE-1 hypomethylation, hypomethylation, and suppression of MGMT expression. These findings suggest hypomethylation of LINE-1 and MGMT promoter could be used as markers for PAHs exposure and merit further investigation.
The role of copper in the toxicity of mutant copper-dependent enzyme superoxide dismutase (SOD1) found in patients affected with the familial form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (fALS) is widely debated. Here we report that treatment of human neuroblastoma cells SH-SY5Y with a specific copper chelator, triethylene tetramine (Trien) induces the decrease of intracellular copper level, paralleled by decreased activity of SOD1. A comparable effect is observed in mouse NSC-34-derived cells, a motoneuronal model, transfected for the inducible expression of either wild-type or G93A mutant human SOD1, one of the mutations associated with fALS. In both cell types, the drop of SOD1 activity is not paralleled by the same extent of decrease in SOD1 protein content. This discrepancy can be explained by the occurrence of a fraction of copper-free SOD1 upon copper depletion, which is demonstrated by the partial recovery of the enzyme activity after the addition of copper sulphate to homogenates of SH-SY5Y cells. Furthermore, copper depletion produces the enrichment of the physiological mitochondrial fraction of SOD1 protein, in both cells models. However, increasing the fraction of mitochondrial, possibly copper-free, mutant human SOD1 does not further alter mitochondrial morphology in NSC-34-derived cells. Thus, copper deficiency is not a factor which may worsen mitochondrial damage, which is one of the earliest events in fALS associated with mutant SOD1.
People living in damp buildings are typically exposed to spore and mycelial fragments of the fungi that grow on damp building materials. There is experimental evidence that this exposure to triple-helical (1, 3)-β-D glucan and low molecular weight toxins may be associated with non-atopic asthma observed in damp and moldy buildings. However, the mechanisms underlying this response are only partially resolved. Using the pure (1, 3)-β-D glucan, curdlan, and the murine macrophage cell line, RAW 264.7, there were two objectives of this study. The first was to determine whether signal transduction pathways activating asthma-associated cell signaling pathways were stimulated using mouse transduction Pathway Finder(®) arrays and quantitative real-time (QRT) PCR. The second objective was to evaluate the dose and temporal responses associated with transcriptional changes in asthma-associated cytokines, the signal transduction receptor gene Dectin-1, and various transcription factor genes related to the induction of asthma using customized RT-PCR-based arrays. Compared to controls, the 10(-7) M curdlan treatment induced significant changes in gene transcription predominately in the NFkB, TGF-β, p53, JAK/STAT, P13/AKT, phospholipase C, and stress signaling pathways. The 10(-8) M curdlan treatment mainly induced NFkB and TGF-β pathways. Compared to controls, curdlan exposures also induced significant dose- and time-dependent changes in the gene translations. We found that that curdlan as a non-allergenic potentiator modulates a network of transduction signaling pathways not only associated with TH-1, TH-2, and TH-3 cell responses including asthma potentiation, but a variety of other cell responses in RAW 264.7 cells. These results help provide mechanistic basis for some of the phenotypic changes associated with asthma that have been observed in in vitro, in vivo, and human studies and open up a hypothesis-building process that could explain the rise of non-atopic asthma associated with fungi.
Brachial neuritis is a rare form of neuropathy associated with Hodgkin's disease. In the patient we describe, a brachial neuritis occurred during chemotherapy for Hodgkin's disease. He later developed a marked sensory peripheral neuropathy with vincristine. Lhermitte's sign also developed following modest doses of radiotherapy (35 Gy in 20 fractions to the whole cervical cord). We suggest that neurotoxic treatment must be given with extra care to patients with non-metastatic tumour induced neuropathies.
Reactivation of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major cause of morbidity and mortality after renal transplantation. Although lamivudine is an effective treatment for chronic hepatitis B, the development of drug resistance due to mutations in the tyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate (YMDD) motif is a major concern, especially in immunosuppressed patients who require prolonged therapy. Treatment with famciclovir has not been effective in the majority of patients who developed lamivudine resistance due to methionine-to-valine mutation at position 550, because this mutation has been uniformly associated with leucine-to-methionine mutation at position 526, a mutation that is associated with resistance to famciclovir. We describe a renal transplant recipient with an uncommon lamivudine-resistant HBV variant, in which methionine-to-valine/isoleucine mutation at position 550 was associated with wild-type sequence at position 526. The severe hepatitic flare consequent to the lamivudine resistance in this patient was successfully treated with famciclovir, indicating that both M550V and M550I mutants with preserved wild-type sequence at position 526 of HBV reverse transcriptase are susceptible to famciclovir. Our experience shows that famciclovir can be useful in selected patients with otherwise potentially fatal hepatitic flares related to lamivudine resistance, and that analysis of mutations in the HBV variant can be helpful in the choice of antiviral therapy.
Coronary heart disease and in particular its most serious form - acute myocardial infarction (AMI) - represents the most common cause of mortality in developed countries. Better prognosis may be achieved by understanding the etiopathogenetic mechanisms of AMI. Therefore, a catecholamine model of myocardial injury, which has appeared to be very similar to AMI in human in some aspect, was used. Male Wistar:Han rats were randomly divided into two groups: control group (saline) and isoprenaline group (ISO; synthetic catecholamine, 100 mg.kg(- 1) subcutaneously [s.c.]). After 24 hours, functional parameters were measured, biochemical markers in the blood and metals content in the heart tissue were analysed and histological examination was performed. ISO caused marked myocardial injury that was associated with myocardial calcium overload. Close correlation between myocardial impairment (i.e. serum TnT, stroke volume index and wet ventricles weight) and the levels of myocardial calcium was observed. Direct reactive oxygen species (ROS) involvement was documented only by non-significant increase in malonyldialdehyde 24 hours after ISO injury. Moreover, myocardial element analysis revealed no significant changes as for the content of zinc and iron while selenium and copper increased in the ISO group although it reached statistical significance only for the latter.
The persistent nature of addiction has been associated with activity-induced plasticity of neurons within the striatum and nucleus accumbens (NAc). To identify the molecular processes leading to these adaptations, we performed Cre/loxP-mediated genetic ablations of two key regulators of gene expression in response to activity, the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV (CaMKIV) and its postulated main target, the cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB). We found that acute cocaine-induced gene expression in the striatum was largely unaffected by the loss of CaMKIV. On the behavioral level, mice lacking CaMKIV in dopaminoceptive neurons displayed increased sensitivity to cocaine as evidenced by augmented expression of locomotor sensitization and enhanced conditioned place preference and reinstatement after extinction. However, the loss of CREB in the forebrain had no effect on either of these behaviors, even though it robustly blunted acute cocaine-induced transcription. To test the relevance of these observations for addiction in humans, we performed an association study of CAMK4 and CREB promoter polymorphisms with cocaine addiction in a large sample of addicts. We found that a single nucleotide polymorphism in the CAMK4 promoter was significantly associated with cocaine addiction, whereas variations in the CREB promoter regions did not correlate with drug abuse. These findings reveal a critical role for CaMKIV in the development and persistence of cocaine-induced behaviors, through mechanisms dissociated from acute effects on gene expression and CREB-dependent transcription.
Transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) in dogs is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Calcitriol and its analog seocalcitol, combined with medium-chain triglyceride (MCT), have potential for the treatment of this disease.
TCC cells were treated with calcitriol or seocalcitol, alone or combined with MCT. Cell growth, cell cycle kinetics, vitamin D receptor (VDR) localization and expression, and Bcl-2 expression were measured.
Canine TCC expresses high levels of nuclear VDR. Furthermore, calcitriol and seocalcitol significantly inhibited cell growth and calcitriol caused G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. Bcl-2 expression was slightly decreased in cells treated with these compounds, although no significant changes in VDR expression were observed. MCT enhanced the growth inhibitory effect of both compounds.
Calcitriol and seocalcitol inhibited TCC cell growth via induction of cell cycle arrest and MCT enhanced this effect. Therefore, calcitriol and seocalcitol with MCT may have therapeutic potential for canine bladder cancer.
These studies have demonstrated that the opiate-antagonist naloxone improves blood pressure and functional neurologic recovery after spinal injury. From these findings we suggest that endorphins are released in response to spinal injury and contribute to the hypotension and to the ultimate neurologic deficit. Naloxone's ability to reverse the presumed endorphin-mediated hypotension in this model supports the hypothesis that its therapeutic effects may be secondary to its improvement of spinal cord blood flow, thereby reducing the ischemic damage caused by spinal cord trauma.
Hereditary C5 deficiency has been reported in several families of different ethnic backgrounds and from different geographic regions, but the molecular genetic defect causing C5 deficiency has not been delineated in any of them. To examine the molecular basis of C5 deficiency in the African-American population, the exons and intron/exon boundaries of the C5 structural genes from three C5-deficient (C5D) African-American families were sequenced, revealing two nonsense mutations. The nonsense mutations are located in exon 1 (C84AG to TAG) in two of the C5D families (Rhode Island and North Carolina) and in exon 36 (C4521GA to TGA) in the third C5D family (New York). The exon 1 and 36 mutations are contained in codons that encode the first amino acid of the C5 beta-chain (Gln1 to Stop) and residue 1458 in the alpha-chain (Arg1458 to Stop), respectively. Allele-specific PCR and sequence analyses demonstrated that the exon 1 mutation is present in only one of the C5 null genes in both the Rhode Island and North Carolina families, and the exon 36 mutation is contained in only one C5 null gene in the New York family. Neither of the nonsense mutations was found in the European or Caucasian-American C5D individuals examined. Collectively, these data indicate that: 1) C5 deficiency is caused by several different molecular genetic defects, 2) C5 deficiency in the African-American population can be explained in part by two distinct nonsense mutations in exons 1 and 36, and 3) compound heterozygosity exists in all of the reported African-American C5D families.
A 32-year-old man diagnosed with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and a disseminated cytomegalovirus infection experienced seizures associated with the administration of ganciclovir. Seizures began 1 month after initiation of therapy and worsened with increasing dosages. Despite phenytoin administration, the seizure-like activity subsided only after discontinuing ganciclovir. After rechallenge with ganciclovir the seizures recurred. Although this case was confounded by numerous patient and disease factors, the Naranjo algorithm produced a score of 7, indicating a probable association between ganciclovir and seizure activity.
Chlorpromazine at a concentration of 250 microM and estradiol-17 beta-D-glucuronide at 17.5 microM on infusion led to a sharp reduction in bile flow by the in vitro perfused rat liver. This was accompanied by fragmentation and a loss of canalicular microvilli, dilatation of canaliculi, and thickening of pericanalicular ectoplasm. Less prominent were the smooth endoplasmic reticulum dilatation, lysosomal lamination, and the appearance of amorphous bile in hepatocyte cytoplasm. The bile flow and electron microscopy appearance were restored to normal by infusion of tauroursodeoxycholate in a concentration of 5 mumols/min for the estradiol-17 beta-D-glucuronide-induced cholestasis and 1.5 mumol/min for the chlorpromazine-induced cholestasis. Changes in ultrastructure paralleled changes in bile flow. These observations demonstrate the feasibility of electron microscopy studies on the perfused liver, and the rapidity with which cholestatic changes appear.
Anemia is common among patients with malignant tumors, due to the disease and chemotherapy. Anemia decreases patient's quality of life, and worsens the dose intensity of chemotherapy. The aim of this retrospective data-analysis was to determine the rate of transfusions and the maintenance of chemotherapeutic dose intensity in 9 small cell lung cancer patients receiving beta-erythropoietin, due to anemia observed after the first cycle of chemotherapy. The mean pre-treatment hemoglobin concentration of the patients was 116.67+/-8.17 g/L (mean+/-SD). The mean pre-erythropoietin hemoglobin concentration at baseline was 103.11+/-7.52 g/L. Six cycles of platinum compounds and etoposide were used. The post-treatment hemoglobin concentration of patients was 110.11+/-5.37 g/L (p = 0,028 vs. baseline). During these 54 chemotherapeutic cycles, only 2 patients needed transfusion, each of them once. According to our experience, the use of beta-erythropoietin in 9 anemic small cell lung cancer patients resulted in a low rate of transfusions and maintenance of cytotoxic treatment dose intensity. The adequate use of beta-erythropoietin is of great help to the physician in the management of small cell lung cancer patients.
The possibility that a sex difference in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) activity might be an underlying cause of the previously reported sex differences in picrotoxin-induced seizures was investigated. Male and female rats were injected (IP) with the GABA antagonist, L-allylglycine (100, 150, 200, or 250 mg/kg), and observed for behavioral signs of five categories of seizures induced by picrotoxin: myoclonic, focal, generalized tonic extension, generalized clonic, and generalized seizures with tonic and clonic components. The latency to the first occurrence of each seizure category was scored. Of the five categories of seizures investigated, only focal and generalized tonic extension seizures were observed after allylglycine in the doses tested. Female rats were significantly more susceptible than male rats to allylglycine-induced focal (p less than 0.007) and generalized tonic extension (p less than 0.05) seizures. The results suggest that male-female differences in presynaptic GABA activity may have relevance for sex differences in the occurrence of focal and tonic extension seizures. Differences in the seizure profiles associated with allylglycine and picrotoxin suggests that pre- and postsynaptic antagonism of GABA activity may have different consequences for specific seizure categories and the sex differences associated with those categories.
Bromocriptine (BRC) and other dopamine agonist drugs are the first-choice treatment for prolactinomas. However, the major disadvantage is the need for prolonged therapy. We retrospectively studied 131 patients [62 microprolactinoma (MIC), 69 macroprolactinoma (MAC)], who achieved serum prolactin (PRL) normalization during BRC use. Twenty-seven percent of them (31% MIC and 69% MAC) underwent previous surgery. Twenty-seven patients (20.6%: 25.8% MIC and 15.9% MAC) persisted with normoprolactinemia after a median time of 44 months of BRC withdrawal. The median time of BRC use was 47 months. There were no statistically significant differences regarding age, gender, BRC initial dose, length of BRC use, tumor size, pregnancy during treatment, previous surgery, or radiotherapy among patients who persisted with normoprolactinemia and those who did not, using both univariate and multivariate analysis. BRC-induced prolactinoma cell alterations are highly controversial; and so, whether the mechanism of PRL normalization after BRC withdrawal is related to BRC use or whether it is attributable to natural history is a matter for debate. A periodic assessment of PRL levels during BRC (and other dopamine-agonist drugs) withdrawal is recommended to avoid the unnecessary maintenance of therapy in a subset of patients with prolactinomas.
A case of quinidine-induced syncope with prevailing neurological symptoms is reported in which the transient right-sided hemiparesis and fluctuating soporific state was induced by recurrent torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardias. In connection with this case, attention is paid to the difficulties of differential diagnosis and to the consideration of cardiac and metabolic disorders mimicking TIA or ischaemic stroke.
In this paper a short overview is given about pathophysiology of Oddi's sphincter function and diagnosis as well as pharmacological therapy of the hypertonic dyskinesia. According to the pharmacological background of muscle relaxation in other organs, theophyllin preparations: aminophyllin and retard theophyllin were used to inhibit spasm of Oddi's sphincter provoked by morphine in 9 patients with hypertonic dyskinesia of biliary and/or pancreatic outlet. The enzyme elevations (SGOT and/or amylase) and pain response to morphine significantly diminished in all but one patient during the evocative tests and the effect seemed to be dose-dependent until about 500 mg of theophyllin. The long acting theophyllin may be useful in hypertonic Oddi's sphincter dyskinesia mainly in combination with nitrates to prevent nitrate tolerance and intolerance and for treatment of "idiopathic" pancreatitis as well as "postcholecystectomy" syndrome. It might prevent papillary stenosis and adenomyosis which seem to be precancerous states of the papillary tumors.
Cannabinoids, the active components of marijuana, affect memory and hippocampal neurotransmission. It has been claimed that nabilone, a synthetic cannabinoid endowed with antiemetic properties, has a peculiar profile of actions. We studied the effects of the drug on spatial learning and in vitro hippocampal CA1 electrophysiology in the rat. Nabilone (0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg ip) does not impair place learning in a water maze task, whereas Delta(8)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(8)-THC) disrupts this function. At concentrations ranging from 1 nM to 10 microM nabilone does not influence basal glutamatergic neurotransmission, which is decreased by Delta(8)-THC. Although cannabinoids have been consistently reported to affect synaptic plasticity, nabilone 1 microM does not change paired-pulse facilitation, long-term potentiation and the magnitude of long-term depression. However, the time course of the latter phenomenon is significantly changed by the drug, the depression being lower than in control experiments from 7 to 35 min postinduction. Altogether, our data indicate that there might be differences in the effects of agonists for central cannabinoid receptors, which could help to understand the pharmacology of this class of molecules. The results also suggest that amnesia induced by cannabinoids be possibly related to their effects on hippocampal neurotransmission. The study supports the use of nabilone in conditions the course of which is complicated by cognitive impairment.
A 54-year-old hypothyroid male taking thyroxine and simvastatin presented with bilateral leg compartment syndrome and myonecrosis. Urgent fasciotomies were performed and the patient made an uneventful recovery with the withdrawal of simvastatin. It is likely that this complication will be seen more often with the increased worldwide use of this drug and its approval for all arteriopathic patients.
Acrylamide is a common dietary exposure that crosses the human placenta. It is classified as a probable human carcinogen, and developmental toxicity has been observed in rodents.
We examined the associations between prenatal exposure to acrylamide and birth outcomes in a prospective European mother-child study.
Hemoglobin (Hb) adducts of acrylamide and its metabolite glycidamide were measured in cord blood (reflecting cumulated exposure in the last months of pregnancy) from 1,101 singleton pregnant women recruited in Denmark, England, Greece, Norway, and Spain during 2006-2010. Maternal diet was estimated through food-frequency questionnaires.
Both acrylamide and glycidamide Hb adducts were associated with a statistically significant reduction in birth weight and head circumference. The estimated difference in birth weight for infants in the highest versus lowest quartile of acrylamide Hb adduct levels after adjusting for gestational age and country was -132 g (95% CI: -207, -56); the corresponding difference for head circumference was -0.33 cm (95% CI: -0.61, -0.06). Findings were similar in infants of nonsmokers, were consistent across countries, and remained after adjustment for factors associated with reduced birth weight. Maternal consumption of foods rich in acrylamide, such as fried potatoes, was associated with cord blood acrylamide adduct levels and with reduced birth weight.
Dietary exposure to acrylamide was associated with reduced birth weight and head circumference. Consumption of specific foods during pregnancy was associated with higher acrylamide exposure in utero. If confirmed, these findings suggest that dietary intake of acrylamide should be reduced among pregnant women.
We report the case of a demyelinating lesion located in the left cerebellar region that developed 3 months after the onset of oral isotretinoin treatment. In April 2001, 1 year before admission, the patient underwent cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) because of endocrinological problems. This was found to be completely normal. In January 2002, oral isotretinoin treatment was started to treat severe acne. Three months after the onset of therapy, the patient reported lack of appetite, faintness and tinnitus. Her second cranial MRI scan showed a cerebellar lesion, and oral isotretinoin treatment was stopped (April 2002). One month after the cessation of oral isotretinoin treatment, the lesion became less prominent on the MRI scan, and after 3 months, it had disappeared. Although it is difficult to determine the causal association between the demyelinating cerebellar lesion and isotretinoin treatment, we would like to alert physicians to this possibility, because of the common usage of this drug in daily practice.
Chemoprevention of toxicoses and/or cancer through the use of nutrients or pharmacologic compounds is the subject of intense study. Among the many compounds examined, food additives such as antioxidants are being considered due to their ability to reduce disease formation by either induction or inhibition of key enzyme systems. One such compound, butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), has been found to protect against cancer formation caused by exposure to aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) in rodents. We have shown that dietary BHT protects against clinical signs of aflatoxicosis in turkeys, a species that is very susceptible to this mycotoxin. In this study, the effect of BHT on AFB1 metabolism and other cytochrome P450 (CYP)-related enzyme activities in turkey liver microsomes was examined to discern possible mechanisms of BHT-mediated protection against aflatoxicosis. Ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD), methoxyresorufin O-demethylase (MROD), prototype activities for CYP1A1 and 1A2, respectively, were decreased in the BHT fed (4000 ppm) animals, while oxidation of nifedipine, a prototype activity for CYP3A4, was increased. However, BHT added to microsomal incubations inhibited these CYP activities in a concentration-related manner. Importantly, BHT inhibited conversion of AFB1 to the reactive intermediate AFB1-8,-9-epoxide (AFBO), exhibiting Michaelis-Menton competitive inhibition kinetics (Ki=0.81 microM). Likewise, microsomes prepared from turkeys fed BHT were significantly less active in AFBO formation compared to those from control birds. When turkeys were fed BHT for up to 40 days, residual BHT was present in liver, breast meat, thigh meat and abdominal fat in concentrations substantially below U.S. FDA guidelines for this antioxidant, but in concentrations greater than the Ki, likely sufficient to inhibit bioactivation of AFB1in vivo. BHT-induced hydropic degeneration in the livers of BHT fed animals was significantly greater in birds that remained on BHT treatment for up to 30 days, but this lesion diminished in animals fed for 40 days or when returned to a control diet. The data indicate that the observed chemopreventive properties of BHT in turkeys may be due, at least in part, to its ability to inhibit hepatic AFB1 epoxidation and also that the BHT-induced hydropic degeneration is reversible and does not appear to cause long-term effects.
IGF-I is an anabolic hormone which has been reported to increase bone formation in several conditions of undernutrition. Advanced liver cirrhosis is associated with osteopenia and also with low serum levels of IGF-I. Previous results showed that low doses of IGF-I increase osteoblastic activity and decrease bone reabsorption in early liver cirrhosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether IGF-I-treatment also induces beneficial effect on osteopenia associated with advanced cirrhosis. Rats with ascitic cirrhosis were divided into two groups: group CI (n=10) which received saline and group CI+IGF (n=10) which were treated with IGF-I (2 microg/100 g bw x day, sc, during 21 days). Healthy controls which received saline were studied in parallel (CO n=10). On the 22nd day, the animals were sacrificed, and bone parameters were analyzed in femur. Posterior-anterior diameter was similar in all groups. No significant differences were observed in bone content of calcium, total proteins, collagen and hydroxyapatite in cirrhotic rats as compared with controls. However, CI rats showed significant reductions in total bone density (-13.5%, p<0.001) assessed by densitometry and radiological study. In CI+IGF rat bone density (assessed by densitometry) improved significantly as compared with CI animals. In summary, osteopenia characterized by loss of bone mass and preserved bone composition was found in rats with advanced cirrhosis induced by CCl4 and phenobarbital in drinking water. This bone disorder is partially restored by treatment with low doses of IGF-I during only three weeks. Thus, IGF-I could be considered as a possible therapy for osteopenia associated with advanced liver cirrhosis.
