Glomerular toxicity following ifosfamide (IFO) is not as well recognized as renal tubular damage. Following a case of ifosfamide-induced renal failure with histological evidence of glomerular changes, we undertook a retrospective study of all IFO-treated children to assess the extent and severity of its glomerular toxicity and to identify possible predisposing factors. Thirty-seven children with a follow-up of 6 months or more from the end of chemotherapy were studied. They were a median of 10.8 years old (range 3.25-18.5), had received a median of 54 g/m2 (range 9-135) of IFO, and had a median follow-up of 29 months (range 6-68). The criteria to identify glomerular dysfunction were raised plasma creatinine (Pc) values on two occasions or a low glomerular filtration rate (GFR) measured by Tc-99-DTPA clearance. Detailed assessment was carried out to identify other nephrotoxic influences in these children. Subjects in whom glomerular dysfunction could be causally linked to IFO were compared with the rest of the group for a variety of predisposing factors. Of eight children with glomerular dysfunction, two had other nephrotoxic influences and were excluded from further analysis. In six (17.1%) children, glomerular dysfunction appeared to be causally linked to IFO. Their median GFR was 61.9 ml/min/1.73 m2(range 33-85) and Pc was 123 mumol/l (range 85-216). Five of the six had normal glomerular function at the end of therapy and the raised Pc values were first noted 19, 21, 26, 29, and 36 months later. Children with glomerular toxicity had a significantly longer median follow-up (41.5 vs. 19 months; P = 0.04) than the rest of the group, suggesting late onset of this problem. They were older at the time of the study and had received nearly twice the dose of IFO, though the differences in age and dose did not reach statistical significance. The earliest signs of renal toxicity were seen in the index case, who had had prior nephrectomy. All affected children had coexistent and preceding tubular toxicity. The inadequacies of tests commonly used to assess glomerular function and the possibility of underestimation of dysfunction are discussed. Glomerular dysfunction following IFO is poorly recognized and evidence from this study of its later onset and progressive nature is a cause for concern. The index case is described with histological findings.
Because of high rates of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole resistance in Escherichia coli, Denver Health switched to levofloxacin as the initial therapy for urinary tract infections (UTIs) in 1999. We evaluated the effects of that switch 6 years later.
Levofloxacin prescriptions per 1000 outpatient visits and levofloxacin resistance in outpatient E. coli were evaluated over time. E. coli isolated in 2005 were further characterized by specimen source and antimicrobial susceptibilities. Risk factors for levofloxacin-resistant E. coli UTI among nonpregnant adult outpatients were evaluated in a case-control study.
Between 1998 and 2005, levofloxacin use increased from 3.1 to 12.7 prescriptions per 1000 visits (P<.01) and resistance in outpatients increased from 1% to 9% (P<.01). Although prescriptions for sulfonamide antibiotics decreased by half during the same period, E. coli resistance to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole increased from 26.1% to 29.6%. Levofloxacin-resistant E. coli were more likely resistant to other antibiotics than levofloxacin-susceptible isolates (90% vs 43%, P<.0001). Risk factors for levofloxacin-resistant E. coli UTI were hospitalization (odds ratio for each week of hospitalization, 2.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.0-3.9) and use of levofloxacin (odds ratio, 5.6; 95% confidence interval, 2.1-27.5) within the previous year.
Fluoroquinolone prescriptions increased markedly after an institutional policy change for empiric treatment of UTI, and a rapid increase in fluoroquinolone resistance among outpatient E. coli followed. Risk factors for infection with resistant E. coli were recent hospitalization and levofloxacin use. Risk factors should be considered before initiating empiric treatment with a fluoroquinolone.
Opiates are currently the mainstay for treatment of moderate to severe pain. However, prolonged administration of opiates has been reported to elicit hyperalgesia in animals, and examples of opiate-induced hyperalgesia have been reported in humans as well. Despite the potential clinical significance of such opiate-induced actions, the mechanisms of opiate-induced hypersensitivity remain unknown. The transient receptor potential vanilloid1 (TRPV1) receptor, a molecular sensor of noxious heat, acts as an integrator of multiple forms of noxious stimuli and plays an important role in the development of inflammation-induced hyperalgesia. Because animals treated with opiates show thermal hyperalgesia, we examined the possible role of TRPV1 receptors in the development of morphine-induced hyperalgesia using TRPV1 wild-type (WT) and knock-out (KO) mice and with administration of a TRPV1 antagonist in mice and rats. Administration of morphine by subcutaneous implantation of morphine pellets elicited both thermal and tactile hypersensitivity in TRPV1 WT mice but not in TRPV1 KO mice. Moreover, oral administration of a TRPV1 antagonist reversed both thermal and tactile hypersensitivity induced by sustained morphine administration in mice and rats. Immunohistochemical analyses indicate that sustained morphine administration modestly increases TRPV1 labeling in the dorsal root ganglia. In addition, sustained morphine increased flinching and plasma extravasation after peripheral stimulation with capsaicin, suggesting an increase in TRPV1 receptor function in the periphery in morphine-treated animals. Collectively, our data indicate that the TRPV1 receptor is an essential peripheral mechanism in expression of morphine-induced hyperalgesia.
Opioid-induced hyperalgesia possibly limits the usefulness of opioids, emphasizing the value of alternative methods of pain control. We demonstrate that TRPV1 channels play an important role in peripheral mechanisms of opioid-induced hyperalgesia. Such information may lead to the discovery of analgesics lacking such adaptations and improving treatment of chronic pain.
A line of transgenic mice was generated that contains an insertional mutation causing a phenotype similar to human autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease. Homozygotes displayed a complex phenotype that included bilateral polycystic kidneys and an unusual liver lesion. The mutant locus was cloned and characterized through use of the transgene as a molecular marker. Additionally, a candidate polycystic kidney disease (PKD) gene was identified whose structure and expression are directly associated with the mutant locus. A complementary DNA derived from this gene predicted a peptide containing a motif that was originally identified in several genes involved in cell cycle control.
Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) has antineoplastic activity in vitro and in murine tumor systems, but there are no data in humans defining its potential use as an antineoplastic agent. We conducted a phase I study to determine the spectrum of toxicity, maximum safely tolerated dose (MTD), and pharmacokinetics of intravenous ATP. Fourteen men with advanced cancer received 96-hour infusions of ATP once monthly in doses ranging from 50 to 100 micrograms/kg/minute. Toxicity was assessed by standard National Cancer Institute (NCI) criteria, cardiac function was monitored serially by two-dimensional echocardiography, and whole blood ATP was measured serially in a subset of patients. ATP was generally well tolerated and no significant hematologic toxicity was noted. The dose-limiting toxicity was a cardiopulmonary reaction characterized by chest tightness and dyspnea that resolved within seconds of discontinuing ATP. Dose-limiting cardiopulmonary toxicity occurred in 3 of 3 patients at 100 micrograms/kg/minute, in 3 of 6 patients at 75 micrograms/kg/minute, and 4 of 11 patients at 50 micrograms/kg/minute. Whole blood ATP levels significantly increased with treatment, reaching a steady state by 24 hours and returning to or near baseline by 1 week after treatment. Plateau levels were 63%, 67%, and 116% above base-line at 50, 75, and 100 micrograms/kg/min, respectively. We conclude that prolonged infusions of ATP are feasible with acceptable toxicity and that 50 micrograms/kg/minute is both the MTD and the most appropriate dose rate for subsequent Phase II testing of 96-hour infusions of ATP in patients with advanced cancer.
The epidemiology and antibiotic resistance of Staphylococcus aureus have evolved, underscoring the need for novel antibiotics, particularly against methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA). Telavancin is a bactericidal lipoglycopeptide with potent activity against Gram-positive pathogens.
To systematically review and synthesize the available evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating telavancin in the treatment of patients with infections due to Gram-positive organisms with the methodology of meta-analysis.
Six RCTs comparing telavancin with vancomycin were included; 4 (2229 patients) referred to complicated skin and soft tissue infections (cSSTIs) and 2 (1503 patients) to hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP). Regarding cSSTIs, telavancin and vancomycin showed comparable efficacy in clinically evaluable patients (odds ratio [OR] =1.10 [95% confidence intervals: 0.82-1.48]). Among patients with MRSA infection, telavancin showed higher eradication rates (OR=1.71 [1.08-2.70]) and a trend towards better clinical response (OR=1.55 [0.93-2.58]). Regarding HAP, telavancin was non-inferior to vancomycin in terms of clinical response in two Phase III RCTs; mortality rates for the pooled trials were comparable with telavancin (20%) and vancomycin (18.6%). Pooled data from cSSTIs and HAP studies on telavancin 10 mg/kg indicated higher rates of serum creatinine increases (OR=2.22 [1.38-3.57]), serious adverse events (OR=1.53 [1.05-2.24]), and adverse event-related withdrawals (OR=1.49 [1.14-1.95]) among telavancin recipients.
Telavancin might be an alternative to vancomycin in cases of difficult-to-treat MRSA infections. The potent antistaphylococcal activity of telavancin should be weighted against the potential for nephrotoxicity.
Side effects involving agitation, e.g., sleepwalking, anger, and panic, were observed in 10 insomniac patients treated with temazepam or triazolam but not other benzodiazepines. Each patient described these side effects as uncharacteristic. Milder agitation was observed in 2 cases. In 4 cases, these effects were doubted by the prescribing physician. This type of side effect has been only slowly recognized for other benzodiazepines and has not been much reported for these newer agents. Agitation observed during treatment with these agents may be related to their short elimination half-lives.
Different mechanisms have been suggested for cocaine toxicity including an increase in oxidative stress but the association between oxidative status in the brain and cocaine induced-behaviour is poorly understood. Nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) is a sensor of oxidative stress and participates in memory formation that could be involved in drug toxicity and addiction mechanisms. Therefore NFkappaB activity, oxidative stress, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) activity, spatial learning and memory as well as the effect of topiramate, a previously proposed therapy for cocaine addiction, were evaluated in an experimental model of cocaine administration in rats. NFkappaB activity was decreased in the frontal cortex of cocaine treated rats, as well as GSH concentration and glutathione peroxidase activity in the hippocampus, whereas nNOS activity in the hippocampus was increased. Memory retrieval of experiences acquired prior to cocaine administration was impaired and negatively correlated with NFkappaB activity in the frontal cortex. In contrast, learning of new tasks was enhanced and correlated with the increase of nNOS activity and the decrease of glutathione peroxidase. These results provide evidence for a possible mechanistic role of oxidative and nitrosative stress and NFkappaB in the alterations induced by cocaine. Topiramate prevented all the alterations observed, showing novel neuroprotective properties.
Nitric oxide (NO) may participate in the mechanisms underlying vascular headaches, such as migraine and cluster headache (CH), by triggering neurogenic inflammation and activation of fibres conveying nociceptive inputs to the trigeminal ganglion. Similarly to migraine, the administration of the NO donor glyceryltrinitrate (GTN) to CH patients is a known model of inducing spontaneous-like attacks. We carried out a GTN test (0.9 mg, sublingually) in 18 patients with episodic CH in active phase and 12 controls. The plasma levels of NO metabolite nitrites (NO2-), after conversion of nitrates to NO2-, were measured spectrophotometrically at baseline, at the maximum intensity of the induced response (or 45 min after GTN in controls), and 120 min after GTN administration. The basal plasma levels of L-citrulline were also assayed in patients and controls using high-performance liquid chromatography. Basal NO2- levels, similar in GTN-responsive patients and controls (48.3 +/- 10.6 and 44.6 +/- 9.5 micromol/l, respectively) were found to be increased significantly at pain peak in patients (76.1 +/- 10.2 micromol/l) and after 45 min in controls (78.2 +/- 9.6 micromol/l) (P < 0.01 vs. respective baseline values), but not after 120 min, without differences between groups. L-citrulline levels in basal conditions showed no differences between groups (patients 64.8 +/- 11.7, controls 67.3 +/- 10.8 micromol/l). These data do not support the presence of a basal hyperactivity of the L-arginine-NO pathway in CH patients. Increased NO production may be of importance in the mechanisms leading to CH attacks, but other factors are likely to render CH patients hyperresponsive to NO, and ultimately to cause the occurrence of pain and associated features.
During six consecutive months, seven patients admitted to our ICU (15 beds, general ICU, approximately 300 intubated patients per year) for acute respiratory failure requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation presented with a peculiar neuromuscular disorder. After the occurrence of this cluster group of patients, we detected two more similar but isolated cases in the following 18 months, ie, altogether 9 patients in 2 years of observation, or 1.55 percent of all intubated patients in our ICU. Sedation was achieved using midazolam, curarization was effected with the neuromuscular non-depolarizing agent pancuronium bromide (PB), and corticosteroids were administered to eight patients. Shortly after discontinuation of sedation and curarization, we observed a persistent tetraparetic syndrome and/or peroneal palsy with a concomitant increase of serum creatine kinase (CK). None of the patients was septic or had the multisystem organ failure. A strong association between CK increase and PB administration was found, whereas no patient suffered severe liver or kidney failure. The duration of the neurologic deficit ranged from 4 to 52 weeks, with only partial recovery for some patients; the duration of dysfunction was apparently related to the total dose of corticosteroids received. Two patients had difficulty being weaned from the respirator and required tracheostomy. Electrophysiologic studies showed signs of axonal neuropathy and myopathic changes, ie, motor units of brief duration, small amplitude, overly abundant for the voluntary effort being exerted. Muscle biopsies showed significant myopathic alterations, with foci of muscle necrosis in most patients and minimal lymphocytic inflammation in one patient. The neurologic complication described differs from the polyneuropathy in critically ill patients. Furthermore, PB or corticosteroids or both appear to be the causal agents. The duration of the neuromuscular dysfunction may be related to concomitant steroid therapy. The CK enzyme seems to be a marker of the disorder. This disorder is associated with myopathic alterations and axonal degeneration in some patients. Pancuronium bromide should be used with caution, particularly when associated with steroids therapy, and it may cause difficulty in weaning patients from the respirator.
Because clozapine may be prescribed to cocaine abusing patients with schizophrenia, we studied cocaine-clozapine interactions in a controlled setting. Eight male cocaine addicts underwent four oral challenges with ascending doses of clozapine (12.5, 25 and 50 mg) and placebo followed 2 h later by a 2-mg/kg dose of intranasal cocaine. Subjective and physiological responses, and serum cocaine levels were measured over a total 4-h period. Clozapine pretreatment increased cocaine levels during the study and significantly increased the peak serum cocaine levels in a dose dependent manner. In spite of this elevation in blood levels, clozapine pretreatment had a significant diminishing effect upon subjective responses to cocaine, including 'expected high', 'high' and 'rush', notably at the 50 mg dose. There was also a significant effect upon 'sleepiness', 'paranoia' and 'nervous'. Clozapine caused a significant near-syncopal episode in one subject in the study, requiring his removal from the study. Clozapine had no significant effect on baseline pulse rate and systolic blood pressure, but it attenuated the significant pressor effects of the single dose of intranasal cocaine. These data suggested a possible therapeutic role for clozapine in the treatment of cocaine addiction in humans, but also suggests caution due to the near-syncopal event and the increase in serum cocaine levels.
This study investigated infant neurobehavioral functioning during the newborn period in 334 full-term, African American neonates (187 cocaine exposed, 147 non-cocaine exposed) enrolled prospectively at birth, with documentation of drug exposure status through maternal interview and urine and meconium toxicology assays. Infants were assessed using the Brazelton Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale (BNBAS) during the newborn period (0-6 postnatal days). Findings from multivariate profile analyses support a consistent, modest effect of prenatal cocaine exposure on neurobehavioral functioning in full-term neonates. All of the BNBAS cluster scores, with the exception of abnormal reflexes, were similarly affected, sharing a common slope (D=-0.14; 95% CI=-0.27, -0.003; P=.046) representing a -0.14 point difference between cocaine-exposed and non-cocaine-exposed infants after controlling for prenatal exposure to alcohol, tobacco, and marijuana (ATM); maternal age, education, employment, primigravida status, and prenatal care visits; and infant sex and postnatal age in days. Fetal growth was also related to neurobehavioral functioning and, in part, mediated the relationship between cocaine exposure and the BNBAS cluster scores. Cocaine exposure during each trimester similarly influenced infant neurobehavioral profiles, with cocaine-associated deficits most pronounced in infants with exposure in all three trimesters. Results from qualitative and quantitative urine and meconium bioassay indicators further substantiated these results. Findings, while significant, represent modest effect sizes in full-term infants.
This study was designed as a comparative experimental analysis of the gastroprotective effects of two H2-blocking agents--famotidine and benzimidazole compound 64--on the model rat stomach Helicobacter-like mucous lesions. Both substances demonstrated dose-dependent gastroprotective effects both on the macro- and microscopic levels. ED50 made up 21.8 mg/kg and 13.5 mg/kg, respectively.
The present study estimates the longitudinal effects of prenatal cocaine exposure on indicators of sustained attention processing at 3, 5 and 7 years of age in an urban sample of full-term African-American children (235 cocaine-exposed, 207 noncocaine-exposed). The sample was enrolled prospectively at birth, with documentation of prenatal drug exposure status through maternal interview, urine and meconium toxicology assays. Sustained attention was measured at age 3 years using a standardized measure of task persistence during a challenging task [G.A. Morgan, N.A. Busch-Rossnagel, C.A. Maslin-Cole and R.J. Harmon, Individualized Assessment of Mastery Motivation: Manual for 15-36 Month Old Children, 1992.], and at ages 5 and 7 years using omission error scores from computerized continuous performance tasks (CPT) [L. Greenberg, R. Leark, T. Dupuy, C. Corman, C. Kindschi, M. Cenedela, Test of Variables of Attention (T.O.V.A. and T.O.V.A.-A.), 22, Universal Attention Disorders, Los Alamitos, CA, 1996; C.K. Conners, Conners' Continuous Performance Test (CPT), second ed., Multi-Health Systems, Canada, 1995.]. Findings from longitudinal GLM/GEE analyses of the three measured time points support a stable influence of prenatal cocaine exposure on indicators of sustained attention, after controlling for prenatal exposure to alcohol, marijuana, tobacco and over 20 additional medical and social-demographic covariates drawn from potentially confounding influences assessed at birth and later assessment visits (D=0.21; 95% CI=0.04, 0.38; P=.017). This effect was not mediated by fetal growth or gestational age and remained highly stable with increasing levels of covariate control. Separately, using the age 7 data, a structural equations model (SEM) was constructed combining all available self-report and bioassay data to measure magnitude of cocaine exposure in relationship to attention task performance. Results indicated a gradient of influence, with each standard deviation increase in the level of prenatal cocaine exposure relating to a 16% standard deviation increase in omission error scores at age 7. Overall findings support a stable cocaine-specific effect on indicators of sustained attention processing during the early childhood years. Results are discussed within the context of neurobiological and behavioral research linking prenatal cocaine exposure to long-lasting disruption of the brain systems subserving arousal and attention.
In the present study, we aimed to examine the efficacy of sildenafil in patients with an antipsychotic (olanzapine)-induced erectile dysfunction (ED). The study group comprised 10 patients who experienced ED associated with the use of olanzapine. The patients initially received 50 mg sildenafil at baseline. If clinically indicated, titration up to 100 mg was permitted. All patients were assessed by Clinical Global Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) and International Index of Erectile Dysfunction (IIEF) scales at baseline and weeks 2 and 4. At final assessment, three patients were considered 'very much improved' and four 'much improved' according to CGI-I. Our results suggest that sildenafil use is effective and well-tolerated in patients with olanzapine-induced ED.
The effects of zileuton, a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, on hepatic peroxisomal enzyme activity as well as hepatic drug metabolizing activity in male and female CD-1 mice were assessed after oral administration of the drug (50, 150, or 450 mg/kg/day) for 14 days. The effects were compared to those in mice receiving clofibrate (CLOF;462 mg/kg/day, po) or sodium phenobarbital (PB; 50 mg/kg/day, po). Zileuton pretreatment caused hepatomegaly and elevated liver peroxisomal KCN-insensitive palmitoyl CoA oxidase activity in a dose-dependent manner. However, these changes were marginal (< or = 121% increase), when compared to those elicited by CLOF (approximately 370% increase). In both sexes, zileuton pretreatment also caused a dose-dependent increase in the levels of liver microsomal cytochrome P450 2B and cytochrome P450 4A (CYP4A) proteins, and their associated monoxygenase activity. In the case of CYP4A, the induction of lauric acid 12-hydroxylase activity by zileuton was more pronounced in female (maximal 851% increase) than in male mice (maximal 111% increase). Based on the dose normalized response observed in CD-1 mice, zileuton can be considered a relatively weak inducer of peroxisome enzyme activities (cf.CLOF) and a moderate inducer of cytochromes P450. Moreover, zileuton exhibits characteristics of both a PB- and a CLOF-type hepatic enzyme inducer, especially in the female mice.
Studies using rodents have shown that behavioral responses to a stimulant are enhanced when the stimulant is given within the same context as previous stimulant administrations; this increase in effect related to context is often referred to as sensitization. We examined the role of environmental stimuli in modulating the subjective and cardiovascular effects of cocaine in humans (1) within a daily "binge" and (2) after cocaine abstinence. Ten non-treatment seeking users of smoked cocaine were admitted to the hospital for 17 consecutive days. Participants smoked cocaine (25mg/dose) under two counterbalanced conditions: paired stimuli (same stimuli presented each session) and unpaired stimuli (varied stimuli presented each session). Under each stimulus condition, participants had cocaine test sessions for three consecutive days, no sessions for the next 3 days, then another cocaine test session on the following day, for a total of eight test days. Stimulus condition had no effect on cardiovascular or subjective effects so data were analyzed as a function of repeated cocaine administration over 2 weeks. Maximal ratings on "good drug" and "drug rating" subjective effects clusters decreased over days of repeated cocaine exposure. In contrast, baseline and peak heart rate and systolic pressure increased over days of repeated cocaine administration. Thus, repeated administration of smoked cocaine to experienced cocaine users resulted in increases in baseline blood pressure and heart rate and modest decreases in positive subjective effects. These data indicate modest tolerance rather than sensitization to the positive subjective effects of cocaine with repeated exposure.
Morphine was shown to be more lethal to aggregated mice than to isolated mice at an ambient temperature of 29 degrees C but not at 19 degrees C. After morphine administration at 29 degrees C, convulsions were found to be associated with death, and a higher incidence of convulsions was observed in aggregated mice than in isolated mice. After morphine administration at 19 degrees C, there was no clear association between convulsions and death, and there was no significant difference between the incidence of convulsions in isolated and aggregated mice. When tactile stress was induced upon morphine-treated isolated mice at 29 degrees C, all of the mice convulsed and died. These results suggest that the greater lethality of morphine in aggregated mice is due to a greater incidence of convulsions which results from stress induced on one animal by the other.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) mediates a spectrum of airway inflammatory responses, including those to air pollutants, and is an asthma candidate gene. One TNF promoter variant (G-308A) affects expression of TNF and has been associated with inflammatory diseases; however, studies of asthma have been inconsistent. Because ozone produces oxidative stress, increased airway TNF, and inflammation, the associations of the -308 TNF polymorphism with asthma may vary by ozone exposure and variants of oxidant defense genes glutathione-S-transferase (GST) M1 and GSTP1.
To investigate the association of TNF G-308A with asthma and wheezing and to determine whether these associations vary with ozone exposure and GSTM1 and GSTP1 genotype.
We studied associations of TNF-308 genotype with lifetime and current wheezing and asthma among 3,699 children in the Children's Health Study. We examined differences in associations with community ozone and by GSTM1 null and GSTP1 105 Ile/Val (A105G) genotype.
Children with TNF-308 GG had decreased risk of asthma (odds ratio, 0.8; 95% confidence interval, 0.7-0.9) and lifetime wheezing (odds ratio, 0.8; 95% confidence interval, 0.7-0.9). The protective effects of GG genotype on wheezing outcomes were of greater magnitude in lower compared with higher ozone communities. These findings were replicated in the two cohorts of fourth-grade children recruited in 1993 and 1996. The reduction of the protective effect from the -308 GG genotype with higher ozone exposure was most marked in the GSTM1 null and GSTP1 Ile/Ile groups.
The TNF-308 GG genotype may have a protective role in asthma pathogenesis, depending on airway oxidative stress levels.
Most murine lung tumors are composed of differentiated epithelial cells. We have reported previously that surfactant protein (SP)-D is expressed in urethane-induced tumors. Serum levels of SP-D are increased in patients with interstitial lung disease and acute respiratory distress syndrome and in rats with acute lung injury but have not been measured in mice. In this study, we sought to determine whether SP-D could be detected in murine serum and discovered that it was increased in mice bearing lung tumors. Serum SP-D concentration was 5.0 +/- 0.2 ng/ml in normal C57BL/6 mice, essentially absent in SP-D nulls, and 63.6 +/- 9.0 ng/ml in SP-D-overexpressing mice. SP-D in serum was verified by immunoblotting. Serum SP-D was increased in mice bearing tumors induced by three different protocols, and the SP-D level correlated with tumor volume. However, in mice with a single adenoma or a few adenomas, SP-D levels were usually within the normal range. SP-D was expressed by the tumor cells, and there was also a field effect whereby type II cells near the tumor expressed more SP-D than type II cells in the remainder of the lung. Serum SP-D was also increased by lung inflammation. In airway inflammation induced by aerosolized ovalbumin in sensitized BALB/c mice, the serum levels were elevated after challenge. In conclusion, serum SP-D concentration is increased in mice bearing lung tumors and generally reflects the tumor burden but is also elevated during lung inflammation.
The activity and stability of the p53 tumor suppressor are regulated by the human homologue of the mouse double minute 2 (Hdm2) oncoprotein. It has been hypothesized that small molecules disrupting the Hdm2:p53 complex would allow for the activation of p53 and result in growth suppression. We have identified small-molecule inhibitors of the Hdm2:p53 interaction using our proprietary ThermoFluor microcalorimetry technology. Medicinal chemistry and structure-based drug design led to the development of an optimized series of benzodiazepinediones, including TDP521252 and TDP665759. Activities were dependent on the expression of wild-type (wt) p53 and Hdm2 as determined by lack of potency in mutant or null p53-expressing cell lines or cells engineered to no longer express Hdm2 and wt p53. TDP521252 and TDP665759 inhibited the proliferation of wt p53-expressing cell lines with average IC(50)s of 14 and 0.7 micromol/L, respectively. These results correlated with the direct cellular dissociation of Hdm2 from wt p53 observed within 15 minutes in JAR choriocarcinoma cells. Additional activities of these inhibitors in vitro include stabilization of p53 protein levels, up-regulation of p53 target genes in a DNA damage-independent manner, and induction of apoptosis in HepG2 cells. Administration of TDP665759 to mice led to an increase in p21(waf1/cip1) levels in liver samples. Finally, TDP665759 synergizes with doxorubicin both in culture and in an A375 xenograft model to decrease tumor growth. Taken together, these data support the potential utility of small-molecule inhibitors of the Hdm2:p53 interaction for the treatment of wt p53-expressing tumors.
Mycophenolate mofetil is a widely used immunosuppressive drug that recently has been categorized as a human teratogen. Animal experiments indicate a teratogenic potential of the drug, but so far, it has not been studied in embryotoxicity in vitro assays. The aim of this study was to evaluate the in vitro embryotoxic potential of mycophenolic acid and investigate the ability of such tests to detect its embryotoxic potential. We used two validated assays: the rat whole embryo culture and the murine embryonic stem cell test. Rat embryos cultured from gestational day 9.5 for 48 h with the drug showed dysmorphogenic development already at a concentration of 250 microg mycophenolic acid/l medium. At concentrations of 750 microg/l and more, all rat embryos exhibited malformations. The main effects were defective yolk sac blood circulation, neural tube defects (open cranial neural pore), malformations of the head with missing eye anlagen and heart anomalies. Moreover, the exposed embryos showed a concentration-dependent decrease in protein content, crown-rump length, number of somites and morphological score. The murine embryonic stem cell test was slightly more sensitive. Proliferation and differentiation of the ES-D3-cells were significantly impaired at concentrations of 31 and 125 microg mycophenolic acid/l medium, respectively. In the differentiation assay, at a concentration of 125 microg mycophenolic acid/l medium and more, the number of wells with differentiated cardiomyocytes significantly decreased. Additionally, a cytotoxicity assay with balb/c 3T3 mouse fibroblasts was used to compare the proliferation and vitality of embryonic cells with adult cells. In the balb/c 3T3 cytotoxicity assay, the number of vital mouse fibroblasts significantly decreased at a mycophenolic acid concentration of 62 microg/l and more. In conclusion, by using the two validated in vitro tests, we showed that mycophenolic acid exhibits a pronounced embryotoxic potential at cytotoxic concentrations. This result from validated in vitro tests is of special interest, because it supports the use of the tests to detect human teratogens.
Women with menorrhagia have increased levels of plasminogen activators in the endometrium. Tranexamic acid (cyklokapron), an antifibrinolytic agent, is commonly prescribed worldwide to women with menorrhagia, including those with fibroids. Necrosis in uterine leiomyomas may be associated with pregnancy, and progestogen or oral contraceptive use but its association with tranexamic acid has not been investigated. Four hundred ninety patients with uterine leiomyomas in 2004 and 2005 were reviewed. Their ages ranged from 22 to 86 (mean 47.2). One hundred forty-seven (30%) were treated with tranexamic acid.
Infarct-type necrosis was observed in the leiomyomas of 38 patients, 22 of whom had tranexamic acid (15%) whereas the remaining 16 had no drug exposure (4.7%) (odds ratio=3.60; 95% confidence interval: 1.83-6.07; P=0.0003). Two patients who took the drug less than 2 weeks before surgery had early infarcts with appearance resembled coagulative type necrosis. Eleven of the 22 cases of drug-induced necrotic leiomyoma (50%) also showed intralesional thrombus formation, and 4 showed organization of the thrombi.
Infarct-type necrosis and thrombosis of leiomyoma was more commonly observed in patients treated with tranexamic acid. Although the drug is effective for menorrhagia, clinicians should be aware of the possible complications associated with leiomyoma necrosis such as pain and fever. Distinguishing between types of necrosis may not always be straightforward particularly in early infarcts when the reparative connective tissue reaction between the viable and necrotic cells is not well-developed, resulting in an appearance similar to coagulative necrosis. When the overall gross and microscopic features of a leiomyoma with coagulative necrosis favor a benign lesion, the drug history should be reviewed so that this type of early and healing infarct-type necrosis is considered as the underlying cause of the apparent coagulative necrosis. This may otherwise result in a diagnosis of smooth muscle tumor of uncertain malignant potential, leading to prolonged follow-up and unnecessary further surgical intervention.
1,2,3-trichloropropane (1,2,3-TCP) is commonly used as an intermediate in pesticide and an industrial specialty solvent. Acute 1,2,3-TCP poisoning is rare but a medical emergency. Sporadic cases of toxic hepatic injury from 1,2,3-TCP in humans have been reported. Liver is a target organ for 1,2,3-TCP toxicity, which may ensue in a short period after ingestion. A specific antidote against 1,2,3-TCP is not available. So it is important to distinguish that a patient with 1,2,3-TCP poisoning constitutes a medical emergency. In this case study, the poisoned patient's clinical condition and laboratory values improved gradually after she received hemoperfusion (HP) and plasma exchange, which indicated that the therapy with HP and plasma exchange were helpful in the treatment of 1,2,3-TCP poisoning.
We had previously shown in acute leukemia and in breast and ovary carcinoma patients that a cholesterol-rich emulsion (LDE) that binds to receptors for low-density lipoprotein (LDL) may concentrate in neoplastic tissues. In this study, the potential of LDE as a carrier for anticancer drugs was investigated.
LDE was associated with carmustine, and the cytotoxicity of the LDE-carmustine complex was studied in a neoplastic cell line and its biodistribution was studied in mice. The plasma kinetics of the complex and its uptake by tumor and normal tissue were determined in cancer patients. Finally, an exploratory clinical study to determine the toxicity profile of LDE-carmustine at escalating dose levels was conducted in 42 advanced cancer patients refractory to conventional chemotherapy.
Carmustine formed a stable association with LDE. The pharmacological action of carmustine, as tested in cancer cells, was not diminished by association with LDE compared with the free drug and was indeed mediated by the LDL receptor. The biodistribution in mice and plasma kinetics in patients of the emulsion were not changed by association of the drug. The uptake of LDE-carmustine by tumor was severalfold greater than the uptake by the corresponding normal tissue. Finally, patients treated with LDE-carmustine showed negligible side effects even at very high dose levels.
Association with LDE preserves the cytotoxicity of carmustine and markedly diminishes its side effects.
In recent years, itraconazole pulse therapy for onychomycosis has been developed [three 1-week pulses with itraconazole 400 (2 x 200) mg daily every month]. This has proved an effective and safe regimen which requires only 50% of the medication used for continuous dosing schedules. Parallel to the development of the new dosage schedule, additional studies were conducted to further document the safety and efficacy of itraconazole 200 mg once daily for 3 months to treat onychomycosis.
To compare the safety of itraconazole 200 mg once daily for 3 months, with or without itraconazole 200 mg once weekly for a further 3 months, with that of miconazole cream twice daily for 6 months, in the treatment of onychomycosis. Treatment efficacy was compared as a secondary objective.
In this multicenter, double-blind study, patients were randomized to receive itraconazole 200 mg once daily for 3 months followed by either itraconazole 200 mg once weekly for 3 months (ITR-ITR group, n = 599) or oral placebo once weekly for 3 months (ITR-PLAC group, n = 613), or to receive miconazole cream twice daily for 6 months (MIC-MIC group, n = 396). The primary variable was elevation of alanine amino-transferase (ALT) concentration above 50 U/I.
Overall incidence of elevation of ALT concentration above 50 U/I, adverse events and rate of withdrawal because of adverse events were low and similar in the three treatment groups. Efficacy was significantly greater in the ITR groups than the MIC-MIC group.
Itraconazole and miconazole were well tolerated and had no significant effect on liver function, but itraconazole was significantly more effective.
Food supplements are known to affect the development of gastric adenocarcinoma. In this study, an animal model of gastric resection was used to investigate the effects of calcium carbonate on spontaneous development of gastric adenocarcinoma.
Ninety-two Wistar rats with gastric resections (performed to induce spontaneous gastric cancer) and 60 without resections (controls) were used to analyse the carcinogenic potential of different ion supplements in food.
Among the resected rats, cancer developed in 3 out of 18 (17%, NS) given NaCl but in 11 out of 18 (61%, p<0.01) exposed to calcium carbonate. No tumours were found in the unresected (unoperated) animals. These findings were further analysed by separately investigating the effects of calcium and carbonate ions on tumorigenesis in the gastric stump model. Cancer developed in one of 26 (4%) resected animals given a diet supplemented with CaHPO(4), which was lower than the rate observed in the resected control group fed a normal diet, although this difference was not statistically significant. However, tumour development increased significantly in the resected animals given a diet supplemented with NaHCO(3) (tumours in 13 out of 24 rats, 54%; p<0.01).
The present results reveal a significant role for carbonate in the induction of gastric carcinoma in the rat. The relevance of this finding is underlined by the fact that carbonate is a major constituent of intestinal reflux into the stomach, and that such reflux is considered to be one of the major causes of gastric cancer.
We investigated factors associated with isolated mental delay in infants weighing < 1250 g at birth.
With a case-control design, matching variables for 40 cases included gestation, birth weight, sex, grade of intraventricular hemorrhage, and socioeconomic status. Case subjects had a mental developmental index < 70, and controls had a mental developmental index > or = 85, according to the Bayley Scales of Infant Development II at 18 months' corrected age.
There were no differences between the case and control subjects for neonatal complications and antenatal or postnatal steroid use. There was a marked difference in the cumulative dosage and duration of doxapram therapy used for apnea of prematurity (total dose 2233 +/- 1927 mg vs 615 +/- 767 mg, P < .001; duration 45.2 +/- 32.5 days vs 19.4 +/- 23.4 days, P < .001 for case subjects and control subjects, respectively). Multivariate analysis did not identify additive predictive variables.
Isolated mental delay in infants weighing < 1250 g at birth was associated with the total dosage and duration of doxapram therapy for severe apnea. Although this may be a marker for cerebral dysfunction manifesting as apnea of prematurity, possible adverse effects of doxapram or its preservative, benzyl alcohol, on the developing brain deserve further study.
