Anti-tumour activity of triazene compounds of clinical interest [i.e. dacarbazine and temozolomide (TMZ)] relies mainly on the generation of methyl adducts to purine bases of DNA. Two DNA repair enzyme systems, i.e. the O6-guanine-alkyl-transferase (MGMT) and mismatch repair (MMR), play a predominant role in conditioning the cytotoxic effects of triazenes. In particular, high levels of MGMT associated with target cells are responsible of resistance to triazenes. On the contrary, the presence of MMR is required for the cytotoxic effects of these compounds. Previous studies performed by our group and a more recent clinical investigation reported by Karen Seiter, pointed out that triazene compounds could play an important role in the treatment of refractory acute leukaemia. Leukaemia blasts, especially of lymphoblastic leukaemia, show frequently high levels of MGMT activity. Therefore, it reasonable to hypothesize that combined treatment of leukaemia patients with triazene compounds along with MGMT inhibitors could lead to a better control of the disease. PaTrin-2 (O6-(4-bromothenyl)guanine, PAT) is a potent and scarcely toxic MGMT inhibitor recently introduced in clinical trials. This drug is used in combination with triazene compounds in order to augment their anti-tumour efficacy against neoplastic cells endowed with high MGMT activity. The present report describes, for the first time, pre-clinical in vitro studies on the cytotoxic activity of combined treatment with PAT+TMZ against long-term cultured leukaemia cells and primary leukaemia blasts obtained from patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia or acute myeloblastic leukaemia. The results point out that, both in long-term cultured leukaemia cell lines and in primary blast samples, PAT could improve dramatically the sensitivity of malignant cells to the cytotoxic effects of TMZ. This sensitizing effect is detectable when leukaemia cells show resistance mechanisms based on a MGMT-proficient phenotype. On the contrary, when resistance to TMZ is dependent on MMR deficiency, no influence of PAT can be detected in various experimental conditions. In conclusion, these results appear to provide disease-oriented rational basis to design novel clinical protocols for the treatment of acute leukaemia with combined administration of PAT and triazene compounds.
Previous research has shown that a combination of feed restriction and dietary 1,3-butanediol starting at 14 d post-partum resulted in fatty liver and ketosis. Sixteen multiparous Holstein cows were used to determine effects of feed restriction or 1,3-butanediol as separate treatments. Treatments during d 14 to 42 postpartum were 1) control (ad libitum intake), 2) 20% feed restriction, or 3) control plus dietary 1,3-butanediol (5.5% of DM). From d 43 to 56, cows assigned to treatments 2 and 3 received a combination of feed restriction and butanediol. One cow on treatment 2 developed ketosis, but not fatty liver, after only 4 d of feed restriction. No other cows developed fatty liver or ketosis. Both treatments decreased milk production compared with controls. Feed restriction increased the extent of negative energy balance and caused transient increases in concentrations of NEFA, acetate, and beta-hydroxybutyrate in plasma. Concentrations of beta-hydroxybutyrate and insulin in plasma were increased by butanediol, which is a potent ketone body precursor. Concentration of glycogen in liver was less in feed-restricted cows, whereas glycogen and total lipid were greater in cows given butanediol separately. Gluconeogenic capacity of liver slices was not different among groups. Addition of 1,3-butanediol to in vitro incubation media decreased oxidation of propionate to CO2. Neither feed restriction nor dietary 1,3-butanediol as separate treatments induced the fatty liver and ketosis observed in earlier experiments in which the two treatments were given together.
Oleuropein-rich extracts from olive leaves and their enzymatic and acid hydrolysates, respectively rich in oleuropein aglycone and hydroxytyrosol, were prepared under optimal conditions. The antioxidant activities of these extracts were examined by a series of models in vitro. In this study the lipid-lowering and the antioxidative activities of oleuropein, oleuropein aglycone and hydroxytyrosol-rich extracts in rats fed a cholesterol-rich diet were tested. Wistar rats fed a standard laboratory diet or cholesterol-rich diets for 16 weeks were used. The serum lipid levels, the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) level, as indicator of lipid peroxidation, and the activities of liver antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT)) were examined. The cholesterol-rich diet induced hyperlipidemia resulting in the elevation of total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). Administration of polyphenol-rich olive leaf extracts significantly lowered the serum levels of TC, TG and LDL-C and increased the serum level of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Furthermore, the content of TBARS in liver, heart, kidneys and aorta decreased significantly after oral administration of polyphenol-rich olive leaf extracts compared with those of rats fed a cholesterol-rich diet. In addition, these extracts increased the serum antioxidant potential and the hepatic CAT and SOD activities. These results suggested that the hypocholesterolemic effect of oleuropein, oleuropein aglycone and hydroxytyrosol-rich extracts might be due to their abilities to lower serum TC, TG and LDL-C levels as well as slowing the lipid peroxidation process and enhancing antioxidant enzyme activity.
The results of the present investigation indicate that ISDN infusion following experimental coronary occlusion in anesthetized dogs (1) lowers systemic, cardiac, and pulmonary blood pressures; (2) decreases systemic resistance; (3) has no significant effect on cardiac output, heart rate, and stroke volume; (4) decreases serum CPK levels; and (5) has little effect on blood biochemical parameters. These results suggest that ISDN may have a minimal effect on the ischemic heart by means of a slight decrease in peripheral vascular resistance and systemic blood pressure.
The increasing use of the antimicrobial triclocarban (TCC) in personal care products (PCPs) has resulted in concern regarding environmental pollution. TCC is a potent inhibitor of soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH). Inhibitors of sEH (sEHIs) are anti-inflammatory, anti-hypertensive and cardio-protective in multiple animal models. However, the in vivo effects anticipated from a sEHI have not been reported for TCC. Here we demonstrated the anti-inflammatory effects in vivo of TCC in a murine model. TCC was employed in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-challenged murine model. Systolic blood pressure, plasma levels of several inflammatory cytokines and chemokine, and metabolomic profile of plasma oxylipins were determined. TCC significantly reversed LPS-induced morbid hypotension in a time-dependent manner. TCC significantly repressed the increased release of inflammatory cytokines and chemokine caused by LPS. Furthermore, TCC significantly shifted the oxylipin profile in vivo in a time-dependent manner towards resolution of inflammation as expected from a sEHI. These results demonstrated that at the doses used TCC is anti-inflammatory in the murine model. This study suggests that TCC may provide some benefits in humans in addition to its antimicrobial activities due to its potent inhibition of sEH. It may be a promising starting point for developing new low volume high value applications of TCC. However these biological effects also caution against the general over use of TCC in PCPs.
Diabetes is characterized by elevated fasting blood glucose (FBG) resulting from improper insulin regulation and/or insulin resistance. Herein we used female C57BL/6J mouse models for type 1 diabetes (streptozotocin [STZ] treatment) and type 2 diabetes (high-fat diet) to examine the ability of 4b,5,9b,10-tetrahydroindeno[1,2-b]indole (THII) to intervene in the progression of diabetes. THII (100 microM in drinking water) significantly diminished and partially reversed the increase in FBG levels produced by STZ. After 10 weeks on a high-fat diet, mice had normal FBG levels, but exhibited fasting hyperinsulemia and loss of glucose tolerance. THII significantly diminished these changes in glucose and insulin. In isolated liver mitochondria, THII inhibited succinate-dependent H(2)O(2) production, while in white adipose tissue, THII inhibited NADPH oxidase-mediated H(2)O(2) production and lipid peroxidation. Without intervention, such oxidative processes might otherwise promote diabetogenesis via inflammatory pathways. THII also increased O(2) consumption and lowered respiratory quotient (CO(2) produced/O(2) consumed) in vivo, indicating a greater utilization of fat for metabolic fuel. Increased metabolic utilization of fat correlated with a decrease in the rate of body weight gain in THII-treated mice fed the high-fat diet. We conclude that THII may retard the progression of diabetes via multiple pathways, including the inhibition of oxidative and inflammatory pathways.
Infection is a serious, costly, and common complication of surgery and constitutes the principal cause of late death in patients undergoing surgery. The objective of this study was to clarify the mechanisms by which active hexose correlated compound (AHCC) increases survival in a murine model of intramuscular infection.
Food-deprived mice receiving either AHCC or excipient were infected with bacteria. Kinetics of bacterial load, white blood cell counts, cytokine levels, and antibody levels were compared between groups.
AHCC-treated mice had reduced bacterial load at day 5 and cleared bacteria entirely at day 6. Levels of interleukin-12, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interleukin-6 peaked earlier in this group (day 3) compared with controls (day 5). Increased percentages of peripheral lymphocytes and monocytes and decreased numbers of polymorphonuclear cells were detected in the AHCC group.
AHCC appears to induce an early activation of the immune response, leading to an effective clearance of bacteria and rapid recovery.
Overexpression of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), when combined with certain chemicals that inhibit peroxide removal, increases cancer cell cytotoxicity. Elevating MnSOD levels in cells enhances the conversion of superoxide (O(2)(*-)) to hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), combined with inhibiting the removal of H(2)O(2), further increases H(2)O(2) levels, leading to increased cytotoxicity. We hypothesized that increasing endogenous O(2)(*-) production in cells that were pretreated with adenoviral MnSOD (AdMnSOD) plus 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) would lead to an increased level of intracellular H(2)O(2) accumulation and increased cell killing. The cytotoxic effects of Adriamycin or radiation, agents known to produce O(2)(*-), were determined in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells pretreated with AdMnSOD plus BCNU both in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, AdMnSOD plus BCNU sensitized cells to the cytotoxicity of Adriamycin or radiation. In vivo, AdMnSOD, BCNU, and Adriamycin or ionizing radiation inhibited tumor growth and prolonged survival. The results suggest that agents that produce O(2)(*-) in combination with AdMnSOD plus BCNU may represent a powerful new antitumor regimen against breast cancer.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a highly heterogeneous trait with sarcomeric gene mutations predominating. The cause of a substantial percentage of DCMs remains unknown, and no gene-specific therapy is available. On the basis of resequencing of 513 DCM cases and 1,150 matched controls from various cohorts of distinct ancestry, we discovered rare, functional RAF1 mutations in 3 of the cohorts (South Indian, North Indian and Japanese). The prevalence of RAF1 mutations was ~9% in childhood-onset DCM cases in these three cohorts. Biochemical studies showed that DCM-associated RAF1 mutants had altered kinase activity, resulting in largely unaltered ERK activation but in AKT that was hyperactivated in a BRAF-dependent manner. Constitutive expression of these mutants in zebrafish embryos resulted in a heart failure phenotype with AKT hyperactivation that was rescued by treatment with rapamycin. These findings provide new mechanistic insights and potential therapeutic targets for RAF1-associated DCM and further expand the clinical spectrum of RAF1-related human disorders.
We investigated the occurrence of hepatic veno-occlusive disease (VOD) after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in 241 adults conditioned with busulfan + cyclophosphamide at a single institute and retrospectively compared 186 patients who received oral busulfan (O-Bu group) with 55 patients who received intravenous busulfan (I-Bu group). Various hemostatic parameters were determined at baseline and on days 0, 7, 14, and 21. Hepatic VOD occurred in 41.7% of the O-Bu group and in 18.5% of the I-Bu group. Multivariate analysis revealed that the I-Bu group had significantly decreased risk of VOD compared to the O-Bu group [p=0.006, odds ratio: (OR) 0.345]. Eleven patients in the O-Bu group and none of the I-Bu group developed severe VOD. A repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) with a between-subjects factor revealed significant differences in post-transplant levels of antithrombin III, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1), and D-dimer according to the occurrence of VOD. The level of antithrombin III was significantly lower, whereas the level of D-dimer was significantly higher, in the O-Bu group than in the I-Bu group. These findings show that, in adults conditioned with busulfan + cyclophosphamide, intravenous busulfan was associated with significantly decreased incidence of VOD and fewer hemostatic derangements after allogeneic BMT compared to oral busulfan.
Capgras syndrome, the delusion that identical-appearing impostors have replaced familiar people, is an unusual phenomenon usually seen in schizophrenia or dementia. We recently cared for a 78 year old man who seemed to develop Capgras syndrome as an adverse reaction to diazepam. An iatrogenic cause should be considered in the differential diagnosis of any new delusion, including Capgras syndrome.
To investigate the association between beta(3)-adrenergic receptor (beta(3)-AR) and oxidative stress in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced chronic heart failure (HF) rats.
Seven weight-matched normal adult rats (control), 18 ISO induced heart failure rats and 21 ISO induced heart failure rats treated with specific beta(3)-AR inhibitor, SR59230A for 6 weeks were included in this study. Echocardiography was performed at the end of the study and the myocardial levels of total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD) and lipid peroxidation (LPO) were measured by colorimetry, myocardial expression of beta(3)-AR was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
Compared with control group, the cardiac function was significantly reduced and myocardial beta(3)-AR mRNA expression was significantly increased, LPO level was also significantly enhanced while T-SOD level was significantly reduced in ISO group and these changes could be significantly attenuated by treatment with SR59230A.
Our results showed that myocardial upregulation of beta(3)-AR is associated with increased oxidative stress in this model and beta(3)-AR inhibitor may be a new therapeutic agent for heart failure treatment.
This study characterizes 3 cases of mesenchymal chondrosarcoma (MC) utilizing a proteomic approach that allows for the detection, visual quantification, cellular compartmentalization, and assessment of the functional state of certain proteins that may promote tumor growth and/or oppose apoptosis. Immunohistochemical procedures were performed to detect the following protein antigens: CD99, interleukin (IL)-1alpha, IL-6, transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, conventional (c) protein kinase C (cPKC)-alpha, cPKC-betaII, phosphorylated (p)-PKC-alpha/betaII, c-kit (CD117), platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR)-alpha, PDGFR-beta, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)-2/neu, cathepsin D, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor, p21ras, the alpha subunit of farnesyl and geranylgeranyl transferase (FTalpha/GGTalpha), phospho (p)-c-Jun N-terminal kinase (p-JNK), p-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), cyclin D1, c-Jun, Ki-67, bcl-2, TGF-beta1 latency-associated peptide (LAP), TGF-betaRII, and cyclooxygenase (COX)-2. Immunoreactivities were scored from 0 to 3+ positivity using bright-field microscopy. The results showed that malignant mesenchymal chondroblasts exhibit stronger expressions of CD99, IL-1alpha, cPKC-alpha, p-PKC-alpha/betaII, PDGFR-alpha, p-JNK, Ki-67, and bcl-2 antigens than their more mature-appearing chondrocytic counterparts in MC. In conclusion, molecular profiling of mesenchymal chondrosarcoma using a proteomic approach characterized the mesenchymal chondroblasts as possessing pathways that incorporate PKC-alpha and PDGFR-alpha signaling and anti-apoptotic bcl-2 expression. Specific therapies to target the mesenchymal chondroblasts in mesenchymal chondrosarcoma might include interferon-alpha, rapamycin, ciprofloxacin, and STI571.
Several non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been associated with liver damage. The aim of this study was to compare proportions of hepatic adverse drug reaction reports associated with NSAIDs in France and Spain. Information from the Spanish and French pharmacovigilance databases were used from 1982 to 2001. To assess the risk of liver injury, the case/non-case methodology was applied, 'cases' being reports of liver damage and 'non-cases' or controls, all other reports. Exposure was considered as the presence of at least one NSAID. Liver injury risk was estimated for each drug in the two databases by calculation of reporting odds ratio in cases and non-cases, with its 95% confidence interval. Out of 62 456 reports from the Spanish database, 2114 (3.38%) were identified as liver injuries, whereas there were 27 372 liver injuries out of 200 046 (13.68%) in the French database. In Spain, there was a significant association between liver injuries and droxicam, sulindac, and nimesulide. The risk was also slightly above 1 for aceclofenac. In France, the risk was very high with clometacin, followed by sulindac, and was slightly above 1 for naproxen, diclofenac, piroxicam, and tenoxicam. This study shows that some NSAIDs are associated with reports of hepatic injuries when compared with other drugs, and most of those have been withdrawn from the market for this reason. However, the frequency of drug-related hepatic injuries reported differed in the French and Spanish databases, and some drugs did not show the same risk level in the two countries. These discrepancies could be explained in part not only by reporting rates, but also by difference in drug use patterns and/or by genetic or environmental factors.
Peroxisomal biogenesis disorders represent a group of genetically heterogeneous conditions that have in common failure of proper peroxisomal assembly. Clinically, they are characterized by a spectrum of dysmorphia, neurological, liver, and other organ involvement. To date, mutations in 13 PEX genes encoding peroxins have been identified in patients with peroxisomal biogenesis disorders. Mutations in PEX13, which encodes peroxisomal membrane protein PEX13, are among the least common causes of peroxisomal biogenesis disorders with only three mutations reported so far. Here, we report on two infants whose clinical and biochemical profile was consistent with classical Zellweger syndrome and whose complementation analysis assigned them both to group H of peroxisomal biogenesis disorders. We show that they harbor two novel mutations in PEX13. One patient had a genomic rearrangement resulting in a 147 kb deletion that spans the whole of PEX13, while the other had an out-of-frame deletion of 14 bp. This represents the first report of a PEX13 deletion and suggests that further work is needed to examine the frequency of PEX13 mutations among Arab patients with peroxisomal biogenesis disorders.
The clinical history of an abstinent alcoholic developing paresthesias after one year's treatment with disulfiram (250 mg daily) is presented. Despite continued disulfiram in decreased dosage (125 mg daily), associated with multivitamin supplementation, marked improvement in symptoms and signs was noted, contrary to previous case reports. The peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy associated with disulfiram administration has been well described [1 - 8]. From those reports, it appears that symptoms may appear from several weeks to several months after the drug has been administered. Although the etiology of this neuropathy remains speculative, the usual treatment is to discontinue disulfiram once the toxicity develops. Presented here is the clinical course of a subject, whose neuropathic symptoms resolved with continued disulfiram administration at a lower daily dosage in conjunction with multivitamin therapy.
Acute pancreatitis is caused by the activation of digestive enzymes in the pancreas and a possible treatment, therefore, is the inhibition of enzyme secretion. This approach is somewhat controversial, however, as it is not clear whether pancreatic secretion continues to occur during the course of acute pancreatitis. Animal studies show an appreciable reduction of secretion in the inflamed pancreas, but studies in humans are not conclusive. The use of somatostatin or its analogue, octreotide, has been investigated in several clinical studies. A meta analysis of six individual studies in which somatostatin was given for acute pancreatitis showed that somatostatin significantly reduces mortality. A trial in patients with moderate to severe acute pancreatitis showed a lower rate (although not statistically significant) of complications in patients treated with 3 x 200 and 3 x 500 micrograms/day octreotide, compared with controls and patients receiving a lower dose of octreotide. A further study showed a significant reduction in patient controlled analgesics in patients treated with octreotide compared with controls. Pain is the important clinical symptom of chronic pancreatitis, possibly resulting from an increased intraductal pressure during secretion. The effect on pain of the inhibition of pancreatic secretion by octreotide has been investigated in two studies. One showed no significant reduction in pain after treatment with octreotide for three days. In the other, in which octreotide was used for three weeks, significantly less pain and analgesic use was recorded during octreotide treatment than during placebo. The most common complication of chronic pancreatitis is the formation of pseudocysts. There is some evidence that octreotide may be useful in their treatment.
The present experiments investigate the brain sites involved in the elicitation of catalepsy by cholinergic agonists and neuroleptics. Microinjection of acetylcholine chloride (50 micrograms) in combination with eserine (2.5 micrograms) into the ventral mesencephalic reticular formation (MRF) elicited catalepsy. Microinjection of atropine sulfate (5 micrograms) into the same sites reversed the catalepsy of rats treated with haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg) 2 h earlier, but did not reverse morphine-induced (30 mg/kg, 1 h) catalepsy. Haloperidol (25 micrograms) injected into the nucleus accumbens septi (NAS) resulted in catalepsy as severe as that caused by an identical injection into the caudate nucleus. Catalepsy caused by intraNAS haloperidol occurred with a shorter latency than that resulting from intracaudate haloperidol, and was reversed by systemic scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg). On the basis of these results it is suggested that the ventral MRF is a site for the elicitation of catalepsy by cholinergic agonists and for the reversal of neuroleptic-induced catalepsy by anticholinergics, and that neuroleptic-induced catalepsy involves blockade of dopamine receptors in both the NAS and caudate nucleus.
EML4-ALK adenocarcinomas constitute a new molecular subgroup of lung tumours that respond very well to crizotinib, an ALK inhibitor. However, the diagnosis of ALK rearrangement in lung cancer is challenging. The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of five different methods in a series of 20 EGFR(wt/wt) lung adenocarcinomas from non- or light- smokers. Multiplex RT-PCR was considered as gold standard and identified four ALK-rearranged tumours among the 20 tested tumours. qRT-PCR got an interpretability rate of 100% and accurately typed all 20 tumours. qRT-PCR from corresponding formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) specimens got an interpretability rate of 65%. Out of the four previously identified ALK-rearranged cases, three were interpretable and two were retrieved using FFPE qRT-PCR. ALK break-apart FISH got an interpretability rate of 60% and accurately typed all of the twelve remaining cases. Anti-ALK immunohistochemistry (IHC) accurately typed all twenty tumours using a cut-off value of strong staining of 100% tumour cells. The 16 non ALK-rearranged tumours got no/light staining in 13 cases, and a moderate staining of 80-100% tumour cells in 3 cases. We then analysed four solid signet-ring lung adenocarcinomas. FFPE qRT-PCR, FISH and immunohistochemistry were concordant in three cases, with positive and negative results in respectively one and two cases. The fourth case, which was positive by FISH and immunohistochemistry but negative by RT-PCR, was shown to have a non-EML4-ALK ALK-rearrangement. As various factors such as RNA quality, fixation quality and type of ALK rearrangement may impede ALK screening, we propose a combined FISH/molecular biology diagnostic algorithm in which anti-ALK immunohistochemistry is used as a pre-screening step.
Two case reports of aseptic meningitis after intrathecal baclofen injection.
To report an unusual complication of intrathecal baclofen injection during test injections.
Department of Neurological Rehabilitation, R Poincaré Hôpital (Paris-Ile de France-Ouest University).
We present two cases of chemical meningitis after intrathecal baclofen injections by lumbar puncture. These cases presented with febrile meningeal syndromes during the 24 h following intrathecal baclofen injection. Direct cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination and CSF cultures were negative. An intense cellular reaction was observed with a marked predominance of neutrophils. Meningitis resolved spontaneously over 3-4 days.
Chemical meningitis is a rare complication of intrathecal baclofen injections that must be recognized. It is a diagnosis of exclusion and its pathophysiological mechanism remains unclear.
The antineoplastic efficacy of oxaliplatin, a widely used anticancer drug, is restricted by its adverse effects such as peripheral neuropathy. Infusing a combination of calcium gluconate and magnesium sulfate (Ca/Mg) suppresses the acute neurotoxic side effects of oxaliplatin, although the mechanism is unclear. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms of oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity and the effects of Ca/Mg against this toxicity, we examined the effect of Ca/Mg on oxaliplatin-induced inhibition of neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells, a commonly used neuronal cell model. Oxaliplatin and oxalate suppressed nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth and reduced the NGF-mediated increase in the intracellular calcium concentration [Ca(2+)](i). A calcium-chelating agent, BAPTA/AM, also exhibited similar inhibitory effects on neurite outgrowth and [Ca(2+)](i). The addition of Ca/Mg attenuated these inhibitions induced by oxaliplatin and oxalate. The NGF-induced upregulation of growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) was suppressed by oxaliplatin and oxalate. Oxaliplatin, but not oxalate, suppressed NGF-stimulated extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation, and this inhibition was not affected by Ca/Mg. Ca/Mg did not modify the oxaliplatin-induced loss of cell viability or apoptosis in PC12 or HCT-116 cells, a human colorectal cancer cell line. These results suggest that the inhibition of neurite outgrowth but not tumor cell death induced by oxaliplatin is partly associated with reductions in [Ca(2+)](i) and GAP-43 expression, and this inhibition was suppressed by the addition of Ca/Mg. Therefore, it may be assumed that Ca/Mg is useful for protecting against oxaliplatin-induced neurotoxicity without reducing the antitumor activity of oxaliplatin.
To investigate the effect of fructose consumption on the light/dark pattern of blood pressure, heart rate and autonomic neural function in mice.
Insulin resistant diabetes is associated with hypertension and autonomic dysfunction. There is evidence that the increasing incidence of diabetes may be related to dietary changes, including consumption of high levels of fructose.
C57/BL mice, instrumented with radiotelemetric arterial catheters, were fed a control or high fructose diet (60%). Cardiovascular parameters measured were light/dark pattern of mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR) and variability (time and frequency domain). We also measured plasma insulin, glucose, lipids and angiotensin II (Ang II) as well as glucose tolerance. In situ hybridization was used to measure brainstem expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and Ang AT1a mRNA.
Fructose diet (8 weeks) produced an increase in MAP, variance and low frequency domain (14+/-3 vs. 33+/-4 mm Hg(2), variance and 10+/-2 vs. 26+/-4 mm Hg(2), LF, control vs. fructose, P<0.01). The changes occurred only at night, a period of activity for mice. Glucose tolerance was attenuated in the fructose group. Fructose also increased plasma cholesterol (80+/-1 vs. 126+/-2 mg/dl, control vs. fructose, P<0.05) and plasma Ang II (18+/-5 vs.65+/-12 pg/ml, control vs. fructose, P<0.05). Depressor responses to alpha(1)-adrenergic blockade with prasozin were augmented in fructose-fed mice. Using quantitative in situ hybridization, we found that Ang AT1a receptor and TH mRNA expression were significantly increased in the brainstem locus coeruleus.
A high fructose diet in mice produced nocturnal hypertension and autonomic imbalance which may be related to activation of sympathetic and angiotensin systems.
Experimental and clinical evidence points to a role of central histaminergic system in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. The present study was designed to study the effect of histamine H(3)-receptor ligands on neuroleptic-induced catalepsy, apomorphine-induced climbing behavior and amphetamine-induced locomotor activities in mice. Catalepsy was induced by haloperidol (2 mg/kg p.o.), while apomorphine (1.5 mg/kg s.c.) and amphetamine (2 mg/kg s.c.) were used for studying climbing behavior and locomotor activities, respectively. (R)-alpha-methylhistamine (RAMH) (5 microg i.c.v.) and thioperamide (THP) (15 mg/kg i.p.), per se did not cause catalepsy. Administration of THP (3.75, 7.5 and 15 mg/kg i.p.) 1 h prior to haloperidol resulted in a dose-dependent increase in the catalepsy times (P < 0.05). However, pretreatment with RAMH significantly reversed such an effect of THP (15 mg/kg i.p.). RAMH per se showed significant reduction in locomotor time, distance traveled and average speed but THP (15 mg/kg i.p.) per se had no effect on these parameters. On amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, THP (3.75 and 7.5 mg/kg i.p.) reduced locomotor time, distance traveled and average speed (P < 0.05). Pretreatment with RAMH (5 microg i.c.v.) could partially reverse such effects of THP (3.75 mg/kg i.p.). Climbing behavior induced by apomorphine was reduced in animals treated with THP. Such an effect was, however, reversed in presence of RAMH. THP exhibited an antipsychotic-like profile by potentiating haloperidol-induced catalepsy, reducing amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and reducing apomorphine-induced climbing in mice. Such effects of THP were reversed by RAMH indicating the involvement of histamine H(3)-receptors. Findings suggest a potential for H(3)-receptor antagonists in improving the refractory cases of schizophrenia.
Approximately 10-28 % of patients experience adverse drug reactions related to treatment with thiopurines. The most serious reaction is myelosuppression, typically manifested as leucopenia, which occurs in approximately 2-5 % of patients. Other adverse drug reactions that often accompany thiopurine therapy are pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity, allergic reactions, digestive intolerance, arthralgia, febrile conditions, and rash.
The objective of this study was to assess the relationship between variant alleles of thiopurine S-methyltransferase (SNPs 238G > C, 460G > A and 719A > G), inosine triphosphate diphosphatase (SNPs 94C > A and IVS2 + 21A > C), and xanthine dehydrogenase (837C > T) and the occurrence of adverse drug reactions to azathioprine therapy.
Genotype was determined for 188 Caucasians diagnosed with inflammatory bowel disease treated with a standard dose of azathioprine (1.4-2.0 mg/kg/day). Allelic variants were determined by PCR-REA and real-time PCR methods. Results were statistically evaluated by use of Fisher's test and by odds ratio calculation.
Variant genotype thiopurine S-methyltransferase predisposes to development of leucopenia (P = 0.003, OR = 5, CI 95 %, 1.8058-13.8444). Although not statistically significant, we observed a trend that suggested correlation between the occurrence of digestive intolerance and the variant genotype inosine triphosphate diphosphatase (P = 0.1102; OR 15.63, CI 95 %, 1.162-210.1094), and between the occurrence of pancreatitis and the variant allele xanthine dehydrogenase 837T (P = 0.1124; OR 12,1, CI 95 %, 1.15-126.37).
The variant genotype thiopurine S-methyltransferase has been associated with the occurrence of leucopenia. The involvement of polymorphisms in inosine triphosphate diphosphatase and xanthine dehydrogenase genes in the development of digestive intolerance and pancreatitis will require further verification.
The authors report a case of ischaemia of all four limbs in an adolescent following the simultaneous ingestion of triacetyl oleandomycin and ergotamine tartrate in low dosage. Two cases involving this same association of medications have appeared in the literature and attention is therefore drawn to the possible danger of use of these two drugs together.
Captopril, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor used in the treatment of hypertension, has been associated with hematologic as well as dermatologic side effects. Two patients with captopril-induced angioneurotic edema, one of whom had fatal granulocytopenia and overwhelming polymicrobial sepsis, are presented.
Tamoxifen therapy is associated with an increased risk of endometrial cancer. There is controversy regarding the incidence of high-grade endometrial malignancies associated with tamoxifen therapy. This retrospective study assesses pathological features of endometrial malignancy in patients with and without a history of tamoxifen therapy. This is a retrospective case analysis from a district general hospital. The cases were identified from the pathology database and the medical notes reviewed. The period of the study was January 1994 to December 2001. One hundred and ninety six women with endometrial cancer were identified. 20 patients had a history of breast cancer being treated with adjuvant tamoxifen therapy and developed subsequently endometrial cancer. The histology in women who had not taken tamoxifen showed: adenocarcinoma (97.1%), 1.7% had mixed mullerian tumour. Women in the tamoxifen-treated group had: adenocarcinoma (85%), sarcoma (5%), mixed mullerian tumour (5%). In this study the tamoxifen-treated group of patients developed endometrial malignancies with a higher incidence of poor prognostic malignancies (p = 0.01). Further research is needed to analyse the precise tumour types and pathophysiology.
