Forty-one patients with advanced breast cancer were given carboplatin and vinorelbine as second-line therapy. Overall objective response rate was 46% (95% confidence interval 26-56%). Myelotoxicity was the most frequently observed toxic effect; grade III-IV leucopenia occurred in 46% of the patients. Our regimen is active as second-line chemotherapy for advanced breast cancer and warrants further evaluation.
The pharmacokinetics of ajmaline were studied in 10 patients with suspected paroxysmal atrioventricular block who received a 1 mg/kg intravenous dose over 2 minutes for diagnostic purposes (ajmaline test). Plasma concentration decay followed a triexponential time course with a final half-life much longer (7.3 +/- 3.6 hours) than that previously found by other investigators (about 15 minutes). Mean total plasma clearance and renal clearance were 9.76 ml/min/kg and 0.028 ml/min/kg, respectively. Although most of the dose was eliminated through the extrarenal route (only 3.5% of the intravenous dose was recovered in urine), no fluorescent metabolites could be detected either in plasma or urine. The steady-state volume of distribution averaged 6.17 L/kg, and plasma protein binding ranged between 29 and 46%. Three patients developed a transient atrioventricular block after ajmaline administration. In the remainder, the drug prolonged atrio-His bundle (AH interval), His bundle-ventricular (HV interval) and intraventricular (QRS interval) conduction times. Corrected ventricular repolarisation time (QTc interval) showed less marked changes, which were biphasic at times. The mean maximum ajmaline-induced increase in HV interval was 98%, in QRS was 58%, in AH was 30%, and in QTc was 17%. In most cases the time course of electrocardiographic changes lagged behind that of plasma concentrations, suggesting a delayed equilibrium of plasma concentrations with the site of action (hysteresis). Despite that, the pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model, which accounted for hysteresis, failed to fit the experimental data adequately.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Two cases of 5-Fluorouracil (5FU) cardiotoxicity, chest pain with changes in ECG the former, and myocardial infarction the latter, are described. Review of literature shows the existence of 49 cases of cardiotoxicity due to 5FU (38 angina = 77.5% 8 myocardial infarction = 16.3%). This complication seems due to a "coronary toxicity" whose onset is very precocious and not dose-dependent. Since 5FU therapy could result very dangerous when cardiotoxicity occurs, it is strictly advisable to withdraw further administration of the drug. As a matter of fact 18 patients out of 21 who again were treated with 5FU, had more serious complications which resulted in 3 myocardial infarctions (2 deaths).
NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG), an inhibitor of nitric-oxide synthase (NOS), induces catalepsy in mice. This effect undergoes rapid tolerance, showing a significant decrease after 2 days of sub-chronic L-NOARG treatment. Nitric oxide (NO) has been shown to influence dopaminergic neurotransmission in the striatum. Neuroleptic drugs such as haloperidol, which block dopamine receptors, also cause catalepsy in rodents.
To investigate the effects of subchronic L-NOARG treatment in haloperidol-induced catalepsy and the number of NOS neurons in areas related to motor control.
Male albino Swiss mice were treated sub-chronically (twice a day for 4 days) with L-NOARG (40 mg/kg i.p.) or haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.). Catalepsy was evaluated at the beginning and the end of the treatments. Reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry was also employed to visualize NOS as an index of enzyme expression in mice brain regions related to motor control.
L-NOARG sub-chronic administration produced tolerance of L-NOARG and of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. It also induced an increase in the number of NADPH-d-positive cells in the dorsal part of the caudate and accumbens nuclei compared with haloperidol and in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus compared with saline. In contrast, there was a decrease in NADPH-d neuron number in the substantia nigra, pars compacta in both haloperidol-treated and L-NOARG-treated animals.
The results give further support to the hypothesis that NO plays a role in motor behavior control and suggest that it may take part in the synaptic changes produced by antipsychotic treatment.
Treatment with gold in the form of aurothiomaleate, silver or mercury (Hg) in genetically susceptible mouse strains (H-2(s)) induces a systemic autoimmune condition characterized by anti-nuclear antibodies targeting the 34-kDa nucleolar protein fibrillarin, as well as lymphoproliferation and systemic immune-complex (IC) deposits. In this study we have examined the effect of single-gene deletions for interferon (IFN)-gamma, interleukin (IL)-4, IL-6 or CD28 in B10.S (H-2(s)) mice on heavy metal-induced autoimmunity. Targeting of the genes for IFN-gamma, IL-6 or CD28 abrogated the development of both anti-fibrillarin antibodies (AFA) and IC deposits using a modest dose of Hg (130 microg Hg/kg body weight/day). Deletion of IL-4 severely reduced the IgG1 AFA induced by all three metals, left the total IgG AFA response intact, but abrogated the Hg-induced systemic IC deposits. In conclusion, intact IFN-gamma and CD28 genes are necessary for induction of AFA with all three metals and systemic IC deposits using Hg, while lack of IL-4 distinctly skews the metal-induced AFA response towards T helper type 1. In a previous study using a higher dose of Hg (415 microg Hg/kg body weight/day), IC deposits were preserved in IL-4(-/-) and IL-6(-/-) mice, and also AFA in the latter mice. Therefore, the attenuated autoimmunity following loss of IL-4 and IL-6 is dose-dependent, as higher doses of Hg are able to override the attenuation observed using lower doses.
Urine profiles (albumin, glucose, NAG, LDH, GGT, sodium, and phosphate) were followed for 14 days after intravenous injection of either diatrizoate, iohexol, ioxilan, or saline in 24 Wistar rats with a glomerular and tubular dysfunction induced by intramuscularly (i.m.) administered glycerol. Another 6 rats exposed to neither glycerol nor contrast media served as controls. The effect of ioxilan and saline on the albumin excretion was similar, whereas diatrizoate and iohexol increased it significantly. The contrast media had no further inhibitory effect on the reabsorption of glucose. Iohexol caused significantly increased excretion of all three enzymes, ioxilan of NAG and LDH, whereas diatrizoate only increased the excretion of LDH. The sodium excretion was further increased by ioxilan and diatrizoate, whereas none of the contrast media affected the phosphaturia. Both ioxilan and iohexol caused a round cell response around the tubules shown by light microscopy whereas diatrizoate caused no further changes. It is concluded that diatrizoate and iohexol increase glomerular dysfunction induced by glycerol i.m.; all three contrast media cause some further increase in the tubular dysfunction. Neither diatrizoate, iohexol nor ioxilan prolong nephropathy induced by glycerol i.m. determined by the chemical analyses. The histologic finding indicates a direct toxic effect of non-ionic low osmolar contrast media in this animal model of nephropathy.
To evaluate the role of endothelin (ET) in blood pressure regulation in normal pregnant and nonpregnant rats and with nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibition.
Pregnant and nonpregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were treated for 7 days with an ET(A)-selective (A-127722 or FR-139317), ET(B)-selective (A-192621), or ET(A)/ET(B) nonselective (A-182086) endothelin receptor antagonist, and/or with the NOS inhibitor, N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 2. 5 mg/kg/h). In pregnant rats, the ET antagonists and L-NAME were administered from gestational day 14 through day 21 (term = 22 days). All rats received indwelling arterial catheters for blood pressure measurement. Mean arterial pressures were recorded on infusion days 1, 4, and 7 and these data were compared by analysis of variance among experimental groups with p < 0.05 considered significant.
The ET(A) receptor antagonism lowered blood pressure in both pregnant and nonpregnant rats (p < 0.05), whereas ET(B) antagonism resulted in hypertension (p < 0.001). ET(B) antagonism-induced hypertension was attenuated by pregnancy (p < 0. 001). Hypertension was induced in all rats treated with L-NAME (p < 0.001). Endothelin receptor antagonism, regardless of specificity, did not ameliorate L-NAME-induced hypertension in pregnant or nonpregnant female rats. The only observed effect of ET(A) antagonism on NOS inhibition-induced hypertension was the prevention of a continued rise at infusion day 7 in nonpregnant rats.
Endothelin, acting via both the ET(A) and ET(B) receptors, contributes to blood pressure homeostasis in pregnant and nonpregnant rats. Endothelin receptor antagonism does not ameliorate NOS-inhibition-induced hypertension in pregnant rats.
Adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) has demonstrated activity against wild-type and lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV). After 1 year of therapy, a median 3.5-4.0 log10 decrease in viral load is observed. Our aim was to characterize the different profiles of response to ADV in relation to the in vitro susceptibility of viral strains to ADV.
In an international Phase III randomized, placebo-controlled study of ADV in patients positive for hepatitis B virus e antigen (HBeAg), different profiles of virological response to ADV 10 mg/day were identified at week 48. The top 25% patients (quartile 1, Q1) showed > 4.91 log10 reduction in serum HBV DNA at week 48, in Q2 patients demonstrated a 3.52 to 4.90 log10 reduction of viral load, whereas in Q3 a 2.22 to 3.51 log10 reduction in viral load was observed. The bottom 25% of patients (Q4) showed < 2.22 log10 reduction in HBV DNA levels. The influence of baseline characteristics and drug compliance on response was investigated. The replication capacity and drug susceptibility of HBV genomes of selected clinical isolates that were considered representative of the treatment response quartiles were analysed using a phenotypic assay.
The lowest quartile of response (Q4) appears to have worse compliance. Higher alanine aminotransferase levels at baseline are associated with improved response. Phenotypic analysis of viral strains in vitro in Huh7 and HepG2 cells showed that HBV genomes remained susceptible to ADV, regardless of treatment response observed in patients.
Suboptimal response to ADV might result from a host pharmacological effect or from patient compliance issues rather than from a reduced susceptibility of HBV to ADV.
Previous experiments have indicated that arterial hypotension increases plasma oxytocin (OT) levels in rats and that OT infused intravenously causes an increase in plasma renin activity (PRA). The goal of the present study was to determine whether systemic administration of an OT receptor antagonist would attenuate the increase in PRA that is normally evoked by arterial hypotension in rats. In conscious male rats, intravenous injection of hydralazine or diazoxide produced sustained hypotension and evoked a significant increase in PRA, as expected. Intravenous infusion of an OT receptor antagonist did not alter the hypotension induced by hydralazine or diazoxide, but it did markedly blunt the induced increase in PRA. The OT receptor antagonist also blunted the hypotension-evoked increase in heart rate and plasma vasopressin levels, suggesting that the antagonist may have generally disrupted afferent signaling of hypotension. Thus hypotension-evoked OT secretion may contribute to cardiovascular homeostasis by enhancing baroreceptor signals that stimulate increases in renin secretion, vasopressin secretion, and heart rate during arterial hypotension in rats.
Synthesis of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in the intestine may result in local tissue damage. We investigated whether a challenge with interleukin-1alpha could give rise to intestinal iNOS expression and diarrhea in rats of differing zinc status. Weaning male rats were fed a zinc-deficient (ZD) diet (2 mg zinc/kg) for 4 wk to induce zinc deficiency or a zinc-supplemented diet [50.8 mg zinc/kg; controls, including pair-fed (PF ) and ad libitum (AL) consumption groups], and then subcutaneously injected with interleukin-1alpha (2 x 10(7) units/kg body wt). Without the interleukin-1alpha challenge, ZD rats had significantly lower plasma zinc concentration than the other groups. Intestinal metallothionein-1 mRNA abundance was lower in ZD rats than in AL rats. iNOS was expressed in the intestine of ZD rats but not in the others. None of the rats experienced diarrhea during the feeding period. Interleukin-1alpha led to a reduction in plasma zinc concentration, enhancement in intestinal metallothionein-1 mRNA levels, and expression of the intestinal iNOS gene in all groups. However, the abundance of iNOS mRNA was significantly higher in ZD rats than in the other groups. The presence of iNOS protein was demonstrated by immunohistochemical staining in the intestine of ZD rats that had been treated with interleukin-1alpha 12 h earlier. In addition, diarrhea occurred in most of the ZD rats and some of the PF rats but not in AL rats after interleukin-1alpha treatment. We conclude that ZD rats respond to interleukin-1alpha challenge more severely than controls, reflected by a more marked and prolonged iNOS expression and a greater incidence of diarrhea.
Mercury is known to be neurotoxic, but its effects on the immune system are less well known. Mast cells are involved in allergic reactions, but also in innate and acquired immunity, as well as in inflammation. Many patients with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) have "allergic" symptoms; moreover, the prevalence of ASD in patients with mastocytosis, characterized by numerous hyperactive mast cells in most tissues, is 10-fold higher than the general population suggesting mast cell involvement. We, therefore, investigated the effect of mercuric chloride (HgCl2) on human mast cell activation.
Human leukemic cultured LAD2 mast cells and normal human umbilical cord blood-derived cultured mast cells (hCBMCs) were stimulated by HgCl2 (0.1-10 microM) for either 10 min for beta-hexosaminidase release or 24 hr for measuring vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and IL-6 release by ELISA.
HgCl2 induced a 2-fold increase in beta-hexosaminidase release, and also significant VEGF release at 0.1 and 1 microM (311 +/- 32 pg/106 cells and 443 +/- 143 pg/106 cells, respectively) from LAD2 mast cells compared to control cells (227 +/- 17 pg/106 cells, n = 5, p < 0.05). Addition of HgCl2 (0.1 microM) to the proinflammatory neuropeptide substance P (SP, 0.1 microM) had synergestic action in inducing VEGF from LAD2 mast cells. HgCl2 also stimulated significant VEGF release (360 +/- 100 pg/106 cells at 1 microM, n = 5, p < 0.05) from hCBMCs compared to control cells (182 +/- 57 pg/106 cells), and IL-6 release (466 +/- 57 pg/106 cells at 0.1 microM) compared to untreated cells (13 +/- 25 pg/106 cells, n = 5, p < 0.05). Addition of HgCl2 (0.1 microM) to SP (5 microM) further increased IL-6 release.
HgCl2 stimulates VEGF and IL-6 release from human mast cells. This phenomenon could disrupt the blood-brain-barrier and permit brain inflammation. As a result, the findings of the present study provide a biological mechanism for how low levels of mercury may contribute to ASD pathogenesis.
Propofol, which is commonly used for outpatient anaesthesia, may evoke pain during infusion. Forty-eight patients (ASA-I-II) undergoing elective uterine dilatation and curettage received randomly in a standardised fashion: A: Propofol mixed with prilocaine; B: Propofol and lidocaine; C: Propofol with prilocaine+lidocaine (equal amounts) or D: Propofol and saline. The final ratio of propofol:local anaesthetic/saline was 9:1 in all mixtures. Pain on injection was significantly decreased in the three groups receiving propofol and local anaesthetic(s) compared to the one given propofol and saline. Propofol is required in greater amounts when mixed with lidocaine than when mixed with saline. A binding between the algesic part of the propofol molecule and the local anaesthetic agent may explain these findings. Another twenty-two comparable patients were given 30 mg of ketorolac or an equal volume of saline intramuscularly 45-60 minutes prior to propofol. Ketorolac given before propofol did not reduce pain on injection. This indicates that inhibition of the cyclooxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism does not play a major role in the reduction of this pain.
Theophylline-associated seizures (TAS) are considered a neurologic emergency, as they can sometimes be intractable and difficult to stop with standard treatments such as intravenous administration of diazepam. As a consequence, a proportion of patients who experience status epilepticus while receiving theophylline will require endotracheal intubation. The optimal first-line therapy for TAS has not yet been fully investigated. We compared 54 cases of TAS with 779 cases of non-TAS, that had presented at a single institution between 1991 and 2002. Among the 54 cases of TAS, 36 experienced generalized tonic-clonic seizures, with the remainder experiencing partial seizures. TAS occurred mainly in children under 3 years of age, and serum theophylline levels were within the therapeutic range in 78% of the cases. The duration of TAS tended to be longer than for non-TAS, and intravenous administration of diazepam was less effective in controlling TAS (45%), compared with non-TAS (68%). Many cases required repeated injections of diazepam, and 15 cases (27%) eventually required endotracheal intubation. Reports concerning the therapy for TAS were also reviewed. Theophylline is known to antagonize the effects of benzodiazepines, and this may explain why drugs such as diazepam are relatively ineffective in treating TAS. In TAS, the prompt use of barbiturates is recommended when diazepam is not effective, to avoid potential brain injury secondary to status epilepticus.
Oxazepam has been the subject of recent toxicological and carcinogenesis studies because it is a commonly prescribed tranquilizer and has been shown to cause tumors in rodents. In this study, male and female B6C3F1 mice received 0, 125, 2500 or 5000 p.p.m. oxazepam in the diet for up to 2 years. Hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas, as well as hepatoblastomas, which developed in these mice, were examined for the presence of activated ras proto-oncogenes. DNA was isolated from 20 or more tumors from each exposure group and analyzed by oligonucleotide hybridization, single-stranded conformation polymorphism analysis and direct sequencing of PCR-amplified H-ras gene fragments for codon 61 mutations. Thirteen of 37 (35%) hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas from the 125 p.p.m. exposure group had mutations in codon 61, while mutations were detected in only 2 of 25 or 8% of the liver tumors from the 2500 p.p.m. exposure group and none of the 22 tumors from the 5000 p.p.m. group. This compares to 63% of 126 historical control liver tumors and 55% of 20 liver tumors from unexposed B6C3F1 mice in this study. In addition, 12 hepatoblastomas from the two high dose groups were examined for H-ras mutations at codon 61, but none were detected. No tumor DNAs from any of the exposure groups tested had mutations in codons 12, 13 or 117 of the H-ras gene or codons 12 or 13 of the K-ras gene, the other known hotspots for ras activation in mouse liver tumors. These results, together with those from the National Toxicology Program study showing no evidence of cytotoxicity or genotoxicity by oxazepam, suggest that oxazepam preferentially promotes cells that have activating lesions other than ras.
To investigate the effect of co-exposure to cadmium (Cd) and selenium (Se) on selenoprotein P (SelP) and phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (GPx4) gene expression in testis and to evaluate their possible involvement in Cd-induced testicular pathophysiology, male rats received either tap water, Cd or Cd+Se in their drinking water for 5 weeks. Cd exposure caused a down-regulation of SelP and GPx4 gene expression and a significant decrease in plasma and testicular concentrations of Se. These changes were accompanied by decreased plasma testosterone level, sperm count and motility, GSH content, protein-bound sulfhydryl concentration (PSH), enzymatic activities of catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) as well as by increased glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity, lipid peroxidation (as malondialdehyde, MDA) and proteins carbonyls (PC). The decrease of testicular SelP and GPx4 gene expression under Cd influence was significantly restored in Cd+Se group. Co-treatment with Cd and Se also totally reversed the Cd-induced depletion of Se, decrease in plasma testosterone level and partially restored Cd-induced oxidative stress and decrease in sperm count and motility. Taken together, these data suggest that down-regulation of SelP and GPx4 gene expression induces plasma and testicular Se depletion leading, at least in part, to Cd-induced testicular pathophysiology.
The nephrotoxicity of 4-amino-3-S-glutathionylphenol (PAP-GSH), a known metabolite of 4-amino-phenol (PAP), was determined in male Fischer 344 rats. Administration of a single dose of 40 or 60 mumol kg-1 caused a marked elevation in blood urea nitrogen and an increase in the urinary excretion of glucose, protein and gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT). These changes were associated with histological alterations in the proximal tubule, where at the lower dose the lesion was restricted to the S3 region of the proximal tubule in the medullary rays, while at the higher dose the lesion extended to affect the S3 region in both the medullary rays and the outer stripe of the outer medulla. Studies with [35S]-PAP-GSH at 40 mumol kg-1 showed selective retention of radioactivity in the kidney, relative to other organs 24 h after dosing and that some radioactivity was covalently bound to renal proteins. Pretreatment of animals with probenecid, an inhibitor of renal organic anion transport, or aminooxyacetic acid, an inhibitor of cysteine conjugate beta-lyase, had little or no effect on the toxicity. In contrast, pretreatment of animals with acivicin, an inhibitor of gamma-glutamyltransferase, or co-administration of PAP-GSH with ascorbic acid almost completely protected against the nephrotoxicity. This protection was associated with a decreased concentration of radioactivity from [35S]-PAP-GSH in the kidneys and a decrease in the amount covalently bound to renal protein. Thus, the nephrotoxicity of PAP-GSH may be mediated by oxidation and further processing of the glutathione conjugate via gamma-glutamyltransferase.
Imatinib mesylate is a drug that has been approved for treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in blast crisis, accelerated or chronic phase, and also for advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Severe hepatic toxicity and three deaths from hepatic failure have been reported. We report the case of a 51-year-old woman who was admitted to our institution with severe acute hepatitis. She was diagnosed with CML and began treatment with imatinib mesylate at a dose of 400 mg/d. Five months after beginning treatment, she developed severe hepatitis associated with coagulopathy, and was admitted to our institution. She had been consuming acetaminophen 500-1000 mg/d after the onset of symptoms. She had a progressive increase in bilirubin level and a marked decrease of clotting factor V. Five days after admission, grade II encephalopathy developed and she was referred for liver transplantation. Her clinical condition progressively deteriorated, and 48 h after being referred for transplantation she suffered a cardiac arrest and died. This report adds concern about the possibility of imatinib-mesylate-induced hepatotoxicity and liver failure, particularly in the case of concomitant use with acetaminophen. Liver function tests should be carefully monitored during treatment and, with the appearance of any elevation of liver function tests, treatment should be discontinued.
Oxidative stress plays a crucial role in the progression and development of diabetes and its complications due to chronic hyperglycemia. The present study was aimed to investigate the kidney tissue protective nature of d-pinitol, a cyclitol present in soybean, by assessing the key markers of hyperglycemia-mediated oxidative stress, proinflammatory cytokines and ultrastructural alterations in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Oral administration of d-pinitol (50mg/kg body weight/day) for 30 days to diabetic group of rats showed a significant elevation in the level of total protein and significant decline in the levels of blood urea, serum uric acid, creatinine and advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) and kidney proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, NF-kappaB p65 subunit and nitrite. Further, d-pinitol administration elicited a significant attenuation in the activities of kidney enzymatic antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and glutathione reductase (GR) and the levels of kidney non-enzymatic antioxidants such as vitamin E, vitamin C and reduced glutathione (GSH) in the diabetic group of rats, with a concomitant decline in the levels of kidney lipid peroxides, hydroperoxides and protein carbonyls. The histological and ultrastructural observations on the kidney tissues also confirmed the renoprotective nature of d-pinitol. Thus the present study demonstrated the renoprotective nature of d-pinitol by attenuating the hyperglycemia-mediated proinflammatory cytokines and antioxidant competence in kidney tissues of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.
Churg-Strauss syndrome is a rare, idiopathic, eosinophilic vasculitis appearing in concurrence with asthma which is often severe. Aspirin-induced asthma is a special clinical syndrome existing in nearly 10 % of adult asthmatics. After leukotriene antagonists had been marketed there has been marked increase in Churg-Strauss syndrome reports among the patients who had been followed up with asthma. This syndrome seems to be more frequent among the patients with aspirin-induced asthma. The role of leukotriene antagonists on the conversion from aspirin-induced asthma to Churg-Strauss syndrome has aroused attention and been questioned. Here we report 7 cases of Churg-Strauss syndrome where three had aspirin induced asthma which we have diagnosed in the last 10 years and where only one of them seems to be related to antileukotriene drug use.
Interaction of cholinergic and glutamatergic inputs in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) influencing a learned behavior is a topic of great interest. In the present study the effect of intra-VTA administration of a nonselective muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist, scopolamine, and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agents by themselves as well as their interactions on consolidation and retrieval of inhibitory avoidance (IA) memory have been investigated. A step-through inhibitory avoidance task was used for memory assessment in male Wistar rats. The results showed that intra-VTA administration of scopolamine (1 and 2microg/rat) and NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (0.75 and 1microg/rat) immediately after training, impaired consolidation of IA memory. Interestingly, co-administration of an ineffective dose of MK-801 (0.5microg/rat) with ineffective doses of scopolamine (0.25 and 0.5microg/rat) significantly decreased the consolidation process. Post-training intra-VTA injections of NMDA (0.001 and 0.01microg/rat) had no effects by itself, whereas its co-administration with scopolamine (2microg/rat) prevented the effect of the later drug. The results also showed that pre-test intra-VTA administration of scopolamine (3 and 4microg/rat) and MK-801 (1 and 2microg/rat) impaired retrieval of the IA memory. Moreover, co-administration of an ineffective dose of MK-801 (0.5microg/rat) with ineffective doses of scopolamine (1 and 2microg/rat) increasingly reduced the retrieval of the IA memory. On the contrary to its post-training treatment, pre-test administration of NMDA either alone or in combination with scopolamine caused no significant effect on retrieval of IA memory. It can be concluded that muscarinic acetylcholine and NMDA glutamate receptors in the VTA are involved in the mechanism(s) underlying consolidation and retrieval of the IA memory.
ERBB2/neu and Notch signaling are known to be deregulated in many human cancers. However, pathway cross-talk and dependencies are not well understood. In this study, we use an ERBB2-transgenic mouse model of breast cancer (neuT) to show that Notch signaling plays a critical role in tumor maintenance. Inhibition of the Notch pathway with a gamma-secretase inhibitor (GSI) decreased both the Notch and the mammalian target of rapamycin/AKT pathways. Antitumor activity resulting from GSI treatment was associated with decreased cell proliferation as measured by Ki67 and decreased expression of glucose transporter Glut1. Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging showed that the functional consequences of decreased Glut1 translated to reduced glucose uptake and correlated with antitumor effects as measured by micro-computed tomography imaging. The decrease of Glut1 in neuT tumors was also observed in several human breast cancer cell lines following GSI treatment. We provide evidence that approximately 27% of ERBB2-positive human breast cancer specimens display high expression of HES1, phospho-S6RP, and GLUT1. Together, these results suggest that pathways downstream of Notch signaling are, at least in part, responsible for promoting tumor growth in neuT and also active in both neuT and a subset of human breast cancers. These findings suggest that GSI may provide therapeutic benefit to a subset of ERBB2-positive breast cancers and that [(18)F]FDG-PET imaging may be useful in monitoring clinical response.
Melatonin plays an important role in many aspects of the human reproductive process. Our results first strongly suggest that MTNR1B mediating some functions of melatonin contributes to the phenotypic expression of polycystic ovary syndrome, which provide a new insight into the role of MTNR1B gene in the pathophysiology of the disease.
To evaluate whether an inactivating mutation in the gene for the Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS1) plays a role in the etiology of prostate cancer, we compared the prevalence of the 657del5 NBS1 founder allele in 56 patients with familial prostate cancer, 305 patients with nonfamilial prostate cancer, and 1500 control subjects from Poland. Loss of heterozygosity analysis also was performed on DNA samples isolated from 17 microdissected prostate cancers, including 8 from carriers of the 657del5 mutation. The NBS1 founder mutation was present in 5 of 56 (9%) patients with familial prostate cancer (odds ratio, 16; P < 0.0001), 7 of 305 (2.2%) patients with nonfamilial prostate cancer (odds ratio, 3.9; P = 0.01), and 9 of 1500 control subjects (0.6%). The wild-type NBS1 allele was lost in seven of eight prostate tumors from carriers of the 657del5 allele, but loss of heterozygosity was seen in only one of nine tumors from noncarriers (P = 0.003). These findings suggest that heterozygous carriers of the NBS1 founder mutation exhibit increased susceptibility to prostate cancer and that the cancers that develop in the prostates of carriers are functionally homozygous for the mutation.
To determine whether the toxicity that occurs in some patients when lamotrigine (LTG) is added to carbamazepine (CBZ) is the result of either a pharmacokinetic or a pharmacodynamic interaction.
Escalating LTG doses were added to ongoing CBZ treatment in 47 patients. All patients had blood samples collected for drug concentration measurement, including the epoxide metabolite of CBZ, before starting LTG treatment and after stabilising at each dose escalation. Patients also were examined for signs of toxicity.
After LTG was introduced, nine patients demonstrated clinical signs of CNS toxicity, mainly diplopia and dizziness. There was no significant (p = 0.05) change in the serum concentrations of either CBZ or its epoxide metabolite when LTG was added either to the group as a whole or to the nine patients who experienced adverse CNS effects. LTG serum concentrations also were below the level at which the common signs of LTG toxicity, such as nausea, vomiting, or unsteadiness, are more likely to occur. In seven of the nine patients who exhibited CNS toxicity, CBZ serum concentrations were >8 mg/L on LTG introduction.
Toxicity is more likely to occur when LTG is added to CBZ if the initial CBZ level is high, typically >8 mg/L. This appears to be the result of a pharmacodynamic interaction. A reduction of CBZ dose usually resolves the toxicity, allowing the LTG dose to be escalated to maximal effect. It is not usually necessary to stop either drug.
In spite of their intrinsic anti-inflammatory properties, corticosteroids can induce contact allergy. When studying the allergenic properties of corticosteroids it has to be considered that both the allergenic and anti-inflammatory effect may influence the induction phase as well as the elicitation phase and that such effects may be dose-dependent. A multiple dose guinea pig maximization test (GPMT) was therefore used to study the dose-response relationship of tixocortol pivalate. The GPMT was conducted according to OECD guideline #406, using a multiple-dose design and test results were analysed with logistic regression analysis. There was a significant tixocortol pivalate sensitization of the test animals compared to the control group (p<0.05), after both challenge and re-challenge. The challenge with 1% tixocortol pivalate gave more positive reactions than the challenge with 3%. The highest frequency of positive animals was observed when the animals were treated with low to intermediate induction concentrations and intermediate to high challenge concentrations with tixocortol pivalate in the TRUE Test. Cross-reactivity was found between tixocortol pivalate and hydrocortisone, which was expected from their close molecular resemblance, whereas no cross-reactivity was seen between tixocortol pivalate and the 3 other corticosteroids: amcinonide, budesonide, and hydrocortisone-17-butyrate.
