Airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) is present in almost all patients with symptomatic asthma, yet its mechanism is not well understood. Airway inflammation is thought to be an important underlying mechanism involved in causing AHR. Recent studies indicate release of neuropeptides from C-fiber endings plays a pivotal role in airway inflammation. Substance P (SP) is a critical neurotransmitter of sensory C-fiber and a well-known effector of inflammatory response. However, roles of other neuropeptides and interaction among these neuropeptides in airway inflammation and AHR were largely unknown. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), another intrapulmonary neuropeptide that functions as a potent vasodilator and neutrophils activator, is released from the same C-fiber ending as SP is released. By using an ozone-stressing animal model, previously we had demonstrated that CGRP might be involved in the development of AHR in rabbits. To extend the functional roles of SP, and to explore the possible interactive roles of SP and CGRP in airway inflammation, we examined expressions of SP, SP receptor (neurokinin 1, or NK-1R) and CGRP in vivo and ex vivo. We exposed guinea pigs at intervals to inhalation of ozone to induce airway inflammation. Animals were sacrificed at different time points; SP, SP receptor and CGRP expression were determined during the onset and progression of airway inflammation by radioimmunoassay, immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Our data showed that after exposure to ozone, the concentration of SP in lung homogenate and the number of SP-immunoreactive cell bodies in lung slides increased within 24h, peaked on day 2, and then decreased slowly. Interestingly, CGRP expressions exhibited a similar temporal and spatial pattern, and there was a strong correlation between SP expression and CGRP expression, indicating a possible cooperative action of these two neuropeptides. We also noted an increased expression of SP receptor NK-1R in the development of airway inflammation. In order to test the hypothesis that CGRP as a coexisting neurotransmitter with SP can regulate the expression of NK-1R in the lung, and contribute to the SP-mediated inflammatory response, we used in vitro lung tissue culture to determine the effect of CGRP on NK-1R expression. We found that NK-1R expression was induced by CGRP incubation at both mRNA and protein levels, and the induction was attenuated by additions of the inhibitors of Protein Kinase A (PKA) pathway, Calmodulin-dependent Kinase pathway, and Tyrosine Protein Kinase pathway. In conclusion, our data provide compelling evidence that SP and CGRP are involved in the development of airway inflammation. The interaction between SP and CGRP is likely to contribute to the pathogenesis of AHR and other lung inflammatory diseases.
A companion paper in this issue (46) described the evolution of peripheral nervous system dying-back disease of the giant axonal type in animals chronically intoxicated with the neurotoxic hexacarbons n-hexane (CH3CH2CH2CH2CH2CH3), methyl n-butyl ketone or MBK (CH3COCH2CH2CH2CH3), and 2,5-hexanedione (CH3COCH2CH2COCH3). The present study compares the distribution and pattern of peripheral (PNS) and central nervous system (CNS) dying-back disease produced by these three neurotoxic hexacarbons with that produced by acrylamide (CH2CHCONH2), and, in addition, employs these compounds to address unresolved issues in the dying-back process. In the PNS, large myelinated fibers in tibial nerve branches supplying calf muscles were especially sensitive in rats intoxicated with hexacarbons. These nerve branches and sensory plantar nerves in the hindfeet were equally vulnerable in acrylamide-treated rats. In both conditions, fibers located at these sites commenced degeneration before the distal regions of much longer and smaller diameter nerve fibers in nerve branches supplying the flexor digitorum brevis muscle and, in rats intoxicated with hexacarbons, before equivalent regions of plantar sensory branches to the digits. Pacinian corpuscles sited in the hindfeet of intoxicated cats were much less vulnerable to MBK than to acrylamide. Rats and cats intoxicated with hexacarbons displayed giant axonal swellings in vulnerable regions of the PNS degeneration in these animals was accompanied by pronounced endoneurial edema. In the CNS, rostral regions of long, ascending tracts (dorso-spino-cerebellar, gracile and, later, the cuneate) and the caudal end of long, descending tracts (lateral colums, ventrolateral and ventromedial tracts) of hexacarbon-treated animals were especially vulnerable. After prolonged intoxication of cats with MBK, giant axonal swelling was also found in preterminal and terminal axons in Rexed laminae V-VII at spinal levels C4 through S3-Neurofilament proliferation without giant axonal swelling was seen in CNS fibers of rats intoxicated with acrylamide. Taken in concert, the findings underline the importance of axon diameter and length in determining the hierarchy of fiber vulnerability and indicate the common sensitivity of selected regions of the PNS and CNS. The term central-peripheral distal axonopathy is introduced to emphasize the widespread, distal distribution of disease in these and in similar experimental conditions. It is suggested that certain human neuropathies (toxic, nutritional, uremic, diabetic and some hereditary polyneuropathies, and the neuropathy associated with multiple myeloma) are additional examples of central-peripheral distal axonopathies.
The spatio-temporal evolution of peripheral giant axonal degeneration has been studied in rats during the development of concurrent peripheral (PNS) and central (CNS) nervous system dying-back disease after chronic intoxication with the neurotoxic hexacarbons n-hexane (CH3CH2CH2CH2CH2CH3), methyl n-butyl ketone (MBK) (CH3COCH2CH2CH2CH3), or 2,5-hexanedione (CH3COCH2CH2CHOCH3), a neurotoxic metabolite of MBK. Each compound caused animals insidiously to develop identical, symmetrical peripheral neuropathies characterized by eversion and drop of hindfeet, inability to extend hindlimbs and upper extremity weakness. Teased fiber studies demonstrated that giant axonal swellings first developed on the proximal sides of multiple paranodes sited in distal, non-terminal regions of large myelinated fibers. Later, swellings developed at internodal sites. Smaller myelinated and unmyelinated fibers also underwent multifocal, giant axonal swelling. In affected myelinated fibers, swollen nodal and paranodal axons were frequently associated with retracted paranodal myelin sheaths. Adjacent distal internodes were attenuated and corrugated. Demyelinated paranodes apparently underwent local shrinkage and remyelination before complete distal fiber breakdown commenced. The proximal limits of chains of homogeneous myelin ovoids were interfaced with proximal, preserved regions at sites of giant axonal swellings. Regeneration of myelinated axons also occurred during intoxication. Regenerating fibers wre composed of multiple, short, branched internodes which sometimes appeared multifocally swollen. Interfaces between regenerating and preserved portions of fibers were unswollen. Thick section studies showed that pronounced endoneurial edema accompanied fiber degeneration in peripheral nerve trunks. Ultrastructural studies revealed multifocal, giant axonal swellings containing masses of 10 nm neurofilaments and sometimes, clustered mitochondria, neurotubules and smooth endoplasmic reticulum. Enlarged granular mitochondria, interdigitated Schwann cell/axon networks and corrugated myelin sheaths were common findings. Dense granules, vesicles and hexagonal particles were also noted in the axoplasm. These findings provide new insights into the nature of the dying-back process: although there was a retrograde, temporal spread of axonal swelling up affected nerve trunks, axonal degeneration neither began in the nerve terminal nor spread seriatim centripetally along individual nerve fibers. The dying-back process was further examined in a companion study in this issue (32) which analyzed some of the factors determining the differential vulnerability of PNS and CNS fibers in animals intoxicated either with these neurotoxic hexacarbons or with acrylamide.
A healthy 6-year-old 28.5-kg (62.7-lb) spayed female Boxer undergoing surgical repair of a ruptured cranial cruciate ligament was inadvertently administered an overdose of morphine (1.3 mg/kg [0.59 mg/lb]) via subarachnoid injection.
50 minutes after administration of the overdose, mild multifocal myoclonic contractions became apparent at the level of the tail; the contractions migrated cranially and progressively increased in intensity and frequency during completion of the surgery.
The myoclonic contractions were refractory to treatment with midazolam, naloxone, phenobarbital, and pentobarbital; only atracurium (0.1 mg/kg [0.045 mg/lb], IV) was effective in controlling the movements. The dog developed hypertension, dysphoria, hyperthermia, and hypercapnia. The dog remained anesthetized and ventilated mechanically; treatments included continuous rate IV infusions of propofol (1 mg/kg/h [0.45 mg/lb/h]), diazepam (0.25 mg/kg/h [0.11 mg/lb/h]), atracurium (0.1 to 0.3 mg/kg/h [0.045 to 0.14 mg/lb/h]), and naloxone (0.02 mg/kg/h [0.009 mg/lb/h]). Twenty-two hours after the overdose, the myoclonus was no longer present, and the dog was able to ventilate without mechanical assistance. The dog remained sedated until 60 hours after the overdose, at which time its mentation improved, including recognition of caregivers and response to voice commands. No neurologic abnormalities were detectable at discharge (approx 68 hours after the overdose) or at a recheck evaluation 1 week later.
Although intrathecal administration of an overdose of morphine can be associated with major and potentially fatal complications, it is possible that affected dogs can completely recover with immediate treatment and extensive supportive care.
Promoting effects of sodium salts of phenobarbital (NaPB) and barbital (NaBB) on the development of bladder tumors were investigated in F344 male rats initiated with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) or N-nitrosobutyl-4-hydroxybutylamine (BBN). To initiate with FANFT, rats were fed 0.2% FANFT mixed in diet for either 2 or 6 weeks and 2 weeks later were offered diet containing 1000 ppm of NaPB or NaBB. Rats were killed either at 52 or 68 weeks of age. To initiate with BBN, rats were given 0.05% BBN in drinking water for 4 weeks and beginning 1 day later were fed NaBB mixed in diet at 1000 ppm for up to 52 weeks. NaBB promoted bladder carcinogenesis initiated by either FANFT or BBN; the incidence and average number of simple or preneoplastic nodular (PN) hyperplasias, papillomas, and carcinomas per 10 cm of urothelium were significantly increased in the groups receiving NaBB following exposure to FANFT for 6 weeks (p less than 0.05) or BBN for 4 weeks (p less than 0.01). No such effect was seen in rats fed FANFT for only 2 weeks. NaPB also significantly increased (p less than 0.05) the frequency of preneoplastic PN hyperplasias but not the average number of papillomas and carcinomas per 10 cm of urothelium in rats fed FANFT for 6 weeks. NaBB was an effective promoter of bladder carcinogenesis under these experimental conditions, as expected from its known promoting effect on transitional epithelium of the renal pelvis, but NaPB in contrast did not affect the incidence or multiplicity of bladder papillomas or carcinomas under these conditions. NaPB could be considered a promoter for bladder urothelium only by the less rigorous criterion that it increased the frequency of preneoplastic PN hyperplasia.
Aldosterone (Aldo) is recognized as an important risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. IL-18 induces myocardial hypertrophy, loss of contractility of cardiomyocytes, and apoptosis leading myocardial dysfunction. However, so far, there have been few reports concerning the interaction between Aldo and IL-18. The present study examined the effects and mechanisms of Aldo on IL-18 expression and the roles of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonists in rat cardiomyocytes. We used cultured rat neonatal cardiomyocytes stimulated with Aldo to measure IL-18 mRNA and protein expression, Rho-kinase, and NF-kappaB activity. We also investigated the effects of PPAR agonists on these actions. Aldo, endothelin-1 (ET-1), and angiotensin II (ANG II) increased IL-18 mRNA and protein expression. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists, endothelin A receptor antagonist, and ANG II receptor antagonist inhibited Aldo-induced IL-18 expression. Aldo induced ET-1 and ANG II production in cultured media. Moreover, Rho/Rho-kinase inhibitor and statin inhibited Aldo-induced IL-18 expression. On the other hand, Aldo upregulated the activities of Rho-kinase and NF-kappaB. PPAR agonists attenuated the Aldo-induced IL-18 expression and NF-kappaB activity but not the Rho-kinase activity. Our findings indicate that Aldo induces IL-18 expression through a mechanism that involves, at a minimum, ET-1 and ANG II acting via the Rho/Rho-kinase and PPAR/NF-kappaB pathway. The induction of IL-18 in cardiomyocytes by Aldo, ET-1, and ANG II might, therefore, cause a deterioration of the cardiac function in an autocrine and paracrine fashion. The inhibition of the IL-18 expression by PPAR agonists might be one of the mechanisms whereby the beneficial cardiovascular effects are exerted.
Chronic exposure to manganese (Mn) leads to a neurological disorder, manganism, which shares multiple common features with idiopathic Parkinson disease (IPD). 17beta-Estradiol (E2) and some selective estrogen receptor modulators, including tamoxifen (TX), afford neuroprotection in various experimental models of neurodegeneration. However, the neuroprotective effects and mechanisms of E2/TX in Mn-induced toxicity have yet to be documented. Herein, we studied the ability of E2/TX to protect rat cortical primary neuronal and astroglial cultures from Mn-induced toxicity. Cell viability, Western blot, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation were assessed. Results established that both E2 (10nM) and TX (1 microM) attenuated Mn-induced toxicity. The protective effects of E2/TX were more pronounced in astrocytes versus neurons. The E2-mediated attenuation of Mn-induced ROS generation in astrocytes at 6-h treatment (where no cell death was detected) was mediated by a classical estrogen receptor (ER) pathway and the TX-mediated effect on Mn-induced ROS generation was not mediated via classical ER-dependent mechanisms and likely by its antioxidant properties. The phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway was involved in both E2- and TX-induced attenuation of Mn-induced ROS formation (6 h) in astrocytes. Treatments with Mn for a longer duration (24 h) led to significant cell death, and the protective effects of E2 and TX were (1) not mediated by a classical ER pathway and (2) associated with activation of both mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways. Taken together, the results suggest that both E2 and TX offer effective therapeutic means for neuroprotection against Mn-induced toxicity.
1 The aim of the study was to determine the mechanism of the hypotension and bradycardia produced by prostacyclin (PGI2). 2 Haemodynamic studies were carried out in nineteen open-chest beagle dogs anaesthetized with chloralose. PGI2 was infused intravenously or into the left atrium. 3 Infusions of PGI2 either intravenously or into the left atrium equally reduced arterial pressure and total peripheral resistance but bradycardia was greater after infusion into the left atrium. 4 Comparison of effects of PGI2 with those of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) showed that although left atrial infusions both reduced aortic pressure and total peripheral resistance, PGE2 always increased heart rate, cardiac output and maximum acceleration. 5 Similar effects were observed with sodium nitroprusside except that it always caused tachycardia and reduced stroke volume. 6 Atropine (0.05 or 1 mg/kg i.v.) reduced or reversed the bradycardia induced by PGI2 but its hypotensive effects were reduced only after 1 mg/kg atropine. After vagotomy changes in cardiac output, stroke volume and maximum acceleration were increased, the hypotensive effects of PGI2 were reduced and the bradycardia was reversed; effects induced by PGE2 were not significantly altered. 7 The hypotension induced by prostacyclin is due to two components, a direct relaxation of vascular smooth muscle and a reflex, non-cholinergic vasodilatation. The bradycardia is reflex in nature and is partially mediated by the vagus pathway.
A case of leukocytoclastic vasculitis in a 24-year-old woman is described. A severe eruption of vasculitis occurred after placebo-controlled oral challenge with 50 mg ponceau. The patient was asked to adhere to a diet free from food additives, and the vasculitis faded after a period of 2 months.
To evaluate the short-term effects of different intracavernosal agents and to investigate the antifibrotic effect of verapamil combined with these intracavernosal agents.
Forty-five Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 400 to 500 g each (mean weight 435.27 +/- 13.65 g) were equally divided into nine groups (n = 5). Papaverine (group 1), alprostadil (group 2), sodium nitroprusside (group 3), and verapamil (group 4) were injected alone intracavernously in 0.2-mL doses. Verapamil combined with papaverine, alprostadil, and sodium nitroprusside in 0.2-mL doses (0.1 mL verapamil and 0.1 mL vasoactive agent) were injected in groups 5 through 7. Group 8 was kept as a control group without injection, and isotonic saline alone was injected in group 9 during the same period. The intracavernous injection was done twice weekly with a 4-day interval. At the end of the study, total penectomy and multiple liver biopsies were performed to evaluate the histopathologic effects of the vasoactive agents and to test the liver function.
In all groups, the structure of the corpora cavernosa was well preserved generally and appeared similar to the control tissue. However, localized edema, fibrosis, macrophage infiltration, and polymorphonuclear leukocytes were found only at the injection site. Although these findings were not different from the findings in the saline and alprostadil groups, they were slightly more extensive in the papaverine and sodium nitroprusside alone groups and also in the vasoactive agent plus verapamil groups. Although mononuclear lymphocyte infiltration was found in the portal areas, advancing into the liver parenchyma, the liver function tests were within normal limits.
We observed that intracavernous injection, except with nitroprusside, caused focal intracavernosal fibrosis and edema. We believe these effects might not be caused by just the drug, but also by needle trauma, since general fibrosis was not observed in the short term. However, nitroprusside has a severe fibrotic effect on cavernosal tissue in the short term. Moreover, intracavernous verapamil injection could not prevent the fibrosis in the short term.
We investigated the antileukemia effects and molecular mechanisms of apoptosis induction by simultaneous blockade of PI3K and mutant FLT3 in AML cells grown under hypoxia in co-cultures with bone marrow stromal cells. Combined treatment with selective class I PI3K inhibitor GDC-0941 and sorafenib reversed the protective effects of bone marrow stromal cells on FLT3-mutant AML cells in hypoxia, which was associated with downregulation of Pim-1 and Mcl-1 expression levels. These findings suggest that combined inhibition of PI3K and FLT3-ITD may constitute a targeted approach to eradicating chemoresistant AML cells sequestered in hypoxic bone marrow niches.
N,N'-Dialkyl-1,2-bis(2,6-dichloro-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethylenediamines show structural analogy with estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators. Because the vasodilator properties of these compounds are unknown, we investigated their potential to relax porcine coronary arteries and determined the mechanism(s) of relaxation. Isolated porcine coronary arterial rings were suspended in organ chambers, precontracted with KCl (30 mM), and the relaxant response was determined by measurement of changes in isometric force. Dependent on the chemical structure, the drugs induced concentration-dependent relaxation in rings with and without endothelium. N,N'-Dipropyl-1,2-bis(2,6-dichloro-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethylenediamine (8) was most potent and showed a 12- to 15-fold higher vasodilatory effect than 17beta-estradiol (E2). The vasorelaxation was independent of endothelium. Calcium concentration-dependent contractions in high-potassium depolarizing medium were insurmountably inhibited by 8. The effect of the L-type Ca2+ channel activator (S)-(-)-Bay K 8644 [(S)-(-)-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-5-nitro-4-[2-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-pyridine-carboxylic acid methyl ester], which induced a leftward shift of Ca2+ contraction, was blocked by 8. The relaxant response to 8 was unaffected by the estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780 (7alpha-[9-[(4,4,5,5,5-pentafluoropentyl]-sulfinyl]nonyl]-estra-1,3,5(10)-triene-3,17beta-diol) and K+ channel blockers, i.e., TEA, glibenclamide, and 4-aminopyridine. Furthermore, the vasodilatory effect of 8 was unaffected by the adenylyl cyclase inhibitor SQ 22536 [9-(tetrahydro-2-furanyl)-9H-purin-6-amine], the guanylyl cyclase inhibitor ODQ [1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one], the protein kinase A inhibitor KT 5720 [(9S,10S,12R)-2,3,9,10,11,12-hexahydro-10-hydroxy-9-methyl-1-oxo-9,12-epoxy-1H-diindolo[1,2,3-fg: 3',2',1'-kl]pyrrolo[3,4-i][1,6]benzodiazocine-10-carboxylic acid hexyl ester], the protein kinase G inhibitor KT 5823 [(9S,10R,12R)-2,3,9,10,11,12-hexahydro-10-methoxy-2,9-dimethyl-1-oxo-9,12-epoxy-1H-diindolo[1,2,3-fg:3',2',1'-kl]pyrrolo[3,4-i][1,6]benzodiazocine-10-carboxylic acid methyl ester], and the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor SB 203580 [4-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-(4-methylsulfinylphenyl)-5-(4-pyridyl)-1H-imidazole]. Western blot analysis demonstrated that 8, unlike E2, raloxifene, and tamoxifen, failed to stimulate p38 MAPK. It is concluded that N,N'-dipropyl-1,2-bis(2,6-dichloro-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethylenediamine induces endothelium-independent relaxation of coronary arteries; the mechanism apparently involves inhibition of L-type Ca2+ channels. The drug may be protective against cardiovascular diseases.
A prospective, randomized, double-blind study was performed in 40 patients (ASA class I-III) treated with atracurium to ascertain whether histamine release caused hemodynamic or cutaneous changes. The treated group of 20 patients was premedicated with the H1 antagonist dimetindene (0.2 mg/kg) and the H2 antagonist ranitidine (1.25 mg/kg); the control group of 20 patients received saline. Six minutes after the induction of anesthesia with thiopental/fentanyl, patients received atracurium 0.5 mg/kg over 5 s. Plasma histamine levels were measured fluorometrically 5 min after administration of thiopental/fentanyl and 2 and 5 min after atracurium. Arterial blood pressure and heart rate were recorded every 2 min. Histamine levels (0.24 ng/mL) did not change significantly after thiopental/fentanyl. In the control group, 2 min after injection of atracurium, plasma histamine levels were 0.76 +/- 0.76 ng/mL, and in the antihistamine-treated group, 0.39 +/- 0.24 ng/mL (P < 0.05 control versus treated), suggesting that pretreatment with antihistamines may attenuate atracurium-induced histamine release. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased significantly in both groups after thiopental (P < 0.05), but did not decrease further after the administration of atracurium. There were cutaneous manifestations in 7 of 20 patients in the control group and in none of the 20 patients treated with H1 and H2 antagonists (P < 0.0005). We conclude that atracurium caused modest histamine release in our patients but that the decrease in arterial blood pressure may have been due, in part, to thiopental. Cutaneous manifestations of histamine release did not correlate with hemodynamic events or with plasma histamine levels, but were prevented with antihistamine pretreatment.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT, EC 2.1.1.6) plays a central role in the metabolic inactivation of neurotransmitters and neuroactive xenobiotics possessing a catechol motif. 1-(3,4-Dihydroxy-5-nitrophenyl)-2-phenyl-ethanone (BIA 3-202) is a novel nitrocatechol-type inhibitor of COMT, the potential clinical benefit of which is currently being evaluated in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. In the present work we characterize the molecular interactions of BIA 3-202 within the active site of COMT and discuss their implication on the regioselectivity of metabolic O-methylation. Unrestrained flexible-docking simulations suggest that the solution structure of this complex is better described as an ensemble of alternative binding modes, in contrast to the well defined bound configuration revealed by the X-ray structures of related nitrocatechol inhibitors, co-crystallized with COMT. The docking results wherein presented are well supported by experimental evidence, where the pattern of in vitro enzymatic O-methylation and O-demethylation reactions are analyzed. We propose a plausible explanation for the paradoxical in vivo regioselectivity of O-methylation of BIA 3-202, as well as of its related COMT inhibitor tolcapone. Both compounds undergo in vivo O-methylation by COMT at either meta or para catechol hydroxyl groups. However, results herein presented suggest that, in a subsequent step, the p-O-methyl derivatives are selectively demethylated by a microsomal enzyme system. The overall balance is the accumulation of the m-O-methylated metabolites over the para-regioisomers. The implications for the general recognition of nitrocatechol-type inhibitors by COMT and the regioselectivity of their metabolic O-methylation are discussed.
This report describes the case of a 61-year-old female schizophrenic patient with status post-frontal lobotomy some 35 years ago with prominent paranoid delusions. This woman developed severe catatonia under medication with a serotonergic/dopaminergic neuroleptic, risperidone, at a dose of up to 5 mg daily. The catatonic disorder was dose-dependent and subsided immediately after switching the medication to another atypical antipsychotic, clozapine. Given the negative history for catatonia in this patient, the temporal coincidence of administration of risperidone and catatonia is a novel finding.
The novel substituted benzamide, remoxipride, preferentially blocked apomorphine-induced hyperactivity with weak effects on stereotypies. The potency of remoxipride was about 50 times higher than that of sulpiride. Remoxipride caused a weak, atypical form of catalepsy and showed a high separation between the ED50 for blockade of apomorphine-induced hyperactivity and the ED50 for induction of catalepsy (ratio 24). Remoxipride was shown to be a selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist since it displaced [3H]spiperone (IC50 = 1570 nM) but not [3H]flupentixol (IC50 greater than 100 000 nM) in rat striatum, and did not inhibit striatal DA-sensitive adenylate cyclase in vitro (IC50 greater than 100 000 nM). Remoxipride is a potent antagonist of D2 receptors showing a dose-dependent blockade of [3H]spiperone and [3H]n-propylnorapomorphine in vivo binding with a potency equal to that of chlorpromazine. In contrast to haloperidol, remoxipride caused a preferential blockade of in vivo [3H]spierone binding in the mesolimbic DA rich areas and the substantia nigra with much less effect in the striatum. In addition, remoxipride produced a preferential increase of DA utilization following synthesis inhibition in the olfactory tubercle. Only minor changes in NA and 5-HT metabolism were observed while HVA and DOPAC levels were markedly elevated. Taken together, these results indicate that remoxipride is a potent, selective D2 receptor blocking agent with a preferential action in mesolimbic and extrastriatal dopamine-containing neurons.
A case is reported of hemolytic anemia following rifampicin administration and complicated by acute renal failure. Furthermore clotting analyses suggested a slight disseminated intravascular coagulation, very likely activated by hemolysis products. Both hemolysis and renal function impairment subsided spontaneously, after the sole withdrawal of rifampin. Direct antiglobulin test became negative within a few days, while an indirect Coomb's test was demonstrated persistently with the patient's serum using red blood cells sensitized in vitro with the drug. Otherwise from all reports in the literature, the patient developed an acute hemolytic anemia while on daily therapy and as many as twenty years after a previous treatment with rifampicin. Mechanisms of drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia and acute nephropathy are discussed (formation of drug-antibody complexes, which adhere on the red blood cells surface and are able to fix complement and induce intravascular hemolysis; tubular necrosis due to hemoglobinuria or immuno-mediated interstitial nephritis).
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) has been demonstrated to be effective for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and to inhibit proliferation and produce apoptosis in the APL cell line NB4. To determine if As2O3 might be useful for the treatment of other lineages, we investigated the effects of As2O3 on viability, proliferation, and induction of apoptosis in the megakaryocytic leukemia cell lines HEL, Meg-01, UT7, and M07e. Our results showed that As2O3, at concentrations of 0.1-2.0 microM, causes a dose- and time-dependent inhibition of survival and growth in all four megakaryocytic leukemia cell lines studied. In contrast, As2O3 at similar concentrations had no effects on either viability or growth of the nonmegakaryocytic leukemia cell line HL60 and two human breast cancer cell lines, ZR75 and MCF7. In situ end-labeling of DNA fragments (TUNEL assay) indicated that As2O3, at concentrations of 0.5-2 microM, could significantly induce apoptosis in the aforementioned four megakaryocytic leukemia cell lines, but not in the nonmegakaryocytic HL60, ZR75, and MCF7 cell lines. These results were confirmed using conventional morphologic assessment and the DNA ladder assay. Induction of apoptosis in arsenic-treated Meg-01 and UT7 cells was accompanied by a dose-response decrease of Bcl-2 protein, whereas As2O3 had no effect on this measurement in HL60, ZR75, and MCF7 cell lines. Pertinently, these concentrations of As2O3 produced identical changes in the characteristics of the APL cell line NB4. Collectively, these data demonstrate that As2O3 can selectively inhibit growth and induce apoptosis in megakaryocytic leukemia cell lines. The use of As2O3 for the treatment of malignant megakaryocytic disorders should be considered.
Although hepatic expression of cytochrome P450 (CYP) changes markedly in diabetes, the role of ketone bodies in the regulation of CYP in diabetes is controversial. The present study was performed to determine the expression and activity of CYP in non-obese type II diabetic Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats with normal levels of ketone bodies. In the present study, basal serum glucose levels increased 1.95-fold in GK rats, but acetoacetate and β-hydroxybutyrate levels were not significantly different. Hepatic expression of CYP reductase and CYP3A2 was up-regulated in the GK rats, and consequently, activities of CYP reductase and midazolam 4-hydroxylase, mainly catalyzed by CYP3A2, increased. In contrast, hepatic expression of CYP1A2 and CYP3A1 was down-regulated and the activities of 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase and 7-methoxyresorufin-O-demethylase, mainly catalyzed by CYP1A, also decreased in GK rats. Hepatic levels of microsomal protein and total CYP and hepatic expression of cytochrome b(5), CYP1B1, CYP2B1 and CYP2C11 were not significantly different between the GK rats and normal Wistar rats. Moreover, the expression and activity of CYP2E1, reported to be up-regulated in diabetes with hyperketonemia, were not significantly different between GK rats and control rats, suggesting that elevation of ketone bodies plays a critical role in the up-regulation of hepatic CYP2E1 in diabetic rats. Our results showed that the expression of hepatic CYP is regulated in an isoform-specific manner. The present results also show that the GK rat is a useful animal model for the pathophysiological study of non-obese type II diabetes with normal ketone body levels.
A 32-year-old woman with a 14-month history of acute lymphoblastic leukemia received 300 mg/sq m of doxorubicin. Shortly after the last course of therapy, congestive failure developed that was attributed to anthracyclene cardiomyopathy. Three weeks later, an acute septic episode was complicated by hypotension and low cardiac output. Adequate blood pressure and cardiac output were restored with a combined intravenous infusion of dopamine hydrochloride and nitroglycerine. Within 24 hours, oral therapy with prazosin and digitalis was initiated, and two days later, the intravenous infusions could be discontinued. Acute anthracyclene cardiomyopathy can be successfully treated with a combination of oral inotropic and vasodilating agents.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the most frequent cause of acute liver failure in the western world. Controversy exists regarding the hypothesis that the hepatocyte injury is amplified by a sterile inflammatory response, rather than being the result of intracellular mechanisms alone. A recent study suggested that the purinergic receptor antagonist A438079 protects against APAP-induced liver injury by preventing the activation of the Nalp3 inflammasome in Kupffer cells and thereby preventing inflammatory injury. To test the hypothesis that A438079 actually affects the intracellular signaling events in hepatocytes, C57Bl/6 mice were treated with APAP (300 mg/kg) and A438079 (80 mg/kg) or saline and GSH depletion, protein adduct formation, c-jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation, oxidant stress, and liver cell necrosis were determined between 0 and 6 h after APAP administration. APAP caused rapid GSH depletion, extensive protein adduct formation in liver homogenates and in mitochondria, JNK phosphorylation and mitochondrial translocation of phospho-JNK within 2 h, oxidant stress, and extensive centrilobular necrosis at 6 h. A438079 significantly attenuated GSH depletion, which resulted in a 50% reduction of total liver and mitochondrial protein adducts and substantial reduction of JNK activation, mitochondrial P-JNK translocation, oxidant stress, and liver injury. The same results were obtained using primary mouse hepatocytes. A438079 did not directly affect JNK activation induced by tert-butyl hydroperoxide and GSH depletion. However, A438079 dose-dependently inhibited hepatic P450 enzyme activity. Thus, the protective effect of A438079 against APAP hepatotoxicity in vivo can be explained by its effect on metabolic activation and cell death pathways in hepatocytes without involvement of the Nalp3 inflammasome.
Exposure to organophosphates (OPs) can lead to cognitive deficits and oxidative damage. Little is known about the relationship between behavioral deficits and oxidative stress within the context of such exposures. Accordingly, the first experiment was carried out to address this issue. Male Wistar rats were administered 250 mg/kg of chlorpyrifos (CPF), 1.5 mg/kg of diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP), or 15 mg/kg of parathion (PTN). Spatial learning in the water maze task was evaluated, and F(2)-isoprostanes (F(2)-IsoPs) and prostaglandin (PGE(2)) were analyzed in the hippocampus. A second experiment was designed to determine the degree of inhibition of brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, both the soluble and particulate forms of the enzyme, and to assess changes in AChE gene expression given evidence on alternative splicing of the gene in response to OP exposures. In addition, brain acylpeptide hydrolase (APH) activity was evaluated as a second target for OP-mediated effects. In both experiments, rats were sacrificed at various points to determine the time course of OPs toxicity in relation to their mechanism of action. Results from the first experiment suggest cognitive and emotional deficits after OPs exposure, which could be due to, at least in part, increased F(2)-IsoPs levels. Results from the second experiment revealed inhibition of brain AChE and APH activity at various time points post OP exposure. In addition, we observed increased brain read-through splice variant AChE (AChE-R) mRNA levels after 48 h PTN exposure. In conclusion, this study provides novel data on the relationship between cognitive alterations and oxidative stress, and the diverse mechanisms of action along a temporal axis in response to OP exposures in the rat.
Recurrent or persistent inflammation has emerged as an important factor in cancer development. Overexpression of macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), an upstream regulator of innate immunity with pleiotropic effects on cell proliferation, has been implicated in prostate cancer (CaP). Two polymorphisms in the promoter of the MIF gene (-173G to C transition and seven copies of the -794 CATT repeat) are associated with increased MIF expression in vivo and poor prognosis in autoimmune diseases. We conducted a retrospective analysis of 131 CaP patients and 128 controls from a group of Veterans' Administration patients undergoing routine prostate-specific antigen screening. Patients with CaP were enrolled regardless of treatment. Inclusion criteria for the control group were absence of documented diagnosis of cancer and/or chronic inflammation within patient computerized records. Logistic regression demonstrated a significant association between CaP and the -173G/C, the -173C/C and the -794 7-CATT MIF polymorphisms (P<0.001). Patients with the -794 7-CATT allele had an increased risk of CaP recurrence at 5 years. Individuals with -173G/C, -173C/C and -794 7-CATT MIF genotypes have an increased incidence of CaP and these genotypes may serve as an independent marker for cancer recurrence.
Sixty-two first-episode psychotic patients who were neuroleptic-naive were studied to examine predictors of acute dystonia after treatment with haloperidol. Twenty-three patients developed dystonia, two of them despite being treated with biperiden. Biperiden significantly prevented dystonic reactions. Dystonia development was significantly related to younger age, severity of illness, and negative symptoms at baseline and showed a trend to be related to positive symptoms as well. No significant effect of gender or diagnosis was found. The authors suggest that young, severely ill patients in their first psychotic episode who have never been treated with neuroleptics might be at higher risk to develop dystonia.
Nonionic contrast media are reported to cause serious adverse reactions less often than ionic contrast media. However, we treated an otherwise healthy woman with a left ureteral stone in whom disseminated intravascular coagulation developed due to intravenous administration of the nonionic contrast medium iohexol. We discuss the clinical course and possible causes of disseminated intravascular coagulation. Our case emphasizes that nonionic contrast media are not free from serious adverse reactions although the incidence seems extremely low.
