Neuropeptide Y and corticotropin-releasing hormone are involved in the regulation of various physiological functions including the expression of anxiety and fear. The anxiogenic effects of corticotropin-releasing hormone can be modulated by neuropeptide Y, yet the brain regions involved in this interaction are only partly understood. By utilizing antibodies raised against neuropeptide Y and the Y1 receptor protein we identified a densely labeled cell group in the dorsal zone of caudal part of the rat lateral septum. Bilateral microinjections of neuropeptide Y into the dorsocaudal lateral septum but not into the intramedial septum dose-dependently decreased anxiety in the social interaction test of rats, whereas the effects of corticotropin-releasing hormone were opposite. The anxiogenic-like effect of corticotropin-releasing hormone was reversed by neuropeptide Y pretreatment. Local microinjection of the neuropeptide Y receptor selective antagonists revealed that neither Y1 receptor nor Y2 receptor selective antagonists had effects on experimental anxiety on their own suggesting that neuropeptide Y-induced anxiolysis is not tonic. The Y1 receptor antagonist blocked the anxiolytic-like effect of neuropeptide Y, while the Y2 receptor antagonist was ineffective.We conclude that neuropeptide Y in the dorsocaudal lateral septum may act as an endogenous anxiolytic and antagonize corticotropin-releasing hormone (stress)-induced anxiety. This functional antagonism probably shapes behavior under aversive conditions, as neuropeptide Y-induced anxiolysis is not tonic in nature. An imbalance between these two neuropeptide systems in the septum may lead to a maladaptive expression of anxiety after stress exposure.
The radiation sensitizing agent misonidazole (MISO) was combined with 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (CCNU) for the treatment of Mer+ (IMR-90, HeLa, and HeLa-S3) and Mer- (EMT-6/Ro, VA-13, and HeLa-MR) cell lines under hypoxic conditions in vitro. The magnitude of enhancement achieved by the addition of MISO was calculated by comparison with survival curves obtained by treating each cell line with CCNU alone, under hypoxic conditions. As expected, the Mer+ cells were more resistant to CCNU treatment than were their Mer- counterparts. In the presence of 1.0 mM MISO the toxicity of CCNU was enhanced (dose enhancement factor, 1.4-1.6) in all three of the Mer- lines. However, the Mer+ lines were less responsive to chemopotentiation by MISO. The toxicity of CCNU toward two of the Mer+ lines, IMR-90 and HeLa, was not modified by the addition of MISO, while a slight enhancement (dose enhancement factor, 1.2) was observed in the HeLa-S3 line. Similar results were obtained with IMR-90 and VA-13 cells treated by postincubation in which aerobic CCNU treatment was followed by hypoxic exposure to MISO for up to 6 h. While no correlation was observed between Mer status and the hypoxic toxicity of MISO, the data suggest that a relationship might exist between chemopotentiation and MISO sensitivity when each phenotype is considered separately. These observations suggesting that tumor cells of the Mer+ phenotype may be less responsive to MISO chemopotentiation have significant implications for ongoing and planned clinical trials designed to evaluate the potential of chemopotentiation using CCNU and MISO since greater than 75% of human tumors are Mer+.
Allylnitrile, cis-crotononitrile, and 3,3'-iminodipropionitrile are known to cause vestibular toxicity in rodents, and evidence is available indicating that cis-2-pentenenitrile shares this effect. We evaluated nineteen nitriles for vestibular toxicity in wild type (129S1) and CYP2E1-null mice, including all the above, several neurotoxic nitriles, and structurally similar nitriles. A new acute toxicity test protocol was developed to facilitate evaluation of the vestibular toxicity by a specific behavioral test battery at doses up to sub-lethal levels while using a limited number of animals. A mean number of 8.5±0.3 animals per nitrile, strain and sex was necessary to obtain evidence of vestibular toxicity and optionally an estimation of the lethal dose. For several but not all nitriles, lethal doses significantly increased in CYP2E1-null mice. The protocol revealed the vestibular toxicity of five nitriles, including previously identified ototoxic compounds and one nitrile (trans-crotononitrile) known to have a different profile of neurotoxic effects in the rat. In all five cases, both sexes were affected and no decrease in susceptibility was apparent in CYP2E1-null mice respect to 129S1 mice. Fourteen nitriles caused no vestibular toxicity, including six nitriles tested in CYP2E1-null mice at doses significantly larger than the maximal doses that can be tested in wild type animals. We conclude that only a subset of low molecular weight nitriles is toxic to the vestibular system, that species-dependent differences exist in this vestibular toxicity, and that CYP2E1-mediated metabolism is not involved in this effect of nitriles although it has a role in the acute lethality of some of these compounds.
CYP2A6 is a major phase I enzyme metabolizing tobacco-specific nitrosamines, implicated as risk factors for lung cancer. In this study, immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization (ISH) for CYP2A6 with human lung cancer tissues (n=31) obtained by surgical resection showed significantly higher immunoreactivity in the cases with lymph node metastasis. The adenocarcinoma cases (n=23) with lymph node metastasis or large tumor size showed a high immunoreactivity for CYP2A6. The squamous cell carcinoma cases (n=6) with large tumor size showed a tendency for low CYP2A6 immunoreactivity. ISH for CYP2A6 revealed mRNA expression in both adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma cells. The data suggest that CYP2A6 could have an important role in the development and proliferation of lung carcinomas. With adenocarcinomas, CYP2A6 could be a target candidate for therapeutic and chemopreventive intervention.
We analyzed 29 cases of eosinophilic cystitis in a group of 80 patients with lower urothelial carcinoma who had been treated with mitomycin-C. Only 6 cases (20.7%) had presented symptoms and signs compatible with acute cystitis. The remaining patients had been diagnosed histopathologically by routine follow-up bladder biopsy. Urine cytology revealed abundant eosinophils in 58.6% of the patients with eosinophilic cystitis while urine culture was negative for all patients. No patient had a previous history of allergy or asthma. We discuss the possible etiopathogenic mechanisms of this rare nosologic entity, the relationship to the immune system and the role of the foregoing in the capacity to control urothelial carcinoma locally.
The autoregulation of myocardial blood flow was studied under: (a) haemorrhagic hypotension (mean pressure decrease 40% from baseline); (b) drug-induced hypotension with sodium nitroprusside or trimetaphan (40% pressure decrease); (c) drug-induced hypotension (40% pressure decrease) after moderate blood loss of 20%. Dogs were used in experiments under general anaesthesia with sodium thiopentone and artificially ventilated with N2O/O2 (70%, 30%) and pancuronium. Under haemorrhagic hypotension, the flow was pressure-dependent from the beginning. During nitroprusside hypotension, there was autoregulation of coronary flow to the level of mean pressure decrease 30% from control. Under trimetaphan, a constant flow persisted to the level of mean pressure decrease 20% from the baseline. Identical changes were seen during drug-induced hypotension after moderate blood loss (20%). Central venous pressure, cardiac output, left ventricular stroke work and minute work changes are demonstrated. Blood gas data pH, PO2, PCO2 in the aortic and coronary sinus under drug-induced hypotension are compared with control groups. There is a level of autoregulation of myocardial blood flow under hypotension. This level can be unfavourably changed in cases with hypertension and coronary obstructive diseases.
Of 2135 elderly residents of nursing homes in Arkansas (mean age, 79.4 years) who have been treated with isoniazid for prevention of tuberculosis, data from 1935 were suitable for analysis. About 12 months of therapy was successfully completed in 1600 persons. Therapy could not be completed in 84 persons (4.4%) because of incipient hepatic toxicity and in 116 (6.0%) because of other types of drug intolerance. Although 135 persons (7.0%) died during the course of therapy, no evidence was found that isoniazid contributed to any death. The ratio of benefit (reduction of risk for tuberculosis) to risk (for nonfatal isoniazid-related hepatitis) was clearly favorable in persons who had definite conversions (1.6 for women, 3.4 for men) but less so for persons who had tuberculin reactions of unknown duration and for persons with minor increases in size of tuberculin reaction (less than 12 mm increase from an initially negative reaction).
1. Physostigmine (0.1 mg/kg i.v.) given at 37 degrees C and 25 degrees C rectal temperatures, completely protected the hypothermic dog heart against ventricular fibrillation.2. Pentolinium, atropine, vagotomy and reserpine did not significantly alter the incidence of ventricular fibrillation.3. The incidence of ventricular fibrillation under hypothermia could be significantly increased by ligating the anterior descending branch of the left coronary artery. The incidence of ventricular fibrillation in coronary ligated hypothermic dogs was reduced to half by physostigmine pretreatment.4. Hypothermia produced ventricular glycogen depletion and physostigmine prevented ventricular glycogenolysis under hypothermia. However, in the normothermic state physostigmine itself produced a significant decrease in cardiac glycogen.5. The relation between the antifibrillatory and antiglycogenolytic effects of physostigmine under hypothermia are discussed.
The in vitro antioxidative activity of benzylideneascorbate (SBA) and the in vivo effect on adriamycin (ADR)-induced cardiotoxicity in a mouse model were investigated. The radical-scavenging activity of SBA was assayed in terms of reduction of chemiluminescence induced by O2-, generated in xanthine/xanthine oxidase and macrophage/phorbol myristate acetate reaction systems. SBA showed a strong antioxidative activity (IC50 = 3 to 4 microM) in both assay systems, though its activity was weaker than that of ascorbic acid (Asc). In the assay of the antioxidative activity against auto-oxidation of linolenic acid, SBA was stable and retained its potency for a long period of time in comparison with Asc, 6-palmitoylascorbic acid (6-P-Asc) and cysteamine (CysNH2). Electron spin resonance examination indicated that SBA strongly scavenged both superoxide anion and hydroxy radical. The in vivo protective effect of SBA against ADR-induced cardiotoxicity, in which active oxygen radicals play a role, was examined. The serum creatine phosphokinase activity, a parameter of cardiotoxicity, was remarkably increased from the 3rd day until the 4th day after ADR treatment. This elevation was significantly suppressed by SBA treatment, whereas Asc, 6-P-Asc and CysNH2 were ineffective. SBA could have clinical potential for the treatment of diabetes and other disorders in which active oxygen species play a pathogenic role.
Fetal cocaine exposure may have differentially adverse effects on developmental outcomes of very low birthweight (VLBW) infants. As part of a longitudinal study, 31 cocaine-positive very low birthweight infants, and age, race and socioeconomic status matched VLBW controls enrolled at birth were followed. Neonatal maternal-child interactions, concurrent maternal psychological characteristics and environmental factors conceptualized as important for child outcome were assessed as well as standard developmental outcomes at 3 years. In the neonatal period, cocaine-exposed VLBW infants who remained in maternal custody tended to be rated as less responsive and their mothers as less nurturing, less emotionally available and with a tendency to use more maladaptive coping mechanisms than nonexposed VLBW infants. At follow-up, cocaine-exposed VLBW children were delayed in cognitive, motor and language development compared to controls. Almost half (45%) of the exposed children scored in the range of mental retardation compared to 16% of the comparison VLBW children. The persistent cognitive, motor and language delays of the cocaine-exposed VLBW children, combined with the poorer behavioral interactions of cocaine-using women with their infants in the neonatal period, indicate a need for increased developmental surveillance of cocaine-exposed VLBW infants with a focus on maternal drug treatment and parenting interventions.
Angioedema is a rare but potentially life-threatening adverse effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) which usually occurs within the first weeks of therapy. We report three patients in whom ACEI-induced angioedema began with a late onset of 12-33 months, and who had an irregular, unpredictable course under ACEI therapy. In two patients, other drugs or trauma appeared to trigger some of the episodes. After withdrawal of the ACEI, the trigger drugs were well tolerated in provocation tests and upon re-exposure. To avoid putting some patients unnecessarily at risk for long periods, one should consider this irregular pattern of ACEI-induced angioedema and regularly monitor patients for this adverse effect.
The female sex steroids estrogen and progesterone are important in breast cancer etiology. It therefore seems plausible that variation in genes involved in metabolism of these hormones may affect breast cancer risk, and that these associations may vary depending on menopausal status and use of hormone therapy.
We conducted a nested case-control study of breast cancer in the California Teachers Study cohort. We analyzed 317 tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 24 hormone pathway genes in 2746 non-Hispanic white women: 1351 cases and 1395 controls. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated by fitting conditional logistic regression models using all women or subgroups of women defined by menopausal status and hormone therapy use. P values were adjusted for multiple correlated tests (PACT).
The strongest associations were observed for SNPs in SLCO1B1, a solute carrier organic anion transporter gene, which transports estradiol-17β-glucuronide and estrone-3-sulfate from the blood into hepatocytes. Ten of 38 tagging SNPs of SLCO1B1 showed significant associations with postmenopausal breast cancer risk; 5 SNPs (rs11045777, rs11045773, rs16923519, rs4149057, rs11045884) remained statistically significant after adjusting for multiple testing within this gene (PACT = 0.019-0.046). In postmenopausal women who were using combined estrogen-progestin therapy (EPT) at cohort enrollment, the OR of breast cancer was 2.31 (95% CI = 1.47-3.62) per minor allele of rs4149013 in SLCO1B1 (P = 0.0003; within-gene PACT = 0.002; overall PACT = 0.023). SNPs in other hormone pathway genes evaluated in this study were not associated with breast cancer risk in premenopausal or postmenopausal women.
We found evidence that genetic variation in SLCO1B1 is associated with breast cancer risk in postmenopausal women, particularly among those using EPT.
To report a case of rosiglitazone-associated hepatotoxicity in a patient with Hodgkin's lymphoma.
A 52-year-old man presented with low-grade fever and fatigue that had been present for 4 months. He had been receiving insulin for 5 years and rosiglitazone 4 mg/day for 11 months for control of type 2 diabetes; he was receiving no other drug therapy. During hospitalization, hepatotoxicity was shown, with abnormal liver function test results including alanine aminotransferase 488 U/L, aspartate aminotransferase 344 U/L, alkaline phosphatase 832 U/L, total bilirubin 4.61 mg/dL, and direct bilirubin 3.63 mg/dL. Rosiglitazone was discontinued after further elevation of bilirubin (total 14.67 mg/dL, direct 12.10 mg/dL) occurred. Other causes for hepatotoxicity were ruled out. Hodgkin's lymphoma was diagnosed during the workup; however, liver imaging and biopsy also excluded this as the direct cause of acute liver failure. Despite discontinuation of rosiglitazone, the bilirubin level continued to increase to 49.29 mg/dL (direct > 20 mg/dL). The patient died 3 months after admission.
Rosiglitazone maleate is a thiazolidinedione approved for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. The first member of this drug class, troglitazone, was withdrawn from the market due to reports of acute liver failure. Rosiglitazone has been shown to be much safer than troglitazone, despite some reported cases of early-onset nonfatal hepatotoxicity. Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated that rosiglitazone was the probable cause of acute liver failure in our patient.
We conclude that rosiglitazone may be associated with late-onset acute liver failure. Clinicians should be aware of such a complication and monitor liver function in patients receiving the drug.
Independent trials of early administration of beta-blockers and thrombolytic agents have shown beneficial effects on both short- and long-term prognoses in acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The effects of a combination of the two strategies have not been thoroughly documented. Three hundred and fifty-two patients, of less than 75 years of age, with chest pain indicative of AMI, and onset less than 2 h and 45 min before first examination, were randomized to treatment with rt-PA or placebo. All patients without contraindication were given intravenous metoprolol 15 mg acutely and then 200 mg orally daily. Treatment was started either at the prehospital stage or in hospital. Thirty-seven per cent of patients had contraindications to beta-blockade, the most frequent of which were heart rate less than 60 beats min-1 and hypotension. The remaining 63% were given intravenous beta-blockade. No side-effects of metoprolol, alone or in combination with rt-PA, were observed during the prehospital phase. Overall, toleration of the treatment was good. Reduction in enzymatically estimated infarct size by rt-PA was more pronounced in patients who were also treated with metoprolol (41%, P less than 0.001) than in those with contraindications to beta-blockade (15%, NS). Patients who were also treated with metoprolol also had a lower incidence of Q-wave infarctions, congestive heart failure and ventricular fibrillation than those who were not given intravenous beta-blockade. In conclusion, toleration of intravenous administration of rt-PA and metoprolol was good, and this was also the case in the prehospital phase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of this study was to further investigate the feasibility and safety of a combined intravenous and intra-arterial approach to recanalization for ischemic stroke.
Subjects, ages 18 to 80, with a baseline NIHSS > or =10 had intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) started (0.6 mg/kg over 30 minutes) within 3 hours of onset. For subjects with an arterial occlusion at angiography, additional rt-PA was administered via the EKOS micro-infusion catheter or a standard microcatheter at the site of the thrombus up to a total dose of 22 mg over 2 hours of infusion or until thrombolysis.
The 81 subjects had a median baseline NIHSS score of 19. The median time to initiation of intravenous rt-PA was 142 minutes as compared with 108 minutes for placebo and 90 minutes for rt-PA-treated subjects in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial (P<0.0001). The 3-month mortality in IMS II subjects was 16% as compared with the mortality of placebo (24%) and rt-PA-treated subjects (21%) in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial. The rate of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage in IMS II subjects (9.9%) was not significantly different than that for rt-PA treated subjects in the NINDS t-PA Stroke Trial (6.6%). IMS II subjects had significantly better outcomes at 3 months than NINDS placebo-treated subjects for all end points (OR > or =2.7) and better outcomes than NINDS rt-PA-treated subjects as measured by the Barthel Index and Global Test Statistic.
A randomized trial of standard intravenous rt-PA as compared with a combined intravenous and intra-arterial approach is warranted and has begun.
Patient 1 was a 36-year-old male and diagnosed as APL in April 1989, and treated with BHAC-DMP and BHAC-AMP. In January 1990, a diagnosis of exudative otitis media was made, but intractable. In June, left facial paralysis appeared and cytodiagnosis of the discharge from the middle ear confirmed leukemic cells. Otitis media and facial paralysis improved after high dose Ara-C, but developed again 5 months later. The condition improved after high dose Ara-C and irradiation of the temporal bones. In September 1992, he died of recurrence but no aggravation in facial paralysis or otitis media. Patient 2 was a 24-year-old female and diagnosed as APL in July 1989, and treated with BHAC-DMP. In May 1990, exudative otitis media was appeared. In July, recurrence was observed but improved by high dose Ara-C. In October, otitis media was aggravated again, and cytodiagnosis confirmed leukemic cell infiltration. She was treated with high dose Ara-C and irradiation of the temporal bones, then achieved complete remission. Maintenance therapy was continued until August 1992, she has been alive. When exudative otitis media developed during the course of leukemia, cytodiagnosis of the discharge from the middle ear should be performed. High dose Ara-C and irradiation of the temporal bone were effective.
To assess long-term vertigo symptom control in patients after intratympanic gentamicin instillation for incapacitating unilateral Ménière's disease. To analyze whether an absent caloric response, as analyzed using electronystagmography after gentamicin treatment, is a good predicator of long-term symptom control. Finally, to quantify the patient's perception of long-term posttreatment handicap.
A retrospective study from a single institution. All patients underwent a similar fixed-dose and duration protocol of drug instillation.
Patients were enrolled in this study, and initial outcomes were assessed according to the American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Committee on Hearing and Equilibrium Guidelines for Reporting Treatment Results in Ménière's Disease (1985 and 1995). In this study, only those patients treated more than 5 years previous were considered. One hundred thirty-two patients were eligible for inclusion. All patients underwent hearing testing and electronystagmography, including caloric testing before and after treatment. Posttreatment handicap and long-term vertigo control were assessed using the Dizziness Handicap Index questionnaire expanded with 5 questions specific for Ménière's disease.
Analysis of results is based on the 63 patients who responded. Forty-four were vertigo-free, whereas 14 continued to experience some degree of vertigo. On average, they described 5 episodes in the immediate 24 months before the study. Of the 44 patients who were asymptomatic, 35 had an absent caloric response. Of the 14 patients who realized some vertigo, 12 had an absent caloric response posttreatment. Of the 63 responders, 44 filled in the Dizziness Handicap Index. Of the 19 who did not, 17 reported that they were vertigo-free.
Our current protocol achieves complete or substantial vertigo control in most patients. A significant caloric response reduction has been a consequence in almost all patients, although an absent caloric response is not invariably a predictor of long-term symptom control. Finally, patient-perceived handicap in this long-term follow-up is consistent with that of others followed for a much shorter duration in that those who were vertigo-free volunteered a significantly lower score.
There has been a recent increase in pyogenic spondylitis caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) associated with an increasing number of compromised patients. As long as serious paralysis is absent, we recommend percutaneous curettage and continuous irrigation as an effective treatment for MRSA lumbar spondylodiscitis. Under local anesthesia, the affected lumbar discs were curetted using percutaneous nucleotomy, and tubes were placed for continuous irrigation. The period of continuous irrigation was generally 2 weeks. Infection was controlled after one procedure in two cases and after two procedures in one case. Postoperative radiography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed callus formation, normalized signal intensity in vertebral bodies, and regression of abscesses. Open surgery under general anesthesia has been considered risky in patients with poor performance status or old age. The present method, which is an application of needle biopsy, can be performed under local anesthesia and is minimally invasive.
The study investigated the neuropsychological status of women with induced hypoestrogenism.
An ABA design was employed in which neuropsychological measures were repeated prior to, during, and after induction of hypoestrogenism with leuprolide acetate.
The study took place in a medical school affiliated in vitro fertilization clinic.
Leuprolide acetate was administered to all subjects as part of in vitro fertilization.
Eighteen women receiving in vitro fertilization treatment underwent neuropsychological testing before, during, and after treatment with leuprolide acetate and gonadotrophins. The neuropsychological test battery was selected on the basis of previous patients' symptomatic complaints during periods of hypoestrogenism with leuprolide acetate.
Depending upon the tests administered, some individuals showed significant cognitive deficits during therapy particularly in the areas of memory, fine motor coordination, and two-point discrimination. Two of the 18 subjects showed very substantial neuropsychological sequelae including memory gaps and disturbances in a variety of neuropsychological test performances. However, in terms of group statistics, only two-point discrimination and delayed recall memory test performance proved significant. Not all measures were sensitive for the group, as many tests displayed a balance between individuals who showed practice effects and those who showed detrimental effects.
For a substantial portion of individuals, hypoestrogenism can result in statistically significant or clinically noteworthy problems with memory, dexterity, and two-point discrimination.
Triazophos, O,O-diethyl-1-H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl phosphorothioate, (TZ) is an organophosphate pesticide widely used as an insecticide in agriculture fields, however, its adverse effects on cognitive function remain unknown till date. The present study was designed to identify the effect of TZ on cognitive function in order to gain an insight into the molecular mechanism(s) probably involved in TZ induced toxicity. Wistar male albino rats were orally administered with TZ at 8.2 mg/kg bw daily for 30 days. Cognitive function was assessed by evaluating step down latency (SDL) in passive avoidance apparatus, transfer latency (TL) on elevated plus maze and escape latency (EL) using morris water maze. The biochemical changes, in terms of malondialdehyde (MDA), reduced glutathione (GSH) and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels were evaluated in hippocampi regions. Relative mRNA expression and protein expression of BDNF were also evaluated. The results demonstrated that rats treated with TZ showed significantly (p < 0.01) reduced SDL and prolonged TL and EL as compared to control group rats. Moreover, significantly low (p < 0.01) mRNA expression and protein levels (p < 0.001) of BDNF, increased MDA and reduced GSH levels were observed in TZ treated rats. The study concludes that chronic exposure to TZ significantly impairs the learning and memory which may be attributed to the significantly reduced mRNA and protein expression of BDNF in hippocampus. Moreover, BDNF is negatively correlated to MDA levels and positively correlated to GSH levels. Hence, it can be suggested that interplay between BDNF and oxidative stress plays an important role in mediating the toxic effects of TZ.
Use of a long-acting inhaled bronchodilator, either an anticholinergic or a beta-adrenergic receptor agonist (beta-agonist), is recommended for maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In COPD, the organ system most frequently requiring medical care, other than the respiratory system, is the cardiac system.
To compare the risk of total mortality and certain respiratory and cardiac adverse events among users of the two types of recommended long-acting bronchodilators, we conducted a cohort study. Specifically, the study compared the safety of the only approved long-acting anticholinergic, tiotropium bromide, with the single-ingredient long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs) salmeterol or formoterol in a broad population of users.
We used automated general practitioner data from the UK THIN (The Health Information Network) database as the data source for this study. We used Cox proportional hazards models to compute hazard ratio (HR) estimates and 95% CI controlling for propensity scores comprising various baseline demographic variables, medical therapies and illnesses.
The 1061 tiotropium users and 1801 LABA users were similar with regard to risk of total mortality (HR 0.93; 95% CI 0.59, 1.44) and most cardiac events, including angina (HR 0.77; 95% CI 0.37, 1.59), atrial fibrillation or flutter (HR 0.60; 95% CI 0.25, 1.42), myocardial infarction (HR 1.29; 95% CI 0.45, 3.66) and tachycardia (HR 0.66; 95% CI 0.29, 1.51). Though imprecise, there was evidence of a decreased risk of heart failure (HR 0.65; 95% CI 0.37, 1.12) in tiotropium users. As regards respiratory endpoints, the risk of COPD exacerbation (HR 1.15; 95% CI 0.79, 1.67) and pneumonia (HR 1.11; 95% CI 0.38, 3.26) were similar among users of each type of drug, although there was a decreased risk of asthma exacerbation (HR 0.41; 95% CI 0.26, 0.64) in tiotropium users compared with LABA users.
Users of tiotropium and single-ingredient LABA had similar risk of total mortality and cardiovascular endpoints. The decreased risk of asthma exacerbations with tiotropium may be due to residual confounding by indication. Confidence limits for most events include reduced risks for tiotropium and also small increases in risk. Nevertheless, the point estimates suggest that tiotropium was associated with a lower risk of each cardiac event except myocardial infarction. However, the small number of cases means that further studies are needed to confirm these results.
Increasing evidence indicates that endothelin-1 (ET-1) activates nociceptive neurons and sensitizes them to different noxious stimuli, but involvement of TRPV1-dependent mechanisms in mediation of such effects is not yet fully understood. Here we report that intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of ET-1 (10 pmol) into the hind paw of rats induced overt nociceptive behavior over the first hour, followed by a slowly developing thermal hyperalgesia, lasting from 3 to 8h after injection. Both effects were also induced by similar injections of capsaicin (10-1000 pmol), but these responses were shorter lasting than those caused by ET-1. Local pre-treatment with the TRPV1 antagonist capsazepine (30 nmol, i.pl.) reduced only the thermal hyperalgesia induced by ET-1, but fully suppressed both responses to capsaicin (1000 pmol). Injection of a sub-threshold dose of ET-1 (0.1 pmol, i.pl.) prior to capsaicin (1 pmol, i.pl.) markedly sensitized the hind paw to the overt nociceptive and thermal hyperalgesic effects of the later. The potentiation of capsaicin-induced nociception by ET-1 was abolished by prior i.pl. injection of BQ-123 (ET(A) receptor antagonist, 10 nmol), but unaffected by BQ-788 (ET(B) receptors antagonist, 10 nmol), whereas the enhancement of capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia by ET-1 was attenuated by both antagonists. Therefore, differently to what has been reported in mice, in rats TRPV1 receptors contribute selectively to thermal hyperalgesia, but not overt nociception, induced by ET-1. Importantly, although ET-1 augments capsaicin-induced overt nociception and thermal hyperalgesia, potentiation of the former relies solely on ET(A) receptor-mediated signaling mechanisms, whereas both receptors contribute to the latter.
