The present study was undertaken to investigate the potential of monocrotophos (MCP), one of the widely used broad spectrum systemic organophosphorus insecticides (OPI) in India, to alter small intestinal structure and function. Further, its potential to exacerbate diabetes induced alterations in intestinal structure and function was also studied in experimentally induced diabetic rats. Rats were rendered diabetic with an acute dose of streptozotocin (60 mg/kg b.w.). MCP was orally administered at a sublethal dose (1/20 LD50 i.e. 0.9 mg/kg b.w./d) for 15 days to both normal and diabetic rats. MCP significantly increased unit weight of intestine in diabetic rats. MCP alone increased (up to 57%) the activities of intestinal brush border disaccharidases in normal rats and further augmented the enzyme activities in diabetic rats. Similar results were found with intestinal alkaline phosphatase activity. In addition, Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity was found to be aggravated in diabetic rats by MCP treatment. Oxidative stress markers showed similar degree of change in both MCP and diabetic rats while MCP aggravated oxidative stress condition in diabetic rats. Scanning electron microscopy and histological analysis of the small intestine revealed increased length of villi, congestion, goblet cell hyperplasia and infiltration of inflammatory cells in MCP and diabetic rats while MCP also induced necrotic lesions in diabetic rats. Collectively, our findings provide evidence that multiple doses of MCP has the propensity to augment diabetes associated intestinal dysfunctions in rats.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a fatal genetic disease caused by mutations in the gene encoding the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), a protein kinase A (PKA)-activated epithelial anion channel involved in salt and fluid transport in multiple organs, including the lung. Most CF mutations either reduce the number of CFTR channels at the cell surface (e.g., synthesis or processing mutations) or impair channel function (e.g., gating or conductance mutations) or both. There are currently no approved therapies that target CFTR. Here we describe the in vitro pharmacology of VX-770, an orally bioavailable CFTR potentiator in clinical development for the treatment of CF. In recombinant cells VX-770 increased CFTR channel open probability (P(o)) in both the F508del processing mutation and the G551D gating mutation. VX-770 also increased Cl(-) secretion in cultured human CF bronchial epithelia (HBE) carrying the G551D gating mutation on one allele and the F508del processing mutation on the other allele by approximately 10-fold, to approximately 50% of that observed in HBE isolated from individuals without CF. Furthermore, VX-770 reduced excessive Na(+) and fluid absorption to prevent dehydration of the apical surface and increased cilia beating in these epithelial cultures. These results support the hypothesis that pharmacological agents that restore or increase CFTR function can rescue epithelial cell function in human CF airway.
The present study was undertaken to determine the effects of prostaglandin synthesis inhibition on glomerular hemodynamics in nephrotoxic serum nephritis and to elucidate the mechanisms by which prostaglandin synthesis inhibition reduces proteinuria in nephritic rats. Dextran sieving studies were performed before and after intravenous administration of indomethacin to control rats and to nephritic rats with heavy proteinuria. Indomethacin did not significantly alter mean arterial pressure, glomerular filtration rate or proteinuria in control rats nor were significant changes in dextran sieving observed. By contrast, in nephritic rats indomethacin significantly reduced glomerular filtration rate (2.58 +/- 0.50 vs. 1.39 +/- 0.27 ml/min, P less than 0.001), proteinuria (0.198 +/- 0.079 vs. 0.048 +/- 0.019 mg/min, P less than 0.05) and filtration rate-corrected proteinuria (0.059 +/- 0.033 vs. 0.031 +/- 0.013 mg/ml GFR, P less than 0.05). The fractional clearance of neutral dextrans with molecular radii exceeding 42 A were elevated above control values in nephritic rats (P less than 0.05). After administration of indomethacin, the fractional clearance of neutral dextrans uniformly declined toward control values and remained elevated only for molecular radii exceeding 54 A. Assessment of glomerular hemodynamics in nephritic rats before and after indomethacin showed significant declines in single nephron filtration rate (31.5 +/- 3.0 vs. 21.2 +/- 2.5 nl/min, P less than 0.02), glomerular plasma flow rate (99.5 +/- 6.7 vs. 68.5 +/- 7.8 nl/min, P less than 0.05) and glomerular ultrafiltration coefficient (0.0430 +/- 0.0033 vs. 0.0339 +/- 0.0032 nl.sec-1.mm Hg-1, p less than 0.05). Indomethacin did not significantly change these parameters in control rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
No changes in striatal and mesolimbic dopamine receptor characteristics were found during catalepsy or hyperactivity phase of morphine action in the rat. The cortical alpha 1-adrenoceptors during the hyperactivity phase were also unchanged.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a commonly used chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma. 5-FU can induce cell cycle arrest or apoptosis in various cancers via either a p53-dependent or a p53-independent pathway; however, its pathway of action in laryngeal carcinoma is unknown. In this study, we aim to investigate the role that p53 plays in the cytotoxic effect of 5-FU on laryngeal squamous carcinoma cells.
We employed two human laryngeal squamous carcinoma cell lines with different p53 statuses-one (UMSCC12) had truncated non-functional p53 and the other (UMSCC11A) had mutant but functional p53. Cell death was detected using cytotoxicity assay and Annexin V staining. Cell cycles were analyzed by flow cytometry. Western blot was used to analyze the protein expression.
5-FU induces apoptosis in both UMSCC12 and UMSCC11A cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner, suggesting that the pathway was p53-independent. 5-FU induced the accumulation of retinoblastoma protein and a cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor, p21WAF1/CIP1, in both UMSCC12 and UMSCC11A cells. However, 5-FU did not induce p53 expression in either UMSCC12 or UMSCC11A cells. In addition, G1/S cell cycle phase arrest was associated with antiproliferative activity of 5-FU in both cell lines. In order to gain an insight into the role p53 plays in response to 5-FU treatment in laryngeal carcinoma, we further transfected either a wildtype p53 plasmid or an empty pcDNA3.1 vector into UMSCC12 cells. We found that 5-FU increased pRb and p21WAF1/CIP1 expression in both p53-transfected and vector-transfected cells without the significant accumulation of p53.
Our results suggest that 5-FU mediates apoptosis and G1/S cell cycle phase arrest in laryngeal carcinoma via a p53-independent but p21WAF1/CIP1-dependent or p21WAF1/CIP1-Rb-dependent pathway. While p53 does not seem to be involved in 5-FU induced apoptosis and cell cycle arrest in laryngeal carcinoma, further studies are needed to examine the roles of retinoblastoma protein and p21WAF1/CIP1 in laryngeal carcinoma receiving chemotherapy.
Morphological analysis of mitotic chromosomes is used to detect mutagenic chemical compounds and to estimate the dose of ionizing radiation to be administered. It has long been believed that chromosomal breaks are always associated with double-strand breaks (DSBs). We here provide compelling evidence against this canonical theory. We employed a genetic approach using two cell lines, chicken DT40 and human Nalm-6. We measured the number of chromosomal breaks induced by three replication-blocking agents (aphidicolin, 5-fluorouracil, and hydroxyurea) in DSB-repair-proficient wild-type cells and cells deficient in both homologous recombination and nonhomologous end-joining (the two major DSB-repair pathways). Exposure of cells to the three replication-blocking agents for at least two cell cycles resulted in comparable numbers of chromosomal breaks for RAD54(-/-/)KU70(-/-) DT40 clones and wild-type cells. Likewise, the numbers of chromosomal breaks induced in RAD54(-/-/)LIG4(-/-) Nalm-6 clones and wild-type cells were also comparable. These data indicate that the replication-blocking agents can cause chromosomal breaks unassociated with DSBs. In contrast with DSB-repair-deficient cells, chicken DT40 cells deficient in PIF1 or ATRIP, which molecules contribute to the completion of DNA replication, displayed higher numbers of mitotic chromosomal breaks induced by aphidicolin than did wild-type cells, suggesting that single-strand gaps left unreplicated may result in mitotic chromosomal breaks.
To assess the role of dietary sodium in the regional development and pathogenesis of isoproterenol (ISO)-induced cardiac hypertrophy, male Fischer rats (150-175g n = 65) were divided into control (C) and ISO-treated (I) and three dietary sodium subgroups; low (8.7-13 mEq/kg) (LS), normal (173.9 mEq/kg) (NS) and high (1378 mEq/kg) (HS). Diets began 2 weeks prior to a 7 day continuous infusion of ISO (Alzet miniosmotic pump; 3 mg/kg/day). Mean total heart weight of all I rat groups was larger than in C rats (p less than 0.05). However, low sodium diet ameliorated the percent increase, compared to respective controls, in total heart weight (LSI, 20 +/- 3%; NSI, 26 +/- 6; HSI, 24 +/- 2 (p less than 0.05). Regionally, dietary sodium level did not alter the degree of hypertrophy in the left ventricle plus septum (LVS), but sodium restriction sharply reduced the severe right ventricular (RV) and atrial hypertrophy present in the NSI and HSI rats (LVS: LSI, 18 +/- 2%; NSI, 20 +/- 2; HSI, 15 +/- 2; RV: LSI, 21 +/- 7%; NSI, 45 +/- 9, HSI, 40 +/- 2; atria: LSI, 46 +/- 17; NSI, 73 +/- 23; HSI, 78 +/- 9). Isoproterenol produced diffuse and focal myocardial fibrosis in the subepimyocardium of the LVS with occasional foci of fibrosis in the RV and the subepimyocardium of the LVS. Quantitative analysis demonstrated an increased volume percent of connective tissue limited to the LVS subendomyocardium in all three ISO-treated groups compared to controls (p less than 0.05). These data shows that isoproterenol produces greater hypertrophy of the RV and the atria than the LVS and that dietary sodium restriction selectively decreases the degree of hypertrophy of the RV and the atria produced by ISO. The findings also indicate that the myocardial hypertrophy due to ISO is independent of myocardial injury and is thus, not merely a compensatory response to myocyte loss but rather a direct result of beta-adrenergic stimulation.
Copper (Cu) and zinc (Zn) were measured in urine, serum and tissues from rats with nephrotic syndrome (NS) induced with a single subcutaneous dose of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN; 15 mg/100 g BW). Control animals were pair-fed. Urine was collected daily, and the rats were sacrificed on day 10. PAN-nephrotic rats had proteinuria (days 3-10), high urinary Cu (days 1, 2, 4-10) and Zn (days 3-10) excretion. On day 10, nephrotic rats had: (a) albuminuria, hypoalbuminemia, hypoproteinemia, high urine and low serum levels of ceruloplasmin; (b) low Cu and Zn serum levels; (c) high clearance and fractional excretion of Cu and Zn, and (d) low kidney and liver Cu content and essentially normal tissue Zn levels. The alterations in Cu metabolism were more intense than those in Zn metabolism. Urine Cu and Zn showed a positive correlation with urine total protein on days 3-10 which suggests that high urinary excretion of Cu and Zn may be due to the excretion of its carrier proteins. In conclusion, these rats did not show a typical Zn deficiency but a clear decrease in Cu in the liver and kidney.
We evaluated a newly developed phased-array intracardiac echocardiographic catheter.
Our aim was to evaluate the imaging capability of this new ICE catheter in an animal model simulating acute cardiovascular abnormalities.
ICE images were obtained from the right atrium during (1) acute left ventricular dysfunction; (2) acute coronary occlusion; (3) pericardial effusion and tamponade; and (4) pulmonary embolism.
Left ventricular dysfunction, induced experimentally by halothane inhalation, resulted in a fall in echocardiography-calculated ejection fraction from 47% +/- 11% to 25% +/- 10%, P <.01. Regional contraction abnormalities after acute coronary occlusion were identified without and with the ultrasound contrast agent Optison. Pericardial effusion produced by saline infusion into the pericardium was detected in amounts as small as 15 mL. Right ventricular and atrial compression and respiratory variation in right ventricular inflow during tamponade were demonstrated. After injection of intravenous thrombin to create venous thromboembolism, we demonstrated right ventricular dilatation and dysfunction and thrombi attached to the tricuspid and pulmonary valves and in the pulmonary artery.
This new phased-array ICE catheter may be a useful clinical tool for the diagnosis of heart failure, ischemia, tamponade, and pulmonary embolism.
Ciprofloxacin was more effective (P less than 0.01) than either imipenem or nafcillin therapy of experimental methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis in rabbits after 2 or 3 days of treatment. There was no significant difference between results of treatment of methicillin-susceptible S. aureus experimental endocarditis with ciprofloxacin and results with the combination of nafcillin and gentamicin. Ciprofloxacin was more effective (P less than 0.01) than vancomycin therapy of experimental methicillin-resistant S. aureus endocarditis after 3 days of treatment. After 5 days of treatment, there was no significant difference between the results of treatment of experimental methicillin-resistant S. aureus endocarditis with ciprofloxacin and results with vancomycin.
Midazolam is a broadly used drug that can enhance tolerance to transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) in patients with cardiac conditions. Adverse reactions to midazolam have been described previously. We describe central-nervous side effects in 6 of 104 consecutive patients.
One hundred four patients undergoing TEE-diagnostic procedure were investigated. TEE was performed using a SSA 360 Power Vision ultrasound unit (Toshiba, Tokyo, Japan) and a 5- to 6-MHz probe. Indication for TEE was evaluation of cardiac valves (6), search for cardiac embolism (23), patent foramen ovale or atrial septum defect (20), left ventricular dysfunction (11), aortic dissection (7), and other (37). Midazolam and, if necessary, the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil (0.25-0.5 mg) were administered intravenously.
The mean cumulative dose of midazolam administered in small fractions was 4.8 +/- 2 mg. In 6 of 104 patients (5.7%) clinically significant adverse effects to midazolam occurred. The reactions were aggressiveness, euphoria, depression, and intense hiccups (singultus) despite low doses of midazolam. The severest forms of these adverse effects to midazolam could be successfully treated with intravenous infusion of flumazenil (0.25-0.5 mg intravenously).
Adverse effects including aggressive, euphoric, or depressive behavior can occur in a significant proportion (6%) of patients with cardiac conditions undergoing TEE after intravenous administration of midazolam. The administration of the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil can reverse the adverse effects to midazolam successfully.
Animal studies exploring the antagonism of irreversible cholinesterase inhibitors (i.e. nerve agents) such as soman and sarin have shown that pretreatment with the reversible centrally acting cholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine, alone or in conjunction with the centrally acting anticholinergic drug, scopolamine, antagonizes the lethality and toxicity of these agents. This study evaluated the effects of pretreatment with the oral cholinesterase inhibitor and anti-Alzheimer's agent, donepezil (Aricept) on the hypokinetic, hypothermic and diarrhea-inducing effects of the irreversible long-acting cholinesterase inhibitor, diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Donepezil (2 mg/kg), given acutely (30 min pretreatment) or chronically (10 daily treatments), significantly antagonized the hypothermia, hypoactivity and diarrhea induced by DFP (1.25 mg/kg) administration. The effects were most prominent 4 and 6 h after the injection of DFP and some protection was observed even when the last treatment of the chronic donepezil protocol was given 24 h before the DFP injection. Although these phenomena are not the same as lethality, they may be parallel phenomena, and our results may have therapeutic implications for the treatment of nerve agent toxicity.
Sumatriptan (Imigran), an effective drug against symptoms of migraine may cause a sensation of thoracic oppression. In some patients, this is accompanied by ECG alterations. In such cases, the underlying mechanism is probably coronary spasm, although this has never been demonstrated angiographically. The case is described of a young woman who was hospitalized after resuscitation because of ventricular fibrillation. One week previously, after subcutaneous administration of sumatriptan, she had had chest pains for half an hour. A spasm provocation test during coronary angiography gave a positive result. The patient was treated with a calcium antagonist following which she remained free of symptoms. In patients with chest pain after administration of sumatriptan, it is necessary to use this drug cautiously; spasm of the coronary arteries as a cause should be excluded.
A non-radioactive method that uses reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography is described for the determination of thiopurine methyltransferase (E.C. 2.1.1.67) activity in human erythrocytes. The method is based on the direct quantitation of 6-methyl-mercaptopurine produced from 6-mercaptopurine by crude erythrocyte lysates. The method is accurate and reliable and suitable for diagnostic use. Activity values in control adults ranged from 5 to 32 pmol/h/mg haemoglobin. The activity in the erythrocytes of adult males was significantly higher compared to females (21 +/- 5 and 15 +/- 8 pmol/h/mg haemoglobin, respectively). The activity measured in the erythrocytes of children (22 +/- 5 pmol/h/mg haemoglobin) did not show any significant difference compared to adults. Thiopurine methyltransferase activity was measured in a female patient with systemic sclerosis who developed severe bone marrow depression after treatment with azathioprine and allopurinol. Activity (6.3 +/- 0.5 pmol/h/mg haemoglobin) was found in the lowest range of controls thus supporting the hypothesis that it could be responsible for increased azathioprine cytotoxicity.
Freely moving rats were implanted with cortical, caudal, thalamic, and reticular electrodes. Drugs were infused intravenously at a constant rate up to a final cumulative dose of 40, 50, or 60 mg/kg. Doses of 10 mg/kg imipramine, viloxazine, desmethylimipramine, mianserin, and maprotiline produced spike-wave complexes, spikes, and increased spindling. General sustained discharges occurred after 20 mg/kg of mianserin, viloxazine, imipramine, desmethylimipramine and amitriptyline, and after 30 mg/kg of maprotiline. An abnormal high-amplitude pattern was evident after mianserin, amitriptyline, imipramine, and desmethylimipramine. On the average, seizures were observed at 40 mg/kg and were seen after desmethylimipramine (50 mg/kg), mianserin (30 mg/kg), amitriptyline (20 mg/kg), imipramine (40 mg/kg), maprotiline (40 mg/kg), and zimelidine (50 mg/kg). Ranking the tested antidepressants in decreasing order in accordance with their relative (pro)convulsive properties gives: amitriptyline greater than mianserin much greater than imipramine greater than desmethylimipramine greater than viloxazine much greater than maprotiline much greater than zimelidine greater than clovoxamine greater than nomifensine = fluvoxamine.
21-Aminosteroids have incited a great deal of interest owing to its ability to inhibit lipid peroxidation and prevent organ damage. The main mechanism by which 21-aminosteroids inhibit lipid peroxidation is similar to the naturally occurring chain-breaking antioxidant alpha-tocopherols. Therefore, to determine whether 21-aminosteroids offer any advantage over alpha-tocopherol, we compared their effects on an in vivo and in vitro models of renal injury. 21-Aminosteroid (U-74006 F) at 3 mg/kg or alpha-tocopherol succinate at 10 mg/kg was administered intravenously once before bilateral renal ischemia and again before reperfusion. Acute administration 21-aminosteroid but not alpha-tocopherol, was attended by suppression of ischemia reperfusion-induced renal lipid peroxidation and injury. However, 4 weeks of dietary enrichment of rats with alpha-tocopherol (1000 IU/kg) was effective in suppressing these ischemia reperfusion-induced changes. In cell culture system, concurrent presence of 21-aminosteroid but not alpha-tocopherol abrogated H2O2-induced renal epithelial lipid peroxidation and injury. However, alpha-tocopherol was completely effective when cells were incubated with it for 14 h. Further, only the cells incubated with vitamin E for 14 h-but not for 1 or 3 h-had a significant increase in vitamin E content, which suggests that a delay in prompt cellular up take of vitamin E may explain its lack of acute effects. Thus, unlike alpha-tocopherol, 21-aminosteroid appears readily and completely available for its chain-breaking antioxidant activity both in vitro and in vivo. 21-Aminosteroids may, therefore, offer a therapeutic advantage over alpha-tocopherols in acute injury settings.
Chromosome 18q deletion has been described as a negative prognostic factor in colorectal cancer (CRC). The relationship between its supposed negative prognostic influence and the inactivation of candidate tumor suppressors deleted in colorectal cancer, Smad2 and Smad4 has not been definitively established. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the genetic status of three novel putative tumor suppressors, Cadh-7, DNAX accessory molecule-1 (Dnam-1) and suppressor of cytokine signaling (Socs6) on chromosome 18q and to correlate molecular results with patient survival and benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy.
One hundred and ninety representative patient samples from a randomized multicenter study of the Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)- based adjuvant chemotherapy were screened for the gene copy status of Cadh-7, Socs6 and Dnam-1 using real-time quantitative PCR assay, and the molecular results were correlated with clinical outcome.
Loss of gene copy number was found in 26.8, 37.9 and 54.2% for Cadh-7, Dnam-1 and Socs6, respectively. Only Dnam-1 deletion was an independent negative prognostic factor for the 5-year overall survival (OS) in the untreated group of patients (hazard ratio = 2.44; p = 0.01). On the contrary, loss of Cadh-7 gene copy number was a favourable prognostic factor for disease-free survival (hazard ratio = 0.43; p = 0.03) and OS (hazard ratio = 0.29; p = 0.01) in the untreated control population. Furthermore and most importantly, patients with Dnam-1 deletion who received adjuvant chemotherapy had a significantly lower risk of death compared to untreated patients with Dnam-1 deletion (hazard ratio = 0.51; p = 0.05), whereas those with Dnam-1 retention did not derive any benefit from 5-FU-based treatment (hazard ratio = 1.68; p = 0.16).
Loss of Dnam-1 gene copy number and retention of Cadh-7 might be indicators of worse prognosis, and Dnam-1 deletion might predict for a beneficial response to adjuvant 5-FU-based chemotherapy in patients with CRC. The confirmation of our findings in large independent randomized studies is needed.
It has been proposed that neutrophil- and oxygen radical-dependent microvascular injuries are important prime events that lead to gastric mucosal injury induced by indomethacin. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by activated neutrophils after indomethacin treatment cause gastric mucosal injury via ROS-mediated oxidation of important biomolecules such as lipid, protein, and DNA. In addition, it has been revealed that indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury occurs via gastric epithelial cell apoptosis. However, there is little known about the mechanism of indomethacin-triggered cellular response and apoptotic signaling in gastric mucosal cells. In the present study, we summarize the evidence that supports the involvement of oxidative stress and apoptosis in indomethacin-induced gastropathy, and review the gene expression profiles of gastric epithelial cells after indomethacin treatment determined by DNA microarray analysis.
Estradiol (E(2)) is known to modulate insulin sensitivity and, consequently, glucose homeostasis. Resveratrol (RSV), an agonist of estrogen receptor (ER), has exerted antihyperglycemic effects in streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetic rats in our previous study and was also shown to improve insulin resistance in other reports. However, it remains unknown whether activation of ER is involved in the metabolic effects of RSV via insulin-dependent and -independent mechanisms.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given a high cholesterol-fructose (HCF) diet for 15 weeks and were treated with RSV for either 15 days or 15 weeks.
Here, we show that RSV shifts the metabolic characteristics of rats on an HCF diet toward those of rats on a standard diet. RSV treatment increased insulin-stimulated whole-body glucose uptake and steady-state glucose uptake of soleus muscle and liver in HCF-fed rats as well as enhanced membrane trafficking activity of GLUT4 and increased phosphorylation of insulin receptor in insulin-resistant soleus muscles. Interestingly, the phosphorylated ER level in insulin-resistant soleus muscle was significantly elevated in rats with RSV treatment in both basal and euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic conditions. RSV exerted an insulin-like stimulatory effect on isolated soleus muscle, epididymal fat and hepatic tissue, and C2C12 myotubes. The RSV-stimulated glucose uptake in C2C12 myotubes was dependent on extracellular signal-related kinase/p38 (early phase, 1 h) and p38/phosphoinositide 3-kinase (late phase, 14 h) activation. Inhibition of ER abrogated RSV-induced glucose uptake in both early and late phases.
Collectively, these results indicate that ER is a key regulator in RSV-stimulating insulin-dependent and -independent glucose uptake, which might account for the protective effects of RSV on diet-induced insulin resistance syndrome.
Differences in brain activity of children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have been compared to normal healthy controls, suggesting neural correlates of cognitive/behavioral symptoms. Symptoms are improved with methylphenidate treatment but limited sources can be cited to show how brain activity in ADHD is altered after pharmacologic treatment. We investigated how long-term oral medication of methylphenidate affects the resting regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in ADHD children, using single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT). rCBF was decreased in the orbitofrontal cortex and middle temporal gyrus in the right hemisphere whereas it was increased in the dorsomedial prefrontal and somatosensory area bilaterally in drug-naive ADHD children compared to control child subjects. After treatment with methylphenidate, the extent of hyperperfusion in the somatosensory area was reduced and significant reduction of rCBF was found in the right striatum for the first time. Methylphenidate treatment also resulted in rCBF increase in superior prefrontal and reduction in ventral higher visual areas bilaterally. The results indicated that improving ADHD symptom after methylphenidate is associated with normalization of abnormally reduced orbitofrontal activity and abnormally increased somatosensory cortical activity. These changes were accompanied with reduced striatum activity lower than that of normal controls. These changes might be associated with improving ADHD to control attention and motor response to irrelevant environmental stimuli after methylphenidate treatment.
Cancer development has been linked to epigenetic modifications of cancer oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes; in advanced metastatic cancers, severe epigenetic modifications are present. We previously demonstrated that the progression of prostate tumors in TRAMP mice is associated with methylation silencing of the Nrf2 promoter and a reduced level of transcription of Nrf2 and Nrf2 target genes. Radix Angelicae Sinensis (RAS; Danggui) is a medicinal herb and health food supplement that has been widely used in Asia for centuries. Z-Ligustilide (Lig) is one of the bioactive components of RAS. We investigated the potential of Lig and RAS to restore Nrf2 gene expression through epigenetic modification in TRAMP C1 cells. Lig and RAS induced the mRNA and protein expression of endogenous Nrf2 and Nrf2 downstream target genes, such as HO-1, NQO1, and UGT1A1. Bisulfite genomic sequencing revealed that Lig and RAS treatment decreased the level of methylation of the first five CpGs of the Nrf2 promoter. A methylation DNA immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated that Lig and RAS significantly decreased the relative amount of methylated DNA in the Nrf2 gene promoter region. Lig and RAS also inhibited DNA methyltransferase activity in vitro. Collectively, these results suggest that Lig and RAS are able to demethylate the Nrf2 promoter CpGs, resulting in the re-expression of Nrf2 and Nrf2 target genes. Epigenetic modifications of genes, including Nrf2, may therefore contribute to the overall health benefits of RAS, including the anticancer effect of RAS and its bioactive component, Lig.
