A 7 year-old boy had had partial complex seizures from the age 6 years. Two days after commencing a treatment by VPA in a daily dose of 55 mg/kg body weight, disturbances of consciousness became obvious. He was admitted to hospital two days later. The E.E.G. on admission showed bilateral delta activity. The plasma levels of VPA was 140 mg/l. Diazepam, 7 mg, was given intravenously. Four minutes later, the clinical state and the E.E.G. returned to normal. This observation supports the hypothesis that VPA may have a paradoxical epileptogenic effect in some types of epilepsy.
Myalgias and arthralgias are prominent toxicities associated with paclitaxel. Pursuant to pilot information suggesting that glutamine could markedly alleviate this toxicity, we developed a placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized crossover trial to test this hypothesis. This trial studied 36 patients who had experienced myalgias/arthralgias related to a prior paclitaxel-containing regimen and who were then randomized to receive oral glutamine (10 grams three times a day, starting on the day of chemotherapy) x 5 days or an identical-appearing placebo. For the subsequent cycle of chemotherapy, patients were crossed over, again in a double-blind manner, to receive the alternative treatment. Patients recorded daily myalgia/arthralgia scores on numerical scales. Physicians recorded patient-reported myalgias/arthralgias using National Cancer Institute common toxicity criteria at baseline and after each course of therapy. The results of this study revealed that glutamine had no effect on the development or severity of paclitaxel-induced myalgias/arthralgias, as recorded either by the patients' daily logs or by physician-reported information. Glutamine was well tolerated, with no suggestion of more toxicity compared to placebo. Upon completion of the two cycles, patients were asked to indicate which of the two blinded courses they preferred. Of those patients indicating a preference, 29% preferred the glutamine cycle, compared with 33% who preferred the placebo cycle (P = 0.96). Thus this trial did not suggest any role for oral glutamine, compared with placebo, for preventing the development, or alleviating the severity, of paclitaxel-induced myalgias/arthralgias.
The LD50 of DDVP (Dichloro, dimethyl vinyl phosphate) for Rattus norvegicus was 21.4 mg/kg. b.w. The two sub lethal doses 1 and 3 mg/kg showed many histopathological changes in the working heart muscles and also showed significant necrosis in this S-A node, A-V node and bunble of His of the cardiac conducting system. These sublethal doses of the OP pesticide caused a significant inhibition of AChE. The maximum inhibition was noticed at the highest dose. The enhanced inhibitory constant Km and ACh contents in the heart muscles with the increase of dose showed inhibition of enzyme. The constant Vmax showed competitive nature of inhibition. A significant inhibition of AChE (69%) indicated that DDVP is a strong inhibitor of enzyme in heart.
The activation of aryl hydrocarbon receptor with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is known to be antagonized by co-treatment with resveratrol. However, such a protective effect has been suggested from studies using subcutaneous injection of this polyphenol. To evaluate the practical usefulness of resveratrol, this study examined the protective effect of oral resveratrol on the sub-acute toxic effects of TCDD in C57BL/6J mice. A TCDD-induced wasting syndrome was not alleviated by treating mice for 28 d with oral resveratrol. However, subcutaneous injection of resveratrol for 5 d significantly improved the symptoms. Neither oral nor subcutaneous administration of resveratrol alleviated TCDD-induced hepatomegaly and thymic atrophy. Steatosis produced by TCDD was markedly counteracted by co-treatment with oral resveratrol, whereas resveratrol injected subcutaneously had no effect. The reason for the lack of protective effect via the latter dosing route was assumed to be due to the minor accumulation of hepatic lipids 5 d after TCDD treatment. To clarify the mechanisms, the activity of ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase and the content of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in the liver were measured. Both indices increased by TCDD treatment were significantly suppressed by subcutaneous injection of resveratrol. In contrast, oral resveratrol failed to rescue them. In agreement with the greater protective effects of subcutaneously-injected resveratrol, pharmacokinetic studies indicated that the area under the curve extrapolated to infinity (AUC(infinity)) was 8.2-times greater following subcutaneous injection compared with oral administration. These data suggest that 1) oral resveratrol is attractive candidate as an agent capable of combating dioxin toxicity and 2) increasing the bioavailability of this polyphenol enhances its protective effect.
A series of potent and selective prolylendopeptidase (PEP) inhibitors of the alpha-keto heterocyclic type has been obtained by replacing the classical central proline of 1-[1-(4-phenylbutanoyl)-L-prolyl]pyrrolidine (SUAM 1221,3) by non-natural amino acids PHI, ABO, and ABH. These 4-phenylbutanoyl side-chain-containing inhibitors exhibited potent in vitro inhibitory potencies with IC50 around 30 nM (compounds 24 and 25). Modulation of the side chain by replacement of the terminal phenyl ring by the dicyclopropyl moiety afforded derivatives 30 and 32 with improved potencies (IC50 between 10 and 20 nM). Furthermore, replacing the linear 4-phenylbutanoyl side chain by the (2-phenylcyclopropyl)carbonyl entity provided potent inhibitors with IC50 culminating at 0.9 nM on a rat cortex enzymatic preparation (compound 70). The configuration of the cyclopropyl ring had to be R,R in order to obtain not only a strong PEP inhibition in vitro but also a good activity in vivo, exemplified by inhibitor 68, which gave ID50 ip and po of 0.3 and 1 mg/kg, respectively. Finally, demonstration of the cognition-enhancing properties of compound 54 was given in the passive avoidance test using scopolamine-induced amnesia in the rat, where it dose dependently inhibited the scopolamine-induced decrease in avoidance response.
Chronic exposure to methyl isobutyl ketone (MIBK) resulted in an increase in the incidence of renal tubule adenomas and occurrence of renal tubule carcinomas in male, but not female Fischer 344 rats. Since a number of chemicals have been shown to cause male rat renal tumors through the α2u nephropathy-mediated mode of action, the objective of this study is to evaluate the ability of MIBK to induce measures of α2u nephropathy including renal cell proliferation in male and female F344 rats following exposure to the same inhalation concentrations used in the National Toxicology Program (NTP) cancer bioassay (0, 450, 900, or 1800ppm). Rats were exposed 6h/day for 1 or 4 weeks and kidneys excised approximately 18h post exposure to evaluate hyaline droplet accumulation (HDA), α2u staining of hyaline droplets, renal cell proliferation, and to quantitate renal α2u concentration. There was an exposure-related increase in all measures of α2u nephropathy in male, but not female rat kidneys. The hyaline droplets present in male rat kidney stained positively for α2u. The changes in HDA and α2u concentration were comparable to d-limonene, an acknowledged inducer of α2u nephropathy. In a separate in vitro study using a two-compartment vial equilibration model to assess the interaction between MIBK and α2u, the dissociation constant (Kd) was estimated to be 1.27×10(-5)M. This Kd is within the range of other chemicals known to bind to α2u and cause nephropathy. Together, the exposure-related increase in measures of α2u nephropathy, sustained increase in renal cell proliferation along with an indication of reversible binding of MIBK to α2u, support the inclusion of MIBK in the category of chemicals exerting renal effects through a protein droplet α2u nephropathy-mediated mode of action (MoA).
While many studies have documented tamoxifen's benefits as an adjuvant therapy in the treatment and prevention of recurrent breast cancer in estrogen receptor positive (ER+) breast carcinoma, this beneficial effect may decrease with long-term tamoxifen use. This experimental study was designed to compare the cytotoxic responses of ER+ primary breast cancer solid tumors derived from the MCF7 cell line to experimental therapeutics, including genistein, tamoxifen, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and parthenolide in the presence and absence of exogenous beta-estradiol. The results of this study suggest that the growth inhibitory effects of tamoxifen, were dependent on beta-estradiol levels. In contrast, the cytotoxic effects of the isoflavone soy derivative, genistein, were observed to be independent of exogenous estrogen. Moreover, combined therapy using tamoxifen and genistein produced enhanced cytotoxic effects also independent of beta-estradiol levels. Additional studies involving the use of the novel agents all trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and parthenolide produced notable tumor responses and combined effects that were also estrogen-independent. Overall, these preclinical research findings suggest possible clinical applications suggesting that genistein might be a useful clinical adjuvant, particularly in post-menopausal women in whom breast cancer occurs more frequently. Moreover, this research suggests that combined treatment approaches involving the use of tamoxifen in conjunction with agents that inhibit NFkappaB pathway signaling, such as parthenolide and genistein, warrant further study.
Previous studies showed that neurogenesis occurs in the dentate gyrus of the adult rodent. Recent evidence suggests that the resulting newly born neurons integrate into pre-existing hippocampal circuitry. Newly born neurons in the developing and adult dentate gyrus exhibit a transient basal dendrite. In adult pilocarpine-induced epileptic rats, basal dendrites persist and are ectopically located in the hilus where they receive synaptic input from mossy fiber axons. We hypothesize that these hilar basal dendrites are derived from newly born neurons that are born after the pilocarpine-induced seizures. To test this hypothesis, the length of basal dendrites from epileptic rats was compared with that from control rats using doublecortin immunocytochemistry, which labels newly born neurons and their processes for up to 3 weeks after their genesis. The data on hilar basal dendrites in pilocarpine animals indicate that those from newly born neurons are significantly longer than those found in the control rats. We also demonstrate that 20% of newly born neurons in the epileptic rat have a basal dendrite that enters the hilus at an angle greater than 30 degrees from its cell body as compared with <2% in the control rats. Lastly, we provide evidence that the hilar basal dendrites in the epileptic rats are adjacent to glial fibrillary acidic protein-labeled astrocytic processes in the hilus and suggest that an ectopic glial scaffold in the hilus is involved with the formation of hilar basal dendrites. In conclusion, the data show that newly born neurons from epileptic rats have longer hilar basal dendrites and their formation might relate to gliosis which occurs as a result of hilar neuronal cell loss after status epilepticus.
Our prior work shows that in utero arsenic exposure alone is a complete transplacental carcinogen, producing hepatocellular carcinoma in adult male offspring but not in females. In a follow-up study to potentially promote arsenic-initiated tumors, mice were exposed to arsenic (85 ppm) from gestation day 8 to 18 and then exposed to 12-O-teradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA), a well-known tumor promoter after weaning. The dermal application of TPA (2 mug/0.1 ml acetone, twice/week for 21 weeks) after transplacental arsenic did not further increase arsenic-induced liver tumor formation in adult males but significantly increased liver tumor formation in adult females. Thus, for comparison, liver tumors and normal liver samples taken from adult male and female mice at necropsy were analyzed for aberrant gene/protein expression by microarray, real-time RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. Arsenic/TPA treatment resulted in increased expression of alpha-fetoprotein, k-ras, c-myc, estrogen receptor-alpha, cyclin D1, cdk2na, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, cytokeratin-8, cytokeratin-18, glutathione S-transferases and insulin-like growth factor binding proteins in liver and liver tumors from both male and female mice. Arsenic/TPA also decreased the expression of BRCA1, betaine-homocysteine methyltransferase, CYP7B1, CYP2F2 and insulin-like growth factor-1 in normal and cancerous livers. Alterations in these gene products were associated with arsenic/TPA-induced liver tumors, regardless of sex. Thus, transplacental arsenic plus postnatal TPA exposure induced similar aberrant gene expression patterns in male and female mouse liver, which are persistent and potentially important to the mechanism of arsenic initiation of hepatocarcinogenesis.
We report a case of cardiac asystole during dobutamine stress echocardiography in a 59 year-old woman presenting with chest pain and a positive treadmill test for ischemia. Cardiac asystole was not associated with myocardial ischaemia and was probably related to a powerful cardioinhibitory reflex caused by dobutamine stimulation.
Seventy-nine patients harboring recurrent brain tumors received four cycles of infraophthalmic carotid injections of 160 mg of carmustine. Two milligrams of intravenous vincristine and 50 mg of oral procarbazine was also administered three times daily for 1 week in conjunction with each BCNU treatment. The response rate was 60% with a median survival for patients with astrocytomas, anaplastic astrocytomas, and glioblastomas of 32, 20, and 6.5 months, respectively. The median survival of the responding patients was 20 months, and the survival at 30 months was 45%. The survival in patients not responding to treatment was 5 months, reflecting the natural history of the tumor. There have been no deaths related to the treatment procedure. No incidents of severe or permanent eye complications or leukoencephalopathy were observed. Based on multivariate survival analysis, only patients with a good performance status who are not steroid dependent are candidates for this treatment.
This study compared the sexual functioning effects as well as the safety and efficacy of bupropion sustained release (bupropion SR) and sertraline. Three hundred sixty-four patients with normal sexual functioning and recurrent major depression were treated with bupropion SR (150-400 mg/day), sertraline (50-200 mg/day), or placebo for 8 weeks in this randomized, double-blind, multicenter study. Patients' depression, sexual functioning, and overall safety were assessed at regular clinic visits. Significantly (P < 0.05) more patients treated with sertraline experienced orgasm dysfunction compared with patients treated with bupropion SR or placebo. Bupropion SR, but not sertraline, was statistically significantly superior to placebo in improving scores on all depression scales by the end of the study. Headache occurred with similar frequency in all groups. Gastrointestinal disturbances occurred more frequently with sertraline; insomnia and agitation occurred more frequently with bupropion SR. Small decreases in mean weight were seen with both active treatments; the placebo group experienced a minor increase in mean weight. Both bupropion SR and sertraline were generally well tolerated, although sertraline was more often associated with sexual dysfunction. Bupropion SR, but not sertraline, was statistically superior to placebo in relieving depression by the end of the study. Bupropion SR may offer advantages over sertraline in treating depressed patients concerned with sexual functioning.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the globus pallidus interna (GPi) and subthalamic nucleus (STN) has been reported to relieve motor symptoms and levodopa-induced dyskinesia in patients with advanced Parkinson disease (PD). Although it has been suggested that stimulation of the STN may be superior to stimulation of the GPi, comparative trials are limited.
To extend our randomized, blinded pilot comparison of the safety and efficacy of STN and GPi stimulation in patients with advanced PD.
This study represents the combined results from our previously published, randomized, blinded, parallel-group pilot study and additional patients enrolled in our single-center extension study.
Oregon Health and Science University in Portland.Patients Twenty-three patients with idiopathic PD, levodopa-induced dyskinesia, and response fluctuations were randomized to implantation of bilateral GPi or STN stimulators. Patients and evaluating clinicians were blinded to stimulation site. All patients were tested preoperatively while taking and not taking medications and after 3, 6, and 12 months of DBS.
Postoperatively, response of symptoms to DBS, medication, and combined medication and DBS was evaluated. Twenty patients (10 in the GPi group and 10 in the STN group) completed 12-month follow-up.
Off-medication Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor scores were improved after 12 months of both GPi and STN stimulation (39% vs 48%). Bradykinesia tended to improve more with STN than GPi stimulation. No improvement in on-medication function was observed in either group. Levodopa dose was reduced by 38% in STN stimulation patients compared with 3% in GPi stimulation patients (P = .08). Dyskinesia was reduced by stimulation at both GPi and STN (89% vs 62%). Cognitive and behavioral complications were observed only in combination with STN stimulation.
Stimulation of either the GPi or STN improves many features of advanced PD. It is premature to exclude GPi as an appropriate target for DBS in patients with advanced disease.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) overdose can cause severe hypertension, intracerebral hemorrhage, and death. We studied the efficacy and safety of propranolol in the treatment of PPA-induced hypertension. Subjects received propranolol either by mouth for 48 hours before PPA or as a rapid intravenous infusion after PPA. PPA, 75 mg alone, increased blood pressure (31 +/- 14 mm Hg systolic, 20 +/- 5 mm Hg diastolic), and propranolol pretreatment antagonized this increase (12 +/- 10 mm Hg systolic, 10 +/- 7 mm Hg diastolic). Intravenous propranolol after PPA also decreased blood pressure. Left ventricular function (assessed by echocardiography) showed that PPA increased the stroke volume 30% (from 62.5 +/- 20.9 to 80.8 +/- 22.4 ml), the ejection fraction 9% (from 64% +/- 10% to 70% +/- 7%), and cardiac output 14% (from 3.6 +/- 0.6 to 4.1 +/- 1.0 L/min). Intravenous propranolol reversed these effects. Systemic vascular resistance was increased by PPA 28% (from 1710 +/- 200 to 2190 +/- 700 dyne X sec/cm5) and was further increased by propranolol 22% (to 2660 +/- 1200 dyne X sec/cm5). We conclude that PPA increases blood pressure by increasing systemic vascular resistance and cardiac output, and that propranolol antagonizes this increase by reversing the effect of PPA on cardiac output. That propranolol antagonizes the pressor effect of PPA is in contrast to the interaction in which propranolol enhances the pressor effect of norepinephrine. This is probably because PPA has less beta 2 activity than does norepinephrine.
Environmental and occupational exposure to heavy metals such as cadmium, mercury and lead results in severe health hazards including prenatal and developmental defects. The deleterious effects of heavy metal ions have hitherto been attributed to their interactions with specific, particularly susceptible native proteins. Here, we report an as yet undescribed mode of heavy metal toxicity. Cd2+, Hg2+ and Pb2+ proved to inhibit very efficiently the spontaneous refolding of chemically denatured proteins by forming high-affinity multidentate complexes with thiol and other functional groups (IC(50) in the nanomolar range). With similar efficacy, the heavy metal ions inhibited the chaperone-assisted refolding of chemically denatured and heat-denatured proteins. Thus, the toxic effects of heavy metal ions may result as well from their interaction with the more readily accessible functional groups of proteins in nascent and other non-native form. The toxic scope of heavy metals seems to be substantially larger than assumed so far.
The authors presented a case of pulmonary hypertension during lithium therapy, while she has been on lithium for 6 years. The patient developed pulmonary hypertension without a prior diagnosed cardiac and/or pulmonary disease. This is the first report of pulmonary hypertension in an adult patient during lithium therapy.
The possibility of an action of propranolol which reduces traffic in the sympathetic nervous system and/or reduces release of norepinephrine at sympathetic nerve endings has been investigated in normal subjects. Plasma norephinephrine was measured in resting supine subjects before and during infusions of sodium nitroprusside which reduced the systolic blood pressure by approximately 10 and later by 20 mm Hg. In 5 subjects these observations were repeated 2 hr after a single 200-mg oral dose of propranolol and in 3 they were repeated after 2 to 8 wk of propranolol 320 mg twice daily. In the control experiments, plasma norepinephrine increased from 0.22 up to 0.74 ng/ml when the blood pressure was reduced by 17/15 mm Hg. Corresponding figures 2 hr after 200 mg propranolol were an increase of plasma norepinephrine from 0.30 or 0.79 ng/ml with a reduction of blood pressure of 19/15 mm Hg. After long-term treatment with 640 mg propranolol daily, a similar reduction of pressure with sodium nitroprusside increased plasma norepinephrine from 0.24 to 0.68 ng/ml. There was no significant alteration in the elevation of plasma norepinephrine following blood pressure reduction with nitroprusside after either short- or long-term treatment with propranolol. These experiments do not suggest a significant role for a nervous system effect of propranolol in modifying sympathetic activity.
Eight medicolegally examined cases of suicide, in 21- to 33-year-old males, with a history of current or discontinued use of anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) are described, five of which were approached by means of systematic interviews with survivors. Five suicides were committed during current use of AAS, and two following 2 and 6 months of AAS withdrawal. In one case it was unclear whether the suicide was committed during current use or after recent discontinuation. In five cases family members had noted depressive symptoms associated with AAS withdrawal. After prolonged use, four persons had developed depressive syndromes. Two subjects exhibited hypomania-like symptoms during the time immediately preceding the suicide. Four subjects had recently committed acts of violence while using AAS. In some cases these acts exacerbated the subjects' problems in personal relationships or at work, which in turn seem to have precipitated the suicides. Only one of them had experienced suicidal ideation before starting to use AAS. In all cases examined by psychological autopsy, risk factors of suicidality likely to be independent of the use of AAS were present. In conclusion, this study presents data suggesting that psychiatric symptoms and conflicts resulting from long-term use of AAS may contribute to completed suicide in certain predisposed individuals.
The incidence of cocaine use is increasing in the United States among both adolescents and adults. Once thought to be a relatively safe street drug, cocaine has recently been implicated in 12 episodes of myocardial infarction. The case reports of these patients were retrospectively reviewed to determine the clinical and angiographic findings. All 12 patients exhibited electrocardiographic and angiographic evidence of myocardial infarction "shortly after" the use of cocaine by the nasal or intravenous routes. Most of the patients had fixed coronary artery disease. There appears to be increasing evidence of a temporal relationship between the use of cocaine and subsequent myocardial ischemic events in a subgroup of patients with or without fixed coronary artery stenosis. Physicians should inquire about cocaine use in patients with unexplained ischemic episodes since this may represent a potentially reversible factor in the later development of myocardial infarction.
(1) Paracetamol is the first-choice analgesic for joint pain. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), especially ibuprofen, are second-line options. Cox-2 inhibitors are no more effective than traditional NSAIDs and have no tangible advantages in terms of gastrointestinal tolerability. In contrast, they expose patients to an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse effects. (2) Etoricoxib is marketed in some European countries to relieve symptoms of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and gout attacks. (3) Many clinical trials have tested etoricoxib in these indications, as well as in ankylosing spondylitis, low back pain, and various types of acute pain. Etoricoxib was no more effective than other NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, naproxen or diclofenac in these situations. (4) Comparative trials showed a higher overall mortality rate with etoricoxib than with naproxen. A combined analysis of long-term comparative trials including 5441 patients, mainly versus naproxen, showed that etoricoxib does not reduce the risk of perforation, ulcer or severe gastrointestinal haemorrhage. Similarly, it does not reduce the risk of mild gastrointestinal events in at-risk patients: those with a history of gastrointestinal disorders, aspirin use, etc. (5) Three trials including a total of 34 701 patients (MEDAL programme) compared cardiovascular thrombotic events associated with etoricoxib and diclofenac. Overall, the cardiovascular risks appear to be similar but the thrombotic risk may be slightly higher with diclofenac than with other conventional NSAIDs. (6) Etoricoxib provoked arterial hypertension, oedema and heart failure during clinical trials. Serious skin reactions were reported both during clinical trials and after marketing, but their precise incidence is not known. Etoricoxib is partly metabolised by the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP 3A4 and increases the bioavailability of ethinylestradiol. (7) When a NSAID is considered, drugs with which we have the most experience should be chosen, such as ibuprofen, and used at the lowest acceptable dose regimen (daily dose and length of treatment). Etoricoxib should be avoided.
A 49-year-old male became hypotensive, bradycardic, and suffered myocardial injury during induction of anesthesia with lidocaine, propofol, and rocuronium in the operating room. Coronary arteriography revealed coronary vasospasm in coronary arteries otherwise free of disease. In the ICU, the patient was again administered rocuronium for a procedure with subsequent hypotension, bradycardia, and ST elevation on telemetry that resolved with administration of diphenhydramine and hydrocortisone. An allergic reaction to rocuronium with coronary vasospasm is suspected, suggestive of the Type 1 variant of Kounis syndrome. This is the first report to describe a case of rocuronium-induced Type 1 Kounis syndrome.
Ten patients with severe heart failure, symptomatic despite treatment with diuretics and captopril, completed a study of the effect of adding enoximone to their normal treatment. Enoximone or matching placebo was given for 4 weeks in randomized double-blind order following a single-blind placebo run-in period. Exercise capability was measured with two different treadmill protocols, a corridor walk test and by step-counting with body-worn pedometers. Cardiac output and limb blood flow were assessed non-invasively by measuring respiratory gases and by venous occlusion plethysmography. Measurements were made at rest and in response to treadmill exercise. The mean exercise tolerance measured using the modified Bruce treadmill protocol was increased from the placebo value (498 +/- 91 seconds) after both 2 weeks (573 +/- 94 seconds, P = 0.051) and 4 weeks of enoximone (572 +/- 100 seconds, P = 0.057). Enoximone increased exercise duration in fixed workload tests from the placebo value (252 +/- 75 seconds) after 2 weeks' treatment (431 +/- 98 seconds, P = 0.011) and after 4 weeks (381 +/- 85 seconds, (P = 0.01). The percentage improvement with the fixed workload test was greater than with the modified Bruce protocol at week 2 (P = 0.03) and at week 4 (P = 0.051). Enoximone increased the speed of walking 100 m at self-selected slow, normal and fast paces. It had little effect on customary activity of the patients. Enoximone increased cardiac output measured at rest and during submaximal exercise (P = 0.001). It also improved blood flow to the calf muscle at rest and after exercise (P = 0.01). Enoximone has a beneficial effect in chronic heart failure symptomatic despite treatment with diuretics and captopril. The magnitude of its effect, however, depends upon the technique used to assess it.
We examined the influence of 8-hydroxy-2-di-n-propylamino tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a serotonin 1A (5-HT1A) receptor full agonist, on the wet-dog shake response induced by the (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), a 5-HT2A receptor agonist, in adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-treated rats. Chronic ACTH (100 microg/rat, s.c.) treatment for 14 d increased the wet-dog shake response induced DOI. The 8-OH-DPAT inhibited the wet-dog shake response induced by DOI in rats with ACTH for 14 d. On the other hand, the 8-OH-DPAT-induced hypothermia and flat body posture were inhibited when ACTH was administered for 14 d. These findings suggest that chronic treatment with ACTH decreased the sensitivity of the 5-HT1A receptor system; however, the inhibitory effects from the 5-HT1A receptors to the 5-HT2A receptor system is not inhibited in ACTH-treated rats.
The biologically active enantiomer (CGP 40116) of the new competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist CGP 37849 was investigated for its effects on pilocarpine-induced limbic motor seizures and unconditioned motor behaviour in the mouse. CGP 40116 (1-8 mg/kg IP) reduced the incidence and severity of pilocarpine-induced motor seizures, although the overall effect was weak. In contrast to the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist MK 801, there were no signs of CGP 40116 producing a proconvulsant response in this model. In the nonhabituated mouse, MK 801 promoted hyperlocomotion at low doses and hypolocomotion and ataxia at high doses, while CGP 40116 dose-dependently suppressed motor behaviour. Because CGP 40116 and MK 801 exert opposite effects on the seizure threshold to pilocarpine and differentially alter species-typical behaviours in the mouse, it is suggested that different populations of NMDA receptors may mediate their effects. The indivisibility of seizure suppression and motor impairment noted previously with noncompetitive NMDA antagonists such as MK 801 appears also to apply to the new generation competitive NMDA antagonist CGP 40116.
A transient leukoencephalopathy mimicking cerebrovascular accident has been described as a complication of chemotherapy, most commonly in recipients of intrathecal methotrexate for childhood leukaemia. Recently published neuroimaging data suggest a common pathophysiology associated with a variety of chemotherapy agents and modes of administration.
We reviewed the medical literature for single reports and case series of patients presenting with stroke-like episodes while receiving systemic or intrathecal chemotherapy. We only included studies providing detailed neuroimaging data. Patients with cerebrovascular accidents were excluded.
We identified 27 reports of toxic leukoencephalopathy in patients treated with methotrexate (intrathecal, systemic), 5-fluorouracil and its derivative carmofur, and capecitabine. Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) of all patients revealed well demarcated hyperintense lesions within the subcortical white matter of the cerebral hemispheres and the corpus callosum, corresponding to areas of decreased proton diffusion on apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps (available in 21/27 patients). Lesions exceeded the confines of adjacent vascular territories. Complete resolution of symptoms within 1-4 days was accompanied by normalisation of ADC abnormalities. However, fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences frequently revealed persistent white matter abnormalities.
Several pathophysiological models of delayed leukoencephalopathy after exposure to intrathecal or systemic chemotherapy have been proposed. DWI findings in this cohort are indicative of cytotoxic oedema within cerebral white matter and lend support to an at least partially reversible metabolic derangement as the basis for this syndrome.
