A 43-year-old male was diagnosed as having cryptococcal meningitis based on his clinical condition, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) profile and high titer CSF cryptococcal antigen. The patient received intravenous amphotericin B at a total dose of 91 mg over 5 days. The therapy was then abandoned due to acute hepatorenal failure. The patient's neurologic status remained stable for 2 months, after which he began experiencing somnolence, confusion and a personality change. Cranial computed tomography revealed multifocal white matter lesions, and a brain biopsy showed a demyelination change with concurrent IgM and C1q deposition. A clinical diagnosis of amphotericin B-induced leukoencephalopathy was made. The patient's clinical condition was partially reversed after low-dose steroid therapy.
The teratogen nitrofen produces a congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) and pulmonary hypoplasia in rodent fetuses that closely parallel observations made in humans. We hypothesized that these changes may be due to primary pulmonary hypoplasia and not herniation of the abdominal contents. Timed-pregnant rats were given nitrofen on day 9, and fetuses were harvested on days 13 through 21. Initial evagination of lung buds on gestational day 11 was not delayed in nitrofen-treated fetuses. On gestational day 13, however, there was a significant decrease in the number of terminal end buds in the lungs of nitrofen-exposed fetuses vs. controls. Thymidine-labeled lung epithelial and mesenchymal cells were significantly decreased in nitrofen-treated lungs. Lungs from nitrofen-treated fetuses exhibited wide septae with disorganized, compacted tissue, particularly around the air spaces. Expression of surfactant protein B and C mRNAs was significantly decreased in the nitrofen litters. In situ hybridization of fetal lung tissue at all gestational ages showed no difference in the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor, Flk-1, or Flt-1 mRNAs. Because closure of the diaphragm is completed on gestational day 16 in the rat, our results suggest that lung hypoplasia in this model of CDH is due at least in part to a primary effect of nitrofen on the developing lung.
Between October 1973 and December 1981, 31 symptomatic patients who underwent pacemaker therapy on the results of a positive Ajmaline test alone, showing infrahisian AV block, were followed up clinically and electrocardiographically. The mean follow up from the date of implantation was 30 months. Two groups of patients were identified according to the results of electrophysiological investigations and clinical and electrocardiographic follow-up: --group I: 13 patients with either infrahisian AV block or an HV interval greater than or equal to 120 ms after Ajmaline; --group II: 18 patients with an HV interval less than 120 ms after Ajmaline. During follow-up, the 5 AV blocks observed out of the 7 documented at inhibition of the pacemaker and the only two cases of deterioration of the intraventricular conduction during sinus rhythm occurred in Group I. The only discriminating variable between the two groups before the implantation of a pacemaker was the response to the Ajmaline test. The difference of the results of the electrical outcome between the two groups was statistically significant (p less than 0,03). During the same study period this critical value was observed in 49 other patients with a basal HV greater than or equal to 70 ms. In this group, 20 developed infrahisian AV block after Ajmaline, 26 had a HV interval greater than or equal to 120 ms and only 3 cases had HV intervals of 100 ms. These results suggest that a HV interval greater than or equal to 120 ms after Ajmaline has the same significance as infrahisian block produced by the drug.
Haemorrhage or thromboembolism during heparin therapy are usually attributed to a prescribing error. However, these clinical manifestations--especially thromboembolism--may occur with heparin therapy during severe thrombocytopenia. The authors describe the clinical, biological and physiopathological features characterising this thrombocytopenia with reference to 7 personal cases and a review of the literature. The incidence of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia varies between 0.5 and 1%. It seems to be more common (4%) during heparin therapy for thromboembolic disease. The thrombocytopenia appears 8 days after the onset of heparin therapy. It is characterised by the high incidence of thromboembolism (70% of cases) compared to haemorrhagic phenomena (10% of cases). Thrombocytopenia is asymptomatic in 20% of cases. The thrombocytopenia is peripheral, i.e. the bone marrow is normal, and isolated, i.e. there are no deficiencies in the factors of coagulation. One of our cases was of special interest because it was complicated by disseminated intravascular coagulation. Eight cases of disseminated intravascular coagulation have previously been reported. Analysis of platelet aggregation demonstrates the relationship between heparin and thrombocytopenia. Mixing the plasma of patients with thrombocytopenia and plasma rich in platelets in the presence of heparin lead to thrombo-agglutination. In contrast, in control and non-thrombocytopenic heparinised subjects, no reaction was found. These observations prove the existence of a platelet aggregant factor in the plasma during thrombocytopenia. This disappears 6 weeks to 2 months after stopping heparin. This platelet aggregant factor initiates platelet aggregation which is responsible for thrombocytopenia and for the initiation of phenomena of coagulation, so explaining the thromboembolic phenomena.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (anti-EGFR) antibody cetuximab is clinically approved for the treatment of EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer and advanced head and neck cancer. Overexpression of EGFR has also been found in more than 70% of carcinomas of the cervix. The overall goal of this study was to determine whether (64)Cu-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-N,N',N'',N'''-tetraacetic acid (DOTA)-cetuximab has potential as an agent for measuring EGFR concentration by PET imaging in cervical cancer tumors.
Cetuximab was conjugated to the bifunctional chelator DOTA and labeled with (64)Cu. EGFR messenger RNA (mRNA) expression was correlated with EGFR densities on the cell surface of 5 different cervical cancer cell lines and with receptor function, measured by internalization of (64)Cu-DOTA-cetuximab. Imaging in tumor-bearing mice with small-animal PET was performed using the highest-expressing cervical cancer cell line.
The affinity of (64)Cu-DOTA-cetuximab binding for the EGFR was similar in 4 EGFR-positive lines, varying from 0.1 to 0.7 nM. The mRNA expression corresponded well with EGFR densities and levels of internalization, with responses decreasing in the order of CaSki>ME-180>DoTc2 4510>HeLa>C-33A. Biodistribution and small-animal PET studies with (64)Cu-DOTA-cetuximab in CaSki tumor-bearing nude mice showed relatively high tumor uptake at 24 h after injection (13.2+/-1.2 percentage of injected activity per gram), although there was also significant retention of activity in the blood and liver accumulation.
(64)Cu-DOTA-cetuximab was successfully used to detect and quantify EGFR expression in cervical cancer tumors, and small-animal PET/CT of EGFR-expressing CaSki tumors suggests potential for PET/CT of EGFR-positive tumors.
To evaluate whether celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) inhibitor, could reduce the severity of gastric precancerous lesions following Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) eradication.
H pylori-eradicated patients with gastric precancerous lesions randomly received either celecoxib (n = 30) or placebo (n = 30) for up to 3 mo. COX-2 expression and activity was determined by immunostaining and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) assay, cell proliferation by Ki-67 immunostaining, apoptosis by TUNEL staining and angiogenesis by microvascular density (MVD) assay using CD31 staining.
COX-2 protein expression was significantly increased in gastric precancerous lesions (atrophy, intestinal metaplasia and dysplasia, respectively) compared with chronic gastritis, and was concomitant with an increase in cell proliferation and angiogenesis. A significant improvement in precancerous lesions was observed in patients who received celecoxib compared with those who received placebo (P < 0.001). Of these three changes, 84.6% of sites with dysplasia regressed in patients treated with celecoxib (P = 0.002) compared with 60% in the placebo group, suggesting that celecoxib was effective on the regression of dysplasia. COX-2 protein expression (P < 0.001) and COX-2 activity (P < 0.001) in the gastric tissues were consistently lower in celecoxib-treated patients compared with the placebo-treated subjects. Moreover, it was also shown that celecoxib suppressed cell proliferation (P < 0.01), induced cell apoptosis (P < 0.01) and inhibited angiogenesis with decreased MVD (P < 0.001). However, all of these effects were not seen in placebo-treated subjects. Furthermore, COX-2 inhibition resulted in the up-regulation of PPARgamma expression, a protective molecule with anti-neoplastic effects.
H pylori eradication therapy followed by celecoxib treatment improves gastric precancerous lesions by inhibiting COX-2 activity, inducing apoptosis, and suppressing cell proliferation and angiogenesis.
Osteoarthritis is a type of arthritis that is caused by breakdown of cartilage, with eventual loss of the cartilage of the joints. The ability of self-repair in damaged cartilage tissue is limited; the aim of this work is to fabricate and characterize an oxidized hyaluronic acid/resveratrol (Oxi-HA/Res) hydrogel for future applications in cartilage tissue engineering. Under physiological conditions, the Oxi-HA/Res hydrogel was prepared by chemical crosslinking of Oxi-HA with resveratrol solution and characterized by Fourier transform infrared spectrometry assay; the biocompatibility and gene expression of chondrocytes within the Oxi-HA-Res hydrogel then analyzed. The cell viability and cytotoxicity assays showed that the Oxi-HA/Res hydrogel has good biocompatibility. Oxi-HA/Res hydrogel can upregulate expression of type II collagen, aggrecan, and Sox-9 genes; while down-regulating IL-1β, MMP-1, MMP-3, MMP13 gene expression. It can also reduce LPS-induced inflammation and chondrocyte damage. The results of this study showed that the Oxi-HA/Res hydrogel is biocompatible with chondrocytes, allows for extracellular matrix synthesis, and also reduce LPS-induced inflammation and damage. These results suggest that Oxi-HA/Res hydrogel may be a potential suitable cell carrier for chondrocyte cells in the treatment of cartilage defect. However, further in vivo study is mandatory for future possible clinical applications.
Inorganic arsenic is naturally occurring in groundwaters throughout the United States. This study investigated arsenic exposure and self-report of 9 chronic diseases. We received private well-water samples and questionnaires from 1185 people who reported drinking their water for 20 or more years. Respondents with arsenic levels of 2 microg/L or greater were statistically more likely to report a history of depression, high blood pressure, circulatory problems, and bypass surgery than were respondents with arsenic concentrations less than 2 microg/L.
Resveratrol (RSV) regulates NAD bioavailability and sirtuin-related metabolism, which relates to aging, metabolic syndrome and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of resveratrol on hepatic metaflammation in a rodent model of high-fat (HF) diet-induced obesity (DIO).
DIO was induced in a subset of mice given an HF diet (45% kcal fat). After 6weeks of HF diet feeding, RSV was delivered via an osmotic pump for 4weeks. The experimental groups were as follows: 1) lean control fed with a standard diet, 2) HF diet-induced obese control, and 3) HF_RSV (8mg/kg/day). After 4weeks of each treatment, blood and liver tissues were collected and the indices of glucose control, serum and liver triglyceride (TG), sirtuin pathway, inflammation, and NOD-like receptor family, pryin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome were analyzed.
Body weight and food intake were not altered by administering resveratrol. Glucose control was impaired, and serum and liver TG levels were increased by the HF diet. Hepatic inflammation was aggravated in mice fed with the HF diet, as shown by the increased levels of the pro-inflammatory markers interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in the liver. However, resveratrol administration significantly improved glucose control, and serum and liver TG contents. Also, resveratrol treatment reduced the levels of the pro-inflammatory markers. These improvements were accompanied by alterations in sirtuin pathway and NLRP3 inflammasome activation.
These results demonstrate that resveratrol ameliorates hepatic metaflammation, accompanied by alterations in NLRP3 inflammasome.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the globus pallidus internus (GPi) has become an accepted therapeutic modality in selected Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with severe levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) and on-off motor fluctuations. In comparison to subthalamic nucleus DBS there is a paucity of data on GPi DBS outcomes. We present our experience with a group of 20 PD patients (9 unilateral, 11 bilateral) who underwent GPi stimulation. PD motor symptoms were assessed using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) part III scores and subscores, and dyskinesia using the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS), UPDRS part IVa, and clinical global impression (CGI). At mean follow-up time of 7 months, bilateral stimulation reduced off-period motor scores by a mean of 46% and on-period motor scores by 18%. Unilateral stimulation reduced off-period motor scores by 18%. Dyskinesia severity was reduced by 76%, which was maintained after a mean follow-up time of 35 months. Antiparkinsonian medication dosage was unchanged. No major adverse effects were seen. Unilateral and bilateral GPi DBS provides lasting benefit in PD patients with severe LID. Beneficial effects on off-period motor symptoms are greater with bilateral stimulation; however, with maintenance of dopaminergic medication, unilateral procedures can also provide important and sustained benefits.
Cocaine and cocaine-associated cues elicit craving in addicts and reinstate cocaine-seeking behavior in rats. Craving and cocaine-seeking behavior may be mediated by withdrawal-induced changes in dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in the amygdala. To examine whether there are concomittant changes in cocaine-seeking behavior and extracellular DA levels during withdrawal, experimental rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.75 mg/kg i.v.). After 14 daily 3-hour training sessions, animals underwent either a 1-day, 1-week, or 1-month withdrawal period. Extracellular DA levels were assessed during baseline, extinction, cue reinstatement, and cocaine (15 mg/kg i.p.) reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior (i.e., defined as the difference in nonreinforced lever presses on an active minus inactive lever). Cocaine-seeking behavior became more intense during the course of cocaine withdrawal. Additionally, basal and cocaine-induced extracellular DA levels were enhanced after the 1-month withdrawal period. We suggest that the former may reflect a persistent elevation in tonic extracellular DA levels in the amygdala, whereas the latter may reflect a persistent elevation in phasic extracellular DA levels.
In a genome-wide linkage survey, we have previously shown evidence suggesting that the chromosome 22q12 region contains a susceptibility locus for bipolar disorder (BPD). Two independent family sets yielded lod scores suggestive of linkage at markers in this region near the gene G protein receptor kinase 3 (GRK3). GRK3 is an excellent candidate risk gene for BPD since GRK3 is expressed widely in the brain, and since GRKs play key roles in the homologous desensitization of G protein-coupled receptor signaling. We have also previously shown GRK3 expression to be induced by amphetamine in an animal model of mania using microarray-based expression profiling. To identify possible functional mutations in GRK3, we sequenced the putative promoter region, all 21 exons, and intronic sequence flanking each exon, in 14-22 individuals with BPD. We found six sequence variants in the 5'-UTR/promoter region, but no coding or obvious splice variants. Transmission disequilibrium analyses of one set of 153 families indicated that two of the 5'-UTR/promoter variants are associated with BPD in families of northern European Caucasian ancestry. A supportive trend towards association to one of these two variants (P-5) was then subsequently obtained in an independent sample of 237 families. In the combined sample, the P-5 variant had an estimated allele frequency of 3% in bipolar subjects, and displayed a transmission to non-transmission ratio of 26 : 7.7 (chi(2)=9.6, one-sided P value=0.0019). Altogether, these data support the hypothesis that a dysregulation in GRK3 expression alters signaling desensitization, and thereby predisposes to the development of BPD.
Kidney stone disease is a common condition. To search for sequence variants conferring risk of kidney stones, we conducted a genome-wide association study in 3,773 cases and 42,510 controls from Iceland and The Netherlands. We discovered common, synonymous variants in the CLDN14 gene that associate with kidney stones (OR = 1.25 and P = 4.0 x 10(-12) for rs219780[C]). Approximately 62% of the general population is homozygous for rs219780[C] and is estimated to have 1.64 times greater risk of developing the disease compared to noncarriers. The CLDN14 gene is expressed in the kidney and regulates paracellular permeability at epithelial tight junctions. The same variants were also found to associate with reduced bone mineral density at the hip (P = 0.00039) and spine (P = 0.0077).
ACTH-induced-hypertension is commonly employed as a model of stress-related hypertension, and despite extensive investigation, the mechanisms underlying elevated blood pressure (BP) are not well understood. We have reported that ACTH treatment increases tail-cuff systolic pressure in wild-type mice but not in mutant mice expressing ouabain-resistant alpha(2)-Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase subunits (alpha2(R/R) mice). Since tail-cuff measurements involve restraint stress, the present study used telemetry to distinguish between an effect of ACTH on resting BP vs. an ACTH-enhanced stress response. We also sought to explore the mechanisms underlying ACTH-induced BP changes in mutant alpha2(R/R) mice vs. wild-type mice (ouabain-sensitive alpha(2)-Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase, alpha2(S/S) mice). Baseline BP was not different between the two genotypes, but after 5 days of ACTH treatment, BP increased in alpha2(S/S) (104.0 +/- 2.6 to 117.7 +/- 3.0 mmHg) but not in alpha2(R/R) mice (108.2 +/- 3.2 to 111.5 +/- 4.0 mmHg). To test the hypothesis that ACTH hypertension is related to inhibition of alpha(2)-Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase on vascular smooth muscle by endogenous cardiotonic steroids, we measured BP and regional blood flow. Results suggest a differential sensitivity of renal, mesenteric, and cerebral circulations to ACTH and that the response depends on the ouabain sensitivity of the alpha(2)-Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase. Baseline cardiac performance was elevated in alpha2(S/S) but not alpha2(R/R) mice. Overall, the data establish that the alpha(2)-Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase ouabain-binding site is of central importance in the development of ACTH-induced hypertension. The mechanism appears to be related to alterations in cardiac performance, and perhaps vascular tone in specific circulations, presumably caused by elevated levels of circulating cardiotonic steroids.
Angiogenesis, the development of new blood vessels from preexisting capillaries, is essential for the development, growth and advancement of solid tumours. Angiogenesis is enhanced by prostaglandins (PGs) that are synthesised by the catalysis of cyclooxygenases (COX-1 and COX-2) from arachidonic acid. COX-2 is upregulated in a variety of malignancies and favours the growth of malignant cells by stimulating proliferation and angiogenesis. The aim of this study is to investigate the angiogenetic process by determining the levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 and interleukin (IL)-8 in endometrial cancer cells and to study the effect of nimesulide, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, on these mediators using cell culture. Endometrial tissue specimens were obtained from subjects with endometrial cancer and intramural leiomyoma. Cells were incubated with either 10 or 50 microM nimesulide for 24 h. VEGF, MCP-1 and IL-8 concentrations were determined by sandwich quantitative enzyme immunoassay (ELISA). VEGF concentration was significantly higher in cancer cells than normal endometrial cells. VEGF was decreased with 10 microM nimesulide in cancer cells whereas it remained unaltered in normal cells. Both MCP-1 and IL-8 concentrations were lower in cancer cells than normal cells. MCP-1 levels were decreased with both doses of nimesulide in normal cells, whereas IL-8 levels were significantly affected only by 50 microM of nimesulide. These results suggest that COX-2 inhibitors may be effective in the treatment of endometrial cancer via suppression of angiogenesis.
Congenital dyserythropoietic anemias (CDAs) are phenotypically and genotypically heterogeneous diseases. CDA type II (CDAII) is the most frequent CDA. It is characterized by ineffective erythropoiesis and by the presence of bi- and multinucleated erythroblasts in bone marrow, with nuclei of equal size and DNA content, suggesting a cytokinesis disturbance. Other features of the peripheral red blood cells are protein and lipid dysglycosylation and endoplasmic reticulum double-membrane remnants. Development of other hematopoietic lineages is normal. Individuals with CDAII show progressive splenomegaly, gallstones and iron overload potentially with liver cirrhosis or cardiac failure. Here we show that the gene encoding the secretory COPII component SEC23B is mutated in CDAII. Short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated suppression of SEC23B expression recapitulates the cytokinesis defect. Knockdown of zebrafish sec23b also leads to aberrant erythrocyte development. Our results provide in vivo evidence for SEC23B selectivity in erythroid differentiation and show that SEC23A and SEC23B, although highly related paralogous secretory COPII components, are nonredundant in erythrocyte maturation.
Cardiotoxicity is a rare but well-documented adverse effect of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The underlying cause of this side effect of 5-FU is uncertain.
We present a case report of a 63-year-old man treated for metastatic colon cancer who experienced chest pain while being treated with the FOLFIRI regimen. This case report documents coronary artery spasm on catheterization observed with the continuous infusion of 5-FU.
Cardiac catheterization obtained within 36 hours of the onset of chest pain revealed marked coronary vasospasm in the obtuse marginal coronary artery and a right coronary artery with a critical obstructive atherosclerotic plaque. Electrocardiogram revealed the myocardium area associated with the event was diffuse rather than localized to the right coronary artery.
This observation supports the vasospastic hypothesis for 5-FU-induced angina. Although rare, this type of cardiotoxicity with 5-FU is a potentially lethal side effect. Therapy with 5-FU should be discontinued and patients should be promptly treated.
To assess the benefits of blood pressure (BP) lowering on vascular events separately for Asian and for Western participants with particular emphasis on stroke subtypes and cardiac outcomes.
This is a subsidiary analysis of Perindopril Protection Against Recurrent Stroke Study (PROGRESS), a randomized, placebo-controlled trial that established the benefits of BP lowering in 6105 patients with cerebrovascular disease, randomly assigned to either active treatment (perindopril for all, and indapamide for those with neither an indication for, nor a contraindication to, a diuretic) or placebo(s). Outcomes are total and cause-specific vascular outcomes.
The annual rates for total major vascular events were 4.2% in Asian and 5.2% in Western participants. Overall stroke rates were greater in Asian compared to Western participants with proportionally more lacunar infarctions and haemorrhagic strokes in Asians and more cardio-embolic infarctions and large artery infarctions in Western participants. Active treatment reduced BP by 10.3/4.6 mmHg in Asian, and by 8.1/3.6 mmHg in Western participants. Among Asian participants there was a 38% [95% confidence interval (CI) 23-49%] reduction in major vascular events compared to a 20% (95% CI 7-31%) reduction in Western participants (P homogeneity = 0.06). Similarly, there were higher relative risk reductions for all other outcomes among Asian participants, but this only reached statistical significance for heart failure and vascular death (P = 0.02 for each). The number needed to treat for major vascular events over 5 years was 15 (95% CI 10-26) in Asian compared to 28 (95% CI 17-94) in Western participants (P homogeneity = 0.09).
BP lowering reduces the risk of major vascular events, with separately significant reductions, in both Asia and the West.
The effects of morphine and DADL on cardiovascular parameters and plasma catecholamine levels were studied in conscious unrestrained rats. Morphine 30 micrograms icv increased blood pressure over the 3 hr recording period, produced an initial bradycardia followed by a tachycardia and increased plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine levels 20- and 2-fold respectively. These responses were not altered by systemic naloxone 0.8 mg/kg ia or naloxone injected icv 110 micrograms. In adrenalectomized rats blood pressure, heart rate and plasma norepinephrine responses were not significantly altered. Lower doses of morphine 1, 3 and 10 micrograms icv produced dose-related increases in plasma catecholamines, in the absence of any signs of respiratory depression, which were antagonized by naloxone 110 micrograms icv. 1m Morphine 10 mg/kg produced effects similar to those of icv morphine and these were readily antagonized by naloxone 0.8 mg/kg ia. DADL 10 micrograms icv also produced effects similar to those of morphine but of a shorter duration, and these were also inhibited by naloxone 0.8 mg/kg ia. The results are consistent with an action of opiates on a specific opiate receptor in the brain mediating an increase in catecholamine release. The rise in blood pressure may in part be a consequence of the increase in circulating catecholamines.
This study examined the effect of intrathecal (i.t.) injection of the endocannabinoid anandamide in urethane-anesthetized rats. The tip of the i.t. cannula was positioned at the T(12)-L(1) level of the spinal cord. Either anandamide or its metabolically stable analogue methanandamide (25 to 100 nmol) produced dose-dependent decreases in the blood pressure that persisted at least for up to 30 min. The hypotensive responses to 100 nmol anandamide and to 100 nmol methanandamide were -17.7+/-1.6 mmHg ( n=5) and -17.9+/-2.0 mmHg ( n=4), respectively. Hypotensive effects were also obtained with the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55212-2 (20 nmol; i.t.) as well as with the vanilloid VR(1) receptor agonist capsaicin (3 nmol; i.t.). Nicotinic ganglionic blockade with hexamethonium bromide [10 mg/kg; intravenous(i.v.)] abolished the responses to both anandamide and capsaicin. The i.t. administration of the CB(1) receptor antagonist, 20 nmol SR 141716A, as well as the VR(1) receptor antagonist, 20 nmol capsazepine, prevented almost completely the hypotensive responses to both anandamide and methanandamide. SR 141716A prevented the hypotension caused by WIN 55212-2 but did not modify the response to the vanilloid receptor agonist capsaicin. On the contrary, capsazepine antagonized the hypotension caused by capsaicin but failed to affect the decrease in blood pressure caused by the CB1 cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55212-2. These results suggest that anandamide could modulate the blood pressure through the activation of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors and vanilloid VR(1) receptors localized at the spinal cord.
To conduct an outcome analysis of patients with cervical clear cell carcinoma (CCCC) in the post-DES era.
A retrospective review was conducted at 3 major gynecologic cancer centers of all primary CCCC between 1982 and 2004.
CCCC was confirmed in 34 patients. Median age was 53 years. DES exposure was confirmed in 2 (6%) patients. A history of smoking was elicited in 22%, and of abnormal Pap smear 18% patients. Primary surgical resection was performed in all stage I or IIA patients (n=26); they displayed superior 3-year overall survival (OS) compared to advanced stage (n=8) patients (91% vs. 22%, p<0.001). Pelvic lymph node involvement was noted in 25%; all patients with positive para-aortic nodes (20% of patients sampled) had positive pelvic nodes. All node positive patients were treated with adjuvant radiation, but nevertheless displayed reduced progression free (31% vs 92%, p<0.001) and overall survival (80% vs. 100%, p=0.02). Adjuvant radiotherapy did not appear to impact OS in patients with negative lymph nodes.
This series provides insight into the management of early stage CCCC in the post-DES era. Although these patients may be at slightly higher risk of nodal spread, clear cell histology by itself does not appear to portend a worse prognosis than squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix in the absence of traditional risk factors. Our data suggest that patients with low risk early stage CCCC may be managed with radical surgery alone, without the need for adjuvant chemotherapy or radiation.
Pallido-ponto-nigral degeneration (PPND) is one of the most well characterized familial neurodegenerative disorders linked to chromosome 17q21-22. These hereditary disorders are known collectively as frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17). Although the clinical features and associated regional variations in the neuronal loss observed in different FTDP-17 kindreds are diverse, the diagnostic lesions of FTDP-17 brains are tau-rich filaments in the cytoplasm of specific subpopulations of neurons and glial cells. The microtubule associated protein (tau) gene is located on chromosome 17q21-22. For these reasons, we investigated the possibility that PPND and other FTDP-17 syndromes might be caused by mutations in the tau gene. Two missense mutations in exon 10 of the tau gene that segregate with disease, Asn279(Lys) in the PPND kindred and Pro301(Leu) in four other FTDP-17 kindreds, were found. A third mutation was found in the intron adjacent to the 3' splice site of exon 10 in patients from another FTDP-17 family. Transcripts that contain exon 10 encode tau isoforms with four microtubule (MT)-binding repeats (4Rtau) as opposed to tau isoforms with three MT-binding repeats (3Rtau). The insoluble tau aggregates isolated from brains of patients with each mutation were analyzed by immunoblotting using tau-specific antibodies. For each of three mutations, abnormal tau with an apparent Mr of 64 and 69 was observed. The dephosphorylated material comigrated with tau isoforms containing exon 10 having four MT-binding repeats but not with 3Rtau. Thus, the brains of patients with both the missense mutations and the splice junction mutation contain aggregates of insoluble 4Rtau in filamentous inclusions, which may lead to neurodegeneration.
Vincristine is a commonly used antitumor agent whose major dose-limiting side-effect is a mixed sensorimotor neuropathy. To assess whether insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), a neurotrophic agent that supports the survival of motoneurons and enhances regeneration of motor and sensory neurons, could prevent the peripheral neuropathy produced by vincristine, mice were treated with both vincristine (1.7 mg/kg, i.p., 2 x /week) and/or IGF-I (0.3 or 1 mg/kg, s.c. daily) for 10 weeks. In mice treated with vincristine alone, there was evidence of a mixed sensorimotor neuropathy as indicated by changes in behavior, nerve conduction and histology. Caudal nerve conduction velocity was significantly slower in mice treated with vincristine alone as compared with vehicle-treated mice. Vincristine treatment alone also significantly increased hot-plate latencies and reduced gait support and stride length, but not toe spread distances. The effects of vincristine were accompanied by degeneration of sciatic nerve fibers and demyelination, indicating a peripheral neuropathy. IGF-I (1 mg/kg, s.c.) administered to vincristine-treated mice prevented the neurotoxic effects of vincristine as measured by nerve conduction, gait, response to noxious stimuli and nerve histology. At a lower dose of 0.3 mg/kg administered s.c., IGF-I partially ameliorated the neuropathy induced by vincristine as this dose only prevented the change in nerve conduction and hot-plate latencies. IGF-I administered alone had no effect on any of these parameters. These results suggest that IGF-I prevents both motor and sensory components of vincristine neuropathy and may be useful clinically in preventing the neuropathy induced by vincristine treatment.
Oxymorphone was administered intravenously (IV) to 10 dogs (0.4 mg/kg initial dose followed by 0.2 mg/kg three times at 20-minute intervals). Four hours after the last dose of oxymorphone, heart rates were less than 60 bpm in six dogs. After atropine (0.01 mg/kg IV) was administered, heart rate decreased in five dogs and sinus arrhythmia or second degree heart block occurred in four of them. A second injection of atropine (0.01 mg/kg IV) was administered 5 minutes after the first and the heart rates increased to more than 100 bpm in all six dogs. Ten minutes after the second dose of atropine, heart rate, cardiac output, left ventricular minute work, venous admixture, and oxygen transport were significantly increased, whereas stroke volume, central venous pressure, systemic vascular resistance, and oxygen extraction ratio were significantly decreased from pre-atropine values. The PaCO2 increased and the PaO2 decreased but not significantly. The oxymorphone-induced bradycardia did not produce any overtly detrimental effects in these healthy dogs. Atropine reversed the bradycardia and improved measured cardiovascular parameters.
Doxorubicin (dox) is an anthracycline antibiotic which is broadly used in solid tumors. Long-term therapy with this drug is accompanied by potentially lethal, dose-dependent side effects. Several reports suggest that oxygen free radicals produced during the metabolic activation of dox may have toxic effects on heart muscle. We tried to protect dox cardiotoxicity in rats using catechin which is a known antioxidant and iron chelating agent. Different dose levels and combinations of catechin and doxorubicin have been studied in different experimental groups. Electrocardiograms, myocardial contractility, body weight and the electron microscope were used to assess the cardioprotective effect of catechin in dox-treated animals. We found significant prevention of dox-induced cardiotoxicity by catechin in rats.
Poly(butyl cyanoacrylate) nanoparticles coated with poloxamer 188 (Pluronic) F68) and also, as shown previously, polysorbate 80 (Tween 80) considerably enhance the anti-tumour effect of doxorubicin against an intracranial glioblastoma in rats. The investigation of plasma protein adsorption on the surface of the drug-loaded nanoparticles by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-D PAGE) revealed that both surfactants, besides other plasma components, induced a considerable adsorption of apolipoprotein A-I (ApoA-I). It is hypothesized that delivery of doxorubicin to the brain by means of nanoparticles may be augmented by the interaction of apolipoprotein A-I that is anchored on the surface of the nanoparticles with the scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI) located at the blood-brain barrier. This is the first study that shows a correlation between the adsorption of apolipoprotein A-I on the nanoparticle surface and the delivery of the drug across the blood-brain barrier.
In the Evaluation of Losartan in the Elderly (ELITE) heart failure study, a survival benefit (primarily because of a reduction in sudden deaths) was observed in symptomatic patients treated with losartan compared with captopril.
The Losartan Heart Failure Survival Study--ELITE II (currently ongoing) is a double-blind, randomized clinical trial being conducted in 45 countries at 288 sites. ELITE II formally tests the hypotheses that losartan, compared with captopril, will reduce all-cause mortality (primary end point) and sudden cardiac death and/or resuscitated cardiac arrest (secondary end point). In addition, all-cause mortality and/or hospitalizations and cardiovascular mortality and/or hospitalizations will be evaluated. The trial has 90% power to detect a 25% treatment difference in all-cause mortality (event driven, 510 deaths). Substudies are examining quality of life, health care resource utilization, and mechanisms related to the reduction in sudden death. During recruitment (June 1997 to May 1998), 3,152 patients aged 60 years or older (mean age, 71.6 years), with New York Heart Association classes II (51%), III (44%), and IV (5%), and left ventricular ejection fraction of 40% or less (mean, 31%) were randomized to receive either 12.5 mg of losartan, titrated as tolerated to 50 mg once daily, or 12.5 mg of captopril, titrated as tolerated to 50 mg thrice daily. Randomization was stratified by clinical site and for baseline beta-blocker use.
The ELITE II study will further define the role of losartan in the treatment of patients with symptomatic heart failure relative to the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril, an agent from a class currently considered standard treatment for this disease.
