Pulmonary hypoplasia remains the principal cause of high morbidity and mortality in patients with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). The precise mechanisms causing lung hypoplasia remains unclear. Aquaporins (AQPs) are reported to constitute a family of water channels that facilitate membrane water permeability in various tissues of animals. Aquaporin 5 has been reported to be an important marker expressed in type I alveolar epithelial cells in late gestation and mediates water transport across the human airway epithelium. We hypothesized that AQP5 is reduced in hypoplastic lungs and therefore designed this study to determine AQP5 expression in normal and hypoplastic lungs.
Fetal rat lungs of control (n=23) and nitrofen-treated (n=37) dams were harvested on embryonic day (E) 15, E17, E19, and E21. The expression of the AQP5 was analyzed in each lung by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemical studies were performed to evaluate the protein expression level of AQP5.
Aquaporin 5 messenger RNA levels on E21 were significantly reduced in lungs from the nitrofen with CDH group (11.8 +/- 2.3) compared with normal controls (23.5 +/- 11.8) and nitrofen without CDH group (26.9 +/- 13.0) (P < .05). Aquaporin 5 immunohistochemistry demonstrated AQP5 strongly expressed at the apical membrane of type I alveolar epithelial cells in the normal and nitrofen without CDH groups. By contrast, the AQP5-positive cells were markedly reduced in hypoplastic lungs in the nitrofen with CDH group.
Our results show that the expression of AQP5 is down-regulated in hypoplastic lungs with CDH. Down-regulation of AQP5 may result in abnormal pulmonary fluid metabolism in perinatal period and may be one of the mechanisms disturbing the pulmonary development in late stage in the CDH model.
Methoxyflurane is utilized in obstetrics for analgesia during labor. It has been recognized as an unpredictable hepatotoxin. Although hepatitis has been seen after its use in anesthesia, only one case of hepatitis has been reported after its use for analgesia in labor. Two more cases of hepatitis following methoxyflurane analgesia are reported. Direct toxic effects of its metabolites and host idiosyncrasy may underlie the hepatic injury from methoxyflurane.
The infusions of the aerial parts in blossom of Hypericum canariense, H. glandulosum, H. reflexum and H. grandifolium (Hypericaceae) were evaluated for their pharmacological activity on the central nervous system in mice using various behavioural models including locomotor and muscle relaxant activity, effect on normal body temperature, pentobarbital-induced sleep, oxotremorine and tetrabenazine-induced syndrome, apomorphine-induced hypothermia and 5-hydroxytryptophan-induced head twitches, as well as a forced swimming test. These infusions did not alter significantly the locomotor activity, pentobarbital induced sleeping time and body temperature, with the exception of H. canariense which produced a slight but significant hypothermia. Additionally, no muscle relaxant or anticholinergic activity were observed. These infusions antagonized the ptosis and/or motor depression induced by tetrabenazine as well as shortening the immobility time in the forced swimming test. The observations suggest that the infusions of these Hypericum species possess antidepressant activity in mice, without inducing muscle relaxation, anticholinergic and sedative properties.
Groups of 30 adult Swiss mice of both sexes from the Eppley Institute breeding colony were treated with 37.5 or 75 mg 2-hydroxyethylnitrosourea (HENU)/l citrate buffer, given as drinking water on 4 days/week from 6-8 weeks of age for life. A third group of mice was untreated. Incidences of generalized B cell lymphoma (BCL) were 67% (males) and 87% (females) for the higher dose of the nitrosourea, 29% (males) and 79% (females) for the lower dose and 0% (males) and 7% (females) for the untreated mice. Tumor latencies were 23 weeks (high dose) and 27 weeks (low dose) in the females and 6-7 weeks longer in the males. A B-cell origin of the lymphomas was indicated by the pathology and tumor distribution and was confirmed in 4 mice by immunophenotyping and in 6 mice by probes for gene rearrangements. This system may be an effective means of inducing B cell lymphoma with a carcinogen.
This study examined gender differences in demographics, psychosocial functioning, substance abuse severity, psychopathology, and 1-year outcome in cocaine-dependent patients with the goal of identifying factors important to improving treatment and identifying prognostic indicators. The sample included 298 cocaine-dependent adults (92 women). Ninety-four patients (29 women) provided 1-year follow-up assessments. Compared to men, women consumed similar quantities of cocaine by more addictive routes and experienced more rapid progression of drug dependence, thus highlighting the need to facilitate treatment entry. The substantial rates of positive treatment outcomes emphasizes the effectiveness of treatment for cocaine-dependent individuals.
The release of neuropeptides from primary sensory nerve fibers has been implicated in the modulation of local immune responses in surface tissues, such as the skin and the gastrointestinal mucosa, thereby inducing neurogenic inflammation, which is characterized by plasma extravasation and vasodilatation. In addition, cytokines, either alone or in conjunction with neuropeptides, initiate recruitment of immunocompetent cells such as neutrophils during the initial phases of inflammation. Growing evidence suggests that the neuropeptide galanin plays an important role in skin immune defense and pathophysiology. In this paper, we report that adult mice carrying a loss-of-function mutation in the galanin gene (galanin knockout, Gal KO) demonstrate an absence of the normal neurogenic inflammatory response, upon treatment of the skin either with the vanilloid receptor 1 agonist capsaicin or noxious heat. Furthermore, a lack of an acute inflammatory edema induced by coinjection of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide was observed. In addition, Gal KO animals also exhibit a deficit in neutrophil accumulation in the skin after exposure to noxious heat, carrageenin, or tumor necrosis factor alpha. These data indicate that Gal KO mice demonstrate abnormal neurogenic inflammatory responses in murine skin compared to strain-matched wild-type mice.
Humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy (HHM) is mediated primarily by skeletal and renal responses to tumor-derived PTHrP. PTHrP mobilizes calcium from bone by inducing the expression of receptor activator for nuclear factor-kappaB ligand (RANKL), a protein that is essential for osteoclast formation, activation, and survival. RANKL does not influence renal calcium reabsorption, so RANKL inhibition is a rational approach to selectively block, and thereby reveal, the relative contribution of bone calcium to HHM. We used the RANKL inhibitor osteoprotegerin (OPG) to evaluate the role of osteoclast-mediated hypercalcemia in two murine models of HHM. Hypercalcemia was induced either by sc inoculation of syngeneic colon (C-26) adenocarcinoma cells or by sc injection of high-dose recombinant PTHrP (0.5 mg/kg, s.c., twice per day). In both models, OPG (0.2-5 mg/kg) caused rapid reversal of established hypercalcemia, and the speed and duration of hypercalcemia suppression were significantly greater with OPG (5 mg/kg) than with high-dose bisphosphonates (pamidronate or zoledronic acid, 5 mg/kg). OPG also caused greater reductions in osteoclast surface and biochemical markers of bone resorption compared with either bisphosphonate. In both models, hypercalcemia gradually returned despite clear evidence of ongoing suppression of bone resorption by OPG. These data demonstrate that osteoclasts and RANKL are important mediators of HHM, particularly in the early stages of the condition. Aggressive antiresorptive therapy with a RANKL inhibitor therefore might be a rational approach to controlling HHM.
Because of the association of D-penicillamine (DP) therapy with myasthenia gravis, we have studied long-term DP treatment in five inbred strains of mice with doses comparable to those used in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. No clinical weakness or anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody developed with up to 6 months of treatment, but augmented responses did occur to challenge with purified AChR in adjuvant. Anti-AChR antibody titers in C57BL/6 and C3H/He mice were significantly higher after challenge with AChR in DP-treated than in control mice. Augmented anti-AChR titers were not seen in strain A mice, but after 6 months of DP treatment increased susceptibility developed to the induction of experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. Nine weeks after challenge with purified AChR, 10 of 11 mice developed clinical weakness, leading to death in 6. Results of edrophonium testing were positive in 5 of 6 mice, and electrophysiological abnormalities were demonstrated in 3 of the surviving mice. Long-term DP treatment is associated with augmented anti-AChR antibody responses in C3H/He and C57BL/6 mice, and increased susceptibility to experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis in strain A mice.
The drugs used to treat diabetes mellitus are diverse and include several classes. One class is sulfonylureas which primarily cause serum glucose reduction by stimulating the release of preformed insulin from the pancreatic islets. Gliclazide, a second generation sulfonylurea, is used to control glycemic levels in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. We report a 14 year-old non-diabetic girl who developed hepatitis, hemiplegia and dysphasia after ingestion of an overdose of gliclazide (20 mg/kg/day) in a suicide attempt. Our purpose is to draw attention to the severity of gliclazide-induced neurological signs. To the best of our knowledge, gliclazide-induced hemiplegia and dysphasia have not been previously reported in the literature.
A newborn male infant with multiple congenital malformations including lethal cardiac malformations and severe ophthalmic malformations is described. The infant was exposed in utero to hydantoin. There is no other identifiable cause for the malformations apparent in the infant's or his family's history.
Entecavir (ETV) is a potent and selective inhibitor of hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication in vitro and in vivo that is currently in clinical trials for the treatment of chronic HBV infections. A major limitation of the current HBV antiviral therapy, lamivudine (3TC), is the emergence of drug-resistant HBV in a majority of treated patients due to specific mutations in the nucleotide binding site of HBV DNA polymerase (HBV Pol). To determine the effects of 3TC resistance mutations on inhibition by ETV triphosphate (ETV-TP), a series of in vitro studies were performed. The inhibition of wild-type and 3TC-resistant HBV Pol by ETV-TP was measured using recombinant HBV nucleocapsids, and compared to that of 3TC-TP. These enzyme inhibition studies demonstrated that ETV-TP is a highly potent inhibitor of wild-type HBV Pol and is 100- to 300-fold more potent than 3TC-TP against 3TC-resistant HBV Pol. Cell culture assays were used to gauge the potential for antiviral cross-resistance of 3TC-resistant mutants to ETV. Results demonstrated that ETV inhibited the replication of 3TC-resistant HBV, but 20- to 30-fold higher concentrations were required. To gain further perspective regarding the potential therapeutic use of ETV, its phosphorylation was examined in hepatoma cells treated with extracellular concentrations representative of drug levels in plasma in ETV-treated patients. At these concentrations, intracellular ETV-TP accumulated to levels expected to inhibit the enzyme activity of both wild-type and 3TC-resistant HBV Pol. These findings are predictive of potent antiviral activity of ETV against both wild-type and 3TC-resistant HBV.
The therapeutic properties of typical antipsychotic drugs (APDs) such as haloperidol in schizophrenia treatment are mainly associated with their ability to block dopamine D2 receptors. This blockade is accompanied by side effects such as extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Atypical APDs such as risperidone have superior therapeutic efficacy possibly due to their activity at multiple receptors (in particular 5-HT2A receptors). Although the risk of EPS is significantly lower in atypical than in typical APDs, it is not negligible. To investigate and compare the behavioural profile and EPS-asssociated side effects of haloperidol and risperidone APD treatment we applied a multi-tiered, comprehensive behavioural phenotyping approach. Sprague-Dawley rats were treated chronically (28 days) with supratherapeutic EPS-inducing doses of haloperidol and risperidone using osmotic minipumps. Domains such as motor activity, exploration, memory, and anxiety were analysed together with EPS assessment ("early onset" vacuous chewing movements and catalepsy). Both APDs produced diminished motor activity and exploration, impaired working memory performances, and increased anxiety levels. These effects were more pronounced in haloperidol-treated animals. Chronic APD treatment also caused a time-course dependent elevation of EPS-like symptoms. Risperidone-treated animals showed a catalepsy-like phenotype, which differed to that of haloperidol-treated rats, indicating that processes other than the anticipated dopaminergic mechanisms are underlying this phenomenon. These EPS-related phenotypes are consistent with reported EPS-inducing D2 receptor occupancies of around 80%. Differences in the behavioural profile of haloperidol and risperidone, which were revealed by a comprehensive phenotyping strategy, are likely due to the unique receptor activation profiles of these APDs.
Adverse reactions to reserpine were studied in 231 hospitalized medical patients who received the drug. Reserpine was administered specifically for hypertension in 91.3 percent of patients; 35.5 per cent of patients received the drug by intramuscular (IM) injection. The IM route of administration was associated with higher mean daily doses (1.28 +/- 0.14 mg/day) than was oral administration (0.37 +/- 0.02 mg/day). Adverse reactions to reserpine were reported in 26 patients (11.3 per cent), but only three of these reactions were considered life-threatening and no deaths were attributed to the drug. Central nervous system (CNS) disturbances, reported in 12 patients, were the most common unwanted effects. Gastrointestinal disturbances were reported in six patients, and hypotension in six. Toxicity occurred more frequently in those who received IM, and therefore high-dose, reserpine. Adverse reactions also were more common in patients who had not received rauwolfia derivatives prior to admission; however, this group of patients also received IM reserpine more frequently. Finally, reserpine toxicity, in particular central nervous system (CNS) disturbances, was reported more frequently in patients also receiving barbiturates, suggesting additive CNS effects.
Increased attention has been focused recently on the estrogenic effects of tamoxifen. Review of the literature reveals an association between tamoxifen use and gynecologic tumors.
A 52-year-old postmenopausal woman was treated with tamoxifen for stage II estrogen receptor-positive breast carcinoma. Her aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase levels increase markedly after 6 months of tamoxifen use. After an additional 17 months of elevated serum transaminases, the patient was found to have a stage Ic granulosa cell tumor of the ovary.
Patients with tamoxifen-induced liver dysfunction may be at increased risk for granulosa cell tumors because of alterations in tamoxifen metabolism.
Hyponatremia is a well-known side effect of antidepressant treatment with serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) or combined serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRI), and is linked to the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) in most cases. In contrast, only very few data are available on hyponatremia following treatment with selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (NaRI). In this report, we describe the case of a patient who developed severe hyponatremia after treatment with reboxetine. However, extensive laboratory testing did not reveal inappropriate secretion of ADH, suggesting that SIADH did not account for hyponatremia in our case. Proposing further examination of the underlying pathomechanism of hyponatremia as a side effect of NaRIs, we discuss the importance of careful monitoring of serum sodium levels in patients treated with NaRIs.
There is still concern about the effects of organotin compounds (OTs) on marine organisms, and especially on their reproductive systems. We investigated the toxicity of tributyltin oxide (TBTO) on spermatogenesis in a marine fish, mummichog, Fundulus heteroclitus. TBTO exposure caused serious histological damage to the testis, including reduction in counts of spermatids and spermatozoa and malformation of somatic cells around the seminal duct. Analysis of the incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine into spermatogenic cells revealed inhibition of the proliferation of germ cells. To find a biomarker for evaluation of the effects of TBTO on fish spermatogenesis, we cloned genes downregulated by TBTO exposure in the mummichog testis, and identified mummichog creatine kinase (mCK). The cDNA sequence of mCK contained an open reading frame encoding 387 amino acid residues (M(r)=43,344). The derived amino acid sequence of mCK was very similar to that of the testicular-type CK of the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss. Furthermore, Northern blot analysis revealed that mCK was produced specifically in the testis. We therefore identified mCK in the mummichog as a testicular-type CK. Real-time PCR revealed that exposure of the fish to TBTO significantly reduced mCK expression in the testis. To some extent, this reduction was coincident with that of bromodeoxyuridine incorporation into spermatogenic cells. The mCK gene can therefore be used as a biomarker for evaluating the effects of TBTO on fish spermatogenesis. In addition, levels of expression of the mCK gene in control fish were well correlated with increments in the gonad somatic index (GSI) below 4%. Individuals that were thought to have testicular damage caused by TBTO could be discriminated from those considered normal. The results suggest that TBTO is involved in the suppression of fish spermatogenesis and that analysis of both GSI values and mCK gene expression is useful for evaluating the levels of xenobiotic pollution in coastal areas.
Cocaine produces not only euphoric effects but also a wide range of detrimental effects, including seizures and lethality. The present study examined the involvement of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of the glutamate receptors and the dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in seizure activity and lethality observed following single and repeated injections of cocaine in ddY mice. Repeated injections of 60 mg/kg cocaine resulted in the development of sensitization to the convulsant effects of cocaine during an initial 3 or 4 days, followed by the development of tolerance at day 5 and day 6. Repeated injections of 90 mg/kg cocaine augmented the lethal effect of cocaine progressively over the course of treatment. Treatment with 0.1-0.4 mg/kg of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801, prevented the development of sensitization to cocaine-induced seizures in a dose-dependent manner, and attenuated partially the cocaine-induced lethality. In contrast, treatment with 10-50 mg/kg of the dopmaine D2 receptor antagonist, sulpiride, had no effects on the development of sensitization and tolerance to cocaine-induced seizures. On the other hand, treatment with 0.1-0.5 mg/kg of the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390, not only prolonged the latency to 90 mg/kg cocaine-induced seizures but also delayed the development of sensitization to the convulsant effects of cocaine. The increased lethality observed following repeated injection of cocaine was unaffected by treatment with SCH 23390, but was severely aggravated by treatment with sulpiride.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Oxidative stress seems to play a major role in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration. In Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, the dopaminergic neurons are subjected to oxidative stress resulting from reduced levels of antioxidant defenses such as glutathione and high amount of intracellular iron. Levodopa (LD) is widely used for the symptomatic treatment of PD, but its role in oxidative damage control is still unclear. The aim of this study was to analyze the presence of DNA damage in peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) of PD patients, during a washout and a controlled LD dosage and to evaluate the oxidative damage fluctuation after LD intake. The standard and the Fpg-modified version of Comet assay were applied in analyzing DNA damage in PBL from blood samples of nine PD patients and nine matched controls. Due to the limited number of patients we cannot reach definite conclusions even if our data confirm the accumulation of DNA lesions in PD patients; these lesions decrease after LD intake.
Prenatal benzodiazepine exposure is associated with behavioral and neurochemical alterations in the early postnatal period. To determine the persistence of these effects, we evaluated pentylenetetrazole-induced seizure threshold and GABA-dependent chloride uptake in mice at 6 and 12 months of age after prenatal lorazepam exposure. Seizure threshhold was reduced after acute lorazepam pretreatment in mice exposed to lorazepam prenatally, compared to control groups, at 6 and 12 months of age. Maximal GABA-dependent chloride uptake was also reduced in exposed mice at 6 and 12 months of age. These data indicate that behavioral and neurochemical alterations persist well into maturity after prenatal lorazepam exposure.
Mutations in genes encoding the ATP-regulated potassium (K(ATP)) channels of the pancreatic beta-cell (SUR1 and Kir6.2) are the major known cause of persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI). We collected all cases of PHHI diagnosed in Finland between 1983 and 1997 (n = 24). The overall incidence was 1:40,400, but in one area of Central Finland it was as high as 1:3,200. Haplotype analysis using polymorphic markers spanning the SUR1/Kir6.2 gene cluster confirmed linkage to the 11p region. Sequence analysis revealed a novel point mutation in exon 4 of SUR1, predicting a valine to aspartic acid change at amino acid 187 (V187D). Of the total cases, 15 affected individuals harbored this mutation in heterozygous or homozygous form, and all of these had severe hyperinsulinemia that responded poorly to medical treatment and required subtotal pancreatectomy. No K(ATP) channel activity was observed in beta-cells isolated from a homozygous patient or after coexpression of recombinant Kir6.2 and SUR1 carrying the V187D mutation. Thus, the mutation produces a nonfunctional channel and, thereby, continuous insulin secretion. This unique SUR1 mutation explains the majority of PHHI cases in Finland and is strongly associated with a severe form of the disease. These findings provide diagnostic and prognostic utility for suspected PHHI patients.
We previously showed that naproxen induced the oxidative stress in the liver microsomes and the isolated hepatocytes of rats. In this study, the in situ effect of naproxen on the rat liver tissue was investigated, using the isolated perfused liver from the view-point of the naproxen-induced hepatotoxicity. The leakage of glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) from the perfused liver and appearance of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in the perfusate increased with the progress of perfusion after a lag time of about 1h. The naproxen-perfusion of the liver decreased the biliary excretion of glutathione (GSH) and oxidized glutathione, glutathione disulfide (GSSG) prior to TBARS production and GOT leakage. GSSG content in the naproxen-perfused liver was significantly higher than in the control. TBARS appeared in the perfusate of the naproxen-perfused liver for 30 min, but not in the control. The biliary excretion clearance (CL(bile)) of indocyanine green (ICG), a reagent for testing the liver function, in the liver perfused with naproxen decreased to a half of that in the liver perfused without naproxen. Thus, the naproxen-induced oxidative stress in the liver was shown to affect the physiological function of liver through the impairment of biliary excretion, which is recognized as a detoxification system.
Many reports are available regarding myocarditis induced by clozapine; however, it is an uncommon adverse effect with conventional antipsychotics. We are presenting a case who developed myocarditis after overdose of haloperidol and recovered in a few days after stopping the drug.
Status epilepticus is a major medical emergency associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Status epilepticus is best defined as a continuous, generalized, convulsive seizure lasting > 5 min, or two or more seizures during which the patient does not return to baseline consciousness. Lorazepam in a dose of 0.1 mg/kg is the drug of first choice for terminating status epilepticus. Patients who continue to have clinical or EEG evidence of seizure activity after treatment with lorazepam should be considered to have refractory status epileptics and should be treated with a continuous infusion of propofol or midazolam. This article reviews current information regarding the management of status epilepticus in adults.
Elevated Src expression correlates with malignant potential and metastatic disease in many tumors including pancreatic cancer. We sought to characterize the molecular effects of Src kinase inhibition with dasatinib (BMS-354825), a novel, multitargeted kinase inhibitor that targets Src family kinases in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA). We identified sensitive and resistant PDA cell lines to dasatinib treatment and tested the molecular effects of Src inhibition in vitro and in vivo. We show for the first time that cellular localization of Src expression affects survival in patients with PDA. Pancreatic tumors with increased membranous expression of Src resulted in decreased survival compared with tumors that had increased cytoplasmic Src expression. Src kinase inhibition with dasatinib markedly inhibits cell proliferation, migration, invasion, cell cycle progression and anchorage-independent growth, and stimulates apoptosis. This was accompanied by decreased phosphorylation of Src, focal adhesion kinase, paxillin, AKT, signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3), extracellular signal-regulated kinase, and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), as well as decreased cyclin D1 expression in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Furthermore, small interfering RNA to Src results in a significant decrease in cell proliferation, invasion, and migration of pancreatic cancer cells. Dasatinib treatment also inhibits in vivo pancreatic tumor growth. Mechanisms of resistance to Src inhibition seem to be related to a lack of inhibition of STAT3 and MAPK signaling. These results establish a mechanistic rationale for Src inhibition with dasatinib as a therapeutic target in the treatment of pancreatic cancer and identify potential biomarkers of resistance to Src inhibition.
The combination of captopril and hydrochlorthiazide was assessed in 15 hypertensive patients in a general practice setting. The first aim was to determine whether the fall in blood pressure, noted after the first dose of an ACE inhibitor given alone, became unacceptable when the drug was given with a diuretic. The second aim was to assess the impact of the ACE inhibitor on the biochemical abnormalities associated with thiazide diuretic therapy. The drug combination markedly reduced blood pressure but not below 110 systolic after the first dose. In the long-term the treatment significantly lowered blood pressure but did not produce any significant or clinically relevant changes in serum chemistry.
Heterogeneity of heart failure (HF) phenotypes indicates contributions from underlying common polymorphisms. We considered polymorphisms in the beta(1)-adrenergic receptor (beta(1)AR), a beta-blocker target, as candidate pharmacogenomic loci. Transfected cells, genotyped human nonfailing and failing ventricles, and a clinical trial were used to ascertain phenotype and mechanism. In nonfailing and failing isolated ventricles, beta(1)-Arg-389 had respective 2.8 +/- 0.3- and 4.3 +/- 2.1-fold greater agonist-promoted contractility vs. beta(1)-Gly-389, defining enhanced physiologic coupling under relevant conditions of endogenous expression and HF. The beta-blocker bucindolol was an inverse agonist in failing Arg, but not Gly, ventricles, without partial agonist activity at either receptor; carvedilol was a genotype-independent neutral antagonist. In transfected cells, bucindolol antagonized agonist-stimulated cAMP, with a greater absolute decrease observed for Arg-389 (435 +/- 80 vs. 115 +/- 23 fmol per well). Potential pathophysiologic correlates were assessed in a placebo-controlled trial of bucindolol in 1,040 HF patients. No outcome was associated with genotype in the placebo group, indicating little impact on the natural course of HF. However, the Arg-389 homozygotes treated with bucindolol had an age-, sex-, and race-adjusted 38% reduction in mortality (P = 0.03) and 34% reduction in mortality or hospitalization (P = 0.004) vs. placebo. In contrast, Gly-389 carriers had no clinical response to bucindolol compared with placebo. Those with Arg-389 and high baseline norepinephrine levels trended toward improved survival, but no advantage with this allele and exaggerated sympatholysis was identified. We conclude that beta(1)AR-389 variation alters signaling in multiple models and affects the beta-blocker therapeutic response in HF and, thus, might be used to individualize treatment of the syndrome.
Carvedilol, a new beta-blocker with vasodilating activity, was given orally to 9 hypertensive inpatients with impaired renal function in a dosage regimen of 5 to 20mg once daily to evaluate its clinical efficacy and safety. Treatment with carvedilol produced a significant decrease in blood pressure from 172/101 to 150/87mm Hg (p less than 0.01), but it did not cause orthostatic hypotension. Heart rate was decreased from 74.3 to 72.8 beats/min, but the decrease was not statistically significant. Serum creatinine and BUN levels were unchanged and other laboratory parameters were within normal limits. There were no side effects in any of the patients during the trial. These results suggest that carvedilol is a useful and safe drug for the treatment of renal hypertension.
