Previous studies in dogs of anesthetic-epinephrine arrhythmias have used logdose or bracketed epinephrine infusion protocols to determine the arrhythmic dose of epinephrine (ADE) or plasma level of epinephrine at arrhythmias (PCE). Reported logdose ADE values for halothane preceded by thiopental induction (thiopental-halothane) are twice those with the bracket protocol. There are no reported PCE data for the bracket protocol, and neither protocol has been directly compared in the same dogs. Therefore, direct comparisons were made of thiopental-halothane ADE and PCE in seven dogs (group 1). Dogs were induced with thiopental (20 mg/kg), followed by halothane inhalation at end-tidal concentrations equivalent to MAC 1.25. Epinephrine infusion protocols were compared on two weekly test occasions, with the sequence and order of protocol testing randomized. Logdose ADE for four or more ventricular beats within 15 s was 3.92 +/- 0.60 micrograms/kg (mean +/- standard error), higher than the bracket ADE (2.54 +/- 0.34 micrograms/ml) (P less than 0.05). PCE at ADE were similar for both protocols, but six separate infusions of epinephrine were required to establish ADE with the logdose compared to four with the bracket protocol (P less than 0.05). These findings suggested enhanced epinephrine clearance with the logdose protocol. Therefore, five additional but similarly anesthetized dogs (group 2) were tested to determine if physiologic or hemodynamic conditions prior to epinephrine infusions ("initial conditions") were equivalent for both protocols. Protocols were modified to avoid provocation of ventricular arrhythmias.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We studied prospectively the effects of cisapride on heart rate and rhythm using standard ECG and 24-hour ECG recordings in term and preterm neonates and infants. We studied subjects with gastroesophageal reflux disease (apparent life-threatening events, apneas, bradycardias) before and 3 days after starting cisapride (0.8 mg/kg/day in 4 doses). We performed standard ECGs for determination of corrected Q-T interval (QTc) and Q-T dispersion (QTd) and 24-hour ECG recordings for analysis of heart rate, heart rate variability, and heart rhythm. Fourteen term and 17 preterm subjects (gestational age range 28-36 weeks) were studied at a median chronological age of 29 (range 3-132) days. Cisapride significantly increased the QTc in preterm infants (before vs. after: 408 +/- 7 vs. 433 +/- 7 ms, p = 0.001). Two preterm and 1 term infant had a QTc >450 ms before cisapride. Four preterm (4/15 = 27%) and 2 term (2/13 = 15%) subjects had a QTc >450 ms on cisapride. After cisapride the QTd remained normal, and no relevant arrhythmias were documented on Holter recordings. Cisapride significantly decreased peak and mean heart rates of all study subjects without affecting the heart rate variability, while it increased the minimal heart rate of preterm infants only (before vs. after: 66 +/- 5 vs. 78 +/- 5 bpm, p = 0.02). The maximally measured R-R intervals (pauses) decreased after cisapride in preterm infants (before vs. after: 1.33 +/- 0.2 s vs. 1.05 +/- 0.2 s, p = 0.04). Although cisapride did cause a significant prolongation of the ventricular action potential duration in preterm infants, the QTd remained unaffected, and no clinically relevant arrhythmias were documented in this small sample. On the other hand, cisapride had a direct lowering effect on the maximal and mean heart rates of both term and preterm infants, while the drug increased the minimal heart rate and reduced the severity of bradycardia episodes in preterm infants.
From May 1985 to July 1989, 143 patients suffering from chronic erectile dysfunction (21-70 years old) underwent constant corpus cavernosum auto-injection therapy (CCAT) with papaverine alone (1257 injections) or with a standardized papaverine-phentolamine mixture (11035 injections). On the basis of these 12,292 protocol auto-injections and over 4 years' experience with intracavernosal auto-injection therapy we conclude: CCAT, especially with the papaverine-phentolamine mixture, constitutes an effective therapy (full rigidity in 95.9%) with tolerable side-effects for chronic erectile dysfunction when preceded by careful patient selection and thorough multidisciplinary evaluation, especially in the case of arterial and/or neurogenic aetiology of the erectile dysfunction; in addition, the contraindications must be strictly observed, the treatment and technique fully explained, and a regular system instituted. CCAT is generally well accepted by the patients and their partners (100%/98.3%) and has distinct positive effects on self-esteem (77.8%), performance anxiety (84.4%) and partnership (79.5%). The most serious side-effect was prolonged erection (25 out of 12,292 injections). In 3 patients reversible fibrotic changes near the tunica albuginea were observed.
The activity of theophylline and disodium cromoglycate was tested on adriamycin-induced histamine release in vitro and on adriamycin cardiotoxicity in vivo. Both substances significantly inhibited the release of histamine induced by 100 micrograms ml-1 of adriamycin on rat peritoneal cells and produced significant protection against adriamycin-mediated acute and chronic cardiotoxicity in mice. N-acetylcysteine, a free radical scavenger, successfully used in the prevention of the cardiomyopathy, was also found to be an inhibitor of histamine release induced by adriamycin and compound 48/80 on rat peritoneal cells. This study further supports the hypothesis that the release of histamine may be involved in the pathogenesis of anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
Intraperitoneal administration of fenvalerate, a synthetic pyrethroid, in male rats for 45 days in doses of 100 and 200 mg/kg body weight/day induced hyperexcitability, tremors and paralysis. Tremors were observed after 7 days and gradually reached maxima on 45th day. The symptoms were more marked in rats treated with 200 mg/kg body weight/day. Fenvalerate provoked significant elevation of circulatory thyroid hormones, namely tri-iodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4). A significant increase in total calcium as well as protein-bound calcium in whole brain and hypothalamus were recorded. The elevation of circulatory thyroid hormones as well as the active calcium pool could be together responsible for impairment of motor activity by altering various neuronal processes.
It has been estimated that more than 1 million workers in the United States are exposed to cobalt. Occupational exposure to 59 Co occurs mainly via inhalation and leads to various lung diseases. Cobalt is classified by the IARC as a possible human carcinogen (group 2B). Although there is evidence for in vivo and in vitro toxicity, the mechanisms of cobalt-induced lung toxicity are not fully known. The purpose of this work was to identify potential signatures of acute cobalt exposure using a toxicogenomic approach. Data analysis focused on some cellular processes and protein targets that are thought to be relevant for carcinogenesis, transport and biomarker research.
A time course transcriptome analysis was performed on A549 human pulmonary cells, leading to the identification of 85 genes which are repressed or induced in response to soluble 59 Co. A group of 29 of these genes, representing the main biological functions, was assessed by quantitative RT-PCR. The expression profiles of six of them were then tested by quantitative RT-PCR in a time-dependent manner and three modulations were confirmed by Western blotting. The 85 modulated genes include potential cobalt carriers (FBXL2, ZNT1, SLC12A5), tumor suppressors or transcription factors (MAZ, DLG1, MYC, AXL) and genes linked to the stress response (UBC, HSPCB, BNIP3L). We also identified nine genes coding for secreted proteins as candidates for biomarker research. Of those, TIMP2 was found to be down-regulated and this modulation was confirmed, in a dose-dependent manner, at protein level in the supernatant of exposed cells.
Most of these genes have never been described as related to cobalt stress and provide original hypotheses for further study of the effects of this metal ion on human lung epithelial cells. A putative biomarker of cobalt toxicity was identified.
This study aimed to examine the physical and psychological harms of cocaine use and investigate the role of injecting versus non-injecting routes of administration in the severity of such harms. Two hundred and twelve cocaine users from inner-city and south-western Sydney were administered a structured interview containing sections on demographics, drug treatment history, drug use history, cocaine use patterns, cocaine dependence and physical and psychological problems associated with cocaine use. Serious physical and psychological symptoms were prevalent among both injecting and non-injecting cocaine users. The prevalence and extent of symptoms was greater among injecting cocaine users, however route of administration did not prove to be a significant independent predictor of harm when other factors, such as frequency of use and level of dependence, were taken into account. While the level of physical and psychological harm was greater among cocaine injectors, it would appear that factors engendered by injecting, such as more frequent use and higher levels of dependence, result in higher levels of harm, rather than the route of administration per se. Physical and psychological problems were also reported among infrequent users, suggesting that cocaine can cause harm irrespective of frequency or method of use. Harm reduction initiatives should be targeted towards all cocaine users, not just those who seek treatment for dependence or present with acute medical complications.
Tissue factor (TF) is involved in monocrotaline (MCT)/lipopolysaccharide (LPS) hepatotoxicity. It is not known whether MCT/LPS can cause renal toxicity and whether TF is involved in this toxicity. Thus, the present study was undertaken to investigate the potential renal toxicity after MCT/LPS co-treatment and the involvement of TF in this toxicity. MCT was delivered to ND4 male mice (200 mg/kg) per os followed 4 h later by treatment with LPS ip (6 mg/kg) to investigate its effect on kidney. We injected TF antisense oligonucleotide (TF-AS) intravenously (i.v) in mice prior to LPS treatment, to block TF, and measured their blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine (CRE), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and potassium. In MCT/LPS co-treated group, fibrin was detected on the glomerular capillary lumina, distal tubules of renal cortex, and the necrotic tubules of renal medulla. An elevation of BUN, creatinine, and the BUN/creatinine ratio was seen in mice with MCT/LPS co-treatment, compared to animals receiving LPS or MCT alone. Simultaneously, an aggressive tubular necrosis was seen in the medullary tubules in the same group which may account for the oliguria observed in these animals. Fourfold inductions in the plasma TF level was detected at 10 h after MCT/LPS co-treatment which increased to 18-fold at 24 h. Increased blood level of leptin, interleukin-6 (IL-6) and downregulation of tubular chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 16 (CXCL16) are characteristic features in MCT/LPS co-treated animal. On the other hand, mice injected with TF-AS in the presence of MCT/LPS co-treatment showed no elevation of the blood BUN, creatinine, potassium, and normal levels of the proinflammatory molecules. TF-AS injection significantly prevented glomerular and tubular fibrin deposition, tubular necrosis, and improvement of the animal survivability. Renal toxicity involving TF can be prevented successfully by the use of TF-AS.
The anti-emetic efficacy of a combination of tropisetron and dexamethasone was studied in 33 patients who underwent bone marrow transplantation. Another 50 patients receiving conventional anti-emetic therapies in bone marrow transplantation served as control. On the first and second days of preconditioning chemotherapy, 51% and 36% respectively of patients in the tropisetron and dexamethasone group did not experience vomiting, compared with only 12% and 10% of control group patients (P < 0.001). The mean number of episodes of vomiting in the tropisetron and dexamethasone group was also significantly lower than in the control group (0.97+/-1.65 vs 3.50+/-2.45 and 1.30+/-1.40 vs 4.44+/-2.91 respectively, both P < 0.001). Control of vomiting in the two groups was not significantly different during days 3-6. Analysis of patients receiving busulfan and cyclophosphamide as the preconditioning regimen still showed better anti-emetic control in the tropisetron and dexamethasone group than in the control group on the first two days of treatment (total control rate 33.3% vs 6.5% and 44.4% vs 12.9% respectively, P < 0.001). Patients given tropisetron and dexamethasone combination more frequently suffered from dizziness and burning sensation of the chest. However, diarrhea and extrapyramidal symptoms were the most frequent adverse effects seen after using conventional anti-emetic combination. The combination of tropisetron and dexamethasone was thus superior to conventional anti-emetic combinations in preventing vomiting during preconditioning period of bone marrow transplantation. The adverse effects of this combination were minimal and well tolerated by patients.
A 36-year-old male presented with sudden pain in the left lower abdomen caused by a left renal infarction. Cocaine metabolites were found in the urine and a cocaine-induced renal infarction was diagnosed. Cocaine-induced renal infarction is not frequently reported in the literature. Pathophysiologic mechanisms include direct cocaine-induced platelet activation in combination with vasoconstriction and endothelial damage. There is no proven therapy for this complication.
Cellular glutathione antioxidant system plays important roles in counteracting hepatotoxins-induced oxidative stress injury. The present study was designed to observe the differences of this system in newly weaned and young mice liver and its involvement in the susceptibility to isoline-induced liver injury. Our results showed that liver reduced glutathione (GSH) amounts were higher in newly weaned mice than young mice. Glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL) activity was higher in newly weaned mice due to the higher expression of catalytic subunit of GCL (GCLC) protein and mRNA. However, the activities of glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) were higher in young mice liver, which might be due to the higher expression of GR, GPx-1, and GST-Pi proteins. Next, the results of AST analysis and histopathological evaluation showed that newly weaned mice demonstrated more severe liver injury induced by isoline. Furthermore, liver GSH amounts and the activities of GR, GPx, and GST were all lower in newly weaned mice than young mice after treated with isoline. Depletion of cellular GSH by D,L -buthionine-(S, R)-sulfoximine (BSO) aggravated isoline-induced cytotoxicity, while N-acetyl-l cysteine (NAC) ameliorated such cytotoxicity. Furthermore, the inhibitors of GR, GPx, and GST all aggravated isoline-induced cytotoxicity. In conclusion, our results demonstrated the differences of glutathione antioxidant system between newly weaned and young mice liver. Meanwhile, our results also revealed age-dependent liver injury induced by isoline for the first time, which might be due to the different responses of glutathione antioxidant system to isoline between newly weaned and young mice.
A case is presented of permanent visual loss and optic atrophy following irrigation of the lower canaliculus after probing, with a 20% solution of chloramphenicol. A false passage had apparently been created allowing the solution to gain access to the orbital tissues. The ensuing orbital edema probably caused a central retinal artery occlusion. This is a previously unreported complication of a common ophthalmologic procedure.
We investigated the mode of cell death induced by the anthracyclines, aclarubicin, doxorubicin and daunorubicin in the human leukemia cell lines, HL60 and Jurkat. The cells were incubated with drug concentrations up to 500 nM for periods between 3 and 24 hours, followed by morphological and biochemical analyses. All three substances induced DNA fragmentation, evident as DNA laddering and appearance of cells with hypodiploid DNA content, externalization of phosphatidyl serine, activation of caspases and degradation of the apoptosis-specific endonuclease inhibitor DFF45. However, concentrations and times necessary for these effects to occur were different, aclarubicin being the quickest acting drug with a lag phase of 3 h, followed by daunorubicin with 6 h and doxorubicin with 24 h. More importantly, aclarubicin induced these effects while the cell membrane was intact, whereas doxorubicin and daunorubicin led to immediate loss of membrane integrity. Programmed cell death is characterised by preservation of membrane integrity in order to allow removal of apoptotic bodies, whereas cell rupture is an early event in necrosis. We therefore suggest that, in our experimental settings, doxorubicin- and daunorubicin-induced cell death occurs by necrosis, while aclarubicin induces programmed cell death.
The usefulness of the gluconeogenic key enzyme fructose 1,6 bisphosphatase (FBPase), which is localized exclusively in the proximal nephron segment, as a marker compound to monitor injury of the proximal nephron segment during nephrotoxic therapy, was tested in a collective model of male patients treated for testicular cancer. These patients with normal kidney function were submitted to therapy with the nephrotoxic chemotherapeutics carboplatinum and a combination of cisplatinum, etoposide, bleomycin and ifosfamide. The release of FBPase activities into the urine was monitored during the initial two treatments over a period of eight days. The urinary enzyme activities measured were compared to the excretion of the "proximal tubular injury markers" N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) and alpha 1-microglobulin (alpha 1m). The presence of glomerular damage was determined by measurement of urinary excretion rates of albumin (ALB) and IgG. In addition, protein excretion patterns following chemotherapy were monitored. The combined administration of cisplatin, etoposide and ifosfamide resulted in a pronounced proximal tubular injury as shown by the release of FBPase into the urine. This is substantiated by simultaneously increased excretion rates for NAG and alpha 1m. Proximal tubular toxicity was found to be less severe when cisplatin was combined with etoposide and bleomycin and was nearly absent following carboplatinum monotherapy. Carboplatinum only affected glomerular function and resulted in an elevated ALB and IgG excretion. From this model investigation it can be delineated that determination of urinary FBPase activities ensures a sensitive and reliable identification of proximal nephron damage.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the major cause of dementia. Amyloid beta peptide (Abeta), generated by proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), is central to AD pathogenesis. APP can function as a metalloprotein and modulate copper (Cu) transport, presumably via its extracellular Cu-binding domain (CuBD). Cu binding to the CuBD reduces Abeta levels, suggesting that a Cu mimetic may have therapeutic potential. We describe here the atomic structures of apo CuBD from three crystal forms and found they have identical Cu-binding sites despite the different crystal lattices. The structure of Cu(2+)-bound CuBD reveals that the metal ligands are His147, His151, Tyr168 and two water molecules, which are arranged in a square pyramidal geometry. The site resembles a Type 2 non-blue Cu center and is supported by electron paramagnetic resonance and extended X-ray absorption fine structure studies. A previous study suggested that Met170 might be a ligand but we suggest that this residue plays a critical role as an electron donor in CuBDs ability to reduce Cu ions. The structure of Cu(+)-bound CuBD is almost identical to the Cu(2+)-bound structure except for the loss of one of the water ligands. The geometry of the site is unfavorable for Cu(+), thus providing a mechanism by which CuBD could readily transfer Cu ions to other proteins.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) 2A receptors contribute to the effects of 5-HT on platelet aggregation and vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, and are reportedly involved in decreases in plasma levels of adiponectin, an adipokine, in diabetic subjects. Here, we report that systemic administration of sarpogrelate, a 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, suppressed appetite and increased hypothalamic pro-opiomelanocortin and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript, corticotropin releasing hormone, 5-HT2C, and 5-HT1B receptor gene expression. A(y) mice, which have ectopic expression of the agouti protein, significantly increased hypothalamic 5-HT2A receptor gene expression in association with obesity compared with wild-type mice matched for age. Systemic administration of sarpogrelate suppressed overfeeding, body weight gain, and hyperglycemia in obese A(y) mice, whereas it did not increase plasma adiponectin levels. These results suggest that obesity increases hypothalamic 5-HT2A receptor gene expression, and pharmacologic inactivation of 5-HT2A receptors inhibits overfeeding and obesity in A(y) mice, but did not increase plasma adiponectin levels.
Suspected nephrocarcinogenic effects of trichloroethene (TRI) in humans are attributed to metabolites derived from the glutathione transferase (GST) pathway. The influence of polymorphisms of GSTM1 and GSTT1 isoenzymes on the risk of renal cell cancer in subjects having been exposed to high levels of TRI over many years was investigated. GSTM1 and GSTT1 genotypes were determined by internal standard controlled polymerase chain reaction. Fourty-five cases with histologically verified renal cell cancer and a history of long-term occupational exposure to high concentrations of TRI were studied. A reference group consisted of 48 workers from the same geographical region with similar histories of occupational exposures to TRI but not suffering from any cancer. Among the 45 renal cell cancer patients, 27 carried at least one functional GSTM1 gene (GSTT1 +) and 18 at least one functional GSTT1 gene (GSTT1 +). Among the 48 reference workers, 17 were GSTM1 + and 31 were GSTT1 +. Odds ratio for renal cell cancer were 2.7 for GSTM1 + individuals (95% CI, 1.18-6.33; P < 0.02) and 4.2 for GSTT1 + individuals (95% CI, 1.16-14.91; P < 0.05), respectively. The data support the present concept of the nephrocarcinogenicity of TRI.
Vigabatrin (GVG) is an effective antiepileptic drug used for treating partial seizures in adults and children. Over the last years, an increasing number of articles have been published reporting visual field defects (VFD) associated with GVG therapy in adults. To date, however, only an small number of pediatric patients have been reported. This paper is a retrospective review of clinical review to evaluate the prevalence and features of VFD in pediatric patients on GVG monotherapy.
Fifteen children, on GVG therapy in the Department of Child Neurology, underwent visual field examination by static threshold automated perimetry using the Humphrey Field Analyzer Program 30-2. The age of these patients ranged from 6 to 18 years (12.4 +/- 3.6 years), 10 of them being male and five female.
Three patients (20%) on GVG monotherapy showed VFD. These consisted in localised, bilateral, and relatively symmetrical, nasal field loss, with relative preservation of the temporal field within the central 30 degree area.
Amphetamine-induced motor behaviors, i.e., locomotor and stereotypic activities, were simultaneously characterized in C57BL/6 mice, a strain commonly used for genetic studies. Our findings show relatively high levels of focused activities in drug-naive C57BL/6 mice, confirming the lively nature of this mouse strain. Acute amphetamine induced a dose-dependent, bimodal response: locomotion predominated at lower doses of amphetamine and was gradually displaced by stereotypic behavior as dose and time increased. The sum total of both behavioral activities increased with amphetamine dose, supporting the notion that amphetamine-induced locomotion and stereotypy form a continuum. These data provide a basis for using C57BL/6 mice as a strain to study the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying psychostimulant effects, drug addiction and psychotic disorders.
Antacids are widely used in the self-treatment of gastroesophageal reflux-induced complaints, but respective studies are lacking.
To compare the efficacy and safety of hydrotalcite with the H2 receptor antagonist famotidine and placebo in the on-demand treatment of acute heartburn under daily practice conditions.
Five hundred sixty-two individuals in 4 centers were randomized in a double-blind, double-dummy, 3-fold cross-over study to single-dose treatments of 1000 mg hydrotalcite, 10 mg famotidine, or placebo. Heartburn severity and relief was measured with numerical and visual rating scales.
A significantly better heartburn relief score was achieved 60 minutes after administration of hydrotalcite compared with placebo (primary end point, P<0.0001). Better efficacy was also observed 30 minutes and 3 hours after the intake of hydrotalcite in comparison with famotidine or placebo. A significant decrease in heartburn severity compared with placebo occurred within 10 minutes for hydrotalcite and was faster compared with both controls.
For subjects self-administering antacids for episodic heartburn, antacid hydrotalcite provides symptom relief significantly faster and, within the first 3 hours postdosing, more effective than famotidine or placebo. These results suggest that on-demand treatment of hydrotalcite is an effective and well-tolerated therapy for heartburn.
Sibutramine is a combined serotonin(5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA)re-uptake inhibitor. Sibutramine works predominantly through its two pharmacologically active metabolites (i.e. primary and secondary amines) which induce marked weight loss by affecting both food intake and energy expenditure. It is able to enhance the physiological process of satiety, and to stimulate thermogenesis, increasing the efferent sympathetic activity to thermogenically active brown fat. There is a dose-related reduction in body weight in clinical trials with sibutramine, with weight loss up to 11% below baseline, which can last up to 18 months with continued treatment. When weight loss is induced with a very low calorie diet (VLCDL), patients randomized to the sibutramine treatment continued to lose weight over a 1 year period, reaching 15% below baseline, whereas the placebo-treated patients regained some weight. Sibutramine improves metabolic fitness, by decreasing the biochemical risk factors associated with obesity, such as plasma triglycerides, total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, glucose and insulin, and increasing HDL-cholesterol. In controlled studies, 84% of sibutramine-treated patients reported side effects, most commonly including dry mouth, constipation and insomnia, compared with 71% of patients receiving placebo. A small increase in heart rate and blood pressure also occurs and persists for as long as treatment is continued, which, therefore, requires monitoring. Nevertheless, successful treatment of moderately hypertensive obese patients with sibutramine has been demonstrated without undue blood pressure problems and even a mean lowering of blood pressure associated with weight loss. Finally, sibutramine does not have the potential for abuse that is characteristic of amphetamine and it is indistinguishable from placebo in abuse potential studies.
Polyamines (putrescine, spermidine and spermine) are essential for cell growth and differentiation. Nitric oxide exhibits antihypertrophic functions and inhibits cardiac remodelling. However, the metabolism of polyamines and the potential interactions with nitric oxide in cardiac hypertrophy remain unclear. We randomly divided Wistar rats into four treatment groups: controls, isoproterenol (ISO), ISO and L-arginine, and L-arginine. Isoproterenol (5 mg/kg/day, subcutaneously) and/or L-arginine (800 mg/kg/day, intraperitoneally) was administered once daily for 7 days. The expression of atrial natriuretic peptide mRNA was determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and fibrogenesis of heart was assessed by Van Gieson staining. Polyamines were measured with high-performance liquid chromatography, and plasma nitric oxide content and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity were determined with a spectrophotometer. The expression levels of ornithine decarboxylase, spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SSAT), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) were analysed by Western blot. Heart-to-body weight ratio, left ventricle-to-body weight ratio, atrial natriuretic peptide mRNA expression, collagen fibres and LDH activity were elevated, both ornithine decarboxylase and SSAT proteins were up-regulated, and total polyamines were increased in the group treated with ISO. Additionally, the expression of iNOS was up-regulated, eNOS was down-regulated, and nitric oxide levels were low. Notably, cotreatment with L-arginine reversed most of these changes except for SSAT expression,which was further up-regulated. We propose that increased polyamines and decreased nitric oxide are involved in cardiac hypertrophy induced by ISO and suggest that L-arginine pre-treatment can attenuate cardiac hypertrophy through the regulation of key enzymes of the polyamine and nitric oxide pathways.
The objective of this study was to define the frequency and severity of steroid-related behavioral side effects in children with steroid-sensitive idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (SSNS) during treatment for relapse.
We conducted a prospective, repeated- measures study in which 10 children with SSNS underwent behavioral assessment using the Child Behavior Checklist at baseline and during high dose prednisone therapy for relapse.
Of the 10 children, 8 had normal behavior at baseline. Of these 8 children, 5 had Child Behavior Checklist scores above the 95th percentile for anxious/depressive behavior and/or aggressive behavior during relapse. Such scores are in the range normally considered appropriate for referral to a mental health provider. The 2 children who had abnormal behavior at baseline also experienced a worsening of their behavior during relapse. The behavioral changes occurred almost exclusively at prednisone doses of 1 mg/kg every 48 hours or more. Regression analysis showed that prednisone dose was a strong predictor of abnormal behavior, especially increased aggression.
Children with SSNS often experience serious problems with anxiety, depression, and increased aggression during high-dose prednisone therapy for relapse.
Methylene dianiline (DDM) causes a dose- and time-dependent cholestasis, bile ductular epithelial injury, and hepatic parenchymal insult in rats. The mechanism of toxicity is unknown. Since hepatic leukocyte infiltration is a prominent feature of DDM-induced liver injury, and because leukocytes play a causal role in hepatic and extrahepatic tissue injury, we tested the hypothesis that toxicity caused by DDM is dependent on neutrophils or other circulating inflammatory cells. A polyclonal antibody (NAb) against rat neutrophils was used to address the role of the neutrophil in DDM-induced liver injury. NAb administration caused a significant reduction in circulating neutrophils without altering other leukocyte numbers. Moreover, NAb pretreatment prevented hepatic neutrophil infiltration after administration of DDM. However, neutrophil depletion did not afford protection from DDM-induced liver injury. This result was confirmed and the role of other circulating leukocytes was evaluated by inducing systemic leukopenia using cyclophosphamide (CYCLO). Administration of CYCLO diminished the number of circulating leukocytes within 4 days after treatment. Depletion of leukocytes by CYCLO prevented the hepatic accumulation of leukocytes but did not protect rats from DDM hepatotoxicity. These results suggest that the large numbers of leukocytes that infiltrate the liver after DDM administration do not contribute to hepatic injury.
Antioxidants are one of the key players in tumourigenesis, and several natural and synthetic antioxidants have been shown to have anticancer effects. In the present investigation, the efficacy of mangiferin on the antioxidant status of benzo(a)pyrene-induced lung carcinogenesis in Swiss albino mice was assessed. The animals were divided into five groups. The animals in groups I and V were normal control and mangiferin control, respectively. Groups II, III and IV were administered with benzo(a)pyrene (50 mg/kg body weight, orally) for 4 weeks (twice a week) to induced lung carcinogenesis. Starting 1 week prior to benzo(a)pyrene administration, group III animals were treated with mangiferin (100 mg/kg body weight) in the diet for 18 weeks; 12 weeks after benzo(a)pyrene administration, group III animals were treated with mangiferin that continued until the end of the experiment period (18 weeks). At the end of the experiment period, the reactive oxygen species, glutathione and the activities of antioxidant enzymes were assessed in both lung and liver tissues. The levels of glutathione, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, vitamin E and vitamin C were decreased in group II animals. However, in the mangiferin + benzo(a)pyrene-treated groups III and IV, the levels of GSH and the activities of antioxidant enzymes in both lung and liver were improved when compared with benzo(a)pyrene-induced group II animals. In addition, the finding that mangiferin decreased reactive oxygen species levels and enhanced antioxidant status suggests that this polyphenol might also be of value in the prevention of benzo(a)pyrene-induced lung carcinogenesis.
Ribavirin, used to treat chronic hepatitis C, can induce hemolytic anemia, forcing the discontinuance of treatment. To establish a predictive measure to help circumvent this, we evaluated the relationship of hemoglobin (Hb) decline with the discontinuance of treatment during the progression of ribavirin-induced anemia.
One hundred and sixteen patients (71% male) with genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C were treated with pegylated interferon (PegIFN) alpha-2b and ribavirin. The mean age was 50.6 years and 55% were IFN naïve. A decline of Hb concentration by 2 g/dL at two weeks from the start of the treatment ("2 by 2" standard) was adopted as the predictive factor for the progression of anemia.
By applying the "2 by 2" standard, with DeltaHb >/= 2 g/dL (34%, n = 39), treatment was discontinued in 12 cases (31%), three of which (8%) because of severe anemia. ForDeltaHb < 2 g/dL (64%, n = 76), treatment was discontinued in 11 (14%) cases; none due to severe anemia. Ten percent (4/39) of patients showed the minimum Hb </= 8.5 g/dL in the DeltaHb >/= 2 g/dL group, with none in the DeltaHb < 2 g/dL group (P = 0.001). Furthermore, the patients with minimum Hb </= 8.5 g/dL were found only in the "2 by 2" standard-positive and low CL/F (<15) group (4/29, 14%).
Monitoring the Hb decline using the "2 by 2" standard can identify patients who are prone to developing severe anemia. Further prospective studies are needed using ribavirin reduction based on the "2 by 2" standard.
Resveratrol is a polyphenol that is mainly found in grapes and red wine and has been reported to be a caloric restriction (CR) mimetic driven by Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) activation. Resveratrol increases metabolic rate, insulin sensitivity, mitochondrial biogenesis and physical endurance, and reduces fat accumulation in mice. In addition, resveratrol may be a powerful agent to prevent age-associated neurodegeneration and to improve cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Moreover, different findings support the view that longevity in mice could be promoted by CR. In this study, we examined the role of dietary resveratrol in SAMP8 mice, a model of age-related AD. We found that resveratrol supplements increased mean life expectancy and maximal life span in SAMP8 and in their control, the related strain SAMR1. In addition, we examined the resveratrol-mediated neuroprotective effects on several specific hallmarks of AD. We found that long-term dietary resveratrol activates AMPK pathways and pro-survival routes such as SIRT1 in vivo. It also reduces cognitive impairment and has a neuroprotective role, decreasing the amyloid burden and reducing tau hyperphosphorylation.
