Considerable research effort is currently being directed towards understanding the mechanisms mediating the antiproliferative effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and, more recently, of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors as well. A key question is whether NSAIDs (excluding sulindac) exert their anticarcinogenic effects in vivo by a mechanism that is dependent on their capacity to inhibit COX activity. Some studies with cultured tumor cells in vitro have argued against such a linkage, showing that NSAIDs inhibit cell replication and/or augment apoptosis only at concentrations that exceed those required to inhibit COX activities 10- to 100-fold. The significance of these results for the observed anticarcinogenic effects of NSAIDs in vivo has not yet been evaluated. We addressed this question by comparing, for the same tumor cells, the effects of the NSAID indomethacin on cell growth parameters when the cells were grown in culture to the effects seen in the in vivo growing tumor in the mouse. Indomethacin added to cultured Lewis lung carcinoma cells exerted a potent antiproliferative effect ((3)H thymidine assay) and reduced cell viability (MTT[3-(4,5-dimethyl(thiazol-2-yl)-2,5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide] assay) at low doses (10-20 microM) in parallel with its inhibitory effect on cellular cyclooxygenase. These effects of indomethacin appeared to arise from a clear antiproliferative shift in the profile of the cell cycle parameters towards a reduced percentage of cells at the S and G(2)/M phases, together with an increased percentage of cells at the G(1) phase. Significantly, similar results were seen when indomethacin was given in vivo at the low dose of 2 mg per kg/day, which blocked blood platelet COX activity and at the same time produced a delay in tumor growth initiation and attenuation of apparent primary tumor growth as well as growth of lung metastases. These results thus provide strong support for the notion that COX inhibition is a major determinant in the antitumorigenic effect of indomethacin in vivo.
The aim of this study was to test the function of the diffuse noxious inhibitory control system (DNIC) in chronic and episodic migraine, exploring the blink reflex (BR) modifications induced by topical application of capsaicin on the hand. We evaluated 11 migraine without aura (MA) and nine chronic migraine (CM) patients during the not symptomatic phase; they were compared with 14 non-headache subjects (N). The BR was elicited by weak electrical stimuli delivered to the right supraorbital nerve; it was obtained 10 min and 20 min after the application of 1 ml of 3% capsaicin in a cream base (Teofarma) on the skin of the dorsum of the right hand, and 60 min after capsaicin removal. The subjective pain sensation induced by capsaicin was significantly increased in CM with respect to both MA patients and normal subjects; the R2 area was increased in CM patients during capsaicin application, with respect to controls and MA patients, who did not exhibit any reflex alterations. These results may suggest a failure of DNIC and a disturbed control of the trigeminal reflex at the central level, linked with migraine frequency.
Four patients with hepatic metastasis of gastric cancer (one synchronous, three metachronous), received intraarterial noradrenaline-induced hypertensive chemotherapy. The outlet of the indwelling catheter was placed in the proper hepatic artery in two patients, in the thoracic aorta in one patient and in both places in one patient. When the systolic blood pressure rose 50 percent above the level in the untreated state, mitomycin C via the catheter was administered for 10 minutes. Partial remission was found in 2 patients, NC in one patient and PD in another. One patient showing PR died of a relapse of hepatic metastasis 8 months after treatment. Another patient with PD died of multiple bone metastases after 12 months. The two other patients are alive 19 months after treatment. Intraarterial noradrenaline-induced hypertensive chemotherapy is one of the useful treatments of choice for hepatic metastasis of gastric cancer.
A 38-year-old woman with type 1 diabetes underwent kidney-pancreas transplantation. Her postoperative course was complicated due to recurrent acute graft rejections and pancreatitis. After initial immunosuppression with microemulsion cyclosporine, mycophenolate mofetil, and prednisone with muromonab-CD3 induction, cyclosporine was switched to tacrolimus on day 44. The initial dosage was 5 mg twice/day, but it was gradually increased to 10 mg twice/day, aiming at 15-20 ng/ml. On day 17 of tacrolimus therapy the woman developed sudden hearing loss with tinnitus. The serum tacrolimus level was 28.3 ng/ml (therapeutic range 10-20 ng/ml) on day 20 of tacrolimus therapy, and peaked at 34.9 ng/ml on day 28. Two audiograms performed on days 28 and 29 confirmed bilateral hearing loss of 80% for speech perception, characterized as mild to moderate sensorineural hearing loss with speech reception threshold of 35 dB (normal < 20 dB) in both ears. The tacrolimus dosage was gradually reduced to 6 mg twice/day by day 36, with drug level 9.7 ng/ml, after which her hearing gradually recovered.
Tremor produced by intracerebral injection of carbachol. I. Susceptibility of different brain areas to carbachol Microinjections of carbachol into the lateral ventricle of rats caused tremor depending on dose. Intensity and duration of motor effects after injection of carbachol (30 mug/3 mul bilateral) into different brain areas were found to depend on localization: strongest tremor was elicited by injections into the nucleus caudatoputamen and cortex cerebri, moderate tremor by administration into the substantia nigra reticularis, globus pallidus and thalamic brain regions. Target areas of mean sensitivity were demonstrated in more rostral and caudal parts of the formatio reticularis. The injection of carbachol into the nucleus ruber, nucleus linearis and substantia nigra compacta brought about lowest tremor values. Ablation of the site of injection from the remaining brain abolished tremor induced by carbachol contrary to the tremor induced by oxotremorine.
Retinoic acid syndrome (RAS) is the clinical syndrome that occurs after treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA). The patients experience fever, dyspnea, hypotension, respiratory distress, edema and weight gain. Chest x-ray will show pulmonary infiltrates and pleuropericardial effusion. The onset of this syndrome is usually 5-21 days after ATRA treatment when white blood cell counts are rising more than 10,000/cu.mm. The authors have reported a case of RAS. The patient was a 29-year-old man who had been working in a battery manufacturing factory for 7 years. He presented with easily bruising for one month. The initial blood test showed hematocrit of 36.2%, white blood cells count of 3,200/cu.mm with 28% neutrophils, 20% lymphocytes, 2% eosinophils and 50% promyelocytes and platelet of 20,000/cu.mm. Peripheral blood smear revealed numerous fragmented red blood cells. Bone marrow examination showed hypercellularity with abnormal promyelocytes of 95% and bone marrow cytogenetics was translocation of chromosome 15 and 17 [t (15;17)(q22;q12)]. The diagnosis was acute promyelocytic leukemia and the patient was treated with ATRA 45 mg/m2/day per oral starting on day 1 and intravenous idarubicin 10 mg/n2 on day 4, 5 and 6. On day 13, he had a body temperature of 39 degrees C and a dry cough. The white blood cells were rising to 7,400/cu.mm with 16% neutrophils. On day 18, he had oliguria, high grade fever, hypotension, cough with chest pain and white blood cells rose to 21,300/cu.mm with 65% neutrophils and rising of blood urea nitrogen and creatinine. Chest x-ray showed enlarged cardiac shadow with pleural effusion. Echocardiogram revealed moderate amount of pericardial effusion. The diagnosis of RAS was made and ATRA was withdrawn. Intravenous dexamethasone 4 mg every 6 hours and hemodialysis was started. The patient's symptoms improved dramatically and bone marrow examination was in complete remission. He was subsequently given cytarabine and idarubicin as consolidation. This patient had clinical manifestation consistent with RAS, which improved after prompt treatment.
Clozapine is a superior agent for treatment-refractory patients with schizophrenia, but is underutilized in the US, likely due to the risk of side effects. This study examined all available autopsy data on cardiac disease and risk factors in people with schizophrenia in a sample of deceased persons with severe mental illness who had received clozapine (N=62) or risperidone (N=42). The mean body mass index (BMI) at the time of death was 31.4+/-8.8 kg/m2 and 27.1+/-8.2 kg/m2 in the clozapine and risperidone groups respectively (t=1.98, df=60, p=0.052). Cardiac related measures examined included: abdominal wall thickness, heart weight, left ventricle thickness, right ventricle thickness, presence of notable cardiac involvement (atherosclerosis, fibrosis and hypertrophy) and number of cardiac arteries occluded. No significant differences in any of the cardiac findings were noted between patients in the clozapine and risperidone groups. Independent of treatment, cardiomyopathy deaths were associated with a higher abdominal wall thickness (p=0.042) and a tendency towards higher BMI (p=0.051) as compared to the other causes of death. The results of this study suggest that while clozapine is associated with weight gain and metabolic abnormalities, there does not appear to be an increased occurrence of cardiac abnormalities in deceased persons who were treated with clozapine as compared to risperidone.
Therapeutic management of multiple myeloma (MM) for the last several decades has mainly involved regimens based on use of glucocorticoids and cytotoxic chemotherapeutics. Despite progress in delineating the activity of such regimens, at either conventional or high doses, MM has remained an incurable disease. This has sparked major interest in the development of novel therapies that in part capitalize on recent advances in our understanding of the biology of MM, including the molecular mechanisms by which MM cell-host bone marrow (BM) interactions regulate tumor-cell growth, survival, and drug resistance in the BM milieu. Herein, we review the latest progress in the development of these novel anti-MM therapies, with major focus on therapies which have translated from preclinical evaluation to clinical application, including thalidomide and its more potent immunomodulatory derivatives (IMiD), the first-in-class proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (formerly known as PS-341). Search strategy included Medline using the terms 'Myeloma and Newer Drugs' citations relevant to treatment guidelines issued in 1999 and 2008 were screened.
This article reviews recent advances in the protection from the adverse auditory or vestibular side effects associated with antibacterial treatment with aminoglycoside antibiotics. Compelling evidence from animal models suggests that reactive oxygen species are part of the initial mechanisms that trigger apoptotic and necrotic cell death in the inner ear. Consequently, antioxidants protect against aminoglycoside-induced hearing loss in animals and, importantly, they do so without compromising drug serum levels or antibacterial efficacy. While clinical studies have long confirmed the ototoxicity of aminoglycosides in human, a trial on protection was only recently reported (Sha, S.-H., Qiu, J.-H., Schacht, J., 2006. Aspirin attenuates gentamicin-induced hearing loss. New Engl. J. Med. 354, 1856-1857). Based on the finding that salicylate afforded protection in animals, the efficacy of aspirin (acetyl salicylate) was tested in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study in patients receiving gentamicin for acute infections. Fourteen of 106 patients (13%) met the criterion of hearing loss in the placebo group while only 3/89 (3%) were affected in the aspirin group (p=0.013). Aspirin did not influence gentamicin serum levels or the course of therapy. These results indicate that therapeutic protection from aminoglycoside ototoxicity may be extrapolated from animal models to the clinic. Furthermore, medications as common as aspirin can significantly attenuate the risk of gentamicin-induced hearing loss.
In idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), autonomic dysfunction is frequent, causing orthostatic hypotension. The respective roles of disease progression and dopaminergic treatment remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the autonomic control of cardiovascular functions and its relation to L-dopa therapy in both newly diagnosed (ND) and long-term-treated (LT) patients. Study subjects were: (1) nine ND patients never having undergone treatment with L-dopa; (2) 18 LT patients who had been receiving L-dopa treatment for a long period. ND patients were investigated before L-dopa treatment and after stabilization of their L-dopa dosage. LT patients were investigated once with their regular treatment and once after a 12-h interruption of L-dopa treatment; (3) nine healthy subjects served as controls. At each test session, blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), plasma catecholamines, heart rate variability (HRV), and spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity were assessed in the supine and upright positions. Before receiving L-dopa medication, ND patients had reduced E/I ratios (HR response/deep breathing) and lowered HRV when compared to controls; this was evidence of early effects of the disease on autonomic HR control. Introduction of L-dopa treatment reduced BP, HR, and plasma levels of adrenaline and noradrenaline. Similar changes were found in LT patients when contrasting the short-term treatment interruption and the usual L-dopa dosage. The treatment-linked increase in plasma dopamine also correlated with the decrease in noradrenaline. These results showed that mild impairment of autonomic cardiovascular control occurred early in the course of PD. They also provided evidence that the side effects of L-dopa aggravated the impairment of the autonomic control of BP and HR.
Nicorandil, a hybrid compound of an ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP ) channel opener and a nitric oxide donor, has been reported to preserve microvascular integrity in patients with reperfused myocardial infarction. The aim of the current study was to test the hypothesis that nicorandil suppresses activation of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNLs), resulting in reduction of PMNL migration into tissue upon ischemia/reperfusion. Nicorandil, along with the mitochondrial KATP channel opener diazoxide and the nitric oxide donors nitroglycerin and isosorbide dinitrate, suppressed pseudopod projection in human PMNLs treated with 10(-9)-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (FMLP) and subjected to shear stress (5 dyn/cm(2)) with a cone-and-plate shear device. Suppression by nicorandil and diazoxide was reversed by KATP channel blockers, 5 hydroxydecanoate and glibenclamide. FMLP-induced increase of [Ca2+] in PMNLs was suppressed by nicorandil and diazoxide, and 5 hydroxy-decanoate and glibenclamide reversed this suppression. Results of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction with rat PMNL mRNA indicated the presence of mRNAs of Kir6.2 and Kir6.1 but not mRNAs of sulfonylurea receptor 1 or 2. Isosorbide dinitrate, diazoxide, and nicorandil reduced leukocyte migration and microvascular obstruction in reperfused ischemic tissue of rat mesenteric microcirculation. In conclusion, nicorandil attenuates ischemia/reperfusion-induced PMNL activation via donation of nitric oxide and K channel-related cascade.
To explore the mechanism of anti-inflammatory effect of mangiferin.
The model of chronic bronchitis in rat was established by LPS + smoke. The activity of SOD, content of MDA and NO in BALF and serum, content of TNF-alpha and IL-8 were determined. The expression of RAW264.7 macrophage COX-2 mRNA induced by LPS in mice was detected by RT-PCR.
The activity of SOD, the content of NO in BALF and serum in rat with chronic bronchitis were significantly higher with high, medium and low-dose of lg mangiferin (400,200,100 mg x kg(-1)), while the content of MDA, and the content of TNF-alpha and IL-8 in lung tissues were lower. The expression of RAW264.7 macrophage COX-2 mRNA induced by LPS was significantly reduced by mangiferin with 200,100, 50 micromol x L(-1).
The anti-inflammatory mechanism of mangiferin is to relieve inflammation by raising the activity of SOD and content of NO and reducing the content of MDA and the expression of TNF-alpha, IL-8 and COX-2 mRNA.
A mutation in the cardiac sodium channel gene (SCN5A) has been described in patients with the syndrome of right bundle branch block, ST-segment elevation in leads V1 to V3, and sudden death (Brugada syndrome). These electrocardiographic manifestations are transient in many patients with the syndrome. The present study examined arrhythmic risk in patients with overt and concealed forms of the disease and the effectiveness of sodium channel blockers to unmask the syndrome and, thus, identify patients at risk.
The effect of intravenous ajmaline (1 mg/kg), procainamide (10 mg/kg), or flecainide (2 mg/kg) on the ECG was studied in 34 patients with the syndrome and transient normalization of the ECG (group A), 11 members of 3 families in whom a SCN5A mutation was associated with the syndrome and 8 members in whom it was not (group B), and 53 control subjects (group C). Ajmaline, procainamide, or flecainide administration resulted in ST-segment elevation and right bundle branch block in all patients in group A and in all 11 patients with the mutation in group B. A similar pattern could not be elicited in the 8 patients in group B who lacked the mutation or in any person in group C. The follow-up period (37+/-33 months) revealed no differences in the incidence of arrhythmia between the 34 patients in whom the phenotypic manifestation of the syndrome was transient and the 24 patients in whom it was persistent (log-rank, 0.639).
The data demonstrated a similar incidence of potentially lethal arrhythmias in patients displaying transient versus persistent ST-segment elevation and right bundle branch block, as well as the effectiveness of sodium channel blockers to unmask the syndrome and, thus, identify patients at risk.
The synergic and decreasing toxic effects of mineral water and Chinese herbal compound preparation (MWCHCP) on cisplatin were investigated in sarcoma 180 (S180) mice.
The S180 mice were treated for 5 days with intraperitoneal injection of cisplatin(7.33 mg x kg(-1)) and oral administration of MWCHCP(1 925, 3 850, 7 700 mg x kg(-1)). Then the mice were killed and the tumor growth inhibition rate, organ index, diarrhea index were determined. Observe pathological sections of stomach to study the protective effect of MWCHCP. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was applied to investigate the tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) expression level of the intestine.
Combining with cisplatin and MWCHCP caused a tendency of increasing the tumor growth inhibition rate and significant attenution of cisplatin-induced diarrhea, visceral organ injury, gastric mucosal injury and decreased TNF-alpha mRNA level of intestine.
The present findings suggest that MWCHCP increases the inhibition rate of tumor growth of cisplatin and has a beneficial influence on gastrointestinal lesion induced by cisplatin.
Controversy exists as to the homogeneity of repolarization throughout the canine ventricular wall in vivo. The type of anesthesia has been shown to affect regional differences in monophasic action potential duration and the inducibility of polymorphic ventricular tachycardias (PVTs) in normal canine hearts. This study was conducted to determine refractory patterns and arrhythmia susceptibility in relation to halothane or pentobarbital anesthesia in dogs with chronic atrioventricular block and biventricular hypertrophy. In 12 dogs with chronic atrioventricular block, 60 needle electrodes (12 mm long, four bipolar electrodes, interelectrode distance of 2 mm) were inserted into the left and right ventricle. Six dogs were anesthetized with pentobarbital and six with halothane. Effective refractory periods (ERPs) were determined along 14 randomly selected needles at baseline and after application of almokalant (0.34 mmol/kg) (basic cycle length 1,000 ms, extrastimulus technique). At baseline and on almokalant, ERPs were uniform, independent of the type of anesthesia. With halothane anesthesia, ERPs were significantly longer under both conditions. Almokalant induced not only a prolongation of ERP in both groups but also a significant increase in transmural dispersion of ERP and in maximum dispersion of ERP. However, local refractory gradients were not specific to any muscle layer and did not seem to be related to the occurrence of PVTs. Almokalant did not induce arrhythmias in any dog in the pentobarbital group, but in four of six animals in the halothane group, apparently due to the more marked prolongation in ERP. Independent of the type of anesthesia, hypertrophied hearts of dogs with chronic atrioventricular block exhibit uniform refractory patterns. Longer ERPs with a comparable degree of dispersion on halothane are associated with a high incidence of drug-induced PVTs, whereas shorter ERPs on pentobarbital seem to prevent arrhythmia induction.
Arsenic is a toxicant commonly found in water systems and chronic exposure can result in adverse developmental effects including increased neonatal death, stillbirths, and miscarriages, low birth weight, and altered locomotor activity. Previous studies indicate that 20 nM sodium arsenite exposure to C2C12 mouse myocyte cells delayed myoblast differentiation due to reduced myogenin expression, the transcription factor that differentiates myoblasts into myotubes. In this study, several mechanisms by which arsenic could alter myogenin expression were examined. Exposing differentiating C2C12 cells to 20 nM arsenic increased H3K9 dimethylation (H3K9me2) and H3K9 trimethylation (H3K9me3) by 3-fold near the transcription start site of myogenin, which is indicative of increased repressive marks, and reduced H3K9 acetylation (H3K9Ac) by 0.5-fold, indicative of reduced permissive marks. Protein expression of Glp or Ehmt1, a H3-K9 methyltransferase, was also increased by 1.6-fold in arsenic-exposed cells. In addition to the altered histone remodeling status on the myogenin promoter, protein and mRNA levels of Igf-1, a myogenic growth factor, were significantly repressed by arsenic exposure. Moreover, a 2-fold induction of Ezh2 expression, and an increased recruitment of Ezh2 (3.3-fold) and Dnmt3a (~2-fold) to the myogenin promoter at the transcription start site (-40 to +42), were detected in the arsenic-treated cells. Together, we conclude that the repressed myogenin expression in arsenic-exposed C2C12 cells was likely due to a combination of reduced expression of Igf-1, enhanced nuclear expression and promoter recruitment of Ezh2, and altered histone remodeling status on myogenin promoter (-40 to +42).
The use of warfarin is rarely complicated by skin necrosis. We describe a 50-year-old woman who presented with a left leg deep venous thrombosis and subsequent pulmonary embolism. She was initially anticoagulated with low-molecular weight heparin and subsequently warfarin. Within 4 days abdominal skin necrosis developed. Investigations revealed the presence of protein S deficiency and in addition, a mutation in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene (MTHFR). We present, to our best knowledge, the first case of warfarin skin necrosis associated with a methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase mutation.
Delay of QT interval adaptation to sudden heart rate change causes hysteresis in dynamic QT-RR relationship. We analyzed QT-RR plotting during and after exercise in a patient with genetically identified type 2 long QT syndrome before and after starting oral propranolol. Blunted QT shortening by exercise and augmented postexercise QT prolongation resulted in an open-loop, clockwise QT-RR hysteresis immediately before the onset of torsades de pointes before propranolol. However, this hysteresis was eliminated by propranolol. QT-RR analysis provided insight into the mechanisms of the onset of torsades de pointes at least in this case of type 2 long QT syndrome.
We conducted a SNP-based genome-wide association study (GWAS) focused on the high-risk subset of neuroblastoma. As our previous unbiased GWAS showed strong association of common 6p22 SNP alleles with aggressive neuroblastoma, we restricted our analysis here to 397 high-risk cases compared to 2,043 controls. We detected new significant association of six SNPs at 2q35 within the BARD1 locus (P(allelic) = 2.35 x 10(-9)-2.25 x 10(-8)). We confirmed each SNP association in a second series of 189 high-risk cases and 1,178 controls (P(allelic) = 7.90 x 10(-7)-2.77 x 10(-4)). We also tested the two most significant SNPs (rs6435862, rs3768716) in two additional independent high-risk neuroblastoma case series, yielding combined allelic odds ratios of 1.68 each (P = 8.65 x 10(-18) and 2.74 x 10(-16), respectively). We also found significant association with known BARD1 nonsynonymous SNPs. These data show that common variation in BARD1 contributes to the etiology of the aggressive and most clinically relevant subset of human neuroblastoma.
Water-soluble germanium nanoparticles (wsGeNPs) with allyamine-conjugated surfaces were fabricated and emit blue fluorescence under ultraviolet light. The wsGeNP was physically and chemically stable at various experimental conditions. Cytotoxicity of the fabricated wsGeNP was examined. MTT assay demonstrated that wsGeNP possessed high toxicity to cells and clonogenic survival assay further indicated that this effect was not resulted from retarding cell growth. Flow cytometric analysis indicated that wsGeNP did not alter the cell cycle profile but the sub-G1 fraction was absent from treated cells. Results from DNA fragmentation and propidium iodide exclusion assays also suggested that apoptotic cell death did not occur in cells treated with wsGeNP. Addition of a necrosis inhibitor, necrostatin-1, attenuated cell damage and indicated that wsGeNP caused necrotic cell death. Cell signaling leads to necrotic death was investigated. Intracellular calcium and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were increased upon wsGeNP treatment. These effects can be abrogated by BAPTA-AM and N-acetyl cysteine respectively, resulting in a reduction in cell damage. In addition, wsGeNP caused a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) which could be recovered by cyclosporine A. The cellular signaling events revealed that wsGeNP increase the cellular calcium level which enhances the production of ROS and leads to a reduction of MMP, consequentially results in necrotic cell death.
Narcolepsy with cataplexy, characterized by sleepiness and rapid onset into REM sleep, affects 1 in 2,000 individuals. Narcolepsy was first shown to be tightly associated with HLA-DR2 (ref. 3) and later sublocalized to DQB1*0602 (ref. 4). Following studies in dogs and mice, a 95% loss of hypocretin-producing cells in postmortem hypothalami from narcoleptic individuals was reported. Using genome-wide association (GWA) in Caucasians with replication in three ethnic groups, we found association between narcolepsy and polymorphisms in the TRA@ (T-cell receptor alpha) locus, with highest significance at rs1154155 (average allelic odds ratio 1.69, genotypic odds ratios 1.94 and 2.55, P < 10(-21), 1,830 cases, 2,164 controls). This is the first documented genetic involvement of the TRA@ locus, encoding the major receptor for HLA-peptide presentation, in any disease. It is still unclear how specific HLA alleles confer susceptibility to over 100 HLA-associated disorders; thus, narcolepsy will provide new insights on how HLA-TCR interactions contribute to organ-specific autoimmune targeting and may serve as a model for over 100 other HLA-associated disorders.
Splice variants of the interleukin-4 (IL-4) cytokine gene have been described for humans, mice, and cattle. IL-4 splice variants have been shown to inhibit IL-4-mediated cellular responses and thus act as IL-4 antagonists. Recent work has highlighted the possibility of a correlation between IL-4 splice variants and protection against clinical tuberculosis. In this study we investigated the potential role of IL-4 splice variants IL-4delta2 and IL-4delta3 in cattle with bovine tuberculosis, using quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR. For this analysis we used naturally exposed tuberculin skin test-positive field reactor cattle, uninfected control cattle, and cattle from two experimental models of protective immunity against Mycobacterium bovis: (i) vaccination with M. bovis BCG and challenge with virulent M. bovis and (ii) infection with M. bovis and treatment with isoniazid (INH) prior to rechallenge. The cytokine levels of field reactor cattle were compared to the levels of uninfected controls, while in kinetic studies of BCG vaccination and INH treatment we compared pre-experimental values with sequential samples for each individual animal. The data revealed a significant increase in IL-4delta3 mRNA expression in field reactor cattle, which had no visible pathology compared to cattle with gross pathology typical of bovine tuberculosis. Increased IL-4delta3 expression in both cattle models of protective immunity (BCG vaccination and INH treatment) was transient over time, reaching significance in the INH treatment model. Our results support the hypothesis that IL-4delta3 is involved in protective immunity against M. bovis infection in cattle and are in accordance with clinical studies that have suggested a role for IL-4 splice variants in protective immunity in tuberculosis.
Wastewater-impacted waters that do not support swimming are often used for boating, canoeing, fishing, kayaking, and rowing. Little is known about the health risks of these limited-contact water recreation activities.
We evaluated the incidence of illness, severity of illness, associations between water exposure and illness, and risk of illness attributable to limited-contact water recreation on waters dominated by wastewater effluent and on waters approved for general use recreation (such as swimming).
The Chicago Health, Environmental Exposure, and Recreation Study was a prospective cohort study that evaluated five health outcomes among three groups of people: those who engaged in limited-contact water recreation on effluent-dominated waters, those who engaged in limited-contact recreation on general-use waters, and those who engaged in non-water recreation. Data analysis included survival analysis, logistic regression, and estimates of risk for counterfactual exposure scenarios using G-computation.
Telephone follow-up data were available for 11,297 participants. With non-water recreation as the reference group, we found that limited-contact water recreation was associated with the development of acute gastrointestinal illness in the first 3 days after water recreation at both effluent-dominated waters [adjusted odds ratio (AOR) 1.46; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.08, 1.96] and general-use waters (1.50; 95% CI: 1.09, 2.07). For every 1,000 recreators, 13.7 (95% CI: 3.1, 24.9) and 15.1 (95% CI: 2.6, 25.7) cases of gastrointestinal illness were attributable to limited-contact recreation at effluent-dominated waters and general-use waters, respectively. Eye symptoms were associated with use of effluent-dominated waters only (AOR 1.50; 95% CI: 1.10, 2.06). Among water recreators, our results indicate that illness was associated with the amount of water exposure.
Limited-contact recreation, both on effluent-dominated waters and on waters designated for general use, was associated with an elevated risk of gastrointestinal illness.
The sideroblastic anemias are a heterogeneous group of congenital and acquired hematological disorders whose morphological hallmark is the presence of ringed sideroblasts--bone marrow erythroid precursors containing pathologic iron deposits within mitochondria. Here, by positional cloning, we define a previously unknown form of autosomal recessive nonsyndromic congenital sideroblastic anemia, associated with mutations in the gene encoding the erythroid specific mitochondrial carrier family protein SLC25A38, and demonstrate that SLC25A38 is important for the biosynthesis of heme in eukaryotes.
