The aim of the present work was to perform a comparative assessment of the efficacy and safety of traditional and contemporary antiepileptic agents in women of reproductive age. The experimental group consisted of 65 patients, of whom 48 had partial epilepsy and 17 had idiopathic generalized epilepsy. A number of issues were addressed in studies of a larger group of patients (110), including both women (65) and men (45). The following agents were studied: Topamax, valproates, carbamazepine, and barbiturates, all used as monotherapy. Patients' status was evaluated using clinical (neurological, psychiatric), psychometric, neuropsychological, and hormonal parameters. The data led to the general conclusion that Topamax had advantages over the other study agents in the treatment of women with epilepsy.
Aciclovir is the drug of choice for severe systemic herpes virus infections. Nephrotoxicity is one of the clinically significant adverse effects of this drug, but studies examining nephrotoxicity in children are scarce.
To identify risk factors for aciclovir-associated nephrotoxicity in the pediatric population.
A retrospective review was conducted on all children (mean age 81 months; n = 126 [74 boys]) who were treated with aciclovir in a tertiary center between July 2005 and January 2006 and who met our inclusion criteria. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was calculated on the first day of treatment and at the peak measured creatinine level while on therapy, using Schwartz's method.
Aciclovir therapy was associated with a significant increase in serum creatinine levels and a parallel decrease in GFR (n = 93; both p <or= 0.0001). Children with immunosuppression who received a variety of other nephrotoxic drugs exhibited more severe nephrotoxicity than those not receiving nephrotoxic drugs. In multiple regression analysis, the use of nephrotoxic drugs (p = 0.02) and impaired GFR at baseline (p = 0.04) were predictive for nephrotoxicity.
Within the recommended age-dependent dosage schedule of aciclovir there was no effect of dose per kg, age, or sex on nephrotoxicity. The predictors of aciclovir nephrotoxicity were the concomitant use of nephrotoxic drugs and impaired GFR at baseline.
Patients who present to the Emergency Department (ED) with chest pain associated with cocaine use are a common problem. The incidence and predictors of underlying significant coronary disease in patients with and without myocardial infarction (MI) has not been well described. Patients who underwent coronary angiography within 5 weeks of an ED evaluation for cocaine-associated chest pain were studied. Significant disease was defined as > or = 50% stenosis of a coronary artery or major branches or bypass graft. A total of 90 patients underwent coronary angiography. Significant disease was present in 45 (50%), with 1-vessel disease in 32%, 2-vessel disease in 10%, 3-vessel disease in 6%, with significant graft stenosis in 3%. Significant disease was present in 77% of patients with MI or troponin I elevations, compared to only 35% of patients without myonecrosis. Predictors of significant coronary disease included MI or troponin I elevations, prior MI, known coronary disease (prior MI or revascularization), and elevated cholesterol. Only 7 of the 39 patients (18%) without myonecrosis or a history of coronary disease had significant disease on angiography. In conclusion, significant disease is found in the majority of patients with cocaine-associated MI or troponin elevations. In contrast, only a minority of those without myonecrosis have significant coronary disease.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of carboplatin plus weekly paclitaxel as first-line therapy in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Forty-nine patients were analyzed retrospectively. Every 4 weeks patients received 70 mg/m(2)paclitaxel on days 1, 8, and 15, and AUC 5-6 carboplatin on day 1.
A median of four cycles (range, 1-7) was administered. Twenty-four patients had a partial response, and the overall response rate was 48.9%. The median survival time was 12.8 months and the 1-year survival was 50.7%. Overall toxicities were mild. The most common toxicity was neutropenia, grade 3/4 in 32% of the patients. Grade 3/4 hematologic toxicities included anemia (16%) and thrombocytopenia (8%). Grade 3/4 non-hematologic toxicities included febrile neutropenia (2%), pneumonia (10%) and interstitial pneumonia (2%). Grade 2 peripheral neuropathy was seen in one patient (2%).
These results demonstrate that this regimen is an active and tolerable treatment for patients with advanced NSCLC. It is suggested that this weekly regimen should be considered as one of the standard therapies for future chemotherapy in advanced NSCLC.
Research shows that users of ecstasy (MDMA) exhibit deficits in executive processes. The updating component appears to be particularly susceptible. Less is known about the precise nature of such deficits. The present study sought to determine if ecstasy-related deficits in memory updating are related to serial position of items presented, or length of the list of items.
Seventy-three ecstasy/polydrug users and seventy-three non-ecstasy users completed tasks of verbal and spatial memory running memory, recalling the most recent items, in lists of varying and unknown length. Participants were categorised according to letter and spatial span (four, five or six), producing six sub-samples for analysis.
Ecstasy-polydrug users were impaired in four out of the six sub-sample analyses. Three of these were due to impaired recall of earlier serial positions.
The results of the present study provide further support for updating deficits in ecstasy-polydrug users. The results are suggestive of a breakdown in the maintenance of information in working memory in terms of chunking; it appears that ecstasy/polydrug users are as able as non-ecstasy users to form memory 'chunks' from the items, but that such chunks are not retained as effectively.
A case is reported in which atrial dissociation occurred after oral isoproterenol administration to increase the heart rate in the presence of complete atrioventricular block. Two types of P wave, one with small upward deflection and the other with deep downward spike-like deflection, were present. The latter wave appeared at a high rate of 300/min, suggesting the existence of atrial flutter in the left atrium alone.
We performed a retrospective analysis of the prognostic factors in patients treated with local intra-arterial thrombolysis (LIT). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of LIT using urokinase in patients with acute ischemic stroke of the anterior or posterior circulation and to determine the influence of clinical and radiological parameters on outcome.
Forty-three patients were treated with LIT using urokinase (median dose, 0.75x10(6) IU). The median National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score at hospital admission was 18 (range, 9 to 36). Nine patients had occlusions of the internal carotid artery (ICA), 23 of the middle cerebral artery (MCA), 1 of the anterior cerebral artery, and 10 of the basilar artery (BA). Outcome was assessed after 3 months and classified as good for Rankin Scale (RS) scores of 0 to 3 and poor for RS scores of 4 or 5 and death.
Nine patients (21%) recovered to RS scores 0 or 1, 17 (40%) to scores of 2 or 3, and 7 (16%) to scores of 4 or 5. Ten patients (23%) died. Outcome was good in 17 patients (80%) with MCA occlusions, in 3 patients (33%) with ICA, and in 5 patients (50%) with BA occlusions. Good outcome was associated with an initial NIHSS score of <20 (P<0.001), improvement by 4 or more points on NIHSS score within 24 hours (P=0.001), and vessel recanalization (P=0.02). Recanalization was more likely if LIT was started within 4 hours (P=0.01). Symptomatic cerebral hemorrhage occurred in 2 patients (4.7%).
LIT was most efficacious in patients with MCA and BA occlusions when the initial NIHSS score was less than 20 and when treated within 4 hours. It is of limited value in patients with distal ICA occlusions.
Three patients developed clinical evidence of myocardial injury after acute ingestion of phenylpropanolamine, a sympathomimetic amine found in a large number of decongestant and appetite suppressant formulations. Increases in the serum creatine kinase and MB isoenzyme levels, ventricular arrhythmias, and electrocardiographic repolarisation abnormalities were seen. Excessive catecholamine stimulation has been shown to produce acute myocardial necrosis experimentally, and a similar mechanism may be present in these patients.
Macrocyclic trichothecene mycotoxins encountered in water-damaged buildings have been suggested to contribute to illnesses of the upper respiratory tract. Here, the authors characterized the adverse effects of repeated exposures to roridin A (RA), a representative macrocyclic trichothecene, on the nasal airways of mice and assessed the persistence of these effects. Young, adult, female C57BL/6 mice were exposed to single daily, intranasal, instillations of RA (0.4, 2, 10, or 50 microg/kg body weight [bw]) in saline (50 microl) or saline alone (controls) over 3 weeks or 250 microg/kg RA over 2 weeks. Histopathologic, immunohistochemical, and morphometric analyses of nasal airways conducted 24 hr after the last instillation revealed that the lowest-effect level was 10 microg/kg bw. RA exposure induced a dose-dependent, neutrophilic rhinitis with mucus hypersecretion, atrophy and exfoliation of nasal transitional and respiratory epithelium, olfactory epithelial atrophy and loss of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs). In a second study, the persistence of lesions in mice instilled with 250 microg/kg bw RA was assessed. Nasal inflammation and excess luminal mucus were resolved after 3 weeks, but OSN loss was still evident in olfactory epithelium (OE). These results suggest that nasal inflammation, mucus hypersecretion, and olfactory neurotoxicity could be important adverse health effects associated with short-term, repeated, airborne exposures to macrocyclic trichothecenes.
Addiction profoundly alters motivational circuits so that drugs become powerful reinforcers of behavior. The interoceptive system continuously updates homeostatic and emotional information that are important elements in motivational decisions. We tested the idea that interoceptive information is essential in drug craving and in the behavioral signs of malaise. We inactivated the primary interoceptive cortex in amphetamine-experienced rats, which prevented the urge to seek amphetamine in a place preference task. Interoceptive insula inactivation also blunted the signs of malaise induced by acute lithium administration. Drug-seeking and malaise both induced Fos expression, a marker of neuronal activation, in the insula. We conclude that the insular cortex is a key structure in the perception of bodily needs that provides direction to motivated behaviors.
Pain not responsive to morphine is often problematic. Animal and clinical studies have suggested that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists, such as ketamine, may be effective in improving opioid analgesia in difficult pain syndromes, such as neuropathic pain. A slow bolus of subhypnotic doses of ketamine (0.25 mg/kg or 0.50 mg/kg) was given to 10 cancer patients whose pain was unrelieved by morphine in a randomized, double-blind, crossover, double-dose study. Pain intensity on a 0 to 10 numerical scale; nausea and vomiting, drowsiness, confusion, and dry mouth, using a scale from 0 to 3 (not at all, slight, a lot, awful); Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) (0-30); and arterial pressure were recorded before administration of drugs (T0) and after 30 minutes (T30), 60 minutes (T60), 120 minutes (T120), and 180 minutes (T180). Ketamine, but not saline solution, significantly reduced the pain intensity in almost all the patients at both doses. This effect was more relevant in patients treated with higher doses. Hallucinations occurred in 4 patients, and an unpleasant sensation ("empty head") was also reported by 2 patients. These episodes reversed after the administration of diazepam 1 mg intravenously. Significant increases in drowsiness were reported in patients treated with ketamine in both groups and were more marked with ketamine 0.50 mg/kg. A significant difference in MMSE was observed at T30 in patients who received 0.50 mg/kg of ketamine. Ketamine can improve morphine analgesia in difficult pain syndromes, such as neuropathic pain. However, the occurrence of central adverse effects should be taken into account, especially when using higher doses. This observation should be tested in studies of prolonged ketamine administration.
Providing pain management for known opioid abusers is a challenging clinical task, in part because little is known about their pain experience and analgesic requirements. This study was designed to describe pain tolerance and analgesic response in a sample of opioid addicts stabilized in methadone-maintenance (MM) treatment (n = 60) in comparison to matched nondependent control subjects (n = 60). By using a placebo-controlled, two-way factorial design, tolerance to cold-pressor (CP) pain was examined, both before and after oral administration of therapeutic doses of common opioid (hydromorphone 2 mg) and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory (ketorolac 10 mg) analgesic agents. Results showed that MM individuals were significantly less tolerant of CP pain than control subjects, replicating previous work. Analgesic effects were significant neither for medication nor group. These data indicate that MM opioid abusers represent a pain-intolerant subset of clinical patients. Their complaints of pain should be evaluated seriously and managed aggressively.
Levamisole produces seizures in man and is also known to activate the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, which are further known to elicit seizure activity. Therefore, the present study has been designed to investigate the role of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor activation in the seizure-inducing effect of levamisole. Levamisole, at the doses of 5, 10 and 20 mg kg(-1), i.p. were used to elicit seizures in mice. Seizures were assessed in terms of the onset time of Straub's tail phenomenon, jerky movements of whole body and convulsions. Additionally, an isobolographic design was used to examine the interaction of systemically administered levamisole and nicotine. Prior administration of 2, 2, 6, 6-tetramethylpiperidin-4-yl heptanoate (TMPH), a selective inhibitor of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, markedly attenuated the seizure-inducing effect of levamisole. Moreover, administration of TMPH per se did not produce any behavioural changes in mice. Furthermore, nicotine was observed exert a synergistic interaction with levamisole. Therefore, it may be suggested that levamisole-induced reduction in seizure threshold might be ascribed to the activation of a neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor activation-linked mechanism.
The effects of intranasal fentanyl citrate (INFC) were assessed in 12 hospice inpatients with cancer-related breakthrough pain. Patients received 20 microg of fentanyl citrate and were asked to rate their pain using a visual analogue scale (VAS) before INFC, then after 3, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes. Eight patients (66%) had reductions in pain scores, four within 5 minutes and seven within 10 minutes of taking INFC. Ratings for INFC were very good (5 = 42%), good (3 = 25%), moderate (1 = 8%), and bad (3 = 25%). In comparison to oral morphine, INFC was better (6 = 50%), the same (3 = 25%), or worse (3 = 25%). Nine patients (75%) said they would continue to use INFC. Of the three patients who did not experience a positive result, two were taking relatively higher baseline opioid doses and one was found to have a fracture. No systemic adverse events were noted; two patients reported nasal itching or discomfort on first use that disappeared with repeated use. Intranasal fentanyl citrate appears safe and well tolerated by these patients. Randomized placebo-controlled and dose-ranging studies are required to confirm these findings.
Tamoxifen, a nonsteroidal antiestrogen used widely in the treatment of breast cancer, was tested in a conventional 2-year carcinogenicity bioassay in rats, a species in which tamoxifen acts variably as a partial agonist and antagonist on different target tissues. Groups of 51 males and 52 females were given 5, 20, and 35 mg/kg of tamoxifen/day by gastric intubation in 0.5% hydroxypropyl methylcellulose at 5 ml/kg dose volume. There were 102 male and 104 female controls dosed with vehicle alone. Growth rate and food consumption were reduced in all treated groups. The major finding was a dose-related increase in the incidence of hepatocellular tumors which were first observed after 31 weeks of treatment in the top dose group. The majority of the neoplasms were hepatocellular carcinomas showing a well differentiated trabecular pattern. Some tumors were glandular in type. Mortality was increased in the 20 and 35 mg/kg dose groups compared with controls as a result of these tumors. By contrast, survival was greater than controls in rats given 5 mg/kg tamoxifen despite the presence of hepatocellular tumors due to a reduction in the number of pituitary tumors in females and less chronic renal disease in males. The mechanism of hepatic tumor induction by tamoxifen in rats is unclear. In view of the lack of genotoxic activity in conventional genotoxicity studies and lack of similar effect in mice or in humans, the findings may relate to a particular constellation of effects in rats. All other drug-induced changes in this study were nonneoplastic in nature and most appeared to be the result of hormonal perturbation since they were confined to endocrine organs or have been seen previously in rats treated for long periods with tamoxifen.
The mechanism of toxicity of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is thought to result from changes in gene expression via the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). The induction of cytochrome P450 1A (CYP1A) in various organs is a cardinal effect of TCDD. However, whether CYP1A is involved in endpoints of TCDD toxicity is controversial. We investigated the role of CYP1A in TCDD-induced developmental toxicities using gene knock-down with morpholino antisense oligos. Exposure of zebrafish embryos to TCDD, at concentrations eliciting the hallmark endpoints of developmental toxicity, induced CYP1A in the heart and vascular endothelium throughout the body. This induction by TCDD was markedly inhibited by morpholinos to zebrafish arylhydrocarbon receptor 2 (zfAHR2-MO) and to zebrafish CYP1A (zfCYP1A-MO). The zfAHR2-MO but not the zfCYP1A-MO inhibited zfCYP1A mRNA expression, indicating the specificities of these morpholinos. Injection of either zfAHR2-MO or zfCYP1A-MO blocked the representative signs of TCDD developmental toxicity in zebrafish, pericardial edema and trunk circulation failure. The morpholinos appeared do not affect normal development in TCDD-untreated embryos. These results suggest a mediatory role of zfCYP1A induction through zfAHR2 activation in causing circulation failure by TCDD in zebrafish. This is the first molecular evidence demonstrating an essential requirement for CYP1A induction in TCDD-evoked developmental toxicities in any vertebrate species.
We performed a combination of prespecified and exploratory subgroup analyses to detect any treatment differences among various baseline subgroups in the Warfarin-Aspirin Recurrent Stroke Study (WARSS) cohort.
The WARSS compared the efficacy of adjusted-dose warfarin (INR 1.4-2.8) to aspirin (325 mg/day) for recurrent ischemic stroke or death within 2 years. The effect of warfarin and aspirin was compared among prespecified and exploratory subgroups with respect to sociodemographic and vascular risk factors, stroke subtype, arterial territory, and infarct topography. Hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals comparing warfarin to aspirin were calculated using Cox proportional hazards models. Differences in hazard ratios were tested using interaction terms.
No treatment differences between warfarin and aspirin were found across multiple prespecified subgroups. In a multivariate model, warfarin was associated with greater hazard among patients with moderate stroke severity (HR 1.63, 95% CI 1.005-2.64, p = 0.047) and a greater benefit among those with posterior circulation location without brainstem infarction (HR 0.54, 95% CI 0.33-0.88, p = 0.013). In post-hoc analyses of the cryptogenic subgroup, warfarin was associated with worse outcomes among patients with moderate stroke severity and better outcomes among those without baseline hypertension or with posterior circulation infarcts sparing the brainstem.
In the WARSS, the majority of subgroup analyses showed no benefit of warfarin over aspirin. Warfarin benefit was limited to brainstem-sparing posterior circulation infarcts and select cryptogenic stroke subgroups. Pending future clinical trial evidence to the contrary, antiplatelets are recommended for survivors of noncardioembolic stroke.
The administration of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) has been reported to improve cholestasis in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis or sclerosing cholangitis. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that UDCA similarly might reduce cholestasis induced by drugs. Rats were treated with three different drugs reported to induce cholestasis: 17 alpha-ethynylestradiol, alpha-napthylisothiocyanate, and cyclosporine A. UDCA administration (0.4.g/day-1.k-1 before and during administration of the cholestatic drug) did not improve survival, food intake, or serum indicators of cholestasis in any of these three animal models of cholestasis. To the extent that drug-induced cholestasis in rats mimics the human situation, we conclude that UDCA probably will not be beneficial in drug-induced cholestasis in humans.
Resistance to apoptosis may be responsible for a principal mechanism by which cancer cells overcome anticancer therapies. Among antiapoptotic signals, the transcription factor, NF-kappaB, plays a pivotal role in the resistance because it is frequently activated in many primary carcinoma cells. However, NF-kappaB is also activated by several anticancer therapies, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). The NF-kappaB-mediated survival signals are supposed to evade these therapies. Recently, a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug, sulindac, and its metabolites have been shown to inhibit the NF-kappaB pathway and to enhance TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis in lung carcinoma cell lines. In the current study, the authors investigated whether sulindac can augment TNF-alpha-mediated apoptosis in other human carcinoma cells and whether it can be applied for in vivo clinical usage.
Human gastric MKN45 and cervical HeLa carcinoma cells were treated with sulindac and/or TNF-alpha. Proapoptotic effects of these agents were evaluated by trypan blue exclusion assay, DNA fragmentation, and caspase-3 activity. The effect of sulindac on NF-kappaB activation was evaluated by luciferase reporter and gel-shift assays. The suppressive effects of these reagents on the subcutaneous tumor growth of MKN45 cells were evaluated by measuring tumor size in nude mice.
Sulindac inhibited TNF-alpha-mediated NF-kappaB activation and greatly sensitized MKN45 and HeLa cell lines to TNF-alpha. Moreover, in vivo tumor growth of MKN45 cells was inhibited most strongly by a combination of TNF-alpha with sulindac compared with TNF-alpha or sulindac alone.
The current study data strongly suggest that combination therapy of TNF-alpha with sulindac may sensitize tumor cells to TNF-alpha and augment its proapoptotic potential. Therefore, in combination with sulindac, TNF-alpha may become a potentially useful anticancer agent to suppress tumor growth in a wide range of carcinomas.
Evidence for the role of androgens in the male aggressive and sexual behavior is reviewed. Medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA; Provera, Upjohn) has a marked antiandrogen property; it is effective in lowering the testosterone level and controlling certain otherwise intractable sex deviations. The finding in 6 patients treated for sex deviation are summarized. The effects of MPA in the treatment of 11 temporal lobe epileptics and 5 other patients with severe angry-aggressive behavior disorder are reported. Most temporal lobe epileptics responded well to MPA. Weight gain and earlier sleep were consistent side effects. The values of plasma testosterone, serum luteinizing hormone, and urinary 17-ketosteroids were decreased by the treatment. Four patients were XYY individuals with lack of control over their sexual-aggressive or angry-aggressive impulses.
To investigate the effects of drugs known to elevate adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) on experimental amyloidosis.
A beta 2-agonist, terbutaline, and a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, aminophylline, were administered in combination in a mouse model of amyloidosis induced by inflammatory stimulation with silver nitrate. Amyloidosis was quantitated by radioimmunoassay for splenic amyloid A (AA) protein.
At the doses selected, aminophylline/terbutaline inhibited splenic amyloid deposition more potently than did colchicine, a known inhibitor of amyloidosis.
Drugs known to elevate cAMP inhibit experimental mouse AA amyloidosis.
Hypertension alters the diastolic properties of the left ventricle and results in deterioration in the structure and function of the left atrium. We aimed to evaluate whether olmesartan medoxomil has an effect on left atrial function in hypertensive patients.
Fifty hypertensive patients and 20 controls were included in the study. Hypertensive patients were treated with olmesartan medoxomil for 8 weeks. Before and after treatment, study participants were examined by acoustic quantification and tissue Doppler imaging. Left atrial reservoir function was assessed by end-diastolic volume (EDV), end-systolic volume (ESV), reservoir volume (RV) and peak filling rate (PFR). Left atrial booster pump function was assessed by atrial emptying volume (AEV), atrial emptying fraction (AEF) and peak atrial emptying rate (PAER). Left atrial conduit function was assessed by rapid emptying volume (REV), rapid emptying fraction (REF), REV/AEV ratio, and the ratio of peak rapid emptying rate and PAER (PRER/PAER).
Atrial RV and PFR were significantly increased in hypertensive subjects (48.30 +/- 19.28 mL vs 34.35 +/- 14.26 mL, p < 0.001; 267.26 +/- 126.52 mL/s vs 206.81 +/- 107.17 mL/s, p < 0.05) compared with controls, while the REV/AEV ratio was decreased in hypertensive patients compared with controls (2.86 +/- 0.85 vs 3.69 +/- 2.13, p < 0.001). After therapy with olmesartan medoxomil, atrial RV (48.30 +/- 19.28 mL vs 40.50 +/- 17.59 mL) and PFR decreased (267.26 +/- 126.52 mL/s vs 220.40 +/- 108.56 mL/s, p < 0.05) and the REV/AEV ratio increased (2.86 +/- 0.85 vs 3.14 +/- 0.43, p < 0.05) in hypertensive patients.
Our novel findings indicate that left atrial function is impaired in hypertensive patients, and that olmesartan medoxomil can improve left atrial function in this context. Our study also showed that acoustic quantification is useful for non-invasive evaluation of the benefits of treatment on left atrial function.
This report gives the findings after two years of a study of long-term oral cytotoxic chemotherapy with busulphan or cyclophoshamide in carcinoma of the bronchus compared with two placebos, identical in appearance to the drug-containing tablets. A total of 753 patients who had had a total resection of the tumour, who had no detectable extrathoracic metastasis, and who were able to attend chest clinics monthly were admitted to the study from January 1965 to January 1968. Twenty-seven patients were excluded from all the analyses.The 217 patients admitted up to December 1965 form the "early" intake, the remaining 509 the "late" intake. There were no significant differences between the series in either intake period in a number of pretreatment factors studied. At 24 months 46% of the busulphan, 44% of the cyclophosphamide, and 49% of the placebo series were alive in the early intake, as were 49%, 50%, and 50% respectively in the late intake. There were no important differences between the series in survival related to pretreatment condition, cause of death, time of detection of metastases, and condition of the survivors at 24 months. Maintenance chemotherapy was interrupted to a greater extent in the busulphan than in the cyclophosphamide series and least in the placebo series.In both intakes clinical toxicity was more frequent in the cyclophosphamide series and similar in frequency in the busulphan and placebo series. Haematological toxicity was particularly frequent and severe in the busulphan series, especially in the early intake, platelet depression being the predominant manifestation.It is concluded that there is no evidence that either of the two cytotoxic drugs in the dosage prescribed improved survival for the two-year period of observation, though a final evaluation of the adjuvant chemotherapy as studied in this investigation will have to await the results at five years.
Bifunctional alkylating agent sulfur mustard (SM) and its analog nitrogen mustard (NM) cause DNA damage leading to cell death, and potentially activating inflammation. Transcription factor p53 plays a critical role in DNA damage by regulating cell cycle progression and apoptosis. Earlier studies by our laboratory demonstrated phosphorylation of p53 at Ser15 and an increase in total p53 in epidermal cells both in vitro and in vivo following NM exposure. To elucidate the role of p53 in NM-induced skin toxicity, we employed SKH-1 hairless mice harboring wild type (WT) or heterozygous p53 (p53+/-). Exposure to NM (3.2mg) caused a more profound increase in epidermal thickness and apoptotic cell death in WT relative to p53+/- mice at 24h. However, by 72h after exposure, there was a comparable increase in NM-induced epidermal cell death in both WT and p53+/- mice. Myeloperoxidase activity data showed that neutrophil infiltration was strongly enhanced in NM-exposed WT mice at 24h persisting through 72h of exposure. Conversely, robust NM-induced neutrophil infiltration (comparable to WT mice) was seen only at 72h after exposure in p53+/- mice. Similarly, NM-exposure strongly induced macrophage and mast cell infiltration in WT, but not p53+/- mice. Together, these data indicate that early apoptosis and inflammation induced by NM in mouse skin are p53-dependent. Thus, targeting this pathway could be a novel strategy for developing countermeasures against vesicants-induced skin injury.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is a nuclear-encoded antioxidant enzyme that localizes to the mitochondria. Expression of MnSOD is essential for the survival of aerobic life. Transgenic mice expressing a luciferase reporter gene under the control of the human MnSOD promoter demonstrate that the level of MnSOD is reduced prior to the formation of cancer. Overexpression of MnSOD in transgenic mice reduces the incidences and multiplicity of papillomas in a DMBA/TPA skin carcinogenesis model. However, MnSOD deficiency does not lead to enhanced tumorigenicity of skin tissue similarly treated because MnSOD can modulate both the p53-mediated apoptosis and AP-1-mediated cell proliferation pathways. Apoptosis is associated with an increase in mitochondrial levels of p53 suggesting a link between MnSOD deficiency and mitochondrial-mediated apoptosis. Activation of p53 is preventable by application of a SOD mimetic (MnTE-2-PyP(5+)). Thus, p53 translocation to mitochondria and subsequent inactivation of MnSOD explain the observed mitochondrial dysfunction that leads to transcription-dependent mechanisms of p53-induced apoptosis. Administration of MnTE-2-PyP(5+) following apoptosis but prior to proliferation leads to suppression of protein carbonyls and reduces the activity of AP-1 and the level of the proliferating cellular nuclear antigen, without reducing the activity of p53 or DNA fragmentation following TPA treatment. Remarkably, the incidence and multiplicity of skin tumors are drastically reduced in mice that receive MnTE-2-PyP(5+) prior to cell proliferation. The results demonstrate the role of MnSOD beyond its essential role for survival and suggest a novel strategy for an antioxidant approach to cancer intervention.
In three models of cardiac hypertrophy the significance of catecholamines and the adenylate cyclase-cyclic AMP-system was examined. Two approaches were utilized: 1. The time course of cyclic AMP alterations was correlated with the changes in adenine nucleotide and protein biosynthesis. 2. The effect of beta-receptor blockade on the obligatory increase in adenine nucleotide and protein synthesis was evaluated. In isoproterenol-elicited cardiac hypertrophy, the elevation of the cyclic AMP content was one of the earliest metabolic alterations preceding the enhancement of the biosynthesis of adenine nucleotides and proteins. beta-Receptor blockade with propranolol abolished the increase in adenine nucleotide synthesis. In pressure-induced cardiac hypertrophy due to constriction of the abdominal aorta, catecholamines and the adenylate cyclase-cyclic AMP-system were found not to play a significant role. In triiodothyronine-elicited hypertrophy, the cyclic AMP level was increased very early, but beta-receptor blockade did not prevent hypertrophy nor the enhancement of cardiac adenine nucleotide biosynthesis, although the positive chronotropic and inotropic effects of triiodothyronine were abolished. This result can best be interpreted to indicate a direct effect of triiodothyronine on myocardial carbohydrate metabolism including the pentose phosphate pathway.
Kidneys are the second most frequent site for chemically induced cancers in rats. However, there is still limited information on direct effects of carcinogens on pathways involved in the development of kidney tumors. Since transformed tumor cells have different characteristics than their cell of origin, it was hypothesized that healthy tissue and progressing stages of preneoplastic lesions are differentially influenced by chemical carcinogens. To elucidate this question, TSC2(-/-) Eker rats were gavaged with genotoxic aristolochic acid or nongenotoxic ochratoxin A for 3 and 6 months, respectively. Histopathology and cell proliferation analysis demonstrated a compound- and sex-specific onset of preneoplastic lesions. In contrast, comparable gene expression profiles of laser-microdissected preneoplastic lesions from carcinogen-treated and control rats, including reduced expression of genes involved in carcinogen uptake and metabolism, point to a compound-independent lesion progression. Gene expression profiles and additional immunostaining suggested that clonal expansion of renal lesions appears primarily driven by disturbed mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 and mammalian target of rapamycin complex 2 pathway regulation. Finally, prolonged carcinogen exposure resulted in only marginal gene expression changes in tubules with normal morphology, indicating that some tubules may have adapted to the treatment. Taken together, these findings indicate that the final outcome of in vivo carcinogenicity studies is primarily determined by time-restricted initial events, while lesion progression may be a compound-independent process, involving deregulated mTOR signaling in the Eker rat model.
