The major constituents of isoflavones, daidzein (DZ) and genistein (GE) are known to interact with the alpha and beta estrogen receptors (ERalpha/beta) in several tissues including mammary. In this study, we used ovariectomy (OVX) to model menopause and determined the effects of DZ, GE or 17beta-estradiol (E2) exposures on chemically induced mutagenesis and carcinogenesis in the mammary glands of female Big Blue (BB) transgenic rats. The rats were fed control diet containing the isoflavones and E2 and treated with a single oral dose of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) at PND 50. Animals were sacrificed at 16 or 20 weeks post-carcinogen treatment to assess mutant frequencies (MFs) and histopathological parameters, respectively. The isoflavones or E2 supplementation alone resulted in modest increases in the lacI MF that were not significantly different from the MFs measured in rats fed the control diet alone. DMBA exposure, however, induced significant increases in the lacI MFs in the mammary of both OVX and ovary intact (INT) rats and Hprt MFs in spleen lymphocytes (P<or=0.01). In general, feeding the isoflavones or E2 separately did not cause any significant changes in DMBA-induced mutagenicity in the mammary. However, feeding the isoflavone mixture (DZG) resulted in a significant reduction in the DMBA-induced lacI MFs (P<or=0.05). Cell proliferation as measured by PCNA immunohistochemistry was increased in both OVX and INT rats exposed to DMBA as compared with rats fed control diet (P<or=0.05). Mammary histology indicated that hyperplasia was induced in most of the treatment groups including control. Although DMBA treatment did not induce mammary tumors in the OVX rats, adenoma and adenocarcinoma were detected in the mammary glands of INT rats.
Pallidotomy has been reported to improve parkinsonian symptoms, but its effects on levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) have not been thoroughly examined. We describe here the results of stereotactic, unilateral, posteroventral pallidotomy on LID in 42 patients (22 women), who were followed for up to 9 months. Their mean age was 60. 6+/-9.3 (range: 40-74), age at onset was 46.1+/-9.1 (range: 24-46), and duration of symptoms was 14.5+/-5.3 (range: 4-25) years. Three months following pallidotomy, the percent time with dyskinesia decreased from 37.0 to 17.3 (P<0.0001) and the percent time the patients were 'on' with dyskinesias decreased even more, from 71.0 to 22.9 (P<0.0001). Furthermore, the number of patients with troublesome (moderate to violent) dyskinesia had decreased from 36 (86%) prior to surgery to only 5 (12%) after surgery. The mean unified Parkinson disease rating scale (UPDRS) scores for LID-related disability and pain decreased from 1.95 to 0.74 (P<0. 0001) and from 1.02 to 0.17 (P<0.0001), respectively. Since the pre- and post-pallidotomy daily levodopa dosage remained essentially the same, the improvement in LID could not be attributed to a reduction in levodopa. Surgery-related complications occurred in eight (19%) patients, but none of them had persistent disability as a result of these complications. We conclude that pallidotomy is an effective and safe procedure in the treatment of medically intractable LID.
Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) has a central role in coordinating the expression of a wide variety of genes that control cerebral ischemia. Although there has been intense research on NF-kappaB, its mechanisms in the ischemic brain have not been clearly elucidated. We investigated the temporal profile of NF-kappaB-related genes using a complementary DNA array method in wild-type mice and human copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase transgenic (SOD 1 Tg) mice that had low-level reactive oxygen species (ROS) by scavenging superoxide. Our DNA array showed that IkappaB kinase (IKK) complex (IKKalpha, beta, and gamma) mRNA in the wild-type mice was decreased as early as 1 h after reperfusion, after 30 mins of transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI). In contrast, tFCI in the SOD1 Tg mice caused an increase in the IKK complex. The IKK complex protein levels were also drastically decreased at 1 h in the wild-type mice, but did not change in the SOD 1 Tg mice throughout the 7 days. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed activation of NF-kappaB DNA binding after tFCI in the wild-type mice. Nuclear factor-kappaB activation occurred at the same time, as did the phosphorylation and degradation of the inhibitory protein IkappaBalpha. However, SOD 1 prevented NF-kappaB activation, and phosphorylation and degradation of IkappaBalpha after tFCI. Superoxide production and ubiquitinated protein in the SOD 1 Tg mice were also lower than in the wild-type mice after tFCI. These results suggest that ROS are implicated in transient downregulation of IKKalpha, beta, and gamma in cerebral ischemia.
The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p16INK4a can induce senescence of human cells, and its loss by deletion, mutation or epigenetic silencing is among the most frequently observed molecular lesions in human cancer. Overlapping reading frames in the INK4A/ARF gene encode p16INK4a and a distinct tumour-suppressor protein, p19ARF (ref. 3). Here we describe the generation and characterization of a p16Ink4a-specific knockout mouse that retains normal p19Arf function. Mice lacking p16Ink4a were born with the expected mendelian distribution and exhibited normal development except for thymic hyperplasia. T cells deficient in p16Ink4a exhibited enhanced mitogenic responsiveness, consistent with the established role of p16Ink4a in constraining cellular proliferation. In contrast to mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs) deficient in p19Arf (ref. 4), p16Ink4a-null MEFs possessed normal growth characteristics and remained susceptible to Ras-induced senescence. Compared with wild-type MEFs, p16Ink4a-null MEFs exhibited an increased rate of immortalization, although this rate was less than that observed previously for cells null for Ink4a/Arf, p19Arf or p53 (refs 4, 5). Furthermore, p16Ink4a deficiency was associated with an increased incidence of spontaneous and carcinogen-induced cancers. These data establish that p16Ink4a, along with p19Arf, functions as a tumour suppressor in mice.
Membranous glomerulonephritis (MGN) remains the most common cause of adult-onset nephrotic syndrome in the world and up to 40% of untreated patients will progress to end-stage renal disease. Although the treatment of MGN with immunosuppressants or steroid hormones can attenuate the deterioration of renal function, numerous treatment-related complications have also been established. In this study, the ameliorative effects of arctiin, a natural compound isolated from the fruits of Arctium lappa, on rat glomerulonephritis induced by cationic bovine serum albumin (cBSA) were determined. After oral administration of arctiin (30, 60, 120 mg/kgd) for three weeks, the levels of serum creatinine (Scr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and 24-h urine protein content markedly decreased, while endogenous creatinine clearance rate (ECcr) significantly increased. The parameters of renal lesion, hypercellularity, infiltration of polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN), fibrinoid necrosis, focal and segmental proliferation and interstitial infiltration, were reversed. In addition, we observed that arctiin evidently reduced the levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and pro-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha), suppressed nuclear factor-kappaB p65 (NF-kappaB) DNA binding activity, and enhanced superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity. These findings suggest that the ameliorative effects of arctiin on glomerulonephritis is carried out mainly by suppression of NF-kappaB activation and nuclear translocation and the decreases in the levels of these pro-inflammatory cytokines, while SOD is involved in the inhibitory pathway of NF-kappaB activation. Arctiin has favorable potency for the development of an inhibitory agent of NF-kappaB and further application to clinical treatment of glomerulonephritis, though clinical studies are required.
Proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines are quickly upregulated in response to ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury; however, the relationship between I/R-induced oxidative stress and cytokine/chemokine expression has not been elucidated. We investigated the temporal profile of cytokine and chemokine gene expression in transient focal cerebral ischemia using complementary DNA array technology. Among 96 genes studied, 10, 4, 11, and 5 genes were increased at 6, 12, 24, and 72 h of reperfusion, respectively, whereas, 4, 11, 8, and 21 genes, respectively, were decreased. To clarify the relationship between chemokines and oxidative stress, we compared the gene and protein expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha) in wild-type (WT) mice and copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (SOD 1) transgenic (Tg) mice. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and MIP-1 alpha mRNA were significantly upregulated at 6 to 12 h of reperfusion. In the SOD 1 Tg mice, however, MCP-1 and MIP-1 alpha mRNA expression was significantly decreased 12 h postinsult. In the WT mice, MCP-1 and MIP-1 alpha protein expression peaked 24 h after onset of reperfusion determined by immunohistochemistry. In the SOD 1 Tg mice, MCP-1 and MIP-1 alpha immunopositive cells were reduced, as were concentrations of these proteins (measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) at 24 h of reperfusion. Our results suggest that MCP-1 and MIP-1 alpha expression is influenced by I/R-induced oxidative stress after transient focal stroke.
Such organophosphorus (OP) compounds as diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP), sarin and soman are potent inhibitors of acetylcholinesterases (AChEs) and butyrylcholinesterases (BChEs). The acute toxicity of OPs is the result of their irreversible binding with AChEs in the central nervous system (CNS), which elevates acetylcholine (ACh) levels. The protective action of subcutaneously (SC) administered antidotes or their combinations in DFP (2.0 mg/kg BW) intoxication was studied in 9-10-weeks-old Han-Wistar male rats. The rats received AChE reactivator pralidoxime-2-chloride (2PAM) (30.0 mg/kg BW), anticonvulsant diazepam (2.0 mg/kg BW), A(1)-adenosine receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyl adenosine (CPA) (2.0 mg/kg BW), NMDA-receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (+-MK801 hydrogen maleate) (2.0 mg/kg BW) or their combinations with cholinolytic drug atropine sulfate (50.0 mg/kg BW) immediately or 30 min after the single SC injection of DFP. The control rats received atropine sulfate, but also saline and olive oil instead of other antidotes and DFP, respectively. All rats were terminated either 24 h or 3 weeks after the DFP injection. The rats treated with DFP-atropine showed severe typical OP-induced toxicity signs. When CPA, diazepam or 2PAM was given immediately after DFP-atropine, these treatments prevented, delayed or shortened the occurrence of serious signs of poisoning. Atropine-MK801 did not offer any additional protection against DFP toxicity. In conclusion, CPA, diazepam and 2PAM in combination with atropine prevented the occurrence of serious signs of poisoning and thus reduced the toxicity of DFP in rat.
Ifosfamide and mesna were administered to 77 patients with advanced malignancies. Seven (9%) experienced a severe but reversible encephalopathy. In 56% of patients in whom EEG data was available, characteristic changes were seen with or without mild clinical toxicity. Discriminant analysis identified low serum albumin concentration, high serum creatinine concentration and the presence of pelvic disease as variables which predispose patients to the development of severe encephalopathy. A nomogram has been constructed which can be used to determine the probability that an individual patient may be given ifosfamide and mesna safely. This has important implications for the clinical use of a highly active chemotherapy regimen.
In connection with operations on the lower extremities, in the perineum, for vascular surgery, for labour (cesarean section) and for abdominal surgery more than 800 patients were given lumbar epidural anesthesia with plain bupivacaine 0.5% and 100 patients with 0.75% bupivacaine without adrenaline. In one case we observed the dramatic complication of a cerebral convulsion following an epidural analgesia with bupivacaine 0.75% (total dose of 127.5 mg). The convulsion, which occurred to a female patient, can be attributed to possible intravascular injection in correlation with the high concentration of the local analgesic and its fast resorption. This specific complication was treated with 10 mg diazepam which was repeatedly injected intravascular in small doses. Moreover the patient was intubated for a short time and ventilated with pure oxygen in order to avoid a hypoxia of the brain.
Multiple self-healing squamous epithelioma (MSSE), also known as Ferguson-Smith disease (FSD), is an autosomal-dominant skin cancer condition characterized by multiple squamous-carcinoma-like locally invasive skin tumors that grow rapidly for a few weeks before spontaneously regressing, leaving scars. High-throughput genomic sequencing of a conservative estimate (24.2 Mb) of the disease locus on chromosome 9 using exon array capture identified independent mutations in TGFBR1 in three unrelated families. Subsequent dideoxy sequencing of TGFBR1 identified 11 distinct monoallelic mutations in 18 affected families, firmly establishing TGFBR1 as the causative gene. The nature of the sequence variants, which include mutations in the extracellular ligand-binding domain and a series of truncating mutations in the kinase domain, indicates a clear genotype-phenotype correlation between loss-of-function TGFBR1 mutations and MSSE. This distinguishes MSSE from the Marfan syndrome-related disorders in which missense mutations in TGFBR1 lead to developmental defects with vascular involvement but no reported predisposition to cancer.
To determine the effect of non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors, selective COX-2 inhibitors and nitric oxide (NO)-releasing aspirin in the healing of ulcerative colitis.
Rats with 2,4,6 trinitrobenzenesulfon-ic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis received intragastric (ig) treatment with vehicle, aspirin (ASA) (a non-selective COX inhibitor), celecoxib (a selective COX-2 inhibitor) or NO-releasing ASA for a period of ten days. The area of colonic lesions, colonic blood flow (CBF), myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and expression of proinflammatory markers COX-2, inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α were assessed. The effects of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN), a NO donor, and 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,5-dihydro-4,4,5,5-​tetramethyl-1H-imidazolyl-1-oxy-3-oxide, onopotassium salt (carboxy-PTIO), a NO scavenger, administered without and with ASA or NO-ASA, and the involvement of capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves in the mechanism of healing the experimental colitis was also determined.
Rats with colitis developed macroscopic and microscopic colonic lesions accompanied by a significant decrease in the CBF, a significant rise in colonic weight, MPO activity and plasma IL-1β and TNF-α levels. These effects were aggravated by ASA and 5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(4-methoxyphenyl)-3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-pyrazole (SC-560), but not celecoxib and counteracted by concurrent treatment with a synthetic prostaglandin E₂ (PGE₂) analog. Treatment with NO-ASA dose-dependently accelerated colonic healing followed by a rise in plasma NO(x) content and CBF, suppression of MPO and downregulation of COX-2, iNOS, IL-1β and TNF-α mRNAs. Treatment with GTN, the NO donor, significantly inhibited the ASA-induced colonic lesions and increased CBF, while carboxy-PTIO or capsaicin-denervation counteracted the NO-ASA-induced improvement of colonic healing and the accompanying increase in the CBF. These effects were restored by co-treatment with calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and NO-ASA in capsaicin-denervated animals.
NO-releasing ASA, in contrast to ASA, COX-1 inhibitors, and SC-560, accelerated the healing of colitis via a mechanism involving NO mediated improvement of microcirculation and activation of sensory nerves releasing CGRP.
The effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A antagonists (bicuculline, picrotoxin) on clonidine hypotension in spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats were examined. The GABA turnover changes after clonidine injection in both strains were also studied. Administration of clonidine alone induced the stronger decrease of systolic blood pressure (SBP) in SHR. Co-dosage of clonidine with these agents reduced its hypotensive effect in dose dependent manner and the effectiveness of both antagonists was higher in SHR. We find that clonidine stimulates GABA synthesis in the hypothalamus and the pons-medulla in both strains but the GABA turnover rate is significantly slower in SHR. Therefore, the differences in inhibitory action of GABAA receptor antagonists between WKY and SHR rats may be explained by central GABAergic system dysfunction in the hypertension. Our results indicate that the down regulation of the GABAergic system observed in hypertension may be compensated by the action of clonidine.
The incidence of acute liver failure or serious liver injury in diabetic patients is needed to evaluate the safety of hypoglycemic drug therapy.
We conducted a retrospective cohort study of 5 health maintenance organizations. Study patients were 171,264 health plan members 19 years or older when they received oral hypoglycemic drugs or insulin between April 1, 1997, and June 30, 1999. We searched for hospital discharge diagnoses and procedures potentially indicative of acute liver injury and reviewed the full-text medical records. Acute liver failure was defined as acute liver disease and (1) hepatic encephalopathy, (2) prothrombin time prolongation greater than 3 seconds or international normalized ratio greater than 1.5, and (3) a total bilirubin level greater than 3.0 mg/dL (>51 micro mol/L). Acute liver injury was diagnosed in individuals who did not meet 1 or more of the criteria for acute liver failure but had alanine transaminase or aspartate transaminase levels greater than 500 U/L.
We identified 35 cases of acute liver failure or injury not clearly attributable to a known cause other than use of hypoglycemic agents. The age- and sex-standardized incidence per 1000 person-years was 0.15 for insulin users, 0.08 for sulfonylurea users, 0.12 for metformin users, and 0.10 for troglitazone users. The incidence was higher (on the order of 0.3 per 1000) during the first 6 months of exposure to all hypoglycemic agents.
Acute liver failure or injury not clearly attributable to other known causes occurred on the order of 1 per 10,000 person-years among diabetic patients treated with oral hypoglycemic drugs or insulin.
Chronic exposures to inorganic arsenic (iAs) have been associated with increased incidence of noninsulin (type-2)-dependent diabetes mellitus. Although mechanisms by which iAs induces diabetes have not been identified, the clinical symptoms of the disease indicate that iAs or its metabolites interfere with insulin-stimulated signal transduction pathway or with critical steps in glucose metabolism. We have examined effects of iAs and methylated arsenicals that contain trivalent or pentavalent arsenic on glucose uptake by 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Treatment with inorganic and methylated pentavalent arsenicals (up to 1 mM) had little or no effect on either basal or insulin-stimulated glucose uptake. In contrast, trivalent arsenicals, arsenite (iAs(III)), methylarsine oxide (MAs(III)O), and iododimethylarsine (DMAs(III)O) inhibited insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in a concentration-dependent manner. Subtoxic concentrations of iAs(III) (20 microM), MAs(III)O (1 microM), or DMAs(III)I (2 microM) decreased insulin-stimulated glucose uptake by 35-45%. Basal glucose uptake was significantly inhibited only by cytotoxic concentrations of iAs(III) or MAs(III)O. Examination of the components of the insulin-stimulated signal transduction pathway showed that all trivalent arsenicals suppressed expression and possibly phosphorylation of protein kinase B (PKB/Akt). The concentration of an insulin-responsive glucose transporter (GLUT4) was significantly lower in the membrane region of 3T3-L1 adipocytes treated with trivalent arsenicals as compared with untreated cells. These results suggest that trivalent arsenicals inhibit insulin-stimulated glucose uptake by interfering with the PKB/Akt-dependent mobilization of GLUT4 transporters in adipocytes. This mechanism may be, in part, responsible for the development of type-2 diabetes in individuals chronically exposed to iAs.
In the present study, evoked otoacoustic emissions (EOAEs) were measured in 30 patients with tinnitus before and after intravenous lidocaine injection (1 mg/kg). For EOAE recordings, 1 kHz tone burst stimuli were used. Intravenous lidocaine injection resulted in suppression of tinnitus in 22 (73%) ears, and changes of EOAE amplitude (increase or decrease) in 18 (60%) ears. Of the 18 ears with EOAE amplitude changes, tinnitus disappeared or decreased in 17 (94%) ears. In 12 ears without changes of EOAE amplitude, tinnitus was suppressed in only 5 (42%). Changes in latency were not detected in any of the ears. These results indicate that there is a relationship between the effect of lidocaine in tinnitus suppression and changes in cochlear micromechanics caused by lidocaine.
We report the first case of acute kidney injury related to intravenous zoledronic acid (ZA)in a patient with multiple myeloma in Japan. A 37-year-old male was diagnosed as having multiple myeloma (MM) of the Bence Jones lambda type. He showed a good response to two courses of vincristine, adriamycin and dexamethasone (VAD) therapy, and remarkable reduction was seen in plasma cells in bone marrow from 38.4% to 6.8% and 24-hour urine protein from 18.5 g/dL to 2.8 g/dL. At that time, serum Cr(s-Cr) of 0.7 mg/dL and calcium of 9.3 mg/dL were in the normal range. ZA was administered intravenously at the dose of 4 mg for the first time. Subsequently, he developed a fever of up to 39.4 degrees C and used NSAIDs and cefepime. Four days later, s-Cr increasd rapidly to 7.3 mg/ dL and he received hemodialysis (HD) therapy. Four weeks later, renal biopsy was performed and demonstrated cast nephropathy (CN) and acute tubular necrosis. Seven months later, renal function had improved. ZA may be an identifiable precipitating factor of CN. We recommend that ZA should be used with caution, especially hypovolemia and NSAIDs, in patients with MM and renal insufficiency.
Acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) is an important cause of reversible acute kidney injury. At least 70% of AIN is caused by various drugs, mainly penicillins and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Quinolones are only rarely known to cause AIN and so far cases have been mainly described with older fluoroquinolones.
Here we describe a case of biopsy proven interstitial nephritis after moxifloxacin treatment. The patient presented with fever, rigors and dialysis dependent acute kidney injury, just a few days after treatment of a respiratory tract infection with moxifloxacin. The renal biopsy revealed dense infiltrates mainly composed of eosinophils and severe interstitial edema. A course of oral prednisolone (1 mg/kg/day) was commenced and rapidly tapered to zero within three weeks. The renal function improved, and the patient was discharged with a creatinine of 107 micromol/l.
This case illustrates that pharmacovigilance is important to early detect rare side effects, such as AIN, even in drugs with a favourable risk/benefit ratio such as moxifloxacin.
There is growing interest in the potential health benefits of tea, and a recent report described the potent antimutagenic activity of white tea in comparison with green tea against several heterocyclic amines, including 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) [Mutat. Res. 495 (2001) 61]. We compared the inhibitory effects of white and green teas with sulindac, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent, in two different mouse models of intestinal tumorigenesis. In the Apc(min) mouse, white and green teas given at human-relevant concentrations (1.5% w/v, 2-min brew), and sulindac (80 ppm in the drinking water), each suppressed polyp formation by approximately 50%, and the combination of white tea plus sulindac was more effective than either treatment alone (P=0.05). Mice expressing an N-terminally truncated, oncogenic version of beta-catenin (A 33(delta N beta-cat) mutant mice) developed colonic aberrant crypt foci (ACF) spontaneously, but PhIP treatment increased the incidence and number of ACF per colon. In the normal-looking intestinal mucosa of Apc(min) and A 33(delta N beta-cat) mice, white tea plus sulindac treatment markedly attenuated the expression of beta-catenin protein, and this was recapitulated in vitro in cells transiently transfected with beta-catenin plus Tcf-4 and treated with tea or the major tea polyphenol epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG). Expression of a beta-catenin/Tcf reporter was inhibited by EGCG in the transfected cells, and the beta-catenin/Tcf target genes cyclin D1 and c-jun were downregulated in vivo by tea plus sulindac treatment. Collectively, the data support a chemopreventive role for tea and sulindac against intermediate and late stages of colon cancer, via effects on the beta-catenin/Tcf signaling pathway.
Post-marketing surveillance in general practice represents an important part of the monitoring of adverse events associated with newly introduced drugs. Such a study of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril maleate has been undertaken in 11 710 patients with essential hypertension. Serious adverse events occurred in 1.7% of patients, though most of these were not thought to be related to the treatment. The incidence rates of death (0.09%), stroke (0.11%) and myocardial infarction (0.15%) were compatible with rates predicted from age, sex and blood pressure considerations. Other events reported were hypotension (0.3%), angioneurotic oedema (0.03%), rash (0.5%), taste disturbance (0.2%) and cough (1.0%). The degree of blood pressure reduction attained was similar to that previously reported from pre-marketing development studies, as was the overall nature and frequency of both serious and non-serious adverse events. The most frequently reported event during enalapril therapy was of an improvement in well-being (19.8%).
c-Src is a non-receptor tyrosine kinase which plays a significant role in the growth mediated signaling pathway impacting cellular proliferation, differentiation, mobility, survival and transformation. Myristoylation of pp60(c-src) leads to its membrane association and activation, a process catalyzed by N-myristoyltransferase (NMT). We have shown earlier increased NMT activity in the early stages of colon cancer. A novel sulfur nitrogen donor ligand and its Cu(II) and Mn(III) complexes have been prepared and characterized using various physicochemical analyses. These Cu(II) and Mn(III) complexes showed cytotoxicity against the colon cancer cell line HT29. The IC(50) for Cu(II) and Mn(III) complexes were 12.2 and 16.1 microM, respectively. HT29 cells treated with Cu(II) and Mn(III) complexes induced apoptosis and inhibited endogenous NMT activity. Furthermore, they induced higher levels of hsc70 and inhibited the expression of c-Src. Inhibition of endogenous NMT activity by metal complexes was demonstrated for the first time. This study also suggested that NMT activity is crucial for cell survival and demonstrated that cessation in activity results in apoptosis. These metal complexes may prove to be novel therapeutic agents for cancer targeting NMT.
The withdrawal of humans from high doses of psychostimulant drugs can result in a transient syndrome which appears isomorphic to endogenous depression. One of the more prominent symptoms is a loss of hedonic capacity; in animals, the anhedonia associated with amphetamine withdrawal has been measured objectively by decrements in responding for intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS).
To date, the effects of amphetamine withdrawal on ICSS responding have been reversed by different antidepressant drugs. In the present study, we sought to reverse withdrawal-induced anhedonia by administration of repeated electroconvulsive shocks (ECS).
Rats with electrodes in the lateral hypothalamus were trained on an ascending-series current intensity ICSS paradigm until stable levels of responding were attained. Half of the animals were then administered a 4-day escalating dose schedule of d-amphetamine, and tests for ICSS responding started 12 h after the final injection. During withdrawal, all animals received daily treatment with either ECS or sham-ECS.
Amphetamine withdrawal was associated with reduced ICSS responding; animals treated with ECS exhibited a facilitated recovery compared to sham-ECS treated animals, and returned to control levels of ICSS responding 24 h earlier.
ECS was able to mitigate the anhedonic effects of d-amphetamine withdrawal, and provides additional support for the use of psychostimulant withdrawal as a model of depression.
Pompe's disease is an autosomal recessive and often fatal condition, caused by mutations in the acid alpha-glucosidase gene, leading to lysosomal glycogen storage in heart and skeletal muscle. We investigated the cardiac phenotype of an acid alpha-glucosidase knockout (KO) mouse model. Left ventricular weight-to-body weight ratios were increased 6.3 +/- 0.8 mg/g in seven KO compared with 3.2 +/- 0.2 mg/g in eight wild-type (WT) mice (P < 0.05). Echocardiography under ketamine-xylazine anesthesia revealed an increased left ventricular (LV) wall thickness (2.17 +/- 0.16 in KO vs. 1.18 +/- 0.10 mm in WT mice, P < 0.05) and a decreased LV lumen diameter (2.50 +/- 0.32 in KO vs. 3.21 +/- 0.14 mm in WT mice, P < 0.05), but LV diameter shortening was not different between KO and WT mice. The maximum rate of rise of left ventricular pressure (LV dP/dt(max)) was lower in KO than in WT mice under basal conditions (2,720 +/- 580 vs. 4,440 +/- 440 mmHg/s) and during dobutamine infusion (6,220 +/- 800 vs. 8,730 +/- 790 mmHg/s, both P < 0.05). Similarly, during isoflurane anesthesia LV dP/dt(max) was lower in KO than in WT mice under basal conditions (5,400 +/- 670 vs. 8,250 +/- 710 mmHg/s) and during norepinephrine infusion (10,010 +/- 1,320 vs. 14,710 +/- 220 mmHg/s, both P < 0.05). In conclusion, the markedly increased LV weight and wall thickness, the encroachment of the LV lumen, and LV dysfunction reflect cardiac abnormalities, although not as overt as in humans, of human infantile Pompe's disease and make these mice a suitable model for further investigation of pathophysiology and of novel therapies of Pompe's disease.
Dichloroacetic acid (DCA) and trichloroacetic acid (TCA) are mouse liver carcinogens. DNA hypomethylation is a common molecular event in cancer that is induced by DCA and TCA. Hypomethylation of DNA and the insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II) gene was determined in DCA- and TCA-promoted liver tumors. Mouse liver tumors were initiated by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea and promoted by either DCA or TCA. By dot-blot analysis using an antibody for 5-methylcytosine, the DNA in DCA- and TCA-promoted tumors was demonstrated to be hypomethylated. The methylation status of 28 CpG sites in the differentially methylated region-2 (DMR-2) of mouse IGF-II gene was determined. In liver, 79.3 +/- 1.7% of the sites were methylated, while in DCA- and TCA-treated mice, only 46.4 +/- 2.1% and 58.0 +/- 1.7% of them were methylated and 8.7 +/- 2.6% and 10.7 +/- 7.4% were methylated in tumors. The decreased methylation found in liver from mice exposed to DCA or TCA occurred only in the upstream region of DMR-2, while in tumors it occurred throughout the probed region. mRNA expression of the IGF-II gene was increased in DCA- and TCA-promoted liver tumors but not in non-involved liver from DCA- and TCA-exposed mice. The results support the hypothesis that DNA hypomethylation is involved in the mechanism for the tumorigenicity of DCA and TCA.
