Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) ameliorates liver fibrosis/cirrhosis in animal models, while the participation of bone marrow-derived cells (BMC) in the repair process of injured organs has recently been reported. In this study we investigated the roles of HGF and BMC in a remodeling process of liver fibrosis.
C57BL/6 J mice were treated with carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) for 10 weeks. At week six, the mice underwent whole body irradiation and transplantation with bone marrow cells from syngenic LacZ-transgenic mice. After the transplantation, gene transfer of HGF into skeletal muscles was performed once a week for four weeks. In the control group, sterile saline was injected.
HGF gene transfer ameliorated the CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis, accelerating recruitment of LacZ-expressing cells into the liver. This phenomenon was accompanied byincreased gelatinase activity in the liver. A large number of the LacZ-positive cells expressed markers of vascular endothelial cells, while some of them had a marker of macrophages. Expression of stromal cell-derived factor (SDF)-1 in the liver was upregulated around the central veins, especially in the HGF gene-transferred animals, recruiting chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor (CXCR) 4-positive cells in this area.
Transplanted BMC participate in the HGF-induced remodeling process of liver fibrosis. The roles of HGF in this process include the recruitment of BMC, possibly through increased expression of SDF-1 in part, as well as anti-apoptotic, mitogenic and antifibrotic activities on liver cells.
The cardiovascular effects of GABA-analogous-baclofen (10(-5) M) have been investigated in the experiments on isolated myocardium and vessels of the rats. The spontaneous contraction of vena porta segments and contraction of papillary muscle and arterial rings segments induced by electrostimulation were registered. Baclofen induced the growth of arterial tonus, decreased the amplitude of phase contraction as well as resulted in positive inotropic effects in myocardium and vena porta. The obsidan did not influence the baclofen effects, but alpha-adrenolytic dihydroergotoxine inhibited the inotropic effects of the drug. It is supposed that hypertensive baclofen effect which is observed during system injection may be caused not only by central, but also by peripheral regulation of calcium change in the myocytes. The latter (possible) kind of regulation may consist in the drug binding with adrenoreceptor and/or direct influence on the calcium transport across sarcolemma.
Kidney disease is a frequent consequence of heavy metal exposure and renal anemia occurs secondarily to the progression of kidney deterioration into chronic disease. In contrast, little is known about effects on kidney of chronic exposure to low levels of depleted uranium (DU). Study was performed with rats exposed to DU at 40 mg/l by chronic ingestion during 9 months. In the present work, a approximately 20% reduction in red blood cell (RBC) count was observed after DU exposure. Hence, three hypotheses were tested to determinate origin of RBC loss: (1) reduced erythropoiesis, (2) increased RBC degradation, and/or (3) kidney dysfunction. Erythropoiesis was not reduced after exposure to DU as revealed by erythroid progenitors, blood Flt3 ligand and erythropoietin (EPO) blood and kidney levels. Concerning messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of spleen iron recycling markers from RBC degradation (DMT1 [divalent metal transporter 1], iron regulated protein 1, HO1, HO2 [heme oxygenase 1 and 2], cluster of differentiation 36), increase in HO2 and DMT1 mRNA level was induced after chronic exposure to DU. Kidneys of DU-contaminated rats had more frequently high grade tubulo-interstitial and glomerular lesions, accumulated iron more frequently and presented more apoptotic cells. In addition, chronic exposure to DU induced increased gene expression of ceruloplasmin (x12), of DMT1 (x2.5), and decreased mRNA levels of erythropoietin receptor (x0.2). Increased mRNA level of DMT1 was associated to decreased protein level (x0.25). To conclude, a chronic ingestion of DU leads mainly to kidney deterioration that is probably responsible for RBC count decrease in rats. Spleen erythropoiesis and molecules involved in erythrocyte degradation were also modified by chronic DU exposure.
This phase I trial was designed to (1) establish the dose of O6-benzylguanine (O6-BG) administered intravenously as a continuous infusion that suppresses O6-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT) levels in brain tumors, (2) evaluate the safety of extending continuous-infusion O6-BG at the optimal dose with intracranially implanted carmustine wafers, and (3) measure the pharmacokinetics of O6-BG and its metabolite.
The first patient cohort (group A) received 120 mg/m2 of O6-BG over 1 hour followed by a continuous infusion for 2 days at escalating doses presurgery. Tumor samples were evaluated for AGT levels. The continuous-infusion dose that resulted in undetectable AGT levels in 11 or more of 14 patients was used in the second patient cohort. Group B received the optimal dose of O6-BG for 2, 4, 7, or 14 days after surgical implantation of the carmustine wafers. The study end point was dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).
Thirty-eight patients were accrued. In group A, 12 of 13 patients had AGT activity levels of less than 10 fmol/mg protein with a continuous-infusion O6-BG dose of 30 mg/m2/d. Group B patients were enrolled onto 2-, 4-, 7-, and 14-day continuous-infusion cohorts. One DLT of grade 3 elevation in ALT was seen. Other non-DLTs included ataxia and headache. For up to 14 days, steady-state levels of O6-BG were 0.1 to 0.4 micromol/L, and levels for O6-benzyl-8-oxoguanine were 0.7 to 1.3 micromol/L.
Systemically administered O6-BG can be coadministered with intracranially implanted carmustine wafers, without added toxicity. Future trials are required to determine if the inhibition of tumor AGT levels results in increased efficacy.
Exonic and intronic mutations in Tau cause familial neurodegenerative syndromes characterized by frontotemporal dementia and dysfunction of multiple cortical and subcortical circuits. Here we describe a G389R mutation in exon 13 of Tau. When 38 years old, the proband presented with progressive aphasia and memory disturbance, followed by apathy, indifference, and hyperphagia. Repeated magnetic resonance imaging showed the dramatic progression of cerebral atrophy. Positron emission tomography revealed marked glucose hypometabolism that was most severe in left frontal, temporal, and parietal cortical regions. Rigidity, pyramidal signs and profound dementia progressed until death at 43 years of age. A paternal uncle, who had died at 43 years of age, had presented with similar symptoms. The proband's brain showed numerous tau-immunoreactive Pick body-like inclusions in the neocortex and the fascia dentata of the hippocampus. In addition, large numbers of tau-positive filamentous inclusions were present in axons in the frontal, temporal, and parietal lobes. Immunoblot analysis of sarkosyl-insoluble tau showed 2 major bands of 60 and 64 kDa. Upon dephosphorylation, these bands resolved into 4 bands consisting of three- and four-repeat tau isoforms. Most isolated tau filaments were straight and resembled filaments found in Alzheimer disease and some frontotemporal dementias with tau mutations. A smaller number of twisted filaments was also observed. Biochemically, recombinant tau proteins with the G389R mutation showed a reduced ability to promote microtubule assembly, suggesting that this may be the primary effect of the mutation. Taken together, the present findings indicate that the G389R mutation in Tau can cause a dementing condition that closely resembles Pick's disease.
Protein kinase C (PKC) isotypes have emerged as key targets for the blockade of early T-cell activation. Herein, we report on the structure-activity relationship and the detailed physicochemical and in vivo pharmacokinetic properties of sotrastaurin (AEB071, 1), a novel maleimide-based PKC inhibitor currently in phase II clinical trials. Most notably, the preferred uptake of sotrastaurin into lymphoid tissues is an important feature, which is likely to contribute to its in vivo efficacy.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death in western countries and among the malignancies with the worst prognosis. Osteonectin and osteopontin, two proteins of the extracellular matrix, have been found to be upregulated in PDAC. In the present study the expression of osteopontin mRNA as determined in a panel of 14 human pancreatic cancer cell lines was significantly related to the growth of these cell lines in the liver of nude rats (p = 0.001); whereas osteonectin showed a trend of being negatively related to pancreatic cancer cell growth in vivo (p = 0.10). In an in vitro co-culture model of human Suit2-007 and rat AsML PDAC cells with rat hepatocytes, a clearly increased expression of OPN mRNA was found in the tumor cells. In addition, both downregulation of osteopontin with specific antisense oligonucleotides and treatment with exogenous rh-osteonectin were associated with reduced cell proliferation. In accordance with the latter finding downregulation of osteonectin was coupled with increased proliferation. This evidence supports a protumorigenic role of osteopontin and points to an antitumorigenic role of osteonectin in PDAC.
A 65-year-old female with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) developed takotsubo cardiomyopathy induced by dobutamine infusion for vasospasm 9 days after onset of SAH. She underwent neck clipping of the ruptured cerebral aneurysm on day 1. Course after surgery was uneventful, but she developed motor aphasia on day 9. Hypertensive therapy was carried out under the diagnosis of symptomatic vasospasm. Half an hour after initiation of dobutamine infusion at 6 microg/kg/min, sudden symptoms of takotsubo cardiomyopathy developed. Fortunately, her symptoms recovered in a few days with supportive therapy without any consequences. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy is one pattern of cardiac dysfunction occasionally encountered after SAH. Possible mechanisms of this disorder include epicardial catecholamine cardiotoxicity. Therefore, generally, cardiac function is worst at the early stage of SAH, when sympathetic activity is highest, and recovers thereafter. Dobutamine infusion seems to have triggered the takotsubo cardiomyopathy in the present patient even 9 days after onset of SAH. Inotropic agents including dobutamine are often used during the course of SAH, and since takotsubo cardiomyopathy can occur in patients with SAH, this complication must be considered.
Two patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage recovered consciousness after intrathecal baclofen administration using an implanted intrathecal baclofen pump delivering 50 microg per day using a simple infusion mode. Intrathecal baclofen resulted in significant reduction of spasticity 3 months after the implantation. Case 1 was reduced to a completely bedridden state with spasticity and could slightly move her fingers following commands. However, the patient could eat food and wash her face with minimal assistance at 3 months after the implantation, and could stand up in the parallel bars with assistance and speak several words at 8 months. Case 2 was in a completely bedridden state at 10 months after onset and could neither drink water nor follow instructions. However, the patient became oriented and could eat by herself within 3 to 4 weeks of implantation. She could walk with a cane and use the stairs with minimal assistance at 2 and 3 months after implantation. The patient could speak fluently within 6 months of implantation. Flatulence and dysuria happened during the screening test, but these symptoms were not repeated after implantation of a pump-catheter-system and continuous intrathecal baclofen infusion. Continuous intrathecal baclofen infusion caused both improvement in muscle tone and spasms and consciousness recovery from the vegetative state. This therapy is a strong candidate treatment for patients with spasticity and consciousness disturbance.
Steroid injections into joints are frequently used to control symptomatic pain. Risks associated with intra-articular steroid injections are not well documented.
We report the case of a 29-year-old woman who was referred to a dental surgeon because of a suspected relationship between persisting chronic back pain and an arthrosis of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ).
The dental surgeon diagnosed capsulitis of the right TMJ and injected 40 mg triamcinolone into the joint. Within 4 months the patient developed progressive pain and trismus of the right TMJ and the intra-articular injection was repeated. An occlusal splint slightly improved the patients' symptoms but induced crepitus. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a disk dislocation in the right TMJ and severe necrosis of the condyle. The patient had persisting pain and ankylosis. Surgical restoration of the TMJ revealed a bony apposition in the fossa deformed with the socket of the joint, extensive medial erosion of the condyle and complete destruction of the disk.
This case report supports earlier observations that intra-articular glucocorticoid injections, if used in a wrong way, may cause severe destruction of a joint.
Disabling presyncopal attacks were provoked in a patient with a sinus nodal disorder and cardiac pacemaker by treatment with antianginal vasodilators. At cardiac catheterization a severe fall in aortic pressure was documented during ventricular pacing, when desynchronized atrial contractions coincided with ventricular systoles. After withdrawal of the medication, no obvious changes in arterial pressure were associated with ventricular pacing, and the patient became free of dizziness. Vasodilating drugs may provoke episodic hypotension with characteristic features of the pacemaker syndrome.
To study the relationship between lithocholic acid and intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP), the ATPase activity of erythrocytic membrane and intraerythrocytic ionic levels were determined in 24 non-pregnant women, 38 normal pregnant women and 34 gravida with ICP. The activities of Na(+)-K+ ATPase, Ca++ ATPase and Mg++ ATPase of the membrane were found significantly lower in ICP group than in the controls. Intraerythrocytic Na+ and Ca++ levels were higher and Mg++ was significantly lower in ICP group than in the controls, and K+ showed no difference among the three groups. A negative correlation existed between lithocholic acid level and the activity of ATPase (Na(+)-K+, Ca++). The conclusion is that the high levels of lithocholic acid affected the morphology and function of the red blood cells.
Serial electrocardiograms, phonocardiograms and echocardiograms were recorded in a prospective study of 45 closely-followed patients receiving chemotherapy with Adriamycin (doxorubicin hydrochloride, Adria Labs.). QRS voltage, systolic time intervals (STI), echocardiographic ejection fraction (EF) and rate of ventricular circumferential fiber shortening (Vcf) were compared as indicators of Adriamycin cardiotoxicity. Seven patients (16%) developed a decline in left ventricular function. Four of these seven patients (57%) developed symptoms and signs of congestive heart failure (CHF). The pre-ejection period/left ventricular ejection time (PEP/LVET) was earliest to change and was the least specific of the noninvasive parameters. The ejection fraction was the most specific parameter in predicting clinical cardiotoxicity. In every case of congestive heart failure, significant changes in ejection fraction, Vcf and PEP/LVET preceded the onset of symptoms, suggesting that measurement of the ejection fraction and systolic time intervals will allow early prediction and avoidance of heart failure. A fall in the ejection fraction of greater than or equal to 10% may represent sufficient grounds for discontinuing Adriamycin.
The purpose of this study was to identify early features of lamin A/C gene mutation related dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) with cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR). We characterise myocardial and functional findings in carriers of lamin A/C mutation to facilitate the recognition of these patients using this method. We also investigated the connection between myocardial fibrosis and conduction abnormalities.
Seventeen lamin A/C mutation carriers underwent CMR. Late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) and cine images were performed to evaluate myocardial fibrosis, regional wall motion, longitudinal myocardial function, global function and volumetry of both ventricles. The location, pattern and extent of enhancement in the left ventricle (LV) myocardium were visually estimated.
Patients had LV myocardial fibrosis in 88% of cases. Segmental wall motion abnormalities correlated strongly with the degree of enhancement. Myocardial enhancement was associated with conduction abnormalities. Sixty-nine percent of our asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients showed mild ventricular dilatation, systolic failure or both in global ventricular analysis. Decreased longitudinal systolic LV function was observed in 53% of patients.
Cardiac conduction abnormalities, mildly dilated LV and depressed systolic dysfunction are common in DCM caused by a lamin A/C gene mutation. However, other cardiac diseases may produce similar symptoms. CMR is an accurate tool to determine the typical cardiac involvement in lamin A/C cardiomyopathy and may help to initiate early treatment in this malignant familiar form of DCM.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the cardiac toxicity induced by carboplatin, a second generation platinum-containing anti-cancer drug, and to test whether pravastatin can reduce this cardio-toxicity. In the present study, infusion of carboplatin (100 mg/kg) to mice resulted in decreased survival rates and abnormal cardiac histology, concomitant with increased cardiac apoptosis. In addition, treatment of cultured rat cardiomyocytes with carboplatin (100 muM for 48 h) caused marked apoptosis and increased caspase-3, -9, and cytochrome C, but decreased BCL-XL protein expression, and this was inhibited by reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger n-acetylcysteine. Furthermore, pretreatment of cardiomyocytes with pravastatin (20 microM) before carboplatin exposure significantly attenuated apoptosis and decreased caspase-3, -9, cytochrome C activity. Lastly, mice pre-treated with pravastatin before carboplatin treatment showed improved survival rate and cardiac function, with reduced cardiomyocyte apoptosis via activating Akt and restoring normal mitochondrial HAX-1 in heart tissue. In summary, our results show that carboplatin can induce cardiotoxicity in vivo and in cultured cells via a mitochondrial pathway related to ROS production, whereas pravastatin administration can reduce such oxidative stress thus prevented cardiac apoptosis. Therefore, pravastatin can be used as a cytoprotective agent prior to carboplatin chemotherapy.
Bethanechol is a direct agonist of the acetylcholine receptor that was recently introduced in the therapy of gastro-oesophageal reflux. Acute dystonic reactions to bethanechol were observed in a 10-month-old infant who also demonstrated similar dystonic reactions to dopamine receptor blocking agents of two different classes. This first report of acute dystonic reaction to cholinergic agonists in human is in accord with the current theories of the rôle of acetylcholine and dopamine in the pathogenesis of acute dystonic reactions.
Euxyl K400 is a widely used preservative in cosmetics, topical drugs, cutting fluids, etc. This antimicrobial product has two active components: methyldibromoglutaronitrile (MDGN), also known as 1,2-dibromo-2,4-dicyanobutane, and 2-phenoxyethanol, in a proportion of 1 to 4. The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of sensitization to this preservative in cases in our dermatology department over a 5-year period. We also assessed the prevalence of sensitization to the two active components of Euxyl K400 and calculated the agreement with sensitization to Euxyl K400.
In this retrospective study, we analyzed the medical records of 1,092 patients attended in our skin allergy unit between January 2000 and December 2005. We undertook testing with a standard battery that included, in addition to the allergens recommended by the Spanish Group for Research Into Dermatitis and Skin Allergies (GEIDAC), 0.3 % MDGN and 1 % 2-phenoxyethanol in Vaseline (Trolab).
Only 15 patients developed a positive reaction to Euxyl K400. Of these, 11 were positive to MDGN and 2 to phenoxyethanol. Sensitization to Euxyl K400 was significantly more common in men. The agreement between sensitization to Euxyl K400 and MDGN was good (Kp = 0.68), whereas agreement between Euxyl K400 and phenoxyethanol was poor (Kp = 0.23).
The prevalence of Euxyl K400 sensitization in this study was 1.4 %. Most cases of Euxyl K400 sensitization were associated with the MDGN component, as indicated by the good agreement between the two substances.
Since mild thermal stress seems to exert neuroprotection via induction of heat-shock protein 70 kDa (hsp70), we tested whether hsp70 would preserve striatal bioelectrical activity under conditions of mitochondrial impairment. Corticostriatal slices from rats that had undergone mild thermal stress were exposed to either rotenone or 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), that selectively inhibits mitochondrial complex I and complex II, respectively. Rotenone is utilized to obtain an experimental model of Parkinson's disease while 3-NP replicates Huntington's disease phenotype in experimental animals. The cerebral hsp70 increase did not alter field potential amplitude of the slices but partially protected them against rotenone-induced neurotoxicity. Similarly, induction of hsp70 had also a partial neuroprotective effect on the neurotoxicity caused by 3-NP on striatal field potential. Since rotenone and 3-NP treatments mimic the mitochondrial impairment and oxidative stress that contribute to development of Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease, these data suggest that induction of hsp70 might represent a possible neuroprotective mechanism against the pathophysiological chain of events implicated in these neurodegenerative disorders.
Inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase, known as statins, are commonly used as cholesterol-lowering drugs. During the past decade, evidence has emerged that statins also have neuroprotective effects. Research in the retina has shown that simvastatin, a commonly used statin, increases Akt phosphorylation in vivo, indicating that the PI3K/Akt pathway contributes to the protective effects achieved. While research about neuroprotective effects have been conducted in several systems, the effects of statins on the inner ear are largely unknown.
We evaluated whether the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase is present within the rat cochlea and whether simvastatin is able to protect auditory hair cells from gentamicin-induced apoptotic cell death in a in vitro mouse model. Furthermore, we evaluated whether simvastatin increases Akt phosphorylation in the organ of Corti. We detected 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase mRNA in organ of Corti, spiral ganglion, and stria vascularis by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Moreover, we observed a dose-dependent and significant reduction of hair cell loss in organs of Corti treated with simvastatin in addition to gentamicin, as compared to samples treated with gentamicin alone. The protective effect of simvastatin was reversed by addition of mevalonate, a downstream metabolite blocked by simvastatin, demonstrating the specificity of protection. Finally, Western blotting showed an increase in organ of Corti Akt phosphorylation after simvastatin treatment in vitro.
These results suggest a neuroprotective effect of statins in the inner ear, mediated by reduced 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase metabolism and Akt activation.
Two female patients in their thirties suffered peripheral arterial occlusion, in close association with the ingestion of the oral contraceptive pill. While current investigative technique cannot directly implicate the pill, it is felt that in the two patients presented it was an important aetiological factor, no co-existing arterial pathology being detected.
Resveratrol is a phytoalexin and natural phenol that is present at relatively high concentrations in peanuts and red grapes and wine. Based upon studies of yeast and invertebrate models, it has been proposed that ingestion of resveratrol may also have anti-aging actions in mammals including humans. It has been suggested that resveratrol exerts its beneficial effects on health by activating the same cellular signaling pathways that are activated by dietary energy restriction (DR). Some studies have reported therapeutic actions of resveratrol in animal models of metabolic and neurodegenerative disorders. However, the effects of resveratrol on cell, tissue and organ function in healthy subjects are largely unknown. In the present study, we evaluated the potential effects of resveratrol on the proliferation and survival of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) in culture, and in the hippocampus of healthy young adult mice. Resveratrol reduced the proliferation of cultured mouse multi-potent NPCs, and activated AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), in a concentration-dependent manner. Administration of resveratrol to mice (1-10 mg/kg) resulted in activation of AMPK, and reduced the proliferation and survival of NPCs in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Resveratrol down-regulated the levels of the phosphorylated form of cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (pCREB) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus. Finally, resveratrol-treated mice exhibited deficits in hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and memory. Our findings suggest that resveratrol, unlike DR, adversely affects hippocampal neurogenesis and cognitive function by a mechanism involving activation of AMPK and suppression of CREB and BDNF signaling.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) is an immunomodulatory neuropeptide distributed in micturition pathways. VIP(-/-) mice exhibit altered bladder function and neurochemical properties in micturition pathways after cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. Given VIP's role as an anti-inflammatory mediator, we hypothesized that VIP(-/-) mice would exhibit enhanced inflammatory mediator expression after cystitis. A mouse inflammatory cytokine and receptor RT2 profiler array was used to determine regulated transcripts in the urinary bladder of wild type (WT) and VIP(-/-) mice with or without CYP-induced cystitis (150 mg/kg; i.p.; 48 h). Four binary comparisons were made: WT control versus CYP treatment (48 h), VIP(-/-) control versus CYP treatment (48 h), WT control versus VIP(-/-) control, and WT with CYP treatment (48 h) versus VIP(-/-) with CYP treatment (48 h). The genes presented represent (1) greater than 1.5-fold change in either direction and (2) the p value is less than 0.05 for the comparison being made. Several regulated genes were validated using enzyme-linked immunoassays including IL-1beta and CXCL1. CYP treatment significantly (p < or = 0.001) increased expression of CXCL1 and IL-1beta in the urinary bladder of WT and VIP(-/-) mice, but expression in VIP(-/-) mice with CYP treatment was significantly (p < or = 0.001) greater (4.2- to 13-fold increase) than that observed in WT urinary bladder (3.6- to 5-fold increase). The data suggest that in VIP(-/-) mice with bladder inflammation, inflammatory mediators are increased above that observed in WT with CYP. This shift in balance may contribute to increased bladder dysfunction in VIP(-/-) mice with bladder inflammation and altered neurochemical expression in micturition pathways.
Estradiol-17 beta-D-glucuronide (E-17G), a metabolite of natural estrogen, is well known to cause intrahepatic cholestasis in humans. We therefore investigated the effect of sodium tauroursodeoxycholate (T-UDCA), on E-17G-induced cholestasis in female rats.
For the evaluation of the drug, animals given E-17G (10 mumol/kg) were divided into three groups, and T-UDCA was administered intravenously at various doses after E-17G treatment.
T-UDCA significantly prevented a marked reduction of bile flow in E-17G-treated rats in all experimental schedules. Furthermore, T-UDCA significantly increased in the biliary E-17G excretion rate at an early stage after E-17G treatment in rats. However, this drug caused no significant change in the biliary excretion rate of estradiol-3-sulfate-17 beta-D-glucuronide (E-3S-17G), which is identified as the major biliary metabolite with E-17G throughout the recovery periods.
These results suggest that T-UDCA can improve E-17G induced acute cholestasis by rapidly increasing the biliary E-17G excretion rate. Thus our finding may provide a useful approach for attempts to prevent drug-induced acute cholestasis in humans.
The risk/benefit ratio of warfarin therapy changes in the over 75s, when haemorrhagic side-effects become more common. These may not always be reported in the literature.
A woman of 80 years, on long-term warfarin therapy presented with an acute dissecting thoracic aortic aneurysm; on investigation the only precipitating factor found was an international normalised ratio of 4.8. This patient, who also had an abdominal aortic aneurysm, survived, on discontinuation of her anticoagulant therapy.
We describe a previously unreported complication of warfarin therapy in a patient over 75 years of age, to add to the cautions in prescribing this drug in patients of this age group.
