To correlate lamotrigine (LTG) serum concentrations (levels) with tolerability in patients with epilepsy.
The charts of 811 outpatients with epilepsy who had received LTG and were seen at the Columbia Comprehensive Epilepsy Center after January 1, 2000, were reviewed. Data gathered included levels, dosage, duration of use, concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), clinical toxicity, specific side effects, and efficacy. Rates of toxicity, specific side effects, and efficacy were calculated and correlated with serum levels.
In total, 3,731 LTG levels were recorded. A regimen was categorized as toxic if the patient experienced side effects that led to a dosage change or discontinuation of LTG. Of 3,919 AED regimens, 9.4% were toxic and 30.7% of patients had at least one toxic regimen. Toxicity increased with increasing LTG levels (p < 0.0001): With levels <5.0 microg/mL, 7% of patients were toxic; with levels of 5 to 10 microg/mL, 14%; with 10 to 15 microg/mL, 24%; with 15 to 20 microg/mL, 34%; and with >20 microg/mL, 59%. The correlation between levels and tolerability was independent of concurrent medication. Increasing efficacy, as measured by seizure freedom for a 6-month period, occurred up to levels of >20 microg/mL.
There is a correlation between LTG serum level and tolerability, independent of the use of other AEDs. Adverse effects requiring a dose change are uncommon with the most frequently encountered LTG concentrations (<10 microg/mL) and occur in only 7.4% of patients at levels obtained during the majority of clinical trials (<5 microg/mL). An initial target range of 1.5 to 10 microg/mL is suggested, though higher levels, up to >20 microg/mL, are often tolerated and can lead to additional efficacy in refractory patients.
A 14-year-old girl presented with fever, generalized lymphadenopathy, skin rash and hepatitis after starting dapsone. All abnormalities reversed with institution of prednisolone therapy after discontinuation of dapsone. The hepatic involvement was of hepatocellular type; it was associated with IgM anti-HEV antibodies, suggesting coexisting acute hepatitis E. We believe a causal link between the hepatotrophic viruses and dapsone hypersensitivity syndrome could exist.
Nonconvulsive status epilepticus is an unusual complication of cephalosporin therapy, with only a few isolated cases reported.
We reviewed the clinical and electroencephalographic (EEG) characteristics of 10 patients with renal failure in whom developed alteration of consciousness without convulsions associated with continuous epileptiform EEG activity while being treated with cephalosporins.
Nonconvulsive status epilepticus developed in 5 men and 5 women, with a mean (+/- SD) age of 69 +/- 14 years, while receiving intravenous cephalosporins (ceftriaxone, 2 patients; ceftazidime, 2; and cefepime, 6). All patients had renal failure; 1 also had hepatic failure. Patients presented with progressive disorientation or agitation, sometimes associated with mild facial or limb myoclonus, that had begun 1 to 10 days (mean, 5 +/- 2 days) after starting cephalosporin treatment. The EEG showed continuous or intermittent bursts of generalized, high-voltage, 1 to 2 Hz sharp wave activity or sharp and slow wave activity that resembled, but could be differentiated from, the triphasic waves seen in metabolic encephalopathies. Intravenous clonazepam suppressed the epileptiform activity completely in 5 patients and partially in the other 5. Cephalosporins were withdrawn, and antiepileptic therapy was started for all patients. All patients improved, 2 in less than 24 hours and the remainder within 2 to 7 days.
Cephalosporins can cause nonconvulsive status epilepticus in patients with renal failure. The clinical picture is difficult to differentiate from a that of metabolic encephalopathy unless an EEG is obtained. Physicians should be aware of this potentially dangerous complication.
We report a case of acute hemolytic anemia in a 21-year-old Nigerian woman after high-dose misoprostol (4 mg), used for medical abortion. The major causes of inherited or immune hemolytic anemia were excluded. The patient's peripheral blood smear showed acanthocytes and anisopoikilocytosis, which progressively disappeared in the days postingestion. We evaluated RBC features, and we observed reduced RBC Na+ and K+ content and abnormalities in membrane cation transport pathways and in Ca2+ activated K+ channel (Gardos channel), suggesting possible direct effects of misoprostol on RBCs. Although further studies need to be carried out, the present case suggests that high-dose misoprostol, a prostaglandin E1 analogue, severely affects RBC features and causes an acquired acute hemolytic anemia, which is self-limited when misoprostol is withdrawn.
Arsenic is a well-documented human carcinogen associated with skin carcinogenesis. Our previous work reveals that arsenite exposure is able to induce cell transformation in mouse epidermal cell JB6 Cl41 through the activation of ERK, rather than JNK pathway. Our current studies further evaluate downstream pathway in low dose arsenite-induced cell transformation in JB6 Cl41 cells. Our results showed that treatment of cells with low dose arsenite induced activation of c-Jun/AP-1 pathway, and ectopic expression of dominant negative mutant of c-Jun (TAM67) blocked arsenite-induced transformation. Furthermore, our data indicated that cyclin D1 was an important downstream molecule involved in c-Jun/AP-1-mediated cell transformation upon low dose arsenite exposure, because inhibition of cyclin D1 expression by its specific siRNA in the JB6 Cl41 cells resulted in impairment of anchorage-independent growth of cells induced by low dose arsenite. Collectively, our results demonstrate that c-Jun/AP-1-mediated cyclin D1 expression is at least one of the key events implicated in cell transformation upon low dose arsenite exposure.
In an earlier preliminary study, manassantin A, a neolignoid from Saururus cernuus was found to show neuroleptic type activity in mice when given by the i.p. route. It blocked the stereotypy and hyperactivity caused by amphetamine at doses comparable to those of haloperidol, but unlike the latter, did not show catalepsy or ptosis at atoxic doses. In the present study, a more detailed comparison of manassantin A with haloperidol and in some cases with chlorpromazine and reserpine using a variety of neuroleptic parameters and by various routes of administration is described. Results of the present study clearly show that the drug is readily absorbed from various routes of administration and shows many of the patterns of neuroleptic activity. Manassantin A was comparable to haloperidol in many of the tests but unlike the latter, did not produce antiadrenergic or anticholinergic effects. Manassantin A was found to bind weakly to calf caudate membranes (IC50 3500 nM) while haloperidol (IC50 5 nM) and chlorpromazine (IC50 50 nM) inhibited [3H]haloperidol binding. Manassantin A also did not affect the dopamine-induced adenylate cyclase activity in rat caudate nuclei (IC50 greater than 10,000 nM) while haloperidol (IC50 700 nM) and chlorpromazine (IC50 350 nM) inhibited the enzyme synthesis. These biochemical and behavioral tests suggest that manassantin A exhibits a selective neuroleptic profile and may be considered to behave as an atypical agent.
Transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder in children is a rare occurrence. Cyclophosphamide is a known risk factor for the development of TCC. Other alkylating agents, such as nitrogen mustard, have not been implicated in the development of secondary adult or pediatric TCC. The role of radiotherapy in the development of secondary malignancies of the bladder remains controversial. We report a case of childhood TCC in a patient in remission from Hodgkin's lymphoma previously treated with non-cyclophosphamide chemotherapy and low-dose nodal radiotherapy.
We examined the effects of misonidazole (MISO) and recombinant human tumour necrosis factor (rh-TNF) on tumour blood flow in mice given hyperthermic treatments. MISO (500 mg kg-1) or rh-TNF (6 x 10(4) unit kg-1) was administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) prior to hyperthermia to nude mice bearing a xenoplanted human gastric cancer and tumour blood flow was measured by a hydrogen diffusion method based on polarographic determinations. MISO plus hyperthermia produced a temperature-dependent decrease in blood flow and, at 43.5 degrees C, the flow decreased to 15-30% of control and remained low for up to 24 h. Blood flow following rh-TNF plus hyperthermia was less than that at the same temperatures following MISO plus hyperthermia, and, at 43.5 degrees C, the flow decreased to 10-20% of control and remained low for up to 48 h. Tumour growth delay was closely related to the duration of the decrease in blood flow. Thus, the profound decrease in tumour blood flow following hyperthermia plus MISO or rh-TNF and the consequential tumour regression may well be of potential clinical significance.
A model is described for determining the pharmacodynamics of inhibitors of arachidonate metabolism in mice. Bioavailability and selectivity were assessed by ex vivo RIA of TXB2, LTB4, and 12-HETE from ionophore-challenged blood. Inhibition of LTB4 and 12-HETE was measured using a single LTB4 RIA, following extraction and separation of these eicosanoids from plasma. Separation on cyanopropyl mini-columns yielded hexane/ether and methanol fractions, which contained 12-HETE and LTB4, respectively. Analgesic efficacy was measured by inhibition of phenylbenzoquinone-induced abdominal constriction. The NSAIDs, indomethacin ibuprofen, flurbiprofen, and benoxaprofen, were analgesic and selective cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors. BW775C was also analgesic, but inhibited cyclo-oxygenase, 5-lipoxygenase and 12-HETE formation. Other in vitro 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors, NDGA, quercetin, and nafazatrom, were inactive in vivo, although NDGA reduced abdominal constrictions. The results indicate that this model has utility in determining the mechanism/selectivity of action and analgesic potential of 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors.
The angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) deletion (D) variant is associated with greater ACE activity and perhaps with deleterious cardiorespiratory pathophysiological responses. We determined whether the early health status of the preterm infant was adversely influenced by homozygosity for the D allele (DD genotype) compared with ID or II genotype. Study design Angiotensin-converting enzyme genotype was determined in a cohort of 148 preterm infants born in Bristol, United Kingdom (median gestational age, 31 weeks; range, 28-32). Intensive care data were prospectively obtained. Primary analysis was by Mann-Whitney U and chi(2) tests.
Higher oxygen, circulatory support requirements, and base deficit in the first 12 hours after birth were found in infants with DD genotype (minimum inspired oxygen concentration in first 12 hours, median [interquartile range], DD 0.26 [0.21-0.40], ID/II 0.21 [0.21-0.30], P=.028; blood pressure support in first 12 hours, DD 12 [30%], ID/II 15 [14%], P=.039; worse base deficit in first 12 hours, DD 4.8 [7.7 to 0], ID/II 0 [5.3 to 0], P=.020).
Angiotensin-converting enzyme polymorphism has a role in the development of preterm cardiorespiratory disease. The DD genotype, encoding higher angiotensin-converting enzyme activity, may adversely influence the early health status of preterm infants.
Protective effect of Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) induction from hypertension was previously reported in a diabetic animal model. Here, the effect of HO-1 induction on vascular complications associated with metabolic syndrome (MetS) was investigated. MetS was induced in rats by fructose drinking for 12weeks while HO-1 was induced by hemin or curcumin administration in the last 6weeks. Then, aortic HO-1 protein expression was assessed, blood pressure (BP) was recorded and serum levels of glucose and insulin were measured. Concentration response curves for phenylephrine (PE), KCl, and acetylcholine (ACh) were obtained in thoracic aortic cross sections. Aortic reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO) generation were also studied. Both hemin and curcumin significantly inhibited the elevated systolic and diastolic BP seen in MetS animals. While not affected by MetS, HO-1 expression was significantly increased by hemin and curcumin treatment. HO-1 induction did not affect the exaggerated vasoconstriction response to KCl and PE. However, HO-1 induction prevented the impaired relaxation and NO generation in aorta isolated from MetS animals. In addition, the HO inhibitor, tin protoporphyrin, abolished the hemin protective effect on relaxation and NO generation. HO-1 induction prevented the elevated hyperinsulinemia associated with MetS. Furthermore, HO-1 induction inhibited ROS production in aorta isolated from MetS animals. In conclusion, Heme oxygenase-1 alleviates vascular complications associated in MetS through maintaining endothelial-dependent relaxation and NO generation in addition to improving insulin sensitivity.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a chemotherapeutic drug widely used for the treatment of various neoplastic conditions. However, its application is limited because of its toxic effects in many organs. Nephrotoxicity is a serious effect of DOX. The aim of this study was to determine the protective effect of thymoquinone (TQ), a predominant bioactive constituent of Nigella sativa oil, with well documented potent anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory effects. Male Sprague Dawley rats received DOX (3.5mg/kg twice weekly) with or without TQ (50mg/kg/day, oral supplementation) for 3weeks. Elevated levels of serum urea, creatinine and urinary albumin excretion were observed in DOX-treated animals, indicating DOX-induced nephrotoxicity. Moreover, enhanced lipid peroxidation (LPO), as equivalents of malondialdehyde (MDA), in the renal tissue was accompanied by a significant decrease in the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) in DOX-treated group. In addition, DOX treatment induced significant increase in renal levels of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX-4), and marked decrease in interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels, nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) mRNA levels and nuclear binding activity. Histopathological analysis showed severe damage in the renal tissue of DOX treated animals. Animals treated with TQ were found to have markedly reduced renal damage with restoration of all mentioned markers toward normal values. In conclusion, DOX-induced renal damage involved a redox imbalance in renal tissue, which could be reversed by TQ, suggesting a possible potential role for TQ in DOX-induced nephrotoxicity.
Peripheral neuropathy is a rare adverse effect associated with phenytoin (PHT), and it usually occurs after the prolonged use of PHT. Acute PHT-induced peripheral neuropathy is extremely rare.
An 18-year-old girl was admitted for the control of epilepsy. Just a few hours after the administration of PHT, she complained of distal lower-extremity paresthesia in a stocking distribution and motor weakness: the Achilles tendon reflex was absent.
Electrophysiological studies revealed slightly reduced sensory-conduction velocity and mild prolongation of distal latency in the lower extremities. After the discontinuation of PHT, these symptoms disappeared gradually, and sensory-conduction velocity and distal latency became normal.
Although it has been reported that peripheral neuropathy occurred after treatment with PHT for a week, there has been no report of a patient such as ours, who developed peripheral neuropathy just a few hours after the initial administration of PHT. The underlying mechanism remains unknown; however, we should pay attention to such extremely acute peripheral neuropathy when using PHT.
beta-Adrenoceptor blocking agents might reduce blood pressure, in part, by blocking presynaptic beta-adrenoceptors. Absence of circulating epinephrine should then reduce the antihypertensive effect of propranolol. Biadrenalectomized Wistar-Kyoto rats were made hypertensive with methylprednisolone (20 mg/kg s.c. weekly), given for 2 weeks, and supplemented with deoxycorticosterone pivalate (10 mg/kg weekly). Sham-operated controls received the same treatment. Baseline weight, mean intraarterial blood pressure, and heart rate of the groups were the same. After propranolol (5 mg/kg s.c.) was administered to the unanesthetized rats, blood pressure fell within 90 min from 151 +/- 4 by 23 +/- 4 mm Hg (mean +/- SEM) in the adrenalectomized animals and from 153 +/- 4 by only 7 +/- 3 mm Hg in the sham-operated controls (p less than 0.001); heart rate fell by 91 +/- 13 beats/min in the adrenalectomized animals and by 40 +/- 11 beats/min in the controls (p less than 0.01). Propranolol's vehicle had no effect. At the end of the experiment, plasma epinephrine levels were less than 40 pg/ml for adrenalectomized rats, and 420 +/- 60 pg/ml for controls. Norepinephrine levels were approximately equal in the two groups. Since blood pressure fell despite virtual absence of circulating epinephrine, these results suggest that propranolol reduces blood pressure, at least in part, by mechanisms other than presynaptic beta-adrenoceptor blockade.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are widely used as blood pressure medications in hypertensive individuals. However, ACE inhibitors also play an integral role in the breakdown of neuronal substance P, which has been recently implicated in the development of functional deficits following traumatic brain injury (TBI). The present study therefore examined the effects of ACE inhibitors on histological and motor outcome following TBI. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with Captopril, Enalapril or equal volume saline for 7 days prior to the induction of diffuse TBI using the impact acceleration model. At 5h post-injury, animals administered Captopril demonstrated significantly increased substance P immunoreactivity compared to vehicle controls (p<0.01), and increased dark cell change that persisted to 7 days post-trauma. Captopril also resulted in exacerbated motor deficits compared to vehicle treated animals (p<0.05) as assessed by the rotarod test over a 7-day post-traumatic period. Administration of the alternative ACE inhibitor, Enalapril, likewise exacerbated motor deficits, confirming a class effect of ACE inhibitors rather than a compound effect specific to Captopril. We conclude that ACE inhibitors are deleterious to outcome following TBI, presumably by impairing the degradation of substance P and increasing substance P mediated neuronal injury.
These studies describe the effect of N,N-diethyl-4-(phenyl-piperidin-4-ylidenemethyl)-benzamide (AR-M100390), a delta-opioid agonist, on the pancreas and its mechanisms for pancreatic toxicity. Rats were treated with 5, 100, and 600 micromol/kg of AR-M100390 for 3 and/or 7 days; another group of rats treated with 600 micromol/kg of compound were allowed to recover for 14 days. AR-M100390 (600 micromol/kg) caused vacuolation in the beta-cell of the rat pancreas that was associated with depletion of insulin and hyperglycemia after 7 days of dosing. The loss of insulin by AR-M100390 was due to specific inhibition of rat insulin2 mRNA transcription in vivo. Insulin depletion and hyperglycemia were reversible. The effects of AR-M100390 in rats were reproduced in the rat pancreatic beta-cell line RINm5F, where it inhibited intracellular insulin content and secretion without affecting cell survival. Loss of insulin in vitro was also a result of specific inhibition of insulin2 mRNA transcription and was reversible. Pretreatment of cells with the delta-opioid antagonist naltrindole or pertussis toxin did not reverse loss of insulin in AR-M100390-treated cells suggesting that the effects were not mediated by the delta-opioid receptor. AR-M100390 inhibited KCl-mediated calcium mobilization in RINm5F cells, suggesting that L-type calcium channels found in these cells and in pancreatic beta-cells may partially play a role in the inhibition of insulin secretion by this compound. In summary, the in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that inhibition of insulin by AR-M100390 is due to a combination of inhibition of insulin synthesis and/or release.
In a double-blind study, twenty-four ASA 1 and II patients scheduled for otosclerosis surgery were randomized in two groups according to the premedication given orally 1 h before anaesthesia: placebo (group P; n = 12) or 25 mg captopril (group C; n = 12). Anaesthesia was induced with thiopentone, fentanyl and vecuronium and was maintained, after oral tracheal intubation, with N2O/O2 (50/50); 5 min after intubation, the inspired halothane concentration (FIH) was set at 1.8-2% in order to obtain a mean arterial pressure (Pa) of 45-55 mmHg; thereafter, FIH was increased or decreased (+/- 0.5% every 3 min) in order to maintain this Pa value. Ventilation was controlled in order to assure normocapnia (35-40 mmHg). Inspired and expired (FEH) halothane concentrations were monitored by an halothane analyser. The plasma renin (ARP) and conversion enzyme activities (AEC) were measured before anaesthesia (ARP1, AEC1), 5 min (ARP2) and 55 min (ARP3, AEC2) after the start of anaesthesia. In group C, AEC1 and AEC2 were reduced by half, confirming the efficiency of captopril in inhibiting the conversion enzyme. ARP1 and ARP2 were increased in group C (5.42 +/- 4.2 and 9.92 +/- 7.35 micrograms.l-1.h-1. ARP3 increased in both groups (20.75 +/- 8.42 micrograms.l-1.h-1 in group C, and 24.60 +/- 15.40 in group P). Pa decreased to 55 mmHg more rapidly in group C (9 min in group C; 18 min in group P; p less than 0.05) and FEH could be reduced by a third (1.38 +/- 0.29% in group P; 0.90 +/- 0.17% in group C; p less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It was shown that levamisol administered orally to mice induced production of interferon with its maximum level in 4-6 hours and prolonged subsequent circulation in the host (the observation period of 5 days). Antiviral activity of levamisol in experimental forest-spring encephalitis was shown (protection of 35-40 per cent). When levamisol were used in combination with polyguacyl, an additive effect was recorded.
Experimental evidence is available to indicate that intrarenal mechanisms play a role in the impaired salt excretion of nephrotic syndrome by multiple and still incompletely defined mediators. It is documented herein that the gene encoding for cyclophilin-like protein (Cy-LP) is up-regulated in renal medulla from adriamycin (ADR)-treated rats as compared with control animals. In the cortex of rats with ADR nephrosis, no change in Cy-LP as compared with that in controls was found for the entire observation period. By contrast, in the medulla of nephrotic rats, Cy-LP gene expression was significantly higher than in controls. Values of urinary Na excretion were inversely correlated to Cy-LP mRNA expression levels. Because in ADR nephrosis a blunted natriuretic response to ANP has been previously reported, it was investigated whether ANP infusion modulated Cy-LP mRNA in the renal medulla. ADR-treated rats, but not control rats, infused for 1 h with ANP (1 microgram/kg.min) had a significant (P < 0.05) increase in medullary Cy-LP mRNA as compared with nephrotic animals receiving the vehicle alone. These findings might be taken to suggest that renal Cy-LP gene expression is positively modulated in nephrotic syndrome and parallels changes in sodium excretion.
The primary end point of the study was the analysis of associations between polymorphisms with putative influence on 5-fluorouracil/irinotecan activity and progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with advanced colorectal cancer treated with first-line FOLFIRI chemotherapy. Peripheral blood samples from 146 prospectively enrolled patients were used for genotyping polymorphisms in thymidylate synthase (TS), methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), excision repair cross-complementation group-1 (ERCC 1) xeroderma pigmentosum group-D (XPD), X-ray cross-complementing-1 (XRCC 1), X-ray cross-complementing-3 (XRCC 3) and uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferases-A1 (UGT1 A1). TS 3'-UTR 6+/6+ and XRCC3-241 C/C genotypes were associated with adverse PFS. Hazard ratio for PFS achieved 2.89 (95% confidence interval=1.56-5.80; P=0.002) in 30 patients (20%) with both risk genotypes. Risk for Grade III-IV neutropenia was significantly associated with UGT1A1*28 7/7 genotype. These promising findings deserve further investigations and their validation in independent prospective studies.
This double-blind, within-subjects experiment examined the effects of ingesting two doses of caffeine on perceptions of leg muscle pain during moderate-intensity cycling exercise among females.
Low-caffeine-consuming college-aged females (N = 11) ingested one of two doses of caffeine (5 or 10 mg x kg(-1) body weight) or a placebo and 1 h later completed 30 min of cycling on an ergometer at approximately 60% VO2peak. The conditions were completed in a counterbalanced order. Perceptions of leg muscle pain as well as power output, heart rate, systolic blood pressure, and oxygen consumption (VO2) were recorded during exercise.
Caffeine had a significant effect on leg muscle pain ratings [F (2,20) = 10.63, P = 0.001, n2 = 0.52]. The mean pain intensity scores during exercise after ingesting 10 mg x kg(-1) body weight caffeine, 5 mg x kg(-1) body weight caffeine, and placebo were 1.6 +/- 1.1, 1.3 +/- 0.7, and 2.4 +/- 1.1, respectively.
The results support that caffeine ingestion has a large effect on reducing leg muscle pain during exercise among females, but this effect does not appear to be dose-dependent between 5 and 10 mg.kg body weight caffeine.
Subtelomeric deletions of the long arm of chromosome 20 are rare, with only 11 described in the literature. Clinical features of individuals with these microdeletions include severe limb malformations, skeletal abnormalities, growth retardation, developmental and speech delay, mental retardation, seizures and mild, non-specific dysmorphic features.
We characterized microdeletions at 20q13.33 in six individuals referred for genetic evaluation of developmental delay, mental retardation, and/or congenital anomalies. A comparison to previously reported cases of 20q13.33 microdeletion shows phenotypic overlap, with clinical features that include mental retardation, developmental delay, speech and language deficits, seizures, and behavior problems such as autistic spectrum disorder. There does not appear to be a clinically recognizable constellation of dysmorphic features among individuals with subtelomeric 20q microdeletions.
Based on genotype-phenotype correlation among individuals in this and previous studies, we discuss several possible candidate genes for specific clinical features, including ARFGAP1, CHRNA4 and KCNQ2 and neurodevelopmental deficits. Deletion of this region may play an important role in cognitive development.
Diabetes mellitus is a group of metabolic diseases characterized by hyperglycemia resulting from defects in insulin secretion and/or action. One of the most important complications of this metabolic disease is diabetic nephropathy. Hyperglycemia promotes oxidative stress and hence generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which is known to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy. Recent studies have established that metformin, an oral hypoglycemic drug, possesses antioxidant effects. However, whether metformin can protect against diabetic nephropathy has not been reported before. The overall objectives of the present study are to elucidate the potential nephroprotective effect of metformin in a rat diabetic nephropathy model and explore the exact underlying mechanism(s) involved. The effect of metformin on the biochemical changes associated with hyperglycemia induced by streptozotocin was investigated in rat kidney tissues. In addition, energy nucleotides (AMP and ATP), and Acetyl-CoA in the kidney homogenates and mitochondria, and the mRNA expression of oxidative stress and pro-inflammatory mediators were assessed. Our results showed that treatment of normoglycemic rats with metformin caused significant increase in ATP, Acetyl-CoA, and CoA-SH contents in kidney homogenates and mitochondria along with profound decrease in AMP level. On the other hand, treatment of diabetic nephropathy rats with metformin normalized all biochemical changes and the energy status in kidney tissues. At the transcriptional levels, metformin treatment caused significant restoration in diabetic nephropathy-induced oxidative stress mRNA levels, particularly GSTα, NQO1, and CAT genes, whereas inhibited TNF-α and IL-6 pro-inflammatory genes. Our data lend further credence for the contribution of metformin in the nephroprotective effect in addition to its well known hypoglycemic action.
beta-Thalassemia is an inherited anemia in which synthesis of the hemoglobin beta-chain is decreased. The excess unmatched alpha-globin chains accumulate in the growing erythroid precursors, causing their premature death (ineffective erythropoiesis). Clinical features of beta-thalassemia include variably severe anemia and iron accumulation due to increased intestinal iron absorption. The most anemic patients require regular blood transfusions, which exacerbate their iron overload and result in damage to vital organs. The hepatic peptide hepcidin, a key regulator of iron metabolism in mammals, was recently found to be low in the urine of beta-thalassemia patients, compared with healthy controls, despite their iron overload. In our work, we measured by RQ-PCR the liver mRNA expression of hepcidin and other iron regulatory genes in beta-thalassemia major mouse model (C57Bl/6 Hbb(th3/th3)), and compared it with beta-thalassemia intermedia mouse model (C57Bl/6 Hbb(th3/+)) and control mice. We found decreased expression of hepcidin and TfR2 and increased expression of TfR1 and NGAL in the beta-thalassemia mouse models, compared with the control mice. Significant down-regulation of hepcidin expression in beta-thalassemia major, despite iron overload, might explain the increased iron absorption typically observed in thalassemia.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the persistence of the feminizing effects of discontinued 17α-ethinylestradiol (EE2) exposure on zebrafish (Danio rerio). An exposure scenario covering the sensitive phase of sexual differentiation, as well as final gonad maturation was chosen to examine the estrogenic effects on sexual development of zebrafish. Two exposure scenarios were compared: continuous exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations (0.1-10 ng/L EE2) up to 100 days post-hatch (dph) and developmental exposure up to 60 dph, followed by 40 days of depuration in clean water. The persistence of effects was investigated at different biological organization levels from mRNA to population-relevant endpoints to cover a broad range of important parameters. EE2 had a strong feminizing and inhibiting effect on the sexual development of zebrafish. Brain aromatase (cyp19b) mRNA expression showed no clear response, but vitellogenin levels were significantly elevated, gonad maturation and body growth were inhibited in both genders, and sex ratios were skewed towards females and undifferentiated individuals. To a large extent, all of these effects were reversed after 40 days of recovery, leading to the conclusion that exposure to the estrogen EE2 results in very strong, but reversible underdevelopment and feminization of zebrafish. The present study is the first to show this reversibility at different levels of organization, which gives better insight into the mechanistic basis of estrogenic effects in zebrafish.
We report a case regarding a 71 year-old Caucasian man with NYHA functional class III congestive heart failure, who was under warfarin treatment due to left ventricular thrombosis. After a few days, although the drug was not overdosed, the INR increased up to 11.68. Normal values were reestablished only after a 20-day pharmacological wash-out. Surprisingly, no episode of major or minor bleeding occurred. Gene typing of cytochrome P450 CYP2C9, a liver enzyme responsible for warfarin metabolism, showed that the patient was a carrier of both the mutant alleles (CYP2C9*2/*3) of this enzyme. This genetic defect caused a reduced catabolism of S-warfarin and excessive anticoagulation.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a heterogeneous cardiac disease characterized by ventricular dilatation and systolic dysfunction. Recent genetic studies have revealed that mutations in genes for cardiac sarcomere components lead to DCM. The cardiac sarcomere consists of thick and thin filaments and a giant protein, titin. Because one of the loci of familial DCM was mapped to the region of the titin gene, we searched for titin mutations in the patients and identified four possible disease-associated mutations. Two mutations, Val54Met and Ala743Val, were found in the Z-line region of titin and decreased binding affinities of titin to Z-line proteins T-cap/telethonin and alpha-actinin, respectively, in yeast two-hybrid assays. The other two mutations were found in the cardiac-specific N2-B region of titin and one of them was a nonsense mutation, Glu4053ter, presumably encoding for a truncated nonfunctional molecule. These observations suggest that titin mutations may cause DCM in a subset of the patients.
Acute bromocriptine administration reduced sitting and standing blood pressure and produced severe orthostatic hypotension in 12 normal subjects. Concomitantly, there was an increase in venous distensibility and basal blood flow, and a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance, as determined by forearm plethysmography. After administration of bromocriptine, plasma norepinephrine concentration decreased. Bromocriptine lowers blood pressure by dilating arterioles and veins, at least in part by means of dopaminergic inhibition of sympathetic nervous system activity.
Our previous studies indicate that either PEP-1-superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) or PEP-1-catalase (CAT) fusion proteins protects myocardium from ischemia-reperfusion-induced injury in rats. The aim of this study is to explore whether combined use of PEP-1-SOD1 and PEP-1-CAT enhances their protective effects.
SOD1, PEP-1-SOD1, CAT or PEP-1-CAT fusion proteins were prepared and purified by genetic engineering. In vitro and in vivo effects of these proteins on cell apoptosis and the protection of myocardium after ischemia-reperfusion injury were measured. Embryo cardiac myocyte H9c2 cells were used for the in vitro studies. In vitro cellular injury was determined by the expression of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Cell apoptosis was quantitatively assessed with Annexin V and PI double staining by Flow cytometry. In vivo, rat left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) was ligated for one hour followed by two hours of reperfusion. Hemodynamics was then measured. Myocardial infarct size was evaluated by TTC staining. Serum levels of myocardial markers, creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB) and cTnT were quantified by ELISA. Bcl-2 and Bax expression in left ventricle myocardium were analyzed by western blot.
In vitro, PEP-1-SOD1 or PEP-1-CAT inhibited LDH release and apoptosis rate of H9c2 cells. Combined transduction of PEP-1-SOD1 and PEP-1-CAT, however, further reduced the LDH level and apoptosis rate. In vivo, combined usage of PEP-1-SOD1 and PEP-1-CAT produced a greater effect than individual proteins on the reduction of CK-MB, cTnT, apoptosis rate, lipoxidation end product malondialdehyde, and the infarct size of myocardium. Functionally, the combination of these two proteins further increased left ventricle systolic pressure, but decreased left ventricle end-diastolic pressure.
This study provided a basis for the treatment or prevention of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury with the combined usage of PEP-1-SOD1 and PEP-1-CAT fusion proteins.
