The goal was to examine the association between urinary concentrations of dialkyl phosphate metabolites of organophosphates and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children 8 to 15 years of age.
Cross-sectional data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (2000-2004) were available for 1139 children, who were representative of the general US population. A structured interview with a parent was used to ascertain ADHD diagnostic status, on the basis of slightly modified criteria from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition.
One hundred nineteen children met the diagnostic criteria for ADHD. Children with higher urinary dialkyl phosphate concentrations, especially dimethyl alkylphosphate (DMAP) concentrations, were more likely to be diagnosed as having ADHD. A 10-fold increase in DMAP concentration was associated with an odds ratio of 1.55 (95% confidence interval: 1.14-2.10), with adjustment for gender, age, race/ethnicity, poverty/income ratio, fasting duration, and urinary creatinine concentration. For the most-commonly detected DMAP metabolite, dimethyl thiophosphate, children with levels higher than the median of detectable concentrations had twice the odds of ADHD (adjusted odds ratio: 1.93 [95% confidence interval: 1.23-3.02]), compared with children with undetectable levels.
These findings support the hypothesis that organophosphate exposure, at levels common among US children, may contribute to ADHD prevalence. Prospective studies are needed to establish whether this association is causal.
Chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity studies of 3-chloro-2-methylpropene (CMP), which has been widely used as an insecticide and chemical intermediate, were carried out in BDF1 mice. CMP was administered to mice in groups of 50 male and 50 female mice by the inhalation route 5 days per week for 104 weeks at doses of 0, 50, 100 or 200 ppm. Male and female mice in the CMP-exposed groups had decreased body weight but no noticeable clinical signs when compared with the control group. Dose-related increases in the incidences of gastric mucosal hyperplasia and squamous cell papilloma were observed in both sexes, and squamous cell carcinoma was observed in only one male mouse in the 100 ppm group. An increased incidence of Harderian gland adenoma in female mice was also recognized. In the nasal cavity, eosinophilic exudate associated with atrophy of olfactory epithelia, respiratory metaplasia of olfactory epithelia and olfactory gland, and eosinophilic changes in respiratory and olfactory epithelia were increased in both sexes.
Growth characteristics, survival time, and various other parameters such as chromosome studies and DNA synthesis were evaluated in a transplantable transitional cell mouse bladder tumor induced by N-[4-5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT). When the tumor was implanted subcutaneously, the mice were observed to survive mean 43 + 7 days (mean +/- SEM) with an average tumor burden of mean 8.45 +/- 0.60 gm (mean +/- SEM) of solid tumor tissue. In the tumor control animals, lung metastasis was noted in 3 animals at 42-49 days post implantation. The histological appearance of the primary tumor and the lung metastasis presented an undifferentiated anaplastic tumor with many spindle cells. The modal number of chromosome is 65 with several markers identifiable as abnormal in morphology. A significant decrease (p less than 0.001) in DNA synthesis was noted between 13 days and 20 days post implantation. In the evaluation of chemotherapy drugs, Cis-dichloro-trans-dihydroxy-bis-iso propylamine platinum IV (CHIP), Cis-diaminedichloroplatinum II (DDP), Cyclophosphamide (CTX) and Methotrexate (MTX) tumor growth was significantly retarded (p less than 0.005) in the DDP treated groups, however survival was not improved. Survival was significantly improved in the CTX treated group (p less than 0.001), although no significant decrease was noted in tumor growth. Lung metastasis was noted in all groups. This model has certain characteristics which make it a good model to study locally invasive bladder cancer.
X-ray repair cross-complementing group 1 (XRCC1) plays a role in repairing polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)-induced DNA damage. We examined the effects of exposure to PAHs and XRCC1 polymorphism, alone or combined, on sperm DNA integrity and male fertility. A total of 620 idiopathic infertile subjects and 273 fertile controls were recruited in this study. PAHs exposure was indicated by urinary 1-hydroxypyrene level. Genotypes were determined by PCR-RFLP, and sperm DNA damage was detected by Tdt-mediated dUTP nick end labelling assay using flow cytometry. A positive correlation was found between PAHs exposure and sperm DNA damage (beta coefficients = 0.183, p < 0.001), whereas there was no significant association between the XRCC1 polymorphisms and sperm DNA damage. However, when the patients were dichotomized for PAHs exposure, higher sperm DNA damage was found among 399Gln allele carriers compared with the wild-type homozygotes (p = 0.033). Further analysis based on a case-control study revealed the joint effect of XRCC1-399 polymorphism and PAHs exposure on the risk of male infertility (p interaction = 0.041). These findings provided the first evidence about potential joint effects of PAHs exposure and DNA repair gene polymorphisms on male reproductive system and may be helpful in improving our understanding of the etiology of male infertility.
It has been shown that testosterone propionate (TP) strongly promotes induction of invasive carcinomas in previously initiated accessory sex organs. In this study, in order to clarify the dose-dependence of this promotion, TP was given at 3 different levels (high, medium or low doses) using different sizes (2, 1 and 0.5 cm long) of Silastic tube for 40 weeks after administration of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl to male F344 rats. The data showed development of invasive carcinomas in the dorso-lateral and anterior prostate and in the seminal vesicle to be dose-dependent with the high dose of TP being most effective for tumor induction. Average levels of serum testosterone were approximately 800, 600, 300 and 150 ng/dl in rats given the high to low doses and in control rats, respectively. Development of neoplastic lesions in the ventral prostate demonstrated an inverse dependence on the dose of TP. These findings, together with previous data, suggest that the tumor-promoting potential of TP on rat prostate is unlikely to be simply due to its androgenic action and other factors should also be considered.
Three major metabolites (M1, M2, M3) of nomifensine (8-amino-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2-methyl-4-phenyl-isoquinoline) are formed by hydroxylation and methoxylation of the phenyl ring. They were compared with nomifensine 1. in various psychopharmacological tests in vivo, carried out in mice after oral or i.p. treatment and 2. in neurochemical in vitro studies, measuring inhibition of noradrenaline (NA), dopamine (DA), and serotonin (5-HT) uptake in rat brain synaptosomes. M1 (4'-hydroxy-nomifensine) was the most active metabolite, while M2 and M3 had little or no effect in pharmacological tests. M1 reversed reserpine hypothermia in doses greater than 2.5 mg/kg, antagonized tetrabenazine catalepsy (ED50 68 mg/kg) and reversed oxotremorine hypothermia (ED50 33 mg/kg). In these tests nomifensine was also active, being about 3-10 times more potent than M1. In contrast to nomifensine M1 had also serotoninergic activity, potentiating both phenelzine-induced twitching (ED50 11 mg/kg) and the anticonvulsant effect of 5-hydroxytryptophan. Moreover, M1 prolonged the hexobarbital sleeping time in doses greater than 10 mg/kg, prevented nicotine-induced convulsions (ED50 58 mg/kg) and reduced the oxotremorine tremor (ED50 59 mg/kg). The LD50 of M1 was 1100 mg/kg orally. In vitro M1 was equipotent with nomifensine in inhibiting DA uptake (IC50 1.5 x 10(-7) M) and twice as active in inhibiting NA uptake (IC50 1.1 x 10(-8) M). In contrast to nomifensine M1 was also a potent inhibitor of 5-HT uptake (IC50 3.3 x 10(-7) M). M2 and M3 were less active than M1 in all experiments.
Minimally invasive approaches to detect/predict target organ toxicity have significant practical applications in occupational toxicology. The potential application of peripheral blood transcriptomics as a practical approach to study the mechanisms of silica-induced pulmonary toxicity was investigated. Rats were exposed by inhalation to crystalline silica (15 mg/m(3), 6 h/day, 5 days) and pulmonary toxicity and global gene expression profiles of lungs and peripheral blood were determined at 32 weeks following termination of exposure. A significant elevation in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid lactate dehydrogenase activity and moderate histological changes in the lungs, including type II pneumocyte hyperplasia and fibrosis, indicated pulmonary toxicity in the rats. Similarly, significant infiltration of neutrophils and elevated monocyte chemotactic protein-1 levels in the lungs showed pulmonary inflammation in the rats. Microarray analysis of global gene expression profiles identified significant differential expression [>1.5-fold change and false discovery rate (FDR) p < 0.01] of 520 and 537 genes, respectively, in the lungs and blood of the exposed rats. Bioinformatics analysis of the differentially expressed genes demonstrated significant similarity in the biological processes, molecular networks, and canonical pathways enriched by silica exposure in the lungs and blood of the rats. Several genes involved in functions relevant to silica-induced pulmonary toxicity such as inflammation, respiratory diseases, cancer, cellular movement, fibrosis, etc, were found significantly differentially expressed in the lungs and blood of the silica-exposed rats. The results of this study suggested the potential application of peripheral blood gene expression profiling as a toxicologically relevant and minimally invasive surrogate approach to study the mechanisms underlying silica-induced pulmonary toxicity.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of methylphenidate treatment in epilepsy patients with comorbid adult attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Six of 156 consecutive patients attending a tertiary epilepsy clinic for diagnostic evaluation of new seizures, 3 patients with epilepsy and 3 patients with psychogenic non-epileptic seizures, were diagnosed with comorbid adult ADHD. These 6 patients entered an open trial of methylphenidate 10 mg twice daily. Clinical improvement was assessed at 6 weeks of follow-up.
Both groups showed clinical improvement of ADHD symptoms during treatment. None of the patients with comorbid epilepsy experienced adverse effects on seizure control or antiepileptic drug use.
In this open trial methylphenidate was safely used in patients with epilepsy and adult ADHD. It was effective against adult ADHD, and there were no adverse effects on seizure severity and frequency. A randomized study is needed to further establish effectiveness and safety.
Low density lipoprotein receptor deficient (LDLR-KO) and apolipoprotein E deficient (apo E-KO) mice both develop hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis by different mechanisms. The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of simvastatin on cholesterol levels, endothelial dysfunction, and aortic lesions in these two models of experimental atherosclerosis. Male LDLR-KO mice fed a high cholesterol (HC; 1%) diet developed atherosclerosis at 8 months of age with hypercholesterolemia. The addition of simvastatin (300 mg/kg daily) to the HC diet for 2 more months lowered total cholesterol levels by approximately 57% and reduced aortic plaque area by approximately 15% compared with the LDLR-KO mice continued on HC diet alone, P<0.05. Simvastatin treatment also improved acetylcholine (ACh)-induced endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation in isolated aortic rings, which was associated with an increase in NOS-3 expression by approximately 88% in the aorta measured by real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), P<0.05. In contrast, in age-matched male apo E-KO mice fed a normal diet, the same treatment of simvastatin elevated serum total cholesterol by approximately 35%, increased aortic plaque area by approximately 15%, and had no effect on endothelial function. These results suggest that the therapeutic effects of simvastatin may depend on the presence of a functional apolipoprotein E.
1. Infusion of salbutamol (3.0 microgram/min after a bolus injection of 100 microgram) produced hypokalaemia in conscious dogs. 2. Measurement of arterial and coronary sinus potassium differences revealed no significant potassium loss from the heart with established hypokalaemia. 3. Shortly after the initial salbutamol bolus and before steady-state hypokalaemia had been achieved during salbutamol infusion, a prolongation of QTc occurred; this corresponded to a significant myocardial potassium of -0.12 mmol/l plasma. 4. Urinary electrolyte excretions indicated that the hypokalaemia was not due to urinary potassium loss. 5. It was deduced that potassium had moved intracellularly. No change in hydrogen ion status occurred to account for this. Pronounced rises in plasma insulin immunoreactivities during salbutamol infusions suggested this as one mechanism for potassium shifts.
An 18-year-old African-American female was diagnosed with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HFH) during early childhood. Physical examination revealed tuberous xanthomas on the processus olecrani, as well as smaller tendinous and tuberous xanthomas on the hands. Both tendinous and tuberous xanthomas may occur in patients with HFH. The prevalence of HFH is 1 case/1 million persons, and it is reported less frequently in African-Americans. These photographs were taken shortly after the patient's highest low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) level was recorded at our medical center (766 mg/dl). At that time, she was only receiving atorvastatin. The patient is now taking four drugs at maximum doses for her HFH: atorvastatin, colesevelam, ezetimibe, and niacin. She is also receiving twice-monthly LDL apheresis. Her only cardiovascular risk factor was a low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level (dependent on apheresis). The patient's xanthomas tend to improve when she is compliant with her cholesterol-lowering regimen. Six years after these photographs were taken, the patient's LDL level was 184 mg/dl, and she remained cardiovascular event free.
To conduct a randomized placebo controlled double-blind crossover trial in order to evaluate a loratadine-pseudoephedrine combination (L + PS) in children with seasonal allergic rhinitis.
Forty children (15 males; 25 females), aged 3-15 years, were included in this study. They were randomized to receive L + PS (0.2 mg kg[-1] body weight-2.4 mg kg[-1] body weight respectively) or placebo (PLA) for 14 days. After 7 days of washout, patients were shifted to the other treatment for a further 14 days. Nasal symptoms (sneezing/itching, congestion, nasal dripping) and signs (turbinal swelling, retronasal drainage), rated on a scale ranging from: 1. absent to 5. very intense, and their sum or mean total symptom score (MTSS) were used as efficacy measurement.
Significant relief was observed; post-treatment MTSS difference and its percent change were respectively; L + PS = -4.29; 95% CI: -3.64 and -4.94 (27.8%), and PLA = -1.63; 95% CI: -0.95 and -2.31 (10.7%) (P < 0.001 baseline vs endpoint and between treatments). Furthermore, L + PS and PLA significantly modified symptoms, but only L + PS significantly modified signs. No clinical changes were observed during the trial; only one patient showed slight transient insomnia when receiving L + PS.
It is concluded that L + PS is useful and well tolerated in children with seasonal allergic rhinitis. However, elements such as placebo effect must be taken into account for planning future trials.
The antiepileptic drug, vigabatrin, has been linked to a specific pattern of visual field loss. The majority of studies have not included the paediatric population due to difficulties assessing visual field function. This is a particular problem as vigabatrin is effective against infantile spasms. A field-specific visual evoked potential was developed which consisted of a central stimulus (0-5 degrees radius) and a peripheral stimulus (30-60 degrees radius). Both stimuli consist of black and white checks which increase in size with eccentricity. Responses are recorded from occipital electrodes O2 and O1 referred to frontal electrode Fz. Electroretinograms and perimetry was performed were possible as a comparison. Thirty-nine children with epilepsy treated with vigabatrin aged from 3 to 15 years were included in the study; 35/39 children complied with the field-specific VEP, 26/39 complied with the ERG and 11/39 performed perimetry. Of these results, 18 children had normal ERG responses and eight had abnormal response. Visual field testing revealed four children had abnormal and seven had abnormal visual field results. The Field-specific VEP identified three of four abnormal perimetry results and six of seven normal perimetry results, giving a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 85.7%. When comparing perimetry results with the ERG parameters only the 30-Hz flicker amplitude, with a cut-off amplitude below 70 microV, gave a useful sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 71%. The field-specific VEP is a useful alternative method that is both well tolerated by young children and gives a reliable indication of likely peripheral visual field loss associated with vigabatrin. The defect appears to have a similar prevalence in children as it does in adults.
Valproic acid (VPA) is a drug known for idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity and is associated with oxidative stress. It is metabolized extensively with at least one pathway leading to reactive metabolites. The primary aim of the present study was to determine whether oxidative metabolites of VPA generated in situ contribute to the toxicity of the parent drug in sandwich-cultured rat hepatocytes. Concentration-response experiments with VPA produced median effective concentration values (mean ± SEM) of 1.1 ± 0.4, 12.2 ± 1.4, and 12.3 ± 1.9mM in the 2-(4-iodophenyl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)-5-(2,4-disulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium (WST-1; cell viability), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH; necrosis), and 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein (DCF; oxidative stress) assays, respectively. At equimolar concentrations, only the unsaturated metabolites of VPA gave responses comparable to VPA, with 2,4-diene-VPA calculated to be 3-, 6-, and 10-fold more potent than VPA in the WST-1, LDH, and DCF assays, respectively. In support of a role for reactive metabolites, 2-fluoro-2-propylpentanoic acid, which is relatively resistant to biotransformation to form a 2,4-diene metabolite, yielded little or no toxicity when compared with the nonhepatotoxic octanoic acid or the vehicle-treated control. By comparison, attenuating the in situ formation of 2-propylpent-4-enoic acid (4-ene-VPA), 3-hydroxy-2-propylpentanoic acid, 4-hydroxy-2-propylpentanoic acid, and 5-hydroxy-2-propylpentanoic acid by an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 (1-aminobenzotriazole) did not alter the effects of VPA on the WST-1, LDH, or DCF assay. Overall, VPA toxicity in sandwich-cultured rat hepatocytes is independent of the in situ formation of cytochrome P450-dependent oxidative metabolites, including 4-ene-VPA. However, the data obtained from structural analogues of VPA suggest that biotransformation does appear to play a role in VPA toxicity in rat hepatocytes.
Extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL) is the method of choice for the treatment of solitary stones in the kidney or ureter. Early lithotripters required prolonged immobility of the patient and caused considerable pain, necessitating general or epidural anaesthesia during the procedure. Modern lithotripters are quicker, but still require analgesia. Intravenous opioids are currently the drugs in favour. The opioids most commonly used are fentanyl and its shorter-acting analogue, alfentanil. The latter has a more rapid onset and, because of its reduced lipid solubility, is less cumulative. Sufentanil is a new opioid that is also of the phenylpiperidone group and has been recently licensed and introduced in Germany. Its pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties suggest an intermediate duration of action, high analgesic potency, and cardiovascular stability with diminished respiratory depression. In this prospective double-blind study, the effects of alfentanil and sufentanil on cardiovascular and respiratory parameters, the quality of analgesia, degree of sedation and the number and type of side-effects were compared.
After giving informed consent and with the approval of the hospital ethics committee, 62 patients (ASA I or II) were investigated. They were randomly allocated to two groups, either receiving sufentanil (n = 32) or alfentanil (n = 30) during ESWL. No premedication was given. Excluded were patients with pain prior to treatment, patients treated with a spasmolytic or analgesic drug and those who had undergone ESWL within the last 6 months. The loading dose was given as a 5-min infusion to each group. The heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, percutaneous oxygen saturation (SpO2), and the transcutaneous capillary carbon dioxide tension (PicCO2) were recorded prior to the procedure (i.e. before administration of opioid), after 1000 and after 2000 shock waves and then 1 and 2 h after the end of lithotripsy. After 1000 and 2000 shock waves, and 1 an 2 h after the treatment, the patients were asked to express their degree of tiredness and pain on a visual analogue scale (VAS). The occurrence of side-effects such as nausea, vomiting, pruritus or other unpleasant sensations were noted by an anaesthesia nurse. Simultaneously, the anaesthetist recorded his/her impression of the patient's tiredness and degree of pain, both by using the VAS. He was not allowed to question the patient, nor was he aware of the patient's own scores. At the end of the observation period both the patient and the anaesthetist related their overall satisfaction with the anaesthetic procedure, again by using the VAS. Data were analysed with the Mann-Whitney-U for comparisons between groups and with the Wilcoxon test within each group. The side-effects were analysed with the Chi-square test.
The systolic and diastolic blood pressure remained stable in both groups during and after treatment. The mean heart rate was different between the two groups at the beginning, and after the end of the treatment it dropped in both groups, but no significant difference was seen between groups. The PicCO2 rose from an initial mean of 36.8 mm Hg to a maximum of 44.6 mm Hg after 1000 shock waves in the sufentanil group, and from 37.8 mm Hg to 46.0 mm Hg after 2000 shock waves in the alfentanil group. The differences were significant within groups until 1 h after the end of the treatment, but there was no significant difference between groups. The oxygen saturation SpO2 dropped slightly in both groups. The differences were not significant between groups. In the alfentanil group, one patient had a maximum carbon dioxide tension of 83 mm Hg after 2000 shock waves, whereas in the sufentanil treated group the oxygen saturation fell to 72% in one case. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
Vigabatrin (gamma-vinyl-GABA) is an antiepileptic drug successful in the management of infantile spasms. Photopic ERGs were tested in children followed longitudinally before and during vigabatrin treatment.
Subjects were 26 infants (age range 1.5-24 months, median 7.6 months) on vigabatrin treatment who had been tested on multiple visits (two to four visits; mean, three visits). Eighteen of these were assessed initially before starting vigabatrin therapy and eight were assessed within 1 week of initiation of the drug. ERGs were recorded at 6-month intervals. Standard ISCEV protocol with Burian-Allen bipolar contact-lens electrodes (standard flash 2.0 cd.s/m2) was used. Although ISCEV standards were followed, a higher flash intensity (set at 3.6 cd.s/m2) was chosen for single-flash cone assessment to provide a better definition of OPs. Photopic OPs were divided into categories of early OPs and late OP (OP4). Responses were compared with age corrected limits extrapolated from our lab control database.
Results showed differential effects of vigabatrin on the summed early OP amplitudes versus the late OP (OP4) and cone b-wave amplitude. The early OPs showed significant decrease (p = 0.0005, repeated measures analysis of variance) after 6 months and remained decreased for the duration of treatment. There was no significant change seen in the late OP. The cone b-wave amplitude showed initial increase (p = 0.04) after 6 months, followed by a decrease after 18 months; a trend similar to that of the late OP.
Early photopic OPs were disrupted more than the late OP, suggesting relative deficit in the ON (depolarizing) retinal pathways.
d-Amphetamine is a candidate agonist medication for the treatment of cocaine dependence, and evaluation of d-amphetamine effects on abuse-related effects of cocaine in preclinical assays is warranted.
This study was designed to assess the effects of chronic d-amphetamine treatment on cocaine- and food-maintained responding under a progressive-ratio schedule in rhesus monkeys. The effects of schedule manipulations on cocaine and food-maintained responding were also examined for comparison with d-amphetamine effects.
Key-press responding under a progressive-ratio schedule resulted in the delivery of cocaine (0.032 mg/kg per injection) or 1 g food pellets. The effect of manipulating cocaine dose (saline, 0.001-0.1 mg/kg per injection) or the number of food pellets delivered (0, 1 and 4 pellets) was determined. Subsequently, three schedule parameters were manipulated: (1) starting ratio value, (2) increments of the ratio progression, and (3) duration of post-reinforcer time-outs when the ratio value was constant. Finally, the effects of 10-day treatment with d-amphetamine (0.01-0.1 mg/kg per hour) were examined.
Break points increased as a function of cocaine dose or the number of food pellets, and similar break points were maintained by delivery of 0.032 mg/kg per injection cocaine and 1 food pellet. Manipulation of schedule parameters produced similar effects on responding maintained by cocaine (0.032 mg/kg per injection) or food (1 pellet). In contrast, d-amphetamine produced a dose-dependent decrease in cocaine-maintained responding and had less consistent effects on food-maintained responding.
These results are consistent with the hypothesis that chronic treatment with d-amphetamine decreases cocaine self-administration in rhesus monkeys, possibly by attenuating the reinforcing effects of cocaine.
Alfentanil in combination with etomidate and N2O/O2 was given to 50 patients as single dosage (0.024 mg/kg b.w.) or with repeated injections for surgical interventions up to 90 minutes duration. In 68% of these cases sufficient analgesia was obtained. The most frequent side-effects were rigidity of the thorax (54%), quick, extensive changes in blood pressure (32%) and bradycardia (28%). The recovery phase was very short, postoperative sickness and vomiting were seen in 6% of all cases. Still, after repeated injections phases with prolonged sleep can appear. While using Alfentanil, exact monitoring is necessary, as quick and unexpected changes of blood pressure and pulse can appear.
A 63-year-old man with chronic hepatitis C and persistently normal alanine aminotransferase levels was treated with peginterferon alpha-2a (180 microg weekly) and ribavirin (800 mg daily). Hepatitis C virus-ribonucleic acid was negative at week 4. After 12 weeks of therapy, haemoglobin levels had decreased by 3.5mg/dL, and he developed a syncope episode with electrocardiographic signs of myocardial ischaemia. Antiviral treatment was stopped and the ischaemia-like electrocardiographic changes resolved completely within 2 months. Eight months later, because of the previous rapid virological response and patient motivation, he was treated again with peginterferon and ribavirin. Baseline and weekly electrocardiographic recordings were obtained during treatment. At week 4 hepatitis C virus-ribonucleic acid was negative. At week 8, when the haemoglobin levels had decreased by 3.4 mg/dL, the patient developed the same ischaemia-like changes that occurred during the previous treatment. Antiviral therapy was stopped and the electrocardiographic ischaemia-like changes disappeared after 1 month. The patient neither had a history of previous cardiovascular diseases, nor evidence of current disease at myocardial scintigraphy. However, a coronary microvessel spasm, possibly related to drug-toxicity and/or anaemia could not be excluded. This case indicates the need of strict electrocardiographic monitoring in elderly patients undergoing treatment with peginterferon and ribavirin.
In the present study, two series of experiments were done with PAN nephropathy rats given fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) or FGF2 neutralizing antibodies. In the first series of experiments, a dose of 10 micrograms of FGF2 (FGF2 group), 40 micrograms of an FGF2 neutralizing antibody (Anti-FGF2 group) or an equal volume of physiological saline (Control group) was administered for four days after PAN injection. Urinary protein increased more in the FGF2 group than in the other two groups. PCNA (+) glomerular cells were found in decreasing order in groups FGF2, Control and Anti-FGF2. Most of the PCNA (+) cells were podocytes and epithelial cells of Bowman's capsule. Staining for desmin, a marker of podocyte injury, was significantly reduced in the Anti-FGF2 group. Glomerular adhesive lesions were found in decreasing order in groups FGF2, Control and Anti-FGF2. The second series of experiments was designed to study the effects of FGF2 neutralizing antibody (40 micrograms for 5 days after PAN injection, in MoAb group) on severely damaged podocytes caused by repeated (two courses) injections in the PAN nephropathy rats. The results were the same as those in series 1. An increase in urinary protein excretion was observed in both groups, but on the 40th day, the level of proteinuria in the MoAb group decreased abruptly. It was observed that the MoAb group had few adhesive glomeruli compared to the IgG group (administration of mouse IgG) and the PCNA (+) epithelial cells of Bowman's capsule were also few. It was supposed that FGF2 would promote the formation of adhesive lesions by stimulating the proliferation of podocytes and epithelial cells of Bowman's capsule. Additionally, FGF2 itself was thought to impair podocytes because of the increasing desmin score and proteinuria.
The biochemical function of p27Kip1 as an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases is well-established, but the role of p27 as a tumor suppressor depends on specific cellular contexts. Previous studies using p27 knockout mice on mixed C57BL/6J x 129/Sv strain background did not find a tumor suppressor role of p27 in the liver. An important feature of mouse liver tumorigenesis is strain-dependent tumor susceptibility. Here, we determined the role of p27 in liver tumorigenesis in C57BL/6J mice, a liver tumor resistant strain, in response to a diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and phenolbarbital (PB) two-stage carcinogenesis protocol. At 6 mo of age, while livers of DEN-PB treated p27+/+ and p27-/- C57BL/6J mice appeared morphologically normal, p27-/- livers, but not p27+/+ livers, contained readily detectable glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase)-deficient foci. At the 9-mo time point, p27-/- mice developed significantly enhanced liver tumor phenotypes than p27+/+ mice as demonstrated by increased numbers and sizes of liver surface nodules, increased liver-to-body weight ratios, and increased numbers of G6Pase-deficient nodules and histologically diagnosed foci and adenomas in liver sections. Hepatic lesions in p27-/- livers contained more proliferating hepatocytes than lesions in p27+/+ livers, while the numbers of apoptotic cells appeared similar in lesions of both genotypes. Unexpectedly, tumors in p27-/- livers contained only slightly elevated Cdk2 kinase activity compared with normal livers. These results reveal a liver tumor suppressor role of p27 in this resistant mouse strain, and the need to further study the role of Cdk2 kinase in liver tumor promotion by p27 inactivation.
Both sex and gonadal steroid hormones may influence the abuse-related behavioral effects of cocaine under some conditions, but there is considerable inconsistency in the literature. In the present study, rats were trained under a fixed ratio (FR) 5 schedule of food presentation and were then allowed to self-administer cocaine (1.0 mg/kg/injection) until behavior stabilized. Subsequently, complete dose-effect functions for cocaine self-administration (0.032-3.2 mg/kg/injection) were determined in female and male rats before and after gonadectomy, and in gonadectomized female and male rats before and during chronic treatment with estradiol or testosterone, respectively. Sex, gonadectomy, and gonadal hormones did not alter the shape or position of dose-effect functions for cocaine self-administration. These results suggest that sex, estrogen, and testosterone levels are not critical determinants of cocaine's reinforcing effects in rats under these conditions. This study differed from earlier studies in that complete dose-effect functions for cocaine were determined. These findings suggest that the behavioral training history, the unit dose of cocaine, and the schedule of reinforcement are important variables in studies of sex and gonadal hormone effects on cocaine self-administration.
