Peptides designed from osteoprotegerin (OPG) have previously been shown to inhibit receptor activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL) and prevent bone loss without significantly inhibiting inflammation. The objective of this study was to develop a novel peptide with dual inhibitory activity against bone loss and inflammation using site-directed mutagenesis. Out of the three putative sites (i.e., Tyr70-Asp78, Tyr82-Glu96, and Leu113-Arg122) available on OPG for RANKL binding, Leu113-Arg122 was used as a template for peptide synthesis. Peptide mutants of the template sequence (112YLEIEFCLKHR122) were synthesized and initially screened for their inhibitory effect on RANK-RANKL binding by competitive ELISA. The most active peptide was further evaluated in vitro for RANKL induced osteoclastogenesis in mouse macrophage cells, and in vivo for Freund's complete adjuvant induced arthritis (AIA) in Lewis rats. The efficacy of the candidate peptide was compared with that of the standard drug celecoxib. The peptide YR-11 (YLEIEFSLKHR), obtained by direct substitution of cysteine with a serine residue in the template sequence, significantly (p<0.05) inhibited RANK-RANKL binding, and RANKL induced TRAP activity and formation of multinucleated osteoclasts without any cytotoxicity. Administration of YR-11 peptide at the dose of 30mg/kg (i.p.) ameliorated both bone loss and inflammation in AIA rats. To elucidate the mechanism for inhibition of inflammation in arthritic rats, serum and tissue cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6) were analyzed by ELISA and RT-PCR methods. Results confirmed that YR-11 peptide inhibited pro-inflammatory cytokines in the sera and hind paw tissues of AIA rats through its suppressive effect on RANKL induced nuclear translocation of NF-κB. The results obtained in this study substantiate the therapeutic benefit of this novel peptide in the prevention of bone loss and inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis with reduced side effects.
The effects of NIK-247 on cholinesterase, scopolamine-induced amnesia and spontaneous movement were examined and compared with those of the well-known cholinesterase inhibitors tacrine and E-2020. NIK-247, tacrine and E-2020 all strongly inhibited acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in human red blood cells (IC50s = 1.0 x 10(-6), 2.9 x 10(-7) and 3.7 x 10(-8) M, respectively). In addition, NIK-247 and tacrine, but not E-2020, strongly inhibited butyrylcholinestrase (BuChE) in human serum. All three drugs produced mixed inhibition of AChE activity. Moreover, the inhibitory effect of NIK-247 on AChE was reversible. All compounds at 0.1-1 mg/kg p.o. significantly improved the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) in rats performing a passive avoidance task. The three compounds at 1 and 3 mg/kg p.o. did not significantly decrease spontaneous movement by rats. These findings suggest that NIK-247 at a low dose (0.1-1 mg/kg p.o.) improves scopolamine-induced amnesia but does not affect spontaneous movement. The findings suggest that NIK-247 may be a useful drug for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) such as enalapril, captopril, and lisinopril are well established as effective treatments of arterial hypertension and congestive heart failure. They are widely used and generally well tolerated. Angioedema is a rare but serious adverse effect of ACEI therapy. Most frequently, edema involves the face, oral cavity, and the glossopharyngeal or glottic area. Visceral edema induced by ACEI has also occurred. Life threatening and even fatal cases associated with ACEI have been reported. Although angioedema typically occurs within the first weeks of ACEI therapy, some cases with latencies of several months to years have been reported. This paper reports a case of late onset and recurrent angioedema in a patient treated with lisinopril for hypertension. A discussion of ACEI angioedema follows.
The therapeutic index of either taurocholate (TC) or tauroursodeoxycholate (TUDC) administration in the treatment of drug-induced cholestasis was evaluated in perfused rat liver using a dose-response study. During estradiol-17-beta-glucuronide cholestasis, TC was more effective than TUDC in ameliorating bile flow but showed a low margin of safety since high doses caused additional toxicity. In contrast, TUDC ameliorated cholestasis even at very high doses with no adverse effects. In the model of chlorpromazine cholestasis, TC infusion did not correct but rather aggravated cholestasis, whereas TUDC at nonsaturating doses reversed the cholestasis and only at very high doses caused some toxicity. TUDC shows a good therapeutic index and may be employed with a reasonable margin of safety in the treatment of drug cholestasis.
We sought to determine the outcomes of long-term use of lamivudine combined with hepatitis B immune globulin according to the titer of antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen in preventing recurrent hepatitis B in Chinese patients after liver transplantation.
Eighty-five patients with detectable hepatitis B envelope antigen in serum before liver transplantation were retrospectively enrolled in the study. Twenty-eight patients used lamivudine monotherapy as a control group. Fifty-seven patients used lamivudine combined with hepatitis B immune globulin therapy according to the titer of antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen.
In the lamivudine monotherapy group, seven patients had recurrent hepatitis B after transplantation, with 1-, 2-, and 3-year recurrence rates of 10.70%, 21.90%, and 25.8%, respectively. In the combination therapy group, three patients had recurrent hepatitis B after transplantation, with 1-, 2-, and 3-year recurrence rates of 0.00%, 5.50%, and 13.40% (P = .03). YMDD mutants were detected in 6 of the 10 patients with recurrent hepatitis B. HBV-DNA load before transplantation was significantly associated with recurrent hepatitis B after transplantation in the overall patients (P = .04).
Long-term use of lamivudine combined with hepatitis B immune globulin, according to the titer of antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen was efficacious and cost effective to prevent recurrent hepatitis B in Chinese patients after liver transplantation.
Pre-1992, latex paint was formulated with mercury (Hg) as phenylmercuric acetate (PMA). Hg vaporizes reducing its content, and lead (Pb) is stable and remains unchanged. The objective of this study is to describe the content of Hg and Pb in existing paint coatings. Forty paint chip samples were collected from both interior and exterior surfaces of homes in metropolitan New Orleans and analyzed for Hg and Pb. The median Hg in exterior paints is 26.9 mg kg(-1) (0.8-214.0) compared with 7.1 mg kg(-1) (0.03-39.2) for interior paints. The median Pb content is 76603 mg kg(-1) (464-317151) and 416 mg kg(-1) (24-63313) respectively, for exterior and interior paints. The Spearman correlation coefficients for Hg and Pb are -0.312 (P=0.13) and -0.471 (P=0.07) respectively, in exterior and interior samples. Hg and Pb vary independently with each other in paint films. Median Hg in exterior paints is four times larger than for interior paints. Median Pb in exterior paints is 184 times larger than interior paints. The Pb and Hg content in exterior and interior paint chips are significantly different (Mann-Whitney Rank Sum Test, P0.001 and P=0.006, respectively). Only 1 of the 25 exterior paints contained less than the current 5000 mg kg(-1) US standard for Pb, the criteria for exemption from the power-sanding restrictions of the New Orleans Lead Ordinance. Prior to banning PMA in paint, Hg poisonings presented as acrodynia were reported for children living in homes freshly painted with latex paint. Because of the affinity of Hg and Pb for sulfur-containing amino acid proteins, their presence in paint coatings poses an increased hazard when released as dust.
Cadmium toxicity has been associated with learning disabilities and Parkinsonian symptoms in humans. We have previously shown that cultured oligodendrocytes are directly damaged by cadmium exposure. Here, we characterized the molecular mechanisms underlying cadmium-induced cell death in oligodendrocyte progenitors (OLP). Cadmium caused a concentration-dependent decrease in cell viability as assessed by mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity and by the cellular release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). A short exposure (1h) to cadmium (25-100 microM), followed by several hours of recovery, produced a predominant apoptotic mechanism of cell death, involving the mitochondrial intrinsic pathway, as evidenced by nuclear condensation, DNA fragmentation, bax integration into the outer mitochondrial membrane, cytochrome c release, and activation of caspases-9 and -3. Pretreatment of OLPs with the pan-caspase inhibitor, zVAD-fmk, prevented caspase-3 activation but only slightly reduced cell death 11h after cadmium exposure and failed to prevent cadmium-induced bax insertion into the mitochondrial membrane. In contrast, the anti-oxidant N-acetyl cysteine blocked caspase-3 activation and significantly protected OLPs from cadmium-induced cell death. Continuous exposure (18-48 h) of OLPs to low micromolar concentrations (0.001-25 microM) of cadmium significantly decreased mitochondrial metabolic activity, increased LDH leakage starting at 5 microM and maximally activated caspase-3. These results suggest that cadmium induces OLP cell death mainly by apoptosis, and at higher concentrations or with prolonged exposure to the heavy metal there is an increase in cytoplasmic membrane damage, an index of necrosis. More importantly, transient exposure to cadmium is sufficient to damage OLPs and could in principle impair myelination in the neonate.
Transient cortical blindness is a rare complication of angiographic contrast use. A 64-year-old man experienced transient cortical blindness after subclavian arteriography for an occluded axillofemoral graft. The literature on transient cortical blindness is reviewed.
Clinical studies demonstrate attenuation of trigeminal-related pain states such as migraine by intranasal CO(2) application. This study investigated the underlying mechanisms of this observation and its potential use to reverse trigeminal pain and hypersensitivity.
We used a behavioral rat model of capsaicin-induced trigeminal thermal hyperalgesia, intranasal CO2 application and several pharmacologic agents such as carbonic anhydrase, acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), and TRPV1 blocker as well as acidic buffer solutions to investigate and mimic the underlying mechanism.
Intranasal CO(2) application produced a robust dose-dependent antihyperalgesic effect in rats that lasted at least one hour. Blockade of nasal carbonic anhydrase with a dorzolamide solution (Trusopt ophthalmic solution) showed only a non-significant decrease of the antihyperalgesic effect of intranasal CO(2) application. Pharmacologic blockade of ASICs or TRPV(1) receptor significantly attenuated the antihyperalgesic effect of CO(2) application. The effect of intranasal CO(2) application could be mimicked by application of pH 4, but not pH 5, buffer solution to the nasal mucosa. As with CO(2) application, the antihyperalgesic effect of intranasal pH 4 buffer was blocked by nasal application of antagonists to ASICs and TRPV(1) receptors.
Our results indicate that intranasal CO(2) application results in a subsequent attenuation of trigeminal nociception, mediated by protonic activation of TRPV(1) and ASIC channels. A potential central mechanism for this attenuation is discussed. The antihyperalgesic effects of intranasal CO(2) application might be useful for the treatment of trigeminal pain states.
Beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposition likely plays a causal role in the lesions that occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 is widely prescribed in the treatment of cognitive deficits that are associated with normal and pathological brain aging such as AD. We have investigated here the potential effectiveness of EGb 761 against cell death produced by Abeta fragments on primary cultures of hippocampal cells, these cells being severely damaged in AD. A co-treatment with EGb 761 protected cells against toxicity induced by Abeta fragments in a concentration dependent manner. The effect of EGb 761 was even significant if added up to 8 hr to cells and was shared by its flavonoid fraction CP 205, whereas the terpenes bilobalide and ginkgolide B were ineffective. EGb 761 also displayed protective effects against toxicity produced by either H2O2 or nitric oxide, two neurotoxic agents that possibly mediate Abeta toxicity. Moreover, EGb 761, and to a lesser extent CP 205, completely blocked Abeta-induced events, such as reactive oxygen species accumulation and apoptosis. Taken together, these results and those obtained by other groups highlight the neuroprotective abilities of EGb 761 against dysfunction and death of neurons caused by Abeta deposits.
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) modelling can be used to characterize the relationship between dose regimen of opioids, plasma concentration and effect of opioids, which in turn can lead to more rational treatment regimens of pain. The aim of this study was to investigate the concentration-effect relationship for transdermal buprenorphine and fentanyl in experimentally induced pain. Twenty-two healthy volunteers were randomized to receive transdermal patches with fentanyl (25 μg/hr, 72 hr), buprenorphine (20 μg/hr, 144 hr) or placebo. The experimental pain tests were pressure at the tibial bone, cutaneous thermal stimulation, cold pressor test (conditioning stimulus (3 ± 0.3°C cold water), nerve growth factor-induced muscle soreness and intradermal capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia and allodynia. Experiments were carried out at baseline, 24, 48, 72 and 144 hr after application of patches. Time-course of placebo was described first and was afterwards added to the description of the time-courses of buprenorphine and fentanyl. This was either described by zero (no drug effect), linear or E(max) model concentration-effect relationships. Time-dependent changes in pain measures in the placebo arm were described by linear or quadratic functions. The time-course of fentanyl and buprenorphine plasma concentrations was complex but could be represented by cubic spline interpolation in the models. Buprenorphine significantly attenuated bone-associated pain, heat pain, nerve growth factor-induced soreness and cold pressor pain. Fentanyl significantly attenuated cold pressor pain for the administered dose regimens. Although the PK/PD relationship for both drugs could be described with similar models, tissue-differentiated analgesic effects between buprenorphine and fentanyl was shown.
Nickel (Ni), the main cause of contact allergy to metals, induces in vitro production of both Th1- and Th2-type cytokines in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from allergic subjects. Because the knowledge of the cellular immune response to other metals involved in contact allergy has been limited, we investigated the cytokine profile induced by Ni, cobalt (Co), chromium (Cr), palladium (Pd) and gold (Au) in PBMC from patients with patch test reactivity to the respective metals. PBMC from patients with patch test reactivity to Ni, Co, Cr, Au and/or Pd (n = 31) and non-allergic controls (n = 5) were stimulated in vitro with corresponding metal salts. Th1- [interleukin (IL)-2 and interferon (IFN)-gamma] and Th2- (IL-4 and IL-13) type cytokine responses were measured by enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISpot) and/or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). All metals induced a mixed Th1- and Th2-type cytokine production in PBMC from individual patients with patch test reactivity to the corresponding metal, but not in control PBMC. Significantly higher responses in the patient versus controls were found for Cr (IL-2 and IL-13), Pd (IL-2 and IL-4), Au (IL-13 and IFN-gamma) (all P < 0.05) and Ni (all four cytokines; P < 0.01) but not Co. Overall, 71% (37/52) and 89% (81/91) of the positive and negative patch test reactivities to metals, respectively, were matched by the in vitro reactivity. In conclusion, our data suggest that sensitization to Co, Cr, Pd and Au results in a cellular immune response of a character similar to the mixed Th1- and Th2-type cytokine profile shown previously to be induced by Ni.
IL-9 contributes to lung inflammatory processes such as asthma, by promoting mast cell differentiation, B cell activation, eosinophilia, and mucus production by lung epithelial cells. The observation that IL-9 overexpressing mice show increased mast cell numbers in the intestinal mucosa suggests that this cytokine might also play a role in intestinal inflammation. In colons from IL-9 transgenic mice, the expression of Muc2, a major intestinal mucin gene, was up-regulated, together with that of CLCA3 chloride channel and resistin like alpha, which are goblet cell-associated genes. Additional IL-9 up-regulated genes were identified and included innate immunity genes such as angiogenin 4 and the PLA2g2a phospholipase A(2), which are typical Paneth cell markers. Histochemical staining of Paneth cells by phloxine/tartrazine showed that IL-9 induces Paneth cell hyperplasia in Lieberkühn glands of the small intestine, and in the colonic mucosa, where this cell type is normally absent. Expression of Paneth cell markers, including angiogenin 4, PLA2g2a, and cryptdins, was induced in the colon of wild-type mice after two to four daily administrations of IL-9. By crossing IL-9 transgenic mice with IL-13(-/-) mice, or by injecting IL-9 into IL-4R(-/-) mice, we showed that IL-13 was required for the up-regulation of these Paneth cell-specific genes by IL-9. Taken together, our data indicate that Paneth cell hyperplasia and expression of their various antimicrobial products contribute to the immune response driven by TH2 cytokines, such as IL-9 and IL-13 in the intestinal mucosa.
Leflunomide is an immunosuppressive agent that inhibits de novo synthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides and the activity of protein tyrosine kinase. This study examined the teratogenicity of Leflunomide in mice. Pregnant mice were treated orally with Leflunomide at a dose of 10, 30 or 70 mg/kg/day from day 6 to 15 of pregnancy. At 70 mg/kg, all embryos were resorbed and no live fetuses were detected. At 30 mg/kg, Leflunomide reduced fetal viability, and increased the incidence of multiple external, skeletal and visceral malformations. Characteristic external malformations were neural tube defects, cleft palate and tail deformities. Limb malformations were observed in a small number of fetuses. Skeletal examinations revealed malformations of cervical to sacral vertebrae, ribs and sternebrae. In the viscerae, the main anomalies were membranous ventricular septum defect and persistent truncus arteriosus. The results of this study indicate that Leflunomide administered at 30 mg/kg on days 6 to 15 of pregnancy can induce craniofacial malformations and deformities of the axial skeleton, heart and great vessels in mice.
Although some studies have suggested fewer venous complications are associated with midazolam than with diazepam for endoscopic procedures, this variable has not been well documented. We prospectively evaluated the incidence of venous complications after intravenous injection of diazepam or midazolam in 122 consecutive patients undergoing colonoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy. Overall, venous complications were more frequent with diazepam (22 of 62 patients) than with midazolam (4 of 60 patients) (p < 0.001). A palpable venous cord was present in 23% (14 of 62) of patients in the diazepam group, compared with 2% (1 of 60 patients) in the midazolam group (p < 0.002). Pain at the injection site occurred in 35% (22 of 62) of patients in the diazepam group compared with 7% (4 of 60 patients) in the midazolam group (p < 0.001). Swelling and warmth at the injection site were not significantly different between the two groups. Smoking, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use, intravenous catheter site, dwell time of the needle, alcohol use, and pain during the injection had no effect on the incidence of venous complications.
The present study was carried out to investigate the species differences in the nephrotoxic response to S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)glutathione (DCVG) using rats, hamsters and guinea-pigs. DCVG was given intraperitoneally in physiological saline to groups of 5 animals at doses 0, 165 and 330 mumol/kg. Urine was collected for 24 h and the animals were then sacrificed. Significantly increased levels of urinary glucose, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, proteins and blood urea nitrogen were observed in rats at both dose levels of DCVG. An increase, but not of similar magnitude, of these biochemical parameters was noted in hamsters only at the higher dose of DCVG. Guinea-pigs showed significant increases in these biochemical parameters at the lower dose, but not at the higher dose. Light-microscopic studies showed increasing proximal tubular necrosis (PTN) in rats with increasing dose of DCVG, but PTN involving straight tubules only was observed at the higher dose in hamsters. PTN was again observed in guinea-pigs at the lower dose, but not at the higher dose of DCVG.
Cases of multiple chemical sensitivities (MCS) have been reported predominantly in adult patients, but pediatric cases have rarely been reported.
We present a 5-year-old girl who suffered from recurrent reactions accompanied by urticaria, angioedema, headaches, dyspnea, loss of consciousness, and abdominal pain that were not eradicated, but were instead exacerbated, by various treatments with antihistamines and intravenous corticosteroids. Her diet diary revealed that symptoms occurred after ingestion of colorful sweets such as candies and jellybeans. Open challenge tests with food additives and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) were performed after elimination of these items. Skin prick tests using additives and NSAIDs, which were dissolved in saline, and prick- prick tests using candies and jellybeans, were carried out.
Open challenge tests with Tartrazine, aspirin and acetaminophen were positive, whereas skin prick tests using additives and NSAIDs and prick-prick tests using candies and jellybeans were all negative. Consequently, intolerance to azo dyes and NSAIDs such as aspirin was diagnosed. However, she appeared to react to multiple chemical odors such as those of cigarette smoke, disinfectant, detergent, cleaning compounds, perfume, and hairdressing, all while avoiding additives and NSAIDs. On the basis of her history and the neuro-ophthalmological abnormalities, a diagnosis of severe MCS was made and she was prescribed multiple vitamins and glutathione.
The present results suggest that in pediatric MCS, food and drug additives containing azo dyes might play important roles as elicitors.
Given in clinically relevant large doses to rats, mu-opioids produce limbic system hypermetabolism and histopathology. This investigation extends these observations, in both rats and humans, for the short-acting drug remifentanil, which allows more precise control and assessment of the effects of duration of opioid exposure. We performed two series of experiments: one in rats for neuropathologic effects and the second in humans for neurometabolic effects. Fifty mechanically ventilated rats received saline solution or remifentanil 20-160 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) for 3 h, followed by neuropathologic evaluation 7 days later. Four volunteers underwent induction of anesthesia and endotracheal intubation with propofol and rocuronium administration followed by remifentanil infusion at 1-3 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) with positron emission tomography evaluation of cerebral metabolic rate for glucose. In rats, dose-related electroencephalogram activation was evident and 19 of 40 remifentanil-treated rats showed brain damage, primarily in the limbic system (P < 0.01). In humans, cerebral metabolic rate for glucose in the temporal lobe increased from 6.29 +/- 0.32 to 7.68 +/- 1.05 mg x 100 g(-1) x min(-1) (P < 0.05). These data indicate that prolonged large-dose remifentanil infusion is neurotoxic in rats with congruent metabolic effects with brief infusion in humans and suggest that some adverse effects reported in rats may be clinically relevant.
This study demonstrates dose-related remifentanil neurotoxicity in physiologically controlled rats with congruent brain metabolic effects in four humans undergoing positron emission tomography evaluation during brief large-dose remifentanil anesthesia. These data suggest that some adverse effects reported in rats may be clinically relevant.
Neuroexcitatory movements associated with propofol anesthesia are well recognized. Here we report on the successful use of benztropine (2 mg) to abolish abnormal dystonic movements after propofol anesthesia. Forty-five case reports are reviewed, and a treatment strategy for abnormal movements during propofol anesthesia is provided.
Mitochondrial dysfunction plays a pivotal role in the cell toxicology and death decision. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of three organocompounds (ebselen [Ebs], diphenyl diselenide [(PhSe)(2)] and diphenyl ditelluride [(PhTe)(2)]) on mitochondrial complexes (I, II, I-III, II-III and IV) activity from rat liver and kidney to determine their potential role as molecular targets of organochalcogens. All studied organochalcogens caused a statistically significant inhibition of the mitochondrial complex I activity. Ebs and (PhTe)(2) caused a statistically significant inhibition of the mitochondrial complex II activity in both hepatic and renal membranes. Hepatic mitochondrial complex II activity was practically unchanged by (PhSe)(2), whereas it significantly inhibited renal complex II activity. Mitochondrial complex IV activity was practically unchanged by the organochalcogens. Furthermore, organochalcogens inhibited the mitochondrial respiration supported by complex I or complex II substrates. The inhibitory effect of Ebs, (PhSe)(2) and (PhTe)(2) on mitochondrial complex I was prevented by NADH, but it was not prevented by catalase (CAT) and/or superoxide dismutase (SOD). Additionally, the organochalcogens-induced inhibition of complex I and II was completely reversed by reduced glutathione (GSH). In conclusion, Ebs, (PhSe)(2) and (PhTe)(2) were more effective inhibitors of renal and hepatic mitochondrial complex I than complex II, whereas complexes III and IV were little modified by these compounds. Taking into account the presented results, we suggest that organochalcogen-induced mitochondrial complexes I and II inhibition can be mediated by their thiol oxidation activity, i.e., Ebs, (PhSe)(2) and (PhTe)(2) can oxidize critical thiol groups from mitochondrial complexes I and II. So, mitochondrial dysfunction can be considered an important factor in the toxicity of Ebs, (PhSe)(2) and (PhTe)(2).
Acute myocardial infarction was observed in two patients receiving standard intravenous doses of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemotherapy. Therefore, the authors prospectively assessed the thrombogenicity of this agent by studying ten patients, six with head and neck cancer and four with gastrointestinal malignancies, receiving 5-FU (1 g/m2/day) as a constant intravenous infusion over a 4-day or 5-day period. The six patients with head and neck cancer also received a single dose of 100 mg/m2 of cisplatin on day 1. Blood samples were obtained preinfusion, 24 hours into the infusion, and postinfusion. Samples were assayed for fibrinopeptide A (FpA) by enzyme-linked immunoassay, for protein C activity (PCa) using a chromogenic substrate (Spectrozyme PCa), and protein C (PCag) and free protein S antigen (PSag) by electroimmunoassay. No patient experienced a thrombotic event. A significant increase was observed in FpA levels during the infusion which returned toward baseline at the conclusion of the infusion. After infusion of 5-FU, the PCa value was significantly lower than the PCag (37 +/- 17 versus 69 +/- 24%; P less than 0.002). No effect on protein S was observed. The changes in the patients receiving 5-FU alone were comparable to those who also received CDDP. The authors conclude that during the infusion of 5-FU, the rise in FpA activation and reduction in PCa as compared to PCag are compatible with activation of coagulation.
Inhalation of mercury vapor (Hg0) inhibits binding of GTP to rat brain tubulin, thereby inhibiting tubulin polymerization into microtubules. A similar molecular lesion has also been observed in 80% of brains from patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) compared to age-matched controls. However the precise site and mode of action of Hg ions remain illusive. Therefore, the present study examined whether Hg ions could affect membrane dynamics of neurite growth cone morphology and behavior. Since tubulin is a highly conserved cytoskeletal protein in both vertebrates and invertebrates, we hypothesized that growth cones from animal species could be highly susceptible to Hg ions. To test this possibility, the identified, large Pedal A (PeA) neurons from the central ring ganglia of the snail Lymnoea stagnalis were cultured for 48 h in 2 ml brain conditioned medium (CM). Following neurite outgrowth, metal chloride solution (2 microl) of Hg, Al, Pb, Cd, or Mn (10(-7) M) was pressure applied directly onto individual growth cones. Time-lapse images with inverted microscopy were acquired prior to, during, and after the metal ion exposure. We demonstrate that Hg ions markedly disrupted membrane structure and linear growth rates of imaged neurites in 77% of all nerve growth cones. When growth cones were stained with antibodies specific for both tubulin and actin, it was the tubulin/microtubule structure that disintegrated following Hg exposure. Moreover, some denuded neurites were also observed to form neurofibrillary aggregates. In contrast, growth cone exposure to other metal ions did not effect growth cone morphology, nor was their motility rate compromised. To determine the growth suppressive effects of Hg ions on neuronal sprouting, cells were cultured either in the presence or absence of Hg ions. We found that in the presence of Hg ions, neuronal somata failed to sprout, whereas other metalic ions did not effect growth patterns of cultured PeA cells. We conclude that this visual evidence and previous biochemical data strongly implicate Hg as a potential etiological factor in neurodegeneration.
In order to evaluate the possible cardiosparing effect of a prolonged infusion of doxorubicin as compared with the standard mode of administration 62 consecutive patients with metastatic carcinoma of the breast or carcinoma of the ovary Stage III or IV were prospectively randomized to receive doxorubicin either as a rapid infusion over 15 to 20 minutes at 8 AM or as a continuous infusion over 6 hours, 8 AM to 2 PM. The remaining protocol was identical for the two groups. The cardiotoxic effect of doxorubicin was evaluated by history and physical examination and by the decline in resting ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) as determined by gated pool radionuclide angiography with technetium 99m (99mTc) and by the decline in the height of the QRS complexes in the standard leads of the echocardiogram (ECG). Initially there were 31 patients in each group. The cumulative dose of doxorubicin, was 410 mg/m2 +/- 42 SD in the standard infusion group and 428 mg/m2 +/- 48 SD in the 6-hour infusion group. The mean decline in LVEF after a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 300 mg/m2 was 17% in the first group and only 4.1% in the second. After 400 mg/m2 the mean fall in LVEF was 21% in the first group and 6% in the second. The mean decline in QRS voltage after 300 mg/m2 was 29% and 1.5%, respectively. Four patients, all in the standard infusion group, developed congestive heart failure. These data suggest that slow infusion of doxorubicin is associated with reduced cardiotoxicity.
A 64-year-old man developed a fulminant hepatitis 4 days after initiation of amiodarone treatment and a total dose of 7.1 g. The direct Coombs test was positive and became negative again soon after stopping treatment. Immediately after stopping treatment the extremely increased parameters of hepatic failure returned to normal again. A rechallenge with 200 mg of amiodarone was accompanied by a positive Coombs test which again became negative after several days. We conclude that the occurrence of an acute hepatitis soon after initiation of amiodarone treatment is mediated by immunological mechanisms. There should be high vigilance with respect to this rare life-threatening adverse drug reaction.
Genes have a major role in the control of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. Here we have identified two Tangier disease (TD) families, confirmed 9q31 linkage and refined the disease locus to a limited genomic region containing the gene encoding the ATP-binding cassette transporter (ABC1). Familial HDL deficiency (FHA) is a more frequent cause of low HDL levels. On the basis of independent linkage and meiotic recombinants, we localized the FHA locus to the same genomic region as the TD locus. Mutations in ABC1 were detected in both TD and FHA, indicating that TD and FHA are allelic. This indicates that the protein encoded by ABC1 is a key gatekeeper influencing intracellular cholesterol transport, hence we have named it cholesterol efflux regulatory protein (CERP).
