Anemia is a major side effect of combination therapy for chronic hepatitis C. In this study, severity, potential risk factors for and potential underlying mechanisms of anemia were evaluated.
44 chronic hepatitis C patients on interferon-ribavirin treatment were included. Anemia-related parameters were measured before and during treatment. Potential changes in membrane phospholipids composition of erythrocytes of patients on anti-viral treatment and potentially increased erythrocyte susceptibility to osmotic or bile salt induced stress were explored.
Anemia was almost universal during treatment, with evidence of hemolysis. Decrease of Hb after six months of therapy was 2.1 +/- 0.1 mmol/L (range -0.6-4.1). Higher pre-treatment Hb, highest ribavirin dose (15-17.5 mg/kg) and lower pre-treatment platelet level were independent risk factors for decrease of Hb. Serum erythropoietin levels increased during treatment with negative correlation to Hb levels at week 12 (r = -0.70, p = 0.002) and 24 (r = -0.72, p = 0.002). Erythrocyte membrane phospholipid composition did not differ between anemic patients and healthy controls. Also, resistance to osmotic or bile salt induced stress was normal in anemic patients. Phosphatidylserine exposure at the outer membrane leaflet did not change upon 24 hrs ex vivo incubation with pharmacological ribavirin concentration.
Anemia is almost universal during anti-HCV treatment. The extent of anemia correlates with pre-treatment levels of thrombocytes and Hb and with high ribavirin dosing. Although we found hemolysis as contributing factor, our data do not indicate that altered membrane phospholipids composition is an important factor in pathogenesis of anemia.
It has been suggested that environmental contaminants that mimic the effects of estrogen contribute to disruption of the reproductive systems of animals in the wild, and to the high incidence of hormone-related cancers and diseases in Western populations. Previous studies have shown that functionally, cadmium acts like steroidal estrogens in breast cancer cells as a result of its ability to form a high-affinity complex with the hormone binding domain of the estrogen receptor. The results of the present study show that cadmium also has potent estrogen-like activity in vivo. Exposure to cadmium increased uterine wet weight, promoted growth and development of the mammary glands and induced hormone-regulated genes in ovariectomized animals. In the uterus, the increase in wet weight was accompanied by proliferation of the endometrium and induction of progesterone receptor (PgR) and complement component C3. In the mammary gland, cadmium promoted an increase in the formation of side branches and alveolar buds and the induction of casein, whey acidic protein, PgR and C3. In utero exposure to the metal also mimicked the effects of estrogens. Female offspring experienced an earlier onset of puberty and an increase in the epithelial area and the number of terminal end buds in the mammary gland.
Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (MCC) usually receive FOLFOX-4, or other oxaliplatin (L-HOP)-based regimens, until the occurrence of progressive disease, with an increase in the incidence of neurotoxicity which is correlated to the cumulative dose of L-HOP. The aim of this study was to evaluate if FOLFOX-4 stop and go and capecitabine maintenance chemotherapy is associated with a low incidence of severe neurotoxicity in the treatment of MCC patients.
Thirty-three patients were treated with FOLFOX-4 (L-HOP 85 mg/m(2) day 1, leucovorin 200 mg/m(2), 5-fluorouracil bolus 400 mg/m(2) and 22 h 600 mg/m(2) days 1 and 2, every 2 weeks). Patients who achieved objective response (OR) or stable disease (SD) then received oral capecitabine 2,500 mg/m(2) days 1-14 every 3 weeks; L-HOP was reintroduced as soon as progression occurred.
Twenty-eight of the 29 patients who achieved OR or SD then received capecitabine. FOLFOX-4 was reintroduced in 18 patients (56.2%). The median response duration (RD) was 9.2 months and median progression-free survival (PFS) was 8.6 months. Twenty-eight patients (87.5%) had peripheral neuropathy during treatment, but grade 3 neurotoxicity was observed in only 1 patient (3.1%).
FOLFOX-4 stop and go and capecitabine maintenance chemotherapy was associated with a very low incidence of grade 3 neurotoxicity. Although the number of patients enrolled was far too low for a definite conclusion, RD and PFS were comparable to those usually reported in the treatment of MCC patients.
Everolimus is a proliferation signal-inhibitor recently introduced in heart transplant recipients. To date, little is known about calcineurin inhibitor (CNI)-free immunosuppression using everolimus. This study reports the results of CNI-free immunosuppression using everolimus.
During a continuous 9-month period, 60 heart transplant recipients were enrolled. Reasons for switching to everolimus were side effects associated with prior CNI immunosuppression. All patients underwent standardized switching protocols and completed 6 months of follow-up. Blood was obtained for lipid status, renal function, routine controls, and levels of immunosuppressive agents. Echocardiography and a physical examination were performed on Days 0, 14, 28, and then every 3 months.
After switching to everolimus, most patients recovered from the side effects associated with CNIs. Renal function improved significantly after 6 months (creatinine, 2.1 +/- 0.6 vs 1.5 +/- 0.9 mg/dl, p = 0.001; creatinine clearance, 42.2 +/- 21.6 vs 61.8 +/- 23.4 ml/[min x 1.73 m2], p = 0.018). Arterial hypertension improved after 3 months and remained decreased during the observation period. Tremor, peripheral edema, hirsutism, and gingival hyperplasia markedly improved. Adverse events occurred in 8 patients (13.3%), including interstitial pneumonia (n = 2), skin disorders (n = 2), reactivated hepatitis B (n = 1), and fever of unknown origin (n = 3).
Preliminary data suggest that CNI-free immunosuppression using everolimus is safe, with excellent efficacy in maintenance heart transplant recipients. Arterial hypertension and renal function improved significantly. CNI-induced side effects such as tremor, peripheral edema, hirsutism, and gingival hyperplasia markedly improved in most patients.
We identified a novel mutation in members of a family with signs of Crouzon syndrome and plagiocephaly. In affected members of the family an A-->G transition was found at position 886 in exon 5 of the fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) gene. The base change results in the replacement of a lysine by glutamic acid in Ig-like loop III of FGFR2. The unusual finding of plagiocephaly in these Crouzon patients may either be the result of the type of mutation or because of genetic and environmental factors that affect the phenotype in addition to the mutated FGF receptor.
Perfusate acidification with dilute hydrochloric acid augments tumor response rates in a rodent model of isolated limb perfusion (ILP). This study investigates the combination of metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG), a mitochondrial inhibitor, and systemic hyperglycemia as a strategy to selectively acidify tumors and thereby sensitize them to ILP.
Human melanoma xenografts were implanted into the hind limbs of athymic rats. When tumors reached 12 to 15 mm in diameter, animals were randomized to ILP with or without melphalan, with or without systemic MIBG, and hyperglycemia of 485 +/- 35 mg/dL. Intratumoral pH was measured during MIBG and glucose treatment by using magnetic resonance spectroscopy.
MIBG at 30 mg/kg plus hyperglycemia decreased intracellular pH by.6 units and extracellular pH by.8 units. MIBG at 22.5 mg/kg plus hyperglycemia decreased intracellular and extracellular pH by.4 and.5 units, respectively. Tumor growth was unaffected by systemic MIBG and hyperglycemia alone. When MIBG at 30 mg/kg and hyperglycemia were combined with ILP, tumor growth was delayed for 33 days after control ILP and for 44 days after melphalan ILP. However, this dose of MIBG was complicated by a 40% mortality rate after ILP. MIBG at 22.5 mg/kg, in combination with MIBG in the perfusate, did not cause mortality and delayed tumor growth by 51 days after melphalan ILP.
MIBG and hyperglycemia improve tumor response rates after ILP in a rodent model of human melanoma. Selective tumor acidification with MIBG and hyperglycemia may offer added benefit to current regional perfusion strategies.
Epidemiological and animal studies indicate that maternal exposure to pollutants that bind the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) correlates with poorer ability to combat respiratory infection and lower antibody levels in the offspring. These observations point to an impact on CD4+ T cells. Yet, the consequence of developmental exposure to AhR ligands on the activation and differentiation of CD4+ T cells has not been directly examined.
Our goal was to determine whether maternal exposure to an AhR ligand directly alters CD4+ T cell differentiation and function later in life.
C57BL/6 mice were exposed to a prototypical AhR ligand, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), in utero and via suckling. We then measured CD4+ T-cell activation and differentiation into distinct effector populations in adult offspring that were infected with influenza A virus (IAV). Reciprocal adoptive transfers were used to define whether modifications in CD4+ T-cell responses resulted from direct effects of developmental TCDD exposure on CD4+ T cells.
Developmental exposure skewed CD4+ T-cell responses to IAV infection. We observed fewer virus-specific, activated CD4+ T cells and a reduced frequency of conventional CD4+ effector-cell subsets. However, there was an increase in regulatory CD4+ T cells. Direct effects of AhR activation on CD4+ T cells resulted in impaired differentiation into conventional effector subsets; this defect was transferred to mice that had not been developmentally exposed to TCDD.
Maternal exposure to TCDD resulted in durable changes in the responsive capacity and differentiation of CD4+ T cells in adult C57BL/6 mice.
Humans occasionally become infected with acanthocephalans, particularly Moniliformis moniliformis. Although several anthelmintics have been used, no controlled studies have been conducted to assess the efficacy of common anthelmintics in the treatment of moniliformiasis. The effectiveness of pyrantel pamoate, ivermectin, praziquantel, niclosamide, thiabendazole, and mebendazole was evaluated in the treatment of moniliformiasis in laboratory-infected female Wistar rats. Pyrantel pamoate and ivermectin were wholly unsuccessful in the treatment of moniliformiasis. A single dose of thiabendazole lead to a 40% reduction and two doses lead to a 57% reduction of worm burden after 2 weeks. The most effective drug in the treatment of moniliformiasis in rats was mebendazole, for which two doses resulted in a 69% reduction in worm burden after 2 weeks; however, 50% of the rats receiving the treatment died within 2 weeks after first administration of the drug. Two surviving rats that had been treated with mebendazole exhibited evidence of hepatic dysfunction characterized by extremely elevated levels of alkaline phosphatase in conjuction with depressed serum albumin levels. It is hypothesized that Mo. moniliformis may metabolize the drug and release a metabolite that is highly toxic to the host. On the basis of these data, thiabendazole is recommended as the drug of choice for the treatment of human acanthocephaliasis until more extensive testing can be conducted.
We evaluated the association of alcohol consumption and depression, and their effects on HIV disease progression among women with HIV. The study included 871 women with HIV who were recruited from 1993-1995 in four US cities. The participants had physical examination, medical record extraction, and venipuncture, CD4+T-cell counts determination, measurement of depression symptoms (using the self-report Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale), and alcohol use assessment at enrollment, and semiannually until March 2000. Multilevel random coefficient ordinal models as well as multilevel models with joint responses were used in the analysis. There was no significant association between level of alcohol use and CD4+ T-cell counts. When participants were stratified by antiretroviral therapy (ART) use, the association between alcohol and CD4+ T-cell did not reach statistical significance. The association between alcohol consumption and depression was significant (p<0.001). Depression had a significant negative effect on CD4+ T-cell counts over time regardless of ART use. Our findings suggest that alcohol consumption has a direct association with depression. Moreover, depression is associated with HIV disease progression. Our findings have implications for the provision of alcohol use interventions and psychological resources to improve the health of women with HIV.
The incidence of tuberculosis has been increasing since 1987, exposing a greater number of patients to the risks of three potentially hepatotoxic drugs, isoniazid, rifampicin, and pyrazinamide. Awareness of potentially severe drug hepatotoxic reactions is vital because fulminant hepatic failure is a devastating and often fatal condition without liver transplantation. We report four cases of fulminant hepatic failure caused by rifampicin, isoniazid, or both. These cases highlight the need for stricter adherence to and review of current guidelines on liver function tests after starting anti-tuberculous therapies.
The oncogene c-Jun has been found to be up-regulated in a variety of cancers, including osteosarcoma. Doxorubicin is a frontline chemotherapeutic against osteosarcoma, but is limited by toxicity. DNAzymes are oligonucleotides capable of specific catalysis of target mRNA. A biocompatible c-Jun DNAzyme nanoparticle formulated from chitosan regressed the growth and metastasis of pre-established tumors, especially in combination with doxorubicin. In vitro data confirmed that c-Jun knockdown chemosensitized these cells to doxorubicin treatment. c-Jun down-regulation-mediated tumor inhibition also led to concomitant decreased osteolysis. Clinically, knockdown of c-Jun with chitosan nanobiotechnology may proffer an improved treatment outcome for osteosarcoma.
In this study, the records of 17 adult patients with medulloblastoma treated with craniospinal radiation and 1 of 2 multiagent chemotherapy protocols were reviewed for progression-free survival, overall survival, and toxicity, and the patients were compared with each other and with similarly treated children and adults. Records of patients treated at 3 institutions were reviewed. Seventeen medulloblastoma patients (11 female, 6 male) with a median age of 23 years (range, 18-47 years) were treated with surgery, craniospinal radiation (CSRT) plus local boost, and 1 of 2 adjuvant chemotherapy regimens. All tumors were infratentorial (10 in 4th ventricle and 7 in left or right hemisphere). Ten patients presented with hydrocephalus, and 7 of them were shunted. Eight patients had gross total resection, 7 had subtotal resection (>50% removed), and 2 had partial resection (<50% removed). Postoperatively, 3 patients had positive cytology and 3 had positive spinal MRI. Five patients were classified as good risk and 12 were classified as poor risk (Chang staging system). Ten patients were treated with the "Packer protocol," consisting of CSRT plus weekly vincristine followed by 8 cycles of cisplatin, lomustine, and vincristine. Seven patients were treated with the Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) protocol, consisting of alternating courses of cisplatin/etoposide and cyclophosphamide/vincristine, followed by CSRT. Eight of 17 patients relapsed, with all 8 relapsing at the primary site. Other relapse sites included the leptomeninges (5), bone (1), and brain (1). The estimated median relapse-free survival (Kaplan-Meier) for all patients was 48 months (95% confidence interval, >26 months to infinity). Median relapse-free survival for patients on the Packer protocol was 26 months, and for those on the POG regimen was 48 months (P = 0.410). Five of 10 on the Packer protocol were relapse-free, while 4 of 7 were relapse-free on the POG regimen. Two patients relapsed during chemotherapy and 6 relapsed after completing all therapy at 18, 18, 26, 30, 40, and 48 months. The estimated median survival of all patients was 56 months (95% confidence interval, 27 to infinity) with 11 patients alive; for the Packer protocol, median survival was 36 months, and for the POG protocol, it was 57 months (P = 0.058). The hazard ratio was 0 (95% confidence interval, 0 to infinity). Toxicity during the Packer protocol was moderately severe, with only 1 of 10 patients able to complete all therapy. Two patients had severe abdominal pain during CSRT + vincristine, and 5 had peripheral neuropathy during vincristine therapy. Hearing loss (>20 dB) occurred in 7, neutropenia (<500 microl) in 6, thrombocytopenia (<50,000 microl) in 6, nephrotoxicity (>25% decrease by creatinine clearance) in 2, and decreased pulmonary function (diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide decrease >40%) in 1. On the POG protocol, only 1 patient had persistent nausea and vomiting, 2 had peripheral neuropathy, and 3 had hearing deficit (>20 dB) or tinnitus. The POG and Packer protocols did not have a statistically significant difference in relapse-free or overall survival because of the small sample size. The POG protocol seemed to have less nonhematologic toxicity. Adults on the Packer protocol appeared to have shorter median survival and greater toxicity than did children. To know whether adding adjuvant chemotherapy to craniospinal radiation in adult therapy increases relapse-free and overall survival, we must await the results of a larger randomized controlled clinical trial.
Small-molecule inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are known to induce cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in certain cancer cells. In order to evaluate the antitumor activity of one such inhibitor, GW8510, against human lung cancers, we analyzed the effects of GW8510 on six nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines (A549, H1299, H460, H226, H358 and H322) and normal human fibroblast (NHFB). We treated the cells with GW8510 at concentrations of 0-10 microM, and found that it suppressed cell growth in vitro in all the lung cancer cells but not in NHFB. Subsequent study showed that GW8510 induced apoptosis and cell cycle arrest in the A549, H1299 and H460 cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Western blot analysis showed that GW8510 downregulated the expression of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) but had no detectable effect on the expression of Bax, Bak, or Bcl2. GW8510 also downregulated XIAP mRNA level, suggesting that downregulation of XIAP expression occurs at the transcriptional level. Moreover, ectopic XIAP expression diminished growth inhibition and apoptosis induction by GW8510. Importantly, GW8510 was not capable of inducing apoptosis of NHFB cells. These results suggest that GW8510 might provide a treatment strategy for human NSCLC and XIAP is an important target for GW8510-induced apoptosis of NSCLC cells that occurs through inhibition of XIAP mRNA transcription.
Androgens, especially dihydrotestosterone, have been postulated to modify the risk of prostate cancer. 3-Beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase1 (HSD3B1) and uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase 2B17 (UGT2B17) are enzymes that inactivate dihydrotestosterone in the prostate and may affect dihydrotestosterone concentration in prostatic tissue. The purpose of this study was to determine whether polymorphisms in HSD3B1 and UGT2B17 increase the risk of prostate cancer.
In a case-control study of 356 patients with incident primary prostate cancer and 363 age-matched controls, the frequencies of HSD3B1 N367T and UGT2B17 null polymorphisms in genomic DNA were compared between the patients and controls.
No evidence was found for a main effect of the HSD3B1 codon 367 polymorphism on prostate cancer risk. However, among white men with family history of prostate cancer, the HSD3B1 367Thr allele was positively associated with prostate cancer (odds ratio 3.0, 95% confidence interval 1.0 to 9.2). A significant association was observed between the UGT2B17 null polymorphism and prostate cancer risk (odds ratio 1.7, 95% confidence interval 1.03 to 2.9). An association with the UGT2B17 null polymorphism was further elevated (odds ratio 2.7, 95% confidence interval 1.1 to 6.5) among individuals with HSD3B1 Asn/Asn genotype.
These results suggest that the HSD3B1 N367T and UGT2B17 null polymorphisms may modify the risk of prostate cancer, particularly among men with a family history of the disease.
To evaluate acute onset of anxiolytic activity using a dental anxiety model, 89 patients were randomised to double-blind single dose pregabalin 150 mg, alprazolam 0.5 mg or placebo 4 h before a scheduled dental procedure. A Dental Anxiety Total score >12 (moderate-to-severe) without meeting Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (Fourth edition) (DSM-IV) anxiety disorder criteria was required. Efficacy and safety, assessed 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5 and 4 h postdose, included 100 mm Visual Analogue Scale for Anxiety (VAS-Anxiety; primary outcome), 100 mm VAS-Sedation and Time-to-Onset of Action Scale (TOAS), a patient-rated anti-anxiety drug-benefit scale (no [0] to full benefit [10]). Mixed model analysis found significantly greater VAS-A improvement slopes for pregabalin (t = -2.47; P = 0.014) and alprazolam (t = -2.39; P = 0.018). There was a significant improvement versus placebo in the TOAS from 2 h through endpoint in alprazolam patients and from 3 h onward in pregabalin patients. Pregabalin produced significantly greater increases in VAS-Sedation versus placebo from 2.5 h through 4 h (2 h onward for alprazolam). Notably, there was a higher correlation between TOAS and VAS-Sedation (r = +0.58) than VAS-Anxiety (r = -0.50) on Spearman's analysis. The majority of Adverse Effects (AEs) were mild, and the most frequent for pregabalin, alprazolam, and placebo, respectively, were fatigue (N = 7, 7, 3), dizziness (N = 6, 3, 3), attention disturbance (N = 3, 1, 0), somnolence (N = 3, 0, 0), feeling abnormal (N = 0, 2, 0) and balance disorder (N = 0, 2, 0). These results suggest that onset of clinically meaningful anxiolytic effect after single-dose pregabalin occurs within the first 3-4 h. Additional research is needed to determine whether anxiolytic effect occurs in generalized anxiety disorder populations by day 1 or within 3-4 h post-first dose.
Myosin-induced autoimmune myocarditis of rats is a model of human dilated cardiomyopathy. Resveratrol is a natural polyphenol found in grapes and wine that is reported to have cardioprotective and immunomodulatory effects.
To examine the effect of resveratrol on myocarditis, vehicle or resveratrol (50 mg/kg per day) was administered to cardiac myosin immunized rats 1 day before the immunization. At 14 days after immunization, resveratrol had preserved cardiac function of myosin-immunized rats according to echocardiographic analysis. The heart weight/tibial length ratio of vehicle-treated myosin-immunized rats was increased by 1.8-fold compared with unimmunized rats, and resveratrol attenuated the heart weight increase. Resveratrol significantly decreased cellular infiltration, fibrosis, and expression of inflammatory cytokines in the myocardium. Expressions of antioxidant genes were increased in myosin-immunized hearts, and resveratrol decreased those expressions. Resveratrol also attenuated myocarditis 21 days after immunization. SIRT1, a potential effector of resveratrol, was increased in the myocardium of myosin-immunized rats compared with unimmunized rats. The SIRT1 protein was localized mainly in infiltrating mononuclear cells.
Resveratrol significantly ameliorated myocardial injury and preserved cardiac function in a rat model of autoimmune myocarditis. Resveratrol may be a therapeutic modality for myocarditis.
The effects of intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of adrenaline on the blood pressure and heart rate of spontaneous hypertensive (SH) rats have been investigated. Adrenaline induced dose-related falls in blood pressure and heart rate in both conscious and urethane anaesthetised rats. In conscious rats, the hypotension and metoprolol, but were unaffected by pretreatment with phentolamine, piperoxan, fluphenazine or methysergide. However, in urethane-anaesthetised rats, the hypotension and bradycardia induced by i.c.v. adrenaline was not significantly affected by i.c.v. pretreatment with propranolol or oxprenolol, while metoprolol significantly antagonised only the bradycardia. Piperoxan, fluphenazine and methysergide were also without effect. Pretreatment with mecamylamine (i.p.) abolished the cardiovascular depressor effects of i.c.v. adrenaline in both conscious and urethane anaesthetised SH rats. It is concluded that the cardiovascular depressor effects of i.c.v. adrenaline are mediated by central adrenoceptors in SH rats and that, in conscious rats, these depressor effects may be mediated by central beta-adrenoceptors rather than alpha-adrenoceptors.
Once bound to methylated CpG sites, methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) is thought to silence transcription of downstream genes by recruiting a histone deacetylase (HDAC). Mutations within the MeCP2 gene have been found to cause Rett syndrome, a disorder of arrested neuronal development. Using immunohistochemistry, we found that Mecp2, as well as the methyl-CpG-binding protein MBD1, were significantly induced in normal adult rat brain after repeated injections of fluoxetine or cocaine for 10 days (one injection per day). Mecp2 was not induced by repeated injections of 1-(2-bis(4-fluorphenyl)-methoxy)-ethyl)-4-(3-phenyl-propyl)piperazine (GBR-12909) or nortriptyline. Together, the data indicate that the serotonergic system is predominantly involved. Using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction experiments, MBD1 mRNA and both Mecp2_e1 and Mecp2_e2 transcripts were found to be induced by fluoxetine. Induction of the methylbinding proteins was accompanied with enhanced HDAC2 labeling intensity and mRNA synthesis in response to fluoxetine. In tandem, acetylated forms of histone H3 were found to be decreased. The effect was characterized in three serotonin projection areas, the caudate-putamen, the frontal cortex, and the dentate gyrus subregion of hippocampus. Our data highlight GABAergic neurons as major target cells expressing Mecp2 in response to the serotonin-elevating agents and suggest that serotonin signaling enhances gene silencing in postmitotic neurons.
A rat model of osteoarthritis was used to investigate the effect of pre-treatment with capsaicin on the symptoms of osteoarthritis induced by the injection of monosodium iodoacetate. This model mimics both histopathology and symptoms associated of human osteoarthritis. Injection of monosodium iodoacetate, an inhibitor of glycolysis, into the femorotibial joints of rodents promotes loss of articular trabecular bone and invokes pain symptoms similar to those noted in human osteoarthritis. Twenty rats were divided in two groups either receiving placebo or monosodium iodoacetate. Each group was subdivided in two groups either receiving pre-treatment with capsaicin two weeks before monosodium iodoacetate injection or not, resulting in four groups of five rats each. The impact of a single intra-articular administration of capsaicin (0.5%) on the generation of evoked mechanical pain (hind limb weight bearing, automated von Frey monofilament and RotaRod tests) and bone lesions (micro-CT scan radiographic analyses of bone structure) following monosodium iodoacetate-induced osteoarthritis in rats was determined. Evoked mechanical pain as monitored over a period of 4 weeks after monosodium iodoacetate injection was abolished in capsaicin pre-treated animals and pain values are comparable to those of capsaicin controls. Chronic joint pathological changes such as bone erosion and trabecular damage were significantly reduced by pre-treatment with a single administration of capsaicin. Decrease of bone volume was considerably ameliorated and trabecular connectivity was substantially better in capsaicin pre-treated animals. Capsaicin, an agonist activator of the vanilloid nociceptors (TRPV1), appears to be effective in protecting bone from arthritic damage. The present results support the hypothesis that capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons contribute to bone lesions in the monosodium iodoacetate-induced osteoarthritis rat model.
The effect of the benzodiazepine midazolam on the intravenous toxicity of lidocaine with and without epinephrine was studied in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Test rats with and control rats without midazolam premedication (2.5 mg/kg intraperitoneally, 10% of the median dose that caused loss of the righting reflex in a third group of rats) were given 2% lidocaine with and without 10 micrograms/ml epinephrine intravenously in doses sufficient to construct log-dose response curves for both convulsant and lethal responses. In control rats the median convulsant dose (CD50) of lidocaine was 15.2 mg/kg given alone and 10.9 mg/kg with epinephrine (a statistically significant difference); respective values for the median lethal dose (LD50) were 26.4 and 18.5 mg/kg (also statistically significant). While epinephrine enhanced lidocaine seizure activity and lethality by approximately 50%, midazolam almost completely prevented lidocaine-induced convulsions but had no significant effect on mortality.
They were studied 48 children of 3 to 8 years old, of two sex (30 male and 18 female), that attended the external service of otolaryngology of the Hospital of the ISSSTE of Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas (Mexico) and the private practice of the Allergy Clinic and Otolaringol in Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, of the month of November of 1995 to April of 1996. Some of the side effects observed in the patients treated in the group A (carbinoxamine-P) were: mild sedation and in some instances hyperexcitability and irritability. However, it was not necessary to discontinue the medication or to modify the dose. In the group B (astemizole-P) was observed only excitement and irritability in some instances by hypersensitivity to the pseudoephedrine. It is very important to consider that the adequate and timely treatment in a patient with otitis serous media will permit to avoid sequels that they can cause, in the long run, a meaningful impact in the language and intellectual development of the child.
To determine the effects of regular exercise on women receiving danazol for the treatment of endometriosis.
Thirty-nine patients were randomized to a danazol-only or a danazol/exercise regimen in a prospective clinical trial carried out at tertiary care institutions. Patients in the danazol/exercise group were instructed to exercise four times per week, for 40 min per session, at an intensity of 20 metabolic units. Side effect profiles, pelvic symptoms, aerobic fitness, strength and hormone levels were compared for all subjects. The number of side effects of danazol was analyzed by the method of generalized estimating equations.
The number of side effects reported during a 4-week period was 1.09-2.17 times greater for the danazol-only than for the danazol/exercise group. All patients had improvement of symptoms during treatment. The danazol/exercise group had significantly lower testosterone levels during treatment. The time to recurrence of endometriosis was not different between groups.
Exercise during danazol therapy reduces the number of androgenic side effects. Relief of pain and time to recurrence are unaffected.
Diclofenac (DF) is a widely used non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for the treatment of rheumatic disorders, but is often associated with liver injury. We applied urinary proteomic profiling using MALDI-TOF MS to identify biomarkers for DF-induced hepatotoxicity in mice. Female CH3/HeOUJIco mice were treated with 75mg/kg bw DF by oral gavage and 24h urine was collected. Proteins identified in urine of DF-treated mice included epidermal growth factor, transthyretin, kallikrein, clusterin, fatty acid binding protein 1 and urokinase, which are related to liver regeneration but also to kidney injury. Both organs showed enhanced levels of oxidative stress (TBARS, p<0.01). Kidney injury was confirmed by histology and increased Kim1 and Il-6 mRNA expression levels (p<0.001 and p<0.01). Liver histology and plasma ALT levels in DF-treated mice were not different from control, but mRNA expression of Stat3 (p<0.001) and protein expression of PCNA (p<0.05) were increased, indicating liver regeneration. In conclusion, urinary proteome analysis revealed that DF treatment in mice induced kidney and liver injury. Within 24h, however, the liver was able to recover by activating tissue regeneration processes. Hence, the proteins found in urine of DF-treated mice represent kidney damage rather than hepatic injury.
Analysis of the effect of naloxone (0.4 mg iv.) on clonidine hypotension in 80 patients with essential hypertension revealed that two groups could be separated. In the responding group (43 pts) naloxone increased blood pressure and heart rate in clonidine-treated patients while in the non-responding group (37 pts) it has no such effect. Patients in the responding group had higher cardiac output, stroke volume, plasma renin activity, plasma adrenaline and beta-endorphin levels and lower total peripheral resistance, shorter history of hypertension and lesser body weight than those in the non-responding group. The pressor effect of naloxone in four responding patients treated with clonidine for 29 months tended to be smaller compared to the response obtained after a 3-day clonidine therapy. Results favour the hypothesis of the existence of two (responding, non-responding) groups of patients with essential hypertension. Further work will clarify whether these groups represent different pathogenesis or they indicate only a different stage of hypertension.
To study the incidence of clinical and subclinical optic nerve toxicity with ethambutol therapy in patients with tuberculosis and to evaluate the reversibility of its side effects after cessation of therapy. This prospective randomized controlled study included 60 newly diagnosed adult cases of tuberculosis, who were randomly assigned into two groups. The study group included 30 patients (60eyes) who received ethambutol as a part of their anti-tubercular treatment and the control group included 30 patients (60eyes) who did not receive ethambutol. The patients were examined on monthly basis. The visual parameters studied were best corrected visual acuity, pupillary reactions, optic disc changes, color vision, contrast sensitivity, pupil cycle time, visual field charting and visual evoked potential. Ethambutol was stopped in those patients in whom toxicity was detected and they were followed more frequently. Only one patient (3.3%) showed decrease in visual acuity, three patients (10%) developed visual field defects, two patients (6.7%) showed deterioration of contrast sensitivity, the pupil cycle time was prolonged in one eye and two patients (6.7%) showed abnormal visual evoked potential. During the therapy, all patients in the study group had normal pupillary reactions, fundus picture and color vision.
Ethambutol induced ocular toxicity was seen in three patients (10%) in our study. The maximum visual recovery occurred in first six to eight weeks after stopping ethambutol. The visual recovery was complete in only one patient, but it was partial in two patients i.e. visual fields, contrast sensitivity and visual evoked potential remained abnormal.
