The cytotoxic effects and biotransformation of harmine and harmaline, which are known β-carboline alkaloids and potent hallucinogens, were studied in freshly isolated rat hepatocytes. The exposure of hepatocytes to harmine caused not only concentration (0-0.50mM)- and time (0-3h)-dependent cell death accompanied by the formation of cell blebs and the loss of cellular ATP, reduced glutathione, and protein thiols but also the accumulation of glutathione disulfide. Of the other analogues examined, the cytotoxic effects of harmaline and harmol (a metabolite of harmine) at a concentration of 0.5mM were less than those of harmine. The loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and generation of oxygen radical species in hepatocytes treated with harmine were greater than those with harmaline and harmol. In the oxygen consumption of mitochondria isolated from rat liver, the ratios of state-3/state-4 respiration of these β-carbolines were decreased in a concentration-dependent manner. In addition, harmine resulted in the induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), and the effects of harmol and harmaline were less than those of harmine. At a weakly toxic level of harmine (0.25mM), it was metabolized to harmol and its monoglucuronide and monosulfate conjugates, and the amounts of sulfate rather than glucuronide predominantly increased with time. In the presence of 2,5-dichloro-4-nitrophenol (50μM; an inhibitor of sulfotransferase), harmine-induced cytotoxicity was enhanced, accompanied by decrease in the amount of harmol-sulfate conjugate, due to an increase in the amount of unconjugated harmol and the inhibition of harmine loss. Taken collectively, these results indicate that (a) mitochondria are target organelles for harmine, which elicits cytotoxicity through mitochondrial failure related to the induction of the MPT, mitochondrial depolarization, and inhibition of ATP synthesis; and (b) the toxic effects of harmine are greater than those of either its metabolite harmol or its analogue harmaline, suggesting that the onset of harmine-induced cytotoxicity may depend on the initial and/or residual concentrations of harmine rather than on those of its metabolites.
Haplophytin-A (10-methoxy-2,2-dimethyl-2,6-dihydro-pyrano[3,2-c]quinolin-5-one), a novel quinoline alkaloid, was isolated from the Haplophyllum acutifolium. In this study, we investigated the effect of haplophytin-A on the apoptotic activity and the molecular mechanism of action in human promyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cells. Treatment with haplophytin-A (50μM) induced classical features of apoptosis, such as, DNA fragmentation, DNA ladder formation, and the externalization of annexin-V-targeted phosphatidylserine residues in HL-60 cells. In addition, haplophytin-A triggered the activations of caspase-8, -9, and -3, and the cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) in HL-60 cells. In addition, haplophytin-A caused the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨ(m)) and the release of cytochrome c and Smac/DIABLO to the cytosol, and modulated the expression levels of Bcl-2 family proteins. We further demonstrated that knockdown of caspase-8 using its siRNA inhibited the mitochondrial translocation of tBid, the activations of caspase-9 and caspase-3, and subsequent DNA fragmentation by haplophytin-A. Furthermore, haplophytin-A-induced the formation of death-inducing signaling complex (DISC) and then activated caspase-8 in HL-60 cells. During haplophytin-A-induced apoptosis, caspase-8-stimulated tBid provide a link between the death receptor-mediated extrinsic pathway and the mitochondria- mediated intrinsic pathway. Taken together, these results suggest that the novel compound haplophytin-A play therapeutical role for leukemia via the potent apoptotic activity through the extrinsic pathway, involving the intrinsic pathway.
Porphyromonas gingivalis is considered the major pathogen of periodontal disease, which leads to chronic inflammation in oral tissues. P. gingivalis-produced lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a key factor in the development of periodontitis. It is established that surfactin produced by Bacillus subtilis confers anti-inflammatory properties. However, the underlying mechanisms responsible for surfactin-induced anti-inflammatory actions in the context of periodontitis are poorly understood. In this study, we investigated whether surfactin affected P. gingivalis LPS-induced pro-inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and IL-12, and determined that it significantly inhibited their production. Surfactin-mediated inhibition was mainly due to blocked activation of P. gingivalis LPS-triggered nuclear factor-κB. We also examined whether the regulatory effect of surfactin on P. gingivalis LPS-stimulated human THP-1 macrophages was mediated by the induction of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) signals, and determined that surfactin also induced HO-1 mRNA and protein expression via activation of Nrf-2. Additionally, we found that small interfering RNA-mediated knock-down of Nrf-2 significantly inhibited surfactin-induced HO-1 expression. Furthermore, inhibition of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) significantly decreased surfactin-induced HO-1 expression, which is consistent with the suggestion that surfactin-induced HO-1 expression occurs via PI3K/Akt, ERK, and Nrf-2. Treatment with a selective inhibitor of HO-1 reversed the surfactin-mediated inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines, suggesting that surfactin induces anti-inflammatory effects by activating Nrf-2-mediated HO-1 induction via PI3K/Akt and ERK signaling. Collectively, these observations support the potential of surfactin as a candidate in strategies to prevent caries, periodontitis, or other inflammatory diseases.
The authors conducted a study to verify whether supplementation with an antioxidant-rich tomato-based functional food reduces anemia during pegylated interferon and ribavirin therapy for chronic hepatitis C.
Oxidative stress plays a major role in the physiopathology of hemolytic anemia during ribavirin therapy. The efficacy of antioxidant supplementation with vitamins C and E as pure compounds, is still controversial.
A functional food with a high content of natural antioxidants and with high carotenoid bioavailability was developed. The authors enrolled 92 patients with chronic hepatitis C, treated with standard combination therapy. Forty-six of them received a daily dose (100 g) of functional food (group 1), and 46 did not (group 2). The effect of antioxidant activity was assessed comparing compliance with the full dose of ribavirin and hemoglobin levels during the first 3 months of treatment.
Only 8.7% of patients in group 1 had to reduce their daily ribavirin dose, whereas ribavirin reduction was necessary for 30.4% of patients in group 2 (P = 0.09). Hemoglobin levels showed significant differences at 15, 30, and 90 days during the observation time.
Results demonstrated that the authors' functional food reduces the severity of ribavirin-related anemia and improves the tolerance to the full dose of ribavirin in patients with chronic hepatitis C.
We have studied the effect of long-term digoxin on exercise performance in 15 patients with pulmonary heart disease due to severe chronic airflow obstruction (FEV1/VC ratio 29 +/- 6%: mean +/- SD). Digoxin (0.25 mg/day) was given for 8 weeks in a randomized, double-blind crossover, placebo-controlled trial. All patients were ambulatory and had clinical features of right ventricular dysfunction but no clinical evidence of left ventricular dysfunction. Assessments included progressive and steady-state exercise, pulmonary function studies and evaluation of right and left ventricular function. In all patients the right ventricular ejection fraction was reduced; in 4 patients the left ventricular ejection fraction was also reduced. In patients whose left ventricular ejection fraction was initially abnormal, 8 weeks of digoxin increased left ventricular ejection fraction to normal. In spite of the improvement in resting ventricular function, exercise performance, the cardiopulmonary response to exercise, pulmonary function and general health status did not improve. We conclude that in patients with pulmonary heart disease: 1) digoxin improves ventricular function only if left ventricular function is reduced, and 2) despite the improvement in ventricular function digoxin does not improve pulmonary function, cardiopulmonary response to exercise or general feeling of well being.
Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-B is a potent profibrogenic mediator expressed by bile duct epithelial cells (BDECs) that contributes to liver fibrosis after bile duct ligation. However, the mechanism of PDGF-B induction in BDECs during cholestasis is not known. Transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) also contribute to the profibrogenic response after bile duct ligation. We tested the hypothesis that LPS and TGFβ1 synergistically induce PDGF-B expression in BDECs.
Transformed human BDECs (MMNK-1 cells) and primary rat BDECs were stimulated with LPS and/or TGFβ1, and signaling pathways through which LPS potentiates TGFβ1-induced PDGF-B mRNA expression were investigated.
Stimulation of MMNK-1 cells with LPS alone did not significantly induce PDGF-B mRNA expression. However, LPS co-treatment enhanced TGFβ1 induction of PDGF-B mRNA in MMNK-1 cells and also in primary rat BDECs. Importantly, co-treatment of MMNK-1 cells with LPS and TGFβ1 also significantly increased PDGF-BB protein expression. Interestingly, LPS did not affect TGFβ1 activation of a SMAD-dependent reporter construct. Rather, stimulation of MMNK-1 cells with LPS, but not TGFβ1, increased JNK1/2 phosphorylation. Expression of dominant negative JNK2, but not dominant negative JNK1, inhibited the LPS potentiation of TGFβ1-induced PDGF-B mRNA expression in MMNK-1 cells. In addition, LPS treatment caused IκBα degradation and activation of a nuclear factor κB (NFκB)-dependent reporter construct. Expression of an IκBα super repressor inhibited activation of NFκB and attenuated LPS potentiation of TGFβ1-induced PDGF-B mRNA.
The results indicate that LPS activation of NFκB and JNK2 enhances TGFβ1-induced PDGF-B expression in BDECs.
In humans, mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene or exposure to the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) produce Parkinson's disease with loss of dopaminergic neurons and depletion of nigrostriatal dopamine. alpha-Synuclein is a vertebrate-specific component of presynaptic nerve terminals that may function in modulating synaptic transmission. To test whether MPTP toxicity involves alpha-synuclein, we generated alpha-synuclein-deficient mice by homologous recombination, and analyzed the effect of deleting alpha-synuclein on MPTP toxicity using these knockout mice. In addition, we examined commercially available mice that contain a spontaneous loss of the alpha-synuclein gene. As described previously, deletion of alpha-synuclein had no significant effects on brain structure or composition. In particular, the levels of synaptic proteins were not altered, and the concentrations of dopamine, dopamine metabolites, and dopaminergic proteins were unchanged. Upon acute MPTP challenge, alpha-synuclein knockout mice were partly protected from chronic depletion of nigrostriatal dopamine when compared with littermates of the same genetic background, whereas mice carrying the spontaneous deletion of the alpha-synuclein gene exhibited no protection. Furthermore, alpha-synuclein knockout mice but not the mice with the alpha-synuclein gene deletion were slightly more sensitive to methamphetamine than littermate control mice. These results demonstrate that alpha-synuclein is not obligatorily coupled to MPTP sensitivity, but can influence MPTP toxicity on some genetic backgrounds, and illustrate the need for extensive controls in studies aimed at describing the effects of mouse knockouts on MPTP sensitivity.
The effect of steroids, heparin and specific PAF-acether antagonists (BN 52021 and triazolobenzodiazepines) on proteinuria and renal histological changes induced in rats by adriamycin was studied. Adriamycin evoked a marked proteinuria that was unaffected by methylprednisolone and slightly reduced by heparin. In contrast, adriamycin-injected rats treated with PAF-acether antagonists had a low proteinuria, if any, and no ultrastructural glomerular alterations. These data suggest that PAF-acether could play a major role in the occurrence of proteinuria and that PAF-acether antagonists might provide a new therapeutic approach in certain human nephropathies.
Simvastatin and recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEpo) are implicated as potential therapeutic candidates for traumatic brain injury (TBI). Prominent effects of simvastatin include its anti-inflammatory, neurotrophic and neuroregenerative actions studied in various models of neuronal injury. On the other hand, rhEpo has been shown to promote cell survival mechanisms by producing anti-apoptotic and cell proliferative actions. Beneficial effects of rhEpo and statin monotherapies have been well studied. However, there are no reports showing combined use of rhEpo and statins after TBI. This investigation examined if combined efficacy of cell proliferative ability of rhEpo along with the neuroregenerative ability of simvastatin will render maximum recovery in a controlled cortical impact (CCI) mouse model of TBI. Results showed that compared to baseline TBI, rhEpo was more effective than simvastatin in promoting cell proliferation while simvastatin was more effective than rhEpo in restoring axonal damage following TBI. Combined treatment with simvastatin and rhEpo maximally restored axonal integrity while simultaneously inducing greater proliferation of newly formed cells resulting in better functional recovery after TBI than either alone. This is the first study showing the efficacy of erythropoietin-simvastatin combinational therapeutic approach in achieving greater structural and cognitive recovery after TBI.
Conventional treatment methods of lumbusacral radiculopathy are physical therapy, epidural steroid injections, oral medications, and spinal manipulative therapy. Cauda equina syndrome is a rare complication of epidural anesthesia. The following case is a report of cauda equina syndrome possibly caused by epidural injection of triamcinolone and bupivacaine.
A 50-year-old woman with low back and right leg pain was scheduled for epidural steroid injection.
An 18-gauge Touhy needle was inserted until loss of resistance occurred at the L4-5 level. Spread of the contrast medium within the epidural space was determined by radiographic imaging. After verifying the epidural space, bupivacaine and triamcinolone diacetate were injected. After the injection, there was a reduction in radicular symptoms. Three hours later, she complained of perineal numbness and lower extremity weakness. The neurologic evaluation revealed loss of sensation in the saddle area and medial aspect of her right leg. There was a decrease in the perception of pinprick test. Deep-tendon reflexes were decreased especially in the right leg. She was unable to urinate. The patient's symptoms improved slightly over the next few hours. She had a gradual return of motor function and ability of feeling Foley catheter. All of the symptoms were completely resolved over the next 8 hours.
Complications associated with epidural steroid injections are rare. Clinical examination and continued vigilance for neurologic deterioration after epidural steroid injections is important.
Seventy-seven very low birthweight (VLBW) infants (mean birthweight 891 +/- 209 g) with a diagnosis of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) were treated with a steroid (dexamethasone) in an attempt to wean them from mechanical ventilation. Seventeen of 77 (22%) treated infants died. Death from respiratory failure occurred in 13 infants; sepsis occurred in six infants (7.8%) and contributed to death in one. During steroid therapy systemic hypertension occurred in 18 surviving infants (30%), glucose intolerance occurred in 29 infants (38%), and marked irritability occurred in three infants (3.8%). Elevated blood pressure returned to normal and glucose intolerance resolved in all infants following discontinuation of therapy. Fifty infants were available for follow-up at a mean corrected age of 14.9 +/- 9.8 months. Twenty-two percent required rehospitalization in the first year of life for respiratory illnesses. Results of testing by Bayley Scales of Infant Development were normal in 60% of infants. Fifty percent were considered normal based on both developmental testing and physical examination. Twenty-eight percent had mild to moderate abnormalities, and 22% were severely handicapped. These follow-up results are statistically similar to those recorded in LBW infants with BPD not treated with steroids who were hospitalized during the same period. We conclude that the side effects of steroid therapy for BPD consist primarily of blood pressure elevation, glucose intolerance, and irritability. Causes of death are unchanged by steroids. The incidence of severe infection and the long-term neurologic outcome of high-risk infants with BPD are not appreciably compromised by this therapy. These data suggest that concern for steroid side effects should not prevent additional prospective investigation to determine the role of steroid therapy in the overall management of BPD.
Fibrous stenosis of hepatic venules and other features of venous outflow obstruction, including zone 3 congestion and hemorrhage, are sometimes seen after orthotopic liver transplantation. similar changes associated with endothelial damage have recently been ascribed to azathioprine toxicity and may be forerunners of chronic rejection. Other potential causative agents such as viral hepatitis have yet to be considered. We reviewed 49 liver biopsy specimens from 21 consecutive patients after orthotopic liver transplantation, in whom full data including further follow-up biopsy samples were available. Hepatic venous stenosis was identified in seven patients who had received azathioprine and two additional patients in whom this change could not be ascribed to azathioprine. Stenosis was always associated with zone 3 hemorrhage and congestion and was first noted between 5 and 30 days after transplantation in all but two cases; in these two patients they were first noted after 72 and 133 days. Cellular rejection, including endotheliitis involving terminal hepatic venules, was found in five of the seven patients who had received azathioprine. Chronic (ductopenic) rejection was not seen during a follow-up period of between 97 and 540 days. In three of the nine patients with hepatic venular stenosis, zone 3 changes persisted, and in two of these azathioprine could not be held responsible. Of the 12 patients without hepatic venular stenosis, 10 had received azathioprine. Two of these 12 patients had peliosis-like foci but no other vascular abnormalities. Both also had moderate cellular rejection. Hepatic venular stenosis was found in 43% of patients after liver transplantation; this was usually associated with azathioprine administration and concomitant cellular rejection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
While it has been demonstrated that cigarette smoke contains aromatic and heterocyclic amines that initiate carcinogenesis, the association between cigarette smoking and breast cancer remains controversial. N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) catalyzes arylamine carcinogen biotransformation and NAT2 genetic polymorphisms may contribute to differential susceptibility to breast cancer. We tested whether NAT2 modified the association between cigarette smoking and breast cancer risk in a population-based study of Hispanic and non-Hispanic white women in the Southwest United States. Data were available for cigarette smoking and NAT2 polymorphisms for 717 cases (Hispanic, 251 and non-Hispanic white, 466) and 735 controls (Hispanic, 245 and non-Hispanic white, 490). NAT2 genotypes were translated into rapid, intermediate, slow, or very slow acetylator phenotypes. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) for the joint association of NAT2 with smoking on breast cancer risk were estimated using logistic regression. Non-Hispanic white women were more likely (p < 0.001) than Hispanic women to have a slow (41.7 vs. 33.5%) or very slow (19.0 vs. 11.1%) acetylator status and less likely to have rapid/intermediate phenotypes (39.2 vs. 54.4%). Breast cancer risk was significantly increased in non-Hispanic white women with a very slow acetylator phenotype who smoked: ever versus never (OR, 2.57; 95% CI, 1.49-4.41), never versus former (OR, 2.69; 95% CI, 1.41-5.17) or current (OR, 2.46; 95% CI, 1.07-5.65), and 16 + pack-years (OR, 2.29; 95% CI, 1.16-4.51). Results for Hispanic women were not statistically significant. These findings support smoking as a risk factor for breast cancer among non-Hispanic white women with very slow NAT2 acetylator phenotype.
In a randomized double blind clinical study using low doses of fentanyl or sufentanil during sevoflurane induction, we observed three cases of severe bradycardia, forcing us to discontinue the study. We wish to describe these three cases.
Anesthesia was induced in the three patients, using a single breath technique consisting of a mixture of sevoflurane 8% with a nitrous oxide flow of 3 L x min(-1) and an oxygen flow of 3 L x min(-1). After the patients had lost consciousness, low dose sufentanil was administered (0.025 microg x kg(-1) for the first patient and 0.1 microg x kg(-1) for the other two patients). Heart rate fell to 38, 40 and 42 beats x min(-1) respectively two minutes after the sufentanil injection in these three patients, and progressed to asystole in the third. All the patients responded to atropine 0.6 mg i.v.
The addition of sufentanil, even at very low doses, during anesthesia induction with sevoflurane using a single breath technique, may be dangerous because of possible bradycardia and even asystole.
A major goal of drug abuse research is to identify and understand drug-induced changes in brain function that are common to many or all drugs of abuse. As these may underlie drug dependence and addiction, the purpose of the present study was to examine if different drugs of abuse effect changes in gene expression that converge in common molecular pathways. Microarray analysis was employed to assay brain gene expression in postmortem anterior prefrontal cortex (aPFC) from 42 human cocaine, cannabis and/or phencyclidine abuse cases and 30 control cases, which were characterized by toxicology and drug abuse history. Common transcriptional changes were demonstrated for a majority of drug abuse cases (N = 34), representing a number of consistently changed functional classes: Calmodulin-related transcripts (CALM1, CALM2, CAMK2B) were decreased, while transcripts related to cholesterol biosynthesis and trafficking (FDFT1, APOL2, SCARB1), and Golgi/endoplasmic reticulum (ER) functions (SEMA3B, GCC1) were all increased. Quantitative PCR validated decreases in calmodulin 2 (CALM2) mRNA and increases in apolipoprotein L, 2 (APOL2) and semaphorin 3B (SEMA3B) mRNA for individual cases. A comparison between control cases with and without cardiovascular disease and elevated body mass index indicated that these changes were not due to general cellular and metabolic stress, but appeared specific to the use of drugs. Therefore, humans who abused cocaine, cannabis and/or phencyclidine share a decrease in transcription of calmodulin-related genes and increased transcription related to lipid/cholesterol and Golgi/ER function. These changes represent common molecular features of drug abuse, which may underlie changes in synaptic function and plasticity that could have important ramifications for decision-making capabilities in drug abusers.
Here we studied the mechanism of thrombolytic response (THR) induced by angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE-I) in vivo in anaesthetised Wistar rats with extracorporeal circulation. Intravenous injections of ACE-Is, i.e. perindopril or quinapril at non-hypotensive doses of 3-30 microg kg(-1) produced a dose-dependent thrombolysis that was associated with a parallel rise in arterial blood levels of 6-keto-PGF(1 alpha), but not those of TXB(2) or PGE(2). L-NAME at a dose of 5 mg kg(-1) affected significantly neither ACE-I-induced thrombolysis nor prostacyclinemia; however, the pre-treatment with icatibant (0.1-0.5 mg kg(-1)) abolished both effects. The selective COX-1 inhibitor, SC 560 (100-300 microg kg(-1) i.v.), or a would be selective COX-3 inhibitor--paracetamol (acetaminophen, 1-3 mg kg(-1)), both agents induced a transient thrombolysis and slightly potentiated thrombolysis by ACE-Is. In contrast, selective COX-2 inhibitors (rofecoxib>celecoxib>nimesulide>NS 398) were thrombogenic, and abolished THR and rise in 6-keto-PGF(1 alpha) induced by ACE-Is. Summing up, in our in vivo bioassay system ACE-Is such as quinapril, perindopril or captopril at non-hypotensive doses evoke THR that is mediated by endogenous bradykinin and prostacyclin derived from endothelial COX-2.
The neuroglycopenic syndrome, which is often due to sulfonylurea-induced hypoglycemia, is frequently overlooked or misinterpretated as cerebral ischemia.
Two women aged 81 and 83 years, respectively, with type II diabetes treated with sulfonylureas presented with hemiparesis, dysphasia and somnolence. Both, general practitioner and emergency room physician first interpretated the symptoms as clinical signs of stroke without determination of blood glucose. After hours of delay due to unnecessary and expensive examinations including cerebral computed tomography the correct diagnosis of hypoglycemia was finally made. After injection of i.v. glucose the symptomatology was completely reversible.
In every case of disturbance of consciousness, acute neurologic deficits and psychiatric abnormalities an immediate blood glucose test should be performed to exclude hypoglycemia.
The capability of the obligate intracellular parasites like Leishmania donovani to survive within the host cell parasitophorous vacuoles as nonmotile amastigotes determines disease pathogenesis, but the mechanism of elimination of the parasites from these vacuoles are not well understood. By using the anti-leishmanial drug potassium antimony tartrate, we demonstrate that, upon drug exposure, intracellular L. donovani amastigotes undergo apoptotic death characterized by nuclear DNA fragmentation and externalization of phosphatidylserine. Changes upstream of DNA fragmentation included generation of reactive oxygen species like superoxide, nitric oxide, and hydrogen peroxide that were primarily concentrated in the parasitophorous vacuoles. In the presence of antioxidants like N-acetylcysteine or Mn(III) tetrakis(4-benzoic acid)porphyrin chloride, an inhibitor of inducible nitric-oxide synthase, a diminution of reactive oxygen species generation and improvement of amastigote survival were observed, suggesting a close link between drug-induced oxidative stress and amastigote death. Changes downstream to reactive oxygen species increase involved elevation of intracellular Ca2+ concentrations in both the parasite and the host that was preventable by antioxidants. Flufenamic acid, a non-selective cation channel blocker, decreased the elevation of Ca2+ in both the cell types and reduced amastigote death, thus establishing a central role of Ca2+ in intracellular parasite clearance. This influx of Ca2+ was preceded by a fall in the amastigote mitochondrial membrane potential. Therefore, this study projects the importance of flufenamic acid-sensitive non-selective cation channels as important modulators of antimonial efficacy and lends credence to the suggestion that, within the host cell, apoptosis is the preferred mode of death for the parasites.
To review the incidence of reversible renal insufficiency in patients with hypertensive nephrosclerosis undergoing antihypertensive therapy.
Retrospective analysis of 73 patients in a long-term blood pressure control study that compared the effects of an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor plus conventional antihypertensive agents compared with placebo plus antihypertensive agents.
Hospital-based outpatient treatment center.
Patients were divided into group 1, which received enalapril plus conventional antihypertensives, and group 2, which received placebo plus conventional antihypertensives.
Blood pressure and serum creatinine levels were measured, and imaging studies of the main renal arteries were done.
In group 1, eight of 42 patients (19%, 95% CI, 9% to 34%) developed reversible renal insufficiency, defined as an unexpected increase in serum creatinine of 88 mumol/L or higher. Six episodes of reversible renal insufficiency occurred during July and August when temperatures were 32.2 degrees C to 37.8 degrees C (90 degrees F to 100 degrees F). Renal artery stenosis was excluded by renal arteriogram or ultrasonic duplex scanning. All eight group-1 patients had a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure below their baseline level during reversible renal insufficiency (mean change, -28 +/- 10 mm Hg, P less than 0.001). The increase in the serum creatinine level was inversely correlated with the decrease in the mean arterial pressure (r = -0.68, P less than 0.01). Reversible renal insufficiency was successfully managed by withdrawing or reducing enalapril as well as other antihypertensive agents. Subsequently, enalapril was tolerated by seven of the eight patients without recurrence of renal insufficiency. In contrast, none of 31 (CI, 0% to 11%) patients in group 2 developed reversible renal insufficiency despite the fact that both the incidence of decreases in mean arterial pressure in 6 of 31 patients (19%) and the magnitude of the decreases in mean arterial pressure (mean change, -33 +/- 16 mm Hg) were similar to those observed in group 1.
Reversible renal insufficiency in hypertensive nephrosclerosis associated with ACE inhibitor therapy correlates with relative hypotension, is not dependent on renal artery stenosis, and can usually be managed by dose reduction.
A 68-year-old woman with parkinsonism showed cortical myoclonus and seizures under antiparkinsonian medication. Myoclonus was induced and enhanced by L-dopa, developing into generalized seizures. EEG was abnormal and somatosensory-evoked potentials (SEPs) showed giant SEPs, transcortical reflex (C reflex) and jerk locked potentials. Myoclonus and seizures disappeared after discontinuation of L-dopa and the introduction of valproate sodium (VPA). We described the occurrence of L-dopa-induced myoclonus and seizures in a case of parkinsonism with its SEPs findings.
Little information is available regarding whether substance abuse enhances hepatitis C virus (HCV) replication and promotes HCV disease progression. We investigated whether morphine alters HCV mRNA expression in HCV replicon-containing liver cells. Morphine significantly increased HCV mRNA expression, an effect which could be abolished by either of the opioid receptor antagonists, naltrexone or beta-funaltrexamine. Investigation of the mechanism responsible for this enhancement of HCV replicon expression demonstrated that morphine activated NF-kappaB promoter and that caffeic acid phenethyl ester, a specific inhibitor of the activation of NF-kappaB, blocked morphine-activated HCV RNA expression. In addition, morphine compromised the anti-HCV effect of interferon alpha (IFN-alpha). Our in vitro data indicate that morphine may play an important role as a positive regulator of HCV replication in human hepatic cells and may compromise IFN-alpha therapy.
Brahmi Rasayan, an Ayurvedic preparation, was studied in mice and rats for its effects on the central nervous system at oral doses ranging between 1 and 30 g/kg. Observational screening in mice was carried out following a multiparametric check list. The test material was studied for its effect on pentobarbitone hypnosis, motor co-ordination, tail-withdrawal reaction time, electroshock, chemoconvulsions, haloperidol-induced catalepsy and conditioned avoidance response. The test material exhibited a sedative effect and significantly prolonged the hypnotic action of pentobarbitone. It produced a variable blockade of conditioned avoidance response. The presence of a significant antinociceptive effect, coupled with the ability of the test substance to offer protection against electroshock seizures and chemoconvulsions plus the ability to antagonize the haloperidol-induced catalepsy, suggests an involvement of the GABA-ergic system in the mediation of the central nervous system effects of Brahmi Rasayan.
Immunosuppression with FK506 for pediatric heart transplantation has been used in this institution since 1989. This study reports the unique toxicity of this macrolide agent in these heart transplant recipients.
Between October 1989 and August 1994, 49 patients were managed with FK506, which was the initial primary agent in 38 patients. The remaining 11 were switched from cyclosporine A because of persistent rejection or side effects from the cyclosporine A or prednisone. Data were obtained retrospectively from medical records.
Mean duration of follow-up was 29 months (median 37 months, range 3 to 96 months). Twenty-nine patients (59%) were receiving FK506 alone; 20 patients (41%) were receiving additional treatment with azathioprine, prednisone, or methotrexate. There were seven deaths. Twenty patients (41%) had elevated creatinine levels between 1 to 2 mg/dl. Five patients (11%) had levels greater than 2 mg/dl. Two patients with preexisting renal dysfunction while receiving cyclosporine A had chronic renal failure 32 and 36 months after switching to FK506 and required kidney transplantation. Hyperkalemia was a persistent finding in 26 patients. Of eight patients with hypertension, four had preexisting disease while receiving cyclosporine A; two had impaired renal function, and two were receiving prednisone. Severe anemia developed in eight patients (16%), two of whom had parvovirus. Moderate anemia developed in 21 patients (43%). Eosinophilia occurred in 19 patients; 11 of 19 patients (58%) had allergic symptoms. There was one case of diabetes mellitus. There were 12 significant infections with four infection-related deaths. Lymphoproliferative disease was noted in three patients, two of whom survived. Gastrointestinal symptoms, including chronic diarrhea, recurrent abdominal pain, and reflux esophagitis were present in 10 patients.
In our experience, anemia, renal toxicity, hyperkalemia, chronic diarrhea, and allergies were the most common adverse effects of FK506. Unlike cyclosporine A, hypertension, gingival hyperplasia, coarsening of facial features, and hirsutism were not seen.
Incorporation of selenocysteine (Sec), through recoding of the UGA stop codon, creates a unique class of proteins. Mice lacking tRNA(Sec) die in utero, but the in vivo role of other components involved in selenoprotein synthesis is unknown, and Sec incorporation defects have not been described in humans. Deiodinases (DIOs) are selenoproteins involved in thyroid hormone metabolism. We identified three of seven siblings with clinical evidence of abnormal thyroid hormone metabolism. Their fibroblasts showed decreased DIO2 enzymatic activity not linked to the DIO2 locus. Systematic linkage analysis of genes involved in DIO2 synthesis and degradation led to the identification of an inherited Sec incorporation defect, caused by a homozygous missense mutation in SECISBP2 (also called SBP2). An unrelated child with a similar phenotype was compound heterozygous with respect to mutations in SECISBP2. Because SBP2 is epistatic to selenoprotein synthesis, these defects had a generalized effect on selenoproteins. Incomplete loss of SBP2 function probably causes the mild phenotype.
The vascular toxicity and the mechanism of Raynaud's phenomenon (RP) were investigated in 32 patients treated with cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin. Sixteen patients had RP and sixteen patients were without finger symptoms. The results were compared with values obtained in 10 male controls. The following postural vasomotor functions were measured: (a) the vasomuscular, non-neurogenic autoregulation, tested by 133xenon flow during elevation of the finger 20 cm; (b) the local veno-arteriolar vasoconstrictor axon reflex, tested similarly by lowering the finger 40 cm; and (c) the central sympathetic vasoconstrictor reflex elicited by central baroreceptors and tested by changing the body posture from supine to sitting upright. The central sympathetic vasoconstrictor reflex was significantly increased in the group of patients with RP and/or cold provocation test positive (n = 16) when compared with the control group (p less than 0.05), and normal in patients without RP (n = 16). The local axon reflex functioned normally, whereas the autoregulation was impaired in both groups of patients compared with the control group (p less than 0.05). The results indicate a hyper-reactivity in the central sympathetic nervous system of the patients with RP, which also may explain their attacks of white fingers. The impaired autoregulation indicates a reduced function of the smooth muscle cells in the terminal arterioles, whereas the greater arterioles seem unaffected, as evidenced by the normal local axon reflex.
Renal biopsies have been examined in patients either currently (50 patients) or previously (5 patients) on maintenance lithium therapy for severe affective disorders. In patients currently taking lithium, a distinctive lesion of the distal convoluted tubules and collecting ducts was identified. This lesion consisted of vacuolation and swelling of the cytoplasm with accumulations of PAS positive material; this material was confirmed to be particulate glycogen by light and ultrastructural techniques. This 'lithium-associated' lesion was not present in patients who had discontinued lithium therapy. Prospective studies showed that the accumulation of glycogen occurs in distal tubules and collecting ducts within days of commencing lithium treatment. The relationship of this distinctive lesion to the patchy focal cortical interstitial fibrosis seen in these biopsies remains to be elucidated.
Lobund-Wistar (LW) rats, which have high testosterone levels, are predisposed to develop hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) spontaneously and by methylnitrosourea (MNU) induction, and the development of HRPC progresses through 2 stages. This paper reviews several studies in which LW rats were placed on soy-containing diets and were evaluated for development of either spontaneous or MNU-induced prostate cancer. The premalignant, testosterone-dependent stage is inhibited by testosterone deprivation. In the absence of testosterone deprivation, tumorigenesis progresses spontaneously to the testosterone-independent refractory stage. In LW rats: moderate caloric restriction prevented development of spontaneous prostate cancer; dietary 4-hydroxyphenylretinamide prevented MNU-induced prostate cancer; and dietary supplementation with soy protein isolate with high isoflavones prevented spontaneous and induced tumors and led to moderate reduction of serum testosterone. In rats 12 mo of age and younger, changing from the control diet to the soy+isoflavone diet significantly prevented progression of spontaneous tumors to the refractory stage of disease. Tumors that developed spontaneously and after MNU induction showed similar developmental stages and morphology, but MNU-induced tumors had shorter latency periods before development. The accumulated data indicate that soy-based diets are effective in the prevention of prostate cancer.
