The clinical study of compounds that modulate multidrug resistance has been hindered by both the toxicities of these agents and the inability to monitor their effectiveness at the level of the tumor cell. Previously, toremifene has been shown to be well tolerated clinically and to sensitize multidrug resistant cells to the effects of cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents. The chemosensitizing properties of toremifene in estrogen receptor negative, multidrug resistant MDA-MB-A1 human breast cancer cells were studied using flow cytometric analysis and growth inhibition assays. Cell cycle kinetics of MDA-MB-A1 cells were not significantly affected by treatment with either toremifene, N-desmethyltoremifene, Toremifene IV or vinblastine alone, as the majority of cells remained in G0/G1. However, preincubation with toremifene or one of its metabolites for 72 hours followed by treatment for one hour with vinblastine caused a marked shift of cells to G2/M, as cells appeared to be blocked in that phase of the cell cycle. This result was nearly identical to the effect of vinblastine alone on vinblastine-sensitive MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells and can be interpreted as a "resensitization" by toremifene of MDA-MB-A1 cells to vinblastine. This chemosensitizing effect of toremifene was accompanied by an enhanced inhibition of cell growth by vinblastine. The chemosensitizing effects of toremifene or one of its metabolites in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy can be effectively monitored by flow cytometry, an easily accessible technique.
It is generally believed that gadolinium-based contrast media are not nephrotoxic at the approved doses for MR (<0.3 mmol/kg body weight). Recently, a patient with diabetic nephropathy required dialysis because of anuria 6-7 days after MR angiography with 0.14 mmol/kg body weight gadolinium-DTPA-BMA to assess renal artery stenosis. No special precautions (e.g., hydration) had been taken. The serum creatinine levels had been within 200 and 300 micromol/l for the last 3 years with a very slow increase. This case highlights that gadolinium-based contrast media can cause contrast medium-induced nephropathy even at doses below 0.2 mmol/kg body weight in patients with multiple risk factors.
Coal dust inhalation induces oxidative damage and inflammatory infiltration on lung parenchyma. Thus, the aim of this study was to determine whether N-acetylcysteine (NAC) administered alone or in combination with deferoxamine (DFX), significantly reduced the inflammatory infiltration and oxidative damage in the lungs of rats exposed to coal dust. Forty-two male Wistar rats (200-250 g) were exposed to the coal dust (3mg/0.5 mL saline, 3 days/week, for 3 weeks) by intratracheal instillation. The animals were randomly divided into three groups: saline 0.9% (n=8), supplemented with NAC (20mg/kg of body weight/day, intraperitoneal injection (i.p.)) (n=8), and supplemented with NAC (20 mg/kg of body weight/day, i.p.) plus DFX (20 mg/kg of body weight/week) (n=8). Control animals received only saline solution (0.5 mL). Lactate dehydrogenase activity and total cell number were determined in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. We determined lipid peroxidation and oxidative protein damage parameters and catalase and superoxide dismutase activities in the lungs of animals. Intratracheal instillation of coal dust in the lungs of rats led to an inflammatory response and induced significant oxidative damage. The administration of NAC alone or in association with DFX reduced the inflammatory response and the oxidative stress parameters in rats exposed to coal dust.
There is insufficient information on the effects of chemotherapy protocols for Hodgkin's disease (HD) and the course of coexisting hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. A single literature case reported a patient with HD who developed fulminant hepatitis and hepatic coma after receiving chemotherapy. The case described here is of a female patient previously exposed to prolonged war stress, complicated by intravenous drug abuse and chronic hepatitis C. One year after diagnosis of HCV infection she was diagnosed with HD (nodular sclerosis type II, clinical stage IIIB). The patient received six cycles of ABVD chemotherapy (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine) resulting in complete remission of HD. There was no hepatitis flare either during or after chemotherapy. In conclusion, there were no adverse effects of the ABVD regimen on the course of HCV infection in this patient who was successfully treated for HD. Because concurrent HCV infection and HD is extremely rare, we discuss here the possibility of the synergistic contribution of chronic war stress and hepatitis C infection in the pathogenesis of HD.
We evaluated whether the commonly used analgesic-antipyretic drug acetaminophen can modify the arsenic-induced hepatic oxidative stress and also whether withdrawal of acetaminophen administration during the course of long-term arsenic exposure can increase susceptibility of liver to arsenic toxicity. Acetaminophen was co-administered orally to rats for 3 days following 28 days of arsenic pre-exposure (Phase-I) and thereafter, acetaminophen was withdrawn, but arsenic exposure was continued for another 28 days (Phase-II). Arsenic increased lipid peroxidation and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, depleted glutathione (GSH), and decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and glutathione reductase (GR) activities. Acetaminophen caused exacerbation of arsenic-mediated lipid peroxidation and ROS generation and further enhancement of serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activities. In Phase-I, acetaminophen caused further GSH depletion and reduction in SOD, catalase, GPx and GR activities, but in Phase-II, only GPx and GR activities were more affected. Arsenic did not alter basal and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)-mediated NO production, but decreased constitutive NOS (cNOS)-mediated NO release. Arsenic reduced expression of endothelial NOS (eNOS) and iNOS genes. Acetaminophen up-regulated eNOS and iNOS expression and NO production in Phase-I, but reversed these effects in Phase-II. Results reveal that acetaminophen increased the risk of arsenic-mediated hepatic oxidative damage. Withdrawal of acetaminophen administration also increased susceptibility of liver to hepatotoxicity. Both ROS and NO appeared to mediate lipid peroxidation in Phase-I, whereas only ROS appeared responsible for peroxidative damage in Phase-II.
Acromegaly is an endocrine disorder caused by chronic excessive growth hormone secretion from the anterior pituitary gland. Significant disfiguring changes occur as a result of bone, cartilage, and soft tissue hypertrophy, including the thickening of the skin, coarsening of facial features, and cutis verticis gyrata. Pseudoacromegaly, on the other hand, is the presence of similar acromegaloid features in the absence of elevated growth hormone or insulin-like growth factor levels. We present a patient with pseudoacromegaly that resulted from the long-term use of minoxidil at an unusually high dose. This is the first case report of pseudoacromegaly as a side effect of minoxidil use.
Acute exposure to toluene and other volatile organic solvents results in neurotoxicity characterized by nervous system depression, cognitive and motor impairment, and alterations in visual function. In vitro, toluene disrupts the function of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-glutamate receptors, indicating that effects on NMDA receptor function may contribute to toluene neurotoxicity. NMDA-glutamate receptors are widely present in the visual system and contribute to pattern-elicited visual-evoked potentials (VEPs) in rodents, a measure that is altered by toluene exposure. The present study tested the hypothesis that effects on NMDA receptors contribute to toluene-induced alterations in pattern-elicited VEPs. Prior to examining the effects of NMDA receptor agonists and antagonists on toluene-exposed animals, a dose-range study was conducted to determine the optimal dose for NMDA (agonist) and MK801 (antagonist). Dose levels of 2.5 mg/kg NMDA and 0.1 mg/kg MK801 were selected from these initial studies. In the second study, Long-Evans rats were exposed to toluene by inhalation, and VEPs were measured during toluene exposure in the presence or absence of NMDA or MK801. Pattern-elicited VEPs were collected by exposing rats to a sinusoidal pattern modulated at a temporal frequency of 4.55 Hz. Following collection of baseline VEPs, rats were injected with either saline, NMDA (2.5 mg/kg, ip), or MK801 (0.1 mg/kg, ip) and 10 min later were exposed to air or toluene (2000 ppm). VEP amplitudes were calculated for 1x (F1) and 2x stimulus frequency (F2). The F2 amplitude was reduced by approximately 60, 60, and 50% in the toluene-exposed groups (TOL): SALINE/TOL (n = 11), NMDA/TOL (2.5 mg/kg; n = 13), and NMDA/TOL (10 mg/kg, n = 11), respectively. Thus, NMDA (2.5 and 10 mg/kg) did not significantly affect toluene-mediated F2 amplitude effects. Administration of 0.1 mg/kg MK801 prior to toluene exposure blocked the F2 amplitude decreases caused by toluene (n = 9). However, when 0.1 mg/kg MK801 was administered 20 min after the onset of toluene exposure, toluene-mediated F2 amplitude decreases persisted despite the challenge by MK801. These data support the hypothesis that acute actions of toluene on pattern-elicited VEPs involve NMDA receptors.
Selected inbred strains of mice were compared with respect to their susceptibility to two-stage liver carcinogenesis. Five-week-old male mice of strains C57BL/6NCr (C57), C3H/HeNCrMTV- (C3H) and DBA/2NCr (DBA) were given a single i.p. injection of N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN, 90 mg/kg body weight) or the solvent tricaprylin (10 ml/kg). Beginning 2 weeks later, half of the DEN-treated and half of the control mice were given drinking water containing 0.05% phenobarbital (PB). Ten mice from each treatment group were killed at 12, 24, 36 and 52 weeks of age (5, 17, 29 and 45 weeks exposure to PB). PB significantly increased both the number of hepatocellular foci/cm2 and the incidence of hepatocellular tumors after 17 weeks of treatment in 24-week-old DEN-initiated mice of strains C3H (0.11 +/- 0.07 versus 2.9 +/- 0.3 foci/cm2 and 20 versus 70% incidence of hepatocellular tumors) and DBA (0.09 +/- 0.09 versus 3.72 +/- 0.6 foci/cm2 and 0 versus 90% incidence of hepatocellular tumors) but was ineffective in C57 mice (0.04 +/- 0.04 versus 0.07 +/- 0.07 foci/cm2). At 36 weeks of age the incidence of liver cell tumors in mice given DEN but not PB was 10 (DBA), 10 (C57) and 50% (C3H); the incidence was increased by PB to 90% in DBA and 100% in C3H mice, but there was no increase in C57 mice. Even at 52 weeks, the low incidence of hepatocellular tumors in C57 mice given DEN only (20%) was not significantly increased by subsequent exposure to PB. Serum PB levels observed at 12, 24 and 36 weeks of age were significantly higher in DBA mice than in C57 or C3H mice. Similar results were observed in a separate study in which PB was administered in drinking water to 7-week-old male mice of these three strains for 20 days, during which period serum PB levels were measured at shorter intervals. DBA mice thus appear to be unable to metabolize PB, which itself rather than its metabolites is probably responsible for tumor-promoting effects. DBA mice were especially sensitive, while C57 mice were refractory to promotion of hepatocarcinogenesis by PB. These two strains, which differ with respect to other significant parameters for chemical carcinogenesis including inducibility for aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and susceptibility to promotion of hydrocarbon-initiated skin tumors by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, thus also provide a means for analysis of the pharmacogenetics of susceptibility to hepatocellular tumor promotion.
Here, we demonstrate that the metabolism of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) to nitric oxide (NO) occurs not only in bovine aortic smooth muscle cells (SMCs) but also in endothelial cells (ECs) and that this biotransformation is enhanced by pretreatment with Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Two bioassay systems were used: inhibition of platelet aggregation and measurement of cGMP after stimulation by NO of guanylate cyclase in SMCs or ECs. In addition, NO produced from GTN by cells was measured as nitrite (NO2-), one of its breakdown products. Indomethacin (10 microM)-treated SMCs or ECs enhanced the platelet inhibitory activity of GTN. This effect was abrogated by coincubation with oxyhemoglobin (oxyHb; 10 microM), indicating release of NO from GTN. LPS (0.5 microgram/ml; 18 h) enhanced at least 2- to 3-fold the capacity of SMCs or ECs to form NO from GTN, and this enhancement was attenuated when cycloheximide (10 micrograms/ml) was incubated together with LPS. Furthermore, when incubated with GTN (200 microM) SMCs or ECs treated with LPS (0.5 microgram/ml; 18 h) released more NO from GTN than nontreated cells as indicated by a much higher (8- to 9-fold) increase in the levels of cGMP. Exposure of SMCs to GTN (600 microM) for 30 min led to an increase in the levels of NO2- dependent on cell numbers, which was enhanced when SMCs were treated with LPS. Incubation of nontreated or LPS-treated cells with NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (300 microM; 60 min) did not influence the metabolism of GTN to NO. SMCs failed to enhance the antiplatelet activity of sodium nitroprusside. Anesthetized rats treated with an intraperitoneal injection of LPS (20 mg/kg) 18 h beforehand showed enhanced hypotensive responses to GTN (0.25-1 mg/kg). These effects were blocked by methylene blue (10 mg/kg) but not by indomethacin (3 mg/kg). LPS did not alter the hypotensive responses induced by phentolamine, verapamil, or SIN-1. Thus, both in vitro and in vivo, LPS induces the enzyme(s) metabolizing GTN to NO.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a potent environmental neurotoxin that preferentially targets the developing embryonic nervous system. While a number of cytotoxic mechanisms of MeHg have been characterized in differentiated cells its mode of action in the developing nervous system in vivo is less clear. Studies in primate and rodent models demonstrate aberrant cell migration and disorganized patterning of cortical layers in the brain following MeHg exposure. However, defining the molecular and cellular pathways targeted by MeHg will require more genetically accessible animal models. In this study, we instigate a method of in vitro MeHg exposure using Drosophila embryos. We demonstrate dose-dependent inhibition of embryonic development with MeHg revealed by a failure of embryos to hatch to the larval stage. In addition, we document definitive phenotypes in neural development showing abnormalities in neuronal and glial cell patterning consistent with disrupted migration. We observe pronounced defects in neurite outgrowth in both central and peripheral neurons. Ectopic expression of the Nrf2 transcription factor in embryos, a core factor in the antioxidant response element (ARE) pathway, enhances embryonic development and hatching in the presence of MeHg, illustrating the power of this model for investigation of candidate MeHg tolerance genes. Our data establish a utility for the Drosophila embryo model as a platform for elucidating MeHg sensitive pathways in neural development.
Quercetin is an antioxidant flavonoid, found ubiquitously in nature and extensively used in herbal medicines and food additives. This study aimed to investigate the effect of quercetin on diethylnitrosamine-induced preneoplastic lesions, using the medium-term rat liver bioassay. The γ-benzene hexachloride was used as promoter at the doses of 0.1, 1.0, and 10.0 mg/kg against a single dose of diethylnitrosamine (200 mg/kg) in male Sprague-Dawley rats. All the rats were subjected to 70% partial hepatectomy at Week 4. The protective effect of quercetin (5 and 25 mg/kg) was examined against the highest dose of γ-benzene hexachloride (10 mg/kg). A significant increase in the number as well as the mean area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci, p53 positive hepatocytes, and the percentage of apoptotic cells were observed in the diethylnitrosamine-treated group. In the present investigation, both doses of QC (5 and 25 mg/kg) led to a significant decrease in the number as well as the mean area of GST-P positive foci, TUNEL positive apoptotic cells, p53 positive hepatocytes, and restoration of cellular morphology. These results clearly indicate that quercetin inhibits diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatic preneoplastic lesions in medium-term rat liver bioassay.
The American Society of Clinical Oncology recommends bisphosphonate use, such as intravenous pamidronate, for women with breast cancer who have radiographic evidence of bone destruction. However, pamidronate therapy has been associated with the development of the nephrotic syndrome. This renal abnormality has been posited to be due to a number of different mechanisms, including collapsing focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). We present one such case of a patient who developed collapsing FSGS with nephrotic-range proteinuria after treatment with pamidronate for osteolytic bone metastases from an infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the breast. A possible mechanism of this kidney injury is mitochondrial apoptosis in podocytes and/or proximal tubular cells, which has been shown to occur in a dose-dependent fashion in experimental models. Renal prognosis is very poor if collapsing FSGS develops. Thus, prevention or early detection rather than effective therapy should be the primary consideration.
The paper presented a case of a patient with type III by FAB myelodysplastic syndrome, in whom during a low dose cytarabine therapy ventricular fibrillation occurred. Authors discussed roles of anemia, ischemic heart disease and hypokalemia as factors which could increase circulatory system sensitivity on cytarabine action.
Perfluoroalkyl acids, including perfluorohexane sulfonate (PFHxS), are fluorinated organic compounds used as surfactants and water and stain repellents in carpets, paper, and textiles, with characteristics to bioaccumulate and biomagnify in the food chain. PFHxS is found in umbilical cord blood, human milk and child serum from all over the world. We have recently reported that neonatal exposure to certain perfluoroalkyl acids, PFOS and PFOA, can induce persistent aberrations in spontaneous behavior and also affect learning and memory functions in the adult animal. The present study indicates that a single exposure to PFHxS on postnatal day 10, during a vulnerable period of brain development can alter adult spontaneous behavior and cognitive function in both male and female mice, effects that are both dose-response related and long-lasting/irreversible. PFHxS affected the cholinergic system, manifested as altered nicotine-induced behavior in adult animals. This is also in agreement with earlier studies on neonatal exposure to PFOS and PFOA. The present findings show that PFHxS, a member of the perfluoroalkyl acid group, can act as a developmental neurotoxicant and affect the cholinergic system and cognitive function and the effects show similarities with effects earlier reported after neonatal exposure to other POPs, such as bisphenol A, PBDEs and PCBs.
Cysteinyl leukotrienes (LT) are involved in airway inflammation and mucus hypersecretion, characteristically present in asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Zafirlukast is an LT receptor antagonist that improves airway function within 1-3 h after oral administration in subjects with chronic persistent asthma. Through a randomised, double-blind, crossover and placebo-controlled study, we assessed the short-term effects of zafirlukast in patients with severe COPD. We enrolled 23 subjects (seven women) aged 59.4 (1.67) yr [mean (SEM)] with a smoking history of 60.7 (5.2) pack-yr. At screening day the mean FEV(1)was 0.876 (0.72) l; FEV(1) % predicted=35 (3)% and 107 (14) ml increment post-salbutamol. They came two different days, apart from each other at least 72 h. After baseline spirometry, a single oral dose of 40 mg zafirlukast or the corresponding placebo was administered. FVC and FEV(1) was measured every 30 min until 2 hrs. On zafirlukast day, the mean FEV(1) at 90 min [0.813 (0.64) l] and the mean FVC at 90 min [1.76 (0.1) l] were significantly higher than the respective means at placebo day (mean FEV(1)=0.747 (0.55) l; mean FVC=1.63 (0.1) l; p<0.05 Tukey Kramer multiple comparisons test). The maximum mean increase in FEV(1) was 75 (19) ml. A positive correlation was found between absolute response to salbutamol in FEV(1) and the response to zafirlukast (r=0.41; p<0.04). In conclusion, these findings suggest that zafirlukast has a bronchodilator or antibronchoconstrictor effect in COPD patients with severe airflow limitation.
Recent evidence has suggested that compounds affecting GABAergic transmission may provide useful pharmacological tools for the treatment of cocaine addiction. Using a rat model of self-administration, the present study examined the effects of GABA agonists and antagonists injected directly into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) on cocaine intake in rats trained to self-administer cocaine (0, 125, 250 and 500 microg/infusion) under an FR5 schedule of reinforcement. Separate groups of rats received bilateral intra-VTA injections of the GABA-A antagonist picrotoxin (34 ng/side, n = 7; 68 ng/side, n = 8), GABA-A agonist muscimol (14 ng/side, n = 8), GABA-B agonist baclofen (56 ng/side, n = 7; 100 ng/side, n = 6), picrotoxin (68 ng/side) co-injected with the GABA-B antagonist 2-hydroxysaclofen (100 ng/side, n = 7; 2 microg/side, n = 8) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF, n = 6) to assess the effects of the various compounds on the cocaine self-administration dose-response curve. Both picrotoxin and baclofen reduced responding maintained by cocaine, whereas muscimol had no effect on responding. In contrast, neither picrotoxin (n = 6) nor baclofen (n = 8) affected responding maintained by food. Interestingly, 2-hydroxysaclofen effectively blocked the suppression of responding produced by picrotoxin, suggesting that both picrotoxin and baclofen exert their effects via activation of GABA-B receptors. Additionally, these effects appear to be specific to cocaine reinforcement, supporting current investigation of baclofen as a treatment for cocaine addiction.
The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of 3-aminobenzamide (3-AB) on tissue damage in lung after hind limb ischemia-reperfusion (I/R), by assessing blood biochemical assay and histopathological analysis. Thirty-five adult Wistar rats were divided into five groups. After application of anaesthesia both hind limbs were occluded with tourniquets. Following ischemia period for 60 min, the tourniquets were removed allowing reperfusion for 120 min. The IR group received 0.5 ml of saline while the IR+AB group received 3-AB (10 mgkg(-1) intraperitoneally). The IR+DMSO group was given 0.5 ml 10% DMSO 30 min before the removal of the tourniquets. The control group received 0.5 ml saline and the AB group received 0.5 ml 3-AB (10 mgkg(-1)) intraperitoneally. At the end of the reperfusion period, mid-line sternotomy was performed. Blood samples were taken with cardiac puncture. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) of the left lung was performed with saline. Right lung was preserved for histopathological evaluation and biochemical examination. Lung tissue malondialdehyde (MDA) and 3-nitrotyrosine levels, myeloperoxidase and Na+/K+ ATP-ase activities, wet to dry weight ratios, and plasma and BAL fluid MDA levels were determined. Histopathological evaluation was performed, too. Hind limb IR caused significant increase in the lung tissue 3-NT to total tyrosine ratio (p = 0.014), wet to dry weight ratio (p = 0.000), MPO activity (p = 0.000), and MDA levels (p = 0.000). The animals treated with 3-AB showed a statistically significant decrease in these values (p < 0.05). Na+/K+ ATP-ase activity which was found to be decreased significantly with IR, returned to near normal levels with 3-AB treatment. Additionally, lung tissue injury in IR group characterized with moderate interstitial congestion and neutrophil infiltration, showed remarkable amelioration following 3-AB treatment. Our results strongly support the view that poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) plays an important role in the inflammatory process in hind limb I/R-induced lung injury and as a PARP inhibitor, 3-AB seems to have a potential to treat this inflammatory injury.
There is no universally accepted approach to the initiation of systemic anticoagulant therapy. In an open, randomized study, two anticoagulant regimens that differed only in the timing of warfarin therapy after the start of heparin were compared. We randomized 119 patients with acute thromboembolic events to receive warfarin either within 48 hours of the start of heparin (early group, n = 63) or 96 hours or later after the start of heparin (late group, n = 56). Heparin was given as a 5000 IU bolus as a constant infusion titrated to maintain the activated partial thromboplastin time at 1.5 to 2 times control values. Warfarin was started at 10 mg daily for 3 days and the dose was titrated to maintain the prothrombin time at 1.2 to 1.5 times control values. There were no significant differences between the early and late warfarin groups with regard to age, sex, indication for anticoagulation, heparin dose, mean activated partial thromboplastin time during heparin, warfarin dose at discharge, length of warfarin therapy before discharge, bleeding, recurrent thromboembolic events, or mortality rates. Time to the start of warfarin after heparin was 31 hours and 108 hours in the early and late groups, respectively. Length of hospitalization, hospital costs, and the incidence of heparin-induced infusion phlebitis and thrombocytopenia were significantly less in the early group compared with the late group. Early initiation of warfarin after heparin is safer, less expensive, and as effective as the late initiation of warfarin.
The shortage of donor organs occasionally mandates the use of hepatic allografts from anti-HBc+ donors in recipients who are susceptible to de novo hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. The efficacy of hepatitis B immune globulin and lamivudine to prevent de novo HBV infection in anti-HBs negative recipients of allografts from anti-HBc+ donors has not been investigated.
After liver transplantation with an allograft from a donor positive for anti-HBc, recipients who were anti-HBs-, HbsAg- received hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) 10,000 IU i.v. daily for 7 days and monthly for 6 months. After 6 months, 1000 IU of HBIG was given IM. every 2 weeks for 18 months. Patients transplanted after 4/1/97 were given lamivudine 150 mg daily starting postoperative day 1.
Between 8/14/96 and 6/10/98, 264 orthotopic liver transplants were performed and 16 anti-HBs-, HbsAg- patients received an hepatic allograft from a donor positive for anti-HBc. HBIG mono-therapy was administered to one patient. HBIG and lamivudine combination therapy was administered to 15 patients. Of the 16 patients, 8 were positive only for anti-HBc before transplant, and 8 were naive (anti-HBs-, anti-HBc-). The single patient who received HBIG monotherapy became HbsAg+ at 6 months. All patients receiving combination therapy with HBIG and lamivudine have remained HbsAg-. The average follow-up is 459 days (range 170-754). Two patients died from unrelated causes.
Combination therapy with HBIG and lamivudine may prevent de novo HBV infection in anti-HBs-, HbsAg- recipients of hepatic allografts from anti-HBc+ donors.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is an important cause of serious liver disease. The antimicrobial agent flucloxacillin is a common cause of DILI, but the genetic basis for susceptibility remains unclear. We conducted a genome-wide association (GWA) study using 866,399 markers in 51 cases of flucloxacillin DILI and 282 controls matched for sex and ancestry. The GWA showed an association peak in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region with the strongest association (P = 8.7 x 10(-33)) seen for rs2395029[G], a marker in complete linkage disequilibrium (LD) with HLA-B*5701. Further MHC genotyping, which included 64 flucloxacillin-tolerant controls, confirmed the association with HLA-B*5701 (OR = 80.6, P = 9.0 x 10(-19)). The association was replicated in a second cohort of 23 cases. In HLA-B*5701 carrier cases, rs10937275 in ST6GAL1 on chromosome 3 also showed genome-wide significance (OR = 4.1, P = 1.4 x 10(-8)). These findings provide new insights into the mechanism of flucloxacillin DILI and have the potential to substantially improve diagnosis of this serious disease.
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is an antihistamine with anticholinergic properties that is frequently used both orally and topically for the temporary relief of pruritus. Significant systemic absorption may occur following topical administration of diphenhydramine in patients with varicella-zoster lesions. We describe three children with varicella-zoster infection (VZI) who developed bizarre behavior as well as visual and auditory hallucinations following topical applications of large amounts of diphenhydramine to the majority of skin surfaces. In two cases, oral diphenhydramine was also administered. Serum diphenhydramine concentrations approximated or exceeded those previously reported. In each case, a complete resolution of mental status abnormalities occurred within 24 hours after discontinuation of all diphenhydramine-containing products. Pharmacists and other health professionals should be aware of the potential toxicity of topical diphenhydramine in patients with VZI.
Budesonide, a marker for corticosteroid allergy, is a 1:1 mixture of 2 diastereomers, the R and S, present in all commercial formulations. Budesonide is said to cross-react with group B substances through the R and S diastereomer and some group D substances only through the S diastereomer.
To investigate the cross-reactivity pattern between the R and S diastereomers and 4 potentially cross-reacting substances, 2 from group B and 2 from group D.
By patch testing 10 patients hypersensitive to budesonide with a serial dilution of budesonide, the R and S diastereomer, triamcinolone acetonide, amcinonide, prednicarbate, and hydrocortisone-17-butyrate.
Nine of 10 patients reacted to budesonide and the S diastereomer. Seven of 9 to the R diastereomer. Each of the 9 patients with S diastereomer allergy reacted to the group B and/or group D substances. Five patients reacted to triamcinolone acetonide, not to 1.0% but only to 0.0010% and 0.00010%.
The R and S diastereomers can induce positive patch test reactions in budesonide-hypersensitive individuals. The potential of budesonide to cross-react with substances from group B and D might be explained by the presence of the 2 diastereomers. When patch testing with triamcinolone acetonide, much lower concentrations than recommended should be used.
Testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT) have been expected to have a strong underlying genetic component. We conducted a genome-wide scan among 277 TGCT cases and 919 controls and found that seven markers at 12p22 within KITLG (c-KIT ligand) reached genome-wide significance (P < 5.0 x 10(-8) in discovery). In independent replication, TGCT risk was increased threefold per copy of the major allele at rs3782179 and rs4474514 (OR = 3.08, 95% CI = 2.29-4.13; OR = 3.07, 95% CI = 2.29-4.13, respectively). We found associations with rs4324715 and rs6897876 at 5q31.3 near SPRY4 (sprouty 4; P < 5.0 x 10(-6) in discovery). In independent replication, risk of TGCT was increased nearly 40% per copy of the major allele (OR = 1.37, 95% CI = 1.14-1.64; OR = 1.39, 95% CI = 1.16-1.66, respectively). All of the genotypes were associated with both seminoma and nonseminoma TGCT subtypes. These results demonstrate that common genetic variants affect TGCT risk and implicate KITLG and SPRY4 as genes involved in TGCT susceptibility.
We conducted a genome-wide association study for testicular germ cell tumor (TGCT), genotyping 307,666 SNPs in 730 cases and 1,435 controls from the UK and replicating associations in a further 571 cases and 1,806 controls. We found strong evidence for susceptibility loci on chromosome 5 (per allele OR = 1.37 (95% CI = 1.19-1.58), P = 3 x 10(-13)), chromosome 6 (OR = 1.50 (95% CI = 1.28-1.75), P = 10(-13)) and chromosome 12 (OR = 2.55 (95% CI = 2.05-3.19), P = 10(-31)). KITLG, encoding the ligand for the receptor tyrosine kinase KIT, which has previously been implicated in the pathogenesis of TGCT and the biology of germ cells, may explain the association on chromosome 12.
Thirty-nine patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer, refractory or resistant to platinum or taxanes derivatives were treated on an out-patient basis with vinorelbine 25 mg/m2 intravenous (I.V.) on days 1 and 8 followed by gemcitabine 800 mg/m2 l.V. on days 1 and 8. Chemotherapy was repeated every 3 weeks. The patients were evaluated for response every two cycles of treatment. All 39 patients were assessable for toxicity and 35 were assessable for response. On an intent to treat analysis, only 1 (2.6%) patient achieved a partial response (PR) (95% CI 0.09% to 17.6%); fourteen patients (35.9%, 95% CI 29.45% to 67.4%) had stable disease (SD) and 24 (61.5%) had progressive disease (PD). The median time to tumor progression (TTP) was 4.7 months (range 0.13 to 18.9 months), the median survival time was 7.3 months (range 0.6 to 18.9 months) and the 1-year survival rate was 35%. Clinical benefit response including improvement of PS, dyspnea and anorexia, pain and cough reduction and cessation of hemoptysis and fever was observed in 10% to 50% of patients. Grade 3/4 neutropenia occurred only in 2 (5.2%) patients. Five patients experienced febrile neutropenia, which was successfully treated with G-CSF and broad-spectrum antibiotics. No patient experienced grade 3/4 anaemia or thrombocytopenia. One patient experienced grade 4 fatigue and stopped the treatment. Nausea / vomiting, fatigue, neurotoxicity, diarrhea and fever were mild in the majority of patients and did not result in any clinically significant problem. There were no treatment-related deaths. In conclusion, the combination of gemcitabine and vinorelbine showed low objective response rate in patients previously treated with CDDP/taxanes-containing regimens. This regimen was relatively well-tolerated and was associated with prolonged 1-year survival and improvement in cancer related symptoms. To validate these findings a randomized trial of gemcitabine and vinorelbine versus taxotere or best supportive care is required.
