To investigate ammonia and glutamine levels in valproate (VPA)-related hyperammonemic encephalopathy (VHE).
We reviewed the medical records and EEG recordings of seven adults diagnosed with VHE.
Venous ammonia levels were elevated in five (71%) of the seven patients. Elevated serum or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glutamine levels were found in four (80%) of five cases tested, including two who had normal ammonia levels. Initial behavioral signs included violent outbursts in three patients, paranoid ideation severe enough to require restraint in two cases, and milder abnormalities in two instances. The severity of encephalopathy was not related to any particular serum VPA level. In four patients serum VPA levels did not exceed 100 microg/ml, and in one case, VHE developed after taking only one 250-mg dose. Symptoms eventually cleared after reducing the dose of, or discontinuing, VPA. Liver-function tests were normal. Each of six patients tested had EEG findings that supported the diagnosis of VHE and excluded nonconvulsive status epilepticus. The rate of normalization of one patient's serum glutamine level and the EEGs of two cases correlated better with the timing of their delayed clinical recovery than did the more rapid rate of decline of the serum ammonia levels.
Serum or CSF glutamine levels are initially elevated in a majority of patients with suspected VHE, sometimes in the absence of hyperammonemia. Glutamine levels may be useful adjunctive laboratory tests for the diagnosis of VHE.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection after liver transplantation (LT) may lead to severe and rapidly progressive graft failure. Antiviral treatment may be of benefit in selected patients with recurrent hepatitis B post-LT. The aim of this prospective open-label study is to determine the safety and efficacy of lamivudine in 33 liver transplant recipients with active HBV infection. The median time from LT to study enrollment was 51 months, all patients were hepatitis B surface antigen positive, and 75% and 94% of subjects had detectable hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) and HBV DNA at entry, respectively. The median duration of lamivudine treatment on study was 85 weeks, during which time median HBV DNA levels became undetectable by 16 weeks and 9% of patients lost previously detectable HBeAg. Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels improved in most patients and normalized in 27% of patients with elevated values pretreatment. Serum bilirubin and albumin levels significantly improved in patients with abnormal values at entry (P <.05). Virological breakthrough was detected in 13 subjects after a median of 61 weeks of lamivudine treatment and was confirmed to be caused by YMDD mutants in all patients tested. None of the patients with virological breakthrough showed a complete loss of clinical response to lamivudine. Serum ALT and bilirubin levels in patients with and without virological breakthrough were not significantly different at last study follow-up. Study results show that lamivudine is safe and effective in liver transplant recipients with recurrent hepatitis B. However, the high rate of virological breakthrough with prolonged therapy indicates the need for further studies of combination antiviral therapy in this patient population. Our results and others further establish the improving long-term outcomes with LT for patients with hepatitis B through advances in prevention of reinfection, as well as the availability of safe and effective antiviral therapies to treat patients with HBV recurrence.
Drugs activating group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) represent therapeutic alternatives to L-DOPA (L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Their presynaptic location at GABAergic and glutamatergic synapses within basal ganglia nuclei provide a critical target to reduce abnormal activities associated with PD. The effects of selective group III mGluR agonists (1S,3R,4S)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3,4-tricarboxylic acid (ACPT-I) and L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4) infused into the globus pallidus (GP) or the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) were thus studied in rat models of PD. Bilateral infusions of ACPT-I (1, 2.5, and 5 nmol/microl) into the GP fully reverse the severe akinetic deficits produced by 6-hydroxydopamine nigrostriatal dopamine lesions in a reaction-time task without affecting the performance of controls. Similar results were observed after L-AP4 (1 nmol) or picrotoxin, a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, infused into the GP. In addition, intrapallidal ACPT-I counteracts haloperidol-induced catalepsy. This effect is reversed by concomitant administration of a selective group III receptor antagonist (RS)-alpha-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine. In contrast, ACPT-I (0.05, 0.1, and 0.25 nmol) infusions into the SNr enhance the lesion-induced akinetic deficits in control and lesioned rats and do not reverse haloperidol-induced catalepsy. L-AP4 (0.05 nmol) and picrotoxin in the SNr produce the same effects. Together, these results show that activation of group III mGluRs in the GP provides benefits in parkinsonian rats, presumably by modulating GABAergic neurotransmission. The opposite effects produced by group III mGluR activation in the SNr, also observed with a selective mGluR8 agonist, support the use of subtype-selective group III mGluR agonists as a potential antiparkinsonian strategy.
Visual and auditory neurotoxicity was previously documented in 42 of 89 patients with transfusion-dependent anemia who were receiving iron chelation therapy with daily subcutaneous deferoxamine. Twenty-two patients in the affected group had abnormal audiograms with deficits mostly in the high frequency range of 4,000 to 8,000 Hz and in the hearing threshold levels of 30 to 100 decibels. When deferoxamine therapy was discontinued and serial studies were performed, audiograms in seven cases reverted to normal or near normal within two to three weeks, and nine of 13 patients with symptoms became asymptomatic. Audiograms from 15 patients remained abnormal and four patients required hearing aids because of permanent disability. Since 18 of the 22 patients were initially receiving deferoxamine doses in excess of the commonly recommended 50 mg/kg per dose, therapy was restarted with lower doses, usually 50 mg/kg per dose or less depending on the degree of auditory abnormality, and with the exception of two cases no further toxicity was demonstrated. Auditory deterioration and improvement, demonstrated serially in individual patients receiving and not receiving deferoxamine, respectively, provided convincing evidence for a cause-and-effect relation between deferoxamine administration and ototoxicity. Based on these data, a plan of management was developed that allows effective yet safe administration of deferoxamine. A dose of 50 mg/kg is recommended in those without audiogram abnormalities. With mild toxicity, a reduction to 30 or 40 mg/kg per dose should result in a reversal of the abnormal results to normal within four weeks. Moderate abnormalities require a reduction of deferoxamine to 25 mg/kg per dose with careful monitoring. In those with symptoms of hearing loss, the drug should be stopped for four weeks, and when the audiogram is stable or improved, therapy should be restarted at 10 to 25 mg/kg per dose. Serial audiograms should be performed every six months in those without problems and more frequently in young patients with normal serum ferritin values and in those with auditory dysfunction.
Seventeen patients with choreiform, athetoid, or ballistic involuntary movements, or with spasmodic torticollis, were treated with tetrabenazine in doses of 25 to 200 mg daily for periods varying from two weeks to more than six months. Randomized ciné film of the patients' involuntary movements, taken before, during, and after treatment was assessed individually by seven `blind' observers. Eight patients were judged improved; two had Huntington's chorea, two athetosis, two dystonia musculorum deformans, one hemiballismus, and one spasmodic torticollis. Four of the eight improved patients have continued taking the drug for longer than six months. In a second study seven patients with Huntington's chorea were treated for two weeks each with tetrabenazine (50 mg t.d.s.) and with amantadine (100 mg t.d.s.) and the results assessed by the same method. The choreiform movements of six of these patients were strikingly improved with tetrabenazine therapy, but amantadine had no effect. Tetrabenazine is an effective agent for the suppression of choreiform and ballistic involuntary movements. It is only slightly effective in the treatment of athetosis and spasmodic torticollis. Drowsiness, insomnia, and depression were the most conspicuous unwanted effects, and these may limit the clinical usefulness of the drug.
Ifosfamide is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of a broad spectrum of solid tumors. CNS toxicity is a well-described side effect of ifosfamide, but the mechanism of ifosfamide-induced neurotoxicity remains poorly defined. We present two pediatric cases of hemiballismic limb movements in the setting of ifosfamide-associated encephalopathy. To our knowledge, there have been no prior reports of ifosfamide-induced hemiballism in pediatric patients. One of our patient's encephalopathy and abnormal movements may have improved after the administration of methylene blue and thiamine.
The effect on pain and heat sensation of monomere non-ionic contrast media with different osmolality was assessed in a randomized double-blind study. Peripheral angiography was performed in 29 patients who suffered from chronic occlusive vessel disease. The two non-ionic contrast media iomeprol and iopentol were applied intraindividually. The contrast media with an iodine concentration of 350 mg/ml had an osmolality of 618 or 810 mosm/kg. A contrast medium volume of 80 or 90 ml was injected in the abdominal aorta. The mean flow was 13.9 ml/s. The two contrast medium injections were separated by an interval of 10 min. No analgesic premedication was given. The pain and heat intensity was semiquantatively measured using a visual analogue scale ranging from 0 (no heat/pain) to 100 (intractable heat/pain). The median after the first injection was calculated as 40 for iomeprol and 70 for iopentol. The comparison of heat and pain sensations after the second injection showed a less distinct difference with a scale rating of 60 for iomeprol and of 65 for iopentol. The statistical variance was highly significant (p < 0.01) in favor of iomeprol.
Retrovirus-mediated interferon alpha (IFN-alpha) gene transfer was evaluated with regard to its possible protective effects against aflatoxin B1 (AFB1)-initiated and carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-promoted hepatic carcinogenesis in rats. To our knowledge, this is the first time an experimental in vivo gene therapy trial was conducted in Egypt. Two genes were examined in liver tissue by RT-PCR: the first was glutathione-S-transferase placental (GST-P) isoenzyme, as an early marker to detect hepatic malignancy; the second was IFN-alpha gene expression to detect the efficiency of gene uptake and its persistence after transduction. Forty male rats, divided equally into 4 groups, were included in the study: the first group was the control; the second group received CCl4 0.2 ml subcutaneously twice weekly for 12 weeks and AFB1 0.25 mg/kg body wt intraperitoneally twice weekly for 6 weeks; the third group received IFN-alpha (10(8) pfu) intravenously in the tail vein prior to the start of CCl4 and AFB1 injections; and the fourth group received IFN-alpha (10(8) pfu) by intrahepatic injection under ultrasonography guide after termination of the CCl4 and AFB1 injection schedule. The results showed that IFN-alpha has a marked and significant protective effect against hepatic fibrogenesis as well as hepatic carcinogenesis. Pathological examination of liver tissue proved that IFN-alpha minimized both fibrotic and cirrhotic processes. The amount of fibrosis was less in both groups receiving IFN-alpha, with more protection in the group that received IFN-alpha intravenously prior to CCl4 and AFB1. The results of RT-PCR showed that the IFN-alpha gene was significantly expressed in both groups receiving IFN-alpha, with a more intense expression in the group that received IFN-alpha by intrahepatic injection after termination of CCl4 and AFB1 injections. The IFN-alpha gene was detected after three months of gene transduction in rats receiving IFN-alpha intravenously prior to CCl4 and AFB1 and after one month of gene transduction in the post CCl4 and AFB1 rats. IFN-alpha gene was not expressed in the two groups that did not undergo gene transfer. Histopathological signs of premalignant macronodules were evident in the group receiving CCl4 and AFB1, but not IFN-alpha as well as in the group that received IFN-alpha at the end of the experiment. GST-P gene expression was also detected in these two groups, confirming early malignant transformation. In conclusion, IFN-alpha exerts significant protective effects, but more so when the gene is administered before fibrogenic and carcinogenic induction in hepatic tissues. IFN-alpha gene therapy may be justified in clinical trials for high-risk candidates with hepatic carcinogenesis.
We discuss a patient who developed an "alien limb" on her right side after brain herniation. She reported feeling as though her arm movements were controlled by a stranger and displayed limb levitation and groping behaviors. She received 0.5 mg clonazepam b.i.d. This was followed by a limb levitation frequency reduction of 73%. Discontinuation and retrial of clonazepam verified this response. She suffered a psychotic episode that she attributed to clonazepam. Clonazepam was discontinued. She received botulinum toxin injections to her arm that reduced her limb levitation by 84%. This is the first report of response to medication in alien limb syndrome.
The effects of glucagon on quinidine-induced cardiac toxicity were studied in open-chest anaesthetised dogs. Glucagon along increased the heart rate and contractility; and decreased the blood pressure, duration of P-R and Q-T interval, and QRS complex. Quinidine produced dose-dependent decreases in the heart rate, blood pressure, and contractility, and lengthening of the duration of P-R and Q-T interval, and QRS complex. Glucagon abolished the changes produced by quinidine within two minutes, and appears to be a drug of choice in the treatment of quinidine toxicity in the heart.
A case of severe fetal congestive heart failure due to occlusion of the ductus arteriosus in a mother treated with indomethacin for polyhydramnios and premature contractions is described. Closure of the fetal foramen ovale that escaped detection by prenatal echocardiography was later demonstrated at neonatal autopsy. This case suggests that indomethacin treatment in a ductus-dependent fetus may be hazardous. Therefore, careful surveillance of the fetus exposed to indomethacin in utero is warranted.
To determine the pharmacokinetics of SAR 1118, a small-molecule antagonist of leukocyte function-associated antigen (LFA)-1, after administration of ophthalmic drops in normal rats, and to determine its pharmacologic activity by assessing the inhibition of retinal leukostasis and vascular leakiness in a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic retinopathy model.
The ocular pharmacokinetics of SAR 1118 were studied in rats after a single topical dose of (14)C-SAR 1118 (1 mg/eye; 40 μCi; 15.5 μL). SAR 1118 concentration time profiles in plasma and ocular tissues were quantified by liquid scintillation counting (LSC). The pharmacologic activity of SAR 1118 eye drops administered thrice daily for 2 months at 1% (0.3 mg/eye/d) and 5% (1.5 mg/eye/d) was assessed in an STZ-induced diabetic rat model by determining retinal leukostasis and blood-retinal barrier breakdown. Diabetic rats treated with periocularly administered celecoxib microparticles served as the positive control, and vehicle-treated rats served as the negative control.
A single dose of 6.5% (14)C-radiolabeled SAR 1118 ophthalmic drops delivered retinal drug levels greater than 1 μM in less than 30 minutes and sustained levels greater than 100 nM for 8 hours. SAR 1118 eye drops significantly reduced leukostasis and blood-retinal barrier breakdown in a dose-dependent manner.
SAR 1118 ophthalmic drops administered thrice daily deliver therapeutic levels of SAR 1118 in the retina and can alleviate the retinal complications associated with diabetes.
Advanced prostate cancer is first treated with androgen deprivation therapy. However, tumors become resistant to and grow despite castrate levels of testosterone. Growth and proliferation of CRPC is mediated by gain-of-function changes in the AR and AR reactivation. Expression of manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2), which regulates cellular ROS, is markedly down-regulated in CRPC when compared with hormone-responsive tumors.
Here, we knocked down SOD2 expression in AR-expressing LNCaP prostate cancer cells and determined gene expression changes, transcription factor binding, and AR transcription activity in SOD2 knockdown cells.
SOD2 knockdown results in an increase in ROS. Gene expression changes induced by SOD2 knockdown results in the up-regulation of genes that are also androgen responsive and 46% of genes up-regulated 2-fold by the androgen ligand R1881 are also up-regulated to the same extent with SOD2 knockdown. The induction of many of these genes with SOD2 knockdown, such as VEGFA and FKBP5, is reversible with the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine, suggesting that this mechanism is directly linked to ROS. Furthermore, an array for transcription factor DNA-binding activity shows that SOD2 knockdown induces DNA binding by several transcription factors, including AR. SOD2 knockdown-induced AR activation was confirmed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and luciferase activity, and both were readily reversible with N-acetylcysteine.
These findings show that down-regulation of SOD2 induces AR activity in a ROS-dependent manner, and suggest that there may be a role for antioxidant therapy in CRPC.
The authors report a case of adult-onset minimal change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS) that was resistant to steroid and cyclophosphamide therapy. Introduction of cyclosporin induced an usual cutaneous reaction of severe flushing attacks. Tacrolimus successfully alleviated both the nephrotic syndrome and the cutaneous side effect associated with cyclosporin use. The antiproteinuric mechanisms of tacrolimus and its potential in treating refractory MCNS and other forms of primary glomerulonephritides are discussed.
The impact of esmolol infusion on hemodynamics, ventricular performance, venous admixture, sympathoadrenal, and renin-angiotensin system responses during sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-induced hypotension was studied in 11 patients undergoing lymph node dissection during general anesthesia with 60% nitrous oxide and fentanyl. Radial arterial and thermistor-tipped pulmonary catheters were employed for hemodynamic monitoring. Arterial and mixed venous blood gas tensions, arterial plasma renin activity (PRA), and plasma catecholamine levels were measured. Derived hemodynamic parameters and venous admixture (Qs/Qt) data were obtained from standard equations. Transesophageal echocardiography (6 patients) was used to assess left ventricular performance using the relationship between end-systolic wall stress (ESWS) and velocity of circumferential shortening (VCFC). After surgical incision, arterial hypotension was induced with SNP alone. Esmolol was infused at each of the following rates in sequence: 200, 300, and 400 micrograms/kg/min. Each esmolol infusion lasted 20 minutes and the SNP dose was adjusted to maintain MAP at 55 to 60 mm Hg. The mean dose of SNP required to induce hypotension was 5.5 micrograms/kg/min +/- 0.5 SE. Compared to prehypotension values, SNP induced significant increases in Qs/Qt and reductions in PaO2, systemic vascular resistance (SVR), and stroke volume index (SVI). Esmolol infusion caused dose-dependent (highest with 400 micrograms/kg/min) reductions in the SNP requirement, heart rate (HR), SVI, Qs/Qt, and PRA, and also led to significant increases in SVR and left ventricular (LV) internal diameter in diastole as well as systole. Furthermore, esmolol infusion was associated with a dose-dependent downward and leftward shift of the ESWS versus VCFC relationship, implying diminished contractility.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Although psychostimulant drug abuse carries with it several potential health risks, the chronic abuse of amphetamines carries the danger of permanent brain injury. The purpose of these experiments is to develop animal models to understand the long-lasting influences of methamphetamine exposure on cerebral cortex and cognitive function.
The approach taken is to administer a regimen of methamphetamine known to be neurotoxic to dopamine and serotonin nerve terminals in the rat, and to investigate the influences of that dosing regimen on (i) cortical neuron integrity and function using anatomical stains and (ii) novel object recognition memory.
In rodents, repeated administration of methamphetamine during a single day produces long-lasting damage to striatal dopamine and forebrain serotonin terminals as well as degeneration of somatosensory cortical neurons. The degeneration of somatosensory cortical neurons may represent only the most visible form of long-term deleterious effects on cerebral cortex, as exposure of rats to methamphetamine can reduce the immediate early gene responses of neurons in widespread cortical areas, even long after exposure to the drug. Together with the death and long-lasting functional impairments of cortical neurons, rats exposed to methamphetamine have impaired cognitive function. When tested for object recognition memory, methamphetamine-treated rats show deficiencies lasting for at least 3 weeks after drug exposure.
Using a rodent model, these findings provide an avenue to study the cortical influences of methamphetamine and their cognitive sequelae.
Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) induces cell cycle arrest of most nontransformed epithelial cell lines. In contrast, many human carcinomas are refractory to the growth-inhibitory effect of TGF-beta. TGF-beta overexpression inhibits tumorigenesis, and abolition of TGF-beta signaling accelerates tumorigenesis, suggesting that TGF-beta acts as a tumor suppressor in mouse models of cancer. A screen to identify agents that potentiate TGF-beta-induced growth arrest demonstrated that the potential anticancer agent rapamycin cooperated with TGF-beta to induce growth arrest in multiple cell lines. Rapamycin also augmented the ability of TGF-beta to inhibit the proliferation of E2F1-, c-Myc-, and (V12)H-Ras-transformed cells, even though these cells were insensitive to TGF-beta-mediated growth arrest in the absence of rapamycin. Rapamycin potentiation of TGF-beta-induced growth arrest could not be explained by increases in TGF-beta receptor levels or rapamycin-induced dissociation of FKBP12 from the TGF-beta type I receptor. Significantly, TGF-beta and rapamycin cooperated to induce growth inhibition of human carcinoma cells that are resistant to TGF-beta-induced growth arrest, and arrest correlated with a suppression of Cdk2 kinase activity. Inhibition of Cdk2 activity was associated with increased binding of p21 and p27 to Cdk2 and decreased phosphorylation of Cdk2 on Thr(160). Increased p21 and p27 binding to Cdk2 was accompanied by decreased p130, p107, and E2F4 binding to Cdk2. Together, these results indicate that rapamycin and TGF-beta cooperate to inhibit the proliferation of nontransformed cells and cancer cells by acting in concert to inhibit Cdk2 activity.
We established a HT-29/tk-luc human colorectal carcinoma-bearing animal model for the study of the inhibition effect and mechanism of orlistat, a fatty acid synthase (FASN) inhibitor. The results showed that orlistat caused cell cycle arrest at G1 phase, and triggered apoptosis through caspase-3 activation. The tumor inhibition effect of orlistat may also due to the inhibition of fatty acid synthesis without altering FASN activity. The tumor size of orlistat-treated mice in vivo was significantly smaller than that of the controls with 55% inhibition. The therapeutic efficacy was further confirmed with the bioluminescent imaging and nuclear molecular imaging with ¹³¹I-FIAU/gamma scintigraphy and ¹¹C-acetate/microPET. We suggest that FASN is a potential target for the treatment of human colorectal carcinoma.
The benzofurane derivative benzbromarone (BBR) previously has led to liver tumor formation after long-term treatment of rats, but no indications of genotoxicity were detected. The present studies were designed to elucidate the mechanism(s) possibly involved in liver tumor formation by BBR. Female Wistar rats were used. Phenobarbital (PB) served as a positive control. (1) Short-term treatment (7 days) with daily doses of 2 to 100 mg/kg BBR led to adaptive responses in the liver, i.e., growth (increases in DNA, RNA, and protein) and induction of monooxygenases. These changes were also observed after feeding BBR for 8, 33, 77, and 102 weeks at doses of 2, 10, and 50 mg/kg/day but tended to weaken with time. Similar effects were obtained with PB fed at 2, 10, or 50 mg/kg/day. However, unlike PB, BBR did not enhance the expression of cytochrome P450-PB as demonstrated by immunostaining of histological liver sections. (2) BBR feeding for 102 weeks, but not for 77 weeks, produced some neoplastic liver nodules and at 50 mg/kg produced one hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Thus, BBR was tumorigenic in the present study, but was clearly weaker than PB which had induced liver nodules and HCCs at 77 weeks and even more markedly at 102 weeks. (3) To check for tumor-initiating activity 100 mg/kg BBR was given 14 hr after a two-thirds hepatectomy followed by promotion with PB (50 mg/kg) for 15 weeks. No phenotypically altered liver foci were detected. (4) To test for tumor-promoting activity rats received a single dose of N-nitrosomorpholine (250 mg/kg), and subsequently BBR or PB at doses of 2, 10, and 50 mg/kg/day. While PB markedly enhanced the development of neoplastic nodules and HCCs, BBR had only a weak enhancing effect on the induction of HCC, which was not dose related. gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase-positive foci dramatically increased in PB-treated animals, in contrast they showed no response after 2 and 10 mg/kg BBR and even decreased after 50 mg/kg BBR. (5) With PB changes in liver growth, monooxygenase activity, foci expansion, and tumor promotion all correlating with tumorigenesis in a quantitative manner, apparent no-observed-effect-levels are somewhat below 2 mg/kg (or 10 mg/kg for liver enlargement). (6) These studies suggest that BBR belongs to a group of nongenotoxic, growth-stimulating drugs with tumorigenic potential in rat liver. Its effects on the liver are different from those of PB, but seemed to resemble those of peroxisome proliferators, a hypothesis studied in the subsequent papers.
Diethylstilbestrol administration was a classic form of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) that gradually fell out of favor because of its cardiovascular toxicity, economic disinterest on the part of manufacturers, and the emergence of novel therapeutic agents with a superior safety profile. The cost of contemporary agents and the efficacy of diethylstilbestrol (DES) have perpetuated the evaluation of this agent, especially in the circumstance of early hormone-refractory (clinical stage D2.5) disease. The objective of this study is to evaluate the status of DES-based therapies, and assess their efficacy and toxicity as a viable form of ADT.
Current research from single-institution and group studies, as well as basic scientific investigations related to DES, were assessed with regard to the population studied, dosage, criteria for response, response rate, duration of response, and toxicity.
Contemporary basic research has demonstrated a direct apoptotic effect of DES on prostate cancer cells. There is also evidence to support the ability of DES to suppress testosterone production at extratesticular sites and inhibit dihydroepiandrosterone sulfate serum levels. Contemporary cooperative group trials for stage D2 disease incorporating a DES arm have demonstrated therapeutic efficacy and equivalence to orchiectomy, which is marred by significant cardiovascular toxicity. In smaller single-institution studies (n = 17 to 38) of patients with D2.5 disease, an average response rate of 55% is noted with a mean time to clinical progression of 6.4 months (2 to 18). Cardiovascular toxicity occurred in 10% to 30% of patients, with events including deep vein thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and transient ischemic attack. Edema and gynecomastia was also noted. Strategies to reduce thromboembolic events, such as dose reduction or the use of warfarin sodium were unsuccessful, whereas the use of low-dose aspirin (100 mg daily) resulted in only 1 of 38 vascular events.
In contemporary studies of DES as an agent for ADT in D2.5 patients, a reasonable response rate (40% to 60%) of modest duration (5 to 8 months) is noted. Cardiovascular complications still persist, requiring the development of safe, effective antithrombolic therapy to take advantage of this phenomenon.
To compare the behavioural side effects associated with two commonly used antiepilepsy drugs-phenobarbital and carbamazepine-in children in Bangladesh.
Prospective randomised controlled single centre trial.
Specialist children's hospital in Dhaka, Bangladesh.
108 children aged 2-15 with generalised tonic-clonic (n=51) or partial and secondary generalised seizures (n=57).
Seizure control and behavioural side effects.
91 children were followed up for 12 months. Six required a change of antiepilepsy drug. Side effects were compared in 85 children. In the last quarter of the 12 month follow-up, 71 children were seizure free after one year's treatment. Thirty two in the phenobarbital group and 39 in the carbamazepine group had no seizures in 74 and 102 days after randomisation, respectively. Ten children had increased behavioural problems, which were unacceptable in four (one in the phenobarbital group and three in the carbamazepine group). Independent t tests, however, showed no difference between the two trial drugs.
There was no excess in behavioural side effects with phenobarbital in children with epilepsy in a country with limited resources. Trial registration NCT00381537.
A 71-year-old man had had visual hallucinations and vivid dreams for two years after starting to take metoprolol. When metoprolol was replaced by atenolol the patient's symptoms disappeared within five days. Side-effects of beta-blockers on the central nervous system are relatively uncommon. The mechanisms underlying these side-effects are not fully understood. Lipophilic beta-blockers can cross the blood-brain barrier, whereas hydrophilic beta-blockers cannot. Doctors need to be alerted to the varying side-effects of specific beta-blockers.
Although many adverse cardiovascular outcomes are mentioned in conjunction with methamphetamine use, a causal relationship between methamphetamine use and arrhythmia or cardiomyopathy has not been demonstrated in man. Clinical experience with methamphetamine users suggested a higher incidence of electrocardiographic abnormalities. This study seeks to quantify that incidence, among subjects enrolled in a study of adults with methamphetamine dependence.
Electrocardiograms obtained during screening in a previous clinical trial were examined. The study population (n = 158) of adults with methamphetamine dependence [Diagnostic and Statistical Manual version IV (DSM IV-TR)] was drawn from five sites across the United States, recruited in the interval 2002-03.
A significant variance from the normal population was noted in the electrocardiograms of the study cohort. Among the abnormalities was a prolongation of the QTc beyond 440 ms in 27.2% of the group. QTc prolongation to this extent poses a particular risk for ventricular arrhythmias, most notably torsades de pointes.
We believe that this is the first demonstration of clinically significant QTc prolongation in a methamphetamine-using population, and that this has implications for the types of arrhythmias for which this population is at risk. It may further provide a marker for risk of cardiomyopathy. The fact of electrocardiographic changes with potential cardiac risks may be useful in a motivational interviewing approach, in challenging the methamphetamine user's basis for continuing use.
Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is one of the most common cancers in the Caucasian population. Although early stages of skin cancer have a high curability and excellent prognosis, advanced cSCC shows resistance to chemotherapy, including cisplatin. The PI3-K/AKT pathway is known to have a role in both skin cancer development and resistance to therapeutic drugs. In this study, we used isogenic cell lines representing different stages of malignant transformation of the keratinocytes that were derived from dysplastic forehead skin (PM1), primary cutaneous SCC (MET1) and its lymph node metastasis (MET4) of an immunosuppressed patient. We show that skin tumor progression parallels enhanced AKT activation and increased resistance to cisplatin-induced apoptosis. Pharmacological AKT inhibition, or specific AKT1 knock down, sensitizes the apoptosis-resistant MET1 and, to a lesser extent, MET4 cells to cisplatin-mediated cell death. Concomitantly autophagy induction was observed in MET4, as demonstrated by accumulation of the autophagic protein marker LC3-II, by analysis of full autophagosome maturation process using tandem mRFP-GFP fluorescence microscopy and by electron microscopy. Counteracting the autophagic process by 3-methyladenine or specific ATG5 knock down enhanced cytotoxicity of cisplatin combined with AKT inhibitor, thus revealing a key role for autophagy in chemoresistance. Taken together, these results indicate that concomitant inhibition of autophagy is required to increase the therapeutic benefit of AKT inhibition for combination therapy with the standard chemotherapeutic agent cisplatin in advanced skin carcinoma.
Macrocytosis has been increasingly observed in HIV-infected population and is an early indicator of bone marrow toxicity. A retrospective study was conducted among these patients in a HIV clinic to assess risk factors of macrocytosis. We found that lamivudine was strongly associated with macrocytosis (OR = 24.6 [2.9-3223.0], P = 0.001). This association may be due to lamivudine's effect on erythrocyte synthesis.
Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common pediatric tumor of the CNS, representing ∼20% of all childhood CNS tumors. Although in recent years many molecular mechanisms that control MB development have been clarified, the effects of biological factors such as sex on this tumor remain to be explained. Epidemiological data, in fact, indicate a significant difference in the incidence of MB between the 2 sexes, with considerably higher susceptibility of males than females. Besides this different susceptibility, female sex is also a significant favorable prognostic factor in MB, with girls having a much better outcome. Despite these literature data, there has been little investigation into estrogen influence on MB development. In our study, we evaluated how hormone deficiency resulting from ovariectomy and hormone replacement influences the development of early and advanced MB stages in Patched1 heterozygous mice, a well-characterized mouse model of radiation-induced MB. Susceptibility to MB development was significantly increased in ovariectomized Ptch1(+/-) females and restored to levels observed in control mice after estrogen replacement. We next investigated the molecular mechanisms by which estrogen might influence tumor progression and show that ERβ, but not ERα, is involved in modulation of MB development by estrogens. Finally, our study shows that a functional interaction between estrogen- and IGF-I-mediated pathways may be responsible for the effects observed.
