The aim of this study was to compare the frequency of hypotension induced by oxytocin antagonist atosiban and nicardipine.
This case-control study enrolled 14 pregnant women presenting with threatening premature delivery treated with atosiban and managed by a physician-staffed Emergency Medical Service Department (French Emergency Medical Service system) during inter-hospital transfers. A control group of 42 consecutive pregnant women presenting with threatening premature delivery managed during inter-hospital transfers during the same period and treated with nicardipine was set up. The control group was recruited after matching on confounding variables: age 38 years or less and no previous cardiovascular disease to avoid factors related to the occurrence of cardiovascular events, duration of out-of-hospital management of at least 60 min to have similar likelihood of side-effect occurrence, and parity 2 or less and gestational age from 25 to 32 weeks to make comparable groups from the obstetrical viewpoint. Frequency of hypotension was compared between the two groups.
Hypotension was observed in two patients (8%) in the atosiban-group and in five patients (14%) in the nicardipine-group, which is not significantly different (P>0.99).
Despite the notion that oxytocin antagonist atosiban has limited or no systemic adverse effects, these results suggest that this cost-consuming drug does not avoid hypotension and cannot help to reduce the level of monitoring.
Since the use of malachite green was banned in many European countries, new alternative treatments have been tested to prevent white spot disease caused by Ichthyophthirius multifiliis. We tested formalin, potassium permanganate (KMnO4), chloramine-T, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and Per Aqua or Desirox alone or in combinations of 2 chemicals, one of which was always formalin, in 50 m2 concrete tanks at 2 farms producing salmon Salmo salar smolt in 2001 and 2002. Both Per Aqua and Desirox are combinations of peracetic acid, acetic acid and hydrogen peroxide. The alternative chemicals or their combinations can be used successfully to lower the parasite burden to such a level that no high mortality occurs during the first 4 wk after the start of an infection. This period of time allows the fish to develop immunity against these ciliates, and treatments can be reduced and stopped in due course. I. multifiliis decreased in number 3 to 4 wk after the beginning of the infection in all the treatments. Large differences in parasite burden and mortality occurred among the replicates in all except the Desirox-formalin tanks, which means that they are not as reliable as the malachite green-formalin used previously. It was also evident that the chemicals and their concentrations must be planned carefully to suit the conditions on each farm.
To compare serum levels of neuroactive steroids among men with epilepsy who take various antiepileptic drugs, untreated men with epilepsy and normal controls (NC).
Subjects were 85 men with localization-related epilepsy [unmedicated >6 months (No Rx)-10, carbamazepine (CBZ)-25, phenytoin (PHT)-25, lamotrigine (LTG)-25] and 25 NC. Sexual function scores (S-Score), hormone levels [dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), bioactive (BA) testosterone (T), estradiol (BAE), and androstanediol (BAL)] and the ratios of inhibitory to excitatory neuroactive metabolites of T, i.e., BAL/BAE, were compared among groups.
S-scores, DHEAS, and bioactive testosterone (BAT) were significantly (p < 0.05) lower and BAL and BAL/BAE were significantly higher among CBZ and PHT groups than among NC and LTG groups. LTG did not differ from NC in any of these measures. BAT correlated significantly with BAL/BAE for PHT (r = 0.44, p = 0.02) and CBZ (r = 0.42, p = 0.03) but not for NC (r = 0.03, p = NS) and LTG (r = 0.06, p = NS) groups.
In comparison to LTG, enzyme inducing AEDs (CBZ, PHT) are associated with a more favorable neuroactive steroid balance (lower DHEAS and higher BAL/BAE) for seizure management, but at the expense of reduced serum bioavailable testosterone levels and sexual function.
The triazole derivative Triadimefon (FON) is a systemic fungicide used to control powdery mildews, rusts, and other fungal pests. Some data have already been published about the teratogenic activity of this compound: craniofacial malformations were found in mouse, rat, and Xenopus laevis embryos exposed to FON. These alterations were correlated to defective branchial arch development possibly caused by abnormal neural crest cell (NCC) migration into the branchial mesenchyme. As the migration of NCCs is controlled by the HOX code and by an anteroposterior retinoic acid (RA) gradient, we analyzed the expression of CYP26, a key enzyme in RA metabolism, following FON exposure. The increased expression of this gene and the ability of citral (a RA inhibitor) to reduce the teratogenic effects of the fungicide support the notion that endogenous RA is involved in the mechanism of action of FON. Moreover, by in situ hybridization, we studied the effects of FON exposure at gastrula stage on the expression of some genes involved in craniofacial development, hindbrain patterning, and NCC migration. We observed abnormal localization of xCRABP, Hoxa2 and Xbap signal expression at the level of migrating NCC domains, whereas in the hindbrain, we did not find any alteration in Krox20 and Hoxa2 expression.
We report an infant who, after prolonged intravenous propofol infusion for treatment of status epilepticus, developed dramatic cardiac conduction disturbances and tachyarrhythmias in the setting of only mild metabolic acidosis and good ventricular function. Certain electrocardiographic findings were similar to those observed in the Brugada syndrome as well as in adult patients with propofol toxicity who suffered fatal ventricular arrhythmias. This case illustrates that serious arrhythmias can occur during prolonged high-dose propofol infusion in young patients, probably through a direct electrophysiologic membrane effect.
To investigate the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in mouse ears induced with croton oil and the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone, indomethacin and resveratrol on MMP-9 expression, and further explore the relationship between anti-inflammation and MMP-9 inhibition of these three medicines.
Immuno-histochemistry was used to detect the expression of MMP-9 in mouse ears. Expression of MMP-9 in U937 cells was analyzed by gelatin zymography.
Mouse ear edema induced with croton oil was inhibited significantly by dexamethasone and indomethacin at the dose of 10 mg.kg-1 and resveratrol at 50 mg.kg-1 administered subcutaneously. The inhibitory rate was 76.2% (P < 0.001), 56.7% (P < 0.001) and 36.9% (P < 0.001) respectively. The MMP-9 expression increased in mouse ears induced with croton oil and inhibited by dexamethasone, indomethacin and resveratrol at above doses. Gelatin zymography results showed that MMP-9 expression in U937 cells increased significantly after exposed to PMA at 1 x 10(-8) mol.L-1 (P < 0.001); MMP-9 expression induced with phorbol myristate acetate(PMA) was inhibited by dexamethasone at 1 x 10(-9), 1 x 10(-7) and 1 x 10(-5) mol.L-1, indomethacin at 1 x 10(-6) and 1 x 10(-5) mol.L-1 and resveratrol at 1 x 10(-6) and 1 x 10(-5) mol.L-1.
The inhibition of MMP-9 expression may be one of the anti-inflammatory mechanisms of dexamethasone, indomethacin and resveratrol.
This case report describes a 64-year-old woman with a cardiomyopathy and associated fascicular conduction disturbances partly related to digitalis therapy. Electrocardiograms showed incomplete left bundle branch block with left anterior hemiblock the latter, consistently changing in pattern and rhythm as in bidirectional tachycardia but at a relatively normal heart rate. The relationship of severe myocardial disease to the apparent likelihood of pre-existing depression of fascicular conduction in cases of bidirectional tachycardia precipitated by digitalis, is exemplified.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is an appetite-controlling neuromodulator that contributes to the appetite-suppressing effect of phenylpropanolamine (PPA). Aims of this study were to investigate whether protein kinase A (PKA) signaling is involved in regulating NPY gene expression and PPA-induced anorexia. Rats were given daily with PPA for 5 days. Changes in daily food intake and hypothalamic NPY, PKA, cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), and pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) gene expression were measured and compared. To further determine if PKA was involved, intracerebroventricular infusions of antisense oligodeoxynucleotide were performed at 60 min before daily PPA treatment in freely moving rats. Results showed that daily PKA, CREB, and POMC expression were increased following PPA treatment, which showed a closely reverse relationship with alterations of decreased feeding behaviors and NPY mRNA levels. Results also showed that PKA knock-down could block PPA-induced anorexia as well as restore NPY mRNA level, indicating the involvement of PKA signaling in the regulation of NPY gene expression. It is suggested that hypothalamic PKA signaling may participate in the central regulation of PPA-mediated appetite suppression via the modulation of hypothalamic NPY gene expression. The present findings reveal that manipulations at the molecular level of PKA or cAMP may allow the development of therapeutic agents to improve the undesirable properties of PPA or other amphetamine-like anorectic drugs.
Gentamicin (GM) often causes polyuric acute renal failure (ARF) in humans and animals. GM-mediated ARF in rats was accompanied with activated renin-angiotensin system, increased renal endothelin content, and enhanced lipid peroxidation. Suppression of the renin-angiotensin activity by desoxycorticosterone acetate and saline drinking, and treatment with superoxide dismutase attenuated the GM-induced decline in whole-kidney GFR with well-maintained RBF but did not reduce the severity of tubular necrosis. On the other hand, treatment with dimethylthiourea, a hydroxyl radical scavenger, attenuated the GM-mediated decline in GFR and lessened tubular necrosis but did not ameliorate the reduction in RBF. These data suggest contributions of both vascular and tubular factors to the GM-induced decline in GFR in rats. However, relative importance of these factors probably differs with different doses of the agent.
The purpose of this study is to compare M-mode echocardiographic and electrocardiographic modifications obtained by short-term therapy (6 weeks) with high doses (480 mg/day) of propranolol or verapamil in six patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy. Propranolol prevents heart rate acceleration and reduces significantly the echocardiographic obstruction index during provocative testing with isoprenaline, when verapamil doesn't. However verapamil seems to be more able than propranolol to suppress ventricular arrhythmias as demonstrated in Holter monitoring. Evaluation of each patient suffering from hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy with echocardiography and 24-hours electrocardiography would permit to better define appropriate therapy.
In the treatment of reflux oesophagitis, H2-receptor antagonists are still widely used in spite of the apparent higher efficacy of proton pump inhibitors. In an attempt to compensate for the lower efficacy, H2-receptor antagonists are now increasingly being used at a higher dose.
To assess whether or not standard-dose lansoprazole (30 mg o.d.) is more effective than high-dose ranitidine (300 mg b.d.) in moderately severe reflux oesophagitis (grades II-III).
Lansoprazole or ranitidine was given to 133 patients for 4-8 weeks in a double-blind, randomized, parallel group, multicentre trial.
The percentage of patients with endoscopically-verified healing was significantly higher on lansoprazole than on ranitidine both after 4 weeks (79% vs. 42%) and 8 weeks (91% vs. 66%), though smoking had a negative impact on oesophagitis healing with lansoprazole. Heartburn, retrosternal pain and belching improved significantly better with lansoprazole than with ranitidine, as did the patient-rated overall symptom severity. Relief of heartburn appeared somewhat faster with ranitidine, but was more pronounced with lansoprazole. The number of patients with adverse events was similar in both treatment groups.
Standard-dose lansoprazole is better than high-dose ranitidine in moderately severe reflux oesophagitis.
A patient who abused multiple drugs developed a rapidly progressive mononeuropathy multiplex, which appeared to respond to corticosteroid therapy with partial resolution. Intravenous methamphetamine had been used almost exclusively from the fourth month prior to the onset of symptoms. Biopsy material revealed a necrotizing angiitis involving medium and small sized arteries, capillaries, and venules, typical of a hypersensitivity-type angiopathy, rather than the previously reported polyarteritis nodosa-type lesions secondary to illicit drugs. The apparent response to corticosteroids suggests that these agents might be useful in the treatment of some complications of drug abuse.
Reports that up to 26% of subjects with psoriasis develop cirrhosis have led to a recommendation of serial liver biopsies after each cumulative dose of 1500 mg of methotrexate.
To evaluate the progression of liver injury in patients with psoriasis and the impact of monitoring by liver biopsy on their management.
One hundred and twenty-one liver biopsies from 66 subjects (aged 11-79 years) with psoriasis, receiving a median cumulative dose of 3206 mg of methotrexate over a period of 280.5 weeks, were evaluated.
The assessment of advanced fibrosis according to the Ishak system (>or= 4) correlated perfectly with that of the Scheuer system (>or= 3) and poorly with that of the Roenigk scale (>or= 3b) (r2 = 1.0 and 0.31, respectively). Two of 24 pre-treatment biopsies showed advanced fibrosis and both subjects were heavy drinkers. The cumulative probabilities of advanced fibrosis (Ishak >or= 4) were 0%, 2.6%, 2.6%, 8.2% and 8.2% at cumulative doses of 1500, 3000, 4500, 5000 and 6000 mg, respectively. None of the subjects developed cirrhosis during follow-up or discontinued therapy on the basis of liver biopsy findings.
Advanced hepatic fibrosis with low-dose methotrexate therapy is much less frequent than previously reported. Pre-treatment or monitoring liver biopsies in accordance with the current guidelines have little impact on patient management.
To study the potential effect of gene-environment interaction between CYP1A1 and serum dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (DDT) levels on the risk of breast cancer in women, in China.
A case-control study was conducted. From Dec. 2003 to Sep. 2004, 104 women with histologically confirmed breast cancers and 154 noncancerous controls from a community were enrolled in this study. Risk factors information of breast cancer was investigated by a questionnaire. Serum p, p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (p, p'-DDT) and 1, 1-dichloro-2, 2-bis (p-chlorophenyl) ethylene (p, p'-DDE) levels were tested by GC-ECD. CYP1A1 m2 gene type was tested by allele special-PCR method.
Serum DDT levels of case and control were (36.90 +/- 79.41) ng/ml and (50.60 +/- 150.70) ng/ml respectively. Serum 1, 1-dichloro-2, 2-bis (p-chlorophenyl) ethylene (p, p'-DDE) levels of case and control were (7.43 +/- 11.10) ng/ml and (8.96 +/- 11.30) ng/ml respectively. No statistically significant differences were found between the two groups with geometric mean t-test (P > 0.05). Compared with women who had homozygous wild-type CYP1A1 m2 genotype, significantly increased risks of breast cancer were found for women with the CYP1A1 m2 homozygous variant genotype [odds ratio (OR) = 2.61, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.00 - 6.80]. Among premenopausal women, compared with women with homozygous wild-type of CYP1A1 genotype (Ile/Ile) and low serum DDT level (DDT serum level < or = 42.93 ng/ml), women with at least one variant allele of CYP1A1 m2 genotype and high serum DDT level (DDT serum level > or = 42.93 ng/ml) had higher risk of breast cancer (OR = 4.35, 95% CI: 1.140 - 16.950).
CYP1A1 m2 genetic polymorphism was associated with increased risk of female breast cancer while DDT exposure might have increased the risk of breast cancer among premenopausal women with CYP1A1 m2 variant genotype.
The amygdala plays a key role in emotional processing and anxiety-related physiological and behavioral responses. Previous studies have shown that injections of the anxiety-related neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor or the related neuropeptide urocortin 1 into the region of the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus induce anxiety-like behavior in several behavioral paradigms. Brainstem serotonergic systems in the dorsal raphe nucleus and median raphe nucleus may be part of a distributed neural system that, together with the basolateral amygdala, regulates acute and chronic anxiety states. We therefore investigated the effect of an acute bilateral injection of urocortin 1 into the basolateral amygdala on behavior in the social interaction test and on c-Fos expression within serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus and median raphe nucleus. Male rats were implanted with bilateral cannulae directed at the region of the basolateral amygdala; 72 h after surgery, rats were injected with urocortin 1 (50 fmol/100 nl) or vehicle (100 nl of 1% bovine serum albumin in distilled water). Thirty minutes after injection, a subgroup of rats from each experimental group was exposed to the social interaction test; remaining animals were left in the home cage. Two hours after injection rats were perfused with paraformaldehyde and brains were removed and processed for immunohistochemistry. Acute injection of urocortin 1 had anxiogenic effects in the social interaction test, reducing total interaction time without affecting locomotor activity or exploratory behavior. These behavioral effects were associated with increases in c-Fos expression within brainstem serotonergic neurons. In home cage rats and rats exposed to the social interaction test, urocortin 1 treatment increased the number of c-Fos-immunoreactive serotonergic neurons within subdivisions of both the dorsal raphe nucleus and median raphe nucleus. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the basolateral amygdala and serotonergic neurons within the midbrain raphe complex are part of an integrated neural system modulating anxiety state.
The transcription factor DeltaFosB accumulates in substance P-dynorphin-containing striatal neurons with repeated cocaine use. Here, we show that inducible transgenic DeltaFosB overexpression in this same striatal cell type facilitates acquisition of cocaine self-administration at low-threshold doses, consistent with increased sensitivity to the pharmacological effects of the drug. Importantly, DeltaFosB also enhances the degree of effort mice will exert to maintain self-administration of higher doses on a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement, whereas levels of cocaine intake are not altered on less demanding fixed-ratio schedules. Acquisition and extinction of behavior reinforced by food pellets is not altered in DeltaFosB-overexpressing mice, indicating that DeltaFosB does not alter the capacity to learn an instrumental response or cause response perseveration in the absence of reinforcement. These data suggest that accumulation of DeltaFosB contributes to drug addiction by increasing the incentive properties of cocaine, an effect that could increase the risk for relapse long after cocaine use ceases.
The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of pretreatment with paracetamol 0.5 mg kg(-1), 1 mg kg(-1), 2 mg kg(-1) and lidocaine 0.5 mg kg(-1) for prevention of propofol induced pain.
In this double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 250 adult patients ASA I or II, scheduled to undergo elective surgery, were randomly assigned into five groups of 50 each. Group P0.5, group P1 and group P2 received 0.5, 1 and 2 mg kg(-1) paracetamol respectively; group L received 0.5 mg kg(-1) lidocaine; and the control group, group C, received isotonic saline pretreatment in the dorsum of the hand, followed by propofol 1 min later. A blinded researcher assessed the patient's pain level via a four-point scale.
There were no significant differences in patient characteristics among the groups. The incidence of propofol injection pain in all treatment groups was significantly lower than in the control group (P < 0.001). When the paracetamol 0.5 mg kg(-1) group was compared with both the paracetamol 1 mg kg(-1) group (P < 0.01) and the paracetamol 2 mg kg(-1) group (P < 0.001), significant differences were observed. In the lidocaine 0.5 mg kg(-1) group propofol injection pain was significantly reduced compared with the paracetamol 0.5 mg kg(-1) group (P < 0.01). However, in the paracetamol 2 mg kg(-1) group pain was more significantly reduced than in the lidocaine 0.5 mg kg(-1) group (P < 0.001). In the paracetamol 2 mg kg(-1) group the incidence of pain was significantly less than in paracetamol 1 mg kg(-1) group (P < 0.001).
When given as venous retention pretreatments 1 min before propofol, paracetamol 1 mg kg(-1) and lidocaine 0.5 mg kg(-1) were equally effective in attenuating pain during intravenous (i.v.) injection of propofol whereas pretreatment with paracetamol 2 mg kg(-1) was shown to be the most effective treatment.
Anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) are used by some athletes to enhance performance despite the health risk they may pose in some persons. This work was carried out to evaluate the possible structural and functional alterations in the heart using two-dimensional, M-mode, tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) and strain rate imaging (SRI) in athletes using supraphysiological doses of AAS. Additionally, the histological and ultrastructural changes in cardiac muscles of adult albino rats after injection of sustanon, as an example of AAS, were studied. Fifteen male bodybuilders using anabolic steroids constituted group 1, five male bodybuilders who are not using anabolic steroids constituted group 2, and five nonathletic males constituted negative control group (group 3). They were investigated by two-dimensional, M-mode, TDI and SRI. This study was performed on 30 adult albino rats. They were divided into two groups. Group I (Control group) (10) was subdivided into negative control, subgroup 1a (5), and subgroup 1b (5), which received 0.8 ml olive oil intramuscular once a week for 8 weeks. Group II (Experimental group) (20) received sustanon 10 mg/kg intramuscularly once a week for 8 weeks. The heart specimens were prepared for light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Echocardiographic results showed that bodybuilders who use steroids have smaller left ventricular dimension with thicker walls, impaired diastolic function, as well as higher peak systolic strain rate in steroid-using bodybuilders as compared to the other two groups. Light microscopy examination of cardiac muscle fibers showed focal areas of degeneration with loss of striations and vacuolation in the experimental group. Ultrastructural examination showed disturbance of the banding pattern of the cardiac muscle fiber with disintegration, loss of striations, dehiscent intercalated disc, and interrupted Z-bands. Administration of supraphysiological doses of AAS caused severe deleterious effects in the myocardium both in athletes and in experimental animals. The SRI shows promise in the early detection of systolic dysfunction in those athletes who use steroids.
Respirable ambient particulate matter (PM) exposure has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Direct translocation of PM-associated metals from the lungs into systemic circulation may be partly responsible. We measured elemental content of lungs, plasma, heart, and liver of healthy male WKY rats (12-15 weeks old) 4 or 24 h following a single intratracheal (IT) instillation of saline or 8.33 mg/kg of oil combustion PM (HP-12) containing a variety of transition metals with differing water and acid solubility. Tissues were digested with a combination of quaternary acid, amine, and nitric acid and analyzed using inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy. Lung levels of metals were lower at 24 h than at 4 h. Metals with high water solubility and relatively high concentration in HP-12 were increased in extrapulmonary organs. Water-soluble nonessential metals, like vanadium and nickel, were increased in plasma, hearts, and livers of exposed animals at both time points. Exposure-related small increases in essential metals, like zinc and manganese, were also noted in extrapulmonary tissues at both time points. Lead, with low water solubility but high acid solubility, was detected in liver only at 24-h postinstillation. Elements with low water or acid solubility, like silicon and aluminum, were not detected in extrapulmonary tissues despite decreased levels in the lung suggesting mucociliary clearance. We have shown that HP-12-associated metals translocate to systemic circulation and extrapulmonary organs following IT exposure. This translocation is dependent upon their relative levels and water solubility. Thus, following inhalation, PM-associated metals deposited in the lung may be released into systemic circulation at different rates depending on their water/acid solubility, thereby providing a means by which metals may elicit direct extrapulmonary effects.
Inhalation of sulfur dioxide (SO2) causes bronchoconstriction in most people with asthma. To examine the role of leukotrienes in this response, the antagonism of SO2-induced bronchoconstriction by a single oral dose of the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast was assessed in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-period crossover trial in 12 subjects with mild-to-moderate asthma. Subjects had bronchial hyperresponsiveness, an FEV1 < or = 70% of predicted, and a positive response to inhaled SO2 (an 8-unit increase in specific airway resistance on inhaling an SO2 concentration of < or = 4 ppm (PC8SRaw). Subjects were treated with zafirlukast (20 mg) or placebo on two treatment days 5 to 14 d apart. Two and 10 hours after treatment, subjects inhaled SO2 (0.25, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 4.0, and 8.0 ppm) during eucapnic hyperventilation at 20 L/min. PC8SRaw was determined after each challenge. Blood samples were collected to assess zafirlukast plasma concentrations versus effect. PC8SRaw was significantly higher 2 h after zafirlukast compared with placebo (3.1 versus 1.5 ppm; p = 0.02) and remained higher 10 h after treatment with zafirlukast (2.7 versus 1.9 ppm; p = 0.09). An association was found between zafirlukast plasma concentrations and increases in PC8SRaw 10 h after treatment (p = 0.001). The safety profile of zafirlukast was not clinically different from placebo. A single 20-mg dose of zafirlukast attenuated SO2-induced bronchoconstriction. We conclude that S02-induced bronchoconstriction involves release of leukotrienes and that treatment with zafirlukast attenuates the bronchoconstrictor response.
Daily melatonin (10-50 mg/kg, i.p.) treatment at 08.30 h or 17.00 h for 1 week of female rats (2-months-old) increased the latency to the appearance of the first convulsion in the pilocarpine-induced seizure model. Other behavior parameters remained unaltered. The anticonvulsant effect of melatonin seemed to be more intense at the light-dark transition. Moreover, the effect of repeated melatonin treatment was also age-related, since it showed a lower threshold in 2-month-old than in 21-day-old rats, and the acute treatment was not efficient. [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding was unaltered in the hippocampus and striatum of adult rats after the association of melatonin and pilocarpine. While muscarinic binding was unaltered in adult rats, it increased in the hippocampus of young rats in the presence of melatonin (50 mg/kg) and pilocarpine, and did not change in the striatum. Melatonin partially recovered [3H]GABA binding in the hippocampus in the presence of pilocarpine-induced seizures, and intensified pilocarpine effects in the striatum of adult rats.
Thiorphan and acetorphan, two potent inhibitors of enkephalinase (EC 3.4.24.11 membrane-metalloendopeptidase) significantly reduced the castor oil-induced diarrhea in rats when administered intravenously (or orally, for acetorphan) but not when administered intracerebroventricularly. These effects were more marked during the 90 min period following the castor oil challenge but were still significant up to 4-8 h after the latter. Acetorphan was about 6 times more potent than thiorphan. The antidiarrheal activity of both compounds was completely prevented in rats receiving naloxone subcutaneously but not intracerebroventricularly (in the case of thiorphan). In contrast to loperamide, a peripherally acting opiate receptor agonist, the enkephalinase inhibitors did not significantly reduce gastrointestinal transit as measured in the charcoal meal test. The antidiarrheal activity of enkephalinase inhibitors therefore seems attributable to protection of endogenous opioids, presumably outside the brain, and to reduction of intestinal secretion rather than transit.
Arsenic remains an important environmental hazard that causes several human cancers. Arsenic-induced Bowen's disease (As-BD), a skin carcinoma in situ, is the most common arsenical cancer. While great strides have been made in our understanding of arsenic carcinogenesis, how host immunity contributes to this process remains unknown. Patients with As-BD have an impaired contact hypersensitivity response. Although impaired T cell activation has been well-documented in arsenical cancers, how dendritic cell (DC), the key cell regulating innate immunity, regulates the immune response in arsenical cancers remains unclear. Using myeloid derived DC (MDDC) from patients with As-BD and normal controls as well as bone marrow derived DC (BMDC) from mice fed with or without arsenic, we measured the migration of DC. As-BD patients showed an impaired CCL21-mediated MDDC migration in vitro. Arsenic-fed mice had defective DC migration toward popliteal lymph nodes when injected with allogenic BMDCs via foot pad. Using skin from As-BD and normal controls, we found an increased expression of STAT3, a transcriptional factor contributing to impaired DC activation. Arsenic induced STAT3 activation and the production of VEGF in keratinocytes. The increase in VEGF was blocked by inhibiting STAT3 with RNA interference or pharmaceutically with JSI-124. While VEGF by itself minimally induced the expression of CD86 and MHC-II in MDDC, arsenic induced-MDDC activation was abolished by VEGF pretreatment. We concluded that the STAT3-VEGF axis in keratinocytes inhibits DC migration in the microenvironment of As-BD, indicating that cellular interactions play an important role in regulating the disease course of arsenical cancers.
The efficacies of ofloxacin and norfloxacin in the treatment of chronic complicated urinary tract infections were compared. 30 adult outpatients suffering from underlying urinary tract disease, with pyuria of 10 or more WBC/hpf and bacteriuria of 10(4) or more viable organisms per millilitre, were randomly assigned to receive ofloxacin 200mg once daily or norfloxacin 400mg twice daily for 10 days. After treatment pyuria was cleared in 9 cases and decreased or unchanged in 6 cases in the ofloxacin group. The corresponding numbers were 10 and 5 in the norfloxacin group. Bacteriuria was eliminated in 12 patients, unchanged in 1 and replaced in 2 in the ofloxacin group. In the norfloxacin group bacteriuria was eliminated in 8 cases, unchanged in 1, decreased in 1 and replaced in 5. The overall effectiveness rate was 14 of 15 in the ofloxacin group and 12 of 15 in the norfloxacin group. Ofloxacin 200mg once daily was as effective as norfloxacin 400mg twice daily in this open study.
It is well recognized that the large doses of mannitol used in treating cerebral edema alter extracellular fluid (ECF) volume, osmolality, and composition to a degree which, under some circumstances, can lead to acute renal failure, cardiac decompensation, and other difficulties. It is less well appreciated that the patient's body habitus, age, total body water content relative to body weight, pretreatment plasma sodium concentration and plasma osmolality, and the presence of edema or ascites also can influence the degree of ECF change and the rate of mannitol excretion to a significant degree. Here, we show how these changes occur and the way in which their magnitude can be predicted prior to therapy so as to minimize the risk of an adverse result.
Metformin lowers blood pressure in humans and in experimental animal models. To determine the mechanism of acute metformin-induced hypotension, we measured changes in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) during metformin alone (0, 10, 50, 100 mg/kg i.v.; n = 10) and during concomitant alpha adrenergic (phentolamine, 5 mg/kg; n = 5), beta adrenergic (propranolol, 3 mg/kg; n = 6), muscarinic (atropine, 200 micrograms/kg; n = 7), ganglionic (hexamethonium, 30 mg/kg; n = 11), nitric oxide synthase (NG-methyl-L-arginine acetate salt, 15 mg/ kg; n = 9) and combination ganglionic plus alpha adrenergic plus beta adrenergic (n = 6) blockade in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Responses to metformin alone were also assessed in normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (n = 6). In SHRs, metformin elicited depressor responses accompanied by tachycardia (100 mg/kg; delta MAP, -26 +/- 3 mm Hg; delta HR, +49 +/- 12 bpm). Depressor responses in Wistar-Kyoto rats were significantly attenuated (100 mg/kg; delta MAP, -9 +/- 4 mm Hg; P < .01). Hypotensive actions of metformin in SHRs were abolished and reversed into pressor responses by hexamethonium (100 mg/kg; delta MAP, +24 +/- 6 mm Hg), phentolamine (100 mg/kg; delta MAP, +62 +/- 10 mm Hg) and by combination ganglionic plus adrenergic (100 mg/kg; delta MAP, +62 +/- 10 mm Hg) blockade. Neither propranolol, atropine nor NG-methyl-L-arginine acetate salt affected hypotensive responses to metformin. We conclude that acute intravenous metformin administration decreases MAP by causing withdrawal of sympathetic activity. The increase in MAP uncovered by hexamethonium and phentolamine suggests that the original depressor response to metformin is buffered by mechanisms unrelated to the autonomic nervous system.
