A total of 5,282 bacterial isolates obtained between 1 January and 31 December 31 2008, inclusive, from patients in 10 hospitals across Canada as part of the Canadian Ward Surveillance Study (CANWARD 2008) underwent susceptibility testing. The 10 most common organisms, representing 78.8% of all clinical specimens, were as follows: Escherichia coli (21.4%), methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA; 13.9%), Streptococcus pneumoniae (10.3%), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (7.1%), Klebsiella pneumoniae (6.0%), coagulase-negative staphylococci/Staphylococcus epidermidis (5.4%), methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA; 5.1%), Haemophilus influenzae (4.1%), Enterococcus spp. (3.3%), Enterobacter cloacae (2.2%). MRSA comprised 27.0% (272/1,007) of all S. aureus isolates (genotypically, 68.8% of MRSA were health care associated [HA-MRSA] and 27.6% were community associated [CA-MRSA]). Extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing E. coli occurred in 4.9% of E. coli isolates. The CTX-M type was the predominant ESBL, with CTX-M-15 the most prevalent genotype. MRSA demonstrated no resistance to ceftobiprole, daptomycin, linezolid, telavancin, tigecycline, or vancomycin (0.4% intermediate intermediate resistance). E. coli demonstrated no resistance to ertapenem, meropenem, or tigecycline. Resistance rates with P. aeruginosa were as follows: colistin (polymyxin E), 0.8%; amikacin, 3.5%; cefepime, 7.2%; gentamicin, 12.3%; fluoroquinolones, 19.0 to 24.1%; meropenem, 5.6%; piperacillin-tazobactam, 8.0%. A multidrug-resistant (MDR) phenotype occurred frequently in P. aeruginosa (5.9%) but uncommonly in E. coli (1.2%) and K. pneumoniae (0.9%). In conclusion, E. coli, S. aureus (MSSA and MRSA), P. aeruginosa, S. pneumoniae, K. pneumoniae, H. influenzae, and Enterococcus spp. are the most common isolates recovered from clinical specimens in Canadian hospitals. The prevalence of MRSA was 27.0% (of which genotypically 27.6% were CA-MRSA), while ESBL-producing E. coli occurred in 4.9% of isolates. An MDR phenotype was common in P. aeruginosa.
Significant evidence supports that many endocrine disrupting chemicals could affect female reproductive health. Aim of this study was to compare the internal exposure to bisphenol A (BPA), perfluorooctane sulphonate (PFOS), perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), monoethylhexyl phthalate (MEHP), and di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) in serum samples of 111 infertile women and 44 fertile women. Levels of gene expression of nuclear receptors (ER α , ER β , AR, AhR, PXR, and PPAR γ ) were also analyzed as biomarkers of effective dose. The percentage of women with BPA concentrations above the limit of detection was significantly higher in infertile women than in controls. No statistically significant difference was found with regard to PFOS, PFOA, MEHP and DEHP. Infertile patients showed gene expression levels of ER α , ER β , AR, and PXR significantly higher than controls. In infertile women, a positive association was found between BPA and MEHP levels and ER α , ER β , AR, AhR, and PXR expression. PFOS concentration positively correlated with AR and PXR expression. PFOA levels negatively correlated with AhR expression. No correlation was found between DEHP levels and all evaluated nuclear receptors. This study underlines the need to provide special attention to substances that are still widely present in the environment and to integrate exposure measurements with relevant indicators of biological effects.
We analyzed urinary valproate (VPA) metabolites and carnitine concentrations in a child who accidentally ingested 400 mg/kg VPA. The concentration of 4-en VPA, the presumed major factor in VPA-induced hepatotoxicity, was markedly increased, without liver dysfunction or hyperammonemia. The other major abnormality was decreased beta-oxidation and markedly increased omega-oxidation. After L-carnitine supplementation, VPA metabolism returned to normal. The level of valproylcarnitine was not increased and therefore was not affected by L-carnitine. L-Carnitine may be useful in treating patients with coma after VPA overdose.
In some dogs there are preganglionic fibers leaving the cervical spinal cord through the ventral roots of the lower cervical nerves. When these fibers are stimulated electrically in the anesthetized dog with skeletal muscle paralysis (induced by decamethonium), the effects are vasoconstriction in the front footpad, cardiac acceleration and augmentation, and a rise in arterial blood pressure.
We administered the partial dopamine agonist terguride under controlled conditions to patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), both as monotherapy and in conjunction with intravenous levodopa. Terguride produced a dose-dependent decrease in levodopa-induced dyskinesias (up to 53%) in seven patients without concomitant worsening of parkinsonism, and had no significant antiparkinsonian effect when administered alone. Partial dopamine agonists may hold some promise in the adjuvant therapy of patients with advanced PD.
Methotrexate nephrotoxicity can lead to delayed methotrexate elimination and the development of life-threatening toxicity, which may not be preventable with the standard rescue agent leucovorin. In preclinical studies, we previously demonstrated that carboxypetidase-G2 (CPDG2) rapidly hydrolyzes methotrexate to nontoxic metabolites. A protocol for the compassionate use of CPDG2 in patients who develop nephrotoxicity while receiving high-dose methotrexate was therefore developed. The pharmacologic and clinical outcome of CPDG2 rescue administered with thymidine and leucovorin in 20 patients is presented here.
Patients with high-dose methotrexate-induced renal dysfunction received one to three doses of CPDG2, 50 U/kg body weight intravenously (i.v.), thymidine 8 g/m2/d by continuous i.v. infusion, and standard pharmacokinetically guided leucovorin rescue. Plasma concentrations of methotrexate and its inactive metabolite 4-deoxy-4-amino-N10-methylpteroic acid (DAMPA) were measured before and after CPDG2 using high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). Tolerance of CPDG2 and thymidine, development of methotrexate toxicities, and recovery of renal function were monitored.
Twenty patients who received high-dose methotrexate for osteosarcoma (n = 11), lymphoid cancers (n = 8), and gastric cancer (n = 1) developed nephrotoxicity (median serum creatinine, 3.2 mg/dL) and elevated plasma methotrexate concentrations (median, 201 mumol/L at hour 46). CPDG2 and thymidine rescue was well tolerated and resulted in a rapid 95.6% to 99.6% reduction in the plasma methotrexate concentration. Methotrexate-related toxicity was mild to moderate. Serum creatinine returned to normal values at a median of 22 days.
CPDG2, thymidine, and leucovorin rescue was highly effective in 20 patients at high risk for developing life-threatening methotrexate toxicity after the onset of methotrexate-induced nephrotoxicity and delayed methotrexate excretion.
Controversy persists as to whether reducing the blood pressure of patients with a history of stroke leads to an increased risk of silent brain infarct (SBI) and dementia. A total of 667 patients were randomized to receive the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor perindopril (4 mg daily), with or without the diuretic indapamide (2 mg daily) or matching placebo(s). Brain CT scanning was performed annually over the mean follow-up period of 3.9 years. Active treatment reduced the blood pressure (systolic/diastolic) by 5.2/2.6 mmHg over the follow-up period. A total of 119 new SBI were detected and 92% of them were lacunar type small infarcts. The frequency of reaching the primary end-point (recurrent symptomatic stroke or new SBI) was similar in the placebo group (26.5%) and in the active treatment group (25.9%). There was no significant difference in brain atrophy indices between two groups. In the subgroup with a history of large artery infarction, 7 out of 55 patients from the placebo group developed new SBI, while none of the 40 patients from the active treatment group did so (p = 0.020). The baseline diastolic blood pressure was significantly associated with the risk of new SBI (p = 0.004), but the stroke subtype was not. In conclusion, blood pressure-lowering with a perindopril-based regimen did not increase the risk of SBI and brain atrophy in patients with a history of stroke. The baseline diastolic blood pressure was an independent predictor of new SBI, but the index stroke subtype did not influence the risk of SBI.
Previous studies have shown that a carcinogenic effect can be transmitted from female mice exposed prenatally to diethylstilbestrol (DES) to their female offspring. Furthermore, male mice exposed pre-natally to DES can transmit a carcinogenic effect to their offspring through their germ cells. To study how multi-generational carcinogenesis is transmitted through females exposed pre-natally to DES, the technique of blastocyst transfer was utilized. Blastocysts from strain CD-1 mice exposed pre-natally to vehicle were transferred to mice exposed pre-natally to DES. Among 143 offspring from these transfers, there were 10 ovarian adenomas and 10 uterine adenocarcinomas. Among 92 offspring from blastocyst transfers between mice exposed pre-natally to vehicle only, there was 1 ovarian adenoma and 1 uterine adenocarcinoma. Thus the pre-natal exposure of the host to DES produced a maternal environment which increased the incidence of ovarian and uterine tumors. The reverse type of transfer was also performed, in which blastocysts from female mice exposed pre-natally to DES were transferred into mice exposed to vehicle only pre-natally. Among 99 offspring derived from DES-exposed germ cells, 6 developed ovarian adenomas and 16 developed uterine adenocarcinomas. Thus DES also has a multi-generational effect transmitted through the blastocyst, which is consistent with fetal germ cell mutation from DES.
Ten patients with Parkinson's disease and urinary symptoms underwent urodynamic assessments before and after subcutaneous administration of the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine. Voiding efficiency improved after apomorphine injection, with an increase in mean and maximum flow rates in nine patients and reduction in post-micturition residual volume in six. Although the effect on detrusor behaviour was variable, subcutaneous apomorphine may be of use in both the assessment and treatment of voiding dysfunction in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Substance abuse is well documented among bodybuilders and weight lifters keen to enhance their performance. A case is described of abuse of caffeine to toxic levels by an amateur bodybuilder and is believed to be the first documented case of such recreational abuse.
Edaravone (MCI-186) is a newly developed antioxidative radical scavenger for the treatment of acute cerebral infarction, exerting neuroprotective effects against ischemic insult. The neuroprotective effects of edaravone on pilocarpine-induced seizures in rats were investigated.
Rats were treated intraperitoneally with saline or edaravone (1-30 mg/kg), applied 30 min before pilocarpine hydrochloride (330 mg/kg). The onset of status epilepticus (SE) and mortality were recorded for a period of at least 3 days. The cell loss and immunoreactivities of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the hippocampus from control and the day 3 rats after SE, treated with saline or edaravone, were evaluated.
Edaravone (1mg/kg) significantly prevented cell loss in the hippocampus after SE while easier inducing SE. The higher dose of drug could not induce SE significantly but tended to increase the rate of mortality. Inducible NOS (iNOS) expression was significantly decreased in the hippocampus from day 3 rats treated with 1mg/kg edaravone, compared with saline group, while neuronal NOS (nNOS) and iNOS significantly increased in the hippocampus treated with saline, compared with control group. Significant alteration of endothelial NOS (eNOS) expression in the hippocampus among control group, saline group, and edaravone group was not shown.
Edaravone may act as a neuroprotector for the hippocampus after SE by reducing at least iNOS although the low dose of drug easier induces SE because of preventing an endogenous antiepileptic effect of NO.
Idiosyncratic drug reactions (IDRs) are poorly understood, but their clinical characteristics suggest that they are immune mediated. Penicillamine-induced autoimmunity in Brown Norway rats has been utilized as an animal model for mechanistic studies of one type of IDR because it closely mimics the autoimmune syndromes that it causes in humans. Our previous work suggested that it is T-cell mediated. It has been shown that T helper 17 (Th17) cells play a central role in many types of autoimmune diseases. This study was designed to test whether Th17 cells are involved in the pathogenesis of penicillamine-induced autoimmunity and to establish an overall serum cytokine/chemokine profile for this IDR. In total, 24 serum cytokines/chemokines were determined and revealed a dynamic process. In sick animals, interleukin (IL) 6 and transforming growth factor-β1, known to be driving forces of Th17 differentiation, were consistently increased at both early and late stages of penicillamine treatment; however, no significant changes in these cytokines were observed in animals that did not develop autoimmunity. IL-17, a characteristic cytokine produced by Th17 cells, was increased in sick animals at both the messenger RNA and serum protein level. In addition, serum concentrations of IL-22, another characteristic cytokine produced by Th17 cells, were found to be elevated. Furthermore, the percentage of IL-17-producing CD4 T cells was significantly increased but only in sick animals. These data strongly suggest that Th17 cells are involved in penicillamine-induced autoimmunity. Such data provide important mechanistic clues that may help to predict which drug candidates will cause a relatively high incidence of such autoimmune IDRs.
Drugs blocking the potassium current IKr of the heart (via hERG channel-inhibition) have the potential to cause hypoxia-related teratogenic effects. However, this activity may be missed in conventional teratology studies because repeat dosing may cause resorptions. The aim of the present study was to investigate an alternative protocol to reveal the teratogenic potential of IKr-blocking drugs. The IKr blocker astemizole, given as a single dose (80 mg/kg) on gestation day (GD) 13 to pregnant rats caused digital defects. In whole rat embryo culture (2h) on GD 13, astemizole caused a decrease in embryonic heart rate at 20 nM, and arrhythmias at 200-400 nM. Cetirizine, without IKr-blocking properties, did not affect the rat embryonic heart in vitro. The present study shows that single dose testing on sensitive days of development, together with whole embryo culture, can be a useful methodology to better characterize the teratogenic potential of IKr-blocking drugs.
Inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) therapy is an effective treatment of pulmonary hypertension following left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation. As iNO may also modulate circulating endothelin-1 (ET-1) and big endothelin following LVAD implantation, we investigated the effects of iNO on ET-1 and big endothelin plasma concentration gradients. In order to assist weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass, iNO was administered to 15 consecutive patients with secondary pulmonary hypertension following implantation of a LVAD. Central venous, pulmonary arterial and arterial ET-1 and big endothelin plasma levels were measured preoperatively, on cardiopulmonary bypass prior to iNO administration, 12, 24 and 48 hours postoperatively, and 72 hours after weaning from iNO. The ET-1 gradients between central venous and pulmonary arterial plasma levels decreased significantly with time, and there was a trend for lower arterial-pulmonary arterial plasma concentration gradients. Big endothelin plasma concentration gradients were not altered significantly. The decrease in ET-1 plasma concentration gradients during and after iNO administration may reflect a restoration of the physiologic balance between the different vascular beds. This provides further evidence that intermittent iNO therapy may modulate ET-1 after LVAD implantation.
The endothelins are peptides with vasoconstricting and growth-promoting properties. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is known with its direct positive inotropic and chronotropic effects on isolated heart and with growth effects. The aim of this pilot study was to investigate the frequency distribution of the common polymorphism of the ET-1 gene and its possible relation with hemodynamic consequences of malignant ventricular arrhythmias in patients with structural heart disease. We studied 26 consecutive patients with malignant ventricular arrhythmias and implantable cardioverterdefibrillators with a mean age of 62.7 +/- 12.2 years and a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 0.37 +/- 11.0. Taq polymorphism of ET-1 was detected using our original polymerase chain reaction method. The polymerase chain reaction product with a length of 358 basepairs (bp) (primers 5'-CAA ACC GAT GTC CTC TGT A-3' and 5'-ACC AAA CAC ATT TCC CTA TT-3') in its non-mutated form contains a target sequence for TaqI restrictive enzyme, while a mutated product loses this cleavage site. Of 26 patients, nine (34%) had recurrent palpitations and eight (30.8%) had syncopes during their malignant arrhythmias. Nineteen patients were given amiodarone after implantable cardioverter-defibrillator insertion and seven were not treated with amiodarone. Fifteen patients had (++), 11 (+-) and 0 (- -) ET-1 genotype. The risk for syncopes was associated with the (++) genotype of the ET-1 gene (P = 0.01). Patients receiving amiodarone had significantly higher frequency of the (++) genotype (P = 0.011). All our results indicate that the presence of the ET-1 genotype (++) in patients with structural heart disease, severe left ventricular dysfunction and malignant ventricular arrhythmias increases the risk for these patients of hemodynamic collapse during these arrhythmias.
Cyclophosphamide induces a severe haemorrhagic cystitis characterized by bladder overactivity. The study was conducted to examine effects of a phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitor rolipram on bladder overactivity in rats with cyclophosphamide treatment. 42 female Wistar rats were used. 30 rats received a single i.p. injection of cyclophosphamide, and after 72 h, bladder function was evaluated by (1) in vitro preparations of whole bladders and (2) cystometry with continuous saline infusion under urethane anesthesia. Cyclophosphamide-treatment dramatically potentiated the basal spontaneous contractions of isolated whole bladders compared to control rats. Atropine, guanethidine or suramin was ineffective on the spontaneous contractions whereas nifedipine completely abolished. Rolipram (5-80 microM) induced a significant concentration-dependent decrease on the amplitude, frequency (contractions/min) and area under the curve of spontaneous contractions. Carbachol elicited phasic contractions superimposed on a tonic contraction. Rolipram caused a relaxation on the tonic contraction whereas it could not affect the phasic contractions induced by carbachol. In anesthetized rats, during continuous infusion cystometry, intercontraction interval was significantly shorter in cyclophosphamide-injected rats than in control rats. Rolipram at 5-40 microM has no significant effect on the intercontraction interval and contraction pressure while it significantly decreased pressure threshold. At 80 microM, it significantly decreased the intercontraction interval and contraction pressure. In conclusion, PDE4 inhibitor rolipram caused a significant decrease on the amplitude, frequency and area under the curve of basal spontaneous contractions in cyclophosphamide-treated rats, at doses that have no effect on the carbachol-induced phasic contractions and cystometric parameters. PDE4 inhibitors may be considered as an attractive strategy for the treatment of cyclophosphamide-induced bladder overactivity.
This study examined the relationship between adverse reactions and patient compliance with ethinylestradiol at 40 micrograms twice daily versus 20 micrograms four times daily. In a randomized study 61 female patients with primary infertility were prescribed the drug twice daily (n = 31) or four times daily (n = 30). Ethinylestradiol was administered for 7 days before the sperm cervical mucus penetration-test was performed for hormonal standardization of the cervical mucus quality. Drug compliance was measured by continuous monitoring using the Medication Event Monitoring System. Two parameters were evaluated: percentage of prescribed doses taken (administration compliance) and adherence to the prescribed dose schedule (regimen compliance, number of days with two or four dosing events recorded). Adverse drug reactions were assessed using a standardized questionnaire. Fourty-four women experienced side effects, of which 81% were rated by patients as being mild. Patient compliance was higher with the twice daily than with the four times daily regimen: 85% versus 65% prescribed doses taken (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in compliance comparing patients with and without adverse reactions (82% versus 72%, respectively), but compliance was lower and more irregular with at least 3 versus one or two adverse reactions reported: 54% versus 84% in administration compliance and 31% versus 58% in regimen compliance (P < 0.05). Compliance was also lower in patients with nausea and vomiting than in those without these symptoms, 59% versus 91% and 34% versus 66% (P < 0.005), respectively, and lower with moderate or severe compared to mild side effects; 48% versus 85% and 25% versus 59% (P < 0.005).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Little is known about the potential carcinogenicity associated with routine application of diazinon, a common organophosphate insecticide. The authors explored a possible association of diazinon exposure with cancer risk in the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective cohort of licensed pesticide applicators in Iowa and North Carolina enrolled in 1993-1997. A total of 23,106 male applicators provided information in a self-administered questionnaire. Among 4,961 applicators who reported using diazinon, 301 incident cancer cases were diagnosed during the follow-up period ending December 2002 compared with 968 cases among 18,145 participants who reported no use. Poisson regression was used to calculate rate ratios and 95% confidence intervals. Two quantitative exposure metrics were used: lifetime exposure days and intensity-weighted lifetime exposure days, a measure that incorporates probability of pesticide exposure with lifetime pesticide application frequency. When lifetime exposure days were used, increased risks for the highest tertile of exposure and significant tests for trend for lung cancer and leukemia were observed. No other cancer site showed an association with diazinon for the highest tertile of exposure. Because these results were based on small numbers, additional analyses are necessary as more cases accrue to clarify whether diazinon is associated with cancer risk in humans.
To investigate the effect on intraocular pressure (IOP) and aqueous flare of topical applications of latanoprost and dipivefrin alone or combined.
22 patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension were included in a 4 week open label study. Median age was 68 years (range 50-79). They were allocated to either 2 weeks' treatment with once daily evening administration of latanoprost monotherapy (50 micrograms/ml) or twice daily dipivefrin monotherapy (1 mg/ml), followed by 2 weeks' combination therapy with both drugs.
Latanoprost alone reduced IOP from 19.3 (SD 1.4) to 14.8 (0.9) mm Hg (p < 0.01). Addition of dipivefrin caused a further reduction to 12.4 (0.9) mm Hg (p < 0.01 compared with latanoprost alone). In the group where the treatment started with dipivefrin IOP was reduced from 22.3 (1.2) to 18.4 (1.0) mm Hg (p < 0.01) and with the combination to 14.9 (0.9) mm Hg (p < 0.01). No change in aqueous flare was observed with either drug, alone or in combination. A slight increase in conjunctival hyperaemia was observed when the two drugs were combined.
Latanoprost and dipivefrin have an additive effect on IOP and no clinically significant effect on the permeability to proteins of the blood-aqueous barrier. This implies that the two drugs can be a useful combination for the treatment of glaucoma.
The protective effect of PUFA concentrate prepared from fish oil on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in male albino rats was investigated with respect to changes in the levels of diagnostic marker enzymes, cholesterol, triglycerides, free fatty acids, phospholipids, reduced glutathione (GSH) and lipid peroxides (LPO). Administration of PUFA concentrate significantly prevented the isoproterenol-induced elevation in the levels of plasma diagnostic marker enzymes (ALT [93.5%], AST [95.6%], LDH [94.7%] and CPK [96.1%]). PUFA concentrate feeding exerted a significant antilipidemic effect against isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction by reducing the levels of lipid components in plasma (cholesterol [71.5%], triglycerides [79.7%] and free fatty acids [70.7%] and heart tissue (cholesterol [81.4%], triglycerides [76.3%] and free fatty acids [78.6%]). A tendency to prevent the isoproterenol-induced phospholipids depletion (74.4%) in the myocardium of experimental rats was also observed. The level of lipid peroxidation was also found to be significantly lower in PUFA treated animals (2.72+/-0.15nmol/ml in plasma; 1.18+/-0.08nmol/mg protein in heart tissue) as compared to that of isoproterenol-injected groups (5.77+/-0.43nmol/ml in plasma; 2.14+/-0.15nmol/mg protein in heart tissue) of rats. Also the level of reduced GSH significantly higher in the heart tissue of PUFA administered experimental rats (5.65+/-0.98 microg/g) as compared to myocardial infarction induced control rats (2.39+/-0.18 microg/g). The results of the present study indicate that the overall cardioprotective effect of PUFA concentrate is probably related to its ability to inhibit lipid accumulation by its hypolipidaemic property.
Cisplatin causes auditory impairment due to the apoptosis of auditory hair cells. There is no strategy to regulate ototoxicity by cisplatin thus far. Dansam-Eum (DSE) has been used for treating the central nerve system injury including hearing loss in Korea. However, disease-related scientific investigation by DSE has not been elucidated. Here, we demonstrated that DSE and its component rosmarinic acid (RA) were shown to inhibit apoptosis of the primary organ of Corti explants as well as the auditory cells. Administration of DSE and RA reduced the thresholds of the auditory brainstem response in cisplatin-injected mice. A molecular docking simulation and a kinetic assay show that RA controls the activity of caspase-1 by interaction with the active site of caspase-1. Pretreatment of RA inhibited caspase-1 downstream signal pathway, such as the activation of caspase-3 and 9, release of cytochrome c, translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor, up-regulation of Bax, down-regulation of Bcl-2, generation of reactive oxygen species, and activation of nuclear factor-κB. Anticancer activity by cisplatin was not affected by treatment with RA in SNU668, A549, HCT116, and HeLa cells but not B16F10 cells. These findings show that blocking a critical step by RA in apoptosis may be useful strategy to prevent harmful side effects of ototoxicity in patients with having to undergo chemotherapy.
Resistance to the affordable malaria treatments chloroquine and pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine is seriously impeding malaria control through treatment in east Africa. We did an open, alternate drug allocation study to assess the efficacy of chlorproguanil-dapsone in the treatment of falciparum malaria clinically resistant to pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine.
Children younger than 5 years with non-severe falciparum malaria, attending Muheza district hospital in Tanzania, were treated with the standard regimen of pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine. Patients whose clinical symptoms resolved but who remained parasitaemic 7 days after pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine were followed up for 1 month. Clinical malaria episodes were retreated with either single dose pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine or a 3-day regimen of chlorproguanil-dapsone. Those with parasitaemia after 7 days were treated with chlorproguanil-dapsone. Parasite DNA was collected on day 7 after first treatment with pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine and we looked for point mutations in the genes encoding dihydrofolate reductase (dhfr) and dyhydropteroate synthetase (dhps).
360 children were enrolled and treated with pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine. On day 7, 192 (55%) of 348 had cleared parasitaemia. Of the remaining 156 parasitaemic children, 140 (90%) were followed up to day 28, and 92 (66%) of 140 developed clinical malaria. These 92 patients were alternately retreated with either pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine (46) or chlorproguanil-dapsone (46). 28 (61%) of 46 children retreated with pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine were still parasitaemic at day 7, compared with three (7%) of 44 [corrected] children retreated with chlorproguanil-dapsone. Resistance to pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine increased from 45% (156/348) at the first treatment to 61% (28/46) after retreatment. 83 of 85 parasite isolates collected after the first pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine treatment, and before and after the second treatments with pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine and chlorproguanil-dapsone showed triple-mutant dhfr alleles, associated with a variety of dhps mutations.
Most patients treated with pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine, who remain parasitaemic at day 7, develop new malaria symptoms within 1 month. Chlorproguanil-dapsone was a practicable therapy under these circumstances. Analysis of parasite dhfr and dhps before and after treatment supports the view that pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine resistance in this part of Africa is primarily due to parasites with three mutations in the dhfr domain.
A phase II randomized study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of gemcitabine (GEM) versus the combination of cisplatin and etoposide (EP) in Chinese patients with inoperable (stage III or IV) non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
From March 1995 to February 1996, 53 patients were enrolled onto the study: 27 onto the GEM arm and 26 onto the EP arm. In the GEM arm, gemcitabine 1,250 mg/m2 was given as a 30-minute intravenous (i.v.) infusion on days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle. In the EP arm, cisplatin 80 mg/m2 was given on day 1 and etoposide 80 mg/m2 was given on days 1, 2, and 3 of each 28-day cycle.
Twenty-six patients are assessable for treatment response on the GEM arm and 24 on the EP arm. Five patients (19.2%) on the GEM arm and five patients (20.8%) on the EP arm achieved a partial response (PR). No complete responses were attained on either treatment arm. All patients enrolled onto the study were eligible for toxicity assessment. The main toxicities were myelosuppression and vomiting, which included World Health Organization (WHO) grade 3 or 4 leukopenia (3.7%), thrombocytopenia (7.4%), anemia (7.4%), and nausea/vomiting (3.7%) on the GEM arm, and WHO grade 3 or 4 leukopenia (30.8%), thrombocytopenia (7.7%), anemia (15.4%), and nausea/vomiting (34.6%) on the EP arm. The median survival time was 37 weeks on the GEM arm and 48 weeks on the EP arm.
Gemcitabine is a well-tolerated chemotherapeutic agent for NSCLC. The antitumor activity was promising, with a 19.2% single-drug response rate, when compared with EP combination chemotherapy, which had a response rate of 20.8%. The safety profile is better than that of EP treatment.
To study the immunological effects of nicotine, there are several rodent models for chronic nicotine administration. These models include subcutaneously implanted miniosmotic pumps, nicotine-spiked drinking water, and self-administration via jugular cannulae. Administration of nicotine via these routes affects the immune system. Smokers frequently use nicotine patches to quit smoking, and the immunological effects of nicotine patches are largely unknown. To determine whether the nicotine patch affects the immune system, nicotine patches were affixed daily onto the backs of Lewis rats for 3 to 4 weeks. The patches efficiently raised the levels of nicotine and cotinine in serum and strongly inhibited the antibody-forming cell response of spleen cells to sheep red blood cells. The nicotine patch also suppressed the concanavalin A-induced T-cell proliferation and mobilization of intracellular Ca(2+) by spleen cells, as well as the fever response of animals to subcutaneous administration of turpentine. Moreover, immunosuppression was associated with chronic activation of protein tyrosine kinase and phospholipase C-gamma1 activities. Thus, in this animal model of nicotine administration, the nicotine patch efficiently raises the levels of nicotine and cotinine in serum and impairs both the immune and inflammatory responses.
This article describes the presence, in a 56-year-old male, of sexual dysfunction that was associated with phenelzine (Nardil) and was treated successfully with sildenafil (Viagra). The sexual dysfunction was assessed using the Arizona Sexual Experiences Scale for males (ASEX-Male).
It is well known that 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is the most effective drug in the treatment of colon cancer, however the positive response is small, only about 20%. On the other hand, it has been postulated that the growth of colon cancer depends on many growth factors, such as gastrin and estrogens. The search for new substances increasing the antitumor effect of 5-FU has lasted for many years. The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of pentagastrin (PEN, syntetic gastrin analogue), proglumide (PRO, a blocker of gastrin receptor) and tamoxifen (TAM, a partial estrogen antagonist) given separately or together with 5-FU on proliferation, apoptosis, necrosis and proliferation/apoptosis (P/A) ratio in the murine transplantable Colon 38 cancer. The male mice were implanted with a suspension of Colon 38 cells. After 7 days, the animals were treated with PEN (250 microg/kg b.w., twice daily), PRO (100 mg/kg. b.w., twice daily), TAM (10 microg/animal) separately or together with 5-FU (60 mg/kg b.w., once) for 2 days. The incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) into cell nuclei was used as an index of cell proliferation (labeling index--LI). The in situ labeling of nuclear DNA fragmentation according to TUNEL method was considered as an apoptotic index (AI). It was found that 5-FU increased the apoptosis, unexpectedly increased the LI and decreased the P/A ratio when compared to control. Both PEN and PRO increased the apoptosis and in the case of PRO decreased P/A ratio when compared to control. TAM did not affect any of the examined parameters. All of the investigated substances modify the 5-FU action: PEN and PRO on AI and LI and TAM on AI and P/A ratio. Necrosis was observed in 3 tumors treated with PEN + 5-FU, in 2 tumors of PRO + 5-FU group and in 1 tumor of group with 5-FU and with PEN. Further studies are needed to elucidate if those modification of 5-FU action by the examined substances will be useful in the inhibition of the growth of Colon 38 cancer.
Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene is a ubiquitous environmental pollutant which is active as a tumor initiator and complete carcinogen on mouse skin and is carcinogenic in rat lung. The major metabolites of indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene as formed in vivo in mouse skin have been identified. 8-Hydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene is the most abundant metabolite identified. 9-Hydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene and trans-1,2-dihydro-1,2-dihydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene are also major in vivo metabolites in mouse skin. Several minor metabolites were also identified. Among these are trans-1,2-dihydro-1,2,8-trihydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene, trans-1,2-dihydro-1,2,9-trihydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene, indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene-1,2-dione, and 10-hydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene. The tumor-initiating activity of several of the major in vivo metabolites of indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene has been investigated on mouse skin. Trans-1,2-dihydro-1,2-dihydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene and 1,2-dihydro-1,2-epoxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene both produced an 80% incidence of tumor-bearing mice at a total initiating dose of 1.0 mg. The activity of this K-region dihydrodiol and K-region oxide was, however, less than that of the parent hydrocarbon. These data suggest that 1,2-dihydro-1,2-epoxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene, which is an ultimate mutagenic metabolite of indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene, is not the ultimate tumorigenic metabolite on mouse skin. 8-Hydroxyindeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene, which is mutagenic when assayed in the presence of a microsomal activation system, exhibited only weak tumor-initiating activity. These results indicate that the principal metabolic activation pathways associated with the mutagenic activity of indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene are not related to its tumor-initiating activity on mouse skin.
From September, 1984 to July, 1986 seventy previously untreated adult patients with advanced non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of intermediate or high grade histology were enrolled in an open phase III multicenter, comparative chemotherapeutic trial. The objectives were to compare, by means of response rate, duration of response and survival time, the efficacy and safety of substituting mitoxantrone for doxorubicin in the combination chemotherapy regimen m-BACOD (methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and dexamethasone). Thirty-five patients were randomly assigned to receive m-B-NOVANTRONE TM (mitoxantrone)-COD (m-BNCOD) and 35 m-B-ADRIAMYCIN TM (doxorubicin)-COD. The complete response rate was 57% for both treatment groups, and no significant disease-free survival and survival differences were found between the two groups of patients. Patients treated with m-BACOD experienced severe alopecia more frequently (p less than 0.001) and, after 10 cycles, six adverse cardiac event of WHO grade greater than 1, as opposed to none among those who received m-BNCOD. The mitoxantrone-containing regimen (m-BNCOD) has equivalent efficacy and reduced toxicity compared to the standard doxorubicin-containing regimen (m-BACOD) in patients with poor prognosis NHL.
