Patients who undergo bone marrow transplantation are generally immunosuppressed with a dose of cyclophosphamide (CYA) which is usually calculated based on the patient's weight. At these high doses of CYA, serious cardiotoxicity may occur, but definitive risk factors for the development of such cardiotoxicity have not been described. Since chemotherapeutic agent toxicity generally correlates with dose per body surface area, we retrospectively calculated the dose of CYA in patients transplanted at our institution to determine whether the incidence of CYA cardiotoxicity correlated with the dose per body surface area. Eighty patients who were to receive CYA 50 mg/kg/d for four days as preparation for marrow grafting underwent a total of 84 transplants for aplastic anemia, Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, or severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome. Fourteen of 84 (17%) patients had symptoms and signs consistent with CYA cardiotoxicity within ten days of receiving 1 to 4 doses of CYA. Six of the 14 patients died with congestive heart failure. The dose of CYA per body surface area was calculated for all patients and the patients were divided into two groups based on daily CYA dose: Group 1, CYA less than or equal to 1.55 g/m2/d; Group 2, CYA greater than 1.55 g/m2/d. Cardiotoxicity that was thought to be related to CYA occurred in 1/32 (3%) of patients in Group 1 and in 13/52 (25%) patients in Group 2 (P less than 0.025). Congestive heart failure caused or contributed to death in 0/32 patients in Group 1 v 6/52 (12%) of patients in Group 2 (P less than 0.25). There was no difference in the rate of engraftment of evaluable patients in the two groups (P greater than 0.5). We conclude that the CYA cardiotoxicity correlates with CYA dosage as calculated by body surface area, and that patients with aplastic anemia and immunodeficiencies can be effectively prepared for bone marrow grafting at a CYA dose of 1.55 g/m2/d for four days with a lower incidence of cardiotoxicity than patients whose CYA dosage is calculated based on weight. This study reaffirms the principle that drug toxicity correlates with dose per body surface area.
A problem that confronts clinicians in the treatment of cancer is the resistance of hypoxic tumors to chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Thus, the development of new drugs that are toxic to hypoxic cells found in solid tumors is an important objective for effective anticancer chemotherapy. We recently showed that the heterocyclic aromatic N-oxides, quinoxaline 1,4-dioxides (QdNOs), are cytotoxic to tumor cells cultured under hypoxia. In this study, we evaluated the hypoxia-selective toxicity of four diversely substituted QdNOs and determined their effect on the expression of hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) 1alpha in the human colon cancer cell line T-84. The various QdNOs were found to possess a 50- to 100-fold greater cytotoxicity to T-84 cells cultured under hypoxia compared with oxia. Interestingly, the hypoxia cytotoxicity ratio (HCR), the ratio of equitoxic concentrations of the drug under aerobic/anoxic conditions, was highly structure related and depended on the nature of the substituents on the QdNO heterocycle. The most cytotoxic 2-benzoyl-3-phenyl-6,7-dichloro derivative of QdNO (DCQ) was potent at a dose of 1 microM with an HCR of 100 and significantly reduced the levels of HIF-1alpha transcript and protein. The 2-benzoyl-3-phenyl derivative (BPQ) had a hypoxia potency of 20 microM and an HCR of 40. By contrast, the 2-aceto-3-methyl and the 2,3-tetramethylene (TMQ) derivatives of QdNO were much less cytotoxic under hypoxia (HCRs of 8.5 and 6.5, respectively) and reduced the expression of HIF-1alpha mRNA to a much lesser extent. Because the nonchlorinated analogue BPQ did not demonstrate behavior similar to that of DCQ, we hypothesize that the C-6, C-7-chlorine of DCQ might play a significant role in the selective hypoxic cytotoxicity of the drug.
Joubert syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by hypotonia, ataxia, episodic hyperpnea, psychomotor retardation, abnormal ocular movements, cerebellar vermian hypoplasia, and molar tooth sign on magnetic resonance imaging. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is an uncommon and potentially fatal idiosynchratic reaction of antipsychotic drugs, in which the clinical scenario encompass muscular rigidity, hyperthermia, autonomic dysfunction, altered consciousness, high creatinine phosphokinase levels, and leukocytosis. This report describes a case of neuroleptic malignant syndrome due to risperidone in a child with Joubert syndrome.
The endogenous oestrogen metabolite, 2-methoxyoestradiol (2-MeOE2) inhibits the growth of breast cancer cells and is also a potent anti-angiogenic agent. We have previously shown that the 3-sulphamoylated derivatives of 2-methoxyoestrogens are more potent than the non-sulphamoylated compounds. In this study, we have compared the abilities of 2-methoxyoestradiol-bis-sulphamate (2-MeOE2bisMATE) and 2-MeOE2 to inhibit the growth of MCF-7 breast cancer cells. Both compounds inhibited cell growth with the IC(50) for 2-MeOE2bisMATE (0.4 microM) being six-fold lower than that for 2-MeOE2 (2.5 microM). Oestrogen sulphamates are potent inhibitors of steroid sulphatase (STS) activity. 2-MeOE2bisMATE was found to retain its STS inhibitory activity and in a placental microsome assay system it was equipotent with oestrone-3-O-sulphamate (EMATE). An in vivo study was also carried out to compare the potency of 2-MeOE2bisMATE with that of EMATE and the non-steroidal STS inhibitor, 667 coumarin sulphamate (667 COUMATE). After a single oral dose (10mg/kg) some recovery of STS activity was detected by day 3 (10%) with activity partially restored (55%) by day 7 after administration of 667 COUMATE. For the other two steroidal compounds, STS activity remained almost completely inactivated for up to 5 days with complete restoration of activity occurring by day 15. The anti-proliferative and STS inhibitory properties of 2-MeOE2bisMATE suggest that it has considerable potential for development as a novel anti-cancer drug.
To describe a case of an intellectually disabled patient who was diagnosed with autistic disorder (AD) and responded positively to buspirone, demonstrated by a reduction in target behaviors of self-injury, property destruction, and physical aggression.
A 33-year-old, white, nonverbal, profoundly intellectually impaired woman (IQ <20-25), residing in a state-run facility, exhibited worsening aggressive behaviors associated with AD. These behaviors were characterized by a history of self-injurious behavior (eg, slapping and scratching herself); property destruction, including breaking windows; and head butting of staff and peers. Additional diagnoses included a seizure disorder, hyperprolactinemia, and osteoporosis. At the time of admission, her drug regimen included 3 atypical antipsychotic agents: risperidone, clozapine, and aripiprazole. Antipsychotic agents have been reported to lower the seizure threshold, and elevated prolactin levels have been associated with risperidone use. Aripiprazole and clozapine were discontinued on admission, and risperidone was discontinued one month later following increased behavioral deterioration. Buspirone was considered an appropriate replacement medication, as it has not been associated with elevated prolactin levels or a lowered seizure threshold, and was initiated at 15 mg/day. Significant reductions in aggression were noted following titration to a total daily dose of 90 mg.
Buspirone is approved for treatment of generalized anxiety disorder in adults. Dopaminergic agonist/antagonist actions have been reported with use of higher doses. These receptor effects have been beneficial for aggressive behaviors in the AD population that were exhibited by our patient, but effectiveness for aggression in the intellectually disabled population is uncertain. In our patient, problematic behaviors associated with AD responded positively to buspirone.
The reduction in target aggressive behaviors achieved with buspirone therapy allowed other treatment interventions to proceed more effectively in our patient. Clinicians may wish to consider use of buspirone in patients with AD who do not respond to or have risk factors for use of other therapy.
The authors report data of the literature and own data of side effects developing after intake of small cerucal doses. Described are the clinical symptoms, characterized by tonic spasm of the musculature and tongue, tonic convulsion of the upward gaze with simultaneous throwing back of the head.
The antiviral activity of ribavirin was studied in hamsters infected with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) virus. Ribavirn did not improve the survival of infected hamsters when administered intraperitoneally at the maximal nonlethal dose of 50 mg/kg/day for 10 days. However, when administered intracranially, ribavirin improved the survival of infected hamsters in a dose-dependent manner. The 50% effective dose was calculated to be 1.4 mg/kg/day, and the selectivity index, based on the ratio of the 50% lethally toxic dose (31 mg/kg/day) to the 50% effective dose, was 22. When begun 12 h, but not 36 h, postinfection, ribavirin at a dose of 10 mg/kg/day completely prevented mortality and inhibited the replication of SSPE virus in brains of infected hamsters. Intrathecal or intraventricular administration of ribavirin should be explored for potential use in the treatment of patients with SSPE.
Liver cirrhosis is characterized by hepatic dysfunction with extensive accumulation of fibrous tissue in the liver. In response to chronic hepatic injury, hepatic portal myofibroblasts and activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) play a role in liver fibrosis. Although administration or gene expression of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) leads to improvement in hepatic fibrosis/cirrhosis, the related mechanisms are not fully understood. We investigated mechanisms involved in resolution from liver cirrhosis by HGF, focusing on growth regulation and apoptosis in portal myofibroblasts. Cultured rat HSCs could not proliferate, were withdrawn after passage, and were replaced by proliferating portal myofibroblasts during the passages. In quiescent HSCs, c-Met receptor expression was undetected whereas c-Met receptor expression was detected in activated HSCs and liver myofibroblasts expressing alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), suggesting that activated HSCs and portal myofibroblasts are targets of HGF. For cultured rat portal myofibroblasts, HGF counteracted phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk) 1/2 and mitogenic stimulus induced by platelet-derived growth factor, induced c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) 1 phosphorylation, and promoted apoptotic cell death. In the dimethylnitrosamine rat model of liver cirrhosis, administration of HGF suppressed proliferation while promoting apoptosis of alpha-SMA-positive cells in the liver, events that were associated with reduced hepatic expressions of alpha-SMA and histological resolution from liver cirrhosis. Growth inhibition and enhanced apoptosis in portal myofibroblasts by HGF are newly identified mechanisms aiding resolution from liver fibrosis/cirrhosis by HGF.
BALB/c Fech(m1Pas) mice have a mutated ferrochelatase gene resulting in protoporphyria that models the hepatic injury occurring sporadically in human erythropoietic protoporphyria. We used this mouse model to study the development of the injury and to compare the dysfunction of heme synthesis with hepatic gene expression of liver metabolism, oxidative stress, and cellular injury/inflammation. From an early age expression of total cytochrome P450 and many of its isoforms was significantly lower than in wild-type mice. However, despite massive accumulation of protoporphyrin in the liver, expression of the main genes controlling heme synthesis and catabolism (Alas1 and Hmox1, respectively) were only modestly affected even in the presence of the cytochrome P450-inducing CAR agonist 1,4-bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]benzene. In contrast, in BALB/c mice exhibiting griseofulvin-induced hepatic protoporphyria with induction and destruction of cytochrome P450, both Alas1 and Hmox1 genes were markedly up-regulated. Other expression profiles in BALB/c Fech(m1Pas) mice identified roles for oxidative mechanisms in liver injury while modulated gene expression of hepatocyte transport proteins and cholesterol and bile acid synthesis illustrated the development of cholestasis. Subsequent inflammation and cirrhosis were also shown by the up-regulation of cytokine, cell cycling, and procollagen genes. Thus, gene expression profiles studied in Fech(m1Pas) mice may provide candidates for human polymorphisms that explain the sporadic hepatic consequences of erythropoietic protoporphyria.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats are less susceptible than normotensive rats to disruption of the blood-brain barrier during acute hypertension. The purpose of this study was to examine mechanisms that protect the blood-brain barrier from disruption in chronically hypertensive rats during acute hypertension. Normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) and stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) were studied using intravital fluorescent microscopy and fluorescein-labeled dextran. Disruption of the blood-brain barrier was characterized by the appearance of microvascular leaky sites and quantitated by the clearance of fluorescein-labeled dextran. We measured pressure (servo null) in pial arterioles and venules 40 to 60 micron in diameter. In WKY, acute, phenylephrine-induced hypertension increased pial arteriolar pressure by 47 +/- 7 mm Hg (mean +/- SE) and pial venous pressure by 20 +/- 2 mm Hg. Leaky sites increased from 0 to 28 +/- 2. In SHRSP, acute hypertension increased pial arteriolar pressure 44 +/- 8 mm Hg, but pial venous pressure increased only 6 +/- 1 mm Hg and leaky sites increased from 0 to only 6 +/- 1. All leaky sites were venular. In another group of WKY and SHRSP, we increased pial venous pressure passively with a neck cuff. In WKY, venous pressure increased by 22 +/- 2 mm Hg, and leaky sites increased from 0 to 23 +/- 2. In SHRSP, venous pressure increased by 19 +/- 1 mm Hg, and leaky sites increased from 0 to 24 +/- 2. Thus, when venous pressure is increased to the same level in WKY and SHRSP, disruption of the blood-brain barrier is similar. We conclude that protection of the blood-brain barrier during acute hypertension in SHRSP is related to attenuation of increases in pial venous pressure, not pial arteriolar pressure, and the blood-brain barrier in venules of SHRSP probably is not inherently resistant to disruption.
Quercetin, a flavonoid found in many fruits and vegetables, belongs to an extensive class of polyphenolic compounds. Previous studies reported that quercetin inhibits the proliferation of various cancer cells and tumor growth in animal models. We investigated the growth inhibition and colony formation of quercetin on three bladder cancer cells (EJ, J82 and T24). The expression of tumor suppressor genes and oncogenes such as P53, Survivin, PTEN, as well as the methylation status of these genes was also evaluated. We observed that quercetin induced apoptosis in bladder cancer cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Quercetin (100 micromolars) significantly inhibited EJ, T24 and J82 cell growth accompanied by an increase in the G0/G1 phase. In all cell lines, quercetin decreased the expression of mutant P53 and Survivin proteins. However, there was no change in the level of PTEN protein. Moreover, the DNA methylation levels of the estrogen receptor (Er-beta), P16INK4a and RASSF1A were strongly decreased (from 35 to 70%) in the quercetin-treated group compared to the control. In conclusion, our study suggested that quercetin inhibits growth, colony formation and hypermethylation of bladder cancer cell lines. Quercetin-induced apoptosis might be associated with a decrease in mutant P53 and Survivin proteins.
: A high percentage of individuals with cocaine dependence have a comorbid psychiatric illness, which complicates treatment of the substance abuse. This report will describe clinical experience using risperidone in cocaine-dependent patients with psychiatric disorders.
: Sixteen male patients with cocaine dependence and comorbid psychiatric disorder (DSM-III-R) diagnoses, who were admitted to a voluntary, post-detoxification, intermediate-care inpatient substance abuse program, were started on risperidone (mean starting dose 2.3 mg/day) in an open-label, naturalistic trial. Patients were assessed weekly using the Clinical Global Impressions scale to assess overall functioning, a Likert scale for craving, the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale, interviews with substance abuse counselors and patients, and laboratory tests. All patients had at least one other substance use diagnosis besides cocaine dependence, and 13 patients were taking another psychiatric medication.
: Of the 16 patients, 13 (81%) were rated improved or much improved on the CGI scale, and all patients reported mild or no craving at the last assessment (after a mean of 32.6 days of risperidone treatment). No patient developed extrapyramidal symptoms or hypomania. Compared to a 32% historical completion rate for patients receiving treatment as usual, fourteen (88%) of these patients completed the program, and 9 moved on to the next level of care.
: The results of this naturalistic trial suggest that risperidone is safe and well tolerated in patients with cocaine dependence and comorbid psychiatric illness. In the short term, risperidone may also be effective in reducing cocaine craving and use and may increase the likelihood of completing substance abuse treatment.
Norisoboldine (NOR), the main active ingredient of the dry root of Lindera aggregata, was previously proven to have substantial therapeutic effects on collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice by oral administration. However, it exhibited a very poor bioavailability in normal rats. The pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamics disconnection attracts us to explore its anti-arthritic mechanism in more detail. In this study, NOR, administered orally, markedly attenuated the pathological changes in CIA rats, which was accompanied by the down-regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the up-regulation of anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Pharmacokinetic studies demonstrated that the plasma concentration of NOR was moderately elevated in CIA rats compared with normal rats, but it was still far lower than the minimal effective concentration required for inhibiting the proliferation and activation of T lymphocytes in vitro. Interestingly, NOR was shown to regulate the balance between Th17 and regulatory T (Treg) cells in the intestinal lymph nodes more strikingly than in other tissues. It could increase the expression of Foxp3 mRNA in both gut and joints, and markedly up-regulate the number of integrin α4β7 (a marker of gut source)-positive Foxp3(+) cells in the joints of CIA rats. These results suggest that the gut might be the primary action site of NOR, and NOR exerts anti-arthritis effect through regulating the balance between Th17 and Treg cells in intestinal lymph nodes and yielding a trafficking of lymphocytes (especially Treg cells) from the gut to joint. The findings of the present study also provide a plausible explanation for the anti-arthritic effects of poorly absorbed compounds like NOR.
Spontaneous hepatic decompensation was observed in 7 of 383 patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) who were receiving treatment with interferon and ribavirin. Multivariate analysis identified the following risk factors: didanosine use (odds ratio [OR], 8.8; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.2-102.3; P < .02), cirrhosis, (OR, 8.8; 95% CI, 1.2-104.2; P<.02), and elevated total bilirubin level (OR, 7.9; 95% CI, 1.08-93.3; P<.03). Didanosine should thus not be given to patients with cirrhosis, particularly when treatments for HCV and HIV infections have to be administered concomitantly.
It was reported that the Maillard product 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) initiates and promotes aberrant crypt foci (ACF) in rat colon. We studied whether 5-sulfooxymethylfurfural (SMF), an electrophilic and mutagenic metabolite of HMF, is able to induce ACF in two murine models.
In the first model, FVB/N mice received four intraperitoneal administrations of SMF (62.5 or 125 mg/kg) or azoxymethane (10 mg/kg). Animals were killed 4-40 weeks after the last treatment. A total of 1064 ACF and five adenocarcinomas were detected in the azoxymethane-treated groups (20 animals), but none in the negative control and SMF-treated groups (35 and 50 animals, respectively). In the second model, HMF was administered via drinking water to wild-type FVB/N mice and transgenic mice carrying several copies of human sulfotransferase (SULT) 1A1 and 1A2 genes. HMF SULT activity was clearly elevated in cytosolic fractions of colon mucosa, liver and kidney of transgenic animals compared to wild-type mice and humans. The animals (six per group) received 134 and 536 mg HMF/kg/day for 12 weeks. HMF did not induce any ACF either in wild-type or transgenic animals.
We found no evidence for an induction of ACF by HMF or its metabolite SMF in extensive studies in mice.
Gap junctions are vital for cellular integrity, including homeostasis, morphogenesis, differentiation and growth in normal development of organs such as heart. Connexin 43 (Cx43) is a major gap junction protein. Our cDNA microarray analysis of normal and nitrofen-exposed neonatal mice with hypoplastic lungs, associated congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) and heart developmental defects showed up-regulation of Cx43. Our objective was to establish if cardiopulmonary defects in nitrofen-exposed mice may be linked to altered expression of the Cx43 gene. We addressed our objective by performing northern blot analysis, real-time RT-PCR, immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry by localizing Cx43 in hearts and lungs of normal and nitrofen-exposed mice at different gestational stages. The data confirmed up-regulation of Cx43 expression in both hearts and lungs of CDH neonate mice and in lungs at other developmental stages except the pseudoglandular stage. However, Cx43 protein levels were either the same or less in hearts and lungs of nitrofen-exposed mice than in normal tissues except in pseudoglandular lungs. Different expressions of mRNA and protein suggest possible post-transcriptional or translational defects in Cx43. We observed dysmorphic hearts with exaggerated interventricular grooves and deep notches at the apex of the hearts in nitrofen-exposed fetal/neonatal mice; narrowed pulmonary out-flow and various degrees of craniofacial defects in 15-20% of the affected mice. Our data suggest a possible involvement of Cx43 in craniofacial, heart and lung defects in nitrofen-exposed mice. Such cardiopulmonary defects are also observed in human newborns with CDH. Thus, the murine data may help elucidate the pathways of cardiopulmonary defects in the human newborn condition.
Cats given HCP (20 mg/kg) orally each day developed hindlimb paralysis and greatly elevated CSFP (174 mm saline; 19 mm in controls) in 3 to 5 days. "Status spongiosis" was seen in white matter only in sections of brain and cord. There was no dilation of cerebral ventricles, or damage to their ependymal linings or to the arachnoid villi. The neurological picture excluded any but a terminal effect upon cranial nerve function. There appeared to be no damage to neurons, and recovery of survivors was complete within 6 weeks after cessation of HCP administration. Elevated CSFP in paralyzed anesthetized cats was quickly lowered by an average of 256 mm by slow iv administration of 30% urea (2 g/kg in 10% invert sugar). Unanesthetized cats similarly paralyzed were able to stand and walk for up to 4 hr after this treatment. Neither acetazolamide nor prednisolone alone had any effect, nor did coadministration with urea enhance the effect of urea. The HCP lesion does not appear to be inflammatory in origin, nor does it seem to involve ventricular obstruction or overproduction of cerebrospinal fluid. The reappearance of paralysis about 4 hr after osmotic diuresis, which corresponds with the elimination of urea, suggests that prolonged iv infusion with urea or a similar osmotically active substance may have significant clinical value in the management of HCP poisoning.
In one year 19 patients aged 73 SD 8 yr were referred with renal failure (plasma creatinine 0.14-0.52 mmol/l; urea 7.9-39.5 mmol/l; potassium 2.9-6.1 mmol/l, who were taking amiloride/hydrochlorothiazide (ten), amiloride alone (one) or triamterene/hydrochlorothiazide (eight). Six patients were taking other diuretics. Sixteen patients were being treated for hypertension and three for fluid retention; five hypertensive patients were also taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID). Four patients were hypokalaemic, three were volume-depleted. All potassium-sparing diuretics and NSAID were stopped (four required another diuretic). Six-100 days later renal function was improved in 17 patients, unchanged in one and one patient had died of uraemia. Blood pressure was satisfactory on no therapy in 11 patients and two normotensive patients were oedema-free. In elderly patients with renal impairment potassium-sparing diuretics may cause renal failure, sometimes secondary to hypovolaemia, and NSAID may potentiate the effect.
Amphetamine abuse is a common problem in the developed world. Cardiomyopathy secondary to amphetamine abuse is rare in the general population. The present report describes a 34-year-old man who presented with shortness of breath. Following further investigations, the cause of his breathlessness was determined to be amphetamine abuse. The incidence of amphetamine abuse and its cardiac sequelae are reviewed. The mechanism of amphetamine-induced dilated cardiomyopathy is analyzed, with further review of its complications and treatment.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is associated with risk factors for cardiovascular disease, particularly increased plasma triglyceride (TG) concentrations and insulin resistance. Fenofibrate and extended release nicotinic acid (Niaspan) are used to treat hypertriglyceridemia and can affect fatty acid oxidation and plasma free fatty acid concentrations, which influence intrahepatic triglyceride (IHTG) content and metabolic function.
The objective of the study was to determine the effects of fenofibrate and nicotinic acid therapy on IHTG content and cardiovascular risk factors. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN AND MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We conducted a randomized, controlled trial to determine the effects of fenofibrate (8 wk, 200 mg/d), Niaspan (16 wk, 2000 mg/d), or placebo (8 wk) on IHTG content, very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) kinetics, and insulin sensitivity.
Twenty-seven obese subjects with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (body mass index 36 +/- 1 kg/m(2), IHTG 23 +/- 2%) were studied at Washington University.
Neither fenofibrate nor Niaspan affected IHTG content, but both decreased plasma TG, VLDL-TG, and VLDL-apolipoprotein B concentrations (P < 0.05). Fenofibrate increased VLDL-TG clearance from plasma (33 to 54 ml/min; P < 0.05) but not VLDL-TG secretion. Niaspan decreased VLDL-TG secretion (27 to 15 micromol/min; P < 0.05) without affecting clearance. Both fenofibrate and Niaspan decreased VLDL-apolipoprotein B secretion (1.6 to 1.2 and 1.3 to 0.9 nmol/min, respectively; P < 0.05). Niaspan reduced hepatic, adipose tissue, and muscle insulin sensitivity (P < 0.05), whereas fenofibrate had no effect on insulin action.
Fenofibrate and Niaspan decrease plasma VLDL-TG concentration without altering IHTG content. However, the mechanism responsible for the change in VLDL-TG concentration is different for each drug; fenofibrate increases plasma VLDL-TG clearance, whereas nicotinic acid decreases VLDL-TG secretion.
We tested the hypothesis that interleukin 1 (IL-1) mediates intra-amniotic lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chorioamnionitis in preterm fetal sheep. Time-mated Merino ewes with singleton fetuses received IL-1α, LPS, or saline (control) by intra-amniotic injection 1 to 2 days before operative delivery at 124 ± 1 days gestational age (N = 5-9/group; term = 150 days). Recombinant human IL-1 receptor antagonist (rhIL-1ra) was given into the amniotic fluid 3 hours before intra-amniotic LPS or saline to block IL-1 signaling. Inflammation in the chorioamnion was determined by histology, cytokine messenger RNA (mRNA), protein expression, and by quantitation of activated inflammatory cells. Intra-amniotic IL-1 and LPS both induced chorioamnionitis. However, IL-1 blockade with IL-1ra did not decrease intra-amniotic LPS-induced increases in pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNAs, numbers of inflammatory cells, myeloperoxidase, or monocyte chemotactic protein-1-expressing cells in the chorioamnion. We conclude that IL-1 and LPS both can cause chorioamnionitis, but IL-1 is not an important mediator of LPS-induced chorioamnionitis in fetal sheep.
The acute effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure have been well documented in many vertebrate species. However, less is known about the consequences in adulthood from sublethal exposure during development. To address this, we exposed zebrafish to sublethal levels of TCDD (1h; 50 pg/ml), either in early embryogenesis (day 0) or during sexual determination (3 and 7 weeks), and assessed the effects later in adulthood. We found that exposure during embryogenesis produced few effects on the adults themselves but did affect the offspring of these fish: Malformations and increased mortality were observed in the subsequent generation. Zebrafish exposed during sexual development showed defects in the cranial and axial skeleton as adults. This was most clearly manifested as scoliosis caused by malformation of individual vertebrae. These fish also showed defects in reproduction, producing fewer eggs with lower fertilization success. Both males and females were affected, with males contributing to the decrease in egg release from the females and exposed females contributing to fertilization failure. TCDD exposure at 3 and 7 weeks produced feminization of the population. Surprisingly, part of this was due to the appearance of fish with clearly female bodies, yet carrying testes in place of ovaries. Our results show that exposures that produce little if any impact during development can cause severe consequences during adulthood and present a model for studying this process.
Vancomycin-resistant enterococci have recently emerged as significant nosocomial pathogens. Here we describe two Japanese patients, a 57-year-old man and a 12-year-old boy, with ventriculoperitoneal shunts for hydrocephalus who developed meningitis caused by vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus gallinarum. The infection of the central nervous system in these two patients may have been associated with E. gallinarum derived from the gut. Removal of the shunts and antimicrobial treatment promoted apparent improvement in these patients. The risk factors and management of vancomycin-resistant enterococcal infections in the central nervous system are discussed.
The genotoxic potential of azidothymidine (Zidovudine, AZT), chosen as a model compound for nucleotide analogs, was comprehensively assessed in vivo for gene mutation, clastogenicity, and DNA breakage endpoints. Male Wistar rats were treated by oral gavage over 7 days with AZT at dose levels of 2×0 (control), 2×250, 2×500, and 2×1000mg/kg/day with a final single dose given on day 8. DNA damage was then evaluated with the comet assay in liver, stomach, and peripheral blood and with the micronucleus test in bone marrow and peripheral blood (by flow cytometry) in the same animals. After a treatment-free period of upto 42 days, the Pig-a gene mutation assay was performed in peripheral blood of the high-dose animals. In the comet assay as well as the micronucleus test, AZT caused a considerable dose-dependent increase in DNA damage in all tissues evaluated and was highly cytotoxic to bone marrow and peripheral blood cells. These data are well in line with published results. Surprisingly, AZT did not significantly increase the number of Pig-a mutant cells. We speculate that two factors likely contributed to this negative result: a predominance of large deletions caused by AZT, and the relatively low statistical power of the first-generation scoring method used for this study.
An adult male who twice presented with a sudden haemolytic anaemia and disseminated intravascular coagulation of uncertain aetiology is described. A possible causative agent common to both episodes is the breakdown product of pyrimethamine (Daraprim) and chlorguanide (Paludring). A very similar case has been attributed to penicillin sensitivety. The usefulness of high dosage heparin in the treatment of the subacute form of disseminated intravascualr coagulation is illustrated in the first admission.
