To determine the efficacy and toxicity of the World Health Organization's (WHO) recommended treatment for mucosal leishmaniasis: antimony, 20 mg/kg body weight per day for 28 days.
Open trial with 12-month follow-up.
Inpatient unit of a regional referral hospital in a developing country.
Twenty-nine consecutive eligible patients with culture-confirmed infection of the mucosa with Leishmania species who were otherwise healthy. Eight patients (28%) had mild to moderate disease (confined to the nasal mucosa). Twenty-one patients (72%) had severe disease (including the oropharynx as well as the nasal mucosa).
Antimony, 20 mg/kg body weight intravenously every day for 28 days. Patients received antimony in the form of sodium stibogluconate.
Initial results of therapy were as follows: 63 of 72 lesions (88%) healed or markedly improved; all lesions were culture-negative for parasites; and 18 of 29 patients (62%) showed complete clinical and parasitologic cure of all lesions. By the 12-month follow-up examinations, however, 37 lesions had recurred, 8 new lesions had appeared, and only 8 patients (30%) showed clinical cure of all lesions. Of the 8 patients with mild to moderate disease, 6 were cured compared with only 2 of the 21 patients with severe disease. Side effects of this treatment regimen included T-wave inversion on electrocardiogram (4 patients), abnormal liver function tests (10 patients), and musculoskeletal pain (24 patients). No side effects occurred during week 1 of therapy.
The only recommended treatment for mucosal leishmaniasis is ineffective in patients with severe disease. The acceptable toxicity of the regimen suggests that longer courses of therapy with antimony, or that trials with other antileishmanial agents alone or combined with antimony be evaluated as initial therapy for this disease.
Fetal lung hypoplasia is a common finding in several fetal conditions such as congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). Interestingly, previous studies have demonstrated that hypoplastic lungs have the ability to recover to normal size, when relieved from mechanical factors. However, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Recently, interleukin-6 (IL-6) has been involved in catch-up growth phenomenon in children. Thus, we hypothesized that IL-6 could mediate fetal growth recover from hypoplastic lungs. Control and nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung explants were cultured either in normal conditions or with IL-6 neutralizing antibodies. The total number of peripheral airway buds, epithelial perimeter, and total explant area were analyzed and daily branching rates were calculated. Additionally, IL-6 mRNA and protein expression was assessed both in qualitative (by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry) and in quantitative (by real-time PCR and Western blot) approaches, in control and hypoplastic lungs (nitrofen and CDH groups). Nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs showed in vitro, out of systemic environment, the ability to recover from hypoplasia and presented daily branching rates significantly higher than controls. Blocking IL-6 activity significantly diminished the intrinsic capacity of hypoplastic fetal lungs to recover from hypoplasia and attenuated their daily branching rates. Although more exacerbated in CDH, both nitrofen-exposed lungs presented significant IL-6 mRNA and protein over-expression throughout all studied gestational ages. The present study suggests, for the first time, that fetal lung is able to recover from growth retardation through a way that resembles the catch-up growth phenomenon, and it seems to be, at least partially, orchestrated by intrinsic mechanisms implicating IL-6.
Accumulating evidence suggests that oxidative stress plays a role in the mechanisms of action of methamphetamine (METH) in the brain. In the present study, we investigated the association between the genetic polymorphisms among glutathione (GSH)-related enzymes; glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) such as GSTT1 (Non-deletion/Null), GSTT2 (Met139Ile), GSTA1 (-69C/T), and GSTO1 (Ala140Asp); glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPX1) (Pro198Leu); and glutamate-cysteine ligase modifier (GCLM) subunit and METH use disorder in a Japanese population. Two hundred eighteen METH abusers and 233 healthy controls were enrolled in the study. There was a significant difference in GSTT1 genotype frequency between patients with METH psychosis and controls (P = 0.039, odds ratio: 1.52, 95% CI 1.03-2.24). Furthermore, the frequency (66.0%) of the GSTT1 null genotype among prolonged-type METH psychotic patients with spontaneous relapse was significantly higher (P = 0.025, odds ratio: 2.43, 95% CI 1.13-5.23) than that (44.4%) of transient-type METH psychotic patients without spontaneous relapse. However, there were no associations between the polymorphisms of other genes and METH abuse. The present study suggests that the polymorphism of the GSTT1 gene might be a genetic risk factor of the development of METH psychosis in a Japanese population.
Limited duration of analgesia is among the limitations of single caudal injection with local anesthetics. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of bupivacaine in combination with either neostigmine or tramadol for caudal block in children undergoing inguinal herniorrhaphy.
In a double-blinded randomized trial, sixty children undergoing inguinal herniorrhaphy were enrolled to receive a caudal block with either 0.25% bupivacaine (1 ml x kg(-1)) with neostigmine (2 microg x kg(-1)) (group BN) or tramadol (1 mg x kg(-1)) (group BT). Hemodynamic variables, pain and sedation scores, additional analgesic requirements, and side effects were compared between two groups.
Duration of analgesia was longer in group BT (17.30 +/- 8.24 h) compared with group BN (13.98 +/- 10.03 h) (P = 0.03). Total consumption of rescue analgesic was significantly lower in group BT compared with group BN (P = 0.04). There were no significant differences in heart rate, mean arterial pressure, and oxygen saturation between groups. Adverse effects excluding the vomiting were not observed in any patients.
In conclusion, tramadol (1 mg x kg(-1)) compared with neostigmine (2 microg x kg(-1)) might provide both prolonged duration of analgesia and extended time to first analgesic in caudal block.
The goal of this study was to compare the efficacy and side effects of two doses of haloperidol and placebo in the treatment of psychosis and disruptive behaviors in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
In a 6-week random-assignment, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (phase A), haloperidol, 2-3 mg/day (standard dose), and haloperidol, 0.50-0.75 mg/day (low dose), were compared in 71 outpatients with Alzheimer's disease. For the subsequent 6-week double-blind crossover phase (phase B), patients taking standard- or low-dose haloperidol were switched to placebo, and patients taking placebo were randomly assigned to standard- or low-dose haloperidol.
For the 60 patients who completed phase A, standard-dose haloperidol was efficacious and superior to both low-dose haloperidol and placebo for scores on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale psychosis factor and on psychomotor agitation. Response rates according to three sets of criteria were greater with the standard dose (55%-60%) than the low dose (25%-35%) and placebo (25%-30%). The advantage of standard dose over low dose was replicated in phase B. In phase A, extrapyramidal signs tended to be greater with the standard dose than in the other two conditions, primarily because of a subgroup (20%) who developed moderate to severe signs. Low-dose haloperidol did not differ from placebo on any measure of efficacy or side effects.
The results indicated a favorable therapeutic profile for haloperidol in doses of 2-3 mg/day, although a subgroup developed moderate to severe extrapyramidal signs. A starting dose of 1 mg/day with gradual, upward dose titration is recommended. The narrow therapeutic window observed with haloperidol may also apply to other neuroleptics used in Alzheimer's disease patients with psychosis and disruptive behaviors.
Over the past decade, research on the genetic variants underlying susceptibility to autism and autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) has focused on linkage and candidate gene studies. This research has implicated various chromosomal loci and genes. Candidate gene studies have proven to be particularly intractable, with many studies failing to replicate previously reported associations. In this paper, we investigate previously implicated genomic regions for a role in ASD susceptibility, using four cohorts of European ancestry. Initially, a 384 SNP Illumina GoldenGate array was used to examine linkage at six previously implicated loci. We identify linkage approaching genome-wide suggestive levels on chromosome 2 (rs2885116, MLOD=1.89). Association analysis showed significant associations in MKL2 with ASD (rs756472, P=4.31 x 10(-5)) and between SND1 and strict autism (rs1881084, P=7.76 x 10(-5)) in the Finnish and Northern Dutch populations, respectively. Subsequently, we used a second 384 SNP Illumina GoldenGate array to examine the association in seven candidate genes, and evidence for association was found in RELN (rs362780, P=0.00165). Further increasing the sample size strengthened the association with RELN (rs362780, P=0.001) and produced a second significant result in GRIK2 (rs2518261, P=0.008). Our results strengthen the case for a more detailed study of the role of RELN and GRIK2 in autism susceptibility, as well as identifying two new potential candidate genes, MKL2 and SND1.
By early February 2006, the World Health Organization had reported 165 human cases of H5N1 influenza since December 2003, with 88 fatalities. However, the avian H5N1 influenza virus apparently is not yet efficiently transmitted between humans. Though a near-term possibility of a global H5N1 influenza pandemic remains, currently there is no vaccine or anti-viral drug that is proven to be safe and effective in preventing or treating H5N1 influenza in humans. There is thus a compelling public interest in developing alternative prophylaxis and treatment strategies for H5N1 influenza, which would need to address the complex pathogenesis of H5N1 influenza that is responsible for its apparently unusually high virulence. The authors present here a significant body of medical and scientific evidence to support the prophylactic use of a carefully designed nutritional supplement formulation that may antagonize the major pathogenic processes of H5N1 influenza in humans. Through several independently-mediated mechanisms, the formulations may: (a) degrade H5N1 virulence by directly affecting the virus itself, (b) inhibit H5N1 viral replication by maintaining cellular redox equilibrium in host cells, (c) inhibit H5N1 replication by a blockade of the nuclear-cytoplasmic translocation of the viral ribonucleoproteins and reduced expression of late viral proteins related to the inhibition of protein kinase C activity and its dependent pathways, (d) down-regulate activation and proliferation of proinflammatory cytokines in respiratory epithelial cells and macrophages that are implicated in the pathogenesis of H5N1 influenza, and (e) protect the lungs and other vital organs from virus- and cytokine-induced oxidative stress by supplying and maintaining sufficient levels of exogenous and endogenous antioxidants. Key mediators in these processes include selenium, vitamin E, NAC/glutathione, resveratrol, and quercetin. Taken prophylactically, and throughout the duration and recovery of an H5N1 infection, the nutritional supplement formula may aid humans infected with H5N1 influenza to survive with a reduced likelihood of major complications, and may provide a relatively low-cost strategy for individuals as well as government, public-health, medical, health-insurance, and corporate organizations to prepare more prudently for an H5N1 pandemic. Some evidence also indicates that the supplement formulation may be effective as an adjunctive to H5N1 vaccine and anti-viral treatments, and should be tested as such.
We report a woman with atrial septal defect and severe pulmonary hypertension with 25.0 Wood unit.m(2) of indexed total pulmonary vascular resistance. She underwent successful corrective repair of atrial septal defect after 2 years of treatment with sildenafil, and has been monitored for 4 years after repair. This case supports a "treat and repair" approach using advanced pulmonary vasodilator therapy in selected patients with inoperable severe pulmonary hypertension associated with atrial septal defect.
To explore associations with prostate cancer and farming, it is important to investigate the relationship between pesticide use and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in xenobiotic metabolic enzyme (XME) genes.
[corrected] We evaluated pesticide-SNP interactions between 45 pesticides and 1913 XME SNPs with respect to prostrate cancer among 776 cases and 1444 controls in the Agricultural Health Study.
We used unconditional logistic regression to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Multiplicative SNP-pesticide interactions were calculated using a likelihood ratio test.
A positive monotonic interaction was observed between petroleum oil/petroleum distillate use and rs1883633 in the oxidative stress gene glutamate cysteine ligase (GCLC; P interaction=1.0×10(-4)); men carrying at least one variant allele (minor allele) experienced an increased prostate cancer risk (OR=3.7, 95% CI: 1.9-7.3). Among men carrying the variant allele for thioredoxin reductase 2 (TXNRD2) rs4485648, microsomal epoxide hydrolase 1 (EPHX1) rs17309872, or myeloperoxidase (MPO) rs11079344, an increased prostate cancer risk was observed with high, compared with no, petroleum oil/petroleum distillate (OR=1.9, 95% CI: 1.1-3.2, P interaction=0.01; OR=2.1, 95% CI: 1.1-4.0, P interaction=0.01), or terbufos (OR=3.0, 95% CI: 1.5-6.0, P interaction=2.0×10(-3)) use, respectively. No interactions were deemed noteworthy at the false discovery rate=0.20 level; the number of observed interactions in XMEs was comparable with the number expected by chance alone.
We observed several pesticide-SNP interactions in oxidative stress and phase I/II enzyme genes and risk of prostate cancer. Additional work is needed to explain the joint contribution of genetic variation in XMEs, pesticide use, and prostate cancer risk.
This report describes three children, aged eight to 11 years, with high-flow cerebral arteriovenous malformations who underwent interventional neuroradiological procedures involving glue (N-butyl cyanoacrylate) embolisation under general anaesthesia. The procedure was facilitated by relative hypotension induced by esmolol infusion and intravenous adenosine boluses. To allow controlled deposition of N-butyl cyanoacrylate into the arteriovenous malformations, glue injection was synchronised with the onset of adenosine-induced brief cardiac standstill. This resulted in satisfactory obliteration of the arteriovenous malformations nidus in all cases. The haemodynamic modulations, including the adenosine-induced brief cardiac standstill, was noted to not affect the BIS values in our patients. All patients had satisfactory obliteration of their arteriovenous malformations and had good neurological outcomes at one-year follow-up.
To investigate the effects on the newborn infant of maternal magnesium therapy for treatment of pre-eclampsia, we studied 36 hypermagnesemic infants born to pre-eclamptic mothers treated with MgSO4, 18 neonates born to untreated pre-eclamptic mothers, and 25 infants born to normal mothers. Impairment of neuromuscular transmission, as well as neurobehavioral differences when compared to controls, were found in hypermagnesemic infants. Awareness of the changes produced in the neonate by magnesium is important for accurate clinical assessment of the infant's condition, as well as for anticipating the postnatal interaction of magnesium with other drugs administered during labor and delivery.
An experiment was designed to investigate the effects of arteriovenous (AV) fistula occlusion on cerebral autoregulation. A right carotid-jugular fistula was created in 63 rats in such a way as to produce an intracranial AV fistula with a loop extension into the neck. The fistula was occluded after an 8-week interval with the rats under both normotension and metaraminol-induced hypertension, and evidence of blood-brain barrier disruption was investigated with an Evans blue dye technique. The results indicate that an intracranial AV fistula may cause cerebral steal which is responsible for a reduction in the threshold for hypertensive breakthrough following fistula occlusion.
These studies examined changes in the expression of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) in micturition reflex pathways after chronic cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide (CYP). In control Wistar rats, PACAP immunoreactivity was expressed in fibers in the superficial dorsal horn at all segmental levels examined (L1, L2, and L4-S1). Bladder afferent cells (40-45%) in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG; L1, L2, L6, and S1) from control animals also exhibited PACAP immunoreactivity. After chronic, CYP-induced cystitis, PACAP immunoreactivity increased dramatically in spinal segments and DRG (L1, L2, L6, and S1) involved in micturition reflexes. The density of PACAP immunoreactivity was increased in the superficial laminae (I-II) of the L1, L2, L6, and S1 spinal segments. No changes in PACAP immunoreactivity were observed in the L4-L5 segments. Staining also increased dramatically in a fiber bundle extending ventrally from Lissauer's tract in lamina I along the lateral edge of the dorsal horn to the sacral parasympathetic nucleus in the L6-S1 spinal segments (lateral collateral pathway of Lissauer). After chronic cystitis, PACAP immunoreactivity in cells in the L1, L2, L6, and S1 DRG increased significantly (P </= 0.0001), and the percentage of bladder afferent cells expressing PACAP immunoreactivity also increased significantly (P </= 0.0001; 70-85%). No changes were observed in the L3-L5 DRG. These studies suggest that the neuropeptide, PACAP, may play a role in urinary bladder afferent pathways after visceral (urinary bladder) inflammation. Changes in PACAP expression after cystitis may play a role in altered visceral sensation (allodynia) and/or urinary bladder hyperreflexia in the clinical syndrome, interstitial cystitis.
Mechanisms determining the benefit of beta blockade in patients with heart failure remain incompletely understood but are assumed consequent to prevention of deleterious effects of catecholamines. Recent studies have demonstrated that oxidative stress in congestive heart failure may be related to increased catecholamine levels. The aim of this study was to examine effects of long-term treatment with propranolol on progression of left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, remodeling and oxidative stress on an experimental model of chronic heart failure. Six weeks after myocardial infarction by coronary ligation, Wistar rats were randomized to two groups: 10 weeks of therapy with propranolol (50 mg/kg/day in drinking water) and no treatment (infarcted controls). A third group was sham-operated rats without treatment. Animals were anesthetized for hemodynamic measurements, and hearts were then removed for histologic analysis, papillary muscle contractility study, and oxidative stress measurements using thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) determination. Control infarcted rats demonstrated significant alterations of hemodynamic parameters and remodeling with increase of heart weight/body weight, of right ventricular lateral wall thickness, of LV circumference, LV septal area/body weight, and LV papillary muscle weight/body weight as compared with sham. In propranolol-treated rats, hypertrophy of the LV septum, papillary muscle, and right ventricle were similar to those of the infarcted control. Myocardial oxidative stress was significantly increased in control infarcted rats compared with sham, and propranolol prevented such oxidative stress increase. Papillary muscle isometric tension parameters were not significantly different among groups. Propranolol treatment prevented isoprenaline-induced spontaneous papillary muscle activity in vitro. Oxidative stress is increased in the rat model of heart failure secondary to coronary ligation. Long-term treatment with propranolol in vivo does not modify the compensatory process of hypertrophy but completely abolishes the oxidative stress increase and reduces the increased cardiac sensitivity to catecholamine-induced arrhythmias observed in this experimental model of heart failure.
To review the cardiovascular adverse drug reactions (ADRs) with memantine reported to the French PharmacoVigilance Database.
We reviewed all the observations of cardiovascular ADRs with memantine reported to the French PharmacoVigilance Database up to May 2007. We recorded the characteristics of patients (age, sex and underlying disease) and of ADRs (nature, seriousness, delay in occurrence, evolution, imputability).
After exclusion of 16 cases, the cardiac origin of which was not clearly assessed, 36 cardiac ADRs with memantine were recorded between its commercialisation in France (July 2003) and May 2007. These ADRs consisted of 18 reports of bradycardia and 18 reports of various cardiovascular ADRs (orthostatic hypotension with fall[6] electrocardiogram perturbations[4] fainting[2] malaise with arterial hypotension[2] arterial hypotension and acute renal failure[1] fatal heart failure[1] sudden death[2]). Among the 18 reports of bradycardia, 7 cases occurred with memantine as the sole suspected drug and all but one resolved after memantine's discontinuation.
Cardiovascular properties of memantine seem to be complex and remain quite unclear. Despite its drawbacks and its descriptive design, our study suggests that memantine could determine some cardiac ADRs, especially bradycardia; the mechanism of which remains unexplained.
Two different experiments on rats were carried out: an acute intoxication causing clinical symptoms and a subchronical intoxication without any symptoms. After the acute experiment an increase of hemoglobin- and hematocrite values as well as of the mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration was found. These differences are interpreted to be an increased erythropoiesis after hypoxia. Following the subchronical experiment the parameters mentioned above had decreased. These results linked up to anisocytosis, poikilocytosis and/or polychromasia in 30% of the treated animals and allow to assume a disorder of erythropoiesis. The results require to take in consideration a prophylactic hematological survey of long-term exposed people.
Brain connections depend on a stable association between dendrites and axons whose cytoskeleton is stabilized by the proteins MAP-2 and tau, respectively. The glial protein S-100beta inhibits the phosphorylation by PKC of these two microtubule-associated proteins. In order to determine if exogenous S-100beta can directly influence the cytoskeleton of living cells, cultures of N-18 cells (neuroblastoma clonal cell line) are treated for 30 min in serum-free medium with 10(-6) M colchicine. In normal media, colchicine induces a rapid retraction of processes, membrane blebbing, nuclear collapse, and cell death. The observed cellular changes, due to cytoskeletal collapse after exposure to colchicine, are similar and consistent with the loss of processes and cytoplasmic blebbing seen in cells undergoing apoptosis. The addition of 20 ng/ml of S-100beta after the initial 30-min exposure to colchicine prevents apoptosis, nuclear collapse and induces the regrowth of retracted processes. Cells were treated with the Hoechst Stain, a fluorescent marker that binds to nuclear material, to determine the occurrence of apoptosis in our cultures. In our control cultures, receiving no drugs, we found that 15.1% of the cells were apoptotic. When colchicine was added to the culture medium we found that 31.6% of the cells became apoptotic. However, when colchicine was followed by exposure to S-100beta we found that only 5.4% of the cells were apoptotic. Our results suggest that extracellular application of the glial protein S-100beta is sufficient to reverse colchicine-induced cytoskeletal collapse and prevent the resultant apoptosis of the cells. The increased levels of S-100beta seen after brain injury and in certain neurological and psychiatric disorders may be considered as beneficial for brain recovery.
The objective was to characterize cross-bridge kinetics from the cytoplasmic calcium ion concentration ([Ca2+](i)) and the left ventricular pressure (LVP) in the early-stage diabetic rat heart under baseline conditions and upon beta-adrenergic stimulation.
Four weeks after the induction of diabetes in rats by the injection of streptozotocin, the hearts were perfused according to Langendorff, and [Ca2+](i) was obtained by epifluorescence measurements using Indo-1 AM. [Ca2+](i) and LVP were measured simultaneously at a temporal resolution of 200 Hz. The input/output relationship between the Ca2+ and the pressure transients was described by a mathematical model representing the chemical binding of Ca2+ to troponin C on the actin myofilament (TnCA), and the subsequent cooperative force-producing cross-bridge formation of the Ca2+-TnCA complex with myosin. The kinetic parameters of this model were evaluated using a numerical optimization algorithm to fit the model equations to the experimental data. beta-adrenergic stimulation of the hearts with increasing doses of isoproterenol allowed quantification of the model parameters over an extended dynamic range, because isoproterenol administration increased developed pressure, heart rate, as well as [Ca2+](i) amplitude in a dose-dependent manner.
Model analysis of the experimental data indicates that beta-adrenergic stimulation of healthy hearts resulted in a decreased sensitivity of TnCA for Ca2+, increased rates of cross-bridge cycling and decreased cooperativity. By contrast, the responses in cross-bridge kinetic parameters to isoproterenol stimulation were blunted in the 4-week diabetic heart.
We conclude from our modelling results that myocardial cross-bridge cycling is impaired at the early stage of diabetes.
Several cardiovascular diseases (CVD) observed in adulthood have been associated with environmental influences during fetal growth. Here, we show that maternal exposure to cadmium, a ubiquitously distributed heavy metal and main component of cigarette smoke is able to induce cardiovascular morpho-functional changes in the offspring at adult age. Heart morphology and vascular reactivity were evaluated in the adult offspring of rats exposed to 30ppm of cadmium during pregnancy. Echocardiographic examination shows altered heart morphology characterized by a concentric left ventricular hypertrophy. Also, we observed a reduced endothelium-dependent reactivity in isolated aortic rings of adult offspring, while endothelium-independent reactivity remained unaltered. These effects were associated with an increase of hem-oxygenase 1 (HO-1) expression in the aortas of adult offspring. The expression of HO-1 was higher in females than males, a finding likely related to the sex-dependent expression of the vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1), which was lower in the adult female. All these long-term consequences were observed along with normal birth weights and absence of detectable levels of cadmium in fetal and adult tissues of the offspring. In placental tissues however, cadmium levels were detected and correlated with increased NF-κB expression--a transcription factor sensitive to inflammation and oxidative stress--suggesting a placentary mechanism that affect genes related to the development of the cardiovascular system. Our results provide, for the first time, direct experimental evidence supporting that exposure to cadmium during pregnancy reprograms cardiovascular development of the offspring which in turn may conduce to a long term increased risk of CVD.
Neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) suffer from a diaphragmatic defect, lung hypoplasia, and pulmonary hypertension, with poor lung function forming the major clinical challenge. Despite prenatal diagnosis and advanced postnatal treatment strategies, the mortality rate of CDH is still high. CDH has been subject of extensive research over the past decades, but its etiology remains unknown. A major problem with CDH is the failure to predict the individual response to treatment modalities like high-frequency ventilation, inhaled nitric oxide, and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. In this study, we tested the possibility that CDH lungs are surfactant protein deficient, which could explain the respiratory failure and difficulties in treating CDH infants. We investigated this hypothesis in the nitrofen-induced CDH rat model and assessed the cellular concentrations of surfactant protein (SP)-A, -B, and -C mRNA with a quantitative radioactive in situ hybridization technique. No differences were observed between control and CDH lungs for SP mRNA expression patterns. The cellular concentration (mean OD) of SP-A and SP-B mRNA was similar at all stages whereas the mean OD of SP-C mRNA and the volume fraction of cells (% Area) expressing SP mRNA was higher in CDH lungs at term. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed no differences between control and CDH lungs for SP protein expression. No differences in the mean OD or % Area for the SP mRNAs were found between the ipsi- and contralateral side of CDH lungs. We conclude that there is no primary deficiency of surfactant proteins in the nitrofen-induced CDH rat model.
Altered pulmonary vascular resistance might be a factor for delayed closure of the ductus arteriosus (DA) in preterm infants. Angiotensin II plays a central role in the elevation of pulmonary vascular resistance. Angiotensin II exerts its vasoconstrictor effect on the angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R). Homozygous carriers of the AT1R A1166C genetic variant present an exaggerated vasoconstrictor response to angiotensin II. We have investigated whether the presence of AT1R CC1166 influences the effect of prophylactic indomethacin treatment on the closure of DA until the fifth postnatal day in preterm infants. In this retrospective study detailed medical history of the first postnatal week was obtained in 159 infants born before the 33rd gestational week. All were treated by prophylactic indomethacin to induce permanent closure of the DA. On the sixth postnatal day the DA was still open in 56, whereas it was permanently closed in 103. The AT1R A1166C genotype of the infants was determined from Guthrie spots. Stepwise binary logistic regression analysis was used to assess the effect of medical conditions and genotype on the risk of patent DA (PDA). Birth weight, infantile respiratory distress, and severe hypotension were independent risk factors for PDA (p < 0.01, p < 0.05, p < 0.05, respectively). The carrier state of AT1R CC1166 was protective against PDA (p < 0.05; odds ratio, 0.067). AT1R AC1166 genotype was not associated with PDA. Our results indicate that the risk of PDA might be lower in infants of AT1R CC1166 than in those with AC or AA genotypes.
Hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD) is a potent nephrotoxin in rodents that can cause degeneration, necrosis and regeneration in renal tubular epithelial cells. Its toxicity is due to its conjugation by glutathione (GSH) to form glutathione S-conjugate, by the enzyme glutathione S-transferase and finally to the related cysteine-conjugate. This metabolite is then actively taken up by kidney and cleared in the renal tubular epithelial cells, rich in beta-lyase, to a reactive thiol derivative that covalently binds to the macromolecules. In this study, different groups of 28-day male Wistar albino (W/A) rats were dosed daily with 25 mg/kg HCBD for 2, 3, 4 and 7 days; control group dosed with corn oil. Data showed that in the 2- and 3-day treated groups there was substantial necrosis to the straight portion of the proximal tubules (pars recta or S3 segment), rich in glutamine transaminase K (GTK/beta-lyase). In the 4-day treated group, the renal proximal tubules had regenerated and showed a basophilic appearance. In animals treated for 7 days, it was observed that the kidney appeared to have returned to normal and had become resistant to further doses of HCBD. To define the time for the kidney to regain susceptibility to HCBD, 18- and 25-day studies with both low (25 mg/kg) and high (100 mg/kg) doses of HCBD (following two initial doses of 25 mg/kg) were performed. In the 18-day study, histopathological examination of the kidneys in animals of this group and also animals in the 25-day study, which received two further doses of HCBD, showed that the severity of kidney damage is much less than in the 2-day treated animals, a clear indication that the tubular cells were still resistant to the low dose of HCBD. Concentration of blood urea nitrogen, as a marker of kidney damage, in these two groups also confirmed the results. In animals re-exposed to the high dose of HCBD, data showed that the susceptibility to HCBD was starting to return.
Cocaine is a risk factor for both ischemic and haemorrhagic stroke. We present the case of a 31-year-old man with bilateral ischemia of the globus pallidus after excessive alcohol and intranasal cocaine use. Drug-related globus pallidus infarctions are most often associated with heroin. Bilateral basal ganglia infarcts after the use of cocaine, without concurrent heroin use, have never been reported. In our patient, transient cardiac arrhythmia or respiratory dysfunction related to cocaine and/or ethanol use were the most likely causes of cerebral hypoperfusion.
The safety and efficacy of immunotherapy with histamine dihydrochloride (HDC), interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon-alpha2b (IFN) compared with dacarbazine (DTIC) in adult patients with stage IV melanoma was evaluated.
Two hundred and forty-one patients were randomized to either receive repeated 4-week cycles of IFN [3 MIU, s.c., once daily for 7 days], IL-2 (2.4 MIU/m(2), s.c., twice a day for 5 days) and HDC (1 mg, s.c., twice a day for 5 days) or DTIC 850 mg/m(2) i.v. every 3 weeks. The primary endpoint was overall survival.
Median survival was longer for patients receiving HDC/IL-2/IFN (271 days) than for patients receiving DTIC (231 days), but this did not achieve statistical significance. Four patients receiving HDC/IL-2/IFN and nine receiving DTIC experienced at least one grade 4 adverse event. Striking differences in overall survival were observed between countries participating in the study.
Treatment with HDC/IL-2/IFN was safely administered on an outpatient basis, but this immunotherapeutic regimen did not improve upon the response rate and overall survival seen with DTIC.
