We analyzed with EEG-video monitoring the epileptic activity recorded during the latent and chronic periods in rats undergoing 30 or 120 min pilocarpine-induced convulsive status epilepticus (SE). Interictal discharges frequency in the entorhinal cortex (EC) of animals exposed to 120 min SE was significantly higher in the chronic than in the latent period. Following seizure appearance, interictal spikes diminished in duration in the CA3 of the 120 min SE group, and occurred at higher rates in the amygdala in all animals. Rats exposed to 120 min SE generated shorter seizures but presented twice as many non-convulsive seizures per day as the 30 min group. Finally, seizures most frequently initiated in CA3 in the 120 min SE group but had similar onset in CA3 and EC in the 30 min group. These findings indicate that convulsive SE duration influences the development of interictal and ictal activity, and that interictal discharges undergo structure-specific changes after seizure appearance.
Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor showing strong antitumor activity against many tumors, primarily multiple myeloma. Bortezomib-induced neuropathic pain is the main side effect and the dose-limiting factor of the drug in clinical practice. In order to obtain a pre-clinical model to reproduce the characteristic pain symptoms in bortezomib-treated patients, we developed an animal model of bortezomib-induced nociceptive sensory neuropathy. In this study, bortezomib (0.15 or 0.20mg/kg) was administered to Wistar rats three times/week for 8 weeks, followed by a 4 week follow-up period. At the end of the treatment period a significant decrease in weight gain was observed in the treated groups vs. controls, and hematological and histopathological parameters were evaluated. After the treatment period, both doses of bortezomib induced a severe reduction in nerve conduction velocity and demonstrated a dose-cumulative effect of the drug. The sensory behavioral assessment showed the onset of mechanical allodynia, while no effect on thermal perception was observed. Sciatic nerves and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) were collected at the end of the 8-week treatment and at the end of the follow-up period. The pathological examination revealed a dose-dependent axonopathy of the unmyelinated fibers in nerves of treated animals. No pathological alteration in most of DRG satellite cells and neurons was observed. Therefore, this animal model may be useful for studying the neurotoxicity and pain onset mechanisms related to bortezomib treatment.
Renal failure is a frequent event after cardiopulmonary by-pass. Hemodynamic alterations that occur during surgery, as well as factors depending on the host, are the main risk factors for renal dysfunction. To evaluate the frequency and risk factors for renal dysfunction in this setting, a cohort of fifty patients with preoperative serum creatinine under 1.5 mg/dL, submitted to cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary by-pass was analyzed. Variables related to preoperative patient condition, intraoperative and postoperative periods were recorded. Renal function was assessed by clearances of creatinine, urea and free water, also by fractional excretion of sodium (FENa), at baseline, at anesthetic induction and during postoperative period. Patients were arbitrarily divided in two groups, according to the serum creatinine (S(Cr)) value at the end of the postoperative period: Group 1: S(Cr) < 2 mg/dL (n = 44 patients (88.5%)) and Group II: S(Cr) > 2 mg/dL (n = 6 patients (11.5%)). A decrease of renal function was observed in all patients: creatinemia raised from 1.04 +/- 0.2 to 1.55 +/- 0.4 mg/dL (33%), associated with a rise in FENa. Differences between group I and group II using univariate analysis were: baseline serum creatinine (1.01 +/- 0.23 mg/dL vs. 1.26 +/- 0.19 mg/dL, p = 0.03), FENa (0.99 +/- 0.8 vs. 2.2 +/- 2.1, p = 0.04), furosemide dose during surgery normalized to body surface area (93.2 +/- 23 mg/1.73 m2 BSA vs. 135 +/- 38 mg/1.73 m2 BSA, p < 0.001), and hemodilution index (17.3 +/- 4.3% vs. 22.8 +/- 3.2%, p < 0.01). In the multiple regression model, baseline creatinemia and furosemide dose were associated to renal dysfunction.
Dissociated learning of rats in the normal state and the state of amnesia produced by pentobarbital (15 mg/kg, ip) was carried out. Rats were trained to approach a shelf where they received food reinforcement. In Group 1 the rats were trained under the influence of pentobarbital to run to the same shelf as in the normal state. In Group 2 the rats were trained to approach different shelves in different drug states. It was shown that memory dissociation occurred in both groups. Differences in the parameters of training under the influence of pentobarbital between Groups 1 and 2 were revealed. These findings show that the brain-dissociated state induced by pentobarbital is formed with the participation of the mechanisms of information perception.
Acetylcholine-receptor blockers produce amnesia of aversively motivated behaviors. However, when animals are submitted to relatively high intensities of footshock (over-reinforcement), anticholinergic treatment does not induce memory impairments. The aim of this work was to determine whether the antiamnesic effect produced by increasing the magnitude of the negative reinforcer is gradually established or if a threshold should be reached to obtain such an effect. Wistar rats were trained in passive avoidance using 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9 or 3.0 mA; 5 min after training they were given one systemic injection of scopolamine (8 mg/kg). An amnesic state was produced in the groups that were trained with the lower intensities (2.5-2.7 mA); with the three higher intensities near-perfect retention was evident. These results suggest that acetylcholine is critically involved in memory consolidation, and that by increasing the magnitude of the negative reinforcer, a threshold is reached where cholinergic activity of the nervous system is not necessary for the development of the consolidation process.
Animals treated with scopolamine after fasting develop convulsions after they are allowed to eat ad libitum. This study was aimed at investigating the effect on these convulsions of liquid food intake, feeding by gavage, and placebo. Fasted mice treated with saline or scopolamine were allowed to eat solid food, slurry food or liquid food ad libitum, given placebo, or given liquid food by gavage. After 30 min, all animals were allowed to eat food pellets and observed for 30 min for the incidence and onset of convulsions. Scopolamine treatment caused convulsions only in the animals given solid food in the first 30 min; no convulsions were observed in the animals given slurry food, liquid food ad libitum, gavage, or placebo. When the animals that did not develop convulsions during the experiment were allowed to eat solid food, convulsions occurred. These findings indicate that complex mechanisms trigger scopolamine-induced convulsions in fasted animals eating solid food.
Compare the antipyretic effects of dipyrone and indomethacin.
Fever was induced in rats by i. v. LPS or i. c. v. interleukins (IL), prostaglandins (PG), arachidonic acid (AA), pre-formed pyrogenic factor (PFPF), tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) or corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH). Dipyrone and indomethacin were administered i.p., arginine vasopressin V1-receptor antagonist, d(CH2)5 Tyr(Me)AVP, into the ventral septal area. Cyclooxygenase (COX-1/-2) blocking activity was assessed in transfected COS-7 cells. CRH release from isolated hypothalami was determined by ELISA.
Indomethacin or dipyrone reduced LPS, IL-1beta, IL-6 or TNF-alpha induced fever and CRH release from rat hypothalamus. Only dipyrone inhibited IL-8, PFPF or PGF2alpha fever. Only indomethacin inhibited fever induced by AA or IL-1beta, plus AA. Neither antipyretic affected fever caused by PGE2 or CRH. d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)AVP only blocked antipyresis induced by indomethacin. Dipyrone at a very high concentration (10 mM) inhibited only COX-1, while indomethacin (0.1 microM) blocked COX-1 and COX-2 in COS-7 cells.
The antipyretic effect of dipyrone differs from that of indomethacin in that it does not depend on AVP release or inhibition of PG synthesis.
The double beta-lactam combination of moxalactam plus piperacillin was compared with the aminoglycoside-containing regimen of moxalactam plus amikacin in a prospective, randomized trial of empiric therapy for 302 febrile episodes in granulocytopenic cancer patients. The moxalactam/piperacillin regimen was found to be as effective as the moxalactam/amikacin regimen (70 percent overall responses); responses with moxalactam/piperacillin and moxalactam/amikacin were similar for microbiologically documented infections (24 of 37, 65 percent, versus 20 of 35, 57 percent), for the subgroup with bacteremias (19 of 32 versus 14 of 28), and for clinically documented infections (41 of 58, 71 percent, versus 40 of 48, 83 percent). Responses were similar also for bacteremia in patients with persistent, profound (less than 100/microliter) granulocytopenia. Among profoundly (less than 100/microliter) granulocytopenic patients with gram-negative bacteremia, an increase in the granulocyte count to more than 100/microliter during therapy and a peak bactericidal activity of 1:16 or more (the latter noted in seven of nine moxalactam/piperacillin trials and six of nine moxalactam/amikacin trials) correlated with a favorable clinical response in 85 percent (p less than or equal to 0.00003) and 92 percent (p less than or equal to 0.044), respectively. Although serious side effects were minimal with either regimen, the double beta-lactam combination was associated with significantly less frequent nephrotoxicity (two of 145 versus 12 of 130; p less than or equal to 0.003) and ototoxicity (none of 34 versus seven of 34; p less than or equal to 0.006). The double beta-lactam combination of moxalactam plus piperacillin was found to be as effective as moxalactam plus amikacin but to have significantly less nephro- and ototoxicity.
Mutations in SCN5A, the gene coding for the human cardiac Na+ channel alpha-subunit, are associated with variant 3 of the long-QT syndrome (LQT-3). Several LQT-3 mutations promote a mode of Na+ channel gating in which a fraction of channels fail to inactivate, contributing sustained Na+ channel current (Isus), which can delay repolarization and prolong the QT interval. Here, we investigate the possibility that stimulation of protein kinase C (PKC) may modulate Isus, which is prominent in disease-related Na+ channel mutations.
We measured the effects of PKC stimulation on Na+ currents in human embryonic kidney (HEK 293) cells expressing 3 previously reported disease-associated Na+ channel mutations (Y1795C, Y1795H, and DeltaKPQ). We find that the PKC activator 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol (OAG) significantly reduced Isus in the mutant but not wild-type channels. The effect of OAG on Isus was reduced by the PKC inhibitor staurosporine (2.5 micromol/L), ablated by the mutation S1503A, and mimicked by the mutation S1503D. Isus recorded in myocytes isolated from mice expressing DeltaKPQ channels was similarly inhibited by OAG exposure or stimulation of alpha1-adrenergic receptors by phenylephrine. The actions of phenylephrine on Isus were blocked by the PKC inhibitor chelerythrine.
We conclude that stimulation of PKC inhibits channel bursting in disease-linked mutations via phosphorylation-induced alteration of the charge at residue 1503 of the Na+ channel alpha-subunit. Sympathetic nerve activity may contribute directly to suppression of mutant channel bursting via alpha-adrenergic receptor-mediated stimulation of PKC.
To determine whether the acute adverse haemodynamic effects of beta blockade in patients with congestive heart failure persist during chronic treatment.
Sequential haemodynamic evaluation of heart failure patients at baseline and after three months of continuous treatment with the beta 1 selective antagonist metoprolol.
Cardiac care unit in university hospital.
26 patients with moderate to severe congestive heart failure (New York Heart Association grade II to IV) and background treatment with digoxin, diuretics, and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, and with a left ventricular ejection fraction < 25%.
Baseline variables included a six minute walk, maximum oxygen consumption, and right heart catheterisation. All patients received metoprolol 6.25 mg orally twice daily initially and the dose was gradually increased to a target of 50 mg twice daily. Haemodynamic measurements were repeated after three months of treatment, both before (trough) and after drug readministration.
Long term metoprolol had functional, exercise, and haemodynamic benefits. It produced decreases in heart rate, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, and systemic vascular resistance, and increases in cardiac index, stroke volume index, and stroke work index. However, when full dose metoprolol was readministered during chronic treatment, there was a reduction in cardiac index (from 2.8 (SD 0.46) to 2.3 (0.38) l/min/m2, p < 0.001) and stroke work index (from 31.4 (11.1) to 26.6 (10.0) g.m/m2, p < 0.001) and an increase in systemic vascular resistance (from 943 (192) to 1160 (219) dyn.s.cm-5, p < 0.001).
Adverse haemodynamic effects of beta blockers in heart failure persist during chronic treatment, as shown by worsening haemodynamic indices with subsequent doses.
The herbal mixture PC-SPES, used to manage advanced prostate cancer, has proven thrombogenic and highly estrogenic in clinical trials. However, attempts to identify the active compounds in PC-SPES have yielded incongruous results. Moreover, warfarin was identified in the serum of a patient taking PC-SPES who experienced a bleeding disorder. To determine the active components in PC-SPES potentially responsible for these effects, we analyzed PC-SPES lots manufactured from l996 through mid-2001.
Antineoplastic activity of PC-SPES and its individual component extracts was determined by colony-forming assays with several prostate cancer cell lines, and estrogenicity was determined by analyzing expression of an estrogen-responsive reporter gene in breast cancer cells. High-pressure liquid chromatography was used to isolate, identify, and quantify components of PC-SPES. Components were also identified by proton nuclear magnetic resonance, gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, and mass spectra analysis.
PC-SPES lots manufactured from 1996 through mid-1999 contained the synthetic compounds indomethacin (range = 1.07-13.19 mg/g) and diethylstilbestrol (range = 107.28-159.27 micro g/g) and were two to six times more antineoplastic and up to 50 times more estrogenic than lots manufactured after the spring of 1999. In lots manufactured after mid-1999, gradual declines in the concentrations of indomethacin (from 1.56 to 0.70 mg/g), diethylstilbestrol (from 46.36 to 0.00 micro g/g), and total phytosterols (from 0.586 to 0.085 mg/g) were observed. Warfarin was identified for the first time in lots manufactured after July 1998 (range = 341-560 micro g/g). In the August 2001 lot, increases were found in concentrations of the natural products licochalcone A (from 27.6 to 289.2 micro g/g) and baicalin (from 12.5 to 38.8 mg/g).
The phytochemical composition of PC-SPES varied by lot, and chemical analyses detected various amounts of the synthetic drugs diethylstilbestrol, indomethacin, and warfarin and several natural products. To qualify for clinical pharmacologic exploration, nutritional supplements including herbal mixtures should meet standards of quality control under the Good Manufacturing Practice system, and the manufacturers of such supplements should provide reliable analytical quality assurance.
Renal impairment is common in patients after liver transplantation and is attributable in large part to the use of calcineurin inhibitor (CNI)-based immunosuppression. We sought to determine whether conversion to sirolimus-based immunosuppression was associated with improved renal function. In a single-center, randomized, controlled trial, 30 patients at least 6 months post liver transplantation were randomized to remain on CNI-based immunosuppression or to switch to sirolimus-based immunosuppression. The primary outcome measure was change in measured glomerular filtration rate (GFR) between baseline and 12 months. Of 30 patients randomized, 3 were withdrawn at randomization, leaving 14 patients on CNI and 13 on sirolimus. There was a significant improvement in delta GFR following conversion to sirolimus at 3 months (7.7 mL/minute/1.73 m2; 95% confidence interval, 3.5-11.9) and 1 yr (6.1 mL/minute/1.73 m2; 95% confidence interval, 0.9-11.4). The difference in absolute GFR between the 2 study groups was significant at 3 months (P=0.02), but not at 12 months (P=0.07). The principal adverse events following conversion were the development of skin rash (9 of 13 patients, 69%) and mouth ulcers (5 of 13 patients, 38%). Two patients developed acute rejection at 2 and 3 months following conversion, 1 in association with low sirolimus levels and 1 having stopped the drug inadvertently. In conclusion, overall, this study suggests that conversion to sirolimus immunosuppression is associated with a modest improvement in renal function. Side effects were common, but tolerable in most patients and controlled with dose reduction.
The authors undertook a Phase II multicenter trial to assess the efficacy and toxicity of doxorubicin and paclitaxel in combination in the treatment of patients with metastatic breast carcinoma.
Doxorubicin (50 mg/m2, bolus) followed by paclitaxel (175 mg/m2 over 3 hours) was administered every 21 days (for a maximum of 10 cycles) as first-line chemotherapy in 77 patients, 41 of whom had received prior adjuvant chemotherapy. Monitoring of cardiac function (left ventricular ejection fraction[LVEF]) and total doxorubicin cumulative dose were included in the study protocol.
Grade 4 hematologic toxicities were neutropenia (58%) and thrombocytopenia (4%). Neutropenic fever occurred in 9% of patients. Nonhematologic Grade 4 toxicity was limited to mucositis (3%). Grade 3 toxicities were neutropenia (35%), anemia (3%), alopecia (93%), peripheral neuropathy (18%), arthralgia/myalgia (8%), and mucositis (9%). No clinical cardiotoxicity (Grades 3 or 4) occurred. Treatment was discontinued in 5 patients who showed a decrease of LVEF of greater than 15% during therapy. Of 73 patients assessable for response, 15 were complete response, 42 partial response, 15 stable disease, and 1 disease progression; overall response rate being 78% (95% confidence interval [CI], 67-87). Median follow-up was 22 months. Median time to progression (TP) was 10 months (95% CI, 7-12). Time to progression was poorer in cases with adjuvant anthracycline therapy than those without adjuvant chemotherapy (7 vs. 12.3 months; P = 0.022), but TP in patients with adjuvant chemotherapy not containing anthracyclines was not different from the cases without adjuvant chemotherapy (8.6 months). Estimated 2-year survival was 51% (standard error, 7%).
Our results confirm that the combination of paclitaxel and doxorubicin is effective in the treatment of metastatic breast carcinoma, and that it is well tolerated. No clinical cardiotoxicity was observed on close cardiac monitoring, and prior adjuvant anthracycline treatment compromised its efficacy.
The QT interval is a predictor of sudden death. Many drugs prolong the QT, primarily through I(Kr) block. Autonomic tone directly affects heart rate and ventricular repolarization, but its effects in the setting of I(Kr) block are unknown.
Determine the effects of autonomic tone on heart rate and QT interval after I(Kr) block.
Healthy adults (n = 9) were administered ibutilide with ECGs obtained at regular intervals. On a separate day, subjects were administered intravenous propranolol and atropine to induce autonomic block, resulting in intrinsic heart rate and QT interval; ibutilide was administered again, with serial ECGs obtained at regular intervals. No differences in baseline RR, QT, or QTc intervals were seen between the two study days. Ibutilide in the setting of intact autonomic tone prolonged QTc by 43 +/- 8 msec (P = 0.001) and prolonged RR interval by 93 +/- 39 msec (P = 0.04). Autonomic block alone on the second day prolonged QTc by 16.7 +/- 9.4 msec (P = 0.02). An additional 68 +/- 5 msec prolongation of QTc was seen with ibutilide in the setting of double autonomic block (P = 0.036). There was no effect of ibutilide on intrinsic heart rate (P = 0.125).
Autonomic block results in an exaggeration of drug-induced QT prolongation by ibutilide. I(Kr) block has no effect on intrinsic heart rate. QT-prolonging drugs may have more deleterious effects in those with underlying autonomic dysfunction, thus increasing the risk for sudden death.
We describe here a 28-years-male with AIHA and SLE who had lipid and lipoprotein abnormalities during cholestasis induced by PGE1 administration. High free cholesterol level, 792 mg/dl was found in his serum, and markedly elevated, phospholipid level 1,614 mg/dl. But, LCAT activity was within normal range in this case. An agarose gel electrophoresis of lipoproteins showed abnormal bands which were located in slow alpha 2, pre beta and slow beta, and between beta and origin point. Moreover, it was detected formation of Lp-X from serum of the patient. Serum levels of apoprotein B, C-II, C-III, and E were higher, while apoprotein A-I, A-II were very lower than reference value. From these results, it was suspected that the patient might occur transient abnormal lipid metabolism according to the drug induced hepatic injury.
We present the case of a 22-year-old male with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, who developed nephrotic syndrome and had complete remission after lamivudine monotherapy. Renal biopsy showed membranous glomerulopathy, and the serum titer of HBV DNA increased to 1,130,000 copies/mL. As symptomatic therapy with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors did not improve the nephrotic syndrome, lamivudine 100 mg per day was started. His alanine aminotransferase level normalized 2 months after treatment, then hepatitis B e antigen seroconversion developed and serum HBV DNA became undetectable. His proteinuria improved subsequently and his leg edema disappeared completely 6 months after treatment. Neither hepatitis nor nephrotic syndrome had relapsed by month 13 when he came for follow-up. This suggests that lamivudine monotherapy may induce and maintain complete remission of membranous glomerulopathy associated with hepatitis B.
Patients with pulmonary adenocarcinoma carrying the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation tend to display dramatic clinical response to treatment with the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor gefitinib. Unfortunately, in many cases the cancer cells eventually acquire resistance, and this limits the duration of efficacy. To gain insight into these acquired resistance mechanisms, we first prepared HEK293T cell line stably transfected with either wild-type (WT) or mutant (L858R) EGFR, and then expressed oncogenic K-Ras12V mutant in the latter transfectant. Although 293T cells expressing wild-type EGFR did not show any growth inhibition by gefitinib treatment similarly to the non-transfected cells, the cells expressing the EGFR-L858R were exquisitely sensitive. Consistently, phospho-Akt levels were decreased in response to gefitinib in cells expressing EGFR-L858R but not in cells with EGFR-WT. In contrast, 293T cells expressing both EGFR-L858R and oncogenic K-Ras were able to proliferate even in the presence of high concentration of gefitinib probably by inducing Erk1/2 activation. We also expressed K-Ras12V in the gefitinib-sensitive pulmonary adenocarcinoma cell line PC-9, which harbors an in-frame deletion in the EGFR gene. The activated K-Ras inhibited the effects of gefitinib treatment on cell growth, cell death induction and levels of phospho-Akt, as well as phospho-Erk. These data indicate that activated Ras could substitute most of the upstream EGFR signal, and are consistent with the hypothesis that mutational activation of targets immediately downstream from the EGFR could induce the secondary resistance to gefitinib in patients with lung cancer carrying EGFR mutation.
Cocaine remains the most frequently used illicit substance. Although cocaine-induced atherosclerosis is well documented, its mechanism of action on human vascular endothelial cells has not been determined. Nitric oxide (NO) and endothelin-1 (ET-1) are involved in endothelial cell activation and leukocyte recruitment. The present study monitored the effects of cocaine on NO and ET-1 production in human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs) and the effects of sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and BQ-123 on leukocyte adhesion to HAECs. Acute exposure to cocaine (1 and 3 muM) significantly increased ET-1 production (2-fold) and ET-1 receptor type-A (ET(A)R) protein expression, within 6-12 h. Cocaine exposure for a longer duration (24-72 h) showed a temporal decrease in both NO production and endothelial NO-synthase (eNOS) expression. The cocaine-mediated suppression of NO was ameliorated by co-treatment of cells with the ET(A)R blocker, BQ-123 (5 muM). Furthermore, both short-term (24 h) and long-term (72 h) exposure to cocaine increased endothelial adhesion of monocytes (U937 cells) by 20% and 40%, respectively, which were also suppressed by BQ-123 and SNP co-treatment. These data suggest that a concomitant increase in both ET-1 and ET(A)R expression in cocaine exposed HAECs may enhance signaling via the ET(A)R which decreases eNOS expression and NO production, and ultimately results in endothelial activation and leukocyte adhesion. Our findings implicate a molecular mechanism of action of cocaine and a therapeutic effect of ET(A)R-specific inhibitor in suppressing the cocaine-induced endothelial dysfunction.
Carbon dioxide absorbents degrade both halothane and sevoflurane to toxic unsaturated compounds (CF2=CBrCl and CH2F-O-C[=CF2][CF3] [i.e., Compound A], respectively). Given the long history of safe administration of halothane, comparable toxicities of these degradation products would imply a similar safety of sevoflurane. We therefore examined CF2=CBrCl in the context of four issues relevant to previous studies of the toxicity of Compound A: 1) reactivity of the degradation product in vitro; 2) rate of its production in vitro; 3) its in vivo toxicity; 4) importance of the beta-lyase pathway to the toxicity in vivo. We found the following. 1) CF2=CBrCl is less reactive than Compound A, degrading in human serum albumin at one-fifth the rate of Compound A. 2) Over a 3-h period of "anesthesia," a standard circle system containing Baralyme (Allied Healthcare Products, Inc., St. Louis, MO) produces 30 times as much Compound A from a minimum alveolar anesthetic concentration (MAC) concentration of sevoflurane as CF2=CBrCl from a MAC concentration of halothane; with soda lime, the difference is 60-fold. Correcting for differences in uptake of halothane versus sevoflurane decreases the differences to 20-40 times. 3) For a 3-h administration to rats, the partial pressure of Compound A causing minimal renal injury or necrosis of half the affected tubule cells exceeds the partial pressure of CF2=CBrCl causing minimal injury or necrosis of half the affected tubule cells by a factor of approximately 4-6. Thus, the ratio of production (Item 2 above) to the partial pressure causing injury with CF2=CBrCl is approximately a quarter of that ratio for Compound A. 4) Compounds that block the beta-lyase pathway either do not change (acivicin) or decrease (aminooxyacetic acid; AOAA) renal injury from CF2=CBrCl in rats, whereas these compounds increase (acivicin) or do not change (AOAA) injury from Compound A. We conclude that the safety of halothane cannot be used to support the safety of sevoflurane.
Carbon dioxide absorbents degrade halothane and sevoflurane to unsaturated compounds nephrotoxic to rats. Relative to sevoflurane's degradation product, halothane's degradation product has less toxicity relative to production, less reactivity, and a different mechanism of injury. The clinical absence of halothane nephrotoxicity does not necessarily indicate a similar absence for sevoflurane.
Amyloid beta peptide (Abeta), generated by proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The key step in the generation of Abeta is cleavage of APP by beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1). There is increasing evidence supporting an interaction between APP, Abeta and metal ions. Both APP and Abeta affect ion homeostasis. Conversely, metal ions may interact with several AD-associated pathways involved in neurofibrillary tangle formation, secretase cleavage of APP, proteolytic degradation of Abeta and the generation of reactive oxygen species. However, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here we first reported the differential effects of AD-related metal ions at subtoxic concentrations on the transcription levels of APP and BACE1 in PC12 cells. Copper (Cu(2+), 50-100 microM) and manganese (Mn(2+), 50-100 microM) potently increased the expression of both APP and BACE1 in a time- and concentration-dependent pattern, while zinc (Zn(2+)), iron (Fe(2+)) and aluminum (Al(3+)) did not. To uncover the mechanism(s) of the increasing expression by these ions, we observed the effects of several antioxidants and some specific inhibitors on the up-expression of APP and BACE1 by metal ions. Curcumin almost completely blocked the effects of these irons, while minocycline and sodium ferulate slightly suppressed the increased BACE1 mRNA level. Signaling pathway specific inhibitors PD98059, SB203580 and CEP11004 modestly blocked the up-transcription of APP induced by copper. These results suggest that these irons cause differential effects on the expression of APP and BACE1 in PC12 cells, and curcumin can significantly reverse their effects.
Gene silencing associated with aberrant DNA methylation of promoter CpG islands is one mechanism through which several genes may be inactivated in human cancers. Cyclin D2, a member of the D-type cyclins, implicated in cell cycle regulation, differentiation and malignant transformation, is inactivated due to aberrant DNA methylation in several human cancers. In the present study, we examined the promoter methylation status and expression of Cyclin D2 in human epithelial ovarian cancer, and then determined the relationship between methylation status and various clinicopathological variables. Twelve ovarian cancer cell lines and 71 surgical specimens were examined by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction and quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to evaluate the methylation status and expression of the Cyclin D2 gene. The relationship between methylation status and various clinicopathological variables was evaluated using statistical analysis. Aberrant methylation of Cyclin D2 was present in five of 12 ovarian cancer cell lines and 16 of 71 primary ovarian cancer tissues. In five cell lines with methylation, expression of the Cyclin D2 gene tended to be lower than in cell lines without methylation. In ovarian cancer tissues, methylation bands were detected in 16 of 71 cases. The methylation status of Cyclin D2 was associated with advanced stage and a residual tumor size (>2 cm) (P = 0.027 and P = 0.031, respectively). Based on univariate analysis, patients with aberrant methylation of the Cyclin D2 promoter had a significantly worse chance of disease-free survival than those without methylation (P = 0.021). Our results suggest that aberrant promoter methylation of the Cyclin D2 gene is significantly associated with patient prognosis in epithelial ovarian cancer.
We present the case of a 56-year-old woman with syncope and sinus node dysfunction after long-term lithium therapy. Following lithium discontinuation, sinus node function recovered completely. After resuming low doses of lithium, however, severe sinus node dysfunction recurred. Thereafter, sinus node function did not recover after lithium was discontinued, and a permanent pacemaker was implanted. These findings suggest that irreversible sinus node dysfunction should be recognized as a potentially fatal, albeit rare, risk of lithium therapy, and that previous recovery from sinus node dysfunction after long-term lithium treatment cannot always guarantee the reversible nature of this abnormality after resumption of lithium therapy.
Atraumatic rhabdomyolysis with consecutive oliguric renal failure occurred in a 67-year-old man with chronic renal insufficiency in the pre-dialysis phase after four years of therapy with lovastatin without complications. Diuresis remained low after normalization of the muscle enzymes, and the patient required chronic hemodialysis. This case report shows that lovastatin-associated rhabdomyolysis with consecutive myoglobinuric renal failure can be seen also after long-standing lovastatin therapy. In pre-existing renal insufficiency this can lead to earlier requirement of chronic dialysis treatment.
Sevoflurane (CH2F-O-CH[CF3]2) reacts with carbon dioxide absorbents to produce Compound A (CH2F-O-C[=CF2][CF3]). Because of concern about the potential nephrotoxicity of Compound A, the United States package label (but not that of several other countries) for sevoflurane recommends the use of fresh gas flow rates of 2 L/min or more. We previously demonstrated in humans that a 2-L/min flow rate delivery of 1.25 minimum alveolar anesthetic concentration (MAC) sevoflurane for 8 h can injure glomeruli (i.e., produce albuminuria) and proximal tubules (i.e., produce glucosuria and urinary excretion of alpha-glutathione-S-transferase [alpha-GST]). The present report extends this investigation to fasting volunteers given 4 h (n = 9) or 2 h (n = 7) of 1.25 MAC sevoflurane versus desflurane at 2 L/min via a standard circle absorber anesthetic system (all subjects given both anesthetics). Markers of renal injury (urinary creatinine, albumin, glucose, alpha-GST, and blood urea nitrogen) did not reveal significant injury after anesthesia with desflurane. Sevoflurane degradation with a 2-L/min fresh gas inflow rate produced average inspired concentrations of Compound A of 40 +/- 4 ppm (mean +/- SD, 8-h exposure [data from previous study]), 42 +/- 2 ppm (4 h), and 40 +/- 5 ppm (2 h). Relative to desflurane, sevoflurane given for 4 h caused statistically significant transient injury to glomeruli (slightly increased urinary albumin and serum creatinine) and to proximal tubules (increased urinary alpha-GST). Other measures of injury did not differ significantly between anesthetics. Neither anesthetic given for 2 h at 1.25 MAC produced injury. We conclude that 1.25 MAC sevoflurane plus Compound A produces dose-related glomerular and tubular injury with a threshold between 80 and 168 ppm/h of exposure to Compound A. This threshold for renal injury in normal humans approximates that found previously in normal rats.
Human (and rat) kidneys are injured by a reactive compound (Compound A) produced by degradation of the clinical inhaled anesthetic, sevoflurane. Injury increases with increasing duration of exposure to a given concentration of Compound A. The response to Compound A has several implications, as discussed in the article.
Selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors have recently been implicated as enhancing risk of myocardial infarction (MI). Nonselective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are also effective COX-2 inhibitors, so we investigated the hypothesis that they too increase risk of MI.
We conducted a case-control study with direct structured interview of cases and controls. Cases were all subjects (N = 205) with a first nonfatal MI who had no previously recognized cardiovascular disease. Community controls (N = 258) were randomly selected from the same practice as the index case. Hospital controls (N = 205) were those admitted at the same time as index cases for nonmyocardial conditions not influenced by NSAID use. The effects of aspirin, NSAIDs and previously recognized influences on MI were investigated by unconditional logistic regression analysis.
NSAID use was associated with an increase risk of MI with an odds ratio of 1.77 (1.03, 3.03) vs. community controls and 2.61 (1.38, 4.95) vs. hospital controls. These values were 5.00 (1.18, 21.28) and 7.66 (0.87, 67.48), respectively, in aspirin users. Results were similar when naproxen was grouped with aspirin. Odds ratios for smoking and for use of antidiabetic medication were 3.91 (2.52, 6.04) and 3.92 (1.25, 12,33), respectively, vs. community controls.
Like selective COX-2 inhibitors, non-selective NSAIDs [corrected] are associated with an increased risk of MI. The extent to which this reflects interference with aspirin warrants further investigation.
To investigate the influence of pretreatment with a low dose of etomidate (priming dose) on the incidence of etomidate-induced myoclonus.
Prospective randomized double-blind study.
Forty six patients ASA physical status I - II, scheduled for abdominal elective surgery, were allocated randomly to receive either pre-treatment 0.03 mg/kg of etomidate (priming group) or placebo (control group). Sixty-seconds after the pre-treatment was injected, anesthesia was induced with etomidate 0.3 mg/kg and 60 seconds later induction was completed with fentanyl (3 microg/kg) and vecuronium (0.1 mg/kg). The occurrence and intensity of myoclonus were graded clinically by a blinded observer as: 0=no myoclonus, 1=mild myoclonus, 2=moderate myoclonus and 3=severe myoclonus.
Fisher test exact for qualitative variable and Student t-test for quantitative variables.
Demographic data and the average dose of etomidate used during the induction were similar in the 2 groups (0.29+/-0.032 mg/kg in the priming group and 0.30+/-0.029 mg/kg in the control group). Twenty patients (87%) in the control group experienced myoclonic movements whereas only 6 patients (26%) in the control group had such movements (P<0,001).
Pretreatment with etomidate (0.03 mg/kg), given 60 seconds before induction of anesthesia, is effective at reducing etomidate-induced myoclonus, without related side-effect.
The hepatocarcinogenicity of sodium phenobarbitone (PB) was studied in male and female mice of the low spontaneous liver tumour incidence C57BL/10 J strain. Treatment with 200 and 1000 ppmPB for 1 month increased relative liver weight in both sexes, with 1000 ppmPB also producing a transient increase in replicative DNA synthesis. The treatment of male and female mice with 200 and 1000 ppm (the maximum tolerated dose) PB for 99 weeks resulted in centrilobular hypertrophy and a dose-dependent increase in relative liver weight. Altered hepatic foci were observed in both sexes given 1000 ppm PB. In male mice given 1000 ppm PB significant increases were observed in the incidence of hepatocellular adenoma and carcinoma, to 43% and 10% of the animals examined, respectively. No increase in liver tumours was observed in male mice given 200 ppm PB and in female mice given 200 and 1000 ppm PB. In summary, PB at a dose level which produces liver hypertrophy, a transient stimulation of replicative DNA synthesis and on chronic administration altered hepatic foci, three key events in the established mode of action for PB-induced rodent liver tumour formation, results in a significant increase in liver tumours in male C57BL/10 J mice.
In germfree mice, the administration of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) protected the intestinal mucosa from damage produced by 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (Ara-C). Animals receiving SCFA and Ara-C had intestinal morphologies closer to normal than the control animals, which had severe intestinal lesions. We concluded that orally administrated SCFA reduce intestinal lesions, improving the mucosa pattern of the small intestine and colon.
