Patients with schizophrenia have in different studies shown reduced niacin sensitivity and lower electrodermal activity (EDA) after auditory stimulation. Peripheral mediation of prostaglandins may have a physiological role in both responses. This motivates study of both niacin response and electrodermal responding in the same patients with schizophrenia. Thirty patients with schizophrenia and 17 controls were investigated with EDA and thereafter given 200mg niacin orally with continuous assessment of skin temperature. The patients showed a delayed temperature increase after niacin ingestion (P=0.002) and a higher frequency of electrodermal non-responding (P<0.05). Response/non-response for niacin correlated with EDA response/non-response in the patient group (P=0.009). The niacin test revealed a slower vasodilation reaction in the patients. The association between response patterns for the niacin test and EDA suggests that a common aberration in skin physiology may be of importance for both reactions in schizophrenia.
Ginkgo biloba (EGb) has been proposed as a promising candidate for cancer chemoprevention and has shown protective effects on the liver against chemically induced oxidative injury and fibrosis. The potential beneficial effects of EGb were investigated in two rat liver carcinogenesis bioassays induced by diethylnitrosamine (DEN). In a short-term study for anti-initiating screening, male Wistar rats were fed a basal diet or supplemented diet with 500 or 1000 ppm EGb and initiated 14 days later with a single dose of DEN (100 mg/kg i.p.). The respective groups were killed 24h or 2 weeks after DEN-initiation. Liver samples were collected for the analysis of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha), p53, apoptosis and induction of single hepatocytes and minifoci positive for the enzyme glutathione S-transferase P-form (GST-P). In a medium-term study for anti-promoting screening, the animals received a single dose of DEN (200 mg/kg i.p.) and, 2 weeks later, were fed a basal diet or supplemented diet with 500 or 1000 ppm EGb for 6 weeks. All animals underwent 70% partial hepatectomy (PH) at week 3 and killed at week 8. Liver samples were collected to analyze development of preneoplastic foci of altered hepatocytes (FAH) expressing GST-P. In the short-term study, pretreatment of rats with 1000 ppm EGb significantly reduced the rates of cell proliferation, apoptosis and p53, TGF-alpha immunoreactivity and the number of GST-P-positive hepatocytes. In the medium-term study, EGb treatment during the post-initiation stage failed to reduce the development of DEN-induced GST-P-positive foci. Thus, EGb presented inhibitory actions during initiation but not promotion of rat liver carcinogenesis induced by DEN.
The rationale for intensification strategies is that more frequent exposure to chemotherapeutics could enhance antitumor activity. Several trials investigated weekly paclitaxel administration, but there are no clear data concerning peripheral neurotoxicity. The aim of this study was to assess the incidence of peripheral neurotoxicity in patients affected by advanced breast cancer treated with weekly paclitaxel.
Neurotoxicity was assessed with neurologic and neurophysiologic evaluation before treatment and after 12 weeks and 24 weeks. A total neurotoxicity score was assigned to each patient on the basis of neurophysiologic and neuropathic signs and symptom changes. Seventeen patients entered the study.
After 12 weeks of treatment, 71% showed moderate clinical and/or neurophysiologic signs of neurotoxicity; after 24 weeks, the incidence of neurotoxicity increased to 96%. Sural amplitude at the 24-weeks examination significantly decreased from basal mean value (13.5 microv, standard deviation [SD] 6 microv vs. 7 microv, SD 5.9 microv, respectively; P = 0.01), whereas median sensory amplitude decreased after 24 weeks from 10.3 microv, SD 6.2 microv to 4.9 microv, SD 3.8 microv (P = 0.001). In a subset of 11 patients, we obtained a follow-up examination after 6 months from the end of treatment. In all patients, examined signs and symptoms of neurotoxicity improved with recovery of subjective neuropathic symptoms and neurophysiologic findings.
Our results demonstrate, in a little population of patients evaluated with a comprehensive neurologic assessment, that weekly paclitaxel is related to a very high incidence of peripheral neurotoxicity. Follow-up data obtained in a subset of patients indicate that peripheral neurotoxicity is reversible.
To study whether rosiglitazone prevents the development of diabetic nephropathy through reduction of reactive oxygen species and its downstream signal transduction pathways.
The rats were intraperitoneally injected with streptozotocin to induce diabetes, meanwhile the rats in the therapeutic groups were given rosiglitazone (5 or 20 mg/kg/day) for 4 weeks by intragastric administration. Blood glucose, serum lipid and creatinine, urinary albumin excretion were measured. Malondialdehyde content, the activities of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), antioxidant enzymes including Cu-Zn SOD and GSH-Px in kidney were also measured. In addition, the mRNA and protein expression of MCP-1 were semiquantitatively determined with PT-PCR and immunohistochemical staining respectively.
No significant difference of blood glucose and lipid were found between diabetic rats and rosiglitazone treatment groups. The renal histopathology was improved significantly. The expressions of MCP-1 mRNA and protein, malondialdehyde level and the activity of NF-kappaB were decreased markedly in rats treated with high-dose rosiglitazone, but the activities of renal Cu-Zn SOD and GSH-Px increased significantly.
Rosiglitazone treatment prevented glomerular injury in diabetic rats, which was closely related with its roles of reducing reactive oxygen species, NF-kappaB activation and MCP-1 expression in the early phase of diabetic nephropathy.
The p16INK4a (alpha and beta form) and p15INK4b genes were analysed for homozygous deletion, hypermethylation and point mutation in B6C3F1 mouse lymphomas induced by 2',3'-dideoxycytidine or 1,3-butadiene. Although the p16INK4a-alpha gene appeared normal in DNA from 2',3'-dideoxycytidine-induced lymphomas, Southern analyses revealed homozygous deletions or rearrangements of the p16INK4a-beta and/or p15INK4b genes in four of 16 tumours. Surprisingly, two of these lymphomas showed exclusive deletions of the p16INK4a EIbeta exon. The p15INK4b promoter region was hypermethylated in two additional 2',3'-dideoxycytidine-induced lymphomas. In contrast, homozygous deletions spanning the p16INK4a and p15INK4b loci were observed in only two of 31 1,3-butadiene-induced tumours. Thus, these cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor genes may play a significant role in chemically induced mouse lymphomas and support the contention of tumour suppressor activity for the p19ARF protein encoded by the p16INK4a-beta gene. Different genetic pathways may be involved in the development of these chemically induced tumours since we have previously shown that mutations in p53 and ras genes are common in 1,3-butadiene- but not 2',3'-dideoxycytidine-induced lymphomas.
To investigate the concentration-side effect relationship in a patient with severe acyclovir-induced neurotoxicity and to summarize the information available in the literature about central nervous system side effects due to acyclovir.
Repeated blood samples were drawn in a patient with severe acyclovir overdose who developed coma and nonoliguric renal failure. The acyclovir levels measured by radioimmunoassay were related to the level of consciousness.
We measured the highest acyclovir serum levels reported so far (229.9 mumol/L = 51.8 mg/L). Impairment of consciousness developed with a remarkable temporal delay of 24 to 48 hours after occurrence of peak serum concentrations and resolved with a comparable delay after reaching the therapeutic range (anticlockwise hysteresis). Six days after discontinuation of the drug, central nervous system symptoms had resolved, and, 4 days later, renal function returned to pretreatment values.
The observation that neurotoxicity developed with a delay of 24 to 48 hours after acyclovir peak serum concentrations could explain the wide range of acyclovir levels reported in similar cases. Single drug level measurements may therefore be of little diagnostic value. Since toxicity develops with a remarkable delay, early removal of the drug (by hemodialysis) could possibly prevent central nervous toxicity.
It has been postulated that deficiency of a putative natriuretic factor, or resistance to such a factor, may contribute to sodium retention in fulminant hepatic failure. Levels of plasma human atrial natriuretic factor (h-ANF), plasma renin activity, and aldosterone concentration were measured in 33 patients with fulminant hepatic failure due to paracetamol overdose, and 12 healthy control subjects. Levels of h-ANF were raised only in patients with evidence of severe renal impairment (serum creatinine greater than 300 mumol/l and urine output less than 100 ml/24 hours). h-ANF values were median 4.15, range 2-9 pmol/l and 10.1, 1-25 pmol/l for the control and severe renal impairment groups respectively (p less than 0.001). In the latter plasma renin activity was raised compared to that in control subjects (median 19.8, range 1.04-41.7 and 2.86, 1.87-5.9 pmol/l/h respectively, p less than 0.02). Plasma aldosterone concentration was also raised in patients (2176, 199-6894 pmol/l compared to 368, 133-578 pmol/l in control subjects, p less than 0.01). Haemodialysis induced changes in circulating h-ANF which correlated with volume and right atrial pressure changes (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.05 respectively). In six patients with no or mild renal failure infusion of 900 ml 5% human albumin solution caused a significant increase in plasma h-ANF (p less than 0.05) without natriuresis or diuresis, a finding compatible with the hypothesis that there may be resistance to h-ANF in this group. The present findings indicate that there is no deficiency of h-ANF in fulminant hepatic failure and that known mechanisms of h-ANF release are not impaired.
Prophylactic therapies have demonstrated efficacy in reducing the incidence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in neurosurgical patients. Retrospective analysis of patients undergoing neurosurgical procedures at the University of Michigan demonstrated a high incidence (14%) of postoperative DVT among patients with intracranial neoplasms treated with sequential compression device (SCD) prophylaxis alone. Therefore, we investigated the efficacy and safety of the low-molecular weight heparin enoxaparin in preventing DVT in patients with brain tumors. The goal of the study was to compare SCD, enoxaparin, and combined SCD/enoxaparin prophylaxis among patients requiring surgery for treatment of intracranial neoplasms.
Eligible patients were randomized to SCD, enoxaparin, or combined therapy. Treatment was initiated before the induction of anesthesia and was continued throughout the hospital stay. Patients were screened for DVT, using duplex imaging, on four occasions in the first 1 month after surgery. The incidences of DVT and serious adverse events were compared between groups using analysis of variance and the Dunnet two-sided t test.
Sixty-eight patients completed the study. Postoperative DVT occurred in 3 of 22 (13.6%) SCD-treated patients, 1 of 23 (4.3%) enoxaparin-treated patients, and 4 of 23 (17.4%) SCD/enoxaparin-treated patients. Differences were not statistically significant. Postoperative intracranial hemorrhage did not occur in patients in the SCD-treated group, whereas 5 of 46 patients receiving low-molecular weight heparin suffered clinically significant intracranial hemorrhage. The study was terminated because of the increased incidence of adverse events in the enoxaparin-treated groups.
Enoxaparin therapy initiated at the time of anesthesia induction increases postoperative intracranial hemorrhage.
The aim of this article is to present the clinical characteristics and management of an oral adverse effect stemming from the use of the antiretroviral medication Nevirapine (NVP).
NVP is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor used in the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection.
A 29-year-old black man, HIV-infected since 1996, began highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) with zidovudine, lamivudine, and indinavir. From 1996 to 2002 several medications were changed due to their adverse effects: indinavir (renal colic and fever), nelfinavir (cutaneous rash), and efavirenz (nausea and temporary memory loss). When the patient presented to our service he was taking NVP, zidovudine, and lamivudine. A whitish plaque in the lips and bilateral buccal mucosa, burning, taste disturbance, and xerostomia were observed. The discontinuation of HAART led to the complete resolution of signs and symptoms. The patient has received follow-up treatment for three years and five months without local or systemic effects observed.
Unfortunately, the clinical features of the oral adverse effect from NVP are not well known. This paper contributed to the identification of possible reactions in the oral cavity due to antiretroviral medication. Although HAART is very important in the treatment of HIV, its side effects are responsible for patients' non-adherence to medications. While more studies are needed to better understand the mechanism of action after suspending HAART, the complete resolution of the signs and symptoms was observed. Therefore, physicians and dentists alike must understand how to identify and prevent these adverse effects in order to further improve HIV patient treatments.
Polymorphisms of N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) are well known to modify urinary bladder cancer risk as well as efficacy and toxicity of pharmaceuticals via reduction in the enzyme's acetylation capacity. Nevertheless, the discussion about optimal NAT2 phenotype prediction, particularly differentiation between different degrees of slow acetylation, is still controversial. Therefore, we investigated the impact of single nucleotide polymorphisms and their haplotypes on slow acetylation in vivo and on bladder cancer risk. For this purpose, we used a study cohort of 1,712 bladder cancer cases and 2,020 controls genotyped for NAT2 by RFLP-PCR and for the tagSNP rs1495741 by TaqMan(®) assay. A subgroup of 344 individuals was phenotyped by the caffeine test in vivo. We identified an 'ultra-slow' acetylator phenotype based on combined *6A/*6A, *6A/*7B and *7B/*7B genotypes containing the homozygous minor alleles of C282T (rs1041983, *6A, *7B) and G590A (rs1799930, *6A). 'Ultra-slow' acetylators have significantly about 32 and 46 % lower activities of caffeine metabolism compared with other slow acetylators and with the *5B/*5B genotypes, respectively (P < 0.01, both). The 'ultra-slow' genotype showed an association with bladder cancer risk in the univariate analysis (OR = 1.31, P = 0.012) and a trend adjusted for age, gender and smoking habits (OR = 1.22, P = 0.082). In contrast, slow acetylators in general were not associated with bladder cancer risk, neither in the univariate (OR = 1.02, P = 0.78) nor in the adjusted (OR = 0.98, P = 0.77) analysis. In conclusion, this study suggests that NAT2 phenotype prediction should be refined by consideration of an 'ultra-slow' acetylation genotype.
Patients with the genotypes of both CYP2C9*3/*3 and VKORC1-1639 A/A are expected to require the lowest dose of warfarin, and to have a greatly increased risk of bleeding. The experience for the dosing of warfarin in such extremely rare cases has been seldom reported.
Demographic and clinical data from two cases with stable low dose of warfarin in China were studied by resequencing the corresponding gene segments in their whole blood DNA. The potential clinical value of the pharmacogenetic algorithm for them was evaluated by calculating the stable dose of warfarin in pharmacogenetic algorithm developed by International Warfarin Pharmacogenetics Consortium.
Both cases (68-year-old female and 50-year-old male) were diagnosed as chronic nonvalvular atrial fibrillation needing warfarin treatment, with target international normalized ratio (INR) 2 to 3. Case 1 had stable warfarin dose of 0.625 mg/d and case 2 1.25 mg/d. They needed more than 1 month to stabilize their anticoagulation. Exceeding INR values were recorded for them when the dose of warfarin was no more than 2 mg/d. Hemorrhagic complication appeared in case 1 when the dose was titrated from 2.5 to 1.25 mg/d. No concomitant medicine to increase or decrease the INR value was recorded for them. Genotyping CYP2C9 and VKORC1 showed both patients were the carriers of the homozygous alleles -CYP2C9*3/*3 and VKORC1-1639 A/A. Their stable doses of warfarin calculated by the pharmacogenetic dose algorithm (0.672 mg/d for case 1 and 1.16 mg/d for case 2) were comparable with their actual stable therapeutic doses.
Two Chinese with the rare genotypes of both CYP2C9*3/*3 and VKORC1-1639 A/A were found to require the extremely low dose of warfarin. The pharmacogenetic algorithm incorporating the variances of VKORC1 and CYP2C9 genotypes, as well as the non-genetic factors could predict their stable dose of warfarin with high accuracy.
The molecular mechanisms of action of a HIV protease inhibitor, ritonavir, on hepatic function were explored on a genomic scale using microarrays comprising genes expressed in the liver of Sprague-Dawley rats (Rattus norvegicus). Analyses of hepatic transcriptional fingerprints led to the identification of several key cellular pathways affected by ritonavir treatment. These effects were compared to a compendium of gene expression responses for 52 unrelated compounds and to other protease inhibitors, including atazanavir and two experimental compounds. We identified genes involved in cholesterol and fatty acid biosynthesis, as well as genes involved in fatty acid and cholesterol breakdown, whose expressions were regulated in opposite manners by ritonavir and bezafibrate, a hypolipidemic agonist of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha. Ritonavir also upregulated multiple proteasomal subunit transcripts as well as genes involved in ubiquitination, consistent with its known inhibitory effect on proteasomal activity. We also tested three other protease inhibitors in addition to ritonavir. Atazanavir did not impact ubiquitin or proteasomal gene expression, although the two other experimental protease inhibitors impacted both proteasomal gene expression and sterol regulatory element-binding protein-activated genes, similar to ritonavir. Identification of key metabolic pathways that are affected by ritonavir and other protease inhibitors will enable us to understand better the downstream effects of protease inhibitors, thus leading to better drug design and an effective method to mitigate the side effects of this important class of HIV therapeutics.
Dexrazoxane has been used successfully to reduce cardiac toxicity in patients receiving anthracycline-based chemotherapy for cancer (predominantly women with advanced breast cancer). The drug is thought to reduce the cardiotoxic effects of anthracyclines by binding to free and bound iron, thereby reducing the formation of anthracycline-iron complexes and the subsequent generation of reactive oxygen species which are toxic to surrounding cardiac tissue. Clinical trials in women with advanced breast cancer have found that patients given dexrazoxane (about 30 minutes prior to anthracycline therapy; dexrazoxane to doxorubicin dosage ratio 20:1 or 10:1) have a significantly lower overall incidence of cardiac events than placebo recipients (14 or 15% vs 31%) when the drug is initiated at the same time as doxorubicin. Cardiac events included congestive heart failure (CHF), a significant reduction in left ventricular ejection fraction and/or a > or = 2-point increase in the Billingham biopsy score. These results are supported by the findings of studies which used control groups (patients who received only chemotherapy) for comparison. The drug appears to offer cardiac protection irrespective of pre-existing cardiac risk factors. In addition, cardiac protection has been shown in patients given the drug after receiving a cumulative doxorubicin dose > or = 300 mg/m2. It remains to be confirmed that dexrazoxane does not affect the antitumour activity of doxorubicin: although most studies found that clinical end-points (including tumour response rates, time to disease progression and survival duration) did not differ significantly between treatment groups, the largest study did show a significant reduction in response rates in dexrazoxane versus placebo recipients. Dexrazoxane permits the administration of doxorubicin beyond standard cumulative doses; however, it is unclear whether this will translate into prolonged survival. Preliminary results (from small nonblind studies) indicate that dexrazoxane reduces cardiac toxicity in children and adolescents receiving anthracycline-based therapy for a range of malignancies. The long term benefits with regard to prevention of late-onset cardiac toxicity remain unclear. With the exception of severe leucopenia [Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) grade 3/4 toxicity], the incidence of haematological and nonhaematological adverse events appears similar in patients given dexrazoxane to that in placebo recipients undergoing anthracycline-based chemotherapy. Although preliminary pharmacoeconomic analyses have shown dexrazoxane to be a cost-effective agent in women with advanced breast cancer, they require confirmation.
Dexrazoxane is a valuable drug for protecting against cardiac toxicity in patients receiving anthracycline-based chemotherapy. Whether it offers protection against late-onset cardiac toxicity in patients who received anthracycline-based chemotherapy in childhood or adolescence remains to be determined. Further clinical experience is required to confirm that it does not adversely affect clinical outcome, that it is a cost-effective option, and to determine the optimal treatment regimen.
Accelerated formation of advanced glycation/lipoxidation and endproducts (AGEs/ALEs) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various diabetic complications. Several natural and synthetic compounds have been proposed and tested as inhibitors of AGE/ALE formation. We have previously reported the therapeutic effects of several new AGE/ALE inhibitors on the prevention of nephropathy and dyslipidemia in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. In this study, we investigated the effects of various concentrations of a compound, LR-90, on the progression of renal disease and its effects on AGE and receptor for AGE (RAGE) protein expression on the kidneys of diabetic STZ-rats. Diabetic male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with or without LR-90 (0, 5, 20, 25, and 50 mg/l of drinking water). After 32 weeks, body weight, glycemic status, renal function, and plasma lipids were measured. Kidney histopathology and AGE/ALE accumulation and RAGE protein expression in tissues were also determined. In vitro studies were also performed to determine the possible mechanism of action of LR-90 in inhibiting AGE formation and AGE-protein cross-linking. LR-90 protected the diabetic kidneys by inhibiting the increase in urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio and ameliorated hyperlipidemia in diabetic rats in a concentration-dependent fashion without any effects on hyperglycemia. LR-90 treatment also reduced kidney AGE/ALE accumulation and RAGE protein expression in a concentration-dependent manner. In vitro, LR-90 exhibited general antioxidant properties by inhibiting metal-catalyzed reactions and reactive oxygen species (OH radical) and reactive carbonyl species (methlyglyoxal, glyoxal) generations without any effect on pyridoxal 5' phosphate. The compound also prevents AGE-protein cross-linking reactions. These findings demonstrate the bioefficacy of LR-90 in treating nephropathy and hyperlipidemia in diabetic animals by inhibiting AGE accumulation, RAGE protein expression, and protein oxidation in the diabetic kidney. Additionally, our study suggests that LR-90 may be useful also to delay the onset and progression of diabetic atherosclerosis as the compound can inhibit the expression of RAGE and inflammation-related pathology, as well as prevent lipid peroxidation reactions.
Lumiracoxib (Prexige; 2-[(2-fluoro-6-chlorophenyl)amino]-5-methyl-benzeneacetic acid) is a cyclooxygenase-2 selective inhibitor for the symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis. Recently, the drug has been withdrawn in several countries due to serious liver side effects. Li et al. recently have shown that lumiracoxib is bioactivated to a proposed quinone imine that is trapped by N-acetylcysteine (NAC) to form two NAC adducts in human and rat liver microsomal incubations. The current study demonstrated that the lumiracoxib metabolite 4'-hydroxylumiracoxib (M5) can also be bioactivated by peroxidases such as horseradish peroxidase, myeloperoxidase, and prostaglandin H synthases. Efforts were also made to identify GSH adducts formed by P450s in human liver microsomal incubations of lumiracoxib. We herein report the detection and characterization of mono-, di-, tri-, and tetra-GSH adducts in these oxidizing systems. Most of the conjugates were generated as a result of bioactivation of M5 by both peroxidases and P450s. Quinone imine (M15) and two GSH-conjugated quinone imines (M17 and M18) were identified as intermediates in the formation of these conjugates. The latter two were formed through sequential elimination of the fluorine and chlorine groups of GSH-conjugated M15. An additional GSH adduct, which appeared to be formed directly from parent, was only observed in human liver microsomal incubations. A mechanism was proposed for the bioactivation of lumiracoxib and the formation of the observed GSH adducts. These results suggest that bioactivation of lumiracoxib and M5 may result in GSH depletion, covalent binding to proteins, and oxidative stress and may potentially lead to hepatotoxicity.
To investigate the efficacy and safety of risperidone for the treatment of disruptive behavioral symptoms in children with autism and other pervasive developmental disorders (PDD).
In this 8-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, risperidone/placebo solution (0.01-0.06 mg/kg/day) was administered to 79 children who were aged 5 to 12 years and had PDD. Behavioral symptoms were assessed using the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC), Nisonger Child Behavior Rating Form, and Clinical Global Impression-Change. Safety assessments included vital signs, electrocardiogram, extrapyramidal symptoms, adverse events, and laboratory tests.
Subjects who were taking risperidone (mean dosage: 0.04 mg/kg/day; 1.17 mg/day) experienced a significantly greater mean decrease on the irritability subscale of the ABC (primary endpoint) compared with those who were taking placebo. By study endpoint, risperidone-treated subjects exhibited a 64% improvement over baseline in the irritability score almost double that of placebo-treated subjects (31%). Risperidone-treated subjects also exhibited significantly greater decreases on the other 4 subscales of the ABC; on the conduct problem, insecure/anxious, hyperactive, and overly sensitive subscales of the Nisonger Child Behavior Rating Form (parent version); and on the Visual Analog Scale of the most troublesome symptom. More risperidone-treated subjects (87%) showed global improvement in their condition compared with the placebo group (40%). Somnolence, the most frequently reported adverse event, was noted in 72.5% versus 7.7% of subjects (risperidone vs placebo) and seemed manageable with dose/dose-schedule modification. Risperidone-treated subjects experienced statistically significantly greater increases in weight (2.7 vs 1.0 kg), pulse rate, and systolic blood pressure. Extrapyramidal symptoms scores were comparable between groups.
Risperidone was well tolerated and efficacious in treating behavioral symptoms associated with PDD in children.
To measure the rate of hepatitis B (HBV) transmission from chronic HBV carriers to breast-fed infants after immunoprophylaxis.
Since 1992, information on women with HBV during pregnancy has been collected in a prospective longitudinal study. Those HBV carriers and their infants participating in a county HBV immunoprophylaxis program were identified. Infants were followed for up to 15 months and examined for hepatitis B infection by hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg).
A total of 369 infants born to women with chronic HBV met the inclusion criteria and received hepatitis B immune globulin at birth and the full course of the hepatitis B vaccine series. We compared 101 breast-fed infants with 268 formula-fed infants. There was no significant difference between the two groups with respect to the number of women who were positive for hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) (22% versus 26%, P =.51). Three women in the breast-feeding group had liver transaminase abnormalities, compared with six women in the formula-feeding group (P =.29). Overall, there were nine cases of HBV infection transmission (2.4%). None of the 101 breast-fed infants and nine formula-fed infants (3%) were positive for HBsAg after the initial vaccination series (P =.063). The mean length of time for breast-feeding was 4.9 months (range 2 weeks to 1 year).
With appropriate immunoprophylaxis, including hepatitis B immune globulin and hepatitis B vaccine, breast-feeding of infants of chronic HBV carriers poses no additional risk for the transmission of the hepatitis B virus.
Eighty newly admitted or readmitted men with DSM-III schizophrenia were assigned to receive 5, 10, or 20 mg/d of haloperidol for 4 weeks. Staff were not "blind" to dose. By Clinical Global Impression Scale ratings, the 20-mg dose appeared to be superior to both the 5- and 10-mg doses for the first 2 weeks of treatment but not thereafter. On the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale Schizophrenia factor, the 20-mg dose was superior to the 5-mg dose throughout the trial and tended to be marginally superior to the 10-mg dose after the first 2 weeks of treatment. By the second week of treatment, however, the group receiving the 20-mg dose deteriorated significantly with regard to Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale ratings of Withdrawal-Retardation (blunted affect, motor retardation, and emotional withdrawal) as well as akinesia and akathisia ratings. Furthermore, 35% of patients given 20 mg/d of haloperidol insisted on leaving the hospital against medical advice vs only 4% of those given 5 or 10 mg/d of haloperidol. A 20-mg/d dose of haloperidol, therefore, may have substantial "psychotoxic" effects by the second week of treatment.
Severe hemorrhage from cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis sometimes requires aggressive open management when conventional endoscopic and intravesical therapies have failed. We present 2 patients with intractable hematuria who were managed by open cystotomy, temporary urinary diversion via external ureteral stents, and continuous postoperative bladder packing with gauze and hemostatic agents. Both patients had a dramatic improvement in the hematuria immediately postoperatively and 1 with prolonged followup has no urological disability. We suggest that this procedure be considered for management of severe hemorrhagic cystitis as an alternative to more aggressive surgical therapies, such as formal urinary diversion with cystectomy.
Fifty-three patients with acute exacerbations of Research Diagnostic Criteria schizophrenic, schizoaffective (mainly schizophrenic), and other nonaffective psychoses completed 24 or 28 days of treatment with randomized, fixed, double-blind doses of 10, 20, or 30 mg of oral fluphenazine hydrochloride daily. In the sample as a whole, improvement was not predicted by dose but was negatively related to duration of illness and of lifetime hospitalization, and to the presence of akathisia during the study (which was unrelated to chronicity). But among patients showing 40% or greater improvement in positive symptoms, percent improvement was predicted by dose and dose per kilogram of body weight; this was not the case for negative symptoms. Severity of acute extrapyramidal symptoms (excluding acute dystonia, dyskinesia, and akathisia) was significantly correlated with dosage per kilogram. Doses greater than 0.2 mg/kg per day were associated with greater clinical improvement but also with a high incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms; doses over 0.3 mg/kg per day were associated with more severe extrapyramidal symptoms. These preliminary results suggest that there is a linear relationship between fluphenazine dosage and acute outcome, and that this relationship is observed in patients whose conditions improve to a criterion level. It is suggested that the nonresponder group may include many patients in whom dose is not relevant because they are unable (for a variety of reasons) to respond to the study treatment conditions; excluding them from analysis may allow a significant dose-response relationship to be observed. Akathisia deserves further study as a possible predictor of nonresponse.
Twenty-five asthmatic outpatients were treated for 3 one-week periods with either enprofylline slowly eroding 300 mg tablets t.i.d., theophylline 300 mg tablets (Theo-Dur) t.i.d., or placebo in a double-blind, cross-over, randomized trial. Sixteen patients were able to complete 2 or 3 one-week periods. Evaluation of bronchodilating properties by home recordings of peak expiratory flow (PEF) and side effects suggested that enprofylline was an effective antiasthmatic xanthine derivative for continuous treatment, as it improved mean morning PEF significantly. Continuous treatment with the 2 xanthine derivatives resulted in mean steady state plasma levels within therapeutic range for theophylline, and 3-4 times lower mean plasma levels for enprofylline. Enprofylline induced headache in 13 of 16 patients, theophylline in 9 of 19 patients, and placebo in 2 of 18 patients. No serious side effects were seen.
Thirty patients were treated. All surgical procedures were carried out without technical difficulty. Estimated blood loss varied between 5 ml and 25 ml. In no case did bleeding obscure the operative field. Two patients did experience transient hypertension after injection of lidocaine with epinephrine. This was easily controlled by the anesthesiologist. After follow-up periods ranging from one year to five years, all patients have achieved a satisfactory result. No recurrent epiphora or infection has been noted. The technique described in this communication involves drugs, instruments, and equipment which have made our dacryocystorhinostomy rapid (35 to 45 minutes), controlled, and predictable. Surgical morbidity is negligible. Hemorrhage is no longer a fearsome problem. Exposure is always adequate. And, above all, uniform success has been very gratifying to surgical patients and surgeons.
