Substance abuse is a serious health concern. This report presents the case of a 22-year-old Brazilian man with a history of mephentermine use who fulfils all the criteria for chemical dependence listed by ICD-10. Mephentermine is a sympathomimetic agent derived from methamphetamine which, in Brazil, is restricted to veterinary use.
The subject used the substance at a high dose (120 mg) to improve his physical performance while working out at a gym. His symptoms included anorexia and insomnia. After days of intense activity, he felt fatigue and soreness. A physical examination revealed scars on both forearms from the injections and a psychological examination revealed moderate speech and motor agitation.
Cases such as this may be common among the general public. They should have some bearing upon medical practice and public health policies involving drugs.
Previous work suggests a role for dopamine D3-like receptors in psychostimulant reinforcement. The development of new compounds acting selectively at dopamine D3 receptors has opened new possibilities to explore the role of these receptors in animal models of psychostimulant dependence. Here we investigated whether the dopamine D3 partial agonist CJB090 (1-10 mg/kg, i.v) and the D3 antagonist PG01037 (8-32 mg/kg, s.c.) modified methamphetamine (0.05 mg/kg/injection) intravenous self-administration under fixed- (FR) and progressive- (PR) ratio schedules in rats allowed limited (short access, ShA; 1-hour sessions 3 days/week) or extended access (long access, LgA; 6 hour sessions 6 days/week). Under a FR1 schedule, the highest dose of the D3 partial agonist CJB090 selectively reduced methamphetamine self-administration in LgA but not in ShA rats, whereas the full D3 antagonist PG01037 produced no effect in either group. Under a PR schedule of reinforcement, the D3 partial agonist CJB090 reduced the maximum number of responses performed ('breakpoint') for methamphetamine in LgA rats at the doses of 5 and 10 mg/kg, and also it produced a significant reduction in the ShA group at the highest dose. However, the D3 full antagonist PG01037 only reduced PR methamphetamine self-administration in LgA rats at the highest dose of 32 mg/kg with no effect in the ShA group. The results suggest that rats might be more sensitive to pharmacological modulation of dopamine D3 receptors following extended access to methamphetamine self-administration, opening the possibility that D3 receptors play a role in excessive methamphetamine intake.
Cocaine, derived from the leaves of the shrub Erythroxylon coca, which grows on the slopes of the Andes, remains one of the most widely abused illicit drugs (Johnson et al., 1993). Its abuse appears to be increasing and as a result, so is its trafficking across borders, with ever-increasing sophistication of concealment (Rouse, 1992). Over the past few years, cases of cocaine intoxication have been reported, resulting from ruptured packets of cocaine that have been swallowed, or inserted into the vagina or rectum by couriers (drug smugglers), so called 'body packers' or 'mules' (Westli and Mittleman, 1981; Ricaurte and Langston, 1995). Cocaine is a powerful sympathomimetic and central nervous system stimulant, an overdose of which causes primarily cardiac, neurological and psychiatric effects (Ricaurte and Langston, 1995). Acute toxicity is dose-related and is characterized in the first place by its sympathomimetic effects, which include tachycardia, hypertension and hyperthermia arrythmias, followed by seizures. Brainstem depression and cardio-respiratory collapse, stroke, coma, intracranial vasculitis, myocardial infarction and sudden death have all been reported in cocaine abuse (Ricaurte and Langston, 1995). We present a fatal case with neurological and psychiatric symptoms, but without the usual cardiac and systemic signs.
STAT proteins play an important role in cytokine signaling. Some investigators have reported preferential activation of STAT-1, and others have reported preferential activation of STAT-3, in response to endogenous interleukin-6 (IL-6), in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The present study was undertaken to investigate synovial STAT-1 and STAT-3 activation in an experimental animal model of arthritis.
Zymosan was injected intraarticularly into naive wild-type (WT), IL-6(-/-), and STAT-1(-/-) mice to induce arthritis. Western blots of synovial lysates were probed with phosphospecific antibodies to detect STAT-1/STAT-3 activation. Inflammation was assessed histologically. Synovial gene expression of the STAT-induced feedback inhibitors suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS-1) and SOCS-3 in WT and STAT-1(-/-) mice was investigated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction.
STAT-3 was activated in inflamed synovium of WT mice throughout the course of disease, whereas activated STAT-1 was observed only during the chronic phase. In IL-6(-/-) mice, STAT activation was limited to STAT-3 on day 1. Although macrophage influx was not inhibited, disease went into remission after day 7 in IL-6(-/-) mice. STAT-1 deficiency resulted in exacerbation of chronic joint inflammation and granuloma formation. In STAT-1(-/-) mice, STAT-3 activation in the inflamed joints was unaltered as compared with WT mice. However, synovial SOCS-1, but not SOCS-3, gene expression was markedly reduced in STAT-1(-/-) mice.
The results in the IL-6(-/-) mice suggest that STAT-3 is involved in the chronicity of ZIA. Exacerbation of arthritis in STAT-1(-/-) mice suggests an opposing effect of STAT-1, i.e., suppression of joint inflammation. The expression of SOCS-1 could be the underlying mechanism by which STAT-1 controls joint inflammation.
A 53-year-old female presented with disabling chest pain. The pain had most of the characteristics of ischemic pain; however, the results of the initial clinical investigation were consistent with the diagnosis of syndrome X. That is, her treadmill exercise test was positive but her coronary angiogram was normal. A dipyridamole-thallium test resulted in severe chest pain, marked ST abnormalities, but no evidence of any focal reduction in flow. A dipyridamole stress echocardiogram revealed that left ventricular function was entirely normal during the dipyridamole-induced pain and ST segment abnormalities, making ischemia an unlikely cause for either. To attempt to account for this paradox, the hypothesis was generated that both the pain and ST segment abnormalities were due to a primary abnormality of adenosine metabolism rather than secondary to ischemia. Accordingly, adenosine-MIBI scans were done with and without pretreatment with aminophylline. Infusion of adenosine virtually immediately resulted in crushing chest pain and profound ST abnormalities again without any evidence of focal abnormalities of MIBI estimated flow. By contrast, administration of adenosine after pretreatment with aminophylline failed to produce either chest pain or ST abnormalities. Moreover, long term therapy with aminophylline almost entirely relieved the symptoms which had been so distressing. This case indicates that there is a subset of patients with syndrome X--in which faults in adenosine metabolism result in excessive adenosine accumulation or effect and this results, in turn, in adenosine-induced ischemic-like chest pain and adenosine-induced ST abnormalities. There is, however, no actual ischemia of the myocardium. Given the known effects of adenosine on coronary flow, the problem in this subset of patients appears to be equivalent to an attack of myocardial migraine and blockers of adenosine action might be of help to other patients with a similar pathophysiology for their chest pain.
Although c-erbB-2 expression is, in general terms, an ominous prognostic indicator in breast carcinomas, there are suggestions that lack of this oncogene, when combined with analogous lack of estrogen (ER negative) and progesterone receptors (PgR negative)-"triple-negative phenotype", is linked with an equally poor prognosis. We investigated this hypothesis in a series of early ductal breast carcinomas. A total of 116 specimens with early breast cancer, defined as tumors of < or =2 cm in size and clinically negative axilla, were studied immunohistochemically for ER, PgR, and c-erbB-2 expression. The median follow-up was 131 months (range 62-245 months). ER positive tumors had a favorable clinical course, compared to ER negative neoplasms, but only for the first 10 years of follow-up (P = 0.04). Prognosis was poorer for the PgR negative cases, relative to PgR positive tumors (P = 0.005), but this stood true for the entire investigation period. Triple-negative breast carcinomas had a poor prognosis, while triple-positive tumors had a favorable outcome. However, if triple-positive and triple-negative cases were excluded from the original sample, the remaining c-erbB-2 positive cases were connected with poor prognosis, relative to the remaining c-erbB-2 negative tumors. c-erbB-2 oncogene has a complex biological role in early breast carcinomas for its expression characterizes subgroups of patients with both favorable (triple-positive phenotype) and unfavorable prognosis (c-erb-B2 positive cases after excluding triple-positive and triple-negative tumors)-a phenomenon presumably due to activation of different biological pathways. Elucidation of these pathways may determine subgroups of patients with tumors requiring different targeted agents.
We present the cases of two patients with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor-induced angioedema that required intubation for life-threatening airway compromise. This side effect has been previously reported with all ACE inhibitors, but its incidence and potential for a fatal outcome may not be fully appreciated. A review of the literature reveals 227 reports of this reaction with an overall incidence of approximately 0.1% to 0.2%. The etiology is nonimmunogenic and thought to be related to accentuated bradykinin activity. There is no clinical profile that identifies patients at increased risk for this side effect. There are unique clinical characteristics to this idiosyncratic reaction: angioedema may suddenly occur even though the drug has been well tolerated for months or years; symptoms may regress spontaneously while the patient continues the medication, erroneously prompting an alternative diagnosis; the pathology has a special predilection for the tongue, a circumstance that renders orotracheal and nasotracheal intubation difficult; symptoms may progress rapidly despite aggressive medical therapy, necessitating emergency airway procedures; and a rebound phenomenon following successful medical therapy has been described. We recommend intensive medical treatment before angioedema is severe enough to thwart standard methods to ensure a protected airway. Once even minor angioedema is attributed to an ACE inhibitor, an alternative class of antihypertensive medication should be chosen. Individuals with a history of idiopathic angioedema probably should not be given ACE inhibitors.
A case of fatal overdose of tramadol is described, occurring in a 67-year-old man with painful rib fractures who accidentally ingested more than the recommended daily dose. The mode of death was acute liver failure due to fulminant hepatic necrosis. Post-mortem toxicology was negative apart from revealing a blood tramadol concentration well above the normal therapeutic range. This is the first report of fatal tramadol ingestion occurring in a therapeutic setting and also the first tramadol-related death where the mechanism was liver failure.
Using a mouse model that reproduces major features of irritable bowel syndrome (long-lasting colon hypersensitivity without inflammation), we examined the contributions of 2 proteins, transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) and acid-sensing ion channel 3 (ASIC3), on development of behavioral hypersensitivity and assessed the function of colon mechanoreceptors of hypersensitive mice.
Visceral nociceptive behavior was measured as the visceromotor response (VMR) to colorectal distention (CRD) before and after intracolonic treatment with zymosan or saline. Colon pathology was assessed in parallel experiments by quantifying myeloperoxidase activity, intralumenal pH, and tissue histology. Electrophysiologic experiments were performed on naïve and zymosan-treated hypersensitive mice using an in vitro colon-pelvic nerve preparation.
Zymosan, but not saline, produced significant and persistent increases in the VMRs of control mice; zymosan produced nonsignificant increases in the VMRs in TRPV1 and ASIC3 knockout mice. Colon myeloperoxidase activity and pH were unaffected by either CRD or intracolonic treatments. Pelvic nerve mechanoreceptors recorded from zymosan-treated or naïve mice had similar sensitivity to stretch of the colon. When applied acutely, zymosan sensitized muscular/mucosal mechanoreceptors in both naïve and hypersensitive mice.
Zymosan produced sensitization of colon mechanoreceptors acutely in vitro and chronic (>or=7 weeks) behavioral hypersensitivity in the absence of inflammation. The behavioral hypersensitivity was partially dependent on both TRPV1 and ASIC3 because deletions of either of these genes blunted zymosan's effect, suggesting that these proteins may be important peripheral mediators for development of functional (ie, noninflammatory) visceral hypersensitivity.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of some polymorphisms in GSTs (GSTM1, GSTT1 and GSTP1) which are very important protective mechanisms against oxidative stress and in OGG1 gene which is important in DNA repair, against the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). 127 T2DM and 127 control subjects were included in the study. DNA was extracted from whole blood. Analyses of GSTM1 and GSTT1 gene polymorphisms were performed by allele specific PCR and those of GSTP1 Ile105Val and OGG1 Ser326Cys by PCR-RFLP. Our data showed that GSTM1 null genotype frequency had a 2-6 times statistically significant increase in a patient group (OR=3.841, 95% CI=2.280-6.469, p<0.001) but no significance with GSTT1 null/positive and GSTP1 Ile105Val genotypes was observed. When T2DM patients with OGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism were compared with patients with a wild genotype, a 2-3 times statistically significant increase has been observed (OR 1.858, 95% CI=1.099-3.141, p=0.021). The combined effect of GSTM1 null and OGG1 variant genotype frequencies has shown to be statistically significant. Similarly, the risk of T2DM was statistically increased with GSTM1 null (OR=3.841, 95% CI=2.28-6.469), GSTT1 null+GSTP1 (H+M) (OR=4.118, 95% CI=1.327-12.778) and GSTM1 null+OGG1 (H+M) (OR=3.322, 95% CI=1.898-5.816) and GSTT1 null+OGG1 (H+M) (OR=2.179, 95% CI=1.083-4.386) as compared to the control group. According to our study results, it has been observed that the combined evaluation of GSTM1-GSTT1-GSTP1 and OGG1 Ser326Cys gene polymorphisms can be used as candidate genes in the etiology of T2DM, especially in the development of T2DM.
Dent disease is X-linked recessive proximal tubulopathy, due to mutations in the CLCN5 gene. It is characterized by low molecular weight proteinuria, hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis and progressive renal failure.
A seven-year-old boy was referred after endocrinological examination where abdominal ultrasound showed nephrocalcinosis. There were anamnestic data neither of oedema, macrohaematuria, nor polyuria or hypertension. There were also no data of chronic renal failure in the family. We determined: proteinuria (1.8 g/day), elevated urinary excretion of Beta 2 microglobulin, microscopic haematuria, hypercalciuria (8-10 mg/kg/day), nephrocalcinosis, decreased tubular reabsorption phosphate (65%). Values of growth hormone, parathormone on thyroid hormone were normal. Except hypercalciuria, which was registered in the patient's mother, all other analyses performed in family members were between reference values. Diagnosis was finalized by mutation analysis, which showed S244L substitution on CNCL5. Mutation carrier was mother with normal phenotype.
Dent disease is rare X-linked nephrocalcinosis. Definitive diagnosis of this proximal tubulopathy which leads to progressive renal damage is not possible without evidence of gene mutation in renal chlorine channel.
Operation Ranch Hand veterans were involved in spraying herbicides, including Agent Orange, during the Vietnam War in 1962-1971; Agent Orange was contaminated with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). It has been hypothesized that dioxins may be partially responsible for an increase of male reproductive tract disorders such as testicular cancer, cryptorchidism, and hypospadias.
In this study, our objective was to assess the effect of serum TCDD concentration on the risk of development of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and on serum testosterone levels.
This study was a longitudinal, prospective cohort study made up of U.S. Air Force veterans involved in Operation Ranch Hand. Other Air Force veterans who did not spray herbicides were included as comparisons. BPH was determined by medical record review and by medical examinations conducted during the study. Data were available for 971 Ranch Hand and 1,266 comparison veterans. We investigated the relationship between BPH and serum TCDD level using the Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for testosterone levels, body mass index (BMI), and the percentage change in BMI per year.
In univariate and multivariate analyses, the risk of BPH decreased with increasing serum TCDD in the comparison group. The multivariate risk ratio for BPH in the comparison group was 0.84 (95% confidence interval, 0.73-0.98). Excluding men with prostate cancer, inflammatory or other prostatic diseases did not substantially alter the association. Serum testosterone levels were inversely associated with serum TCDD levels in both Ranch Hand and comparison groups.
TCDD exposure at general population levels is associated with a decreasing risk of BPH with higher exposure levels. TCDD exposure is also negatively associated with serum testosterone levels.
We present the cases of 2 regular cocaine users aged 30 and 37 years who developed a cutaneous condition with an identical presentation and a similar clinical course. The lesions first appeared as eruptions on the back and then spread to other parts of the body. They consisted of painful inflammatory nodules that developed into abscesses and ulcers that grew outwards. They had a granulomatous base and irregular violaceous edges. The results of histopathologic studies were compatible with the clinical diagnosis of pyoderma gangrenosum, and additional tests ruled out underlying diseases. After several therapeutic failures with usual treatments, the patients responded quickly to infliximab after interrupting their cocaine consumption. The association between pyoderma gangrenosum and cocaine use was clear as both suffered clinical relapses at the same time as they started using the drug again.
To elucidate the molecular mechanism of resveratrol against leukemia both in vitro and in vivo.
Three kinds of leukemia cell lines, HuT-78, Jurkat and L1210 cells, were used in this study. After different doses of Res treatment, methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) colorimetry was used to detect the cell proliferation; apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry; Western blot and immuno-precipitation method were used to detect the Bcl-2 and Bax proteins expression and the activity of phospho-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (p-STAT3). Besides, a total of 40 BALB/c mice were randomly divided into untreated group and 12.5, 25 and 50 mg/(kg.d) Res groups. Then, leukemia-bearing model was established by L1210 cells subcutaneous injection. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) was detected to determine the secretion function of T lymphocytes of the mice; the IL-6 mRNA expression in the liver tissue of mice was also detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and the expression of the p-STAT3 protein was measured by Western blot and immunohistochemical method.
The results indicated that resveratrol could inhibit the proliferation of HuT-78, Jurkat and L1210 cells and significantly induce the cell apoptosis. At the same time, the radio of Bcl-2/Bax and expression of p-STAT3 protein were decreased either. Furthermore, resveratrol could reduce the expression of IL-6 mRNA and intracellular content of IL-6, and decrease the expression of p-STAT3 protein in the liver of leukemic mice at a dose-dependent manner.
Resveratrol can function as an antileukemic agent through inducing apoptosis, modulating IL-6 and STAT3 both in vitro and in vivo.
Maropitant (Cerenia; a novel, selective neurokinin(1) receptor antagonist), chlorpromazine, metoclopramide and ondansetron were compared in two randomized, placebo-controlled studies for efficacy in preventing emesis induced by emetogens acting centrally (apomorphine; Study 1) or peripherally (syrup of ipecac; Study 2) in dogs. In each study, ten male and ten female beagles were treated in a five-treatment, five-period crossover design. The five treatments were 0.9% saline (0.1 mL/kg), maropitant (1 mg/kg), metoclopramide (0.5 mg/kg), or chlorpromazine (0.5 mg/kg) all administered subcutaneously, or ondansetron (0.5 mg/kg) administered intravenously. One hour posttreatment dogs were challenged with apomorphine at 0.1 mg/kg intravenously (Study 1) or syrup of ipecac at 0.5 mL/kg orally (Study 2). Following emetogen challenge, dogs were observed for 30 min (Study 1) or 1 h (Study 2) for emesis. No clinical signs, other than those related to emesis, were observed. Efficacy of maropitant in preventing emesis induced centrally by apomorphine was not different (P > 0.05) from metoclopramide or chlorpromazine but was superior (P < 0.0001) to ondansetron. Efficacy of maropitant in preventing emesis induced by syrup of ipecac was not different (P > 0.05) from ondansetron but was superior (P </= 0.0102) to metoclopramide or chlorpromazine. Maropitant was effective (P < 0.0001 relative to control) in preventing vomiting caused by stimulation of either central or peripheral emetic pathways, whereas the other drugs examined prevented vomiting caused by central (metoclopramide and chlorpromazine; P < 0.0001) or peripheral (ondansetron; P < 0.0001) stimulation but not both.
Increasing evidence implicates apoptosis as a major mechanism of cell death in methamphetamine (METH) neurotoxicity. The involvement of a neuroimmune component in apoptotic cell death after injury or chemical damage suggests that cytokines may play a role in METH effects. In the present study, we examined if the absence of IL-6 in knockout (IL-6-/-) mice could provide protection against METH-induced neurotoxicity. Administration of METH resulted in a significant reduction of [(125)I]RTI-121-labeled dopamine transporters in the caudate-putamen (CPu) and cortex as well as depletion of dopamine in the CPu and frontal cortex of wild-type mice. However, these METH-induced effects were significantly attenuated in IL-6-/- animals. METH also caused a decrease in serotonin levels in the CPu and hippocampus of wild-type mice, but no reduction was observed in IL-6-/- animals. Moreover, METH induced decreases in [(125)I]RTI-55-labeled serotonin transporters in the hippocampal CA3 region and in the substantia nigra-reticulata but increases in serotonin transporters in the CPu and cingulate cortex in wild-type animals, all of which were attenuated in IL-6-/- mice. Additionally, METH caused increased gliosis in the CPu and cortices of wild-type mice as measured by [(3)H]PK-11195 binding; this gliotic response was almost completely inhibited in IL-6-/- animals. There was also significant protection against METH-induced DNA fragmentation, measured by the number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end-labeled (TUNEL) cells in the cortices. The protective effects against METH toxicity observed in the IL-6-/- mice were not caused by differences in temperature elevation or in METH accumulation in wild-type and mutant animals. Therefore, these observations support the proposition that IL-6 may play an important role in the neurotoxicity of METH.
The neural mechanisms and the circuitry involved in levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) are still partially obscure. LID can be considered the consequence of an abnormal pattern or code of activity that originates and is conveyed from the basal ganglia to the thalamus and the cortical motor areas. However, not only striatothalamocortical motor circuits but also other interconnected pathways could be implicated in its pathogenesis.
In a series of experiments, we applied repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the lateral cerebellum in a group of patients with advanced Parkinson disease, to investigate whether modulation of cerebellothalamocortical circuits by means of rTMS may result in a modification of a dyskinetic state induced by levodopa ingestion.
We found that a single session of cerebellar continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) was capable of transiently reducing LID. In the same patients, we observed that cerebellar cTBS changed the profile of activation of intracortical circuits in the contralateral primary motor cortex. Cerebellar cTBS reduced short intracortical inhibition and increased long intracortical inhibition, inducing a cortical reorganization that is associated with a reduction of LID. Furthermore, in another experiment, we observed that a 2-week course of bilateral cerebellar cTBS induced persistent clinical beneficial effects, reducing peak-dose LID for up to 4 weeks after the end of the daily stimulation period.
Our study demonstrates that cerebellar continuous theta burst stimulation has an antidyskinetic effect in Parkinson disease patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesia, possibly due to modulation of cerebellothalamocortical pathways.
Recent studies have indicated that chronic inhibition of nitric oxide synthase induces arterial hypertension without myocardial hypertrophy. We investigated the mechanisms of left ventricular (LV) adaptation to this condition. Also, we analyzed the effect of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), lisinopril, in this experimental model of ventricular pressure overload. Fifty-eight Wistar rats received eight weeks of treatment with either NW-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME group, n = 19), lisinopril (LISINOPRIL group, n = 19) or the combination of both drugs (LNAMELIS group, n = 20). All results were compared to age and sex matched untreated rats (CONTROL group, n = 18). Tail-cuff blood pressure rose significantly in L-NAME treated rats (195 +/- 29 mm Hg) compared to the CONTROL (141 +/- 12 mm Hg), LISINOPRIL (97 +/- 13 mm Hg), and LNAMELIS (113 +/- 16 mm Hg) groups. There was no myocardial hypertrophy in the chronically hypertensive rats. The ventricular unstressed volume was significantly reduced in the L-NAME group (0.119 +/- 0.027 mL) compared to the CONTROL (0.158 +/- 0.026 mL) indicating a disproportional reduction in ventricular volume related to the myocardial mass. The chamber size modification resulted in a systolic stress which was comparable to the CONTROL even though the isovolumetric systolic pressure was higher. The systolic functional data indicated preserved myocardial contractility in L-NAME. LV compliance was increased in the LISINOPRIL group and myocardial passive stiffness was lower in all treated rats compared to CONTROL. We conclude that LV. adaptation to chronic pressure overload without hypertrophy involves changes in chamber geometry and myocardial diastolic mechanical properties. Also, ACEI fully prevents L-NAME induced hypertension, reduces myocyte cross-sectional area, and myocardial passive stiffness. The combination of L-NAME plus lisinopril decreases the load independent index of myocardial contractility.
Clarithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic very similar to erythromycin in structure and spectrum of activity. It has gained increasing use since its release in Canada in May 1992, partly because it is promoted as having less potential for drug interactions and adverse effects. However, as with all new medications, a high degree of vigilance for unreported adverse effects is advisable.
A healthy 53-year-old lawyer was receiving long-term fluoxetine 80 mg hs and nitrazepam 10 mg hs for depression and mild sleep apnea. Subsequent to initiation of treatment with clarithromycin for a respiratory infection, he rapidly developed delirium, which cleared quickly after stopping all 3 medications. The delirium and psychosis did not recur when the infection was treated with erythromycin alone or after restarting fluoxetine and nitrazepam therapy at previous dosages in the absence of antibiotics.
This man's delirium is consistent with fluoxetine intoxication, which appears to have resulted from inhibition of hepatic cytochrome P450 metabolism by clarithromycin. Undiagnosed, this serious drug reaction could have lead to serious medical and social consequences.
As the use of clarithromycin increases, the potential for interactions with other drugs metabolized by the P450 enzyme system may be realized. Clinicians should consider which other medications a patient is receiving before prescribing clarithromycin or any macrolide antibiotic with potential to influence the P450 system.
Epidemiologic studies have suggested that environmental factors and diet are important risk factors in the pathogenesis of prostate cancer. The N-acetyltransferases (NAT) are important enzymes in activation and inactivation of various carcinogens, including those found in well-cooked meat and cigarette smoke.
We analyzed DNA samples from 146 prostate cancer patients and 174 healthy men. We used PCR-RFLP method to analyze NAT 1 and NAT 2 polymorphisms.
We did not find statistically significant differences in NAT 1 genotypes frequencies between prostate cancer patients and control group. We observed an association of the slow acetylator genotype, NAT 2*6/NAT2*6 with prostate cancer protection (P=0.017; OR=0.31, 95% CI 0.11--0.84). Multivariate logistic regression analysis confirmed this association (0.030; OR=0.32, 95% CI 0.12--0.89).
Our results indicate a role of NAT2 polymorphisms in the carcinogenic pathway of prostate cancer, specifically in a population of Southern Europe.
Aflatoxin, a potent fungal toxin, contaminates 25% of crops worldwide. Since 2004, 477 aflatoxin poisonings associated with eating contaminated maize have been documented in Eastern Kenya, with a case-fatality rate of 40%.
We characterized maize aflatoxin contamination during the high-risk season (April-June) after the major harvests in 2005, 2006 (aflatoxicosis outbreak years), and 2007 (a non-outbreak year).
Households were randomly selected each year from the region in Kenya where outbreaks have consistently occurred. At each household, we obtained at least one maize sample (n = 716) for aflatoxin analysis using immunoaffinity methods and administered a questionnaire to determine the source (i.e., homegrown, purchased, or relief) and amount of maize in the household.
During the years of outbreaks in 2005 and 2006, 41% and 51% of maize samples, respectively, had aflatoxin levels above the Kenyan regulatory limit of 20 ppb in grains that were for human consumption. In 2007 (non-outbreak year), 16% of samples were above the 20-ppb limit. In addition, geometric mean (GM) aflatoxin levels were significantly higher in 2005 (GM = 12.92, maximum = 48,000 ppb) and 2006 (GM = 26.03, maximum = 24,400 ppb) compared with 2007 (GM = 1.95, maximum = 2,500 ppb) (p-value < 0.001). In all 3 years combined, maize aflatoxin levels were significantly higher in homegrown maize (GM = 17.96) when compared with purchased maize (GM = 3.64) or relief maize (GM = 0.73) (p-value < 0.0001).
Aflatoxin contamination is extreme within this region, and homegrown maize is the primary source of contamination. Prevention measures should focus on reducing homegrown maize contamination at the household level to avert future outbreaks.
A 52-year-old man suffering from chronic hepatitis B related liver cirrhosis was treated for depression with paroxetine (Serotax) 5 mg and subsequently 15 mg once daily. A severe hepatitis with liver failure (jaundice, hypoalbuminaemia, edemas, and ascites) developed. After the drug was withdrawn the patient recovered completely. The adverse reaction may be explained by a change in the pharmacokinetics of the drug caused by the liver cirrhosis. Caution is required in prescribing long-term paroxetine therapy for patients with documented liver cirrhosis. The liver function should be monitored and administration of the drug should be discontinued when functional disturbances are noticed.
The effects of two types of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, enalapril (long-acting) and captopril (short-acting), on serum electrolytes and circadian rhythm of urinary electrolyte excretions were compared in relation to aldosterone status in patients with essential hypertension and normal renal function. Enalapril (5 mg once daily) and captopril (12.5 mg t.i.d.) were administered to 11 patients for 1 week each in a crossover fashion. Blood sampling in the early morning and 4-hour split urinary sampling for 24 hours were performed on the last day of control and each treatment periods. Enalapril and captopril significantly reduced blood pressure to similar levels. Enalapril but not captopril significantly inhibited plasma aldosterone concentration and urinary aldosterone excretion. Neither drug apparently altered serum or urinary Na levels. Both drugs significantly decreased urinary K excretion (p < 0.05, control: 44 +/- 4 mEq/day, captopril: 39 +/- 2 mEq/day, enalapril: 39 +/- 2 mEq/day; mean +/- SEM), but did not significantly alter serum K level (control: 4.1 +/- 0.1 mEq/l, captopril 4.2 +/- 0.2 mEq/l, enalapril 4.3 +/- 0.1 mEq/l). The circadian rhythm (acrophase) of urinary K excretion was not affected by either drug, while the amplitude was decreased by both, as assessed by the cosinor method. In summary, although enalapril caused more sustained inhibition of aldosterone secretion compared with captopril, both drugs showed similar effects on the K homeostasis in patients with mild essential hypertension.
The effects of flunarizine administration (10 mg/day, at bed time) were studied in 120 common migraine patients who were followed for 24 months with quarterly controls. Besides headache index (HI) and analgesic use, other variables were monitored, such as arousal (Tolouse Pieron test), mood (Hamilton rating scale for depression), sleep/wake (hrs) and body weight. The study was open-type and after the 6th month control some responder (R) cases (HI reduction greater than or equal to 60%) presenting HI scores less than or equal to 4 could continue the survey off-treatment. The percentage of R cases was 54.5% at the 3rd month, a figure that further increased up to 72% by the 9th month; relapses on treatment were not observed and rebound-headache occurred in 1/4 of R cases let off-treatment. Lower (p less than 0.05) baseline HI values characterized non-responders. Side-effects not requiring withdrawal were drowsiness (42% within the 1st month) and weight gain (mean 7.9 +/- 6.9 kg) in 54% of the cases, while a retarded type depression was the most frequent cause of drop-out from trial (7.5%). The results, while confirming the high prophylactic activity of flunarizine in common migraine, stress the importance of clinical long-term survey of side-effects using antimigraine drugs and suggest the need for further investigations about flunarizine effects on CNS.
Neuropsychological disturbances have been reported in association with use of the recreational drug "ecstasy," or 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), but findings have been inconsistent. We performed comprehensive neuropsychological testing examining seven ability domains in 21 MDMA users (MDMA+) and 21 matched control participants (MDMA-). Among MDMA+ participants, median [interquartile range] lifetime MDMA use was 186 [111, 516] doses, with 120 [35-365] days of abstinence. There were no significant group differences in neuropsychological performance, with the exception of the motor speed/dexterity domain in which 43% of MDMA+ were impaired compared with 5% of MDMA- participants (p = .004). Motor impairment differences were not explained by use of other substances and were unrelated to length of abstinence or lifetime number of MDMA doses. Findings provide limited evidence for neuropsychological differences between MDMA+ and MDMA- participants with the exception of motor impairments observed in the MDMA+ group. However, replication of this finding in a larger sample is warranted.
Optic neuropathy has been diagnosed in several amiodarone-treated patients, including the 13 patients described in this report. The clinical severity of this drug-related optic neuropathy is milder than that characteristically described in anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. The incidence of occurrence was significantly higher than that found in an age-matched general population sample. Whether this result was due solely to amiodarone therapy, to the underlying poor health of these patients, or to a combination of these two factors is uncertain. The findings in this study prompt us to recommend that all patients who receive amiodarone undergo complete ophthalmologic examinations, including careful evaluation of the ocular fundus regularly during such therapy. Appearance of optic neuropathy is probably a relative indication for discontinuing the use of the drug, in the hopes of avoiding bilateral involvement or perhaps recovering vision. The risks of complications of amiodarone treatment must be weighed against the benefit of therapy in patients whose lives are threatened by cardiac arrhythmias. On the basis of this study, the benefits of treatment seem to outweigh the small risk of optic neuropathy. No randomized study has been undertaken to determine the true incidence of complications associated with this medication and at this time could not be justified.
In five nondemented Parkinson's disease patients with daily visual hallucinations, we tested whether high-dose IV levodopa (LD) infusions precipitated hallucinations. Two infusion paradigms were studied, each with 1.5-mg/kg hourly dose for 4 hours--steady infusion and pulse infusion of the full hour dose over 5 minutes each hour. In both protocols, plasma LD levels changed significantly during the infusion protocol. The cumulative area under the curve was equivalent for the two infusions. All patients remained alert, and none developed visual hallucinations. The two patients with peak-dose dyskinesias on oral LD developed prominent dyskinesias during the infusion. Visual hallucinations do not relate simply to high levels of LD or to sudden changes in plasma levels.
