Doxorubicin is one of the most useful anticancer agents, but its repeated administration can induce irreversible cardiomyopathy as a major complication. The purpose of this study was to investigate doxorubicin toxicity on cardiac sympathetic neurons using iodine-131-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) and protein gene product (PGP) 9.5 immunohistochemistry, which is a marker of cardiac innervation. Wistar rats were treated with doxorubicin (2 mg/kg, i.v.) once a week for 4 (n=5), 6 (n=6) or 8 (n=7) weeks consecutively. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), calculated by M-mode echocardiography, was used as an indicator of cardiac function. Plasma noradrenaline (NA) concentration was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). 131I-MIBG uptake of the left ventricular wall (24 ROIs) was measured by autoradiography. 131I-MIBG uptake pattern was compared with histopathological results, the neuronal population on PGP 9.5 immunohistochemistry and the degree of myocyte damage assessed using a visual scoring system on haematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome staining. LVEF was significantly decreased in the 8-week group (P<0.05). The serum NA level also showed no statistical difference until 4 weeks and was significantly increased in the 8-week group (P<0.05). MIBG uptake was decreased in the 6- and 8-week groups (P<0.05), and was closely correlated with the reduction in the number of nerve fibres on PGP 9.5 stain. Myocyte damage was seen only in the 8-week group. Neuronal population and the 131I-MIBG uptake ratio of subepicardium to subendocardium were significantly increased (P<0.05) in the 8-week group as compared with the control group. It may be concluded that radioiodinated MIBG is a reliable marker for the detection of cardiac adrenergic neuronal damage in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy; it detects such damage earlier than do other clinical parameters and in this study showed a good correlation with the reduction in the neuronal population on PGP 9.5 stain. The subendocardial layer appeared to be more vulnerable to doxorubicin than the subepicardium.
Ameliorating effects were investigated of the cognitive-enhancing Chinese herbs administered orally for 1 week-Panax ginseng (PG), Panax notoginseng (PNG), Dioscorea opposita (DO), Gastrodia elata (GE), Salvia miltiorrhiza (SM), Acorus gramineus (AG), Coptis chinensis (CC), Polygonum multiflorum (PM), Cyperus rotundus (CR) and Psoralea corylifolia (PC)-on the scopolamine (SCOP)-induced amnesia by using a passive avoidance task in rats. Of ten Chinese herbs, only PG, PNG, GE and CC prolonged the SCOP-shortened STL. These results revealed that PG, PNG GE and CC administered orally for 1 week improved the SCOP-induced learning and memory deficit in rats.
We examined three microsatellites in the arginine vasopressin 1a receptor gene (AVPR1a), two in the promoter region (RS1 and RS3) and an intronic microsatellite (AVR), for association with autism as well as scores on the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale (VABS), the Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R) and the Autism Diagnostic Observation Scale-Generic (ADOS-G), measures that are widely used to diagnose autism spectrum disorders. We tested for association between the AVPR1a microsatellites and autism in 116 families (128 probands diagnosed with the ADI-R and ADOS-G using a family-based association test (UNPHASED)). Testing each individual microsatellite showed significant transmission disequilibrium in these families with the AVR intronic microsatellite (UNPHASED: LRS=11.46, global P-value=0.009, df=3). Haplotype analysis of three microsatellites also showed significant association (LRS=144.94, df=103, global P=0.004). Additionally, significant association is observed between these three microsatellite haplotypes and the VABS scores (P=0.009), with the ADI-R (P=0.009) and the ADOS-G (P=0.0000765) diagnoses of autistic disorder versus pervasive developmental disorder-not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS) that were available for 47 of these probands. This is the third consecutive report of an association between the AVPR1a gene and autism spectrum disorders and in the current study a third microsatellite is shown to be associated with autism spectrum disorders as well as haplotypes consisting of all three markers. Importantly, the association appears to be mainly mediated by the role of the AVPR1a gene in shaping socialization skills, similar to its role in lower vertebrates.Molecular Psychiatry (2006) 11, 488-494. doi:10.1038/sj.mp.4001812; published online 7 March 2006.
Sporadic prostate carcinoma is the most common male cancer in the Western world, yet many of the major genetic events involved in the progression of this often fatal cancer remain to be elucidated. Numerous cytogenetic and allelotype studies have reported frequent loss of heterozygosity on chromosomal arm 10q in sporadic prostate cancer. Deletion mapping studies have unambiguously identified a region of chromosome 10q23 to be the minimal area of loss. A new tumor suppressor gene, PTEN/MMAC1, was isolated recently at this region of chromosome 10q23 and found to be inactivated by mutation in three prostate cancer cell lines. We screened 80 prostate tumors by microsatellite analysis and found chromosome 10q23 to be deleted in 23 cases. We then proceeded with sequence analysis of the entire PTEN/MMAC1 coding region and tested for homozygous deletion with new intragenic markers in these 23 cases with 10q23 loss of heterozygosity. The identification of the second mutational event in 10 (43%) tumors establishes PTEN/MMAC1 as a main inactivation target of 10q loss in sporadic prostate cancer.
Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in the United States. Treatment of localized high-risk disease and de novo metastatic disease frequently leads to relapse. These metastatic castration resistant prostate cancers (mCRPC) claim a high mortality rate, despite the extended survival afforded by the growing armamentarium of androgen deprivation, radiation and immunotherapies. Here, we review two studies of neoadjuvant treatment of high-risk localized prostate cancer prior to prostatectomy, the total androgen pathway suppression (TAPS) trial and the neoadjuvant abiraterone acetate (AA) trial. These two trials assessed the efficacy of the non-specific P450c17 inhibitor, ketoconazole and the specific P450c17 inhibitor, AA, to inhibit tissue and serum androgen levels. Furthermore, a novel and validated stable isotope dilution liquid chromatography electrospray ionization selected reaction monitoring mass spectrometry assay was used to accurately quantify adrenal and gonadal androgens in circulation during the course of these trials. The adrenal androgens, Δ(4)-androstene-3,17-dione, dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate were significantly reduced in the patients receiving ketoconazole or AA compared to those who did not. However, in both trials, a significant amount of DHEA-S (∼20μg/dL) persists and thus may serve as a depot for intratumoral conversion to the potent androgen receptor ligands, testosterone (T) and 5α-dihydrotestosterone (DHT). The final step in conversion of Δ(4)-androstene-3,17-dione and 5α-androstanedione to T and DHT, respectively, is catalyzed by AKR1C3. We therefore present the case that in the context of the DHEA-S depot, P450c17 and AKR1C3 inhibition may be an effective combinatorial treatment strategy.
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between hepatotoxicity, levels of glucuronide conjugates of valproic acid (VPA), and the toxic metabolites of VPA (4-ene VPA and 2,4-diene VPA). We also examined whether hepatotoxicity could be predicted by the urinary excretion levels of VPA and its toxic metabolites. VPA was administrated orally in rats in amounts ranging from 20 mg/kg to 500 mg/kg. Free and total (free plus glucuronide conjugated) VPA, 4-ene VPA, and 2,4-diene VPA were quantified in urine and liver using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, and alpha-glutathione S-transferase (alpha-GST) were also determined to measure the level of hepatotoxicity. The serum alpha-GST level increased slightly at the 20 mg/kg dose, and substantially increased at the 100 and 500 mg/kg dose; aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels did not change with the administration of increasing doses of VPA. The liver concentration of free 4-ene VPA and the urinary excretion of total 4-ene VPA were the only measures that correlated with the increase in the serum alpha-GST level (p < 0.094 and p < 0.023 respectively). From these results, we conclude that hepatotoxicity of VPA correlates with liver concentration of 4-ene VPA and can be predicted by the urinary excretion of total 4-ene VPA.
Single-agent bendamustine has shown promise in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. As toxicity was low after weekly administration of this drug in other solid tumors, the present double-center phase II trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of weekly bendamustine as salvage treatment in metastatic breast cancer. A total of 34 patients with anthracycline (88%) and/or taxane (71%) pretreated for metastatic breast cancer received 60 mg/m bendamustine on day 1, 8 and 15 every 28 days for six cycles. In addition, 10 patients with HER2/neu-overexpressing tumors either continued (five patients) or started treatment with 2 mg/kg trastuzumab weekly (loading dose 4 mg/kg) at study entry. Patients had predominantly visceral disease and had received one (88%) or two chemotherapy regimens for metastatic breast cancer. All patients were eligible for toxicity and 27 for response evaluation. No grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity occurred. Only three patients experienced grade 3 nonhematologic toxicity. Five patients (19%) reached a partial response. Stable disease for at least 6 months was achieved in eight patients, for a clinical benefit rate of 48%. The median progression-free survival and median overall survival were 6 months (range, 1-16) and 15 months (range, 2-28), respectively. We conclude that weekly bendamustine is a valid treatment option in patients with anthracycline-pretreated and/or taxanepretreated metastatic breast cancer; in particular, due to its low toxicity profile. Future trials should evaluate higher single doses of bendamustine in a weekly schedule.
We report a patient with severe axial tardive dystonia who has had dramatic improvement for 4 years after treatment with the atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine (625 mg/day). Clozapine differs from conventional neuroleptics in that it has higher affinity for D1 and lower affinity for D2 dopamine receptors than do conventional antipsychotics, which are relatively selective D2 antagonists. We propose that repetitive stimulation of the D1 receptor by endogenous dopamine, resulting in sensitization of the D1-mediated striatal output in the presence of D2 receptor blockade, is a fundamental mechanism mediating tardive dyskinesia, including the dystonic type. According to this hypothesis, it is primarily the D1 antagonist action of clozapine that accounts for its inability to cause tardive dyskinesia as well as its therapeutic effect in tardive dystonia. Regardless of its mechanism of action, the sustained improvement observed in this case suggests that clozapine should be tried in cases of severe refractory tardive dystonia.
In patients with a nephrotic syndrome administration of prednisolone causes an increase of proteinuria. To elucidate the mechanism of this effect we have studied the acute proteinuric effect of prednisolone, 125 to 150 mg intravenously, in nine patients (7 M, 2F) with a nephrotic syndrome. Mean age (+/- SD) of the patients was 53 +/- 6 years, mean endogenous creatinine clearance 104 +/- 30 ml/min, and mean proteinuria 7.7 +/- 3.0 g/24 hr. After administration of prednisolone, urinary total protein excretion rose in all patients from a mean (+/- SEM) of 4.89 +/- 0.59 mg/min before to 9.09 +/- 0.99 mg/min at five hours after administration (P less than 0.01). Glomerular filtration rate (inulin clearance), effective renal plasma flow (PAH clearance), and filtration fraction did not change significantly. The increases of urinary excretion of albumin (median %: +92%), IgG (median %: +88%), and transferrin (median %: +76%) were comparable and correlated significantly. Urinary excretion of beta 2-microglobulin did not change significantly however. We conclude that intravenous administration of prednisolone to patients with a nephrotic syndrome causes an increase in urinary protein excretion rate which cannot be explained by changes in renal hemodynamics or tubular protein reabsorption, and which therefore must be the result of a change in glomerular permselectivity characteristics.
In Dahl salt-sensitive rats on a high salt diet or normotensive rats with chronic central infusion of sodium, increased brain "ouabain" results in sympathetic hyperactivity and hypertension, possibly by activating the brain renin-angiotensin system. In the present study, we tested whether the hypertension caused by exogenous ouabain also depends on activation of brain renin-angiotensin system. In Wistar rats, ouabain (50 micrograms/d) was infused subcutaneously for 14 days with the use of osmotic minipumps. Concomitantly, in one group, the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker losartan (1 mg/kg per day) was infused intracerebroventricularly. On day 15, mean arterial pressure, heart rate, central venous pressure, and renal sympathetic nerve activity were recorded in conscious rats at rest and in response to air-jet stress, intracerebroventricular injection of the alpha(2)-agonist guanabenz (25 and 75 micrograms) or angiotensin II (30 ng), acute volume expansion, and ramp changes of blood pressure by +/-50 mm Hg with phenylephrine and nitroprusside. Compared with control rats, in rats treated with ouabain, resting mean arterial pressure was significantly increased (111+/-4 versus 93+/-3 mm Hg; P<0.05), and increases or decreases in mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and renal sympathetic nerve activity in response to air stress or guanabenz were enhanced significantly. These effects of ouabain were prevented when losartan was given concomitantly. Maximal slopes of arterial baroreflex control of renal sympathetic nerve activity and heart rate tended to be decreased in ouabain-treated versus control rats and were significantly increased in ouabain-treated rats with versus without losartan. No differences in cardiopulmonary baroreflex function were detected. It seems that by day 14 to 15, the central effect of ouabain on baroreflex control prevails over its peripheral sensitizing effect on baroreceptors, leading to a tendency of desensitization. These results indicate that chronic administration of ouabain activates the brain renin-angiotensin system, resulting in decreased sympathoinhibition and increased sympathoexcitation, impairment of baroreflex function, and hypertension.
One month of adjunct treatment with naltrexone (100 mg/day) was compared with placebo in a double-blind, randomized, cross-over design in two groups of patients with Parkinson's disease. The first group was composed of 10 patients with a moderate motor impairment insufficiently controlled by monotherapy with bromocriptine. The second group was composed of eight patients with L-dopa-induced peak-dose dyskinesia. Naltrexone as compared with placebo did not demonstrate any significant change in motor function in either group. These negative clinical results do not support a significant role of endogenous opioid systems in the pathophysiology of motor impairment in Parkinson's disease.
The recent discovery of missense mutations in the superoxide dismutase (SOD)-1 gene as a cause of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and the ensuing description of transgenic SOD-1 mutant mouse models have focussed scientific interest on free radical scavenging mechanisms in all other familial (FALS) and sporadic (SALS) forms of the disease. We have compared the presence of intracellular cytosolic copper-zinc SOD-1 and mitochondrial manganese SOD-2 in the CNS from FALS and SALS patients and from non-neurological controls by immunohistochemical assessment, in the knowledge that no SOD-1 mutations have been found in any of 18 Dutch ALS pedigrees. ALS specimens from the motor cortex and the spinal cord presented enhanced SOD-2 immunoreactivity, especially of astrocytes and occasionally of neurons. Astrocyte staining appeared to be increased at the cerebral cortical and the spinal cervical and lumbar levels, but was only slightly increased in the thoracic anterior horns and not at all in the brain stem. This indicates that, by the time of death, the disease had burnt out in the brain stem and thoracic cord. Increased staining of neurons was limited to the small lateral and dorsal nuclei of the spinal cord. FALS and SALS cases exhibited the same staining patterns. SOD-1 immunoreactivity did not differ between disease and control specimens. SOD-1 and -2 staining was normal in the ALS cortical, brain stem and spinal motoneurons. This suggests that SALS and non-SOD-1 mutant FALS are not accompanied by loss of SOD-1 or -2 protein. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay revealed no differences in SOD-1 and SOD-2 levels between ALS patients and controls. Our major finding of locally increased SOD-2 immunoreactivity of astrocytes in FALS and SALS specimens, probably reflects reactive fibrillary and protoplasmatic gliosis in areas of ongoing degeneration but may also result from an attempt at compensation for free radical injury.
Because acute liver failure is rare, related data have been sparse. Studies have suggested that viral hepatitis is the most common underlying cause of this condition.
To describe the clinical features, presumed causes, and short-term outcomes of acute liver failure.
Prospective cohort study.
17 tertiary care centers participating in the U.S. Acute Liver Failure Study Group.
308 consecutive patients with acute liver failure, admitted over a 41-month period.
Detailed clinical and laboratory data collected during hospitalization, including outcome 3 weeks after study admission.
73% of patients were women; median age was 38 years. Acetaminophen overdose was the most common apparent cause of acute liver failure, accounting for 39% of cases. Idiosyncratic drug reactions were the presumptive cause in 13% of cases, viral hepatitis A and B combined were implicated in 12% of cases, and 17% of cases were of indeterminate cause. Overall patient survival at 3 weeks was 67%. Twenty-nine percent of patients had liver transplantation, and 43% survived without transplantation. Short-term transplant-free survival varied greatly, from 68% for patients with acetaminophen-related liver failure to 25% and 17% for those with other drug reactions and liver failure of indeterminate cause, respectively. Coma grade at admission appeared to be associated with outcome, but age and symptom duration did not.
Acetaminophen overdose and idiosyncratic drug reactions have replaced viral hepatitis as the most frequent apparent causes of acute liver failure. Apparent cause and coma grade at admission were associated with outcome. Although transplantation may improve patient survival, it was unavailable or unnecessary for most patients.
The risk and course of serum transaminase elevations (TEs) and clinical hepatic serious adverse event (SAE) development in ritonavir-boosted tipranavir (TPV/r) 500/200 mg BID recipients, who also received additional combination antiretroviral treatment agents in clinical trials (TPV/r-based cART), was determined.
Aggregated transaminase and hepatic SAE data through 96 weeks of TPV/r-based cART from five Phase IIb/III trials were analyzed. Patients were categorized by the presence or absence of underlying liver disease (+LD or -LD). Kaplan-Meier (K-M) probability estimates for time-to-first US National Institutes of Health, Division of AIDS (DAIDS) Grade 3/4 TE and clinical hepatic SAE were determined and clinical actions/outcomes evaluated. Risk factors for DAIDS Grade 3/4 TE were identified through multivariate Cox regression statistical modeling.
Grade 3/4 TEs occurred in 144/1299 (11.1%) patients; 123/144 (85%) of these were asymptomatic; 84% of these patients only temporarily interrupted treatment or continued, with transaminase levels returning to Grade < or = 2. At 96 weeks of study treatment, the incidence of Grade 3/4 TEs was higher among the +LD (16.8%) than among the -LD (10.1%) patients. K-M analysis revealed an incremental risk for developing DAIDS Grade 3/4 TEs; risk was greatest through 24 weeks (6.1%), and decreasing thereafter (>24-48 weeks: 3.4%, >48 weeks-72 weeks: 2.0%, >72-96 weeks: 2.2%), and higher in +LD than -LD patients at each 24-week interval. Treatment with TPV/r, co-infection with hepatitis B and/or C, DAIDS grade >1 TE and CD4+ > 200 cells/mm3 at baseline were found to be independent risk factors for development of DAIDS Grade 3/4 TE; the hazard ratios (HR) were 2.8, 2.0, 2.1 and 1.5, respectively. Four of the 144 (2.7%) patients with Grade 3/4 TEs developed hepatic SAEs; overall, 14/1299 (1.1%) patients had hepatic SAEs including six with hepatic failure (0.5%). The K-M risk of developing hepatic SAEs through 96 weeks was 1.4%; highest risk was observed during the first 24 weeks and decreased thereafter; the risk was similar between +LD and -LD patients for the first 24 weeks (0.6% and 0.5%, respectively) and was higher for +LD patients, thereafter.
Through 96 weeks of TPV/r-based cART, DAIDS Grade 3/4 TEs and hepatic SAEs occurred in approximately 11% and 1% of TPV/r patients, respectively; most (84%) had no significant clinical implications and were managed without permanent treatment discontinuation. Among the 14 patients with hepatic SAE, 6 experienced hepatic failure (0.5%); these patients had profound immunosuppression and the rate appears higher among hepatitis co-infected patients. The overall probability of experiencing a hepatic SAE in this patient cohort was 1.4% through 96 weeks of treatment. Independent risk factors for DAIDS Grade 3/4 TEs include TPV/r treatment, co-infection with hepatitis B and/or C, DAIDS grade >1 TE and CD4+ > 200 cells/mm3 at baseline.
US-NIH Trial registration number: NCT00144170.
The use of intracameral lidocaine for augmenting analgesia during intraocular surgery is becoming increasingly popular. We report a case of complete visual loss after the use of intracameral lidocaine to repair a traumatic corneal graft dehiscence. Full visual recovery returned several hours after surgery, suggesting this medication's relative lack of retinal toxicity.
As kidney is a major target organ affected by drug toxicity, early detection of renal injury is critical in preclinical drug development. In past decades, a series of novel biomarkers of drug-induced nephrotoxicity were discovered and verified in rats. However, limited data regarding the performance of novel biomarkers in non-rodent species are publicly available. To increase the applicability of these biomarkers, we evaluated the performance of 4 urinary biomarkers including neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), clusterin, total protein, and N-acetyl-β-D-glucosaminidase (NAG), relative to histopathology and traditional clinical chemistry in beagle dogs with acute kidney injury (AKI) induced by gentamicin. The results showed that urinary NGAL and clusterin levels were significantly elevated in dogs on days 1 and 3 after administration of gentamicin, respectively. Gene expression analysis further provided mechanistic evidence to support that NGAL and clusterin are potential biomarkers for the early assessment of drug-induced renal damage. Furthermore, the high area (both AUCs=1.000) under receiver operator characteristics (ROC) curve also indicated that NGAL and clusterin were the most sensitive biomarkers for detection of gentamicin-induced renal proximal tubular toxicity. Our results also suggested that NAG may be used in routine toxicity testing due to its sensitivity and robustness for detection of tissue injury. The present data will provide insights into the preclinical use of these biomarkers for detection of drug-induced AKI in non-rodent species.
Soft tissue sarcoma (STS) is a rare malignancy that is generally resistant to chemotherapy. We investigated the ability of the histone deacetylase inhibitor vorinostat to sensitize STS cells versus normal fibroblasts to chemotherapy. Fibrosarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, and liposarcoma cells and normal fibroblasts were treated with vorinostat to determine effects on proliferation and basal apoptosis as measured by total cell number and cleaved caspase 3 staining. Effects on histone deacetylases (HDAC) activity were confirmed by Western blotting for acetylated histone H3. A clinically relevant dose of vorinostat that had no effect on basal apoptosis was selected to examine altered sensitivity to doxorubicin. The effects of vorinostat, doxorubicin, or the combination on fibrosarcoma growth in vivo were determined in a xenograft model. Tumor volume was measured biweekly and HDAC activity and cell death were assessed by immunohistochemical analysis of acetylated histone H3, cleaved caspase 3, and TUNEL staining. Vorinostat inhibited proliferation and induced histone acetylation without affecting basal apoptosis levels. Combined treatment with vorinostat and doxorubicin synergistically induced apoptosis in vitro in fibrosarcoma but not leiomyosarcoma, liposarcoma, or normal fibroblasts. In nude mice, the combination of vorinostat and doxorubicin inhibited fibrosarcoma xenograft growth further than either agent alone. Cell death, as measured by cleaved caspase 3 and TUNEL staining, was greatest in xenografts from mice treated with vorinostat and doxorubicin. Vorinostat inhibits growth and induces chemosensitivity in fibrosarcoma cells in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that the combination of vorinostat and chemotherapy may represent a novel treatment option for this STS subtype. © 2010 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 29:623-632, 2011.
Cataract is a key factor in the morbidity associated with diabetes. While the pathogenesis of diabetic cataract formation is poorly understood, previous research has identified aldose reductase (ALR2) as a key player. To elucidate a potential role for this enzyme in diabetic cataract formation, we created a series of transgenic mice designed for expression of human ALR2 (AKR1B1) in epithelial and outer cortical fiber cells of the lens. One of the founder lines, designated PAR39, developed an early onset cataract that involved formation of a plaque of cells at the anterior aspect of the lens. These cells appear to separate from the anterior epithelium and undergo a dramatic change that is reminiscent of the epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). We characterized this phenotype in the PAR39 strain by examining rates of cell proliferation and by immunostaining for markers of EMT. Incorporation of the thymidine analog bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was used to estimate cell proliferation in two functional areas of the lens epithelium: the mitotically active germinative zone (GZ) and the less proliferative center zone (CZ). Staining cell nuclei with diamido 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) was used to establish a total cell count in the demarcated areas. Lens epithelium in PAR39 transgenic mice demonstrated a decrease in the percentage of BrdU/DAPI staining within the GZ as compared to nontransgenic littermate controls (8.1% vs. 10.9%). A similar decrease in BrdU/DAPI was observed in the CZ (0.6% compared to 3.3%). However, cell density was greater within the GZ of PAR39 mice as compared with nontransgenic controls, while it was not significantly different in the CZ among the two groups. Furthermore, cells associated with the epithelial plaque did not stain positive for BrdU, but were strongly positive for alpha-smooth muscle actin, a classical marker for EMT. These findings suggest that ALR2 over-expression is associated with an alteration in the balance between proliferation and apoptosis of epithelial cells in the mouse lens, and that cells associated with epithelial plaques in the PAR39 lens have features in common with cells undergoing EMT.
A rapid and accurate method to detect and quantify Leishmania parasite is urgently needed to facilitate early diagnosis of leishmaniasis and monitoring of antileishmania therapy. In this study, real-time assay was applied to estimate parasite load in clinical samples of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) patients. The mean parasite load in blood of VL patients (n = 31) was 8,372 parasites/ml, while the mean parasite load in bone marrow aspirate (BMA) was 194,962 parasites/million nucleated cells (n = 12). Parasite load was undetectable after treatment with amphotericin B (n = 9) in VL, while a residual parasite burden was detected in 2 of 6 patients following treatment with sodium antimony gluconate. Further, circulating levels of IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IL-10, IL-6, IL-4 and IL-2 were analysed in VL patients (n = 29) by Cytometric Bead Array to evaluate correlation with parasitic load. Interestingly, IL-10 levels correlated significantly with parasite load (r = 0.82, P<0.0001). The mean parasite load in dermal lesions of PKDL patients was 9,502 parasites/microg tissue DNA at pre-treatment stage (n = 25), with no detectable parasites after therapy (n = 5). Parasite burden was distinctly higher (P<0.0001) in nodular lesions (n = 12) (19,586 parasites/microg tissue DNA) compared to papular/macular lesions (n = 13, 193 parasites/microg tissue DNA). Further, chronic PKDL lesions showed significantly (P = 0.0166) higher parasite load in comparison with acute lesions. Results indicate that chronic, nodular cases constitute the major parasite reservoir for anthroponotic transmission. Our results establish that the high parasite load in VL is strongly correlated with a high level of IL-10, implicating IL-10 as a marker of disease severity. The assay is applicable for diagnosis as well as prognosis of both VL and PKDL, providing a simple molecular tool to monitor the efficacy of antileishmanial drugs or vaccines.
1. Therapeutic decisions are guided by a patient's clinical status (severity of disease and presence of comorbidities) and previous drug-exposure history. 2. Lamivudine is safe and effective in liver transplant recipients with recurrent hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection caused by wild-type virus or failure of hepatitis B immunoglobulin therapy. Lamivudine resistance, developing in approximately 25% after 12 months of therapy, is its main limitation. 3. Famciclovir is safe in liver transplant recipients; however, virological and clinical responses are less consistent than with lamivudine. Thus, lamivudine is favored over famciclovir as first-line therapy in transplant recipients with no previous exposure to nucleoside analogues. 4. Although limited in availability, adefovir dipivoxil appears safe and effective in treating liver transplant recipients with lamivudine-resistant HBV disease. Close monitoring of renal function is recommended, with dose adjustment in patients with reduced creatinine clearances. 5. Limited data suggest that intravenous ganciclovir, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, and interferon alfa may be useful as rescue therapies for patients with lamivudine- or famciclovir-resistant HBV disease. 6. Antiviral therapy with two or more suitable agents may minimize the chance for viral resistance; therefore, future therapeutic strategies likely will use combination therapy in the long-term management of recurrent HBV disease.
Several [(1H-imidazol-1-yl)methyl]- and [(3-pyridinyl)methyl] pyrroles were prepared and evaluated in vitro as thromboxane synthetase inhibitors in human platelet aggregation studies. A number of structures, e.g. 10b,f,g,i (respective IC50 values: 1 microM, 50 nM, 42 nM, 44 nM) showed superior in vitro inhibition of TXA2 synthetase when compared to the standard dazoxiben (1). However, it was found that in vitro potency did not translate into nor correlate with in vivo activity when these compounds were evaluated in mice in a collagen-epinephrine-induced pulmonary thromboembolism model. (E)-1-Methyl-2-[(1H-imidazol-1-yl)methyl]-5-(2-carboxyprop-1-enyl) pyrrole (10b) was found to offer protection against collagen-epinephrine-induced mortality in mice, thereby demonstrating that oral administration is an effective route for absorption of this drug. Additional evidence for the oral effectiveness of 10b in lowering serum TXB2 levels was obtained by performing ex vivo radioimmunoassay experiments with rats. A 13-week study of 10b in rats with reduced renal mass was conducted in order to evaluate the role of TXA2 production in hypertension and renal dysfunction. Although serum and urinary TXB2 levels in rats were found to be lowered during this study by 10b, the levels of urinary protein excretion remained comparable to that of the control group.
Inbred mouse strains have been shown to differ in their levels of brain alpha-bungarotoxin binding. These differences in alpha-bungarotoxin receptors have been shown to correlate with an animal's sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. Recent studies have shown that the alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit is the major alpha-bungarotoxin binding site in rodent brain. In this report, we examined whether mouse strains that differ in levels of alpha-bungarotoxin binding and sensitivity to nicotine-induced convulsions also differ for the alpha 7 subunit. A full-length murine alpha 7 cDNA was cloned and sequenced and found to be identical to that of a mouse alpha 7 cDNA recently reported. Subsequently, a comparison of alpha 7 cDNA sequences and RNA species was performed between two strains (C3H/2 and DBA/2) that differ in levels of brain alpha-bungarotoxin binding and sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. The only difference observed was a single nucleotide difference in the open reading frame of alpha 7 that does not affect the primary amino acid sequence. Inbred strains were also surveyed for restriction fragment length polymorphisms at the alpha 7 locus. Strain-specific polymorphisms were identified, and F2 and backcross animals from a classic genetic cross between C3H/2 and DBA/2 mice were compared for the inheritance of alpha 7 genotype and alpha-bungarotoxin receptor levels. A significant association between genotype and receptor levels was observed in both, the F2 and backcross generations. These results indicate that alpha 7 genotype is an important determinant of alpha-bungarotoxin receptor levels.
Fourteen patients with the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) have been treated with demethylchlortetracycline (demeclocycline) 1200 mg daily. In 12 patients the underlying lesion was malignant. The serum sodium returned to normal (greater than 135 mmol/l) in all patients after a mean of 8.6 days (SD +/- 5.3 days). Blood urea rose significantly from the pretreatment level of 4.2 +/- 2.3 mmol/l to 10.1 +/- 5.1 mmol/l at ten days (P less than 0.001). The average maximum blood urea was 13.4 +/- 6.8 mmol/l. In four patients the urea rose above 20 mmol/l, and in two of these demecyocycline was discontinued because of thie rise. The azotaemia could be attributed to a combination of increased urea producation and a mild specific drug-induced nephrotoxicity. Discontinuation of demeclocycline in six patients led to a fall in serum sodium, in one case precipitously, and return of the urea towards normal levels. Demeclocycline appears therefore to be an effective maintenance treatment of SIADH, and the azotaemia that occurs is reversible and probably dose dependent.
Tissue-type plasminogen activators (tPA) and urokinase-type plasminogen activators (uPA) are involved in liver repair. We examined the potential immunomodulatory actions of uPA, tPA and uPA-receptor (uPAR) in carbon-tetrachloride-induced hepatic fibrosis in wild-type (WT), tPA-/-, uPA-/- and uPAR-/- mice. Carbon-tetrachloride treatment increased fibrosis in four groups but significantly less in three knock-out models. Serum cytokines and intrahepatic T cells elevated significantly following fibrosis process in WT animals but not in the knock-out groups. In culture, uPA increased lymphocyte proliferation significantly in WT and uPA-/- but not uPAR-/- animals. Following uPA exposure in vivo, there was CD8 predominance. To isolate uPA's effect on lymphocytes, WT mice were irradiated sublethally and then reconstituted with WT or uPA-/- lymphocytes. In these animals fibrosis was decreased and T cells were reduced in the uPA-/- recipients. Based on these data we postulate that plasminogen activators affect fibrosis in part by liver-specific activation of CD8 subsets that govern the fibrogenic activity of hepatic stellate cells.
Recent intervention studies revealed that beta-carotene supplement to smokers resulted in a higher incidence of lung cancer. However, the causal mechanisms remain to be clarified. We reported here that vitamin A (retinol) and its derivative (retinal) caused cellular DNA cleavage detected by pulsed field gel electrophoresis. Retinol and retinal significantly induced 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine formation in HL-60 cells but not in H(2)O(2)-resistant HP100 cells, suggesting the involvement of H(2)O(2) in cellular DNA damage. Experiments using (32)P-labeled isolated DNA demonstrated that retinol and retinal caused Cu(II)-mediated DNA damage, which was inhibited by catalase. UV-visible spectroscopic and electron spin resonance-trapping studies revealed the generation of superoxide and carbon-centered radicals, respectively. The superoxide generation during autoxidation of retinoids was significantly correlated with the formation of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine, although the yield of carbon-centered radicals was not necessarily related to the intensity of DNA damage. These findings suggest that superoxide generated by autoxidation of retinoids was dismutated to H(2)O(2), which was responsible for DNA damage in the presence of endogenous metals. Retinol and retinal have prooxidant abilities, which might lead to carcinogenesis of the supplements of beta-carotene.
We had a case of psychiatric evidence who was homeless and exhibited severe abulia and autism on detention for assault and battery. It was thought that his past history of chronic methamphetamine abuse and his familial history played some part in his showing such symptoms. His mother was alcohol dependent. He was an ACOA (adult child of alcoholics), which might have led to his chronic abuse of methamphetamine. On the other hand, it is well-known fact that the amotivational syndrome induced by marijuana abuse is typified by a diminution of ambition, productivity, and motivation. However, it has been contended that amotivational syndrome is induced not only by marijuana but also by amphetamine and its analogs, cocaine and volatile solvents. Since we positively support this view, we diagnosed the case as amotivational syndrome after long-term methamphetamine abuse. This was also a rare criminal case of amotivational state without hallucinations and delusions after methamphetamine abuse. We suggested that the crime committed in this case was closely related to crime induced by economic problems in residual states of schizophrenic offenders. This could be a case of both ACOA and methamphetamine dependence. There were unresolved alcohol- and drug-related problems in this case. Therefore, careful early intervention in a crisis, cooperation with the authorities and the institutions concerned, and comprehensive rehabilitation should be employed to resolve such alcohol- and drug-related problems.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is the only current pharmacologic treatment for primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). However, some patients show persistent liver biochemical abnormalities even after 6 to 12 months treatment. Bezafibrate retard is a commonly used medication for hyperlipidemia. In Japanese studies, it was found to lower liver enzyme levels, apparently through its action on multiple drug resistance gene 3, a transport element of the ATP-dependent bile secretion system, and on peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of adding bezafibrate to the treatment regimen in patients with PBC and a partial response to UDCA.
The study group included 8 White patients, 7 women and 1 man, aged 52 to 76 years with PBC who had been treated at our Liver Institute with UDCA (900 mg/d to 1500 mg/d) for 2 to 11 years (mean, 5.7 y) with only a partial response (19% to 56% reduction in alkaline phosphatase level). Bezafibrate (400 mg/d) was added to UDCA and the patients were followed for 4 to 12 months.
Alkaline phosphatase levels (normal range, 35 to 104 U/L) decreased in all patients, from 140 to 360 U/L (mean, 201.2) to 68 to 158 U/L (mean, 98.4), and normalized in 6 patients. In addition, levels of gamma-glutamyl transferase (normal range, 6 to 42 U/L) decreased from 70 to 192 U/L (mean, 130) to 41 to 122 U/L (mean, 71.8). These findings were maintained throughout follow-up.
Combination therapy with bezafibrate and UDCA improves the biochemical profile of patients with PBC who respond only partially to UDCA. A larger controlled study is needed to evaluate the clinical implications of these findings.
To elucidate the mechanisms responsible for the development of HgCl(2)-induced acute renal failure (ARF), we examined the expression of brain type (b) nitric oxide synthase (NOS), which is involved in the generation of the vasodilator nitric oxide (NO), in the renal cortex of rats at 20 h after exposure to 7.5 mg/kg HgCl(2). Both blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine were significantly increased in rats exposed to HgCl(2) relative to control rats, indicating the induction of ARF resulting from HgCl(2) exposure. Histopathological analysis demonstrated that, in addition to necrosis of proximal tubule epithelial cells, necrosis of macula densa cells and swelling of glomerular epithelial cells were observed in the renal cortex of rats with HgCl(2)-induced ARF. Consequently, the number of pars maculata segments was decreased by 42% in rats with HgCl(2)-induced ARF compared to control rats. The primary sites of bNOS mRNA and protein expression were macula densa cells and glomerular epithelial cells in the renal cortex of control rats and rats with HgCl(2)-induced ARF. The abundance of the bNOS mRNA and protein was significantly decreased in rats with HgCl(2)-induced ARF relative to control rats. These observations suggest that the production of the vasodilator NO derived from bNOS is decreased at the glomerulus level in the HgCl(2)-induced ARF setting. Thus, the reduction in bNOS expression may in part contribute to the progression of HgCl(2)-induced ARF through the deterioration of glomerular hemodynamics. In addition, the decrease in bNOS expression may be primarily the result of cell injury caused by the cytotoxic effect of HgCl(2).
A threatening occurrence in some cocaine abusers is the progressive destruction of nasal structures (cocaine-induced midline destructive lesions [CIMDL]) that may end in a highly severe disease.
Thirty patients with CIMDL, 10 healthy patients, 10 patients affected by nasal polyposis, and 10 patients affected by Wegener granulomatosis were observed. Biopsy specimens of nasal mucosa were analyzed by immunohistochemistry for caspases-3, -9 and -8 and by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-digoxygenin nick end labeling (TUNEL) method. The time and concentration-dependent effects of cocaine in vitro were studied in HaCat cells by TUNEL and Western blotting.
All CIMDL biopsy specimens showed abundant caspase-3 and caspase-9 expression but no caspase-8 positive cells. No obvious expression of any caspases was detected in biopsy specimens from healthy subjects or in patients affected by nasal polyposis or Wegener granulomatosis. In HaCat cells cellular changes were observed, which confirmed induction of massive apoptotic events. The rate of apoptosis in HaCat cells was dependent on the concentration of cocaine. After 1 hour, 2.5, 5, and 10 mM of cocaine induced 16, 45, and 84% of apoptotic figures, respectively, while 6 hours of exposure increased apoptosis to 25, 54, and 94% at the same concentrations. Caspase expression and activation in HaCat cells treated with 100 microM and 1 mM of cocaine for 1 hour were confirmed by Western blotting.
Cultured epithelial cells show both time- and dose-dependent increases in apoptosis and cellular damage on cocaine treatment. We suggest that some abusers trigger CIMDL by abnormally boosting apoptosis within nasal epithelial cells. Cocaine abusers with higher apoptotic rates may predict whether they will eventually develop CIMDL.
