The effect of sevoflurane anesthesia with or without induced hypotension on hepatocellular integrity was studied. Forty adult consented patients scheduled for various urological procedures were allocated randomly to either NTG group (nitroglycerin-induced hypotension) or a control group of twenty patients each. Anesthesia was induced and maintained by fentanyl, sevoflurane & vecuronium in both groups. In NTG group, nitro-glycerin infusion was adjusted to maintain mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 50-65 mm Hg. Specific and sensitive hepatic biomarkers; alpha (alpha) and pi (pi) glutathione S-transferases (GST) and hyaluronic acid (HA), also traditional liver enzymes; aspartate (AST) and alanine (ALT) aminotransferases were measured at: TO (pre-induction), T1, T2, T3 (15, 30 & 60 minutes after MAP stabilization respectively) and T4 (24 hours after anesthesia end). Plasma alpha-GST significantly increased at T3 in control group (p < 0.05) and in NTG group (p < 0.01) compared to TO in same group. In NTG group, hyaluronic acid con-centrations was significantly increased at T1, T2 (p < 0.05) and T3 (p < 0.01) from T0. Compared to control group, alpha- GST & HA concentrations showed significant increases in NTG group at T3 with p < 0.05 then returned back to normal range at T4. But, pi-GST, AST and ALT showed no significant changes throughout the study in both groups.
To evaluate the long-term safety of tacrolimus 3 mg/day in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Patients with active RA who had discontinued all DMARDs for at least 2 weeks and had at least five tender/painful joints and three swollen joints, and required DMARD treatment in the opinion of the investigator, were enrolled into this open-label long-term safety trial. In addition, patients who had completed at least 3 months of treatment with tacrolimus 2 mg/day, tacrolimus 3 mg/day or placebo in a Phase III double-blind efficacy trial were allowed to roll over into this study. This latter group of patients did not have to fulfil any joint count requirements prior to entry into the long-term safety study, provided that no more than 14 days had elapsed between the end of their participation in the double-blind study and screening for the long-term safety study. All patients enrolled received tacrolimus 3 mg/day in addition to their current regimen of NSAIDs and corticosteroids.
896 patients received at least one dose of tacrolimus 3 mg. The median duration of treatment was 359 days. 145 patients (16.2%) withdrew from the study for adverse events possibly or probably related to tacrolimus, 33 patients (3.7%) withdrew from the study for adverse events unrelated to tacrolimus and 112 (12.5%) withdrew for lack of efficacy. No adverse event with an incidence >0.7% appeared for the first time after the first 3 months of treatment with 3 mg tacrolimus. 529 patients (59%) experienced an adverse event that was possibly or probably related to tacrolimus; the most common were diarrhoea (14.6%), nausea (10.3%), tremor (9.0%), headache (8.7%), abdominal pain (7.9%), dyspepsia (7.6%), increased creatinine (6.8%) and hypertension (5.4%). Twenty-four patients (2.7%) experienced serious adverse events possibly or probably related to study drug; the most common were pneumonia (0.6%), hyperglycaemia (0.3%), gastroenteritis (0.2%), pancreatitis (0.2%) and diabetes mellitus (0.2%). The mean creatinine level increased from 67+/-19 micromol/l (0.76+/-0.22 mg/dl) at baseline to 75+/-26 micromol/l (0.85+/-0.30 mg/dl) (P<0.0001) at end of treatment. 351 (40.3%) of the 872 patients for whom creatinine levels were available at both baseline and during treatment had > or =30% increase from baseline in serum creatinine during the study, either related or unrelated to tacrolimus, with 73 patients (8.4%) having creatinine levels exceeding the normal range. At end of treatment, 177 patients (20.3%) had a > or =30% increase from baseline in creatinine. Serum creatinine remained within the normal range throughout the trial in approximately 90% of patients. At the end of treatment, the ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 response rates were 38.4%, 18.6% and 9.0% respectively. Over 26% of patients had at least a 70% improvement in both swollen and painful/tender joints.
This study demonstrates that tacrolimus was safe and well-tolerated and provided clinical benefit over a period of at least 12 months.
Exposure to tobacco smoke has epidemiologically been linked to the occurrence of cardiovascular disease among nonsmokers but the associated molecular events are not well elucidated yet. When Sprague Dawley rats were exposed to second-hand tobacco cigarette smoke twice a day for a 30 days period at an exposure rate of 10 cigarettes/30 min, they showed adverse effects including reduced left ventricle weight, increased cardiac damages, deteriorated cardiac features, and cardiac fibrosis. Exposure to second-hand smoking (SHS) increased the molecular markers of cardiac fibrosis such as urokinase plasminogen activator and matrix metallopeptidases. The modulations in the protein levels were led by the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2), the transcription factor-specificity protein 1 (SP1), and the fibrogenic master switch-connective for epithelial-mesenchymal transition tissue growth factor there by indicating their effective role in SHS-induced myocardial infraction. Dilong, an edible earthworm extract used in Chinese medicine and its bioactive fibrinolytic enzyme product-lumbrokinase, when administered in rats, restricted the SHS exposure induced cardiac fibrosis and provided cardio-protection. The results show that lumbrokinase and dilong administration can efficiently prevent epidemiological incidence of cardiac disease among SHS-exposed nonsmokers. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2014.
Mitotane is a drug which is concentrated largely in adipose tissue and the adrenal glands. It has a remarkable specificity for the adrenal cortex and can produce necrosis of that organ; consequently, it has been used as a therapeutic agent for adrenocortical carcinoma. Because of the similarity between adrenocortical and testicular tissue, mitotane could be expected to cause testicular damage; however, there is sparse support for this in the literature. We recently studied a patient who developed impotency due to primary testicular failure at the time that he was treated with mitotane. A testicular biopsy, performed about four months after the drug was discontinued, showed normal appearing Leydig cells and atrophy of the seminiferous tubules with the picture of a maturation arrest. In the four and one half years since he last received mitotane, the patient's libido has slowly improved and his plasma testosterone, gonadotropins and LH response to gonadotropin-releasing hormone have become essentially normal. We propose that mitotane can be cytotoxic to the testis as it is to the adrenal cortex.
To study role of endoplasmic reticulum stress in the development of fatty liver fibrosis induced by methionine-choline-deficient diet in rats.
Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis was induced by 10 weeks- methionine-choline-deficient diet (MCDD), Markers of endoplasmic reticulum stress were determined by immunoblotting and real-time PCR.
The number of apoptotic hepatocytes, The expression levels of endoplasmic reticulum stress markers were increased significantly in MCDD group compared to control group (probability value less than 0.05 or probability value less than 0.01), while ratio of hepatocyte proliferation/apoptosis was decreased in MCDD group (probability value less than 0.01). The number of hepatocytes apoptosis, and the expression levels of endoplasmic reticulum stress markers were decreased significantly 2 weeks after the feeding with normal diet in MCDD group (probability value less than 0.05 or probability value less than 0.01).
MCDD induces endoplasmic reticulum stress and fibrosis in rats.
We investigated the relationship between phenytoin-induced gingival overgrowth (GO) and the harboring of periodontal bacteria.
Periodontal conditions and subgingival bacterial profiles were examined in 450 sites of 75 subjects. A polymerase chain reaction method was used to detect six bacterial species; Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg), Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans (Aa), Tannerella forsythia, Treponema denticola (Td), Prevotella intermedia (Pi), and Prevotella nigrescens (Pn). Genetic variations of the Pg fimA gene were also examined. Bacterial occurrence was compared with the severity of GO, and alterations in the bacterial occurrence rate and quantities were monitored following periodontal treatment.
The occurrences of Aa, Td, Pi, Pn, and Pg with type II fimA (type II Pg) were significantly associated with the severity of GO. Td occurrence was reduced in association with gingival improvement following ultrasonic scaling, however, no such relationship was observed with Aa, Pi, Pn, and Pg. In addition, Pg and Pi markedly persisted after treatment. Clinical improvement of the sites, following an Er:YAG laser treatment, significantly associated with quantitative reduction of Pg in improved sites, however, not that of Pi.
Type II Pg and Td were each found to have a significant relationship with the development and deterioration of GO.
A case of an acute cholestatic syndrome associated with use of the antiarrhythmic drug propafenone is reported here. The close time relationship between the administration of the drug and the acute onset of the liver damage, the histological findings, and the reappearance of biochemical signs of liver dysfunction upon rechallenge with the same medication strongly suggest that propafenone was involved in the pathogenesis of this syndrome. Although rare, hepatotoxicity from this widely used antiarrhythmic medication should be kept in mind in the differential diagnosis of sudden cholestatic syndrome of obscure origin.
We studied the effects of mycophenolate mofetil, a specific inhibitor of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase, on the mercuric chloride induced autoimmune glomerulonephritis in Brown Norway rats and also on the renal contents of adrenomedullin. In the rats with autoimmune glomerulonephritis, plasma and renal tissue adrenomedullin levels were increased significantly. Coadministration of mycophenolate mofetil resulted in prevention of autoimmune glomerulonephritis and also in maintaining of plasma and renal tissue adrenomedullin levels at control levels. Adrenomedullin mRNA expressions in the renal cortex were also higher in the rats with autoimmune glomerulonephritis. Significant positive correlations were found between renal cortical adrenomedullin levels and urinary Na+ and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase excretion. A significant negative correlation between renal cortical adrenomedullin levels and creatinine clearance was also found. These results suggest that mycophenolate mofetil suppresses the renal damage in rats with autoimmune glomerulonephritis and renal adrenomedullin may participate in the pathophysiology of autoimmune glomerulonephritis.
To assess the short-term efficacy and safety of moricizine in patients receiving electrophysiologically guided therapy for sustained ventricular arrhythmias refractory to treatment with class IA antiarrhythmic agents.
Uncontrolled clinical trial.
Referral-based teaching medical center.
Twenty-one patients (18 of whom had coronary artery disease) with a mean left ventricular ejection fraction of 32% +/- 11% who presented with sustained ventricular tachycardia (13 patients), syncope (4 patients), or cardiac arrest (4 patients).
Moricizine, 743 +/- 85 mg daily.
Electrophysiologic testing in the drug-free state and after administration of moricizine unless sustained arrhythmias occurred.
Sustained ventricular tachycardia was inducible in the absence of antiarrhythmic drugs in 20 patients and was not suppressed by moricizine in any patient. Four patients had six episodes of spontaneous ventricular tachycardia while receiving moricizine. A probable proarrhythmic response occurred in four patients.
In patients with compromised left ventricular function caused by coronary artery disease in whom class IA antiarrhythmics were ineffective, moricizine was ineffective in suppressing sustained ventricular arrhythmias and resulted in proarrhythmic effects in some patients.
Bipolar disorder is a psychiatric condition characterised by episodes of mania, depression, and underlying mood instability. Anticonvulsant drugs have an established place in the treatment of the disorder, but identifying novel drugs in this class is complicated by the absence of validated animal models. We have evaluated the efficacy of three anticonvulsant mood stabilising drugs (lamotrigine, valproate, and carbamazepine) in a model of mania, in which hyperactivity is induced by the combination of D-amphetamine and chlordiazepoxide. All three drugs were effective at preventing the hyperactivity. Lower doses of valproate and carbamazepine were required to prevent hyperactivity compared to doses required to block tonic-clonic seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole. Lamotrigine was equipotent in the two models. However, the complex pharmacology of the D-amphetamine/chlordiazepoxide model means that there may be several mechanisms by which hyperactivity can be reduced, and these may have more or less relevance to the treatment of bipolar disorder. To address this issue, we also evaluated effects of the three anticonvulsants on baseline locomotion, on activity in the presence of chlordiazepoxide alone, or on activity induced by D-amphetamine alone. Based on the results, we propose that hyperactivity induced by D-amphetamine/chlordiazepoxide may arise through dopaminergic drive coupled with disinhibition caused by low doses of the benzodiazepine. The efficacy of lamotrigine may then arise through a reduction in neuronal excitability or increased glutamate transmission, these latter a consequence of the disinhibition. Carbamazepine may also reduce excitability and glutamate release, but its broader pharmacology, manifested by sedation at higher doses complicates interpretation of its efficacy and reflects its poorer tolerability in the clinic. Valproate may be effective, at least in part, through an enhancement of GABAergic transmission. The predictive validity of the D-amphetamine/chlordiazepoxide model for efficacy in bipolar disorder remains to be established, and research with a wider range of clinically tested drugs is warranted to help validate the model further. In the meantime, the model may be useful for distinguishing novel anticonvulsant drugs with different mechanisms of action.
Four reports on proton pump inhibitors related to the clinical effects on stomal ulcer were reviewed. Two reports were on omeprazole and the other two on lansoprazole, carried out in the pre-marketing stage. They are compared with two reports on H2-receptor antagonists (famotidine and ranitidine), which were also done in the pre-marketing stage. It appears that the proton pump inhibitors bring more rapid ulcer healing than H2-receptor antagonists without severe side effects, and there seems to be no difference in clinical effect between omeprazole and lansoprazole.
It has been shown that inhalation of carbonaceous particulate matter may impair lung function in children.
Using the carbon content of airway macrophages as a marker of individual exposure to particulate matter derived from fossil fuel, we sought direct evidence for this association.
300 children from puffed rice industrial areas and 300 children from population living in green zone were selected randomly. Airway macrophages were obtained from healthy children through sputum induction, and the grading of ultrafine carbon particles in airway macrophages was measured. Pulmonary function was also measured by spirometry.
Pulmonary function tests showed that in industrial area 42.6% and 20.3% of children had moderate obstructive airway disease and restrictive airway disease, respectively. In the green zone area, 7% of children had obstructive airway disease and 6% had restrictive airway disease. Evaluation of airway macrophages for ultrafine carbon particles revealed that in industrial area there were ultrafine carbon particles of grade 2 in 23% of subjects and grade 3 in 8.33% of individuals with obstructive airway disease. In the green zone area, the rates were 1.67% and 0.7%, respectively.
The study provides a first evidence of the strong association between air pollution and development of airway diseases. Carbon particles in the sputum can be used as a marker for air pollution.
We describe mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), a new immunosuppressive agent, to be a therapy of two children with lupus nephritis which were refractory to both cyclophosphamide (CyP) and cyclosporine (CsA). After 11- to 12-month course of MMF treatment, all clinical symptoms of lupus disappeared and serum antibodies became negative. MMF might be a promising curative for cyclophosphamide-resistant lupus nephritis in children. Cyclophosphamide intravenous bolus therapy is generally considered to be the treatment for patients with lupus nephritis. However, there is little guidance about what to do if such therapy fails. Recently, a new immunosuppressive agent, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), has been used to treat cyclophosphamide-resistant lupus nephritis [Dooley et al. 1999, Gaubitz et al. 1999, Glicklich and Acharga 1998] in adults and has been recognized as a promising curative for lupus nephritis. Up to now, MMF has been adopted widely with solid organ transplantation to prevent or reverse acute rejection [Mathew 1998, Morris-Stiff and Jurewicz 1998] and has been used successfully to treat for rheumatoid arthritis refractory to a variety of other drugs. But there is no report about MMF treatment in children with cyclophosphamide-resistant lupus nephritis. We describe our experience with MMF treatment in two Chinese children with lupus nephritis that were refractory not only to cyclophosphamide but also to cyclosporine.
The attenuated antisecretory activity of H2 receptor antagonists (H2RA) during continuous administration is known as the tolerance phenomenon. The authors recently clarified that presence or absence of Helicobacter pylori infection influences the occurrence of the tolerance phenomenon. The aim of this study was to clarify whether tolerance to H2RA is correlated with attenuation of the inhibitory effect against gastroesophageal acid reflux in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
Ten male patients with GERD symptoms and abnormal gastroesophageal reflux were investigated by pH monitoring on days 1 and 15 of continuous oral famotidine administration at 20 mg twice daily, and H. pylori infection was examined using the urea breath test.
Intragastric and intraesophageal acidity were significantly decreased on the first day of famotidine administration, but then increased during the 15-day administration period in seven patients who were negative for H. pylori. In contrast, the efficacy of famotidine against gastric acid secretion and gastroesophageal acid reflux was not attenuated in three H. pylori-positive patients. The changes in GERD symptoms were correlated with the change in the degree of gastroesophageal reflux.
The presence or absence of tolerance to H2RA during 15-day administration is correlated with the efficacy for inhibition of gastroesophageal acid reflux.
We describe a female patient with stable Parkinson's disease who has shown a marked worsening of her motor functions following therapy of menopause related symptoms with veralipride, as well as the improvement of her symptoms back to baseline after discontinuation of the drug. We emphasize the anti-dopaminergic effect of veralipride.
Nineteen patients suffering from the intrahepatic cholestasis (IHC) of pregnancy were studied. Twelve of them were treated with phenobarbital (100 mg/day) and seven with cholestyramine (18 g/day). The overnight fasting levels of serum cholic acid (CA), chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) and deoxycholic acid (DCA) were measured by radioimmunoassay. The activities of serum transaminases, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase, alkaline phosphatase and total and conjugated bilirubins were also analyzed. It was found that there was no correlation between the itching symptom and the serum bile acid levels. During phenobarbital treatment serum bile acid concentrations did not change. Also, the other measured parameters as well as the CA/CDCA ratio did not change significantly. Transaminases had, however, a slight tendency to decrease. The therapy successfully relieved itching in half of the cases. There was no relationship between the relief of the itching and the change in the bile acid concentrations. Cholestyramine treatment did not decrease the CA level significantly, but that of the CDCA decreased (P less than 0.05) and the ratio of CA/CDCA increased (P less than 0.05). In the other analyzed liver function test results, an increase (P less than 0.05) occurred only in the concentrations of conjugated bilirubin. The itching was relieved in five of the seven cases during the first week of treatment, but after that the symptom tended to reappear. There was a slight correlation between the decrease in the CDCA level and in the relief of the itching. The two drugs did not cause any particular side effects.
Agents to inhibit the renin-angiotensin system have been reported to suppress the progression of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). However, the effects of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are still unclear in terms of the inhibition of the progression of AAA. Recently, several effects of CCBs beyond those associated with blood pressure lowering have attracted much interest. In this study, we examined the effects of nifedipine on AAA progression. AAA was induced in rats by transient aortic perfusion with elastase. Then, nifedipine (10 mg/kg/day) and saline (control) were administered to rats by osmotic mini-pump. At 2 and 4 weeks, the size of the AAA, blood pressure and heart rate were measured. Then, to further explore the mechanisms of the progression of AAA, we used human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Especially, we focused on NF-kappaB and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). Treatment with nifedipine resulted in a significant inhibition of the progression of AAA such as aneurismal dilation at 14 and 28 days compared to the control (week 2: control, 2.98+/-0.71 mm; nifedipine, 2.37+/-0.64 mm; p<0.05 and week 4: control, 3.28+/-0.98 mm; nifedipine, 2.41+/-0.17 mm; p<0.05). Neither nifedipine nor saline changed blood pressure and heart rate, significantly. Nifedipine (1 microM) significantly suppressed angiotensin II-induced (10(-6) M) NF-kappaB activity in VSMCs by reporter assay (p<0.01). Furthermore, nifedipine (1 microM) inhibited MMP-9 protein expression and activity. Saline did not show such inhibitory effects. Taken together, these results indicated that nifedipine inhibits the progression of experimental AAA possibly through suppression of NF-kappaB and MMP-9 activity, leading to protective effects against AAA beyond those associated with blood pressure lowering.
To clarify whether oxidative stress is involved in the development of hepatocellular preneoplastic foci induced by fenofibrate (FF), a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha agonist, male F344/N rats were fed a diet containing 6,000, 3,000, or 0 ppm of FF for 13 weeks after N-diethylnitrosamine initiation. Two-third partial hepatectomy was performed 1 week after the FF treatment. Histopathologically, the number of hepatocellular altered foci significantly increased in the FF-treated groups with a concomitant increase in the number of hepatocytes positive for anti-Ki-67 antibody, but the number and area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive foci decreased in these groups, as compared to those in the controls. Microarray analysis or quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chine reaction demonstrated the significant up-regulations of Aco and Cyp4a1 (genes related to lipid metabolism); Gpx2, Yc2, Cat, Cyp2b15, and Ugt1a6 (metabolic oxidative stress-related genes); Apex1, Mgmt, Xrcc5, Nbn, and Gadd45a (DNA repair-related genes); and Ccnd1 (cell cycle-related genes) in the FF-treated groups, and the significant down-regulations of Cyp1a2, Gsta2, Gstm2, and Gstm3 (phase I or II metabolism-related genes); Mlh1 and Top1 (DNA repair-related genes); and Cdkn1a, Cdkn1b, Chek2, and Gadd45b (cell cycle/apoptosis-related genes) in these rats. FF-treatment increased the activity of enzymes such as carnitine acetyltransferase, carnitine palmitoyltransferase, fatty acyl-CoA oxidizing system, and catalase in the liver, but not superoxide dismutase in the liver. In addition, 8-OHdG level in liver DNA, lipofuscin deposition in hepatocytes, and in vitro reactive oxygen species production in microsomes significantly increased due to FF treatment. These results suggest that oxidative stress is involved in the development of FF-induced hepatocellular preneoplastic foci in rats.
Toxicity of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) to mouse embryonic teeth, sharing features of early development with salivary glands in common, involves enhanced apoptosis and depends on the expression of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor. EGF receptor signaling, on the other hand, is essential for salivary gland branching morphogenesis. To see if TCDD impairs salivary gland morphogenesis and if the impairment is associated with EGF receptor signaling, we cultured mouse (NMRI) E13 submandibular glands with TCDD or TCDD in combination with EGF or fibronectin (FN), both previously found to enhance branching morphogenesis. Explants were examined stereo-microscopically and processed to paraffin sections. TCDD exposure impaired epithelial branching and cleft formation, resulting in enlarged buds. The glands were smaller than normal. EGF and FN alone concentration-dependently stimulated or inhibited branching morphogenesis but when co-administered with TCDD, failed to compensate for its effect. TCDD induced cytochrome P4501A1 expression in the glandular epithelium, indicating activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor. TCDD somewhat increased epithelial apoptosis as observed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated nick end-labeling method but the increase could not be correlated with morphological changes. The frequency of proliferating cells was not altered. Corresponding to the reduced cleft sites in TCDD-exposed explants, FN immunoreactivity in the epithelium was reduced. The results show that TCDD, comparably with EGF and FN at morphogenesis-inhibiting concentrations, impaired salivary gland branching morphogenesis in vitro. Together with the failure of EGF and FN at morphogenesis-stimulating concentrations to compensate for the effect of TCDD this implies that TCDD toxicity to developing salivary gland involves reduced EGF receptor signaling.
The use of coagulation factor VIIa (recombinant) for the treatment of warfarin-induced intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) is described.
ICH is a devastating disorder that can be exacerbated by the use of oral anticoagulation. The treatment of warfarin-associated ICH involves the prompt reversal of anticoagulation to allow for surgical procedures, if necessary. Despite limited labeled indications, factor VIIa (recombinant) has been used to reverse warfarin-induced anticoagulation in patients with active hemorrhage, partly due to the rapid effect of factor VIIa on the International Normalized Ratio and the ability to administer the drug quickly in acute settings. The efficacy of factor VIIa (recombinant) for the reversal of anticoagulation in patients with warfarin-associated ICH has been described in several case reports, case series, and retrospective cohort studies. Based on these reports, the use of factor VIIa (recombinant) for the treatment of warfarin-associated ICH may be a viable alternative or adjunct therapy to standard treatment with fresh-frozen plasma and vitamin K. However, due to the nature of these reports, future controlled trials should be conducted to verify the exact place for factor VIIa (recombinant) for this indication. Thromboembolic complications are rare but serious complications secondary to the use of factor VIIa (recombinant). Though differences exist in the reported rate of thromboembolic complications associated with factor VIIa (recombinant), factor VIIa (recombinant) should be used with caution in patients with a predisposition to thromboembolic complications.
Use of factor VIIa (recombinant) may be considered for reversal of anticoagulation in patients with warfarin-associated ICH. However, patients should be screened for increased risk of thrombosis before administration of the drug.
Hyaluronic acid (HA), a glycosaminoglycan with high molecular weight, has been reported to promote cell proliferation and serves as an important extracellular matrix component. The aim of this study was to in vitro investigate whether HA is able to reduce reactive oxygen species (ROS)-induced heart ischemia-reperfusion injury and activate the cardiomyocyte's damage surveillance systems. Accordingly, rattus cardiomyocyte line, H9C2, was treated with H(2)O(2) as a heart ischemia-reperfusion model followed by incubation with low molecular weight hyaluronan (LMW-HA, 100 kDa) or high molecular weight hyaluronan (HMW-HA, 1000 kDa) and proteomic analysis was performed to investigate the physiologic protection of HA in H(2)O(2)-induced ischemia-reperfusion in cardiomyocyte. Our data demonstrated that HA treatment does protect cardiomyocyte in the ROS-induced ischemia-reperfusion model and the molecular weight of HA is a crucial factor. HMW-HA has been shown to significantly facilitate cell migration and wound healing via cytoskeletal rearrangement. Additionally, 2D-DIGE combined MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis showed that HMW-HA might modulate biosynthetic pathways, cell migration, cell outgrowth and protein folding to stimulate wound healing as well as prevent these ischemia-reperfusion-damaged cardiomyocytes from cell death. To our knowledge, we report for the first time the cell repair mechanism of HMW-HA against ischemia-reperfusion-damage in cardiomyocytes based on cell biology and proteomic analysis.
Total eradication of intraurethral condyloma acuminatum was accomplished in 10 of 11 patients by intraurethral administration of 5 percent 5 fluorouracil cream.
We conducted a genome-wide association study for type 2 diabetes (T2D) in Icelandic cases and controls, and we found that a previously described variant in the transcription factor 7-like 2 gene (TCF7L2) gene conferred the most significant risk. In addition to confirming two recently identified risk variants, we identified a variant in the CDKAL1 gene that was associated with T2D in individuals of European ancestry (allele-specific odds ratio (OR) = 1.20 (95% confidence interval, 1.13-1.27), P = 7.7 x 10(-9)) and individuals from Hong Kong of Han Chinese ancestry (OR = 1.25 (1.11-1.40), P = 0.00018). The genotype OR of this variant suggested that the effect was substantially stronger in homozygous carriers than in heterozygous carriers. The ORs for homozygotes were 1.50 (1.31-1.72) and 1.55 (1.23-1.95) in the European and Hong Kong groups, respectively. The insulin response for homozygotes was approximately 20% lower than for heterozygotes or noncarriers, suggesting that this variant confers risk of T2D through reduced insulin secretion.
Copper is essential to mammalian physiology, and its homeostasis is tightly regulated. In humans, genetic defects in copper excretion result in copper overload and Wilson's disease (WD). Previous studies on the mouse model for WD (Atp7b(-)(/-)) revealed copper accumulation in hepatic nuclei and specific changes in mRNA profile prior to the onset of pathology. To find a molecular link between nuclear copper elevation and changes in hepatic transcriptome, we utilized quantitative ionomic and proteomic approaches. X-ray fluorescence and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry analysis indicate that copper in the Atp7b(-/-) nucleus, while highly elevated, does not markedly alter nuclear ion content. Widespread protein oxidation is also not observed, although the glutathione reductase SelH is upregulated, likely to maintain redox balance. We further demonstrate that accumulating copper affects the abundance and/or modification of a distinct subset of nuclear proteins. These proteins populate pathways that are most significantly associated with RNA processing. An alteration in splicing pattern was observed for hnRNP A2/B1, itself the RNA shuttling factor and spliceosome component. Analysis of hnRNP A2/B1 mRNA and protein revealed an increased retention of exon 2 and a selective 2-fold upregulation of a corresponding protein splice variant. Mass spectrometry measurements suggest that the nucleocytoplasmic distribution of RNA binding proteins, including hnRNP A2/B1, is altered in the Atp7b(-/-) liver. We conclude that remodeling of the RNA processing machinery is an important component of cell response to elevated copper that may guide pathology development in the early stages of WD.
The efficacy of gelatin foam, oxidized regenerated cellulose, collagen fleece, and microcrystalline collagen as hemostatic agents was tested after standardized liver trauma in the rat. Experiments were divided into two series. In the first series all the above local hemostatic agents were tested on normal animals. Animals in which surgical gauze was applied to the traumatized surface served as controls. Nontreated animals bled profusely. Microcrystalline collagen and collagen fleece were more effective than gauze. In the second series collagen preparations were tested on animals with hemostatic disorders caused by administration of acetylsalicylic acid, ethanol intoxication, or infusion of bensylpenicillin. Collagen preparations were as effective as gauze in diminishing bleeding time and blood loss after liver trauma.
