Treatment-induced anemia undermines the efficacy of antiviral therapy in hepatitis C by mandating ribavirin dose reduction and diminishing adherence to therapy. Erythropoietic growth factors (EGFs) may correct treatment-induced anemia, facilitate maintenance of full-dose therapy, and improve rates of sustained virologic response (SVR). We sought to determine the cost effectiveness of adjunctive treatment with an EGF vs standard care in the treatment of hepatitis C.
We used a decision analysis to calculate the cost effectiveness of 2 treatment strategies for a patient cohort with chronic hepatitis C, increased transaminase levels, and no cirrhosis who were receiving pegylated-interferon and ribavirin (RBV): (1) RBV dose-reduction for anemia, followed by discontinuation of therapy if anemia persisted (standard care strategy), (2) adjunctive treatment with EGF therapy for anemia, with RBV dose reduction reserved for persistent anemia despite EGF therapy (EGF strategy). We conducted cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses to compare short- and long-term outcomes between the strategies.
The percentage achieving SVR was 52.3% in the standard care strategy and 59.5% in the EGF strategy. Compared with standard care, the EGF strategy cost an incremental $36,568 per unadjusted life-year gained and $16,443 per quality-adjusted life-year gained. In a sensitivity analysis, if a third-party payer was willing to pay $50,000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained for the use of an EGF, then 86.1% of patients would be within the budget.
Compared with standard care, adjunctive therapy with an EGF for the management of treatment-induced anemia may increase the probability of achieving SVR, increase unadjusted lifespan, and increase quality-adjusted lifespan at an acceptable cost.
Visual suppression of caloric nystagmus was studied in five patients with hereditary ataxia before and after administration of physostigmine. All patients had an initial abnormal ocular fixation index that improved after physostigmine was given. The data indicate that there is a partly reversible disturbance of visual-vestibular interaction in patients with hereditary ataxia, caused by an impairment of a central cholinergic mechanism.
Current knowledge about Chornobyl-related thyroid cancer risks comes from ecological studies based on grouped doses, case-control studies, and studies of prevalent cancers.
To address this limitation, we evaluated the dose-response relationship for incident thyroid cancers using measurement-based individual iodine-131 (I-131) thyroid dose estimates in a prospective analytic cohort study.
The cohort consists of individuals < 18 years of age on 26 April 1986 who resided in three contaminated oblasts (states) of Ukraine and underwent up to four thyroid screening examinations between 1998 and 2007 (n = 12,514). Thyroid doses of I-131 were estimated based on individual radioactivity measurements taken within 2 months after the accident, environmental transport models, and interview data. Excess radiation risks were estimated using Poisson regression models.
Sixty-five incident thyroid cancers were diagnosed during the second through fourth screenings and 73,004 person-years (PY) of observation. The dose-response relationship was consistent with linearity on relative and absolute scales, although the excess relative risk (ERR) model described data better than did the excess absolute risk (EAR) model. The ERR per gray was 1.91 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.43-6.34], and the EAR per 10⁴ PY/Gy was 2.21 (95% CI, 0.04-5.78). The ERR per gray varied significantly by oblast of residence but not by time since exposure, use of iodine prophylaxis, iodine status, sex, age, or tumor size.
I-131-related thyroid cancer risks persisted for two decades after exposure, with no evidence of decrease during the observation period. The radiation risks, although smaller, are compatible with those of retrospective and ecological post-Chornobyl studies.
The cynomolgus monkeys received a unilateral intracarotid injection of the neurotoxin N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in order to induce a chronic model of hemi-parkinsonism. The procedure was well tolerated by the animals. Unilateral injection of MPTP caused rigidity and bradykinesia of the contralateral limbs, but the animals were able to eat and drink without levodopa therapy. During spontaneous motor activity, animals rotated toward the lesioned side whereas systemic apomorphine injection stimulated circling toward the normal non-lesioned side. Twelve weeks after MPTP injection, we found a marked reduction in striatal and nigral [3H]-mazindol binding on the MPTP-injected side which is indicative of a loss in both dopaminergic nerve terminals and cell bodies. The unilateral dopaminergic denervation was associated with an ipsilateral increase in striatal and a reduction in nigral [3H]-spiperone-labelled D2 dopamine receptors; these changes are consistent with the known localization of the D2 receptors on striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals and on nigral dopaminergic cell bodies. In contrast, no changes in [3H]-SCH 23390-labelled D1 dopamine receptors were observed at the level of either the striatum or the substantia nigra. This study describes a well tolerated procedure which induces a clinical and morphological hemi-parkinsonian syndrome. This animal model may be useful in the studies of new antiparkinsonian drugs, for testing the functional efficacy of brain tissue implants and in the understanding of the physiopathogenesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
The effects of 4,4' -diaminodiphenylmethane (DDPM) administration in the "post-initiation" stage of liver, kidney and bladder carcinogenesis were examined in male F344 rats. In experiment 1, rats were given drinking water containing 0.1% N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethyl-nitrosamine for 2 weeks than diet containing 0.1% DDPM for 32 weeks. In week 3, the right kidney was removed. The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma was significantly less in rats given DDPM than in controls. DDPM decreased the incidence and average number/cm2 of neoplastic nodules and renal cell tumors of the kidney. In experiment II, rats were given 0.01% N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine for 4 weeks and then 0.1% DDPM for 34 weeks kin their drinking water. DDPM inhibited the induction of papillomas in the bladder. These results indicate that DDPM administration in the "post-initiation" stage inhibited liver, kidney and bladder carcinogenesis in rats.
Because of its antifibrotic and anti-inflammatory effects, colchicine has been proposed as a treatment for liver disease. Early in vitro studies have demonstrated that colchicine blocks mitosis in the metaphase and inhibits DNA synthesis.
A pilot study of hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related/HBV-DNA+ve chronic liver disease.
Nine biopsy-proven chronic hepatitis patients (three with cirrhosis) entered the study. Two of them were HBeAg+ve and seven were antiHBe+. All patients were HBV-DNA+ve/antiHBc IgM+ve (index values of anti-HBc IgM ranged from 0.370 to 1.200). All of them had a major contraindication to interferon therapy or refused antiviral treatment. The known persistence of positive HBsAg ranged from 2 to 21 years.
After informed consent, the patients received 1 mg colchicine a day orally for 5 days-a-week over 6 months. Testing for liver enzymes and viral markers was performed at the baseline and after 3 and 6 months.
None of the patients experienced side-effects during the treatment. The two HBeAg+ve patients seroconverted to anti-HBe with a normalization of AST/ALT during therapy. Among the seven antiHBe+ve patients, four had a complete normalization of transaminases (one patient cleared the HBsAg with seroconversion to anti-HBs). Six of the nine patients were HBV-DNA-ve at the end of therapy and were still negative after 12 months of follow-up.
These preliminary results suggest that colchicine might have an antiviral activity in HBV-DNA+ve chronic liver disease, and it could be regarded as an alternative therapy to interferon.
We have identified an alternative pathway of tumorigenesis in sporadic colon cancer, involving microsatellite instability due to mismatched repair methylation, which may be driven by mutations in the BRAF gene (V600E). Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the most common cancer in the world, and African Americans show a higher incidence than other populations in the United States. We analyzed sporadic CRCs in Omani (of African origin, N = 61), Iranian (of Caucasian origin, N = 53) and African American (N = 95) patients for microsatellite instability, expression status of mismatched repair genes (hMLH1, hMSH2) and presence of the BRAF (V600E) mutation. In the Omani group, all tumors with BRAF mutations were located in the left side of the colon, and for African Americans, 88% 7 of tumors with BRAF mutations were found in the right side of the colon. In African Americans, 31% of tumors displayed microsatellite instability at two or more markers (MSI-H), while this rate was 26% and 13% for tumors in the Iranian and Omani groups, respectively. A majority of these MSI-H tumors were located in the proximal colon (right side) in African American and Iranian subjects, whereas most were located in the distal colon (left side) in Omani subjects. Defects in hMLH1 gene expression were found in 77% of MSI-H tumors in both African Americans and Iranians and in 38% of tumors in Omanis. BRAF mutations were observed in all subjects: 10% of tumors in African Americans (8/82), 2% of tumors in Iranians (1/53), and 19% of tumors in Omanis (11/59). Our findings suggest that CRC occurs at a younger age in Omani and Iranian patients, and these groups showed a lower occurrence of MSI-H than did African American patients. Our multivariate model suggests an important and significant role of hMLH1 expression and BRAF mutation in MSI-H CRC in these populations. The high occurrence of MSI-H tumors in African Americans may have significant implications for treatment, since patients with MSI-H lesions display a different response to chemotherapeutic agents such as 5-fluorouracil.
Butorphanol exerts activity at mu, kappa, and delta opiate receptors in rats and monkeys but produces predominant mu-like effects in humans.
The aim of this study was to determine if the kappa receptor-mediated actions of butorphanol could be unmasked or enhanced by giving it in combination with naltrexone, an opioid antagonist with higher affinity for mu vs kappa receptors.
Ten healthy adult inpatient volunteers (eight men, two women), with opioid abuse histories, completed this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. Naltrexone (0, 1, 3, 10, or 30 mg, p.o.) was administered 1 h before butorphanol (0, 6, or 12 mg/70 kg, i.m.) during 15 test sessions. An array of physiological (e.g., vital signs, urine output, and subject- and observer-rated) measures was collected before and for 4 h after drug administration.
Naltrexone alone produced no direct effects. Butorphanol alone produced typical mu-, but not kappa-, related physiological effects (e.g., miosis, respiratory depression) and produced mood and drug effects considered typical of both mu (e.g., "liking," "good drug effects") and kappa agonists (e.g., increases in perceptual disturbances). Naltrexone pretreatment led to significant butorphanol-induced diuresis (i.e., increased urine output and decreased urine osmolality). Naltrexone generally produced a dose-dependent blockade of subjective responses.
These data suggest that naltrexone antagonism unveiled the kappaergic activity of butorphanol as measured by diuresis, while subjective responses generally attributed to mu vs kappa receptors were not dissociable. Moreover, these data demonstrate that butorphanol exerts physiologically relevant kappa agonist activity at these supraanalgesic doses in humans.
Low-dose droperidol is suggested to be cost-effective in preventing nausea and vomiting after ambulatory surgery. This clinical study evaluated patient postural stability using a computerized force platform after an i.v. dose of droperidol 0.625 mg in outpatients undergoing gynaecological dilatation and curettage procedures.
After institutional approval and informed consent, 120 females were randomly assigned to receive either 0.9% saline (placebo) or droperidol 0.625 mg i.v. before surgery. Anaesthesia was induced with propofol 2-2.5 mg kg-1 and fentanyl 50-100 micrograms, and was maintained with intermittent boluses of propofol 25-50 mg and fentanyl 25-50 micrograms i.v. After operation, the Post-Anaesthesia Discharge Score (PADS), patient self-assessment scores for pain, nausea, drowsiness and dizziness, and extrapyramidal symptoms were recorded. Body sway velocity was measured while the patient was standing on a firm surface with eyes open then closed vs standing on a foam surface with eyes open then closed, at the time of arrival in the operation holding area (baseline), on achieving a PADS of 9 after surgery and on discharge home.
At the time of achieving a PADS of 9, body sway was significantly greater in the droperidol group than in the placebo group (overall 61% vs 33% above baseline). There were no differences between groups with respect to scores for pain, nausea, drowsiness and dizziness. Three patients (5%) in the droperidol group reported nervousness and restlessness postoperatively (not significant).
Low-dose droperidol 0.625 mg i.v. for anti-emetic prophylaxis can cause balance disturbances in females after gynaecological dilatation and curettage procedures.
Warfarin prevents stroke in atrial fibrillation (AF); however, concerns regarding international normalized ratio control and hemorrhage limit its use in the elderly. The oral direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs) are potential alternatives to warfarin, offering fixed dosing without drug and dietary interactions and the need for international normalized ratio monitoring. Although ximelagatran, a DTI studied in the Stroke Prevention using an ORal Thrombin Inhibitor in atrial Fibrillation trials, has been withdrawn, development of other DTIs continues. We report our experience in elderly high-risk AF patients on ximelagatran compared with warfarin therapy.
Data from patients with AF and stroke risk factors randomized in Stroke Prevention using an ORal Thrombin Inhibitor in atrial Fibrillation III and V trials to ximelagatran or warfarin were analyzed for stroke/systemic emboli, bleeding, and raised alanine aminotransferase levels in those >or=75 (n=2804) and <75 (n=4525) years.
Ximelagatran was as effective as warfarin in reducing stroke/systemic emboli in the elderly (2.23%/y with ximelagatran vs 2.27%/y with warfarin) as in younger patients (1.25%/y vs 1.28%/y). Total bleeds were significantly lower with ximelagatran compared with warfarin in elderly (40% vs 45%, P=0.01) and younger (27% vs 35%, P<0.001) patients. Raised alanine aminotransferase values (>3-fold elevation) among ximelagatran patients were more common in older (7.5% old vs 5.3% young) patients, particularly women (9.5% elderly women vs 6.1% elderly men).
In high-risk elderly AF patients, ximelagatran is as effective as warfarin with less bleeding, but alanine aminotransferase elevations are common, particularly in elderly women. Oral DTIs for stroke prevention show promise in elderly patients.
After toxicity studies in dogs, a preliminary feasibility trial of the continuous intracranial infusion of a muscarinic agonist was begun in four patients with biopsy-documented Alzheimer's disease. During the last 8 months, a totally implantable infusion system has been used to deliver bethanechol chloride into the cerebrospinal fluid of these patients at doses of 0.05 to 0.7 mg/day. Complications have been few and resolved spontaneously or were easily reversible. The subjective response to this treatment has been encouraging, with reports of improved cognitive and social function during drug infusion and a return to base line function with single-blind saline placebo infusions. Obviously, further evaluation will be necessary to demonstrate the efficacy of this treatment, and a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover trial is now being done. However, we think the preliminary results are encouraging and warrant the consideration of this approach as a potential treatment in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
The hepatocyte receptor for asialoglycoproteins internalizes galactosyl terminating macromolecules which can be used as hepatotropic drug carriers. Since this receptor is also expressed on the cells of well differentiated human hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs), we studied whether conjugation of doxorubicin (DOXO) with lactosaminated human albumin (L-HSA) increases the drug efficacy on HCCs induced in rats by diethylnitrosamine (DENA).
DENA was given in the drinking water for 8 weeks. One week after the last day of DENA administration, animals were randomly assigned to three groups. Each group was administered with either saline, free or coupled DOXO (1 microg/g). Rats received 4 weekly intravenous injections. One week after the last administration, rats were killed and HCC development was evaluated by counting the tumor nodules on the surface of hepatic lobes.
In rats treated with L-HSA coupled DOXO the number of neoplastic nodules was significantly lower (P < 0.05) than that counted in animals injected with saline or with free DOXO. Coupled DOXO did not decrease body rat weight, which was markedly reduced by the free drug.
Conjugation with L-HSA increased the antineoplastic efficacy and decreased the systemic toxicity of DOXO administered to rats with HCCs produced by DENA.
This randomized, single-blind, parallel-group study was performed to assess pharmacokinetic interactions potentially occurring during concomitant use of telmisartan and nisoldipine. Patients with essential hypertension (n = 37) were treated with once-daily doses of telmisartan, nisoldipine, or their combination for 6 weeks. The regimen was started at low dose with an increase of dosage after 3 weeks of treatment. AUC(ss) (132%; P < .01) of telmisartan applied in doses of 80 mg was significantly higher after concomitant application with nisoldipine (10 mg), whereas CL/f(ss) (-54%; P < .05) and Vz/f(ss) (-72%; P < .05) were significantly lower. Regarding pharmacokinetic parameters of nisoldipine, significant differences between treatment groups were not detected. In conclusion, the results of this study strongly suggest that concomitant treatment with nisoldipine enhances telmisartan bioavailability in hypertensive individuals. Larger crossover trials will have to establish these observations and investigate whether interaction of both drugs affects telmisartan efficacy and tolerability in clinical use.
Twenty-three patients with prosthetic valve endocarditis caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis were studied retrospectively for assessment of the role of rifampin treatment. Rifampin (900-1,200 mg daily) was administered in combination with either vancomycin or a beta-lactam antibiotic for an average of 38 days. Eight patients also received an aminoglycoside. Infection was cured in 16 (70%) of these patients; i.e., in 13 (87%) of 15 receiving rifampin plus vancomycin and in three (38%) of eight receiving rifampin plus a beta-lactam antibiotic (P = .025). The addition of rifampin to vancomycin regimens resulted in an increase in serum bactericidal activity. The selection of rifampin-resistant strains of S. epidermidis during treatment with a combination of antibiotics was noted in two patients with persistent infection. The rates of cure obtained with rifampin-beta-lactam combinations were similar to those obtained with beta-lactam agents alone; however, the cure rates obtained with rifampin plus vancomycin (with or without an aminoglycoside) were encouraging and merit further study.
Cocaine addicts increase the frequency and amount of drug use over time. This characteristic has been modeled by escalating drug intake in rats that were given extended access to cocaine. However, it remains unclear whether the behavior of escalating drug intake or simply increased drug dose is the relevant aspect of this model. The present study investigated whether the phenomenon of escalated drug-taking enhances cocaine-induced sensitization and reinstatement. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine during daily 1-h sessions for 7 days. A short-access (ShA) group continued to receive 1-h sessions for 10 days while a group of rats was switched to 6 h of drug access, long-access (ShA-LgA) group, for 10 days. In addition, a long-access only (LgA-only) group was added that was not pretrained but was only given extended access for 10 days. ShA subjects maintained stable drug intake; ShA-LgA subjects escalated intake while LgA-only subjects decreased drug intake. All groups displayed an inverted-U shaped cocaine dose-response curve in both the sensitization and reinstatement tests. There was no difference in the expression of behavioral sensitization between groups. Whereas both long-access groups showed reinstatement at more doses of cocaine than the ShA group, the presence of escalation did not affect reinstatement. These results indicate that extended access to cocaine self-administration produces behavioral differences relative to traditional short-access animals in reinstatement, but not sensitization. Furthermore, the differences in reinstatement are predicted more by length of cocaine access than by escalation of drug intake.
The present case report clearly establishes nitrofurantoin as a cause for erythema nodosum (EN), presenting with serum sickness-like symptoms, typical and atypical EN skin lesions, and pseudo-splinter hemorrhages in a patient with documented mitral valve prolapse.
The association between the use of statins and neuromuscular disease is currently being intensely discussed. We relate a 63 years old man with possible case of statin-induced neuropathy in a patient with dislipidemia in use of simvastatina at high doses. The electrophysiologic studies disclosed findings compatible with mononeuropathy multiplex, suggested by clinical prescutation of asymmetrical numbness and weakness. More common causes of mononeuropathy multiplex were excluded and the patient improved after the discontinuation of the drug.
The effect of lidocaine and bupivacaine on postoperative pain were compared in a double blind crossover study. Diflunisal (500 mg) was used as an analgesic and given before commencement of the surgical procedure.Bilateral impactions of lower third molars were removed on two occasions, four weeks apart, in a sample of 26 Chinese patients. One local anesthetic was used on one occasion and the alternate on the second. Pain intensity was indicated on a visual analogue scale hourly for eight hours, beginning one hour after the start of surgery.Pain at each postoperative hour was lower after bupivacaine and more patients indicated little or no pain after bupivacaine than after lidocaine. This was not reflected in patients' preference: 12 preferring lidocaine, 11 bupivacaine, and 3 indicating no preference, an important reason being a shorter period of numbness with lidocaine.Although diflunisal was given preoperatively, the postoperative course was not complicated by alveolitis in any case.While bupivacaine plus diflunisal resulted in less postoperative pain than lidocaine plus diflunisal, some patients were willing to sustain some pain after oral surgery if sensation was regained sooner.
The basal ganglia have a local renin-angiotensin system and it has been shown that the loss of dopaminergic neurons induced by neurotoxins is amplified by local angiotensin II (AII) via angiotensin type 1 receptors (AT1) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) complex activation. Recent studies have revealed a high degree of counter-regulatory interactions between dopamine and AII receptors in non-neural cells such as renal proximal tubule cells. However, it is not known if this occurs in the basal ganglia. In the striatum and nigra, depletion of dopamine with reserpine induced a significant increase in the expression of AT1, angiotensin type 2 receptors (AT2) and the NADPH subunit p47(phox) , which decreased as dopamine function was restored. Similarly, 6-hydroxydopamine-induced chronic dopaminergic denervation induced a significant increase in expression of AT1, AT2 and p47(phox) , which decreased with L-dopa administration. A significant reduction in expression of AT1 mRNA was also observed after administration of dopamine to cultures of microglial cells. Transgenic rats with very low levels of brain AII showed increased AT1, decreased p47 (phox) and no changes in AT2 expression, whereas mice deficient in AT1 exhibited a decrease in the expression of p47 (phox) and AT2. The administration of relatively high doses of AII (100 nm) decreased the expression of AT1, and the increased expression of AT2 and p47(phox) in primary mesencephalic cultures. The results reveal an important interaction between the dopaminergic and local renin-angiotensin system in the basal ganglia, which may be a major factor in the progression of Parkinson's disease.
To observe the effects of Ganyanping on CCl(4)-induced hepatic fibrosis in rats.
The rats were separated randomly into five groups. Groups A to group D, each consisting of 15 rats, were for different tests, while 8 rats were used as normal controls (N). For group D, CCl(4) was injected subcutaneously, at a dosage of 3 ml/kg for 9 weeks. For group A, Ganyanping was administered via gastric tube at a dosage of 10 ml/kg. For group B, the treatment with Ganyanping was started 4 weeks after CCl(4) administration. In group C, Ganyanping was administered 8 weeks after the intoxication, and treatment lasted for 4 weeks. Liver tissues were fixed in 10 % formalin and embedded in paraffin. Pathologic changes, particularly fibrosis, were evaluated on the HE and V-G-stained sections. Ten middle-power fields were randomly selected for assessment of collagen deposition.
Loss of normal hepatic architecture, some with pseudo-lobule formation, was observed in group D, while hepatocytes steatosis and fibrosis were less pronounced in the animals treated with Ganyanping. Pseudo-lobule formation was not evident in the latter groups. The total collagen area and ratio were 840.23+/-81.65 and 7.0+/-0.9, respectively in group D, the ratio being reduced greatly in the Ganyanping-treated groups (148.73+/-45.89 and 1.16+/-0.33, respectively). The activities of MAO and ACP were elevated and that of SDH in group D decreased in the hepatic tissue as compared to the control group. The treatment with Ganyanping abrogated these enzymatic changes.
Our data approved that Ganyanping could improve the microcirculation in the liver, reduce oxygen-derived free radicals, and enhance the cellular metabolism and immune function, all resulting in an anti-fibrotic effect. Hence, Ganyanping can protect the liver from fibrosis. It may be a safe and effective preparation for patient with fibrosis.
Hyperprolactinemia and associated side effects often occur with antipsychotics. The authors investigated the effect of adjunctive treatment with aripiprazole on hyperprolactinemia and psychopathology in patients with schizophrenia maintained with haloperidol.
Fifty-six patients with hyperprolactinemia taking haloperidol were enrolled. Haloperidol dose was fixed; aripiprazole was dosed at 15 mg/day for the first 4 weeks, then 30 mg/day for the following 4 weeks. Serum prolactin, haloperidol, and aripiprazole levels were measured. Symptoms and side effects were assessed with the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms, Clinical Global Impression symptom scale, Simpson-Angus Rating Scale, and Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale at weeks 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8.
Prolactin levels of patients receiving aripiprazole significantly decreased over time, demonstrating a significant time effect and a time-by-group interaction. In the aripiprazole group, 88.5% of patients at week 8 had prolactin levels normalize compared to 3.6% of patients receiving placebo. Among 11 female patients with menstrual disturbances randomly assigned to aripiprazole, seven patients regained menstruation during the study, whereas none receiving placebo did. Plasma levels of haloperidol were not significantly altered. No significant time effect and time-by-group interactions on BPRS, Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms, and Simpson-Angus Rating Scale scores were noted.
Adjunctive aripiprazole treatment reversed hyperprolactinemia in both sexes, resulting in reinstatement of menstruation in female patients, with no significant effects on psychopathology and extrapyramidal symptoms. Aripiprazole has higher affinity to dopamine D(2) receptors than haloperidol, which is the likely cause of this observation.
Resveratrol is a bioactive polyphenol enriched in red wine that exhibits many beneficial health effects via multiple mechanisms. However, it is unclear whether resveratrol is beneficial for the prevention of food allergy. This study investigated whether resveratrol inhibited the development of food allergy by using a mouse model of the disease.
Mice fed standard diet or standard diet plus resveratrol were sensitized by intragastric administration of ovalbumin (OVA) and mucosal adjuvant cholera toxin (CT). Several manifestations of food allergy were then compared between the mice. The effects of resveratrol on T cells or dendritic cells were also examined by using splenocytes from OVA-specific T cell-receptor (TCR) transgenic DO11.10 mice or mouse bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) in vitro. We found that mice fed resveratrol showed reduced OVA-specific serum IgE production, anaphylactic reaction, and OVA-induced IL-13 and IFN-ã production from the mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) and spleens in comparison to the control mice, following oral sensitization with OVA plus CT. In addition, resveratrol inhibited OVA plus CT-induced IL-4, IL-13, and IFN-ã production in splenocytes from DO11.10 mice associated with inhibition of GATA-3 and T-bet expression. Furthermore, resveratrol suppressed the OVA plus CT-induced CD25 expression and IL-2 production in DO11.10 mice-splenocytes in association with decreases in CD80 and CD86 expression levels. Finally, resveratrol suppressed CT-induced cAMP elevation in association with decreases in CD80 and CD86 expression levels in BMDCs.
Ingestion of resveratrol prevented the development of a food allergy model in mice. Given the in vitro findings, resveratrol might do so by inhibiting DC maturation and subsequent early T cell activation and differentiation via downregulation of CT-induced cAMP activation in mice. These results suggest that resveratrol may have potential for prophylaxis against food allergy.
Pericarditis is a rare complication of chemotherapy. This report describes a patient who developed symptoms, signs, and electrocardiographic evidence of pericarditis following treatment with high dose cytarabine. The patient had no clinical or echocardiographic evidence of infection or leukemic involvement of the pericardium. Isolated pericarditis associated with high dose cytarabine has been rarely reported. This therapy is frequently used and, therefore, it seems prudent to alert physicians to this potential complication of cytarabine. The cardiopulmonary complications of cytarabine are also reviewed.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D), one of the most common diseases in the western world, is characterized by insulin resistance and impaired beta-cell function but currently it is difficult to determine the precise pathophysiology in individual T2D patients. Non-targeted metabolomics technologies have the potential for providing novel biomarkers of disease and drug efficacy, and are increasingly being incorporated into biomarker exploration studies. Contextualization of metabolomics results is enhanced by integration of study data from other platforms, such as transcriptomics, thus linking known metabolites and genes to relevant biochemical pathways. In the current study, urinary NMR-based metabolomic and liver, adipose, and muscle transcriptomic results from the db/db diabetic mouse model are described. To assist with cross-platform integration, integrative pathway analysis was used. Sixty-six metabolites were identified in urine that discriminate between the diabetic db/db and control db/+ mice. The combined analysis of metabolite and gene expression changes revealed 24 distinct pathways that were altered in the diabetic model. Several of these pathways are related to expected diabetes-related changes including changes in lipid metabolism, gluconeogenesis, mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress, as well as protein and amino acid metabolism. Novel findings were also observed, particularly related to the metabolism of branched chain amino acids (BCAAs), nicotinamide metabolites, and pantothenic acid. In particular, the observed decrease in urinary BCAA catabolites provides direct corroboration of previous reports that have inferred that elevated BCAAs in diabetic patients are caused, in part, by reduced catabolism. In summary, the integration of metabolomics and transcriptomics data via integrative pathway mapping has facilitated the identification and contextualization of biomarkers that, presuming further analytical and biological validation, may be useful in future T2D clinical studies by identifying patient populations that share common disease pathophysiology and therefore may identify those patients that may respond better to a particular class of anti-diabetic drugs.
The fourth component of the human complement system (C4) is coded for by two genes, C4A and C4B, located within the MHC. Null alleles of C4 (C4Q0) are defined by the absence of C4 protein in plasma. These null alleles are due either to large gene deletions or to nonexpression of the respective genes. In a previous study, evidence was obtained for nonexpressed defective genes at the C4A locus, and for gene conversion at the C4B locus. To further characterize the molecular basis of these non-expressed C4A genes, we selected nine pairs of PCR primers from flanking genomic intron sequences to amplify all 41 exons from individuals with a defective C4A gene. The amplified products were subjected to single-stranded conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis to detect possible mutations. PCR products exhibiting a variation in the SSCP pattern were sequenced directly. In 10 of 12 individuals studied, we detected a 2-bp insertion in exon 29 leading to nonexpression due to the creation of a termination codon, which was observed in linkage to the haplotype HLA-B60-DR6 in seven cases. In one of the other two individuals without this mutation, evidence was obtained for gene conversion to the C4B isotype. The genetic basis of C4A nonexpression in the second individual is not yet known and will be subject to further analysis.
We evaluated the endogenous action of angiotensin II (AII) and its active metabolite, angiotensin III (AIII), at the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) in the modulation of baroreceptor reflex (BRR) response, and the subtype(s) of angiotensin receptors involved in this process. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats that were anesthetized and maintained with pentobarbital sodium were used. Bilateral microinjection of AII or AIII (10, 20 or 40 pmol) into the NTS significantly and dose-dependently suppressed the BRR response, which was evoked by transient hypertension induced by phenylephrine (5 micrograms/kg, i.v.). The suppressive effect of AII (40 pmol) was reversed by co-administration of the non-peptide AT1 receptor antagonist, losartan (1.6 nmol), but only partially by the non-peptide AT2 receptor antagonist, PD-123319. On the other hand, both angiotensin receptor antagonists appreciably reversed the depressive action of AIII (40 pmol). Blocking the endogenous activity of the angiotensins by microinjection into the bilateral NTS of losartan (1.6 nmol) or PD-123319 (1.6 nmol) elicited a significant enhancement of the BRR response. An interruption of the conversion of AII to AIII with the aminopeptidase A inhibitor, amastatin (3.3 nmol), attenuated, but did not eliminate, the AII-induced inhibition of the BRR response. We conclude that whereas the endogenous AIII may exert a tonic inhibitory modulation on the BRR response by acting on both the AT1 and AT2 receptor subtypes, the same action of the endogenous AII engaged only the AT1 receptor subtype at the NTS. Furthermore, at least part of the suppressive action of AII may result from its metabolic conversion to AIII.
