A disadvantage of Propofol (commercial preparation containing long-chain triglycerides; Propofol-LCT) is pain on injection, which is reported by 54 - 100 % of the patients. Many different approaches have been used in an attempt to decrease the pain on injection of propofol. The currently most efficacious treatment is lidocaine given intravenously with a tourniquet prior to Propofol injection. In previous studies, larger concentrations of free propofol in the aqueous phase of an emulsion were associated with more pain on injection. A new formulation of propofol (a mixture of long-chain and medium-chain triglycerides in the carrier emulsion; Propofol-MCT/LCT) reduces the incidence of pain on bolus injection. This study was designed to investigate, whether the use of Propofol-MCT/LCT alleviates pain on injection to a similar degree as pretreatment with lidocaine.
Eighty patients (ASA I - III) were randomly assigned to four groups according to a double-blinded protocol, to receive either lidocaine 2 % or normal saline given iv. with a 60 seconds tourniquet time before the injection of Propofol-LCT or Propofol-MCT/LCT. (group 1: 2 ml NaCl 0,9 %, Propofol-LCT; group 2: 2 ml NaCl 0,9 %, Propofol-MCT/LCT; group 3: 2 ml lidocaine 2 %, Propofol-LCT; group 4: 2 ml lidocaine 2 %, Propofol-MCT/LCT). Assessment of pain on injection was performed after 30 % of the induction dose was given.
Pain on injection caused by Propofol-LCT with pre-treatment of lidocaine and Propofol-MCT/LCT alone is shown to be equivalent. Comparison of Propofol-MCT/LCT with pre-treatment of lidocaine and Propofol-LCT alone shows a statistical noticeable p-value of 0.035. Propofol-MCT/LCT with pre-treatment of lidocaine suggests a tendency of causing less pain compared to Propofol-MCT/LCT. Analysis of the postoperative questionnaire supplies no significant difference.
The results suggest that pain on injection is reduced equivalent using either Propofol-MCT/LCT alone or Propofol-LCT with pre-treatment of lidocaine. Pre-treatment with lidocaine before Propofol-MCT/LCT seems to have an additional effect.
The expression of the c-fos proto-oncogene, as estimated by immunohistochemistry of the FOS nuclear protein, was studied in both focal and generalized seizures induced in rats by systemic administration of pilocarpine. Focal seizures, as indicated by the occurrence of stereotyped oral movements, chewing and sniffing, were evoked by either a subconvulsant dose of pilocarpine (200 mg/kg) or the association of a convulsant dose of pilocarpine (400 mg/kg) with SCH 23390, a selective D-1 dopamine receptor antagonist. This seizure pattern resulted in FOS accumulation in certain limbic areas, namely, the piriform cortex, amygdala, and olfactory tubercle. On the other hand, in rats developing generalized seizures, accumulation of FOS was also found in hippocampus, cingulate cortex, frontal cortex, striatum, accumbens, as well as in certain thalamic nuclei. Generalized seizures, including motor limbic seizures and status epilepticus, were induced by either a convulsant dose of pilocarpine (400 mg/kg) or a low dose of pilocarpine (15-200 mg/kg) combined with either lithium or the D-1 selective agonist SKF 38393. These findings indicate a close correlation between the sequence of behavioural alterations induced by pilocarpine and the proto-oncogene activation. The results provide the basis for mapping the areas of origin and the pathways of generalization of seizure activity. As shown by the effects of dopamine receptor agonists and antagonists, the process of generalization appears to be controlled by the dopamine system.
The usefulness and efficacy of cisplatin, a chemotherapeutic drug, are limited by its toxicity to normal tissues and organs, including the kidneys. The uptake of cisplatin in renal tubular cells is high, leading to cisplatin accumulation and tubular cell injury and death, culminating in acute renal failure. While extensive investigations have been focused on the signaling pathways of cisplatin nephrotoxicity, much less is known about the mechanism of cisplatin uptake by renal cells and tissues. In this regard, evidence has been shown for the involvement of organic cation transporters (OCT), specifically OCT2. The copper transporter Ctr1 is highly expressed in the renal tubular cells; however, its role in cisplatin nephrotoxicity is not known. In this study, we demonstrate that Ctr1 is mainly expressed in both proximal and distal tubular cells in mouse kidneys. We further show that Ctr1 is mainly localized on the basolateral side of these cells, a proposed site for cisplatin uptake. Importantly, downregulation of Ctr1 by small interfering RNA or copper pretreatment results in decreased cisplatin uptake. Consistently, downregulation of Ctr1 suppresses cisplatin toxicity, including cell death by both apoptosis and necrosis. Cimetidine, a pharmacological inhibitor of OCT2, can also partially attenuate cisplatin uptake. Notably, cimetidine can further reduce cisplatin uptake and cisplatin toxicity in Ctr1-downregulated cells. The results have demonstrated the first evidence for a role of Ctr1 in cisplatin uptake and nephrotoxicity.
The role of nitric oxide (NO) in migraine has been studied in the experimental glyceryl trinitrate (GTN)-infusion headache model. We hypothesized that GTN-induced headache may activate the trigeminovascular system and be associated with increased levels of sensory neuropeptides, including calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). CGRP, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and somatostatin plasma levels were measured before and after placebo/sumatriptan injection and during GTN-induced headache. Following a double-blind randomized cross-over design, 10 healthy volunteers received subcutaneous sumatriptan 6 mg or placebo. This was succeeded by 20 min of GTN (0.12 µg kg(-1) min(-1)) infusion. At baseline no subject reported headache (using verbal rating scale from 0 to 10) and the jugular CGRP-like immunoreactivity (-LI) level was 18.6 ± 2.5 pmol/l. After a 20-min intravenous infusion of GTN 0.12 µg kg(-1) min(-1), median peak headache intensity was 4 (range 2-6) (P < 0.05), while jugular CGRP-LI levels were unchanged (19.0 ± 2.8 pmol/l; P > 0.05). There were no changes in VIP-, NPY- or somatostatin-LI. In conclusion, the NO donor GTN appears not to induce headache via immediate CGRP release.
We present a case of a patient who developed seizures shortly after initiating treatment with levofloxacin and to discuss the potential drug-drug interactions related to the inhibition of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2 in this case, as well as in other cases, of levofloxacin-induced seizures.
Several biomedical databases were searched including MEDLINE, Cochrane and Ovid. The main search terms utilized were case report and levofloxacin. The search was limited to studies published in English.
Six cases of levofloxacin-induced seizures have been reported in the literature. Drug-drug interactions related to the inhibition of CYP1A2 by levofloxacin are likely involved in the clinical outcome of these cases.
Clinicians are exhorted to pay close attention when initiating levofloxacin therapy in patients taking medications with epileptogenic properties that are CYP1A2 substrates.
The potency of gamma-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane (lindane) as a convulsant was examined in rats by infusion into a tail vein of the unrestrained animal using a lipid emulsion as vehicle and a dose rate of 200 micrograms/min. The concentration of drug in brain rose linearly up to a convulsant level, the rate of rise increasing with relative organ mass. The decline from a convulsant level was biphasic with half times of, respectively, 30 min and 3 days. Convulsant concentrations (CC) in brain were within the range obtained with other modes of administration and exhibited normal distribution but there was a moderate influence of sex, the ovarian cycle, and age on the individual response. The minimally effective and the mean convulsant doses recorded in the survey were, respectively, 1.5 and 2.4 mg/kg and, thus, of the same order as doses reportedly convulsant in the American cockroach as well as, under certain circumstances, in man. In the neonate, the mean CC in brain was 2.5 as against 4.5 micrograms/g wet weight in the adult. An argument is put forward to support the contention that this difference might be largely accounted for by the maturational increase in the lipid content of the brain. The argument uses an approximation to the mean CC in brain water which is 70 nmol/l in both the young suckling and the adult and corresponds to concentrations in which the drug reportedly effects neuroexcitation in the cockroach nervous system or binds to the ionophore of GABA-A receptors in rat brain membranes. The findings call for convulsive states in children after dermal application of lindane to be considered in terms of individual factors favouring rapid absorption as well as in terms of individual supersensitivity of the nervous system.
Astrocyte swelling represents the major factor responsible for the brain edema associated with fulminant hepatic failure (FHF). The edema may be of such magnitude as to increase intracranial pressure leading to brain herniation and death. Of the various agents implicated in the generation of astrocyte swelling, ammonia has had the greatest amount of experimental support. This article reviews mechanisms of ammonia neurotoxicity that contribute to astrocyte swelling. These include oxidative stress and the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). The involvement of glutamine in the production of cell swelling will be highlighted. Evidence will be provided that glutamine induces oxidative stress as well as the MPT, and that these events are critical in the development of astrocyte swelling in hyperammonemia.
Several cancer prevention programmes have previously been executed using treatment of antioxidant compounds. The antioxidant N-acetyl L-cysteine (NAC), a membrane-permeable aminothiol, is a sulfhydryl reductant reducing oxidised glutathione, as well as being a precursor of intracellular cysteine and glutathione. A previous report based on the cellular response to NAC treatment showed that NAC induced a 10-fold more rapid differentiation in normal primary keratinocytes as well as a reversion of a colon carcinoma cell line from neoplastic proliferation to apical-basolateral differentiation. In order to investigate molecular events underlying the changes in proliferation and differentiation induced by NAC treatment, we performed global gene expression analysis of normal human epidermal keratinocytes in a time series.
Treated samples were compared to untreated samples through a reference design using a spotted cDNA array comprising approximately 30,000 features. B statistics was used to identify differentially expressed genes, and RT-PCR of a selected set of genes was performed to verify differential expression.
The number of differentially expressed genes increased over time, starting with 0 at 30 min, 73 at 3 h and increasing to 952 genes at 48 h. Results of the expression analysis showed arrest of the cell cycle and an upregulation of cytoskeletal reorganisation, implicating increased differentiation. A comparison to gene ontology groups indicated downregulation of a large number of genes involved in cell proliferation and regulation of the cell cycle.
A significant fraction of the differentially expressed genes could be classified according to their role in the differentiation process, demonstrating that NAC regulates the conversion from proliferation to differentiation at a transcriptional level.
Studies have been carried out on the toxicity of large doses of contrast medium (Hypaque 45%) given to rats with acute renal failure induced both by mercuric chloride and by glycerol. No increase in the expected mortality of the experimental models was observed following infusion of twice the maximum clinical dose of contrast medium.
A patient with Hb Hasharon had severe hemolytic anemia after several days of daily ingestion of 2 gm of sulfisoxazole. After recovery, her erythrocytes were incubated with the drug, leading to preferential oxidation and precipitation of the abnormal hemoglobin. Since carboxyhemoglobin and cyanmethemoglobin Hasharon were as stable in the heat stability test as identically liganded Hb A, we conclude that the substitution of the hydrophilic aspartate residue by histidine on the surface of the molecule at alpha47 has led by a still unknown mechanism to an interaction of hemoglobin with the drug that labilized the heme-globin bond. Since Hb Hasharon has been found in several unrelated families, the risk of drug-induced hemolytic anemia in such carriers deserves emphasis.
Nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) are being used with increasing frequency in critically ill patients. Recently, many centers have described patients with prolonged muscle weakness after long-term use of these agents, either alone or in combination with other agents or disorders. Brief weakness lasting several hours to several days is probably the result of prolonged neuromuscular blockade, while more prolonged weakness lasting several weeks to months is, in all likelihood, caused by a myopathy. Patients with this myopathic disorder have flaccid paralysis with intact cognition and sensation. Electrodiagnostic findings include decreased M-wave amplitudes, positive waves and fibrillations, and rapid recruitment of small amplitude short duration, polyphasic motor unit potentials. Muscle biopsy findings include atrophy of type I and type II fibers, myofiber necrosis, and selective loss of thick myofilaments. The myopathy is believed to be related to the prolonged use of NMBA either alone or in combination with other disorders or medications, particularly corticosteroids. The weakness experienced by these patients leads to additional respiratory compromise, difficulty weaning from the ventilator, and prolonged hospitalization.
Vein graft failure within the first month after bypass surgery is largely because of thrombosis. However, systemic study of thrombus formation in vein grafts is still lacking, and few effective techniques are available to prevent this event. Herein, we analyzed the kinetics of thrombosis and tested the effectiveness of locally applied aspirin on prevention of the disease in a mouse model. En face analysis of vein grafts revealed that 67+/-12% and 54+/-17% of the surface areas were covered by microthrombi at 1 and 3 days, respectively. Thrombus generation was also identified by labeling of platelets and fibrin, which occurred in 35 grafts examined at 1 and 3 days and 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks. In a fifth of grafts, the thrombus occluded the vessel lumen by > or =1/4. Furthermore, a significant loss of endothelial cells was evidenced by beta-gal staining for vein grafts in transgenic mice expressing LacZ gene controlled by TIE2-endothelial specific gene promoter. Following thrombosis, neointimal lesions were significantly increased by 4-fold 2 weeks after the operation. When vein grafts were treated locally with aspirin in pluronic gel-127, the thrombus area was significantly reduced (P<0.005) at 1, 4, and 8 weeks. Interestingly, neointimal lesions were markedly reduced in the local, but not oral, aspirin-treated group at 4 and 8 weeks by 50% to 70% (P<0.005). The mechanism of reduced lesions by locally applied aspirin involved the protection of vein graft endothelium. Thus, we provide strong evidence that thrombus formation occurs before the development of neointimal lesions in vein grafts and that local aspirin treatment successfully reduces vein graft arteriosclerosis through endothelial protection, resulting in reduction of thrombosis.
Adefovir dipivoxyl (ADV) effectively suppresses hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication but exhibits nephrotoxicity with severe hypophosphatemia when administered at a high dosage. This is the first report of severe hypophosphatemic osteomalacia induced by ADV at 10 mg/day. A 42-year-old man with HBV-related chronic liver disease presented with generalized bone pain, especially in the left ankle. He had been taking ADV for more than 1.5 years following a clinical breakthrough due to lamivudine-resistant HBV. Aggravating severe hypophosphatemia and elevated serum alkaline phosphatase levels with high bone fraction had been noted after 6 months of ADV therapy. Bone densitometry, simple bone X-rays, and a whole-body bone scan demonstrated osteoporosis and multiple areas with hot uptake, especially in the left ankle. All the image findings and symptoms improved after correcting the hypophosphatemia.
Cyclophosphamide has been used to treat a variety of malignant and nonmalignant diseases. The association of this agent with the development of urothelial tumors has been well documented. Although most bladder cancers associated with prior cyclophosphamide therapy are transitional cell carcinoma, to our knowledge there have been 6 reports of cyclophosphamide-induced squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder. We report 2 additional cases of squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder that occurred in patients after cyclophosphamide treatment for Wegener's granulomatosis. Any patient with a history of prolonged cyclophosphamide ingestion needs careful long-term monitoring of the lower urinary tract, since there is at least a 9-fold increase in the incidence of lower urinary tract malignancy in such patients.
Tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) is a group of life-threatening metabolic complications that can occur after initiation of cancer chemotherapy. Onset of TLS in the middle of chemotherapy, however, has not been reported previously in patients with hematologic malignancies.
We report a case of a patient who experienced TLS of super-acute onset accompanied by hypercytokinemia during chemotherapy treatment with a combination of doxorubicin (Adriamycin), bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD).
A 36-year-old Japanese man (height, 182 cm; weight, 83 kg; body surface area, 2.04 m(2)) was admitted to the hospital for the treatment of malignant lymphoma (clinical stage IVB Hodgkin's lymphoma). Chemotherapy was initiated using the ABVD regimen (doxorubicin [Adriamycin] 25 mg/m(2) by 30-minute infusion, bleomycin 9 mg/m(2) by 30-minute infusion, vinblastine 6 mg/m(2) by bolus injection, and dacarbazine 375 mg/m(2) by 2-hour infusion). During the dacarbazine infusion, the patient's body temperature rose from 36.5 degrees C to 42 degrees C; he experienced a convulsion and then lost consciousness. The convulsion was not suppressed despite the use of diazepam (5 mg IV twice) and phenytoin (500 mg IV). The patient was then transferred to the intensive care unit and sedated using a continuous infusion of midazolam (10 mg/h). Levels of serum lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase, uric acid, blood urea nitrogen, and creatinine evaluated shortly after the ABVD regimen were outside normal limits. In addition, interleukin-6 (IL-6) concentrations were elevated to 54,220 pg/mL. Continuous hemodiafiltration was immediately performed to lower the elevated levels of IL-6. The next day, IL-6 concentrations decreased to 97 pg/mL, and the patient was weaned from ventilator support and sedation. The patient had no adverse effects after the event. According to the results of an assessment using the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale (score = 3), the development of TLS in this patient was possibly related to the chemotherapy regimen.
ABVD chemotherapy was possibly associated with the super-acute onset of TLS in this patient. In addition, hypercytokinemia occurred with TLS, which led to pyrexia, convulsion, and loss of consciousness.
To determine the auditory brainstem response (ABR) patterns in infants with prenatal cocaine exposure as detected by meconium analysis.
Meconium drug analysis was done on term infants who were at risk for antenatal illicit drug exposure. Infants who tested positive for cocaine served as the exposed group; those who tested negative served as control subjects. An ABR was done on the infants within 6 days of life. Absolute latencies at 40 and 70 decibels (dB) of waves I, III, and V and interpeak latencies between I and III, III and V, and I and V were measured.
Among 58 infants in the study, 21 (35.6%) were positive, by meconium analysis, for cocaine and 5 (8.5%) were positive for cannabinoids. Four infants tested positive for cocaine, although their mothers denied illicit drug use. There was a significant difference in mean maternal age, gravidity, parity, birth weight, and head circumference among cocaine-exposed versus nonexposed infants. The ABR from cocaine-positive infants showed significantly prolonged mean absolute latencies in both ears as compared with nonexposed infants: right ear at 40 dB III (4.823 vs 4.447 milliseconds), 40 dB V (7.400 vs 6.968 milliseconds), 70 dB I (2.111 vs 1.631 milliseconds), and 70 dB III (4.122 vs 3.821 milliseconds); left ear at 40 dB III (4.820 vs 4.444 milliseconds), 40 dB V (7.460 vs 6.860 milliseconds), 70 dB I (2.063 vs 1.741 milliseconds), 70 dB III (4.026 vs 3.656 milliseconds), and 70 dB V (6.568 vs 6.258 milliseconds). The interpeak latency was not significantly different except in 1 cocaine-positive infant: left ear at 40 dB III to V (2.667 vs 2.417 milliseconds).
The ABR in neonates who are exposed prenatally to cocaine shows prolonged absolute peak latencies compared with nonexposed neonates and may indicate compromise of the auditory system from gestational exposure to cocaine that will need additional audiologic follow-up. Meconium analysis can more accurately detect the infants who are at risk.
Improved detection methods for diagnosis of malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) are essential for early and reliable detection as well as treatment. Since recent data point to abnormal levels of microRNAs (miRNAs) in tumors, we hypothesized that a profile of deregulated miRNAs may be a marker of MPM and that the levels of specific miRNAs may be used for monitoring its progress.
miRNAs isolated from fresh-frozen biopsies of MPM patients were tested for the expression of 88 types of miRNA involved in cancerogenesis. Most of the tested miRNAs were downregulated in the malignant tissues compared with the normal tissues. Of eight significantly downregulated, three miRNAs were assayed in cancerous tissue and adjacent non-cancerous tissue sample pairs collected from 27 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded MPM tissues by quantitative RT-PCR. Among the miRNAs tested, only miR-126 significantly remained downregulated in the malignant tissues. Furthermore, the performance of the selected miR-126 as biomarker was evaluated in serum samples of asbestos-exposed subjects and MPM patients and compared with controls. MiR-126 was not affected by asbestos exposure, whereas it was found strongly associated with VEGF serum levels. Levels of miR-126 in serum, and its levels in patients' serum in association with a specific marker of MPM, SMRPs, correlate with subjects at high risk to develop MPM.
We propose miR-126, in association with SMRPs, as a marker for early detection of MPM. The identification of tumor biomarkers used alone or, in particular, in combination could greatly facilitate the surveillance procedure for cohorts of subjects exposed to asbestos.
Coronary stent thrombosis is a rare occurrence in the era of dual-antiplatelet therapy. It is not known whether patients who use cocaine have a higher risk of thrombosis following coronary stent placement.
We studied 247 consecutive patients who underwent coronary stent placement at an inner-city hospital.
Twelve patients (4.9%) were actively using cocaine at the time of PCI. Of these twelve patients, four patients presented with stent thrombosis (33%) at a mean of 51 +/- 40 days (median 45 days), after the index revascularization procedure. Only 2 of the 235 patients without documented cocaine use (0.85%) had stent thrombosis during the same period (P < 0.0001).
The patients who actively use cocaine have a markedly higher risk of stent thrombosis when compared with patients without a documented history of cocaine use. We discuss various factors that potentially predispose cocaine users to stent thrombosis.
A known asthmatic patient who was 38-39 weeks pregnant was being treated for asthma in an emergency department. After treatment with subcutaneous terbutaline, she developed a hypotensive episode that lasted almost 30 minutes. Emergency physicians should understand the underlying hemodynamic changes in pregnancy and in the therapy of asthma, and should be aware of the potential for this unusual complication.
Esophagogastric cancer represents a significant global health problem, with most patients presenting with advanced-stage disease and consequently with a poor prognosis. Chemotherapy improves survival compared with supportive care alone, and combination chemotherapy regimens are more effective than monotherapy. Overexpression of EGFR and possibly HER2 confer a poor prognosis, providing potentially important therapeutic targets for selected patients. Inhibition of HER2 with the monoclonal antibody trastuzumab in patients with HER2 overexpression, HER2 gene amplification, or both, is effective and has been the standard of care for HER2-positive breast cancer for almost a decade. In patients with advanced-stage gastric or esophagogastric-junction adenocarcinomas, the addition of trastuzumab to a cisplatin plus fluoropyrimidine doublet was reported to improve response rate, progression-free survival and overall survival, with the greatest benefit reported in the subgroup of patients with the highest expression of HER2. Cetuximab and panitumumab, two monoclonal antibodies against EGFR, and the dual EGFR and HER2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor lapatinib are currently undergoing phase III evaluation in esophagogastric cancer. We discuss the preclinical rationale for targeting human EGFRs and recent clinical reports of these targeted agents in esophagogastric cancer.
Orthostatic intolerance is the development of disabling symptoms upon assuming an upright posture that are relieved partially by resuming the supine position. Postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is an orthostatic intolerance syndrome characterized by palpitations because of excessive orthostatic sinus tachycardia, lightheadedness, tremor, and near-syncope. Patients usually undergo extensive medical, cardiac, endocrine, neurologic, and psychiatric evaluation, which usually fails to identify a specific abnormality. The authors investigated the autonomic and hemodynamic profile of patients with POTS and the effectiveness of bisoprolol and fludrocortisone. The authors evaluated 11 female patients with POTS before and after medical treatment with a cardioselective bisoprolol beta-blocker or fludrocortisone, or both, and 11 age-matched control patients. Variability of heart rate and systolic blood pressure was assessed by fast Fourier transform, and spontaneous baroreceptor gain was assessed by use of the temporal sequences slope and alpha index. Modelflow was used to quantify hemodynamics. Symptoms in all patients improved greatly after medication. The autonomic and hemodynamic impairment observed in patients with POTS, particularly after orthostatic stress, is treated effectively with bisoprolol or fludrocortisone or both. These results need further confirmation in a controlled double-blind study. Proper medical treatment improves dramatically the clinical and autonomic-hemodynamic disturbances observed in patients with POTS. The data support the hypothesis that POTS is the result of a hyperadrenergic activation or hypovolemia during orthostasis.
Anecdotal reports of chlorambucil-induced seizures have sporadically appeared, mainly in the nononcologic literature. The majority of cases have occurred in patients treated with high dose therapy and in children with nephrotic syndrome. Because of its rarity, oncologists and hematologists may not be aware of this potential complication.
Two elderly patients with a remote history of seizures had generalized tonic-clonic seizures 3 days after chlorambucil therapy was initiated. A MEDLINE search was performed of previously reported cases and additional cases were found in the bibliographies of retrieved articles.
In addition to the 2 new cases presented here, there have been 28 reported cases of chlorambucil-induced seizures. Underlying diseases included nephrotic syndrome (n = 12 cases), solid tumors (n - 10 cases), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (n = 3 cases), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (n = 1 case). Five cases were secondary to accidental overdose. Sixteen of 30 patients were younger than 18 years; 11 had nephrotic syndrome, 1 had choriocarcinoma, and 4 accidentally ingested the medication. Nine of 14 adults received high dose chlorambucil in Phase I-II studies or as part of a conditioning regimen prior to bone marrow transplantation for solid tumors, 3 were on intermittent pulse therapy, 1 was on daily low dose administration of chlorambucil, and 1 patient had an accidental poisoning. Two patients had recurrent seizures when they were rechallenged with chlorambucil.
A relatively high incidence of chlorambucil-induced seizures in children with nephrotic syndrome may be due to an increased sensitivity in childhood or altered pharmacokinetics. In adults without a seizure history, seizures were observed only in patients treated with high dose chlorambucil; however, in adults with a seizure history, lower doses as used in pulse therapy also caused seizures. In the latter group of patients, daily low dose chlorambucil or, more likely, an alternative drug may be the safest approach to therapy.
