Severe adverse reactions to propylthiouracil occur in 1-5% of patients. Three major side effects, namely agranulocytosis, hepatotoxicity and drug-induced hypersensitivity, have been described though these syndromes are not distinct entities and there can be overlaps in the clinical manifestations. The drug-induced hypersensitivity may be an immune-mediated reaction with multiorgan involvement in which a combination of polyarthritis, cutaneous vasculitis and fever is common. We report a patient with propylthiouracil-induced hypersensitivity with an unusual combination of high spiking fever, migratory polyarthritis, reversible sensorineural deafness, normochromic normocytic anaemia, leucocytosis and hepatotoxicity associated with polyclonal activation of multiple autoantibodies. This case illustrates the highly variable clinical manifestations of the syndrome. The prompt recovery upon withdrawal of the drug indicates the importance of early diagnosis.
Phosphatase homologue of tensin (PTEN) is the most commonly mutated gene in prostate cancer. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are known to promote differentiation and inhibit proliferation. Previously published reports from other organ systems led us to investigate a mechanistic relationship between PTEN and BMP signaling in prostate epithelial cells.
We analyzed growth rate and PTEN expression in E6, BPH-1, and C4-2B prostate epithelial cells treated with BMP-4. We also treated doxacyclin-inducible PTEN-C4-2B cells with BMP-4 and doxacyclin to determine the effect of BMP on growth and PTEN expression in conditions of increasing PTEN expression. We determined the dependency of BMP-mediated growth inhibition via siRNA knockdown of PTEN expression and BMP treatment. We determined PTEN protein stability by determining the effect of BMP-4 on PTEN protein at time points after treatment with cyclohexamide, a translation inhibitor.
We found that BMP-4 induces PTEN in E6 and BPH-1 cells and reduces proliferation. Knockdown of PTEN attenuated the growth-inhibiting effects of BMP-4 in these cells. BMP-4 had no effect in PTEN-negative C4-2B cells, but doxacyclin-driven PTEN C4-2B cells responded to BMP-4 with enhanced PTEN and growth inhibition. BMP-4 also increased PTEN protein stability.
BMP signaling induces PTEN expression and sustains PTEN protein expression resulting in inhibition of prostate epithelial cell growth. These data are the first to identify a mechanistic linkage between BMP signaling and PTEN in the prostate, both of which are independently identified as tumor suppressors and suggest possible coordinate dysregulation in prostate cancer.
This study describes morphological abnormalities of brain cells during acute methamphetamine (METH) intoxication in the rat and demonstrates the role of hyperthermia, disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and edema in their development. Rats with chronically implanted brain, muscle and skin temperature probes and an intravenous (i.v.) catheter were exposed to METH (9 mg/kg) at standard (23 degrees C) and warm (29 degrees C) ambient temperatures, allowing for the observation of hyperthermia ranging from mild to pathological (38-42 degrees C). When brain temperature peaked or reached a level suggestive of possible lethality (>41.5 degrees C), rats were injected with Evans blue (EB), rapidly anesthetized, perfused, and their brains were taken for further analyses. Four brain areas (cortex, hippocampus, thalamus and hypothalamus) were analyzed for EB extravasation, water and electrolyte (Na(+), K(+), Cl(-)) contents, immunostained for albumin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and examined for neuronal, glial and axonal alterations using standard light and electron microscopy. These examinations revealed profound abnormalities in neuronal, glial, and endothelial cells, which were stronger with METH administered at 29 degrees C than 23 degrees C and tightly correlated with brain and body hyperthermia. These changes had some structural specificity, but in each structure they tightly correlated with increases in EB levels, the numbers of albumin-positive cells, and water and ion contents, suggesting leakage of the BBB, acutely developing brain edema, and serious shifts in brain ion homeostasis as leading factors underlying brain abnormalities. While most of these acute structural and functional abnormalities appear to be reversible, they could trigger subsequent cellular alterations in the brain and accelerate neurodegeneration-the most dangerous complication of chronic amphetamine-like drug abuse.
TGF-β family members play a relevant role in tumorigenic processes, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but a specific implication of the Bone Morphogenetic Protein (BMP) subfamily is still unknown. Although originally isolated from fetal liver, little is known about BMP9, a BMP family member, and its role in liver physiology and pathology. Our results show that BMP9 promotes growth in HCC cells, but not in immortalized human hepatocytes. In the liver cancer cell line HepG2, BMP9 triggers Smad1,5,8 phosphorylation and inhibitor of DNA binding 1 (Id1) expression up- regulation. Importantly, by using chemical inhibitors, ligand trap and gene silencing approaches we demonstrate that HepG2 cells autocrinely produce BMP9 that supports their proliferation and anchorage independent growth. Additionally, our data reveal that in HepG2 cells BMP9 triggers cell cycle progression, and strikingly, completely abolishes the increase in the percentage of apoptotic cells induced by long-term incubation in low serum. Collectively, our data unveil a dual role for BMP9, both promoting a proliferative response and exerting a remarkable anti-apoptotic function in HepG2 cells, which result in a robust BMP9 effect on liver cancer cell growth. Finally, we show that BMP9 expression is increased in 40% of human HCC tissues compared with normal human liver as revealed by immunohistochemistry analysis, suggesting that BMP9 signaling may be relevant during hepatocarcinogenesis in vivo. Our findings provide new clues for a better understanding of BMPs contribution, and in particular BMP9, in HCC pathogenesis that may result in the development of effective and targeted therapeutic interventions.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major cause of epilepsy, yet the mechanisms underlying the progression from TBI to epilepsy are unknown. TBI induces the expression of COX-2 (cyclooxygenase-2) and increases levels of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Here, we demonstrate that acutely applied PGE2 (2 mum) decreases neocortical network activity by postsynaptically reducing excitatory synaptic transmission in acute and organotypic neocortical slices of mice. In contrast, long-term exposure to PGE2 (2 mum; 48 h) presynaptically increases excitatory synaptic transmission, leading to a hyperexcitable network state that is characterized by the generation of paroxysmal depolarization shifts (PDSs). PDSs were also evoked as a result of depriving organotypic slices of activity by treating them with tetrodotoxin (TTX, 1 mum; 48 h). This treatment predominantly increased postsynaptically excitatory synaptic transmission. The network and cellular effects of PGE2 and TTX treatments reversed within 1 week. Differences in the underlying mechanisms (presynaptic vs postsynaptic) as well as occlusion experiments in which slices were exposed to TTX plus PGE2 suggest that the two substances evoke distinct forms of homeostatic plasticity, both of which result in a hyperexcitable network state. PGE2 and TTX (alone or together with PGE2) also increased levels of apoptotic cell death in organotypic slices. Thus, we hypothesize that the increase in excitability and apoptosis may constitute the first steps in a cascade of events that eventually lead to epileptogenesis triggered by TBI.
The aim of this study was to determine if myocardial inflammation is increased after myocardial ischemia and whether angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium channel blockers, or diuretics decrease mediators of inflammation in rats with induced myocardial ischemia. Changes in cardiac interstitial fluid (CIF) levels of nitric oxide metabolites (NOX), cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP), angiotensin II (Ang II), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were monitored with/without oral administration of benazepril, amlodipine, combined benazepril-amlodipine, or hydrochlorothiazide. Using a microdialysis technique, levels of several mediators of inflammation were measured after sham operation or 30-minute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Compared with sham animals, levels of CIF NOX and cGMP were decreased in animals with ischemia (P < 0.001). Benazepril or amlodipine significantly increased NOX levels (P < 0.05 vs. untreated ischemia), but only benazepril significantly increased cGMP (P < 0.05). Combined benazepril-amlodipine further increased CIF NOX and cGMP (P < 0.001), compared with either drug alone. CIF Ang II and TNF-alpha in sham animals did not change significantly. In animals with ischemia, CIF Ang II and TNF-alpha increased progressively. Amlodipine alone, benazepril alone, or combined benazepril-amlodipine significantly reduced TNF-alpha (P < 0.01 for monotherapies and P < 0.001 for combination therapy). Hydrochlorothiazide did not cause significant changes in NOX, cGMP, or TNF-alpha. Combination benazepril-amlodipine may be beneficial for managing cardiac ischemia.
We report a 65-year-old male parkinsonian patient who developed dominantly unilateral choreic movements over his right-side extremities after a daily dosage of up to 1,000 mg of carbidopa-levodopa (carbidopa 200 mg, levodopa 800 mg) for 12 years. The disabling choreic movement appeared as a pattern of peak-dose dyskinesia and was so severe that he was unable to sit or stand still to suppress the involuntary movements. It started about 20 minutes after each dose of levodopa and lasted for about 2 hours. Although the dyskinesia could be reduced by decreasing the levodopa dosage, he could not tolerate the severe parkinsonian disabilities. The dyskinesia did not respond to baclofen, diazepam or clozapine. The chorea was successfully treated surgically using stereotactic left ventrolateral thalamotomy. This is an important treatment for patients with intractable dyskinesia after prolonged levodopa therapy.
Mutation of galectin-3 at position 191 (rs4644) substituting proline to histidine (gal-3H(64)) resulted in the acquisition of resistance to drug-induced apoptosis by breast cancer cells. This study employed gastric cancer cells and patient tissues in attempts to elucidate how and why this mutation in galectin-3 (gal-3H(64)) enhances cancer progression, compared to wild type galectin-3 (gal-3P(64)). First, we prepared lenti-virus constructs containing gal-3P(64), gal-3H(64) and LacZ, and used them to infect galectin-3 null SNU-638 cells. We found that gal-3H(64) over-expression increases gastric cancer cell growth more than gal-3P(64) or LacZ over-expression. Also, gal-3H(64) over-expression conferred more resistance to cisplatin or 5-FU induced cytotoxicity than gal-3P(64). Gal-3H(64) also enhanced nuclear accumulation of β-catenin as well as increased expression of TCF-4 target genes, such as fascin-1 and c-Myc through the augmented promoter binding activity of TCF-4, than gal-3P(64). We also demonstrated stronger staining of β-catenin and galectin-3 in malignant tissues from gastric cancer patients with mutated galectin-3 at position 191 (gal-3 191) (A/A) (H(64)) and greater localization in the nucleus than in gal-3 191 A/C (P(64)) cancer patients. Taken together, we elucidated in this study that germline variant of gal-3H(64) increases nuclear accumulation of β-catenin and promotes TCF transcriptional activity and enhances more the galectin-3's role in gastric cancer progression.
Muscarinic receptor antagonists are the standard of care for patients with overactive bladder (OAB). However, they can increase heart rate, and this can be disadvantageous in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) or congestive heart failure (CHF). Comedications frequently used in the treatment of cardiovascular disease can further increase the risk for elevation of heart rate.
As such high-risk patients have not been well represented in most randomized trials of muscarinic receptor antagonists, we investigated whether the muscarinic receptor antagonist solifenacin alters heart rate or has other cardiovascular adverse effects during routine use in OAB patients. The study evaluated these effects both in the overall group and in pre-defined risk groups. The overall tolerability and safety of solifenacin were also explored.
This open-label, post-marketing surveillance study was specifically designed to evaluate the cardiovascular safety of solifenacin 5-10 mg once daily during a 12-week treatment course without specific inclusion or exclusion criteria but with systematic documentation of heart rate-relevant co-morbidities and comedications. The study was conducted in 4450 patients with OAB under the care of office-based urologists. The primary outcome measurement was heart rate. Secondary outcome measures were blood pressure and overall adverse events, which were systematically recorded before, during (after 1 week) and at study end; in many cases, an ECG was also conducted.
CHD, previous myocardial infarction or CHF were reported by 11.9%, 1.6% and 7.0% of patients, respectively, and >60% were receiving at least one comedication. An ECG was conducted prior to solifenacin treatment in 915 patients and revealed abnormalities in 17.3%. At study end, 72.4% and 19.1% of patients were taking solifenacin 5 mg and 10 mg, respectively. No clinically relevant alterations in mean heart rate (75.2 +/- 8.2 beats/min pre-treatment vs 74.5 +/- 7.6 beats/min at study end) or mean blood pressure (137/82 mmHg pre-treatment vs 134/81 mmHg at study end) were observed. In the subgroup of patients who underwent ECG both before and during treatment, no increase in the prevalence of pathological findings was noted. Adverse effects were rare (affecting 4.8% of patients), and treatment discontinuations due to adverse effects occurred in only 1.4% of patients. Among various possible cofactors, only age >80 years and the presence of comedications significantly affected adverse event incidence.
In real-life conditions, i.e. with inclusion of large numbers of patients with cardiovascular co-morbidities and taking comedications, therapeutically effective doses of solifenacin did not increase heart rate or blood pressure.
Sixty-six laboratory confirmed cases of Kala-azar from Uttar Pradesh attending various hospitals of Delhi over a period of 10 years (1989-1999) have been analysed. The geographical distribution showed that the disease involved widespread areas varying from a height of 10,000 ft. extending up-to the plains. Male, female ratio was 2:1 and maximum patients were in the age group of 5-15 years. L.D. bodies could be demonstrated in 59 patients in bone marrow aspirate smears while in 7 in splenic aspirate smears. One patient was co-infected with HIV. Indirect immuno fluorescent test was positive in 65 patients in titres ranging from 1:100 to 1:25,600 except in one HIV co-infected patient where no antibodies could be detected. Sixty-two (93.9%) patients responded completely to sodium stibogluoconate.
On the basis of a single clinical trial in first-line treatment, the atazanavir and ritonavir combination appears to be no more effective than the fixed-dose combination of lopinavir and ritonavir. The adverse effect profiles were slightly different, but atazanavir carries a troubling risk of torsades de pointes.
To assess the consistency of the benefits of blood pressure lowering on secondary stroke risk by age, sex and geographic region of recruitment.
Randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Participants were randomized to the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor perindopril (plus the diuretic indapamide if not indicated or contraindicated) or to placebo(s) over a mean follow-up of 3.9 years. Main analyses used Cox proportional hazards models on an intention-to-treat basis. Subgroup results were standardized for the proportion (42%) taking single-drug therapy.
A total of 172 centres in Asia, Australia, New Zealand and Europe.
Patients (n = 6105) with a history of stroke or transient ischaemic attack, of whom 50% were aged over 65 years at baseline, 30% were women and 39% were from Asia.
Stroke, coronary heart disease and major vascular events.
Overall, treatment reduced stroke by 28% [95% confidence interval (CI) 17-38%] and major vascular events by 26% (16-44%), with separately significant reductions across subgroups defined by age (< or > or = 65 years), sex and region (Asia or not). Treatment was safe and well tolerated, and the absolute benefits were large; 5 years' treatment would be expected to avert at least one major vascular event among every 20 patients in all age, sex and region subgroups. There was some evidence of particularly large benefits among younger participants and those from Asia.
Blood pressure lowering reduces secondary stroke risk, with large absolute benefits across groups defined by age, sex and geographic region.
Resveratrol (trans-3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene), a polyphenolic compound found in plant products, including red grapes, exhibits anticancer, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties. Using an animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS), we investigated the use of resveratrol for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. We observed that resveratrol treatment decreased the clinical symptoms and inflammatory responses in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE)-induced mice. Furthermore, we observed significant apoptosis in inflammatory cells in spinal cord of EAE-induced mice treated with resveratrol compared with the control mice. Resveratrol administration also led to significant down-regulation of certain cytokines and chemokines in EAE-induced mice including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, interleukin (IL)-2, IL-9, IL-12, IL-17, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), regulated on activation normal T-cell expressed and secreted (RANTES), and Eotaxin. In vitro studies on the mechanism of action revealed that resveratrol triggered high levels of apoptosis in activated T cells and to a lesser extent in unactivated T cells. Moreover, resveratrol-induced apoptosis was mediated through activation of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and estrogen receptor (ER) and correlated with up-regulation of AhR, Fas, and FasL expression. In addition, resveratrol-induced apoptosis in primary T cells correlated with cleavage of caspase-8, caspase-9, caspase-3, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, and release of cytochrome c. Data from the present study demonstrate, for the first time, the ability of resveratrol to trigger apoptosis in activated T cells and its potential use in the treatment of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases including, MS.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) are believed to be causative agents for various types of cancers in humans. Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) is a prototypic carcinogenic PAH, which requires metabolic activation to elicit its detrimental effects. The major end product of its diol epoxide metabolic activation pathway is r-7,t-8,9,c-10-tetrahydroxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzo[a]pyrene (trans, anti-BaPT). Individual differences in exposure to, and metabolic activation of, carcinogenic PAH may influence cancer risk. Measurement of PAH metabolites in human urine could provide a direct way to assess individual differences in susceptibility to PAH-related cancer. In this article, we describe a sensitive and reliable method for the quantitation of trans, anti-BaPT in human urine using gas chromatography-negative ion chemical ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (GC-NICI-MS/MS). [(13)C(6)] trans, anti-BaPT was used as the internal standard. The urine was treated with β-glucuronidase and sulfatase, and then trans, anti-BaPT was enriched by solid-phase extraction with polymeric reversed phase and phenylboronic acid cartridges. The sample was silylated and analyzed by GC-NICI-MS/MS with selected reaction monitoring (SRM) for the trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivatives of trans, anti-BaPT (m/z 446 → m/z 255) and [(13)C(6)]trans, anti-BaPT (m/z 452 → m/z 261). The mean assay recovery was 44%. The instrumental on-column detection limit was about 20 amol of trans, anti-BaPT (as BaPT-TMS). trans, anti-BaPT was readily detected in all urine samples analyzed including those of 30 smokers (0.71 ± 0.64 fmol/mg creatinine) and 30 nonsmokers (0.34 ± 0.2 fmol/mg creatinine) (P = 0.0036). The results of this study demonstrate a highly sensitive and selective method for the quantitation of trans, anti-BaPT in human urine. This is to our knowledge the first study to show that smokers have significantly higher levels of trans, anti-BaPT in their urine than do nonsmokers. This method may be useful as a direct phenotyping approach to assess individual differences in uptake and metabolic activation of carcinogenic PAH.
Exisulind is an apoptotic agent with preclinical activity in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Vinorelbine is safe and effective in older patients with advanced NSCLC. We assessed these agents together as palliative treatment for older patients with advanced NSCLC.
Chemotherapy-naive patients >/=70-years-old with stage IIIB-IV NSCLC and a performance status (PS) </=2 were eligible. Primary endpoints were the maximum tolerated dose (phase I) and time-to-progression (phase II) of oral exisulind with 25 mg/m/wk of intravenous vinorelbine on a 28-day cycle. Patients with clinical benefit after 6 cycles of this combination received exisulind alone.
Fourteen phase I patients (median PS 1; median age 78 years) were enrolled. Dose-limiting toxicities included grade 3 constipation (one patient), grade 3 febrile neutropenia (one patient) and grade 3 diarrhea (one patient). The maximum tolerated dose of oral exisulind with 25 mg/m/wk of intravenous vinorelbine was 125 mg twice daily. Thirty phase II patients (median PS 1; median age 78 years) were enrolled. Grade >/=3 neutropenia occurred in 14/30 patients. Two patients experienced neutropenic fever. There were no complete responses, one partial response and 12 patients with stable disease as their best response. The objective response rate was 4.0% (95% CI: 0.1-20.4%). Phase II median time-to-progression was 4.7 months (95% CI: 3.1-9.3 months) and median OS was 9.6 months (95% CI: 6.6-19.1 months).
This combination is safe, seems to have activity in the elderly with advanced NSCLC and a PS </=2, and warrants further investigation.
Recent studies indicate that progesterone (PROG) protects against animal brain injury, including ischemic stroke, in various animal models. However, there are insufficient studies about PROG in other various groups such as ovariectomized females and aged animals. This study was designed to examine the efficacy of PROG on infarct volume, brain water content and functional outcome after cerebral ischemia in aged rats. Thirty-six male aged Sprague-Dawley rats underwent permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) with the intraluminal filament technique and sham operation. After induction of pMCAO, the rats received an initial intraperitoneal injection of PROG (8mg/kg) or vehicle at 1h post-occlusion followed by subcutaneous injections at 6, 24 and 48h. Functional deficits were tested with Zea Longa and Rotarod test at 24, 48 and 72h after pMCAO. The rats were killed 72h after surgery and infarct volume were determined with 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining and digital image analysis. Brain water content was determined by the dry-wet weight method. PROG-treated rats showed a substantial reduction in the volume of the infarction (% contralateral hemisphere) and brain water content compared to vehicle-treated rats. In addition, there was a significant improvement in ability to remain on an accelerating rotarod and increased Zea Longa scores observed in the pMCAO rats treated with PROG compared to vehicle. These findings point to the response of aged adult rats to PROG in cerebral ischemia, and suggest that such response need to be considered in the development of neuroprotective agents for stroke.
I.c.v. injection for 9 days of either naltexone (NTX) (5, 10, 20, 40 micrograms/rat) or a selective mu peptide (CTOP) (0.125, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 3, 6 micrograms/rat) or delta (naltrindole) (NLT) (5, 10, 20 micrograms/rat) subtype opioid receptor antagonist affected sensitization to cocaine (COC) (50 mg/kg, i.p.) administered 10 min after. NTX (5 and 40 micrograms/rat), NLT (10 and 20 micrograms/rat), and the peptide CTOP (0.25-0.5 microgram/rat) attenuated seizure parameters (percent of animals showing seizures, mean score and latency) in a day-related manner. The DD50 (days to reach 50% of death) value for COC was 2.69, whereas it was 9.67 and 7.27 for NTX 5 and 40 micrograms/rat, 8.59 for NLT (10 micrograms/rat), and 6.11, 5.95, and 4.30 for CTOP (0.25, 0.5, and 1 microgram/rat respectively). These findings suggest a concurrent involvement of mu- and delta-opioid receptor subtype in COC-induced sensitization to toxic effects.
The inflammatory cytokine tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) is known to be a major factor contributing to cardiac remodelling and dysfunction. Parasympathetic nervous system cholinergic function can inhibit TNF alpha expression during systemic infection. In the present study, we tested the effects of a cholinesterase inhibitor, neostigmine, and a muscarinic cholinergic agonist, pilocarpine, on cardiac hypertrophy and TNF alpha levels during pressure overload. Rats with transverse aortic constriction exhibited elevated TNF alpha protein levels in the heart, increased heart weight to body weight ratios (an index of cardiac hypertrophy) and decreased left ventricular diastolic function. Two weeks of infusion with neostigmine (6 microg kg(-1) day(-1)) or pilocarpine (0.3 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) significantly reduced cardiac hypertrophy, reduced TNF alpha levels and elevated interleukin-10 levels in heart tissues, and improved ventricular function in rats with transverse aortic constriction. Neither of these treatments significantly changed ventricular pressure load. Furthermore, in primary cultured neonatal cardiac cells, treatment with pilocarpine attenuated adrenergic agonist phenylephrine-induced increased TNF alpha expression and [3H]leucine (a marker of protein synthesis) incorporation in the cells. Collectively, both cholinergic agents decreased TNF alpha levels and attenuated cardiac hypertrophy. Since both agents potentially enhanced cholinergic function, the anti-inflammatory action may be involved in the cardioprotective effect of the treatments with these agents.
It is well established that muscarinic cholinergic agonists produce antinociceptive effects in a number of acute pain models. However, relatively little is known about the effects of muscarinic receptor agonists in models which involve central sensitization in pain pathways. The purpose of the present studies was to evaluate the effects of vedaclidine, a muscarinic receptor mixed agonist/antagonist across receptor subtypes, in models involving central sensitization. Vedaclidine (0.3-10 mg/kg s.c.) produced dose-related antihyperalgesic effects in the formalin test as well as a dose-related reversal of capsaicin-induced mechanical hyperalgesia in rats. In the carrageenan test, vedaclidine (0.1-30 mg/kg) produced a dose-related reversal of both mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia that were antagonized by the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine. In addition, the antihyperalgesic effects of vedaclidine in the carrageenan test were synergistic with the antihyperalgesic effects of the non-steroidal antiinflammatory drug ketoprofen, as demonstrated by isobolographic analysis. The present studies demonstrate that vedaclidine produces antihyperalgesic effects in models involving central sensitization, suggesting that vedaclidine, and potentially other muscarinic receptor agonists, may have clinical utility in the management of pain states involving central sensitization, such as neuropathic and inflammatory pain states.
Tanshinone IIA is a derivative of phenanthrene-quinone isolated from Danshen, a widely used Chinese herbal medicine. It has antioxidant properties and cytotoxic activity against multiple human cancer cell lines, inducing apoptosis and differentiation of some human cancer cell lines. Our purpose was to confirm its anticancer activity on human breast cancer in vitro and in vivo and to elucidate the mechanism of its activity. Human breast cancer cells were tested in vitro for cytotoxicity, colony formation inhibition, BrdU incorporation and gene expression profiling after treatment with tanshinone IIA. Seven nude mice bearing human breast infiltrating duct carcinoma orthotopically were tested for anticancer activity and expression of caspase-3 in vivo by s.c. injection of tanshinone IIA at a dose of 30 mg/kg 3 times/week for 10 weeks. Tanshinone IIA demonstrated a dose- and time-dependent inhibitory effect on cell growth (IC50 = 0.25 microg/ml), and it significantly inhibited colony formation and BrdU incorporation of human breast cancer cells. Oligonucleotide microarray analysis identified 41 upregulated (1.22%) and 24 downregulated (0.71%) genes after tanshinone IIA treatment. Upregulated genes were involved predominantly in cycle regulation, cell proliferation, apoptosis, signal transduction and transcriptional regulation; and downregulated genes were associated mainly with apoptosis and extracellular matrix/adhesion molecules. A 44.91% tumor mass volume reduction and significant increase of casepase-3 protein expression were observed in vivo. Our findings suggest that tanshinone IIA might have potential anticancer activity on both ER-positive and -negative breast cancers, which could be attributed in part to its inhibition of proliferation and apoptosis induction of cancer cells through upregulation and downregulation of multiple genes involved in cell cycle regulation, cell proliferation, apoptosis, signal transduction, transcriptional regulation, angiogenesis, invasive potential and metastatic potential of cancer cells. ADPRTL1 might be the main target at which tanshinone IIA acted.
The results of a written questionnaire with 44 patients (pilot study) indicated that before the beginning of treatment for advanced prostatic cancer, most subjects had an active sexual life, as illustrated by a normal erotic imagery, an adequate sexual desire and a normal frequency of intercourse. More than three-quarters (80%) of subjects had at least one coitus a week. Slightly more than 50% were able to easily achieve an erection by erotic imagery or by a preferred sexual fantasy; 50% never experienced erectile problems. When compared with their previous sexual functioning, 70% of subjects noticed during the antiandrogenic treatment a major reduction in their interest for sexual intercourse which was maintained in only 18% of patients. It became impossible for 57% to induce an erection by erotic imagery. However, 19% claimed an ability to maintain an erection during sexual activity, as compared to 56% before treatment, but erections usually lacked full rigidity. Twenty-two percent of patients mentioned having nocturnal or morning erections. Despite this dramatic decrease in sexual activity in most patients, complete antiandrogen blockade left sexual activity in approximately 20% of patients. Due to the treatment's excellent tolerance, the findings suggest that such combined androgen blockade could be beneficial for the treatment of sex offenders.
Eighty-five corticosteroid dependent patients with respiratory diseases requiring alternate day prednisone were studied for certain adverse effects that have been reported to be associated with corticosteroid therapy. The mean age of the patients was 52 years, the average years of prednisone therapy was 5.3, and the mean dose of alternate day prednisone was 26.2 mg. In this group of 85 patients the prevalence of hypertension, peptic ulcer disease, pathologic fractures and psychosis was not statistically increased over that of the general population. None of the patients was diagnosed as having steroid-induced psychosis, pancreatitis or tuberculosis. One patient developed aseptic necrosis of the hip; however, she received daily prednisone for approximately 3.2 years before being converted to an alternate day schedule. Our results demonstrate that alternate day corticosteroid therapy can be used without significant risk of adverse effects in patients in whom it is essential for control of respiratory disease.
A 53-year-old male developed fever, nuchalgia, shoulder pain, and sore throat after a partial sigmoidectomy. He suffered sudden onset of quadriplegia about 5 days later. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging indicated the characteristic appearance of C5-6 intervertebral disc herniation. However, anterior discectomy showed that he had cervical discitis associated with spinal epidural abscess. Continuous pus drainage from the abscess and vigorous antibiotic therapy were undertaken after surgery. He improved and could walk with assistance. MR imaging with gadolinium can be useful in diagnosing pyogenic spinal infection (epidural abscess, osteomyelitis, and discitis), but care should be taken in MR image interpretation since spinal epidural abscess associated with discitis may mimic disc herniation. Axial MR images are important to distinguish this rare disease from other cervical disorders.
Previous studies in our laboratory have demonstrated that cannabinoids administered intravenously attenuate the duration of nocifensive behavior and block the development of hyperalgesia produced by intraplantar injection of capsaicin. In the present study, we extended these observations and determined whether cannabinoids attenuate capsaicin-evoked pain and hyperalgesia through spinal and peripheral mechanisms, and whether the antihyperalgesia was receptor mediated. Separate groups of rats were pretreated 7 min before capsaicin with an intrathecal injection of vehicle or the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 at doses of 0.1, 1.0 or 10 microg in 10 microl. Although the intrathecal application of WIN 55,212-2 did not alter nocifensive behavior following capsaicin, it produced a dose-dependent decrease in hyperalgesia to heat and mechanical stimuli. Intrathecal pretreatment with the CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A (10 microg) blocked the antihyperalgesia produced by WIN 55,212-2. The ability of intrathecal administration of WIN 55,212-2 to attenuate hyperalgesia was not due to motor deficits since the highest dose of WIN 55,212-2 did not alter performance on the rota-rod test. To investigate whether cannabinoids attenuated capsaicin-evoked hyperalgesia through peripheral mechanisms, separate groups of rats were pretreated with an intraplantar injection of WIN 55,212-2 at doses of 0.1, 1.0, 10 or 30 microg in 100 microl 5 min before capsaicin. Intraplantar pretreatment with WIN 55,212-2 produced a dose-dependent attenuation of hyperalgesia to heat, but did not attenuate mechanical hyperalgesia or the duration of nocifensive behavior. The inactive enantiomer WIN 55,212-3 did not alter the development of hyperalgesia. SR141716A (100 microg) co-injected with WIN 55,212-2 (30 microg) partially attenuated the effects of WIN 55,212-2 on hyperalgesia to heat. Intraplantar injection of the highest dose of WIN 55,212-2 did not interfere with the development of hyperalgesia following capsaicin injection into the contralateral paw. These data show that cannabinoids possess antihyperalgesic properties at doses that alone do not produce antinociception, and are capable of acting at both spinal and peripheral sites.
A case of convulsion due to inadvertent intravascular injection of bupivacaine during attempted epidural anaesthesia is presented. A review of the literature indicates that such an event is difficult to anticipate, and resuscitative equipment and skill are prerequisites for anyone attempting epidural anaesthesia. The role of benzodiazepines, test doses and aspiration tests and the significance of plasma drug levels are discussed.
