We report a case of transient neurologic toxicity secondary to tacrolimus. The clinical and imaging findings are reported and their subsequent regression after interruption of therapy in the patient following a bone-marrow transplant is also described. The etiology of the neurotoxicity and its analogy with other immunosuppressant agents are discussed.
Formaldehyde allergy is common and usually derives from formaldehyde-releasing biocides in cosmetic and other products.
To analyse patterns of patch test reactions to formaldehyde and formaldehyde-releasing compounds and the sources of sensitization.
At the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, we screened the patch test files for allergic reactions to formaldehyde and 12 formaldehyde-releasing compounds. All patients with contact allergy to any of the substances were included, and their records were reviewed.
Between January 2001 and May 2007, we had patch tested 81 patients with formaldehyde allergy and 18 with independent allergy to some formaldehyde releaser. Of the formaldehyde allergies, 60 were new sensitizations, 25 of which were considered to be occupational. The most common source of occupational sensitization was metalworking fluids followed by creams and related products. Exposure to formaldehyde-releasing preservatives in liquid soaps and other rinse-off products was common in both occupational and non-occupational cases. Reactions to formaldehyde-releasing compounds were seen in 79% of the formaldehyde-allergic patients.
Occupational formaldehyde allergy was common and occurred in metalworkers, hairdressers, masseurs, and workers using protective creams, detergents, and liquid soaps. When compared with studies on general dermatological patients, contact allergy to formaldehyde releasers without formaldehyde allergy was rare.
Acetaminophen is the most commonly reported drug overdose in the United States. Acute renal failure occurs in less than 2% of all acetaminophen poisonings and 10% of severely poisoned patients. At the therapeutic dosages, acetaminophen can be toxic to the kidneys in patients who are glutathione depleted (chronic alcohol ingestion, starvation, or fasting) or who take drugs that stimulate the P-450 microsomal oxidase enzymes (anticonvulsants). Acute renal failure due to acetaminophen manifests as acute tubular necrosis (ATN). ATN can occur alone or in combination with hepatic necrosis. The azotemia of acetaminophen toxicity is typically reversible, although it may worsen over 7 to 10 days before the recovery of renal function occurs. In severe overdoses, renal failure coincides with hepatic encephalopathy and dialysis may be required. Recognition of acetaminophen nephropathy requires the following: (1) a thorough drug history, including over-the-counter medications such as Tylenol or Nyquil; (2) knowledge of the risk factors that lessen its margin of safety at therapeutic ingestions, i.e., alcoholism; and (3) consideration of acetaminophen in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with combined hepatic dysfunction and ATN.
This study assessed consistency, duration of use, and individual difference in rebound insomnia. Eleven healthy men, 20-30 years old, with normal sleep by both subjective and polysomnographic criteria, received each of four treatments in a double-blind Latin Square design (triazolam 0.50 mg for 1, 6, and 12 nights and placebo for 12 nights), followed by two placebo discontinuation nights. Triazolam increased sleep compared with placebo without differences in effects between the first and last nights of treatment. On discontinuation following active drug, sleep efficiency was reduced compared with placebo, but duration of administration did not alter the likelihood or intensity of rebound insomnia. Those subjects (5) showing poorer sleep on discontinuation from the 12-night treatment also had poorer sleep in the 1- and 6-night treatment. Subjects with rebound insomnia had poorer baseline sleep and a greater drug effect than did subjects without.
Increasing resistance to multiple antimicrobial agents including penicillins is a current problem with Streptococcus pneumoniae. Seven cases of severe infection due to penicillin G-resistant pneumococci were seen in two teaching hospitals in Paris (France) during the first half of 1991; six of the strains were recovered from pulmonary secretions (protected brush specimens) and one from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The bacteriostatic activity and killing curves of eight antimicrobials against these seven strains were studied. Antimicrobial agents tested included penicillin G (PEN), amoxicillin (AMX), cefotaxime (CTX), imipenem (IPM), rifampin (RIF), vancomycin (VAN), fosfomycin (FOS), and erythromycin (ERO). MICs were determined using the agar dilution method. Killing curves were obtained using a liquid medium inoculated with 10(5) to 10(6) CFU/ml and subjected to continuous agitation; survivors were counted at baseline and after 1, 3 and 5 hours incubation. MICs of each antimicrobial (mg/l) for the seven strains were in the following ranges: PEN: 0.5-2, AMX: 0.5-2; CTX: 0.125-1; IPM: 0.03-0.25; RIF: 0.12-0.25; VAN: 0.25-1; FOS: 16; ERO: 0.06 greater than 4. Overall, bactericidal activity was greatest with vancomycin, followed by imipenem, then amoxicillin. The cefotaxime-fosfomycin combination proved synergistic and exhibited bactericidal activity (2MIC + 2MIC) for three of the seven strains. This study demonstrated the value of the cefotaxime-fosfomycin combination. Both these antimicrobials seem appropriate for the treatment of meningitis caused by penicillin G-resistant pneumococci provided their dosage is adjusted to achieve adequate drug levels in the cerebrospinal fluid.
Reported literature data strongly suggest that steroid metabolism is dysregulated in Type 1 diabetes mellitus. The aim of this study was to non-invasively examine the cortisol metabolism in children with Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) in detail and to test the hypothesis that adrenarche is affected under conventional intensive insulin therapy. In 24-h urine samples of 109 patients aged 4-18 years with T1DM of more than 1 year, steroids were profiled using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Additionally, urinary free cortisol (UFF) and cortisone (UFE) were quantified by RIA after extraction and chromatographic purification. Data on urinary steroids from 400 healthy controls served as reference values. Enzyme activities were assessed by established steroid metabolite ratios, e.g. 5alpha-reductase and 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase Type 2 (11beta-HSD2) by 5alpha-tetrahydrocortisol/tetrahydrocortisol and UFE/UFF, respectively. Urinary markers of adrenarche, especially dehydroepiandrosterone and its direct metabolites were elevated in patients, as were urinary 6beta-hydroxycortisol, UFE, and 11beta-HSD2 activity. However, overall cortisol secretion, as reflected by the sum of major urinary cortisol metabolites, was mostly normal and activity of 5alpha-reductase clearly reduced. Our study provides evidence for an exaggerated adrenarche in T1DM children, which may help to understand reported sequelae in female patients like hyperandrogenic symptoms. The findings also suggest a reduced cortisol inactivation via 5alpha-reductase that is not compensated by a fall in cortisol secretion. Whether the elevated urinary 6beta-hydroxycortisol and cortisone excretion, observed in the patients, are also present in other forms of hypercortisolism and may thus serve as non-invasive clinical stress markers deserves further study.
Theophylline-treated B16-F10 melanoma cells show a lower experimental metastatic potential in vivo. To identify the possible mechanism(s) involved and on the basis of previous reports, we tested the induction of apoptosis in B16-F10 cells. Fluorescence activated cell sorter (FACS) analysis and p53 overexpression in theophylline-treated B16-F10 melanoma cells appeared to suggest enhanced cell death by apoptosis. The in vivo effects of orally administered theophylline in mice were investigated using different treatment schedules in mice that had undergone hepatic or pulmonary colonization with tumour cells. Mice received theophylline in their drinking water according to different protocols: (i) from 3 days before tumour cell inoculation until animal sacrifice ('early treatment'); (ii) from 3 days before until 3 days after tumour cell inoculation ('short treatment'); or (iii) from 3 days after tumour cell inoculation until animal sacrifice ('late treatment'). In the 'early treatment' group, the number of melanoma foci was reduced by 92.3% in the liver and 81.4% in the lung compared with control animals (P < 0.001). In the 'short treatment' group, there was an 80.2% and 72.2% reduction in liver and lung metastases, respectively (P < 0.001). In the 'late treatment' group, the inhibition of metastasis was 59.7% for liver and 45.3% for lung (P < 0.005). Survival studies showed that 50% of the 'early' theophylline-treated animals died 33.2 +/- 2.0 days after intrasplenic injection (control group: 23.1 1.8 days; P < 0.001) and 33.9 +/- 2.5 days after tail vein injection (control group: 24.1 +/- 1.4 days; P < 0.001). Taken together, these observations provide useful information for the potential clinical application of theophylline as a chemotherapeutic agent against malignant melanoma.
1. Tumour necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) is a pleiotropic cytokine which is deeply involved in the pathogenesis of splanchnic artery occlusion (SAO) shock. Tacrolimus, formerly known as FK506, is a macrolide antibiotic, that blocks the transcription of several proinflammatory cytokines including TNF-alpha. 2. Male anaesthetized rats were subjected to clamping of the splanchnic arteries for 45 min. This surgical procedure resulted in an irreversible state of shock (SAO shock). Sham operated animals were used as controls. SAO shocked rats had a decreased survival rate (0% at 4 h of reperfusion, while sham shocked rats survived more than 4 h), enhanced serum TNF-alpha concentrations (415+/-12 U ml(-1)), decreased mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), leukopenia and increased ileal leukocyte accumulation studied by means of myeloperoxidase activity (MPO=7.5+/-0.3 U g(-1) tissue). Moreover aortic rings from shocked rats showed a marked hyporeactivity to phenylephrine (PE, 1 nM - 10 microM), reduced responsiveness to acetylcholine (ACh, 10 nM - 10 microM) and increased staining for intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). Furthermore increased mRNA for TNF-alpha was observed in peritoneal macrophages of SAO shocked rats. 3. Tacrolimus (100 microg kg(-1), 5 min after splanchnic arteries occlusion) increased survival rate (SAO + Tacrolimus = 100% at 4 h of reperfusion), reverted the marked hypotension, reduced serum TNF-alpha (15+/-3 U ml(-1)), ameliorated leukopenia, reduced ileal MPO (0.9+/-0.01 U g(-1) tissue), restored to control values the hyporeactivity to PE. improved the reduced responsiveness to ACh and blunted the enhanced immunostaining for ICAM-1 in the aorta. Finally tacrolimus suppressed cytokine mRNA levels in peritoneal macrophages. 4. The data suggest that tacrolimus may represent a new therapeutic approach in circulatory shock.
Methotrexate (MTX) is used in the treatment of malignant and non-malignant diseases. This case report describes impotence as a seldom but possible overlooked adverse effect to MTX treatment. A 58 year-old man was treated for erythrodermia with a weekly dose of 7.5 mg MTX. He developed erective impotence nine months after initiation of treatment. Two weeks after discontinuation of MTX the impotence subsided, but when MTX treatment was reintroduced, the impotence returned after two months. Only a few other cases of impotence associated with MTX have been described previously.
Two cases of 5-fluorouracil cardiotoxicity, resulting in one patient in myocardial infarction, are described. A review of the literature confirms that cardiotoxicity is a rare but genuine complication of 5-fluorouracil treatment; the cardiotoxic effect seems to range from mild angina without persistent electrocardiographic changes to severe myocardial infarction. No factors predictive of this complication were identified. The authors therefore feel it is advisable to stop 5-fluorouracil treatment when precordial pain occurs, even if the ECG (after angina) is normal, since angina can in some cases result in myocardial infarction.
A subgroup of patients with Kawasaki disease (KD) did not respond to intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) therapy. Corticosteroid therapy remains a controversial alternative in such cases. We report two young children with KD who failed to respond to three courses of IVIG therapy and subsequently received pulse methylprednisolone as an alternative. One had a satisfactory outcome but the other developed giant coronary aneurysms and had a myocardial infarction 2 months after onset of the illness. A review of relevant literature showed that the timing of initiation of pulse methylprednisolone therapy is important. It is suggested that pulse methylprednisolone therapy should be considered if there is no response to two standard doses of IVIG treatment.
The aim of the study was to assess the feasibility of naltrexone as a potential pharmacotherapy for amphetamine dependence. The study design was an open-label clinical trial with 20 amphetamine-dependent patients receiving 12 weeks of treatment comprised of naltrexone (50 mg) along with relapse prevention therapy. Patients were assessed weekly for adverse events and compliance to medication. Tolerability to naltrexone was measured by patient's self-report and observed adverse effects along with plasma markers of hepatotoxicity. Compliance to treatment was measured by number of treatment days attended and by the presence of naltrexone's metabolite, 6-beta-naltrexol in urine. Majority of the patients tolerated the medication well, also during relapse. Mild headache, nausea and abdominal pain were reported (n=3) but subsided within 2 weeks. Plasma levels of hepatic markers did not reveal any significant increase from baseline. Eleven out of 20 patients complied with the treatment and there was a significantly higher proportion of positive tests of 6-beta-naltrexol in urine among patients completing 12 weeks of treatment compared to those who did not (77% vs. 22%). The frequency and amount of amphetamine consumed was significantly lower during treatment compared with pre-treatment consumption (P<0.01). In conclusion, naltrexone was well tolerated with moderate rates of compliance, supporting the feasibility of investigating this compound in a larger placebo-controlled trial as a potential pharmacotherapy for amphetamine dependence.
A patient of coronary heart disease with depressed intraventricular conduction who developed left bundle branch block upon administration of procainamide instead of the usual nonspecific widening of qrs is presented. The possible mechanism of genesis of this very rare side effect of procainamide is discussed and the review of the literature revealed this patient to be the first documented, electrophysiologically studied case with this side effect of procainamide.
The nephrotoxicity of gentamicin and amikacin was compared during presumed sepsis in 107 premature neonates. To examine the possibility that nephrotoxicity was directly associated with the clinical conditions of "sepsis," a control group of 26 chloramphenicol-treated newborns was also studied. Two markers of proximal renal tubular injury, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase (NAG) and beta 2-microglobulin, were measured in 6-hr aliquots of urine. Because urine creatinine excretion increased with postconception age, markers were expressed in terms of excretion rate rather than per milligram of creatinine. The NAG excretion rate was significantly higher in gentamicin-treated patients (138 +/- 10 U/min, mean +/- SE) than in amikacin-treated patients (85 +/- 7 U/min) but did not differ between patients treated with amikacin and those treated with chloramphenicol (81 +/- 11 U/min). Excretion of beta 2-microglobulin did not differ among the three patient groups. We conclude that amikacin may be less nephrotoxic than gentamicin in the premature newborn.
CCK exhibits a potent cytoprotective activity against acute gastric lesions, but its role in ulcer healing has been little examined. In this study we determined whether exogenous CCK or endogenously released CCK by camostate, an inhibitor of luminal proteases, or by the diversion of pancreatico-biliary secretion from the duodenum, could affect ulcer healing. In addition, the effects of antagonism of CCK-A receptors (by loxiglumide, LOX) or CCK-B receptors (by L-365,260), an inhibition of NO-synthase by N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA), or sensory denervation by large neurotoxic dose of capsaicin on CCK-induced ulcer healing were examined. Gastric ulcers were produced by serosal application of acetic acid and animals were sacrificed 9 days after ulcer induction. The area of ulcers and blood flow at the ulcer area were determined. Plasma levels of gastrin and CCK and luminal somatostatin were measured by RIA and mucosal biopsy samples were taken for histological evaluation and measurement of DNA synthesis. CCK given s.c. reduced dose dependently the ulcer area; the threshold dose of CCK being 1 nmol/kg and the dose inhibiting this area by 50% being 5 nmol/kg. This healing effect of CCK was accompanied by a significant increase in the GBF at ulcer margin and the rise in luminal NO production, plasma gastrin level and DNA synthesis. Concurrent treatment with LOX, completely abolished the CCK-8-induced acceleration of the ulcer healing and the rise in the GBF at the ulcer margin, whereas L-365,260 remained without any influence. Treatment with camostate or diversion of pancreatic juice that raised plasma CCK level to that observed with administration of CCK-8, also accelerated ulcer healing and this effect was also attenuated by LOX but not by L-365,260. Inhibition of NO-synthase by L-NNA significantly delayed ulcer healing and reversed the CCK-8 induced acceleration of ulcer healing, hyperemia at the ulcer margin and luminal NO release, and these effects were restored by the addition to L-NNA of L-arginine but not D-arginine. Capsaicin denervation attenuated CCK-induced ulcer healing, and the accompanying rise in the GBF at the ulcer margin and decreased plasma gastrin and luminal release of somatostatin when compared to those in rats with intact sensory nerves. Detectable signals for CCK-A and B receptor mRNAs as well as for cNOS mRNA expression were recorded by RT-PCR in the vehicle control gastric mucosa. The expression of CCK-A receptor mRNA and cNOS mRNA was significantly increased in rats treated with CCK-8 and camostate, whereas CCK-B receptor mRNA remained unaffected. We conclude that CCK accelerates ulcer healing by the mechanism involving upregulation of specific CCK-A receptors, enhancement of somatostatin release, stimulation of sensory nerves and hyperemia in the ulcer area, possibly mediated by NO.
Two cases of phenytoin toxicity in patients with chronic liver disease who were taking 300 mg phenytoin daily are described. Each patient developed encephalopathy, characterized by confusion, disturbed conscious state, asterixis, and nystagmus, which was resistant to treatment with protein restriction, lactulose, and neomycin, but responsive to withdrawal of phenytoin. We suggest that the phenytoin did not precipitate hepatic encephalopathy, but caused an encephalopathy that mimicked it. We recommend that phenytoin be used cautiously in patients with liver disease, and that the drug's unbound serum level be measured if encephalopathy occurs.
Glioblastomas, the most common primary brain cancers, respond poorly to current treatment modalities and carry a dismal prognosis. In this study, we demonstrated that the transcription factor nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB is constitutively activated in glioblastoma surgical samples, primary cultures, and cell lines and promotes their growth and survival. Sulfasalazine, an anti-inflammatory drug that specifically inhibits the activation of NF-kappaB, blocked the cell cycle and induced apoptosis in several glioblastoma cell lines and primary cultures, as did gene therapy with a vector encoding a super-repressor of NF-kappaB. In vivo, sulfasalazine also significantly inhibited the growth of experimental human glioblastomas in nude mice brains. Given the documented safety of sulfasalazine in humans, these results may lead the way to a new class of glioma treatment.
A 47-year-old woman ingested 7.2 gm of sustained-release verapamil. She developed hypotension, idioventricular rhythm, mild acidosis, mild hyperglycemia, and aspiration pneumonia that required antibiotics and mechanical ventilatory support. In addition, she had a stroke, which resulted from left cerebral hemispheric damage, an unusual complication. Stroke is reported only once in the literature. Special problems related to slow release medication and the need to be aware of them are discussed.
Dyskinesias occur in the majority of patients with Parkinson's disease chronically treated with L-DOPA and also occur in several nonhuman primate species after 1-methyl-4phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and L-DOPA treatment. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) shows parkinsonian motor deficits after MPTP administration, and we now report dyskinesias occurring in this species during chronic L-DOPA exposure. Marmosets rendered chronically parkinsonian after MPTP administration were treated orally with L-DOPA plus carbidopa for 3 weeks. After several days the animals began to display chorea, choreoathetosis, and dystonia. The severity of dyskinesias varied between the animals, with the most severely parkinsonian animals displaying the most dyskinetic movements. Each animal showed an idiosyncratic pattern of dyskinesias, which was highly reproducible. These L-DOPA-primed animals also received other D2 D1, and mixed D1/D2 agonist drugs. Quinpirole, bromocriptine, pergolide, apomorphine, and A-77636 all produce dyskinesias that were identical in character to those seen after L-DOPA administration, but the D1 agonist A-77636 gradually abolished dyskinesias while preserving its antiparkinsonian activity. The MPTP-treated marmoset provides a useful model in which to study dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease and to examine new therapeutic strategies aimed at alleviating this common side effect of chronic dopamine replacement therapy.
Bladder neoplasms are common around the world. Incidences are particularly high in the Nile River Valley secondary to schistosomiasis, which is frequently associated with the development of squamous cell carcinoma similar to that of other chronic inflammatory processes of the lower urinary tract. However, elsewhere, most bladder tumors are of the urothelial (transitional) cell type. There is a marked male predominance and there are extensive racial differences. It is predominantly a neoplasm that occurs in patients aged >50 years. Urothelial carcinomas comprise two distinct diseases both biologically and molecularly: a low-grade papillary tumor which frequently recurs; and a high-grade malignancy which can present as dysplasia or carcinoma in situ, but frequently presents as invasive disease. However, epidemiological investigations of urothelial malignancies have generally not distinguished between preneoplastic and invasive neoplasms or between these two types of urothelial neoplasms. It is recommended that future studies should distinguish between these entities. The most common etiologic factor of urothelial malignancies besides schistosomiasis is cigarette smoking. In addition, numerous specific chemicals have been identified as bladder carcinogens in humans, some relating to specific occupational exposures. Bladder carcinogens include aromatic amines and amides, such as 4-aminobiphenyl, benzidine, 2-naphthylamine and phenacetin-containing analgesics, and certain cancer chemotherapeutic agents, such as phosphoramide mustards. More recently, occupational exposure to various combustion gases, such as diesel exhaust, has been related to an increased risk of developing bladder neoplasms. Also, exposure to chlorination by-products in drinking water and to arsenic has been suggested as increasing the risk of bladder neoplasia. As numerous specific chemicals appear to be related to the development of bladder tumors, various polymorphisms of enzymes involved in their metabolism have been suggested as affecting the susceptibility to their carcinogenicity. This has been particularly true with respect to the role of acetyltransferases in relation to aromatic amine carcinogenesis. Dietary influences have also been suggested as affecting bladder neoplasia susceptibility. Various heterocyclic amines generated by pyrolysis of food have been suggested as potential dietary factors increasing the risk of bladder cancer, particularly in relation to the ingestion of red meat. Despite the existence of several identifiable factors that increase or decrease the risk of bladder cancer, many patients have no known carcinogens or risk factors.
Granulocytopenia is thought to be the sole mechanism underlying the increased susceptibility to bacterial infection in hosts with anticancer chemotherapy. Little is known about the functional state of tissue macrophage populations in such hosts. Using a model of chemotherapy-induced leukopenia, the number and function of alveolar macrophages (AMS) were examined during and after multiple injections of an anticancer agent, cyclophosphamide (CP). Although CP quickly reduced peripheral blood leukocytes, the number of these cells rebounded quickly 3 to 4 days after the withdrawal of CP. Accompanying blood leukopenia was a profound reduction in the number of AMs. Contrary to the rapid onset of blood leukopenia, tissue macrophage deficiency was a more chronic process that worsened gradually as the CP regimen continued. Of importance, in contrast to blood leukopenia, which restored itself shortly after CP withdrawal, tissue macrophage deficiency was not immediately self-recoverable in spite of a restored number of circulating leukocytes. Although AMS had a decreased ability to proliferate during, but not after, the CP regimen, these cells retained a normal ability to release tumor necrosis factor-alpha and nitric oxide. To identify the potential therapeutics for recovering macrophages, a gene vector expressing granulocyte macrophage-colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) was delivered either systemically or locally. GM-CSF transgene was able to expand macrophage populations only when delivered to the lung after, but not during, the CP regimen. This study thus identifies tissue macrophage deficiency as a mechanism of weakened innate immunity by chemotherapy and suggests the usefulness of topical GM-CSF transgene expression for restoring innate immunity in the lung.
Nimesulide, a popular nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, has been associated with serious hepatotoxicity. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial perturbations have been implicated in drug induced hepatotoxicity, although their role in the pathway needs exploration. Study was undertaken to elucidate the effect of Fumaria parviflora Lam. (Fp) on nimesulide induced cell death in primary rat hepatocyte cultures. Fp extract treated cells showed increased viability as compared to nimesulide stressed cells as assessed by MTT assay. LDH leakage increased significantly at 500microM nimesulide, and the data suggested that apoptosis was the predominant mechanism responsible for cell death. Nimesulide induced apoptosis was further confirmed by DNA fragmentation and chromatin condensation. Nimesulide exposure increased intracellular ROS, translocation of Bax and Bcl2 followed by mitochondrial depolarization and cytochrome c (Cyt c) release along with caspase-9/-3 activity confirming involvement of mitochondria in nimesulide induced apoptosis. Events like membrane depolarization of mitochondria, expression of Bax, Bcl2, externalization of phosphatidyl serine are substantially reversed by the pre-treatment of Fp extract. Thus, the study indicates that Fp extract modulates critical events regulating pro and anti-apoptotic proteins in mitochondria dependent apoptosis induced by nimesulide.
Bipolar disorder in pregnancy was treated with nimodipine, because of lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. A 33-year-old primigravida woman at approximately 22 weeks 6 days of gestation had increasing blood pressure since 16 weeks of gestation, despite methyldopa 500 mg twice daily. She also had hypothyroidism and bipolar disorder, which were treated with levothyroxine and lithium carbonate, respectively. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus developed, presumably because of chronic lithium exposure in high doses. She did not tolerate carbamazepine (the other agent commonly used for bipolar disorder in pregnancy). Thus, nimodipine was tried and tolerated well; furthermore, it was very effective in controlling her bipolar disorder. Nimodipine successfully controlled the bipolar disorder of a woman during pregnancy, who was intolerant of more commonly used agents.
In diabetic mellitus, apoptotic or necrotic deaths of pancreatic β-cells lead to insulin deficiency because plasma insulin is synthesized and released from pancreatic β-cells and involved with blood glucose homeostasis. Since estrogen receptors have been related with glucose metabolis, estrogen-like chemicals (xenoestrogens) including bisphenol A (BPA) and octylphenol (OP) alter the endocrine system, and cause adverse health consequences such as obesity and diabetes. In the current study, levels of plasma glucose were evaluated after administration of BPA and OP using biochemical analysis, and were investigated in insulin and insulin synthesis-related genes in the pancreas and liver of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced insulin-deficient mice. Although the STZ-induced insulin-deficient groups showed an increase in blood glucose compared with control groups, the induced blood glucose level dropped to that of baseline after administration of xenoestrogens. When insulin level and mRNA expression of insulin transcriptional regulators (Pdx1, Mafa, and Neurod1) in pancreatic β-cells were decreased in STZ-induced insulin-deficient groups, they were significantly restored by administration of xenoestrogens. The latter observation is also related to NF-κB activation for anti-apoptosis effects in pancreatic β-cells. In addition, we observed a complementary convergence in regulation of gluconeogenesis for determination of blood glucose levels. Therefore, the current study may be particularly important for assessment of xenoestrogens under condition of diabetic mellitus or metabolic disorder.
Lung function may be impaired by environmental pollutants not only acting alone, but working with genetic factors as well. Few epidemiologic studies have been conducted to explore the interplay of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) exposure and genetic polymorphism on lung function in the elderly. For genetic polymorphism, haplotype is considered a more informative unit than single nucleotide polymorphism markers. Therefore, we examined the role of haplotype based-CYP1A1 polymorphism in the effect of PAHs exposure on lung function in 422 participants from a community-based panel of elderly adults in Seoul, Korea. Linear mixed effect models were fit to evaluate the association of PAH exposure markers (urinary 1-hydroxypyrene and 2-naphthol) with FVC, FEV₁, FEV₁/FVC, and FEF₂₅₋₇₅, and then the interaction with CYP1A1 haplotype constructed from three single nucleotide polymorphisms of the gene (rs4646421/rs4646422/rs1048943). Urinary 1-hydroxypyrene levels were inversely associated with FEV₁/FVC (p<0.05), whereas urinary 2-naphthol levels failed to show associations with lung function. Urinary 1-hydroxypyrene was significantly associated with decrease in FEV₁/FVC among participants with rs4646421 variants (CT+TT), rs4646422 wild-type (GG), and rs1048943 wild-type (AA). At least one TGA haplotype predicted a 0.88% (95% confidence interval, 0.31-1.45%) reduction in FEV₁/FVC with an interquartile range increase in 1-hydroxypyrene, whereas no relationship was observed in participants without TGA haplotype (p for interaction=0.045). Similar patterns were also observed in FEF₂₅₋₇₅. We did not find any main effects of CYP1A1 genetic polymorphisms on lung functions. Our findings suggest that PAH exposure producing 1-hydroxypyrene as a metabolite compromises lung function in the elderly, and that haplotype-based CYP1A1 polymorphism modifies the risk.
