The activation of proto-oncogenes in colorectal cancers in Japanese patients was studied using a mouse NIH3T3 cell transfection assay system. Of thirty-five colorectal cancers examined, one rectal cancer showed an unusually high transformation efficiency and, in this rectal cancer, the N-ras oncogene was found to be activated. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the activated N-ras showed a single G----C point mutation at the first letter of codon 13, resulting in the coding of arginine instead of glycine. This amino-acid substitution at codon 13 may be responsible for the efficient induction of transformants of NIH3T3 cells in vitro.
Experimental and clinical studies showed a decrease in albuminuria, a marker of diabetic nephropathy after administration of heparin or other glycosaminoglycans (GAG).
To study the effect of sulodexide on albumin excretion rate (AER) in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM).
Twenty patients (12 of type 1 DM) aged 33-63 yrs (median 45) with microalbuminuria (AER 20-200 micrograms/min) or macroalbuminuria (AER > 200 micrograms/min) were enrolled in open study and received sulodexide 60 mg/day i.m. for 3 weeks with further 6-week follow-up without treatment. In the 2nd phase, sulodexide 100 mg/day was given p.o. for 8 weeks with further 8-weeks follow-up. Albuminuria in overnight urine samples was analyzed by the RIA method and results (medians with lower and upper quartiles) were compared by the Wilcoxon test.
In the 1st phase, AER (microgram/min) decreased from 167 (54-378) at baseline to 118 (78-220) at week 1 (p < 0.05), 105 (68-341) at week 2 (p < 0.05), and to 114 (56-354) at week 3 (NS). After stopping the treatment, AER gradually raised to baseline values. During the oral phase, AER decreased from 253 (37-961) to 137 (35-323) after 1 month (p < 0.05) and to 144 (47-588) after 2 months (NS). This effect was prolonged for further 2 months after treatment withdrawal (AER 110 (65-363) micrograms/min, p < 0.05). In both phases, the decrease in AER was shown only in patients with macroalbuminuria, but not in those with microalbuminuria. Blood pressure, glomerular filtration rate and metabolic compensation of DM were not changed.
A short-term treatment with sulodexide i.m. or p.o. significantly decreased albuminuria in DM patients. This effect was prolonged for further 2 months after oral administration. Therefore, sulodexide could be useful in the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. (Tab. 3, Ref. 20.)
The interactive effects between gender and a selective alteration in the neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) upon methamphetamine (MA)-induced neurotoxicity of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic (NSDA) system were assessed. MA treatment produced a greater degree of NSDA neurotoxicity (indicated by greater reductions in corpus striatal dopamine levels) in wild type control BDNF male versus female mice. This sex difference was unaltered in heterozygous mutant BDNF (BDNF +/-) mice and in mice which overexpress BDNF (DBH:BDNF +). Both BDNF mutant conditions resulted in preservation of corpus striatal dopamine levels following MA treatment as compared with their respective MA-treated wild type controls. The relative amount of this preservation was greater in male BDNF mutants, with values being significantly greater than females in the BDNF +/- condition. These results suggest that alterations in BDNF do not alter basic gender differences in MA-induced NSDA neurotoxicity, but may produce a neuroprotection against MA which is relatively greater in males.
Following a previous genome-wide association study (GWAS 1) including 744 cases and 895 controls, we analyzed genome-wide association data from a new cohort of Han Chinese (GWAS 2) with 1,510 polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) cases and 2,016 controls. We followed up significantly associated signals identified in the combined results of GWAS 1 and 2 in a total of 8,226 cases and 7,578 controls. In addition to confirming the three loci we previously reported, we identify eight new PCOS association signals at P < 5 × 10(-8): 9q22.32, 11q22.1, 12q13.2, 12q14.3, 16q12.1, 19p13.3, 20q13.2 and a second independent signal at 2p16.3 (the FSHR gene). These PCOS association signals show evidence of enrichment for candidate genes related to insulin signaling, sexual hormone function and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Other candidate genes were related to calcium signaling and endocytosis. Our findings provide new insight and direction for discovering the biological mechanisms of PCOS.
Female C57BL6 mice were exposed to 0 or 800 ppm carbon disulfide (CS2), 6 h/d, 5 d/wk for 20 weeks. The neurologic function of all mice was assessed once at the end of exposures using a functional observational battery. General health effects included a decrease in body weight gain, piloerection, hunched body posture, and ptosis. Treatment-related effects included altered gait (uncoordinated placement of hind limbs and ataxia) and impaired function on an inverted screen test. In addition, rearing and locomotor movement were decreased in treated mice. Focal to multifocal axonal swelling was seen predominantly in the muscular branch of the posterior tibial nerve, and occasionally giant axonal swelling was detected in the lumbar segment of the spinal cord. Electron microscopic examination revealed swollen axons with massive accumulation of neurofilament proteins within the axoplasm. Covalent cross-linking of erythrocyte spectrin (surrogate protein to neurofilament protein) was demonstrated in mice exposed to CS2 but not in mice receiving filtered air. These data provide supportive evidence that covalent cross-linking of neurofilament proteins is a significant feature of the axonal swellings in mice produced by inhalation exposure to CS2.
The Valsartan-Heart Failure trial formulated the hypothesis that combination therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers with an angiotensin-receptor blocker had a deleterious interaction. Furthermore, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved heart failure indication for valsartan included the statement that concomitant use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, a beta-blocker was not recommended. The Candesartan in Heart Failure Assessment of Reduction in Mortality and Morbidity (CHARM)-Added and the VALsartan In Acute Myocardial Infarction Trial (VALIANT) provide reassuring evidence to support concomitant use of angiotensin-receptor blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and beta-blockers. The FDA-approved heart failure indication for candesartan included the statement of additive benefits with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers and led to a change in the valsartan label. These considerations have great clinical and public health importance given the increasing numbers of patients with heart failure, their high morbidity and mortality, and the relatively limited number of effective drug therapies.
In a prospective, multicenter study, we evaluated the incidence of adverse cardiac effects in 1097 patients receiving 5-FU as a short i.v. perfusion or as a continuous perfusion over 3 to 5 days. There were 29 cardiac events (incidence 1.6%; 4.5% in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease, 1.1% in the remainder). Adverse effects were more frequent in the patients with advanced WHO (WHO = OMS) stage (2 or 3) primary tumors of the upper respiratory or digestive tract, or of the gastrointestinal tract, when 5-FU was given as a continuous perfusion. They also appeared to be more frequent in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease, and mainly occurred during the second or third day of the first course of treatment. Retreatment of eight patients with 5-FU led to the recurrence of symptoms in five. The outcome of these adverse cardiac effects was generally favorable, but 11.5% of the patients died.
Cell fate can be controlled through asymmetric division and segregation of protein determinants, but the regulation of this process in the hematopoietic system is poorly understood. Here we show that the dynein-binding protein Lis1 is critically required for hematopoietic stem cell function and leukemogenesis. Conditional deletion of Lis1 (also known as Pafah1b1) in the hematopoietic system led to a severe bloodless phenotype, depletion of the stem cell pool and embryonic lethality. Further, real-time imaging revealed that loss of Lis1 caused defects in spindle positioning and inheritance of cell fate determinants, triggering accelerated differentiation. Finally, deletion of Lis1 blocked the propagation of myeloid leukemia and led to a marked improvement in survival, suggesting that Lis1 is also required for oncogenic growth. These data identify a key role for Lis1 in hematopoietic stem cells and mark its directed control of asymmetric division as a critical regulator of normal and malignant hematopoietic development.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause of cancer deaths in the United States. Five-fluorouracil (5FU) remains the single most effective treatment for advanced disease, despite a response rate of only 20%. Herein, we show that the antioxidants pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate and vitamin E induce apoptosis in CRC cells. This effect is mediated by induction of p21WAF1/CIP1, a powerful inhibitor of the cell cycle, through a mechanism involving C/EBPbeta (a member of the CCAAT/enhancer binding protein family of transcription factors), independent of p53. Antioxidants significantly enhance CRC tumor growth inhibition by cytotoxic chemotherapy in vitro (5FU and doxorubicin) and in vivo (5FU). Thus, chemotherapeutic agents administered in the presence of antioxidants may provide a novel therapy for colorectal cancer.
Infections with the paramyxoviruses, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and parainfluenza virus (PIV) can result in serious morbidity and mortality after haemopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Once pneumonia develops, the outcome of these infections is often poor despite anti-viral therapy. Aerosolised ribavirin has been evaluated as pre-emptive therapy for post-transplant RSV infections with some success. Due to the financial and logistic burden involved with the use of aerosolised ribavirin, we explored the efficacy and toxicity of oral ribavirin for pre-emptive therapy of post-transplant RSV and PIV infections in a dose escalating schedule (15-60 mg/kg/day). Five episodes each of RSV and PIV were treated in seven patients. Five patients were receiving treatment for GVHD and two acquired the infection in the pre-engraftment period. All the episodes of RSV infection improved with oral ribavirin with dose escalation to 30-45 mg/kg in three of them. On the other hand, only two of the five PIV infections improved with oral ribavirin. Of the three non-responders, two infections were acquired in the pre-engraftment period with one death from PIV pneumonia. Reversible anaemia was the only side-effect noted in patients treated for over 2 weeks. Thus, the use of oral ribavirin was well tolerated in the post-transplant period with no untoward toxicities. There was a trend towards better response in RSV infections, which needs to be further explored in controlled studies.
A patient with procainamide-induced "pseudo" myasthenia gravis is presented. This clinical entity is discussed in terms of its clinical features, diagnosis, and treatment. Attention is directed to the importance of role of the ophthalmologist in making the diagnosis.
An elite mountaineer reported severe acute mountain sickness and ataxia during an 8000-m expedition and concomitant use of transdermal nitroglycerin patches aimed to prevent frostbites. Use of nitroglycerin for this purpose is off-label, and its safety has not been assessed. Moreover, a relation between nitrate-induced cerebral vasodilation and high altitude cerebral edema is theoretically possible on a pathophysiological basis. It is our opinion that nitroglycerin use at high altitude should be discouraged, as efficacy in the prevention of frostbites is questionable and safety has not been assessed.
We selected 73 consecutive patients without myocardial-infarction, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or hypertension complaining of effort chest discomfort/dyspnoea, and/or reporting exercise ischaemic ECG changes, and submitted them to simultaneous dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) and 99mTc tetrofosmin SPECT (T SPECT) and to coronary angiography to evaluate the clinical impact of intraventricular obstruction (IVO) during dobutamine infusion. Sixteen patients (22%, 7 males, mean age+/-SD 63+/-8 years, group 1) developed IVO (mean CW Doppler velocity+/-SD: 3.8+/-1.0 m/s) and 57 (41 males, mean age+/-SD 63+/-10 years, group 2) did not. The two groups had similar incidence of angina and ischaemic ECG changes at exercise tolerance test. DSE did not demonstrate wall motion abnormalities in any group 1 patient while T SPECT showed a perfusion defect in the only one with coronary artery disease (CAD). DSE reproduced symptoms in a higher percentage of patients with than without IVO, while there was no statistical difference in the reproduction of ischaemic ECG changes, despite CAD prevalence was much lower in group 1. Group 1 patients remained asymptomatic on beta-blockers at 12-month follow-up. Dobutamine-induced IVO, by reproducing symptoms, suggests that IVO plays a role in the clinical setting in patients without CAD complaining of unexplained reduced effort tolerance who should undergo DSE.
To date, pre-treatment with anti-platelet agents does not constitute a contraindication for thrombolysis in acute ischemic stroke. We tested the hypothesis that combined pre-treatment with aspirin and clopidogrel is a risk factor for thrombolysis-related symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (sICH).
We retrospectively studied patients with acute ischemic stroke receiving standard i.v. thrombolytic therapy with rt-PA in our institution. Exclusion criteria were thrombolysis initiated later than 3 h from symptom onset or with non-tPA-agents, no follow-up imaging was performed and data on prior medication was missing. We recorded clinical baseline variables including known risk factors for ICH. Our outcome measure was the incidence of ICH defined as parenchymal hematoma type 2 with > or = 4 points deterioration on the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale score. We performed univariate analysis to determine risk factors for sICH.
We identified 102 patients receiving any thrombolysis of which 63 fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Mean age was 69 years, onset-to-treatment-time 138 min, 56% male, median NIHSS score was 10, and 3 patients received additional intra-arterial interventions. A total of 3 patients had received combined aspirin and clopidogrel treatment before thrombolysis. SICH occurred in 3/63 (4.7%) of patients. Out of these, 2 patients had received the combined anti-platelet treatment. In univariate analysis, only combined pre-treatment with aspirin and clopidogrel treatment were associated with the occurrence of sICH.
In our retrospective study, only pre-treatment with aspirin and clopidogrel was associated with thrombolysis-related intracerebral hemorrhage. This finding should be further validated in large prospective databases like the SITS-MOST registry.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and MET are molecular targets for lung cancer treatment. The relationships between expression, activation, and gene abnormalities of these two targets are currently unclear. Here, we demonstrate that a panel of 40 lung cancer cell lines could be classified into two groups. Group I was characterized by (1) high phosphorylations of MET and EGFR, (2) frequent mutation or amplification of EGFR, MET, and human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2), (3) high expressions of bronchial epithelial markers (thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1), MUC1, and Cytokeratin 7 (CK7)); and (4) high expressions of MET, human epidermal growth factor receptor-3, E-cadherin, cyclooxygenase-2, and laminin gamma2. In contrast, Group II exhibited little or no phosphorylation of MET and EGFR; no mutation or amplification of EGFR, MET, and HER2; were triple-negative for TTF-1, MUC1, and CK7; and showed high expressions of vimentin, fibroblast growth factor receptor-1, and transcription factor 8. Importantly, Group I was more sensitive to gefitinib and more resistant to cisplatin and paclitaxel than Group II. The clinical relevance was confirmed in publicly available data on 442 primary lung adenocarcinoma patients; survival benefits by postoperative chemotherapy were seen in only patients with tumors corresponding to Group II. Overall, co-activation of EGFR and MET defines a distinct subgroup of lung carcinoma with characteristic genetic abnormalities, gene expression pattern, and response to chemotherapeutic reagents.
The cumulative dose-related cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin is believed to be caused by the production of oxygen- free radicals. 7-Monohydroxyethylrutoside (monoHER), a semisynthetic flavonoid and powerful antioxidant, was investigated with respect to the prevention of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in mice and to its influence on the antitumor activity of doxorubicin in vitro and in vivo. Non-tumor-bearing mice were equipped with a telemeter in the peritoneal cavity. They were given six weekly doses of 4 mg/kg doxorubicin i.v., alone or in combination with either 100 or 250 mg/kg monoHER i.p., 1 h prior to doxorubicin administration and for the following 4 days. Cardiotoxic effects were measured from electrocardiogram changes up to 2 weeks after treatment. Protection against cardiotoxicity was found to be dose dependent, with 53 and 75% protection, respectively, as calculated from the reduction in the increase in the ST interval. MonoHER and several other flavonoids with good antioxidant properties were tested for their antiproliferative effects in the absence or the presence of doxorubicin in A2780 and OVCAR-3 human ovarian cancer cells and MCF-7 human breast cancer cells in vitro. Some flavonoids were directly toxic at 50 and 100 microM, whereas others, including monoHER, did not influence the antiproliferative effects of doxorubicin at these concentrations. The influence of monoHER was further tested on the growth-inhibitory effect of 8 mg/kg doxorubicin i.v., given twice with an interval of 1 week in A2780 and OVCAR-3 cells that were grown as s.c. xenografts in nude mice. MonoHER, administered 1 h before doxorubicin in a dose schedule of 500 mg/kg i.p. 2 or 5 days per week, was not toxic and did not decrease the antitumor activity of doxorubicin. It can be concluded that monoHER showed a dose-dependent protection against chronic cardiotoxicity and did not influence the antitumor activity of doxorubicin in vitro or in vivo.
Preneoplastic and neoplastic liver and lung lesions were studied in male B6C3F1 mice given a single injection (80 mg/kg) of N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) intraperitoneally at 4 weeks of age, followed 1 week later by oral exposure to di(2-ethylhexyl)-phthalate (DEHP; at 6000 ppm in the diet), butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA; 7500 ppm in the diet) or indomethacin (10 ppm in the drinking water) alone or in combination (DEHP and BHA or DEHP and indomethacin), and continued for 29 weeks. DEHP or BHA alone and the combination of DEHP and BHA increased the incidence of DEN-initiated focal hepatocellular proliferative lesions (FHPL), including both microscopic hyperplastic foci and hepatocellular adenomas. Mice that received BHA alone or DEHP plus BHA had FHPL that were composed predominantly of eosinophilic hepatocytes, while FHPL in DEHP-exposed mice were basophilic. Indomethacin showed neither promotional or antipromotional effects, except for lung tumors. Mice receiving DEHP and indomethacin after DEN had significantly fewer lung lesions. A high incidence of renal papillary necrosis and nephropathy was observed in the indomethacin-DEHP exposed mice, while these lesions were not found in mice treated with indomethacin alone or DEHP alone. These findings suggest that BHA, an antioxidant, promoted pre-neoplastic liver lesions while indomethacin, a known inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis and a chemopreventive agent for colon and mammary tumors in other studies, had no effect on liver tumor promotion by DEHP.
We previously reported that nicotine promoted gastric cancer cell growth via upregulation of cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2). In the present study, we further investigated whether beta-adrenoceptors, protein kinase C (PKC), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 (ERK1/2) were involved in the modulation of COX-2 expression and cell proliferation by nicotine in AGS, a human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line. Results showed that nicotine dose dependently increased the phosphorylation of EKR1/2 and the expression of AP-1 subunits c-fos and c-jun. In this connection, the ERK1/2 inhibitor U0126 abrogated the upregulation of AP-1 and COX-2 as well as cell proliferation induced by nicotine. Moreover, nicotine induced the translocation of PKC-betaI from cytosol to membrane and increased the total levels of PKC expression. Inhibition of PKC by staurosporine attenuated nicotine-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation and COX-2 expression. Furthermore, atenolol and ICI 118,551, a beta1- and beta2-adrenoceptor antagonist, respectively, reversed the stimulatory action of nicotine on the expression of PKC, ERK1/2 phosphorylation, and COX-2 together with cell proliferation. Collectively, these results suggest that nicotine stimulates gastric cancer cell growth through the activation of beta-adrenoceptors and the downstream PKC-betaI/ERK1/2/COX-2 pathway.
From the report of Hirschberg, only 3 years after aspirin synthesis, there have been numerous works dedicated to showing the different types of adverse reactions found following aspirin administration. However, there are few publications on the process of urticaria and/or acute angioedema induced by ASA and few reported cases were found in children. Thus, we present 6 atopic children with urticaria and/or angioedema related with ASA. A carefully detailed history, oral provocation with ASA, oral provocation with other NSAI and HBDT with ASA were done to all of them. The oral provocation with ASA was positive in 5 of the 6 cases. The provocations with the rest of the NSAI and tartrazine and sodium benzoate were negative in all of the patients. The HBDT was positive in 5 of the cases. In conclusion, we insist that aspirin intolerance is not infrequent in infancy and it is not rare to see urticaria and or angioedema, in spite of the fact that asthmatics, atopics or non atopics, usually present as bronchospasm. We also believe that the HBDT can be a method of diagnosis used in these cases.
8-Methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) is a prototype photochemotherapeutic agent and used to treat various skin disorders such as psoriasis and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Animal studies demonstrate that repeated treatment with 8-MOP markedly increases the capacity of drug metabolism. In this study, we report that 8-MOP is a potent inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) and carboxylesterase 2 (HCE2), two major human enzymes that catalyze oxidative and hydrolytic reactions, respectively. In human primary hepatocytes, 8-MOP markedly induced the expression of CYP3A4 (approximately sixfold) and HCE2 (approximately threefold) and the induction occurred in a concentration-dependent manner (0-50 microM). RNA interference of the expression of the pregnane X receptor (PXR) proportionally decreased the induction. In a reporter assay, 8-MOP stimulated both CYP3A4 and HCE2 promoters, and the stimulation was enhanced by cotransfection of PXR. Several natural variants of PXR differed markedly from the wild-type receptor in responding to 8-MOP. In addition to human PXR (hPXR), 8-MOP activated rat PXR, and the activation was comparable to that of hPXR (EC(50) = approximately 14 microM). PXR is recognized as a master regulator of the genes encoding drug-metabolizing enzymes and transporters. The involvement of PXR in 8-MOP induction suggests that this chemotherapeutic agent causes a broader range of drug-drug interactions, and the differential activation of certain PXR variants suggests that the magnitude of the interactions varies from person to person.
Pharmacological induction of oxidative and proteotoxic stress has recently emerged as a promising strategy for chemotherapeutic intervention targeting cancer cells. Guided by a differential phenotypic drug screen for novel lead compounds that selectively induce melanoma cell apoptosis without compromising viability of primary human melanocytes, we have focused on the cyclic pyridinyl-polythiazolyl peptide-antimicrobial thiostrepton. Using comparative gene expression-array analysis, the early cellular stress response induced by thiostrepton was examined in human A375 metastatic melanoma cells and primary melanocytes. Thiostrepton displayed selective antimelanoma activity causing early induction of proteotoxic stress with massive upregulation of heat shock (HSPA6, HSPA1A, DNAJB4, HSPB1, HSPH1, HSPA1L, CRYAB, HSPA5, DNAJA1), oxidative stress (HMOX1, GSR, SOD1), and ER stress response (DDIT3) gene expression, confirmed by immunodetection (Hsp70, Hsp70B', HO-1, phospho-eIF2α). Moreover, upregulation of p53, proapoptotic modulation of Bcl-2 family members (Bax, Noxa, Mcl-1, Bcl-2), and induction of apoptotic cell death were observed. Thiostrepton rapidly induced cellular oxidative stress followed by inactivation of chymotrypsin-like proteasomal activity and melanoma cell-directed accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins, not observed in melanocytes that were resistant to thiostrepton-induced apoptosis. Proteotoxic and apoptogenic effects were fully antagonized by antioxidant intervention. In RPMI 8226 multiple myeloma cells, known to be exquisitely sensitive to proteasome inhibition, early proteotoxic and apoptogenic effects of thiostrepton were confirmed by array analysis indicating pronounced upregulation of heat shock response gene expression. Our findings demonstrate that thiostrepton displays dual activity as a selective prooxidant and proteotoxic chemotherapeutic, suggesting feasibility of experimental intervention targeting metastatic melanoma and other malignancies including multiple myeloma.
In chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients, the intake of calcium-based phosphate binders is associated with a marked progression of coronary artery and aortic calcification, in contrast to patients receiving calcium-free phosphate binders. The aim of this study was to reexamine the role of calcium carbonate in vascular calcification and to analyse its effect on aortic calcification-related gene expression in chronic renal failure (CRF).
Mice deficient in apolipoprotein E underwent either sham operation or subtotal nephrectomy to create CRF. They were then randomly assigned to one of the three following groups: a control non-CRF group and a CRF group fed on standard diet, and a CRF group fed on calcium carbonate enriched diet, for a period of 8 weeks. Aortic atherosclerotic plaque and calcification were evaluated using quantitative morphologic image processing. Aortic gene and protein expression was examined using immunohistochemistry and Q-PCR methods.
Calcium carbonate supplementation was effective in decreasing serum phosphorus but was associated with a higher serum calcium concentration. Compared with standard diet, calcium carbonate enriched diet unexpectedly induced a significant decrease of both plaque (p<0.05) and non-plaque-associated calcification surface (p<0.05) in CRF mice. It also increased osteopontin (OPN) protein expression in atherosclerotic lesion areas of aortic root. There was also a numerical increase in OPN and osteoprotegerin gene expression in total thoracic aorta but the difference did not reach the level of significance. Finally, calcium carbonate did not change the severity of atherosclerotic lesions.
In this experimental model of CRF, calcium carbonate supplementation did not accelerate but instead decreased vascular calcification. If our observation can be extrapolated to humans, it appears to question the contention that calcium carbonate supplementation, at least when given in moderate amounts, necessarily enhances vascular calcification. It is also compatible with the hypothesis of a preponderant role of phosphorus over that of calcium in promoting vascular calcification in CRF.
We present a case of a 22 year old male with a personal history of ankylopoyetic spondylitis who has presented in the last year cutaneous lesions characterized by papulo erythematous (palpable purpura) localized in both distal inferior extremities in 3 occasions. These 3 episodes have always coincided with the administration of indomethacin due to increasing articular discomfort. The anatomical pathology of the lesions demonstrated the typical finding of leukocytoclastic vasculitis. The pathogenesis of the cutaneous process is discussed, considering the intervening immunocomplex wherein indomethacin or its metabolites have formed part in its origin.
Lymphokine-activated killer cell (LAK) activity against tumor cell lines may be induced by intravenous (i.v.) interleukin-2 (IL-2). Daily short infusions (pulses) have been developed to decrease toxicity while maintaining the anticancer activity of this agent against kidney cancer. The anthihistamine, famotidine, may increase IL-2 uptake by the IL-2 receptor on lymphocytes. We have treated 12 patients with metastatic kidney cancer, using pulse IL-2 (18 million IU/M(2) i.v.) over 15-30 minutes, preceded by famotidine (20 mg I.V. daily for 5 days) on an oncology inpatient unit. Cycles were repeated every 3 weeks until disease progression. Patient characteristics were as follows: 9 males with a median age of 66 years (range, 48-74), and median Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 1; common metastatic sites included in the lungs 9 and lymph nodes 3. Median number of cycles received was 2 (range, 1-5). The most common toxicities were fever, rigors, and hypomagnesemia. Two (2) patients had partial responses (17% response rate). Responses occurred in the liver (11.5 months) and lung, pleura, and lymph nodes (3 months). Pulse IL-2 with famotidine shows activity in kidney cancer.
