Ectopic pregnancy (EP) remains a considerable cause of morbidity and occasional mortality. Currently, there is no reliable test to differentiate ectopic from intrauterine gestation. We have previously used array technology to demonstrate that differences in gene expression in decidualized endometrium from women with ectopic and intrauterine gestations could be used to identify candidate diagnostic biomarkers for EP. The aim of this study was to further investigate the decidual gene with the highest fold increase in EP, cysteine-rich secretory protein-3 (CRISP-3). Decidualized endometrium from gestation-matched women undergoing surgical termination of pregnancy (n = 8), evacuation of uterus for miscarriage (n = 6) and surgery for EP (n = 11) was subjected to quantitative RT-PCR, morphological assessment, immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis. Sera were analysed for progesterone and human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) levels. Immortalized endometrial epithelial cells were cultured with physiological concentrations of hCG. CRISP-3 mRNA and protein expression were greater in endometrium from ectopic when compared with intrauterine pregnancies (P < 0.05). CRISP-3 protein was localized to epithelium and granulocytes of endometrium. CRISP-3 serum concentrations were not different in women with ectopic compared with intrauterine pregnancies. CRISP-3 expression in endometrium was not related to the degree of decidualization or to serum progesterone levels. Endometrial CRISP-3 expression was inversely proportional to serum hCG concentrations (P < 0.001). Stimulation of endometrial epithelial cells with hCG in vitro caused a reduction in CRISP-3 expression (P < 0.01). The measurement of CRISP-3 in endometrium could provide an additional tool in the diagnosis of failing early pregnancy of unknown location. The absence of a local reduction in expression of CRISP-3 in decidualized endometrium of women with EP may be due to reduced exposure to hCG due to the ectopic location of the trophoblast.
Studies were performed to examine the effect of desoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) treatment plus isotonic saline drinking on gentamicin (GM)-mediated nephropathy in rats. GM, 40 mg/kg/day, was subcutaneously injected for 13 days following a 5-week treatment with water drinking or DOCA (10 mg/kg/week) plus saline drinking. Twenty-four hours after the last injection of GM, renal blood flow (RBF) and Cin decreased to approximately 69% and 52% of the control values in water-drinking GM-treated rats, respectively, but was well maintained in DOCA plus saline-drinking GM-treated animals. There was no significant difference in morphologic tubular injury or the renal cortical GM content between GM-treated groups. Saline drinking alone (1% saline, 5 weeks) lessened neither GM-induced reduction in GFR nor tubular damage. Body weight loss occurred following GM injection in the water-drinking group but not in the DOCA plus saline-drinking and saline-drinking-alone groups. DOCA plus saline drinking significantly suppressed the plasma renin activity (PRA) but saline drinking alone did not. A significant inverse correlation was found between PRA and Cin in water-drinking GM-treated and untreated rats. The data suggest that the beneficial effect of DOCA plus saline drinking is associated with renin-angiotensin suppression rather than with the renal GM content or well-maintained hydration.
Aplastic anaemia is recognised to occur following the use of some non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. We report a case of fatal aplastic anaemia following prolonged administration of diclofenac in a 77 year old lady with rheumatoid arthritis. To our knowledge this is the first report of fatal aplastic anaemia associated with diclofenac use in an elderly patient.
Nitrogen mustard (HN-2) is an alkylating agent known to be effective in inducing and prolonging remissions of nephrotic syndrome in children. The fact that the drug is administered intravenously eliminates the problem of compliance, and the fact that the treatment needs to be given only for a few days may lower the incidence of side-effects observed with other cytotoxic agents. We administered HN-2 to 12 children with the steroid-sensitive frequent-relapsing form of nephrotic syndrome, who had evidence of steroid toxicity. Life table analysis reveals a 46% sustained remission rate after 27 mo of follow-up. Complications of HN-2 treatment included only mild thrombophlebitis (2 patients) and mild local paresthesia (1 patient).
Intravesical chemotherapy with sequential instillation of mitomycin C and adriamycin was carried out on 19 patients with superficial bladder cancer (Ta, T1 and Tis). Twenty milligram of mitomycin C on day 1 and 40 mg of adriamycin on day 2 were instilled into the bladder, this treatment being repeated weekly for 5 consecutive weeks if there were no serious side effects. The following results were obtained. Of 16 evaluable patients, 10 patients (63%) achieved complete response and 2 patients achieved partial response, 4 patients showing no response. In patients with high grade tumor, especially with carcinoma in situ, a high CR rate (6/7 or 86%) was achieved. Chemical cystitis occurred in 10 out of 19 (53%) patients. In 5 of the 6 patients who suffered from severe cystitis symptoms, treatment was discontinued. However, the symptoms resolved within 4 weeks in all patients.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of low-dose niacin extended-release (niacin-ER) combined with simvastatin (SV) in the treatment of patients with mixed dyslipidemia who have not normalized their lipid profile with statin therapy alone.
A prospective, clinical trial of 35 patients with mixed dyslipidemia who were treated with niacin-ER and SV. The dosage administrated were 250 mg niacin-ER plus 10 mg SV in the first two weeks, 500 mg/20 mg in the next two weeks, and 750 mg/20 mg in the final four weeks. Patients received 200 mg of acetylsalicylic acid 30 minutes before each drug administration.
There were significant increases of apolipoprotein A-I and HDL; and decrease of apolipoprotein B, LDL, triglycerides, and total cholesterol. There was low frequency of flushing (10%) and no worsening in the control of fasting and postprandial glycemia and glycated hemoglobin.
Low-dose niacin-ER associated to simvastatin may be useful for achieving improvement in lipid profile or even to achieve the targets recommended for prevention of cardiovascular disease. Other advantages are the low frequency of flushing, which improved adherence to treatment, and no worsening of insulin resistance in patients with or without diabetes mellitus.
Preclinical and clinical studies suggest that individual drug withdrawal symptoms may have differential effects on addictive behaviors. The goals of this study were (1) to explore the dimensions of DSM-IV cocaine withdrawal symptoms and (2) to examine the association of these dimension and individual withdrawal symptoms with problems related to drug dependence in male and female cocaine users. The results of the principal components analyses of withdrawal symptoms supported a two factor model. The first one is labeled the depressive symptoms factor and included symptoms of depressed mood, psychomotor agitation, psychomotor retardation, craving for cocaine, insomnia, and vivid, unpleasant dreams. The second factor labeled the somatic symptoms factor included symptoms of increased appetite, hypersomnia, and fatigue. The depressive symptoms factor, in comparison to the somatic symptoms factor, was associated with more frequent reporting of having chemical dependency treatment, having depressed mood for longer than 2 weeks, and trading cocaine for sex. When the individual withdrawal symptoms were examined, depressed mood, psychomotor agitation, vivid, unpleasant dreams, and fatigue were associated with more frequent reporting of some of these outcomes. Our findings support two dimensions in cocaine withdrawal symptoms with differential effects on cocaine dependence outcomes.
Two cases of convulsions following intake of the benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazepil, are presented. The etiology is discussed and special precautions are recommended for the diagnostic employment of the preparation.
In our study, we examined anti-ulcerogen and antioxidant effects of dantrolene sodium on ethanol-induced gastric lesions in rats. Dantrolene sodium was administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) in several doses, and famotidine was used at a dose of 20 mg kg (-1). It was found that pretreatment with dantrolene sodium at doses of 1, 5 and 10 mg kg(-1) significantly reduced ethanol-induced gastric damage and malondialdehyde levels, and significantly increased antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities. We conclude that dantrolene sodium clearly has antioxidant properties and that the protective effect of dantrolene sodium against ethanol-induced gastric mucosal lesion, at least in part, depends upon the reduction in the lipid peroxidation and an increase in the activity of antioxidant enzymes SOD and GSH-Px.
Combination therapy with a topical retinoid and an antibiotic is recognized as a rational and effective approach for the treatment of acne vulgaris. Adapalene, a naphthoic acid derivative with anti-inflammatory and receptor-selective retinoid properties, is safe and well tolerated. While the combination of adapalene with oral or topical antibiotics has been shown to deliver a superior and faster response than an antibiotic alone, the clinical benefits of a combination of adapalene and doxycycline, the most frequently prescribed oral antibiotic for acne in the United States, have yet to be evaluated.
In a 12-week study, the efficacy and safety of the combination of adapalene gel 0.1% with doxycycline was compared with doxycycline alone for the treatment of severe acne. Subjects were randomized to receive doxycycline once daily in the morning and either adapalene or vehicle once daily in the evening.
At Week 12, the combination adapalene-doxycycline was significantly superior to doxycycline alone for change from baseline in total (p<0.001), inflammatory (p=0.02), and noninflammatory (p<0.001) lesions. Significant differences in total lesions were observed as early as Week 4 (p=0.04). Both treatments were well tolerated, and no serious adverse events were reported.
The study demonstrates that the combination of adapalene and an oral antibiotic provides a superior and faster benefit than antibiotic therapy alone and should be considered at the initiation of treatment.
Alpers syndrome is a fatal neurogenetic disorder caused by the mutations in POLG1 gene encoding the mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma (polgamma). Two missense variants, c.248T > C (p.L83P), c.2662G > A (p.G888S) in POLG1 were detected in a 10-year-old Chinese girl with refractory seizures, acute liver failure after exposure to valproic acid, cortical blindness, and psychomotor regression. The pathology of left occipital lobe showed neuronal loss, spongiform degeneration, astrocytosis, and demyelination. In addition, there were prominent white matter changes in a series of brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and increased immunological factors in CSF.
Captopril, the competitive inhibitor of angiotensin-converting enzyme, is of considerable benefit in difficult-to-manage forms of hypertension. Its use has been associated with various untoward effects, but hepatic injury has not been widely reported. We treated a patient with captopril-associated cholestatic jaundice; a review of cases reported to the drug manufacturer and a review of the literature showed 13 additional cases of hepatic injury associated with captopril. In 9 of these the jaundice was categorized as cholestatic, and in 4 of the remaining 5 as mixed cholestatic-hepatocellular. These findings show that jaundice may be an idiosyncratic side effect of captopril, and that captopril-associated jaundice characteristically has strongly cholestatic features.
MicroRNAs have been found in the developing central nervous system, but little is known about their functions in development, especially in the abnormal development of spinal cord in spina bifida. To this end, we have studied the mechanism of microRNAs involved in the morphogenesis of the spinal cord in all-trans-retinoic acid (RA)-treated spina bifida rat fetus.
Timed-pregnant rats were gavage-fed RA, and embryos were obtained on 13.5, 15.5, 17.5, and 19.5 days. MicroRNAs' expression profile was analyzed by Northern blot. In situ apoptosis detection and microRNA in situ hybridization methods on sections of paraffin-embedded tissues were employed to explore the mechanism.
Administration of RA reduced the size of the spinal cord, probably as a consequence of increased cell death. There is a dramatic decrease in the expression of miR-9/9*, miR-124a and miR-125b, and Bcl2 and P53 as well in the sacral cord from E13.5 to E19.5 days post coitum. Our data showed that expression of these microRNAs was dysregulated in RA-treated spinal cord during embryonic development, suggesting that they may be involved in the development of the spinal cord.
A 70-year-old woman with a history of atrial fibrillation, on digoxin, presented with nausea, vomiting, and dizziness two days after initiation of clarithromycin therapy. Laboratory results revealed a serum digoxin level of 3.9 ng/ml (normal range 0.5-2.0) and creatinine of 1.1 mg/dl. The patient was admitted to the hospital and digoxin and clarithromycin were discontinued. The patient's symptoms were resolved within 24 hours and her serum digoxin level was 1.9 on the second hospital day. A review of recent literature suggests that clarithromycin may induce digoxin toxicity by three different mechanisms, including reduction of renal excretion of digoxin, alteration of intestinal flora, and inhibition of cytochrome P-450 in the liver. Digoxin toxicity was reported three to 17 days after the initiation of clarithromycin (8.1 +/- 4.8 days, n = 9). The wide variation in the time required for the appearance of toxicity may imply the different mechanisms involved in each case.
Propofol infusion syndrome (PRIS) is a rare, but lethal complication of high-dose propofol infusions. We undertook this study to evaluate the incidence of PRIS in a cohort of patients with severe head trauma and its relation to the use of vasopressors.
We reviewed all patients with severe head trauma admitted to our Neuro-Intensive Care Unit over a 4-year period for use of propofol and vasopressors. Those patients who developed unexplained acidosis, creatine kinase elevation unrelated to trauma, and electrocardiographic changes were considered having PRIS. We investigated the concomitant use of vasopressors while propofol was used and calculated odds ratios for developing PRIS.
We report three adult patients who developed PRIS out of 50 (6%) admitted patients with severe head trauma on propofol infusions. Two of these patients survived and one expired after withdrawal of life support. Concomitant use of vasopressors was associated with development of PRIS in this cohort (odds ratio 29, 95% CI 1.5-581, P < 0.05).
Awareness and early recognition of PRIS in critically ill neurosurgical patients on vasopressors and daily screening for creatine kinase elevation, unexplained acidosis, or electrocardiographic changes may reduce the incidence and case-fatality.
Toward a therapeutic intervention of lissencephaly, we applied a novel calpain inhibitor, SNJ1945. Peri-natal or post-natal treatment with SNJ1945 rescued defective neuronal migration in Lis1⁺/⁻ mice, impaired behavioral performance and improvement of ¹⁸F-FDG uptake. Furthermore, SNJ1945 improved the neural circuit formation and retrograde transport of NFG in Lis1⁺/⁻ mice. Thus, SNJ1945 is a potential drug for the treatment of human lissencephaly patients.
We describe the preparation and evaluation of a novel series of glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1) inhibitors derived from a high-throughput screening hit. The SAR studies resulted in the discovery of 3-biphenyl-4-yl-4-(2-fluorophenyl)-5-isopropyl-4H-1,2,4-triazole (6p). A pharmacokinetic study was also conducted and revealed that 6p had excellent oral bioavailability and ameliorated learning impairment in passive avoidance tasks in mice.
Tamoxifen, which is used widely to treat, and increasingly to prevent, breast cancer, has been associated with increased risk of stroke. We assessed the impact of tamoxifen treatment for breast cancer on the risk of stroke, considering dose, duration, and recency of use of tamoxifen and known stroke risk factors.
We conducted a nested case-control study of stroke after breast cancer among female Los Angeles County residents enrolled in a large health maintenance organization when diagnosed with breast cancer between January 1, 1980, and July 1, 2000. We obtained information on breast cancer treatment and stroke risk factors through medical record review and telephone interviews. The association (odds ratio [OR] and 95% confidence interval [CI]) between tamoxifen and stroke risk was determined by using a conditional logistic regression model, adjusting for menopausal status and history of hypertension and diabetes. All statistical tests were two-sided.
Of 11 045 women with breast cancer, 179 met stroke eligibility criteria and were individually matched to two stroke-free control subjects with breast cancer on age and year of breast cancer diagnosis. The mean age at breast cancer diagnosis was 66.6 years (standard deviation [SD] = 12.3 years), and the mean at-risk period (i.e., the time between breast cancer diagnosis and first stroke or comparable time period for control subjects) was 5.7 years (SD = 4.5 years). Tamoxifen use was not associated with risk of stroke, either overall (OR = 1.0, 95% CI = 0.6 to 1.6) or in subgroups defined by duration, dose, or recency of use. Chemotherapy, but not a specific chemotherapy regimen, was associated with an increased risk of stroke, regardless of tamoxifen use (no tamoxifen use, OR = 2.8, 95% CI = 1.3 to 6.3; tamoxifen use OR = 2.2, 95% CI = 1.2 to 4.1).
Tamoxifen use is not associated with increased stroke risk. Further exploration of possible increased stroke risk following chemotherapy treatment for breast cancer is needed.
Involvement of the brain renin-angiotensin system in baroreceptor reflex regulation was assessed by recording reflex heart rate and sympathetic nerve responses in normotensive rats that had been infused intracerebroventricularly with the converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril for 15 days. Reflex bradycardia and sympathetic nerve inhibition during pressor responses to phenylephrine were larger in rats with intracerebroventricularly infused enalapril than in control rats similarly infused either intracerebroventricularly with saline or intravenously with enalapril. In contrast, opposite reflex responses to sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension were mostly unaffected. Because depressor, bradycardic, and sympathoinhibitory responses to electrical stimulation of the central cut end of the left aortic depressor nerve were also enhanced, intracerebroventricularly infused enalapril must be affecting the baroreceptor reflex arc centrally. These results are compatible with the interpretation that intracerebroventricularly infused enalapril enhanced baroreceptor reflex sensitivity by reducing endogenous angiotensin II levels in the brain through converting enzyme inhibition.
A 46-year-old woman with exertional myalgia developed slowly progressive weakness in her lower extremities. She had slight muscle weakness in her facial and upper extremities, and severe muscle weakness and atrophy in lower extremities more marked in the proximal portions. Serum creatine kinase was slightly elevated. After ischemic forearm exercise test, blood ammonia had no elevation although lactate level increased normally. The computed tomography revealed that a characteristic distribution of skeletal muscle involvement with proximal and flexor muscles more severely affected than distal and extensor in the lower extremities. In addition, the left sternocleidomastoid muscle showed marked atrophy with an asymptomatic weakness of over 20 years duration suggesting abnormal development. Needle EMG examination showed a large number of easily recruited, short-duration, low-amplitude motor unit potentials in all extremities. Muscle biopsy showed absence of adenosine monophosphate deaminase activity with normal cytochrome c oxidase and phosphorylase activity. With the muscle enzyme activity assay, adenosine monophosphate deaminase activity was found to be lower than 0.2% of the controls. The DNA analysis revealed that she was compound heterozygote involving two missense mutations (R388W and R425H) in exon 9 and exon 10 of AMPD1 gene. This is the first report of primary myoadenylate deaminase deficiency with progressive weakness and atrophy caused by novel compound heterozygous mutations of AMPD1 gene, and suggests that adenosine monophosphate deaminase is closely related not only to energy metabolism but also to the development of skeletal muscle.
We report a case of acquired sideroblastic anaemia precipitated by progesterone. On two separate occasions, over 15 years apart, the patient developed sideroblastic anaemia with iron overload shortly after the administration of progesterone. No other cause for sideroblastic anaemia was found, and treatment with folic acid, pyridoxine or androgens corrected the anaemia. In both instances removal of the progestational agent led to prompt disappearance of the anaemia as well as the ringed sideroblasts. Using a two-phase liquid culture procedure in which human peripheral blood-derived progenitor cells undergo erythroid proliferation and differentiation, we demonstrated enhanced sensitivity of the patient's erythroid progenitors to progesterone. We conclude that progesterone should be added to the list of medications known to be associated with acquired sideroblastic anaemia.
Statins promptly lower rates of adverse cardiovascular events in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). These therapeutic properties may be mediated by the effects of statins on key hemostatic factors. This study examined the immediate effects of fluvastatin on plasma free tissue factor pathway inhibitor (fTFPI) and soluble endothelial protein C receptor (sEPCR) concentrations in patients with unstable angina or non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction.
We studied 57 patients consecutively admitted to our emergency department and randomly assigned to placebo (n = 29) versus fluvastatin, 80 mg, p.o. (n = 28). All patients were treated with aspirin and metoprolol p.o., nitroglycerin i.v., and subcutaneous enoxaparin. Venous blood was sampled as soon as possible upon admission, before and 6 h after administration of study drug and standard anti-ischemic therapy.
Mean sEPCR concentrations decreased significantly in patients treated with fluvastatin (-8.1 +/- 6.7% from baseline) and was unchanged in the placebo group (-2.3 +/- 14.4%, P = 0.007 vs. fluvastatin). Though fTFPI increased significantly after the administration of both fluvastatin and placebo, the mean increase after fluvastatin (450+/-436%) was significantly greater than after placebo (155+/-141%, P = 0.001).
Treatment with fluvastatin significantly modified key hemostatic factors toward an antithrombotic effect within 6 h. These properties may, in part, explain the early salutary effects of fluvastatin in patients with ACS.
This study was designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the selective alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocker terazosin in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
Two hundred twenty-four patients aged 50 to 80 years, who had a diagnosis of BPH based on medical history, physical examination, and digital palpation, were recruited from 11 different sites between January 1992 and January 1994. The study consisted of a screening phase, a placebo phase, a double-blind dose-titration phase, and a double-blind maintenance phase.
Of the patients recruited, 164 entered the double-blind phase and of these 134 were evaluable. Only 11 patients withdrew because of an adverse event, 7 in the terazosin and 4 in the placebo group. Compared to placebo, terazosin significantly increased peak and mean urine flow rates without significantly affecting voided volume or postvoid residual volume. It significantly improved both the obstructive and irritative symptoms associated with BPH. Fifty-one patients from the terazosin group reported a total of 120 adverse events compared with 83 reported by 42 patients in the placebo group. The majority of these events were mild to moderate. Seventeen terazosin-treated patients reported hypotension-related adverse events and 4 withdrew from the study. However, concurrent treatment with antihypertensive agents did not affect the blood pressure response of the terazosin group.
Overall, this study showed terazosin to be safe and effective in relieving the signs and symptoms of BPH and should be considered as a treatment alternative.
To observe the expression of substance P (SP) in the airway mucosa of guinea pigs with repetitive esophageal stimulation by hydrochloric acid (HCL).
Twenty adult guinea pigs were randomly divided into 2 groups (n = 10 each): (1) The HCL model group: On the day of experimentation, guinea pigs were maintained under ketamine anesthesia. A 5F catheter was inserted orally into the lumen of the middle and lower esophagus. The esophagus of each animal was perfused with HCl-P for 20 min/d for 14 d. (2) The PBS control group: The esophagus of each animal was perfused with PBS instead. The bronchial responsiveness to Ach given intravenously with increasing doses (3.125, 6.25, 12.5, 25, 50, 100 microg/kg) was measured after the last perfusion. The left lung was isolated for pathological examination. Lung sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, and other sections were prepared for immunohistochemistry using monoclonal antibodies against SP.
In response to increasing doses of ACh, all guinea pigs showed dose-dependent increases in R(L). However, when the dose of ACh was increased to 25 microg/kg, the airway responsiveness increased significantly in the HCl-P model animals compared with the PBS control group (t values = 43.057, 51.410, 57.359 respectively, all P<0.01). The mean gray values of SP decreased significantly in the tracheal epithelia and the distal airway walls of the model group compared with the PBS control group (t values = 3.44, 2.16 respectively, all P<0.01).
There was airway neurogenic inflammation in guinea pigs with repetitive esophageal stimulation by HCL, which maybe closely related to the pathogenesis of gastro-esophageal reflux disease.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been used for the determination in vivo of rat pituitary size. In midsagittal T2-weighted sections the pituitary, having a lower T2 value than the surrounding tissue, was visible with pronounced contrast. The size has been estimated by pixel counting. A close correlation (r = 0.96) with the pituitary weights determined postmortem has been obtained, demonstrating the reliability of the in vivo method. Using MRI the effects of Sandostatin, a somatostatin analog, on the pituitary size have been monitored in a rat model of prolactinoma (estradiol-induced hyperplasia of the pituitary). Treatment with Sandostatin over 4 weeks resulted in a 40% reduction of the hyperplastic pituitaries. These results have been confirmed by determination of pituitary weights postmortem. However, due to a large interindividual variation in size of hyperplastic pituitaries, more animals are required to reach statistical significance when only endpoints of treatment can be measured. In contrast, MRI allows one to monitor individually the drug effects over a long period of time, eliminating interindividual variations.
Opiates are among the most important drugs for treatment of moderate to severe pain and prolonged opiate administration is often required to treat chronic pain states. We investigated the neurobiological actions of sustained opiate administration revealing paradoxical pronociceptive adaptations associated with NK-1 receptor function. Sustained morphine delivered over 6 days elicited hyperalgesia in rats and mice during the period of opiate delivery. Sustained morphine administration increased substance P (SP) and NK-1 receptor expression in the spinal dorsal horn. Sustained morphine treatment also enhanced capsaicin-evoked SP release in vitro, and increased internalization of NK-1 receptors in response to noxious stimulation. While NK-1 receptor internalization was observed primarily in the superficial laminae of placebo-treated rats, NK-1 receptor internalization was seen in both superficial and deep lamina of the dorsal horn in morphine-treated animals. Morphine-induced hyperalgesia was reversed by spinal administration of an NK-1 receptor antagonist in rats and mice, and was observed in wildtype (NK-1(+/+)), but not NK-1 receptor knockout (NK-1(-/-)), mice. These data support a critical role for the NK-1 receptor in the expression of sustained morphine-induced hyperalgesia. Additionally, these data indicate that sustained opiate administration induces changes reminiscent of those associated with inflammatory pain. These opiate-induced changes might produce unintended deleterious actions in the course of pain treatment in patients. Understanding of sustained morphine-induced neurochemical changes will help identify approaches that limit the deleterious actions of opiates.
Propranolol is a commonly used drug; of new and refilled prescriptions, it ranked no. 1 in 1984 and no. 2 in 1985. Medical conditions for its use include angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, hypertension, cardiac dysrhythmias, hypertrophic subaortic stenosis, migraine headache, hyperthyroidism, and pheochromocytoma. Almost all dental practitioners will treat a patient receiving propranolol for one of these conditions. The following recommendations seem appropriate at this time: The patient should continue to receive propranolol during dental treatment. Sudden withdrawal of the beta-blocker will cost the patient the benefit of propranolol therapy and may lead to acute myocardial ischemia. Acute stress should be minimized, as hypertensive responses may also be caused by endogenously released epinephrine. Short appointments scheduled in the morning, possibly with conscious sedation, should be considered. The dosage of adrenergic vasoconstrictors should be limited and gingival retraction cord containing epinephrine avoided entirely. The blood pressure should be taken approximately 5 minutes after local anesthesia is administered to determine if a systemic response has occurred. In the unlikely event of a hypertensive emergency, a rapidly acting, short-duration antihypertensive drug, such as the alpha-blocker phentolamine (Regitine, 5 mg intravenously) should be administered. Sublingual nitroglycerin (Nitrostat, 0.4 mg) may be useful as a nonparenteral alternative. These recommendations apply to other nonselective beta-blockers, including nadolol (Corgard) and timolol (Blocadren). They may also apply to labetalol (Normodyne, Trandate), a nonselective beta-antagonist with some alpha-blocking activity and to pindolol (Visken), a beta-blocker with some intrinsic beta 2-agonistic activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
