Currently d,l-sotalol is widely used to prevent recurrence of atrial fibrillation and/or atrial flutter, although a randomized dose-response study has not previously been conducted to guide therapy for this indication. This study summarizes findings of a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, randomized trial evaluating the efficacy, safety, and dose-response relation of 3 fixed doses of d,l-sotalol (80, 120, and 160 mg twice daily) for the maintenance of sinus rhythm in 253 patients with atrial fibrillation and/or atrial flutter. All patients were in sinus rhythm at randomization. Treatment (69 patients on placebo, 59 on 80 mg, 63 on 120 mg, and 62 on 160 mg given twice daily) was continued for 12 months or until documented recurrence of symptomatic atrial fibrillation and/or flutter. Transtelephonic electrocardiographic monitoring was used to detect symptomatic recurrences. Demographic characteristics were not different in the 4 groups. Structural heart disease was present in 57% of patients. Patients with a history of heart failure were excluded. The time from randomization to symptomatic arrhythmia recurrence was significantly longer in the 2 higher d,l-sotalol dose groups than in the placebo group. The median times to recurrence were 27, 106, 229, and 175 days for the placebo, 80, 120, and 160 mg groups, respectively. There were no deaths or cases of torsade de pointes, sustained ventricular tachycardia, or ventricular fibrillation reported. Thus, d,l-sotalol appeared to be both safe and effective in maintaining sinus rhythm in patients with symptomatic atrial fibrillation and/or flutter. Further, the 120-mg twice daily dose appeared to provide the most favorable benefit and/or risk.
The goal of this study was to determine whether dipyridamole-induced ST-segment depression reflects more severe or extensive myocardial hypoperfusion than the absence of this electrocardiographic finding. The clinical, hemodynamic and scintigraphic correlates of ST-segment depression during intravenous dipyridamole infusion were studied in 204 consecutive patients undergoing dipyridamole stress thallium-201 (Tl-201) imaging for evaluation of coronary artery disease. Of 182 patients with a diagnostic baseline electrocardiogram, 28 (15%) developed ST depression after dipyridamole. Patients with ST depression, compared with those without, were older (64 +/- 1 vs 60 +/- 1 years; p less than 0.03) and had a higher frequency of chest pain (57 vs 23%; p less than 0.001) and a higher heart rate-blood pressure product (12.7 +/- 0.6 vs 11.2 +/- 0.2 x 10(3); p less than 0.008) after dipyridamole. Patients with ST depression were more likely to have Tl-201 redistribution (64 vs 38%; p less than 0.02) and a greater number of redistribution defects (2.3 +/- 0.04 vs 0.9 +/- 0.1, p less than 0.001) than were those without ST depression. By multivariate logistic regression analysis, the most powerful correlate of ST depression was the number of segments having Tl-201 redistribution (p less than 0.001). Other independent correlates were presence of chest pain, heart rate at Tl-201 injection, and age. Thus, the determinants of dipyridamole-induced ST-segment depression include the scintigraphic extent of reversible hypoperfusion, as well as indexes of myocardial oxygen demand.
Adriamycin cardiomyopathy has been studied under the electron microscope using myocardial ventircular cells of CRF mice, previously treated with 10 mg/kg body weight of the drug given in a single intravenous injection. Within 10 min myocardial cell nucleoli show a nucleolonema fragmentation, and during the following 3 hours they acquire the nucleolar segregation pattern. Fourteen hours after drug injection, nucleolar morphology again becomes normal, while areas of focal degeneration, characterized by damaged mitochondria and enlarged smooth reticulum cisternae, appear in the sarcoplasm. One to 3 days later the degeneration process involves the myofibrillar component, and after 50 days the great majority of myocardial ventricular cells is damaged. The early appearance and the functional significance of nucleolar segregation support the hypothesis that adriamycin cardiotoxicity might be dependent on its ability to bind to myocardial cell DNA. The consequent failure of RNA and protein synthesis, impairing the continuous renewal of myofibrillar and mitochondrial components of the cell, might explain the progressive myocardial damage.
Some exocrine pancreatic carcinomas are responsive to hormonal manipulations, but the mechanism is not fully understood.
Human pancreatic cancer xenografts (PZX-15/F4) grown in immunosuppressed mice were treated with Sandostatin (2 x 100 micrograms/b.w. s.c.) for 4 weeks. Mitotic and apoptotic activities were assessed and supplemented with immunohistochemical detection of phosphotyrosine and bcl-2 protein.
In the treated group 5/16 tumors exhibited a 20-68% volume reduction, and the number of apoptotic cells was significantly increased (18.1 +/- 3.1/mm2 vs. 6.2 +/- 1.1/mm2 in controls, P < 0.0012). At the same time, a highly significant reduction in the number of the phosphotyrosine-positive tumor cells was observed (40.9% from 64.9%; P < 0.0001). The mitotic activity did not change significantly. Both the untreated and the treated tumors proved to be bcl-2 negative.
The results indicated that the octreotide triggered an apoptosis-induction in a human pancreatic cancer xenograft, coupled with the increased dephosphorylation state in the tumors, but the mitotic activity was not affected and bcl-2 expression has not been induced.
Testicular toxicity of chemical substances has been generally assessed by sperm properties and histology. However, the methods can provide only a few information of the mechanism of the toxicity. The aim of this study is to show a method that can evaluate an overview of testicular toxic mechanisms using a tissue-specific microarray and classification of genes using Medical Subject Headings (MeSH). Male ICR mice (6 weeks old) were treated with doxorubicin hydrochloride (0, 0.1, 0.3 mg/kg/time, three times per week) by subcutaneous injection for 6 weeks (until 11 weeks old). Six weeks after the final administration, tissue and blood samples were obtained. Testes were subjected to gene expression analysis using quantitative RT-PCR and cDNA microarray (testis2). To interpret the microarray data, genes were classified using MeSH related to the functions of testis and sperm. Doxorubicin (both 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg group) induced a decrease in sperm normal morphology and mortality, daily sperm production, and the number of Sertoli cells in the seminiferous tubules. Quantitative RT-PCR and microarray analysis showed dysregulation of mRNA expression levels of genes related to Sertoli cells, germ cells and spermatogenesis. Analysis of microarray data showed a significant enrichment of a total of ten MeSH categories including Spermatogenesis, Sertoli cells, Germ cells and Male infertility. This article concluded that analysis using testicular specific microarray combined with MeSH showed a more comprehensive overview of testicular toxic mechanisms than existing methods; i.e., examination of sperm properties and the histological examinations.
Resveratrol, a naturally occurring polyphenol has received significant attention as a potent anti-inflammatory agent. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic intestinal inflammation caused by hyperactivated effector immune cells that produce proinflammatory cytokines. Myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) are a heterogeneous population characterized by the co-expression of CD11b(+) and Gr-1(+) and have long been known for their immunosuppressive function. We report that resveratrol effectively attenuated overall clinical scores as well as various pathological markers of colitis in IL-10(-/-) mice by down regulating Th1 responses. Resveratrol lessened the colitis-associated decrease in body weight and increased levels of serum amyloid A (SAA), CXCL10 and colon TNF-α, IL-6, RANTES, IL-12 and IL-1β concentrations. After resveratrol treatment, the percentage of CXCR3 expressing T cells was decreased in the spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN), and intestinal lamina propria (LP). However, the percentage and absolute numbers of CD11b(+) and Gr-1(+)cells in the lamina propria (LP) and spleen were increased after resveratrol treatment as compared with the vehicle treatment. Co-culture of resveratrol-induced CD11b(+) Gr-1(+) cells with T cells, attenuated T cell proliferation, and most importantly reduced IFN-γ and GM-CSF production by LP derived T cells from vehicle treated IL-10(-/-) mice with chronic colitis. The current study suggests that administration of resveratrol into IL-10(-/-) mice induces immunosuppressive CD11b(+) Gr-1(+) MDSCs in the colon, which correlates with reversal of established chronic colitis, and down regulation of mucosal and systemic CXCR3(+) expressing effector T cells as well as inflammatory cytokines in the colon. The induction of immunosuppressive CD11b(+) Gr-1(+) cells by resveratrol during colitis is unique, and suggests an as-yet-unidentified mode of anti-inflammatory action of this plant polyphenol.
Treatment with carbon monoxide (CO) inhalation has been shown to ameliorate postoperative ileus (POI) in rodents and swine. The aim of this study was to investigate whether CO liberated from water-soluble CO-releasing molecules (CO-RMs) can protect against POI in mice and to elucidate the mechanisms involved.
Ileus was induced by surgical manipulation of the small intestine (IM). Intestinal contractility-transit was evaluated by video-fluorescence imaging. Leucocyte infiltration (myeloperoxidase), inflammatory parameters (ELISA), oxidative stress (lipid peroxidation), and haem oxygenase (HO)/inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) enzyme activity were measured in the intestinal mucosa and muscularis propria.
Intestinal contractility and transit were markedly restored when manipulated mice were pre-treated with CO-RMs. Intestinal leucocyte infiltration, expression levels of interleukin 6 (IL6), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and intercellular adhesion molecule-1, as well as iNOS activity were reduced by treatment with CORM-3 (a transition metal carbonyl that releases CO very rapidly); whereas expression of IL10/HO-1 was further increased when compared to nontreated manipulated mice. Moreover, treatment with CORM-3 markedly reduced oxidative stress and extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK)1/2 activation in both mucosa (early response) and muscularis (biphasic response). The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor SB203580 abolished CORM-3-mediated HO-1 induction. The HO inhibitor chromium mesoporphyrin only partially reversed the protective effects of CORM-3 on inflammation/oxidative stress in the muscularis, but completely abrogated CORM-3-mediated inhibition of the early "oxidative burst" in the mucosa.
Pre-treatment with CO-RMs markedly reduced IM-induced intestinal muscularis inflammation. These protective effects are, at least in part, mediated through induction of HO-1, in a p38-dependent manner, as well as reduction of ERK1/2 activation. In addition, CORM-induced HO-1 induction reduces the early "oxidative burst" in the mucosa following IM.
A 61-year-old man suffering from active generalized scleroderma developed pemphigus foliaceus after 9 months of D-penicillamine therapy, 900-1200 mg daily. At the same time, he developed proteinuria. Upon discontinuation of the drug, the proteinuria quickly resolved, but the bullous disease was still active one year later, with development of fresh blisters and intercellular deposits of immunoglobulin G and complement C3. The theory is proposed that D-penicillamine alters the epidermal cement substance, rendering it antigenic and thus initiating a vicious circle.
This is the first report on the efficacy of a new controlled release system developed for rasagiline mesylate (RM) in a rotenone-induced rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD). PLGA microspheres in vitro released RM at a constant rate of 62.3 μg/day for two weeks. Intraperitoneal injection of rotenone (2 mg/kg/day) to Wistar rats produced typical PD symptoms. Catalepsy, akinesia and swim tests outcomes in animals receiving RM either in solution or within microspheres showed a reversal in descent latency when compared to rotenone-treated animals, being this reversal specially pronounced in animals receiving RM microspheres (dose equivalent to 1 mg/kg/day RM injected i.p. every 15 days). Nissl-staining of brain sections showed selective degeneration of the substantia nigra (SNc) dopaminergic neurons in rotenone-treated animals which was markedly reverted by RM microspheres. PET/CT with (18)F-DG resulted in mean increases of accumulation of radiotracer in striatum and SNc of around 40% in animals treated with RM microspheres which also had significant beneficial effects on Bcl-2, Bax, TNF-α mRNA and SOD2 levels as detected by real-time RT-PCR. Our results confirm the robust effect achieved by the new controlled release system developed for RM which exhibited better in vivo efficacy than RM given in solution.
A 67-year-old man developed peripheral neuropathy characterized by glove and stocking type sensory disturbances after the ingestion of 101.25 g of metronidazole for hepatic amebiasis. The clinical pictures of metronidazole-induced neuropathy appears to be the same as that of myeloneuropathy. The morphological study of a sural nerve biopsy showed a severe loss of myelinated fibers (2,400 per mm2). The density of unmyelinated fibers was at a lower limit of the normal range (23,530 per mm2). Electronmicroscopy confirmed the axonal degeneration of both the myelinated fibers and unmyelinated fibers.
We report a case of a 5-year-old boy with intractable partial seizures who developed a transient hemiparesis, worsening of the electroencephalogram (EEG) and a change in his seizure pattern with increased seizure frequency after receiving topiramate (TPM). Symptoms resolved within a month after TPM was discontinued. Clinicians need to be aware that TPM use may occasionally be associated with focal motor weakness and exacerbation of seizures.
Risperidone appears to be effective in treating behavioral problems in children with autistic disorder. Although increased appetite, weight gain, and sedation are among the most common side effects, risperidone-induced enuresis is rarely reported.
We will present two cases with risperidone-induced enuresis, and discuss our findings in the context of current literature.
Two children aged 11 and 10 years, diagnosed with autism and mental retardation, have developed new-onset diurnal and nocturnal enuresis respectively on their first and second weeks of risperidone monotherapy (1.5 and 1 mg/day). They did not experience sedation, and their medical history and workup were unremarkable. As enuresis did not resolve spontaneously, we decided to substitute risperidone with olanzapine. Enuresis ceased rapidly after discontinuation of risperidone with no emergence when patients were treated with olanzapine 5 mg/day for a period of 6 months and 1 year, respectively.
Although the pathophysiology of antipsychotic-induced enuresis remains unclear, a number of mechanisms including alpha(1)-adrenergic blockade, dopamine blockade, and antimuscarinic effects has been proposed. Olanzapine has lower alpha(1)-adrenergic and dopaminergic blockade properties, thus changing risperidone to olanzapine may be an alternative modality in risperidone-induced enuresis when antipsychotic treatment is crucial. Clinicians should be more vigilant about screening for this side effect, especially in younger population with developmental disabilities.
To determine whether the slimming effects of treatment with oleoyl-estrone (OE) in liposomes of normal and obese rats are permanent, or disappear as soon as the treatment with the drug ceased. This study was devised to gain further knowledge on the postulated role of OE as a ponderostat signal, evaluating whether (in addition) it can lower the ponderostat setting of the rat.
The rats were infused for 14d (using osmotic minipumps) with oleoyl-estrone in liposomes at a dose of 3.5 micromol/kg x d, and were studied up to one month after the treatment ceased.
Young adult lean controls (CL) or treated (TL) and obese controls (CO) or treated (TO) Zucker rats.
Energy balance, blood glucose, liver glycogen, plasma insulin, leptin corticosterone, ACTH and estrone (free and total) concentrations, and expression of the OB gene in white adipose tissue (WAT).
The loss of body weight caused by OE was recovered quickly in the TO, which gained weight at the same rate as the CO. TL rats, however remained at the low weight attained for one month after the treatment ceased. However, no differences were observed in calculated energy expenditure (EE) between the TL and TC rats once treatment had stopped. In TL and TO rats, liver glycogen concentrations decreased to normal shortly after treatment ceased, and leptin expression and concentrations remained normal and unchanged after the end of OE treatment. In TO rats, plasma glucose, insulin and leptin were lower than in the CO. Total estrone concentrations decreased rapidly in TL rats and more slowly in the TO, and free estrone followed a similar pattern.
Continuous infusion of liposomes loaded with OE resulted in a decreased energy intake (EI), maintenance of EE and the utilization of body fat reserves in lean and obese rats alike. This process ended in obese rats as soon as the infusion ceased, so that even when the levels of free and total estrone in plasma remained high, there was a marked (and relatively fast) shift toward the basal situation, which translated into an increase in EI, maintenance of estimated EE and a marked buildup of energy stores. In lean rats, the effects of OE on leptin concentrations and OB gene expression persisted after infusion ended.
Diethylstilbestrol (DES) is a synthetic oestrogen, and its anticancer effects are exerted in androgen-dependent prostate cancer. The administration of DES decreases serum testosterone to castration levels. However, in androgen-independent prostate cancer patients, who are already orchiectomised, the administration of DES improves symptoms and decreases prostate-specific antigen (PSA). The mechanisms responsible for these direct inhibitory effects have been explained as biological actions not mediated by oestrogen receptors. We assessed the gene expression profiles of prostate cancer cells treated with DES, and investigated direct inhibitory effects of DES. DES inhibited the proliferation of LNCaP and PC-3 cells. cDNA microarray analysis showed that expression of many genes was downregulated by DES. However, insulin-like growth factor binding protein 6 (IGFBP-6) gene expression levels were upregulated in PC-3 cells. IGFBP-6 gene expression and protein levels significantly increased after DES treatment. Recombinant IGFBP-6 inhibited cell proliferation, and the inhibitory effect of DES was neutralised by anti-IGFBP-6 antibody. From the immunohistochemical analysis of IGFBP-6 using biopsy samples from androgen-independent prostate cancer, we found IGFBP-6 expression in androgen independent prostate cancer, and that DES treatment increased the IGFBP-6 staining intensity of the cancer cells in one sample. These findings suggested that DES induces IGFBP-6, which inhibits cell proliferation in an androgen-independent prostate cancer cell line, PC-3. IGFBP-6 therefore might be involved in the direct effects of DES in androgen-independent prostate cancer.
To identify gene expression that can be closely involved in chemical-induced hepatocellular hypertrophy, the hepatic gene expression profile was assessed by cDNA microarray analysis in male F344 rats fed for 3 days, 4 weeks, and 13 weeks a diet containing a hepatocellular hypertrophy inducer, either phenobarbital (500 ppm), clofibrate (2,500 ppm), or piperonyl butoxide (20,000 ppm). The results showed that, in all treatment groups, the increased expressional rate of the Grin2c gene, which encodes the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2C subunit (NR2C), was the highest among those of all the genes tested, as compared with the corresponding gene expression in rats fed a normal diet. Moreover, real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that the expression levels of the Grin2c gene in rats fed with each chemical clearly increased in a chemical treatment period-dependent fashion, and that the increased rate was closely correlated with the grade of hypertrophy of hepatocytes rather than with the increased rate in liver weight. These results suggest the possibility that chemical-induced NR2C expression relates to the development of hepatocellular hypertrophy.
A Cochrane systematic review of 30 randomised clinical trials assessed the effects of current treatments for adults with mild-to-severe changes in facial and forearm skin that occurred as a result of prolonged exposure to the sun ('photodamage'). Topical tretinoin > or = 0.02% improved the appearance of mild-to-severe photodamage. Tazarotene 0.01-0.1% and isotretinoin 0.1% provided benefit to patients with moderate photodamage. The treatment duration was 4-11 months. Adverse effects were pain and redness. Both the efficacy and adverse effects were dose-dependent. Other treatments, such as polysaccharides, hydroxy acids, surgical procedures and laser, cannot be recommended.
The immunophenotypic predictive profile of BRCA1-associated cancers including major predictive markers, i.e., PARP-1, EGFR, c-kit, HER-2, and steroid hormones (ER/PR) that may have therapeutic relevance has not yet been reported in a comprehensive study. Using immunohistochemistry, we examined the expression of these proteins in a large cohort of BRCA1-associated breast cancers. PARP-1 immunoreactivity was found in 81.9%, EGFR in 43.6%, ER/PR in 17.9%, c-kit in 14.7%, and overexpression of HER-2 in 3.6% of cancers. For all markers studied, 8.2% of tumors were negative. Expression of only one predictive marker was found in 29.7% of cancers, and most frequently, it was PARP-1 (20.8%). In 62.1% of tumors, more than one predictive marker was expressed: PARP-1 and EGFR in 30.4%, PARP-1, and hormone receptors in 13.3% and PARP-1 with c-kit in 7.5% of all tumors. Coexpression of two or more other predictive markers was rare. There were significant differences in the median age at diagnosis of BRCA1-associated cancer between patients with ER+ vs. ER- and grades 1-2 vs. grade 3 tumors. These results demonstrate that BRCA1-associated cancers differ with respect to expression of proteins that are regarded as targets for specific therapies and that 92% of patients with BRCA1-associated cancers may benefit from one or several options for specific therapy (in addition to DNA damaging agents, e.g., cisplatin). About 8% of cancers which do not express therapeutic target proteins may not respond to such therapies. Knowledge of the immunophenotypic predictive profile may help with the recruitment of patients for trials of targeted therapies.
In population-based studies, dyslipidemia related to insulin resistance (high triglyceride level and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level) is a risk factor for type 2 diabetes. Therefore, variants in genes regulating lipid and lipoprotein metabolism are potential candidate genes for diabetes. We investigated whether the G-250A polymorphism of the hepatic lipase gene (LIPC) predicts the conversion from impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) to type 2 diabetes in the Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study. This study randomized subjects to either the intervention group (lifestyle modification aimed at weight loss, such as changes in diet and increased physical exercise) or the control group. Genotyping at position -250 of the LIPC gene was performed with PCR amplification, DraI enzyme digestion, and gel electrophoresis in 490 subjects with IGT whose DNA was available. In the entire study population, the conversion rate to type 2 diabetes was 17.8% among subjects with the G-250G genotype and 10.7% among subjects with the -250A allele (P = 0.032). In univariate analysis, the odds ratio for the G-250G genotype to predict the conversion from IGT to type 2 diabetes was 1.80 (95% confidence interval, 1.05-3.10; P = 0.034). In multivariate logistic regression analysis, the G-250G genotype predicted the conversion to diabetes independently of the study group (control or intervention), gender, weight, waist circumference at baseline, and change in weight and waist circumference. In the intervention group, 13.0% of subjects with the G-250G genotype and 1.0% of the subjects with the -250A allele converted to diabetes (P = 0.001). We conclude that the G-250G genotype of the LIPC gene is a risk factor for type 2 diabetes. Therefore, genes regulating lipid and lipoprotein metabolism may be potential candidate genes for type 2 diabetes.
We describe a patient who had recurrent life-threatening episodes of isolated macroglossia due to the use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. No associated facial, labial, pharyngeal, or laryngeal edema was noted. Aggressive treatment with epinephrine, steroids, and antihistamines resulted in rapid resolution of the tongue swelling and respiratory distress. Recurrent isolated angioedema of the tongue is an extremely rare variant of ACE inhibitor-related angioneurotic edema. The widespread use of ACE inhibitors mandates a special awareness by physicians of this potentially life-threatening yet treatable side effect.
Acetaminophen (APAP) is one of the most commonly used drugs worldwide to reduce fever, particularly in children. It is generally considered to be a safe drug. However, a number of studies have shown that regular use of APAP increases the risk of developing allergic diseases. Nonetheless, no animal models have been used to investigate these findings. Therefore, we aimed to create an animal model of APAP-induced pruritus in mice. APAP (0.25% and 0.5%) was administered via drinking water daily from infancy, and a suboptimal concentration of 2,4,6-trinitrochlorobenzene (TNCB) was applied repeatedly to each ear three times a week for 7 weeks to evoke chronic allergic contact dermatitis. Neither 0.25% nor 0.5% APAP was overtly hepatotoxic after 73 days of daily administration. Repeated challenge with TNCB evoked increase in the number of scratching bouts compared to day 1. This increase in the number of scratching bouts was significant in 0.25% and 0.5% APAP groups but not in the group treated with TNCB alone. Daily administration of 0.5% APAP significantly increased in the number of scratching bouts compared to TNCB alone on day 29. This animal model will be useful for investigating the mechanism underlying the increased risk of development of eczema caused by regular APAP use and for examining safer and more effective therapy with APAP.
We investigated the effects of JBP485 (an anti-inflammatory dipeptide and a substrate of OAT) on regulation of the expression and function of renal Oat1 and Oat3, which can accelerate the excretion of accumulated uremic toxins (e.g. indoxyl sulfate) in the kidney to improve gentamicin-induced ARF in rats. JBP485 caused a significant decrease in the accumulation of endogenous substances (creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and indoxyl sulfate) in vivo, an increase in the excretion of exogenous compounds (lisinopril and inulin) into urine, and up-regulation of the expressions of renal Oat1 and Oat3 in the kidney tissues and slices via substrate induction. To determine the effect of JBP485 on the accelerated excretion of uremic toxins mediated by Oat1 and Oat3, the mRNA and protein expression levels of renal basolateral Oats were assessed by quantitative real-time PCR, western blot, immunohistochemical analysis and an immunofluorescence method. Gentamicin down-regulated the expression of Oats mRNA and protein in rat kidney, and these effects were reversed after administration of JBP485. In addition, JBP485 caused a significant decrease in MPO and MDA levels in the kidney, and improved the pathological condition of rat kidney. These results indicated that JBP485 improved acute renal failure by increasing the expression and function of Oat1 and Oat3, and by decreasing overoxidation of the kidney in gentamicin-induced ARF rats.
Long-term excessive fluoride intake is known to be toxic and can damage a variety of organs and tissues in the human body. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying fluoride-induced male reproductive toxicity are not well understood. In this study, we used a rat model to simulate the situations of human exposure and aimed to evaluate the roles of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and inflammatory response in fluoride-induced testicular injury. Sprague-Dawley rats were administered with sodium fluoride (NaF) at 25, 50 and 100mg/L via drinking water from pre-pregnancy to gestation, birth and finally to post-puberty. And then the testes of male offspring were studied at 8weeks of age. Our results demonstrated that fluoride treatment increased MDA accumulation, decreased SOD activity, and enhanced germ cell apoptosis. In addition, fluoride elevated mRNA and protein levels of glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), inositol requiring ER-to-nucleus signal kinase 1 (IRE1), and C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP), indicating activation of ER stress signaling. Furthermore, fluoride also induced testicular inflammation, as manifested by gene up-regulation of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), in a nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)-dependent manner. These were associated with marked histopathological lesions including injury of spermatogonia, decrease of spermatocytes and absence of elongated spermatids, as well as severe ultrastructural abnormalities in testes. Taken together, our results provide compelling evidence that ER stress and inflammation would be novel and significant mechanisms responsible for fluoride-induced disturbance of spermatogenesis and germ cell loss in addition to oxidative stress.
Clozapine was found to be effective in attenuating cocaine-induced neurochemical effects. We investigate whether clozapine influences in utero cocaine exposure-induced changes in striatal dopamine levels and cortical N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor density in mouse and rat brains. Pregnant mice or rats were injected with cocaine (5 or 10 mg/kg intraperitoneally) or saline every 24 h throughout gestation and continued for 6 weeks following the delivery. Striatal dopamine levels measured by high-pressure liquid chromatography were found to decrease 24 to 33% in gestational cocaine exposed between the ages of 3 to 15 days, but not in 42-day-old pups. The cortical NMDA receptor densities assessed either in the presence of 100 microM glutamate or 30 microM glycine were significantly increased in 15-day-old gestational cocaine-exposed rats. Simultaneous daily administration of 3 mg/kg clozapine with 5 mg/kg cocaine to pregnant mice protected against the decrease in striatal dopamine levels or an increase in the concentration of NMDA receptor measured in the presence of 100 microM glutamate in 15-day-old pups. Clozapine did not affect striatal dopamine levels by itself or when coadministered with cocaine in 42-day-old pups. The results show gestational cocaine may induce neurochemical abnormalities in brain exhibited as an increased glutamate NMDA receptor density together with a decreased striatal dopamine level. These effects of gestational cocaine exposure may be prevented by simultaneous administration of clozapine. Thus clozapine, which is a partial agonist at the NMDA receptor, may be of value in protecting against gestational cocaine-induced adverse effects in the brain.
BCL-2 proteins are critical for cell survival and are overexpressed in many tumors. ABT-737 is a small-molecule BH3 mimetic that exhibits single-agent activity against lymphoma and small-cell lung cancer in preclinical studies. We here report that ABT-737 effectively kills acute myeloid leukemia blast, progenitor, and stem cells without affecting normal hematopoietic cells. ABT-737 induced the disruption of the BCL-2/BAX complex and BAK-dependent but BIM-independent activation of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway. In cells with phosphorylated BCL-2 or increased MCL-1, ABT-737 was inactive. Inhibition of BCL-2 phosphorylation and reduction of MCL-1 expression restored sensitivity to ABT-737. These data suggest that ABT-737 could be a highly effective antileukemia agent when the mechanisms of resistance identified here are considered.
