Anthracycline-based chemotherapy represents a milestone in the treatment of breast cancer. We previously demonstrated in an in vitro model that cyclin E overexpression is associated with increased expression of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and resistance to doxorubicin. In the present study, immunohistochemical expression of cyclin E and MnSOD was evaluated in 134 early breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant epirubicin-based chemotherapy regimens containing epirubicin. Both parameters were correlated with the available clinicopathological parameters and with the outcome of patients. Overexpression of cyclin E and MnSOD was detected in 46 (34.3%) and 56 (41.8%) patients, respectively, and expression levels of the two proteins were related. Disease-free and alive patients displayed a lower mean percentage of cyclin E-expressing cells than relapsed and dead patients, respectively. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis demonstrated a significant separation between high versus low cyclin E-expressing tumors in terms of overall survival (P = 0.038 by log-rank). Similar results were obtained considering the subset of node-negative patients separately. No significant relationship with patient outcome was observed for MnSOD expression levels. At multivariate analysis cyclin E failed to demonstrate an independent prognostic value. In conclusion, the results of the present study support previous evidence that increased cyclin E expression is associated with higher MnSOD expression levels and poorer outcome, at least as evaluated in terms of overall survival. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the usefulness of cyclin E as a prognostic marker to identify breast cancer patients at higher risk of death from the disease when treated with adjuvant anthracycline-based therapy.
To describe the incidence of haematological, renal, hepatic and gastrointestinal toxicities in tumour-bearing dogs receiving 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (CCNU).
The medical records of 206 dogs that were treated with CCNU at the Melbourne Veterinary Specialist Centre between February 2002 and December 2007 were retrospectively evaluated.
Of the 206 dogs treated with CCNU, 185 met the inclusion criteria for at least one class of toxicity. CCNU was used most commonly in the treatment of lymphoma, mast cell tumour, brain tumour, histiocytic tumours and epitheliotropic lymphoma. Throughout treatment, 56.9% of dogs experienced neutropenia, 34.2% experienced anaemia and 14.2% experienced thrombocytopenia. Gastrointestinal toxicosis was detected in 37.8% of dogs, the most common sign of which was vomiting (24.3%). Potential renal toxicity and elevated alanine transaminase (ALT) concentration were reported in 12.2% and 48.8% of dogs, respectively. The incidence of hepatic failure was 1.2%.
CCNU-associated toxicity in dogs is common, but is usually not life threatening.
Twelve patients (10 men and 2 women), mean age 60.6 years (range 50 to 75), with stable angina pectoris were administered propranolol until beta blockade was evident. Treadmill exercise testing was performed, 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiograms were recorded, and serum propranolol levels were assessed at 1 and 2 hours after dosing with propranolol alone, and after 2 weeks of combined therapy with either nifedipine, 10 or 20 mg, or diltiazem, 60 or 120 mg, administered every 8 hours. Patients were assigned to treatment regimens in randomized, double-blind, crossover fashion. At the time of exercise testing, maximal exercise time, time to angina, peak exercise heart rate and systolic blood pressure and time to 1 mm of ST-segment depression were measured. The rate-pressure product was also calculated. Maximal exercise time increased from 708 +/- 140 seconds with propranolol alone to 795 +/- 156 seconds after combined propranolol-nifedipine therapy (p less than 0.05), and to 790 +/- 107 seconds (p less than 0.05) after propranolol-diltiazem therapy. Time to onset of angina increased from 472 +/- 191 seconds with propranolol alone to 564 +/- 123 seconds (p = NS) after propranolol-nifedipine treatment and to 607 +/- 197 seconds (p less than 0.05) after propranolol-diltiazem treatment. Peak exercise heart rate remained unchanged with propranolol-nifedipine therapy (103 +/- 16 beats/min vs 104 +/- 17 with propranolol alone). However, with propranolol-diltiazem therapy, peak exercise heart rate significantly decreased to 95 +/- 14 beats/min (p less than 0.05); peak systolic blood pressure and rate-pressure products were comparable on all treatment regimens.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tacrolimus has been often described to induce neuropathy in liver-, pancreas-, and renal-transplanted patients. Here, we report the first case of a 56-year-old woman who developed a progressive symmetric demyelinating sensorimotor polyneuropathy in the distal muscles of the lower limbs after therapy with tacrolimus because of heart transplantation. This condition suddenly reverted after the tacrolimus was stopped.
To further characterize the clinical signs and symptoms of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis, a new and serious disease affecting renal failure patients and caused by some Gd-containing contrast agents, including gadodiamide.
22 cases of gadodiamide-related nephrogenic systemic fibrosis followed at the nephrology department of Copenhagen University Hospital Herlev.
Retrospective cohort study based on medical records, personal interviews and physical examinations.
Typical first signs of the disease were skin discoloration, induration and warmth, itching, constant pain and other neuropathic symptoms localized to the lower legs. First sign appeared in a median of 14 days (range 0 â 53 days) after gadodiamide exposure. Associated early symptoms included sleeplessness and transient, diffuse hair loss. The predominant late symptom was symmetrical skin stiffness of extremities with or without restricted joint motion. Ten of 22 patients (45, 95% CI: 27 â 66%) were severely disabled due to contractures on the average of 29 months after being exposed to gadodiamide. Four patients died (18, 95% CI: 6 â 41). Patients perceived that intensive physiotherapy was effective in limiting disabling contractures.
Signs and symptoms of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis vary over time and between patients. The disease leads to severe disability in a significant proportion of affected patients. Intensive physiotherapy may limit the development of contractures.
Acetylcodeine is one of the major impurities present in illicitly manufactured heroin (diacetylmorphine). Data on its pharmacology and toxicology are limited and its ability to alter the toxic effects of diacetylmorphine is not known. The first objective of the present study was to compare the acute pharmacological and toxicological effects of acetylcodeine to those of codeine and diacetylmorphine in mice by assessing nociception in the tail-flick test, locomotor stimulation, and convulsive behavior. The second goal of this study was to determine whether acetylcodeine would alter the convulsant effects of diacetylmorphine. The antinociceptive potencies of acetylcodeine and codeine were similar, as reflected by their ED50 (95% confidence limits) values of 35 (29-44) and 51 (40-65) micromol/kg, respectively. Acetylcodeine was somewhat less potent than codeine in stimulating locomotor behavior, with ED50 values of 28 (22-37) and 12 (6-24) micromol/kg, respectively. Diacetylmorphine was considerably more potent than the other two drugs, producing antinociception and locomotor stimulation at ED50 values of 2.4 (1.4-4.1) and 0.65 (0.36-1.2) micromol/kg, respectively. On the other hand, the convulsant effects of acetylcodeine (ED50=138 (121-157) micromol/kg) and diacetylmorphine (ED50=115 (81-163) micromol/kg) were similar in potency and both were more potent than codeine (ED50=231 (188-283) micromol/kg). Finally, a subthreshold dose of acetylcodeine (72 micromol/kg) decreased the convulsant ED50 dose of diacetylmorphine to 40 (32-49). These findings suggest that the convulsant effects of acetylcodeine are more potent than predicted by its effects on locomotor activity and antinociception. The observation that acetylcodeine potentiated the convulsant effects of diacetylmorphine suggests a mechanism for some of the heroin-related deaths reported in human addicts.
8 male schizophrenic patients participated in a double-blind, cross over study of the extrapyramidal side-effects of haloperidol and clozapine (acute dystonis, Parkinsonism and tardive dyskinesia), together with their effect on homovanillic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Haloperidol (9 mg/day) caused Parkinsonism, reduced tardive dyskinesias and increased the HVA concentration in the CSF. Clozapine (225 mg/day) had no effect on the neurological phenomena but reduced HVA and 5-HIAA concentrations in the CSF. During the discontinuation phase following the administration of haloperidol, tardive dyskinesia occurred or was aggravated; this did not occur after administration of clozapine. Accordingly, it is suggested that clozapine does not induce dopaminergic hypersensibility and, therefore, will not induce tardive dyskinesias.
Approximately 90% of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) experience spasticity during their lifetime. Tizanidine HCl is an alpha2 adrenergic agonist indicated for treating spasticity due to MS or spinal cord injury.
To compare the clinical efficacy and safety of once-nightly sublingual versus oral tizanidine HCl (8 mg) or placebo in MS patients with spasticity requiring treatment.
A double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, 3-treatment, 2-way crossover, comparative, placebo-controlled study was conducted in a neuroimmunology clinic of a university-affiliated medical center (December 2005 to March 2006). Enrolled patients received placebo once nightly and were then randomized to receive oral tizanidine HCl following sublingual tizanidine HCl or sublingual tizanidine HCl following oral tizanidine HCl, each arm for 7 days. The patients were evaluated for spasticity (Ashworth scale), mobility, Global Assessments of Disease Severity and Change, and safety parameters, including next-day somnolence (Epworth Sleepiness Scale), fatigue, hypotension, and hepatotoxicity.
Sixteen MS patients aged 20 to 65 years with spasticity requiring treatment and Expanded Disability Status Scale score of 6.5 or less were enrolled. There were significant reductions in next-day (12-14 hours after dosing) spasticity following sublingual tizanidine compared with placebo and oral tizanidine, oral versus placebo treatment, and sublingual tizanidine versus placebo treatment. Fatigue, hypotension, or hepatotoxicity levels did not increase.
Overnight sublingual tizanidine provides improvement in next-day spasticity compared with placebo, without increasing next-day somnolence. The Epworth somnolence score improved significantly with sublingual tizanidine treatment. This is contrary to the reported day-dose tizanidine use, in which increased somnolence is the most cited cause for patient dissatisfaction and noncompliance.
This study was designed to investigate whether IL-17 can regulate the expression of the MMP/TIMP system, the OPG/RANK/RANKL system, or type-I and type-III collagen fibers in a rat model of isoproterenol-induced heart failure (HF). We also investigated the effect of IL-17 on myocardial fibrosis in this model.
HF was induced in Wistar-Kyoto rats by hypodermic injection of isoproterenol (ISO) twice every 24 h. After 2 months, the surviving rats were divided into three groups: monoclonal Anti-IL-17 Ab (100 microg/day), IgG (100 microg/day) or PBS were injected five times every 48 h (i.p.). One day after the last injection, all of the rats were sacrificed. H&E and Masson staining were used to evaluate myocardial fibrosis, and immunohistochemistry was used to measure the levels of MMP-1, TIMP-1, TIMP-4, OPG, RANKL, type-I and type-III collagen fibers. We also treated adult rat cardiac fibroblasts with IL-17 (10 ng/ml), IL-17 (10 ng/ml)+OPG (10 ng/ml), IL-17 (10 ng/ml)+anti-RANKL Ab (100 ng/ml), or PBS for 24 h, realtime RT-PCR was used to measure the expressions of MMP-1.
The expressions of MMP-1, RANKL, and type-I and -III collagen fibers decreased, and the expressions of TIMP-1, TIMP-4, and OPG increased in the Anti-IL-17 group compared to controls. H&E and Masson staining revealed that blockade of IL-17 can improve myocardial fibrosis in HF. IL-17 increased the expression of MMP-1 in cardiac fibroblasts, and OPG and anti-IL-17 Ab could inhibit this function partly. Thus, IL-17 was dependent on the RANKL/OPG system to induce MMP-1 partly.
Our study demonstrates the contribution of IL-17 to myocardial fibrosis in isoproterenol-induced HF. IL-17 can regulate the RANKL/OPG and MMP/TIMP systems in this model. The RANKL/OPG system is one of intermediaries between IL-17 and MMP-1 in cardiac fibroblasts. As a harmful cytokine, anti-IL-17 treatment is a potential therapeutic strategy in HF.
Human cadmium (Cd) exposure is associated with cancers of the lung and kidney. Using cDNA microarray analysis, we have recently reported that the expression of E2F1 is reduced by Cd in human lung fibroblasts, indicating the possibility of G1-phase arrest. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the effects of Cd on the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK2) and retinoblastoma protein (Rb) regulatory pathways in WI38 human lung fibroblasts. We demonstrate here that G1-phase accumulation was induced by Cd in WI38 (wild-type for p53 and Rb), but not in the SV40 large T antigen-transformed variant WI38-VA13 (p53- and Rb-defective). Cd-induced cell-cycle arrest was associated with a decrease in CDK2 protein and with increase in p21 expression and p53 phosphorylation. Cd treatment caused a distinct increase in the formation of p21-cyclin E-CDK2 complex, as revealed by immunoprecipitation. The level of Rb-E2F1 complexes was increased, and the translocation of E2F1 to the nucleus was decreased by Cd treatment. Consequently, the transcriptional activity of E2F1 and the expression of the E2F1 target genes were also decreased by Cd. These results clearly demonstrate that Cd-mediated G1 arrest in WI38 cells is associated with the suppression of Rb phosphorylation and with the inhibition of E2F1 transcriptional activity.
To use a portable muscle tone assessment device to measure spasticity after a botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) injection.
Before-after trial.
Hospital.
Ten chronic stroke patients with upper-limb spasticity.
BTX-A was injected in the biceps brachii.
The biomechanic parameters, viscous component, and averaged viscosity derived from the acquired reactive resistance and angular displacements, as well as the reflex electromyographic threshold of biceps brachii, were used for spasticity evaluation.
A statistically significant decrease in averaged viscosity and a significant increase in reflex electromyographic threshold (P<.05) both indicated reduction in spasticity owing to BTX-A intervention. There was no clear reflex electromyographic activity detected at lower stretch frequencies.
Our portable design allows for the convenient use of the device for quantifying spasticity in clinics. All quantitative measurements suggest that BTX-A decreases spasticity within 2 weeks of injection. Our portable muscle tone measurement device may be useful for the clinical assessment of elbow flexor spasticity.
In the psychiatric population, psychogenic polydipsia leading to water intoxication and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus secondary to lithium therapy are both well-recognized entities. A case is reported of the apparently unusual combination of these two conditions, where lithium probably not only has caused the nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, but might also have contributed to the state of psychogenic polydipsia.
Amiodarone has been used for the last 20 years, initially as antianginal and then as antiarrhythmic agent. To the collateral effects described, the optic neuropathy must be added as a complication, not so frequent, caused apparently by the prolonged ingestion of it. Two patients treated with MDD of 250 mg of amiodarone, for a mean of 17 months, are reported. They presented a decrease of the visual acuity. After proposing the possible differential diagnosis, the relation between the use of amiodarone and the optic alteration observed is briefly exposed, relating it with the demyelination neuropathy induced by this drug. This presumption is corroborated by the ultrastructural alterations registered in the optic nerve of animals in which amiodarone was used, similar to those of the peripheral nerves, as an expression of a disorder of the lipidic metabolism, which allow it to be integrated to the so called iatrogenic lipidoses.
We monitored acute tubular damage in 16 patients who received a 5-day course of ifosfamide (1.6 g/m2/day) and mesna (1.2 g/m2/day) therapy. Urinary concentrations of alanine aminopeptidase, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, and total protein increased in every patient, but the extent of tubular toxicity varied widely among patients. Evidence of toxicity was greatest in patients whose tumors involved the kidneys. The time course of enzymuria and proteinuria indicated tubular cell necrosis. We observed this acute toxic effect despite the administration of sufficient mesna to prevent hemorrhagic cystitis. Urinary marker concentrations returned towards pre-dose levels, and there were no increases in serum creatinine concentrations measured 3 weeks after treatment.
The major clinical problem of Marfan syndrome (MFS) is the aortic root aneurysm, with risk of dissection when the root diameter approximates 5 cm. In MFS, a key molecule, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), normally bound to the extracellular matrix, is free and activated. In an experimental setting, TGF-beta blockade prevents the aortic root structural damage and dilatation. The angiotensin receptor 1 blockers (sartanics) exert an anti-TGF-beta effect; trials are now ongoing for evaluating the effect of losartan compared with atenolol in MFS. beta-Adrenergic blockers are the drugs most commonly used in MFS. The third-generation beta-adrenergic blocker nebivolol retains the beta-adrenergic blocker effects on heart rate and further exerts antistiffness effects, typically increased in MFS.
The open-label phase III study will include 291 patients with MFS and proven FBN1 gene mutations, with aortic root dilation (z-score > or =2.5). The patients will be randomized to nebivolol, losartan and the combination of the two drugs. The primary end point is the comparative evaluation of the effects of losartan, nebivolol and the association of both on the progression of aortic root growth rate. Secondary end points include the pharmacokinetics of the two drugs, comparative evaluation of serum levels of total and active TGF-beta, quantitative assessment of the expression of the mutated gene (FBN1, both 5' and 3'), pharmacogenetic bases of drug responsiveness. The quality of life evaluation in the three groups will be assessed. Statistical evaluation includes an interim analysis at month 24 and conclusive analyses at month 48.
The present study will add information about pharmacological therapy in MFS, supporting the new application of angiotensin receptor 1 blockers and finding beta-adrenergic blockers that may give more specific effects. Moreover, the study will further deepen understanding of the pathogenetic mechanisms that are active in Marfan syndrome through the pharmacogenomic and transcriptomic mechanisms that may explain MFS phenotype variability.
Using the conditioned response of passive avoidance in experiments on rats, we investigated the character of amnesias caused by scopolamine and ketamine. By varying the time intervals between training and testing and the time of injection of pharmacological agents, we show that blockade of M-cholinoreactive systems of the brain during injection of scopolamine has no effect upon memory acquisition but does disrupt the process of memory fixation, i.e., the transfer to long-term memory. At the same time, ketamine, a blocker of the ionic channels of the nicotinic receptor, disturbs the process of memory acquisition. Memory recall (reproduction) is impaired under the influence of both agents, but is impaired to a greater degree by ketamine. Piracetam, believed to be a universal anti-amnesic agent, attenuates the disturbance of fixation caused by scopolamine only; it does not attenuate ketamine amnesia.
We report on a 33-year-old female suffering from frequent complex-partial seizures who developed a non-convulsive status epilepticus after one week of antiepileptic therapy with valproate (VPA) which had been added to a basic medication with barbexaclone (BBC) in rapidly increasing dosage. The electroencephalogram (EEG) showed continuous rhythmic generalized sharp and slow wave activity with a frontal maximum. Intravenous administration of 3.0 mg of the benzodiazepine (BZ) receptor antagonist flumazenil under monitoring with video-EEG led to an immediate and marked electroclinical improvement, whereas 6.0 mg of the BZ receptor agonist midazolam was followed by a deterioration both clinically and in the EEG. We discuss the concept of VPA-encephalopathy and the possible mechanisms of the action of flumazenil on VPA-induced as well as on other toxic and metabolic encephalopathies. Flumazenil might antagonize increased benzodiazepine receptor activity with agonistic and even convulsive properties in these encephalopathic syndromes. Further investigations are needed concerning the relation of drug-induced or metabolic encephalopathies and central benzodiazepine receptor activity. We recommend a therapeutic trial with flumazenil, if stupor or decreased seizure control develop in patients treated with valproate.
In agreement with Knudson's two-hit theory, recent findings indicate that the inactivation of tumor suppressor genes is not only mediated by the loss of function but also by the dominant-negative or gain-of-function activity. The former generally accompanies loss of a wild-type allele whereas in the latter a wild-type allele is retained. N-Ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU), which efficiently induces point mutations, reportedly leads to the development of tumors by activating ras oncogenes. Little is known about how ENU affects tumor suppressor genes and, therefore, we examined ENU-induced mutations of p53 and Ikaros in thymic lymphomas and compared these with mutations of Kras. In addition, loss of heterozygosity was examined for chromosome 11 to which both p53 and Ikaros were mapped. The frequency of point mutations in p53 and Ikaros was 30% (8/27) and 19% (5/27), respectively, comparable to that observed in Kras (33%: 9/27). In total, 14 of the 27 thymic lymphomas examined (52%) harbored mutations in at least one of these genes. One Ikaros mutation was located at the splice donor site, generating a novel splice isoform lacking zinc finger 3, Ik (F3del). Interestingly, 90% (10/11) of the tumors with point mutations retained wild-type alleles of p53 and Ikaros. Sequence analysis revealed that the most common nucleic acid substitutions were T>A (4/8) in p53, T>C (4/5) in Ikaros and G>A/T (8/9) in Kras, suggesting that the spectrum of mutations was gene dependent. These results suggest that point mutations in tumor suppressor genes without loss of the wild-type allele play an important role in ENU-induced lymphomagenesis.
Amodiaquine is an antimalarial drug that causes life-threatening agranulocytosis and hepatotoxicity in about 1 in 2000 patients, which is usually associated with an inflammatory response. It was found that the LC(50) (2h) of amodiaquine towards isolated rat hepatocytes was 1mM. The cytotoxic mechanism involved protein carbonylation as well as P450 activation to a reactive metabolite. The cytotoxicity, however, was not reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated, as ROS scavengers did not prevent cytotoxicity or protein carbonylation, and it was not accompanied by glutathione (GSH) oxidation or intracellular H(2)O(2) formation. On the other hand, the cytotoxicity could be attributed to a quinoneimine metabolite formation which formed GSH conjugates and GSH-depleted hepatocytes were much more susceptible to amodiaquine. Furthermore, when a non-toxic H(2)O(2) generating system and peroxidase was used to mimic the products formed by inflammatory immune cells, only 15microM amodiaquine was required to cause 50% cell death. In the absence of amodiaquine, hepatocyte viability and glutathione levels were not affected by the H(2)O(2) generating system with or without peroxidase. The toxicity mechanism of amodiaquine in this hepatocyte H(2)O(2)/peroxidase model involved oxidative stress, as cytotoxicity was accompanied by GSH oxidation, decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and protein carbonyl formation which were inhibited by ROS scavengers, 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidene-1-oxyl (TEMPOL) or mannitol suggesting a role for a semiquinoneimine radical and ROS in the amodiaquine-H(2)O(2)-mediated cytotoxic mechanism.
Selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs), such as tamoxifen and raloxifene can act as estrogen receptor (ER) antagonists or agonists depending on the cell type. The antagonistic action of tamoxifen has been invaluable for treating breast cancer, whereas the agonist activity of SERMs also has important clinical applications as demonstrated by the use of raloxifene for osteoporosis. Whereas the mechanism whereby SERMs function as antagonists has been studied extensively very little is known about how SERMs produce agonist effects in different tissues with the two ER types; ERalpha and ERbeta. We examined the regulation of 32 SERM-responsive regions with ERalpha and ERbeta in transiently transfected MCF-7 breast, Ishikawa endometrial, HeLa cervical and WAR-5 prostate cancer cells. The regions were regulated by tamoxifen and raloxifene in some cell types, but not in all cell lines. Tamoxifen activated similar number of regions with ERalpha and ERbeta in the cell lines, whereas raloxifene activated over twice as many regions with ERbeta compared to ERalpha. In Ishikawa endometrial cancer cells, tamoxifen activated 17 regions with ERalpha, whereas raloxifene activated only 2 regions, which might explain their different effects on the endometrium. Microarray studies also found that raloxifene regulated fewer genes than tamoxifen in U2OS bone cancer cells expressing ERalpha, whereas tamoxifen was equally effective at regulating genes with ERalpha and ERbeta. Our studies indicate that tamoxifen is a non-selective agonist, whereas raloxifene is a relative ERbeta-selective agonist, and suggest that ERbeta-selective SERMs might be safer for treating clinical conditions that are dependent on the agonist property of SERMs.
Antisense oligonucleotide-induced exon skipping is a promising approach for treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). We have systemically administered an antisense phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomer (PMO) targeting dystrophin exons 6 and 8 to a dog with canine X-linked muscular dystrophy in Japan (CXMD(J)) lacking exon 7 and achieved recovery of dystrophin in skeletal muscle. To date, however, antisense chemical compounds used in DMD animal models have not been directly applied to a DMD patient having the same type of exon deletion. We recently identified a DMD patient with an exon 7 deletion and tried direct translation of the antisense PMO used in dog models to the DMD patient's cells.
We converted fibroblasts of CXMD(J) and the DMD patient to myotubes by FACS-aided MyoD transduction. Antisense PMOs targeting identical regions of dog and human dystrophin exons 6 and 8 were designed. These antisense PMOs were mixed and administered as a cocktail to either dog or human cells in vitro. In the CXMD(J) and human DMD cells, we observed a similar efficacy of skipping of exons 6 and 8 and a similar extent of dystrophin protein recovery. The accompanying skipping of exon 9, which did not alter the reading frame, was different between cells of these two species.
Antisense PMOs, the effectiveness of which has been demonstrated in a dog model, achieved multi-exon skipping of dystrophin gene on the FACS-aided MyoD-transduced fibroblasts from an exon 7-deleted DMD patient, suggesting the feasibility of systemic multi-exon skipping in humans.
Standard therapy for advanced head and neck carcinoma is surgery and radiation, and the subsequent 5-year survival with this treatment has been less than 50%. New combined modality treatment strategies are being tested to improve survival. New chemotherapy combinations are being developed and administered simultaneously with, or sequenced with, radiation and surgery. This article reports the Phase I results of administering paclitaxel and carboplatin preoperatively. The authors' objective was to develop an outpatient chemotherapy that would downstage tumors and allow organ preservation with equal or improved survival as compared with standard therapy.
Thirty-six patients with untreated Stage III/IV head and neck carcinoma were treated and were evaluable for toxicity. All patients had lesions that were measurable in perpendicular planes. A nonrandomized, Phase I design was used, according to which cohorts of patients were treated every 21 days with escalating doses of paclitaxel (150-265 mg/m2) given as a 3-hour infusion immediately preceding carboplatin. Premedication was used to avoid acute hypersensitivity reactions. Carboplatin was administered intravenously over 1 hour at a constant dose calculated with the Calvert formula (area under the curve, 7.5).
The dose-limiting toxicities were neuropathy and thrombocytopenia at a paclitaxel dose of 265 mg/m2. Neutropenic fever was observed in 30% of patients at a paclitaxel dose of 250-265 mg/m2. Other observed adverse effects included pruritus, myalgia, arthralgia, alopecia, nausea, and vomiting.
Toxicity was acceptable. The maximum tolerated dose of paclitaxel was 230 mg/m2 without hematopoietic growth factor, or 250 mg/m2 with hematopoietic growth factor, the carboplatin dose held constant, calculated at area under the curve of 7.5. Phase II studies of this combination are warranted in the treatment of these carcinomas.
Thromboembolic events are well recognized complications of cancers and their treatment. Tamoxifen, an antiestrogen used in the treatment of breast carcinoma and other malignancies, has been associated with thrombotic events. Activated protein C resistance due to Factor V Leiden is the most prevalent inherited prothrombotic defect in populations of European descent and has been reported as a major cofactor in the development of thrombosis in women receiving estrogens.
The authors report three patients who developed thromboembolic complications while receiving tamoxifen. These patients were studied for the presence of activated protein C resistance by coagulation assay and the presence of Factor V Leiden by molecular analysis.
All three patients had resistance to activated protein C by coagulation assay and were determined to be heterozygous for Factor V Leiden by molecular analysis.
The authors propose that inheritance of Factor V Leiden significantly increases the risk of thrombosis in patients who receive tamoxifen therapy. All patients prescribed tamoxifen should be carefully questioned regarding personal and family histories of thrombosis and, when indicated, screened for Factor V Leiden.
This is the first report on a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of anti-diuretic hormone (SIADH) in a patient with recurrent ovarian cancer following carboplatin and paclitaxel administration. A 63-year-old woman received chemotherapy combining carboplatin and paclitaxel for recurrent ovarian serous papillary adenocarcinoma. Four days after the chemotherapy, she suffered decreased mental awareness and lost consciousness. Blood chemistry tests showed serum sodium of 109 mmol/l. Plasma osmolarity was reduced to 232 mOsm/kg while urine osmolarity was high at 430 mOsm/kg, strongly suggesting the presence of SIADH. Because hyponatremia was not observed in the subsequent cycle of chemotherapy consisting of weekly paclitaxel and cisplatin, carboplatin was thought to be responsible for the condition. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility that carboplatin may cause SIADH, and should carefully monitor electrolyte balance after chemotherapy.
Potassium dichromate (K(2)Cr(2)O(7)) is an environmental contaminant widely recognized as a carcinogen, mutagen, and teratogen toward humans and animals. This study investigated the effects of K(2)Cr(2)O(7) on the hepatic function of pregnant and lactating rats and their suckling pups. Experiments were carried out on female Wistar rats given 700 ppm of K(2)Cr(2)O(7) in their drinking water from the 14th day of pregnancy until day 14 after delivery. Hepatotoxicity was objectified by the significant increase in liver malondialdehyde content and a significant accumulation of chromium in this soft tissue. Moreover, exposure to K(2)Cr(2)O(7) induced a decrease of glutathione, nonprotein thiols, and vitamin C in the liver of mothers and their suckling pups. Alteration of the antioxidant system in the treated group was confirmed by the significant decline of antioxidant enzyme activities such as catalase, glutathione peroxidase, while liver superoxide dismutase activity increased in mothers and decreased in their offspring. It was found that K(2)Cr(2)O(7) induced liver damages as evidenced by the elevation of plasma aminotransferases, lactate dehydrogenase activities, and bilirubin levels. Impairment of the hepatic function corresponded histologically. Our investigation revealed hemorrhage, leukocytes infiltration cells, and necrosis, which were more pronounced in the hepatocytes of mothers than in those of their suckling pups.
Animal studies indicate that typical antipsychotics (neuroleptics) increase cocaine and amphetamine self-administration. Patients with psychiatric illnesses have high rates of substance abuse and frequently receive chronic typical antipsychotic therapy. This open, pilot study examined the effect of typical antipsychotic discontinuation on cocaine and amphetamine use in patients with psychiatric illnesses. Twenty-four evaluable outpatients were randomized to continue (n = 12) or discontinue (n = 12) chronic typical antipsychotic therapy. The atypical antipsychotic quetiapine was instituted, when necessary, for psychosis in the discontinuation group (n = 8). Participants were assessed weekly over 12 weeks with measures of psychiatric symptoms, drug use, and drug craving. Those discontinuing typical antipsychotics (n = 12) had significant reductions in drug craving compared with those continuing typical antipsychotics. No significant between-group differences in drug use were found. Typical antipsychotic discontinuation combined with a quetiapine switch for those with psychotic symptoms was associated with reduced drug craving. Definitive trials of typical antipsychotic discontinuation in dual-diagnosis patients are warranted.
Maternal smoking during pregnancy is associated with fetal growth retardation. We examined whether a common genetic variant at chromosome 15q25 (rs1051730), which is known to be involved in nicotine metabolism, modifies the associations of maternal smoking with fetal growth characteristics.
This study was performed in 3,563 European mothers participating in a population-based prospective cohort study from early pregnancy onwards. Smoking was assessed by postal questionnaires and fetal growth characteristics were measured by ultrasound examinations in each trimester of pregnancy.
Among mothers who did not smoke during pregnancy (82.9%), maternal rs1051730 was not consistently associated with any fetal growth characteristic. Among mothers who continued smoking during pregnancy (17.1%), maternal rs1051730 was not associated with head circumference. The T-allele of maternal rs1051730 was associated with a smaller second and third trimester fetal femur length [differences -0.23 mm (95%CI -0.45 to -0.00) and -0.41 mm (95%CI -0.69 to -0.13), respectively] and a smaller birth length [difference -2.61 mm (95%CI -5.32 to 0.11)]. The maternal T-allele of rs1051730 was associated with a lower third trimester estimated fetal weight [difference -33 grams (95%CI -55 to -10)], and tended to be associated with birth weight [difference -38 grams (95%CI -89 to 13)]. This association persisted after adjustment for smoking quantity.
Our results suggest that maternal rs1051730 genotype modifies the associations of maternal smoking during pregnancy with impaired fetal growth in length and weight. These results should be considered as hypothesis generating and indicate the need for large-scale genome wide association studies focusing on gene--fetal smoke exposure interactions.
We used a candidate gene approach to identify a set of SNPs, located in a predicted regulatory region on chromosome 1q44 downstream of NLRP3 (previously known as CIAS1 and NALP3) that are associated with Crohn's disease. The associations were consistently replicated in four sample sets from individuals of European descent. In the combined analysis of all samples (710 father-mother-child trios, 239 cases and 107 controls), these SNPs were strongly associated with risk of Crohn's disease (P(combined) = 3.49 x 10(-9), odds ratio = 1.78, confidence interval = 1.47-2.16 for rs10733113), reaching a level consistent with the stringent significance thresholds imposed by whole-genome association studies. In addition, we observed significant associations between SNPs in the associated regions and NLRP3 expression and IL-1beta production. Mutations in NLRP3 are known to be responsible for three rare autoinflammatory disorders. These results suggest that the NLRP3 region is also implicated in the susceptibility of more common inflammatory diseases such as Crohn's disease.
