Nurses on a surgical unit compared 2 groups of patients, vancomycin versus other antibiotics, to determine whether vancomycin intravenous therapy is associated with more peripheral intravenous (PIV) complications. Data were collected on a number of PIV attempts and insertions, phlebitis and infiltration scores, nursing time, and missing or late doses on 153 orthopedic and trauma patients. Increased adverse outcomes were found with repeat venipunctures, attempts, nursing time, and infiltration. Patients receiving vancomycin through a PIV catheter developed more complications than those receiving other antibiotics. This is increasingly important because nurses make recommendations for vascular catheters.
To summarize safety and tolerability data on orally administered almotriptan from premarketing clinical trials.
Almotriptan is a new 5-HT1B/1D receptor agonist similar to sumatriptan in mode of action and therapeutic efficacy. In addition, the safety and tolerability profile of almotriptan has been demonstrated in a number of controlled clinical trials. Sumatriptan is generally safe and well tolerated; however, in controlled clinical trials, it has been associated with chest symptoms (pressure, warmth, and other unpleasant sensations) with an incidence of 3% to 5%.
Three phase 1 dose-finding and pharmacokinetic studies in healthy men and women volunteers were reviewed to assess the safety and tolerability of oral almotriptan at single doses ranging from 2 to 200 mg. The objective of one study was to evaluate cardiovascular safety. Two phase 2 trials assessed the safety and tolerability of single doses of 2 to 150 mg in migraine (n=911). Two phase 3 trials assessed the safety and tolerability of a single 12.5-mg oral dose after three attacks (n=910) and repeated doses of 12.5 mg for multiple attacks over the long term (n=747). All studies were conducted in Europe. Data from the United States is currently being analyzed and will be published at a later date.
In phase 2 and 3 trials comprising more than 2500 patients with migraine and 15 000 attacks, adverse events were infrequent and mild. The most common events-dizziness, nausea and vomiting, headache, fatigue, paresthesia, and drowsiness-were reported in fewer than 3% of patients. At the recommended therapeutic dose of 12.5 mg, the adverse events profile was not statistically different from placebo. The incidence of chest symptoms was 0.2% in the phase 3 trials. The long-term safety and tolerability profile after treatment of more than 10 000 attacks was similar to that following the single-dose studies. In all clinical trials, almotriptan demonstrated a very favorable adverse event profile, particularly with respect to nonischemic-related chest symptoms.
Almotriptan was safe and well tolerated in nearly all adult patients with migraine, with and without aura, enrolled in these studies. The incidence of chest symptoms in preclinical studies was substantially lower than that reported for sumatriptan in premarketing studies, indicating that almotriptan may be better tolerated than sumatriptan at clinically anticipated doses. However, any potential difference in cardiovascular safety between almotriptan and sumatriptan cannot be determined or inferred from this data. Cardiovascular risk profiles for all drugs within this class (triptans) should be considered similar. Only extensive postmarketing data, not currently available, can potentially change this recommendation.
Indoor formaldehyde (FA) might worsen allergies and be an underlying factor for the increasing incidence and severity of asthma; the exact mechanism, however, remains unclear.
The present study examined the effects of repeated exposure to FA on methacholine- and antigen-induced bronchoconstriction in guinea-pigs in vivo.
First, non-sensitized guinea-pigs were transnasally treated with 0.1 or 1.0% FA or saline three times a week for 6 weeks, and increasing concentrations of methacholine (50, 100, and 200 microg/mL) were inhaled at 5-min intervals. Second, guinea-pigs pre-treated with transnasal administration of FA or saline using the same protocol were passively sensitized with anti-ovalbumin (OA) serum 7 days before antigen challenge. Third, guinea-pigs were actively sensitized with OA and pre-treated with transnasal administration of FA or saline using the same protocol. The lateral pressure of the tracheal tube (Pao) was measured under anesthesia and artificial ventilation.
The antigen-induced increase in Pao in actively sensitized guinea-pigs was significantly potentiated by FA exposure in a dose-dependent manner. The dose-response curve of the methacholine-induced increase in Pao in non-sensitized guinea-pigs or of the antigen-induced increase in Pao in passively sensitized guinea-pigs was not altered by FA exposure. Transnasal administration of FA significantly increased the serum anti-OA homocytotropic antibody titre (IgG) as measured by the passive cutaneous anaphylaxis reaction in actively sensitized guinea-pigs.
The results suggest that repeated exposure to FA worsens allergic bronchoconstriction through enhancing antigen sensitization.
Tartrazine has been frequently linked to several diseases. However, a cause-and-effect role for tartrazine in these illnesses, especially in urticaria, has not always been established.
The aim of this study is to determine the incidence of intolerance to tartrazine among subjects who experienced an acute episode of urticaria/angioedema following the ingestion of a meal or a product containing this substance.
This was a retrospective study based on analysis of data of patients reported to have experienced episodes of urticaria and/or angioedema after ingesting meals or products containing tartrazine. At the first visit to the outpatients clinic, a careful anamnesis had been taken. Patients had then been submitted to the following diagnostic tests: IgE tests to common inhalant allergens and food allergens and a double-blind placebo-controlled challenge with tartrazine.
A total of 102 subjects were enrolled in the study: 19 (18.6%) showed at least one relevant positive reaction to an IgE test for food allergy. Only one subject (1%) had reactions after ingestion of 5 mg of tartrazine, given on day 5. She did not have adverse reactions to placebo.
This study shows that the percentage of acute urticaria and/or angioedema induced by tartrazine is very low (1%). In view of our results, we suggest that all physicians with patients who have suffered adverse reactions that could be attributed to tartrazine should also carefully evaluate other possible causes.
We investigated the role of dopamine neurons in the manifestation of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. Daily treatment with a subthreshold dose of levodopa gradually induced abnormal involuntary movements (AIM) in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, which included stereotypy and contraversive rotation. After 4 weeks of levodopa treatment, rats with mild and severe AIM were assigned to two treatment subgroups. The graft subgroup received embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue into the striatum, whilst the sham-graft subgroup received vehicle only. Rats continued to receive levodopa treatment for 3 months post-graft. Brain sections at the level of the basal ganglia were processed for autoradiography using a ligand for dopamine transporter, and in situ hybridization histochemistry for mRNAs encoding postsynaptic markers. Levodopa-induced AIM significantly improved in grafted rats. The severity of AIM correlated inversely with the density of dopamine nerve terminals in the striatum (P < 0. 001), with almost no AIM when the density of dopamine nerve terminals was >10-20% of normal. Embryonic dopamine neuronal grafts normalized not only mRNA expression for preproenkephalin (PPE) in the indirect pathway, but also mRNA expression for prodynorphin (PDyn) in the direct pathway, which was upregulated by levodopa treatment. AIM scores correlated linearly with expression of PPE mRNA in the indirect pathway (P < 0.001) and also with PDyn mRNA in the direct pathway (P < 0.001). We conclude that embryonic dopamine neuronal grafts may improve levodopa-induced dyskinesia by restoring altered activities of postsynaptic neurons, resulting not only from dopamine denervation, but also from levodopa therapy, provided that the density of striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals is restored above a 'threshold' level.
An adequate therapy for psychotic disorders needs to be effective against mood as well as psychotic symptoms. Analyses of data from clinical trials of risperidone in schizophrenia and small open-label studies in mania suggest that risperidone may have this broad efficacy profile. We present data on a 6-week trial of risperidone for the treatment of schizoaffective disorder that was part of a larger, 6-month surveillance study of patients with affective disorders.
One hundred two patients suffering from schizoaffective disorder (DSM-IV or ICD-10) entered the trial. Inclusion criteria consisted of a current DSM-IV diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder, bipolar type; DSM-IV manic or mixed psychotic episode; and a Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) score > 7 for a mixed episode (> 20 for a manic episode). Assessments included the YMRS, the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D), the 4-item Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) scale, and the UKU Side Effect Rating Scale subscale for neurologic side effects. For patients entering the study, open-label risperidone therapy was added to their existing regimens of mood-stabilizing treatments. Other antipsychotic drugs were not allowed.
Ninety-five patients completed the 6-week trial. At week 6, the mean +/- SD dose of risperidone was 4.7+/-2.5 mg/day. The mean scores on the assessment scales at baseline and week 6 (unless otherwise stated) were as follows: YMRS, 22.7 and 4.7, an improvement of 18.0 points (p < .0001); PANSS (at baseline and week 4), 74.1 and 54.2, an improvement of 19.9 points (p < .0001); HAM-D, 14.0 and 7.4, an improvement of 6.6 points (p < .0001); CGI (at baseline and week 4), 2.6 and 1.7, an improvement of 0.9 points (p < .0001). At week 4, most patients had shown improvement in symptom severity, and 9.3% were completely symptom-free. There were no statistically significant differences between baseline and week 4 in the severity of extrapyramidal symptoms as measured by the UKU. Risperidone was well tolerated; side effects were few and generally mild.
The results to date with risperidone indicate that it may have both antipsychotic and mood-stabilizing properties. Despite the limitations of the open-label design, the results indicate that risperidone is a safe and effective therapy in combination with mood-stabilizers for the treatment of patients with manic, hypomanic, and depressive symptoms of mixed episodes in schizoaffective disorder, bipolar type.
A double-blind, double-dummy, crossover study was carried out in 8 centres to compare the efficacy and tolerability of 'controlled-release' ketoprofen tablets (200 mg) with that of indomethacin suppositories (100 mg) in out-patients with definite or classical rheumatoid arthritis. Patients were allocated at random to receive a daily bedtime dose of either 1 ketoprofen tablet or 1 indomethacin suppository plus the dummy of the other formulation for a period of 3 weeks. They were then crossed over to the alternative treatment for a further 3 weeks. Daily diary records were kept by patients of the number of night-time awakenings due to pain, pain severity at awakening in the morning and the duration of early morning stiffness. Treatment efficacy was also assessed at the end of each trial period by means of an articular index and by physician's and patient's overall evaluation of response. Adverse effects spontaneously mentioned by the patients or elicited by direct questioning using a symptom check-list were recorded. Statistical analysis of the results from 83 evaluable patients showed that the 'controlled-release' tablet formulation of 200 mg ketoprofen was equally as effective as the 100 mg indomethacin suppository in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, especially with regard to pain at awakening and morning stiffness. Side-effects in both groups were those commonly seen with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and, as expected, gastro-intestinal and CNS disturbances predominated. Overall, side-effects were fewer with ketoprofen than with indomethacin.
The objectives of the study were to determine the optimal dose of febantel, pyrantel embonate and a combination of febantel/pyrantel embonate required to effectively treat Giardia in a gerbil model and to determine if there is a synergistic effect with the two drugs. SPF gerbils were infected by oral inoculation with 105 Giardia duodenalis trophozoites (day 0). On days 5 to 7, animals (n = 6) were treated once daily via oral gavage with febantel, pyrantel embonate, febantel and pyrantel embonate, metronidazole or placebo. Gerbils were euthanised 24 hours after last treatment and duodenal trophozoites were enumerated on a haemocytometer to obtain a concentration of trophozoites/ cm of gut. Febantel alone, effectively eliminated Giardia trophozoites at 160 and 80 mg/kg. Pyrantel embonate did not eliminate Giardia from the animals but significantly reduced parasite counts at all dosages. Febantel combined with pyrantel embonate effectively eliminated Giardia trophozoites at 160, 80 and 40 mg/kg. Metronidazole did not eliminate Giardia trophozoites from the gut. All placebo-treated animals were heavily infected with Giardia trophozoites. It can be concluded that febantel is more effective in elimination of Giardia infections when combined with pyrantel embonate compared to the agents used alone.
The purpose of this double-blind, observer-masked, randomized, crossover trial was to compare the tolerability and safety of a fixed-dose ophthalmic solution of 0.3% tobramycin plus 0.1% diclofenac versus Tobrex (tobramycin sulfate ophth) and Voltaren (diclofenac sodium). Control treatments included a saline solution and a control solution of 0.3% tobramycin prepared by Alcon Cusí. Ten healthy volunteers received three consecutive instillations of 1 drop of a given ophthalmic solution at 08:00, 11:00 and 14:00 h to the same eye; after a washout period of 18 h, the next ophthalmic solution was tested according to a randomized sequence. Occurrence, intensity, and duration of ocular irritation and conjunctival hyperemia at baseline and after the three instillations were recorded. Slit lamp biomicroscopy examination, measurement of intraocular pressure (IOP) changes, visual acuity, and examination of the fundus of the eye were performed after each third instillation by an ophthalmologist. Side effect incidence and patient and investigator opinions were also recorded. Results showed that Voltaren instillation induced statistically significant ocular irritation (p = 0.0077); the remaining ophthalmic solutions tested caused no ocular irritation (Physiological Saline Braun, p = 0.9808; Tobrex, p = 0.8826; control 0.3% tobramycin solution, p = 0.8327; and 0.1% diclofenac plus 0.3% tobramycin, p = 0.5399). None of the ophthalmic solutions tested caused severe conjunctival hyperemia. Analysis of the sum of conjunctival parameters of both eyes for all ophthalmic solutions studied showed no statistically significant differences (p = 0.4688). Moderate superficial punctate keratitis was observed after instillation of Voltaren and of 0.1% diclofenac plus 0.3% tobramycin (1 subject each) that spontaneously resolved within 2 days. Slit lamp biomicroscopy, visual acuity and IOP values showed no statistically significant changes. No systemic side effects related to the study treatments were recorded. In conclusion, the ophthalmic solution containing 0.1% diclofenac plus 0.3% tobramycin was well tolerated under the study conditions. Its tolerability was equivalent to that of Braun physiological saline, Tobrex and a control 0.3% tobramycin solution and was better than that of Voltaren.
Tumor necrosis factors (TNF; TNFA and TNFB) are major pro-inflammatory cytokines that are thought to be important in the pathogenesis of asthma. However, the functions of genetic polymorphisms in these cytokines have not been thoroughly examined in the context of asthma pathology. In an effort to discover polymorphism(s) in genes whose variant(s) have been implicated in asthma phenotypes, we examined the genetic effects of TNF (TNFA and TNFB) polymorphisms on asthma and total serum IgE level. Seven common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in TNF genes were genotyped in a Korean asthma cohort (asthmatics n=550, normal controls n=171). Six common haplotypes could be constructed in the TNF gene cluster due to very strong LD between TNFA and TNFB, located 13 kb apart on chromosome 6p21. One SNP (TNFA-308G>A) showed a significant association with the risk of asthma (P=0.0004). The frequency of TNFA-308A allele-containing genotype in asthmatics (9.8%) was much lower than that in normal controls (22.9%). The protective effects of this polymorphism on asthma were also evident in separated subgroups by atopic status (P=0.05 in non-atopic subjects and P=0.003 in atopic subjects). The most common haplotype of the TNF gene (TNF-ht1[GGTCCGG]) was associated with total serum IgE (immunoglobulin E) levels in asthma patients, especially in non-atopic patients (P=0.004). Genetic variants of TNF might be involved in development of asthma and total serum IgE level in bronchial asthma patients. The results of this study could be helpful to understand the function of important TNF genes in asthma and IgE production.
Germline CDH1 point or small frameshift mutations can be identified in 30-50% of hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC) families. We hypothesized that CDH1 genomic rearrangements would be found in HDGC and identified 160 families with either two gastric cancers in first-degree relatives and with at least one diffuse gastric cancer (DGC) diagnosed before age 50, or three or more DGC in close relatives diagnosed at any age. Sixty-seven carried germline CDH1 point or small frameshift mutations. We screened germline DNA from the 93 mutation negative probands for large genomic rearrangements by Multiplex Ligation-Dependent Probe Amplification. Potential deletions were validated by RT-PCR and breakpoints cloned using a combination of oligo-CGH-arrays and long-range-PCR. In-silico analysis of the CDH1 locus was used to determine a potential mechanism for these rearrangements. Six of 93 (6.5%) previously described mutation negative HDGC probands, from low GC incidence populations (UK and North America), carried genomic deletions (UK and North America). Two families carried an identical deletion spanning 193 593 bp, encompassing the full CDH3 sequence and CDH1 exons 1 and 2. Other deletions affecting exons 1, 2, 15 and/or 16 were identified. The statistically significant over-representation of Alus around breakpoints indicates it as a likely mechanism for these deletions. When all mutations and deletions are considered, the overall frequency of CDH1 alterations in HDGC is approximately 46% (73/160). CDH1 large deletions occur in 4% of HDGC families by mechanisms involving mainly non-allelic homologous recombination in Alu repeat sequences. As the finding of pathogenic CDH1 mutations is useful for management of HDGC families, screening for deletions should be offered to at-risk families.
The comparative effects of vitamin K2 and vitamin E on aortic calcium (Ca) and inorganic phosphorus (P) levels in the aorta and the elastin fraction (fr.) were investigated in male rats after experimental arteriosclerosis was induced by vitamin D2 with atherogenic diet. Both vitamin K2 (100 mg/kg b.w.) and vitamin E (40 mg/kg b.w.) inhibited the increase of Ca and P in the aorta and the elastin fr. from the arteriosclerotic rats. Vitamin K2 (50 mg/kg b.w.) also suppressed the deposition of Ca and P in the aorta, but there was no change due to vitamin K3 or geranylgeraniol (side chain of vitamin K2) administration. Both vitamin K2 and vitamin E showed lipid radical scavenging activity in the in vitro experiment. However, neither vitamin K3 nor geranylgeraniol exhibited anti-arteriosclerotic or radical scavenging activity under the above experimental conditions. It is suggested that vitamin K2 and vitamin E promoted an antiarteriosclerotic effect by radical scavenging activity. These actions of vitamin K2 are required in the structure of 2-methylnaphtoquinone and its side chain (geranylgeraniol).
Emergence agitation or delirium is a known phenomenon that may occur in children undergoing general anesthesia with inhaled agents. Our aim was to test the hypothesis that the addition of a small dose of ketamine at the end of sevoflurane anesthesia will result in a decrease in the incidence and severity of such phenomenon.
We performed a randomized double blind study involving 85 premedicated children 4-7 years old undergoing dental repair. Children were premedicated with acetaminophen and midazolam. Anesthesia was induced and maintained with sevoflurane in N2O/O2. Group K received ketamine 0.25 mg.kg (-1) and Group S received saline. We evaluated recovery characteristics upon awakening and during the first 30 min using the Pediatric Anesthesia Emergence Delirium scale.
Eighty of the 85 enrolled children completed the study. There were 42 children in Group I. Emergence agitation was diagnosed in seven children in the ketamine group (16.6%) and in 13 children in the placebo group (34.2%). There was no difference in time to meet recovery room discharge criteria between the two groups.
We conclude that the addition of ketamine 0.25 mg.kg(-1) can decrease the incidence of emergence agitation in children after sevoflurane general anesthesia.
When polybrominated biphenyls (fireMaster BP-6, PBB) are ingested by cattle, they have been shown to alter hepatic enzyme systems, and produce renal lesions with chronic high exposure. These changes provide mechanisms for alteration of the metabolism and clearance of steroid hormones that might then affect reproductive function. This study was conducted to examine the effects of PBB on the excretion of radiolabel from injected estradiol-17 beta and progesterone. Toxicity was induced by dosing two Holstein cows with 25 g of fireMaster BP-6/d for 39 or 50 d. Single iv injections of 35 microCi [4-14C] progesterone and 400 microCi [2,4,6,7-3H] estradiol-17 beta were given on d -5, 10, 30 and 38 or 48 relative to dosing. Last injections were given when animals were terminally toxic. Clinical signs and necropsy findings confirmed the typical toxic syndrome and renal lesions. Excretion of 14C was primarily in feces, while 3H appeared in both urine and feces. As toxicosis developed, the excretion of steroids in feces was delayed as anorexia reduced mass and rate of passage of feces. This had little effect on the amount of steroid excreted and the rate of urinary excretion was affected only minimally. Recovery of both radiolabels declined 10 to 20% by d 30 of dosing as excretion rate was reduced from pre-PBB dosing. Excretion declined sharply when animals were moribund. Despite developing toxicosis, both animals continued to have estrous cycles with normal periodicity.
The administration of three consecutive daily doses of the recommended 1x dose of Drontal Plus flavour tablets (Bayer) was examined for its effect on Giardia sp. cyst-shedding in 7 treated and 7 untreated random-source dogs. Dogs were treated on study days 0, 1 and 2. Cysts were quantified using direct immunofluorescent labelling on days -7, -5, -3 and -2, and daily from day 1 through 11. Three treated dogs never shed cysts again during the study, one shed again only on day 4, and the remaining three dogs started to shed again on days 8, 9 and 11. The mean numbers of cysts per gramme in the faeces of the treated dogs were significantly reduced (t-tests using log(10)(counts)) on days 1 and 2 (geometric means: controls = 447,000; treated = 1,050; p = 0.004) and days 3 to 8 (geometric means: controls = 23,400; treated 5.0; p < 0.001). Four controls that had been consistently positive, changed to negative status on day 11, and thus, on the final day of the trial, there were only three positive control and three positive treated dogs. Three consecutive days of treatment with Drontal Plus flavour tablets halted Giardia sp. cyst shedding by dogs. But starting six days post third treatment, some of the dogs started shedding cysts again. Since the prepatent period of Giardia sp. can be as short as 4 days, shedding of Giardia sp. cysts 6 days after treatment could be caused by a reinfection.
The authors report the case of a patient with drug-resistant atrial fibrillation, who developed, for more than 2 hours, a well-tolerated attack of palpitations, after taking 500 mg of flecainide acetate. The Holter monitoring demonstrated atrial flutter with 1:1 AV conduction and a ventricular rate at 220 bpm. This atrial pro-arrhythmic effect is rare and the mechanism is discussed.
Fourteen patients with TD, all but one also having tardive akathisia, were evaluated on presynaptically acting dopamine-depleting drugs, reserpine, TBZ, and AMT. Initially, the drugs were evaluated individually, but later AMT was used in combination with reserpine and with TBZ, since their different mechanisms of action allowed for increased potency when they were used in this combination. All but one patient responded to this therapeutic approach. Parkinsonism was easily induced, however. Most patients varied during the day between mild parkinsonism and mild dyskinesia-akathisia. It was difficult to have patients at the normal level between these two conditions. The addition of carbidopa/levodopa in one patient not only relieved the side effect of parkinsonism but may have also accelerated a remission from TD and akathisia. Although postural hypotension was a common adverse effect in patients receiving reserpine, especially in combination with AMT, it did not develop in patients taking TBZ, either alone or in combination with AMT. This observation suggests that TBZ may be less effective depleting monoamines in the periphery than in the central nervous system. Since reserpine is available commercially in the United States whereas TBZ is not, reserpine may be the drug of choice in treating patients with TD or tardive akathisia. The addition of AMT will increase the potency of this form of treatment.
Several lines of evidence demonstrate that the striatal enkephalinergic system may be involved in the development of LIDs. Preproenkephalin-B (PPE-B) transcript levels are elevated with LIDs and there are also declines in kappa-opioid and other opioid receptors in different regions of the basal ganglia. If reduced kappa-opioid receptors are linked to LIDs, it is possible that drugs that stimulate this subtype may decrease dyskinesias. We therefore initiated experiments to investigate the effect of kappa-opioid receptor activation on LIDs. We first tested the selective kappa-agonist U50,488 in rats with unilateral lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway. Chronic L-dopa treatment induced abnormal involuntary movements, including axial, orolingual and forelimb dyskinesias contralateral to the lesion. U50,488 administration prior to L-dopa treatment reduced these movements by 70%, suggesting that U50,488 has potential as an anti-dyskinetic treatment. We next tested its effect in a parkinsonian nonhuman primate model, which offers the advantage that parkinsonism and LIDs can clearly be differentiated and that the dyskinesias are similar to those in parkinsonian patients. 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned monkeys were treated with L-dopa (5 mg/kg p.o.) twice daily for 3 weeks to induce dyskinesias. As in the rodent model, U50,488 (0.1-1.0 mg/kg i.m.) decreased LIDs in a dose-dependent fashion. However, the anti-parkinsonian effect of L-dopa was similarly reduced, and side effects developed, including sedation and vomiting. These data suggest that kappa-opioid agonists such as U50,488 may not be clinically useful antidyskinetic agents because they also reverse the anti-parkinsonian effect of l-dopa.
Abnormal involuntary movements caused by chronic levodopa treatment in Parkinson's disease, tardive dyskinesia resulting from long-term treatment with neuroleptics, and Huntington's disease all seem to be related to functional alteration and/or derangement of the DA/ACh systems. Recent data show the presence of different types of DA receptors D1 and D2, which seem to be involved in the pathogenesis of
an alteration of their mutual equilibrium could account for movements disorders. In addition, hypofunction of the ACh system also seems to play a role in the pathogenesis of AIM. The purpose of this study was to verify an alteration of DA/ACh relationships by evaluating the clinical responses to pharmacological stimuli in patients affected by AIM secondary to chronic levodopa and chronic neuroleptic treatment. The following drugs were used to evaluate the DA receptors: lisuride (0.007 mg/kg i.v.) and tiapride (2.85 mg/kg i.v.) as agonist and antagonist, respectively, at D2 receptors; oxopentphylline (2.85 mg/kg i.v.) and alpha-flupenthixol (.057 mg/kg p.o.) as agonist and antagonist, respectively, at D1 receptors. Levodopa plus carbidopa (250 mg + 25 mg) was also used. The ACh system was studied using orphenadrine (1.1 mg/kg i.v.) as an antagonist and physostigmine (0.014 mg/kg i.v.) and neostigmine (0.26 mg/kg i.v.) as agonists. Our results suggest an involvement mainly of D1 receptors in the pathogenesis of TD, whereas D2 receptors seem to be important in the onset of AIM after chronic levodopa treatment in Parkinson's disease.
Cylindrospermopsin (CYN) is a cyanobacterial toxin found in drinking-water sources world wide. It was the likely cause of human poisonings in Australia and possibly Brazil. Although CYN itself is a potent protein synthesis inhibitor, its acute toxicity appears to be mediated by cytochrome p-450 (CYP450)-generated metabolites. CYN also induces genotoxic effects both in vitro and in vivo, and preliminary evidence suggests that tumors are generated by oral exposure to CYN. To understand the role of CYP450-activated CYN metabolites on in vitro genotoxicity, this study quantified the process in primary mouse hepatocytes using the COMET assay in both the presence and absence of CYP450 inhibitors known to block acute CYN cytotoxicity. CYN was cytotoxic at concentrations above 0.1 microM (EC50 = 0.5 microM) but produced significant increases in Comet tail length, area, and tail moment at 0.05 microM and above; hence genotoxicity is unlikely to be secondary to metabolic disruption due to toxicity. The CYP450 inhibitors omeprazole (100 microM) and SKF525A (50 microM) completely inhibited the genotoxicity induced by CYN. The toxin also inhibits production of glutathione (GSH), a finding confirmed in this study. This could potentiate cytotoxicity, and by implication genotoxicity, via reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) quenching. The lipid peroxidation marker, malondialdehyde (MDA) was quantified in CYN-treated cells, and the effect of the reduced glutathione (GSSG) reductase (GSSG-rd.) inhibitor 1,3-bis(chloroethyl)-l-nitrosourea (BCNU) on both MDA production and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage was examined. MDA levels were not elevated by CYN treatment, and block of GSH regeneration by BCNU did not affect lipid peroxidation or cytotoxicity. It therefore seems likely that CYP450-derived metabolites are responsible for both the acute cytotoxicity and genotoxicity induced by CYN.
Intake of retinoic acid (RA) or of its precursor, vitamin A, during early pregnancy is associated with increased incidence of craniofacial lesions. The origin of these teratogenic effects remains enigmatic as in cranial neural crest cells (CNCCs), which largely contribute to craniofacial structures, the RA-transduction pathway is not active. Recent results suggest that RA could act on the endoderm of the first pharyngeal arch (1stPA), through a RARbeta-dependent mechanism.
Here we show that RA provokes dramatically different craniofacial malformations when administered at slightly different developmental times within a narrow temporal interval corresponding to the colonization of the 1(st) PA by CNCCs. We provide evidence showing that RA acts on the signalling epithelium of the 1(st) PA, gradually reducing the expression of endothelin-1 and Fgf8. These two molecular signals are instrumental in activating Dlx genes in incoming CNCCs, thereby triggering the morphogenetic programs, which specify different jaw elements.
The anatomical series induced by RA-treatments at different developmental times parallels, at least in some instances, the supposed origin of modern jaws (e.g., the fate of the incus). Our results might provide a conceptual framework for the rise of jaw morphotypes characteristic of gnathostomes.
