The hypokalaemic effects of equal doses (5 mg) of fenoterol, salbutamol, terbutaline and an equal volume of saline administered by nebulization were compared in eight healthy subjects. Plasma potassium was measured at 15-min intervals for 60 min and at 90 min, 2, 4 and 6 h following administration. Fenoterol, salbutamol and terbutaline all significantly decreased plasma potassium when compared to saline; however, the magnitude and duration of this effect differed between the active agents. Both fenoterol and terbutaline significantly reduced plasma potassium for 4 h whereas salbutamol was only different from 30 to 120 min. The maximum decrease occurred with fenoterol (-0.78 mmol/l), followed by terbutaline (-0.70 mmol/l) and salbutamol (-0.33 mmol/l). Both terbutaline and fenoterol had a significantly greater effect compared with salbutamol. When administered by nebulization fenoterol and terbutaline are likely to have a greater hypokalaemic effect than salbutamol and this effect is likely to be more long lasting.
To test whether polymorphisms of the glutathione S-transferase P1 gene (GSTP1) act in the mother during pregnancy to contribute to the phenotype of autistic disorder (AD) in her fetus.
Transmission disequilibrium testing (TDT) in case mothers and maternal grandparents.
Autistic disorder may result from multiple genes and environmental factors acting during pregnancy and afterward. Teratogenic alleles act in mothers during pregnancy to contribute to neurodevelopmental disorders in their offspring; however, only a handful have been identified. GSTP1 is a candidate susceptibility gene for AD because of its tissue distribution and its role in oxidative stress, xenobiotic metabolism, and JNK regulation.
We genotyped GSTP1*G313A and GSTP1*C341T polymorphisms in 137 members of 49 families with AD. All probands received a clinical diagnosis of AD by Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised and Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule-Generic testing.
Association of haplotypes with AD was tested by the TDT-Phase program, using the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm for uncertain haplotypes and for incomplete parental genotypes, with standard measures of statistical significance.
The GSTP1*A haplotype was overtransmitted to case mothers (P = .01 [P = .03 using permutation testing]; odds ratio, 2.67 [95% confidence interval, 1.39-5.13]). Results of the combined haplotype and genotype analyses suggest that the GSTP1-313 genotype alone determined the observed haplotype effect.
Overtransmission of the GSTP1*A haplotype to case mothers suggests that action in the mother during pregnancy likely increases the likelihood of AD in her fetus. If this is confirmed and is a result of a gene-environment interaction occurring during pregnancy, these findings could lead to the design of strategies for prevention or treatment.
Fibrotic penile lesions developed in 4 patients who had undergone intracorporeal injection of vasoactive agents. These lesions persisted for at least 3 months, and in some instances they caused pain and curvature of the penis during erection.
High concentrations (greater than 5 microM) of arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) have been reported to be able to induce apoptosis in several malignant cells. We explored cell lines in which apoptosis was induced with a therapeutic concentration (1-2 microM) of As(2)O(3), and found that 1 microM of As(2)O(3) induced apoptosis in the NKM-1 cell line, which was established from a patient with acute myeloid leukemia (M2). Apoptosis induced by 1 microM of As(2)O(3) in NKM-1 cells was accompanied by an increased cellular content of H(2)O(2), a decreased mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsim), and activation of caspase-3. C-Jun-terminal kinase (JNK) was activated only in NKM-1 cells and arsenic-sensitive NB4 cells, but not in arsenic-insensitive HL-60 cells. Activation of JNK in NKM-1 was sustained from 6 to 24 h after As(2)O(3) treatment, and preceded changes in cellular H(2)O(2), Deltapsim, and caspase-3 activation. Moreover, addition of a JNK inhibitor reduced the percentage of apoptotic cells after the As(2)O(3) treatment. Taken together, in the M2 cell line NKM-1, 1 microM of As(2)O(3) induced sustained activation of JNK and apoptosis. This finding may provide a basis to select a subgroup other than acute promyelocytic leukemia, which can benefit from As(2)O(3) treatment.
Perfluorinated alkyl acids (PFAAs) are used in a multitude of applications and are categorized as high-production volume chemicals produced in quantities exceeding 10,000 lbs/year. As a result, widespread exposure has been documented in adults, children, and infants. It is generally accepted that children are more sensitive to the effects of xenobiotic exposures during fetal and postnatal periods of development; therefore, considerable efforts are required to investigate the potential impact of a model PFAA, perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) on children's immunological health. Using the pairing of female C57BL/6N mice with male C3H/HeJ, developmental immunotoxicity was evaluated in B6C3F1 pups following oral maternal exposure to PFOS on gestations days 1-17. Exposure levels included 0.1, 1, and 5 mg/kg/day PFOS. Natural killer (NK) cell activity, SRBC IgM plaque assay, CD4/8 lymphocytic subpopulations, nitrite production in peritoneal macrophages, and body/organ weights were evaluated at 4 and 8 weeks of age in F1 pups. No significant dose-responsive changes in maternal or pup body weights, flow cytometry, or macrophage function were observed, yet hepatomegaly was indicated in F1 male pups at 4 weeks of age. Functional deficits were not evident until 8 weeks of age when NK cell function and IgM production were significantly decreased. When compared with females, male pups were more sensitive to the effects of PFOS thereby establishing a no observed adverse effect level and low observed adverse effect level of 0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg/day (males only) following maternal PFOS exposure level, respectively. This study establishes that the developing immune system is sensitive to the effects of PFOS and results in functional deficits in innate and humoral immunity detectable at adulthood.
The primary purpose of this study was to evaluate the cognitive effects of adjuvant hormonal therapies in breast cancer patients.
Post-menopausal breast cancer patients scheduled to receive tamoxifen (n=31) or anastrozole (n=14) completed neuropsychological testing around the time of commencement of treatment (T1), and again 5-6 months later (T2). A sample of healthy female volunteers (n=28) was tested at comparable intervals. A standardized regression-based approach was used to assess cognitive change. This method uses test/retest scores of the healthy control group to generate an equation that predicts T2 scores from T1 scores. The difference between the predicted and obtained T2 scores divided by the standard error of the estimate produces a deviation score that reflects the discrepancy from the T1-T2 difference scores that would be expected on the basis of practice and error alone.
Analysis of individual deviation scores revealed that both the patients taking tamoxifen and those taking anastrozole were more likely than healthy controls to show reliable cognitive decline from T1 to T2 (39, 64, and 7%, respectively). Processing speed and verbal memory were the cognitive domains most affected.
These data suggest that hormonal therapies exert a subtle negative influence on cognition in breast cancer patients. Further analyses indicated that this effect was not fully accounted for by demographic factors or fatigue. Methodological limitations of the current study are addressed, along with recommendations for future studies in this area.
Although doxorubicin is an anticancer agent with a wide spectrum of activity, therapy with this anthracycline must often be discontinued at a time of benefit to the patient because of the drug's cumulative cardiotoxicity. ICRF-187 (ADR-529, dexrazoxane) is a bisdioxopiperazine compound that protects against cardiac toxicity induced by doxorubicin.
Our objectives in this study were to determine the maximum tolerated dose of ADR-529 (which uses a different vehicle than ICRF-187) when given with a fixed doxorubicin dose and to determine whether ADR-529 alters doxorubicin pharmacokinetics.
Twenty-five patients were treated with doxorubicin (60 mg/m2) preceded by administration of ADR-529 in escalating dosages (i.e., 60, 300, 600, 750, and 900 mg/m2) to groups of three to nine patients. ADR-529 was administered over a 15-minute period beginning 30 minutes before doxorubicin treatment; the protocol was repeated every 3 weeks. Blood was sampled frequently for drug levels, which were determined by high-pressure liquid chromatography with fluorescence (doxorubicin) and electrochemical detection (ADR-529).
Dose-limiting neutropenia occurred in four of six previously treated patients at an ADR-529 dose of 600 mg/m2; the dose ratio of ADR-529 to doxorubicin was 10:1. For three additional patients with better Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status and a maximum of one prior chemotherapy regimen, 600 mg/m2 was tolerated, but grade 3 or 4 neutropenia occurred in four of six patients who received an ADR-529 dose of 900 mg/m2 and in three of four patients at a dose of 750 mg/m2. Doxorubicin's estimated terminal half-life was 39.5 +/- 18.3 (mean +/- SD) hours; the area under the curve for plasma concentration of drug x time (AUC) was 1.74 +/- 0.40 (micrograms/microL) x hour. Total-body clearance was 598 +/- 142 microL/m2 per minute (N = 20), and it did not vary with ADR-529 dose. Estimated distribution and elimination phase half-lives for plasma ADR-529 were 0.46 +/- 0.30 hours and 4.16 +/- 2.94 hours, respectively. Total-body clearance was 111 +/- 87 microL/m2 per minute (N = 18); AUC was linear (r2 = .92), and the clearance rate was constant (r2 = .18) from 60 to 900 mg/m2.
Myelotoxicity was dose limiting for ADR-529 at 600-750 mg/m2 when given with a fixed dose of doxorubicin at 60 mg/m2 (dose ratios of ADR-529 to doxorubicin ranged from 10:1 to 12.5:1). When used in combination, ADR-529 did not perturb doxorubicin's distribution, metabolism, or excretion; therefore, other mechanisms of cardioprotection must be involved.
We recommend that an ADR-529 dose of 600 mg/m2 be given with single-agent doxorubicin at a dose of 60 mg/m2 in future studies.
Amphetamine abuse increase risk of hemorrhagic stroke and may result in cerebral vasospasm. In this report we present 31 years old male with intracerebral hemorrhage subsequent to amphetamine intake. Diffuse cerebral vasospasm was found by angiography. Transcranial color coded Doppler sonography was applied for vasospasm monitoring and pharmacological treatment after surgical removal of the intracerebral hemorrhage. Basing on this case we can conclude that cerebral vasospasm should be suspected in patient with amphetamine abuse and hemorrhagic stroke.
Aranoza and dacarbazine (DTIC) monotherapy and in combinations with aranoza and interferon-alpha (IPHN-alpha) as well as DTIC and IPHN-alpha was given to 175 patients (89 males and 86 females, aged 23-78) with disseminated skin melanoma. The effectiveness of aranoza and DTIC monotherapy was practically identical. Total response to DTIC used in combination with IPHN-alpha increased insignificantly: 25.6%--in combination vs. 19.5% DTIC alone (p > 0.05). IPHN-alpha was most effective when used with aranoza (total objective response--31.7% vs. aranoza alone--16%). The best results were reported in cases heretofore untreated with cytostatic drugs. Total response (complete or partial remission) was recorded in 63% vs. 4.5% (p < 0.05) of patients who had received chemotherapy. In cases of aranoza+ IPHN-alpha treatment, complete and partial remission was reported in metastasis of the skin, subcutaneous fat, peripheral, retroperitoneal and abdominal (mesenteric) lymph nodes and lungs. There was no relapse of metastasis of the liver, intestinal tract, bones, breast or ovary.
Peripheral neurotoxicity is a frequent complication limiting docetaxel chemotherapy in patients with cancer. We developed an experimental model that closely mimics the course of neuropathy in patients, aiming to investigate both the mechanisms of neurotoxicity at biochemical, functional and morphological levels and the potential neuroprotective role of neuroactive steroids. We demonstrated that treatment with dihydroprogesterone (DHP) or progesterone (P) counteracts docetaxel-induced neuropathy, preventing nerve conduction and thermal threshold changes, and degeneration of skin nerves in the foodpad. Neuroactive steroids also counteract the changes in gene expression of several myelin proteins and calcitonin gene-related peptide induced by docetaxel in sciatic nerve and lumbar spinal cord, respectively. Most nerve abnormalities observed during the treatment with docetaxel spontaneously recovered after drug withdrawal, similarly to what occurs in patients. However, results of midterm follow-up experiments indicated that animals cotreated with DHP or P have a faster recovery of the neuropathy compared with docetaxel-treated rats. Our study confirmed that neuroactive steroids exert a protective effect on peripheral nerves at different levels, suggesting that they might represent a new therapeutic frontier for patients with chemotherapy-induced neuropathy.
Recently, the use of pentamidine has risen because of its efficacy in managing patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and Pneumocystis carinii infection. We undertook a retrospective analysis of the charts of 22 patients with AIDS given pentamidine when they were hospitalized over a two-year period.
Collectively, these 22 patients were admitted 28 times during this period and received a total of 23 courses of pentamidine. During five of these admissions, pentamidine was not given. The duration of therapy ranged from five to 33 days (mean: 13.4 days). Three admissions were excluded because of insufficient laboratory data or concomitant use of therapies that could affect the parameters being studied.
In 19 of the remaining 20 admissions, the patients treated with pentamidine were observed to have elevations of potassium (5.1 to 8.7 mEq/L), creatinine (1.5 to 11.8 mg/dL), and blood urea nitrogen (27 to 183 mg/dL), and a decrease in serum bicarbonate (14 to 21 mEq/L). Of the 19 patients exhibiting these abnormalities, most required sodium polystyrene sulfonate and two required dialysis. During the admissions when pentamidine was not given, hyperkalemia was not observed. After discontinuation of pentamidine therapy, these metabolic derangements normalized in all patients except for one who died while still in acute renal failure. Four patients received more than one course of therapy and upon reinstitution of pentamidine treatment, the same metabolic abnormalities recurred.
In conclusion, pentamidine is more nephrotoxic in patients with AIDS than previously reported in other subjects and can cause life-threatening hyperkalemia.
This study investigated the effects of endocrine therapy (i.e., tamoxifen and anastrozole) on cognitive functioning by comparing 28 postmenopausal women with breast cancer to 37 healthy age-equivalent controls. Participants completed neuropsychological tests previously shown to be estrogen sensitive (e.g., verbal memory, letter fluency). A significant treatment effect was observed on speeded measures of letter fluency, complex visuomotor attention, and manual dexterity, but not on measures of verbal or object-location memory, or on tests presumed to be estrogen insensitive (e.g., spatial ability). In partial support of previous research, these results indicate that endocrine therapy can have detrimental effects on speeded higher brain functions but not necessarily on memory.
We pooled data from randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials to determine the frequency of adverse reactions among patients treated with cimetidine for acute acid-peptic disorders.
Meta-analysis was used to analyze data obtained from a search of English language reports of trials of cimetidine in the ambulatory treatment of acute acid-peptic disorders that were published between January 1982 and April 1987.
Of 161 trials of cimetidine that we identified, 84 provided complete reporting of data on adverse reactions and, of these, 24 employed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Across these 24 trials, the overall rate of reported adverse reactions among 622 patients randomly assigned to receive cimetidine was 10.9%; the corresponding rate among 516 patients randomly assigned to receive placebo was 10.1%. This difference was not statistically significant (p greater than 0.10), nor were any significant differences noted in the frequencies of reported central nervous system or gastrointestinal adverse reactions (p greater than 0.10). Rates of adverse reactions also did not differ by dosage or trial duration. The overall rate of adverse reactions reported in the 60 trials that did not utilize a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design was similar to the rate reported in those that did.
Our findings suggest that the frequency of adverse reactions among patients receiving cimetidine for acute acid-peptic disorders is not significantly different from that of patients receiving placebo.
To determine the pathologic complete response rate of advanced ovarian cancer to weekly paclitaxel plus gemcitabine and carboplatin with filgrastim, and assess the longitudinal impact of this regimen on quality-of-life and cognitive functioning.
Fourteen patients with advanced ovarian, peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer were treated in the phase I portion of the study. Initial doses were paclitaxel: 60 mg/m(2) days 1, 8, and 15; gemcitabine: 800 mg/m(2) days 1 and 8; and carboplatin: area under the curve (AUC) 5 day 1, every 21 days for 6 cycles with filgrastim. Twenty-seven patients were treated at the phase II dose. Pathologic response was assessed by second-look laparoscopy in patients with complete response. Patients completed longitudinal assessments of quality-of-life and cognitive functioning.
Maximally tolerated doses were paclitaxel: 80 mg/m(2) days 1 and 8; gemcitabine: 800 mg/m(2) days 1 and 8; and carboplatin: AUC 5 day 1, every 21 days. Forty-eight percent of patients (13/27) experienced at least 1 grade 3 nonhematologic toxicity. Fifty percent (95% confidence interval [CI], 31-69%) of assessable patients achieved pathologic complete response. Median progression-free survival was 27.3 months (95% CI, 17.7 months to not reached), and overall survival 43.6 months (95% CI, 42 months to not reached). Cognitive functioning did not decline during or after chemotherapy. More highly educated women reported a perceived decline in concentration and memory while on chemotherapy. Quality-of-life scores were maintained during therapy.
Fifty percent of patients with advanced-stage ovarian cancer achieved pathologic complete response to weekly paclitaxel plus gemcitabine and carboplatin. Cognitive functioning did not decline by objective measures, although highly educated women reported subjective impairment.
Bicarbonate is a major component of bile salt independent bile flow, which is impaired in ethinyl estradiol (EE)-cholestasis. To examine this subject in EE-cholestasis, we studied: 1) basal and glucagon-stimulated biliary bicarbonate secretion both in vivo and in the isolated perfused rat liver (IPRL); 2) H+/HCO-3 transport processes in isolated rat hepatocyte couplets.
Rats received EE (5 mg.kg b.w.-1) for 5 days. Intracellular pH (pHi) was measured (BCECF-AM) using a single-cell microfluorimetric setup.
Bile flow was markedly (p < 0.01) decreased in EE-treated rats. Bicarbonate concentration in bile was decreased (p < 0.01) and bicarbonate secretion was 2.5-fold lower in EE-treated animals than in controls, both in bile-fistula rats [19.5 +/- 5.1 (n = 23) vs 54.2 +/- 5.7 (n = 20) nmol.min-1g liver-1; p < 0.01] and in the IPRL [11 +/- 2 (n = 8) vs 24 +/- 3 (n = 8) nmol.min-1.g liver-1; p < 0.01]. In control IPRL, a bile/perfusate gradient for bicarbonate is maintained, while it is lost in EE-treated IPRL because of the lower bicarbonate concentration in bile. Glucagon stimulated bile flow and bicarbonate secretion to a similar extent in EE-treated and control IPRL (+25% vs +23%). Resting pHi of EE-treated hepatocyte couplets was higher in comparison with controls in KRB [7.25 +/- 0.07 (n = 35) vs 7.20 +/- 0.05 (n = 33); p < 0.02] but similar in Hepes [7.08 +/- 0.07 (n = 24) vs 7.05 +/- 0.06 (n = 26)]. Basal activity of the Cl-/HCO-3 exchanger was similar in EE-treated and control hepatocyte couplets [H+ flux = 2.87 +/- 1.12 (n = 18) vs 3.01 +/- 1.23 mM/min (n = 15)] and was stimulated to a similar extent by glucagon. Na+/HCO3-symport activity was increased in EE-treated hepatocyte couplets (p < 0.05) while the Na+/H+ exchanger was unchanged.
Bicarbonate biliary secretion is markedly impaired during EE-cholestasis in association with a marked decrease of bile salt independent bile flow. However, the Cl-/HCO-3 exchanger and its hormonal regulation are normal, indicating that the lower bicarbonate excretion in EE-cholestasis is not due to a compromised activity of this anion exchanger. Since the bile/perfusate gradient for bicarbonate is dissipated in EE-treated IPRL, the impaired bicarbonate excretion could be caused by a reflux of biliary bicarbonate via leaky tight junctions.
Ribosomal stress is an important, yet poorly understood, mechanism that results in activation of the p53 tumour suppressor. We present a mutation in the ribosomal protein Rpl27a gene (sooty foot ataxia mice), isolated through a sensitized N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) mutagenesis screen for p53 pathway defects, that shares striking phenotypic similarities with high p53 mouse models, including cerebellar ataxia, pancytopenia and epidermal hyperpigmentation. This phenocopy is rescued in a haploinsufficient p53 background. A detailed examination of the bone marrow in these mice identified reduced numbers of haematopoietic stem cells and a p53-dependent c-Kit down-regulation. These studies suggest that reduced Rpl27a increases p53 activity in vivo, further evident with a delay in tumorigenesis in mutant mice. Taken together, these data demonstrate that Rpl27a plays a crucial role in multiple tissues and that disruption of this ribosomal protein affects both development and transformation.
An insulin signaling pathway microarray was used to evaluate the gene expression profiling of the insulin signaling pathway in the skeletal muscle of streptozotocin-induced diabetic, NaVO(3)-treated diabetic and insulin-treated diabetic rats for the investigation of the effect of vanadium and insulin on the insulin signaling pathway. Of 96 genes surveyed, transcriptional patterns of 19 genes (20%) showed alterations in diabetic rats compared with controls. Although most of these changed gene expressions were improved after treatment with NaVO(3) (14, 74%) and insulin (16, 84%), NaVO(3) and insulin treatment resulted in the alteration of 20 and 12 additional gene transcripts compared no treatment. We found that both NaVO(3) and insulin treatment achieved a desirable glucose level and most of the alterative gene transcripts in diabetic rats were normalized with NaVO(3) and insulin treatment. Comparison of the gene expression profiling indicates that there is a significant difference between the NaVO(3)-treated group and the insulin-treated group. The present study demonstrated for the first time that several candidate genes of the insulin signaling pathway are involved in the effect of vanadium treatment on hyperglycemia. This study opens the way for more focused investigations that may identify the genes responsible for diabetes and vanadium treatment in the global insulin signaling pathway.
Paracetamol (acetaminophen) is frequently used by haemophiliacs in the management of acute or chronic pain, primarily due to its lack of adverse effects when taken at therapeutic doses. We describe acute hepatic and renal toxicity of paracetamol in a 36-year-old patient with haemophilia B, chronic hepatitis C and chronic alcohol abuse. Moderate doses of paracetamol (6 g/d for 4 d), taken with therapeutic intent, resulted in life-threatening organ dysfunction which gradually recovered with full supportive care.
This study evaluated the pre-emptive analgesic effect of intravenous (i.v.) (R)-ketamine in laparoscopic cholecystectomy. (R)-ketamine was used due to the lower incidence of side-effects.
Sixty patients who underwent surgery under general anesthesia were randomly allocated to 3 groups and studied in a double-blind manner. Two i.v. injections were administered: one after induction of anesthesia, approximately 3 min before surgery, and one after surgery. The placebo group (PLA, n = 20) received saline in both injections. The preoperative group (PRE, n = 20) received (R)-ketamine 1 mg/kg and then saline. The postoperative group (POST, n = 20) received saline and then (R)-ketamine 1 mg/kg. Postoperatively, the patients used a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) pump. Pain was evaluated with a visual analog scale (VAS) at 30 min and every hour for 4 h and with a verbal rating scale (VRS) at 24 h and after 7 days.
There were no occurrence of side-effects from (R)-ketamine. VAS and VRS at 1, 2, 3, and 4 h postoperatively showed no statistical differences. In the POST group, extubation was delayed and pain score (VAS) at 30 min postoperatively was significantly lower (P < 0.05) than the two other groups. There were no statistical differences in meperidine consumption during the first 4 h postoperatively and no differences in consumption of analgesics at 24 h and 7 days.
In this study a 1 mg/kg dose of (R)-ketamine given at the end of surgery exerted a short-lasting hypnotic and analgesic effect. The same dose given preoperatively did not show postoperative analgesic effect or pre-emptive effect.
Studies indicating that verapamil substantially enhances doxorubicin levels in certain drug-resistant tumor cells have led to the use of verapamil in combination with doxorubicin in animal and clinical studies of multidrug-resistant tumors. These studies have shown this drug combination to be associated with severe toxic effects. It is important to determine whether verapamil modulates the dose-limiting and potentially lethal cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin and to elucidate possible mechanisms.
The aims of this study were to evaluate the in vivo effects of verapamil on (a) doxorubicin-stimulated cardiac lipid peroxidation and cardiac damage, (b) doxorubicin-induced animal mortality, and (c) biodistribution of doxorubicin to the heart.
Male (BALB/c x DBA/2)F1 mice were treated with a high dose of doxorubicin (15 mg/kg, injected intraperitoneally), verapamil (25 mg/kg, injected intraperitoneally), or combinations of the two. Lipid peroxidation was determined using the 2-thiobarbituric acid assay for malonaldehyde. Light microscopy was used for histopathologic examination of cardiac tissue. A fluorometric assay procedure was employed to determine doxorubicin levels in the heart.
Verapamil was an effective inhibitor of peroxidative damage to myocardial lipids following a high dose of doxorubicin (15 mg/kg, injected intraperitoneally). However, mice treated with verapamil and doxorubicin had a lower survival rate and a higher initial peak concentration of doxorubicin in the heart than those treated with doxorubicin alone. They also demonstrated a higher incidence and severity of degenerative changes in cardiac tissue.
Our findings suggest that verapamil effectively inhibits doxorubicin-mediated lipid peroxidation in vivo but that cardiac lipid peroxidation is not the major limiting mechanism underlying doxorubicin-induced toxicity. A possible explanation for the excess mortality and cardiac injury in mice treated with verapamil plus doxorubicin is that verapamil alters the pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin.
Further studies are necessary for development of safer protocols and/or drug combinations to treat multidrug-resistant tumors. We are currently studying treatment of tumor-bearing animals with a cumulative dosage regimen of doxorubicin in the presence and absence of verapamil.
Epileptic activity evokes profound alterations of hippocampal organization and function. Genomic responses may reflect immediate consequences of excitatory stimulation as well as sustained molecular processes related to neuronal plasticity and structural remodeling. Using oligonucleotide microarrays with 8799 sequences, we determined subregional gene expression profiles in rats subjected to pilocarpine-induced epilepsy (U34A arrays, Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA, USA; P < 0.05, twofold change, n = 3 per stage). Patterns of gene expression corresponded to distinct stages of epilepsy development. The highest number of differentially expressed genes (dentate gyrus, approx. 400 genes and CA1, approx. 700 genes) was observed 3 days after status epilepticus. The majority of up-regulated genes was associated with mechanisms of cellular stress and injury - 14 days after status epilepticus, numerous transcription factors and genes linked to cytoskeletal and synaptic reorganization were differentially expressed and, in the stage of chronic spontaneous seizures, distinct changes were observed in the transcription of genes involved in various neurotransmission pathways and between animals with low vs. high seizure frequency. A number of genes (n = 18) differentially expressed during the chronic epileptic stage showed corresponding expression patterns in hippocampal subfields of patients with pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy (n = 5 temporal lobe epilepsy patients; U133A microarrays, Affymetrix; covering 22284 human sequences). These data provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of epileptogenesis and seizure-associated cellular and structural remodeling of the hippocampus.
The anticonvulsive properties of orally administered cinnarizine [(E)-1-(diphenylmethyl)-4-(3-phenyl-2-propenyl)-piperazine], its difluoro derivative flunarizine [(E)-1-(bis-(4-fluorophenyl)methyl)-4-(3-phenyl-2-propenyl)-piperazine], diphenylhydantoin and phenobarbital, were studied against maximal metrazol seizures (MMS) in rats and maximal electroshock seizures (MES) in mice. In rats (MMS), the lowest ED50 for protection against tonic extension of hindpaws was 4.10 mg/kg (1 h 35 min after treatment) with sodium phenobarbital, 6.04 mg/kg (5 h 45 min) with flunarizine dihydrochloride, 9.84 mg/kg (2 h 34 min) with cinnarizine and 19.30 mg/kg (3 h 38 min) with diphenylhydantoin. In mice (MES), protection against tonic extension of hindpaws was (2 h after treatment) 7.0 mg/kg with diphenylhydantoin, 13.2 mg/kg with sodium phenobarbital, 20.9 mg/kg with flunarizine kihydrochloride and 49.0 mg/kg with cinnarizine. Except at subtoxic doses no side effects were observed in rats and mice given cinnarizine, flunarizine kihydrochloride or kiphenylhydantoin. Phenobarbital induced ataxia in rats and mice at 22 mg/kg and 42.7 mg/kg, respectively, and loss of righting reflex at 112.8 mg/kg and 160 mg/kg, respectively. Flunarizine is the longest-acting drug and has the slowest onset. At a dose of twice the minimal ED50 flunarizine affords protection against tonic extension of hindpaws in rats (MMS) for 23 h 30 min dephenylhydantoin for 11 h 38 min, phenobarbital for 8 h 22 min and cinnarizine for 8 h 16 min. Peak effect was reached with flunarizine at 5 h 45 min, with diphenylhydantoin at 3 h 38 min, with cinnarizine at 2 h 34 min and with phenobarbital at 1 h 35 min. The anti-MMS profiles of cinnarizine and flunarizine resemble that of dephenylhydantoin as all three compounds are selective blockers of tonic extension of hindpaws. Phenobarbital antagonized the whole MMS-pattern, i.e., tremors, clonic convulsions and tonic extension of fore- and hindpaws. However, the effects of phenobarbital against tremors, clonic convulsions and tonic extension of forepaws may reflect more a general CNS-depressant effect than a specific anticonvulsive activity since neurotoxic effects (ataxia and loss of righting reflex) appear at the same doses.
Rats fed a high-fructose diet develop hyperinsulinaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia, hypertension, renal changes similar to those in diabetic rats and left ventricular hypertrophy with deposition of collagen. Bosentan is an antagonist of endothelin receptors. Other authors have demonstrated that bosentan is effective in preventing the increase in blood pressure induced by a high-fructose diet but, until now, the effect of the drug on the target organs has not been investigated.
To evaluate whether bosentan is effective, not only in reducing blood pressure, but also in limiting the renal and cardiac changes induced by a high-fructose diet
Forty Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) male rats were divided into four groups: groups 1 and 2 received a high-fructose diet, groups 3 and 4 received a standard diet for 1 month. Thereafter, the following treatments were administered: group 1, high-fructose diet plus bosentan 100 mg/kg per day; group 2, high-fructose diet plus placebo; group 3, standard diet plus bosentan 100 mg/kg per day; group 4, standard diet plus placebo. After a further 1 month, all animals were killed. A morphometric analysis was performed by examining 100 glomeruli for each animal. Renal deposits of collagen and fibronectin and cardiac deposits of collagen III were measured by means of immunochemistry.
By the end of the study, bosentan had completely reversed the increase in blood pressure induced by a high-fructose diet, without modifying the blood pressure in normotensive rats. Moreover, bosentan reduced glomerular hypertrophy and deposits of collagen and fibronectin in the kidney and cardiac deposits of collagen III.
The results of this study demonstrate that bosentan not only normalizes blood pressure, but also protects target organs in rats receiving a high-fructose diet.
Many class III antiarrhythmic agents lose efficacy under beta-adrenergic stimulation and at high heart rates (reverse rate dependence). This effect is thought to be due to selective blockade of the rapidly (I(Kr)), but not the slowly (I(Ks)), activating component of the delayed inward rectifier potassium current. Azimilide is an investigational class III antiarrhythmic agent that blocks both IKr and IKs.
We investigated the electrophysiologic effect of azimilide with and without beta-adrenergic stimulation in humans. Right ventricular effective refractory period at cycle lengths of 600 and 400 milliseconds and monophasic right ventricular action potential duration at 90% repolarization at cycle lengths of 250, 300, 400, 500 and 600 milliseconds were measured in 13 patients at baseline. Isoproterenol was then infused to increase the heart rate to 125% of baseline, and the pacing protocol was repeated. Patients then received, in a single-blind randomized manner, azimilide dihydrochloride (4.5 mg/kg intravenous loading dose followed by 0.625 mg/kg/h) plus either isoproterenol at the previous dose, or saline. After measurements were taken, treatment groups were crossed over, the azimilide infusion was continued and the procedure repeated.
Azimilide significantly (P < 0.05) prolonged monophasic action potential duration compared to baseline at all cycle lengths except for the 250 millisecond cycle length. In the presence of isoproterenol, azimilide maintained its class III effect, prolonging the action potential duration at 90% repolarization by a mean of 8.7 +/- 3.9 milliseconds, (3.7 +/- 1.7%), whereas isoproterenol alone shortened the action potential duration at 90% repolarization by -2.6 +/- 3.2 milliseconds (-1.2 +/- 1.4%) (P = 0.0051). Isoproterenol alone shortened the right ventricular effective refractory period by -13.6 +/- 3.4 milliseconds, whereas with isoproterenol in the presence of azimilide, the right ventricular effective refractory period was essentially unaffected (-1.4 +/- 3.4 milliseconds, P = 0.0085).
Azimilide maintained its class III effect in the presence of isoproterenol and at increased heart rates, suggesting that IKs block may be of particular benefit in these circumstances.
Behavioral studies have shown that mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intradermal injection of prostaglandin E2 is blocked by inhibitors of the cAMP second messenger system. Similarly, injection of prostaglandin E2 also induces a decrease in mechanical threshold and an increase in the number of action potentials elicited by test stimuli in most C-fibre nociceptors. This change is called sensitization. To further evaluate the degree of correlation between primary afferent sensitization and mechanical hyperalgesia, we conducted a study to evaluate the effect of agents known to block the cAMP second messenger system and behavioral manifestations of mechanical hyperalgesia following injection of prostaglandin E2. The agents tested were guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), an inhibitor of stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins; 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine, an inhibitor of adenylyl cyclase; and Walsh Inhibitor Peptide, an inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Single fibre electrophysiologic studies of 138 C-fibres, innervating the dorsum of the hind paw, was done in male Sprague-Dawley rats. The number of spikes evoked by a 10 s application of a threshold von Frey hair were determined before and after intradermal injection of test agents administered alone and in combination with prostaglandin E2. Injection of prostaglandin E2 with the test agent vehicle (saline or distilled water) resulted in a significant decrease in von Frey hair threshold and an increase in the number of spikes generated in response to threshold von Frey hairs. In contrast, co-injection of prostaglandin E2 with guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine or Walsh inhibitor peptide did not result in a significant decrease in von Frey hair mechanical threshold or increase in the number of spikes generated to the threshold stimuli, compared with vehicle/prostaglandin E2. It is suggested that guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine and Walsh inhibitor protein inhibited prostaglandin E2 sensitization of primary afferent C-fibres by inhibiting a stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein, adenylyl cyclase, and protein kinase A, respectively. These results support the hypothesis that primary afferent sensitization by prostaglandin E2 underlies prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia.
After repair of the catheter of an implanted intrathecal baclofen (ITB) delivery system, a 17-year-old man with cerebral palsy developed acute lower-extremity hypotonia. Subsequently, he complained of right lower-extremity pain followed by swelling in the popliteal fossa. Doppler studies showed a thrombus extending from the femoral vein to the popliteal vein with probable extension into the distal portion of the leg. Deep vein thrombosis, an uncommon event in children, has not been reported previously as a complication of acute hypotonicity and immobilization associated with ITB, regardless of age. Clinicians caring for children being treated with ITB should be alert to this potential complication so that early diagnostic and treatment measures can be provided. In certain circumstances, it may be appropriate to consider prophylaxis against thrombosis.
