Cardiotoxicity represents one of the most serious side effects of new drugs. It is essential for pharmaceutical companies to detect potential cardiotoxicity of candidate drugs in non-clinical studies during the early stages of drug development. In this study, we aimed to detect potential genomic biomarkers of rat cardiotoxicity using a toxicogenomics approach. In order to achieve this, we induced cardiac lesions in rats following treatment with the three prototypical cardiotoxic compounds isoproterenol, doxorubicin and carbofuran. We then undertook histopathological examination and microarray analysis at 8 or 24h after single dosing. Using statistical and cluster analysis, we extracted 36 probe sets commonly up-regulated by the three cardiotoxic compounds. GO analysis revealed that these genes were functionally associated with either chemotaxis, tissue regeneration, positive regulation of cell proliferation, cellular organization and morphogenesis events in accordance with the degeneration of myocardium and inflammation observed in the histopathology analysis. Most of selected genes showed transient up-regulation at different time point for each compound. However, among these genes, Spp1, Fhl1, Timp1, Ccl7 and Reg3b revealed a sustained up-regulation with high expression levels at both time points for all three compounds. In conclusion, even though definitive validation studies are required for the establishment of their usefulness and reliability, these identified genes may prove to be the most promising candidate genomic biomarkers of cardiotoxicity in rats.
To assess the safety, tolerability, and clinical outcomes of an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen designed to incorporate a non-cross-resistant agent (paclitaxel, T) with a maximally dose-intensified regimen of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) in conjunction with hematopoietic growth factor support (recombinant human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor; G-CSF; Filgrastim). A secondary aim was to assess if a higher dose (10 mcg/kg/day) of G-CSF is more efficacious than the conventional dose (5 mcg/kg/day) in this setting.
Female patients with early-stage, node-positive invasive breast cancer were eligible for this multicenter, cooperative group feasibility trial that was designed as the pilot study for a larger randomized clinical trial. The protocol treatment comprised five cycles of dose-intensified AC (75 and 2000 mg/m(2)/cycle, respectively, intravenously every three weeks) with G-CSF support, followed by an additional four cycles of T (175 mg/m(2) by 3h intravenous infusion, every three weeks). Patients were randomized to receive one of two dose levels of G-CSF (5 vs. 10 mcg/kg/day) during AC chemotherapy. Data on both short-term toxicity and long-term survival were collected.
One hundred and seventy two node-positive patients with operable primary breast cancer were accrued to this trial between February 1993 and April 1994. 130 of the 172 patients (76%) completed all protocol-specified therapy. Of the 42 early study withdrawals, 23 were due to unacceptable acute treatment-related toxicity. No differences in toxicities or clinical outcomes were noted between the two different dose levels of G-CSF support. At 6.8 years median follow-up, relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) rates for all patients are 70% and 78%, respectively. Ten patients developed second malignancies during follow-up, including three cases with a hematologic malignancy (2% incidence).
The delivery of dose-intensified AC followed by T was feasible in this large-scale pilot trial, although significant acute toxicities were commonly encountered. The data confirmed the acceptable tolerability of T after aggressive myelotoxic therapy in the adjuvant setting, leading to a larger randomized clinical trial comparing three dose levels of doxorubicin in AC with or without the addition of T (CALGB 9344). Supportive care using twice the conventional dose of G-CSF did not significantly improve the tolerability or change the toxicities of this regimen, and the occurrence of secondary malignancies is consistent with the emerging risk profile of dose-intensive regimens with growth factor support. With long-term follow-up, the clinical outcomes remain relatively favorable and correlate with such expected prognostic factors as the number of involved nodes and hormone receptor status.
There is a wide variety of objects that find their way into the human gastrointestinal tract, either accidentally or deliberately. In this case a crack pipe was ingested in its entirety. Despite the seemingly rare and random nature that this scenario presents, this patient's care serves to reinforce what should be done to successfully manage a patient with an ingested foreign body, as well as the important issues related to crack cocaine abuse.
Phenol is a neurolytic agent that is widely used by percutaneous retrogasserian injection in the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia. We report a 78-year-old man who had acute unilateral total visual loss after retrogasserian phenol injection for the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia. The patient's visual acuity, eye movements and the pupillary defect did not improve in the affected eye even after mechanical decompression within 30 minutes and medical treatment, neither in the early period nor during the following two months. The visual loss in this patient seems to result from phenol neurotoxicity rather than mechanical compression of the intraorbital optic nerve. This case demonstrates that although percutaneous retrogasserian phenol injection is a relatively safe and noninvasive method of treatment for trigeminal neuralgia, severe complications may occur.
We describe the clinical and liver biopsy morphologic features for 4 patients with minocycline-induced autoimmune hepatitis (group 1). We compared the serum laboratory values and liver biopsy findings from group 1 with those from 10 patients with sporadic autoimmune hepatitis (group 2). All patients in group 1 had positive serum antinuclear antibody titers, but none had positive serum anti-smooth muscle antibody titers. The morphologic findings of group 1 biopsies were those of autoimmune hepatitis in all 4 patients. In addition, 1 of these biopsy specimens also had scattered single eosinophils, unlike autoimmune hepatitis. The mean histologic activity index scores for patients in groups 1 and 2, respectively, were 6.7 and 5.4. No patients in group 1 had marked bridging fibrosis or cirrhosis, compared with 4 of 10 patients in group 2. Minocycline-induced autoimmune hepatitis is usually identical to sporadic autoimmune hepatitis. The absence of eosinophils does not exclude the possibility of a minocycline cause. In the absence of clinical or morphologic differences, a recent ingestion of minocycline should be excluded before the diagnosis of sporadic autoimmune hepatitis is established. Whether the drug is unmasking latent autoimmune hepatitis is unclear.
The ability of a breast cancer cell to evade apoptosis has a key role in tumor progression and sensitivity to treatment. High levels of Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) in tumor cells have been found to promote apoptosis and sensitize cells to anti-cancer therapies. Bcl-2-associated X protein redistribution to the mitochondrial membrane results in the release of proapoptotic factors including cytochrome C, second-mitochondrial-derived activator of caspase/direct inhibitor of apoptosis-binding protein with low PI (Smac/DIABLO), and Ca(2+). We aimed to explore this pathway in cancerous breast cell lines treated with the naturally occurring antioxidant 3,5-dimethoxy-4-hydroxystilbene (pterostilbene).
We used whole cell lysates +/- Bax SiRNA from the cell lines MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to quantify Bax, cytochrome C, Smac/DIABLO expression, and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activity after treatment with pterostilbene. We quantified cell death using histone-related DNA complexes from cytosolic and mitochondrial fractions and used methylthiazol tetrazolium assay to analyze cell proliferation, in the presence of Bax-silencing or scrambled RNA. We measured changes in cytosolic calcium using the ratiometric calcium-sensitive dye fura-2-AM using an inverted ratiometric monochromator microscope.
Treatment of MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 (MDA) cells with pterostilbene caused concentration-dependent increases in intracellular Bax at all doses tested. RNA silencing of Bax resulted in reduced rates of apoptosis in both cells types and increased cell survival when treated with pterostilbene. We observed an increase in cytochrome C in MDA cells after treatment with pterostilbene. The MCF-7 cells showed a net increase in cytosolic cytochrome C, with a corresponding reduction in mitochondrial cytochrome C after treatment with 50 and 75 μmol/L pterostilbene. We observed this again in Smac/DIABLO expression in both cell types. In MCF-7 cells, pterostilbene treatment caused an increase in cytosolic but a decrease in mitochondrial Smac/DIABLO protein concentrations. Pterostilbene significantly increase MnSOD activity in MDA-MB-231 cells. Finally, pterostilbene resulted in significant increases in cytosolic calcium concentrations.
The natural dietary compound pterostilbene has an anti-proliferative effect and induces apoptosis in breast cancer cells in vitro via Bax activation and overexpression, resulting in increased MnSOD, Smac/DIABLO, and cytochrome C activity and cytosolic Ca(2+) overload.
Previously, we reported that glycine N-methyltransferase (GNMT) interacts with benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) and inhibits BaP-DNA adducts formation. In addition, Gnmt knockout (Gnmt(-/-)) mice developed chronic hepatitis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The aims of this study were to understand the gene expression profile of Gnmt(-/-) mice and to study the interaction between BaP and GNMT deficiency in vivo.
Gene expression profiles of Gnmt(-/-) mice were analyzed by 2-D PAGE and real-time PCR. Both wild-type and Gnmt(-/-) mice were challenged with BaP and sacrificed at the age of 13 months.
Compared with the wild-type mice, proteins involved in the anti-oxidation/detoxification response, glycolytic energy metabolism and one-carbon metabolism pathways were down-regulated significantly in Gnmt(-/-) mice. Malondialdehyde assay showed that lipid peroxidation was significantly increased in the Gnmt(-/-) mice liver. H(2)O(2) treatment demonstrated that the survival rate of HuH-7 cells overexpressing GNMT was significantly higher than the controls. BaP challenge experiments showed that 71.4% (5/7) of male and all (7/7) female Gnmt(-/-) mice developed HCC, while only 16.7% (1/6) of male and 20% (1/5) of female wild-type mice had HCC.
GNMT regulates genes related to detoxification and anti-oxidation pathways. BaP is a liver cancer carcinogen especially during GNMT deficiency.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) plays a crucial role in the development and invasion of gastric cancer. COX-2 inhibitors have been shown to be chemopreventive against gastrointestinal cancers. In vitro studies have suggested that the mechanisms may be related to induction of apoptosis and inhibition of angiogenesis. COX-2 may also have impact on E-cadherin. In our study we investigate the effect of Celecoxib on expression of E-cadherin and serum soluble E-cadherin, as well as on apoptosis and angiogenesis in patients with gastric cancer. Fifty nine gastric cancer patients were randomly divided into two groups: Surgery group (n = 22), in which patients underwent surgical resection after diagnosis, and Celecoxib + Surgery group (n = 37), in which patients received oral Celecoxib 200 mg twice daily for 7 days before curative resection. Twenty healthy subjects (Healthy controls) were recruited as normal controls. After curative resection, COX-2, E-cadherin, VEGF, and MVD were detected by immunohistochemistry. Serum soluble E-cadherin was quantitatively measured using a commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit. Apoptosis was determined by TUNEL assay. Significantly decreased expression of COX-2, increased E-cadherin and apoptosis, decreased VEGF and MVD were observed in gastric cancer tissues from patients receiving Celecoxib compared to Surgery group. Compared to Healthy controls, the serum soluble E cadherin levels were higher in gastric cancer patients which were decreased by Celecoxib. This in vivo study demonstrated that Celecoxib induces apoptosis and inhibit angiogenesis of gastric cancer. Its impact on E-cadherin may suggest that this agent may suppress the invasion of advanced gastric cancer.
Previous studies by our laboratory have shown that exposures to either lindane or dieldrin enhanced the rate of acquisition of the fully kindled amygdaloid seizure in the rat. To examine whether this enhancement generalizes to all groups of chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides, the effect of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) or chlordecone (kepone) was examined on the acquisition rate of the kindled amygdaloid seizure in the rat. Daily DDT exposure (5, 10 or 20 mg/kg, PO) failed to modify the rate of acquisition of the kindled amygdaloid seizure despite resulting in tremors in many of the rats in the high dose group. A single high dose of kepone (50 mg/kg) which resulted in up to 9 days of tremors and weight loss in the treated animals, also failed to modify the rate of kindling acquisition. These data demonstrate that not all CNS active chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticide exposures result in enhancement of kindling acquisition. The kindled amygdaloid seizure model of epilepsy appears to differentiate between the neurotoxic consequences of chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides that cause myoclonus and seizures (e.g., lindane and dieldrin) and those that primarily cause tremors (DDT and kepone).
Cerebral blood flow and cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen were measured during isoflurane-induced hypotension in 10 patients subjected to craniotomy for clipping of a cerebral aneurysm. Flow and metabolism were measured 5-13 days after the subarachnoid haemorrhage by a modification of the classical Kety-Schmidt technique using xenon-133 i.v. Anaesthesia was maintained with an inspired isoflurane concentration of 0.75% (plus 67% nitrous oxide in oxygen), during which CBF and CMRO2 were 34.3 +/- 2.1 ml/100 g min-1 and 2.32 +/- 0.16 ml/100 g min-1 at PaCO2 4.1 +/- 0.1 kPa (mean +/- SEM). Controlled hypotension to an average MAP of 50-55 mm Hg was induced by increasing the dose of isoflurane, and maintained at an inspired concentration of 2.2 +/- 0.2%. This resulted in a significant decrease in CMRO2 (to 1.73 +/- 0.16 ml/100 g min-1), while CBF was unchanged. After the clipping of the aneurysm the isoflurane concentration was reduced to 0.75%. There was a significant increase in CBF, although CMRO2 was unchanged, compared with pre-hypotensive values. These changes might offer protection to brain tissue during periods of induced hypotension.
By means of systolic time intervals (PEP/LVET) and echocardiography (Vfr) 218 tumour patients were controlled concerning a cardiomyopathy induced by cytostatic agents. 13% of the patients (28/218) transgressed an absolute cumulative dose of 1,000 mg of doxorubicin or daunorubicin, of which, however, 12% (26/218) showed normal values for PEP/LVET. 11% of the patients (24/218) showed pathologic PEP/LVET values in 6% (49/787) of the investigations, in which case in 15 patients the clinical diagnosis of a cardiomyopathy could be assumed with simultaneously decreased shortening fraction. The sex and age distribution of this group corresponded to that one of the total cohort. The investigation presented confirm the value of systolic time intervals and of echocardiography as screening methods for a cardiomyopathy and speak against a general establishment of a borderline diagnosis.
Emergency contraception was introduced in Nigeria over two decades ago, but few women have used this method even in emergency situations because of the side effects. To find an acceptable levonorgestrel regimen for emergency contraception in our community, the two-dose regimen 0.75-mg levonorgestrel 12 h apart (group A) and the single dose 1.5-mg levonorgestrel (group B) were studied in 1118 volunteers. Mild side effects such as nausea, vomiting, lower abdominal pains, menorrhagia, dizziness, headache, and breast tenderness were reported. Significantly more women in the high-dose group reported headache, breast tenderness, and heavy menstrual flow. Eleven pregnancies (1.0%) were reported (7 in group A and 4 in group B). The crude relative risk of pregnancies was similar in the two groups (RR = 0.71, 95% CI = 0.32-1.55; p > 0.05) [corrected]. On the other hand, the estimated effectiveness rate of 86.80% in group A was significantly lower than the 92.99% for group B (p < 0.05). The pregnancy rates increased with delay in starting treatment and if further acts of unprotected sexual intercourse took place after treatment. It was concluded that both regimens were effective and safe.
The combined effects of caffeine (1,3,7-trimethylxanthine) with iodine deficiency (ID) were examined in a rat two-stage thyroid carcinogenesis model using N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (DHPN). Male F344 rats were divided into 6 groups each consisting of 10 animals, and received a single s.c. injection of 2800 mg/kg DHPN. From 1 week after the DHPN initiation, the rats were respectively fed a basal diet in which the protein was exchanged for 20% gluten, containing 1500 ppm caffeine + ID, 300 ppm caffeine + ID, 60 ppm caffeine + ID, 1500 ppm caffeine or ID or a basal diet alone for 12 weeks. Relative thyroid weights were significantly (P < 0.05) increased due to the development of proliferative lesions induced by the ID diet as compared to the DHPN-alone group value, which was enhanced by caffeine, albeit without statistical significance. Relative pituitary weights were significantly (P < 0.05) increased with 300 or 1500 ppm caffeine + ID as compared to the DHPN-alone group value. Serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels were slightly increased by ID, an effect which was further enhanced by 300 or 1500 ppm caffeine. Serum thyroxine (T(4)) levels were slightly increased by caffeine or ID alone, but decreased by caffeine with ID. Histopathologically, thyroid follicular carcinomas were found only in the 1500 ppm caffeine + ID group, although thyroid follicular adenomas were detected in all the ID-treated groups. The multiplicity of focal thyroid follicular hyperplasias was significantly (P < 0.05) increased by 1500 ppm caffeine. These results indicate that caffeine may synergistically promote thyroid carcinogenesis with ID partially through a pituitary-dependent pathway in rats, implying the possible implication of routine caffeine intake in the promotion of thyroid carcinogenesis.
3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDMA) or "ecstasy" damages serotonin neurons in all animal species and there is growing evidence that this finding also applies to humans. This fact, together with the increasing extended use in the young population, has important repercussions in the appearance of specific psychopathologic and cognitive disturbances associated to its use. The authors present two clinical cases, in which psychopathological and cognitive symptoms are detected in MDMA users that support this hypothesis. Problems in the diagnosis of psychiatric disorders associated to MDMA and its clinical and therapeutic implications are discussed.
In the brain, the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) activates neural nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) through the PI3K/Akt pathway. The resulting nitric oxide (NO) enhances the function of the glutamate N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)/calcium and calmodulin-dependent serine/threonine kinase (CaMKII), which subsequently diminishes MOR signaling strength. Because the ERK1/2 cascade is implicated in opioid tolerance, we analyzed the role of morphine-generated NO in this negative regulation. We found that NO-released endogenous zinc ions recruit the Ras/Raf-1/ERK1/2 cassette to histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1). A-Raf and B-Raf showed little or no MOR association. The zinc ions bridge the Raf-1 cysteine-rich domain (CRD) with HINT1 at the MOR C-terminus. Morphine also recruits PKCγ via NO/zinc to the MOR-HINT1 complex. Both Raf-1 and PKCγ CRDs bind simultaneously to HINT1, enabling PKCγ to enhance Raf-1 function to intensify MEK/ERK1/2 activation. Thus, through attached HINT1, the MOR facilitates the cross-talk of two NO- and zinc-regulated signal-transduction pathways, PKC/Src and Raf-1/ERK1/2, implicated in the negative control of morphine effects. This study reveals new aspects of ERK1/2 regulation by the MOR without requiring the transactivation of a receptor tyrosine kinase.
Associations between thromboembolism and malignancy, usually widespread, and between thromboembolism and hormonal and/or chemotherapy have been previously reported. We performed a randomized trial of tamoxifen 30 mg/d for 2 years (T) versus T plus 6 months of intravenous chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF) for postmenopausal women with involved axillary nodes and positive estrogen receptor (ER) or progesterone receptor (PgR) status following primary therapy for breast cancer.
We observed one or more thromboembolic events in 48 of 353 women (13.6%) allocated to receive T plus CMF in comparison to five of 352 women (2.6%) randomized to receive T alone (P < .0001). Six women in the T plus CMF arm, but none randomized to receive T alone, suffered two thromboembolic events while an study therapy. There were also significantly more women who developed severe (grade 3 to 5) thromboembolic events in the T plus CMF arm than in the T arm (34 v five; P < .0001). Most thromboembolic events (39 of 54) occurred while women were actually receiving chemotherapy (P < .0001). Thromboembolic complications resulted in more days in hospital and more deaths than any other complication of therapy, including infection, in this trial.
Thromboembolism related to the addition of CMF chemotherapy to tamoxifen as adjuvant therapy in this group of women represents a relatively common and serious complication that may outweigh any benefits offered by this additional therapy.
To evaluate the nephrotoxicity of high- and low-osmolar contrast media (HOCM, LOCM) on kidneys in Sprague-Dawley rats. The protective role of amlodipine was studied.
Forty rats of both sexes were randomly divided into 5 groups (n=8/group) and glycerine for inducing renal failure was given to all rats except controls.
In diatrizoate-injected rats, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine (SCr) were increased; levels of phospholipase A2 (PLA2), lipid peroxide (LPO) and calcium were also increased in renal tissues. There was no significant difference between LOCM (iohexol) animals and glycerol controls either in the renal levels of PLA2, LPO and calcium or in the levels of BUN and SCr. The histologic changes were milder in the LOCM animals than in the HOCM animals. In the group pretreated with amlodipine, no increase in the levels of BUN or SCr was discovered and the renal content of PLA2, LPO and calcium were significantly lower than in the HOCM group; the renal injuries induced by diatrizoate were alleviated.
The HOCM, diatrizoate, was more toxic to rat kidneys than the LOCM iohexol; PLA2, LPO and calcium load played a role in producing renal function impairment induced by diatrizoate meglumine; amlodipine protected the renal tissue from nephrotoxicity induced by diatrizoate.
Although ouabain is known to induce hypertension, the mechanism of how this cardiac glycoside affects blood pressure is uncertain. The present study demonstrates that the alpha2-isoform of the Na-K-ATPase mediates the pressor effects of ouabain in mice. To accomplish this, we analyzed the effect of ouabain on blood pressure in wild-type mice, where the alpha2-isoform is sensitive to ouabain, and genetically engineered mice expressing a ouabain-insensitive alpha2-isoform of the Na-K-ATPase. Thus differences in the response to ouabain between these two genotypes can only be attributed to the alpha2-isoform of Na-K-ATPase. As the alpha1-isoform is naturally resistant to ouabain in rodents, it will not be inhibited by ouabain in either genotype. Whereas prolonged administration of ouabain increased levels of ouabain in serum from both wild-type and targeted animals, hypertension developed only in wild-type mice. In addition, bolus intravenous infusion of ouabain increased the systolic, mean arterial, and left ventricular blood pressure in only wild-type anesthetized mice. In vitro, ouabain increased vascular tone and thereby phenylephrine-induced contraction of the aorta in intact and endothelium-denuded wild-type mice but in alpha2-resistant mice. Ouabain also increased the magnitude of the spontaneous contractions of portal vein and the basal tone of the intact aorta from only wild-type mice. The increase in aortic basal tone was dependent on the presence of endothelium. Our studies also demonstrate that the alpha2-isoform of Na-K-ATPase mediates the ouabain-induced increase in vascular contractility. This could play a role in the development and maintenance of ouabain-induced hypertension.
Although doxorubicin is an effective antitumor agent, the serious cardiotoxicity mediated by the production of reactive oxygen species has remained a considerable clinical problem. In China, salvianolic acids has been widely used for cardioprotection. To test whether salvianolic acids holds the potential to be protective against cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin, we created an acute cardiac injury mice model. Therapeutic treatment with salvianolic acids (40 mg/kg for 3 connective days) significantly reduced doxorubicin-induced (15 mg/kg) toxicity, including elevation of body weight and heart weight/tibia length ratio, decrease of creatine kinase, improvement of electrocardiography and heart vacuolation. Furthermore, the antioxidative effects of salvianolic acids were verified by oxygen radicals absorbance capacities assay in vitro and malondialdehyde detection in vivo, suggesting one possible mechanism of salvianolic acids on cardioprotection through blocking oxidative stress.
Chronic hepatitis C is a common and often serious condition. Current treatment uses antiviral therapy based on alpha interferon. Neuropsychiatric side effects are common with interferon therapy, and the management of mood disorders during treatment for hepatitis C is an important part of helping patients maintain compliance, thus improving their chance of having a successful treatment outcome. This descriptive study examined the incidence of mood disorders in 29 treatment naïve patients with chronic hepatitis C participating in a clinical trial of various interferon-based therapies. Relationships among mood disorders, use of antidepressants, hepatitis treatment compliance, and sustained treatment response (having undetectable hepatitis C viral load 24 weeks post-treatment) were examined. Eighty-one percent of sustained responders experienced psychiatric events, and it is speculated that comprehensive nursing support and intervention were key components in achieving favorable patient outcomes.
Homocysteine (Hcy) is a sulfur-containing amino acid involved in methionine metabolism. Elevated plasma Hcy concentration is a possible risk factor for vascular disease. Folate and vitamin B-12 are vitamins that are necessary for remethylization of Hcy to methionine. The methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is the key enzyme in remethylation of Hcy to methionine and supplies the required 5-methyltetrahydrofolate as the methyl donor for this reaction. It is well known that some antiepileptic drugs (AED) can lead to hyperhomocysteinemia by affecting the levels of folate and vitamin B-12. The C677T variant of MTHFR gene can also lead to hyperhomocysteinemia particularly when serum folate level is decreased. In this study, we investigated the levels of serum folate, vitamin B-12 and Hcy in epileptic patients receiving carbamazepine (CBZ) or valproic acid (VPA) as monotherapy, and we also evaluated the probable contribution of the C677T variant of MTHFR gene in hyperhomocysteinemia. A total of 93 patients with idiopathic epilepsy receiving CBZ or VPA as monotherapy were included in this study. CBZ and VPA groups consisted of 29 and 64 patients, respectively. The control group comprised 62 healthy children. We measured serum folate, vitamin B-12 and Hcy levels in each group. We found that mean serum folate level was statistically lower and mean Hcy level was higher in epileptic patients receiving CBZ or VPA when compared with those of controls'. We also determined the C677T variants of MTHFR gene (as normal, heterozygote or homozygote) in epileptic patients. We compared the variant groups for serum folate, vitamin B-12 and Hcy levels and found no significant differences among them. In conclusion, C677T variants of MTHFR gene have no contribution in hyperhomocysteinemia in epileptic patients receiving CBZ or VPA.
The present study investigated the effects of isopulegol, a monoterpene alcohol, in PTZ-induced convulsions and verified possible involved mechanisms. Saline, isopulegol or diazepam were intraperitonealy injected 30 min before PTZ. The latency for development of convulsions and mortality, as well as the mortality protection percentage was recorded. For investigating the involvement of GABAergic system, flumazenil was utilized. The activity of antioxidant enzyme catalase as well as the levels of reduced glutathione and lipid peroxidation were measured in brain hippocampus. Similarly to diazepam, isopulegol significantly prolonged the latency for convulsions and mortality of mice. All animals were protected against mortality at higher dose of isopulegol. Flumazenil pretreatment decreased the prolongation of seizure latency induced by both diazepam and isopulegol, although it was not able to reverse the latency and protection percent for mortality. Isopulegol also significantly prevented PTZ-induced increase in lipid peroxidation, preserved catalase activity in normal levels, and prevented the PTZ-induced loss of GSH in hippocampus of mice. These results suggest that the anticonvulsant and bioprotective effects of isopulegol against PTZ-induced convulsions are possibly related to positive modulation of benzodiazepine-sensitive GABA(A) receptors and to antioxidant properties.
The effect of morphine was studied on physostigmine-induced hypertensive response in anesthetized rats. Physostigmine caused dose-dependent increase in blood pressure. When given at a dose (2 mg/kg i.v.) that did not alter blood pressure, morphine significantly inhibited the hypertensive effect of physostigmine administered either i.v. or i.c.v. Oxotremorine evoked a hypertensive response which was also inhibited by morphine. This inhibitory effect of morphine was prevented or reversed by naloxone. These results support the view that cholinergic and opiatergic systems interact on regulating arterial blood pressure.
(E)-4-[3'-(1-Adamantyl)-4'-hydroxyphenyl]-3-chlorocinnamic acid (3-Cl-AHPC) induces the cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of cancer cells. Because its pharmacologic properties-solubility, bioavailability, and toxicity-required improvement for translation, structural modifications were made by introducing nitrogen atoms into the cinnamyl ring and replacing its E-double bond with XCH(2) (X = O, N, and S) with the objective of enhancing these properties without impacting apoptosis-inducing activity. Analogues having nitrogen atoms in heterocyclic rings corresponding to the cinnamyl phenyl ring displayed equal or higher biological activities. The pyrimidine and pyridine analogues were more soluble in both phosphate-buffered saline and water. While the 2,5-disubstituted pyridine analogue was the most potent inducer of KG-1 acute myeloid leukemia cell apoptosis, on the basis of apoptotic activity in KG-1 cells and solubility, the 2,5-disubstituted pyrimidine proved to be the more promising candidate for treatment of acute myeloid leukemia.
More than 85% of breast cancers are sporadic and attributable to long-term exposure to environmental carcinogens, such as those in the diet, through a multistep disease process progressing from non-cancerous to premalignant and malignant stages. The chemical carcinogen 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is one of the most abundant heterocyclic amines found in high-temperature cooked meats and is recognized as a mammary carcinogen. However, the PhIP's mechanism of action in breast cell carcinogenesis is not clear. Here, we demonstrated, for the first time, that cumulative exposures to PhIP at physiologically achievable, pico to nanomolar concentrations effectively induced progressive carcinogenesis of human breast epithelial MCF10A cells from a non-cancerous stage to premalignant and malignant stages in a dose- and exposure-dependent manner. Progressive carcinogenesis was measured by increasingly- acquired cancer-associated properties of reduced dependence on growth factors, anchorage-independent growth, acinar-conformational disruption, proliferation, migration, invasion, tumorigenicity with metastasis and increased stem-like cell populations. These biological changes were accompanied by biochemical and molecular changes, including upregulated H-Ras gene expression, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway activation, Nox-1 expression, reactive oxygen species (ROS) elevation, increased HIF-1α, Sp1, tumor necrosis factor-α, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, MMP-9, aldehyde dehydrogenase activity and reduced E-cadherin. The Ras-ERK-Nox-ROS pathway played an important role in not only initiation but also maintenance of cellular carcinogenesis induced by PhIP. Using biological, biochemical and molecular changes as targeted endpoints, we identified that the green tea catechin components epicatechin-3-gallate and epigallocatechin-3-gallate, at non-cytotoxic doses, were capable of suppressing PhIP-induced cellular carcinogenesis and tumorigenicity.
The aims of this study were to describe the analgesia, side effects, and dosage and the causes of suspension of treatment in a large sample of advanced cancer patients with pain after treatment with oral methadone from 7 to 90 days.
In a retrospective study, data collected for 196 advanced cancer outpatients with moderate to severe pain treated at 8-hour intervals with oral methadone in solution form from February 1993 to February 1995 were analyzed at baseline (time 0) and then at 7, 15, 30, 45, 60, and 90 days. The following parameters were assessed: Karnofsky Performance Status, intensity of pain (using the Integrated Pain Score [IPS], intensity of pain, insomnia, drowsiness, confusion, dry mouth, nausea, vomiting, constipation, and dyspnea (using the Therapy Impact Questionnaire [TIQ], mean daily dose of drug administered, and reasons for withdrawal from study. The period when pain was reduced by > or = 35% with respect to baseline was evaluated with the Palliation Index. The association of the degree of palliation of pain with the age of the patients, tumor site, analgesic treatment taken at baseline, and daily mean dose of methadone administered during the follow-up period was analyzed by means of the Kruskal-Wallis test.
A reduction in pain intensity with respect to baseline occurred at each analysis time, and in 55.1% of the patients the reduction during the follow-up period was > or = 35% according to the Palliation Index. The mean dose of oral methadone ranged from 14 mg at day 7 to 23.65 mg at day 90. There was an overall worsening of the other symptoms, but a high percentage of the patients reported an amelioration of insomnia with respect to baseline. There was a statistically significant association (P < .0001) between the Palliation Index and the analgesic therapy administered at baseline. Only 11.2% of the patients withdrew from the study due to analgesic inefficacy and 6.6% due to methadone-related side effects (10 patients with drowsiness and three with severe constipation.
Oral methadone administered every 8 hours was shown to be an appropriate analgesic therapy in the treatment of advanced cancer-related pain. The worsening of the other symptoms under study can be considered linked to the progression of the disease, and in fact, only a small percentage of the patients reported methadone-related side effects that warranted suspension of treatment. We consider oral methadone to be a useful analgesic therapy, and it should be considered in clinical practice for the treatment of cancer pain.
To determine if highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) with combination anti-hepatitis B virus (HBV) therapy compared to HAART with HBV monotherapy leads to greater HBV DNA suppression in an HIV/HBV coinfected cohort.
A cross-sectional analysis of 122 HIV/HBV coinfected patients from Australia and the United States.
Univariate analysis and ordinal logistic regression were used to determine factors associated with an HBV DNA less than 100 IU/ml.
The majority of patients were on HAART (85%), had an HIV RNA less than 50 copies/ml, a median CD4 cell count of 438 cells/microl, and had prior or current lamivudine therapy (98%). The majority (89%) of those on HAART were on HBV-active drugs including 54% on tenofovir (TDF) with either lamivudine (LAM) or emtrictabine (FTC), 34% receiving LAM or FTC monotherapy, and 12% on TDF monotherapy. Only 4% of patients in the combination (TDF + LAM/FTC) group had HBV DNA greater than 20 000 IU/ml compared to 54% in the group on no HBV-active therapy, 31% in the LAM or FTC monotherapy group, and 30% in the TDF monotherapy group (P < 0.0001). In an ordinal logistic regression model, monotherapy with either TDF or LAM remained independently associated with higher HBV DNA.
These data suggest that there may be an advantage to using TDF in combination with LAM or FTC in HIV/HBV coinfection, particularly in the setting of previous LAM experience. Continued prospective follow-up in this study will confirm whether the advantage is sustained longer-term.
State-of-the-art imaging technology such as digital subtraction angiography can produce coronary artery opacification with contrast media formulations that contain less than 170 mgI/ml. We examined the effect of electrolyte composition in such formulations on the incidence of fibrillation. Right coronary injections of contrast were made for 25 seconds in anesthetized dogs. This injection is longer than clinical injections, but the model approximates the worst condition of a wedged catheter preventing media washout. Formulations of several mixtures of meglumine and sodium diatrizoate (173 to 141 mgI/ml) and sodium diatrizoate alone (143 mgI/ml) produced fibrillation in only 10 to 20% of the injections. Meglumine diatrizoate (141 mgI/ml) and full strength meglumine/sodium diatrizoate (Angiovist 370) produced fibrillation in 100% and 50% of the injections, respectively. These animal studies demonstrate that dilute contrast media containing few or no sodium ions are more likely to induce fibrillation than Angiovist 370, whereas dilute contrast media containing sodium are the least likely to induce fibrillation.
