Diarrhetic shellfish poisoning (DSP) is a gastrointestinal illness with symptoms such as diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, headache, chills and moderate to severe abdominal pain. DSP has been recognized as a worldwide public health problem, causing great concern to the shellfish industry. Accumulation of DSP in shellfish is an unpredictable phenomenon that necessitates the implementation of a widespread collection and thorough monitoring program for mollusk toxicity. Therefore, development of accurate analytical protocols for the rapid determination of toxicity levels would be necessary. In this study we investigated cytoskeletal changes induced by okadaic acid in HL-7702 Liver Cells and developed a new cytotoxicity assay for detection and quantitation of DSP. This assay is based on fluorometric of F-actin depolymerization induced by okadaic acid (OA) compounds in HL-7702 liver cell line. The measurable range of OA was 2.5 ∼ 40 nmol/L. The detection limit of the F-actin assay for OA was 2.01 μg/100 g muscles in shellfish extracts. The performance of this assay has been evaluated by comparative analysis of shellfish samples by the fluorescent assay, mouse bioassay, and ELISA assay. Comparison of the results by all three methods revealed excellent consistency, the results of fluorescent assay were in significant correlation with ELISA assay (R(2) = 0.830). Examination of F-actin assay is very convenient, rapid, and sensitive, which can be used to quantify the amount of OA in shellfish samples.
The effects of ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE) were determined on development in utero. Pregnant New Zealand White rabbits were exposed to air or 160 or 617 ppm EGEE for 7 hr/day from 1 to 18 days of gestation (dg). Virgin Wistar rats were exposed to 150 or 649 ppm EGEE or air 5 days/week for the 3 weeks immediately preceding their breeding. Sperm-positive rats were subsequently exposed to air or 202 or 767 ppm EGEE for 7 hr/day from 1 to 19 dg. Group sizes were 29 to 38 per concentration for both species. Pregestational exposure of rats had no effect on mating success, and there was no effect of EGEE exposure on establishment of pregnancy in either species. Rabbits exposed to the both concentrations had decreased food intake and depressed weight gain. Exposure-related mortality occurred in the 617 ppm EGEE group of rabbits. The only toxic sign seen in rats was reduced weight gain after exposure to 767 ppm EGEE. Exposure induced high embryomortality at maternal toxic concentrations in rats and rabbits, while lower levels induced fetal growth retardation in rats but not in rabbits. Gestational exposure increased the incidence of anomalies and variations; these were primarily of soft tissues in rabbits and of skeleton in rats. Thus, significant evidence of terata, fetal growth retardation and embryomortality were induced in rabbits and rats at levels that were below or similar to those that induced maternal manifestation of toxicity. These data implicate EGEE as a teratogen.
The effect of ethylene glycol monomethyl ether (EGME) and ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE) on cell-mediated immunity was evaluated by an allograft rejection assay. Allogeneic B6C3F1 (C57BL/6 X C3H) mice were given oral doses of 600, 1200, or 2400 mg/kg/administration of EGEE or 300, 600, 1200 mg/kg/administration of EGME on days -12 through -8 or cyclophosphamide (Cy) at 180 mg/kg by the IP route on day -1. Untreated controls were given oral doses of water on days -12 through -8 and -5 through -1. On day 0, the mice were challenged with 1 X 10(2), 3 X 10(3), and 1 X 10(5) or 3 X 10(6) L1210 cells by the IP route. Syngeneic CD2F1 (Balb/c X DBA/2) mice were challenged with 1 X 10(5) L1210 cells on day 0 and were treated on days 1 to 5 and 8 to 12 with the same dosages of EGME and EGEE used for the B6C3F1 mice. Water-treated syngeneic mice died with a median survival time (MST) of 8.0 days. There was no effect on the MST of syngeneic mice treated with either EGME or EGEE, indicating no direct antitumor effect of the compounds. All allogeneic mice receiving either water or Cy and challenged with 3 X 10(6) tumor cells, died with ascites. However, when mice were treated with EGME or EGEE and challenged with 3 X 10(6) tumor cells, no more than one animal per group died. This would indicate that there was a prophylactic action of the compounds or that the immune system was stimulated. Blood smears of allogeneic mice were made for differential counts the last day of drug dosing, the day of death where possible, and on survivors at day 43 post-tumor implantation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Administration of glucocorticoids results in hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy, and general myopathy. The present study analyzed the acute effect of dexamethasone (0.5 mg/100 g for 3 days) or dexamethasone plus insulin-like growth factor-1 (0.35 mg/100 g for 3 days) on differential gene expression in the gastrocnemius muscle and the left ventricular myocardium of rats. Dexamethasone induced atrophy of gastrocnemius muscle. Cathepsin L, and not ubiquitin, was the earliest mediator of skeletal muscle proteolysis induced by dexamethasone. Insulin-like growth factor-1 reversed gastrocnemius muscle mass, and deleted a part of downregulated genes by dexamethasone. On the other hand, dexamethasone administration did not result in cardiac hypertrophy or hypertension. Only prostaglandin D synthase gene was upregulated by dexamethasone in myocardium, and genes related to extracellular matrix and proteinase inhibitor were downregulated. Molecular alteration for hypertrophy might have initiated. Dexamethasone-induced proteolysis and reversal with insulin-like growth factor-1 occurred rapidly in skeletal muscle; but was relatively delayed in the myocardium.
The oncogenic potential of adriamycin was studied in both sexes of Sprague-Dawley rats. Single i.v. injection of 10 or 2 mg and repeated injections of 2 mg of adriamycin/kg body wt within 2 weeks were performed on rats, 50 days old at the commencement. All surviving animals were killed at 52 weeks of the experiment. Multiple mammary tumors, mostly fibroadenomas, were observed in 30 and 41% of the females given single low (2 mg/kg) or repeated doses (5 X 2 mg/kg) respectively. These incidences were significantly higher than those for the corresponding control group (8%). Two male rats in the low dose group also developed mammary tumors. Both sexes receiving the single high dose (10 mg/kg) injection demonstrated early mortality due to marked toxicity. The mortality of five repeated-treatment group was lower than a single high-dose group. Renal cell tumors were evident in five rats of the single, low dose groups and dysplastic foci of renal tubular epithelium occurred in the groups given a single low or repeated doses of adriamycin. Thus the present experiment provides preliminary indication of carcinogenic potential of this chemotherapeutic agent for both kidney and mammary gland of Sprague-Dawley rats and further investigations are necessary to evaluate the carcinogenic risk of adriamycin treatment.
The analysis of mice mutant for both Hoxa1 and Hoxb1 suggests that these two genes function together to pattern the hindbrain. Separately, mutations in Hoxa1 and Hoxb1 have profoundly different effects on hindbrain development. Hoxa1 mutations disrupt the rhombomeric organization of the hindbrain, whereas Hoxb1 mutations do not alter the rhombomeric pattern, but instead influence the fate of cells originating in rhombomere 4. We suggest that these differences are not the consequences of different functional roles for these gene products, but rather reflect differences in the kinetics of Hoxa1 and Hoxb1 gene expression. In strong support of the idea that Hoxa1 and Hoxb1 have overlapping functions, Hoxa1/Hoxb1 double mutant homozygotes exhibit a plethora of defects either not seen, or seen only in a very mild form, in mice mutant for only Hoxa1 or Hoxb1. Examples include: the loss of both rhombomeres 4 and 5, the selective loss of the 2(nd) branchial arch, and the loss of most, but not all, 2(nd) branchial arch-derived tissues. We suggest that the early role for both of these genes in hindbrain development is specification of rhombomere identities and that the aberrant development of the hindbrain in Hoxa1/Hoxb1 double mutants proceeds through two phases, the misspecification of rhombomeres within the hindbrain, followed subsequently by size regulation of the misspecified hindbrain through induction of apoptosis.
Rats anesthetized with pentobarbital and ventilated artificially were intoxicated with 1 mg/kg X min propranolol i.v. After 30 min heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure and peripheral resistance had dropped by about 50% and cardiac output by about 25% and were stable for up to 120 min. Isoprenaline proved to be the best antidote for the treatment of propranolol intoxication antagonizing the bradycardia by 76% and the hypotension completely. The antagonistic activities of orciprenaline and prenalterol were lower than those of isoprenaline. Dopamine, adrenaline and noradrenaline antagonized propranolol-induced hypotension but did not considerably influence the bradycardia whereas dobutamine was nearly ineffective in both respects. Glucagon and aminophylline displayed some chronotropic activity without influencing propranolol-induced hypotension. Calcium chloride, on the other hand, produced a moderate elevation of blood pressure but only a small chronotropic activity, and atropine was inactive in both respects. Isoprenaline also restored the cardiac function of propranolol-poisoned rats if administered by infusion and, furthermore, increased the lethal dose of propranolol from 77 to 165 mg/kg. The strong antagonistic activity of isoprenaline against propranolol-induced cardiovascular depression was also confirmed by experiments in pigs. In conclusion, isoprenaline is the most active antidote for the treatment of propranolol intoxication in the rat though the administration of massive doses are required. The vasodilatory effect of isoprenaline can be overcome by the additional administration of a vasoconstricting agent like dopamine.
Triptolide (TP)-induced liver injury can be attributed to the Th17/Treg imbalance with the enhancement of the expansion of Th17 cells and suppression of the production of Tregs, especially the significant increase of interleukin (IL)-17 secreted by helper T (Th) 17 cells. To further investigate the involvement of IL-17-mediated immune response in the TP-induced hepatotoxicity, we examined the plasma transaminase, histopathological changes, hepatic frequencies of Th17 cells, hepatic expression of transcriptional factors and cytokines genes and plasma IL-17 levels after administration of TP (600 μg/kg) by oral gavage to female C57BL/6 mice. Mice treated with TP displayed acute liver injury with significantly increased hepatic frequencies of Th17 cells, mRNA expression of retinoid-related orphan receptor (ROR)-γt and plasma IL-17 level as well as the plasma ALT and AST. Neutralization study using anti-IL-17 antibody ameliorated TP-induced liver injury. In contrast, when challenged by coadministration of recombinant IL-17, hepatotoxicity was exacerbated in the triptolide-administered mice. In summary, this report was demonstrated for the first time that IL-17-mediated immune response is involved in the pathogenesis of TP-induced liver injury in mice, which may shed light on the mechanisms of TP-induced liver injury.
The authors report the case of a patient who presented with wave burst arrhythmia related to long-term treatment with maprotiline. This case is interesting, as few cases of this type of complication have been reported in patients receiving long-term tetracyclic antidepressants, and the development of such a complication indicates the need for regular electrocardiographie surveillance of patients treated with heterocyclic antidepressants. Lastly, prolonged intensive care monitoring is required in the case of maprotiline-induced wave burst arrhythmia.
Wilson's disease is a disorder of biliary copper excretion that may result in severe neurological symptoms and advanced liver disease. The wide variation of phenotypic disease expression cannot be fully explained by the different mutations of the Wilson disease gene. In neurological disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, temporal lobe epilepsy and cerebral trauma, the presence of the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) allele epsilon4 is associated with an increased vulnerability of the brain to the effects of the disease, whereas the presence of the ApoE genotype epsilon3/3 appears to provide moderate neuroprotection. We examined whether this hypothesis holds true for the development of neurological symptoms in patients with Wilson's disease. The ApoE genotype and the H1069Q mutation (the most common in Wilson's disease) status were determined by polymerase chain reaction-based mutation assays in 121 well-characterized, symptomatic index patients with Wilson's disease. An investigation profile was established in which the patients were grouped according to the clinical symptoms at presentation, the ApoE genotypes and the status of the H1069Q mutation. Fifty-nine per cent of the 121 patients had the allele combination ApoE epsilon3/3 (21% ApoE epsilon3/4, 19% ApoE epsilon3/2, 1% ApoE epsilon4/2). The distribution of ApoE genotypes did not deviate from known distributions in healthy European subjects. Within the group of 40 H1069Q-homozygous patients, the onset of symptoms was significantly delayed in patients with the ApoE epsilon3/3 genotype (25 +/- 6 years at presentation) compared with patients with the ApoE epsilon3/4 genotype (20 +/- 3 years at presentation). In this study, the ApoE genotype was established as an important factor delaying the onset of neurological and hepatic symptoms, but not modifying phenotypic disease expression in a homogeneous group of patients with Wilson's disease (all H1069Q-homozygotes, similar genetic background). The presence of ApoE epsilon3/3 attenuates clinical manifestations in Wilson's disease by mechanisms which might involve the antioxidant and membrane-stabilizing properties of the ApoE 3 protein.
In the current study, we examined whether subchronic exposure via drinking water to low doses of a mixture of metals (arsenic, cadmium, lead, mercury, chromium, manganese, iron, and nickel), found as contaminants in various water sources of India, and to concentrations equivalent to WHO maximum permissible limits (MPL) in drinking water for individual metals, can alter systemic physiology of male rats. Data on water contamination with metals in India were collected from the literature and metals were selected on the basis of their frequency of occurrence and contamination level above MPL. Male Wistar rats were exposed to the mixture at 0, 1, 10, and 100 times the mode concentrations (the most frequently occurring concentration) of the individual metals via drinking water for 90 days. One more group of rats was exposed to the mixture at a concentration equivalent to the MPL (WHO) in drinking water for individual metals. Toxic potential of the mixture was evaluated by assessing general toxicological end points, serum chemistry and histopathology of vital organs. The mixture decreased body weight and water consumption and increased weights of brain, liver, and kidneys with 10x and 100x doses. After 30 days of exposure, no appreciable changes were found in any blood clinical markers. After 60 days, only the 100x dose, while after 90 days both 10x and 100x doses increased activities of aspartate aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase and levels of urea nitrogen and creatinine and decreased total protein and albumin levels, but alanine aminotransferase activity and glucose level were not affected. At 10x and 100x exposure levels, qualitatively similar, but dose-dependent vascular, degenerative, and necrotic changes were observed in brain, liver, and kidney. The results indicate that subchronic exposure to the metal mixture affected general health of male rats by altering the functional and structural integrity of kidney, liver, and brain at 10 and 100 times the mode concentrations of the individual metals in Indian water sources, but exposure at mode concentrations of contemporary water contamination levels or at concentrations equivalent to the MPL for individual metals in drinking water may not cause any health hazards in male rats.
Our hypothesis is that peripheral somatostatin (SRIF) has a role in counter-irritation-induced analgesia. Our paradigm involves the reduction of nociceptive behaviors produced by primary noxious stimuli (formalin or complete Freund's adjuvant [CFA] in the rat hind paw) by a counter-irritating stimulus (capsaicin [CAP] in the tail or muzzle). Activation of peripheral SRIF receptors is key since an SRIF receptor antagonist cyclo-somatostatin (c-SOM) and SRIF antibodies in the hind paw attenuate the counter-irritation-induced analgesia of both formalin and more persistent CFA nociception. Specificity of c-SOM is shown by reversal of its effects with octreotide, a SRIF analog. Injection of formalin in one hind paw and c-SOM in the other does not reduce the counter-irritation analgesia demonstrating local action of the c-SOM. Approximately 33% of peripheral sensory axons contain SRIF, which could release the peptide to activate SRIF receptors on cutaneous axons. Intraplantar naloxone has no effect on the counter-irritation analgesia indicating that SRIF is not activating opioid receptors. These results indicate that in addition to the classic central descending noxious inhibitory control systems that underlie counter-irritation-induced analgesia, there is a peripheral contribution arising from activation of SRIF receptors. Identifying a peripheral contribution of SRIF to mechanisms of counter-irritation analgesia offers opportunities for peripheral therapy.
Imidazoline drugs exert neuroprotective effects in cerebral ischaemia models. They also have effects against mouse cerebellar and striatal neuronal death induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) through the blockade of NMDA currents. Here, we investigated the effects of antazoline on NMDA toxicity and current in rat hippocampal neuronal cultures, and on an in vivo model of status epilepticus. In hippocampal cultures, antazoline (30 microM) decreased NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity and also blocked the NMDA current with voltage-dependent and fast-reversible action (inhibition by 85+/-3% at -60 mV). Status epilepticus was induced by injecting pilocarpine (200 nmol) directly into the right pyriform cortex of male adult rats. The rats then received immediately three consecutive i.p. injections at 30-min intervals of either PBS (control group) or antazoline at 10 mg/kg (low-dose group) or at 45 mg/kg (high-dose group). During the 6-h recording, status epilepticus lasted more than 200 min in all groups. In the high-dose group only, seizures completely ceased 1 h after the third injection of antazoline, then started again 1 h later. Rats were killed 1 week later, and Cresyl Violet-stained sections of their brain were analysed for damage quantification. On the ipsilateral side to the pilocarpine injection, pyriform cortex and hippocampal CA1 and CA3 areas were significantly protected in both antazoline-treated groups, whilst prepyriform and entorhinal cortices were only in the high-dose group. On the contralateral side to the pilocarpine injection, only the hippocampal CA3 area was significantly protected in the low-dose group, but all investigated structures were in the high-dose group. In conclusion, antazoline is a potent neuroprotective drug in different models of neuronal primary culture, as previously shown in striatal and cerebellar granule neurons [Neuropharmacology 39 (2000) 2244], and here in hippocampal neurons. Antazoline is also neuroprotective in vivo in the intra-pyriform pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus model.
Plasma haloperidol (HPD) concentration, prolactin (PRL) and cortisol levels were monitered in eighteen normal adult men before and after intravenous administration of 2.5 mg haloperidol for 150 min. in order to elucidate emotional state and autonomic nervous function during state of akathisia psychophysiologically, power spectrum of photoelectric finger plethysmogram via Fourier transform, skin potential reflex (SPR) and heart rate (HR) before and after the injection were simultaneously examined in all subjects. Power distribution of spectrum of plethysmogram showed normal pattern (main peak power was observed on about 1 Hz and 2nd peak was less than 0.3 Hz.) in all subjects before injection. The spectrum of about 1 Hz was significantly decreased after the injection and that of less than 0.3 Hz tended to be increased in the akathisia group. There was no significant difference of Plasma PRL and HPD concentration in both akathisia and non-akathisia groups. However, significant correlation between these two parameters was found in both groups. The mean plasma cortisol level of the akathisia group was tended to be lower than that of the non-akathisia group. The former group was divided into the following two subgroups by power spectrum analysis; the high frequency dominant group (HF) and the low frequency dominant group (LF). The main peak of the former group was about 1 Hz, and that of the latter group was 0.3 Hz. The mean plasma cortisol level of LF was significantly lower than that of the non-akathisia group on 90 min after the injection of HPD. These results suggest that akathisia could be measured objectively by power spectrum of plethysmogram, and that some neurotransmitters other than dopamine also might be related with akathisia.
We have previously reported that the defibrillation success rate of intravenous nifekalant hydrochloride (NIF), a pure IKr-channel (IKr: the rapid components of the delayed rectifier potassium current) blocker, was more than 75% for lidocaine-resistant ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation (VT/VF) in patients with out-of-hospital cardiopulmonary arrest (CPA). However, there was no effective treatment for the remaining 25% of patients in whom defibrillation was unsuccessful. We hypothesised that the combination therapy of NIF and left stellate ganglion block (LSGB) was useful for defibrillation in NIF-resistant VT/VF and investigated its efficacy in a retrospective study.
We investigated sequentially 272 out-of-hospital CPA patients treated at Tokai University between April and December 2006. VT/VF occurred in 55 patients on arrival or during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). On the basis of our CPR algorithm, NIF was administered (0.15-0.3 mg/kg, i.v.) after the first direct-current cardioversion. NIF-resistant VT/VFs were observed in 15 out of 55 patients and LSGB was performed on 11 of these with administration of NIF. Sinus rhythm was restored in 7 patients following LSGB (64%) and complete recovery was achieved in 2 patients. In the non-LSGB group, however, all the patients died.
The combination therapy of intravenous NIF and LSGB was useful for defibrillation in intractable VT/VF. It is a potential and innovative treatment strategy for IKr-channel blocker resistant VT/VF. (Cardiol J 2007; 14: 355-365).
Manganese is an essential trace element which is toxic in high doses. Over the past several decades, manganese has replaced lead as the anti-knock agent in gasoline, raising concern about air and road-side contamination with this element. In addition, manganese is absorbed by the liver, making specific populations (e.g., pregnant women, infants and children, and patients with liver disease) susceptible to its toxic effects. Using data from the US Census Bureau, the North Carolina State Center for Health Statistics, and the US Environmental Protection Agency, this ecological study evaluated chronic liver disease mortality rates in North Carolina's 100 counties. It correlated these rates with county-level demographics as well as on-road and non-road air borne manganese concentrations. Median income by county was inversely associated with chronic liver disease mortality, while the logarithmically transformed airborne concentrations of on-road manganese were positively correlated with county-level chronic liver disease mortality. Because environmental manganese near roads is likely to increase over time, these pilot findings potentially have regulatory implications and argue for further research.
A multicentre, double blind, placebo controlled, randomised trial of nifedipine, metoprolol, and nifedipine and metoprolol combined was conducted in a group of 338 patients with unstable angina not pretreated with a beta blocker and of nifedipine in 177 patients pretreated with a beta blocker. The main outcome event was recurrent ischaemia or myocardial infarction within 48 hours. Trial medication effects were expressed as ratios of event rates relative to placebo. In patients not pretreated with a beta blocker the event rate ratios with associated 95% confidence intervals were 1.15 (0.83, 1.64) for nifedipine, 0.76 (0.49, 1.16) for metoprolol, and 0.80 (0.53, 1.19) for nifedipine and metoprolol combined. In patients already on a beta blocker the addition of nifedipine was beneficial (rate ratio 0.68 (0.47, 0.97). Equal numbers of patients developed myocardial infarction and reversible ischaemia. Most infarctions occurred early, within six hours of randomisation. In patients not already on a beta blocker the nifedipine rate ratio for infarction only was 1.51 (0.87, 2.74). These results suggest that in patients not on previous beta blockade metoprolol has a beneficial short term effect on unstable angina, that fixed combination with nifedipine provides no further gain, and that nifedipine may be detrimental. On the other hand, the addition of nifedipine to existing beta blockade when the patient's condition becomes unstable seems beneficial.
To describe our experience with propofol anesthesia to facilitate invasive procedures for ambulatory and hospitalized children in the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) setting.
We retrospectively reviewed the hospital records of 115 children who underwent 251 invasive procedures with propofol anesthesia in our multidisciplinary, university-affiliated PICU during a 20-month period. All patients underwent a medical evaluation and were required to fast before anesthesia. Continuous monitoring of the patient's cardiorespiratory and neurologic status was performed by a pediatric intensivist, who also administered propofol in intermittent boluses to obtain the desired level of anesthesia, and by a PICU nurse, who provided written documentation. Data on patient demographics, procedures performed, doses of propofol used, the occurrence of side effects, induction time, recovery time, and length of stay in the PICU were obtained.
Propofol anesthesia was performed successfully in all children (mean age, 6.4 years; range, 10 days to 20.8 years) who had a variety of underlying medical conditions, including oncologic, infectious, neurologic, cardiac, and gastrointestinal disorders. Procedures performed included lumbar puncture with intrathecal chemotherapy administration, bone marrow aspiration and biopsy, central venous catheter placement, endoscopy, and transesophageal echocardiogram. The mean dose of propofol used for induction of anesthesia was 1.8 mg/kg, and the total mean dose of propofol used was 8.8 mg/kg. In 13% of cases, midazolam also was administered but did not affect the doses of propofol used. The mean anesthesia induction time was 3.9 minutes, and the mean recovery time from anesthesia was 28.8 minutes for all patients. The mean PICU stay for ambulatory and ward patients was 140 minutes. Hypotension occurred in 50% of cases, with a mean decrease in systolic blood pressure of 25%. The development of hypotension was not associated with propofol doses, the concomitant use of midazolam, or the duration of anesthesia, but was associated with older patient age. Hypotension was transient and not associated with altered perfusion. Intravenous fluid was administered in 61% of the cases in which hypotension was present. Respiratory depression requiring transient bag-valve-mask ventilation occurred in 6% of cases and was not associated with patient age, propofol doses, concomitant use of midazolam, or the duration of anesthesia. Transient myoclonus was observed in 3.6% of cases. Ninety-eight percent of procedures were completed successfully, and no procedure failures were considered secondary to the anesthesia. Patients, parents, and health care providers were satisfied with the results of propofol anesthesia.
Propofol anesthesia can safely facilitate a variety of invasive procedures in ambulatory and hospitalized children when performed in the PICU and is associated with short induction and recovery times and PICU length of stay. Hypotension, although usually transient, is common, and respiratory depression necessitating assisted ventilation may occur. Therefore, appropriate monitoring and cardiorespiratory support capabilities are essential. Propofol anesthesia in the PICU setting is a reasonable therapeutic option available to pediatric intensivists to help facilitate invasive procedures in ambulatory and hospitalized children.
Using non-invasive methods, haemodynamic responses to antagonism of pancuronium (Pc) and alcuronium (Ac) block were compared in patients anaesthetized with thiopental-N2O-fentanyl and undergoing minor surgery. Neuromuscular block (90%) was maintained with Pc in 10 patients and Ac in 10 patients. After surgery, atropine 0.015 mg kg-1 and neostigmine 0.03 mg kg-1 (AN) were given simultaneously. The rate of reversal of the block was equal in the two groups. Between 4 and 16 min after AN, the decrease of heart rate (HR) was more pronounced in patients who had received Pc. The mean of the lowest HR was 43.2 beats min-1 in the Pc group, compared with 62.0 beats min-1 in the Ac group. The bradycardia was associated with a moderate decrease in arterial pressure in patients treated with Pc. However, due to an increase in stroke volume, mean cardiac output (CO) was not lower in the Pc group. Some patients treated with Pc developed a temporary nodal rhythm after AN and this was associated with a considerable decrease in CO. It is concluded that, in spite of marked bradycardia during antagonism of Pc block, circulation is well maintained, provided that sinus rhythm is present.
Acute myocardial infarction occurred in a 43 year-old premenopausal woman with controlled hypertension and no known coronary artery disease following the use of the antimigraine medications sumatriptan succinate injectable form and methysergide maleate. The use of sumatriptan is contraindicated within 24 hours of using ergotamine or ergotamine-type medications such as methysergide. This contraindication is based on the theoretical possibility of prolonged vasospasm with the combined use. Methysergide is primarily a serotonin type 2 (5-HT2) antagonist, although it does act as a partial agonist at 5-HT1 receptors. It is believed that a major component of coronary artery vasospasm is possibly due to 5-HT supersensitivity mediated by 5-HT1Dbeta receptor activation. Drugs that selectively stimulate the 5-HT(D) receptors, such as sumatriptan, are potentially hazardous in people with underlying coronary artery disease, and agents with additional agonistic properties at these receptors may potentiate this effect. Physicians should be warned to inquire about prior 24-hour medication use before prescribing antimigraine medication.
Few long-term studies have compared the efficacy and safety of typical and atypical antipsychotic medications directly in patients with a first episode of psychosis who met the criteria for schizophrenia or a related psychotic disorder. This study compared the acute and long-term effectiveness of haloperidol with that of olanzapine in patients with first-episode psychosis in a large, controlled clinical trial.
Patients with first-episode psychosis (N=263) were randomly assigned under double-blind conditions to receive haloperidol or olanzapine and were followed for up to 104 weeks. Domains measured included psychopathology, psychosocial variables, neurocognitive functioning, and brain morphology and metabolism. This report presents data from clinical measures of treatment response and safety data from the 12-week acute treatment phase.
Haloperidol and olanzapine were associated with substantial and comparable baseline-to-endpoint reductions in symptom severity, which did not differ significantly in last-observation-carried-forward analyses. However, in a mixed-model analysis, olanzapine-treated subjects had significantly greater decreases in symptom severity as measured by the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total score and negative and general scales and by the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale but not as measured by the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale positive scale and by the Clinical Global Impression severity rating. Olanzapine-treated patients experienced a lower rate of treatment-emergent parkinsonism and akathisia but had significantly more weight gain, compared with the haloperidol-treated patients. Overall, significantly more olanzapine-treated subjects than haloperidol-treated subjects completed the 12-week acute phase of the study (67% versus 54%).
As expected on the basis of previous studies, both olanzapine and haloperidol were effective in the acute reduction of psychopathological symptoms in this group of patients with first-episode psychosis. However, olanzapine had several relative advantages in therapeutic response. Although the nature of adverse events differed between the two agents, retention in the study was greater with olanzapine. Retention in treatment is important in this patient population, given their risk of relapse. Longer-term results are needed to determine whether treatment with atypical antipsychotics results in superior outcomes for a first episode of schizophrenia.
1 The effect of propranolol was examined on a) blood pressure and heart rate responses due to i.v. hydrallazine b) modification of these cardiovascular parameters during cold pressor test c) urinary catecholamine excretion rate. 2 Intravenous hydrallazine reduced significantly mean blood pressure by 15.2 mm Hg and increased heart rate by 24.9 beats/min. Propranolol reduced significantly mean blood pressure by 19.0 mm Hg and heart rate by 14.1 beats/min. Hydrallazine plus propranolol caused a significant reduction of mean blood pressure (by 37.7 mm Hg) but this was not accompanied by a significant fall in heart rate (by 3.3 beats/min). 3 During the control period, cold pressor test increased mean blood pressure by 16.0 mm Hg. Heart rate was increased by 12.5 beats/min in four patients. However, there was a reduction in heart rate (5.5 beats/min) in two other patients. During the propranolol period, cold pressor test-induced increase of mean blood pressure was not reduced but propranolol blocked the increase of heart rate. 4 Urinary catecholamine excretion rate was increased during hydrallazine administration. This excretion was not modified by propranolol.
The present studies examined the underlying hemodynamic mechanisms contributing to the reduction in blood pressure observed in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats after systemic administration of adenosine agonists. The effects produced by i.v. and i.a. injections of 2-phenylaminoadenosine [CV-1808, adenosine (A2) selective agonist], 5'-N-ethylcarboxamide adenosine (NECA, nonselective agonist), 2-chloroadenosine (2-CADO, A1 selective agonist) and cyclopentyladenosine (CPA, A1 selective agonist) were evaluated and compared to those of hydralazine. All agents produced hypotensive effects after bolus i.v. injection. Although CPA, NECA and 2-CADO elicited dose-dependent bradycardia, CV-1808 and hydralazine increased heart rate. These effects, with the exception of the hydralazine-evoked responses, were attenuated by prior treatment with 8-(p-sulfophenyl)theophylline (2 mg/kg/min), whereas both CV-1808 and hydralazine produced regional vasodilation, significant increases in blood flow occurred only after CV-1808 (3-30 micrograms/kg). The regional hemodynamic responses to NECA were more complex; low doses (0.1-1 microgram/kg) produced consistent reductions in regional vascular resistance, whereas at the highest dose renal vasoconstriction occurred. Although regional vasodilation occurred after 2-CADO, mesenteric vasoconstriction was observed subsequent to CPA administration. Whereas a significant increase in renin release was evident in animals treated with CV-1808 and hydralazine, no change occurred in response to the NECA-, 2-CADO- or CPA-induced hypotension. We conclude that the predominant hemodynamic response after selective activation of A2 receptors is one of regional vasodilation and hypotension leading to a reflex increase in heart rate and renin release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To determine the relationship between apolipoprotein E (APOE) polymorphisms to the time to appearance of levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in patients with Parkinson's disease.
The APOE genotype of 155 consecutive patients treated with levodopa was determined and its effect on the time of onset of LID was examined using Cox regression model, controlling for gender, age of disease onset, time to initiation of levodopa treatment and history of smoking.
Two patients were homozygous for the APOE ε2 allele, 7 had ε2/ε3, 1 had ε2/ε4, 130 had ε3/ε3, 12 had ε3/ε4 and 3 had ε4/ε4; LID appeared in 57.4% of the patients, appearing 4.1 ± 3.5 years after the initiation of levodopa treatment. The survival curve for LID was not affected by the APOE genotype (P = 0.34).
APOE polymorphisms were found not to be associated with either the occurrence or the time to development of LID.
To evaluate the effect of the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine and the antagonist yohimbine on the dual modulation of seizure susceptibility induced by morphine and the anticonvulsant effect of acute stress in mice.
The thresholds for the clonic seizures induced after intravenous administration of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) or bicuculline were assessed in mice weighing 23-30 g. Acute stress was induced by restraining mice for 2 h in a restrainer.
Morphine at lower doses (0.5, 1, and 3 mg/kg) increased and, at higher doses (15, 30, and 75 mg/kg), decreased the seizure threshold. Pretreatment with clonidine (0.001-0.1 mg/kg) inhibited the anticonvulsant effect of morphine, while potentiating its proconvulsant effect. Conversely, yohimbine (0.5-2 mg/kg) potentiated the anticonvulsant effect of morphine but inhibited its proconvulsant effects. Acute stress induced an anticonvulsant effect that was reversible by naloxone (1 mg/kg) or clonidine (0.05-0.1 mg/kg) or a combination of their lower doses (0.3 and 0.01 mg/kg, respectively), while being potentiated by yohimbine (1 mg/kg).
alpha2-Adrenoceptors play a dual role in the anticonvulsant effects of morphine. The activation of these receptors also can decrease the anticonvulsant effect of acute restraint stress in mice.
Histone methylation is thought to be central to the epigenetic mechanisms that maintain and confine cellular identity in multi-cellular organisms. To examine epigenetic roles in cellular homeostasis, we conditionally mutated the histone 3 lysine 4 methyltransferase, Mll2, in embryonic stem (ES) cells, during development and in adult mice using tamoxifen-induced Cre recombination.
In ES cells, expression profiling unexpectedly revealed that only one gene, Magoh2, is dependent upon Mll2 and few other genes were affected. Loss of Mll2 caused loss of H3K4me3 at the Magoh2 promoter and concomitant gain of H3K27me3 and DNA methylation. Hence Mll2, which is orthologous to Drosophila Trithorax, is required to prevent Polycomb-Group repression of the Magoh2 promoter, and repression is further accompanied by DNA methylation. Early loss of Mll2 in utero recapitulated the embryonic lethality found in Mll2-/- embryos. However, loss of Mll2 after E11.5 produced mice without notable pathologies. Hence Mll2 is not required for late development, stem cells or homeostasis in somatic cell types. However it is required in the germ cell lineage. Spermatogenesis was lost upon removal of Mll2, although spermatogonia A persisted.
These data suggest a bimodal recruit and maintain model whereby Mll2 is required to establish certain epigenetic decisions during differentiation, which are then maintained by redundant mechanisms. We also suggest that these mechanisms relate to the epigenetic maintenance of CpG island promoters.
