Carboplatin is a second-generation platinum complex drug which has demonstrated activity against a variety of neoplasms including acute leukemia, particularly when given by continuous intravenous (i.v.) infusion. Adults with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), either refractory or in first or second relapse, were given a continuous i.v. infusion of carboplatin at a dose of 315 mg/m2 daily for 5 days. A second course was given if the bone marrow at day 14 showed persistent leukemia. If the marrow was hypoplastic, treatment was delayed until marrow recovery was documented. Those with residual leukemia were given a second course. Those achieving complete remission (CR) were given an additional course as consolidation. Of the 46 eligible patients entered (36 AML and 10 ALL) eight achieved CR (17%) of which 6 were AML and 2 ALL. Of nine primary refractory patients, two achieved CR, one AML and one ALL. Excluding the inevaluable patients (protocol violations, patient refused further therapy, early deaths prior to day 14, the CR rate was eight of 28 (29%). All except two CRs required two courses of induction. The non-hematologic toxicity was minimal except for renal and auditory toxicity. Renal toxicity greater than grade 2 was seen in 17 patients and was associated with concomitant use of nephrotoxic antibiotics. In two patients, renal failure was a major factor in the cause of death. Ototoxicity was observed in 11 patients, but was grade 3 in only three. There were 18 deaths during the study. Fourteen died of infection, two died of infection and hemorrhage, one died of hemorrhage while aplastic, and one died of other causes. This trial indicates that carboplatin is an active agent in acute leukemia and warrants further investigation.
Epidemiological and in vivo studies have demonstrated that exposure to the pesticides paraquat (PQ) and maneb (MB) increase the risk of developing Parkinson's disease (PD) and cause dopaminergic cell loss, respectively. PQ is a well-recognized cause of oxidative toxicity; therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine if MB potentiates oxidative stress caused by PQ, thus providing a mechanism for enhanced neurotoxicity by the combination. The results show that PQ alone at a moderately toxic dose (20-30% cell death in 24 h) caused increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, oxidation of mitochondrial thioredoxin-2 and peroxiredoxin-3, lesser oxidation of cytoplasmic thioredoxin-1 and peroxiredoxin-1, and no oxidation of cellular GSH/GSSG. In contrast, MB alone at a similar toxic dose resulted in no ROS generation, no oxidation of thioredoxin and peroxiredoxin, and an increase in cellular GSH after 24 h. Together, MB increased GSH and inhibited ROS production and thioredoxin/peroxiredoxin oxidation observed with PQ alone, yet resulted in more extensive (> 50%) cell death. MB treatment resulted in increased abundance of nuclear Nrf2 and mRNA for phase II enzymes under the control of Nrf2, indicating activation of cell protective responses. The results show that MB potentiation of PQ neurotoxicity does not occur by enhancing oxidative stress and suggests that increased toxicity occurs by a combination of divergent mechanisms, perhaps involving alkylation by MB and oxidation by PQ.
Precocious puberty is a significant child health problem, especially in girls, because 95% of cases are idiopathic. Our earlier studies demonstrated that low-dose levels of manganese (Mn) caused precocious puberty via stimulating the secretion of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH). Because glial-neuronal communications are important for the activation of LHRH secretion at puberty, we investigated the effects of prepubertal Mn exposure on specific glial-derived puberty-related genes known to affect neuronal LHRH release. Animals were supplemented with MnCl(2) (10 mg/kg) or saline by gastric gavage from day 12 until day 22 or day 29, then decapitated, and brains removed. The site of LHRH release is the medial basal hypothalamus (MBH), and tissues from this area were analyzed by real-time PCR for transforming growth factor α (TGFα), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) messenger RNA levels. Protein levels for IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) were measured by Western blot analysis. LHRH gene expression was measured in the preoptic area/anteroventral periventricular (POA/AVPV) region. In the MBH, at 22 days, IGF-1 gene expression was increased (p < 0.05) with a concomitant increase (p < 0.05) in IGF-1R protein expression. Mn also increased (p < 0.01) COX-2 gene expression. At 29 days, the upregulation of IGF-1 (p < 0.05) and COX-2 (p < 0.05) continued in the MBH. At this time, we observed increased (p < 0.05) LHRH gene expression in the POA/AVPV. Additionally, Mn stimulated prostaglandin E(2) and LHRH release from 29-day-old median eminences incubated in vitro. These results demonstrate that Mn, through the upregulation of IGF-1 and COX-2, may promote maturational events and glial-neuronal communications facilitating the increased neurosecretory activity, including that of LHRH, resulting in precocious pubertal development.
Immune-mediated drug hypersensitivity reactions are important causes of black box warnings and drug withdrawals. Despite the high demand for preclinical screening tools, no validated in vitro or in vivo models are available. In the current study, we used a previously described oral administration model using trinitrophenyl-ovalbumin (TNP-OVA) as an antigen to report immuno-adjuvating effects of the analgesic drug acetaminophen (APAP) and its nonhepatotoxic regioisomer 3'-hydroxyacetanilide (AMAP), the antibiotic ofloxacin (OFLX), the antiepileptic drug carbamazepine (CMZ), and the antidiabetic drug metformin (MET). Furthermore, APAP and AMAP were tested in a popliteal lymph node assay (PLNA) combined with TNP-OVA as reporter antigen (RA). C3H/HeOuJ mice were dosed by oral gavage with diclofenac (DF), APAP, AMAP, OFLX, MET, or CMZ. On the first exposure day, the mice received an ip injection with TNP-OVA. Fifteen days later, they were ear challenged with TNP-OVA and delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses were assessed 24 h later. One week after challenge, the ear-draining lymph node was removed and TNP-specific antibody-secreting cells were determined. DF, APAP, CMZ, and OFLX showed a significant increase in DTH responses to ear injection with TNP-OVA, whereas AMAP and MET did not. C57BL/6 mice were slightly less responsive to APAP and DF after oral gavage, and importantly both AMAP and APAP were negative in the RA-PLNA. The present work shows that the oral exposure model using RA and the RA-PLNA may serve to screen the immune-adjuvant potential of new chemical entities during preclinical drug development.
Methotrexate is one of the best systemic treatments for psoriasis. However it has significant adverse effects such as myelotoxicity and hepatotoxicity.
To evaluate serum liver test in psoriatic patients treated with methotrexate.
Retrospective review of medical records of psoriatic patients treated with methotrexate between the years 2000 and 2005. All patients received a minimum of 7.5 mg weekly of methotrexate, for at least 4 weeks.
Sixty three patients were included. Mean cumulative dose of methotrexate was 576 mg. Thirty two percent had alterations in liver tests, but only 9% had values that duplicated the upper limit of normal range of aminotransferases or alkaline phosphatases or a serum bilirubin over 2 mg/dl. We did not find a direct relationship between the dose of methotrexate and the magnitude of liver test alterations. Only one patient exceeded 1.5 g as cumulative dose. A liver biopsy performed to him, did not show signs of fibrosis.
This retrospective study does not show a direct relationship between weekly doses, cumulated dose and length of treatment with methotrexate, and the degree of alteration of serum liver tests.
A herpesvirus called cytomegalovirus (CMV) is treatable with either ganciclovir or foscarnet. Both have previously been delivered intravenously, however, an oral form of ganciclovir has been produced for use in the maintenance stage. Studies show the intravenous delivery to be a little better than the oral form. Oral ganciclovir for prevention is now available through an expanded access program. The manufacturer will need to be contacted to register. Another study comparing different treatments (IV ganciclovir, an eye implant with oral ganciclovir, and an eye implant alone) is also seeking participants, as is a study using foscarnet for the treatment of CMV colitis.
Sunscreens containing titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) and zinc oxide (ZnO) nanoparticles (NP) are effective barriers against ultraviolet B (UVB) damage to skin, although little is known about their disposition in UVB-damaged skin. Pigs were exposed to UVB that resulted in moderate sunburn. For in vitro studies, skin in flow-through diffusion cells were treated 24 h with four sunscreen formulations as follows: 10% coated TiO(2) in oil/water (o/w), 10% coated TiO(2) in water/oil (w/o), 5% coated ZnO in o/w, and 5% uncoated ZnO in o/w. TiO(2) (rutile, crystallite) primary particle size was 10 × 50 nm with mean agglomerates of 200 nm (range ca. 90 nm--460 nm); mean for ZnO was 140 nm (range ca. 60--200 nm). Skin was processed for light microscopy, scanning (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (TOF-SIMS). UVB-exposed skin had typical sunburn histology. TEM showed TiO(2) NP 17 layers into stratum corneum (SC), whereas ZnO remained on the surface. TOF-SIMS showed TiO(2) and ZnO epidermal penetration in both treatments. Perfusate analyzed by TEM/energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy or inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry detected no Ti or Zn, indicating minimal transdermal absorption. In vivo, skin was dosed at 24 h occluded with formulations and at 48 h. TiO(2) NP in o/w formulation penetrated 13 layers into UVB-damaged SC, whereas only 7 layers in normal skin; TiO(2) in w/o penetrated deeper in UVB-damaged SC. Coated and uncoated Zn NP in o/w were localized to the upper one to two SC layers in all skin. By SEM, NP were localized as agglomerates in formulation on the skin surface and base of hair. TOF-SIMS showed Ti within epidermis and superficial dermis, whereas Zn was limited to SC and upper epidermis in both treatments. In summary, UVB-damaged skin slightly enhanced TiO(2) NP or ZnO NP penetration in sunscreen formulations but no transdermal absorption was detected.
We examined the time-course activation and the cell-type specific role of MAP kinases in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced renal disease. The maximal activation of c-Jun-NH2-terminal kinase (JNK), extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK), and p38 MAP kinase was detected on Days 52, 38, and 38 after PAN-treatment, respectively. p-JNK was localized in mesangial and proximal tubular cells at the early renal injury. It was expressed, therefore, in the inflammatory cells of tubulointerstitial lesions. While, p-ERK was markedly increased in the glomerular regions and macrophages p-p38 was observed in glomerular endothelial cells, tubular cells, and some inflammatory cells. The results show that the activation of MAP kinases in the early renal injury by PAN-treatment involves cellular changes such as cell proliferation or apoptosis in renal native cells. The activation of MAP kinases in infiltrated inflammatory cells and fibrotic cells plays an important role in destructive events such as glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis.
The course of vincristine-induced neuropathy was evaluated in 14 patients who developed muscle cramps during chemotherapy. Cramps were noticed between 3 days and 4 months after the initiation of vincristine and following a cumulative dose of 1-9.4 mg/m2 (median 3.1 mg/m2). All patients reported daytime cramps and only 4 experienced nocturnal cramps. The lower extremities were involved in 11/14 and the upper extremities in 10/14 patients. Duration of cramps ranged from 1 to greater than 9 months. Physical examination revealed signs of peripheral neuropathy in all patients. Cramps were the first symptom of neurotoxicity in 4 patients. Other symptoms were noted in all patients, but only 3 had motor manifestations other than muscle cramps. Although symptoms of neuropathy tended to persist for several months, a rapid symptomatic improvement was noticed after withdrawal of vincristine. We conclude that vincristine-induced muscle cramps are not necessarily associated with severe neurotoxicity and should not automatically indicate interruption of therapy.
Cocaine use has been associated with profound functional and pathological myocardial responses in otherwise asymptomatic humans, yet a number of individuals appear to tolerate large doses of the drug. This study was designed to determine whether there is a relationship between the differential effects of cocaine administration on cardiovascular responses and on the development of cardiomyopathies in rats. After instrumentation for determination of cardiac output, conscious, freely moving rats were treated with cocaine (5 mg/kg) or saline intravenously twice daily for 14 days before removing the myocardium for analysis. Although most cardiovascular responses were similar, cocaine administration elicited consistent decreases in cardiac output in some rats, whereas others showed little change or an increase. While little change was evident at low magnification, electron microscopy revealed diffusely distributed myocardial lesions including focally dilated sarcoplasmic reticulum and myofibrillar derangement, early signs of mitochondrial alterations, and foci of myocardial fibrosis. The incidence of these alterations was greater in rats with a decrease in cardiac output. We also observed these lesions in a subset of rats treated with cocaine without cardiac output instrumentation. These data represent the first evidence that there is a relationship between cocaine-induced functional and pathological alterations and that rats, like humans, may be differentially sensitive to these effects.
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI)- induced acute renal failure (ARF) is not as commonly reported in children as in adults. We report two cases of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome that developed ARF following captopril (an ACEI) treatment for prednisolone-induced hypertension. The two cases further alert us to the potential risk of ACEI-induced ARF in any nephrotic child on ACEI treatment. Low or high dose ACEIs should be given with extreme caution in active nephrotics in view of their relative hypovolemic state that may provoke ARF. The nephrotic children, who must be treated with ACEIs with or without diuretics, should be closely monitored for the development of ARF during the use of ACEIs.
To assess the pharmacokinetics, toxicity, and efficacy of antineoplastons A10 (NSC 648539) and AS2-1 (NSC 620261).
We initiated a phase II trial in order to determine whether evidence of antitumor activity of A10 and AS2-1 could be documented.
Patients with anaplastic astrocytoma or glioblastoma multiforme recurring after radiation therapy were eligible for enrollment in the trial. Patients received escalating doses of A10 and AS2-1 by multiple intermittent intravenous injections with use of a portable programmable pump to the target daily dose of 1.0 g/kg for A10 and of 0.4 g/kg for AS2-1.
Nine patients were treated, in six of whom the treatment response was assessable in accordance with protocol stipulations. No patient demonstrated tumor regression. Reversible grade 2 or 3 neurocortical toxicity, consisting of transient somnolence, confusion, and exacerbation of an underlying seizure disorder, was noted in five patients. Mean steady-state plasma concentrations of phenylacetate and phenylacetylglutamine after escalation to the target doses of A10 and AS2-1 were 177+/-101 microg/mL and 302+/-102 microg/mL, respectively. Patients who exhibited confusion tended to have higher phenylacetate levels.
Although we could not confirm any tumor regression in patients in this study, the small sample size precludes definitive conclusions about treatment efficacy. Antineoplaston-related toxicity was acceptable in most patients with appropriate dose modification, although severe neurocortical toxicity may occur. Steady-state plasma concentrations of phenylacetate with use of A10 and AS2-1 were similar to those reported with use of similar doses of phenylacetate alone.
Argininosuccinate synthetase (ASS) is essential for recycling L-citrulline, the by-product of NO synthase (NOS), to the NOS substrate L-arginine. Here, we assessed whether disturbed arginine resynthesis modulates endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in normal and diabetic male mice.
Endothelium-selective Ass-deficient mice (Assfl/fl/Tie2Cretg/- = Ass-KOTie2) were generated by crossing Assfl/fl mice ( = control) with Tie2Cre mice. Gene ablation in endothelial cells was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. Blood pressure (MAP) was recorded in 34-week-old male mice. Vasomotor responses were studied in isolated saphenous arteries of 12- and 34-week-old Ass-KOTie2 and control animals. At the age of 10 weeks, diabetes was induced in control and Ass-KOTie2 mice by streptozotocin injections. Vasomotor responses of diabetic animals were studied 10 weeks later. MAP was similar in control and Ass-KOTie2 mice. Depletion of circulating L-arginine by arginase 1 infusion or inhibition of NOS activity with L-NAME resulted in an increased MAP (10 and 30 mmHg, respectively) in control and Ass-KOTie2 mice. Optimal arterial diameter, contractile responses to phenylephrine, and relaxing responses to acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside were similar in healthy control and Ass-KOTie2 mice. However, in diabetic Ass-KOTie2 mice, relaxation responses to acetylcholine and endothelium-derived NO (EDNO) were significantly reduced when compared to diabetic control mice.
Absence of endothelial citrulline recycling to arginine did not affect blood pressure and systemic arterial vasomotor responses in healthy mice. EDNO-mediated vasodilatation was significantly more impaired in diabetic Ass-KOTie2 than in control mice demonstrating that endothelial arginine recycling becomes a limiting endothelial function in diabetes.
Dihydronicotinamide riboside (NRH):quinone oxidoreductase 2 (NQO2) is a flavoenzyme that catalyzes the reductive metabolism of quinones. To examine the in vivo role of NQO2, NQO2-null (NQO2-/-) mice were generated using targeted gene disruption. Mice lacking NQO2 gene expression showed no detectable developmental abnormalities and were indistinguishable from wild-type (NQO2+/+) mice. However, NQO2-null mice exhibited myeloid hyperplasia of the bone marrow and increased neutrophils, basophils, eosinophils, and platelets in the peripheral blood. Decreased apoptosis of bone marrow cells and circulating granulocytes contributed to myeloid hyperplasia and hyperactivity of bone marrow in NQO2-null mice. The hematological changes in NQO2-/- mice were specifically associated with loss of the NQO2 gene because histological analysis of various tissues including spleen, thymus, blood cultures, and urine analysis demonstrated no sign of infection. NQO2-null mice also demonstrated decreased toxicity when exposed to menadione or menadione with NRH. These results establish a role for NQO2 in protection against myelogenous hyperplasia and in metabolic activation of menadione, leading to hepatic toxicity. The NQO2-null mice are a model for NQO2 deficiency in humans and can be used to determine the role of this enzyme in sensitivities to toxicity and carcinogenesis.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have several side effects of concern to the otolaryngologist. Angioedema is a rare, but potentially lethal adverse effect when associated with upper airway obstruction. Four cases of ACE-inhibitor-induced angioedema, three with significant upper airway obstruction, are reported. Angioedema secondary to ACE inhibition appears to be mechanism based. The probable link is the potentiation of bradykinin, which results in vasodilation, increased vascular permeability, and angioedema. Since angioedema can progress to upper airway obstruction, otolaryngologists must be aware of this association. The differential diagnosis and treatment of this adverse effect is discussed, as well as a review of ACE inhibitors and other causes of angioedema.
The zebrafish embryotoxicity test (ZET) is considered a promising alternative model in predictive toxicology. Currently, morphological assessment of the embryo is the main readout for this assay. However, implementation of transcriptomics may help to detect more subtle effects, which may increase the sensitivity and predictability of the test. In this study, we tested a concentration response of flusilazole in the ZET. After exposure for 24 h postfertilization, microarray analysis revealed a number of processes to be regulated in a concentration-dependent way. We identified development related processes, retinol metabolism and transcription, as well as processes corresponding to the antifungal mechanism of action, steroid biosynthesis, and fatty acid metabolism, to be differentially regulated. Retinol metabolism and transcription were already significantly altered at concentrations that were not inducing morphological effects. Differential expression of genes related to steroid biosynthesis and fatty acid metabolism showed a concentration response similar to morphological response. An increase in concentration was also positively associated with an increase in magnitude of expression for individual genes within functional processes. Our study shows that transcriptomics analysis in the ZET is a more sensitive readout of compound-induced effects than morphological assessment. However, the interpretation of differential gene expression in terms of predicting morphological effects is not straightforward and requires further study.
Patients with occult pituitary adenomas infrequently present with pituitary apoplexy. Precipitation of pituitary apoplexy by gonadotropin releasing hormone or gonadotropin releasing hormone agonists has been described. The pathophysiologic mechanism by which these agents induce apoplexy remains unclear. We describe a case of pituitary apoplexy in a young woman receiving leuprolide in preparation for ovum donation. Severe hyponatremia, cerebral vasospasm and infarction, and diabetes insipidus complicated this patient's prolonged hospital course. To our knowledge, pituitary apoplexy after gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist use for ovum donation has not been previously described. The use of leuprolide or other gonadotropin releasing hormone agonists for pituitary down-regulation in conjunction with ovarian stimulation can have serious consequences in women harboring unrecognized pituitary adenomas. Thorough endocrine screening should be performed prior to initiating therapy.
In severe preeclampsia, short-term peripartum management of hypertension with hydralazine is complicated by relatively prolonged hypotensive episodes, resulting in fetal distress. We hypothesized that nitroprusside's rapid onset and brief antihypertensive action would permit more controlled blood pressure reduction. Nitroprusside was infused into 10 invasively monitored subjects until mean arterial pressure either 1) was gradually reduced 10-20% or 2) fell abruptly. Subjects fell into two groups, defined by whether the hypotensive effect of nitroprusside was accompanied by a fall in heart rate (group A, n = 8) or a rise (group B, n = 2). Group B showed the expected sinoaortic baroreceptor reflex elevations in heart rate (+17 +/- 6 beats/min) in response to moderate falls in mean arterial pressure (-32 +/- 9 mm Hg) elicited by moderate doses (1.03 +/- 0.23 micrograms/kg/min). However in group A, steep reductions in mean arterial pressure (-75 +/- 22 mm Hg, p less than 0.0001), significantly greater than in group B (p less than 0.05), occurred at much lower doses (0.35 +/- 0.23 micrograms/kg/min; p less than 0.05) and were accompanied by falls in heart rate (-21 +/- 7 beats/min). The apparently paradoxical falls in heart rate and extreme hypotensive responses in group A indicate severe circulatory compromise, corresponding to the cardiac and vasomotor depression that characterizes severe hemorrhage and other forms of acute/severe hypovolemic hypotension. This hemodynamic pattern represents a cardiopulmonary baroreceptor reflex presumably related to the Bezold-Jarisch reflex. The appearance of this pattern in the present study probably reflects the imposition of nitroprusside's prominent venous dilator action on the relatively reduced blood volume that generally characterizes severe preeclampsia.
Age-related cataracts (ARCs) are an important cause of blindness in developing countries. Although antioxidants may be part of the body's defense to prevent ARC, environmental contaminants may contribute to cataractogenesis. In fish-eating populations of the lower Tapajós region, elevated exposure to mercury (Hg) has been reported, and blood levels of selenium (Se) range from normal to very high (> 1,000 microg/L).
We examined ARCs in relation to these elements among adults (> or = 40 years of age) from 12 riverside communities.
Participants (n = 211) provided blood samples and underwent an extensive ocular examination. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry was used to assess Hg and Se in blood and plasma.
One-third (n = 69; 32.7%) of the participants had ARC. Lower plasma Se (P-Se; < 25th percentile, 110 microg/L) and higher blood Hg (B-Hg; > or = 25th percentile, 25 microg/L) were associated with a higher prevalence odds ratio (POR) of ARC [adjusted POR (95% confidence interval), 2.69 (1.11-6.56) and 4.45 (1.43-13.83), respectively]. Among participants with high P-Se, we observed a positive but nonsignificant association with high B-Hg exposure, whereas among those with low B-Hg, we observed no association for P-Se. However, compared with the optimum situation (high P-Se, low B-Hg), the POR for those with low P-Se and high B-Hg was 16.4 (3.0-87.9). This finding suggests a synergistic effect.
Our results suggest that persons in this population with elevated Hg, the cataractogenic effects of Hg may be offset by Se. Because of the relatively small sample size and possible confounding by other dietary nutrients, additional studies with sufficient power to assess multiple nutrient and toxic interactions are required to confirm these findings.
We measured plasma concentrations of immunoreactive endothelin-1 (irET-1) in the prehypertensive and hypertensive phases in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and in malignant hypertension caused by deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt administration in SHR. We also measured concentrations of this peptide in another model of malignant hypertension, the two-kidney, one clip (2K1C) renovascular hypertensive rats chronically given caffeine. Plasma irET-1 concentrations in young (6-week-old) and mature (18-week-old) SHR did not differ from those of age-matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Four weeks of treatment with DOCA-salt increased blood pressure, blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and plasma irET-1 in SHR but not in WKY rats. Eight weeks of DOCA-salt treatment further increased these values in SHR. Plasma irET-1 concentrations were not increased in the 2K1C rats. Six weeks of caffeine administration increased blood pressure, blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, plasma renin activity, and plasma irET-1 in the 2K1C rats but not in the sham-operated rats. High-performance liquid chromatographic profiles of plasma extracts pooled from these rats with malignant hypertension showed that a major component of irET-1 eluted in the position of synthetic ET-1 (1-21). Furthermore, acute hypertension induced by angiotensin II or phenylephrine did not affect the plasma irET-1 concentration in rats. The results suggested that the plasma ET-1 concentration is increased in rat models of malignant hypertension and that the high blood pressure itself is not the main factor involved in the increase of plasma ET-1.
Vancomycin, a glycopeptide antibiotic, has a broad spectrum against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Because vancomycin induces renal dysfunction, the dose and the duration of its administration are limited. The mechanism of vancomycin-induced renal dysfunction is not known. We recently synthesized a hexamethylenediamine-conjugated cationic superoxide dismutase (AH-SOD) which rapidly accumulates in renal proximal tubule cells and inhibits oxidative injury of the kidney. The present work reports the protective effects of AH-SOD against vancomycin-induced renal dysfunction. Male Wistar rats (200-210 g) were intraperitoneally administered with either 200 or 400 mg/kg of vancomycin twice a day for 7 days. Either 5 mg/kg/day AH-SOD or saline was subcutaneously injected 5 min before every vancomycin injection. Biochemical analysis revealed that plasma levels of blood urea nitrogen and creatinine increased significantly in vancomycin-treated group by an AH-SOD-inhibitable mechanism. Histological examination revealed that vancomycin also elicited a marked destruction of glomeruli and necrosis of proximal tubule by an AH-SOD inhibitable mechanism. These results suggest that oxidative stress underlies the pathogenesis of vancomycin-induced nephrotoxicity and that targeting SOD and/or related antioxidants to renal proximal tubule cells might permit the administration of higher doses of vancomycin sufficient for eradication of MRSA without causing renal injury.
Chinese are more sensitive to beta-blockers than Caucasians. However, data regarding beta-blocker therapy in heart failure (HF) patients in Taiwan are lacking. We aimed to evaluate the improvement of left ventricular function and the potential predictors of response to beta-blocker therapy in Taiwanese HF patients.
We enrolled 34 HF patients with baseline left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) </= 40%. Beta-blockers were titrated up to the maximum tolerable dose. LVEF prior to beta-blocker usage and at the stable dose were obtained. We also sequenced the entire gene encoding beta1-adrenoceptor to assess the relationships between LVEF improvement and gene polymorphisms.
Beta-blocker therapy (25 +/- 22 months) with a mean stable dose of 12 +/- 8 mg carvedilol/day significantly improved LVEF (from 28 +/- 8% to 40 +/- 15%, p < 0.001). Stepwise multiple linear regression analysis identified dilated cardiomyopathy (beta = 18.32, p = 0.0004), baseline LVEF (beta = -0.85, p = 0.0020), use of amiodarone (beta = -22.58, p = 0.0034) and square of digoxin dose (beta = -314.25, p = 0.0059) at stable beta-blocker dose as independent predictors of LVEF improvement, where beta is the estimated regression coefficient. We did not find any novel variant of beta1-adrenoceptor gene other than those previously reported at codons 49 and 389, with the allele distributions similar to those found in Caucasians, and these polymorphisms did not imply therapeutic response to beta-blocker.
We demonstrated the therapeutic effects of beta-blockers in Taiwanese HF patients with a dose lower than what has been reported in Western people. Moreover, patients with the etiology of dilated cardiomyopathy or lower baseline LVEF predicted a greater LVEF improvement. The beta1-adrenoceptor gene polymorphisms were not responsible for the difference in sensitivity to beta-blockers in this Taiwanese population.
We report here an 11-year-old previously healthy girl with isoniazid intoxication who sustained a seizure-induced thoracic compression fracture. The following might be the first such case reported in the medical literature. Isoniazid toxicity should be suspected in any patient who comes to the emergency department with refractory seizures and metabolic acidosis. Forceful muscle contractions during a convulsive seizure can result in vertebral compression fracture, especially in the midthoracic region. A complaint of back pain after isoniazid-induced seizures in patients raises a strong suspicion of vertebral fracture and should be evaluated radiologically.
To evaluate the clinical manifestations, prognosis, recurrence rate and development of multiple sclerosis between papillitis group and retrobulbar group in Taiwanese patients with isolated acute optic neuritis (AON) after treatment with intravenous methylprednisolone pulse therapy.
We retrospectively reviewed patients with AON who had received intravenous methylprednisolone pulse therapy. These patients were classified into retrobulbar or papillitis groups. Demographic characteristics, responsiveness to pulse therapy, recurrence rate and incidence of multiple sclerosis were compared between these two groups.
Of the 43 patients enrolled in this study, 19 patients (44%) were in the retrobulbar group and 24 patients (56%) were in the papillitis group. Seven cases (16%) showed periventricular plaque on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Among these seven patients, five developed definite or probable multiple sclerosis. The incidence of multiple sclerosis in patients with positive brain MRI findings was significantly higher than in patients with negative MRI findings (p = 0.002). There was no statistical difference in final visual acuity between the two group (p = 0.353). Sixteen patients suffered from recurrence of AON (21% in the papillitis group and 58% in the retrobulbar group, p = 0.029). Two patients (8%) in the papillitis group and six patients (32%) in the retrobulbar group developed multiple sclerosis (p = 0.061) with a mean interval of 21.6 +/- 11.2 months.
AON in Taiwan has a relatively lower percentage of development of multiple sclerosis than in Western countries. The presence of periventricular plaque on MRI is significantly associated with the later development of multiple sclerosis. The retrobulbar group had a stronger association with recurrence and development of multiple sclerosis.
In vitro, fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) has been implicated in cardiomyocyte growth and reexpression of fetal contractile genes, both markers of hypertrophy. However, its in vivo role in cardiac hypertrophy during pressure overload is not well characterized. Mice with or without FGF2 (Fgf2(+/+) and Fgf2(-/-), respectively) were subjected to transverse aortic coarctation (AC). Left ventricular (LV) mass and wall thickness were assessed by echocardiography preoperatively and once a week postoperatively for 10 weeks. In vivo LV function during dobutamine stimulation, cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area, and recapitulation of fetal cardiac genes were also measured. AC Fgf2(-/-) mice develop significantly less hypertrophy (4-24% increase) compared with AC Fgf2(+/+) mice (41-52% increase). Cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area is significantly reduced in AC Fgf2(-/-) mice. Noncoarcted (NC) and AC Fgf2(-/-) mice have similar beta-adrenergic responses, but those of AC Fgf2(+/+) mice are blunted. A lack of mitotic growth in both AC Fgf2(+/+) and Fgf2(-/-) hearts indicates a hypertrophic response of cardiomyocytes. Consequently, FGF2 plays a major role in cardiac hypertrophy. Comparison of alpha- and beta-cardiac myosin heavy chain mRNA and protein levels in NC and AC Fgf2(+/+) and Fgf2(-/-) mice indicates that myosin heavy chain composition depends on hemodynamic stress rather than on FGF2 or hypertrophy, and that isoform switching is transcriptionally, not posttranscriptionally, regulated.
Trilostane is a competitive inhibitor of 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3β-HSD), which notably converts pregnenolone into progesterone or dehydroepiandrosterone into androstenedione. Trilostane shows antidepressant-like properties in the forced swimming test (FST). The compound, however, induced only moderate effects on neuroactive steroid levels that could be related to its behavioral efficacy.
We compared the behavioral effect of trilostane with the other 3β-HSD inhibitor, cyanoketone, and analyzed the putative involvement of the β-type estrogen receptor (ERβ) in its antidepressant effect.
Trilostane reduced immobility in the FST significantly at 12.5 and 25 mg/kg subcutaneously (s.c.), whereas cyanoketone (0-100 mg/kg s.c.) was ineffective. The negative ER modulator fulvestrant (ICI 182780) dose-dependently blocked the effect of trilostane (25 mg/kg). Trilostane increased circulating estradiol levels in the 12.5-50 mg/kg dose-range, and this effect was unaffected by stress and not shared by cyanoketone (25 mg/kg). The trilostane (25 mg/kg) treatment increased the ERβ mRNA expression in adrenals (+100%) and centrally, in the hippocampus (+330%). Stress and cyanoketone failed to affect ERβ mRNA levels in periphery or in the brain.
These data demonstrate that the antidepressant-like potential of trilostane is not due to its 3β-HSD inhibiting activity, since it is not shared by cyanoketone, but rather to its estrogenic activity. The compound, which releases estradiol and up-regulates ERβ receptors, could be used as a therapeutic tool to allow an estrogenic facilitation of antidepressant efficacy.
We report an uncommon case of disseminated cutaneous infection with Mycobacterium abscessus. The patient was a 22-year-old female with low level of CD4+ T cells in the peripheral blood cells, who presented with a number of tender red nodules, erythema and erythematous infiltrated plaques on her cheek, neck and extremities. Colonies without pigment grew after incubating on Löwenstein-Jensen (L-J) medium at 37 degrees C and 32 degrees C for 3-5 days. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the hsp65 gene and the pattern of PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) on the isolated strain showed it was M. abscessus. The similarity of hsp65, 16SrRNA gene between the isolate and the M. abscessus reference strain were 99.75% and 100% respectively. After the patient had been treated with rifampin, isoniazid, ofloxacin, clarithromycin and thymosin for 6 months, the skin lesions were greatly improved and the level of CD4+ T cells in the peripheral blood cells became normal.
Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia (HAT) is a rarely described adverse reaction of systemic administration of heparin that may be complicated by thrombosis, embolism and bleeding. Unfractionated heparin as well as low molecular weight heparin may provoke HAT. A case of HAT complicated by thrombosis and pulmonary embolism is described that came about during preventive postoperative anticoagulation with the low molecular weight heparin enoxaparin. Pathogenesis, diagnosis, prophylaxis and therapy of HAT are discussed.
