This study examined the effects of long term cholesterol lowering therapy with simvastatin on progression and regression of coronary atherosclerosis, as determined by quantitative angiographic end points, in subgroups of patients with known coronary risk factors. In this randomized, placebo controlled clinical trial, the effect of simvastatin on coronary atherosclerosis was compared with that of placebo in 394 patients who had paired coronary angiograms taken an average of four years apart. The effects of treatment on the following prespecified subgroups were examined: sex, age (less than 65 years versus at least 65 years), smoking status (current or previous/never), history of diabetes mellitus or hypertension, and severity of coronary artery lesions (diameter at least 50% versus less than 50%). There were significantly smaller decreases in the average minimum diameters, between closeout and baseline angiograms, in all simvastatin-treated subgroups, compared with placebo. Trends toward or significantly smaller decreases in the average of the mean diameters, and similar smaller increases in percentage diameter stenosis were also seen in all subgroups. The slowing of angiographically demonstrable coronary atherosclerotic narrowing supports the contention that this treatment effect is causally related to the reduction of coronary events repeatedly seen in large outcome clinical trials of lipid lowering therapy. Also, this treatment effect occurs in the presence or absence of the traditional coronary risk factors.
1. The effects of donepezil, one of the most common cholinesterase inhibitors used for treatment of Alzheimer's disease, were studied on nicotinic receptors (nAChRs)-mediated postsynaptic currents, in dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta, using the patch-clamp recording technique in slice preparations. 2. Donepezil (10-100 microM) selectively and reversibly depressed nicotine currents, induced by brief puffer pulses, through a glass micropipette positioned above the slice. 3. The peak amplitude fading of the responses generated by repeated test applications of low doses of nicotine was accelerated by donepezil, while it slowed the recovery of nicotine currents after a large, desensitising, dose of the same agonist. 4. Donepezil depressed even maximal responses to nicotine, revealing a noncompetitive mechanism of action; moreover, the inhibition of nAChRs was voltage and time independent. 5. Pretreatment with vesamicol or methamidophos did not prevent the reduction of nicotine-induced currents. The data indicated direct effect on nAChR, independent from the activity of donepezil as cholinesterase inhibitor.
Theophylline-associated convulsions have been observed most frequently in children with fever, but the mechanism is not fully understood. In this study, we investigated the basic mechanism of aminophylline [theophylline-2-ethylenediamine]-induced convulsions and the effects of Brewer's yeast-induced pyrexia in mice. Diazepam (5-10mg/kg, i.p.), a benzodiazepine receptor agonist, significantly prolonged the onset and significantly decreased the incidence of convulsions induced by aminophylline (350 mg/kg, i.p.). However, the gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor agonist muscimol (1-4 mg/kg, i.p.), the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen (2-4 mg/kg, i.p.) and the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor antagonist dizocilpine (0.1-0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) failed to protect against the convulsions. 20% Brewer's yeast (0.02 ml/g, s.c.) increased body temperature by 1.03, and also significantly shortened the onset and significantly increased the incidence of convulsions induced by aminophylline. The anticonvulsant action of diazepam (2.5-10mg/kg, i.p.) on the convulsions induced by aminophylline was reduced by Brewer's yeast-induced pyrexia. The proconvulsant actions of the GABAA receptor antagonists picrotoxin (3-4 mg/kg, i.p.) and pentylenetetrazol (40-60 mg/kg, i.p.) were enhanced by Brewer's yeast. These results suggest that the anticonvulsant action of diazepam against aminophylline is reduced by Brewer's yeast-induced pyrexia, and that GABAA receptors are involved in the aggravation of the convulsions by Brewer's yeast in mice.
Initiation of prazosin therapy may be complicated by the first-dose response of acute postural hypotension and tachycardia. The effects of beta-blocker on the responses to oral prazosin were studied in eight normotensive men. After 1 mg oral prazosin there was a marked postural fall in blood pressure to a lowest mean standing systolic pressure of 88 +/- 7 mm Hg (mean +/- SD), associated with a tachycardia of 117 +/- 13 bpm, and an increase in mean plasma norepinephrine concentration to 9.6 +/- 7.9 nmole/l. There was a linear relationship (r = 0.93) between plasma prazosin concentration and hypotensive effect. Concurrent propranolol 80 mg or primidolol 100 mg (a cardioselective beta-blocker) increased the severity and duration of the postural hypotensive response, with lowest mean systolic blood pressure (BP) of 79 +/- 7 and 75 +/- 9 mm Hg. There was no effect on the orthostatic release of norepinephrine but there was attenuation of the postural tachycardia. Concurrent beta-adrenergic blocking therapy, selective or nonselective, intensifies the immediate postural hypotensive response to the initial dose of prazosin.
An experimental model of focal segmental glomerular sclerosis (FSGS) was developed in rats by the combined administration of puromycin-aminonucleoside (AMNS) and protamine sulfate (PS). Male Sprague-Dawley rats, uninephrectomized three weeks before, received daily injections of subcutaneous AMNS (1 mg/100 g body wt) and intravenous PS (2 separated doses of 2.5 mg/100 g body wt) for four days. The series of injections were repeated another three times at 10 day intervals. The animals were sacrificed on days 24, 52, and 80. They developed nephrotic syndrome and finally renal failure. The time-course curve of creatinine clearance dropped and showed significant difference (P less than 0.01) from that of each control group, such as, AMNS alone, PS alone or saline injected. Their glomeruli showed changes of progressive FSGS. The ultrastructural studies in the initial stage revealed significant lack of particles of perfused ruthenium red on the lamina rara externa and marked changes in epithelial cell cytoplasm. Therefore, it is suggested that the administration of PS enhances the toxicity of AMNS on the glomerulus and readily produces progressive FSGS in rats resulting in the end-stage renal disease.
Aetiological fractions are often used as an indirect measure of morbidity and mortality related to a specific risk factor. Aetiological fractions previously used in Australia for cocaine-related antenatal haemorrhage and low birth weight newborns have relied on risk ratios calculated from US-based studies. As outlined in this paper, there are several differences in the use and prevalence of cocaine and its associated harms between the two nations. As such, it is recommended that any use of these aetiological fractions with Australian data should occur with caution.
Cardiotoxicity is the main complication of adriamycin (ADR), which is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent.
To examine the potential cardioprotective effect of melatonin (MEL) on acute ADR cardiotoxicity in a rat model.
Cardioprotection was assessed on the basis of myocardial lipid peroxidation and ultrastructure. Rats were given MEL at a daily dose of 5 mg/kg and ADR 15 mg/kg, intraperitoneally. The MEL-1 group rats received one dose and the MEL-7 group rats six daily doses of MEL and were sacrificed at the end of one and seven days, respectively. Rats in the ADR-1 and ADR-7 groups were each given a single dose of ADR, and were then sacrificed 24 h and seven days later, respectively. The MEL+ADR-1 group rats received one dose each of ADR and MEL simultaneously and were sacrificed 24 h later. The MEL+ADR-7 group received a single dose of ADR plus a daily MEL dose for six consecutive days, and were sacrificed seven days after the ADR injection.
Lipid peroxidation products were elevated in both ADR-1 and ADR-7 groups, and this elevation was significantly inhibited by MEL treatment. Electron microscopy confirmed that ADR was positively cardiotoxic after one and seven days of exposure. The extent of ADR-induced myocardial damage was markedly reduced when MEL was combined with ADR (MEL+ADR-1 and MEL+ADR-7).
The results suggest that MEL is highly efficacious at reducing the acute cardiotoxic effects of high dose ADR, and that it acts by preventing lipid peroxidation.
Female Wistar rats were exposed to various solvent vapors 8 h/d for 7 d. The leukocyte suspension and serum were prepared from peripheral blood and utilized for the determination of alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity with disodium phenyl phosphate as a substrate [leukocyte AP (LAP) and serum AP (SAP) assay]. While the exposure to benzene at 20 or 50 ppm did not cause significant changes in LAP activity, the exposure at 100 and 300 ppm resulted in a dose-dependent increase of LAP activity up to more than 100% over the control. No further increase was observed at 1000 or 3000 ppm. Similar exposure at 300 ppm to either toluene, m-xylene, n-hexane, trichloroethylene, methyl ethyl ketone, ethyl acetate, or methyl alcohol did not induce any changes in LAP activity. Thus, the increase in LAP activity was considered to be specific to benzene exposure. When the animals were exposed to toluene (300 ppm) in combination with benzene (300 ppm), not only was the benzene-induced leukopenia alleviated as previously reported, but the benzene-induced increase in LAP activity was no longer observed. The parallel inhibitory effects of toluene on benzene-induced increase in LAP and leukopenia suggest that a relation may exist between increase in LAP activity and leukopenia. No changes in SAP activities were observed in the rats under the exposure conditions examined.
Polycythemia in a black woman was associated with hemoglobin Osler. In this hemoglobin the tyrosine at the penultimate position of the beta chain is replaced by aspartic acid. As a result oxygen affinity of the hemoglobin is very high, heme-heme interaction is absent, and the influence of hydrogen ion and 2,3 diphosphoglycerate on oxygen affinity is attenuated.
Cocaine dependence aetiology is complex and genetically influenced. We hypothesize that, for many users, efficient metabolism of cocaine and its toxic byproducts aids persistent cocaine use, such as that leading to dependence. The glutathione-S-transferases - in particular, GST-Pi - may be important in preventing cocaine and alcohol-induced oxidative damage. We genotyped a GST-Pi functional polymorphism (Ile105Val) in 654 male cocaine users and 572 controls from Brazil. Genotype and allele frequencies of Ile105Val differed significantly (chi = 6.74; P=0.03 and chi = 6.54; P = 0.01, respectively). Ile/Ile cocaine dependents had an OR = 1.31 (95%CI: 1.04-1.65), and Ile/Ile dependents consuming >50 units alcohol weekly an OR of 1.44 (95% CI:1.06-1.96). Population stratification was assessed and did not affect the results. These data require replication but do suggest that the high activity Ile105 GST-Pi allele may influence the aetiology and development of cocaine dependence.
This study evaluates cross-immunity in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) previously infected with one species of Leishmania and have had self-cured disease or were cured by antimony-based therapy upon development of full-blown disease. We found that a self-healing cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) following experimental infection with Leishmania (Leishmania) major induces significant protection for L. (L.) amazonensis and L. (Viannia) guyanensis, and was dependent on time of re-challenge by L (L.) amazonensis after animals had recovered from primary lesions, but lacked protection against L. (V.) braziliensis. In contrast, monkeys that recovered from L. (V.) braziliensis CL or L. (L.) chagasi visceral leishmaniasis following chemotherapeutic intervention were protected by challenge with L. (V.) braziliensis and L (L.) amazonensis. These findings indicate the relative variability in protection after self-cure or drug-cured experimental leishmaniasis to challenge by heterologous leishmanial parasites. Further studying the immune response may provide information regarding relevant factors influencing cross-protective immunity.
The objective was to evaluate the onset of action, analgesic efficacy and tolerability of Saridon*, a propyphenazone 150 mg/paracetamol 250 mg/caffeine 50 mg combination, in comparison with paracetamol 500 mg, aspirin 500 mg, ibuprofen 200 mg and placebo, by a pooled statistical analysis of eight studies. Out of 500 generally healthy patients (55.2% men, 44.8% women), average age 43.5 years, 329 (65.8%) had moderate and 171 (34.2%) severe acute dentoalveolar pain. More Saridon-treated patients reported 'pain gone/partly gone' and less 'pain unchanged or worse' compared with paracetamol, aspirin and placebo 30min (p = 0.009, p < 0.001, p = 0.001, respectively) and 60 min after dosing (p < 0.0001 for all). The difference with ibuprofen was observed 60 min after dosing (p < 0.01). Pain intensity differences 30 min and 60 min after dosing infer that Saridon has a faster onset of action than all of the other medications that it was compared with (ibuprofen at only 60 min after dosing). Total pain relief scores four hours after dosing were higher in the Saridon group compared with the paracetamol, ibuprofen, placebo (p < 0.0001 for all) and aspirin groups (p < 0.01). At the end of the study, patients assessed Saridon as more efficacious than the other study medications (p < 0.0001 for all). No serious adverse events were observed with any of the drugs studied. All medications were well tolerated. Twenty patients (4.0%) reported adverse events with no significant differences between groups. The most common adverse events were gastrointestinal disorders, followed by nervous system, skin, subcutaneous tissue, respiratory, cardiac and general disorders. Saridon is an effective analgesic that combines the advantage of fast onset and effective analgesia as compared with paracetamol alone, ibuprofen, aspirin or placebo. The results of this pooled analysis of eight studies should be confirmed in a double-blind study, since seven of the studies included in this analysis were single blind.
Antithyroid drugs sometimes cause severe complications. Propylthiouracil (PTU) can be associated to ANCA positive vasculitis, most often related to myeloperoxidase subtype (ANCA-MPO). Our objective is to describe a female patient with Graves' disease, who developed PTU induced-autoimmune disease, with cutaneous, pulmonary, and renal lesions, associated with ANCA. Histopathological examination revealed diffuse pulmonary hemorrhage, and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis at the kidney biopsy. She was treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy and cyclophosphamide, with clinical improvement. This case highlights the need for greater awareness of this relatively rare adverse effect of propylthiouracil.
Toxicology and carcinogenesis studies of methylphenidate hydrochloride, a drug used in the treatment of attention-deficient disorders, were performed in F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice. In these studies, methylphenidate hydrochloride was administered for 2 years at doses of 0, 100, 500 or 1000 ppm in the feed to rats and at doses of 0, 50, 250, 500 ppm to mice in groups that consisted of 50 animals/dose/sex/species. The average amount of methylphenidate consumed per day was estimated to be 4-47 mg/kg/day for rats and 5-67 mg/kg/day for mice. Survival was similar in dosed and control groups. An increase in benign tumors of the liver and increased liver weights were observed in male and female mice at the high dose. An increase in hepatoblastomas was also seen in high dose male mice. Methylphenidate was not mutagenic in the Salmonella assay system, and it is hypothesized that this tumorigenic effect might be due to nongenotoxic effects of the chemical such as an increase in cell proliferation. Increased incidences of neoplasms were not seen in rats. However, there was a notable decrease in mammary gland fibroadenomas in female rats and a marginal decrease in benign pheochromocytomas in male rats. Epidemiology studies of methylphenidate have found no evidence of a carcinogenic effect in humans and like our findings in rats, report a less than expected rate of cancers in patients taking methylphenidate.
Extracorporeal support with single-pass albumin dialysis (SPAD) may remove protein-bound toxins in acute liver failure. We evaluated the clinical, physiological and laboratory parameters of SPAD in acetaminophen-induced acute liver failure (AALF).
Retrospective case-control studies of AALF patients were used.
We identified 13 AALF patients (6 SPAD-treated, 7 controls). The average age was 38 years, 92% were female, none had cirrhosis and the Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) scores were 43. Eleven patients (85%) fulfilled the King's College criteria for a liver transplant. SPAD-treated patients received 21 sessions (total: 147 h, mean 3.5 runs or 24.5 h/patient). There were no complications. No significant changes in clinical, physiological or biochemical parameters occurred during SPAD. Compared with the controls, there were no significant differences in ICU or 1-year survival, liver recovery or referral for a liver transplant.
SPAD was well-tolerated in AALF; however, it was not associated with differences in clinical outcomes. While SPAD may be an adjuvant supportive therapy in AALF, prospective trials are needed.
Disturbances in sleep associated with chronic cocaine use may underlie abstinence-related cognitive dysfunction. We hypothesized that sleep-related cognitive function would be impaired in chronic cocaine users, and that this impairment would be associated with abstinence-related changes in sleep architecture.
Twelve chronic cocaine users completed a 23-day in-patient study that included randomized, placebo-controlled, cocaine self-administration sessions. We report polysomnographic measurement of rapid eye-movement (REM) sleep and slow-wave activity, and performance on a visual texture discrimination task.
Progressive abstinence from cocaine was associated with characteristic changes in REM sleep. REM sleep was shortest on nights following cocaine use and rebounded in the first week of abstinence before diminishing with progressive abstinence, following a pattern opposite that of slow-wave activity. Overnight visual learning was observed over the first night following 3 consecutive days of laboratory cocaine use; however, learning was not observed at 3 days or 17 days of abstinence. Across all points of abstinence, early-night slow-wave activity was associated strongly with non-deterioration of visual performance overnight. Furthermore, overnight enhancement of visual performance was predicted by the co-occurrence of sufficient early-night slow-wave activity and late night REM sleep, similar to results from studies in healthy subjects.
These results suggest that abstinence-associated sleep-dependent learning deficits are related to characteristic changes in sleep architecture, and promote the idea that treatments directed at sleep ('somno-tropic' treatments) could be helpful in offsetting physiological consequences of cocaine abstinence.
Cadmium (Cd), mercury (Hg) and copper (Cu) are very toxic environmental pollutants that exert their cytotoxic effects as cations by targeting mitochondria. To further underscore molecular mechanism(s) underlying the heavy metal-induced mitochondrial dysfunction we continued to compare the action of Cd, Hg and Cu using a simple and convenient in vitro model, namely isolated rat liver mitochondria incubated in assay media of different ionic contents and energized by respiratory substrates, glutamate plus malate for complex I, succinate plus rotenone for complex II, and ascorbate plus tetramethylphenylenediamine for complex IV. With the help of various selective electrodes, fluorescent probes, isotope and spectrophotofluorometric techniques, significant differences were found in the modulating action of various substances affecting the activity of these respiratory chain complexes and mitochondrial Ca²+ uniporter or permeability transition pore effectors on the mitochondrial function disturbed by the heavy metals, including clear-cut substrate specificity of many effects of these cations. Sequence of events manifested in the mitochondrial dysfunction produced by the metals under test was elucidated.
To investigate whether nasal peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) attenuation is associated with visual field loss attributed to the anti-epileptic drug vigabatrin.
Prospective cross-sectional observational study.
Twenty-seven individuals with focal-onset epilepsy exposed to vigabatrin and 13 individuals with focal-onset epilepsy exposed to non-GABAergic anti-epileptic drug monotherapy.
At one visit, suprathreshold perimetry of the central and peripheral field (3-zone, age-corrected Full Field 135 Screening Test) and threshold perimetry of the central field (Program 30-2 and the FASTPAC strategy) were undertaken using the Humphrey Field Analyzer (Carl Zeiss Meditech, Dublin, CA). At a second visit, ocular coherence tomography was undertaken for the right eye using the 3.4 RNFL thickness protocol of the StratusOCT (Carl Zeiss Meditech).
The magnitude, for each individual, of the RNFL thickness, averaged across the 4 oblique quadrants, and for each separate quadrant.
Of the 27 individuals exposed to vigabatrin, 11 (group I) exhibited vigabatrin-attributed visual field loss, 15 exhibited a normal field, and 1 exhibited a homonymous quadrantanopia (group II). All 13 individuals exposed to non-GABAergic therapy had normal fields (group III). All individuals in group I exhibited abnormal average and nasal quadrant RNFL thicknesses in the presence of a normal temporal quadrant thickness. Most also exhibited additional RNFL attenuation in either the superior or inferior quadrant, or both. Four individuals in group II exhibited an identical pattern of RNFL attenuation suggesting that nasal RNFL thinning is a more sensitive marker for vigabatrin toxicity than visual field loss. None of the 13 individuals in group III exhibited nasal quadrant RNFL attenuation.
Vigabatrin-attributed visual field loss is associated with a characteristic pattern of RNFL attenuation: nasal quadrant thinning and normal temporal quadrant thickness with, or without, superior or inferior quadrant involvement. Nasal attenuation may precede visual field loss. Ocular coherence tomography of the peripapillary RNFL should be considered in patients previously exposed to vigabatrin. It should also be considered at baseline and follow-up in those commencing vigabatrin for treatment of epilepsy or in trials for anti-addiction therapy. The pattern of RNFL thinning seems to be a useful biomarker to identify vigabatrin toxicity.
Of 113 methyl isocyanate (MIC)-exposed subjects studied initially at Bhopal, India, 79, 56, 68, and 87 were followed with clinical, lung function, radiographic, and immunologic tests at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. Though our cohort consisted of subjects at all ages showing a varied severity of initial illness, fewer females and young subjects were seen. Initially all had eye problems, but dominant symptoms were exertional dyspnea, cough, chest pain, sputum, and muscle weakness. A large number showed persistent depression mixed with anxiety, with disturbances of personality parameters. The early radiographic changes were lung edema, overinflation, enlarged heart, pleural scars, and consolidation. The persistent changes seen were interstitial deposits. Lung functions showed mainly restrictive changes with small airway obstruction; there was impairment of oxygen exchange. Oxygen exchange improved at 3-6 months, and spirometry improved at 12 months, only to decline later. The expiratory flow rates pertaining to large and medium airway function improved, but those for small airways remained low. There were changes of alveolitis in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid on fiber optic bronchoscopy, and in 11 cases positive MIC-specific antibodies to IgM, IgG, and IgE were demonstrated. On follow up, only 48% of the subjects were clinically stable, while 50% showed fluctuations. Thirty-two percent of the subjects had lung function fluctuations. Detailed sequential behavior over 2-4 years was predicted for dyspnea, forced vital capacity, maximum expiratory flow rate (0.25-0.75), peak expiratory flow rate, VO2, and depression score. A model for clinical behavior explained a total variance of 52.4% by using the factors of cough, PCO2 and X-ray zones in addition to above five parameters. The behavior of the railway colony group (1640 patients) revealed a similar pattern of illness. When this observed pattern of changes was transferred to the affected Bhopal city sections (with an equitable age-sex distribution), our model results were again validated. Thus the picture of MIC-induced disease seems similar despite the differences for age-sex and initial severity of illness in our cohort and in the population of Bhopal city as predicted by our model.
Melatonin is a neurohormone produced by the human pineal gland that plays a role in the regulation of many physiologic processes and has been proposed as a therapy for everything from insomnia to metastatic carcinoma. Melatonin is available in the United States without prescription, and adverse effects appear to be uncommon. However, because melatonin appears to have immunomodulatory properties, the potential exists for the development of autoimmune-related side effects. We describe a patient in whom characteristic clinical and laboratory features of autoimmune hepatitis developed after beginning melatonin therapy for the treatment of insomnia. Liver biopsy demonstrated histologic features of autoimmune hepatitis. Rapid symptomatic and biochemical improvement resulted from the initiation of immunosuppressive therapy; however, hepatitis recurred after the withdrawal of steroid therapy. The temporal relation observed between melatonin use and the development of autoimmune hepatitis raises the possibility that the drug might be involved in the pathogenesis of this patient's autoimmune disease.
Vasodilator agents have been used to decrease pulmonary arterial pressure in patients with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTPH). A case is reported of a patient who had a severe hemodynamic deterioration after 10 mg of sublingual nifedipine. A review of cases of CTPH treated with vasodilators is also discussed.
Fibroblasts are key mediators of fibrosis in the kidney and other organs, but their origin during fibrosis is still not completely clear. Activated fibroblasts likely arise from resident quiescent fibroblasts via epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and from the bone marrow. Here, we demonstrate that endothelial cells also contribute to the emergence of fibroblasts during kidney fibrosis via the process of endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT). We examined the contribution of EndMT to renal fibrosis in three mouse models of chronic kidney disease: (1) Unilateral ureteral obstructive nephropathy, (2) streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy, and (3) a model of Alport renal disease. Approximately 30 to 50% of fibroblasts coexpressed the endothelial marker CD31 and markers of fibroblasts and myofibroblasts such as fibroblast specific protein-1 and alpha-smooth muscle actin. Endothelial lineage tracing using Tie2-Cre;R26R-stop-EYFP transgenic mice further confirmed the presence of EndMT-derived fibroblasts. Collectively, our results demonstrate that EndMT contributes to the accumulation of activated fibroblasts and myofibroblasts in kidney fibrosis and suggest that targeting EndMT might have therapeutic potential.
A 75-year-old woman developed acute urinary retention after ingestion of 20 100 mg ethchlorvynol tablets in a suicide attempt. To the authors' knowledge acute bladder dysfunction has not been previously ascribed to ethchlorvynol, but has been described often with therapy with various psychotropic medications. The mechanism of such bladder dysfunction may be direct action on bladder muscle, or parasympathetic cholinergic blockade, but has not been clarified. The risk of acute bladder dysfunction and the possibility of underlying bladder disorder must be considered in all patients receiving sedative-hypnotic drugs, particularly the elderly.
Both lead (Pb) exposure and prenatal stress (PS) can produce cognitive deficits, and in a prior study we demonstrated enhanced cognitive deficits in repeated learning of female rats exposed to both of these developmental insults (Cory-Slechta et al., 2010). However, PS can also lead to improved cognitive outcomes that are both gender- and context-dependent. Thus, the current study examined whether Pb ± PS likewise produced repeated learning deficits in males, either after maternal or lifetime Pb exposure. Repeated learning was evaluated using a multiple schedule of repeated learning and performance that required learning 3-response sequences in male offspring that had been subjected to either maternal Pb (0 or 150 ppm) or lifetime Pb exposure (0 or 50 ppm) beginning two months prior to dam breeding, to prenatal immobilization restraint stress (gestational days 16-17), or to both Pb and PS. Blood Pb, corticosterone, hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor density and brain monoamines were also measured. In contrast to outcomes in females, sequence-specific enhancements of repeated learning accuracy were produced by PS, particularly when combined with Pb, results that appeared to be more robust in combination with lifetime than maternal Pb exposure. A common behavioral mechanism of these improvements appears to be an increased reinforcement density associated with increased response rates and shorter session times seen with PS ± Pb that could shorten time to reinforcement. Trends toward lower levels of nucleus accumbens dopamine activity seen after both maternal Pb and lifetime Pb combined with PS suggest a possible role for this region/neurotransmitter in enhanced accuracy, whereas PS ± Pb-induced corticosterone changes did not exhibit an obvious systematic relationship to accuracy enhancements. While PS ± Pb-based increases in accuracy appear to be an improved outcome, the benefits of increased response rate are by no means universal, but highly context-dependent and can lead to adverse behavioral effects in other conditions.
Benzo[a]pyrene-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE), a metabolite of Benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P), is a high-risk factor for development of a number of cancers. DNA damage caused by BPDE is normally repaired by Nucleotide Excision Repair system of which ERCC1 exerts an important role. We investigated whether two single nucleotide polymorphisms in ERCC1 (C19007T; rs11615 and C8092A; rs3213986) affected the repair efficacy of BPDE-DNA adducts. We collected peripheral blood of 780 healthy individuals from the northeast of China and detected the genotypes of rs11615 and rs3213986. The amount of induced BPDE-DNA adducts in lymphocytes from 117 randomly selected participants was assessed by HPLC. Presence of BPDE-DNA adducts in nucleus of lymphocytes was visualized using the modified comet assay. ERCC1 and CAST (3' adjacent gene of ERCC1) mRNA expression levels were quantified after in vitro exposure to BPDE. We found that the minor A allele in rs3212986 was related to higher levels of BPDE-DNA adducts and holistic marking DNA damage (P < 0.01). Haplotype CA (rs11615 and rs3213986) was also associated with an elevated risk of high BPDE-DNA adduct levels (OR = 1.801, 95 % CI of OR 1.191-2.724). Interestingly, in participants with AA genotype for rs3213986, CAST mRNA level was decreased compared to individuals with the homozygous CC genotype. Our findings suggests that ERCC1 C8092A (rs3213986) is associated with a diminished capacity of repairing BPDE-DNA adducts and may be used as a valid biomarker to predict an individual's risk to develop cancer upon exposure to environmental carcinogens.
