To report the course of functional and imaging recovery of the auditory callosal pathway in a patient with 5-fluorouracil-induced leukoencephalopathy.
Case study.
University hospital.
A 58-year-old man with hypopharyngeal cancer who developed 5-fluorouracil-induced leukoencephalopathy.
Imaging (magnetic resonance imaging) and functional (dichotic listening test) evaluation on the auditory callosal pathway.
The patient underwent systemic chemotherapy with pirarubicin, cisplatin, and 5-fluorouracil. On the last day of the regimen, the patient suddenly became restless and convulsive. On diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance images, the signal intensity at the splenium of the corpus callosum was very high. Fluid-attenuated inversion recovery images showed no abnormal findings at this time. Intravenous methylprednisolone sodium succinate and glycerin 10% was started immediately. On the ninth day after onset, the patient was free of neurologic symptoms. Although pure-tone audiograms and speech discrimination scores were normal, dichotic listening tests revealed significant left ear suppression, indicating severe injury of the auditory callosal pathway. On fluid-attenuated inversion recovery images, the signal intensity at the splenium was high, whereas the posterior trunk was normal. At 6 weeks after onset, dichotic listening test results returned to normal and hyperintensity at the splenium was much less marked on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery images.
By using both functional and imaging modalities, this case study demonstrated, for the first time in a reversible manner, that the auditory callosal pathway runs through the most posterior part of the corpus callosum including the splenium. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging was considered useful for early diagnosis of 5-fluorouracil-induced leukoencephalopathy.
Eight cancer patients in the terminal stages of the disease treated with high doses of intravenous morphine developed hyperalgesia. All cases were retrospectively sampled from three different hospitals in Copenhagen. Five patients developed universal hyperalgesia and hyperesthesia which in 2 cases were accompanied by myoclonus. In 3 patients a pre-existing neuralgia increased to excruciating intensity and in 2 of these cases myoclonus occurred simultaneously. Although only few clinical descriptions of the relationship between hyperalgesia/myoclonus and high doses of morphine are available, experimental support from animal studies indicates that morphine, or its metabolites, plays a causative role for the observed behavioural syndrome. The possible mechanisms are discussed and treatment proposals given suggesting the use of more efficacious opioids with less excitatory potency in these situations.
Acute glucocorticoid (corticosterone) hypertension in the rate is significantly attenuated by neomycin administration (Honour 1981), as is ACTH-induced hypertension is the same species (Honour & Kent 1981) presumably by altering gut bacterial steroid metabolism. The effect on blood pressure of oral neomycin administration was therefore examined in hypertension resulting from administration of a variety of glucocorticoid hormones. Neomycin significantly attenuated the elevation of blood pressure following ACTH or corticosterone, as previously shown, or prednisolone 1 mg/day; it did not affect blood pressure in rats given dexamethasone 0.2 mg/day, or cortisol 4 mg twice daily. Since the differential effect of neomycin on hypertension parallels neither pressor nor glucocorticoid activity of the administered steroids we propose that it reflects different patterns of enterohepatic handling and metabolism.
Diisocyanates and 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane (MDA) are industrial sensitizers. Occupational asthma is a risk among workers exposed to diisocyanates. Exposure may also lead to contact sensitization and allergic contact dermatitis.
The aim of this study was to determine the occurrence of contact sensitization to MDA and to diisocyanates among general dermatology patients.
Patch testing with MDA was carried out in 1595 patients. Diphenylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate (MDI) and toluene-2,4-diisocyanate (TDI) were tested in 1023 patients and isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI) and 1,6-hexamethylene diisocyanate (HDI) in 433 patients. The clinical data and sources of exposure are analysed.
MDA reactions were seen in 17 (1.1%) patients and MDI reactions in 4 patients. Six MDA-positive patients reacted to p-phenylenediamine and two to epoxy chemicals. 5/10 of the TDI reactions were seen concurrently with reactions to MDI, MDA, HDI, or to IPDI. IPDI reactions were seen in eight patients and HDI reactions in two patients. Possible sources of exposure were traced in most patients, although the association with the current dermatitis was not apparent in all cases.
(Di)isocyanates may induce contact sensitization with or without allergic contact dermatitis.
A key consideration when undertaking risk assessments should be the potential for synergy between contact allergens. Previously, this concept has only been investigated during elicitation in contact allergic individuals.
To determine whether there exists evidence for synergy between contact allergens during the induction phase of skin sensitization using the mouse local lymph node assay (LLNA) as a model system.
Proliferative responses in draining lymph nodes were assessed with increasing concentrations of 1,4-phenylenediamine (PPD), methyldibromo glutaronitrile (MDBGN), and a combination of PPD and MDBGN.
Data from each of two independent experiments show that lymph node cell proliferation associated with combined exposure to PPD and MDBGN was, in general, only modestly increased relative to that predicted from a simple summation of their individual responses.
Although the increase in response is very modest, it does imply a relationship between this combination of sensitizers that may not be simply additive in terms of their ability to stimulate proliferative responses in draining lymph nodes. The reproducibility of this observation should be confirmed in future studies with additional pairs of contact allergens to ascertain whether or not this represents evidence of synergy.
Response rates of metastatic soft part sarcomas to chemotherapy have varied from 27 and 44% for our ALOMAD and OMAD protocols to 46-55% reported for CYVADIC. The present combination, CYOMAD, consists of the induction part of ALOMAD (vincristine, high-dose methotrexate with citrovorum factor rescue, Adriamycin and DTIC) alternating with a condensed version of CYVADIC (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, adriamycin and DTIC). Forty-one patients with advanced soft-part sarcomas were entered on the CYOMAD program of whom 36 were considered evaluable. Complete responses (CR) were seen in four patients had partial (PR) in five patients for a major response rate of 25%. Responders had an overall longer survival than nonresponders (20 versus 13 months). Toxicity was substantial with both gastrointestinal side effects and myelosupression common. Possible Adriamycin cardiotoxicity was noted in four patients. Cyomad offered no therapeutic advantage over previous protocols and was even less well tolerated than some.
Chronic inflammation-promoted metastasis has been considered as a major challenge in cancer therapy. Pro-inflammatory cytokine TNFα can induce cancer invasion and metastasis associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, the underlying mechanisms are not entirely clear. In this study, we showed that TNFα induces EMT in human HCT116 cells and thereby promotes colorectal cancer (CRC) invasion and metastasis. TNFα-induced EMT was characterized by acquiring mesenchymal spindle-like morphology and increasing the expression of N-cadherin and fibronectin with a concomitant decrease of E-cadherin and Zona occludin-1(ZO-1). TNFα treatment also increased the expression of transcription factor Snail, but not Slug, ZEB1 and Twist. Overexpression of Snail induced a switch from E-cadherin to N-cadherin expression in HCT116 cells, which is a characteristic of EMT. Conversely, knockdown of Snail significantly attenuated TNFα-induced EMT in HCT116 cells, suggesting that Snail plays a crucial role in TNFα-induced EMT. Interestingly, exposure to TNFα rapidly increased Snail protein expression and Snail nuclear localization but not mRNA level upregulation. Finally, we demonstrated that TNFα elevated Snail stability by activating AKT pathway and subsequently repressing GSK-3β activity and decreasing the association of Snail with GSK-3β. Knockdown of GSK-3β further verified our finding. Taken together, these results revealed that AKT/GSK-3β-mediated stabilization of Snail is required for TNFα-induced EMT in CRC cells. Our study provides a better understanding of inflammation-induced CRC metastasis.
Zinc is highly concentrated in pancreatic beta cells, is critical for normal insulin storage and may regulate glucagon secretion from alpha cells. Zinc transport family member 8 (ZnT8) is a zinc efflux transporter that is highly abundant in beta cells. Polymorphisms of ZnT8 (also known as SLC30A8) gene in man are associated with increased risk of type 2 diabetes. While global Znt8 knockout (Znt8KO) mice have been characterised, ZnT8 is also present in other islet cell types and extra-pancreatic tissues. Therefore, it is important to find ways of understanding the role of ZnT8 in beta and alpha cells without the difficulties caused by the confounding effects of ZnT8 in these other tissues.
We generated mice with beta cell-specific (Znt8BKO) and alpha cell-specific (Znt8AKO) knockout of Znt8, and performed in vivo and in vitro characterisation of the phenotypes to determine the functional and anatomical impact of ZnT8 in these cells. Thus we assessed zinc accumulation, insulin granule morphology, insulin biosynthesis and secretion, and glucose homeostasis.
Znt8BKO mice are glucose-intolerant, have reduced beta cell zinc accumulation and atypical insulin granules. They also display reduced first-phase glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, reduced insulin processing enzyme transcripts and increased proinsulin levels. In contrast, Znt8AKO mice show no evident abnormalities in plasma glucagon and glucose homeostasis.
This is the first report of specific beta and alpha cell deletion of Znt8. Our data indicate that while, under the conditions studied, ZnT8 is absolutely essential for proper beta cell function, it is largely dispensable for alpha cell function.
To identify new risk variants for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we conducted a genome-wide association study of 299,983 tagging SNPs, with validation in four additional series totaling 2,503 cases and 5,789 controls. We identified four new risk loci for CLL at 2q37.3 (rs757978, FARP2; odds ratio (OR) = 1.39; P = 2.11 x 10(-9)), 8q24.21 (rs2456449; OR = 1.26; P = 7.84 x 10(-10)), 15q21.3 (rs7169431; OR = 1.36; P = 4.74 x 10(-7)) and 16q24.1 (rs305061; OR = 1.22; P = 3.60 x 10(-7)). We also found evidence for risk loci at 15q25.2 (rs783540, CPEB1; OR = 1.18; P = 3.67 x 10(-6)) and 18q21.1 (rs1036935; OR = 1.22; P = 2.28 x 10(-6)). These data provide further evidence for genetic susceptibility to this B-cell hematological malignancy.
Benzodiazepine discontinuation is characterized by a syndrome of increased activity and reduced seizure threshold that is similar to effects mediated by the glutamatergic system. To elucidate the involvement of the glutamatergic system in benzodiazepine tolerance and discontinuation, we administered lorazepam, the NMDA antagonist CPP, and the combination of these compounds either concomitantly or consecutively to mice via osmotic pumps and evaluated pentylenetetrazole-induced seizure threshold, open-field activity, and benzodiazepine receptor binding during and after chronic administration. Animals receiving lorazepam alone developed partial tolerance at 7 days and complete tolerance at 14 days to the anticonvulsant effects of lorazepam. This effect was partly attenuated by CPP coadministration with lorazepam. This combination produced only partial tolerance. A reduction in seizure threshold was observed 4 days after discontinuation of lorazepam alone. This effect was abolished by coadministration of CPP with lorazepam and by CPP administration during the withdrawal period. Benzodiazepine binding in most structures examined was significantly reduced at 14 days during chronic lorazepam administration (versus 1 day), and coadministration of CPP did not alter this decrement. After lorazepam discontinuation, binding was increased at 4 and 7 days versus chronically treated animals and versus vehicle within the cerebral cortex. This effect was abolished by coadministration of CPP as well as by CPP administration during the lorazepam withdrawal period. These data support the involvement of the glutamatergic system in benzodiazepine tolerance and discontinuation.
In the last five years the combination of ticlopidine plus aspirin has been the treatment of choice to avoid thrombi formation after the implantation of intracoronary stents. The adverse effects observed include the appearance of a maculopapulous, pruritic, painless, cutaneous rash. We present the case of a patient who developed leucocytoclastic vasculitis associated with the administration of ticlopidine.
Schizophrenia and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have historical, clinical, and epidemiological links. The clinical use of atypical neuroleptics (ie, dual serotonin-dopamine antagonists) to treat both conditions sheds a new light on them. We report the first two cases of obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCS) induced by quetiapine in schizophrenia patients. A case of successful augmentation by quetiapine in refractory OCD is also presented. A review of the literature on OCS induced by atypical neuroleptics follows. This paradoxically induced OCD symptomology in schizophrenia patients administered atypical neuroleptics is discussed from new pathophysiological and clinical perspectives. The discussion emphasizes the prognostic implications of OCS in schizophrenia and available therapies for this comorbidity.
Three modes of administration of alfentanil were assessed in order to reduce pain on injection with propofol. Forty healthy children scheduled for ENT surgery were included in this double-blind randomized study. All patients received intrarectal premedication with midazolam and atropine. Pain was scored with a behavioral scale. The children experience pain when alfentanil was administered a few seconds before or just after propofol. An bolus injection reduced significantly discomfort in patients. Dosages of alfentanil in plasma might determine the right moment of propofol injection to obtain analgesia.
We investigated the effects of age on adriamycin-induced nephropathy in mice. Disease was produced by a single intravenous injection of adriamycin (doxorubicin hydrochloride) (AD, 20 mg/kg) in female Balb/C mice of 5 and 12 weeks of age. Urinary protein and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 concentrations were measured and the extent of glomerular sclerosis/hyalinosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis was scored. Decorin and fibromodulin expression was quantified using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. In normal mouse kidneys, urinary TGF-beta1 excretion and decorin and fibromodulin mRNA did not change with age. When nephropathy was induced, the 12-week-old group demonstrated significantly greater proteinuria, urinary TGF-beta1 excretion, and interstitial fibrosis ( P<0.05) than the 5-week-old group. Decorin and fibromodulin expression was not significantly different between the groups. We conclude that 12-week-old mice develop more severe nephropathy than the younger mice following administration of the equivalent weight-based dose of AD. Decorin and fibromodulin do not play a role in this difference.
Widespread use of pesticides in agriculture represents a threat not only to the environment but also to human populations exposed to them. Many of these compounds are capable of inducing mutations in DNA and lead to several diseases including cancer. In the present study, cytogenetic damage in peripheral lymphocytes from 33 farmers of Oporto district (Portugal) exposed to pesticides was evaluated by means of micronuclei (MN), sister chromatid exchange (SCE) and chromosomal aberrations (CA). In addition, effect of polymorphic genes of xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes (GSTM1, GSTT1, GSTP1, CYP2E1 and EPHX1) was also evaluated. A non-exposed group from the same area and with same demographic characteristics without exposure to genotoxic compounds was studied and data obtained from both groups was compared. MN and SCE frequencies were significantly higher in the exposed group (P < 0.005). In what concerns CA results, no significant differences were observed. It was possible to relate a specific working environment (greenhouses) with higher levels of genetic damage. Use of personal protective equipment revealed to be important to prevent exposure and diminish genetic damage inflicted by pesticides. Allele frequencies of studied polymorphic genes obtained in this study are similar to the ones described by other authors for Caucasian populations. Despite the low number of subjects, results suggest that low mEH (microsomal epoxide hydrolase) activity as well as GSTT1 positive genotype are associated with increased cytogenetic damage.
Adult females of ICR strain of mice were bred, separated into different experimental groups, and treated as follows. On Days 2-4 of pregnancy, the mice received daily subcutaneous injections of either 0.05 ml sesame oil (vehicle) or same volume of 5.0mg of purified methoxychlor (MXC) suspended in the vehicle. Another group received a single subcutaneous injection of 1.0 microg of estradiol-17beta (E) on Day 2 of pregnancy only. Male offspring were tested at 3 and 6 months of age. At 3 months, E or MXC did not alter the weights of seminal vesicles, preputial glands, or testes, although after exposure for 30 min to a female in estrus behind a partition, testosterone levels were significantly reduced in treated males in comparison to control males exposed to the same partition test. At 6 months, the preputial glands and testes weight remained unchanged, while the seminal vesicles were significantly heavier in E- and MXC-treated males. Same partition tests again revealed that in E and MXC groups, testosterone levels remained significantly lower in comparison to control males. MXC or E exposures during preimplantation appear to induce long-term effects on the sexual development in 3 and 6 month-old-males by compromising their sexual arousal and altering seminal vesicles weights in the older group.
Following the demonstration that vinorelbine improves survival and quality of life compared with best supportive care in elderly patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), we started the three-arm prospective Multicenter Italian Lung Cancer in the Elderly Study (MILES) trial of vinorelbine, gemcitabine and gemcitabine + vinorelbine.
Within the randomized phase 3 trial, pilot single-stage phase 2 studies were planned for gemcitabine and for gemcitabine + vinorelbine. Eligible patients are aged 70 or more, with stage IV or IIIb (with metastatic supraclavear nodes or malignant pleural effusion) NSCLC. Single-agent gemcitabine is given at 1200 mg/m(2) on days 1 and 8; in the combination, gemcitabine is given at 1000 mg/m(2) and vinorelbine at 25 mg/m(2), both on days 1 and 8, every 3 weeks.
As planned 49 patients were enrolled in each group. Median age was 74 in both groups. Two-thirds of patients had stage IV disease. The response rate was 18.4% (95% exact CI 8.8-32.0) with both treatments. With single-agent gemcitabine main toxicities were grade 4 thrombocytopenia and grade 2 hepatic toxicity, in one patient each, and grade 2 pulmonary toxicity in two patients. With gemcitabine + vinorelbine combination there were grade 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia (one patient each), grade 3 anemia requiring red blood cell transfusion (two patients), and grade 4 fever in two patients. Four patients, with severe cardiac comorbidities, suffered grade 3 heart toxicity with atrial flutter or fibrillation, followed by congestive heart failure responsive to treatment.
Both single-agent gemcitabine and the gemcitabine + vinorelbine combination are sufficiently active and tolerable to allow continuation of the MILES study.
Administration of oral contraceptive (OC) steroids is associated with an increased risk of developing hypertension, although the mechanisms underlying this effect are not well established. This study therefore sought to investigate the effect of L-type calcium channel blocker, nifedipine on OC-induced hypertension.
Female Sprague-Dawley rats received OC (norgestrel/ethinyloestradiol) and/or nifedipine orally for 10 weeks. . Blood pressure and heart rate were thereafter recorded under anaesthesia from the femoral artery with a Grass Polygraph 7D model, whereas plasma and urinary Na+ and K+ concentrations were measured using a flame photometer. The stable oxidation products of nitric oxide, urinary nitrite/nitrate (NO) were measured in urine by means of the brucine method.
OC administration led to significant (p<0.05) increases in blood pressure and plasma Na+, and decreases in body weight, food and water consumption, excretion of Na+ and NO. Concomitant treatment with nifedipine significantly (p<0.05) abrogated the alterations induced by OC administration.
This study provides evidence that the development of OC-induced hypertension is prevented by calcium channel blockade via improved renal handling of sodium and nitric oxide. The finding confirms the involvement of calcium channels in OC hypertension.
To investigate the validity and safety of different doses of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) in attempting to maintain the regression of colorectal adenomas in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC).
Twenty-two FAP patients who were willing to receive celecoxib were randomly divided into 2 groups 400 mg/d group (n = 8, taking celecoxib 400 mg/d) and 200 mg/d group (n = 10, taking celecoxib 200 mg/d). Four FAP patients who refused celecoxib and selected aspirin 80 mg/d instead. Six HNPCC patients were given celecoxib 400 mg daily. The treatment lasted for 24 months in all groups. The efficacy was evaluated respectively by the number and grade of polyps by coloscopy every 3 months in the first year and every 6 months in the second year.
Either dose of celecoxib could reduce polyps in the FAP patients, with a polyps reduction rate of 86.6% (280/323) in the 400 mg group, significantly higher than that in the 200 mg group [51.81% (129/249) of the aspirin group]. In 5 of the 6 HNPCC patients the polyps completely vanished after 9 months of treatment. Side effects, such as arrhythmia, angina pectoris, and nervous headache, were observed in the celecoxib 400 mg/d group. The side effects could be reversed by decreasing the dose of celecoxib or using aspirin instead. Only one patient in the celecoxib 200 mg/d group showed side effects.
Celecoxib 400 mg daily is more effective but has more side effects. At first the patients should be treated with celecoxib 200 mg daily for a long time, or 400 mg/d in the first 6 months and then with a daily dose of 200 mg/d to maintain the treatment effects. Soluble aspirin has similar effects.
A 49-year-old man with Wegener's granulomatosis, who had been treated with cyclophosphamide, was admitted to our hospital experiencing gross hematuria. The hemorrhage was refractory to multiple conventional treatments. It progressed but later was resolved after a course of hyperbaric oxygen therapy.
As oral corticosteroids have a beneficial effect on muscle strength in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, it has been suggested that they may also be a useful treatment in the pathologically related sarcoglycanopathies. The delta-sarcoglycan-deficient mouse (Sgcd-null) is a model for both limb girdle muscular dystrophy 2F (LGMD2F) and dilated cardiomyopathy.
To study the effect of oral corticosteroids on cardiac function, we treated 8-week-old Sgcd-null mice with prednisolone (1.5 mg/kg body weight/day orally) for 8 weeks. In vivo cardiac function was assessed by pressure-volume loops using a conductance catheter. We found a well-compensated cardiomyopathy at baseline in Sgcd-null mice with decreased myocardial contractility, increased preload, and decreased afterload, maintaining a high cardiac output. Cardiac haemodynamics, surprisingly, did not improve in prednisolone-treated mice, but instead deteriorated with evidence of ventricular stiffening. On histology, after steroid treatment there was increased myocardial cell damage and increased myocardial fibrosis.
Prednisolone led to a decompensation of cardiac haemodynamics in Sgcd-null mice and induced additional cardiac damage. On the basis of these findings, although mouse models may not completely replicate the human situation for LGMD2F, we conclude that careful cardiac monitoring is clearly indicated in patients on long-term corticosteroids.
L-dopa therapy for Parkinson's disease leads to dyskinesias or abnormal involuntary movement (AIMs) for which there are few treatment options. Our previous data showed that nicotine administration reduced L-dopa-induced AIMs in parkinsonian monkeys and rats. To further understand how nicotine mediates its antidyskinetic action, we investigated the effect of nicotinic receptor (nAChR) agonists in unilateral 6-OHDA-lesioned rats with varying striatal damage. We first tested the drugs in L-dopa-treated rats with a near-complete striatal dopamine lesion (>99%), the standard rodent dyskinesia model. Varenicline, an agonist that interacts with multiple nAChRs, did not significantly reduce L-dopa-induced AIMs, while 5-iodo-A-85380 (A-85380), which acts selectively at α4β2* and α6β2* subtypes, reduced AIMs by 20%. By contrast, both varenicline and A-85380 reduced L-dopa-induced AIMs by 40-50% in rats with a partial striatal dopamine lesion. Neither drug worsened the antiparkinsonian action of L-dopa. The results show that selective nicotinic agonists reduce dyskinesias, and that they are optimally effective in animals with partial striatal dopamine damage. These findings suggest that presynaptic dopamine terminal α4β2* and α6β2* nAChRs are critical for nicotine's antidyskinetic action. The current data have important implications for the use of nicotinic receptor-directed drugs for L-dopa-induced dyskinesias, a debilitating motor complication of dopamine replacement therapy for Parkinson's disease.
Myocardial injury and acute coronary syndrome have been rarely associated with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid intake. The responsible pathogenetic mechanism is described by an amplified mast cell degranulation inducing coronary artery spasm and/or acute myocardial infarction in susceptible individuals which is called Kounis syndrome. We report here a case of Kounis syndrome presented with acute coronary syndrome due to amoxicillin/clavulanic acid use. All other etiologies, including ischemic reinfarction were appropriately ruled out.
Male, nonarteriosclerotic (virgin) intact and castrated, Sprague-Dawley rats and male, arteriosclerotic (breeder) rats were subjected to an acute and massive myocardial infarct, by treating them with two large, subcutaneous doses of isoproterenol, spaced 24 hr apart. Serum insulin and glucose rose abruptly after the first injection of isoproterenol, but not after the second injection. Free fatty acids rose, most markedly, in the intact, nonarteriosclerotic rats, less in the arteriosclerotic breeders, and least in the castrates. These changes in free fatty acids coincided with numerical survival, i.e., greatest number of survivors in castrates. The castrated males also manifested the least amount of congestive heart failure and showed the greatest capacity to affect myocardial repair. It is suggested that reduced androgen levels may have an ameliorative effect on the usual pathogenesis of isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats.
We have examined the protective effect of taurine on the myocardial antioxidant defense system in isoprenaline (isoproterenol)-induced myocardial infarction in rats, an animal model of myocardial infarction in man. Levels of diagnostic marker enzymes in plasma, lipid peroxides and reduced glutathione, and the activity of glutathione-dependent antioxidant enzymes and anti-peroxidative enzymes in the heart tissue were determined. Intraperitoneal administration of taurine significantly prevented the isoprenaline-induced increases in the levels of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, and creatine phosphokinase in the plasma of rats. Taurine exerted an antioxidant effect against isoprenaline-induced myocardial infarction by preventing the accumulation of lipid peroxides and by maintaining the level of reduced glutathione and the activity of glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-S-transferase, catalase and superoxide dismutase at near normality. The results indicated that the cardioprotective potential of taurine was probably due to the increase of the activity of the free radical enzymes, or to a counteraction of free radicals by its antioxidant nature, or to a strengthening of myocardial membrane by its membrane stabilizing property.
This study examined the antinociceptive effect of Bauhinia microstachya (Leguminosae), a native plant widely distributed in the South of Brazil, in several chemical and mechanical models of pain. The methanolic extract (ME) from B. microstachya (3--30 mg kg(-1), i.p.) and the isolated compound quercitrin (1--10 mg kg(-1), i.p.), given 30 min earlier, produced a dose-dependent inhibition of acetic-acid-induced visceral pain in mice, with a mean ID50 value (dose necessary to reduce the nociceptive response by 50% relative to the control value) of 7.9 and 2.4 mg kg(-1), respectively. The ME of B. microstachya (3--100 mg kg(-1), i.p., 30 min earlier) also caused a dose-dependent inhibition of capsaicin-induced pain, with a mean ID50 value of 18.8 mg kg(-1). Moreover, the ME (3--100 mg kg(-1), i.p., 30 min earlier) produced marked inhibition of both phases of formalin-induced pain, with mean ID50 values for the neurogenic and the inflammatory phases of 30.3 and 17.2 mg kg(-1), respectively. In addition, the ME of B. microstachya (3--300 mg kg(-1), i.p., 30 min earlier) inhibited, in a graded manner, the hyperalgesia induced by bradykinin (3.2 microg/paw), substance P (13.5 microg/paw), carrageenan (300 microg/paw), capsaicin (100 microg/paw) and adrenaline (100 ng/paw) in the rat paw, with mean ID50 values of 20.5, 17.9, 101.8, 54.2 and 99.7 mg kg(-1), respectively. Taken together, these data demonstrate that ME of B. microstachya elicited a pronounced antinociceptive action against several chemical and mechanical models of pain in mice and rats. The precise mechanism responsible for the antinociceptive effect of the extract still remains unclear, but seems to be partly related to modulation of the release or action of pro-inflammatory mediators involved in the models of pain used. Finally, the flavonoid quercitrin isolated from this plant appears to contribute for the antinociceptive property of the methanolic extract.
