The possible involvement of nitric oxide (NO) in morphine-induced catalepsy and hyperthermia was studied in morphine-dependent rats. Four days repeated injection regimen was used to induce morphine dependence, which was assessed by naloxone challenge (0.5 mg x kg(-1), s.c.). Pretreatment of rats with the NO synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NA, 8 mg x kg(-1) twice daily, i.p.) potentiated the cataleptic response of morphine as shown by a rightward shift in the morphine-log dose-response curve. Prior treatment of rats with the NO precursor, L-arginine (200 mg x kg(-1), twice daily, i.p.) abolished the potent effect of L-NA and restored the cataleptic scores to levels similar to those of morphine-dependent rats. The same dose of L-NA significantly blocked morphine-induced hyperthermia at the dose levels of morphine (15-105 mg x kg(-1)) and this effect was reversed by L-arginine. These data provide the first experimental evidence that NO is involved in morphine induced catalepsy and hyperthermia and demonstrated that blockade of NO synthesis may suggest a dangerous interaction with opioids in the control of motor function.
To report the detailed clinical findings of patients with retinal toxicity that developed secondary to the use of hydroxychloroquine sulfate (n = 13), chloroquine phosphate (n = 2), or a combination of the agents (n = 1).
Ophthalmologic examination, fundus photography, visual field testing, and detailed electrophysiologic assessment were undertaken in all 16 affected patients. Selected patients also had spectral domain optical coherence tomography (n = 6) and fundus autofluorescence imaging (n = 4).
Sixteen women (mean age, 67 years; range, 44-85) were monitored for 7 years. The mean duration of hydroxychloroquine therapy was 13 years (range, 2-20). In patients in whom the daily dosage of hydroxychloroquine could be estimated (12 of 13), when using actual body weight, 8 were taking 6.5 mg/kg or less and 4 were taking greater than this recommended dosage. However, if lean body weight was used, 3 patients were taking 6.5 mg/kg or less and 9 were taking greater than this daily dosage. The most common (n = 10) presenting symptom was difficulty with reading; 4 women were asymptomatic. Two patients had preexisting retinal disease, 2 were obese, and none had renal or liver dysfunction. Fundus findings ranged from mild retinal pigment epithelial changes to bull's-eye maculopathy; 3 patients had a normal-appearing macula. Two patients had full-field electroretinograms that showed no abnormalities and 6 showed evidence of generalized retinal dysfunction with reduced rod and cone responses. All 15 patients who underwent multifocal electroretinography testing had evidence of bilateral macular cone dysfunction. Four patterns of visual field abnormality were observed in the 15 patients with abnormal visual fields, the most common (n = 10) being isolated central loss. Repeat electrophysiologic and visual field assessment provided evidence of disease progression despite cessation of medication in 6 patients, with documented progression for 7 years in 1 woman.
Sustained visual improvement following cessation of drug therapy was not observed in any patient in this series, and our identification of 6 patients with objective evidence of progression serves to remind physicians of the potentially devastating visual consequences of antimalarial-related retinal toxicity. It is also of note that profound abnormalities detected with visual field and multifocal electroretinography testing can be observed in the presence of a normal macular appearance, and our findings suggest that lean body weight should be used for all patients when calculating daily dosage.
Eight apparently normotensive Australian women patients developed hypertension after taking appetite-suppressant preparations which contained high doses of phenylpropanolamine. The margin between the maximum dose permitted to be sold in some States of Australia without prescription, and the doses documented as causing hypertension is small. Three patients took twice the recommended dose--a pattern of behaviour which has been described previously. Changes to the regulations governing the availability of phenylpropanolamine may have reduced the risk of this adverse effect, but the use and misuse of preparations still available over-the-counter may not be without danger.
This study was undertaken to examine the value of mannitol as protection against the acute nephrotoxicity of amphotericin B under controlled conditions in a reproducible model of toxicity in the dog. Eleven dogs received amphotericin B, 2.5 mg x kg-1 b. wt. by i.v. infusion over a 4-h period. Six dogs were treated with mannitol, 6.25 g, i.v. every hour and five served as controls. Urinary volume (V), inulin clearance (CIn), p-aminohippurate clearance (CPAH), and Na excretion (UNaV) were measured every hour throughout the experiment. Although a higher urinary output was maintained in mannitol-treated dogs, a progressive decline in renal function was observed in treated and in control dogs. During the 4th h, mannitol-treated dogs showed higher CIn (37.4 vs. 19.7 ml x min-1 and CPAH (95 vs. 54 ml x min-1 than controls. However, statistically the differences were barely significant. The results fail to show that mannitol offers a definite protection against amphotericin B nephrotoxicity.
Children with migraine may present to an emergency department (ED) when outpatient management has failed; however, only limited research has examined migraine-abortive medications among children.
A retrospective chart review of ED presentations for migraine or headache between July 1, 2004, and June 30, 2005, in 10 Canadian pediatric EDs was conducted. A priori, evidence-based treatments were defined as any treatment that was based on high-quality evidence and an absence of opioids as first-line agents.
A total of 2515 records were screened, and 1694 (67.4%) met inclusion criteria. The average age of patients was 12.1 years, 14.5% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 12.1%-17.2%) of patients experienced headache >15 days per month, and 62.6% (95% CI: 55.7%-68.9%) had already used migraine-abortive therapy. Significant variations in practice for all classes of migraine-abortive medications were observed. Dopamine receptor antagonists (prochlorperazine, metoclopramide, or chlorpromazine) (39% [95% CI: 28.4%-50.8%]) and orally administered analgesics (acetaminophen and ibuprofen) (24.5% [95% CI: 23.9%-46.8%]) were prescribed most commonly. Predictors for the use of evidence-based treatment included older age (odds ratio: 1.15 [95% CI: 1.07-1.24]) and a discharge diagnosis of migraine (odds ratio: 1.84 [95% CI: 1.11-3.05]).
Children presenting to EDs for treatment often have frequent attacks and have experienced failure of outpatient, migraine-abortive efforts. Practice variations were impressive for the care of children with migraine in these Canadian EDs.
To prevent neurologic damage, monitoring cerebral function by somatosensory evoked potentials is used in selected settings. Excision of intraocular melanoma provides a unique opportunity to assess independently during anesthesia the effects on median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials (MN-SSEPs) and cerebral oxygen extraction of sodium nitroprusside-evoked arterial hypotension with and without hypothermia.
Median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials, arterial pressure, jugular venous bulb oxygen saturation (Sjo(2)) and lactate concentration, and arterial-jugular bulb oxygen content difference were assessed during propofol-remifentanil anesthesia under sodium nitroprusside-evoked arterial hypotension (mean arterial pressure, 40 mmHg) with and without surface hypothermia (32 degrees C) in 11 otherwise healthy patients undergoing resection of choroidal melanoma.
Hypothermia alone did not affect peak-to-peak amplitude of N20/P25 but prolonged cortical latency of N20 (22.6 +/- 2.2 vs. 25.9 +/- 2.5 ms, P < 0.05), cervical latency of N13 (14.3 +/- 1.2 vs. 15.7 +/- 1.6 ms, P < 0.05), and central conduction time (8.3 +/- 1.4 vs. 10.2 +/- 1.6 ms, P < 0.05). Evoked arterial hypotension did not depress MN-SSEP N20/P25 amplitude either with or without hypothermia (-0.31 vs. -0.28 microV, P > 0.05) or alter latency (0.08 vs. 0.1 ms, P > 0.05). Furthermore, hypotension with or without hypothermia did not change Sjo(2), arterial-jugular bulb oxygen content difference, or lactate concentration.
Thus, hypothermia to 32 degrees C does not alter MN-SSEP amplitude and global cerebral oxygen extraction during marked sodium nitroprusside-induced arterial hypotension with a mean arterial pressure of 40 mmHg but prolongs MN-SSEP latencies during propofol-remifentanil anesthesia in individuals without cerebrovascular disease.
Clinical investigations have demonstrated a relationship between the extended use of rofecoxib and increased risk for atherothrombotic events. This has led to the removal of rofecoxib from the market and explicit cardiovascular safety warnings for other COX-2 selective and non-selective agents that remain on the market. Early explanations for the cardiotoxicity of rofecoxib, such as the relative cardioprotective effect of comparator agents (naproxen) or an "imbalance" between thromboxane and prostacyclin biosynthesis due to an absence of concomitant aspirin use, have not been substantiated by the evidence. New experimental findings indicate that the cardiotoxicity of rofecoxib is not a general class effect but may be due to its intrinsic chemical structure and unique primary metabolism. Specifically, rofecoxib has been shown to increase the susceptibility of human LDL and cell membrane lipids to oxidative modification, a hallmark feature of atherosclerosis. Rofecoxib was also found to promote the non-enzymatic formation of isoprostanes from biological lipids, which act as important mediators of inflammation in the atherosclerotic plaque. The explanation for such cardiotoxicity is that rofecoxib forms a reactive maleic anhydride in the presence of oxygen due to its chemical structure and primary metabolism (cytoplasmic reductase). By contrast, adverse effects on rates of LDL and membrane lipid oxidation were not observed with other chemically distinct (sulfonamide) COX-2 inhibitors under identical conditions. These findings provide a compelling rationale for distinguishing the differences in cardiovascular risk among COX-selective inhibitors on the basis of their intrinsic physico-chemical properties.
Our aim was to observe if patients with panic disorder (PD) and patients with major depression with panic attacks (MDP) (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition criteria) respond in a similar way to the induction of panic attacks by an oral caffeine challenge test. We randomly selected 29 patients with PD, 27 with MDP, 25 with major depression without panic attacks (MD), and 28 healthy volunteers. The patients had no psychotropic drug for at least a 4-week period. In a randomized double-blind experiment performed in 2 occasions 7 days apart, 480 mg caffeine and a caffeine-free (placebo) solution were administered in a coffee form and anxiety scales were applied before and after each test. A total of 58.6% (n = 17) of patients with PD, 44.4% (n = 12) of patients with MDP, 12.0% (n = 3) of patients with MD, and 7.1% (n= 2) of control subjects had a panic attack after the 480-mg caffeine challenge test (chi(2)(3) = 16.22, P = .001). The patients with PD and MDP were more sensitive to caffeine than were patients with MD and healthy volunteers. No panic attack was observed after the caffeine-free solution intake. The patients with MD had a lower heart rate response to the test than all the other groups (2-way analysis of variance, group by time interaction with Greenhouse-Geisser correction: F(3,762) = 2.85, P = .026). Our data suggest that there is an association between panic attacks, no matter if associated with PD or MDP, and hyperreactivity to an oral caffeine challenge test.
Elevations of serum CK levels in patients treated with clofibrate have been reported in many case reports since the primary description of the acute muscular syndrome in 1968. The main point of interest in the beginning of our study were difficulties in differential diagnosis of acute heart attacks in patients treated with clofibrate. Since the rapid CK MB assays have become available, this difficulty has been eliminated. No equivocal answer was given in single case reports with regard to the prognosis of drug-induced increases of this skeletal muscular enzyme. Our experience collected in a now 5 years lasting follow-up study shows that isolated CK-elevations without clinical symptoms do not coincide with the development of skeletal muscular damage or disease.
A 56-yr-old man with lung adenocarcinoma presented with subsegmental pulmonary thrombosis. Platelet count on presentation was 531 x 10(9)/L. The patient was anticoagulated with subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin (LMWH). Next day, oral anticoagulation was initiated with 5 mg of warfarin once daily with LMWH and LMWH was discontinued at third hospital day. On the third day of oral anticoagulation therapy, he complained of left leg swelling and prolonged painful penile erection of 24 hr-duration. His platelet count reached a nadir 164 x 10(9)/L at that time, and the patient had a deficiency of protein C and S, with an activity level of 16% and 20% of normal value. Warfarin was stopped and he underwent penile aspiration. The next day, left leg edema and penile erection was disappeared, but penile and glans penis necrosis was started. This case illustrates that processes underlying heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) may also underlie warfarin-induced skin necrosis.
(-)-Cocaine is a widely abused drug and there is currently no available anti-cocaine therapeutic. Promising agents, such as anti-cocaine catalytic antibodies and high-activity mutants of human butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), for therapeutic treatment of cocaine overdose have been developed through structure-and-mechanism-based design and discovery. In particular, a unique computational design strategy based on the modeling and simulation of the rate-determining transition state has been developed and used to design and discover desirable high-activity mutants of BChE. One of the discovered high-activity mutants of BChE has a approximately 456-fold improved catalytic efficiency against (-)-cocaine. The encouraging outcome of the structure-and-mechanism-based design and discovery effort demonstrates that the unique computational design approach based on transition state modeling and simulation is promising for rational enzyme redesign and drug discovery. The general approach of the structure-and-mechanism-based design and discovery may be used to design high-activity mutants of any enzyme or catalytic antibody.
BEZ235 is a dual phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI(3)K)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor that is orally available and that has been shown to be effective in several malignancies in vitro. Recently, BEZ235 entered clinical trials for solid tumors. We aimed at investigating if BEZ235 is effective in lung cancer cell lines.
The human lung cancer cell lines EPLC, HCC and H1339 were analysed by fluorescence in situ hybridization, gene sequencing and Western blot analysis. Cells were exposed to BEZ235 and/or cisplatin and the survival fraction was quantified.
In all cell lines, BEZ235 reduced pAkt and pS6 expression indicating interference with the epidermal growth factor (EGF) pathway. Furthermore, BEZ235 inhibited tumor cell growth and added to the effects of cisplatin. This was independent of EGFR amplification and EGFR, KRAS, PI3K and AKT mutation.
The dual PI3K/mTOR inhibitor BEZ235 is effective in lung cancer cell lines and a promising compound to be tested in clinical phase I studies.
In the randomized Balloon Angioplasty and Anticoagulation Study (BAAS), the addition of oral anticoagulants to aspirin significantly reduced early and late events after coronary angioplasty. However, bleeding episodes were increased. The present report studied the intensity and the duration of anticoagulation as predictors of thrombotic and bleeding events.
A total of 530 patients, 34% of whom received a stent, were treated with aspirin plus coumarins. Half of the patients were randomized to angiographic follow-up. The target international normalized ratio (INR) was 2.1 to 4.8 during angioplasty and 6-month follow-up. Thrombotic events were death, myocardial infarction, target lesion revascularization, and thrombotic stroke. Bleeding complications were hemorrhagic stroke, major extracranial bleeding, and false aneurysm. "Optimal" anticoagulation was defined as an INR in the target range for at least 70% of the follow-up time. There were 17 early thrombotic events (3.2%), 7 early bleeding episodes (1.3%), and 10 false aneurysms (1.9%). The incidence rate for both early thrombotic and bleeding events was lowest in patients in the target range. A total of 61 late thrombotic events occurred (11.6%). Optimal anticoagulation was an independent predictor of late thrombotic events (relative risk, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.19 to 0.57) and was associated with a 0.21 mm (95% CI, 0.17 to 0.42) larger vessel lumen at 6 months. Late bleeding episodes (1.4%) were lowest in patients in the target range.
Coumarins started before coronary angioplasty with a target INR of 2.1 to 4.8 led to the lowest procedural event rate, without an increase in bleeding episodes. During follow-up, optimal anticoagulation was associated with a decrease in the incidence of late events by 67% and a significant improvement in 6-month angiographic outcome.
Intravenous (i.v.) drug combinations are used in clinical anaesthesia in order to combine the desired effects and minimize toxicity from large doses of single agents. This fundamental assumption has not been systematically evaluated. We examined its validity by testing the influence of midazolam on the lethal effect of i.v. thiopental and ketamine in mice. Dose-response curves were constructed for the lethal effect of i.v. thiopental and ketamine, and for the loss of righting reflex effect by midazolam, in sexually mature male ICR mice weighing 20-40 g. For each curve, six or seven groups of eight to 10 mice each were used. A quarter of the median effective dose (ED50) for loss of righting reflex by midazolam was combined with the two other drugs to deduce dose-response curves for the lethal effect of the combinations. The ED50 for loss of righting reflex by i.v. midazolam was 43.5 mg x kg(-1) (95% confidence interval [CI], 40.4-46.5). The median lethal dose (LD 50) of i.v. thiopental was 50.6 mg x kg(-1) (95% CI, 50.0-54.9) and that of ketamine 42.9 mg x kg(-1) (95% CI, 32.3-52). In the presence of 10 mg x kg(-1) midazolam, the LD50 of thiopental was reduced to 20 mg x kg(-1) (17.7-22.2), but that of ketamine remained 44.4 mg x kg(-1) (37.7-54.9). Midazolam increased the lethal effect of thiopental 2.5-fold, but did not affect that of ketamine. Interactions at the toxic level between commonly used anaesthetic agents may differ from those at the hypnotic or analgesic levels, which should prompt evaluation of such combinations before their introduction to routine clinical use.
The clinical features that distinguish schizophrenia from the symptomatic psychoses were seen in a patient whose complex partial seizures remained undiagnosed for five years, resulting in 30 psychiatric hospitalizations.
Hypertensive patients frequently show resistance to insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and hyperinsulinemia. Diuretics and beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents have been found to decrease insulin sensitivity, whereas alpha 1-blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors seem to improve it.
To compare the effects of a 3 months' antihypertensive treatment with carvedilol, a non-selective beta-adrenoceptor blocker with alpha 1-blocking properties, with the beta 1-selective receptor blocker metoprolol on insulin sensitivity in non-diabetic hypertensive patients.
A multicenter double-blind randomized study.
Seventy-two non-diabetic hypertensive patients were randomly assigned to treatment with either carvedilol or metoprolol. An isoglycemic, hyperinsulinemic glucose clamp was conducted before and after 12 weeks of treatment; the metabolic clearance rate for glucose was taken as an indicator of insulin sensitivity.
The two groups did not differ in age, sex, body mass index, blood pressure or lipids, and treatment effectively lowered blood pressure. In both groups, insulin sensitivity was impaired at baseline. After metoprolol treatment, insulin sensitivity further decreased significantly by about 14%, whereas it increased after carvedilol. There was also a decrease in high-density lipoprotein and an increase in triglycerides levels in patients in the metoprolol-treated group, whereas these parameters remained unchanged in patients in the carvedilol-treated group.
This study confirms previous findings of a reduction in insulin sensitivity after chronic metoprolol treatment. Carvedilol treatment, however, resulted in a small amelioration of insulin resistance and a better lipid profile [corrected]. We thus demonstrate that a beta-blocker with alpha 1-blocking properties has favorable effects on glucose metabolism, suggesting a potentially important role of peripheral blood flow in regulating glucose uptake. These findings imply that beta-blocker treatment, when combined with alpha 1-blocking activity has advantageous effects on insulin sensitivity and lipids and could therefore be suitable for patients with the metabolic syndrome.
The effects of diazepam on the development of reverse tolerance and postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity induced by morphine were examined in mice. A single administration of morphine induced hyperactivity and the morphine-induced hyperactivity was inhibited dose-dependently by the administration of diazepam (1, 2 and 4 mg x kg(-1), i.p.), an agonist for benzodiazepine receptor linked to the GABA(A) receptor. Daily repeated administration of morphine developed reverse tolerance to the hyperactivity of morphine. The concomitant administration of diazepam inhibited the morphine-induced hyperactivity and the diazepam administration prior to and during the chronic administration of morphine in mice inhibited the development of reverse tolerance to the hyperactivity of morphine (10 mg x kg(-1), s.c.). Postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity was also developed in reverse tolerant mice that had received the same morphine. The development of postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity was evidenced by the enhanced ambulatory activity of apomorphine (2 mg x kg(-1), s.c.). Diazepam also inhibited the development of postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity induced by the chronic administration of morphine. These results suggest that the hyperactivity, reverse tolerance and postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity induced by morphine may be modulated via the activation of the GABA(A) receptor induced by diazepam.
The effects of pindolol, 10 mg/kg, alprenolol, 50 mg/kg, and practolol, 50 mg/kg, given by mouth, on blood pressure and heart rate were investigated over a 24-hr period in 5 conscious renal hypertensive dogs, using a cross-over design. Pindolol and alprenolol caused significant falls in blood pressure which averaged 22 mm Hg (at 3-hr after p.o. administration) and 20 mm Hg (at 3-hr). However, practolol failed to produce any significant changes in blood pressure. Heart rate increased by 67 beats/min (at 1-hr) and 39 beats/min (at 3-hr) after pindolol and alprenolol, respectively, but did not show any significant increase when practolol was given orally. The pindolol-induced tachycardia and hypotension were not suppressed significantly by propranolol (1 mg/kg i.v.) which blocked completely the tachycardia and hypotension induced by isoprenaline (3 mg/kg p.o.). The hypotension and tachycardia observed after oral administration of D-32 (50 mg/kg) or after intravenous infusion of p-OH D-32 (1 mg/kg per min for 5 min) were also not modified significantly by propranolol (1 mg/kg i.v.). Based on these results and other published data, mechanisms pertaining to the hypotension exerted by beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents were discussed.
The etiology of various age-related neurological diseases remains unknown. Sporadic forms ofAlzheimer's, Parkinson's and Lou Gehrig's disease have been linked to environmental factors that cause neuronal cell death either by excitotoxicity or by inducing oxidative stress. Our recent studies have demonstrated that various compounds not previously associated with these diseases, i.e. methionine sulfoximine (MSO), originally isolated from 'agenized' flour, and sitosterol glucoside (BSSG), isolated from the seed of the cycad, appear to be neurotoxins, likely acting by excitotoxic mechanisms. For these compounds, the primary excitotoxic effect appears to involve glutamate release followed by NMDA receptor activation. Lactate dehydrogenase assays demonstrate that both compounds cause rapid cell death in vitro. In addition, both compounds appear to alter antioxidant defense mechanisms, acting particularly on levels of reduced glutathione (GSH). In vivo application of MSO has historically been linked to behavioral abnormalities, including seizures, in various species. Our recent experiments have demonstrated that mice fed cycad flour containing sitosterol glucoside have severe behavioral abnormalities of motor and cognitive function, as well as significant levels of neurodegeneration in cortex, hippocampus, spinal cord and other CNS regions measured post mortem. The combined weight of excitotoxic action, in concert to a decline in antioxidant defenses, induced by molecules such as methionine sulfoximine and sitosterol glucoside is hypothesized to be causal to neuronal degeneration in various neurological diseases. Understanding the mechanisms of action of these and functionally related molecules may serve to focus attention on potential neurotoxins present in the human environment. Only once such molecules have been identified, can we begin to design appropriate pharmaceutical strategies to prevent or halt the progression of the age-related neurological diseases.
Residual neuromuscular blockade remains a problem even after short surgical procedures. The train-of-four (TOF) ratio at the adductor pollicis required to avoid residual paralysis is now considered to be at least 0.9. The incidence of residual paralysis using this new threshold is not known, especially after a single intubating dose of intermediate-duration nondepolarizing relaxant. Therefore, the aim of the study was to determine the incidence of residual paralysis in the postanesthesia care unit after a single intubating dose of twice the ED(95) of a nondepolarizing muscle relaxant with an intermediate duration of action.
Five hundred twenty-six patients were enrolled. They received a single dose of vecuronium, rocuronium, or atracurium to facilitate tracheal intubation and received no more relaxant thereafter. Neuromuscular blockade was not reversed at the end of the procedure. On arrival in the postanesthesia care unit, the TOF ratio was measured at the adductor pollicis, using acceleromyography. Head lift, tongue depressor test, and manual assessment of TOF and DBS fade were also performed. The time delay between the injection of muscle relaxant and quantitative measurement of neuromuscular blockade was calculated from computerized anesthetic records.
The TOF ratios less than 0.7 and 0.9 were observed in 16% and 45% of the patients, respectively. Two hundred thirty-nine patients were tested 2 h or more after the administration of the muscle relaxant. Ten percent of these patients had a TOF ratio less than 0.7, and 37% had a TOF ratio less than 0.9. Clinical tests (head lift and tongue depressor) and manual assessment of fade showed a poor sensitivity (11-14%) to detect residual blockade (TOF < 0.9).
After a single dose of intermediate-duration muscle relaxant and no reversal, residual paralysis is common, even more than 2 h after the administration of muscle relaxant. Quantitative measurement of neuromuscular transmission is the only recommended method to diagnose residual block.
Both strict blood pressure control and efferent artery dilatation are critical in reducing proteinuria, which in turn helps to regulate blood pressure. Benidipine, an L- and T-type calcium channel blocker, has the potential for increased effectiveness compared with L-type-dominant calcium channel blockers such as amlodipine. Therefore, we evaluated blood pressure and proteinuria after changeover from amlodipine to benidipine in poorly controlled hypertensive patients. Fifty-eight hypertensive outpatients undergoing amlodipine treatment and unable to achieve optimal blood pressure as determined by Japanese Society of Hypertension Guidelines for the Management of Hypertention (JSH 2004) were changed over to benidipine treatment. We measured blood pressure and pulse rate and assessed urinary protein excretion before and after changeover. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure dropped from 151/90 mmHg to 140/81 mmHg (p<0.0001). Mean blood pressure (p<0.0001) and pulse pressure (p=0.0069) were also reduced, but pulse rate increased from 75 bpm to 78 bpm (p=0.0047). Urinary protein excretion adjusted for urinary creatinine was reduced from 0.35 +/- 0.82 to 0.22 +/- 0.55 g/g creatinine (p=0.0119). The urinary protein reduction was observed only in patients with renin-angiotensin inhibition (p=0.0216). By switching from amlodipine to benidipine treatment, more than 80% of patients reduced their blood pressure, and more than 40% achieved optimal blood pressure. Higher urinary protein excretion (p<0.0001), lower glomerular filtration rate (p=0.0011) and presence of diabetes (p=0.0284) were correlated with reduction of urinary proteins during changeover. Taken together, our results suggest that benidipine may have greater efficacy than amlodipine in reducing blood pressure and proteinuria.
Adenosine is well known to be a cardioprotective substance in ischemic heart disease. However, the modulation of adenosine receptors and the production and degradation of endogenous adenosine in chronic heart failure (CHF) are not fully understood. We analyzed the gene expression patterns of adenosine-related genes in human failing and nonfailing myocardium using DNA microarray analysis and quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). DNA microarray analysis revealed that the gene expression of adenosine A2a, A2b, and A3 receptors (A2aR, A2bR, and A3R) as well as that of adenosine deaminase (ADA) decreased in failing myocardium. The down-regulation of these genes was verified by quantitative RT-PCR. We also measured the activities of these adenosine metabolism-related enzymes in failing myocardium and cardiac adenosine levels in patients with CHF. In CHF patients, we observed the decreased enzyme activity of ADA and the elevation of cardiac adenosine levels in CHF patients. To enhance the signaling of adenosine receptors, we increased plasma adenosine levels using dipyridamole, which decreased the severity of CHF. The gene expression of A2aR, A2bR, A3R, and ADA was decreased in the failing hearts, and this decrease may impair adenosine-related signal transduction. The activities of adenosine-related enzymes were altered, thus increasing the myocardial adenosine levels; this increase may compensate for the impairment of adenosine-related signal transduction in patients with CHF. The impairment of adenosine-related signal transmission contributes to the pathophysiology of CHF.
To investigate the effects of citicoline on experimental spinal cord injury (SCI).
Citicoline has been successfully used in clinical studies of head injury and cerebral infarction, but there is limited literature regarding its use in experimental SCI.
Twenty adult Wistar rats were divided into four groups: sham, trauma, vehicle, and citicoline-treated. SCI was produced using a weight drop technique. Citicoline 300 mg/kg was given intraperitoneally, 5 minutes after the induction of trauma. The animals were sacrificed and 1 cm long samples of injured spinal cord were obtained at 48 hours post-SCI. Lipid peroxidation was estimated by the thiobarbituric acid test. Neurological examinations were performed using a previously described grading scale.
Measures of lipid peroxidation and motor scores of the citicoline-treated group were significantly lower than those in the other injury groups.
Citicoline attenuated lipid peroxidation after SCI and improved the motor scores. Further investigations will be required to determine the long-term effects of this drug on spinal cord injury.
The NTera2/D1 (NT2) cell line, which was derived from a human teratocarcinoma, exhibits properties that are characteristics of a committed neuronal precursor at an early stage of differentiation. Its property to express a whole set of molecules related to the cholinergic neurotransmission system, including active acetylcholinesterase (AChE, EC 3.1.1.7) makes it a good alternative model for testing the effects of neurotoxic compounds, such as organophosphorus (OP) insecticides, whose primary target is the inhibition of AChE activity. Recent findings have elucidated the role of AChE in the modulation of apoptosis, but the mechanisms are still rather obscure. NT2 cells exposed to the OP insecticide diazinon at concentrations ranging between 10(-4) and 10(-5)M showed a time-dependent enhancement of cell death. When exposed at 10(-6)M diazinon showed higher cell viability than control samples up to 72 h, followed by a decreasing phase. The cell death caused by the exposures showed a number of features characteristic of apoptosis, including membrane and mitochondrial potential changes. We suggest the hypothesis that such behaviour is due to a dynamic balance between activated and blocked acetylcholine receptors that in turn trigger electrical events and caspase cascade.
Toxicokinetics and the toxicological effects of culture material containing fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) were studied in male weaned piglets by clinical, pathological, biochemical and sphingolipid analyses. The animals received a single oral dose of 5 mg FB(1)/kg of body weight, obtained from Fusarium verticillioides culture material. FB(1) was detected by HPLC in plasma collected at 1-h intervals up to 6h and at 12-h intervals up to 96 h. FB(1) eliminated in feces and urine was quantified over a 96-h period and in liver samples collected 96 h post-intoxication. Blood samples were obtained at the beginning and end of the experiment to determine serum enzyme activity, total bilirubin, cholesterol, sphinganine (Sa), sphingosine (So) and the Sa/So ratio. FB(1) was detected in plasma between 30 min and 36 h after administration. The highest concentration of FB(1) was observed after 2 h, with a mean concentration of 282 microg/ml. Only 0.93% of the total FB(1) was detected in urine between 75 min and 41 h after administration, the highest mean concentration (561 microg/ml) was observed during the interval after 8 at 24 h. Approximately 76.5% of FB(1) was detected in feces eliminated between 8 and 84 h after administration, with the highest levels observed between 8 and 24 h. Considering the biochemical parameters, a significant increase only occurred in cholesterol, alkaline phosphatase and aspartate aminotransferase activities. In plasma and urine, the highest Sa and Sa/So ratios were obtained at 12 and 48 h, respectively.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) formation is a result of inflammation and extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling mediated by matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A inhibitors (statins), although clinically used as lipid-lowering agents, have also been demonstrated to have anti-inflammatory effects. This study was designed to determine whether the hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A inhibitor simvastatin suppresses aneurysm formation in an elastase-induced rat AAA model.
Aneurysms were created in adult male Wistar rats by infusion of elastase into isolated infrarenal aortic segments. The rats were randomized to receive either simvastatin (n = 17) or placebo (n = 17) by gastric lavage daily starting the day before surgery. The rats were euthanized and the infrarenal aortas harvested on postoperative day 7. Aortic diameters were measured before infusion, immediately after infusion, and at the time of harvesting. Protein expression was measured by immunoblot analysis. Gene expression profiling using Affymetrix U34A rat genome chips was performed to identify changes in gene expression caused by simvastatin treatment.
Mean aneurysm diameter was significantly less in the simvastatin treatment group compared with controls (3.4 +/- 0.08 mm vs 4.3 +/- 0.19 mm; P = .0001). MMP-9 and nuclear factor-kappaB protein levels were decreased in the aortas of simvastatin-treated animals. Gene microarray analysis revealed 315 genes with statistically significant changes in expression (P < .05) in the simvastatin group. Genes related to inflammation, ECM remodeling, and oxidative stress function were downregulated. These included genes for interleukin 1, interleukin 4, inducible nitric oxide synthase, P-selectin, platelet-derived growth factor alpha, tumor necrosis factor, and several chemokines.
Simvastatin significantly suppresses experimental aneurysm expansion and reduces protein levels of MMP-9 and nuclear factor-kappaB. Gene array analysis provides evidence that several mediators of inflammation, matrix remodeling, and oxidative stress are downregulated by simvastatin treatment. This suggests that simvastatin inhibits AAA formation by blocking the expression of certain proinflammatory genes. Simvastatin may be useful as an adjuvant therapy to suppress the growth of small aneurysms.
