We have examined the pattern of striatal messenger RNA expression of over 8000 genes in a rat model of levodopa (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia and Parkinson disease (PD). 6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats were treated with L-DOPA or physiological saline for 22 days and repeatedly tested for antiakinetic response to L-DOPA and the development of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs). In a comparison of rats that developed a dyskinetic motor response to rats that did not, we found striking differences in gene expression patterns. In rats that developed dyskinesia, GABA neurons had an increased transcriptional activity, and genes involved in Ca2+ homeostasis, in Ca2+ -dependent signaling, and in structural and synaptic plasticity were upregulated. The gene expression patterns implied that the dyskinetic striatum had increased transcriptional, as well as synaptic activity, and decreased capacity for energy production. Some basic maintenance chores such as ribosome protein biosynthesis were downregulated, possibly a response to expended ATP levels.
D-Galactosamine (GalN) depletes UTP primarily in liver, resulting in decreased RNA synthesis in hepatocytes. When given together with a sublethal dose of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), GalN highly sensitizes animals to produce apoptotic liver injury with severe hepatic congestion, resulting in rapid death. Melatonin is a cytokine modulator, antioxidant and anti-apoptotic agent. In the present study, we investigated the effect of melatonin on LPS-induced apoptotic liver damage in GalN-sensitized mice. Female CD-1 mice were intraperitoneally (i.p.) injected with melatonin (5.0mg/kg) 30min before GalN/LPS (700mg10microg/kg, i.p.), another two doses of melatonin (2.5mg/kg, i.p.) being administered 1 and 2h after GalN/LPS. Results showed that serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activities were markedly increased 8h after GalN/LPS treatment, massive hemorrhage being observed in histological sections of liver from GalN/LPS-treated mice. Melatonin significantly attenuated GalN/LPS-induced elevation of serum ALT. In parallel, melatonin distinctly improved GalN/LPS-induced congestion. Additional experiment showed that melatonin significantly attenuated GalN/LPS-induced hepatic apoptosis, measured by inhibition of caspase-3 activities and attenuation of DNA laddering. Furthermore, melatonin markedly increased hepatic Se-dependent glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and glutathione reductase (GSH-Rd) activities and attenuated hepatic glutathione (GSH) depletion in GalN/LPS-treated mice. Increases in serum tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), which were observed in GalN/LPS-treated mice, were significantly reduced by melatonin. However, melatonin had no effect on LPS-evoked nitric oxide production in GalN-sensitized mice. Taken together, these results indicate that melatonin protected against LPS-induced liver damage in GalN-sensitized mice through its strong ROS-scavenging, antiinflammatory and antiapoptotic effects.
Two HIV seropositive patients receiving sulfadiazine for presumed cerebral toxoplasmosis who developed an obstructive nephropathy are described. Ultrasound examination showed respectively a bilateral hydro-ureteronephrosis in one patient and unilateral hydro-ureteronephrosis in the other. The obstructive nephropathy resolved in both patients with alkalic hydration and discontinuation of the sulfadiazine.
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD) complicating barbiturates therapy is not well acknowledged in the neurologic literature in spite of the fact that barbiturates are present in 17% of the cases of RSD. Two new cases detected during one year in a general neurology clinic are described. One of them did not suffer from any previous neurologic disease. A review of the literature showed that the association of RSD and barbiturates affects predominantly upper limbs and is often accompanied by other fibrosing musculoskeletal disorders. Apart from barbiturate withdrawal, corticosteroid therapy may be necessary to prevent irreversible tissue damage.
The relationship between migraineous headaches and the use of low-dose oral contraceptives, the monophasic Rigevidon and the biphasic Anteovin, has been examined. In the examined cases Anteovin of higher oestrogen content provoked more vascular cephalalgias than Rigevidon with it's lower oestrogen content. In one part of the cases both pills even had therapeutic effects. According to the opinion of the author classical migraine means a relative contra-indication of hormonal contraception and is a serious adverse effect requiring the discontinuance of oral contraception. The headaches develop during the adaptational period of oral contraception and the migraineous attacks occur in the premenstrual period or at the beginning of menstruation which refer to an oestrogen withdrawal character. It may be supposed that vasoconstriction of certain extent, which has existed during the use of the pills, changes over to relative vasodilatation in this period and the extent of the changes is dependent on the oestreogen content of the tablets.
This article reports on a study concerning the relationship between migraine headaches and the use of the low-dose oral contraceptives Rigevidon and Anteovin. The objective was to examine how hormonal contraception influences vascular headaches and to what extent does it provoke such complaints. The study involved 138 and 441 women taking Rigevidon and Anteovin, respectively, 7.9-10.1% of whom already suffered from migraine headaches before taking the pill. Researchers observed the time of the development of the migrainous attack, its duration and intensity, and its course during each cycle. In the event of very intense headaches, the researchers changed the oral contraceptive to Ovidon or Continuin, or discontinued treatment (treatment was also discontinued in cases of increases in blood pressure). Of the women already suffering from headaches prior to taking the oral contraceptives, most of them suffered from a typical menstrual migraines caused by premenstrual syndrome which lasted for 2-4 days. The study found that the women on Rigevidon were less likely to suffer from vascular headaches than the women on Anteovin. While Anteovin caused classic migraine headaches on 0.98% of the women and atypical migraine headaches on 2.3% for the women, the figures were only 0.7% and 1.4% for women on Rigevidon. Researchers attribute these differences to the fact that Anteovin has a higher oestrogen content than Rigevidon. While the study does not explain the correlation between low-dose oral contraceptives and vascular headaches, it does point out the risk associated with oestrogen.
The influence of alcohol and caffeine on cardiac embryogenesis was investigated in the rat. No disturbances were detected in the yolk sac circulatory system and allantois of embryos exposed to ethanol, but in several cases the cardiac tube was delayed in its development. Caffeine had no gross morphological effect on the developing cardiovascular system. However, cardiac morphogenesis was significantly impaired in embryos recovered from mothers treated with both ethanol and caffeine.
Hypertension is a major risk factor for atherosclerosis. Although antihypertensive drug treatment can reduce morbidity and mortality from stroke, there is no consistent benefit on ischemic heart disease. It may be that subtle adverse effects of the drugs used in these clinical trials may have blunted the beneficial effects of treatment. Isradipine, a new calcium antagonist of the dihydropyridine class, is a potent antihypertensive drug with pronounced antiatherogenic properties, at least in animal studies. Thus, isradipine may be a suitable drug for assessing the efficacy of antihypertensive treatment in retarding the progression of atherosclerosis. The Multicenter Isradipine/Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study (MIDAS) is a clinical trial to compare the efficacy of isradipine (2.5-5.0 mg b.i.d.) and hydrochlorothiazide (12.5-25 mg b.i.d.) in retarding atherosclerosis in carotid arteries. Carotid atherosclerosis will be monitored using B-mode ultrasonography. The sample size is 800 men and women aged 40 years and over. The power of the design is 90% to detect a 30% difference in the progression of plaque size between the isradipine- and hydrochlorothiazide-treated groups with a significance level of 5% (p = 0.05).
Ropinirol is a novel dopamine agonist recently marketed for treatment of Parkinson's disease. Compared with available dopamine agonists, ropinirole possesses 3 novel structural properties which may be relevant in terms of clinical benefit: a) it is the first dopamine agonist with a non-ergolic structure, therefore it may be devoid of some infrequent side-effects of ergolic agonists, such as retroperitoneal fibrosis; b) ropinirole is unique compared to other agonists due to stric selectivity for D2 receptors, a property that may decrease levodopa-induced dyskinesias, and c) as ropinirole does not activate serotonin receptors, it may theoretically cause less neuropsychiatric side-effects in late stages of the disease. Available clinical trials indicate that ropinirole may be effective as monotherapy during early stages in patients not severely disabled, and may also decrease the extent and severity of akinetic periods in fluctuating patients. More information is needed, however, on patients prolongedly exposed to ropinirol as well as about its antiparkinsonian potency compared with those agonists already available.
Differentiation induction is an effective therapy for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), which dramatically responds to all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA). Recent studies have indicated that combinatorial use of retinoid and nonretinoid compounds, such as histone deacetylase inhibitors, arsenics, and PKA agonists, has higher therapeutic value in this disease and potentially in other malignancies. In a screen of 370 compounds, we identified benzodithiophene analogues as potent enhancers of ATRA-induced APL cell differentiation. These effects were not associated with changes in global histone acetylation and, for the most potent compounds, were exerted at very low nanomolar concentrations, and were paralleled by enhancement of some, but not all, ATRA-modulated gene expressions. Investigating the mechanism underlying the effects of these drugs on ATRA-induced APL cell differentiation, we have shown that benzodithiophenes enhance ATRA-mediated dissociation and association of corepressor N-CoR and coactivator p300 acetyltransferase, respectively, with retinoic acid receptor (RAR) alpha proteins. These data suggest that benzodithiophenes act at the level of receptor activation, possibly by affecting posttranslational modification of the receptor (and/or coregulators), thus leading to an enhancement in ATRA-mediated effects on gene expression and APL cell differentiation. Given the specificities of these low benzodithiophene concentrations for PML-RARalpha and RARalpha, these drugs may be useful for combinatorial differentiation therapy of APL and possibly other acute myelogenous leukemia subtypes in which the overall ATRA signaling is suppressed.
Kidney fibrosis results in chronic renal disease. The current treatment of chronic renal diseases is limited to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers. Recently, we found that Wen-pi-tang-Hab-Wu-ling-san (WHW) extract, which has been used to treat renal diseases in herbal medicine for a long time, plays anti-fibrogenic. Here, we investigated the role of WHW in the kidney fibrosis induced by unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) in mice. C57BL/6 male mice were subjected to UUO on day 0 and then administered with either WHW (2, 10, or 50 mg/kg of body weight) or vehicle orally from 1 day after UUO to finish the experiment. WHW-administration significantly mitigated the UUO-induced kidney fibrotic changes including tubular atrophy and dilatation, collagen accumulation, expansion of interstitial space and leukocyte infiltration. WHW prevented the increases of oxidative stress by the prevention of UUO-induced decreases of catalase, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), resulting in reduced production of oxidative stress. Furthermore, WHW reduced transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) expression and phosphorylation of Smad2/3 stimulated by UUO. In conclusion, WHW prevented kidney fibrosis following UUO by the inhibition of inflammation, oxidative stress and TGF-beta/Smad2/3 signaling pathway.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) induces clinical remission in patients with t(15;17) acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) carrying leukemogenic promyelocytic leukemia-retinoic acid receptor alpha (PML-RARalpha) fusion protein by overcoming PML-RARalpha transcriptional repression and inducing myeloid differentiation. To identify more potent chemical differentiation inducers, a screening assay was developed utilizing an ATRA-insensitive NB4 cell line (NB4-c) in which differentiation could be measured after 48 hours when primed with ATRA followed by other potential inducers. Over 300 cytostatic agents selected from the National Cancer Institute library were screened using this established method. Three compounds, NSC656243, NSC625748, and NSC144168, were identified to amplify ATRA-induced differentiation with acceptable cytotoxicity in NB4-c cells. In the absence of ATRA, these compounds also induced HL-60 and murine erythroleukemia cells to undergo partial differentiation. NSC656243, a benzodithiophene compound, was selected for further studies to examine the underlying mechanism of action. The differentiation effect of NSC656243 was associated with enhanced ATRA-mediated up-regulation of cell cycle regulatory proteins p21waf1 and p27kip1, retinoblastoma dephosphorylation, expression of RIG-E and RIG-G, and myelomonocytic differentiation-specific down-regulation of the myeloperoxidase (MPO) gene. Moreover, at 2- to 3-fold higher concentrations than those used to synergize with ATRA, NSC656243 induced apoptosis in NB4-c cells by reactive oxygen species-mediated pathways. The dual effects of benzodithiophenes (i.e., differentiation and apoptosis induction) support further development of these compounds as therapeutic agents for leukemia.
Major anti-inflammatory agents, steroids and cyclooxygenase, were proved to have serious side effects. Here, a series of chalcone derivatives were synthesized and screened for anti-inflammatory activities. QSAR study revealed that the presence of electron-withdrawing groups in B-ring and electron-donating groups in A-ring of chalcones was important for inhibition of LPS-induced IL-6 expression. Further, compounds 22, 23, 26, 40, and 47 inhibited TNF-α and IL-6 release in a dose-dependent manner and decreased LPS-induced TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-12, and COX-2 mRNA production. Mechanistically, compounds 23 and 26 interfered with JNK/NF-κB signaling and dose-dependently prevented ERK and p38 activation. In addition, 23 and 26 exhibited a significant protection against LPS-induced death and were able to block high glucose-activated cytokine profiles in macrophages. Together, these data show a series of anti-inflammatory chalcones with potential therapeutic effects in inflammatory diseases.
Although the King's College Hospital (KCH) selection criteria for emergency liver transplantation in paracetamol-induced acute liver failure are widely used, strategies to improve sensitivity and facilitate earlier transplantation are required. We investigated the use of arterial blood lactate measurement for the identification of transplantation candidates.
In a single-centre study, we measured arterial blood lactate early (median 4 h) and after fluid resuscitation (median 12 h) in patients admitted to a tertiary-referral intensive-care unit. Threshold values that best identified individuals likely to die without transplantation were derived in a retrospective initial sample of 103 patients with paracetamol-induced acute liver failure and applied to a prospective validation sample of 107 patients. Predictive value and speed of identification were compared with those of KCH criteria.
In the initial sample, median lactate was significantly higher in non-surviving patients than in survivors both in the early samples (8.5 [range 1.7--21.0] vs 1.4 [0.53--7.9] mmol/L, p<0.0001) and after fluid resuscitation (5.5 [1.3--18.6] vs 1.3 [0.26--3.2], p<0.0001). Applied to the validation sample, a threshold value of 3.5 mmol/L early after admission had sensitivity 67%, specificity 95%, positive likelihood ratio 13, and negative likelihood ratio 0.35; the corresponding values for a threshold of 3.0 mmol/L after fluid resuscitation were 76%, 97%, 30, and 0.24. Combined early and postresuscitation lactate concentrations had similar predictive ability to KCH criteria but identified non-surviving patients earlier (4 [3--13] vs 10 [3.5--19.5] h, p=0.01). Addition of postresuscitation lactate concentration to KCH criteria increased sensitivity from 76% to 91% and lowered negative likelihood ratio from 0.25 to 0.10.
Arterial blood lactate measurement rapidly and accurately identifies patients who will die from paracetamol-induced acute liver failure. Its use could improve the speed and accuracy of selection of appropriate candidates for transplantation.
Pyrethroids, which are widely used insecticides with low acute toxicity in mammals, affect sodium channels in neurons. In primary culture of rat cortical neurons, the type II pyrethroid deltamethrin (DM) markedly enhances the expression of the mRNA of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and exerts neurotrophic effects. In this study, we investigated the antidepressant-like effect of DM in mice. The effects of DM were assessed using the forced swimming test (FST) and were compared with those of type I pyrethroid permethrin (PM). Intraperitoneal administration of DM (5 and 10mg/kg), but not of PM (10mg/kg), increased the expression of BDNF mRNA in the hippocampus. DM, but not PM, significantly decreased the immobility time in the FST, and did not affect locomotor activity and motor coordination, suggesting that DM has an antidepressant-like effect. This effect of DM was inhibited by intracerebroventricular injection of K252a, which is an inhibitor of the BDNF receptor TrkB, indicating that the antidepressant-like effects of DM are mediated by BDNF/TrkB signaling pathways. Repeated administration of DM, but not of PM, also exerted antidepressant-like effects, which were long lasting. The results of the present study suggest that DM possesses antidepressant-like properties, and may be a possible source for the development of drugs to treat neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders including depression.
Hypokalemia and potassium depletion are frequent complications of amphotericin B therapy. Both ischemic and gentamicin-induced renal failure is potentiated by potassium depletion; it is, therefore, possible that amphotericin B nephrotoxicity is similarly influenced. This study evaluated whether the acute nephrotoxic response to amphotericin B is potassium sensitive. Potassium-depleted and control rats were subjected to an acute intravenous infusion of either amphotericin B (AmB-K; AmB, n = 10 in each) or its vehicle (V-K, V; n = 6 in each). Potassium-depleted rats had both lower urinary daily excretion and lower plasma levels of potassium than control animals (0.1 +/- 0.0 vs. 2.1 +/- 0.2 mEq/day, p < 0.001, and 3.8 +/- 0.2 vs. 1.9 +/- 0.1 mEq/l, p < 0.001, respectively). In AmB and AmB-K groups, there were equivalent falls in glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, and a rise in renal vascular resistance, compared with V and V-K. In contrast, the AmB-K group showed a higher urinary excretion of sodium (AmB-K vs. AmB: 2.9 +/- 0.7 vs. 1.1 +/- 0.3 microEq/min; p < 0.05) and fractional excretion of Na (AmB-K vs. AmB: 1.6 +/- 0.4 vs. 0.6 +/- 0.1%; p < 0.05) in comparison to the AmB group. Neither of these parameters changed in either amphotericin B or vehicle-treated groups. These results suggest that potassium depletion does not influence the acute renovascular effects of amphotericin B but potentiates its tubular toxicity. This may have clinical implications since hypokalemia and potassium depletion are frequent complications of amphotericin B therapy.
A veterinarian's assistant who sniffed methoxyflurane as a euphoriant developed fulminant hepatitis and died of hepatic failure. The abuse of fluorinated anesthetics has been reported and may be more frequent than is commonly believed. It is suggested that fluorinated anesthetics should be considered as a causative agent in a case of fulminant hepatitis, especially in patients who have easy access to such drugs.
Adipocyte differentiation is controlled by many transcription factors, but few known downstream targets of these factors are necessary for adipogenesis. Here we report that retinol saturase (RetSat), which is an enzyme implicated in the generation of dihydroretinoid metabolites, is induced during adipogenesis and is directly regulated by the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma). Ablation of RetSat dramatically inhibited adipogenesis but, surprisingly, this block was not overcome by the putative product of RetSat enzymatic activity. On the other hand, ectopic RetSat with an intact, but not a mutated, FAD/NAD dinucleotide-binding motif increased endogenous PPARgamma transcriptional activity and promoted adipogenesis. Indeed, RetSat was not required for adipogenesis when cells were provided with exogenous PPARgamma ligands. In adipose tissue, RetSat is expressed in adipocytes but is unexpectedly downregulated in obesity, most likely owing to infiltration of macrophages that we demonstrate to repress RetSat expression. Thiazolidinedione treatment reversed low RetSat expression in adipose tissue of obese mice. Thus, RetSat plays an important role in the biology of adipocytes, where it favors normal differentiation, yet is reduced in the obese state. RetSat is thus a novel target for therapeutic intervention in metabolic disease.
Delusions and other manifestations of psychotic behavior are common side effects in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients chronically treated with dopaminergic drugs. Clozapine, a dibenzodiazepine derivative, is an antipsychotic drug largely devoid of extrapyramidal side effects. We evaluated the effects of low doses of clozapine on the mental and motor functions in PD patients requiring antipsychotic treatment. Twenty-seven PD patients taking dopaminergic drugs and who had psychotic behavior received clozapine at 12.5 to 75 mg/d. Fifteen patients received clozapine for 1 to 11 months (mean, 6.8 months) and seven received it for 12 to 24 months (mean, 18 months). No patient exhibited motor deterioration, and the psychotic features disappeared immediately, allowing discontinuation of clozapine after several months in 10 patients. Fifteen patients are still receiving clozapine and are free of psychiatric symptoms. The clozapine treatment was discontinued after 5 days (25 mg/d) in two patients because of somnolence. No patient developed neutropenia. Clozapine in low doses is effective in the treatment of drug-induced delusions and hallucinations in PD.
Anticoagulation may exacerbate possible tendencies for an ischemic infarction to become hemorrhagic. Little is known of any potential added risk of aspirin plus anticoagulation for such hemorrhagic transformation. A patient is reported who sustained a cerebral infarction from carotid artery disease and was treated with aspirin. Anticoagulation was begun and aspirin discontinued when the patient experienced a transient ischemic attack. Despite good control of anticoagulation, the patient sustained a hemorrhage at the site of infarction. The prolonged effects of aspirin combined with anticoagulants may have potentiated the conversion of an ischemic to a hemorrhagic infarction. Caution is advised when using anticoagulation immediately following aspirin therapy in patients with cerebral infarction.
Severe congenital neutropenia as well as primary myelofibrosis are rare in infancy. Elucidation of the underlying mechanism is important because it extends our understanding of the more common adult forms of these disorders. Using homozygosity mapping followed by exome sequencing, we identified a Thr224Asn mutation in the VPS45 gene in infants from consanguineous families who suffered from life-threatening neutropenia, which was refractory to granulocyte CSF, from defective platelet aggregation and myelofibrosis. The mutation segregated in the families, was not present in controls, affected a highly conserved codon, and apparently destabilized the Vps45 protein, which was reduced in the patients' leukocytes. Introduction of the corresponding mutation into yeast resulted in reduced cellular levels of Vps45 and also of the cognate syntaxin Tlg2, which is required for membrane traffic through the endosomal system. A defect in the endosomal-lysosomal pathway, the homologous system in humans, was suggested by the absence of lysosomes in the patients' fibroblasts and by the depletion of α granules in their platelets. Importantly, accelerated apoptosis was observed in the patients' neutrophils and bone marrow. This is the first report of a Vps45-related disease in humans, manifesting by neutropenia, thrombasthenia, myelofibrosis, and progressive bone marrow failure.
Cytochrome P450c17 (CYP17) has been linked to various hormone-related diseases, including breast cancer, thus being a potential target for cancer chemoprevention. We studied the naturally occurring phytochemical enterolactone (ENL) and 13 VIOXX-related lactone derivatives (CRI-1 to CRI-13) for their effects on CYP17 activity and expression and on cell cycle status in the human H295R adrenocorticocarcinoma cell line. Of the tested compounds, only CRI-3, -7, -10 and -12 showed to be inhibitors of CYP17 activity in H295R cells. This inhibition was not due to decreased mRNA expression, but was apparently caused by post-translational modification of the CYP17 enzyme. The MAPK kinase (MEK) inhibitor PD98059 induced CYP17 activity by 24%, while co-incubation of the CRI-s with PD98059, reduced CYP17 activity even further than the reduction caused by the CRI-s alone. In addition, CRI-3, -7, -10 and -12 arrested the cell cycle in the G(2)/M phase. The structure-activity similarities of the CRI-s with known micro-tubule binding agents strongly suggest that cell cycle arrest is a result of interaction with tubulin. We conclude that the proposed cancer chemopreventive actions of ENL are not mediated through interaction with CYP17 or cell cycle status. Of the VIOXX-related lactone derivatives, CRI-7 could prove useful in the prevention of hormone-dependent cancers, such as breast cancer, since in vitro it shows low cytotoxicity, it is a potent inhibitor of CYP17 activity and strong inducer of cell cycle arrest.
Three patients, men aged 30, 33 and 32 years respectively, died in police custody in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. According to autopsy reports, all patients died from excited delirium syndrome induced by cocaine use. Excited delirium is a state of mental and physiological hyperarousal commonly associated with the use of cocaine. Patients suffering from excited delirium can be extremely hostile and violent. If a physical struggle arises with police or medical personnel, the episode can end in death due to adrenergic overstimulation. Patients in acute excited states should be regarded as a medical emergency with a serious mortality risk, and should be transferred to the hospital rather than the police station. Medical and police staff should aim to reduce confrontation. When patients are too agitated to cooperate, benzodiazepines should be used for sedation of the patient. Beta blockers and antipsychotic medication should not be administered, as these medications can exacerbate the fatal cardiac effects seen in excited delirium.
We evaluated the efficacy of local or systemic parecoxib combined with lidocaine/clonidine IV regional analgesia in complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) type 1 in a dominant upper limb. Thirty patients with CRPS type 1 were divided into three groups. The control group (CG) received both IV saline in the healthy limb and IV loco-regional 1 mg/kg of lidocaine + 30 mug of clonidine, diluted to a 10-mL volume with saline. The systemic parecoxib group (SPG) received a regional block similar to that administered to the CG but with systemic 20 mg of parecoxib, whereas the IV regional anesthesia with parecoxib group (IVRAPG) received an extra IV 5 mg of loco-regional parecoxib compared with the CG. The block was performed once a week for 3 consecutive weeks. Analgesia was evaluated by the 10-cm visual analog scale (VAS) and rescue analgesic consumption. The IVRAPG showed less daily ketoprofen (milligrams) consumption in the second and third weeks compared with the other groups (P < 0.05). The IVRAPG also showed less ketoprofen consumption when comparing the first and second week with the third week (P < 0.05). The VAS score comparison among groups revealed that groups were similar during the first and second week observation, although the IVRAPG showed smaller VAS scores in the third week compared with both CG and SPG (P < 0.05). We conclude the IV 5 mg of parecoxib was an effective antiinflammatory drug combined with clonidine/lidocaine loco-regional block in CRPS type 1.
Our investigation was carried out in subjects intoxicated with heroin or heroin mixtures to find out the time interval during which delayed life-threatening complications become manifest, such as pulmonary oedema or relapse into respiratory depression or coma after naloxone treatment. We studied prospectively all drug intoxications between 1991 and 1992. Of the 538 intoxications, we assessed in detail 160 outpatients who lived within the catchment area of our hospital. The outcome variables studied were (1) rehospitalization for pulmonary oedema, (2) relapse into coma, and/or (3) death and cause within 24 h after release from hospital. Deaths occurring outside our hospital have to be reported, as decreed by law, to the Institute for Forensic Medicine. The results of our investigation showed no rehospitalization owing to pulmonary oedema or coma, but one death, outside the hospital, owing to delayed pulmonary oedema. This delayed complication had an incidence of 0.6% (95% confidence interval 0-3.8%). A reintoxication could be excluded in this patient. Based on reliable report, the pulmonary oedema occurred between approximately 2 1/4 and 8 1/4 hours after intoxication. In the literature, only two cases of delayed pulmonary oedema have been reported with reliable time statements (4 and 6 h after hospitalization). We therefore conclude that surveillance for at least 8 h is essential after successful treatment to exclude delayed pulmonary oedema in patients intoxicated with heroin or heroin mixtures.
Dopamine influence in the striatum is essential to motor behavior and may lead to involuntary movements in pathologic conditions. The basic mechanisms lie in differential dopamine responses of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) contributing to striatal output pathways. The relationship between striatal discharge and mobility is thus critical to understanding the actions of dopamine. Using extracellular recordings in severely parkinsonian monkeys, we examined the activity changes of MSNs during different levels of dopamine stimulation. The activity of single MSNs was recorded continuously throughout conditions of parkinsonian disability, its reversal, and the exhibition of involuntary movements after levodopa administration. Parkinsonian disability was associated with robust and widely distributed increases of MSN firing. In the parkinsonian state, dopamine influx produced both increases and decreases in the discharge rate of MSNs. Furthermore, in contrast to the expected net reduction of activity, dopamine-induced recovery of mobility occurred with predominant further increases of neuronal activity. In contrast, involuntary movements were associated with a distinctive inversion of the dopamine responses. The activity increases and decreases associated with the recovery of mobility were subsequently inverted in a number of neurons, and these bidirectional changes created large differences of discharge across MSNs. Thus, a markedly dysregulated state of striatal activity develops after chronic dopamine denervation and, in such a state of MSN activity, dopamine induces altered and disproportionate responses. These findings point to the fundamental role of dopamine-mediated balance of striatal outputs for normal movement.
Although it has been reported that the increase in blood pressure improves arterial oxygen saturation (SaO(2)) in children with tetralogy of Fallot, no prospective study has demonstrated that an increase in blood pressure induces an increase in pulmonary blood flow in these patients. The purpose of this study was to see whether a phenylephrine-induced increase in systemic blood pressure increased pulmonary blood flow, resulting in improved arterial oxygenation in tetralogy of Fallot.
In 14 consecutive children with tetralogy of Fallot (2-32 months old), transesophageal pulsed Doppler signals of left upper pulmonary venous flow (PVF) velocity were recorded before and four minutes after 10 micro g x kg(-1) of phenylephrine i.v. Simultaneously, arterial blood gas analysis and hemodynamic measurements were performed. The minute distance (MD) was calculated as the product of the heart rate and the sum of time-velocity integrals of PVF.
Phenylephrine iv increased mean arterial blood pressure from 54 +/- 8 mmHg to 73 +/- 10 mmHg. This phenylephrine-induced hypertension significantly increased SaO(2) and MD (92.0 +/- 7.5 vs 95.0 +/- 5.0% and 1318 +/- 344 vs 1533 +/- 425 cm x min(-1), respectively). There was a significant correlation (r = 0.72) between the change in MD and the change in SaO(2).
Our results suggest that the phenylephrine-induced increase in systemic blood pressure produces an increase in pulmonary blood flow in tetralogy of Fallot. Our results further suggest that this increase in pulmonary blood flow is involved in the mechanism of phenylephrine-induced improvement of arterial oxygenation in tetralogy of Fallot.
The role of hypertension in chronic renal failure (CRF) progression was described in 1914 by Volhard and Fahr [1], in 1940 by Rite and colleagues [2] and subsequently many studies described the effects of various antihypertensive drugs on regulation of blood pressure and CRF progression. The recent experimental and clinical studies especially emphasized the role of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in the regulation of hypertension and slowing down of CRF progression, but there are still issues for discussion and disagreement [2-14]. The aim of this study was to analyse the effects of captopril on clinical, biochemical and morphological changes in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with adriamycin (ADR) nephropathy.
Experimental animals. Adult (24 weeks) female spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), weighting about 200 g, were bred at the Institute of Medical Research, Belgrade. The rats were randomly divided in the following groups: 1.
12 SHR; 2. Adriamycin group (ADR): 27 SHR treated with adriamycin (2 mg/kg i.v. twice for 20 days); 3. Adriamycin-captopril group (ADR-C): 30 SHR treated with adriamycin and thereafter with captopril (60 mg/kg/day). Animals were followed-up for 18 weeks after second adriamycin injection. Systolic blood pressure was measured at 2 weeks intervals throughout the study. Blood and urine samples were collected in weeks--4, 6, 12, and 18. Morphologic studies. Rats were killed at weeks 6, 12 or 18 after the second adriamycin injection, when the kidneys were removed and fixed in neutral buffered formalin (10%). Paraffin embedded tissue sections 4 microns thick were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, periodic acid-Schiff reagent (PAS), Thrichrom Masson and Silver methanamin (Jones) for light microscopic study. A semiquantitative score was used to evaluate glomerular, vascular and tubulointerstitial changes. A minimum of 60 glomeruli for each kidney were examined, and the severity of the lesions was graduated according to the percentage of glomerular sclerosis from 0 to 10 (0--0%; 2--20%; 5--20-50%; 10--100%) [16]. Vascular changes were graduated from 0 to 3 according to hyalinosis in the walls of the artenoles (1--0%; 2--< 50%; 3--50-100%; 4--100%) [17]. Tubulointerstitial changes were semiquantitatively expressed by calculation of separately the index of interstitial fibrosis (0--0%; 2--< 20%; 5--> 20%; IQ--> 40%) and the index of interstitial infiltration and tubular atrophy (0--0%; 1--< 20%; 2--> 20%; 3--> 40% [18]. Results were presented as mean +/- SD. Differences between groups in functional data as well as morphologic lesions were studied by one-way analysis of variance and the unpaired T-test.
Captopril decreased systemic blood pressure in ADR SHR significantly, but failed to prevent proteinuria (Fig. 1). Urea and creatinine in serum progressively increased in all studied groups, but faster in ADR SHR groups than in controls (Table 1). Creatinine clearance decreased faster in ADR group than in ADR-C group, but without statistical significance (Table 1). Among sixty nine analysed rats at the beginning of the study, sixteen died during the study. The other animals (Table 1) were killed at weeks 6, 12 and 18; pathohistological changes of their kidneys with glomerular, vascular and tubulomterstial indexes are presented in Table 2. In control group of rats minimal glomerular and interstitial changes could be seen in week 18, mild tubular changes were present in weeks 12 and 18, and marked changes in blood vessels were manifested in week 12, as well as in week 18 (Fig. 2, Table 2), when their statistical significance was higher than in rats treated with adriamycin. Glomerular, tubular and interstitial changes were mostly pronounced in adriamycin treated rats and became more expressive during the experiment (Table 2, Fig. 3). In ADR-C group of rats captopril slowed down glomerular changes, but significantly in week 18 only (Table 2). The same was with interstitial changes (Table 2, Figs. 3-c, 4-c). Tubular and vascular changes were less in week 6 in ADR-C group than in ADR group, what was leveled off later in the study (weeks 12 and 18) (Table 2).
Although Richard Bright was probably the first person to notice that severe renal diseases were associated with changes of the cardiovascular system, Volhard and Farhr first described that high blood pressure was the major cause of progressive loss of renal function in chronic renal diseases [1]. Subsequently, many authors in their experimental and clinical studies described the effects of various antihypertensive drugs on regulation of blood pressure and slowing down of CRF progression. Various experimental models were used in their studies [8, 19-21]. With discovery of ACE inhibitors and first studies which pointed that this group of drugs effectively slowed down CRF progression, many authors studied their effects on systemic blood pressure regulation, reduction of glomerular hypertension and slowing down of CRF progression. Anderson, Rennke and Brenner studied the effects of "triple therapy" (reserpine, hydralazine and hydrochlorotiazide) and ACE inhibitor enalapril in rats with subtotal nephrectomy [3]. Enalapril decreased systemic blood pressure, glomerular hypertension, proteinuria and glomerular sclerosis [9, 22-24], while "triple therapy" reduced only systemic hypertension with no effect on glomerular hypertension and glomerular damage [25]. The same was described in uninephrectomised DOCA rats [26]. Raij and colleagues also described better effects of enalapril in relation to "triple therapy": enalapril reduced mesangial expansion and proteinuria [27]. Our study [8] as well as that of other authors [3, 25, 26] agree that ACE inhibitor captopril was better in comparison with hydralazine in slowing down glomerular sclerosis and mesangial expansion inspite of good regulation of blood pressure with both drugs. In ADR SHR, ACE inhibitors reduced proteinuria [6, 10, 20, 25], regulated systemic blood pressure (Fig. 1-a), decreased glomerular hypertension and glomerular sclerosis [7, 10, 25, 28, 29] which were also found in our experimental study (Fig. 1, Table 2). These were confirmed in clinical studies too: first, in patients with diabetic nephropathy [30] and later in patients with nondiabetic kidney diseases [6, 30-34]. In SHRs blood pressure increased from week 4 to 10, and after week 12 blood pressure was stabilized on a constantly higher level [36]. Our studied rats were 24 weeks old at the beginning of the study and they had stable hypertension in that period (Fig. 1-a). With the age in SHRs renal function aggravated very slowly, with little changes in glomeruli, higher in tubuloniterstitium [19] and the highest in blood vessels. SHRs developed glomerular changes very late inspite of hypertension, because glomeruli were protected with preglomerular vasoconstriction [37]. These mild changes described by various authors could be also seen in our study (Fig. 2, Table 2). Pathohistological changes in rat kidneys caused with anthracycline were first described by Stenberg and Phillips in 1967 [41]. Adriamycin (doxorubicin hydrochloride) induced syndrome nephroticum. Light microscopic study revealed no changes at the beginning of the study, but later (7-9 months) glomerular sclerosis, tubular dilatation and interstitial fibrosis developed which led to chronic renal failure [42, 43], (Fig. 3). Therapy with ACE inhibitor, captopril, in rats with adriamycin nephropathy lowered glomerular sclerosis [7, 12, 25, 28, 29], and mesangial expansion was very rare. In our earlier studies, captopril was found to decrease glomerular sclerosis in the early phase of adriamycin nephropathy in SHRs [8, 29], what was also confirmed in this study: captopril decreased glomerular and tubulointerstitial changes in weeks 6, 12 and 18 after second adriamycin injection, but had no effect on vascular changes (Fig. 4, Table 2). Favorable effects of captopril on tubulointerstiatial changes (especially interstitial) are very important because many authors have described recently better correlation between tubulointerstitial changes and CRF progression [17, 44-46], in comparison to glomerular changes and CRF. Besides, some authors have confirmed better effects of ACE inhibitors when they were given earlier before glomeruli were damaged [47].
In SHRs with ADR nephropathy treatment with captopril normalized systemic blood pressure, and slowed down CRF progression in their early stage. These functional changes correlate with significant slowing of glomerular and interstitial changes.
After acute pulmonary embolism, chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) is diagnosed in about 1% of patients. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis aimed at assessing the effects of bosentan therapy in patients with CTEPH.
We searched in MEDLINE and Embase using the terms 'pulmonary hypertension' AND 'bosentan'. Papers were included in this review if they reported on patients with objectively confirmed CTEPH treated with bosentan. Efficacy measures were the improvement in NYHA class, in 6 minute walking distance (6 mwd) and in hemodynamics (cardiac index, pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary vascular resistance). Mortality and safety were also assessed.
Overall, 543 papers were found. Eight single-arm cohort studies (175 patients), one randomized double-blind study, one case-control study and one case report were included in the analysis. A 35.9 meters weighted mean increase in 6 minute walking distance was observed after 3-6 months of treatment (9 studies, 208 patients) (95% CI 33.6 to 38.2; p<0.001) and an additional increase of 21 meters after one year (4 studies, 80 patients). About 25% of patients had an improvement on functional NYHA class at 3-6 months. Data on hemodynamics were available in seven studies, 185 patients. The mean weighted increase in cardiac index at 3-6 months was 0.23 l/min/m2 (95% CI 0.22 to 0.25); the mean weighted decrease in pulmonary artery pressure at 3-6 months was 2.62 mmHg (95% CI 2.44 to 2.80). Three patient died within 3-6 months (1.4%) and 3 additional patients died within one year.
Bosentan therapy is associated with an improvement of hemodynamics and probably exercise capacity in patients with CTEPH. Controlled data on mortality and time to clinical worsening in patients with CTEPH are needed.
