Organophosphorus-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterised by ataxia progressing to paralysis with concomitant central and peripheral distal axonopathy. Symptoms of OPIDN in people include tingling of the hands and feet. This tingling is followed by sensory loss, progressive muscle weakness and flaccidity of the distal skeletal muscles of the lower and upper extremities and ataxia, which appear about 8-14 days after exposure. Some organophosphorus compounds (OPs) that are still used in worldwide agriculture have potential to induce OPIDN, including methamidophos, trichlorfon, dichlorvos and chorpyrifos. This review summarizes experimental attempts to prevent and/or treat OPIDN and the different mechanisms involved in each approach. The initial mechanism associated with development of OPIDN is phosphorylation and inhibition of neuropathy target esterase (NTE). The phosphorylated enzyme undergoes a second reaction known as "aging" that results in the loss of one of the "R" groups bound to the phosphorus of the OP. A second mechanism involved in OPIDN is an imbalance in calcium homeostasis. This can lead to the activation of calcium-activated neutral protease and increases in calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases. These events contribute to aberrant phosphorylation of cytoskeletal proteins and protein digestion in the terminal axon that can proceed similarly to Wallerian-type degeneration. Several experimental studies demonstrated alleviation of the signs and symptoms of OPIDN by restoring calcium balance. Other studies have used preadministration of NTE inhibitors, such as carbamates, thiocarbamates, sulfonyl fluorides and phosphinate to prevent OPIDN. Progress is being made, but there is yet no single specific treatment available for use in clinical practice to prevent or alleviate the severe effects of OPIDN.
A 61-year-old woman suffered transient mydriasis and prolonged facial nerve palsy after intracisternal papaverine application subsequent to elective clipping of an unruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysm. The mydriasis resolved within 90 minutes, but the facial nerve dysfunction persisted for 2 months before complete recovery. Prolonged irrigation of the cisterns may have washed the papaverine into contact with the facial nerve. This case supports previously reported evidence of a possible effect of topical intracisternal papaverine hydrochloride application on the facial nerve.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) 5-HT(6) receptors (5-HT(6)R) and 5-HT(7) receptors (5-HT(7)R) have been implicated in schizophrenia and as targets of atypical antipsychotic drugs. We have studied the expression of these receptors in the hippocampal formation and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) of 17 subjects with schizophrenia and 17 controls using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with cyclophilin co-amplification. In schizophrenia, 5-HT(6)R mRNA was decreased in the hippocampal formation, and 5-HT(7)R mRNA was decreased in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The mRNAs were unchanged in rats treated for 2 weeks with haloperidol, chlorpromazine, risperidone, olanzapine or clozapine. Regional decreases in 5-HT(6)R and 5-HT(7)R expression in schizophrenia may contribute to the overall serotonergic alterations which occur in the disorder, in part through their interactions with other neurotransmitter systems including glutamate and acetylcholine.
Widespread calcerous deposits developed in the aorta, heart and kidneys of rats fed for 4 days with purina chow and high doses of vitamin D2 (200,000 IU/kg body wt/day). Decomplementation of rats with highly purified cobra venom factor (CoF) prior to vitamin D2 feeding, almost completely prevented calcium deposition in the aorta and arteritis. The mortality rate in the CoF-treated vitamin D2-fed rats was much lower than in untreated rats. These findings suggest that the complement system may be recruited in the pathogenesis of vitamin D2-induced arteriosclerosis.
Congenital nonprogressive spinocerebellar ataxia is characterized by early gross motor delay, hypotonia, gait ataxia, mild dysarthria and dysmetria. The clinical presentation remains fairly stable and may be associated with cerebellar atrophy. To date, only a few families with autosomal dominant congenital nonprogressive spinocerebellar ataxia have been reported. Linkage to 3pter was demonstrated in one large Australian family and this locus was designated spinocerebellar ataxia type 29. The objective of this study is to describe an unreported Canadian family with autosomal dominant congenital nonprogressive spinocerebellar ataxia and to identify the underlying genetic causes in this family and the original Australian family.
Exome sequencing was performed for the Australian family, resulting in the identification of a heterozygous mutation in the ITPR1 gene. For the Canadian family, genotyping with microsatellite markers and Sanger sequencing of ITPR1 gene were performed; a heterozygous missense mutation in ITPR1 was identified.
ITPR1 encodes inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor, type 1, a ligand-gated ion channel that mediates calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum. Deletions of ITPR1 are known to cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 15, a distinct and very slowly progressive form of cerebellar ataxia with onset in adulthood. Our study demonstrates for the first time that, in addition to spinocerebellar ataxia type 15, alteration of ITPR1 function can cause a distinct congenital nonprogressive ataxia; highlighting important clinical heterogeneity associated with the ITPR1 gene and a significant role of the ITPR1-related pathway in the development and maintenance of the normal functions of the cerebellum.
Comparative gait analyses in neurological diseases interfering with locomotion are of particular interest, as many hypokinetic gait disorders have the same main features. The aim of the present study was (1) to compare the gait disturbance in normal pressure hydrocephalus and Parkinson's disease; (2) to evaluate which variables of the disturbed gait pattern respond to specific treatment in both diseases; and (3) to assess the responsiveness to visual and acoustic cues for gait improvement.
In study 1 gait analysis was carried out on 11 patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus, 10 patients with Parkinson's disease, and 12 age matched healthy control subjects, on a walkway and on a treadmill. In study 2, patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus were reinvestigated after removal of 30 ml CSF, and patients with Parkinson's disease after administration of 150 mg levodopa. In part 3 visual cues were provided as stripes fixed on the walkway and acoustic cues as beats of a metronome.
The gait disorder in both diseases shared the feature of a reduced gait velocity, due to a diminished and highly variable stride length. Specific features of the gait disturbance in normal pressure hydrocephalus were a broad based gait pattern with outward rotated feet and a diminished height of the steps. After treatment in both diseases, the speed increased, due to an enlarged stride length, now presenting a lower variability. All other gait variables remained unaffected. External cues only mildly improved gait in normal pressure hydrocephalus, whereas they were highly effective in raising the stride length and cadence in Parkinson's disease.
The gait pattern in normal pressure hydrocephalus is clearly distinguishable from the gait of Parkinson's disease. As well as the basal ganglia output connections, other pathways and structures most likely in the frontal lobes are responsible for the gait pattern and especially the disturbed dynamic equilibrium in normal pressure hydrocephalus. Hypokinesia and its responsiveness to external cues in both diseases are assumed to be an expression of a disturbed motor planning.
An 11-year-old boy known to have asthma was referred to our intensive care unit (ICU) with progressive respiratory distress. He was sedated, paralysed, and intubated approximately 3 hours after arrival and nebulization with salbutamol and ipratropium was continued on the ventilator. About 16 hours later, he presented with transient unilateral fixed dilated pupils which resolved spontaneously without any neurological deficit. Computerized tomography scan revealed no signs of generalized cerebral oedema. Local contamination with ipratropium was most likely to be the cause of pupil dilatation, which could have occurred during connecting and disconnecting the nebulization system or through contaminated hands.
To evaluate the role of mitochondrial oxidative stress and permeability transition (MPT) in isoniazid (INH) and rifampicin (RMP) induced hepatotoxicity in mice.
Liver damage was induced by co-treatment of INH (50 mg/kg) and RMP (100 mg/kg). Pre-treatment with either methionine or phorone was done to modulate hepatic GSH level. Liver cell injury was assessed biochemically and histologically. Evidence of apoptosis was sought by TUNEL test, caspase assay and histology.
INH and RMP co-treatment caused steatosis and increased apoptosis of the hepatocytes, hepatic oxidative stress, particularly in the mitochondrial fraction with increased mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). Mitochondrial oxidative stress as well as liver cell injury was increased by prior treatment with phorone. This was attenuated by pretreatment with methionine suggesting a glutathione (GSH) dependent phenomenon.
Oxidative stress in the mitochondria and inappropriate MPT are important in the pathogenesis of apoptotic liver cell injury in INH-RMP hepatotoxicity. The phenomenon is GSH dependent and methionine supplementation might have a protective role.
To evaluate the influence of cumulative dose, dose-intensity, single-dose level, and schedule of epirubicin on the risk of developing congestive heart failure (CHF) in patients with advanced breast cancer.
Four hundred sixty-nine consecutive anthracyline-naive patients with metastatic breast cancer were included. Only patients with cardiac failure according to New York Heart Association (NYHA) function class II or more were recorded as having CHF. For each patient, the following were calculated: the cumulative dose of epirubicin, mean dose-intensity (cumulative dose of epirubicin/duration of treatment), and single-dose level (cumulative dose of epirubicin/number of injections).
Thirty-four patients (7.2%) developed CHF. The cumulative risk of cardiotoxicity was 4% at 900 mg/m2 and increased exponentially to 15% at 1,000 mg/m2. Irradiation against the mediastinum and thoracic spine increased the risk of CHF (P=.025), but dose-intensity, single-dose level, and schedule had no influence on the risk of developing CHF. Age, previous adjuvant irradiation (to the left or right hemithorax), and previous chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil [CMF]) were not risk factors. The median time to onset of CHF following the last dose of epirubicin was 57 days (range, 0 to 853). Among patients with CHF, 13 (38.2%) died of cardiac failure. The median survival time for all patients with CHF was 162 days (range, 0 to +1,957). Previous irradiation directly against the heart increased the risk of death due to cardiac failure and decreased the median survival time to 125 days (range, 0 to 336).
The present large retrospective study of 469 patients substantiates previous results concerning the cardiotoxicity of epirubicin. A significantly increasing risk of CHF in patients who receive cumulative doses greater than 950 mg/m2 was established. The future recommended maximum cumulative dose of epirubicin should be 900 mg/m2 in patients with metastatic breast cancer. Previous irradiation against the heart leads to an increased risk of developing CHF with an accelerated course to death, which indicates an additive cardiotoxic effect of irradiation and epirubicin.
Chronic administration of nadolol has been reported to reduce blood pressure either without or with a concomitant fall of renal blood flow. We therefore studied the effects of nadolol 80 mg once daily on ambulatory blood pressure, renal and systemic haemodynamics in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. Ten patients took part in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study, each phase of which lasted 4 weeks. Nadolol significantly reduced ambulatory blood pressure and heart rate, but had no effect on blood pressure variability. Cardiac output was significantly reduced by nadolol and total peripheral resistance increased but without reaching statistical significance. Despite the fall in blood pressure and cardiac output, renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate remained unchanged. The fraction of cardiac output reaching the kidneys rose significantly and renal vascular resistance was significantly reduced. Body weight, urinary sodium excretion and urine flow rate remained unchanged. We conclude that nadolol 80 mg once daily lowers ambulatory blood pressure in patients with mild to moderate hypertension without impairment of renal blood flow, indicating a redistribution of cardiac output to the kidneys. The mechanism of the renal vasodilator effect of nadolol remains to be determined.
Administration of morphine into the spinal intrathecal (i.t.) space produced dose-dependent analgesia in the mouse. At higher doses i.t. morphine induced seizures of the hindlimbs. Mice treated chronically with morphine (75 mg pellet, s.c.) for 72 h were tolerant to the analgesic effects of i.t. morphine, but not to the proconvulsant action. Spinal morphine analgesia was attenuated by naloxone, whereas i.t. morphine-induced seizures were not. These results indicate that spinal opioid receptors mediate analgesia but not seizures following i.t. morphine treatment in the mouse.
The patient-controlled fentanyl HCl iontophoretic transdermal system (ITS) is an analgesic modality approved for the management of acute postoperative pain. The fentanyl ITS uses a generally imperceptible electrical field to drive fentanyl across the skin and into the bloodstream. Unlike intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (PCA), fentanyl ITS is needle free and preprogrammed, eliminating the risks of needlestick injury and programming errors. Its efficacy, safety, and tolerability were assessed in several clinical trials, and this article presents the integrated safety and tolerability of fentanyl ITS using data pooled from these studies.
Data were pooled from three placebo-controlled trials and one active-controlled trial (fentanyl ITS vs intravenous PCA morphine) in which patients 18 years or older were admitted to the postanesthesia care unit after major abdominal, orthopedic, or thoracic surgery.
This analysis of safety and tolerability data revealed common treatment-related adverse events: nausea, vomiting, headache, and erythema. No clinically relevant respiratory depression was observed. No significant differences were observed between elderly patients (> or =65 years of age) and patients <65 years of age.
The fentanyl ITS addresses certain safety issues of existing modalities while providing comparable pain relief making it an attractive option for postoperative pain management.
To assess the cardiac effects of two different cumulative doses of adjuvant doxorubicin and radiation therapy (RT) in breast cancer patients.
Two hundred ninety-nine breast cancer patients were prospectively randomized to receive either five cycles (CA5) or 10 cycles (CA10) of adjuvant treatment with cyclophosphamide (500 mg/ m2) and doxorubicin (45 mg/m2) administered by intravenous bolus every 21 days. One hundred twenty-two of these patients also received RT. Estimates of the cardiac RT dose-volume were retrospectively categorized as low, moderate, or high. The risk of major cardiac events (congestive heart failure, acute myocardial infarction) was assessable in 276 patients (92%), with a median follow-up time of 6.0 years (range, 0.5 to 19.4).
The estimated risk (95% confidence interval) of cardiac events per 100 patient-years was significantly higher for CA10 than for CA5 [1.7 (1.0 to 2.8) v 0.5 (0.1 to 1.2); P=.02]. The risk of cardiac events in CA5 patients, irrespective of the cardiac RT dose-volume, did not differ significantly from rates of cardiac events predicted for the general female population by the Framingham Heart Study. In CA10 patients, the incidence of cardiac events was significantly increased (relative risk ratio, 3.6; P < .00003) compared with the Framingham population, particularly in groups that also received moderate and high dose-volume cardiac RT.
Conventional-dose adjuvant doxorubicin as delivered in the CA5 regimen by itself, or in combination with locoregional RT, was not associated with a significant increase in the risk of cardiac events. Higher doses of adjuvant doxorubicin (CA10) were associated with a threefold to fourfold increased risk of cardiac events. This appears to be especially true in patients treated with higher dose-volumes of cardiac RT. Larger studies with longer follow-up periods are needed to confirm these results.
We enrolled 28 eligible patients with relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) to a phase II study of single agent thalidomide (200 mg/d, with dose escalation up to 1000 mg/d over 60 days). The median age was 66 years and 71% were males. Study participants received a median of 2 (range 1-7) prior treatment regimens and 61% had Rai stage 3-4 disease at enrollment. Grade 3 or higher hematologic toxicity was observed in 13 (46%) and 16 (57%) had grade 3 or higher non-hematologic toxicity. Grade 3-4 tumor flare was observed in five (18%) patients. The overall response rate was 11% (3 of 28) with one (4%) complete remission and two (7%) partial remissions. Duration of response for these three responders was 3, 14 and 15 months. Fourteen (50%) patients had stabilisation of disease for a median duration of 8 months (95% CI: 7-16 months). Median time to progression for all 28 patients was 7.3 months. Although thalidomide appears to have modest clinical activity in pretreated/relapsed CLL primarily based on reduction of the absolute lymphocyte count, in our opinion the toxicity profile precludes it from more active investigation in CLL.
To examine the safety of administering paclitaxel to patients with preexisting significant cardiac risk factors.
The medical records of gynecologic cancer patients with major cardiac risk factors who had been treated with paclitaxel (single-agent or combination regimen with cisplatin or carboplatin) at The Cleveland Clinic Foundation from 1993 through February 1998 were examined to determine the acute toxicity of therapy.
A total of 15 patients were found who met these criteria, of whom none were found to have suffered a worsening of cardiac function following treatment with paclitaxel. A single patient developed a severe paclitaxel-associated hypersensitivity reaction, but no cardiac sequela.
This series suggests that paclitaxel can be safely administered as a single agent or in a combination regimen with a platinum agent to some patients with significant cardiac risk factors, such as those associated with ischemic heart disease. However, since few patients had baseline severe conduction defects before paclitaxel treatment, the safety of this drug in this clinical setting remains to be determined.
The immunosuppressive effect of rapamycin is mediated by inhibition of interleukin-2-stimulated T cell proliferation. We report for the first time that rapamycin also inhibits growth factor-induced proliferation of cultured mouse proximal tubular (MPT; IC(50) ~1 ng/ml) cells and promotes apoptosis of these cells by impairing the survival effects of the same growth factors. On the basis of these in vitro data, we tested the hypothesis that rapamycin would impair recovery of renal function after ischemic acute renal failure induced in vivo by renal artery occlusion (RAO). Rats given daily injections of rapamycin or vehicle were subjected to RAO or sham surgery. Rapamycin had no effect on the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of sham-operated animals. In rats subjected to RAO, GFR fell to comparable levels 1 day later in vehicle- and rapamycin-treated rats (0.25 +/- 0.08 and 0.12 +/- 0.05 ml. min(-1). 300 g(-1), respectively) (P = not significant). In vehicle-treated rats subjected to RAO, GFR increased to 0.61 +/- 0.08 ml. min(-1). 300 g(-1) on day 3 (P < 0.02 vs. day 1) and then rose further to 0.99 +/- 0.09 ml. min(-1). 300 g(-1) on day 4 (P < 0.02 vs. day 3). By contrast, GFR did not improve in rapamycin-treated rats subjected to RAO over the same time period. Rapamycin also increased apoptosis of tubular cells while markedly reducing their proliferative response after RAO. Furthermore, rapamycin inhibited activation of 70-kDa S6 protein kinase (p70(S6k)) in cultured MPT cells as well as in the renal tissue of rats subjected to RAO. We conclude that rapamycin severely impairs the recovery of renal function after ischemia-reperfusion injury. This effect appears to be due to the combined effects of increased tubular cell loss (via apoptosis) and profound inhibition of the regenerative response of tubular cells. These effects are likely mediated by inhibition of p70(S6k).
This study investigated Behavioral Day Treatment attendance in relation to treatment outcome among homeless persons dependent on crack-cocaine. Participants (N = 141) were 72.3% male and 82.7% African American. Days attended, activities attended, and follow-up rates over a 12-month period were positively affected by the more attractive treatment of providing immediate, rent-free, abstinent-contingent housing during a 2-month Behavioral Day Treatment program. Results replicated previous findings that abstinence is a function of treatment attendance and more treatment is associated with greater abstinence. The loss of predictive power at long-term follow-up, limitations of a retrospective design, need to identify most predictive therapeutic activity types, and potential influence of mental disorders were discussed. Analytical techniques used in this study allows for the planning, predictability, and measurement of drug abuse treatment success as a function of service utilization.
To demonstrate that sumatriptan may induce activation or aggravation of pain at sites of inflammation caused by trauma or disease.
Case reports from the national pharmaco vigilancecenters of 2 countries, The Netherlands and New Zealand, are presented. These reports come from programs that use 2 methodologies to monitor drugs for adverse reactions: spontaneous reporting and a prospective observational cohort study. The potential mechanisms for pain production by sumatriptan are discussed in detail.
Thirteen case reports of activation of pain by sumatriptan following injury and 8 associated with inflammatory diseases are presented. Most patients had one or more positive rechallenges. This type of reaction occurred at a higher rate with the subcutaneous formulation than with the oral preparation. Pain mostly was severe but short-lasting; pain was prolonged in some patients with inflammatory disease.
A strong association has been demonstrated between the use of sumatriptan and the production of pain at sites of inflammation, and there is a plausible pharmacological mechanism for this reaction. Pain activation may be a class effect of the selective serotonergic agonists used in the treatment of migraine.
FK506 is being used increasingly to prevent rejection after organ transplantation. Its use is associated with a wide spectrum of neurotoxicity, which has been described after most solid organ transplantations, but reports after lung transplantation are extremely rare. This is a report of the pathologic correlation of the clinical and radiologic features of delayed FK506-induced fulminant leukoencephalopathy after single-lung transplantation. The patient presented with neurologic symptoms that progressed to seizure activity. Neuroimaging showed diffuse changes in the brain, and results of a brain biopsy were consistent with leukoencephalopathy with microglial and astrocytic activation. The patient had a remarkable improvement in clinical status after discontinuation of FK506 administration, with resolution of the changes seen on neuroimaging.
Few cohort studies of the health effects of urban air pollution have been published. There is evidence, most consistently in studies with individual measurement of social factors, that more deprived populations are particularly sensitive to air pollution effects.
Records from the 1996 New Zealand census were anonymously and probabilistically linked to mortality data, creating a cohort study of the New Zealand population followed up for 3 years. There were 1.06 million adults living in urban areas for which data were available on all covariates. Estimates of exposure to air pollution (measured as particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than 10 μm, PM(10)) were available for census area units from a previous land use regression study. Logistic regression analyses were conducted to investigate associations between cause-specific mortality rates and average exposure to PM(10) in urban areas, with control for confounding by age, sex, ethnicity, social deprivation, income, education, smoking history and ambient temperature.
The odds of all-cause mortality in adults (aged 30-74 years at census) increased by 7% per 10 μg/m(3) increase in average PM(10) exposure (95% CI 3% to 10%) and 20% per 10 μg/m(3) among Maori, but with wide CI (7% to 33%). Associations were stronger for respiratory and lung cancer deaths.
An association of PM(10) with mortality is reported in a country with relatively low levels of air pollution. The major limitation of the study is the probable misclassification of PM(10) exposure. On balance, this means the strength of association was probably underestimated. The apparently greater association among Maori might be due to different levels of co-morbidity.
