(1) For patients with acute coronary syndromes who have undergone percutaneous angioplasty and stenting, the best-assessed treatment for preventing relapses is a combination of aspirin and clopidogrel; (2) Prasugrel, an antiplatelet drug belonging the same chemical class as clopidogrel, is authorized in the EU for use in this indication; (3) Clinical evaluation is based on a randomized double-blind trial comparing prasugrel + aspirin versus clopidogrel + aspirin in 13 608 patients with acute coronary syndromes, half of whom were treated for at least 15 months. Prasugrel did not reduce overall mortality (about 3%) or the incidence of non-fatal stroke after 15 months (1% of patients). The only advantage reported with prasugrel was a significant reduction in the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction (7.3% versus 9.5%); (4) In this trial, bleeding events, excluding those related to revascularisation procedures, were more frequent in the prasugrel group than in the clopidogrel group (2.4% versus 1.8%). Haemorrhages associated with revascularisation were also significantly more numerous with prasugrel (11.3% and 3.6%); (5) Subgroup analyses suggest that the risk-benefit balance of prasugrel is unfavourable in patients weighing less than 60 kg, patients over 75 years of age, and patients with a history of transient ischaemic attack or stroke; (6) The trial comparing prasugrel versus clopidogrel, as well as some animal studies, raise the possibility that prasugrel might increase the risk of cancer. In the main trial, prasugrel caused fewer cases of neutropenia than clopidogrel, but more cases of respiratory failure, hypotension and atrial flutter were observed; (7) In practice, for secondary prevention in patients with acute coronary syndromes treated with angioplasty and stenting, the risk-benefit balance of prasugrel, used in combination with aspirin, appears to be no better than that of clopidogrel + aspirin.
Pirfenidone (5 methyl-1-phenyl-2(1H)-pyridone) is a novel anti-fibrotic agent, which has been shown to decrease collagen deposition in a variety of animal models in vivo, and recently in hepatic fibrosis also. At cellular level, we have recently demonstrated that pirfenidone is able to inhibit proliferation of hepatic stellate cells induced by platelet-derived growth factor, as well as collagen type I accumulation and alpha1(I) procollagen mRNA expression.
To evaluate if pirfenidone maintains its anti-fibrotic properties also when administered after the induction of hepatic damage and to further investigate the molecular mechanisms leading to the anti-fibrotic effect of pirfenidone.
Rats treated with dimethylnitrosamine (10 mg/kg) for 5 weeks received a liquid diet containing 0.5% pirfenidone starting from the third week. Pirfenidone treatment reduced the degree of liver injury, as determined by alanine aminotransferase values and necro-inflammatory score, which was associated with reduced hepatic stellate cells proliferation and collagen deposition. Treatment with dimethylnitrosamine increased transcripts levels for transforming growth factorbeta1, procollagen alpha1(I), tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase-1 and matrix metalloproteinase-2 by 7-, 7-, 4- and 15-fold, respectively. Pirfenidone administration downregulated elevated levels of those transcripts by 50-60%, and this was associated with a 70% reduction in collagen deposition.
(1) Pirfenidone is effective also if administered after the induction of the hepatic damage; (2) the anti-fibrotic effect of pirfenidone is mainly due to the reduced expression of profibrogenic procollagen alpha1(I) and TIMP-1, most likely through the downregulation of transforming growth factorbeta1 mRNA, and of matrix metalloproteinase-2, which is mainly implicated in the degradation of the normal extracellular matrix.
We have previously reported on our findings of aberrant crypts (AC) in the colons of rodents treated with a colon carcinogen. In this report, the specificity of AC formation was assessed by testing a variety of agents for their ability to induce AC in the colons of CF1 and C57BL/6J mice. In addition, the ability of each of the agents to induce nuclear aberrations (NA) was assessed and compared with the AC data. The test agents included hydrazines, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, aromatic amines, and nitrosocompounds. The colons were assessed for AC 2 or 4 weeks following a single treatment with the test agent. Of the seven agents that induced AC formation, five were colon carcinogens and the other two were agents believed to be carcinogenic to organs other than the colon. None of the five agents believed to be noncarcinogens induced AC whereas three of them did induce NA in at least one of the strains of mice tested. Comparison of AC and NA induction for each test agent showed that all agents that induced AC also induced NA and that the converse was not true. The findings of the present study indicate that AC are induced specifically in response to colon carcinogens and support our contention that AC are preneoplastic lesions.
A proposed mechanism for ethanol teratogenicity entails ethanol-mediated reductions in retinoic acid (RA). This premise was investigated utilizing a mouse model, with limb reduction defects as the teratogenic end point.
Ethanol, Disulfiram, or BMS-189453 was administered to C57BL/6J mice on the 9(th) day of pregnancy. Forelimb morphology was assessed on gestation day 18 using Alcian blue and Alizarin red staining. Nile blue sulfate or LysoTracker Red (LTR) vital staining identified cell death in the limb bud. The ability of RA to prevent ethanol-induced cell death was assessed by coadministration followed by laser scanning confocal microscopic examination of LTR-staining. In situ hybridization and qPCR were used to examine gene expression in treated limb buds.
Ethanol, Disulfiram, and BMS-189453 resulted in postaxial ectrodactyly, intermediate ectrodactyly, and other digital defects. Excessive Nile blue sulfate staining was evident in the presumptive AER following each of the three exposures. Ethanol-induced LTR staining was prevented by RA supplementation. Both in situ hybridization and qPCR illustrated decreases in Shh and Tbx5 in ethanol-exposed embryos as compared to control.
Contrary to studies of prolonged RA deficiency, acute exposure to functional antagonists of RA results in limb defects that are morphologically similar to those caused by ethanol. The rescue of ethanol-induced cell death by RA and similar changes in Shh transcription further suggest that RA contributes to ethanol-induced limb dysmorphology. Moreover, the repression of key mediators of limb development soon after ethanol exposure adds to the existing knowledge of the pathogenic effects of ethanol.
In rodents, the effect of the beta-carboline derivative isopropyl-6- benzyloxy-4-methoxymethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (abecarrnil), a new ligand for benzodiazepine receptors possessing anxiolytic and anticonvulsant properties, was evaluated on the function of central gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor complex, both in vitro and in vivo. Added in vitro to rat cortical membrane preparation, abecarnil increased [3H]GABA binding, enhanced muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake and reduced the binding of t-[35S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([35S]TBPS). These effects were similar to those induced by diazepam, whereas the partial agonist Ro 16-6028 (tert-butyl-(S)-8-bromo-11,12,13,13a-tetrahydro-9-oxo-9H- imidazo[1,5-a]-pyrrolo-[2,1-c][1,4]benzodiazepine-1-carboxylate) showed very weak efficacy in these biochemical tests. After i.p. injection to rats, abecarnil and diazepam decreased in a time-dependent and dose-related (0.25-20 mg/kg i.p.) manner [35S]TBPS binding measured ex vivo in the cerebral cortex. Moreover, both drugs at the dose of 0.5 mg/kg antagonized completely the convulsant activity and the increase of [35S]TBPS binding induced by isoniazide (350 mg/kg s.c.) as well as the increase of [35S]TBPS binding induced by foot-shock stress. To better correlate the biochemical and the pharmacological effects, we studied the action of abecarnil on [35S]TBPS binding, exploratory motility and on isoniazid-induced biochemical and pharmacological effects in mice. In these animals, abecarnil produced a paralleled dose-dependent (0.05-1 mg/kg i.p.) reduction of both motor behavior and cortical [35S]TBPS binding. Moreover, 0.05 mg/kg of this beta-carboline reduced markedly the increase of [35S]TBPS binding and the convulsions induced by isoniazid (200 mg/kg s.c.).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The goal of the proposed research was to determine the effect of topiramate on basal and stimulated release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) from trigeminal ganglia neurons.
CGRP is implicated in migraine headaches. Clinical evidence supports topiramate as an effective migraine prophylactic. In this study, the connection between topiramate and CGRP expression was investigated.
Primary cultures of rat trigeminal ganglia were utilized to determine the effects of topiramate on CGRP release stimulated by a depolarizing stimulus (KCl), nitric oxide, and/or protons. The amount of CGRP secreted into the culture media was determined using a CGRP-specific radioimmunoassay.
Treatment of trigeminal cultures with KCl, nitric oxide donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, or protons (pH 5.5 media) caused a marked increase (3 to 5 fold) in the amount of CGRP release. Topiramate treatment repressed KCl-stimulated CGRP release in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. However, topiramate did not alter the amount of unstimulated or basal CGRP released from trigeminal neurons. In addition, topiramate inhibited nitric oxide and proton mediated CGRP secretion.
Findings from these studies demonstrate that topiramate can directly repress the stimulated release of CGRP from sensory trigeminal neurons. We propose that topiramate's ability to prevent migraine attacks may involve inhibition of CGRP secretion from trigeminal neurons.
Multiple genes are involved in the pathogenesis of autism. To study the causative gene, the relationship between autism endophenotypes and their closely related genes has been analyzed. There is a subgroup of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in which the ratio of second digit length to fourth digit length (2D/4D) is low (short digit group, SDG). We studied the relationship between ASD and HOXD genes, which are located in the candidate locus for ASD and are associated with digit morphogenesis, with a particular focus on SDG. We analyzed 25 SNPs of HOXD11, HOXD12, and HOXD13 in the subject of 98 ASD, 89 healthy controls, and 16 non-autistic patients (non-ASD). There was no significant difference in the genotype frequencies between the ASD and the healthy controls. However, the G-112T heterozygote in the promoter region of HOXD11 was observed in only four patients with ASD and in none of the healthy controls or non-ASD subjects. Moreover, this HOXD11 G-112T was observed in three of 11 SDG with ASD but in none of the 15 non-SDG patients with ASD. There were eight SDG patients among the non-ASD ones, but this polymorphism was observed in none of them. Considering the above results, it is expected that candidate genes will be further identified, using HOXD11 G-112T polymorphism as a marker, by analyzing genes located near 2q in a larger number of ASD subjects with clinical signs of SDG.
The objective of this study was to use MR imaging to detect macrophage infiltration of the kidney after injection of ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide (USPIO) particles in a rat model of experimental nephropathy. Ninety micromol of USPIO were injected intravenously in 10 rats with nephropathy secondary to intravenous injection of 5 mg of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN), and in 10 control rats. The signal intensity was measured in each kidney compartment before and 24 h after injection of the contrast agent. FLASH sequences were performed on a spectrometer operating at 4.7 T. MR findings were compared with histological data. Twenty-four hours after injection of USPIO, a significant decrease (P < 0.0001) was observed in signal intensity in each kidney compartment in the PAN group. There was no variation in the control group. In the diseased kidneys, histological data revealed the presence of macrophages with iron oxide particles within their cytoplasm and lysosomes. Using USPIO, MR imaging can evidence infiltration of the rat kidney by macrophages.
Alterations of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway are positively associated with the development and progression of human cancer, including carcinoma of the prostate. To determine the role of activated Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in mouse prostate carcinogenesis, we created a mouse prostate tumor model using probasin-Cre-mediated deletion of Apc. Prostate tumors induced by the deletion of Apc have elevated levels of beta-catenin protein and are highly proliferative. Tumor formation is fully penetrant and follows a consistent pattern of progression. Hyperplasia is observed as early as 4.5 weeks of age, and adenocarcinoma is observed by 7 months. Continued tumor growth usually necessitated sacrifice between 12 and 15 months of age. Despite the high proliferation rate, we have not observed metastasis of these tumors to the lymph nodes or other organs. Surgical castration of 6-week-old mice inhibited tumor formation, and castration of mice with more advanced tumors resulted in the partial regression of specific prostate glands. However, significant areas of carcinoma remained 2 months postcastration, suggesting that tumors induced by Apc loss of function are capable of growth under conditions of androgen depletion. We conclude that the prostate-specific deletion of Apc and the increased expression of beta-catenin associated with prostate carcinoma suggests a role for beta-catenin in prostate cancer and offers an appropriate animal model to investigate the interaction of Wnt signaling with other genetic and epigenetic signals in prostate carcinogenesis.
Broad spectrum cephalosporins have been studied extensively in animal models of experimental infections. There is generally good correlation between the results of therapy of experimental infections and clinical trials in humans. However, the results of animal model studies are better predictors of the failure than of the success of a chemotherapeutic regimen. Cefotaxime and the new 'fourth' generation agent, cefpirome, were comparable in the treatment of experimental meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae. Cefpirome was the most effective cephalosporin as therapy for methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus experimental endocarditis. The most effective broad spectrum cephalosporins for the treatment of Gram-negative experimental pneumonia were cefpirome, cefotaxime and cefodizime. Cefpirome was equivalent to ceftazidime or cefazolin as treatment for Pseudomonas aeruginosa or methicillin-susceptible S. aureus experimental osteomyelitis. Because of its potent activity in vitro and in animal models of experimental infections caused by methicillin-susceptible S. aureus and Gram-negative bacilli, cefpirome may offer a therapeutic advantage over currently available broad spectrum cephalosporins.
The results of previous studies of the effect of oral contraceptives on visual function have produced discrepancies and have lacked specific restraints on the control and experimental groups. We compared 14 diabetics with normal acuity who were taking oral contraceptives with equivalent diabetic and control groups and used the Pickford-Nicholson anomaloscope and the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-Hue test. Diabetics using oral contraceptives showed a definite trend to increases in tritanomaly and extended red-green matching ranges. When these losses were classified by degree of defect a significantly higher incidence of major defects was found among diabetics on "the pill". Partial correlations for colour variables, duration of diabetes and duration of contraceptive therapy revealed a compounding effect. While subjects using oral contraceptives demonstrated trends toward the extreme scores, these effects were found only in one out of every four users.
Our group recently demonstrated that maternal high-fat diet (HFD) consumption is associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, increased apoptosis, and changes in gluconeogenic gene expression and chromatin structure in fetal nonhuman primate (NHP) liver. However, little is known about the long-term effects that a HFD has on hepatic nervous system development in offspring, a system that plays an important role in regulating hepatic metabolism. Utilizing immunohistochemistry and Real-Time PCR, we quantified sympathetic nerve fiber density, apoptosis, inflammation, and other autonomic components in the livers of fetal and one-year old Japanese macaques chronically exposed to a HFD. We found that HFD exposure in-utero and throughout the postnatal period (HFD/HFD), when compared to animals receiving a CTR diet for the same developmental period (CTR/CTR), is associated with a 1.7 fold decrease in periportal sympathetic innervation, a 5 fold decrease in parenchymal sympathetic innervation, and a 2.5 fold increase in hepatic apoptosis in the livers of one-year old male animals. Additionally, we observed an increase in hepatic inflammation and a decrease in a key component of the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway in one-year old HFD/HFD offspring. Taken together, these findings reinforce the impact that continuous exposure to a HFD has in the development of long-term hepatic pathologies in offspring and highlights a potential neuroanatomical basis for hepatic metabolic dysfunction.
Idiopathic verapamil-responsive left ventricular tachycardia is an uncommon arrhythmia in childhood. Although this tachycardia is usually responsive to verapamil, non-pharmacologic therapy may be necessary in the long-term follow-up. We report a thirty-four month old child with incessant left ventricular tachycardia refractory to digoxin and amiodarone. The diagnosis was confirmed by electrophysiologic study. Intravenous verapamil successfully controlled the arrhythmia. On oral verapamil, the patient remains asymptomatic over a follow up period of 7 years and 10 months.
Sustained use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may prevent colorectal cancer. However, the optimal drug, period of efficacy and mechanism(s) of action are unknown. Experiments were undertaken to determine which of several NSAIDs would modulate colon crypt cell proliferation or apoptosis when given during the initiation phase of 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH)-induced rat colon cancer. Colon crypts located both away from and over an aggregate of lymphoid nodules (ALN) were examined. Rats were injected with aspirin, indomethacin, nabumetone, sodium salicylate, 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 or saline for 3 days and DMH or DMH vehicle on day 4 of each week for 8 weeks, then killed 3 days after the last DMH injection. At the time of killing, DMH had significantly increased crypt cell proliferation but not apoptosis. There was significantly more cell proliferation and apoptosis in crypts over the ALN than away from the ALN. Aspirin and salicylate increased proliferation and apoptosis in crypts over the ALN. Finally, the distributional peaks of cell proliferation and apoptosis were shifted significantly closer together after DMH. Thus, DMH increases proliferation and alters the distribution of proliferating and apoptotic cells in colon crypts early in carcinogenesis. Aspirin may suppress tumour incidence via salicylate by enhancing apoptosis in carcinogen-initiated cells.
Ifosfamid is an alkylating cytostatic agent which appears to differ in its clinical spectrum from the chemically similar cyclophosphamid. So far, however, its pronounced urotoxicity has limited dosage. In spite of prophylactic measures such as forced diuresis and alkalinization of the urine, the treatment has frequently has to be broken off because of macrohematuria and hemorrhagic cystitis. By repeated intravenous administration of sodium-mercapto-ethan-sulfonate (NNI: Mesnum) the urotoxic side effects of ifosfamid can largely be prevented. During 26 cycles of treatment in 18 patients, asymptomatic microhematuria was observed 6 times and macrohematuria only once in a patient with vesico-vaginal fistula. In another case where therapy had had to be discontinued because of hemorrhagic cystitis in spite of conventional prophylaxis, the treatment could be continued without change in the urine sediment under prophylaxis with Mesnum. Mesnum does not affect the antitumoral activity of ifosfamid.
When bezafibrate therapy was interrupted in patients who had been on continuous treatment for hyperlipoproteinemia for 4-10 years, there were significant increases in the serum cholesterol, triglyceride and apolipoprotein B concentrations corresponding to an increase of the very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) levels by approximately 50%. This increase of VLDL was accompanied by reduced levels of the post-heparin lipoprotein lipase activity (LPLA) (P = 0.07) and hepatic lipase (P = 0.05) activity with a significant reduction of the skeletal muscle LPLA (P less than 0.05), but not the adipose tissue LPLA, and a retarded removal of an i v injected fat emulsion (P less than 0.01). There were no significant changes of the low or high density lipoprotein cholesterol or the apolipoprotein A-I or A-II concentrations. Three months after bezafibrate treatment the content of linoleic and gammalinoleic acid in the plasma cholesterol ester had increased significantly, while the palmitoleic and oleic acids were reduced in spite of unchanged dietary treatment. Taken together, the data indicate that a lipid-lowering effect of bezafibrate, particularly on the VLDL lipids, is maintained throughout long treatment periods. One mechanism for the reduced level of the triglyceride-rich lipoproteins is an increased activity of the lipoprotein-lipase activity in the skeletal muscle, which decreased when the treatment was interrupted. The significance of the changes of the plasma lipid fatty acid spectrum during bezafibrate treatment remains unclear.
A 59-year-old postmenopausal woman diagnosed to have primary osteoporosis began to take 60 mg daily of oral raloxifene. The platelet aggregation induced by 1 microM adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and the alpha2-antiplasmin activity were accelerated significantly after 8 weeks from the beginning of raloxifene-treatment, and gradually deteriorated up to 24 weeks. ADP markedly caused the phosphorylation of Akt in the platelets obtained at 24 weeks. Although there were no subjective complaints at 24 weeks, the medication was stopped with her consent to avoid any adverse effects due to thrombus formation. The platelet hyper-aggregability and Akt phosphorylation induced by ADP disappeared at 4 weeks after the cessation of medication. These results strongly suggest that raloxifene caused the acceleration of platelet aggregation and subclinical thrombus formation through the Akt signal pathway in this case.
The use of immunosuppressant agents is mandatory in the long-term management of transplant recipients. Herein, we report a case of near fatal cardiac arrhythmia related to the use of intravenous tacrolimus in a 35-year-old woman undergoing renal transplantation.
The patient had no previous history of cardiac disease, but an initial electrocardiogram demonstrated slightly prolonged QT and QTc intervals and normal sinus rhythm. Postsurgical immunosuppression included intravenous tacrolimus and methylprednisolone. During intravenous tacrolimus infusion, marked QT prolongation occurred. The patient suffered recurrent runs of torsade de pointes, refractory to aggressive medical management and requiring numerous defibrillations. Rapid atrial pacing eventually controlled the arrhythmia.
We note not only a temporal association, but also a direct linear relationship, between this arrhythmia and blood tacrolimus levels.
We believe this case presents a little recognized hazard associated with the use of intravenous tacrolimus and points to the need for careful predrug screening for QT prolongation. Tacrolimus has been shown to effect intracellular calcium and to prolong the action potential duration experimentally. This suggests that an increase in the intracellular calcium may underlie torsades de pointes associated with intravenous tacrolimus.
The major active ingredient of marijuana, delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 9-THC), has been used as a psychoactive agent for thousands of years. Marijuana, and delta 9-THC, also exert a wide range of other effects including analgesia, anti-inflammation, immunosuppression, anticonvulsion, alleviation of intraocular pressure in glaucoma, and attenuation of vomiting. The clinical application of cannabinoids has, however, been limited by their psychoactive effects, and this has led to interest in the biochemical bases of their action. Progress stemmed initially from the synthesis of potent derivatives of delta 9-THC, and more recently from the cloning of a gene encoding a G-protein-coupled receptor for cannabinoids. This receptor is expressed in the brain but not in the periphery, except for a low level in testes. It has been proposed that the nonpsychoactive effects of cannabinoids are either mediated centrally or through direct interaction with other, non-receptor proteins. Here we report the cloning of a receptor for cannabinoids that is not expressed in the brain but rather in macrophages in the marginal zone of spleen.
Aminoglycoside antibiotics exhibit their bactericidal effect by interfering with normal ribosomal activity. In this pilot study, we have evaluated the effect of the aminoglycoside antibiotic gentamicin on the factor VIII (FVIII) and IX levels of severe hemophiliacs with known nonsense mutations. Five patients were enrolled and each patient was given 3 consecutive days of gentamicin at a dose of 7 mg/kg intravenously every 24 hours. Two patients (patient no. 1: hemophilia A, Ser1395Stop; and patient no. 5: hemophilia B, Arg333Stop) showed a decrease in their activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), an increase in their FVIII (0.016 IU/mL, 1.6%) or FIX (0.02 IU/mL, 2%) levels, and an increase in thrombin generation. The remaining 3 patients (patient no. 2: hemophilia B, Arg252Stop; patient no. 3: hemophilia A, Arg2116Stop; and patient no. 4: hemophilia A, Arg427Stop) showed no response in the aPTTs or factor levels, but one (patient no. 2: hemophilia B, Arg252Stop) showed an increase in the factor IX antigen level (2%-5.5%) that persisted throughout the period of the study and was concordant with an increase in thrombin generation. Gentamicin is unlikely to be an effective treatment for severe hemophilia due to its potential toxicities and the minimal response documented in this report. This study, however, does provide a proof of principle, suggesting that ribosomal interference with a less toxic agent may be a potential therapeutic mechanism for severe hemophilia patients with nonsense mutations.
We report one case of cardiac arrest related to ciprofloxacin administration. One female patient (aged 70 years old) developed a marked QTc prolongation (QTc = 0.62 s) within 24 hours of ciprofloxacin administration, with documented torsades de pointes and recurrent syncope that required defibrillation. The patient was under amiodarone and sotalol therapy for atrial fibrillation, with no obvious QT prolongation prior to ciprofloxacin therapy. QT prolongation and subsequent torsades de pointes appeared only after initiation of ciprofloxacin and normalized after drug discontinuation. Even though ciprofloxacin is thought to be safer than other agents in its class, it may cause QT prolongation and torsades de pointes, particularly in high risk patients with predisposing factors. Prolongation of the QT interval related to the effect of fluoroquinolones on rapid potassium channels (IKr) may result on potentially serious proarrhythmic effect, leading to torsades de pointes.
Pancreatic cancer cells are usually resistant to apoptosis induced by cytotoxic drugs, by activation of surface receptors such as Fas and TNF receptor or by serum or growth factor withdrawal. Actinomycin D (actD) is an inhibitor of RNA synthesis and acts as a potent inducer of apoptosis in several cell lines. In the present study, we investigated the effects of actD on PANC-1 pancreatic cancer cells. ActD caused apoptosis in PANC-1 cells in a dose-dependent manner, as determined by cell growth assays, DNA laddering and TUNEL assays. Induction of apoptosis correlated with activation of the JNK/SAPK pathway and increased expression of Bax but not Bad or p53. PANC-1 cells were completely resistant to Fas antibody and TNF-alpha. In contrast, TRAIL decreased the growth of PANC-1 cells by 22%. Low concentrations of actD (10 ng/ml) enhanced the cytotoxic effects of all 3 cytokines. EGF, FGF-2 and IGF-I did not protect PANC-1 cells from actD-mediated apoptosis. ActD (10 ng/ml) also inhibited the growth of CAPAN-1 and T3M4 pancreatic cancer cells but not MiaPaCa-2 cells. Our observations suggest that actD may act via JNK/SAPK and Bax to promote apoptosis in PANC-1 cells and that it may inhibit the growth of other pancreatic cancer cell lines.
Pancreatic intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMN), morphologically resembling colonic adenomas, often have an indefinable malignant potential. We used a monoclonal antibody (MAb) raised against colonic adenomas, Adnab-9, to identify patients with a better prognosis.
We assessed Adnab-9-labeled sections of these neoplasms from 50 patients, 13 pancreatic adenocarcinomas, and 32 colonic adenomas using standard immunohistochemical techniques.
26% of the IPMNs labeled with Adnab-9 as compared to 0% of pancreatic ductal cancers or surrounding benign tissues, (p < 0.001) and 53% of adenomas (p < 0.025). Labeling in IPMNs was usually seen in the noninvasive epithelium suggesting that Adnab-9 is a premalignant marker in these lesions. Labeling of invasive IPMN's identified a group of patients with a superior overall survival (p = 0.027).
Adnab-9 labeling-characteristics appear similar for both IPMNs and adenomatous polyps, suggesting that they are analogous lesions. Adnab-9 labeling may also be a useful prognostic marker for invasive intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms.
We report the first use of new synthetic triterpenoids to prevent lung cancer in experimental animals. Female A/J mice were treated with the mutagenic carcinogen vinyl carbamate, which induces adenocarcinoma of the lung in all animals within 16 weeks. If mice were fed either the methyl ester or the ethyl amide derivative of the synthetic triterpenoid 2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9(11)-dien-28-oic acid (CDDO-ME and CDDO-EA, respectively), beginning 1 week after dosing with carcinogen, the number, size, and severity of lung carcinomas were markedly reduced. The mechanisms of action of CDDO-ME and CDDO-EA that are germane to these in vivo findings are the following results shown here in cell culture: (a) suppression of the ability of IFN-gamma to induce de novo formation of nitric oxide synthase in a macrophage-like cell line RAW264.7, (b) induction of heme oxygenase-1 in these RAW cells, and (c) suppression of phosphorylation of the transcription factor signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 as well as induction of apoptosis in human lung cancer cell lines.
Bevantolol is a cardioselective, beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist, devoid of intrinsic beta sympathomimetic activity and with weak membrane-stabilizing and local anesthetic properties. The 3,4-dimethoxyphenylethylamino moiety, substituted on the side chain amine function, confers cardioselectivity, which has been confirmed by a number of experiments. In vitro, bevantolol demonstrated greater antagonism of atrial than tracheal responses to isoproterenol. In vivo, bevantolol preferentially inhibited isoproterenol-induced tachycardias in conscious and anesthetized dogs, compared with the nonselective agent propranolol. Conversely, its effect on blood pressure after isoproterenol was minimal compared with propranolol, reflecting its muted effect on beta 2 peripheral receptors. A functional difference between bevantolol and propranolol was demonstrated in histamine-challenged guinea pigs. Bevantolol had little effect on the antiasthmatic effect of isoproterenol, whereas propranolol blocked it totally. Bevantolol's lack of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity was demonstrated in normal and reserpinized dogs, where it was devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity at doses up to 10 mg/kg. Similarly, intravenous doses of 10 mg/kg had to be administered before direct myocardial depression occurred in the reserpinized animals. Metabolite 3, which is excreted in trace amounts in human urine, demonstrates intrinsic sympathomimetic activity when administered in pharmacologic doses to dogs; however, any clinical relevance remains to be established. Several laboratories have demonstrated that bevantolol interacts at alpha-adrenergic sites. These data require further investigation. The dose-related antihypertensive effect of bevantolol has been demonstrated in spontaneously hypertensive and 2 kidney, 1 clip renal hypertensive rats. Animal experiments also suggest that bevantolol may be useful in angina: It caused a favorable redistribution of blood flow in dogs in which the left circumflex artery had been stenosed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
