The proteasome inhibitor Bortezomib has been approved for the treatment of relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (MM), thanks to its ability to induce MM cell apoptosis. Moreover, Bortezomib has antiangiogenic properties. We report that endothelial cells (EC) exposed to Bortezomib undergo death to an extent that depends strictly on their activation state. Indeed, while quiescent EC are resistant to Bortezomib, the drug results maximally toxic in EC switched toward angiogenesis with FGF, and exerts a moderate effect on subconfluent HUVEC. Moreover, EC activation state deeply influences the death pathway elicited by Bortezomib: after treatment, angiogenesis-triggered EC display typical features of apoptosis. Conversely, death of subconfluent EC is preceded by ROS generation and signs typical of autophagy, including intense cytoplasmic vacuolization with evidence of autophagosomes at electron microscopy, and conversion of the cytosolic MAP LC3 I form toward the autophagosome-associated LC3 II form. Treatment with the specific autophagy inhibitor 3-MA prevents both LC3 I/LC3 II conversion and HUVEC cell death. Finally, early removal of Bortezomib is accompanied by the recovery of cell shape and viability. These findings strongly suggest that Bortezomib induces either apoptosis or autophagy in EC; interfering with the autophagic response may potentiate the antiangiogenic effect of the drug.
Cognitive impairment and weak intellectual capacity is a gradually progressive neurodegenerative problem. Growing evidences indicate that oxidants and antioxidant defenses interact in a vicious cycle, which plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of cognitive dysfunction. The present study was carried out to elucidate the neuroprotective effect of carvedilol against the colchicine-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative damage in rats. Colchicine (15 microg/5 microl), a microtubule disrupting agent when administered intracerebroventricularly in rats resulted in poor memory retention in both Morris water maze, elevated plus maze task paradigms and caused marked oxidative stress as indicated by significant increase in malondialdehyde, nitrite levels, depletion of SOD, catalase, glutathione-S-transferase activity and reduced glutathione levels. It also caused a significant decrease in the acetylcholinesterase activity. Chronic administration of carvedilol (2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg; p.o.) for a period of 25 days, starting 4 days prior to colchicine administration resulted in an improvement in memory retention, attenuation of oxidative damage and restoration of acetylcholinesterase activity. Present study demonstrates a neuroprotective effect of carvedilol against colchicine-induced cognitive impairment and associated oxidative damage.
We report on a patient with an embryonal teratocarcinoma of the testicle who had the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone after receiving a high dose of vinblastine. His clinical course and laboratory studies are discussed. We suggest that patients receiving a high dose of vinblastine are at risk for the development of this syndrome.
Exposure to environmental pollutants may contribute to the development of coronary heart disease (CHD). We determined the ZIP codes containing or abutting each of the approximately 900 hazardous waste sites in New York and identified the major contaminants in each. Three categories of ZIP codes were then distinguished: those containing or abutting sites contaminated with persistent organic pollutants (POPs), those containing only other types of wastes ("other waste"), and those not containing any identified hazardous waste site ("clean"). Effects of residence in each of these ZIP codes on CHD and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) hospital discharge rates were assessed with a negative binomial model, adjusting for age, sex, race, income, and health insurance coverage. Patients living in ZIP codes contaminated with POPs had a statistically significant 15.0% elevation in CHD hospital discharge rates and a 20.0% elevation in AMI discharge rates compared with clean ZIP codes. In neither of the comparisons were rates in other-waste sites significantly greater than in clean sites. In a subset of POP ZIP codes along the Hudson River, where average income is higher and there is less smoking, better diet, and more exercise, the rate of hospitalization for CHD was 35.8% greater and for AMI 39.1% greater than in clean sites. Although the cross-sectional design of the study prevents definite conclusions on causal inference, the results indirectly support the hypothesis that living near a POP-contaminated site constitutes a risk of exposure and of development of CHD and AMI.
The human faciogenital dysplasia 1 (FGD1) gene product plays an important role in morphogenesis. Its dysfunction causes Aarskog-Scott syndrome (MIM musical sharp 305400). To characterize the FGD1, we investigated its expression by RT-PCR and Southern blot analysis in normal tissues. We found novel alternative forms of the FGD1. One has a novel exon located in intron 8, named exon 8B (8B FDG1) and the other has an exon in intron 7, exon 7B (7B FGD1). The 8B FDG1 is expressed strongly in the brain, testis, spinal cord, trachea and stomach, and weakly in the thymus and lymphocytes. However, expression of the 7B FGD1 is weak and restricted in the testis and salivary gland. Insertion of each novel exon results in production of a premature termination codon, respectively, and the predicted proteins generated from them have only a proline-rich domain and an incomplete DH domain which potentially compete with the wild type of FGD1.
Nephrotoxicity of cisplatin can be ameliorated with intravenous (IV) hydration and forced diuresis with mannitol. Cisplatin has recently been used with hypertonic saline which allows administration of higher doses amounting to 40 mg/m2/d for 5 days, without significant nephrotoxicity. In this report we describe our experience with administration of cisplatin in a dose range of 30 to 40 mg/m2/d for 5 days, administered with IV hydration alone. Thirteen patients with recurrent carcinoma of the head and neck region were treated with high-dose cisplatin along with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) used as a continuous infusion. Eight patients received a total of 21 courses of cisplatin with the higher dose range (40 mg/m2 for 5 days) and the remainder received 11 courses with the lower dose range. The renal toxicity was minimal but the myelo-suppression was intense, frequently requiring hospitalization for the treatment of infections associated with neutropenia. Furthermore, we encountered severe peripheral neuropathy in five patients, four of whom developed major difficulties with ambulation. Six patients achieved objective regression of their tumor, two had minor response, and five failed to respond to chemotherapy. The study was terminated because of serious nonrenal toxicity from the high-dose cisplatin. Based on our limited experience, we believe that IV hydration alone, without the use of hypertonic saline, allows administration of high-dose cisplatin without significant nephrotoxicity. However, cisplatin used in a dose schedule of 40 mg/m2 for 5 days for more than three courses resulted in a disabling form of peripheral neuropathy.
Mangiferin, 1,3,6,7-tetrahydroxyxanthone-C2-β-D: -glucoside (C-glucosylxanthone), is a xanthone derivative that is widely distributed in higher plants. Recently, mangiferin was found to exhibit potential antitumor effects. However, the molecular mechanisms of this effect have not been elucidated. In the present study, we attempt to clarify the mechanism of mangiferin-induced apoptosis in the human acute myeloid leukemia cell line HL-60; mangiferin was found to induce apoptosis. We also observed a concurrent increase in caspase-3 activity and DNA fragmentation. Furthermore, on examining the survival signals expressed during apoptotic induction, we observed that mangiferin caused a remarkable decrease in the nuclear entry of NF-κB p65. However, there were no changes in the expression of other survival signals, such as extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2, protein kinase B, and p38 mitogenactivated protein kinase. In addition, mangiferin suppressed the expressions of Bcl-xL and XIAP; however, we did not note any changes in the levels of Bcl-2, Bax, and Bim. These results indicate that mangiferin induces apoptosis by suppressing NF-κB activation and expressions of Bcl-xL and XAIP. These findings suggest that mangiferin may be useful as an anticancer agent and can be used in combination therapy with other anticancer drugs for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia.
Olmesartan medoxomil is a new orally active angiotensin II (Ang II) type 1 receptor antagonist. It is a prodrug and is rapidly de-esterified during absorption to form olmesartan, the active metabolite. Olmesartan is a potent, competitive and selective Ang II type 1 receptor antagonist. Olmesartan is not metabolized by the cytochrome P-450 and has a dual route of elimination, by kidneys and liver. In patients with essential hypertension olmesartan medoxomil administered once daily at doses of 10-80 mg dose-dependently reduced diastolic blood pressure (DBP). Troughto-peak ratios for both DBP and systolic blood pressure (SBP) were above 50%. At the recommended once-daily starting doses, olmesartan medoxomil (20 mg) was more effective than losartan (50 mg), valsartan (80 mg) or irbesartan (150 mg) in reducing cuff DBP in patients with essential hypertension. The results of cuff SBP and mean 24-h DBP and SBP were similar to those of cuff DBP measurement. In mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients the recommended starting dose of olmesartan medoxomil was as effective as that of amlodipine besylate (5 mg/day) in reducing both cuff and 24-h blood pressure. In lowering DBP olmesartan medoxomil, at 10-20 mg/day, was as effective as atenolol at 50-100 mg/day. In mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients, olmesartan medoxomil, at 5-20 mg once daily, was more effective than captopril at 12.5-50 mg twice daily. At 20-40 mg once daily olmesartan medoxomil was as effective as felodipine, at 5-10 mg once daily. Olmesartan medoxomil has minimal adverse effects with no clinically important drug interactions. Animal studies have shown that olmesartan medoxomil provides a wide range of organ protection. Olmesartan medoxomil ameliorated atherosclerosis in hyperlipidemic animals and ameliorated cardiac remodeling and improved survival in rats with myocardial infarction. Olmesartan medoxomil has renoprotective effects in a remnant kidney model and type 2 diabetes models. Future investigation should reveal whether these beneficial effects of olmesartan medoxomil are applicable to human diseases.
Acute pancreatitis is a multifactorial disease caused by activation of several inflammatory mediators. Leukotrienes, beside other mediators, may be involved in acute pancreatitis. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of 'zafirlukast', a leukotriene receptor antagonist, in acute pancreatitis and its relation with prostaglandin synthesis.
Eighty rats were randomly divided into eight groups. Acute pancreatitis was induced by subcutaneous injection of cerulein (20 microg/kg), four times at 1-h intervals. Zafirlukast (20 mg/kg) was applied intraperitoneally as a pretreatment. Prostaglandin synthesis was inhibited by low-dose indomethacin (5 mg/kg subcutaneously). Pancreatic histopathology, serum amylase activity and pancreatic myeloperoxidase activity were determined to assess the severity of pancreatitis.
Zafirlukast pretreatment alone did not induce any inflammation and fatty necrosis in pancreatic tissue. However, it increased the histopathological score from 3.70 +/- 0.57 to 6.62 +/- 0.53 in rats with acute pancreatitis (P < 0.001). Fatty necrosis was especially prominent in the zafirlukast-treated acute pancreatitis group compared with the untreated group (2.62 +/- 0.26 versus 0.40 +/- 0.22, respectively; P < 0.001). Inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis by indomethacin partially suppressed the harmful effects of zafirlukast in acute pancreatitis. It decreased the pathological score (4.62 +/- 0.73) and fatty necrosis (1.50 +/- 0.32) in that group.
Interestingly, leukotriene receptor antagonism by zafirlukast increased the pancreatic histopathological score and fatty necrosis in rats with acute pancreatitis. Blocking of cysteinyl leukotriene receptors might cause an induction of mediator synthesis via other pathways. Effects of leukotriene receptor antagonism on the pancreas must be evaluated extensively in further studies.
In a prospective randomized study of 417 patients, side effects and complications of contrast media and the diagnostic quality of images obtained after hysterosalpingography (HSG) were evaluated after use of diatrizoate meglumine (104 patients), ioxaglate (105 patients), iohexol (105 patients), or ethiodized poppy-seed oil (103 patients). The authors detected no differences among these groups in the prevalence of pain during HSG. The prevalence of lower abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding after HSG was significantly lower in the group that received ethiodized poppy-seed oil than in the three other groups. The prevalence of pelvic infection or inflammation was significantly lower with ethiodized poppy-seed oil than with water-soluble media. All contrast media provided acceptable diagnostic image quality with regard to fallopian tubes, peritoneal spill, and intraperitoneal distribution. Visualization of the uterine cavity and ampullary rugae was significantly better with water-soluble media than with ethiodized poppy-seed oil, which was associated with a high conception rate and which the authors consider preferable for HSG.
Although drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is frequently observed, individual variation in the susceptibility to DILI is hard to predict. Intrinsic genetic variation is considered a key element for this variation but little is known about the identity of the genes associated with DILI. In this study, pre-biopsy method was applied to uncover the key genes for D-galactosamine (GalN)-induced liver injury and a cause and effect study was conducted to elucidate the correlation between the expression of uncovered genes and GalN-induced hepatotoxicity. To identify the genes determining the susceptibility to GalN-induced hepatotoxicity, we compared the innate gene expression profiles in the liver tissue pre-biopsied before GalN treatment of the SD rats susceptible and resistant to GalN-induced hepatotoxicity, using microarray. Eight genes including Pttg1, Ifit1 and Gstt3 were lower or higher in the susceptible animals than the resistant and RT-PCR analysis confirmed it. To determine if these genes are associated with the susceptibility to GalN-induced hepatotoxicity indeed, expression levels were measured using real-time PCR in a new set of animals and the correlation with GalN-induced hepatotoxicity were analyzed. Notably, the expression of Pttg1 was significantly correlated with the severity of GalN-induced hepatotoxicity (p<0.01) and the animals with lowest and highest level of Gstt3 turned out to be the most susceptible and resistant, respectively, demonstrating that the expression of Pttg1 and Gstt3 could predict inter-individual susceptibility to GalN-induced hepatotoxicity. More importantly, this study showed the utility of pre-biopsy method in the identification of the gene for the chemical-induced hepatotoxicity.
Arginase1 and nitric oxide synthase2 (NOS2) utilize l-arginine as a substrate, with both enzymes expressed at high levels in the asthmatic lung. Inhibition of arginase in ovalbumin-exposed C57BL/6 mice with the transition state inhibitor N(omega)-hydroxy-nor-l-arginine (nor-NOHA) significantly increased total l-arginine content in the airway compartment. We hypothesized that such an increase in l-arginine content would increase the amount of nitric oxide (NO) being produced in the airways and thereby decrease airway hyperreactivity and eosinophilic influx. We further hypothesized that despite arginase inhibition, NOS2 knockout (NOS2-/-) mice would be unable to up-regulate NO production in response to allergen exposure and would demonstrate higher amounts of airway hyperreactivity and eosinophilia under conditions of arginase inhibition than C57BL/6 animals. We found that administration of nor-NOHA significantly decreased airway hyperreactivity and eosinophilic airway inflammation in ovalbumin-exposed C57BL/6 mice, but these parameters were unchanged in ovalbumin-exposed NOS2-/- mice. Arginase1 protein content was increased in mice exposed to ovalbumin, an effect that was reversed upon nor-NOHA treatment in C57BL/6 mice. Arginase1 protein content in the airway compartment directly correlated with the degree of airway hyperreactivity in all treatment groups. NOS2-/- mice had significantly greater arginase1 and arginase2 concentrations compared to their respective C57BL/6 groups, indicating that inhibition of arginase may be dependent upon NOS2 expression. Arginase1 and 2 content were not affected by nor-NOHA administration in the NOS2-/- mice. We conclude that l-arginine metabolism plays an important role in the development of airway hyperreactivity and eosinophilic airway inflammation. Inhibition of arginase early in the allergic inflammatory response decreases the severity of the chronic inflammatory phenotype. These effects appear to be attributable to NOS2, which is a major source of NO production in the inflamed airway, although arginase inhibition may also be affecting the turnover of arginine by the other NOS isoforms, NOS1 and NOS3. The increased l-arginine content in the airway compartment of mice treated with nor-NOHA may directly or indirectly, through NOS2, control arginase expression both in response to OVA exposure and at a basal level.
In the present study, the antinociceptive profiles of eugenol were examined in ICR mice. Eugenol administered orally (from 1 to 10 mg/kg) showed an antinociceptive effect in a dose-dependent manner as measured in the acetic acid-induced writhing test. Duration of antinociceptive action of eugenol maintained at least for 30 min. Moreover, the cumulative response time of nociceptive behaviors induced by an intraplantar formalin injection was reduced by eugenol treatment during the 2(nd) phases. Furthermore, the cumulative nociceptive response time for intrathecal injection of substance P (0.7 μg) or glutamate (20 μg) was diminished by eugenol. Intraperitoneal pretreatment with yohimbine (α2-adrenergic receptor antagonist) or naloxone (opioid receptor antagonist) attenuated antinociceptive effect induced by eugenol in the writhing test. However, methysergide (5-HT serotonergic receptor antagonist) did not affect antinociception induced by eugenol in the writhing test. Our results suggest that eugenol shows an antinociceptive property in various pain models. Furthermore, this antinociceptive effect of eugenol may be mediated by α2-adrenergic and opioidergic receptors, but not serotonergic receptor.
Separate age groups of C57BL/6 and autoimmune New Zealand Black (NZB) mice were compared for diazepam-induced ataxia and barbiturate-induced loss of righting reflex. Between 1 and 3 months of age, both strains showed a similar age-related decrease in ED50 for diazepam-induced ataxia. However, between 3 and 12 months the decrease in ED50 was markedly greater in NZB mice. In contrast, age-related increases in the durations of loss of righting reflex following hexobarbital or barbital were similar in both strains. The results suggest that NZB mice show relatively accelerated age-related increases in sensitivity to benzodiazepine, but not to barbiturates.
Metformin is widely used in the treatment of type-2 diabetes. The pleotropic effects of metformin on glucose and lipid metabolism have been proposed to be mediated by the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and the subsequent up-regulation of small heterodimer partner (SHP). SHP suppresses the functions of several nuclear receptors involved in the regulation of hepatic metabolism, including pregnane X receptor (PXR), which is referred to as a "master regulator" of drug/xenobiotic metabolism. In this study, we hypothesize that metformin suppresses the expression of CYP3A4, a main detoxification enzyme and a target gene of PXR, due to SHP up-regulation. We employed various gene reporter assays in cell lines and qRT-PCR in human hepatocytes and in Pxr(-/-) mice. We show that metformin dramatically suppresses PXR-mediated expression of CYP3A4 in hepatocytes. Consistently, metformin significantly suppressed the up-regulation of Cyp3a11 mRNA in the liver and intestine of wild-type mice, but not in Pxr(-/-) mice. A mechanistic investigation of the phenomenon showed that metformin does not significantly up-regulate SHP in human hepatocytes. We further demonstrate that AMPK activation is not involved in this process. We show that metformin disrupts PXR's interaction with steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC1) in a two-hybrid assay independently of the PXR ligand binding pocket. Metformin also inhibited vitamin D receptor-, glucocorticoid receptor- and constitutive androstane receptor (CAR)-mediated induction of CYP3A4 mRNA in human hepatocytes. We show, therefore, a suppressive effect of metformin on PXR and other ligand-activated nuclear receptors in transactivation of the main detoxification enzyme CYP3A4 in human hepatocytes.
Over a short period of time, there was an outbreak of work-related skin lesions among workers at a company producing flooring laminate boards, after the introduction of a water-repellent lacquer based on diphenylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate (MDI). In 5 workers, patch testing was performed with a standard series, an isocyanate series and work-environmental products when indicated. 3 of the workers were tested with the lacquer, and contact allergy was found with concurrent reactions to 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane (MDA). 1 of the 3 workers also showed a simultaneous reaction to MDI, whereas 1 showed a positive reaction to dicyclohexylmethane-4,4'-diisocyanate (HMDI). Of the 2 individuals not tested with the lacquer, 1 reacted to both MDI and MDA, whereas the other reacted to a soap used at work. In 3 of 4 cases, the isocyanate reactions appeared after D3. Occupational contact with isocyanates should not exclusively be focused upon respiratory hazards, as this report shows that skin contamination probably increases the risk of developing contact allergy to isocyanates and isocyanate-related substances. When aiming at diagnosing contact allergy to isocyanates, it is desirable to perform a late reading, as positive reactions appear late. MDA appears to be a good marker for isocyanate hypersensitivity.
Atrazine and other corn herbicides are routinely detected in drinking water. Two studies on potential association of atrazine with small-for-gestational-age (SGA) and preterm birth prevalence found inconsistent results. Moreover, these studies did not control for individual-level potential confounders.
Our retrospective cohort study evaluated whether atrazine in drinking water is associated with increased prevalence of SGA and preterm birth.
We developed atrazine concentration time series for 19 water systems in Indiana from 1993 to 2007 and selected all births (n = 24,154) based on geocoded mother's residences. Log-binomial models were used to estimate prevalence ratios (PRs) for SGA and preterm delivery in relation to atrazine concentrations during various periods of the pregnancy. Models controlled for maternal demographic characteristics, prenatal care and reproductive history, and behavioral risk factors (smoking, drinking, drug use).
Atrazine in drinking water during the third trimester and the entire pregnancy was associated with a significant increase in the prevalence of SGA. Atrazine in drinking water > 0.1 microg/L during the third trimester resulted in a 17-19% increase in the prevalence of SGA compared with the control group (< 0.1 microg/L). Mean atrazine concentrations over the entire pregnancy > 0.644 microg/L were associated with higher SGA prevalence than in the control group (adjusted PR = 1.14; 95% confidence interval, 1.03-1.24). No significant association was found for preterm delivery.
We found that atrazine, and perhaps other co-occurring herbicides in drinking water, is associated with an increased prevalence of SGA, but not preterm delivery.
Despite extensive research for more than six decades on medical countermeasures against poisoning by organophosphorus compounds (OP) the treatment options are meagre. The presently established acetylcholinesterase (AChE) reactivators (oximes), e.g. obidoxime and pralidoxime, are insufficient against a number of nerve agents and there is ongoing debate on the benefit of oxime treatment in human OP pesticide poisoning. Up to now, the therapeutic efficacy of oximes was mostly evaluated in animal models but substantial species differences prevent direct extrapolation of animal data to humans. Hence, it was considered essential to establish relevant experimental in vitro models for the investigation of oximes as antidotes and to develop computer models for the simulation of oxime efficacy in different scenarios of OP poisoning. Kinetic studies on the various interactions between erythrocyte AChE from various species, structurally different OP and different oximes provided a basis for the initial assessment of the ability of oximes to reactivate inhibited AChE. In the present study, in vitro enzyme-kinetic and pharmacokinetic data from a minipig model of dimethoate poisoning and oxime treatment were used to calculate dynamic changes of AChE activities. It could be shown that there is a close agreement between calculated and in vivo AChE activities. Moreover, computer simulations provided insight into the potential and limitations of oxime treatment. In the end, such data may be a versatile tool for the ongoing discussion of the pros and cons of oxime treatment in human OP pesticide poisoning.
Lead poisoning affects many organs in the body. Lead inhibits delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD), an enzyme with two co-dominantly expressed alleles, ALAD1 and ALAD2.
Our meta-analysis studied the effects of the ALAD polymorphism on a) blood and bone lead levels and b) indicators of target organ toxicity.
We included studies reporting one or more of the following by individuals with genotypes ALAD1-1 and ALAD1-2/2-2: blood lead level (BLL), tibia or trabecular lead level, zinc protoporphyrin (ZPP), hemoglobin, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), dimercaptosuccinic acid-chelatable lead, or blood pressure.
Sample sizes, means, and standard deviations were extracted for the genotype groups.
There was a statistically significant association between ALAD2 carriers and higher BLL in lead-exposed workers (weighted mean differences of 1.93 microg/dL). There was no association with ALAD carrier status among environmentally exposed adults with BLLs < 10 microg/dL. ALAD2 carriers were potentially protected against adverse hemapoietic effects (ZPP and hemoglobin levels), perhaps because of decreased lead bioavailability to heme pathway enzymes.
Carriers of the ALAD2 allele had higher BLLs than those who were ALAD1 homozygous and higher hemoglobin and lower ZPP, and the latter seems to be inversely related to BLL. Effects on other organs were not well delineated, partly because of the small number of subjects studied and potential modifications caused by other proteins in target tissues or by other polymorphic genes.
Lead exposure has long been associated with deficits in IQ among children. However, few studies have assessed the impact of lead on specific domains of behavior and cognition.
We evaluated the associations between lead and different domains of neurobehavior and their relative sensitivity to lead.
We determined blood lead levels using a LeadCare instrument in 756 children 3-7 years of age attending pre- and elementary schools in Chennai, India. Anxiety, social problems, inattention, hyperactivity, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), as well as executive function were assessed in children by their schoolteachers using Conners' Teacher Rating Scales-39, Conners' ADHD/Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders, 4th Edition Scales (CADS), and the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function questionnaires, with higher scores denoting worse behavior. Analyses were carried out using multivariate generalized estimating equations with comparisons of outcome Z-scores to assess the relative strengths of the associations between log-blood lead and the different domains of behavior.
Mean blood lead level was 11.4 +/- 5.3 microg/dL. Blood lead was associated with higher anxiety (beta = 0.27, p = 0.01), social problems (beta = 0.20, p = 0.02), and higher scores in the ADHD index (beta = 0.17; p = 0.05). The effect estimate was highest for global executive function (beta = 0.42; p< 0.001).
Higher blood lead levels in this population of young children is associated with increased risk of neurobehavioral deficits and ADHD, with executive function and attention being particularly vulnerable domains to the effects of lead.
Hydroxylated polychlorinated biphenyls (OH-PCBs), unlike PCBs, are in general readily excreted yet are still detected in humans and animals. Active transport of OH-PCBs across the placenta and hydroxylation of PCBs by the fetus suggest the potential for greater impact on the fetus compared with the parent PCB compounds, but little is known about their health effects, particularly in humans.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the associations between prenatal OH-PCB exposure and neurodevelopment in children at 16 months of age in eastern Slovakia.
A birth cohort (n = 1,134) was enrolled during 2002-2004. We analyzed six OH-PCB metabolites (4-OH-CB-107, 3-OH-CB-153, 4-OH-CB-146, 3'-OH-CB-138, 4-OH-CB-187, and 4'-OH-CB-172) in a subset of the cohort. The Bayley Scales of Infant Development were administered to the children at the 16-month follow-up visit. We developed multiple linear regression models predicting standardized scores for the Mental Development Index (MDI) and Psychomotor Development Index (PDI) from maternal (n = 147) and cord (n = 80) serum OH-PCB concentrations, adjusting for sex of child, district, HOME (Home Observation for Measurement of the Environment) score, and maternal score on Raven's Progressive Matrices.
Cord 4-OH-CB-107 was significantly associated with lower MDI (beta = -2.27; p = 0.01) and PDI (beta = -4.50; p = 0.004). Also, maternal 4-OH-CB-107 was significantly associated with lower MDI (beta = -1.76; p = 0.03) but not PDI. No other OH-PCB metabolites were associated with decreased PDI or MDI.
Our findings showed a significant association of 4-OH-CB-107 with decreased MDI, which can possibly be mediated by endocrine disruption, altered neurotransmitter functions, or reduced thyroid hormone concentrations in brain.
Usnea longissima, a medicinal lichen of Anatolia (Turkey), is used in the treatment of gastric ulcer in local folk medicine. In this paper, the gastroprotective effect of usnic acid (UA) isolated from Usnea longissima was investigated in the indomethacin-induced gastric ulcers in rats at doses of 25, 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg body weight. The gastric lesions were significantly reduced by all doses of UA as compared with the indomethacin (25 mg/kg body weight) treated group. In the stomach tissues of treated animals, the in vivo antioxidant levels were evaluated. The administration of indomethacin caused a significant decrease in the levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and reduced glutathione (GSH), and an increase in the lipid peroxidation (LPO) level (p < 0.05). The administration of all doses of UA reversed the trend, inducing a significant increase of SOD, GSH and GPx levels and a reduction in LPO level in tissues. However, catalase (CAT), glutathione reductase (GR) and myeloperoxidase (MPx) activities, increased by indomethacin, were found to be lower in the UA- and ranitidine-treated groups. The gastric mucosal constitutive NO synthase (cNOS) and inducible NO synthase (iNOS) activities were also investigated in tissues of UA- (100 mg/kg), ranitidine- (50 mg/kg) and indomethacin-treated rat groups. The administration of UA and ranitidine increased the cNOS activity and lowered the iNOS activity as compared with indomethacin-treated group. These results suggest that the gastroprotective effect of UA can be attributed to its reducing effect on the oxidative damage and neutrophil infiltration in tissues.
For this study all-trans-retinoic acid was administered in pregnant white rats in their "prima gravida" pregnancy. Rats were divided in five groups. The first three groups were treated with 20 mg R.A./kg b.w. at several gestational days. The fourth group was treated with corn oil, while the fifth group remained untreated. All the animals were sacrificed during the first hours of the 21st gestational day. In the first group, three embryos, five absorptions and six compact embryonic masses were counted in litters. All the embryos presented exencephaly, combined with external anopthalmia. They also presented severe craniofacial malformations. In the second group, nine embryos and five compact embryonic masses were counted in litters. Three of the embryos presented exencephaly combined with external anopthalmia, while the six remaining presented complex craniofacial anomalies. In the third group, exencephaly was present in two embryos combined with anopthalmia, seven embryos had complex anomalies and four compact embryonic masses were counted in litters. Our results indicate the teratogenic involvement of all-trans-retinoic acid in anterior neural tube differentiation.
Propylthiouracil (PTU), a thyroid hormone inhibitor, is widely used for the treatment of hyperthyroidism. Rarely, the drug has been associated with severe hepatotoxicity. We present the case of a 13-year-old girl who developed jaundice and profound liver dysfunction with rapid progression to metabolic encephalopathy while receiving PTU therapy. She died despite extensive therapeutic measures including orthotopic liver transplantation. Her rapid clinical course and fatal outcome show that in spite of regular monitoring, severe, rare, rapidly occurring complications of PTU therapy may still occur.
Systemic administration of CCK-8S (1 or 10 micrograms/kg IP) markedly inhibited L-dopa-induced dyskinesias in parkinsonian monkeys, but did not interfere with locomotor stimulation by L-dopa. CCK analogues may be useful antidyskinetic agents for improved control of Parkinson's disease.
Between November 1971 and December 1973, 10 patients with intractable urinary bleeding secondary to radiation or cyclophosphamide cystitis, or to primary or secondary bladder cancer were treated with intravesical formalin. Good results were obtained in 8 of the 10 patients, with control of bleeding for 3 to more than 36 months. There were 2 failures, both with cancer.
