The increased fractional clearance of albumin in nephrotic states has long been attributed to glomerular permselectivity dysfunction. Using radiolabeled rat serum albumin, transferrin, IgG, and polydisperse Ficoll, this study investigated the changes in their in vivo fractional clearance in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis and anti-glomerular basement membrane glomerulonephritis. In control rats the lack of charge selectivity was confirmed by the demonstration that carboxymethyl Ficoll (valence approximately -39) had the same fractional clearance as uncharged Ficoll. Both diseases exhibited similar effects on fractional clearance measurements suggesting an underlying common mechanism. In disease, there was good agreement between the fractional clearance of proteins determined by radioactivity as compared to those determined by radioimmunoassay. A small increase in the fractional clearance for IgG was evident in disease as compared to controls, which mirrored the change in the equivalent size Ficoll, suggesting that the increase is because of the development of a small proportion of large pores in the glomerular capillary wall. There was no increase, however, in the fractional clearance of Ficoll of equivalent size to albumin in either disease, yet the fractional clearance of the albumin increased by 12 to 14 times as determined by radioactivity and 4500 to 6600 times as determined by radioimmunoassay. This study demonstrates that glomerulonephritis is not a disease associated with changes in glomerular permeability to albumin but is because of alterations in albumin processing by cells distal to the glomerular basement membrane. It is also apparent that approaches to glomerular pathology and proteinuria as risk factors in renal disease must be reassessed.
Acute tubular necrosis induced by aminoglycoside antibiotics and various other nephrotoxins is followed by a regenerative process which leads to the restoration of damaged tubules. Several lines of evidence indicate that tubular regeneration is mediated by polypeptide growth factors such as epidermal growth factor (EGF). Previous studies devoted to cisplatin nephrotoxicity have shown that this agent causes tubular cystic degeneration possibly related to an impairment of renal tissue repair. Thus, we examined on a comparative basis the time course of the regenerative response subsequent to tubular damage induced by tobramycin or cisplatin, particular attention being paid to renal EGF and its receptor. Female Sprague-Dawley rats (160-180 g body weight) were treated during 4 consecutive days with daily doses of 200 mg/kg tobramycin i.p. (BID) or 2 mg/kg cisplatin (once a day). Sham-treated rats were given 0.9% NaCl i.p. following the same protocol. Groups of experimental animals (n = 5-10) were terminated at increasing time intervals (1, 4, 7, 14, 21, 60 days) after cessation of treatment. One hour prior to sacrifice, each individual received i.p. 200 mg/kg 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) for the immunohistochemical demonstration of cell proliferation. Blood was collected at the time of sacrifice in order to assess glomerular filtration rate by measuring serum creatinine and BUN levels. Kidneys were analyzed with respect to total EGF determined by RIA in renal tissue homogenates, and soluble EGF was assayed in extracts prepared by centrifugation. Renal tissue was processed for the immunohistochemical detection of S-phase cells, of EGF, of EGF receptors, and of the intermediate filament vimentin, the latter being used as a marker of epithelium dedifferentiation. In absence of nephrotoxic alterations, EGF was immunolocalized in distal tubules, whereas EGF receptor immunostaining was seen in proximal tubules cells. Vimentin immunostaining was confined to glomeruli and blood vessels. Tobramycin and cisplatin caused acute tubular necrosis in proximal convoluted tubules and proximal straight tubules, respectively. Tissue damage was accompanied by renal dysfunction reflected by an elevation of serum creatinine and BUN levels. Tubular necrosis was followed by a proliferative response indicative of tubular regeneration. Regenerative hyperplasia was associated with a reduction of total immunoreactive EGF due to a decrease of tissue-bound proEGF. Tubules undergoing regenerative repair were characterized by a disappearance of EGF receptors and the presence of immunoreactive vimentin. In tobramycin-treated rats, renal dysfunction lasted for 4-7 days and was fully reversible, as indicated by the return of serum markers to normal values.
Gram-positive infections have become prevalent among neutropenic patients with cancer. A prospective, randomized, double-blind trial of teicoplanin, 6 mg/kg every 12 h for three doses then every 24 h, versus vancomycin hydrochloride, 15 mg/kg every 12 h, in the empirical treatment of febrile neutropenic patients was undertaken among 50 consecutive patients with haematological malignancy. The patients also received piperacillin sodium, 3 g every 4 h, and tobramycin sulphate, 1.5-2 mg/kg every 8 h. Both groups (25 teicoplanin and 25 vancomycin) were comparable in age, sex, renal function, underlying disease and concurrent therapy. Among 22 patients (44%) with culture-proven infection, Gram-positive organisms were isolated in 15 (9 with bacteraemia) and Gram-negative in 11 (4 with bacteraemia). Mixed or polymicrobial infection occurred in 8 patients. Serum 1-h peak and trough levels at steady state were 41 +/- 15 and 12 +/- 3 mg/l for teicoplanin (at 14 +/- 4 days), and 40 +/- 10 and 8 +/- 5 mg/l for vancomycin (at 0.9 +/- 0.6 days). Mean elimination half-life and apparent volume of distribution at steady state were 80.5 +/- 21.5 h and 1.4 +/- 0.8 l/kg for teicoplanin, and 5.6 +/- 1.8 h and 0.6 +/- 0.2 l/kg for vancomycin. Empirical antimicrobial therapy was successful in 23 teicoplanin and 21 vancomycin patients, respectively (p = 0.67; two-tailed Fisher's exact test). Nephrotoxicity (serum creatinine > 110 mmol/l), however, was more common among vancomycin patients (10 versus 2; p = 0.02), while termination of treatment due to adverse effects was also more common among vancomycin patients (10 versus 2; p = 0.02).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The behavioral effects of paroxetine were investigated in mice and rats in comparison with imipramine and amitriptyline. 1) Locomotor activities were decreased by imipramine and amitriptyline but not by paroxetine in both animal species. 2) Paroxetine antagonized methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity in mice as did imipramine and amitriptyline. 3) Paroxetine showed a more potent antimuricidal effect in raphe-lesioned rats than imipramine and amitriptyline, and it also inhibited muricide in olfactory bulbectomized rats. 4) The immobility of rats in the forced swimming test was markedly decreased by imipramine and amitriptyline, but only slightly by paroxetine. 5) Like imipramine and amitriptyline, paroxetine potentiated the methamphetamine- or L-DOPA-induced stereotyped sniffing, and it inhibited oxotremorine-induced tremor. 6) Paroxetine antagonized reserpine-induced hypothermia, tetrabenazine-induced ptosis, and enhanced ether-induced anesthesia, all less potently than imipramine and amitriptyline. 7) The analgesic action of paroxetine was stronger than that of imipramine and amitriptyline. 8) Paroxetine did not antagonize maximal electroshock- or pentetrazol-induced convulsions and haloperidol- or THC-induced catalepsy in rats. In addition, paroxetine neither exerted muscle relaxation nor affected the shuttle-box type conditioned avoidance in rats. From these results, the behavioral effects of paroxetine, as compared with imipramine and amitriptyline, were characterized by its potent antimuricidal action in raphe-lesioned rats and its weak effect in the forced swimming test and by its less potent muscle relaxant, anticonvulsant, anticataleptic and anesthesia-potentiating actions.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) is associated with trauma-induced hearing loss. Local treatment of cochleae of trauma-exposed animals with a glucocorticoid is effective in reducing the level of hearing loss that occurs post-trauma (e.g., electrode insertion trauma-induced hearing loss/dexamethasone treatment).
Dexamethasone (Dex) protects auditory hair cells (AHCs) from trauma-induced loss by activating cellular signal pathways that promote cell survival.
Organ of Corti explants challenged with an ototoxic level of TNFalpha was the trauma model with Dex the otoprotective drug. A series of inhibitors were used in combination with the Dex treatment of TNFalpha-exposed explants to investigate the signal molecules that participate in Dex-mediated otoprotection. The otoprotective capacity of Dex against TNFalpha ototoxicity was determined by hair cell counts obtained from fixed explants stained with FITC-phalloidin labeling with investigators blinded to specimen identity.
The general caspase inhibitor Boc-d-fmk prevented TNFalpha-induced AHC death. There was a significant reduction (p<0.05) in the efficacy of Dex otoprotection against TNFalpha ototoxicity when the following cellular events were blocked: (1) glucocorticoid receptors (Mif); (2) PI3K (LY294002); (3) Akt/PKB (SH-6); and (4) NFkappaB (NFkappaB-I).
Dex treatment protects hair cells against TNFalpha apoptosis in vitro by activation of PI3K/Akt and NFkappaB signaling.
In this study, the effects of yohimbine (alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist) and clonidine (alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist) on anti-hyperalgesia induced by carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine in a rat model of inflammatory pain were investigated. Carbamazepine (10-40 mg/kg; i.p.) and oxcarbazepine (40-160 mg/kg; i.p.) caused a significant dose-dependent reduction of the paw inflammatory hyperalgesia induced by concanavalin A (Con A, intraplantarly) in a paw pressure test in rats. Yohimbine (1-3 mg/kg; i.p.) significantly depressed the anti-hyperalgesic effects of carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine, in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Both drug mixtures (carbamazepine-clonidine and oxcarbazepine-clonidine) administered in fixed-dose fractions of the ED50 (1/2, 1/4 and 1/8) caused significant and dose-dependent reduction of the hyperalgesia induced by Con A. Isobolographic analysis revealed a significant synergistic (supra-additive) anti-hyperalgesic effect of both combinations tested. These results indicate that anti-hyperalgesic effects of carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine are, at least partially, mediated by activation of adrenergic alpha2-receptors. In addition, synergistic interaction for anti-hyperalgesia between carbamazepine and clonidine, as well as oxcarbazepine and clonidine in a model of inflammatory hyperalgesia, was demonstrated.
The effect on blood pressure and heart rate of central administration of dynorphin A(1-13) and of beta-, gamma-, and alpha-endorphin related peptides was studied in urethane-anesthetized rats. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v., 0.1-10 micrograms) administration of beta-endorphin resulted in a dose-dependent, naltrexone-reversible hypotension and bradycardia. N-terminally modified fragments of beta-endorphin did not reduce blood pressure and heart rate. On the other hand, a dose of 10 micrograms of beta-endorphin(1-27), which lacks the four C-terminal amino acid residues of beta-endorphin, induced a fall in blood pressure and had a biphasic effect on heart rate. These responses, however, were resistant to pretreatment with naltrexone. None of the fragments of beta-endorphin smaller than beta-endorphin(1-27) affected blood pressure when administered i.c.v. in a dose of 10 micrograms. A small transient bradycardia was observed after i.c.v. administration of 10 micrograms of beta-endorphin(1-26), alpha, and gamma-endorphin. The naltrexone-reversible bradycardic response of alpha- and gamma-endorphin was not present in des-tyrosine- and des-enkephalin-alpha- and gamma-endorphin and also not in alpha-endorphin(10-16) and gamma-endorphin(10-17). Upon i.c.v. administration (0.1-50 micrograms) a dose-dependent, naltrexone-reversible decrease in blood pressure and heart rate was induced by dynorphin A(1-13). The present data indicate a hypotensive influence of beta-endorphin, beta-endorphin(1-27), and dynorphin A(1-13), whereas other fragments of beta-endorphin had little or no effect on the cardiovascular parameters investigated.
In order to evaluate the efficacy, time-course of action and predictors of response to topical capsaicin, 39 patients with chronic post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN), median duration 24 months, were treated with 0.025% capsaicin cream for 8 weeks. During therapy the patients rated their pain on a visual analogue scale (VAS) and a verbal outcome scale. A follow-up investigation was performed 10-12 months after study onset on the patients who had improved. Nineteen patients (48.7%) substantially improved after the 8-week trial; 5 (12.8%) discontinued therapy due to side-effects such as intolerable capsaicin-induced burning sensations (4) or mastitis (1); 15 (38.5%) reported no benefit. The decrease in VAS ratings was significant after 2 weeks of continuous application. Of the responders 72.2% were still improved at the follow-up; only one-third of them had continued application irregularly. Treatment effect was not dependent on patient's age, duration or localization of PHN (trigeminal involvement was excluded), sensory disturbance or pain character. Treatment response was not correlated with the incidence, time-course or severity of capsaicin-induced burning. If confirmed in controlled trials, the long-term results of this open, non-randomized study might indicate that the analgesic effect of capsaicin in PHN is mediated by both interference with neuropeptide metabolism and morphological changes (perhaps degeneration) of nociceptive afferents.
Nicardipine, a new dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, has been investigated for the treatment of coronary artery disease and heart failure. To assess the inotropic effect of nicardipine in humans independent of its vasodilator effect, equihypotensive doses of intravenous nitroprusside (mean infusion rate 65 +/- 13 micrograms/min) and nicardipine (mean dose 5.2 +/- 0.4 mg) were administered to 15 patients with heart failure (New York Heart Association functional classes II to IV, radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction 0.15 +/- 0.02). Left ventricular micromanometer pressure and simultaneous radionuclide left ventricular volume were obtained at baseline, during nitroprusside infusion, during a second baseline period and during nicardipine infusion. Heart rate did not change significantly with either nitroprusside or nicardipine. Mean systemic arterial pressure decreased by an average of 21 mm Hg with both drugs. A greater decrease in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure occurred with nitroprusside (27 +/- 2 to 14 +/- 2 mm Hg, p less than 0.01) than with nicardipine (27 +/- 2 to 23 +/- 3 mm Hg, p less than 0.05), and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure decreased significantly only with nitroprusside. Cardiac index increased from 1.8 +/- 0.1 to 2.1 +/- 0.1 liters/min per m2 (p less than 0.05) with nitroprusside and to a greater extent from 1.7 +/- 0.1 to 2.4 +/- 0.1 liters/min per m2 (p less than 0.01) with nicardipine. Left ventricular ejection fraction increased with nicardipine (0.15 +/- 0.01 to 0.19 +/- 0.01, p less than 0.01), but not with nitroprusside. Peak positive first derivative of left ventricular pressure (dP/dt) decreased by 9% with both agents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Trichloroethylene (TCE, CAS 79-01-6) is a widely used industrial chemical, and a common environmental pollutant. TCE is a well-known carcinogen in rodents and is classified as "probably carcinogenic to humans". Several analytical methods have been proposed for detection of TCE metabolites in biological media utilizing derivatization-free techniques; however, none of them is suitable for simultaneous detection of both oxidative metabolites and glutathione conjugates of TCE in small volume biological samples. Here, we report a new combination of methods for assessment of major TCE metabolites: dichloroacetic acid (DCA), trichloroacetic acid (TCA), S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC), and S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl) glutathione (DCVG). First, DCA and TCA were extracted with ether. Second, the remaining aqueous fraction underwent solid phase extraction for DCVC and DCVG. Then, DCA and TCA were measured by hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography ion exchange negative electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry, while DCVC and DCVG were measured by reverse phase positive electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. This method was applied successfully to measure all 4 TCE metabolites in as little as 50 microl of serum from mice orally exposed to TCE (2100 mg/kg, 2h). Serum concentrations (mean+/-standard deviation) of the TCE metabolites obtained with this method are comparable or equivalent to those previously reported in the literature: DCA, 0.122+/-0.014 nmol/ml (limit of detection: 0.01 nmol/ml); TCA, 256+/-30 nmol/ml (0.4 nmol/ml); DCVG, 0.037+/-0.015 nmol/ml (0.001 nmol/ml); DCVC, 0.0024+/-0.0009 nmol/ml (0.001 nmol/ml). This method opens new opportunities to increase throughput and decrease number of animals required for mechanistic studies on TCE in rodents.
The effect of a dihydropyridine (DHP) calcium antagonist, PN 200-110, on cocaine reinforcing properties was investigated using conditioned place preference paradigm. PN 200-110 in nonsedative doses (0.62-1.25-2.5 mg/kg SC) was able to inhibit cocaine-(10 mg/kg IP) induced place preference with ED50 1.57 (0.88-2.58). The results suggest a possible use of DHPs in the treatment of cocaine-related disorders.
The first case of hemorrhagic cystitis due to atorvastatin for treatment of hyperlipidemia is reported. Hematuria resolved spontaneously with discontinuation of the drug.
To describe a woman with a previously unrecognized pheochromocytoma who died after ingesting over-the-counter pseudoephedrine-containing medications.
We present a case report including laboratory, radiographic, and pathologic findings in a patient with a previously unrecognized pheochromocytoma.
A 31-year-old woman had symptoms consistent with intermittent, excessive release of catecholamines since childhood. She developed an upper-respiratory infection and used over-the-counter medications containing pseudoephedrine. Subsequently, she developed a hypertensive crisis with congestive heart failure and died of a cardiac arrhythmia and shock. Findings from postmortem examination included a right adrenal pheochromocytoma, congestive heart failure, and catecholamine cardiomyopathy.
This patient death may be linked to the use of pseudoephedrine hydrochloride. Physicians and pharmacists should warn patients with known pheochromocytoma or those at risk for having pheochromocytoma on the basis of family history or genetic testing that pseudoephedrine use may be harmful. Over-the-counter packaging should include such warning.
In patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy, an increased urinary excretion of high (IgG) and low [beta(2)-microglobulin (beta(2)M), alpha(1)-microglobulin (alpha(1)M)] molecular weight proteins predicts prognosis and precedes renal insufficiency. We have studied the changes in the urinary excretion of these proteins in patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy and renal insufficiency during and after treatment with cyclophosphamide and steroids, and investigated their value in predicting long-term outcome.
Standardized measurements of urinary IgG, albumin, beta(2)M and alpha(1)M were performed at 0, 2, 6 and 12 months in 11 patients, at 12 months in 25 patients and in 17 of these last patients after 2-5 years.
We observed a rapid improvement of glomerular permselectivity and tubular protein reabsorption within 2 months after the start of therapy. Despite a partial remission of proteinuria within 12 months in most patients, evidence of tubulo-interstitial injury remained apparent. Neither absolute levels of urinary IgG, beta(2)M or alpha(1)M at baseline or at 12 months nor the percentage reduction between baseline and 12 months clearly predicted the occurrence of a remission or a relapse to nephrotic range proteinuria. In the case of a persistent stable remission, we observed a gradual decrease of urinary beta(2)M towards normal values.
In patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy and renal insufficiency, treatment with cyclophosphamide and steroids resulted in an improvement of glomerular permeability and tubular proteinuria. Tubular proteinuria remained present for many years, even in patients with stable remission of proteinuria. Measurements of urinary proteins at 12 months after treatment start lacked predictive accuracy.
A case report of an intraoperative asthmatic state that was untreatable by conservative methods is described. These methods include elevation of the patient's chest, ventilation with pure oxygen, and administration of volatile anaesthetics, bronchodilative drugs and corticoids. If the patient does not respond to conventional therapy, the bronchial smooth muscle relaxant effect of ketamine should be used.
A 64-year-old woman receiving intravenous chemotherapy for stage IIIB non-small cell lung cancer experienced acute arterial thrombosis of the distal radial and entire ulnar arteries with subsequent arterial occlusion of the right popliteal artery. Two separate arterial occlusions occurred after administration of cisplatin and etoposide chemotherapy; the second occlusion occurred after rechallenge with the second cycle of chemotherapy. Although venous thrombosis is more common in patients with cancer than in the general population, chemotherapy-induced arterial thrombosis rarely has been reported. To our knowledge, peripheral arterial occlusion after the first and second cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy has not been reported in the literature.
The studies outlined here used pharmacological and genetic approaches to attempt to identify the nicotinic receptors that modulate nicotine-induced seizures. Full-blown clonic-tonic seizures were induced by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of nicotine, the alpha4beta2 selective agonist ABT-418 and the alpha7-selective GTS-21. Cytisine, which is a partial agonist at alpha4beta2-type receptors, produced partial seizures. DHbetaE and MLA did not block nicotine-induced seizures. Instead, both antagonists caused seizures. Restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) for the alpha7 receptor were identified in two inbred strains (C3H and DBA) that differ in sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. F2 mice derived from a C3H x DBA cross that were homozygous for the C3H variant of the alpha7 RFLP were more sensitive to nicotine-induced seizures than were F2 mice that were homozygous for the DBA RFLP. In a study that used RI strains derived from two selectively bred mouse lines (LS and SS), an association between sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures and an RFLP associated with the alpha4 gene was found. These data support the assertion that both alpha4 and alpha7 receptor types are involved in modulating convulsions produced by nicotine.
Sirolimus (SRL) may supplement calcineurin inhibitors in clinical organ transplantation. These are nephrotoxic, but SRL seems to act differently displaying only minor nephrotoxic effects, although this question is still open. In a number of treatment protocols where SRL was combined with a calcineurin inhibitor indications of a synergistic nephrotoxic effect were described. The aim of this study was to examine further the renal function, including morphological analysis of the kidneys of male Sprague-Dawley rats treated with either cyclosporine A (CsA), tacrolimus (FK506) or SRL as monotherapies or in different combinations.
For a period of 2 weeks, CsA 15 mg/kg/day (given orally), FK506 3.0 mg/kg/day (given orally) or SRL 0.4 mg/kg/day (given intraperitoneally) was administered once a day as these doses have earlier been found to achieve a significant immunosuppressive effect in Sprague-Dawley rats. In the 'conscious catheterized rat' model, the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was measured as the clearance of Cr(EDTA). The morphological analysis of the kidneys included a semi-quantitative scoring system analysing the degree of striped fibrosis, subcapsular fibrosis and the number of basophilic tubules, plus an additional stereological analysis of the total grade of fibrosis in the cortex stained with Sirius Red.
CsA, FK506 and SRL all significantly decreased the GFR. A further deterioration was seen when CsA was combined with either FK506 or SRL, whereas the GFR remained unchanged in the group treated with FK506 plus SRL when compared with treatment with any of the single substances. The morphological changes presented a similar pattern. The semi-quantitative scoring was significantly worst in the group treated with CsA plus SRL (P<0.001 compared with controls) and the analysis of the total grade of fibrosis also showed the highest proportion in the same group and was significantly different from controls (P<0.02). The FK506 plus SRL combination showed only a marginally higher degree of fibrosis as compared with controls (P=0.05).
This rat study demonstrated a synergistic nephrotoxic effect of CsA plus SRL, whereas FK506 plus SRL was better tolerated.
Cycle control was studied comparing the monophasic oral contraceptive Loestrin with three low-dose phasic preparations (Triphasil, Ortho 10/11 and Ortho 7/7/7) in 391 women of whom 300 completed 6 cycles. Loestrin subjects had a rate of occurrence (31% of cycles) for intermenstrual bleeding (IMB) comparable to the rates for subjects on the phasic preparations (36%, 37% and 37%, respectively). Triphasil subjects had lower rates than the Ortho 10/11 and Ortho 7/7/7 subjects (p less than 0.01) in cycle one when all subjects were analyzed and in pre-study users when continuing menstrual flow (CMF) episodes were not included as IMB. IMB was a cause for dropping out of the study in 7% of subjects who were evenly distributed between groups. There were no differences between groups for BTB when perceived by subjects as a side effect. Spotting was perceived as a side effect more often with Ortho 10/11 and Ortho 7/7/7 use than with Triphasil (p less than 0.01). Loestrin, Ortho 10/11 and Ortho 7/7/7 subjects were more likely to report amenorrhea (p less than 0.001) and less likely to report leg cramps (p less than 0.01) compared to those on Triphasil. Triphasil subjects were less likely to report acne than subjects on Ortho 7/7/7 (p less than 0.01).
Polyethylenimine (PEI) has been commonly used as a cationic polymeric gene carrier due to high transfection efficiency, however, its cytotoxicity has hindered the practical application. In this study, we report the development of poly(amino ester) (PAE) based on glycerol propoxylate triacrylate (GPT) and spermine (SPE) as an alternative gene carrier for lung cancer therapy. GPT-SPE copolymer was prepared by Michael addition reaction between GPT and SPE, and the efficacy was evaluated using shAkt1 as a model therapeutic gene. The molecular weight and composition were characterized using gel permeability chromatography (GPC) and (1)H-nuclear magnetic resonance ((1)H-NMR), respectively. The GPT-SPE could effectively condense DNA with about 163 nm size and protect the DNA from nucleases. GPT-SPE/DNA complexes showed excellent transfection with low toxicity both in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, aerosol delivery of GPT-SPE/Akt1 shRNA complexes significantly suppressed lung tumorigenesis in K-ras(LA1) lung cancer model mice. These results suggest that GPT-SPE can be used in shRNA-based lung cancer gene therapy.
The analgesic effect of ketamine hydrochloride 200, 400, 800 and 1600 micrograms kg-1, administered intrathecally in rats, was evaluated using the tail-flick test. A short-lived analgesic effect was demonstrated with the larger doses and this could be abolished by pretreatment with naloxone hydrochloride 200 micrograms kg-1. Intrathecal morphine 100 micrograms kg-1 produced a more profound analgesic effect than intrathecal ketamine 1600 micrograms kg-1. There were three deaths shortly after intrathecal injection of ketamine. Histopathological examination of the spinal cords and nerve roots of these rats revealed the presence of vacuoles in the cells of the posterior root ganglion. Other rats sacrificed for histopathological examination showed no changes attributed to the injectate.
The use of low tidal volumes with permissive hypercapnia in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome may require heavy sedation to allow them to tolerate mechanical ventilation. Administration of methadone for sedation is an alternative to using other opioids, given its longer elimination half-life and incomplete cross-tolerance with other mu-receptor-active opioids. Methadone appears to have a molecular structure similar to that of verapamil, a calcium channel blocker, and may exhibit similar cardiac properties as well. A 43-year-old man with acute respiratory distress syndrome experienced bradycardia while receiving a continuous infusion of methadone for sedation and mechanical ventilation management. This case report demonstrates that caution is warranted when high dosages of methadone are administered because of its potential cardiac effects.
The optimal heparin dose as an adjunct to fibrinolysis and its role in causing intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) is unclear.
We reviewed the heparin regimens and rates of ICH in 3 sets of recent fibrinolytic trials: (1) studies with accelerated recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (TPA, alteplase) plus intravenous heparin, in which the heparin regimen was changed during the course of the trial; (2) phase III trials with accelerated TPA plus intravenous heparin; and (3) trials of new single-bolus fibrinolytic agents.
Lower rates of ICH were observed among studies of accelerated TPA that reduced the heparin dose mid-trial (TIMI 9A --> 9B: 1.87% --> 1.07%, GUSTO-IIa --> IIb: 0.92% --> 0.71%, TIMI 10B: 2.80% --> 1.16%). Rates of ICH with accelerated TPA gradually increased from GUSTO-I (0.72%) in 1990 to 1993 to ASSENT-2 (0.94%) in 1997 to 1998. However, this trend was reversed in InTIME-II, which used the lowest heparin dose and most aggressive activated partial thromboplastin time monitoring and observed an ICH rate of 0.64% with accelerated TPA. Lower ICH rates were also observed when the heparin dose was reduced with single-bolus tenecteplase (TNK-TPA) and lanoteplase.
Nonrandomized comparisons with accelerated TPA suggest that lower doses of intravenous heparin are associated with lower rates of ICH. This observation also appears to apply to single-bolus TNK-TPA and novel plasminogen activator. A lower-dose, weight-adjusted heparin regimen (60 U/kg bolus; maximum, 4000 U; 12 U/kg per hour infusion; maximum, 1000 U/h) with earlier monitoring of activated partial thromboplastin time is currently recommended in the revised American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association myocardial infarction guidelines and should be used in clinical practice.
The tafazzin (TAZ) gene is highly conserved from yeast to humans, and the yeast taz1 null mutant shows alterations in cardiolipin (CL) metabolism, mitochondrial dysfunction and stabilization of supercomplexes similar to those found in Barth syndrome, a human disorder resulting from loss of tafazzin. We have previously shown that the yeast tafazzin mutant taz1Delta, which cannot remodel CL, is ethanol-sensitive at elevated temperature. In the current report, we show that in response to ethanol, CL mutants taz1Delta as well as crd1Delta, which cannot synthesize CL, exhibited increased protein carbonylation, an indicator of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The increase in ROS is most likely not due to defective oxidant defence systems, as the CL mutants do not display sensitivity to paraquat, menadione or hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Ethanol sensitivity and increased protein carbonylation in the taz1Delta mutant but not in crd1Delta can be rescued by supplementation with oleic acid, suggesting that oleoyl-CL and/or oleoyl-monolyso-CL enables growth of taz1Delta in ethanol by decreasing oxidative stress. Our findings of increased oxidative stress in the taz1Delta mutant during respiratory growth may have important implications for understanding the pathogenesis of Barth syndrome.
Cocaine-induced acute renal failure has been reported in association with rhabdomyolysis. We describe a case of a young African American male who developed acute renal failure, which possibly occurred after inhalation of cocaine without concomitant rhabdomyolysis. His renal function recovered with supportive hydration. The most likely mechanism was intense vasoconstriction. Clinicians need to be mindful of this unique feature of cocaine intoxication.
To demonstrate the usefulness of simultaneous indirect ophthalmoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of embolization of the ocular circulation during intralesional injection of corticosteroids into capillary hemangiomas.
A 4-month-old infant had an ophthalmic artery occlusion during an intralesional injection of corticosteroids into a right upper eyelid capillary hemangioma. The injection was discontinued immediately and a paracentesis was performed. Fluorescein angiography was performed 20 minutes and three weeks after the ophthalmic artery occlusion.
Fluorescein angiography after the paracentesis showed delayed retinal and choroidal filling and large areas of retinal and choroidal ischemia. Three weeks after treatment, the angiographic abnormalities had resolved, and the retinal and choroidal circulations were normal. Twenty-eight months after treatment, the visual acuity was 20/20 in each eye.
Ophthalmic artery occlusion can occur during intralesional injection of corticosteroids into capillary hemangiomas. Simultaneous indirect ophthalmoscopy allows the surgeon to discontinue the injection and provide treatment to allow for the best possible visual outcome after this complication.
Angioedema and cough are known side effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Angiotensin-converting enzyme is a potent inhibitor of kinase II, which facilitates the breakdown of bradykinin. An increase in bradykinin levels results in continued prostaglandin E2 synthesis, vasodilation, increased vascular permeability, and increased interstitial fluid. In contrast, the angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) do not increase bradykinin levels. Angioedema as a complication of ACE inhibitor therapy is not widely recognized; this complication is even less recognized with second-line ARBs. We report angioedema associated with losartan (an ARB) in a patient who had experienced angioedema secondary to enalapril (an ACE inhibitor). Almost half of patients with ARB-associated angioedema also had developed angioedema while receiving ACE inhibitor therapy. Clinicians should exercise caution when using ARBs in patients with a history of angioedema secondary to ACE inhibitors.
