A case report is presented of an adolescent male who developed hypothyroidism and cardiomyopathy 6 months after he began taking lithium and imipramine for a severe conduct disorder. After discontinuation of psychiatric medications and institution of thyroid hormone replacement therapy, he developed asymptomatic but potentially serious dysrhythmias. Evidence for potential cardiac toxicity of combined lithium and tricyclic antidepressant therapy is reviewed. Repeated assessment of cardiac function during such therapy is advised.
To compare the intraocular pressure and hypotony outcomes of primary phakic trabeculectomies with no mitomycin C (MMC), shorter MMC, and longer MMC exposure.
We evaluated primary phakic trabeculectomies with no MMC (36 eyes of 36 patients), 0.5- to 1-minute MMC (50 eyes of 50 patients), and 3- to 5-minute MMC (38 eyes of 38 patients) at the concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. Successful trabeculectomy was defined as an intraocular pressure of 21 mm Hg or less without development of a marked visual acuity loss associated with prolonged hypotony (intraocular pressure < 6 mm Hg over 3 months) and without the need for additional surgery to control intraocular pressure or treat postoperative complications.
The three groups were similar in demographics, preoperative intraocular pressure, and medical dependency. However, the incidence of hypotony during the postoperative periods of 3 to 12 months was significantly higher in the 3- to 5-minute MMC group (P < .05, chi-square test). Severe visual acuity loss associated with hypotony was also more frequently found in the 3- to 5-minute MMC group than in the 0.5- to 1-minute (P = .009, chi-square test) group or the control group (P = .014, chi-square test). In addition, the success probabilities were significantly different among the three groups (P = .001, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis with log-rank test) and were the highest in the 0.5- to 1-minute MMC group and the lowest in the 3- to 5-minute MMC group.
Shorter application (0.5 to 1 minute) of MMC appears to be optimal for the successful outcome of primary phakic trabeculectomy compared with no MMC or longer application of MMC at a concentration of 0.5 mg/ml.
Nitric oxide (NO) releasing non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have shown a marked reduction of gastrointestinal side effects and we here examined the cytotoxicity of NCX 530 (NO-indomethacin). Under conditions where indomethacin clearly induced both necrosis and apoptosis, NCX 530 induced neither. NCX 530 protected cells from celecoxib-induced necrosis and apoptosis. NCX 530 partially suppressed celecoxib-dependent membrane permeabilization and an inhibitor for guanylate cyclase suppressed the cytoprotective effect of NCX 530 against celecoxib. In vivo, NCX 530 alone produced fewer gastric lesions in rats than did indomethacin. A combination of the oral administration of celecoxib together with the intraperitoneal administration of indomethacin, but not of NCX 530, clearly resulted in the production of gastric lesions. The low direct cytotoxicity and the cytoprotective effect of NCX 530 observed in vitro may also act in vivo, thus ensuring that NCX 530 is safe for use on the gastric mucosa.
The aim of this study was to assess any interaction between ondansetron and paracetamol on a model of post-fracture pain in mice.
In protocol A, after fracture of the tibia, mice were assigned to four groups: paracetamol 30 mg kg⁻¹, paracetamol 50 mg kg⁻¹, paracetamol 100 mg kg⁻¹, or a saline vehicle i.p. In protocol B, after fracture of the tibia, mice were randomized to receive either paracetamol (100 mg kg⁻¹) plus saline (vehicle), paracetamol (100 mg kg⁻¹) plus ondansetron (1 mg kg⁻¹), paracetamol (100 mg kg⁻¹) plus ondansetron (2 mg kg⁻¹), saline plus ondansetron (2 mg kg⁻¹), or saline plus saline i.p. Three tests were used to assess pain behaviour: von Frey filament application, hot-plate test, and a subjective pain scale. Rescue analgesia with morphine was administered as necessary.
In protocol A, paracetamol (100 mg kg⁻¹)-treated animals had less mechanical nociception, thermal nociception, and a lower subjective pain scale rating, when compared with those receiving paracetamol at 30 or 50 mg kg⁻¹ or saline [ED₅₀ paracetamol=46.3 (6.34) mg kg⁻¹]. No difference was found between paracetamol (30 mg kg⁻¹) and saline-treated animals. In protocol B, the mechanical withdrawal threshold, the thermal withdrawal latency, and the subjective pain scale were lower after injection of paracetamol (100 mg kg⁻¹)+saline, paracetamol (100 mg kg⁻¹)+ondansetron (1 mg kg⁻¹), and paracetamol (100 mg kg⁻¹)+ondansetron (2 mg kg⁻¹), whereas in mice receiving saline+ondansetron (2 mg kg⁻¹) or saline+saline, there was no difference.
We found that paracetamol 100 mg kg⁻¹ blocked the development of hyperalgesia and allodynia after fracture pain and ondansetron did not modify the antinociceptive effect of paracetamol in this model.
Chronic administration of prostacyclin (PGI2) improves hemodynamics in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension, but abrupt cessation of infusion can cause severe dyspnea of unknown etiology. We hypothesized that the discontinuation of PGI2 results in platelet activation, thromboxane A2 production, and increased pulmonary vascular tone. To test this, six sheep with indwelling catheters were monitored during infusion of PGI2 and after its cessation. Infusion of PGI2 caused a reduction in mean systemic arterial pressure (MAP) and systemic (SVR) and pulmonary vascular resistances (PVR), a rise in cardiac output (CO), and no change in pulmonary arterial or pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP). After discontinuation of PGI2, MAP and SVR rebounded to 30 and 67% above baseline, respectively, and PVR rose 26%. CO was depressed 23% within 10 min, and PCWP nearly doubled after stoppage of the drug. Concurrent treatment with a cyclooxygenase inhibitor did not attenuate these responses. 11-Dehydro-thromboxane B2 levels were not elevated during infusion or after cessation of PGI2. We conclude that the abrupt cessation of PGI2 infusion leads to systemic and pulmonary hypertension and transient cardiac dysfunction not mediated by cyclooxygenase metabolites of arachidonic acid.
Codon 12 of the K-ras gene is a generally recognized example of a mutational hot spot. By the approach of gel retardation and specific antibodies, a double-stranded oligonucleotide corresponding to the codon 12 region of the mouse K-ras gene (from 20 to 50 bp with respect to the exon 1 start) was found to be a site for cooperative binding of the transcription factors GATA-6 and NF-Y. GATA-6 and NF-Y were selectively activated with lung carcinogens 3-methylcholanthrene and nitrosoethylurea in mice of strains susceptible to lung tumorigenesis but not in animals of resistant strains. The interaction of GATA-6 and NF-Y with the codon 12 region of the K-ras gene is suggested to be involved in the mechanism of lung carcinogenesis.
LF 2.0254 is a new dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker with a long-lasting antihypertensive action in spontaneously hypertensive rats. In acute experiments, LF 2.0254 was shown to be more potent than nifedipine and nicardipine in reducing blood pressure after i.v. and oral administration with less tachycardia. The hypotensive effects of LF 2.0254 (10 mg/kg) lasted for greater than 24 hr, whereas the blood pressure-lowering effects of nifedipine and nicardipine (10 mg/kg) had disappeared after 6 hr. LF 2.0254 given orally once a day at 10 mg/kg for 14 days to spontaneously hypertensive rats, led to a marked and persistent decrease in blood pressure, with no significant changes in heart rate. In an attempt to prevent the development of hypertension, LF 2.0254 (3 and 10 mg/kg) was given once a day for 8 weeks to 5 week-old SHR. On the last day of treatment, LF 2.0254 had markedly reduced blood pressure over a 24 hr period, however, there was no reduction of left ventricular hypertrophy, since body weight and left ventricular weight were not significantly different between control and treated groups.
A 79-year-old woman in the course of a syncope evaluation is shown to have a trazodone-related cardiac arrhythmia confirmed by drug rechallenge. This nontricyclic antidepressant should be considered as potentially arrhythmogenic despite its generally favorable cardiovascular profile.
The characteristics of the side-effects of bromperidol was investigated in 33 acutely exacerbated schizophrenic patients. The most frequently observed side-effects were extrapyramidal symptoms. Acute dystonia developed in 10 of 33 patients, and the mean age was significantly lower (P < 0.05) in patients with dystonia (27.3 +/- 6.2 years) than that in patients without dystonia (41.5 +/- 12.9 years). Plasma drug concentrations were not associated with side-effects. These findings suggest that acute dystonia is affected by age factor, and that daily dosage or monitoring of drug concentration is unlikely to be a useful marker for the prediction of side-effects during bromperidol treatment.
Repeated treatment of mice with lithium chloride (45 mg/kg, i.p., daily for 8 days) reduced the jumping, fighting, stereotypies, and hyperactivity induced by d-amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.). Lithium also reduced the hypoactivity observed 1--3 h after reserpine (0.75 mg/kg, i.p.). In biochemical studies we found that 8-day treatment with lithium markedly reduced (to 45% of control) the recovery from brain of labelled 2-phenylethylamine (PEA) following i.p. injection of labelled L-phenylalanine, while decreasing recovery from brain of labelled PEA following its i.p. injection of 63% of control. In saline-treated mice, d-amphetamine appeared to increase PEA synthesis and to accelerate its disposition, whereas reserpine enhanced PEA synthesis and reduced disposition; all of these effects were antagonized by lithium pretreatments. Since PEA appears to be one of the most powerful behavioral stimulants among endogenous neuroamines, and because its deaminated metabolites are behavioral depressants, such antagonism of brain PEA metabolism may significantly contribute to the prophylactic action of lithium against both manic and depressive behavior.
Accumulating evidence indicates that protein modification by acrolein is one of the major hallmarks of atherosclerosis. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the serum acrolein-modified protein adduct (Acr) level in end-stage renal disease (ESRD), and to elucidate the efficacy of vitamin E-bonded hemodialyzer in reducing Acr in a crossover trial. A significant increase in Acr was found in ESRD patients compared with healthy controls (p <.001). In ESRD, the Acr level of those patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) was significantly higher compared with the non-DM group (p <.05). Forty-one ESRD patients who exhibited Acr levels higher than the mean value in ESRD were treated by vitamin E-bonded hemodialyzer for 6 months. After 6 months of treatment, Acr levels were decreased to those found in healthy individuals (p <.001). When hemodialyzers were switched back from vitamin E bonded to the original regular ones, Acr levels increased to nearly their initial levels after 3 months (p <.001), compared with the 6 month time point. These results suggest the potential of Acr as an oxidative stress marker in ESRD, and that vitamin E-bonded hemodialyzer treatment is a reasonable approach to reduce oxidative stress in ESRD.
The exposure of humans and experimental animals to certain industrial toxins such as acrylamide is known to cause nerve damage classified as axonopathy, but the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. Here we show that acrylamide induces morphological changes and tyrosine phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk2), a member of the FAK subfamily, in human differentiating neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Furthermore, we identified a novel molecule designated 'compound-1' that inhibits the morphological and biochemical events. Daily oral administrations of the compound also effectively alleviated behavioral deficits in animals elicited by acrylamide in inclined plane testing, landing foot spread testing and rota-rod performance testing. The compound also effectively inhibited the biological and biochemical responses caused by another axonopathy inducer, colchicine, including tyrosine phosphorylation of Pyk2, formation of an 85-kDa poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP) fragment and apoptosis-associated induction of the NAPOR gene as well as neuronal cell death. Our findings not only provide insight into FAK and Pyk2 functions in neuronal cells, but may also be important in the development of therapeutic agents for peripheral neuropathy and neurodegeneration.
The effects of the epileptogenic agent, picrotoxin, on both the cardiovascular responses and the dopamine (DA) release in the amygdala were studied in anesthetized rats. In vivo voltammetry was used to measure change in extracellular concentrations of DA and its metabolites in the amygdala. Intravenous administration of picrotoxin produced hypertension, increased amygdaloid DA release and behavioral syndromes (such as increased masticatory movements, salivation, and forepaw tremors). Direct administration of picrotoxin into the amygdala also induced the same effects. The picrotoxin-induced effects were suppressed by activation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors with diazepam or depleting brain DA with 6-hydroxydopamine. Blockade of central DA receptors with haloperidol also attenuated the picrotoxin-induced hypertension. These results indicate that picrotoxin affects interactions between GABA neurons and DA system in rat brain to induce hypertension during an epileptic attack.
Patients requiring chronic anticoagulation are theoretically at increased risk for hemorrhage or thromboembolism perioperatively. Experience with laparoscopic renal/adrenal surgery in patients on chronic warfarin is limited. We assessed hemorrhagic/thromboembolic complications in this group of patients.
The records of 787 patients undergoing laparoscopic renal/adrenal surgery were retrospectively reviewed. A total of 25 patients on chronic oral anticoagulation with warfarin were identified. The indications for warfarin therapy as well as perioperative management were reviewed. Clinical parameters, including operative time, estimated blood loss, hemorrhagic/thromboembolic complications and transfusions, were documented and compared with those in patients not receiving chronic anticoagulation.
Atrial fibrillation (56% of cases) and a prosthetic mitral valve (28%) were the most frequent indications for chronic anticoagulation. Bridging anticoagulation with unfractionated heparin was the most frequent management method (68% of cases). Patients with anticoagulation were older (p <0.001) and hospitalized longer (<0.001) than those without anticoagulation. Operative time, estimated blood loss and the conversion rate were not significantly different between the groups. However patients on chronic warfarin significantly more often required transfusion (24% vs 5.2%, p <0.005) and had more postoperative bleeding episodes (8% vs 0.9%, p <0.05) than patients not on chronic anticoagulation. No thromboembolic events occurred in the anticoagulated group, while 3 occurred in the nonanticoagulated group (p = 1).
Laparoscopic renal/adrenal surgery in patients requiring chronic anticoagulation therapy can be performed safely. The risk of intraoperative bleeding is not increased, although the incidence of postoperative bleeding as well as transfusions is higher.
Increasing evidence from animal and human studies indicates that chlorpyrifos (CPF), similar to other organophosphorus insecticides still widely used, is a developmental neurotoxicant. Developmental exposure to CPF in rodents induces sex-dimorphic behavioral changes at adulthood, including social and agonistic responses, which suggests that CPF may interfere with maturation of neuroendocrine mechanisms.
We assessed the hypothesis that CPF affects the levels of neurohypophyseal hormones acting as modulators of social behavior in mammals, such as oxytocin (OT), arginine vasopressin (AVP), and prolactin (PRL).
Pregnant female mice were orally administered with either vehicle (peanut oil) or 3 or 6 mg/kg CPF on gestational day (GD) 15 to GD18, and offspring were treated subcutaneously with either vehicle or 1 or 3 mg/kg CPF on postnatal days (PNDs) 11 to PND14. Dose levels were chosen to avoid systemic toxicity and inhibition of brain acetylcholinesterase. Offspring were sacrificed at 5 months of age, and expression of OT, AVP, and PRL was analyzed in the hypothalamus by Western blot or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) analysis.
Both male and female mice showed dose-related enhancement of OT expression, with males presenting the more intense effect. AVP expression was significantly reduced in male mice at the higher prenatal and postnatal dose. We observed no significant effect on PRL expression in either sex. Overall, outcomes were mainly attributable to fetal exposure, whereas postnatal doses appeared to potentiate the prenatal effects.
Our data indicate that developmental exposure to CPF may permanently interfere with specific key signaling proteins of the hypothalamic peptidergic system, with time-, dose-, and sex-related effects still evident at adulthood.
We investigated the association between body mass index (BMI) standard deviation score (SDS) and prenatal exposure to hexachlorobenzene, dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE), dioxin-like compounds, and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).
In this prospective birth cohort study, we assessed a random sample of mother-infant pairs (n = 138) living in Flanders, Belgium, with follow-up until the children were 3 years of age. We measured body mass index as standard deviation scores (BMI SDS) of children 1-3 years of age as well as pollutants measured in cord blood.
DDE correlated with BMI SDS, with effect modification by maternal smoking and the child's age. At 1 year, children of smoking mothers had higher BMI SDS than did children of nonsmoking mothers. At 3 years, this difference was reduced because of the faster rate of decline in BMI SDS in the former group. This relationship held except for children with high levels of DDE. DDE had a small effect on BMI SDS at 3 years of age in children of nonsmoking mothers (difference in BMI SDS for DDE concentrations between the 90th and 10th percentiles = 0.13). On the other hand, smoking enhanced the relation between DDE and BMI SDS at 3 years (difference in BMI SDS for DDE concentrations between the 90th and 10th percentiles = 0.76). Increasing concentrations of PCBs were associated with higher BMI SDS values at all ages (parameter estimate = 0.003 +/- 0.001; p = 0.03).
In this study we demonstrated that intrauterine exposure to DDE and PCBs is associated with BMI during early childhood. Future studies are warranted to confirm our findings and to assess possible mechanisms by which these pollutants could alter energy metabolism.
This is a double blind, placebo-controlled trial that evaluated the efficacy of disulfiram, naltrexone and their combination in patients with co-occurring cocaine and alcohol dependence.
208 patients were randomized to disulfiram (250 mg/day), naltrexone (100 mg/day), the combination, or placebo for 11 weeks. Outcomes were in-trial abstinence from cocaine and/or alcohol.
Few safety concerns were reported, although medication adherence was low in a number of patients for both medications, alone or in combination. In the primary analyses (GEE modeling), abstinence from cocaine as measured by cocaine-negative urines and days of self-reported abstinence from cocaine or alcohol did not differ between placebo and any of the medication groups. However, patients taking disulfiram (alone or in combination) were most likely to achieve combined abstinence from cocaine and alcohol. Secondary analyses revealed that patients taking the disulfiram-naltrexone combination were most likely to achieve 3 consecutive weeks of abstinence from cocaine and alcohol.
There was an association between disulfiram treatment and abstinence from cocaine and alcohol. More patients taking the disulfiram-naltrexone combination achieved 3 consecutive weeks of abstinence in treatment than placebo-treated patients.
The effect of manganese deficiency on insulin binding, glucose transport and metabolism in isolated adipose cells from Sprague-Dawley rats was investigated. Offspring from Mn-sufficient female rats fed 45 micrograms Mn/g diet (control) and from Mn-deficient (Mn-) female rats fed 1 microgram Mn/g diet were used in these studies. Both basal and insulin-stimulated 3-O-methylglucose transport in isolated adipose cells was significantly lower in Mn- rats, averaging 40% and 50% of control values, respectively. Kinetic analysis of glucose transport demonstrated a lower maximal transport velocity (Vmax) for glucose in adipose cells from Mn- rats compared to controls. No differences in the Km for glucose uptake were observed between the two groups. Insulin-stimulated glucose oxidation to CO2 and conversion to triglycerides was lower in isolated adipose cells from Mn- rats compared to controls. Mn- animals had fewer insulin receptors per cell compared to controls, although no differences in insulin receptor affinity were observed between the two groups. These data suggest that Mn deficiency affects glucose transport and metabolism in the adipose cell. The apparent defect lies distal to the insulin receptor and probably reflects a decreased number of glucose transporters in adipose tissue of Mn- rats.
Polyamines have been demonstrated to modulate seizure activity in animals. Repeated administration of a subthreshold dose of cocaine resulted in the development of sensitization to cocaine-induced seizures during an initial 3 or 4 days, followed by the development of tolerance to seizures on days 5 and 6. In the present study, polyamines, such as putrescine, spermidine and spermine, were measured in regions of the brain obtained from mice that showed differential sensitivity in seizure activity during repeated cocaine injections. Animals were sacrificed for polyamine measurements 24 h after the second and the fifth injections of either cocaine or saline (on day 3 and day 6, respectively), and 3 days after the last injection. On day 3, there were significant increases in putrescine in the striatum, hippocampus and cerebellum, and in spermine in the cerebellum of cocaine-treated mice, as compared to saline-treated mice. On day 6, treatment with cocaine significantly increased putrescine in all regions, and spermidine in striatum and hippocampus, as compared to saline treatment. Cocaine treatment had no effect on any polyamine levels measured 3 days after the last injection, except for spermidine in the cortex. Because putrescine has been shown to be an antagonist of the polyamine-binding site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and to retard the development of amygdala-kindling, the present results suggest that the increases in putrescine content may be associated with the development of tolerance to convulsant effects observed during the later period of repeated administration of cocaine.
Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency is an X-linked urea cycle defect. While hemizygous males typically present with hyperammonemic coma in infancy, reports of rare late-onset presentations exist, with poor outcomes in males up to 58 years old. Relatives with mutations identical to affected patients often remain asymptomatic, and it is likely that environmental and genetic factors influence disease penetrance and expression. Here, we present our investigation of a patient with late-onset presentation, and we emphasize the potential role of environmental and genetic factors on disease expression. The patient was a previously healthy 62-year-old man who developed mental slowing, refractory seizures, and coma over an 8-day period. Interestingly, the patient had recently used home gardening fertilizers and pesticides. Evaluations for drug and alcohol use, infections, and liver disease were negative. Despite aggressive therapy, blood NH(3) concentration peaked at 2,050 muM and the patient died from cerebral edema and cerebellar herniation. Analysis of the OTC gene showed a Pro-225-Thr (P225T) change in exon 7, a mutation that has been previously implicated in OTC deficiency. This case illustrates that OTC deficiency can cause acute, severe hyperammonemia in a previously healthy adult and that the P225T mutation can be associated with late-onset OTC deficiency. We speculate that exposure to organic chemicals might have contributed to the onset of symptoms in this patient. This case also emphasizes that persistent hyperammonemia may cause irreversible neurologic damage and that after the diagnosis of hyperammonemia is established in an acutely ill patient, certain diagnostic tests should be performed to differentiate between urea cycle disorders and other causes of hyperammonemic encephalopathy.
Previous studies have correlated quantitative coronary angiographic stenosis severity with positron emission tomography (PET) myocardial perfusion and proximal measurements of intracoronary flow velocities in normal and diseased coronary arteries. The aim of this study was to correlate regional myocardial blood flow (RMBF) derived from [15O]H2O PET with directly measured poststenotic intracoronary Doppler flow velocity data acquired under basal conditions and dipyridamole-induced hyperemia.
Eleven consecutive patients 53 +/- 13 years old with ischemic chest pain and isolated proximal left coronary artery stenoses (left anterior descending, 9; left circumflex, 2; mean, 59 +/- 23% diameter stenosis) underwent [15O]H2O myocardial PET and intracoronary Doppler flow velocity studies within 1 week. PET RMBF (mL.g-1.min-1) and myocardial perfusion reserve (MPR) were calculated in poststenotic and normal reference vascular beds. Poststenotic Doppler average peak flow velocities (APV; cm/s) and coronary flow velocity reserve (CFR) were compared with corresponding PET data and quantitative angiographic lesional parameters. PET RMBF and Doppler APV were linearly correlated (r = .60; P < .001), as were poststenotic PET MPR and Doppler CFR (r = .76; P < .0002). Relative coronary flow velocity and MPR ratios between poststenotic and angiographically normal vascular beds were comparably reduced (0.83 +/- 0.25 versus 0.86 +/- 0.21, respectively; P = NS).
Intracoronary Doppler flow velocities acquired distal to isolated left coronary artery stenoses correlated with [15O]H2O PET regional myocardial perfusion and are useful for assessment of the physiological significance of coronary stenoses in humans.
We demonstrate that mutations in the human Ca(2+)-sensing receptor gene cause familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH) and neonatal severe hyperparathyroidism (NSHPT), two inherited conditions characterized by altered calcium homeostasis. The Ca(2+)-sensing receptor belongs to the superfamily of seven membrane-spanning G protein-coupled receptors. Three nonconservative missense mutations are reported: two occur in the extracellular N-terminal domain of the receptor; the third occurs in the final intracellular loop. One mutated receptor identified in FHH individuals was expressed in X. laevis oocytes. The expressed wild-type receptor elicited large inward currents in response to perfused polyvalent cations; a markedly attenuated response was observed with the mutated protein. We conclude that the mammalian Ca(2+)-sensing receptor "sets" the extracellular Ca2+ level and is defective in individuals with FHH and NSHPT.
5-trifluoroacetoprimaquine (M8506) exhibited high effect on tissue schizont of P. cynomolgi and low toxicity in mice, rats and dogs as compared with primaquine (PQ) according to our previous studies. In order to determine their hemolytic toxicity, we dosed rabbits with M8506 and PQ at a dose of 40 mg/kg per day for 4 days, respectively. Blood samples were drawn from the ear vein of the rabbits for determining of the following parameters, ie. methemoglobin (metHb), reticulocyte (ret) and Heinzbody (Hbd) on d0 before treatment and on d3, d5, d7, d10, d14 and d21 after treatment. The results showed that after drug administration the levels of metHb, ret and Hbd in PQ group increased on d3-d5, and reached their peak levels on d7-d10, and then declined gradually from d10-d14. The mean percentage concentration of metHb, mean count of ret and Hbd in PQ group on d7 after medication were 22.1 +/- 21.8%, 92.0 +/- 88.0/1,000 RBC and 203.8 +/- 126.7/1,000 RBC, which were significantly higher than those of the control (8.2 +/- 5.3%, 37.5 +/- 16.2/1,000 RBC and 57.4 +/- 45.1/1,000 RBC). In M8506 group, the mean Hbd count (196.3 +/- 123.1/1,000 RBC, on d7 after treatment was also higher than that of the controls, but its mean metHb percentage concentration (10.8 +/- 8.9%) and mean ret count (42.2 +/- 20.3/1,000 RBC) were similar to those of the controls (P > 0.05). The results suggested that the hemolytic toxicity induced by M8506 in rabbits might be similar to or even lower than that induced by PQ.
Depression of myocardial conduction velocity can be an important mechanism of action of antiarrhythmic drugs but it can also facilitate arrhythmogenesis. We used lidocaine in an anesthetized canine preparation to address the hypothesis that drug-induced rate-dependent conduction velocity depression causes ventricular tachyarrhythmias. A closely spaced square array of 64 electrodes was used to determine conduction velocity longitudinal and transverse to epicardial ventricular fiber direction. Lidocaine caused rate-dependent decreases in conduction velocity that were proportionately greater in the longitudinal direction at the shortest pacing cycle lengths. Conduction velocity depression developed rapidly in the presence of lidocaine with a new steady state present by the second beat of the rapid train. Recovery from rate-dependent depression of conduction velocity was exponential with a time constant of 122 +/- 20 msec (mean +/- SD) in the longitudinal direction and 114 +/- 30 msec in the transverse direction; this difference was not significant. The relation between conduction velocity depression and ventricular arrhythmias was assessed by pacing for 3 minutes at cycle lengths of 1,000, 500, 300, and 250 msec, and for 1 minute at a cycle length of 200 msec. Arrhythmias did not occur in the baseline period in the dogs that received lidocaine, nor in 12 control dogs that were subjected to the same stimulation protocol except that saline was administered in place of lidocaine. Sustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) occurred in six of 16 dogs given lidocaine. VT occurred in the presence of relatively high plasma lidocaine concentrations (8.4 +/- 2.3 micrograms/ml) and only at pacing cycle lengths of 300 msec or shorter. The dogs that developed VT demonstrated greater rate-dependent depression of conduction velocity than the other dogs, and activation patterns obtained just before the onset of VT showed marked conduction disturbances. Furthermore, QRS prolongation, loss of one-to-one capture, and increasingly distorted activation patterns preceded the onset of VT during fixed-rate pacing, suggesting progressive sodium channel block. In summary, rate-dependent conduction velocity depression and nonuniform activation were associated with VT in this model and can be responsible for some arrhythmias induced by antiarrhythmic drugs.
To evaluate the association between inflammation, oxidative stress, and circulating progenitor cell (CPC) number and redox equilibrium, vascular lesions and accelerated atherosclerosis in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Circulating CD34+ cells were isolated from 33 RA patients and 33 controls. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and mRNA expression of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase type 1 (GPx-1) antioxidant enzymes, and the gp91phox-containing nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase NOX2 were measured in CD34+ cells. C-reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT), and arterial stiffness (AS) were also evaluated. We investigated the relationships between inflammatory markers, vascular parameters, cell number, and antioxidant enzymes.
CD34+ cell number was lower in RA patients than in controls. In CD34+ cells from RA patients, ROS levels, MnSOD mRNA, and NOX2 mRNA were higher, while mRNA expression of GPx-1 and CAT was significantly lower. The AS, pulse wave velocity (PWV), and augmentation index (AIx) were higher, as was cIMT. CD34+ cell number was inversely correlated with CRP, ROS, PWV, and AIx, and with the CAT/MnSOD and GPx-1/MnSOD ratios. CRP was correlated with MnSOD mRNA, PWV, and AIx but not with CAT and GPx-1 mRNA.
Our data show a link between inflammation, oxidative stress, and the impairment of the antioxidant system of CPCs and their number, and with arterial stiffness in RA subjects. This could suggest a perspective on the accelerated development of vascular damage and atherosclerosis in RA.
To discuss the potential use of the Chinese herbal formula MSSM-002 in treating asthma based on its effects on a murine model of allergic asthma, immunoregulatory actions on T(H)2 cells in vitro, and the means of standardization for herbal formula quality control.
Information presented at the 2002 American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology (ACAAI) Annual Scientific Meeting International Symposium on Complementary Alternative Medicine in San Antonio, TX.
All presentations from the ACAAI meeting that discussed MSSM-002 were considered for this review.
The Chinese herbal formula MSSM-002 suppressed airway hyperreactivity and eosinophilic inflammation in a murine model of allergic asthma. These effects were comparable to dexamethasone but were not accompanied by the suppression of T(H)1 responses seen with dexamethasone. In vitro studies demonstrated that MSSM-002 significantly decreased antigen-induced T(H)2 cytokine secretion by murine T(H)2 polarized splenocytes and human mucosal T(H)2 cell lines, which in contrast to dexamethasone did not cause apoptosis and was not cytotoxic but was associated with decreased GATA-3 expression. Chromatographic fingerprints of MSSM-002 and evaluation of in vivo actions showed that the quality of several batches of MSSM-002 was consistent.
MSSM-002 has a therapeutic effect on allergic asthma and immunoregulatory actions on established T(H)2 cells and may prove to be of potential clinical benefit to asthma patients.
The authors evaluated the relative efficacy and safety of pimozide and haloperidol in the treatment of Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome in children and adolescents.
A double-blind, 24-week, placebo-controlled double crossover study of equivalent dose formulations of haloperidol and pimozide was conducted with 22 subjects, aged 7-16 years, with Tourette's disorder who were randomly assigned to first one active drug treatment and then the other. Biweekly assessment and flexible dose titration mimicked clinical practice. The primary outcome variable was total score on the Tourette Syndrome Global Scale. Final outcome was determined after 6 weeks of each treatment (placebo, pimozide, haloperidol), with a 2-week placebo baseline period and intervening 2-week placebo washout periods between treatments.
Pimozide proved significantly different from placebo in affecting the primary outcome variable, whereas haloperidol failed to have a significant effect. Haloperidol exhibited a threefold higher frequency of serious side effects and significantly greater extrapyramidal symptoms relative to pimozide. Haloperidol-associated treatment-limiting adverse events were experienced by 41% of the patients. The therapeutic doses of pimozide and haloperidol were equivalent (mean = 3.4 mg/day, SD = 1.6, and mean = 3.5 mg/day, SD = 2.2, respectively).
At equivalent doses, pimozide is superior to haloperidol for controlling symptoms of Tourette's disorder in children and adolescents.
Acylfulvenes are a class of antitumor agents derived from illudin S, a sesquiterpenoid toxin isolated from mushrooms of the genus Omphalotus. Although DNA appears to be their major target, no data concerning mutagenicity of acylfulvenes are available in the literature, and limited data have been published on illudin S. Enzyme-mediated biotransformations have been demonstrated to influence the cytotoxicity of acylfulvenes. Illudin S and some acylfulvenes [e.g., (-)-6-hydroxymethylacylfulvene (HMAF)] are allylic alcohols with potential for enhanced cytotoxicity and genotoxicity by means of metabolic sulfation. Therefore, we studied the influence of various heterologously expressed human sulfotransferases (SULTs) on biological activities of illudin S and HMAF in bacterial and mammalian cells. (-)-Acylfulvene (AF) was tested as a congener lacking an allylic hydroxyl group. We found: (1) all three compounds were mutagenic in standard Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98, TA100 and TA104; (2) they induced gene mutations (at the hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase locus) and sister chromatid exchange (SCE) in Chinese hamster V79 cells; (3) these effects were practically unaffected when human SULTs were expressed in the target bacteria or mammalian cells (using SCE as the endpoint); (4) illudin S demonstrated 40-600 times higher genotoxic activities than the semisynthetic acylfulvenes studied; it was positive in the SCE test even at a concentration of 0.3 nM; (5) genotoxicity in mammalian cells was observed at substantially lower concentrations of the compounds than required for a positive result in the bacterial test (400 nM with illudin S). We conclude that illudin S, HMAF and AF are potent genotoxicants and human SULTs do not play a significant role in their bioactivation.
