The conversion of a palindromic sequence, GGTCTnnnAGACC, in the 5'-flanking region of the murine c-fos proto-oncogene into a functional estrogen-response element by a single base change into GGTC(A/G)nnnAGACC has previously been postulated [Nawaz et al., 1993] as a possible mechanism of the induction of tumors by estrogens. This attractive hypothesis has been investigated in estradiol-induced Syrian hamster kidneytumors, in H-301 kidney tumor cells (a cell line derived from the Syrian hamster tumor), and in normal kidney tissue. The c-fos gene is differentially regulated by a classical estrogen receptor-mediated process in tumors, whereas in the acutely treated kidney, estradiol induces c-fos expression independent of estrogen-receptor function. In this study, we identified in the 5'-flanking region of the hamster kidney c-fos gene the sequence AGTCCnnnAGACC, which closely resembled but did not appear to function as an estrogen-response element. No mutations were detected in this sequence or in the 5'-flanking region of c-fos genes from three different primary tumors and from H-301 tumor cells. To rule out the possibility of a low copy number of mutant alleles in a tumor sample, polymerase chain reaction-based single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis was performed on 372 base pairs of the 5'-flank of the c-fos gene (-367 to +5 base pairs relative to the transcription start point). Nine different kidney tumor DNA samples and five normal kidney tissue samples (controls) produced an identical pattern of DNA bands, suggesting a lack of natural polymorphisms and mutations in this region of the c-fos gene. Acute treatment of hamsters with 17beta-estradiol for 6 h significantly induced renal c-fos mRNA expression, whereas control levels of c-fos were restored by co-treatment with estradiol and either N-acetyl-L-cysteine or alpha-naphthoflavone. We concluded that the previously observed change in regulatory control of c-fos expression in kidney versus estradiol-induced tumors does not involve the creation of a functional estrogen-response element by single point mutation in the 5'-flanking region of the gene. Additionally, c-fos expression in estradiol-treated hamster kidneys appears to be mediated by free radicals generated by the catechol metabolites of estradiol and not by the activation of any estrogen receptor.
To investigate the changes in renal sodium transport during development of hypertension in ouabain-hypertensive rats (OHR) and further elucidate the role of ouabain in the pathogenesis of hypertension.
Eighty male SD rats weighing 80-100 g were randomized equally into normal control and ouabain groups and treated with intraperitoneal injection of normal saline (1 ml/kg) and ouabain (27.8 microg/kg) once daily, respectively. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) and body weight of the rats were recorded weekly. One week before sacrifice scheduled at weeks 2, 4, 6 and 8, respectively, the rats were individually housed in metabolic cages to determine food consumption twice. Blood and 24-hour urine samples were collected to measure serum and urine concentration of sodium, trace lithium and creatinine. Endogenous creatinine clearance rate (Ccr), fractional excretions of sodium (FENa), fractional excretions of lithium (FELi) and fractional reabsorption of sodium in the distal tubules (FDRNa) were calculated.
The body weight and food intake between ouabain groups and control groups were comparable during the experiment (P>0.05). Blood pressure was also comparable in the two groups after 2 weeks (P>0.05). At week 4, however, blood pressure of ouabain group was significantly higher than that of the control group (P<0.001) and increased in a dose-dependent manner. The SBP in ouabain group appeared to reach a plateau at week 7. Ccr and plasma sodium (PNa) were similar in the 2 groups during the experiment (P>0.05). FELi was significantly lower at weeks 2, 4 and 6 in ouabain group than in the control group (P<0.01), and FELi decrement in ouabain group was accompanied by reduced sodium excretion. FENa was significantly lower at week 4 in ouabain group than in the control group (P<0.05), but this difference was not significant in weeks 2 and 6 (P>0.05). At weeks 2, 4 and 6, ouabain group showed significantly lower FDRNa than the control group (P<0.05), suggesting the compensation of the distal nephron segments. After 8 weeks, FENa, FELi and FDRNa were similar between the two groups (P>0.05).
Ouabain can increase renal proximal tubule reabsorption of sodium and consequently decrease renal sodium excretion in OHR, which can contribute to alteration of the pressure-natriuresis relationship in OHR, and play an important role in the development and maintenance of hypertension of OHR.
The XAGE-1b gene has been identified in numerous malignancies in the human body. However, little is known regarding its mechanism for promoting tumorigenesis in adenoid cystic carcinoma. The aim of this study was to explore the correlation between tumor cell growth and the XAGE-1b gene. The constructed PCMV-Myc plasmid vector containing the XAGE-1b gene and transfected adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC)-2 cells was applied to study cell cycle alterations and anti-apoptotic effects. These were assessed by flow cytometry with PI staining and the measurement of cell content at its Sub-G1 phase, respectively. The fluorescence intensity representing the regulation of XAGE-1b on the transcription factors located downstream of the signaling pathway using the Mercury pathway profiling system was also detected. XAGE-1b over expression promoted cell growth by shortening G0-G1 and prolonging the G2-M phase. Additionally, XAGE-1b overexpression enhanced the anti-apoptotic effects induced by tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and serum deprivation in ACC-2 cells. The results of the present study suggested that XAGE-1b gene is crucial in the tumorigenesis of ACC, and its mechanism should be further investigated.
Severe prolonged hypotension developed in a hypertensive patient several hours after the initial doses of minoxidil therapy. Hemodynamic measurements revealed a markedly low systemic vascular resistance and a markedly high cardiac output. Other causes of hypotension were ruled out. The patient's hemodynamic abnormalities lasted three days after minoxidil therapy was discontinued, and she then reverted to hypertension. Thus, a 10-mg starting dose of minoxidil may produce profound life-threatening hypotension, which can last up to 72 hours.
Metoclopramide hydrochloride is an antiemetic and gastric motility stimulant with a wide variety of extrapyramidal side effects, including parkinsonism. We describe two patients with end-stage renal disease secondary to diabetes mellitus treated with hemodialysis who developed extrapyramidal symptoms during treatment with metoclopramide. One patient with preexisting, well-controlled Parkinson's disease developed increasing rigidity and bradykinesia that became completely refractory to treatment with L-dopa and bromocriptine while taking metoclopramide for diabetic gastroparesis. A second patient with no history of Parkinson's disease developed a resting tremor and facial dyskinesia during treatment with metoclopramide. In both cases, discontinuation of metoclopramide therapy led to prompt improvement of symptoms.
The efficacy of ciprofloxacin was compared with that of vancomycin in the rabbit model of methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. Animals were treated with ciprofloxacin, 25 mg/kg iv every 8 h or vancomycin, 17.5 mg/kg iv every 6 h, for 3, 6, or 9 days. Both drugs were found to be equally effective in the therapy of this infection, but the degree of reduction in bacterial counts was less than expected on the basis of previous studies. Additionally, resistance to ciprofloxacin in the test strain of S. aureus was seen to emerge in 12.5% of animals that received the drug. This raises concern about the use of ciprofloxacin as a single agent in the therapy of humans with serious systemic S. aureus infections.
We report here the first case to add amprenavir to the growing list of antiretroviral drugs associated with urinary stones. The first reported case of a nelfinavir urinary stone was reported in 2002 in a 37-year-old HIV-infected woman. In September 2007, the same female patient was referred to our department with recent onset of right flank pain and recurrent urinary tract infections. Abdominal computed tomography revealed three obstructing stones in the distal right ureter, another stone in the right renal pelvis with hydronephrosis and a stone in the left kidney. After stone retrieval, analysis of the stone by liquid chromatography with mass spectrometry revealed a stone composition of 95% unmodified amprenavir and 5% ritonavir.
There are no chemopreventive strategies for pancreatic cancer or its precursor lesions, pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanINs). Recent evidence suggests that aspirin and inhibitors of angiotensin-I converting enzyme (ACE inhibitors) have potential chemopreventive properties. In this study, we used a genetically engineered mouse model of pancreatic cancer to evaluate the chemopreventive potential of these drugs.
Drug treatment was initiated at the age of 5 weeks. LsL-Kras(G12D); Pdx1-Cre or LsL-Kras(G12D); LsL-Trp53(R172H); Pdx1-Cre transgenic mice were randomly assigned to receive either mock treatment, aspirin, enalapril, or a combination of both. After 3 and 5 months, animals were killed. The effect of aspirin and enalapril was evaluated by histopathological analyses, immunostaining, and real-time PCR.
After 3 and 5 months of treatment, enalapril and aspirin were able to significantly delay progression of mPanINs in LsL-Kras(G12D); Pdx1-Cre mice. Furthermore, development of invasive pancreatic cancer in LsL-Kras(G12D); LsL-Trp53(R172H); Pdx1-Cre transgenic mice was partially inhibited by enalapril and aspirin. Invasive pancreatic cancer was identified in 15 of 25 (60%) LsL-Kras(G12D); LsL-Trp53(R172H); Pdx1-Cre untreated control mice, but in only three of 17 (17.6%, p=0.01) mice treated with aspirin, in four of 17 (23.5%, p=0.03) in mice treated with enalapril alone, and in five of 16 (31.2%, p=0.11) mice treated with a combination of both drugs. Using real-time PCR we found a significant downregulation of the target genes VEGF and RelA demonstrating our ability to achieve effective pharmacological levels of aspirin and enalapril during pancreatic cancer formation in vivo.
Using a transgenic mouse model that imitates human pancreatic cancer, this study provides first evidence that aspirin and enalapril are effective chemopreventive agents by delaying the progression of PanINs and partially inhibiting the formation of murine pancreatic cancer. This study together supports the hypothesis that aspirin and ACE inhibitors might be a valid chemopreventive strategy.
Phenacetin-induced sulfhemoglobinemia was diagnosed in a middle-aged woman with a 6-month history of cyanosis and a 10-year history of ingestion of analgesics. The laboratory and clincial diagnosis of sulfhemoglobinemia and methemoglobinemia are discussed. The reviewed medical literature suggests that the cyanosis of chronic phenacetin or acetanilid use is generally due to sulfhemoglobinemia rather than methemoglobinemia.
The influence of oestrogen on the lupus disease in MRL/l mice has been investigated. Adult, castrated male and female MRL/l mice were administered with s.c. injections of 3.2 micrograms of 17 beta-oestradiol twice a week. The results clearly demonstrate that a relatively small dose of oestrogen is a potent accelerator of the lupus disease in this mouse strain. Thus, administration of oestrogen accelerates glomerulonephritis, lymphoproliferation and mortality. Our results also indicate that oestrogen exerts a dual effect on the immune system of MRL/l mice by depression of antigen-specific and mitogen-induced T cell responses as well as enhancement of polyclonal B cell activation and autoantibody formation. In addition, even short-term administration of oestrogen in the preclinical phase of the disease resulted in long-lasting effects as evaluated by reduced longevity and aggravation of renal disease.
Toriello-Carey syndrome (TCS; OMIM 217980) is a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by the common manifestations of corpus callosum agenesis, cardiac defects, cleft palate/Robin sequence, hypotonia, mental retardation, postnatal growth retardation and distinctive facial dysmorphology (including micrognathia, telecanthus, small nose and full cheeks). Both autosomal recessive and X-linked inheritance have been proposed, but chromosomal abnormalities involving disparate loci have also been detected in a small number of cases. We report a patient with classical features of TCS and an apparently balanced de novo translocation between chromosomes 2 and 14 [46,XY,t(2;14)(q33;q22)]. Molecular characterization revealed direct interruption of the special AT-rich sequence-binding protein-2 (SATB2) gene at the 2q33.1 translocation breakpoint, while the 14q22.3 breakpoint was not intragenic. SATB2 mutation or deletion has been associated with both isolated and syndromic facial clefting; however, an association with TCS has not been reported. SATB2 functions broadly as a transcription regulator, and its expression patterns suggest an important role in craniofacial and central nervous system development, making it a plausible candidate gene for TCS.
Possible alterations in mesenteric vascular reactivity to norepinephrine, angiotensin II, and arginine vasopressin and its relationship to prostaglandins in dexamethasone-induced hypertension in rats were investigated. The animals were treated with dexamethasone or its vehicle (sesame oil) for 1 day (1.8 mg/kg) and for 14 days (1.8 mg/kg/wk). The superior mesenteric artery with its branches was isolated and perfused with Tyrode's solution at a constant flow rate of 5 ml/min. Administration of norepinephrine (1-10 nmol), arginine vasopressin (0.03-0.3 nmol), or angiotensin II (0.1-1 nmol) produced vasoconstriction and increased the output of 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha and prostaglandin E2 in a dose-related manner in mesenteric vessels. Administration of 10 nmol bradykinin or 19 nmol A23187 enhanced the output of prostaglandins without altering vascular tone. The vasoconstrictor response to arginine vasopressin, but not norepinephrine or angiotensin II, was enhanced in mesenteric vessels from rats treated with dexamethasone for 14 days but not for 1 day. In contrast, the output of basal as well as norepinephrine, arginine vasopressin, angiotensin II, bradykinin, or A23187-induced prostaglandin output was significantly reduced in mesenteric vessels from rats treated with dexamethasone for 1 or 14 days. Prostaglandin output in mesenteric arteries from rats treated with dexamethasone for 1 and 14 days was not different. These data indicate that dexamethasone treatment for longer but not for shorter periods results in a selective increase in vascular reactivity of mesenteric vessels to arginine vasopressin that is independent of prostaglandin synthesis. The increase in vascular reactivity to arginine vasopressin during long-term dexamethasone treatment may contribute to the development or maintenance, or both, of glucocorticoid-induced hypertension.
A series of studies were designed and carried out in order to explore the potential for the major human hepatic hydrolase, carboxylesterase 1 (hCES1), to serve as a target of metabolic inhibition by a variety of medications. The risk of adverse drug-drug interaction(s) is present when metabolic inhibitors are combined with known or suspected substrates of a given enzyme. In the present report the abundantly expressed hepatic enzyme, hCES1, was examined as a potential target of metabolic inhibition by a number of routinely prescribed medications. hCES1 has been seldom assessed in this regard despite its role in the metabolism and detoxification of many compounds. The psychostimulant methylphenidate (MPH) was chosen as an hCES1 selective substrate. In vitro studies were performed using previously developed cell lines which overexpress hCES1 with both p-nitrophenyl acetate and d-MPH serving as known substrates. Aripiprazole, perphenazine, thioridazine, and fluoxetine were determined to be the potent hCES1 inhibitors. A complementary animal study followed in vitro screening studies to further evaluate the inhibitory effect of aripiprazole on CES1 activity in FVB mice. The results suggest that the concurrent administration of racemic (i.e. dl-) MPH with aripiprazole significantly increased the plasma concentrations of both total MPH as well as the less active l-isomer. The ratio of d-MPH and l-MPH plasma concentrations was significantly decreased in the mice treated with aripiprazole compared to the control animals, indicating an overall decrease of CES1 catalytic activity in aripiprazole treated animals. Additionally, a quantitative structure-activity relationship based analysis identified a number of structural similarities of CES1 inhibitors. In conclusion, drug-drug interactions with MPH are likely mediated via CES1 inhibition as a result of concomitant drug therapies. CES1 inhibition represents an overlooked and little studied source of variability in MPH disposition, tolerability, and response.
Gastrointestinal toxicity remains a significant and dose-limiting complication of cancer treatment. While the pathophysiology is becoming clearer, considerable gaps in the knowledge remain surrounding the timing and site-specific gene changes which occur in response to insult. As such, this study aimed to assess gene expression profiles in a number of regions along the gastrointestinal tract following treatment with the chemotherapy agent, irinotecan, and correlate them with markers of cell death and tissue damage. Data analysis of microarray results found that genes involved in apoptosis, mitogen activated kinase (MAPK) signalling and inflammation were upregulated within 6h, while genes involved in cell proliferation, wound healing and blood vessel formation were upregulated at later time points up to 72 h. Cell death was significantly increased at 6 and 24h, and the stomach showed the lowest severity of overt tissue damage. Real time PCR of MAPK signalling pathway genes found that the jejunum and colon had significantly increased expression in a number of genes at 72 h, where as the stomach was unchanged. These results indicate that overall severity of tissue damage may be determined by precisely timed target gene responses specific to each region. Therapeutic targeting of key gene responses at the appropriate time point may prove to be effective for prevention of chemotherapy-induced gastrointestinal damage.
To report the development of a possible serotonin syndrome in a patient taking buspirone and fluoxetine.
A 37-year-old white man taking fluoxetine 20 mg/d for generalized anxiety disorder developed confusion, diaphoresis, incoordination, diarrhea, and myoclonus after buspirone was added to the drug regimen.
Serotonin syndrome is a potentially lethal condition of serotonin hyperstimulation, which may develop rapidly or over the course of several weeks. Symptoms of serotonin syndrome typically occur following additions or increases of serotonin-enhancing drugs. Although buspirone has variable effects on post- and presynaptic 5-HT1A receptors that may reduce the risk of serotonin syndrome when administered as a single agent, it may cause an adverse reaction when given with other serotonergic drugs.
Symptoms consistent with serotonin syndrome may develop with the concurrent administration of buspirone and fluoxetine.
The primary aim of this study was to compare the effect of colesevelam HCl in combination with ezetimibe to ezetimibe monotherapy on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels in subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia.
Subjects with primary hypercholesterolemia (N = 86) were enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study. After a 4- to 8-week washout period, subjects received colesevelam HCl 3.8 g/day plus ezetimibe 10 mg/day or colesevelam HCl placebo plus ezetimibe 10 mg/day for 6 weeks. The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean percent change in LDL-C during randomized treatment. Secondary endpoints included mean absolute change in LDL-C, mean absolute and mean percent change in levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), non-HDL-C, total cholesterol (TC), apolipoprotein (apo) A-I and apo B, and median absolute and percent changes in triglycerides (TG) and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein from baseline to end of treatment. Of the 86 subjects randomized to treatment, 85 were included in the intent-to-treat analysis.
After 6 weeks of treatment, colesevelam HCl plus ezetimibe produced a mean percent change in LDL-C of -32.3% versus -21.4% with ezetimibe monotherapy (p < 0.0001). Colesevelam HCl plus ezetimibe was significantly more effective than ezetimibe alone at producing mean percent reductions in TC, non-HDL-C, and apo B and increases in apo A-I (p < 0.005 for all). Neither treatment regimen resulted in significant changes in median TG levels compared with baseline (p = NS). Both treatments were safe and generally well tolerated.
Colesevelam HCl plus ezetimibe combination therapy significantly reduced mean LDL-C, TC, non-HDL-C, and apo B levels and increased apo A-I levels (p < 0.005 for all) without significantly increasing median TG levels in hypercholesterolemic subjects compared with ezetimibe alone. Although limited in that atherosclerotic coronary heart disease outcomes were not evaluated, this study demonstrated that combining colesevelam HCl with ezetimibe is a therapeutic option in hypercholesterolemic patients, such as those in whom statins are contraindicated and/or who may have intolerances to statin therapy.
The influence of ethanolic extracts of Brassica campestris spp. rapa roots (EBR) on obesity was examined in imprinting control region (ICR) mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD) and in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. The ICR mice used were divided into regular diet, HFD, EBR (50 mg/kg/day EBR administered orally), and orlistat (10 mg/kg/day orlistat administered orally) groups. The molecular mechanism of the anti-obesity effect of EBR was investigated in 3T3-L1 adipocytes as well as in HFD-fed ICR mice. In the obese mouse model, both weight gain and epididymal fat accumulation were highly suppressed by the daily oral administration of 50 mg/kg EBR for 8 weeks, whereas the overall amount of food intake was not affected. EBR treatment induced the expression in white adipocytes of lipolysis-related genes, including beta(3)-adrenergic receptor (beta(3)-AR), hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL), adipose triglyceride lipase, and uncoupling protein 2. Furthermore, the activation of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, HSL, and extracellular signal-regulated kinase was induced in EBR-treated 3T3-L1 cells. The lipolytic effect of EBR involved beta(3)-AR modulation, as inferred from the inhibition by the beta(3)-AR antagonist propranolol. These results suggest that EBR may have potential as a safe and effective anti-obesity agent via the inhibition of adipocyte lipid accumulation and the stimulation of beta(3)-AR-dependent lipolysis.
The ARBITER 2 trial showed that extended-release niacin (ERN) when added to statin monotherapy slowed the progression of carotid atherosclerosis over 12 months. Whether longer treatment with ERN would have a greater effect on carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) is unknown.
We examined the long-term effects of ERN on high density lipoprotein (HDL-C) cholesterol and CIMT during 12-24 months treatment with ERN in ARBITER 2 participants who were either continued or were crossed over (from placebo) to ERN 1000 mg daily.
Among 149 subjects completing ARBITER 2, 130 (88%) enrolled in ARBITER 3. The prespecified primary endpoints were the within-group change in CIMT and HDL-C in patients receiving placebo for 12 months (n = 71), ERN for 12 months (comprised of subjects from ERN treatment during ARBITER 2 (n = 78) and those crossed over to ERN from placebo after ARBITER 2 (n = 47)), and ERN for 24 months spanning ARBITER 2 and 3 (n = 57). Five subjects discontinued the study due to flushing side effects. The study was completed by 104 subjects (47 crossed over from placebo; 57 with ERN continued from ARBITER 2).
HDL-C increased in the ERN group from 39.5 +/- 6.7 to 48.6 +/- 13.3 mg/dl (p < 0.001) along with modest reductions in LDL-C and TG. Among 125 participants treated with ERN for 12 months, there was a net regression of CIMT of -0.027 +/- 0.011 mm (p < 0.001 vs. placebo). Among 57 participants treated with ERN for 24 months, there was additional significant regression of CIMT of -0.041 +/- 0.021 mm (p = 0.001 vs. placebo). Controlling for changes in LDL and triglycerides, only changes in HDL-C were independently associated with regression of CIMT (beta = -0.25; p = 0.001).
When added to statin therapy, ERN significantly increases HDL-C and induces atherosclerosis regression measured by CIMT over 24 months. Limitations to this study include its open-label design and the inability to relate CIMT effects to clinical outcomes.
Authors report the case of a 19 year old metastatic Ewing's sarcoma, prophylactically treated for suspected tuberculosis by Rifampicin and INH. Hepatic failure was induced by accidental overdose of INH. A high dose containing VCR protocol associated, lead to a coma with convulsions and severe motor peripheral neuropathy partially regressive. Neurological incidents of VCR, INH and their association are reviewed.
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)- associated vasculitis is a potentially life-threatening adverse effect of antithyroid medications. We present a 22-year-old woman with Graves' disease who developed recurrent episodes of arthritis while on treatment with propylthiouracil. A diagnosis of propylthiouracil-induced ANCA-associated vasculitis was established only after exhaustive rheumatological investigations failed to establish a cause for her arthritis. Anti-myeloperoxidase antibody (anti-MPO) titres were grossly elevated at 172.7 RU/mL (0-20). Her arthritis resolved promptly following the withdrawal of propylthiouracil and the anti-MPO titres declined over 16 months to 66.8 RU/mL. While she did not develop the life-threatening renal or respiratory tract complications, there was a delay in establishing the correct diagnosis with its attendant morbidity. This case highlights the need for greater awareness of this relatively rare adverse effect of antithyroid medications so as to allow its early detection, leading to the prompt cessation of the offending medication.
To compare the hemodynamic and respiratory effects of an inspiratory impedance threshold device (ITD) in anesthetized normotensive and hypotensive dogs.
Prospective randomized study.
Ten adult dogs.
Dogs were anesthetized with propofol followed by isoflurane. During spontaneous ventilation, tidal volume (.VT), systolic (SAP), mean (MAP) and diastolic arterial blood pressure, central venous pressure, gastric PCO(2) as an indicator of gastric perfusion, subcutaneous oxygen tension, subcutaneous blood flow, cardiac index (CI), systemic vascular resistance and blood lactate were monitored. To monitor respiratory compliance (RC) and resistance (ResR), animals were briefly placed on mechanical ventilation. Dogs were studied under four different conditions: 1) normotension (MAP > 60 mmHg) with and without the ITD and 2) hypotension (target MAP = 40 mmHg) with and without ITD. These four conditions were performed during one anesthetic period, allowing for stabilization of parameters for each condition. Data were analyzed by anova repeated measure mixed models.
No cardiovascular changes were detected between no ITD and ITD in the normotensive state. During hypotension, CI was higher with the ITD (5 +/- 1.0 L minute(-1) m(-2)) compared with no ITD (4 +/- 1.3 L minute(-1) m(-2)). During hypotension, SAP was increased with ITD (80 +/- 14 mmHg) versus without ITD (67 +/- 13 mmHg). There was an increase in ResR and decreased RC with the ITD in both normotensive and hypotensive state.
Impedance threshold device in dogs during isoflurane-induced hypotension improved CI and SAP but had negative effects on RC and ResR.
Primary cultures of adult rat hepatocytes were used to investigate potentiation of halocarbon-induced hepatotoxicity by aliphatic ketones. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were pretreated with corn oil or 2,5-hexanedione (HD; 15 mmol/kg, po) in corn oil. Eighteen hours later the hepatocytes were isolated and cultured in Williams' Medium E and exposed to several concentrations of the hepatotoxicants carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, deutero-chloroform, or 1,1,2-trichloroethane. The cytotoxicity of these halocarbons as measured by release of the cytosolic enzyme lactate dehydrogenase into the culture medium was both time- and concentration-dependent. Halocarbon-induced cytotoxicity was exacerbated in cells isolated from HD-pretreated rats with significant increases in LDH release over cells isolated from corn oil-pretreated rats. In addition, chloroform was significantly more toxic than deutero-chloroform in hepatocytes from either corn oil- or HD-pretreated rats. Primary monolayer cultures were useful for studying ketone-induced potentiation, halocarbon-induced hepatocellular toxicity, and the mechanisms by which these effects occur.
Nudix-type motif 2 (NUDT2) hydrolyzes diadenosine 5',5'''-p1,p4-tetraphosphate (Ap4A) associated with various cellular functions. Previous studies demonstrated its regulation through estrogens, suggesting possible importance of NUDT2 in breast carcinoma. NUDT2, however, has not been examined in malignant tissues. Therefore, we examined its expression and functions in breast carcinoma. Immunohistochemistry for NUDT2 was examined by invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC: n = 145) and pure ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS: n = 82), and NUDT2 mRNA was examined by real-time PCR in 9 DCIS, 19 IDC and 6 non-neoplastic breast tissues. We also used T47D breast carcinoma cells in in vitro studies. NUDT2 immunoreactivity was detected in 78% of DCIS and 63% of IDC, and NUDT2 mRNA level was significantly higher in DCIS or IDC than non-neoplastic breast. NUDT2 status was significantly correlated with Van Nuys classification, HER2 or Ki-67 in DCIS, and with stage, lymph node metastasis, histological grade or HER2 in IDC. NUDT2 status was significantly associated with adverse clinical outcome of IDC patients and proved an independent prognostic factor. Results of transfection experiments demonstrated that proliferation activity of T47D cells was significantly associated with NUDT2 expression level according to the treatment of estradiol and/or tamoxifen. NUDT2 expression was significantly decreased by estradiol, and it was also significantly decreased in T47D cells transfected with HER2 siRNA. These findings suggest that NUDT2 is an estrogen-repressed gene and is also induced by HER2 pathways in breast carcinoma cells. NUDT2 promotes proliferation of breast carcinoma cells and is a potent prognostic factor in human breast carcinomas.
The pressor response to the intracisternal (i.c.) injection of carbachol (1 mug) in anesthetized rats was analyzed. This response was significantly reduced by the intravenous (i.v.) injection of guanethidine (5 mg), hexamethonium (10 mg) or phentolamine (5 mg), and conversely, potentiated by i.v. desmethylimipramine (0.3 mg), while propranolol (0.5 mg) i.v. selectively inhibited the enlargement of pulse pressure and the tachycardia following i.c. carbachol (1 mug). On the other hand, the pressor response to i.c. carbachol (1 mug) was almost completely blocked by i.c. atropine (3 mug) or hexamethonium (500 mug), and significantly reduced by i.c. chlorpromazine (50 mug) but significantly potentiated by i.c. desmethylimipramine (30 mug). The pressor response to i.c. carbachol (1 mug) remained unchanged after sectioning of the bilateral cervical vagal nerves but disappeared after sectioning of the spinal cord (C7-C8). From the above result it is suggested that the pressor response to i.c. carbachol ortral and peripheral adrenergic mechanisms, and that the sympathetic trunk is the main pathway.
