Single doses of organophosphorus compounds (OP) which covalently inhibit neuropathy target esterase (NTE) can induce lower-limb paralysis and distal damage in long nerve axons. Clinical signs of neuropathy are evident 3weeks post-OP dose in humans, cats and chickens. By contrast, clinical neuropathy in mice following acute dosing with OPs or any other toxic compound has never been reported. Moreover, dosing mice with ethyloctylphosphonofluoridate (EOPF) - an extremely potent NTE inhibitor - causes a different (subacute) neurotoxicity with brain oedema. These observations have raised the possibility that mice are intrinsically resistant to neuropathies induced by acute toxic insult, but may incur brain oedema, rather than distal axonal damage, when NTE is inactivated. Here we provide the first report that hind-limb dysfunction and extensive axonal damage can occur in mice 3weeks after acute dosing with a toxic compound, bromophenylacetylurea. Three weeks after acutely dosing mice with neuropathic OPs no clinical signs were observed, but distal lesions were present in the longest spinal sensory axons. Similar lesions were evident in undosed nestin-cre:NTEfl/fl mice in which NTE had been genetically-deleted from neural tissue. The extent of OP-induced axonal damage in mice was related to the duration of NTE inactivation and, as reported in chickens, was promoted by post-dosing with phenylmethanesulfonylfluoride. However, phenyldipentylphosphinate, another promoting compound in chickens, itself induced in mice lesions different from the neuropathic OP type. Finally, EOPF induced subacute neurotoxicity with brain oedema in both wild-type and nestin-cre:NTEfl/fl mice indicating that the molecular target for this effect is not neural NTE.
Several studies have shown alterations in different components of executive functioning in users of different drugs, including cannabis, cocaine and heroin. However, it is difficult to establish a specific association between the use of each of these drugs and executive alterations, since most drug abusers are polysubstance abusers, and alcohol is a ubiquitous confounding factor. Moreover, in order to study the association between consumption of different drugs and executive functioning, the patterns of quantity and duration of drugs used must be considered, given the association between these parameters and the executive functioning alteration degree. Based on the multicomponent approach to executive functions, the aims of the present study were: (i) to analyse the differential contribution of alcohol versus cocaine, heroin and cannabis use on executive functions performance; and (ii) to analyse the contribution made by the severity of the different drugs used (quantity and duration patterns) on these functions in a sample of polysubstance abusers that requested treatment for cannabis-, cocaine- or heroin-related problems. We administered measures of fluency, working memory, analogical reasoning, interference, cognitive flexibility, decision-making and self-regulation to two groups: 60 substance-dependent individuals (SDIs) and 30 healthy control individuals (HCIs). SDIs had significantly poorer performance than HCIs across all of the executive domains assessed. Results from hierarchical regression models showed the existence of common correlates of the use of alcohol, cannabis and cocaine on verbal fluency and decision-making; common correlates of quantity of cannabis and cocaine use on verbal working memory and analogical reasoning; common correlates of duration of cocaine and heroin use on shifting; and specific effects of duration of cocaine use on inhibition measures. These findings indicate that alcohol abuse is negatively associated with fluency and decision-making deficits, whereas the different drugs motivating treatment have both generalized and specific deleterious effects on different executive components.
Two women, aged 27 and 42 years, both born in Surinam and both suffering from heterozygous thalassemia, developed cholestatic hepatitis three and two weeks respectively after the start of a two-day course of thiabendazol for Strongyloides stercoralis infection. Other causes of cholestasis were unlikely in view of the results of blood tests, echography and the endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreaticography. The symptoms persisted for several months, and the liver function disorders for 7 years and one year, respectively. The incidence of thiabendazole-induced cholestatic hepatitis is unknown, but probably low.
The interactions of a ruthenium porphyrin complex [(Py-3')TPP-Ru(phen)(2)Cl]Cl (phen=1,10-phenanthroline, (Py-3')TPP=5-(3'-pyridyl-10,15,20-triphenylporphyrin) (1) and its heterometallic derivatives, [Ni(Py-3')TPP-Ru(phen)(2)Cl][PF(6)] (2) and [Cu(Py-3')TPP-Ru(phen)(2)Cl][PF(6)] (3), with calf thymus DNA have been investigated by spectroscopic and viscosity measurements in this study. The results showed that these synthetic complexes can bind to double strand helix DNA in groove binding mode, and the intrinsic binding constants of complexes 1, 2 and 3, as calculated according to the decay of the Soret absorption, are (1.35+/-0.5) x10(5)M(-1) (s=4.2), (1.29+/-0.5)x10(5)M(-1) (s=5.6) and (1.22+/-0.5)x10(5)M(-1) (s=6.2) (s is the binding-site size), respectively, which are consistent with those obtained from ethidium bromide-quenching experiments. Further investigations on the photocleavage properties of these complexes on plasmid pBR 322 DNA showed that complexes 1, 2 and 3 could cleave single chain DNA and convert DNA molecules from supercoiled form to the nicked form. As determined by MTT assay, the complexes were also identified as potent antiproliferative agents against A375 human melanoma cells, MCF-7 human breast adrenocarcinoma cells, Colo201 human colon adenocarcinoma cells and HepG2 human liver cancer cells. Complex 1 inhibits the growth of A375 cells through induction of apoptotic cell death and G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. Further investigation on intracellular mechanisms indicated that Complex 1 induced depletion of mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)) in A375 cells through regulating the expression of pro-survival and pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family members. Our results suggest that ruthenium porphyrin complexes could be candidates for further evaluation as chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic agents for human cancers.
A 7-year-old female with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes developed epileptic negative myoclonus (ENM) seizures during carbamazepine (CBZ) treatment. She had experienced nocturnal partial seizures since 5 years of age. Interictal electroencephalography demonstrated typical rolandic discharges. Valproate was first initiated at 6 years of age, but the seizures were uncontrollable. Carbamazepine was added and valproate withdrawn. The frequency of partial seizures did not decrease. Moreover, she had brief episodes of tone loss in each or both arms and eye blinking several weeks after CBZ introduction. Unilateral loss of arm tone corresponded to spike-and-wave discharges in the contralateral centrotemporal region, and a loss of tone in arms was associated with bilateral synchronous discharges. Eye blinking was also related to bilateral synchronous discharges and classified as a myoclonic seizure. The ENM and myoclonic seizures disappeared soon after CBZ withdrawal. Therefore the authors concluded that CBZ induced the ENM and myoclonic seizures in this patient. CBZ sometimes induces generalized seizures in the treatment of partial epilepsy and generalized epilepsy. CBZ-induced ENM seizures should be considered when a brief lapse of tone appears during CBZ treatment.
Selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) are used for the treatment of invasive breast cancer. Chemoprevention is the use of specific natural or synthetic chemical agents to reverse, suppress, or prevent the progression of premalignant lesions to invasive carcinoma. The finding of a decrease in contralateral breast cancer incidence following tamoxifen administration for adjuvant therapy led to its use in breast cancer prevention. Four large trials have used tamoxifen, the prototypical SERM, as a breast cancer chemopreventive agent with differing results. In the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project's (NSABP) Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT), tamoxifen reduced the risk of invasive breast cancer by 49%. Tamoxifen also reduced the incidence of benign breast disease as well as the number of breast biopsies in the treated women. Three other randomized prevention trials comparing tamoxifen with placebo have been reported and show a reduction in breast cancer incidence of 38%. Serum levels of estrone sulfate and testosterone are significantly associated with breast cancer risk, and estradiol appears to be more strongly associated with breast cancer in high-risk women. Raloxifene is comparable to tamoxifen in its ability to reduce the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal, high-risk women and has fewer side effects, as shown in the study of tamoxifen and raloxifene. Several ongoing and planned studies will evaluate the ability of aromatase inhibitors to reduce the risk of breast cancer in women at increased risk.
The effects of the nootropic agent 4-hydroxy-2-oxopyrrolidinoacetamide (oxiracetam) on memory and performance impairments induced by scopolamine were evaluated in the Morris water maze task. No effect was seen on the performance of rats when treated with oxiracetam (30 mg/kg, IP) alone. Task performance of scopolamine (0.2 mg/kg, SC)-treated rats was impaired as compared to that of control animals. The behavioral deficits expressed in the task by scopolamine treatment were attenuated by the same dose of oxiracetam.
It is currently unclear whether any combination therapy for the treatment of metastatic melanoma is superior to standard single-agent dacarbazine (DTIC) in terms of tumour response and overall survival. The available randomized clinical trial data were combined in a meta-analysis to address this question. Initially a thorough MEDLARS search was conducted covering the time period from January 1970 to January 1999. This literature search was supplemented by manual searches of study bibliographies (including review articles) and review of relevant textbooks. The meta-analysis was performed according to a prospective protocol using strict study eligibility criteria. Data derived from randomized controlled trials comparing single-agent DTIC with combination chemo/immunotherapy were combined using a fixed effects model. Data were stratified into three combination therapy groups: DTIC-containing regimens, non-DTIC-containing therapy, and chemotherapy plus immunotherapy. The primary outcome of interest was the proportion of patients demonstrating a complete or partial response to treatment. A total of 20 randomized trials comprising 3273 patients were initially combined in a meta-analysis. This yielded an odds ratio (OR) of 1.23 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.02-1.48), demonstrating that combination drug therapies are associated with a 23% increase in response rate compared with single-agent DTIC. The combination of DTIC plus interferon-alpha produced a tumour response rate 53% greater (95% CI 1.10-2.13) than that seen with DTIC alone. This increase was greater than that seen with DTIC-containing multi-drug regimens, which had an OR of 1.33 (95% CI 0.99-1.78). No difference in overall survival was demonstrated. Non-DTIC-containing treatment programmes showed no advantage over DTIC in terms of tumour response rate (OR = 0.77, 95% CI 0.45-1.32). The combination of DTIC and interferon-alpha appears more active than standard single-agent DTIC in metastatic melanoma. Further randomized clinical trials employing a DTIC plus interferon arm are necessary to confirm these results.
Concerns have been raised about bisphosphonate use and risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) in women with osteoporosis. This study compares the risk of AF and of flutter or acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in women with osteoporosis taking alendronate or raloxifene.
Using Taiwan's National Health Insurance database to conduct a population-based retrospective cohort study, we reviewed the medical and prescription histories of 27,257 women with osteoporosis (21,037 receiving alendronate and 6,220 receiving raloxifene) between 2001 and 2007. Mean (SD) follow-up was 303.62 (422.87) days. For the main outcome measures, we calculated the adjusted relative risk of AF and AMI using the Cox proportional hazards model, adjusting for various confounders.
Incidence rates (per patient-year) of AF in the alendronate group (1.00%) and the raloxifene group (1.02%) were similar. Alendronate use was not associated with risk of AF (hazard ratio [HR], 1.06; 95% CI, 0.85-1.32) and AMI (HR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.86-1.19) compared with raloxifene use. However, alendronate users who had previous cardiovascular events and had taken their medications for more than 1 year were at significantly greater risk of AMI than were the group taking raloxifene (HR, 2.24; 95% CI, 1.07-4.71). Users who received 70 mg of alendronate once a week were at significantly lower risk of AF than were those taking 10 mg daily (HR, 0.56; 95% CI, 0.47-0.68).
Compared with raloxifene, alendronate did not increase the risk of AF and flutter in women with osteoporosis. Medical history contributed most to the development of AF or AMI in the women who received either raloxifene or alendronate. Long-term treatment with alendronate is not suggested for women with a history of cardiovascular events because they are at increased risk of AMI.
Phthalates, commonly used to soften plastic goods, are known PPAR-agonists affecting lipid metabolism and adipocytes in the experimental setting. We evaluated if circulating concentrations of phthalates were related to different indices of obesity using data from the Prospective Investigation of the Vasculature in Uppsala Seniors (PIVUS) study. Data from both dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) and abdominal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were used.
1,016 subjects aged 70 years were investigated in the PIVUS study. Four phthalate metabolites were detected in the serum of almost all subjects (> 96%) by an API 4000 liquid chromatograph/tandem mass spectrometer. Abdominal MRI was performed in a representative subsample of 287 subjects (28%), and a dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)-scan was obtained in 890 (88%) of the subjects two year following the phthalate measurements.
In women, circulating concentrations of mono-isobutyl phthalate (MiBP) were positively related to waist circumference, total fat mass and trunk fat mass by DXA, as well as to subcutaneous adipose tissue by MRI following adjustment for serum cholesterol and triglycerides, education, smoking and exercise habits (all p < 0.008). Mono-methyl phthalate (MMP) concentrations were related to trunk fat mass and the trunk/leg-ratio by DXA, but less powerful than MiBP. However, no such statistically significant relationships were seen in men.
The present evaluation shows that especially the phthalate metabolite MiBP was related to increased fat amount in the subcutaneous abdominal region in women measured by DXA and MRI two years later.
Antihypertensive effects of an angiotensin (Ang) II receptor antagonist, candesartan cilexetil (TCV-116), were compared with those of an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, enalapril, in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), 2-kidney, 1-clip hypertensive rats (2K, 1C-HR) and 1-kidney, 1-clip hypertensive rats (1K, 1C-HR). CV-11974, the active form of TCV-116, had no inhibitory activity for plasma ACE. In rats, TCV-116 inhibited the pressor responses to Ang I, Ang II, and Ang III without an effect on the bradykinin (BK)-induced depressor response. Enalapril inhibited only the Ang I-response and potentiated the BK-response. In SHR, the antihypertensive effect of TCV-116 (10 mg/kg) was larger than the maximum antihypertensive effect of enalapril and was not intensified by combination with enalapril. Administration of CV-11974 potentiated the maximum antihypertensive effect of enalapril. Although both agents reduced blood pressure in 2K, 1C-HR, only TCV-116 had a marked antihypertensive effect in 1K, 1C-HR. These findings indicate that TCV-116 is more effective than enalapril in reducing blood pressure in SHR and 1K, 1C-HR, and that the BK- and/or prostaglandin-potentiating effect of enalapril contributes little to its antihypertensive mechanism in SHR.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with a single ip injection of physiological saline (3.0 ml/kg), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO, 3.0 ml/kg), phenanthrene (150 mg/kg), ozonized products of phenanthrene (150 mg/kg), pyrene (150 mg/kg), or ozonized products of pyrene (150 mg/kg). Phenanthrene, pyrene, and their ozonized products were dissolved in DMSO (50 mg/ml). Serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activity was increased significantly 24 hr after ip administration of DMSO when compared with physiological saline. Phenanthrene produced a significant elevation of serum AST and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGTP) levels related to physiological saline and DMSO-injected rats 24 hr after injection. However, GGTP levels for groups treated with DMSO or phenanthrene were not significantly increased when compared with saline groups 72 hr after injection. Ozonized products of phenanthrene produced a significant elevation of serum AST, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), GGTP, and bilirubin levels when compared with groups treated with physiological saline, DMSO, and phenanthrene 24 or 72 hr after injections. The ozonized products of phenanthrene also produced significant elevation of serum creatinine levels compared with physiological saline, DMSO, and phenanthrene groups at 24 hr after treatment and of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels at 24 and 72 hr. Although pyrene caused a small but significant increase in the serum AST and bilirubin levels 24 hr after treatment, no significant change in the serum AST, ALT, GGTP, BUN, and creatine levels were observed with the ozonized products of pyrene at 24 or 72 hr. This study demonstrates significant alterations in serum chemistry induced by reaction products of ozone with phenanthrene. No such effect was observed when the products of pyrene ozonation were administered. Although the ozonation products of pyrene were not toxic under the conditions of this study, phenanthrene products were more hepatotoxic than was phenanthrene itself. Nephrotoxicity was also an apparent effect of ozonized phenanthrene. Since ozone-polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) reactions may occur in the atmosphere, these reactions might produce compounds that are more toxic than either ozone or the PAH alone.
Three phosphotrichlorides [phosphorus trichloride (PCl(3)), phosphorus oxychloride (POCl(3)), and thiophosphoryl chloride (PSCl(3))] with an annual U.S. production of >500,000,000 pounds and their diethyl esters are intermediates in the production of organophosphorus pesticides, plastics, flame retardants, and hydraulic fluids. They are classified as highly toxic to mammals based on acute oral and inhalation data with rats. This study considers their mechanisms of toxicity. PCl(3) and POCl(3) inhibit acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) from several species with in vitro IC(50) values of 5-36 and 88-1200 microM, respectively; PSCl(3) is a less potent inhibitor. These phosphotrichlorides have high vapor toxicity to houseflies with in vivo inhibition of brain AChE activity correlating with mortality. PCl(3) and POCl(3) produce cholinergic poisoning signs on ip administration to mice, and all three phosphotrichlorides give marked in vivo inhibition of serum BChE but not brain AChE activity. PCl(3) is a direct acting AChE inhibitor. Our earlier proposed activation of POCl(3) is confirmed here by preparing pure Cl(2)P(O)OH and its potassium and dicyclohexylamine salts that reproduce the action of POCl(3) as in vitro AChE inhibitors and toxicants in mice. PSCl(3) on hydrolysis yields Cl(2)P(O)SH [which oxidizes with peracid to Cl(2)P(O)SOH] as the proposed activation product. Vapors of (EtO)(2)PCl, (EtO)(2)P(O)Cl, and (EtO)(2)P(S)Cl are lethal to houseflies as in vivo AChE inhibitors, the first two acting directly and the last one on oxidative activation to (EtO)(2)P(O)Cl (possibly by P450) or (EtO)(2)P(O)SCl (a phosphorylating agent in a peracid oxidation system). Thus PCl(3), (EtO)(2)PCl, and (EtO)(2)P(O)Cl act directly as AChE inhibitors whereas POCl(3) and PSCl(3) undergo hydrolytic activation and (EtO)(2)P(S)Cl undergoes oxidative activation. In contrast, the toxicity to mice of phosphofluorides [FP(O)Cl(2), F(Cl)P(O)OH, and F(2)P(O)OH; studied as model compounds for comparison] may be due to liberating fluoride ion.
Doxorubicin is one of the most effective anticancer drug, but its usefulness is limited by the risk of developing cardiomyopathy, cardiac dysfunction and ventricular arrhythmias. Dexrazoxane is used to protect against doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. It is uncertain whether the dexrazoxane-mediated cardioprotective effect will be reflected in electrophysiological properties of the heart. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the occurrence of frequency-domain signal-averaged electrocardiographic (SAECG) abnormalities of the QRS complex and the initial ST segment in patients treated with and without dexrazoxane. Thirty children and young adults 2 months - 15 years after completion of doxorubicin-containing therapy for Hodgkin's disease were evaluated with SAECG. Patients from group I (n = 13) received combined therapy with doxorubicin and dexrazoxane (DOX/DZX), patients from group II (n = 17) received doxorubicin without dexrazoxane (DOX). Using fast Fourier transformation within the QRS complex and the initial ST segment, area ratio (AR) values 40-100/0-40 Hz were calculated. Significant differences in these frequency parameters in the QRS complex between DOX/DZX group and DOX group (19.45+/-12.72 vs 46.18+/-43.06; p = 0.03) might indicate protective effect of dexrazoxane on electrophysiological myocardial properties.
The objective of this study was to report the effect of the slow withdrawal of clozapine from 19 patients with neuroleptic-responsive schizophrenia at the end of a 2-year clinical trial of clozapine and to compare this with the results of naturalistic discontinuation of clozapine treatment in 64 neuroleptic-resistant schizophrenic patients. Nineteen neuroleptic-responsive schizophrenic patients who received clozapine were withdrawn from clozapine by tapering it over 3-week period with and without the addition of a typical neuroleptic. Fifteen of the 19 neuroleptic-responsive patients experienced the return of psychotic symptoms during or after the clozapine taper, which were most severe in the ten patients in whom the withdrawal of clozapine was carried out without prior addition of neuroleptic treatment. Addition of a neuroleptic prior to clozapine withdrawal prevented the emergence of positive symptoms during clozapine withdrawal in each of eight patients. Nevertheless, psychotic symptoms emerged, usually within a week after discontinuing clozapine, in six of the eight patients. Neuroleptic treatment, with or without an anticholingergic drug, was much less effective in treating positive symptoms in these patients immediately after the clozapine withdrawal than it had been 2 years previously. Cyproheptadine, a non-selective serotonin receptor antagonist, augmented the antipsychotic effect of neuroleptics in each of four patients who relapsed following withdrawal from clozapine and relieved extrapyramidal symptoms in a fifth patient. The frequency of relapse following withdrawal of clozapine in 64 neuroleptic-resistant patients was significantly lower (25/64, 39.1%) than in the neuroleptic-responsive patients.
Benztropine (Cogentin ) was evaluated for its ability to block cocaine's physiological and subjective effects in humans. In healthy, recreational users of cocaine, placebo, or benztropine (1, 2, and 4 mg orally) was given 2 hr before subjects self-administered 0.9 mg/kg of cocaine intranasally. Measurements were made for 2 hr following cocaine administration, and plasma cocaine and cocaine metabolites were assayed. Cocaine produced typical increases in heart rate and alterations in self-reports measured by visual analog scales (VAS). Benztropine alone did not produce changes on any of these measures. Responses to cocaine with and without benztropine pretreatment were similar: benztropine did not change cocaine's effects. This study of one of the tropane-ring analogs that is approved for human use suggests this compound does not alter cocaine-induced effects, but just as importantly, does not produce any adverse behavioral or physiological effects. The exact therapeutic application of benztropine as a possible adjunct treatment for cocaine abuse in humans require further exploration.
The biological mechanisms involved in inflammatory response to air pollution are not clearly understood.
In this study we assessed the association of short-term air pollutant exposure with inflammatory markers and lung function.
We studied a cohort of 158 asthmatic and 50 nonasthmatic school-age children, followed an average of 22 weeks. We conducted spirometric tests, measurements of fractional exhaled nitric oxide (Fe(NO)), interleukin-8 (IL-8) in nasal lavage, and pH of exhaled breath condensate every 15 days during follow-up. Data were analyzed using linear mixed-effects models.
An increase of 17.5 microg/m(3) in the 8-hr moving average of PM(2.5) levels (interquartile range) was associated with a 1.08-ppb increase in Fe(NO) [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.01-1.16] and a 1.07-pg/mL increase in IL-8 (95% CI 0.98-1.19) in asthmatic children and a 1.16 pg/ml increase in IL-8 (95% CI, 1.00-1.36) in nonasthmatic children. The 5-day accumulated average of exposure to particulate matter <2.5 microm in aerodynamic diamter (PM(2.5)) was significantly inversely associated with forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV(1)) (p=0.048) and forced vital capacity (FVC) (p=0.012) in asthmatic children and with FVC (p=0.021) in nonasthmatic children. Fe(NO) and FEV(1) were inversely associated (p=0.005) in asthmatic children.
Exposure to PM(2.5) resulted in acute airway inflammation and decrease in lung function in both asthmatic and nonasthmatic children.
Two cases of auditory disturbance caused by carbamazepine are reported. Patient 1, a 9-year-old boy with benign Rolandic epilepsy, developed impairment of pitch perception one day after administration of carbamazepine. Patient 2, a 33-year-old female with glossopharyngeal neuralgia, developed impairment of pitch perception several hours after administration of carbamazepine, complaining that the perceived sounds became lower than previously by a semitone. Her pitch perception recovered soon after the cessation of carbamazepine. The carbamazepine-induced disturbance in pitch perception may be more frequent than we guess.
A case of common hepatic duct stricture secondary to hepatic artery chemotherapy infusion is described. CT and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) may be used in concert to differentiate this entity from other causes of jaundice--namely, hepatic replacement by tumor, porta hepatis adenopathy, and chemotherapy hepatotoxicity.
In the past 2 years at our institution, 87 patients with hepatic metastasis from colorectal carcinoma have undergone surgical implantation of an arterial pump for the direct infusion of chemotherapeutic agents into the liver. We report six cases of cholangitis complicating the course of these patients.
Analyzed were results of a clinical use of a new drug carbabanzpyrid in 57 patients as an analgetic, antipyretic, anti-inflammatory, interferonogenic drug. The drug proved effective in the complex treatment of several diseases, accompanied by fever, pain syndromes of different genesis and location, acute respiratory viral infections, active inflammatory processes of different etiology including bronchitis, pneumonia, active rheumatism, arthralgias, myalgias. The drug was of little efficacy in infections-allergic polyarthritis with a marked exudative component.
Combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dacarbazine (CVD) is an effective treatment regimen for malignant pheochromocytoma. There have not been any significant acute cardiovascular effects reported following CVD treatment. Among seven patients with malignant pheochromocytoma treated with CVD at our institution, two patients with labile hypertension developed hypertensive crisis following CVD treatment. The marked increase in blood pressure correlated with an increase in urinary excretion of catecholamine metabolites in one patient. Further hypertensive crises following subsequent CVD treatments were avoided by optimizing each patient's antiadrenergic therapy. Similar to the approach used preoperatively for patients with resectable pheochromocytoma, maximal antiadrenergic therapy is essential in preventing hypertensive crises in patients with malignant pheochromocytoma undergoing CVD treatment.
Dyskinesias are frequently observed in parkinsonian patients during levodopa treatment. The occurrence of these movement disorders usually makes the therapeutic management of the patients very difficult. The clinical characteristics of 176 patients with dyskinesias were retrospectively studied. Dyskinesias occurred, on average, after 6.2 years of duration of Parkinson's disease and after 4.2 years on treatment with levodopa. Patients were more likely to have dyskinesias during more advanced stages (measured by Hoehn and Yahr scale). Peak of dose and square wave were the types of dyskinesia more frequently described and were associated with choreic movements in most cases. Dystonia occurred in 40% of the cases and was predominant in end of dose and diphasic dyskinesias. Thirty-five percent of dystonia cases presented as "early morning dystonia". Chorea was the most frequent involuntary movement and mostly generalized. Dystonia was most commonly described in lower limbs. Orofacial dyskinesia, when occurred alone, was more frequently seen in old rather than young patients. When dyskinesia was unilateral it was more likely to occur in the side where Parkinson's disease was more severe.
1. In order to develop a predictive model for the preclinical evaluation of anthracycline cardiotoxicity and the means of preventing it, we have studied the functional parameters of perfused hearts isolated from rats receiving repeated doses of several anthracyclines. 2. The anthracyclines studied were doxorubicin, epirubicin, pirarubicin and daunorubicin, and we also studied a liposomal formulation of daunorubicin (DaunoXome) and the co-administration of dexrazoxane (ICRF-187) and doxorubicin. 3. Anthracyclines were administered i.p. at equimolar doses corresponding to 3 mg kg-1 per injection of doxorubicin, every other day for a total of six doses. Dexrazoxane was used at the dose of 30 mg kg-1 per injection and was administered either 30 min before or 30 min after doxorubicin. We evaluated any general toxicity towards the animals as well as alterations of left ventricular contractility and relaxation ex vivo. 4. Epirubicin and daunorubicin were significantly less cardiotoxic than doxorubicin, and neither pirarubicin nor DaunoXome caused significant alterations in cardiac function. There was a direct relationship between the decrease in cardiac contractility or relaxation and anthracycline accumulation in the heart, evaluated after the same treatment schedule. 5. Dexrazoxane induced a significant protection against doxorubicin-induced cardiac toxicity when administered 30 min before doxorubicin, whereas this protection was ineffective when administered 30 min after doxorubicin. Direct perfusion of DaunoXome in isolated hearts of untreated animals resulted in a 12-fold reduction of the accumulation of daunorubicin in heart tissue as compared to the perfusion of free daunorubicin, and did not cause alterations in cardiac function at a dosage for which free daunorubicin induced major alterations. 6. The isolated perfused rat heart appears to be a valuable model for screening of new anthracyclines and of strategies for circumventing anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) occurs frequently soon after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and often results in increased mortality and morbidity, particularly in patients with heart failure. New-onset AF is also a common event in the early period after discharge from a cardiac surgery clinic. Current guidelines recommend β blockers as first-line medication for the prevention of AF after CABG. In this prospective study, we investigated the effectiveness of the highly selective β1 receptor antagonist bisoprolol compared to the less selective β blocker carvedilol in preventing postdischarge AF after CABG in patients with decreased left ventricular function. Three hundred twenty patients (231 men, 89 women, mean age 66 ± 10 years) with ejection fraction <40% who underwent CABG and were then referred to an in-hospital cardiac rehabilitation program were randomized to receive bisoprolol (n = 160) or carvedilol (n = 160) starting 4 to 5 days after surgery. Bisoprolol was started at 1.25 mg 1 time/day and carvedilol was started 3.125 mg 2 times/day. All patients underwent continuous telemetric electrocardiographic monitoring for 5 days after entry in the study and thereafter 2 times/day routinely up to hospital discharge. During follow-up, 23 patients (14.6%) in the bisoprolol group and 37 patients (23%) in the carvedilol group developed AF (relative risk 0.6, confidence interval 0.4 to 0.9, p = 0.032). Twenty-six percent of all AF episodes were asymptomatic. At the 4-week outpatient visit, those in the bisoprolol group showed a significantly greater decrease in heart rate, being in sinus rhythm or AF (-15.6 ± 3 vs -9.4 ± 3 beats/min, p = 0.021), whereas changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressures did not differ significantly. In conclusion, bisoprolol is more effective than carvedilol in decreasing the incidence of postdischarge AF after CABG in patients with decreased left ventricular function.
