Milk kappa-casein-derived glycomacropeptide has immunomodulatory and bacterial toxin binding effects. The intestinal anti-inflammatory activity of glycomacropeptide was assessed in trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced colitis in rats. Rats were administered glycomacropeptide daily starting either 2 d before (pretreatment) or 3 h after (post-treatment) colitis induction. Pretreatment with glycomacropeptide had a dose-dependent anti-inflammatory effect, characterized by lower body weight loss, decreased anorexia (57%), colonic damage (65%), and weight to length ratio (32%), as well as a reduction in colonic alkaline phosphatase activity (42%) and interleukin 1, trefoil factor 3, and inducible nitric oxide synthase mRNA levels (P < 0.05). The mechanism of action of glycomacropeptide is unknown but is consistent with an inhibition of the activation of immune cells. The magnitude of the anti-inflammatory effect was generally comparable to that of sulfasalazine, an established drug used in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease. Bovine glycomacropeptide may play a role in the management of patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
The authors report the case of a 47-year-old depressive woman treated with citalopram 20 mg day-1 for 3 months who presented a marked sinus bradycardia (34 beats/min) 11 days after the citalopram dose was increased to 40 mg day-1. The bradycardia was clinically asymptomatic and disappeared within 24 h after citalopram was stopped. Citalopram blood levels were in the usual therapeutic range.
Aloe barbadensis Miller (Aloe vera) is an herbal remedy promoted to treat a variety of illnesses; however, only limited data are available on the safety of this dietary supplement. Drinking water exposure of F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice to an Aloe vera whole-leaf extract (1, 2, and 3%) for 13 weeks resulted in goblet cell hyperplasia of the large intestine in both species. Based upon this observation, 2-year drinking water studies were conducted to assess the carcinogenic potential of an Aloe vera whole-leaf extract when administered to F344/N rats (48 per sex per group) at 0.5, 1, and 1.5%, and B6C3F1 mice (48 per sex per group) at 1, 2, and 3%. Compared with controls, survival was decreased in the 1.5% dose group of female rats. Treatment-related neoplasms and nonneoplastic lesions in both species were confined primarily to the large intestine. Incidences of adenomas and/or carcinomas of the ileo-cecal and cecal-colic junction, cecum, and ascending and transverse colon were significantly higher than controls in male and female rats in the 1 and 1.5% dose groups. There were no neoplasms of the large intestine in mice or in the 0 or 0.5% dose groups of rats. Increased incidences of mucosa hyperplasia of the large intestine were observed in F344/N rats, and increased incidences of goblet cell hyperplasia of the large intestine occurred in B6C3F1 mice. These results indicate that Aloe vera whole-leaf extract is an intestinal irritant in F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice and a carcinogen of the large intestine in F344/N rats.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) is a tyrosine kinase receptor that affects a number of biological and biochemical functions through normal ligand-dependent signaling. It has oncogenic functions in a number of tumors including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), anaplastic large cell lymphoma, and neuroblastoma when altered by translocation or amplification or mutation. On August 2011, a small molecule inhibitor against ALK, crizotinib, was approved for therapy against NSCLC with ALK translocations. As we determine the molecular heterogeneity of tumors, the potential of ALK as a relevant therapeutic target in a number of malignancies has become apparent. This review will discuss some of the tumor types with oncogenic ALK alterations. The activity and unique toxicities of crizotinib are described, along with potential mechanisms of resistance and new therapies beyond crizotinib.
Cardiac performance was evaluated at least two years after doxorubicin treatment in childhood in 55 patients without overt congestive cardiomyopathy. None of the patients had received mediastinal irradiation. Computer-assisted analysis of digitised echocardiograms showed impaired rapid diastolic filling and an increased change of dimension between minimal cavity dimension and mitral valve opening. This impairment of diastolic function was related to the cumulative dose of doxorubicin. In contrast when angiotensin II was infused to increase the afterload the end systolic pressure-length and stress-shortening relation indicated normal left ventricular systolic function. But during baseline conditions the end systolic wall stress was significantly increased in patients in whom the cumulative dose of doxorubicin exceeded 360 mg/m2.
Intratracheal infusion of 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES), a mustard gas analog and a chemical warfare agent is known to cause massive damage to lung. The purpose of this study was to determine whether intratracheal CEES infusion causes neuronal damage. Histological, immunohistochemical, and Western blot studies indicated that CEES treatment caused dose-dependent increases in blood cell aggregation, microglial cell number, microglial activation, and brain inflammation. In addition, an increased expression of α-synuclein and a decreased expression of the dopamine transporter were observed. The results indicate that intratracheal CEES infusion is associated with changes in brain morphology mediated by an increase in α-synuclein expression, leading to neurotoxicity in a guinea pig model. These changes may be mediated by oxidative stress. Furthermore, the present study indicates for the first time that intratracheal infusion of a single dose of CEES can cause neuroinflammation, which may lead to neurological disorders in later part of life.
A phase II study using vindesine (3 mg/m2 by slow intravenous push at seven to 14 day intervals) was carried out in 42 patients with metastatic melanoma. There was one complete remission (2.5%) of greater than 12 months duration; seven partial remissions (17.5%) of two, three, three, four, five, six and eight months duration; 11 with no change (27.5%) of one to 10 months duration; and 21 (52.5%) patients with increasing disease. Toxicity included neutropenia, neurotoxicity, phlebitis and cellulitis at the site of injection, alopecia, fever and chills, myalgias, and gastrointestinal toxicity. It was concluded that vindesine does have activity in some patients with metastatic malignant melanoma. Further studies in previously untreated patients are warranted.
Hypokalemia is a common side effect in adult asthmatic patients on beta 2 adrenergic therapy. There is limited information in regard to hypokalemia and its relation to the clinical responses following administration of beta 2 agonist therapy in children with asthma. We observed that salbutamol inhalation significantly improved asthmatic symptoms as demonstrated by increases in peak expiratory flow (PEF: 122.37+/-75.38 vs. 152.59+/-80.29; P < 0.001) and venous oxygen tension (Pv,O2: 33.24+/-4.95 vs. 58.16+/-2.31; P < 0.001), and decreases in respiratory rate (RR: 36.39+/-3.78 vs. 28.62+/-3.12; P< 0.01), clinical scores (CS: 3.59+/-1.28 vs. 1.59+/-0.71), and venous PCO2 tensions (Pv,CO2: 40.84+/-2.67 vs. 34.75+/-2.31; P < 0.001). Salbutamol-induced hypokalemia was correlated with a decrease in RR, and an increase of Pv,O2 and PEF. These findings suggest that the same mechanism is involved in eliciting hypokalemia and bronchodilatation.
Didecyldimethylammonium chloride (DDAC) is used worldwide as a germicide, in antiseptics, and as a wood preservative, and can cause adverse pulmonary disease in humans. However, the pulmonary toxicity of DDAC has not yet been thoroughly investigated. Mice were intratracheally instilled with DDAC to the lung and the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and lung tissues were collected to assess dose- and time-related pulmonary injury. Exposure to 1500 μg/kg of DDAC caused severe morbidity with pulmonary congestive oedema. When the BAL fluid from survivors was examined on day 3 after treatment, exposure to 150 μg/kg of DDAC caused weakly induced inflammation, and exposure to 15μg/kg did not cause any visible effects. Next, we observed pulmonary changes that occurred up to day 20 after 150 μg/kg of DDAC exposure. Pulmonary inflammation peaked on day 7 and was confirmed by expression of interleukin-6, monocyte chemotactic protein-1, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1α, MIP-1β, and regulated upon activation, normal T-cell expressed and secreted in the BAL fluid; these changes were accompanied by altered gene expression of their chemokine (C-C motif) receptor (Ccr) 1, Ccr2, Ccr3, and Ccr5. Cytotoxicity evoked by DDAC was related to the inflammatory changes and was confirmed by an in vitro study using isolated mouse lung fibroblasts. The inflammatory phase was accompanied or followed by pulmonary remodeling, i.e., fibrosis, which was evident in the mRNA expression of type I procollagen. These results suggest that administering DDAC by intratracheal instillation causes pulmonary injury in mice, and occupational exposure to DDAC might be a potential hazard to human health.
Since the first report of epidural opioid administration to pediatric patients, several studies have described the quality of analgesia, doses, pharmacokinetics, and side effects of this procedure. A pediatric series using an easy and cheap single-injection technique of epidural morphine administration for postoperative analgesia is presented.
Postoperative analgesia was achieved with a single lumbar epidural morphine injection (0.1 mg/kg in 0.2 mL/kg saline), which was given via a 22-gauge intramuscular needle to 153 pediatric patients (aged 4 months-17 years) following 175 lower abdominal or urologic operations. Injections were given by 43 anesthesiology residents under the supervision of pediatric anesthesiologists, after termination of surgery performed under general anesthesia.
The success rate of epidural puncture on the first attempt was 92%. Pain control was considered excellent in 76% of patients for 24 hours. The remaining patients had analgesia lasting 10.9 +/- 5.5 hours after epidural morphine administration. No alterations in hemodynamic parameters were observed. Two patients (1.1%) developed respiratory depression during early postoperative care and one, with a history of apneic spells, had an episode of apnea 5 hours after morphine administration. The incidences of minor side effects were: nausea, 33.9%; vomiting, 42.9%; pruritus 9%; and urinary retention 12.5%.
This technique is easy to perform, even for trainees in anesthesiology. With appropriate patient selection and avoidance of the concomitant use of narcotics and sedatives, epidural morphine provides prompt, effective, safe, and prolonged analgesia in children.
Dietary folate and alcohol consumption as well as polymorphic variants in one-carbon metabolism genes may modulate risk of colorectal adenoma through aberrant DNA methylation and altered nucleotide synthesis and repair. We assessed the association of 24 non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) in 13 genes in the one-carbon metabolism pathway and risk of colorectal adenoma in 556 incident cases and 557 controls nested in the Nurses' Health Study. Most of the SNPs were not associated with risk of colorectal adenoma. We did, however, observe a modest increased risk among carriers of the transcobalamin (TCN) II 259 Pro/Arg + Arg/Arg variant (odds ratio 1.48, 95% confidence interval 1.09-2.02) for colorectal adenoma. The TCN II Pro259Arg polymorphism may affect TCN binding and transport of vitamin B(12) and thus warrants further investigation of its biological function. In addition, the methionine synthase reductase (MTRR) Arg415Cys and MTRR Ser284Thr variant carriers, also in the vitamin B(12) pathway, have suggestive associations with advanced colorectal adenoma (defined as being larger than 1 cm, villous, tubular-villous or carcinoma in situ histology). We observed significant evidence for departure from multiplicative interaction for the betaine-homocysteine methyltransferase (BHMT) Arg239Gln with dietary methyl status (based on intake of dietary folate, methionine and alcohol intake) in relation to colorectal adenoma; no such interaction was observed for the other 23 SNPs. Further investigation is required to validate the association of the polymorphisms in the one-carbon metabolic genes and risk of colorectal adenoma.
Two previous studies have utilized diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to examine microstructural integrity in cocaine abuse and found evidence of brain abnormalities in white matter.
Using anatomical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), DTI, and clinical evaluation, the macrostructural and microstructural correlates of cocaine abuse were investigated.
Twenty-one men and women (mean age 42.5 and mean 18.9 years of cocaine use) and 21 age/gender-matched controls were included. Fractional anisotropy (FA) was measured in frontal white matter ROIs. Gray and white matter volumes in superior and inferior frontal regions were compared.
DTI data revealed that cocaine users had lower FA than controls, specifically in inferior frontal white matter. FA differences were not seen in other areas. Significant volumetric differences were not seen, but both gray and white matter inferior frontal volumes trended toward smaller in the cocaine group. The data suggested that duration of use was associated with decreased gray and white matter volumes. FA and gray matter volume were correlated in cocaine users.
Both macrostructural and microstructural abnormalities were seen in a group of cocaine abusers. Length of cocaine use was associated with severity of the brain abnormalities. Future studies of white matter tissue integrity are warranted including examination of the relationship between DTI measures and traditional volumetric measures.
Six halogenated hydrocarbons, chloroform, 1,2-dibromoethane (1,2-DBE), 1,1-dichloroethane (1,1-DCE), 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCE), 1,1,1-trichloroethane (1,1,1-TCE), and 1,1,2-trichloroethane (1,1,2-TCE), were evaluated for their cytotoxicity in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes isolated from normal, partially hepatectomized, and preneoplastic/neoplastic rat livers. Preneoplastic/neoplastic lesions of phenotypically altered foci and hepatocyte nodules were induced by either (1) initiation by diethylnitrosamine (DENA) followed by 2 weeks of 0.02% 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) in the diet and a single gavage dose of carbon tetrachloride 1 week after the start of the 2-AAF diet or (2) initiation by DENA followed by promotion with 500 ppm sodium phenobarbital in the drinking water for 24 weeks. The hepatocytes containing preneoplastic/neoplastic cells isolated from animals treated with either protocol, compared to hepatocytes isolated from normal liver, were resistant to the cytotoxicity of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1). None of the six halogenated alkanes exhibited any difference in their cytotoxicity toward hepatocytes isolated from normal liver or from liver containing preneoplastic/neoplastic lesions induced by either procedure. Hepatocytes isolated from partially hepatectomized animals were resistant to the cytotoxicity of AFB1 and chloroform but not to the cytotoxicity of 1,2-DBE or 1,2-DCE. The ranking of relative cytotoxicity in hepatocytes from untreated rats was 1,2-DBE much greater than 1,2-DCE greater than 1,1,2-TCE greater than 1,1,1-TCE greater than chloroform greater than 1,1-DCE. Treatment with SKF-525A protected the hepatocytes from the cytotoxicity of AFB1 while increasing the cytotoxicity of all six halogenated alkanes. Treatment with diethyl maleate increased the cytotoxicity of AFB1 and all six halogenated alkanes. These observations suggest that preneoplastic/neoplastic rat hepatocytes are not resistant to the cytotoxicity of the six halogenated alkanes because their toxicity might be mediated by a cytochrome P-450 species which is not inhibited by SKF-525A and is not decreased in preneoplastic/neoplastic lesions.
The effects of ribavirin and interferon (IFN) alpha have been investigated on cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells, obtained from 15 patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. At clinically relevant serum concentrations achieved during therapeutic administration, ribavirin did inhibit moderately the mitogen-stimulated mononuclear cell proliferation and growth of the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell subsets without apparent cytolysis. The ribavirin-IFN-alpha combination showed activity against HCV with disappearance of HCV RNA in 27% of cases, and a synergy in the inducibility of the intracellular enzyme 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase. Such ribavirin concentrations induced modest increases in the T helper 1-like cytokine production by mononuclear cells. Higher ribavirin concentrations markedly inhibited IFN-gamma production, but augmented interleukins (IL) 2, 4, and 12 secretion. Conversely, IFN-alpha tended to suppress IL 2, 4 and 12, but enhanced IFN-gamma and IL-10 secretion. Thus, ribavirin and IFN-alpha appear to cause diverse effects on immunoregulatory cytokine secretion, and when combined, counteracted for production of IL-2 and IL-12, while upregulated mononuclear cell secretion of IFN-gamma and that of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. These findings suggest a non-cytolytic modulation of inflammatory responses induced by the drug combination, that may be relevant in the pathophysiology of chronic HCV infection.
Long-term treatment of parkinsonian patients with levodopa (plus decarboxylase inhibitor) leads to decreasing levodopa efficacy and increasing side-effects. Then main therapeutic problems are on-off phenomena, end-of-dose akinesia and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Deprenyl, a selective MAO-B inhibitor, has produced good therapeutic effects in combination either with levodopa alone or with levodopa plus decarboxylase inhibitor in the treatment of end-of-dose akinesia and on-off phenomena. In an open trial with 48 parkinsonian patients deprenyl was added to previous levodopa plus decarboxylase-inhibitor therapy. Good effects were achieved in respect of mild on-off phenomena and end-of-dose akinesia, minor success in the alleviation of dyskinesia and depression. In four further patients with a post-traumatic parkinsonian syndrome, no improvement of rigidospasticity and vigilance was demonstrable.
The parents of 106 children who had had Reye's syndrome and those of 185 comparison children who had febrile illnesses were interviewed in order to compare preadmission medication exposure rates in the two groups. Although comparable proportions of case and comparison patients had taken antipyretics in the three weeks before admission, a significant excess of cases (59% compared with 26% in the comparisons) had been given aspirin, whereas significantly more comparison children (49% compared with 25% in the cases) had taken paracetamol. There was an excess exposure to aspirin in children under 5 years of age; the excess observed in older patients just failed to reach significance. Separate analyses within Northern Ireland and England also showed a case-comparison difference. A significant correlation was shown between aspirin (but not paracetamol) exposure and the closeness with which cases conformed to the diagnostic criteria of Reye's syndrome, measured by an artibrary score. The many difficulties of conducting and interpreting the findings of an epidemiological risk factor study of an association between aspirin and Reye's syndrome are reviewed and emphasised. Inherent biases were present in this as in previous studies and it did not conform to the classical case-control design. Nevertheless the findings suggested that an association between Reye's syndrome and preadmission aspirin may exist in some children.
Folate has been hypothesized to protect against aero-digestive cancers although the evidence is not yet conclusive due to possible confounding by other dietary factors. Sequence variants in folate pathway were suggested to be associated with plasma folate levels and are unlikely to be confounded by other lifestyle factors. We therefore investigated the effects of key folate genetic variants on the risk of aero-digestive cancers and their potential effect modification by folate intake in a multicenter study in Central Europe. A total of 2250 lung cases, 811 upper aero-digestive tract cases and 2899 controls were recruited with blood samples. The methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T variant was associated with an increased risk of lung cancer with an odds ratio (OR) for homozygote variant of 1.37 [95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.10-1.71]. The two MTHFR variants were in strong linkage disequilibrium, and 677T-1298A appeared to be the primary haplotype associated with cancer risk. The risk estimates for MTHFR 677T/677T genotype was more prominent among lung cancer patients with young onset (OR = 1.92, 95% CI = 1.12-3.29). When stratified by dietary intake of folate, the effect of the MTHFR 677T variant was more prominent among subjects with low intake of folate: the ORs for 677T/677T genotype among subjects with the lowest decile were 2.60 (95% CI = 1.39-4.88) and 4.14 (95% CI = 1.47-11.7) for lung and upper aero-digestive tract cancer, respectively. In conclusion, we identified a moderate effect of MTHFR C677T on lung cancer risk and a possible effect modification by folate intake that is consistent with the functional data. These results support an important role of folate in protecting against tobacco-related cancers.
Sibutramine is a serotonin-noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor that is effective for long-term weight reduction and maintenance in obese patients when used as an adjunct to dietary and behavioural measures. Because the inhibition of noradrenaline reuptake may be expected to increase systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP) and pulse rate (PR), a 12-week multi-centre, placebo-controlled, double-blind study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of sibutramine for weight loss in obese patients whose hypertension was well controlled (DBP < or = 95 mm Hg) by beta-adrenergic blocking agents (beta-blockers), with or without concomitant thiazide diuretics. Of the 61 patients randomised to sibutramine 20 mg once daily or placebo, 55 patients (90%) completed the study. After 12 weeks, sibutramine-treated patients lost significantly more weight than placebo-treated patients: mean weight reductions were 4.2 kg (4.5%) in the sibutramine group vs 0.3 kg (0.4%) in the placebo group (P<0.001). Greater weight reduction on sibutramine was accompanied by trends for greater mean reductions in serum triglycerides and very low density lipoprotein cholesterol. Sibutramine was well tolerated, and most adverse events were mild or moderate in severity. No sibutramine patient discontinued treatment because of an adverse event. Mean supine and standing DBP and SBP were not statistically significantly different between the sibutramine group and the placebo group at any post-baseline visit during the 12-week trial. At week 12, mean increases from baseline supine SBP and DBP, respectively, were 1.6 and 1.7 mm Hg for the sibutramine group vs increases of 0.4 and 1.3 mm Hg for the placebo group. At week 12, mean increases from baseline standing SBP and DBP, respectively, were 1.5 and 1.8 mm Hg for the sibutramine group vs an increase of 0.3 and a decrease of 0.8 mm Hg for the placebo group (P > 0.05 for treatment comparison). A statistically significant mean increase of 5.6 bpm (+/-8.25, s.d.) in supine PR from a baseline of 62 bpm was reported in sibutramine-treated patients at week 12, whereas placebo-treated patients had a mean supine PR decrease of 2.2 bpm (+/-6.43) (P < 0.001). In summary, sibutramine was well tolerated and effective in weight reduction. The addition of sibutramine did not result in an increase in BP in obese patients whose hypertension was well controlled by a beta-blocker. However, based on the potential for changes in BP and PR, obese patients being treated with sibutramine should be monitored periodically for changes in BP and PR and managed appropriately.
Nephrin, podocin and alpha-actinin are all involved in proteinuria, but it is unclear which molecular event plays a crucial role during the development of proteinuria. Immunofluorescence staining and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction were used to study the glomerular expression of these molecules in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis. Morphometric methods were applied to evaluate the podocyte foot process (FP) morphology. Two days after PAN injection, nephrin and podocin staining became discontinuous, podocin intensity decreased and FP swelled. Nephrin protein and mRNA decreased at day 5. Both podocin and nephrin intensity decreased dramatically when heavy proteinuria occurred, but nephrin mRNA was regained. When proteinuria disappeared, podocin recovered whereas nephrin did not (P = 0.02); alpha-actinin intensity increased (P = 0.009) and the distribution changed. The podocyte FP volume density correlated negatively with nephrin (r = -0.78, P = 0.0001) and podocin immunofluorescence intensity (r = -0.76, P = 0.0001). We conclude that, before the onset of proteinuria, the first response was the nephrin and podocin distribution change, podocin protein decrease and swollen FP; the podocin quantitative change was earlier than nephrin. Podocin and nephrin distribution and the protein level was associated with proteinuria more closely than their mRNA level. The delayed alpha-actinin induction might be a reparative response.
The aim of this study was designed to investigate the possible beneficial effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, Quinapril (Q) and, the angiotensin (ang) II T(1) (AT1) receptor blocker, irbesartan (Irb), in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes in rats. The rats were randomly allotted into one of five experimental groups: A (control), B (diabetic untreated), C (diabetic treated with Q), D (diabetic treated with Irb), and E (diabetic treated with Q&Irb), each group containing 10 animals. Groups B-E received STZ. Diabetes was induced in four groups by a single intraperitoneal (i.p) injection of STZ (50 mg/kg, freshly dissolved in 5 mmol/L citrate buffer, pH 4.5). Two days after STZ treatment, development of diabetes in four experimental groups was confirmed by measuring blood glucose levels in a tail vein blood samples. Rats with blood glucose levels of 250 mg/dL or higher were considered to be diabetic. The rats in Q-, Irb-, and Q&Irb-treated groups were given Q (in a dose of 3 mg/kg body weight), Irb (5 mg/kg body weight), and Q&Irb (in a dose of 1.5 mg/kg + 2.5 mg/kg body weight) once a day orally by using intra-gastric intubation for 12 weeks starting two days after STZ injection. Treatment of Q and especially Irb reduced the glomerular size and thickening of capsular, glomerular, and tubular basement membranes; and increased amounts of mesangial matrix and tubular dilatation and renal function as compared with diabetics untreated. Notably, the better effects were obtained when Q and Irb given together. We conclude that Q, Irb, and especially Q+Irb therapy causes renal morphologic and functional improvement after STZ-induced diabetes in rats. We believe that further preclinical research into the utility of Q and Irb treatment, alone or its combination, may indicate its usefulness as a potential treatment in diabetic nephropathy (DNp).
To determine the incidence of B19 infection in patients with AIDS who were being treated with dideoxyinosine, serial sera (n = 28) taken over a 2-year period from 14 individuals were analyzed with respect to anti-B19 serology and the presence of B19 DNA. All 14 individuals were anti-B19 IgM negative. Nine of 14 had B19 viremia by Southern analysis of polymerase chain reaction product. Five of 9 with B19 viremia had > or = 1 anti-B19 IgG-positive sample; none of 5 without viremia had anti-B19 IgG. Four of 9 viremic individuals had serially positive samples. All 4 had severe anemia (hemoglobin < 8.5 g/dL) while taking zidovudine. A fifth individual whose severe anemia resolved after zidovudine was discontinued did not have B19 viremia. Therefore, a significant proportion of this group of patients with AIDS who developed severe anemia while receiving zidovudine had persistent B19 infection. These results suggest that B19 infection should be considered in anemic patients with AIDS.
Two monocular normotensive patients with nonarteritic ischemic optic neuropathy and retinal ischemia unresponsive to steroid therapy were treated with intravenous norepinephrine. In both patients, improvement in vision began within minutes after moderate hypertension was produced. A third patient showed no response to this therapy in one eye with established ischemic optic neuropathy, but had prompt recovery of vision in the second eye early in the course of ischemic optic neuropathy. This patient returned with recurrent ischemic optic neuropathy more than 1 year later. At that time she was found to have essential hypertension. One patient could not be weaned from the norepinephrine infusion without recurrent visual loss. In the second patient, controlled hypertensive therapy restored visual acuity to 20/30 during two separate recurrences of ischemic optic neuropathy. Therapy of a later episode of ischemic optic neuropathy was delayed for 2 days, and vision did not improve with norepinephrine infusion. This eye subsequently became painful and required enucleation. Histopathological evaluation showed combined arterial and venous occlusions within the optic nerve and evidence of previous peripapillary choroidal vascular occlusion. Selected normotensive patients with ischemic optic neuropathy and retinal ischemia may benefit from controlled hypertensive therapy induced by norepinephrine infusion.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) zeta (GSTZ1-1) plays a significant role in the catabolism of phenylalanine and tyrosine, and a deficiency of GSTZ1-1 results in the accumulation of maleylacetoacetate and its derivatives maleylacetone (MA) and succinylacetone. Induction of GST subunits was detected in the liver of Gstz1(-/-) mice by Western blotting with specific antisera and high-performance liquid chromatography analysis of glutathione affinity column-purified proteins. The greatest induction was observed in members of the mu class. Induction of NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 and the catalytic and modifier subunits of glutamate-cysteine ligase was also observed. Many of the enzymes that are induced in Gstz1(-/-) mice are regulated by antioxidant response elements that respond to oxidative stress via the Keap1/Nrf2 pathway. It is significant that diminished glutathione concentrations were also observed in the liver of Gstz1(-/-) mice, which supports the conclusion that under normal dietary conditions, the accumulation of electrophilic intermediates such as maleylacetoacetate and MA results in a high level of oxidative stress. Elevated GST activities in the livers of Gstz1(-/-) mice suggest that GSTZ1-1 deficiency may alter the metabolism of some drugs and xenobiotics. Gstz1(-/-) mice given acetaminophen demonstrated increased hepatotoxicity compared with wild-type mice. This toxicity may be attributed to the increased GST activity or the decreased hepatic concentrations of glutathione, or both. Patients with acquired deficiency of GSTZ1-1 caused by therapeutic exposure to dichloroacetic acid for the clinical treatment of lactic acidosis may be at increased risk of drug- and chemical-induced toxicity.
The hypothesis that human cocaine users lose vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2) protein was tested in striatal samples from cocaine users and age-, sex-, and postmortem interval-matched comparison subjects.
Striatal samples were retrieved at autopsy; immunoblot assays were then performed by using a highly specific VMAT2 antibody. Striatal radioligand binding to VMAT2 was assessed with dihydrotetrabenazine ([(3)H]DTBZ) and dopamine levels employing high-performance liquid chromatography.
Cocaine users displayed a marked reduction in VMAT2 immunoreactivity as well as reduced [(3)H]DTBZ binding and dopamine levels. It did not appear that the reduction in VMAT2 immunoreactivity was related to ethanol use, but dopamine levels were lower in subjects with only ethanol diagnoses. Subjects suffering from cocaine-induced mood disorders displayed a greater loss of VMAT2 immunoreactivity that approached significance.
Human cocaine users lose VMAT2 protein, which might reflect damage to striatal dopamine fibers. These neuronal changes could play a role in causing disordered mood and motivational processes in more severely dependent patients.
Coronary blood flow velocity and coronary flow reserve can be assessed in humans using a coronary Doppler catheter and the vasodilator papaverine. Although it is a safe, elegant and reproducible technique, serious complications can occur. Coronary flow reserve assessment in a 49-year-old man with a critical stenosis in the proximal part of the circumflex artery was complicated by a papaverine-induced ventricular arrhythmia. Several features of the present case report support papaverine-induced disturbances of the repolarization phase as the pathophysiological mechanism: a 'torsade de pointes' pattern of the tachycardia, the lengthening of the QT-interval, the appearance of a new U-wave and the presence of additional risk factors (hypokalaemia and alcalosis). Patients presenting additional risk factors for this complication should be excluded from coronary flow reserve assessment.
Phenytoin (PHT) is a commonly used anticonvulsant drug. It has been reported that children exposed prenatally to PHT have brain malformations and psychomotor dysfunction. The neonatal development of the central nervous system (CNS) in mice corresponds to the last trimester in humans. To examine the neurotoxic effects of PHT on postnatal brain development, we administered PHT at doses of 10, 17.5, 25, or 35 mg/kg to newborn mice once a day during postnatal days (PD) 2-4. These dose levels result in plasma levels corresponding to the therapeutic ranges in humans. We measured the weight of total brain, cerebrum, cerebellum, and brain stem on PD 5 through 21, and examined early motor functions including head elevation, elevation of pelvis, pivoting, crawling, and righting reflex . Total brain weight, cerebral weight, and cerebellar weight in the group treated with 25 or 35 mg/kg were significantly reduced compared to controls from PD 5 to 21. Mice treated with PHT at 25 or 35 mg/kg showed decreased locomotor abilities and righting reflex on PD 5. In all phenytoin treatment groups, phenytoin levels in the brain were higher than those in the plasma on the third day of PHT treatment. We thus observed neurotoxic effects of PHT on postnatal brain development in mice. Our present data may provide useful implications for the management of PHT-induced developmental neurotoxicity and evaluation of psychomotor development in children exposed to PHT during the late fetal period.
Measurement of urinary enzymes facilitates early detection of acute renal impairment. Since in the case of vancomycin-induced nephrotoxicity, there are different findings for the enzyme N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) in various studies, we decided to measure 3 other important urinary enzymes -- gamma-glutamyl-transferase (GGT), alanine aminopeptidase (AAP) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) -- in nephrotoxic rats.
Male rats were given intraperitoneal injections of vancomycin (VAN) in doses of 50, 100, 200 and 400 mg/kg or normal saline every 12 hours for 7 days. After the 14th injection, the animals were placed in metabolic cages to collect urine samples.
All animals receiving 400 mg/kg VAN died before completion of treatment course. The nephrotoxicity was completely dose-dependent according to pathologic findings. The major insults were in tubules, resembling acute tubular necrosis. GGT, AAP and LDH activity was measured in urine and corrected by dividing it by urinary creatinine (Cr) concentration. LDH activity showed a dose-dependent increase, while GGT and AAP activity decreased in the 200 mg/kg treated group, but only GGT showed a significant difference with controls. Serum urea and Cr and kidney weights were increased and animals' weights were decreased significantly in the 200 mg/kg VAN group compared with other groups.
It seems that pathologic assessment remains the most accurate way to diagnose VAN nephrotoxicity. Changes in urinary enzymes could be not detected in minor tubular injuries; however, LDH appears to be the most sensitive factor. In multiple-dose studies, activity of AAP and GGT seems not to be a reliable index of nephrotoxicity.
