From 1 to 3% of acute renal failures are due to acute interstitial nephritis (AIN). Most of them are due to drugs. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, penicillins and sulfonamides are the most frequently reported. Clinical presentation of drug-induced AIN has changed over time and with the use of new drugs. In fact actually the classic triad of fever, rash and eosinophilia is uncommon. Omeprazole is a drug widely used in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease and peptic ulcer disease. Serious side effects are rare with this drug, but despite of its safety we can see serious adverse effects such as acute renal failure. We describe two cases of acute interstitial nephritis after use of omeprazole and a review of all the cases published in the last years.
Perinatal deaths can be decreased most effectively by reducing the incidence of preterm delivery. Therapy with a tocolytic agent, such as ritodrine ( Yutopar ), can be of significant benefit if applied to patients in whom preterm labor is correctly diagnosed and has not advanced beyond the early stages. Identification of the patient at risk, intensive education and surveillance of such patients, and education of hospital and clinic staff can extend the application and success of labor-inhibiting therapy.
We examined endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)-mediated relaxation of mesenteric arteries in high-sodium loaded streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. The study shows that acetylcholine (ACh)-induced, EDHF-mediated relaxation is relatively maintained in STZ-induced diabetic rats, but after a high-sodium diet was given, the function was significantly impaired in STZ-induced diabetic rats.
The notion of multiple memory systems based on conscious accessibility has been supported largely by neuropsychological patient studies. Specifically, it was widely held that amnesic patients have impaired explicit memory performance but spared implicit memory performance. However, recent patient studies have called the implicit/explicit memory distinction into question. In this study, normal participants were tested on a visual search task, once after an injection of midazolam, an anesthetic that induces temporary amnesia, and once after an injection of saline. Under the influence of midazolam, participants did not show facilitation in search times for repeated configurations (contextual cuing), although there was a general speed-up in performance across blocks in both the midazolam and saline conditions. Neither the contextual-cuing effect nor the procedural-learning effect was available to subjective experience, yet only one of these was affected by midazolam-induced amnesia. These data call into question the notion that memory systems divide on the basis of subjective experience of consciousness or reportability. Rather, the findings support the contention that anterograde amnesia affects learning that depends on building novel associations in memory and that this deficit does not hinge upon accessibility to consciousness.
Administration of immunosuppressive treatment in hepatitis B virus carriers with malignancies is associated with the risk of hepatitis B reactivation. This complication is more frequent in patients with hematologic malignancies because administration of corticosteroids, the mainstay of treatment of these patients, is an independent risk factor for hepatitis B reactivation. When lamivudine is given prior to chemotherapy, it prevents the viral replication during the immunosuppression period; therefore, it might reduce the risk of hepatitis B exacerbation. We performed a prospective study to assess the efficacy of prophylactic administration of lamivudine in this setting. Ten hepatitis B virus carriers with hematologic malignancies were included in this study; seven were HBsAg positive, and three had isolated antiHBc and detectable HBV-DNA levels. Nine patients were given corticosteroids after the administration of lamivudine. Lamivudine was given per os at a dose of 100 mg once daily. In four patients that had not been previously treated with chemotherapy, lamivudine was started 19 days (median) (range, 0-35 days) prior to the onset of chemotherapy. The administration of lamivudine has not stopped since in any of our patients. After a median follow-up of 15 months (range 6-38 months), no hepatitis B reactivation was observed. HBV-DNA levels were decreased in all 6 patients who had detectable HBV-DNA at baseline. Lamivudine was well tolerated. Chemotherapy regimens were administered as planned, and their effectiveness was not compromised by lamivudine. In conclusion, prophylactic administration of lamivudine should be considered as a means of reducing the frequency of hepatitis B reactivation in hepatitis B virus carriers with hematologic malignancies who are being treated with chemotherapy.
The frequency of oesophageal adenocarcinoma is increasing in Western countries for unknown reasons, and correlates with a corresponding increase in the pre-malignant condition, Barrett's Oesophagus, which raises the risk of adenocarcinoma by some 40- to 125-fold. We have examined how disease progression correlates with changes in expression of the p14ARF (ARF) tumour suppressor, a key regulator of the p53 tumour suppressor pathway that is silenced in some 30% of cancers overall, but for which a role in oesophageal cancer is unclear. We have used quantitative PCR, RT-PCR, methylation-specific PCR and chromatin-immunoprecipitation to examine the regulation and function of ARF in oesophageal adenocarcinoma tissue specimens and cell lines. We find highly significant reductions (P< 0.001) in ARF expression during disease progression from normal oesophageal epithelium to Barrett's Oesophagus to adenocarcinoma, with 57/76 (75%) adenocarcinomas displaying undetectable levels of ARF expression. Retention of ARF expression in adenocarcinoma is a highly significant indicator of increased survival (P< 0.001) and outperforms all clinical variables in a multivariate model. CpG methylation as well as histone H3 methylation of lysines 9 and 27 contribute independently to ARF gene silencing in adenocarcinoma cell lines and can be reversed by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. The results suggest that silencing of ARF is involved in the pathogenesis of oesophageal adenocarcinoma and show that either DNA or histone methylation can provide the primary mechanism for ARF gene silencing. Silencing of ARF could provide a useful marker for increased risk of progression and poor prognosis.
A case of thoracic hematomyelia secondary to anticoagulant therapy is presented. Clinical features, similar to 2 other previously reported cases, are discussed. A high index of suspicion may lead to a quick diagnostic procedure and successful decompressive surgery.
An increase in fat mass associated with obesity results from recruitment and differentiation of adipocyte progenitor cells. The precise origin of these cells is unknown, although accumulating evidence suggests that circulating stem cells can differentiate into cells of mesenchymal lineage. It is currently unclear whether a progenitor adipocyte population exists in circulation. One potential candidate is the fibrocyte, which may represent a common progenitor cell for several mesenchymal lineages. We demonstrate that these circulating progenitors become adipocytes when cultured under adipogenic conditions, with intracellular lipids accumulation and up-regulation of proteins specific for adipocyte differentiation, including leptin, PPARgamma, and FABP4. cDNA microarray analysis revealed gene clusters that were differentially regulated during adipogenesis of fibrocytes, which were similar to visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue preadipocyte-to-adipocyte differentiation. Moreover, these progenitors engrafted and formed human adipose tissue following injection into SCID mice. Although fibrocytes express an array of chemokine receptors, we observed an up-regulation of CCR2 expression following fibrocytes differentiation into adipocytes, which was associated with increased chemotactic response to CCL2. This paradigm supports the notion that elevated CCL2 levels in visceral adipose tissue associated with Metabolic Syndrome is a chemotactic niche, whereby fibrocytes can home to and differentiate into adipocytes to perpetuate its tissue formation.
The effects of retinoic acid (RA) on the manifestation and nature of neural tube defects (NTD) in heterozygous embryos of mutant mice carrying the gene loop-tail (Lp) and in normal (+/+) littermates and embryos from normal homozygous matings were compared with NTD that occur in untreated abnormal homozygous (Lp/Lp) embryos. A single intraperitoneal dose (5 mg/kg) of RA administered at 9 AM or 3 PM on day 8 of gestation induced NTD in +/+ as well as Lp/+ embryos removed on day 12 of gestation. All of the NTD were confined to the brain and consisted of exencephaly involving the diencephalon, mesencephalon, and metencephalon. In neither phenotype (Lp/+; +/+) was the massive exencephaly and myeloschisis characteristic of untreated Lp/Lp embryos produced; thus, it is possible that the teratogenic mechanisms of RA-induced defects and of Lp-induced defects may differ.
The recurrence rate for superficial bladder tumors treated with complete resection averages 88%. Intravesical chemotherapy decreases the recurrence rate by only 14%; thus, new chemotherapeutic agents are needed. Antibiotics are often used to prevent infections after transurethral resection of bladder tumors. Oral intake of antibiotics results in significantly greater concentrations in the urine than in the serum. Our objective was to evaluate four commonly used urinary antibiotics for their cytotoxic activity against bladder cancer cells at clinically relevant concentrations.
Three human transitional cell carcinoma lines--HTB9 (grade 2), T24 (grade 3), and TccSup (grade 4)--were exposed to ciprofloxacin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, cefazolin, or nitrofurantoin at concentrations from 0 (control) to 1000, 1000, 5000, and 2000 microg/mL, respectively, for 96 hours. Cytotoxicity was evaluated using the MTT colorimetric assay. Six replicates were used for each data point, and the results are reported as the mean +/- standard deviation.
Significant cytotoxicity (P <0.001) was seen, starting at 12.5 microg/mL (HTB9, TccSup) and 50 microg/mL (T24) for ciprofloxacin, 31.25 microg/mL (HTB9, TccSup) and 62.5 microg/mL (T24) for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, 19.5 microg/mL (HTB9) and 156.3 microg/mL (T24, TccSup) for cefazolin, and 7.8 microg/mL (HTB9, T24, TccSup) for nitrofurantoin. Cytotoxicity was dose dependent for all four antibiotics, and the maximal effect did not differ among antibiotics.
Commonly used antibiotics exhibit significant dose-dependent cytotoxicity against bladder cancer cells at concentrations achievable in the urine after oral administration. The administration of antibiotics after transurethral resection of bladder tumors might prevent seeding of cancer cells and thereby decrease the recurrence rate. Preclinical data such as these must be considered in the design of clinical trials addressing recurrence after transurethral resection of bladder tumors.
An allergic reaction consisting of angioneurotic edema secondary to continuous infusion 5-fluorouracil occurred in a patient with recurrent carcinoma of the oral cavity, cirrhosis, and cisplatin-induced impaired renal function. This reaction occurred during the sixth and seventh courses of infusional chemotherapy. Oral diphenhydramine and prednisone were ineffective in preventing the recurrence of the allergic reaction. Discontinuance of effective chemotherapy in this patient during partial remission resulted in fatal disease progression.
Flurazepam hydrochloride is a benzodiazepine derivative marketed for use as a hypnotic agent. Flurazepam is more effective than placebo and is as effective as other hypnotic drugs in most short-term controlled studies. In long-term dosage studies, flurazepam's efficacy persists while other hypnotics become ineffective. Flurazepam has relatively minor effects upon rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and does not lead to REM rebound; this may reduce the likelihood of drug dependence. Flurazepam does not cause enzyme induction and probably presents little hazard of abuse or overdosage. The rational use of hypnotic agents depends as much upon the underlying cause of the sleep disorder as upon the choice of a particular drug. When hypnotic therapy is indicated, flurazepam appears to have advantages over other drugs currently available in the United States.
The effect of pretreatment with alfentanil 10 (Alf10), 15 (Alf15) or 20 (Alf20) micrograms.kg-1 on reducing injection pain caused by propofol was compared with lignocaine 10 mg mixed with propofol (Lign). This double-blind, double-dummy and randomized study included 100 children with a mean age of 4.3 +/- 0.6 years, 25 children in each group, undergoing minor otolaryngological surgery. The children were premedicated orally with midazolam 0.5 mg.kg-1 and atropine 0.03 mg.kg-1. Injection pain occurred in 4% in the Lign group. The corresponding figures were 40, 16 and 20% in the Alf10, Alf15 and Alf20 groups, respectively. Both 1% lignocaine 10 mg and alfentanil 15 micrograms.kg-1 reduced injection pain significantly compared with alfentanil 10 micrograms.kg-1. Pretreatment with alfentanil significantly diminished haemodynamic responses to tracheal intubation. Furthermore, the concomitant use of alfentanil and propofol caused transient severe bradycardia and a significant decrease in heart rate after laryngoscopy.
Although hypotension during dobutamine stress echocardiography has been reported, the mechanism of this response is still controversial. In two patients, a 72-year-old woman and 64-year-old man, with exercise-induced ST-T change, continuous-wave Doppler examination of the left ventricular cavity was performed at baseline and peak dobutamine infusion. No echocardiographic abnormalities at rest or angiographic coronary lesions were observed in either patient. The intracavitary pressure gradient at peak dosage of dobutamine for both patients was 121 mm Hg and 100 mm Hg, and was reproducibly confirmed by cardiac catheterization. During dobutamine infusion, echocardiography or left ventriculography revealed that papillary muscle motion was dramatically augmented by dobutamine and mid-left ventricular obstruction was produced at the systolic phase. Although blood pressure response improved following beta-blocker treatment, intracavitary pressure gradient during dobutamine infusion remained the same. A hypotensive response during dobutamine stress echocardiography may be produced by the development of dynamic intraventricular obstruction and a vasodepression reflex. The exercise-induced electrocardiographic changes may have been related to the systolic pressure augmentation in the mid-to-apical left ventricular cavity.
Secreted Protein, Acidic and Rich in Cysteine (SPARC) is a matricellular protein involved in many biological processes and found over-expressed in cirrhotic livers. By mean of a genetic approach we herein provide evidence from different in vivo liver disease models suggesting a profibrogenic role for SPARC.
Two in vivo models of liver fibrosis, based on TAA administration and bile duct ligation, were developed on SPARC wild-type (SPARC(+/+)) and knock-out (SPARC(-/-)) mice. Hepatic SPARC expression was analyzed by qPCR. Fibrosis was assessed by Sirius Red staining, and the maturation state of collagen fibers was analyzed using polarized light. Necroinflammatory activity was evaluated by applying the Knodell score and liver inflammatory infiltration was characterized by immunohistochemistry. Hepatic stellate cell activation was assessed by α-SMA immunohistochemistry. In addition, pro-fibrogenic genes and inflammatory cytokines were measured by qPCR and/or ELISA. Liver gene expression profile was analyzed in SPARC(-/-) and SPARC(+/+) mice using Affymetrix Mouse Gene ST 1.0 array.
SPARC expression was found induced in fibrotic livers of mouse and human. SPARC(-/-) mice showed a reduction in the degree of inflammation, mainly CD4+ cells, and fibrosis. Consistently, collagen deposits and mRNA expression levels were decreased in SPARC(-/-) mice when compared to SPARC(+/+) mice; in addition, MMP-2 expression was increased in SPARC(-/-) mice. A reduction in the number of activated myofibroblasts was observed. Moreover, TGF-β1 expression levels were down-regulated in the liver as well as in the serum of TAA-treated knock-out animals. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) analysis suggested several gene networks which might involve protective mechanisms of SPARC deficiency against liver fibrogenesis and a better established machinery to repair DNA and detoxify from external chemical stimuli.
Overall our data suggest that SPARC plays a significant role in liver fibrogenesis. Interventions to inhibit SPARC expression are suggested as promising approaches for liver fibrosis treatment.
X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP)-associated factor 1 (XAF1) antagonizes the anti-caspase activity of XIAP. XAF1 messenger RNA is present in normal tissues but undetectable in various cancers and thus poses a potential tumor suppressor gene. The aim of this study was to examine the novel pattern of methylation of XAF1 in gastric and colon cancers and locate the important CpG sites for transcriptional regulation and tumor progression.
XAF1 expression was detected by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Western blot analysis. Four different fragments around the transcription start site of XAF1 were cloned and examined putative promoter activities by luciferase reporter assay. Each CpG site in fragment F291 was mutated by site-directed mutagenesis technique, and the change of promoter activity of this fragment was detected by luciferase reporter assay. Methylation status of XAF1 was determined by methylation-specific PCR (MSP) and bisulfite DNA sequencing PCR analysis.
Down-regulation of XAF1 in association with hypermethylation was detected in 3 of 4 human gastric cancer cell lines and 6 of 8 colon cancer cell lines. Of the 4 promoter fragments, F291 showed the highest promoter activity, which could be down-regulated obviously by the mutation of particular CpG sites. Moreover, aberrant hypermethylation of these important CpG sites was strongly associated with the development of gastric and colon cancers.
A cluster of methylated CpG sites instead of CpG islands located in the promoter area resulted in gene silencing of XAF1, and CpGs at -2nd, -1st, and +3rd positions are functionally more important in its transcriptional regulation.
An association is reported between Reye syndrome and varicella zoster virus (VZV) infection in a 10-year-old boy who had serologic evidence of coinfection with VZV and influenza A H3N2, and exposure to salicylates. He developed VZV reinfection without skin lesions after family exposure and influenza A was community-acquired. Recent chickenpox contact should initiate VZV serologic studies in Reye syndrome patients, regardless of the chickenpox history or evidence of infection with other viruses.
Treatment with adefovir dipivoxil for 48 weeks resulted in clinical improvement in patients with hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-negative chronic hepatitis B that was lost when treatment was discontinued. We investigated the efficacy, safety, and resistance profile of adefovir dipivoxil treatment for up to 240 weeks.
HBeAg-negative patients were treated double blind with placebo or adefovir dipivoxil 10 mg once daily for 48 weeks, followed by adefovir dipivoxil from week 49 to 96. At week 97, 125 patients enrolled in a 144-week, open-label phase. Patients received adefovir dipivoxil for up to 192 or 240 weeks.
Serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA levels were less than 1000 copies per milliliter in 67% of patients, and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels normalized in 69% after 240 weeks. After 192 or 240 weeks of treatment, over 83% of patients had improvement in necroinflammation, and over 73% had improvement in fibrosis. Ishak fibrosis scores improved compared with baseline in 35%, 55%, and 71% of patients after 48, 192, and 240 weeks of adefovir dipivoxil, respectively. After 240 weeks, the cumulative probability of HBV polymerase mutations was 29%, but the cumulative probability of mutations with virologic resistance was 20% and of mutations, virologic resistance, and ALT elevations was 11%. Slight elevations in creatinine were confirmed in 4 (3%) patients.
Treatment with adefovir dipivoxil for up to 240 weeks was well tolerated and produced significant, increasing improvement in hepatic fibrosis, durable suppression of HBV replication, normalization of liver enzymes, and delayed development of resistance.
We report the case of a 74-year-old lady who presented at our clinic with icterus and cholestatic hepatitis. For atrial fibrillation she had been prescribed a medication with phenprocoumone. After ruling out viral, autoimmune, and metabolic causes of hepatitis, we performed a liver biopsy which led to the diagnosis of phenprocoumone-related liver damage. The patient was discharged without phenprocoumone and completely compensated liver function. Five weeks later she returned to the hospital with encephalopathy, ascites, coagulopathy, varices, and signs of cirrhosis in abdominal ultrasound. In spite of treatment with steroids, the patient died of subacute liver failure several weeks later. This case illustrates the occasionally poor course of toxic hepatitis even after discontinuation of the responsible medication, potential treatment options are discussed.
Rat extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles exposed to bupivacaine for 15 min were studied by freeze-fracture electron microscopy. In the bupivacaine-treated and control muscle plasma membranes we studied (1) caveolar density, (2) orthogonal array density, (3) orthogonal array subunit particle density per one orthogonal array and (4) non-array intramembranous particle density. We found a conspicuous decrease of caveolar density and a statistically significant decrease of non-array particle density. Although the orthogonal array density showed a tendency to decrease, the orthogonal array subunit particle density per one orthogonal array was not affected. We also noted aggregation of intramembranous particles and orthogonal arrays. The findings differed from those seen in Duchenne muscle plasma membrane in some respects.
Chlorpromazine therapy in a patient with anorexia nervosa was associated with haemolytic anaemia. In vitro red cell findings included an increased degree of red cell autohaemolysis and a chlorpromazine-dependent Heinz body formation both corrected with exogenous glucose. Activities of red cell enzymes involved with the glycolytic pathway or glutathione metabolism were normal.
MLL (ALL1, Htrx, HRX), which is located on chromosome band 11q23, frequently is rearranged in patients with therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia who previously were treated with DNA topoisomerase II inhibitors. In this study, we have identified a fusion partner of MLL in a 10-year-old female who developed therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia 17 months after treatment for Hodgkin's disease. Leukemia cells of this patient had a t(11;17)(q23;q25), which involved MLL as demonstrated by Southern blot analysis. The partner gene was cloned from cDNA of the leukemia cells by use of a combination of adapter reverse transcriptase-PCR, rapid amplification of 5' cDNA ends, and BLAST database analysis to identify expressed sequence tags. The full-length cDNA of 2.8 kb was found to be an additional member of the septin family, therefore it was named MSF (MLL septin-like fusion). Members of the septin family conserve the GTP binding domain, localize in the cytoplasm, and interact with cytoskeletal filaments. A major 4-kb transcript of MSF was expressed ubiquitously; a 1.7-kb transcript was found in most tissues. An additional 3-kb transcript was found only in hematopoietic tissues. By amplification with MLL exon 5 forward primer and reverse primers in MSF, the appropriately sized products were obtained. MSF is highly homologous to hCDCrel-1, which is a partner gene of MLL in leukemias with a t(11;22)(q23;q11.2). Further analysis of MSF may help to delineate the function of MLL partner genes in leukemia, particularly in therapy-related leukemia.
Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is involved in intracellular folate homeostasis and metabolism. We assessed 2 polymorphisms in the MTHFR gene (C677T and A1298C) in relation to colorectal adenoma recurrence and conducted analyses to investigate their joint effects with plasma and dietary markers of folate status.
We prospectively analyzed data from 1598 individuals genotyped for the C677T polymorphism and 1583 with data on A1298C.
Among nonusers of multivitamin supplements, compared with wild-type carriage, higher odds of recurrence were observed for those with the 677 TT variant (odds ratio [OR], 1.66; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.04-2.63) and a nonsignificant increase was observed among those with the 1298 CC variant (OR, 1.50; 95% CI, 0.93-2.40). Diplotype analyses among nonusers of multivitamins showed that individuals who carry the MTHFR 677TT_1298AA or 677CC_1298CC combination were significantly more likely to have a recurrence compared with those with the double wild-type (OR, 2.05 for TT_AA and 1.85 for CC_CC). Higher odds of recurrence were observed among participants with low folate intake or plasma folate and the 677 TT or 1298 CC variants compared with those with lower levels and the wild-type or heterozygous genotypes. Stronger associations were shown for the combination of high homocysteine and the 677 TT variant (OR, 2.29; 95% CI, 1.00-5.26) but not the 1298 CC variant (OR, 1.09; 95% CI, 0.39-3.01).
We propose that the effect of the MTHFR genotypes on increasing risk of adenoma recurrence in the presence of a low folate status is through their increase in homocysteine concentrations, which in turn could result in DNA hypomethylation via pathways involving S-adenosylhomocysteine.
We report four cases of acute reversible renal failure in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome who received both amphotericin B (for systemic mycoses) and pentamidine isethionate (for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia). The concurrent use of amphotericin B with either inhaled pentamidine or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole did not cause significant renal impairment.
Between 1987-1992 in the Department of Pediatric Oncology of Child Health Center at Miskolc the appearance of nephropathy caused by high dose Ifosfamide was studied (using different protocols) in patients with childhood malignancy. From 7 patients in 5 children nephrotoxicity were developed. In consequence of Ifosfamide rickets 2 patients are given continuous bicarbonate and calcitriol substitution. The authors call attention to the frequency of Ifosfamide nephropathy, low serum bicarbonate and phosphate concentration with glucosuria, aminoaciduria and hypochloremic acidosis were the manifestations of the disturbances of renal tubular functions. Prospective monitoring of these serum and urinary abnormalities may lead to early detection of tubulopathy and allow early replacement therapy.
The effect of alfentanil on suxamethonium-induced muscle fasciculations was studied in a double-blind study in 34 children (mean age 6.8 years) and in 30 adults (mean age 20 years). After pretreatment with either alfentanil 50 micrograms kg-1 or saline, each patient was anaesthetized with a sleep dose of thiopental followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg kg-1 for endotracheal intubation. Compared to the control groups, alfentanil significantly decreased the intensity of visible muscle fasciculations caused by suxamethonium. In children, the duration of muscle fasciculations was shorter in the alfentanil than in the control group. In adults, the intensity rather than the duration of fasciculations was attenuated by alfentanil. The inhibition of fasciculations caused by alfentanil was also demonstrated in children in the surface electromyogram recorded on the biceps. There was no circulatory response to endotracheal intubation in the groups pretreated with alfentanil.
We describe, to our knowledge, the first reported case of nortriptyline-induced fulminant hepatic failure. This tricyclic antidepressant drug was taken by a postmenopausal woman for 64 days before her presentation. The absence of fever, rash, or marked eosinophilia, the predominant zone 3 necrosis with bridging, and the latent period favor a metabolic idiosyncratic reaction. The fatal outcome underscores the importance of recognizing the association and discontinuing the offending agent.
