To determine energy expenditure in critically ill patients suffering from acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure and compare it with values obtained in matched, healthy control subjects and in patients studied during the anhepatic period of elective liver transplantation.
Prospective, controlled, observational study.
A ten-bed intensive therapy unit and a liver transplant unit at a University teaching hospital.
Sixteen patients suffering from acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure who were sedated, paralyzed, and mechanically ventilated; 16 age-, gender-, and weight-matched, awake, healthy control subjects; and 16 patients with chronic liver disease, undergoing elective liver transplantation, who were studied during the anhepatic period of surgery.
None.
The mean energy expenditure was calculated in each case for a 30-min period, using indirect calorimetry. In the patients undergoing liver transplantation, measurements were performed after clamping the hepatic veins and recipient hepatectomy. Energy expenditure was markedly increased in the fulminant hepatic failure group (mean energy expenditure, 4.05 [SD 0.52] kJ x kg(-1) x hr(-1)), in comparison with healthy control subjects (mean, 3.44 [0.27] kJ x kg(-1) x hr(-1); mean difference, 18%; p < .001) and in comparison with patients during the anhepatic period of liver transplantation (mean, 3.15 [0.61] kJ x kg(-1) x hr(-1); mean difference, 29%; p < .001). These differences were even more pronounced when a correction factor for differences in core temperature was included in the calculation. Harris-Benedict predictions of energy expenditure were unreliable in the patients with acute liver failure. No correlations were found among energy expenditure and hemodynamic variables, the requirement for vasoconstrictors, or the presence of renal failure.
Despite the loss of functioning liver cell mass, the metabolic rate is substantially increased in patients with acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure. This finding is consistent with the marked systemic inflammatory response, which accompanies acute hepatic failure. The Harris-Benedict equation is unreliable when an estimation of energy expenditure is required in patients with this condition.
Aspirin remains the most widely used drug for prevention of vascular events. Recent observational epidemiological evidence has raised the concern that aspirin withdrawal for treatment non-compliance, surgery or side effects can carry an increased thrombotic risk. The delay to the thrombotic event was between 7 to 30 days in most reports and most frequently 7 to 10 days. The mechanism underlying this effect remains poorly understood. Using an in vivo model of laser-induced thrombosis, aspirin injected in one single dose of 100 mg/kg bw has also shown a prothrombotic activity in the rat 8 to 10 days after injection in the normal rat. The hypothesis was made that minimal concentrations of aspirin or ultra-low dose aspirin (ULDA) could induce this effect. ULDA showed prothrombotic properties in the same model of induced thrombosis that were very similar to those described after aspirin withdrawal, but the effect was observed only one hour after aspirin administration. This prothrombotic effect of ULDA is very similar to the effect observed after COX 2 selective inhibition with NS 398. The administration of both the selective COX 2 inhibitor and ULDA did not produce further changes. High-dose ASA counterbalances the lack of COX 2 with an antithrombotic effect. No effect of residual ASA was observed in COX 2 -/- mice, thus confirming the existence of a COX 2 inhibition pathway. COX 2 inhibition produced by residual ASA is the probable cause of ischaemic accidents and drug-eluting stents thrombosis a few days after ASA withdrawal.
Recurring periods of prolonged erections in patients with sickle cell disease (stutter priapism) are uncommon, yet troubling sequelae of hemoglobinopathies. Medical or surgical therapy is variably successful in these men. We report a case of stutter priapism successfully treated with an oral antiandrogen.
Intracerebral hemorrhage complicating anticoagulant-thrombolytic therapy for myocardial infarction is infrequent but is associated with grave prognostic implications. We report two cases and review current management recommendations.
We report three infants who developed hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy during dexamethasone treatment for bronchopulmonary dysplasia. In all three infants, echocardiography had ruled out cardiac abnormalities prior to the dexamethasone course. The hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy appeared and progressed during dexamethasone therapy and resolved completely after its cessation. This suggests a causative association between the hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy and the exogenous glucocorticosteroid therapy. The mechanism of this dexamethasone-related hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy is unclear. This complication may be encountered more frequently with the increasing use of dexamethasone in infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
A case of fatty liver of pregnancy with subcapsular hematoma of the liver caused by intravenous heparin treatment is reported. The heparin was given for the thrombophlebitis of leg veins. The patient expired suddenly as a result of rupture of the subcapsular hematoma of the liver causing massive intraperitoneal hemorrhage. The pathophysiology and complications of the fatty liver of pregnancy are discussed.
Regular motor activity has many benefits for mental and physical condition but its implications for epilepsy are still controversial. In order to elucidate this problem, we have studied the effect of long-term physical activity on susceptibility to subsequent seizures. Male Wistar rats were subjected to repeated training sessions in a treadmill and swimming pool. Thereafter, seizures were induced by pilocarpine injections in trained and non-trained control groups. During the acute period of status epilepticus, we measured: (1) the latency of the first motor sign, (2) the intensity of seizures, (3) the time when it occurred within the 6-h observation period, and (4) the time when the acute period ended. All these behavioral parameters showed statistically significant changes suggesting that regular physical exercises decrease susceptibility to subsequently induced seizures and ameliorate the course of experimentally induced status epilepticus.
Ventriculocisternal administration of dl- and d-propranolol produced dose-dependent increases in cerebrospinal fluid norepinephrine and reductions in blood pressure. A highly significant correlation was found between the increase in norepinephrine and the hypotensive effect. The propranolol-induced hypotension was prevented by intracisternal phentolamine. These data indicate that the hypotensive effect of centrally administered propranolol results from a drug-induced release of norepinephrine, which stimulates central alpha receptors to lower arterial pressure.
To explore the mechanism of prevention and treatment of post-PTCA restenosis with Xinmaitong (XMT).
Rabbit carotid endothelial injury model was established using Fishman air drying method. Effect of XMT on model rabbits wild-type p53 gene expression was observed by tissue in situ hybridization.
p53 gene expression appeared on the 3 days after operation, enhanced on the 7 days, reached the peak on the 14th day, weakened on the 21th, and still showed on the 28th day. The strongest expression was shown in rabbits treated by XMT, second in those treated by Warfarin, and the weakest in the operated control group.
XMT could promote the high expression of wild-type p53 gene expression in rabbit with carotid endothelial injury, which is possibly one of the important mechanism of XMT in preventing and treating arterial restenosis.
Ingestion of groundwater with high concentrations of inorganic arsenic has been linked to adverse health outcomes, including bladder cancer, however studies have not consistently observed any elevation in risk at lower concentrations. Genetic variability in the metabolism and clearance of arsenic is an important consideration in any investigation of its potential health risks. Therefore, we examined the association between genes thought to play a role in the metabolism of arsenic and bladder cancer.
Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in GSTO-1, As3MT and MTHFR were genotyped using DNA from 219 bladder cancer cases and 273 controls participating in a case-control study in Southeastern Michigan and exposed to low to moderate (<50 μg/L) levels of arsenic in their drinking water. A time-weighted measure of arsenic exposure was constructed using measures from household water samples combined with past residential history, geocoded and merged with archived arsenic data predicted from multiple resources.
While no single SNP in As3MT was significantly associated with bladder cancer overall, several SNPs were associated with bladder cancer among those exposed to higher arsenic levels. Individuals with one or more copies of the C allele in rs11191439 (the Met287Thr polymorphism) had an elevated risk of bladder cancer (OR = 1.17; 95% CI = 1.04-1.32 per 1 μg/L increase in average exposure). However, no association was observed between average arsenic exposure and bladder cancer among TT homozygotes in the same SNP. Bladder cancer cases were also 60% less likely to be homozygotes for the A allele in rs1476413 in MTHFR compared to controls (OR = 0.40; 95% CI = 0.18-0.88).
Variation in As3MT and MTHFR is associated with bladder cancer among those exposed to relatively low concentrations of inorganic arsenic. Further investigation is warranted to confirm these findings.
The antiarrhythmic effects of 4 pteridine analogues, 2 of which are potassium-sparing diuretics, triamterene (2, 4, 7-triamino-6-phenylpteridine) and [2-phenyl-4, 7 diaminopteridine-6-(N-diethylaminoethyl) carboxamide] and 2 of which have no diuretic effects [2-phenyl-4, 7-diaminopteridine-6-(N-2-hydroxyethyl) carboxamide], on ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia in intact pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs were investigated. Ouabain was given as a continuous infusion 2 mug/kg/min intravenously until 5 min after the onset of a sustained ventricular tachycardia. It was found that both 6-(N-dimethylaminopropyl) and 6-(N-diethylaminoethyl) carboxamide derivates of the pteridine had a significant protective effect against ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia in dogs that had been pretreated with a dose of 5 mg/kg intravenously. At this dose the 2 pteridine compounds with diuretic activity exhibited a transient antiarrhythmic effect in abolishing the ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia while those without diuretic properties failed to suppress the ventricular tachycardia.
Plasma levels and the effect of orally administered metoprolol on the resting arterial blood pressure and heart rate have been studied during acute and steady-state conditions in patients with mild hypertension. The patients receiving an 80-mg dose had a mean maximum plasma level of about 100 ng/ml plasma in single-dose studies and about 140 ng/ml plasma during steady-state conditions. The corresponding values for the patients on the 50-mg dose were about 60 and 100 ng/ml plasma, respectively. The maximum concentrations were reached 1 hr after administration. After the single dose the elimination half-life of metoprolol in plasma was 4.3 plus or minus 0.7 hr in the patients receiving the 80-mg dose and 3.8 plus or minus 0.3 hr in the other group. The difference was not statistically significant. The elimination half-life in the plasma was about the same in the single-dose study and during steady state in both groups. The morning dose induced a decrease of the systolic blood pressure whereas the diastolic blood pressure was not significantly different from that recorded immediately before administration of metoprolol. For the 80-mg dose the systolic pressure dropped from 167 plus or minus 4 to 146 plus or minus 4 mm Hg in the single dose study and from 160 plus or minus 8 to 140 plus or minus 4 mm Hg at steady state. The corresponding values for the 50-mg dose were 150 plus or minus 3 to 135 plus or minus 3 mm Hg and 144 plus or minus 3 to 138 plus or minus 3 mm Hg, respectively. In experiments with placebo the systolic blood pressure was not significantly changed. There was no correlation between the plasma levels and the effect on the systolic blood pressure. Both doses of metoprolol markedly reduced the heart rate after the single dose as well as at steady state. The effect was linearly related to the logarithm of the plasma concentration, and the relationship was virtually the same as obtained previously for the effect on exercise heart rate in healthy volunteers.
A 54 year old patient who experienced recurrent ventricular tachycardia subsequent to quinidine administration for conversion of atrial fibrillation is described. Over a 10 hour period, 25 sustained episodes of ventricular tachycardia occurred for which electrical cardioversion was required in addition to numerous self-terminating paroxysms. Medical therapy with lidocaine, procainamide and propranolol was unsuccessful in controlling the arrhythmia. However, placement of a transvenous right ventricular pacemaker with overdrive pacing at a rate of 110 beats/min abrupty terminated all further ventricular ectopic activity during the period of quinidine elimination. Temporary overdrive pacing may be the treatment of choice for refractory, recurrent, ventricular tachycardia associated with quinidine therapy.
To assess the occurrence of muscle rigidity after fentanyl administration in premature and term neonates.
Prospective case series, observational study.
A university hospital neonatal intensive care unit.
8/89 preterm and term infants (25-40 wks gestational age) who received fentanyl for perioperative analgesia and sedation or intensive care procedures.
Mechanical or bag mask ventilation and antagonization with naloxone.
We observed chest wall rigidity in 8 patients after low dosage of fentanyl (3-5 microg/kg body weight). All patients presented with respiratory distress, hypercapnia, and hypoxemia leading to bradycardia. In two patients, laryngospasm was noted and associated with muscle rigidity, thus making intubation impossible. Naloxone (20-40 microg/kg body weight) reversed the laryngospasm and muscle rigidity immediately, allowing restitution within 1 min. In our patient population, we found fentanyl-induced chest wall rigidity in 4% of neonates after fentanyl administration.
Even low doses of fentanyl can lead to thoracic rigidity in neonates. Additionally, we observed laryngospasm in two patients and speculate that it might be a variant of muscle rigidity.
The nitrofen model of Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia (CDH) displays a diaphragmatic defect of the Bochdalek-type and has been widely used to investigate the pathogenesis of CDH. However, the exact pathomechanism of the diaphragmatic defect is still poorly understood. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor-like 1 (FGFRL1), a member of the FGF receptor family, plays a key role in physiological diaphragmatic development. FGFRL1 is expressed in the fetal diaphragm at low levels in early gestation and its expression steadily increases, becoming most pronounced in later gestational stages. It has been reported that FGFRL1 homozygous null mice have thin, partially amuscular diaphragms and die at birth due to respiratory failure. The aim of this study was to investigate the hypothesis that FGFRL1 gene expression in the diaphragm is downregulated during the later gestational stages in the nitrofen CDH model.
Timed pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or 100 mg nitrofen on day 9 of gestation (D9). Cesarean section was performed on D18 or D21. Fetal diaphragms (n=40) were micro-dissected and divided into CDH group and controls. Total RNA was extracted from the diaphragms and the mRNA levels of FGFRL1 were determined using real-time PCR. Immunohistochemistry was performed to evaluate diaphragmatic protein expression of FGFRL1. Student's t-test and Mann-Whitney test were used, where appropriate. Statistical significance was considered for p<0.05.
Relative mRNA expression levels of FGFRL1 were significantly decreased in the CDH group compared to controls on D18 (3.63 ± 1.65 vs. 6.04 ± 3.12, p<0.05) and D21 (1.36 ± 1.01 vs. 2.57 ± 1.34, p<0.05). Immunoreactivity of FGFRL1 was markedly decreased in the diaphragms of the CDH group compared to controls on D18 and D21.
Our data provide strong evidence that downregulation of the FGFRL1 gene during the late stages of gestation may contribute to the development of the diaphragmatic defect in nitrofen-induced CDH.
Postoperative pain relief was studied in 280 patients undergoing various kinds of surgery, e.g., thoracic, upper and lower abdominal, perineal, obstetric, and orthopedic. Morphine, 2 or 4 mg, was given after surgery through an indwelling epidural catheter. Excellent analgesia was noted in 87% of patients; only 3.5% of patients were dissatisfied. A single injection gave complete pain relief for the entire postoperative period in 30% of cases; in the remaining patients the mean duration of analgesia was 10.7 hours (SD +/- 4.3). Plasma morphine concentrations recorded after 2-mg doses suggest a regional spinal action as the basis for the long duration of analgesia, although the initial effect after 4-mg doses might well include systemic responses due to rapid vascular uptake of morphine from the epidural space. Peak expiratory flow (PEF) measurements and arterial blood gas analyses showed no significant early postoperative respiratory depression. Absence of sedation, orthostatic hypotension, respiratory depression, and motor paralysis facilitated early ambulation with less risk for postoperative respiratory complications. It is concluded that 2-mg doses of epidural morphine give good analgesia of long duration despite low plasma levels. After upper abdominal and thoracic surgery higher doses (4 mg) may be necessary in healthy patients. Elderly and frail patients appear to be sensitive to epidural morphine and doses in excess of 2 mg should be avoided regardless of the type of surgery. With this dose schedule we have not encountered delayed respiratory depression.
The intravenous infusion of terbutaline is associated with decreased levels of serum potassium. The duration of this hypokalemia has not been reported. Therefore, serum potassium levels were measured in dogs before during and for 3 hours after a 2-hour intravenous infusion of 0.5 micrograms/kg/min of terbutaline. Serum potassium levels decreased significantly during the infusion and returned to near preinfusion levels within 3 hours after the infusion was stopped. The mechanism for the decrease in the serum potassium is most likely a shift of the potassium ion from the extracellular space to the intracellular space.
We studied by microarray analysis whether symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid plaques from the same patient differ in gene expression and whether the same changes are present in an independent sample set.
Carotid plaques from four patients with bilateral high-grade stenosis, one being symptomatic and the other asymptomatic, were analyzed on Affymetrix U95Av2 arrays. 33 genes showed >1.5-fold change between symptomatic and asymptomatic plaques in an intraindividual comparison with FDR ranging from 0.28 to 0.40. Three genes involved in iron-heme homeostasis, CD163, HO-1, and transferrin receptor, were further analyzed in 40 independent plaques. HO-1 (fold-change 1.93, 95%CI 1.04 to 3.94, P=0.040) and CD163 (1.58, 1.11 to 2.40, P=0.013) mRNAs were again induced, and also HO-1 protein was overexpressed in symptomatic plaques (4.38, 1.54 to 12.20, P=0.024). The expression of HO-1 and CD163 correlated with tissue iron content but iron itself was not associated with the symptom status.
Symptomatic plaques show overexpression of CD163 and HO-1 both in intraindividual and interindividual comparison. Their expression correlates with iron deposits but asymptomatic and symptomatic plaques from isolated patients do not differ in macroscopic hemorrhages or iron deposits. We suggest that symptomatic plaques show a more pronounced induction of CD163 and HO-1 in response to plaque hemorrhages.
To describe a case of ventricular tachycardia after co-administration of ondansetron and dimenhydrinate to a child with occult congenital QT prolongation.
A previously healthy 11-yr-old girl presented for surgical excision of a thyroglossal duct cyst under general anesthesia. Induction and maintenance of anesthesia were unremarkable, and the surgery was carried out without incident. Prior to emergence, ondansetron 0.1 mg.kg(-1) and dimenhydrinate 0.4 mg.kg(-1) were administered. Within approximately two minutes, polymorphic premature ventricular contractions developed and, subsequently, polymorphic ventricular tachycardia ensued. A 12-lead electrocardiogram revealed a profoundly prolonged QT interval that decreased but failed to normalize completely postoperatively. Our patient was diagnosed subsequently with congenital QT prolongation.
The QT interval is prolonged by the administration of ondansetron in a manner similar to that seen with droperidol, whereas dimenhydrinate is not considered to exert significant effects on the QT interval. Individuals with occult QT prolongation are at risk of experiencing malignant dysrhythmias when ondansetron is administered, especially in conjunction with anesthetic agents that also prolong the QT. The incidence of congenital QT prolongation in the general population has been estimated to be 1:2,500, and it may be undiagnosed preoperatively, especially in pediatric patients.
Pathophysiologically significant ion-channel mutations have been detected in only a minority of cases of acquired long QT syndrome (LQTS).
The aim of this study was to clarify the putative role of subclinical inherited LQTS in drug-associated torsades de pointes (TdP) and to assess the concomitant proarrhythmic factors.
We evaluated 16 consecutive cases with documented, antiarrhythmic drug-induced TdP who were referred to the Laboratory of Molecular Medicine at Helsinki University for LQTS genetic testing between September 2000 and August 2005.
A prolonged QTc interval was observed in 56% of the patients before administration of the drug. TdP was associated with amiodarone in seven, sotalol in six, flecainide in two, and propafenone in one of the cases. Except for the culprit drug, one or more risk factors such as female sex, congestive heart failure, and atrial fibrillation were present in each drug-associated TdP. DNA samples were screened for the four common Finnish founder mutations (KCNQ1 G589D and IVS7-2A-->G, HERG L552S, and R176W), which are known to account for the majority of inherited LQTS in Finland. A total of three (19%) individuals carried one of these four mutations.
Our data show that previously unsuspected LQTS mutations may be present in patients with antiarrhythmic drug-associated TdPs. A normal QTc interval does not exclude the risk of proarrhythmia.
We present two cases of proarrhythmia after propafenone treatment. In the first case slowing of the flutter cycle length from 205 ms to 290 ms resulted in a change from well tolerated two to one atrioventricular conduction to one to one conduction with hypotension and presyncope. In the second case organization of atrial fibrillation to atypical atrial flutter and use-dependent left bundle branch block resulted in fast broad QRS tachycardia that mimicked ventricular tachycardia.
Clofibrate, for a long time in use as a hypolipidemic drug, is a well known peroxisomal proliferator (PP) and hepatocarcinogen in rodents. We show here that in vitro 1 mM clofibrate induces a rapid and massive death of rat AH-130 hepatoma cells. Cell death was prominent already after 4 h of treatment, with a characteristic ;apoptotic' pattern by conventional microscopy. This was further supported by the pronounced chromatin condensation detectable on 4',6-diamine-2'-phenylindole dihydrochloride (DAPI) staining, the clearcut internucleosomal DNA fragmentation on agarose-gel electrophoresis (ladder pattern), and the accumulation of markedly hypochromic cells observed in flow cytometric DNA histograms. Consistently with the apoptotic features of the process, some parameters commonly used to detect cell death, such as plasma membrane permeabilization to trypan blue or propidium iodide, lack of mitochondrial retention of rhodamine 123, or extracellular release of lactate dehydrogenase, were all virtually negative. However, these same parameters became markedly positive after 24 h of treatment, which was suggestive for the occurrence of ;secondary' necrosis among AH-130 cells. By a combination of flow cytometric parameters, after 4 h on 1 mM clofibrate only 41% of the AH-130 cells could still be categorized as viable (i.e., non-apoptotic and non-necrotic), while 46% of cells appeared apoptotic and 13% necrotic. At 24 h, 67% of cells were necrotic, 20% apoptotic and only 13% non-apoptotic and non-necrotic. Apoptosis was also extensive in AH-130 cells treated with another PP such as nafenopin at 1 mM concentration and in human hepatoma HepG2 cells treated with clofibrate. By contrast, clofibrate did not cause apoptosis on primary rat hepatocyte cultures. These observations indicate that: (i) apart from their well-known cell growth-promoting action, PPs such as clofibrate or nafenopin may exert a substantial cytotoxic action on targets such as the AH-130 or HepG2 hepatoma cells; (ii) this cell death evolves from an initial 'apoptotic' to an eventual ;necrotic' pattern; (iii) detection of cell death requires the adoption of a full panel of tests, adequate to cover the whole evolving death pattern, while such tests may even be substantially misleading whenever applied individually; (iv) the cytotoxicity of clofibrate and similar agents on normal and, particularly, tumoural cells may deserve careful reevaluation.
Crystal methamphetamine has become a drug of widespread use. Previous reports describe myocardial infarction, pulmonary edema, and aortic dissection related to methamphetamine use. Cardiomyopathy due to methamphetamine exposure has been rarely described.
We identified 1640 patients admitted in a 4-yr period with a primary or secondary diagnosis of cardiomyopathy. We excluded patients with known cause of cardiomyopathy other than substance abuse. We found 120 patients had a diagnosis of substance abuse, including 21 patients with methamphetamine use. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of these 21 crystal methamphetamine users.
Nineteen (84%) underwent echocardiography with consistent findings of dilated cardiomyopathy and global ventricular dysfunction. Of five who had a nuclear myocardial perfusion study, none had evidence of ischemia or infarct. Of six who underwent cardiac catheterization, only one had evidence of coronary stenosis.
Methamphetamine use appears to produce cardiomyopathy in some users. The pathogenesis is probably similar to that of cocaine and catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy. Cellular, animal, and clinical data support the link between methamphetamine exposure and myocardial pathology.
