Accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) in joints contributes to the pathogenesis of cartilage damage in osteoarthritis (OA). We aim to explore the potential chondroprotective effects of resveratrol on AGEs-stimulated porcine chondrocytes and cartilage explants.
Chondrocytes were isolated from pig joints. Activation of the IκB kinase (IKK)-IκBα-nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-activator protein-1 (AP-1) pathways was assessed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), Western blot and transfection assay. The levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)-NO and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2)-prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) were measured by Western blot, Griess reaction or ELISA. The expression and enzyme activity of matrix metalloproteinase-13 (MMP-13) were determined by real time RT/PCR and gelatin zymography, respectively.
We show that AGEs-induced expression of iNOS and COX-2 and production of NO and PGE2 were suppressed by resveratrol. Such effects of resveratrol were likely mediated through inhibiting IKK-IκBα-NF-κB and JNK/ERK-AP-1 signaling pathways induced by AGEs. By targeting these critical signaling pathways, resveratrol decreased AGEs-stimulated expression and activity of MMP-13 and prevented AGEs-mediated destruction of collagen II. Histochemistry analysis further confirms that resveratrol could prevent AGEs-induced degradation of proteoglycan and aggrecan in cartilage explants.
The present study reveals not only the effects and mechanisms regarding how resveratrol may protect cartilage from AGEs-mediated damage but also the potential therapeutic benefit of resveratrol in the treatment of OA.
Neurovascular surgical procedures often require temporary cerebral arterial occlusion. Although clinical validation is lacking, etomidate has often been used to attenuate the effects of cerebral ischemia in this setting. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of etomidate and temporary cerebral arterial occlusion on human brain tissue oxygen pressure (PO2), carbon dioxide pressure (PCO2), and pH during intracranial aneurysm surgery. We studied nine patients presenting for cerebral aneurysm surgery. A Paratrend probe was used to determine brain tissue pH and gas tensions. Etomidate was administered to produce electroencephalographic burst suppression before temporary cerebral arterial occlusion. After etomidate administration in nine patients, brain tissue PO2 decreased 30% compared with baseline (P < 0.05). During temporary brain artery occlusion in 8 patients, tissue PO2 decreased 32% below preclip values (P < 0.05) in conjunction with a tissue PCO2 increase of 23% (P < 0.05) and a 0.1-unit decrease in pH (P < 0.05). In patients in whom PO2 decreased below 10 mm Hg during temporary clipping, tissue pH decreased, compared with patients in whom PO2 remained above 10 mm Hg (P < 0.05). These results demonstrate that etomidate administration during cerebral aneurysm surgery decreases tissue PO2 and that in these patients, tissue PO2 does not increase with increases in inspired oxygen concentration. Low tissue PO2 during temporary clipping significantly increases the risk of tissue acidosis.
Etomidate administration alone resulted in cerebral deoxygenation. Subsequent temporary cerebral artery occlusion resulted in additional tissue deoxygenation and acidosis. These results suggest that etomidate enhances hypoxic risk in the setting of cerebral ischemia.
Butyrophilin-like 2 (BTNL2) polymorphisms have been associated with sarcoidosis. We hypothesized that BTNL2 variants might confer a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-independent risk for chronic beryllium disease (CBD), a granulomatous lung disease with similar clinical, radiological, and pathological features to sarcoidosis. Genomic DNA was obtained from CBD (n= 88), beryllium sensitized (BeS, n= 86), and beryllium exposed nondiseased control subjects (Be-exp, n= 173). Six BTNL2 polymorphisms, HLA-DPB1, DRB1, and DQB1 alleles were determined by sequence-specific primer-PCR. All BTNL2 polymorphisms were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. No significant differences were found between BTNL2 polymorphisms or haplotypes and CBD, BeS, or Be-exp. In HLA-DPB1*Glu69-negative subjects (n= 10 CBD, n= 13 BeS, n= 102 Be-exp), DRB1*13 and BTNL2 rs3117099TT homozygosity were increased in CBD (70% and 40%, respectively) vs Be-exp (16%, P= 0.001 and 2.9%, P= 0.001, respectively). The BTNL2 rs3117099T-HLA-DRB1*13 combination was significantly increased in CBD (50%) compared with Be-exp (6.9%, P= 0.001). In conclusion, both DRB1*13 and rs3117099TT homozygosity are associated with CBD in *Glu69-negative subjects, while DPB1*Glu69 is associated with CBD and BeS compared with Be-exp. As a result of the small sample size and strong linkage disequilibrium between DRB1*13-DQB1*0603/4/9 and the BTNL2 rs3117099T allele, it is difficult to assess the primary association in DPB1*Glu69-negative CBD cases.
Prolonged arterial spasm as a complication of ergot-containing medications has been reported since antiquity. This article describes our experience with a patient who had severe bilateral arterial spasm in the upper extremities 6 days after the initiation of a regimen of dihydroergotamine and heparin for prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis. The spasm was refractory to oral calcium channel blocking agents and direct intraarterial infusion of tolazoline (Priscoline). However, intraarterial nitroglycerin produced a prompt and dramatic improvement in symptoms and in physical and arteriographic findings. This experience suggests that intraarterial nitroglycerin may be an appropriate first choice for ergot-induced arterial spasm.
In the present study a single case observation of myoclonus during sleep-wave transition was monitored in a depressed patient treated with the monoamine oxidase inhibitor, phenelzine. The myoclonus had a rhythm of 1 c/second and lasted for two years, the duration of phenelzine treatment. Myoclonus appeared neither during wakefulness nor during sleep, but at wake-sleep-wake transitions. This "switch" myoclonus was associated with phasic muscle hyperactivity during REM sleep. Methysergide a 5-HT suppressor, decreased the switch myoclonus frequency and the REM muscle hyperactivity, indicating serotoninergic involvement in the mechanism of phenelzine induced myoclonus.
Treatment of Parkinson's disease with L-dopa is plagued in a majority of patients by dyskinesias. Noradrenaline/dopamine interactions are proposed on behavioral, biochemical, physiological and anatomical grounds. The aim of the study was to test the potential antidyskinetic effect of the alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, idazoxan, in a primate model of Parkinson's disease. Six female cynomolgus monkeys previously rendered parkinsonian by the toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and presenting an unchanged syndrome for several months were used. All responded readily to L-dopa but had developed dyskinesias which were manifested with each dose. In the first part of the study, seven doses of idazoxan (ranging from 0.25 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg, p.o.) were administered together with the vehicle or in combination with a fixed dose of L-dopa/benserazide (100/25 mg, p.o.). In the second part of the study, a fixed dose of idazoxan (7.5 mg/kg) was administered daily for 10 days and L-dopa was added to idazoxan on days 1, 4, 7 and 10. Vehicle (empty capsule) was used as control. Idazoxan, by itself (ranging from 5 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg), increased locomotor activity and improved the disability score with virtually no dyskinesias in three animals. In combination with L-dopa, idazoxan did not impair the antiparkinsonian response but significantly reduced dyskinesias in all six animals up to 65% at doses of 7.5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg and delayed their onset, so that the "ON" state without dyskinesias was prolonged. The antidyskinetic effect of idazoxan was maintained when repeatedly administered for 10 days. On day 10, the locomotor response to L-dopa was significantly potentiated by chronic administration of idazoxan. Our results indicate that idazoxan has some antiparkinsonian effect of its own and may constitute a useful adjunct to L-dopa as it can reduce dyskinesias without impairing the relief of symptoms, this effect being maintained over time in this model.
Ligands of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily are involved in numerous developmental and disease processes. TGF-beta, activins, and nodal ligands operate through the highly homologous Smad2 and Smad3 intracellular mediators. Smad2 mutants exhibit early embryonic lethality, while Smad3 mutants are viable, but show a plethora of postnatal phenotypes, including immune dysfunction and skeletal abnormalities. Previously, we have shown that the Smad2 and Smad3 genes function cooperatively during liver morphogenesis. Here we show that Smad2 and Smad3 are required at a full dosage for normal embryonic development. Animals lacking one allele of each gene exhibit a variably penetrant phenotype in which structures in the anterior and ventral midline are reduced or lost; additionally, we demonstrate that this craniofacial defect and the previously reported hepatic phenotypes are both due to defects in the definitive endoderm. A reduction of endodermal gene expression as well as a failure to displace the visceral endoderm occurs despite the formation of a normal foregut pocket. This precedes any defects in anterior patterning and likely causes the abnormalities observed in craniofacial and midline development, as well as hepatogenesis.
We compared docetaxel with vinorelbine for the adjuvant treatment of early breast cancer. Women with tumors that overexpressed HER2/neu were also assigned to receive concomitant treatment with trastuzumab or no such treatment.
We randomly assigned 1010 women with axillary-node-positive or high-risk node-negative cancer to receive three cycles of docetaxel or vinorelbine, followed by (in both groups) three cycles of fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide. The 232 women whose tumors had an amplified HER2/neu gene were further assigned to receive or not to receive nine weekly trastuzumab infusions. The primary end point was recurrence-free survival.
Recurrence-free survival at three years was better with docetaxel than with vinorelbine (91 percent vs. 86 percent; hazard ratio for recurrence or death, 0.58; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.40 to 0.85; P=0.005), but overall survival did not differ between the groups (P=0.15). Within the subgroup of patients who had HER2/neu-positive cancer, those who received trastuzumab had better three-year recurrence-free survival than those who did not receive the antibody (89 percent vs. 78 percent; hazard ratio for recurrence or death, 0.42; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.21 to 0.83; P=0.01). Docetaxel was associated with more adverse effects than was vinorelbine. Trastuzumab was not associated with decreased left ventricular ejection fraction or cardiac failure.
Adjuvant treatment with docetaxel, as compared with vinorelbine, improves recurrence-free survival in women with early breast cancer. A short course of trastuzumab administered concomitantly with docetaxel or vinorelbine is effective in women with breast cancer who have an amplified HER2/neu gene. (International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial number, ISRCTN76560285.).
Cocaine addiction is a chronically relapsing brain disease, but its neural basis is not yet well understood. Clinical reports underscore the possible importance of associative processes for regulating at least some aspects of cocaine addiction. The present study reports the effects of reversible lidocaine-induced inactivation of rostral basolateral amygdala (rBLA) and caudal basolateral amygdala (cBLA) regions on the maintenance and reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior in rats trained to self-administer 1 mg/kg cocaine under a second order schedule of drug delivery. Both regions of the basolateral amygdala were investigated because they have dissociable effects on cognitive task performance. Results demonstrated that after self-administration training and a period of extinction and abstinence, lidocaine inactivation of the rBLA and cBLA attenuated the reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior induced by cocaine-associated cues examined in conjunction with a single priming injection of cocaine. In contrast, lidocaine inactivation of only the rBLA blocked reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior induced by cocaine-associated cues examined alone. Additional differences were shown during cocaine maintenance testing where inactivation of only the cBLA attenuated drug-seeking behavior. Drug intake was not altered. Thus, the rBLA and cBLA appear to selectively and dissociably regulate drug-seeking behavior under conditions of cocaine abstinence (cue-induced reinstatement) and repeated cocaine use (maintenance), respectively. These findings suggest that the basolateral amygdala may be more functionally heterogeneous than commonly thought for regulating drug-seeking behavior. The basis for this dissociation might be related to neuroanatomical connections of the rBLA and cBLA with segregated, but parallel, corticostriatalpallidothalamic circuits.
A 7-year-old child with spastic cerebral palsy and a seizure disorder developed Tourette-like symptoms during therapy with phenobarbital. These symptoms occurred while phenobarbital blood levels were in the therapeutic range. Known causes of movement disorders were eliminated after evaluation. On repeat challenge with phenobarbital, the symptoms recurred. Phenobarbital should be added to the list of drugs that cause Tourette-like symptoms.
While neuropsychological deficits are evident among methamphetamine (meth) addicts, they are often unrelated to meth exposure parameters such as lifetime consumption and length of abstinence. The notion that some meth users develop neuropsychological impairments while others with similar drug exposure do not, suggests that there may be individual differences in vulnerability to the neurotoxic effects of meth. One source of differential vulnerability could come from genotypic variability in metabolic clearance of meth, dependent on the activity of cytochrome P450-2D6 (CYP2D6). We compared neuropsychological performance in 52 individuals with a history of meth dependence according with their CYP2D6 phenotype. All were free of HIV or hepatitis C infection and did not meet dependence criteria for other substances. Extensive metabolizers showed worse overall neuropsychological performance and were three times as likely to be cognitively impaired as intermediate/poor metabolizers. Groups did not differ in their demographic or meth use characteristics, nor did they evidence differences in mood disorder or other substance use. This preliminary study is the first to suggest that efficient meth metabolism is associated with worse neurocognitive outcomes in humans, and implicates the products of oxidative metabolism of meth as a possible source of brain injury.
We report a patient who sustained a myocardial infarction after inhaling cocaine. He developed a persistent wall motion defect that was present 18 months after the acute event despite resolution of electrocardiographic evidence of infarction.
In the present study, we investigated whether the correction of endothelial dysfunction can be independent of the normalization of high blood pressure levels by enalapril in deoxycorticosterone (DOCA-salt) hypertensive rats. Aorta morphology and the response of aortas with (E+) and without (E-) endothelium to noradrenaline, acetylcholine, and sodium nitroprusside were studied. DOCA-salt hypertensive and normotensive (control) rats were or were not treated with enalapril (5 mg/day/rat in the drinking fluid) for 1, 7, or 15 days. Blood pressure was measured before and after 1, 3, 7, and 15 days of enalapril treatment. Enalapril normalized the high blood pressure levels in 50% (responders) of the hypertensive rats after 3 to as many as 15 days but not after 1 day of treatment. Initial blood pressure levels were not different between responders and nonresponders. Blood pressure levels of normotensive control rats were not altered by enalapril treatment. The tunica media of aortas of DOCA-salt hypertensive rats treated or not treated with enalapril for 15 days was thicker than aortas from normotensive rats. Enalapril corrected the reduced response to acetylcholine observed in aorta from hypertensive rats from the first day of treatment. This treatment rendered aortas from normotensive control rats more sensitive (lower EC(50)) to acetylcholine without a change in the maximal responses. The responses to sodium nitroprusside, a nitric oxide donor, were unaltered in aorta E+ or E- from control and hypertensive rats before and after enalapril treatment. Enalapril did not correct the increased responses to noradrenaline observed in aorta E+ of hypertensive rats. These results suggest that the high blood pressure in DOCA-salt hypertension is not correlated with the altered response to endothelium-dependent agents (either dilator or constrictors). The endothelium-dependent vasodilation by antihypertensive agents can be corrected independently of normalization of blood pressure levels or the vascular morphology.
Clonazepam (5-(2-chlorophenyl)-1,3-dihydro-7-nitro 2H-1,4 benzodiazepin-2-one) (2 mg/kg) reduced a p,p'-DDT-induced myoclonus in mice by 50%. This antimyoclonic action of clonazepam was counteracted by the serotonin (5-HT) receptor blockers methysergide, metergoline and cinnanserin and potentiated by the 5-HT uptake inhibitors fluoxetine and chlorimipramine. Clonazepam (4 mg/kg) reduced plasma tryptophan by 27%, but had no effect on brain tryptopham, 5-HT, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, 5-HT synthesis and 3H-5-HT receptor binding. Clonazepam (10(-5) M) inhibited brain synaptosomal 3H-5-HT uptake by 23% and increased 3H-5-HT release by 24%. However, 2-8 mg/kg of clonazepam administered intraperitoneally had no effect on 5-HT uptake or release. gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonists (muscimol, acetylenic GABA, amino-oxyacetic acid) and the GABA antagonists bicuculline and isoniazid had no effect on p,p'-DDT-induced myoclonus. Furthermore, bicuculline did not counteract the antimyoclonic effect of clonazepam. We suggest that the antimyoclonic action of clonazepam is mediated by enhancement of serotonergic rather than GABAergic neurotransmission.
This study has determined the propranolol content of Purkinje fibers associated with antiarrhythmic and electrophysiological actions of the drug both in vivo and in vitro. The minimum effective tissue content of propranolol that consistently reversed a sustained ouabain-induced ventrivular tachycardia in vivo after i.v. propranolol was between 6.7 and 11.1 micron g/g of tissue. Propranolol doses producing Purkinje fiber contents of less than 6.7 micron g/g failed to revert the arrhythmia but did ponotropic responses to 0.5 micron g/kg of isoproterenol. The in vivo minimum effective tissue content was produced in isolated Purkinje fibers perfused with Tyrode's solution containing 1.7 X 10(-6) M propranolol. In Purkinje fibers this concentration of propranolol depressed the rate of phase 4 depolarization previously enhanced by ouabain 2.1 X 10(-7) M. Propranolol, 1.7 X 10(-6) M, did not alter membrane responsiveness and only slightly accelerated repolarization at 5 minutes. Propranolol, 0.85 X 10(-6) M, did not significantly depress the ouabain-enhanced rate of phase 4 depolarization but did attenuate the response to epinephrine through beta blockade. This study indicated that the initial direct action of propranolol in reverting a ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia to a sinus rhythm in the dog is depression of automaticity.
The antithrombotic effect of desethyl KBT-3022, which is the main active metabolite of the new antiplatelet agent, KBT-3022 (ethyl 2-[4,5-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)thiazol-2-yl] pyrrol-1-ylacetate; a cyclooxygenase inhibitor), was determined using a photochemically induced arterial thrombosis model in the rat femoral artery. Pretreatment with desethyl KBT-3022 (0.1, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg, i.v.) prolonged the time required to achieve thrombotic occlusion in the femoral artery and inhibited collagen-induced platelet aggregation in whole blood ex vivo, each in a dose-dependent manner. In all 6 rats used, particularly at the highest dose (1 mg/kg, i.v.) tested, cyclic variations in blood flow were hardly ever observed and complete cessation of blood flow did not occur during the 30-min observation time. BM-13505 (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg, i.v.), a thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist, also prolonged the time to occlusion, but cyclic variations in blood flow did occur. On the other hand, aspirin (10 and 30 mg/kg, i.v.) had little effect in terms of preventing thrombosis, although it inhibited collagen-induced platelet aggregation to the same extent as did desethyl KBT-3022. Desethyl KBT-3022 inhibited the thrombin-induced aggregation of washed platelets in a concentration-dependent manner (1-40 microM), whereas aspirin and BM-13505 did not. These findings suggest that the potent antithrombotic effect of desethyl KBT-3022 may be attributable in part to its additional ability to inhibit thrombin-induced platelet aggregation. Accordingly, thromboxane A2 and thrombin may be important thrombotic mediators in this rat model.
Patients with cardiac disorders have defective parasympathetic control of heart rate. To evaluate the possibility of similar changes in sympathetic control of heart rate, we compared reflex chronotropic responses to 80 degree upright tilt and nitroglycerin-induced hypotension in 31 cardiac patients and 7 normal individuals before and after partial parasympathetic blockade with atropine. Tilting revealed an attenuation of the normal heart rate increase in patients; the magnitude of this defect was greatest in patients with more severe symptoms (class III) and evidence of left ventricular dysfunction (the heart rate increase averaged 25 plus or minus 3 beats/min in normal subjects, 12 plus or minus 2 beats/min in class I-II patients, and 7 plus or minus 1 beats/min in class III patients). Class III symptoms due to mechanical causes (mitral stenosis), however, were not associated with this defect. A marked reduction in heart rate rise with hypotension was seen only in those class III patients without mitral stenosis (0.4 plus or minus 0.1 beats min-minus 1 mm Hg-minus 1 vs. 3.0 plus or minus 0.5 beats min-minus 1 mm Hg-minus 1 in normal subjects). This abnormality also persisted after atropine administration, thus confirming a defect in the sympathetic as well as the parasympathetic component of baroreceptor-mediated reflex heart rate control in patients with cardiac dysfunction. Infusions of isoproterenol produced equivalent rises in heart rate in patients and normal individuals, excluding a reduction in beta-receptor responsiveness as a cause of impaired sympathetic influence. Norepinephrine depletion, however, is a well-recognized concomitant of cardiac failure. It is possible that the reduction in sympathetically mediated heart rate responses results in part from depletion of the sympathetic neurotransmitter.
IgA nephropathy, also called Berger's disease, is characterized by recurrent gross hematuria or persistent microscopic hematuria, together with mesangial glomerular deposits of IgA found in the renal biopsy. Seven children with IgA nephropathy were studied. Most of them presented initially with recurrent macroscopic hematuria and low or moderate-grade proteinuria, without hypertension or renal function impairment. Only one patient presented with a rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. Four patients did not receive any treatment; one of them is in remission, one has improved and two remain with moderate proteinuria and hematuria. One patient with significant proteinuria improved after prednisone and azathioprine treatment. The patient with rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis improved his renal function after oral prednisone and intravenous boluses of methylprednisolone and cyclophosphamide.
We sought to evaluate clinical outcomes of patients with diabetes mellitus in the ACUITY (Acute Catheterization and Urgent Intervention Triage Strategy) trial, overall and by treatment arm.
In the ACUITY trial, 13,819 patients with moderate- or high-risk acute coronary syndromes (ACS) were randomized to heparin (unfractionated or enoxaparin) plus glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition (GPI), bivalirudin plus GPI, or bivalirudin monotherapy. Compared with heparin plus GPI, bivalirudin monotherapy resulted in similar protection from ischemic events with less major bleeding. Whether these results apply to patients with diabetes is unknown.
We evaluated the impact of diabetes on 30-day net adverse clinical outcomes (composite ischemia [death, myocardial infarction, or unplanned ischemic revascularization] or major bleeding), overall and by antithrombotic strategy.
Diabetes was present in 3,852 randomized patients (27.9%). Compared with nondiabetic patients, diabetic patients had higher 30-day rates of net adverse clinical outcomes (12.9% vs. 10.6%; p < 0.001), composite ischemia (8.7% vs. 7.2%; p = 0.003), and major bleeding (5.7% vs. 4.2%; p < 0.001). Among diabetic patients, compared with heparin plus GPI, bivalirudin plus GPI resulted in similar rates of net adverse clinical outcomes (14.0% vs. 13.8%; p = 0.89), while bivalirudin monotherapy resulted in a similar rate of composite ischemia (7.9% vs. 8.9%; p = 0.39) and less major bleeding (3.7% vs. 7.1%; p < 0.001), yielding fewer net adverse clinical outcomes (10.9% vs. 13.8%; p = 0.02).
Diabetic patients with ACS managed invasively have higher rates of composite ischemia and major bleeding. Compared with treatment with heparin plus GPI, bivalirudin monotherapy provides similar protection from ischemic events with less major bleeding, resulting in a significant reduction in net adverse clinical outcomes.
EML4-ALK fusion gene, is found in 3 to 5 % of lung adenocarcinoma and can be targeted by tyrosine-kinase inhibitor (TKI) with impressive therapeutic results.
We report the case of a non-smoking 40-year-old woman, diagnosed with metastatic poorly differentiated papillary adenocarcinoma of the lung harbouring the ALK fusion gene. After six cycles of first line chemotherapy with cisplatine-vinorelbine followed by maintenance treatment with erlotinib, the patient achieved a partial response. After disease progression, the patient was included in a trial comparing crizotinib with a classic 2nd line chemotherapy. After 1 month of crizotinib, the patient's condition improved. CT of the chest showed a near-total regression of bilateral pulmonary nodules replaced by pulmonary cysts.
We report in this case a dramatic improvement with near-complete vanishing of pulmonary nodules replaced by pulmonary cysts in a patient treated with crizotinib. This case reminds us of the potential importance of evaluating the molecular diagnosis in lung cancers and especially in adenocarcinoma of the lung.
Effects of ambient exposure to DDT and its metabolites (DDE-DDT) on human sperm parameters and the role of genetic polymorphisms in modifying the association were investigated.
Demographics, medical history data, blood and semen samples were obtained from the first 336 male partners of couples presenting to 2 infertility clinics. Serum was analyzed for organochlorines (OC) and DNA for polymorphisms in GSTM1, GSTT1, GSTP1 and CYP1A1. Men with each sperm parameter considered low by WHO criteria (concentration <20million/mL, motility <50%, morphology <4%) were compared to men with all normal sperm parameters in logistic regression models, controlling for sum of other OC pesticides.
High DDE-DDT level was associated with significantly increased odds for all 3 low sperm parameters. The risk of low motility with high DDE-DDT exposure was increased in men with the GSTT1 null genotype compared to those with GSTT1 intact (odds ratio (OR)=4.19, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.05-16.78 and OR=3.57, 1.43-8.93, respectively). Risk for low morphology in men with high DDE-DDT and one or both CYP1A1*2A alleles was lower compared to men with the common CYP1A1 alleles (OR=2.18, 0.78-6.07 vs. OR=3.45, 1.32-9.03, respectively). Similar results were obtained for men with low DDE-DDT exposure. Effects of high DDE-DDT on low sperm concentration (OR=2.53, 1.0-6.31) was unaffected by the presence of the polymorphisms.
High DDE-DDT exposure adversely affected all 3 sperm parameters and its effects were exacerbated by the GSTT1 null polymorphism and by the CYP1A1 common alleles.
Exposure to benzene elicits a spectrum of hematotoxicity ranging from reduction of peripheral blood cell counts to aplastic anemia and leukemia. The molecular mechanism by which benzene damages hematopoietic cells is unclear; in particular, benzene-induced aberrant gene expression has not been addressed. We analyzed differential gene expression in the peripheral white blood cells from seven female patients with occupational benzene poisoning and seven matched control subjects. In this study, we report altered expression of cytochrome P450 in the patients. All patients exhibited elevated expression of CYP4F3A encoding the leukotriene B4 (LTB(4)) omega-hydroxylase critical in the inactivation of LTB(4) in polymorphonuclear leukocytes with a -fold induction between 3 and 71. Four patients had high expression of CYP1A1, and two patients had elevated expression of CYP1B1. Expressions of CYP2B6, CYP51, and CYP27A1 were also altered in certain patients. Mechanistic analysis revealed that phenol, a major metabolite of benzene, significantly induced the expression of CYP4F3A at both mRNA and protein levels in cultured promyelocytic leukemia cells (HL-60), similarly to all-trans retinoic acid. Induction of CYP4F3 by phenol was also observed in differentiated HL-60 cells, in the proerythroid cell line K562, and ex vivo in human neutrophils. On the other hand, hydroquinone induced extensive apoptosis of the cells. The findings demonstrated, for the first time, that benzene and metabolites induce CYP4F3 in human blood cells both in vivo and in vitro. Induction of CYP4F3 may play a role in the development of benzene hematotoxicity and serve as a biomarker of benzene exposure.
Severe reactions to mesalamine products are rarely seen in pediatric patients. We report a case of a 12-year-old boy who had a severe cardiac reaction to a mesalamine product Asacol. Past medical history is significant for ulcerative colitis (UC) diagnosed at 9 years of age. Colonoscopy one week prior to admission revealed pancolitis. He was treated with Asacol 800 mg three times per day and prednisone 20 mg/d. He was subsequently admitted to the hospital for an exacerbation of his UC and started on intravenous solumedrol. He had improvement of his abdominal pain and diarrhea. The patient complained of new onset of chest pain upon initiating Asacol therapy. Electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed non-specific ST-T wave changes with T-wave inversion in the lateral leads. Echocardiogram (ECHO) revealed low-normal to mildly depressed left ventricular systolic function. The left main coronary artery and left anterior descending artery were mildly prominent measuring 5 mm and 4.7 mm, respectively. His chest pain completely resolved within 24-36 h of discontinuing Asacol. A repeat echocardiogram performed two days later revealed normal left ventricular function with normal coronary arteries (< 3.5 mm). Onset of chest pain after Asacol and immediate improvement of chest pain, as well as improvement of echocardiogram and ECG findings after discontinuing Asacol suggests that our patient suffered from a rare drug-hypersensitivity reaction to Asacol.
Therapeutic use of botulinum toxin type A (BT/A) is well known, effective, and safe. Iatrogenic botulism that presents with generalized weakness, dysphagia, and respiratory distress is a rare but significant complication in BT/A treatment. In this study, we report 4 patients who developed iatrogenic botulism after receiving therapeutic doses of BT/A for spasticity and blepharospasm. One patient was placed in intensive care unit, but consequently, every patient recovered fully. The cause of BT/A as an adverse effect is most likely hematological spread of the toxin.
The aim of this study was to assess the feasibility of targeted ultrasound imaging on apoptosis with annexin A5 microbubbles (A5MB) in acute doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
Avidinated and octafluoropropan-filled phospholipid microbubbles were conjugated with biotinylated annexin A5. To confirm the specific binding of A5MB, flow cytometry was performed with hydrogen peroxide induced apoptosis in rat aorta smooth muscle cells incubated with fluorescein-5-isothiocyanate (FITC) labeled annexin A5 and A5MB. Adult male rats were injected intraperitoneally with 5 mg/kg doxorubicin weekly for 3 weeks (n = 5). Control rats were injected with normal saline (n = 5). At 24 hours after the final treatment, triggering imaging was performed 15 min after an intravenous bolus injection of A5MB for washout of freely circulating microbubbles. After echocardiography, the heart was isolated for histological detection of apoptosis by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay.
In the in vitro tests, fluorescence intensity was low for healthy cells and high for apoptotic cells when incubated with FITC-labeled annexin A5 and A5MB. Rats treated with doxorubicin showed significant contrast opacification of the myocardium on contrast echocardiography using A5MB. However, no opacification was observed in control rats. Apoptosis was confirmed by TUNEL assay in doxorubicin treated rats.
Acute doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy based on early apoptosis can be assessed and imaged with targeted ultrasound imaging using A5MB in rats.
