Lowering of blood pressure (BP) in the acute phase of stroke is reported both to worsen and to improve the outcome. To investigate whether heterogeneity exists between stroke subtypes in the response to BP lowering, we analysed data from the Intravenous Nimodipine West European Stroke Trial (INWEST).
INWEST enrolled acute ischaemic stroke patients within 24 h (n = 295) to the following groups: placebo (n = 100), 1 mg/h nimodipine (n = 101) or 2 mg/h nimodipine (n = 94). Patients were retrospectively classified as total anterior circulation infarct (TACI) (i.e. hemiparesis + hemianopia + dysphasia) and non-TACI (exclusion of any one of these). Main outcome measures were neurological (Orgogozo) and functional (Barthel) scores at day 21.
106 patients were labelled as TACI and 62 as non-TACI. No significant difference in BP was observed between the TACI and non-TACI subtypes at baseline, nor did the subtypes differ in BP course within the treatment groups. A higher proportion of non-TACI patients received postrandomisation antihypertensive agents in addition to the study drug compared with TACI patients (55% non-TACI vs. 26% TACI, p < 0.005). For TACI patients, there was no outcome difference between the placebo- and nimodipine-treated groups. For non-TACI patients, placebo had a significantly better neurological (p = 0.004) and functional (p = 0.04) outcome than the high-dose nimodipine group. In multivariate analysis for TACI patients, BP reduction and nimodipine treatment had no relation with outcome. Baseline stroke severity (p < 0.005) was the only significant predictor of the outcome at day 21. For non-TACI patients, diastolic BP (DBP) reduction (p = 0.03) and nimodipine treatment (p = 0.001) were related to neurological deterioration and nimodipine treatment (p = 0.01) to functional deterioration. Systolic BP reduction was associated with neurological (p < 0.005) and functional improvement (p = 0.01). Baseline stroke severity (p < 0.005) was related to both neurological and functional outcome.
BP lowering and nimodipine treatment had no significant effect on outcome for TACI patients. For non-TACI patients, DBP lowering worsened the neurological outcome and high-dose nimodipine worsened both the neurological and functional outcome.
Sensorimotor gating disruption is one of many neurocognitive deficits seen in schizophrenia. Disorganized thought is one of the cardinal symptoms associated with sensorimotor gating. In an attempt to model sensorimotor gating deficits in rats relevant to the neurodevelopmental hypothesis for schizophrenia, we have used prenatal injections of the antimitotic drug, cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) to subtly perturb the development of the rat CNS and disrupt sensorimotor gating.
To produce rats with either basal sensorimotor gating deficits or increased vulnerability to the disruption of sensorimotor function by apomorphine or phencyclidine (PCP). Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response was used to assess sensorimotor gating.
Three different cohorts of pregnant Sprague Dawley female rats were injected with Ara-C (30 mg/kg in saline) or saline at embryonic days 19.5 and 20.5. The Ara-C and control rats were tested for acoustic startle response and PPI at preadolescent and post-adolescent ages; postnatal day (Pnd) 35 and 56, respectively. Apomorphine (2.0 mg/kg) or phencyclidine (3.0 mg/kg), was given prior to PPI sessions in order to disrupt PPI.
At Pnd 35, Ara-C treatment did not significantly affect acoustic startle amplitudes or PPI. However, at PND 56, Ara-C treated rats had significantly lower acoustic startle amplitudes and significantly diminished sensorimotor gating. Pharmacological challenge with the dopamine agonist apomorphine and the glutamate antagonist PCP significantly disrupted sensorimotor gating in the control subjects. Apomorphine did not further disrupt the existing deficit in the Ara-C treated rats. Ara-C treatment did not cause gross loss of neuronal tissue, although there was a subtle and variable disorganization of the pyramidal cell layer in the hippocampal CA2/3 region.
The results provide evidence to suggest that late embryonic exposure to Ara-C disrupts the circuitry involved in mediating PPI. While the dopamine agonist apomorphine caused a significant disruption in the control rats it did not further disrupt the existing deficit in the Ara-C treated rats. These data provide evidence to support the contention that modest neurodevelopmental insults can significantly affect sensorimotor gating processes in an adult onset dependent manner.
We present the case of a patient who was diagnosed with prostate cancer after 15 years of exogenous testosterone therapy. We discuss the literature on testosterone treatment, its possible prostatic complications and guidelines for monitoring the prostate during treatment.
1. Previous investigations have demonstrated an impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilatation (EDV) in patients with hypertension. The present study aimed to investigate if an acute rise in blood pressure to hypertensive levels impairs EDV in otherwise normotensive subjects. 2. Twenty-seven young, healthy, normotensive subjects were studied. Eight of these underwent evaluation of EDV and endothelium-independent vasodilatation (EIDV) by means of forearm blood flow measurements during local intra-arterial infusions of methacholine (2 and 4 micrograms/min) and sodium nitroprusside (5 and 10 micrograms/min), before and after 1 h of sustained hypertension, induced by noradrenaline given intravenously. Identical measurements were made in 11 subjects before and during concomitant local intra-arterial infusion of noradrenaline without change in blood pressure and eight subjects were studied during saline infusions. 3. One hour of sustained hypertension (diastolic blood pressure > 95 mmHg) significantly attenuated both forearm blood flow (17.4 +/- 6.8 versus 27.4 +/- 6.8 ml.min-1.100 ml-1 tissue at baseline, P < 0.05) and forearm vascular resistance decrease (3.2 +/- 0.87 versus 7.4 +/- 2.5 units at baseline, P < 0.05) during methacholine infusion. These attenuations were significantly more pronounced for methacholine than for sodium nitroprusside (P < 0.05). In contrast, local intra-arterial noradrenaline infusions impaired vasodilatation induced by methacholine and sodium nitroprusside to a similar extent. Saline infusions did not change either EDV or EIDV. 4. Thus, an acute rise in blood pressure to hypertensive levels induced by noradrenaline impaired EDV more than EIDV in otherwise normotensive subjects, while no such selective effect of local noradrenaline was seen, suggesting that a high blood pressure impairs endothelial vasodilator function.
Amphetamine is a stimulant drug that enhances attention and feelings of alertness. Amphetamine's effects are known to be modulated by endogenous cannabinoids, which are degraded by the enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). In this study we investigated inter-individual differences in mood response to amphetamine in relation to four polymorphisms in the FAAH gene, including the FAAH missense variant rs324420C --> A (Pro129Thr), which was previously found to be associated with street drug use and addictive traits. One hundred and fifty-nine healthy Caucasian volunteers participated in a three-session, double-blind crossover study receiving either placebo or oral d-amphetamine (10 and 20 mg). Associations between individual genotypes and levels of self-reported Arousal (Profile of Mood States) after d-amphetamine ingestion were investigated using two-way ANOVAs/ANCOVAs. Association analyses for haplotypes were performed using the adaptive permutation approach implemented in PLINK. Genotypes at rs3766246 and rs2295633 were significantly associated with increased ratings of Arousal (p<0.05) and Fatigue (p<0.01) after the 10-mg dose. Fatigue levels were also found to be associated with the haplotypes CCC and TAT formed from rs3766246, rs324420, and rs2295633 (p<0.05). These data suggest that the endocannabinoid system influences variation in subjective response to amphetamine. This has important implications for understanding the role of endogenous cannabinoids in response to amphetamine, studies of poly-substance abuse, and understanding the genetic determinants of inter-individual differences in stimulant effects and risk of abuse.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was used to stimulate nitric oxide (NO) release and investigate the effect of endogenous NO on adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)-induced hypertension in rats. After preliminary studies to determine the appropriate dose of LPS, 40 male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with ACTH (200 microg/kg/day, s.c.) or saline (sham) for 8 days and then given a single dose of LPS (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline. ACTH treatment was continued for a further 5 days. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured daily using the tail cuff method. Results were expressed as the mean +/- SEM. ACTH treatment significantly increased SBP (from 105 +/- 3 to 129 +/- 4 mmHg; p<0.05), whereas saline had no effect on SBP. The ACTH-induced increase in SBP was reversed by LPS injection (from 125 +/- 6 to 102 +/- 7 mmHg; p<0.05). SBP was also decreased in sham + LPS-treated rats compared with that of sham + saline-treated rats (p<0.05), but the SBP change in response to LPS was greater in ACTH-treated than in sham-treated rats (-23 vs. -8 mmHg; p<0.05). These data are compatible with the notion that reduced NO availability plays a role in ACTH-induced hypertension.
A 60 year-old woman with chronic renal failure developed acute proximal muscle weakness after receiving a regular dosage of colchicine. Elevation of muscle enzymes and electromyography were compatible with myopathy. Muscle biopsy revealed variation in muscle fiber size and few vacuolated fibers which were features of colchicine-induced myopathy. The clinical improvement and decreasing in muscle enzyme level occurred after colchicine withdrawal. Other potential causes of myopathy such as chronic renal failure and other drugs were ruled out. We suggested that colchicine should be used with caution in the presence of renal failure especially when other drugs which affect the metabolism of colchicine are also prescribed.
Selective breeding was used to produce lines of mice which differ markedly from one another in ethanol physical dependence development as indexed by handling-induced convulsions (HIC) induced by withdrawal from ethanol. These are known as the Withdrawal Seizure Prone (WSP) and Withdrawal Seizure Resistant (WSR) selected lines. Mice selectively-bred for severe HIC (Withdrawal Seizure Prone lines) exhibited 3-fold greater HIC scores than did mice selectively-bred for mild HIC (Withdrawal Seizure Resistant lines) after five generations of selective-breeding. When phenobarbital was used as the dependence-producing drug rather than ethanol, the WSP vs. WSR differences in HIC were similar to those seen with ethanol. This implies that a high degree of commonality exists between ethanol and phenobarbital in the determinants of this commonly used index of physical dependence. Both WSP and WSR mice showed equivalent brain phenobarbital concentrations and equal functional tolerance development as indexed by several measures of impairment.
Aberrant glutamatergic neurotransmission may underlie the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been implicated in the disease. We have established the localization of the group III mGluR subtype, mGluR8, in the human body and investigated the biological effects of the selective mGluR8 agonist (S)-3,4-dicarboxyphenylglycine ((S)-3,4-DCPG) in schizophrenia-related animal models. The mGlu8 receptor has a widespread CNS distribution with expression observed in key brain regions associated with schizophrenia pathogenesis including the hippocampus. (S)-3,4-DCPG inhibited synaptic transmission and increased paired-pulse facilitation in rat hippocampal slices supporting the role of mGluR8 as a presynaptic autoreceptor. Using the rat Maximal Electroshock Seizure Threshold (MEST) test, (S)-3,4-DCPG (30 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced seizure activity confirming the compound to be centrally active following systemic administration. (S)-3,4-DCPG did not reverse (locomotor) hyperactivity induced by acute administration of phenylcyclidine (PCP, 1-32 mg/kg, i.p.) or amphetamine (3-30 mg/kg, i.p.) in Sprague-Dawley rats. However, 10 nmol (i.c.v.) (S)-3.4-DCPG did reverse amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in mice although it also inhibited spontaneous locomotor activity at this dose. In addition, mGluR8 null mutant mouse behavioral phenotyping revealed an anxiety-related phenotype but no deficit in sensorimotor gating. These data provide a potential role for mGluR8 in anxiety and suggest that mGluR8 may not be a therapeutic target for schizophrenia.
Current evidence indicates that neoplastic nodules induced in liver of Brown Norway (BN) rats genetically resistant to hepatocarcinogenesis are not prone to evolve into hepatocellular carcinoma. We show that BN rats subjected to diethylnitrosamine/2-acetylaminofluorene/partial hepatectomy treatment with a "resistant hepatocyte" protocol displayed higher number of glutathione-S-transferase 7-7(+) hepatocytes when compared with susceptible Fisher 344 (F344) rats, both during and at the end of 2-acetylaminofluorene treatment. However, DNA synthesis declined in BN but not F344 rats after completion of reparative growth. Upregulation of p16(INK4A), Hsp90, and Cdc37 genes; an increase in Cdc37-Cdk4 complexes; and a decrease in p16(INK4A)-Cdk4 complexes occurred in preneoplastic liver, nodules, and hepatocellular carcinoma of F344 rats. These parameters did not change significantly in BN rats. E2f4 was equally expressed in the lesions of both strains, but Crm1 expression and levels of E2f4-Crm1 complex were higher in F344 rats. Marked upregulation of P16(INK4A) was associated with moderate overexpression of HSP90, CDC37, E2F4, and CRM1 in human hepatocellular carcinomas with a better prognosis. In contrast, strong induction of HSP90, CDC37, and E2F4 was paralleled by P16(INK4A) downregulation and high levels of HSP90-CDK4 and CDC37-CDK4 complexes in hepatocellular carcinomas with poorer prognosis. CDC37 downregulation by small interfering RNA inhibited in vitro growth of HepG2 cells. In conclusion, our findings underline the role of Hsp90/Cdc37 and E2f4/Crm1 systems in the acquisition of a susceptible or resistant carcinogenic phenotype. The results also suggest that protection by CDC37 and CRM1 against growth restraint by P16(INK4A) influences the prognosis of human hepatocellular carcinoma.
Esophageal atresia (EA) is often associated with cardiovascular and other malformations that are likely neural crest derived. The present study tests the hypothesis that the heart and great vessels and the thymus and parathyroids may be abnormal in the rat model of EA as a result of disturbed neural crest development. Time-mated pregnant rats received intraperitoneally on d 8 and 9 of gestation either 2 mg/kg adriamycin or vehicle. Esophageal, heart, and thymic malformations were sought under the microscope in term fetuses. The parathyroids were histologically investigated. Control fetuses had no malformations, whereas 69 of 109 fetuses exposed to adriamycin had EA and 45 of 69 had 15 right aortic arches, nine aberrant right subclavia, eight ventricular septal defects, six narrow pulmonary outflow tracts, five tetralogies of Fallot, three double outflow right ventricles, three double aortic arches, three atrial septal defects, three right ductus arteriosus, and two truncus. The thymus was absent in 19, hypoplastic in 12, and ectopic in five out of 36 fetuses with EA in which it was studied, whereas the parathyroid glands were absent in 16, single in four, and ectopic in one of the 23 fetuses with EA in which they were studied. In conclusion, the nature of the cardiovascular, thymic, and parathyroid malformations associated with EA in rats is consistent with the hypothesis of neural crest participation in their pathogenesis. Mechanisms simultaneously disturbing foregut septation, somitic segmentation, and neural crest development should be sought to explain the combined occurrence of malformations in EA.
DM235 (sunifiram), a new compound structurally related to piracetam, prevented the amnesia induced by scopolamine (1.5 mg kg(-1) i.p.), after intraperitoneal (0.001-0.1 mg kg(-1)) or oral (0.01-0.1 mg kg(-1)) administration, as shown by a passive avoidance test in mice. The antiamnesic effect of DM235 was comparable to that of well-known nootropic drugs such as piracetam (30-100 mg kg(-1) i.p.), aniracetam (100 mg kg(-1) p.o.) or rolipram (30 mg kg(-1) p.o.). DM235 also prevented mecamylamine (20 mg kg(-1) i.p.)-, baclofen (2 mg kg(-1) i.p.)- and clonidine (0.125 mg kg(-1) i.p.)-induced amnesia in the same test. In the Morris water maze test with rats, scopolamine (0.8 mg kg(-1) i.p.) inhibited the reduction of escape latency in both acquisition and retention/retraining tests. DM235 (0.1 mg kg(-1) i.p.), 20 min before each daily acquisition training, prevented the scopolamine-induced memory impairment. DM235 (1 mg kg(-1) i.p.) also reduced the duration of pentobarbitone-induced hypnosis in mice without modifying the induction time of hypnosis. At the highest effective doses, the investigated compound neither impaired motor coordination (rota-rod test), nor modified spontaneous motility and inspection activity (Animex and hole board tests). These results indicate that DM235, a compound structurally related to piracetam, is a novel nootropic endowed with the capability to prevent cognitive deficits at very low doses. Indeed, its potency is about 1,000 times higher than that of the most active piracetam-like compounds.
Both obesity and alcohol can cause oxidative stress, cytokine induction, and steatohepatitis. To determine the consequences of their combination, we compared the hepatic effects of moderate ethanol binges in lean and obese ob/ob mice. Mice received water or ethanol (2.5 g/kg) by gastric intubation daily for 4 days, and were killed 2 hours after the last administration. Some obese mice also received pentoxifylline, an inhibitor of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production, before each ethanol administration. In lean mice, these moderate ethanol doses did not increase plasma TNF-alpha and hepatic caspase-3 activity, but triggered some apoptotic hepatocytes. Naive ob/ob mice had a few necrotic and apoptotic hepatocytes, but exhibited little oxidative stress, possibly because of adaptive increases in manganese superoxide dismutase, heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70), mitochondrial cytochrome c, and mitochondrial DNA. Alcohol administration to ob/ob mice did not increase oxidative stress despite increased CYP2E1, but increased plasma TNF-alpha, further increased Hsp70, and profoundly decreased p65 nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) protein and DNA-binding activity in nuclear extracts. Caspase-3 was activated, and more apoptotic hepatocytes were found in intoxicated obese mice than naive obese mice. In intoxicated obese mice, pentoxifylline fully prevented the increase in plasma TNF-alpha the decrease in nuclear NF-kappaB activity, and the increase in hepatic caspase-3, and it also decreased hepatic triglycerides. In conclusion, obese mice develop adaptations that may limit oxidative stress. Moderate ethanol intoxication does not increase oxidative stress in obese mice, but increases TNF-alpha and also decreases nuclear NF-kappaB activity, thus unleashing the apoptotic effects of TNF-alpha.
Hepatotoxicity is a potential side effect of niacin therapy for hypercholesterolemia, ranging from mild aminotransferase elevation to fulminant hepatic failure. Although uncommon with plain forms, liver dysfunction has increasingly been associated with sustained-release preparations. This case illustrates transient focal liver defects seen on computed tomography with symptomatic elevation of liver-associated enzymes during treatment with sustained-release niacin. The masses were not evident on radionuclide liver scan, suggesting focal fatty liver. After niacin was discontinued, these abnormalities resolved, and aminotransferases returned to normal. This is the first such reported case.
We have previously reported that pretreatment with the corticosterone synthesis inhibitor ketoconazole blocks the electric foot-shock-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior in rats, suggesting a potential role for the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in this animal model of relapse.
This experiment was designed to investigate whether or not ketoconazole would also inhibit the reinstatement of cocaine seeking induced by the presentation of a conditioned reinforcer. The effects of the corticotropin-releasing hormone 1 (CRH1) receptor antagonist CP-154,526 were also investigated to further determine the involvement of the HPA axis in this behavior.
Adult male rats were implanted with jugular catheters and trained to self-administer cocaine (0.25 mg/kg per infusion) during daily 2-h sessions. During training, cocaine delivery was paired with the presentation of a tone and the illumination of a house light. Once a stable baseline of cocaine self-administration was observed, lever pressing was extinguished to less than 20% of baseline rates. During reinstatement testing, responding by rats in the contingent group resulted in the presentation of the conditioned reinforcer (i.e., the house light and tone previously paired with self-administered cocaine). Rats in the non-contingent group were presented with the tone/house light compound stimulus once every 5 min, regardless of responding. Rats were pretreated with ketoconazole (25 mg/kg, i.p.) or CP-154,526 (20 mg/kg, i.p.) 30 min prior to testing for reinstatement with the contingent presentation of the conditioned reinforcer to determine the role for the HPA axis in this behavior.
The response-contingent presentation of the conditioned reinforcer reliably reinstated extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior, while the non-contingent presentation of the same stimulus did not. Increases in plasma corticosterone were evident during cocaine self-administration as well as during extinction and reinstatement testing. However, while plasma corticosterone returned to basal levels by the end of the session during extinction, it remained elevated through the end of the session during reinstatement. Pretreatment with ketoconazole reversed the conditioned reinforcer-induced reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior and also attenuated the conditioned increases in plasma corticosterone observed during reinstatement. Pretreatment with CP-154,526 resulted in a similar decrease in cocaine seeking.
These data suggest a potential role for the HPA axis in the ability of environmental cues to stimulate cocaine-seeking behavior.
Although nanomaterials have the potential to improve human life, their sideline effects on human health seem to be inevitable and still remain unknown. This study aimed to investigate the cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of titanium dioxide (TiO2) and silver (Ag) nanoparticles (NPs) at different doses and particle sizes to bone marrow cells. Both types of nanoparticles were chosen due to their wide applications of them in consumer products. Rats were injected intravenously with a single dose of 5 or 10 mg/kg bw of 20 nm AgNPs or with 5 mg/kg bw 200 nm AgNPs or with 5 mg/kg bw 21 nm TiO2NPs. The samples were taken at 24 h, 1 week and 4 weeks following the exposure. Micronucleus test and the Comet assay were used to detect DNA damage. Neither AgNPs nor TiO2NPs caused cytotoxicity to bone marrow red and white cells. The polychromatic erythrocytes are the main target of both nanoparticles. A single exposure to AgNPs induced significantly enhanced frequency of micronuclei not only at 24 h after exposure, but also 1 and 4 weeks later, whereas single exposure to TiO2NPs showed positive effect at 24 h only. Negative responses were shown in reticulocytes (micronuclei) and in leukocytes (Comet assay) of bone marrow. Results indicated that different bone marrow cells display different susceptibility toward genotoxicity mediated by both investigated nanoparticles. The use of materials containing nanoparticles and the potential health implication of them should be monitored.
Male mice received lycopene for 10 days before a single oral administration of zearalenone (ZEA). After 48 h testes and blood were collected. Mice treated with lycopene/ZEA exhibited amelioration of the hematological changes. Lycopene prevented the reduction in the number and motility of spermatozoa and testosterone levels, indicating a protective effect in the testicular damage induced by ZEA. Lycopene was also effective in protecting against the decrease in glutathione-S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and δ-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase activities caused by ZEA in the testes. Exposure of animals to ZEA induced modification of antioxidant and inflammatory status with increase of reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and increase of the oxidized glutathione, interleukins 1β, 2, 6, 10, tumor necrosis factor-α and bilirubin levels. Lycopene prevented ZEA-induced changes in GSH levels and inhibited the processes of inflammation, reducing the damage induced by ZEA. Altogether, our results indicate that lycopene was able to prevent ZEA-induced damage in the mice.
Central cholinergic blockade with scopolamine (SCOP) produces profound cognitive impairments in human and animal subjects. We hypothesized that cognitive deficits induced by cholinergic blockade originate partly from its ability to enhance reactivity to the environment, an effect that would be ameliorated by prior mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) blockade, because MR antagonists reduce reactivity to novelty. In the present study, we investigated whether or not systemic or intrahippocampal infusions of the MR antagonist spironolactone (SPIRO) would affect SCOP-induced cognitive impairments in a water maze task. Adult male Lister hooded rats (350-450 g) served as subjects. In Experiment 1, rats were administered SPIRO (0 or 100 mg/kg i.p.) followed 10 min later by SCOP (0, 0.5, or 2.0 mg/kg i.p.; n = 10/group). In Experiment 2, groups of rats implanted with hippocampal cannulae received central infusions of SPIRO (50 ng/microliter; 3 microliters in total) 10 min prior to SCOP injection (2.0 mg/kg i.p.; n = 6/group). Behavioural testing started 15 min after SCOP administration and consisted of a simple water maze task in which animals were required to locate a submerged platform using spatial cues. The testing regime consisted of two phases: a) acquisition, and b) retention, 24 h later. Peripheral, but not central, injections of SPIRO enhanced water maze performance during acquisition in SCOP-treated rats, as shown by shorter latencies and shorter distances travelled to locate the hidden platform. Both peripheral and central SPIRO administration reduced the long-term retention deficits in performance in the SCOP-treated animals. These data are in general agreement with a growing body of research suggesting that corticosteroid hormones interact with central cholinergic systems to affect both physiological and behavioural responses. MR blockade may reduce an animal's reactivity to the environment and enable it to selectively filter out extraneous stimuli that it would otherwise react to, thus impairing performance.
Prenatal exposure to organophosphate pesticides has been shown to negatively affect child neurobehavioral development. Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) is a key enzyme in the metabolism of organophosphates.
We examined the relationship between biomarkers of organophosphate exposure, PON1, and cognitive development at ages 12 and 24 months and 6-9 years.
The Mount Sinai Children's Environmental Health Study enrolled a multiethnic prenatal population in New York City between 1998 and 2002 (n = 404). Third-trimester maternal urine samples were collected and analyzed for organophosphate metabolites (n = 360). Prenatal maternal blood was analyzed for PON1 activity and genotype. Children returned for neurodevelopment assessments ages 12 months (n = 200), 24 months (n = 276), and 6-9 (n = 169) years of age.
Prenatal total dialkylphosphate metabolite level was associated with a decrement in mental development at 12 months among blacks and Hispanics. These associations appeared to be enhanced among children of mothers who carried the PON1 Q192R QR/RR genotype. In later childhood, increasing prenatal total dialkyl- and dimethylphosphate metabolites were associated with decrements in perceptual reasoning in the maternal PON1 Q192R QQ genotype, which imparts slow catalytic activity for chlorpyrifos oxon, with a monotonic trend consistent with greater decrements with increasing prenatal exposure.
Our findings suggest that prenatal exposure to organophosphates is negatively associated with cognitive development, particularly perceptual reasoning, with evidence of effects beginning at 12 months and continuing through early childhood. PON1 may be an important susceptibility factor for these deleterious effects.
In a longitudinal birth cohort study of inner-city mothers and children (Columbia Center for Children's Environmental Health), we have previously reported that prenatal exposure to chlorpyrifos (CPF) was associated with neurodevelopmental problems at 3 years of age.
The goal of the study was to estimate the relationship between prenatal CPF exposure and neurodevelopment among cohort children at 7 years of age.
In a sample of 265 children, participants in a prospective study of air pollution, we measured prenatal CPF exposure using umbilical cord blood plasma (picograms/gram plasma) and 7-year neurodevelopment using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 4th edition (WISC-IV). Linear regression models were used to estimate associations, with covariate selection based on two alternate approaches.
On average, for each standard deviation increase in CPF exposure (4.61 pg/g), Full-Scale intelligence quotient (IQ) declined by 1.4% and Working Memory declined by 2.8%. Final covariates included maternal educational level, maternal IQ, and quality of the home environment. We found no significant interactions between CPF and any covariates, including the other chemical exposures measured during the prenatal period (environmental tobacco smoke and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons).
We report evidence of deficits in Working Memory Index and Full-Scale IQ as a function of prenatal CPF exposure at 7 years of age. These findings are important in light of continued widespread use of CPF in agricultural settings and possible longer-term educational implications of early cognitive deficits.
The role of felodipine, a new calcium antagonist, in monotherapy for mild and moderate hypertension was investigated in a placebo-controlled double-blind study of 109 patients from 13 centres. The patients were randomised in a double-blind fashion to receive felodipine, 2.5 mg b.i.d. (32 patients), 5 mg b.i.d. (30 patients), 10 mg b.i.d. (24 patients), or placebo (23 patients). Two hours after the first tablet was administered, there was a reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, both supine (p less than 0.05) and standing (p less than 0.001), that was significantly correlated with dose. Three and 8 weeks later, 2 h after dosage, this correlation was still apparent in both supine and standing blood pressure (p less than 0.001). One week after randomisation, at 12 hours after administration there was a significant correlation with dose in the standing systolic (p less than 0.05) and diastolic (p less than 0.01) blood pressure. After 8 weeks therapy, a significant correlation with dose occurred in both supine and standing systolic (p less than 0.05) and diastolic (p less than 0.01) blood pressure 12 h after therapy. The proportion of patients completing the study who achieved a supine diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg or less after 8 weeks therapy at 2 h after dosage was 9% on placebo, 67% on felodipine 2.5 mg b.i.d., 57% on felodipine 5 mg b.i.d., and 92% on felodipine 10 mg b.i.d. Felodipine was generally well tolerated although 10 patients on the highest dose withdrew due to adverse experiences. Plasma felodipine levels were significantly correlated with dose.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Organophosphate (OP) pesticides are neurotoxic at high doses. Few studies have examined whether chronic exposure at lower levels could adversely affect children's cognitive development.
We examined associations between prenatal and postnatal exposure to OP pesticides and cognitive abilities in school-age children.
We conducted a birth cohort study (Center for the Health Assessment of Mothers and Children of Salinas study) among predominantly Latino farmworker families from an agricultural community in California. We assessed exposure to OP pesticides by measuring dialkyl phosphate (DAP) metabolites in urine collected during pregnancy and from children at 6 months and 1, 2, 3.5, and 5 years of age. We administered the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, 4th edition, to 329 children 7 years of age. Analyses were adjusted for maternal education and intelligence, Home Observation for Measurement of the Environment score, and language of cognitive assessment.
Urinary DAP concentrations measured during the first and second half of pregnancy had similar relations to cognitive scores, so we used the average of concentrations measured during pregnancy in further analyses. Averaged maternal DAP concentrations were associated with poorer scores for Working Memory, Processing Speed, Verbal Comprehension, Perceptual Reasoning, and Full-Scale intelligence quotient (IQ). Children in the highest quintile of maternal DAP concentrations had an average deficit of 7.0 IQ points compared with those in the lowest quintile. However, children's urinary DAP concentrations were not consistently associated with cognitive scores.
Prenatal but not postnatal urinary DAP concentrations were associated with poorer intellectual development in 7-year-old children. Maternal urinary DAP concentrations in the present study were higher but nonetheless within the range of levels measured in the general U.S. population.
Puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis in rats provides a model for studying the pathogenesis of severe proteinuric conditions, such as minimal change disease. The present study used scanning (SEM) and transmission (TEM) electron microscopy to investigate the in vitro effects of PAN on rat glomerular podocytes. Slices of rat kidney were incubated for up to 3 days in Medium 199 with Hanks' salts (control) or in medium with PAN. Semiquantitative SEM analysis of glomeruli on the upper surface of kidney slices indicated that incubation with PAN (100 micrograms/ml and 500 micrograms/ml) decreased the number of microvilli on podocyte cell bodies (days 1, 2 and 3), increased the number of glomeruli showing flattening of podocyte cell bodies and major processes (days 2 and 3), and increased the number of glomeruli showing surface membrane blebbing on podocyte foot processes (day 3) (p less than 0.001 in all cases). TEM morphometry revealed that incubation with 500 micrograms/ml PAN retarded significantly (p less than 0.001 at days 2 and 3) the loss of podocyte foot processes observed in control cultures. Whilst the SEM changes to podocyte ultrastructure largely mimic those seen in PAN nephrosis in vivo, the retardation of foot process loss runs counter to the major TEM change observed in vivo.
Cyclophosphamide is considered to be a bladder carcinogen and there are many reports of secondary bladder cancer, while only a few cases of upper urothelial cancer have been described. A 59-year-old man, who had received cyclophosphamide therapy for malignant lymphoma, was suffering from gross hematuria and consulted our institute. Computerized tomography (CT), intravenous pyelography (IVP) and retrograde pyelography (RP) revealed a left renal pelvic tumor. Urinary cytology showed class V and radical left nephroureterectomy was performed. Histopathological diagnosis of the left renal pelvic tumor was transitional cell carcinoma, invading the renal parenchyma. He is free from recurrence eight months after surgery. To our knowledge, this is the third case of cyclophosphamide-induced upper urothelial carcinoma reported in Japan, and the twelfth reported in the English literature.
The parasympathetic nervous system is likely to be involved in migraine pathogenesis. We hypothesized that the cholinomimetic agonist carbachol would induce headache and vasodilation of cephalic and radial arteries. Carbachol (3 microg/kg) or placebo was randomly infused into 12 healthy subjects in a double-blind crossover study. Headache was scored on a verbal rating scale from 0-10. Velocity in the middle cerebral artery (V(MCA)) and diameter of the superficial temporal artery (STA) and radial artery (RA) were recorded. Nine participants developed headache after carbachol compared with three after placebo. The area under the curve for headache was increased after carbachol compared with placebo both during infusion (0-30 min) (P = 0.042) and in the postinfusion period (30-90 min) (P = 0.027). Carbachol infusion caused a drop in V(MCA) (P = 0.003) and an increase in STA diameter (P = 0.006), but no increase in the RA diameter (P = 0.200). In conclusion, the study demonstrated that carbachol caused headache and dilation of cephalic arteries in healthy subjects.
The pharmacological profiling of potent histamine H(3)-ligands initiated in a previous study is completed here. In vitro functional and binding studies revealed that several derivatives were selective H(3)-antagonists with nanomolar potency at human and guinea-pig histamine receptors, able to inhibit rat brain cholinesterase at micromolar concentrations and devoid of any cytotoxicity on cultured cells. Ex vivo binding experiments in rats showed that the most potent H(3)-antagonist, compound 5, had a prompt and long-lasting presence in the central nervous system (CNS), inhibiting [(3)H](R)-alpha-methylhistamine cortical binding [ED(50) (dose that elicits a 50% response) = 0.63 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.)]. In the passive-avoidance test, compound 5, at 1.25 mg/kg i.p., was as effective as the anti-Alzheimer drug donepezil in attenuating scopolamine-induced amnesia in rats. These results suggest that a good CNS penetration and multitarget activity could account for the antiamnesic effect of this weak cholinesterase inhibitor and potent H(3)-antagonist (compound 5). This result represents a potential benchmark for the development of non-imidazole H(3)-antagonists/cholinesterase inhibitors with therapeutic potential in cognitive disorders.
Three patients suffered from fulminant hepatitis within 23, 59 and 22 weeks after having ingested a total dose of 16, 26 and 15 g, respectively, of amodiaquine for the prophylaxis of malaria. Amodiaquine administration was continued for 44, 21 and 25 days after the onset of jaundice, respectively. One patient underwent emergency orthotopic liver transplantation and survived. The other two died. Fulminant hepatitis threatens patients in whom amodiaquine administration is protracted for several months and not interrupted when jaundice occurs.
