Accelerated coronary artery disease (TxCAD) in the long term heart transplant patient remains the major limitation to long term survival, with approximately 50% of patients developing an angiographic event of TxCAD by five years post-transplant. This accelerated vasculopathic process is believed to be due to chronic immune injury to the endothelium with coronary intimal proliferation developing rapidly. Subsequent lipid deposition develops in these proliferated areas, leading to a diffuse progressive occlusive CAD which can be seen on serial coronary arteriography as a progressive luminal narrowing. Based on multiple annual studies demonstrating a protective effect of calcium blockers in diet- or injury-induced vascular disease in animals, the authors undertook a randomized trial of diltiazem versus no calcium blocker begun early after heart transplantation in 1986. Serial quantitative coronary arteriographic measurements have demonstrated no significant change in the diltiazem group versus a decrease in mean coronary lumen diameter, from 2.41 +/- 0.27 to 2.19 +/- 0.28 mm, in the no calcium blocker group. These differences persisted at two and three years of follow-up. Freedom from CAD based on qualitative angiographic data confirmed this protective effect of diltiazem. These observations are supported by other reported retrospective studies of calcium blockers post-heart transplantation and in non-TxCAD. Therefore, calcium blockers appear to prevent the early coronary intimal proliferation in response to chronic immune injury, as well as the later lipid deposition. The cardiac transplant patient may serve as a useful model for study of antiatherosclerotic agents in humans.
Following homozygosity mapping in a single kindred, we identified nonsense and missense mutations in MYO5B, encoding type Vb myosin motor protein, in individuals with microvillus inclusion disease (MVID). MVID is characterized by lack of microvilli on the surface of enterocytes and occurrence of intracellular vacuolar structures containing microvilli. In addition, mislocalization of transferrin receptor in MVID enterocytes suggests that MYO5B deficiency causes defective trafficking of apical and basolateral proteins in MVID.
Renal dysfunction and urinary abnormalities, which are usually related to drug toxicity, secondary amyloidosis, or those which overlap with other autoimmune conditions, are frequently observed in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. This is the first case report of membranous nephropathy in a patient with early-stage rheumatoid arthritis treated with the relatively selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, etodolac. The present case suggests that any kind of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug can cause membranous nephropathy; thus, physicians should be aware of this renal toxicity when prescribing these drugs.
To compare the efficacy of milrinone and dobutamine in patients chronically treated with carvedilol.
Milrinone and dobutamine are used to manage decompensated heart failure, but their efficacy in patients on beta-blocker therapy was unknown.
Twenty patients with decompensated heart failure were prospectively enrolled. Inotropic responses to milrinone (12.5, 25 or 50 microg/kg bolus infusions) or dobutamine (5, 10, 15 or 20 microg/kg/min infusions) were evaluated by right-heart catheterization.
Milrinone increased cardiac index (2.0-2.6 l/min/m2, P=0.0001) without significantly altering heart rate (70-75 bpm, P=0.19). Milrinone decreased mean pulmonary artery pressure (36-29 mm Hg, P=0.0001), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (24-18 mm Hg, P=0.0001) and mean arterial blood pressure (78-75 mm Hg, P=0.0002). Left ventricular stroke volume index increased in the milrinone group (31-35 ml/beat/m2, P=0.0001). Dobutamine produced an increase in cardiac index (2.4-3.3 l/min/m2, P=0.0001) only at doses that are not typically used to treat heart failure (15-20 microg/kg/min). At these doses, dobutamine increased heart rate (68-82 bpm, P=0.008), mean systemic pressure (90-117 mm Hg, P=0.0001) and mean pulmonary artery pressure (21-30 mm Hg, P=0.001). Dobutamine did not alter left ventricular stroke volume index or pulmonary capillary wedge pressure.
Dobutamine and milrinone have different hemodynamic effects in patients treated chronically with carvedilol. These differences should be considered when selecting inotropic therapy for decompensated heart failure.
Studies have reported a possible link between cocaine use and risk for cardiovascular events. The aim of this study was to examine the association between self-reported cocaine use and physician-diagnosed myocardial infarction (MI) in the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III), conducted from 1988 to 1994. Odds ratios (ORs) were estimated using logistic regression models adjusted for age and additionally for gender, race, and other MI risk factors, which accounted for the complex sampling design. In the group aged 18 to 59 years, there was no statistically significant association between any exposure to cocaine and MI (age-adjusted OR 1.56, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.44 to 5.50, p = 0.48; multivariate-adjusted OR 1.06, 95% CI 0.30 to 3.73, p = 0.92). Participants who reported using cocaine >10 times had a nonsignificant higher prevalence of MI (age-adjusted OR 3.13, 95% CI 0.80 to 12.25, p = 0.10; multivariate-adjusted OR 1.84, 95% CI 0.46 to 7.29, p = 0.40). However, participants aged 18 to 45 years who reported >10 occasions of cocaine use had a significantly elevated prevalence of MI in age-adjusted models (OR 4.60, 95% CI 1.12 to 18.88, p = 0.035). The association was attenuated in multivariate-adjusted models (OR 3.84, 95% CI 0.98 to 15.07, p = 0.054). The lifetime prevalence of cocaine use increased from 14% in NHANES III to 19% in NHANES 2005-2006. In conclusion, these data support a substantial association between cocaine use and MI; the temporal trend in cocaine use may increase the occurrence of MI, particularly in younger populations.
It has been shown that lithocholic glucuronide is more cholestatic than lithocholic acid (LCA), as well as its taurine and glycine conjugates. Furthermore, LCA hydroxylation is thought to be a major detoxifying mechanism. Therefore, the role of LCA glucuronidation and hydroxylation was investigated during the development of LCA-induced cholestasis and recovery from it. Male rats received a bolus intravenous injection of [14C]LCA (12 mumol/100 g body weight) and bile samples were collected every 30 min for 5 h. Bile flow (BF) was reduced immediately after LCA injection, dropping to 40% of basal BF at 60 min. It then started to increase, reaching normal bile flow values at 3.5 h. Morphologically, canalicular lesions were dominant at 60 min and virtually absent at 2 h. At 60 min (maximal cholestasis), 30% of the LCA injected was secreted in bile, 20% was found in plasma while the other 50% was recovered in the liver and distributed mainly in plasma membranes, microsomes and cytosol. At the end of the experiment (normal BF), 20% of the LCA injected was still in the liver but was present mainly in the cytosol. In bile, within 30 min after injection, 46% of the LCA secreted was lithocholic glucuronide, 24% was conjugated with taurine and glycine, and 21% was in the form of hydroxylated bile acids. During the recovery period, lithocholic glucuronide secretion decreased to 18-25%. Taurine and glycine conjugate secretion increased to a maximum of 43% at 60 min, after which it was reduced to 21-28%. In contrast, hydroxylated metabolites were elevated during the recovery periods, reaching a maximum (45%) at 120 min and remaining constant thereafter. These results suggest that: (i) LCA binding to plasma membranes and microsomes appeared to correlate with the development of cholestasis; (ii) LCA glucuronidation may initiate and/or contribute to LCA-induced cholestasis; and (iii) hydroxylation predominates during recovery from cholestasis.
This study details 30 cases of non-paracetamol drug-induced fulminant hepatic failure (NPDI-FHF) that have presented to the Scottish Liver Transplant Unit since 1992. Using the patients' case notes and a previously constructed database, the demographics of NPDI-FHF in Scotland were studied. The clinical and biochemical features, and the outcome of each individual case were also investigated.
Of the 30 patients, 10 died. Our study revealed that antibiotics are the most commonly associated drugs with NPDI-FHF while ecstasy and anti-tuberculous drugs are also commonly implicated. The geographical distribution of referrals mirrors that of the population distribution and NPDI-FHF is not confined to any particular social class. It is, more than twice as common among females than males, however. The incidence is evenly spread across the different age categories, but NPDI-FHF as a consequence of ecstasy ingestion is confined to younger age groups. Ecstasy associated NPDI-FHF was also associated with short latency periods.
NPDI-FHF is not a common problem in Scotland, but it is a serious problem for those affected and consumes considerable health care resources. Doctors need to be made aware that commonly prescribed drugs may cause fulminant hepatic failure. When a young adult presents with fulminant hepatic failure of sudden onset, ecstasy consumption must be considered.
Combination therapy consisting of mechanical unloading using a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) and pharmacological intervention can promote recovery from end-stage heart failure, but the mechanism is unknown. Preliminary microarray analysis revealed a significant and unexpected decrease in myocardial arginine:glycine amidinotransferase (AGAT) gene expression during recovery in these patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate the expression and role of AGAT expression in heart failure and recovery.
We used quantitative real time (TaqMan) polymerase chain reaction to examine myocardial AGAT mRNA expression in implant and explant samples from recovering patients after combination therapy (n=12), end-stage heart failure (ESHF) samples from stable patients undergoing transplantation without LVAD support (n=10), and donor hearts with normal hemodynamic function (n=8). AGAT mRNA expression was significantly elevated in all heart failure patients relative to donors (4.3-fold [P<0.001] and 2.7-fold [P<0.005] in LVAD and ESHF relative to donors, respectively) and returned to normal levels after recovery. AGAT enzyme activity was detectable in both human and rat myocardia and was elevated in heart failure.
Our data highlight local and potentially regulated expression of AGAT activity in the myocardium and suggest a specific response to heart failure involving elevated local creatine synthesis. These findings have implications both for the management of recovery patients undergoing combination therapy and for heart failure in general.
Protein expression changes were examined in day 10.5 rat embryos cultured for 24 hr in the presence of ethanol by using two-dimensional electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. Exposure to ethanol resulted in quantitative changes in many embryonic protein spots (16 decreased and 28 increased) at in vitro embryotoxic concentrations (130 and 195 mM); most changes occurred in a concentration-dependent manner. For these protein spots, 17 proteins were identified, including protein disulfide isomerase A3, alpha-fetoprotein, phosphorylated cofilin-1, and serum albumin. From the gene ontology classification and pathway mapping of the identified proteins, it was found that ethanol affected several biological processes involving oxidative stress and retinoid metabolism.
Rocuronium and, to a lesser extent, vecuronium can induce burning sensations associated with withdrawal reactions during administration. Dermal microdialysis in human and electrophysiological recordings of nociceptors in mouse skin were used to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of pain induction.
Microdialysis catheters were inserted intradermally into the forearm of 10 volunteers and were perfused with two different concentrations of rocuronium and vecuronium (1 and 10 mg mL(-1)) or a control. Dialysis samples were taken every 15 min and analysed for protein, histamine, tryptase and bradykinin content. Pain intensity was rated on a numerical scale of 0-10. In a parallel design, activation of cutaneous nociceptors was assessed directly in a skin-nerve in vitro preparation of the mouse hind paw. The receptive fields of identified single C-nociceptors (n = 12) were superfused with rocuronium or vecuronium solutions (10 mg mL(-1)) at physiological pH.
In accordance with clinical observations, microdialysis of rocuronium (10 mg mL(-1)) induced sharp burning pain (NRS 4.1 +/- 1.8), whereas vecuronium given in the usual clinical concentration (1 mg mL(-1)) induced only minor pain sensations (NRS 0.6 +/- 1.3). At equimolar concentrations, pain sensation and concomitant mediator release evoked by both drugs were similar. No correlations were found between pain rating and mediator release. In the in vitro preparation, C-fibres showed a consistent excitatory response with rapid onset after stimulation with vecuronium as well as rocuronium (differences not significant).
The algogenic effect of aminosteroidal neuromuscular blocking drugs can be attributed to a direct activation of C-nociceptors.
Phenytoin and carbamazepine were the antiepileptic drugs most frequently used in Mexico and throughout the world. Epileptic patients who take these drugs have a variety of collateral effects including the decrease of folates plasmatic level. Low seric folic acid concentration has been associated with a decline in cognitive functions. The administration of a combined treatment with folic acid could ameliorate these difficulties.
To describe the effect of the folic acid in the cognitive function in epileptic patients who take phenytoin and carbamazepine.
We chose patient who have epilepsy and that are being treated with phenytoin, carbamazepine or both and formed two groups. The study group was treated with a daily dose of 5 mg of folic acid and the control group was administered placebo for a period of six months, with nine patients in each group of same age, sex, education level, epilepsy's evolution, frequency of seizures, EEG abnormalities and antiepileptic drugs plasma levels. We registered data at the beginning (basal) and at the end of the study.
Measurements of basal folic acid plasma levels in both groups were under the referential value. The neuropsychological assessment at the beginning (Mini-Barcelona test) showed a deficit in the verbal memory skills in both groups. After six months of treatment with folic acid (study group), the folic acid plasma level was 12.2 mg/mL (p < 0.01) higher than the basal value. Verbal memory test has improved with respect to the basal value (p < 0.05). The numbers of seizures and the plasma levels of the antiepileptic drugs remained unchanged. On the other hand, the group treated with placebo did not improve.
Treatment with folic acid is safe and without side effects, it improved the cognitive function in patients with epilepsy treated with phenytoin and carbamazepine.
Although some studies have described the function of ADAM8 (a disintegrin and metalloprotease 8) related with rheumatoid arthritis, cancer and asthma, etc., the concrete role of ADAM8 in acute liver injury is still unknown. So mice respectively received anti-ADAM8 monoclonal antibody (mAb) of 100 μg/100 μl, 200 μg/100 μl or 300 μg/100 μl in PBS or PBS pre-injection. Then acute liver injury was induced in the mice by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of carbon tetrachloride (CCl₄). Serum AST and ALT level, Haematoxylin-eosin (H&E) staining, the expression level of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were detected in the mice after CCl4 administration. Our results showed that anti-ADAM8 mAb pre-injection could effectively lower AST and ALT levels (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01) and reduce liver injury (P < 0.05 or P <0.01), induce the expression of VEGF, CYP1A2 and PCNA (P <0.05 or P < 0.01) in dose-dependent manner compared with the control mice which received PBS pre-injection. In summary, our study suggested that ADAM8 might promote liver injury by inhibiting the proliferation of hepatocytes, angiogenesis and affecting the metabolism function of liver during acute liver injury induced by CCl₄. Anti-ADAM8 mAb injection might be suitable as a potential method for acute liver injury therapy.
We report a case of hepatotoxicity induced by methimazole treatment in a patient affected by hyperthyroidism. A 54-year-old man, presented to our observation for palpitations, excessive sweating, weakness, heat intolerance and weight loss. On physical examination, his blood pressure was 140/90 mmHg and heart beat was 100/min regular. He had mild tremors and left exophthalmos. Laboratory test revealed a significant increase in serum thyroid hormone levels with a decrease in thyroid stimulating hormone levels. A diagnosis of hyperthyroidism was made and he began treatment with methimazole (30 mg/day). Fourteen days later, he returned for the development of scleral icterus, followed by dark urine, and abdominal pain in the right upper quadrant. Laboratory examinations and liver biopsy performed a diagnosis of cholestatic hepatitis, secondary to methimazole usage. Methimazole was promptly withdrawn and cholestyramine, ursodeoxycholic acid, and chlorpheniramine were given. After five days, abdominal pain resolved and laboratory parameters returned to normal. Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between hepatotoxicity and methimazole therapy. In conclusion physicians should be aware the risk of hepatotoxicity related with methimazole.
Abnormal iron accumulation is linked to a variety of neurological disorders and may contribute to the progressive damage seen in these diseases. The biochemical processes responsible for iron accumulation are not known but are likely to entail alteration in transport into injured brain areas. The major transport protein responsible for uptake of iron is divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) and recent studies demonstrate that the 1B species is regulated post-translationally by degradation via the proteasomal pathway. As reported in this paper, the E3 ligase, parkin, when over-expressed in SH-SY5Y cells, results in a decrease in 1B-DMT1 isoforms and also a significant reduction in manganese transport and toxicity. Incubating cells over-expressing parkin with the proteasomal inhibitor, MG-132, restores 1B-DMT1 levels emphasizing that the observed changes are caused by degradation via the proteasomal pathway. Expression of the 1B species of DMT1 was also shown to be elevated in human lymphocytes containing a homozygous deletion of exon 4 of parkin and in brains of parkin knockout animals. Immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescent studies confirm that parkin co-localizes with DMT1 in SH-SY5Y cells transfected with wild-type parkin. These results demonstrate that parkin is the E3 ligase responsible for ubiquitination of the 1B species of DMT1.
Patients with a recent myocardial infarction have an increased risk of recurrent ischaemic events. In the ESTEEM trial, the oral direct thrombin inhibitor ximelagatran reduced the risk of new ischaemic events when compared with placebo in aspirin treated post myocardial infarction patients. Ximelagatran persistently reduced markers of coagulation activity, i.e. prothrombin fragment 1 + 2 (F1 + 2) and D-dimer levels. The aim of this substudy was to evaluate the levels of these markers and activated thromboplastin time (APTT) in relation to new ischaemic events or bleeding.
In the substudy, 518 out of 1883 patients were included and within 14 days after a myocardial infarction randomized to ximelagatran or placebo for 6 months. The clinical endpoints death, myocardial infarction, severe recurrent ischaemia, ischaemic stroke, and bleeding were evaluated. The levels of F1 + 2, D-dimer, and APTT were analysed at randomization and in serial samples during the study. Ximelagatran treatment appeared to have a larger treatment effect in patients with F1 + 2 and D-dimer levels above the median at randomization with a reduction of ischaemic events from 18 to 9% (P = 0.03) for F1 + 2 and from 20 to 9% for D-dimer (P = 0.009). A reduction of D-dimer levels was found in 60% of the patients 1 week after randomization and these patients had less ischaemic events when compared with patients with unchanged or increased levels (P = 0.03) regardless of treatment. F1 + 2 and D-dimer levels were unrelated to bleeding risk. In the ximelagatran group, increased APTT was not related to ischaemic events but associated with a raised risk of bleeding.
A reduction of initially high coagulation activity, as measured by the D-dimer level, in patients with recent myocardial infarction identifies patients with a decreased risk of new ischaemic events, regardless whether the reduction occurs spontaneously or is induced by pharmacological means. Patients with higher initial coagulation activity seemed to benefit most from long-term treatment with ximelagatran.
The characteristics of liver damage associated with the use of diclofenac, a popular nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, were investigated by reviewing adverse drug reaction reports for Australia. Twenty six patients were reported for whom diclofenac was the sole suspected drug cause of their liver damage. The average age of the patients was 64 years (range 37-84 years); 19 (70%) were women. The most common clinical features were jaundice, hepatomegaly, anorexia, and nausea. Features of drug hypersensitivity were not reported. Duration of treatment with diclofenac before the onset of the illness ranged from 6-417 days (median 76 days). The most prominent biochemical abnormalities were raised serum aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase activity of up to 30 to 40 times the upper limit of the normal range. Recovery generally started soon after withdrawal of diclofenac and the decrease in aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase for the group was exponential, with half lives of around 13 days. The average total dose taken by 18 patients for whom accurate data were available was 8.7 g (range 1.4-63.5 g) and, unexpectedly, there was a significant relation between the logarithm of the dose of diclofenac and the logarithms of the peak and mean transaminase levels. Hepatocellular damage during treatment with diclofenac seems to be a rare event. From this analysis of Australian reports it seems that in a small subgroup of patients liver injury may be a direct toxic effect of diclofenac or a metabolite.
Patients with stage D2 prostate carcinoma are often treated initially with hormones to decrease endogenous testosterone. Therapy with diethylstilbestrol (DES), leuprolide, or bilateral orchiectomy has been reported to be equivalent. DES is the cheapest preparation, but has the potential for serious cardiovascular or thromboembolic complications. Flutamide is a novel antiandrogen with fewer side effects.
The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) conducted a double-blind, randomized study to compare the efficacy of flutamide (250 mg three times daily) to DES (1 mg three times daily) as the primary hormonal therapy for patients with stage D2 prostate cancer. Patients were stratified by performance status, disease sites, and history of cardiovascular disease at randomization.
Forty-eight patients received DES and 44 flutamide. Patient characteristics were evenly distributed between the two treatments. The overall response rate was similar (DES, 62%; flutamide, 50%). Grade III or worse cardiovascular or thromboembolic toxicity developed in 33.3% of patients on DES and in 17.6% on flutamide (P = .051). Other toxicities were similar between the two treatment arms. However, DES produced significantly longer time to treatment failure (26.4 v 9.7 months, P = .016) and longer survival than flutamide (43.2 v 28.5 months, P = .040).
As the primary hormonal therapy for stage D2 prostate cancer, DES caused more serious cardiovascular or thromboembolic complications than flutamide. Despite this, flutamide was not as active an initial agent as DES. However, the effectiveness of flutamide in conjunction with other agents compared with DES remains undetermined, and the optimal initial hormone therapy of stage D2 prostate cancer requires further studies.
A case of intrahepatic cholestasis secondary to treatment with quetiapine in combination with lamotrigine and zopiclone, resulting in severe hypercholesterolaemia without overt lactescence of the plasma, is presented. Abundant lipoprotein-X was seen on lipoprotein electrophoresis. The patient was diagnosed and treated for hyponatraemia which was likely factitious and caused by hypercholesterolaemia. Cholestasis and hypercholesterolaemia resolved over a period of several months after the discontinuation of quetiapine.
Cocaine abusers exhibit impairment of executive cognitive functions that are mediated by the frontal cortex. This work tested for structural (i.e., tissue composition) abnormalities that may underlie such performance deficits. Research participants were cocaine abusers (n = 14) abstinent for 20 days and a non-drug-using comparison group (n = 11), who underwent magnetic resonance imaging (T1-weighted scans of the brain). Gray matter and white matter tissue densities were determined using voxel-based morphometry with small volume correction based on a priori hypotheses derived from functional imaging of the same subjects. Cocaine abusers had significantly lower gray matter tissue density than did the non drug users in 10 of 13 small volumes analyzed in the frontal cortex [bilateral anterior cingulate gyrus (infragenual and perigenual regions) and medial orbitofrontal cortex and the lateral orbitofrontal cortex and middle/dorsal cingulate gyrus in the right hemisphere]. No group differences were found in white matter density of the frontal cortex. These results extend our previous findings of defective frontal cortical activation (indexed by cerebral blood flow) in cocaine abusers to include abnormalities in gray matter tissue density in the same frontal cortical regions.
A case of prolonged neuromuscular block following the administration of suxamethonium is reported. Three hours after administration of suxamethonium, a well defined, recovering phase II block was demonstrated with a T4:T1 ratio of 0.25, and neostigmine was administered. Although the T4:T1 ratio was improved to 0.9, T1 remained at 25% of control, and significant paralysis persisted which responded to administration of cholinesterase. It is concluded that neuromuscular monitoring cannot reliably predict reversibility in such cases and that, even after 3 h, antagonism of prolonged suxamethonium block should commence with cholinesterase, followed by neostigmine if necessary.
To investigate the activation pattern of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in the hippocampus of mice during pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) and its relationship with reactive astrogliosis.
Status epilepticus (SE) models were established by intraperitoneal injection of pilocarpine. The intervention group received the ERK1/2 signaling pathway inhibitor SL327 before the pilocarpine injection. We evaluated the SE model group, the intervention group and the control saline-treated group, at 6 hours and 3 days after initiation of the seizure. Phosphorylated activated ERK1/2 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were labeled with both single-labeling and sequential single-labeling immunohistochemical techniques.
Among the pilocarpine-treated (SE model) mice, strong immunohistochemical staining of phospho-ERK1/2 was observed in the neurons and astrocytes of the hippocampus at 6 hours after initiation of SE, whereas staining on the third day of SE was not different from the control saline-treated mice. In the SL327-treated mice (intervention group), SL327 effectively blocked the ERK1/2 activation and little gliosis could be detected at 6 hours and 3 days after initiation of SE; the levels of phospho-ERK1/2 remained low, but the level of gliosis was similar to that of SE mice.
The ERK1/2 signaling pathway plays an important role in the early stage of reactive astrogliosis in mice with pilocarpine-induced SE.
Dapsone is still widely used for a range of infectious and inflammatory diseases. A potential severe side-effect, known as dapsone-induced hypersensitivity syndrome (DHS), may occur. DHS is characterized by fever, skin rashes, lymphadenopathy and multiorgan dysfunction manifesting as hepatitis, cholangitis, pneumonitis, colitis, thyroiditis and myocarditis. However, DHS-associated complete atrioventricular block has not previously been reported. We describe here a 45-year-old Chinese woman who developed DHS after 5 weeks of dapsone therapy for pustular palmoplantar psoriasis. In addition to typical DHS symptoms, she experienced several episodes of syncope as a result of complete atrioventricular block which was successfully reversed with a permanent pacemaker implantation.
In a retrospective follow-up study of 230 psychotic patients treated with haloperidol, the incidence of parkinsonian side effects was greater in patients under 40 than in patients 40 years of age or older.
The evaluation of drug efficacy in patients with advanced prostatic cancer who have progressed to hormonal therapy is difficult, although palliation of the pain related to bone involvement still represents an important endpoint. In this study, epirubicin (EpiADM) plus medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) were given to advanced prostatic cancer patients with symptomatic bone involvement who had progressed to hormonal therapy. EpiADM was administered at a dose of 30 mg/m2 i.v. weekly and MPA at a daily dose of 1,000 mg p.o. for the first month and 500 mg thereafter. Fifty-four patients entered the trial, all of whom were evaluable. Amelioration of pain and a > or = 50% reduction in analgesic intake were observed in 52% of cases, with a mean duration of 4 months. Of the 28 responsive patients, 26 had already received two lines of hormonal therapy or were resistant to first-line therapy. Of the 23 patients with measurable lesions, 6 obtained a > or = 50% tumor shrinkage at these sites. The treatment was well tolerated, and no cardiac toxicity was observed up to a total cumulative EpiADM dose of 660 mg/m2. In conclusion, this regimen seems to have a palliative effect in patients with advanced prostatic cancer who have progressed to hormonal therapy, and it is feasible in an outpatient setting.
Ninety patients with stage-3 non-small cell lung cancer were given vindesine (3 mg/sq m) plus mitomycin (10 mg/sq m). Data on response are available for 84 adequately treated individuals (93 percent). For patients who had received no prior chemotherapy, the rate of major objective response was 36 percent (20/55). For previously treated patients the rate of major response was 17 percent (5/29). The drugs were routinely administered in the outpatient department without difficulty. Moderate or severe myelosuppression, neurotoxic, nephrotoxic, or pulmonary toxic effects, nausea, and vomiting occurred in less than 15 percent of all studied patients. Three-drug extravasation ulcerations occurred in 1,129 administrations of chemotherapy (0.3 percent). There were two treatment-related deaths, one from sepsis and one from the combination of mitomycin-induced pulmonary and renal toxic effects. The combination of vindesine plus mitomycin is an active, well-tolerated outpatient regimen for patients with non-small cell lung cancer who have not previously received chemotherapy. Further trials are warranted to compare this regimen to other active combinations and to use it as a component of a program of treatment using alternating regimens of chemotherapy.
A hitherto undescribed form of immune haemolytic anaemia due to penicillin antibody is described. The antibody, which was of the IgM class, fixed complement and caused acute haemolysis. Oral penicillin seems to have been responsible both for antibody production and, on subsequent exposure, for the haemolytic anaemia.
