Prostate cancer is the most frequently diagnosed malignancy in the Western world and changes in the ratio of testosterone and estrogens with advancing age is one of the potential risk factors in the development of this disease. However, the molecular mechanisms associated with hormone imbalance in prostate carcinogenesis are poorly understood. In this study we induced a high incidence of prostate hyperplasia, dysplasia and adenocarcinoma in the Noble rat using a combination of testosterone and estradiol-17beta. Using this animal model, we studied the gene expression profile during sex hormone-induced prostate carcinogenesis using a cDNA array technique; the results were further confirmed by RT-PCR, western blotting and immunohistochemical analyses. We found up-regulation of TRPM-2 (testosterone-repressed prostatic message-2), MMP-7 (matrix metalloproteinase-7) and Id-1 (inhibitor of differentiation or DNA binding) during development of sex hormone-induced prostate cancer. Increased expression of TRPM-2 and MMP-7 was observed in both premalignant and malignant tissues after sex hormone treatment, indicating their role in the early stages of hormone response and prostate cancer development. In contrast, Id-1 was expressed at relatively low levels in all premalignant samples but increased in malignant cells, suggesting its potential roles as a biomarker for prostate cancer cells. Furthermore, expression of Id-1 appeared to be stronger in poorly differentiated lesions than in well-differentiated carcinomas, suggesting that the levels of Id-1 expression may be correlated with the malignancy of tumors. Our results provide the first evidence of up-regulation of TRPM-2, MMP-7 and Id-1 during sex hormone-induced prostate carcinogenesis and strongly suggest their association with the development of prostate cancer.
A 2-month-old infant with gastroesophageal reflux was treated with cisapride. Bradycardia developed and an electrocardiogram revealed 2:1 atrioventricular conduction and a prolonged QT interval. After cessation of cisapride therapy, both the rhythm and the QT interval returned to normal. Prolonged QT interval during treatment with cisapride may occur in children as in adults.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder of unknown etiology. Considerable evidence suggests that free radical formation and oxidative stress might play an important role in the pathogenesis of PD. In the present investigation we evaluated the therapeutic potential of methylparaben (MP) a well known pharmaceutical preservative against 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) neurotoxicity in SH-SY5Y cells and in a mouse model of PD. At nanomolar concentrations MP (0.01, 0.1 and 1 nM) significantly attenuated the 6-OHDA- and hydrogen peroxide-induced cytotoxicity in SH-SY5Y cells. The reactive oxygen species generated by 6-OHDA in SH-SY5Y cells was also inhibited by MP in a concentration dependent fashion. Further, intranigral damage induced by stereotaxically injecting 6-OHDA in mouse brain was significantly attenuated by MP treatment. MP (1, 10 or 50 μg/kg, i.p.) prevented apomorphine-induced rotational behavior and significantly improved motor deficits in 6-OHDA-lesioned mice. The cognitive impairments as evaluated by passive avoidance and Y-maze task in mice were also attenuated by MP concentration dependently. Immunohistochemical analysis of substantia nigra in MP treated mice showed significantly higher number of surviving tyrosine hydroxylase positive cells. Furthermore, MP also suppressed the lipid peroxidation products in 6-OHDA-lesioned mouse brain tissues. Considering the results obtained, the marked neuroprotection exhibited by MP might be attributed to its potent antioxidant property. In conclusion, this study reports the neuroprotective properties of MP in experimental models of PD for the first time and can be developed as a potential therapeutic agent.
Autosomal recessive Robinow syndrome is caused by mutations in ROR2 and is characterized by short stature, mesomelic limb shortening, brachydactyly, vertebral abnormalities, and a characteristic "fetal face" dysmorphology. We report the clinical and molecular studies on two adults with this condition. Besides typical skeletal and facial features, one patient developed hydronephrosis, nephrocalcinosis, and renal failure. The second patient had characteristic skeletal manifestations including severe spinal involvement and showed endocrinological abnormalities including elevated gonadotropic hormones. The facial phenotype in both patients remained distinctive into adulthood. Analysis of the ROR2 gene revealed a homozygous c.1937_1943delACAAGCT mutation in Patient 1, and compound heterozygosity for c.355C > T (p.R119X). and c.550C > T (p.R184C) in Patient 2.
High-dose 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) infusion into the internal carotid artery following cranial irradiation in the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme is accompanied by evidence of leukoencephalopathy in a significant number of patients. In an attempt to avoid this problem, a phase I trial was performed using intracarotid BCNU infusion before irradiation. Twenty-eight patients with grade III/III astrocytoma (World Health Organization Classification, equivalent to Kernohan grade IV) received a 400-mg infusion of BCNU into the infraophthalmic carotid artery. The treatment was repeated every 4 weeks for a total of four cycles prior to cranial irradiation (5500 to 6000 cGy). The major toxic sequelae included nausea and vomiting (24%), decreased visual acuity (14%), transient cerebral ischemia (3.5%), and thrombocytopenia (3.5%). Fatal leukoencephalopathy occurred in two patients. The median survival time was 37 weeks for all evaluable patients and 56+ weeks for those completing the protocol. The tumor response to drug infusion as judged by computerized tomography (CT) was complete in 22% of patients and partial in 22%; 56% showed no CT tumor response. Pre-irradiation intracarotid artery BCNU benefits a very small group of patients with grade III/III astrocytoma. The associated severe leukoencephalopathy makes this mode of therapy unacceptable for a phase III trial.
Inhibitors of DNA methyltransferases (DNMT) and histone deacetylases can reactivate epigenetically silenced tumor suppressor genes and thereby decrease tumor cell growth. Little, however, is known on the effects of these compounds in endothelial cell biology and tumor angiogenesis. Here, we show that the DNMT inhibitors 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine and zebularine markedly decrease vessel formation in different tumor models. We show that DNMT inhibitors are antiproliferative for tumor-conditioned endothelial cells, without affecting endothelial cell apoptosis and migration. Furthermore, these compounds inhibit angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo as shown by inhibition of endothelial cells sprouting in a three-dimensional gel and inhibition of microvessel formation in the chorioallantoic membrane, respectively. 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine, as well as the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A, reactivates the growth-inhibiting genes TSP1, JUNB, and IGFBP3, which are suppressed in tumor-conditioned endothelial cells. Despite enhanced DNMT activity and increased overall genomic methylation levels in tumor-conditioned endothelial cells, silencing of these genes seemed not to be regulated by direct promoter hypermethylation. For IGFBP3, gene expression in endothelial cells correlated with histone H3 acetylation patterns. In conclusion, our data show that DNMT inhibitors have angiostatic activity in addition to their inhibitory effects on tumor cells. This dual action of these compounds makes them promising anticancer therapeutics.
In aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), CHOP (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, prednisolone) regimen has been standard for decades, and rituximab has increased response rates and survival in CD20 positive patients, recently. The aim of this prospective trial was to evaluate the long-term efficacy and toxicity of MINE as a consolidation treatment in aggressive NHL patients who had achieved CR or unproven CR after six cycles of CHOP in the first line setting. The primary end-point was disease-free-survival (DFS). Thirty-eight patients were enrolled between February 1992 and May 2000. All of the patients received two cycles of MINE (mesna 1.3 g/m(2), ifosfamide 1.3 g/m(2), etoposide 65 mg/m(2) on days 1-3, and mitoxantrone 12 mg/m(2) on day 1, every 3 weeks) following response to CHOP. Initial bulky disease sites were also applied radiotherapy. Male/female ratio was 1.53(23/15). Median age was 49(30-73). Most of the patients had advanced stage (84.2% for stage >3) and high IPI score (79% for IPI score >2). Sixty percent had diffuse large cell histology. Median follow-up time was 118 months (9-195). Actual mean dose intensity was 88%. There were seven febrile neutropenia episodes. Two patients had grade two neuropathy, one had grade three mucositis and another one had non-neutropenic pneumonia. There was no early toxic death. No serious late toxicity was observed during long-term follow-up. Five- and 10-year DFS rates were both 65.3%. DFS rate in the patients with more than two poor prognostic factors according to IPI score is remarkably high (88%). Five- and 10-year OS was 62.5 and 59%, respectively. MINE regimen seems to be effective as a consolidation regimen, especially, in intermediate/high risk patients and has low early and late toxicities, and it warrants to be evaluated in phase III randomised trials with rituximab in CD20 positive aggressive NHL patients.
Flavonoid and alkaloid fractions of Desmodium gangeticum were evaluated for antiinflammatory and antioxidant activities in carrageenan-induced inflamed rats with the aim of studying the promising fraction for inhibitory action on ferrous sulphate induced lipid peroxidation, superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and total reduced glutathione in liver and spleen homogenates of inflamed rats. The results showed that the flavonoid fraction of D. gangeticum possesses potent antioxidant activity compared with the alkaloid fraction and also with respect to the standard drug indomethacin, in terms of augmentation of the liver and spleen SOD, CAT and GPX activities, concomitant with a reduction in lipid peroxidation (TBARS). In addition, the quantification of caffeic and chlorogenic acid in the flavonoid fraction has also been carried out using HPLC, which can be utilized as a marker compound in the standardization.
This prospective study investigated hypertension and renal vasoconstriction developing during the 1st year after renal transplantation in patients randomly allocated to treatment with FK 506 (n = 28) or CyA (n = 13). Starting doses were 0.2-0.3 mg/kg per day for FK 506 and 5-8 mg/kg per day for CyA: doses were subsequently adjusted to trough levels (5-15 ng/ml for FK 506 and 100-150 ng/ml for CyA). We compared 24-h ambulatory blood pressure measurement, antihypertensive treatment, serum creatinine, and resistance index (RI), measured by Doppler ultrasound at the level of the interlobar artery. Until month 2 of treatment, FK 506-treated patients had a significantly lower RI (8%) and better renal graft function, as evidenced by significantly lower serum creatinine values. Some 13% of FK 506-treated patients, compared to 70% of CyA-treated patients (P < 0.01), needed additional antihypertensive drugs after transplantation to keep blood pressure stable. FK 506 treatment, at the above-mentioned dosages, was associated with a significantly higher number of infections (urinary tract infection, pyelonephritis, and pneumonia). We conclude that CyA produces greater renal vasoconstriction and systemic hypertension than FK 506, as reflected in higher renal interlobar artery RI values and a greater need for antihypertensive treatment. After 2 months of treatment and a reduction in CyA trough levels, the renal effects (i.e., lower RI and lower creatinine values), but not the systemic hypertensive effects, disappear.
When mice were pretreated with meperidine, the incidence of lidocaine-induced convulsions was increased. Nitrous oxide-oxygen (N2O-02) offered no protection against convulsions caused by lidocaine alone but lowered the incidence of lidocaine-induced convulsions of mice pretreated with meperidine.
Adrenal secretion rates of aldosterone, corticosterone, and deoxycorticosterone were studied sequentially in the spontaneously hypertensive rat and the normotensive Kyoto Wistar rat. Steroid secretion was studied at three different ages: 7-8, 11-13, and 22-25 weeks. Also, peripheral plasma levels of aldosterone and plasma renin activity were determined in both the spontaneously hypertensive and the normotensive rats at 7-8 weeks of age. Aldosterone secretion was elevated markedly in dexamethasone-morphine-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats at both 7-8 and 11-13 weeks of age but was not significantly different from control in 22-25-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats. No statistically significant differences in corticosterone or deoxycorticosterone secretion rates were observed between the spontaneously hypertensive rats and the normotensive Kyoto Wistar controls; however, the data suggested that dexamethasone did not suppress adrenocorticotropic hormone in the 7-8- and 11-13-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats to the same extent that it did in the normotensive Kyoto Wistar rats. Therefore, aldosterone secretion was reexamined in acutely hypophysectomized 7-8-week-old rats to eliminate completely the influence of the anterior pituitary; no differences in aldosterone, corticosterone, or deoxycorticosterone secretion rates were observed between hypophysectomized spontaneously hypertensive rats and normotensive Kyoto Wistar rats. Moreover, aldosterone secretion in the hypophysectomized 7-8-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats was reduced markedly compared with that in the intact 7-8-week old spontaneously hypertensive rats, thus confirming the importance of the pituitary in these animals. Determinations of peripheral plasma aldosterone concentration and plasma renin activity in unstressed 7-8-week-old spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive rats revealed that both parameters were depressed significantly in the spontaneously hypertensive rats. Thus, the present data indicate that the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is suppressed in the spontaneously hypertensive rat but do not suggest that the system is critically involved in the hypertensive process in these animals
Cocaine-induced alterations in gene expression cause changes in neuronal morphology and behavior that may underlie cocaine addiction. In mice, we identified an essential role for histone 3 lysine 9 (H3K9) dimethylation and the lysine dimethyltransferase G9a in cocaine-induced structural and behavioral plasticity. Repeated cocaine administration reduced global levels of H3K9 dimethylation in the nucleus accumbens. This reduction in histone methylation was mediated through the repression of G9a in this brain region, which was regulated by the cocaine-induced transcription factor DeltaFosB. Using conditional mutagenesis and viral-mediated gene transfer, we found that G9a down-regulation increased the dendritic spine plasticity of nucleus accumbens neurons and enhanced the preference for cocaine, thereby establishing a crucial role for histone methylation in the long-term actions of cocaine.
Diabetic heart disease contributes to the high mortality in diabetics, although effective clinical management is lacking. The protease inhibitor 5-[5-(2-nitrophenyl) furfuryliodine]-1,3-diphenyl-2-thiobarbituric acid (UCF-101) was reported to protect the hearts against ischemic injury. This study examined the role of UCF-101 on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic heart defect. Vehicle or UCF-101 was administrated to STZ diabetic mice, and cardiomyocyte mechanical properties were analyzed. UCF-101 reduced STZ-induced hyperglycemia and alleviated STZ-induced aberration in cardiomyocyte contractile mechanics. Diabetes dramatically decreased AMPK phosphorylation at Thr(172) of catalytic alpha-subunit, which was restored by UCF-101. Neither diabetes nor UCF-101 affected the expression of HtrA2/Omi and XIAP or caspase-3 activity. The AMPK activator resveratrol mimicked the UCF-101-induced beneficial effect against diabetic cardiac dysfunction. Mechanical properties in cardiomyocytes from the AMPK-kinase-dead (KD) mice displayed markedly impaired contractile function reminiscent of diabetes. STZ injection in AMPK-KD mice failed to elicit any additional cardiomyocyte contractile defect. UCF-101 significantly downregulated the AMPK-degrading enzymes PP2A and PP2C, the effect of which was mimicked by resveratrol. Taken together, these results indicate that UCF-101 protects against STZ-induced cardiac dysfunction, possibly through AMPK signaling.
The aim of the study was to evaluate cardiac safety of two different schedules of Epirubicin and Paclitaxel in advanced breast cancer patients enrolled into a multicenter randomized phase III trial. Patients received Epirubicin 90 mg m(-2) plus Paclitaxel 200 mg m(-2) (3-h infusion) on day 1 every 3 weeks for eight courses (arm A), or Epirubicin 120 mg m(-2) on day 1 every 3 weeks for four courses followed by four courses of Paclitaxel 250 mg m(-2) on day 1 every 3 weeks (arm B). Left ventricular ejection fraction was evaluated by bidimesional echocardiography at baseline, after four and eight courses of chemotherapy and every 4 months during follow-up. Baseline median left ventricular ejection fraction was 60% in arm A and 65% in arm B; after four courses, figures were 57 and 60%, respectively. After eight courses, the median left ventricular ejection fraction in arm A declined to 50% while no further reduction was detected in arm B by adding four courses of high-dose Paclitaxel. Seven episodes of congestive heart failure were observed during treatment in arm A. Present monitoring demonstrated that the risk of congestive heart failure or impairment in the cardiac function correlated only with the cumulative dose of Epirubicin; no impact on cardiotoxicity can be attributed to high-dose Paclitaxel.
The risk of recurrence is lower after treatment of an episode of venous thromboembolism associated with a transient risk factor, such as recent surgery, than after an episode associated with a permanent, or no, risk factor. Retrospective analyses suggest that 1 month of anticoagulation is adequate for patients whose venous thromboembolic event was provoked by a transient risk factor.
In this double-blind study, patients who had completed 1 month of anticoagulant therapy for a first episode of venous thromboembolism provoked by a transient risk factor were randomly assigned to continue warfarin or to placebo for an additional 2 months. Our goal was to determine if the duration of treatment could be reduced without increasing the rate of recurrent venous thromboembolism during 11 months of follow-up.
Of 84 patients assigned to placebo, five (6.0%) had recurrent venous thromboembolism, compared with three of 81 (3.7%) assigned to warfarin, resulting in an absolute risk difference of 2.3%[95% confidence interval (CI) - 5.2, 10.0]. The incidence of recurrent venous thromboembolism after discontinuation of warfarin was 6.8% per patient-year in those who received warfarin for 1 month and 3.2% per patient-year in those who received warfarin for 3 months (rate difference of 3.6% per patient-year; 95% CI - 3.8, 11.0). There were no major bleeds in either group.
Duration of anticoagulant therapy for venous thromboembolism provoked by a transient risk factor should not be reduced from 3 months to 1 month as this is likely to increase recurrent venous thromboembolism without achieving a clinically important decrease in bleeding.
Recent genomic profiling of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) identified a high-risk subtype with an expression signature resembling that of Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL and poor prognosis (Ph-like ALL). However, the role of inherited genetic variation in Ph-like ALL pathogenesis remains unknown. In a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of 511 ALL cases and 6,661 non-ALL controls, we identified a susceptibility locus for Ph-like ALL (GATA3, rs3824662; P = 2.17 × 10(-14), odds ratio (OR) = 3.85 for Ph-like ALL versus non-ALL; P = 1.05 × 10(-8), OR = 3.25 for Ph-like ALL versus non-Ph-like ALL), with independent validation. The rs3824662 risk allele was associated with somatic lesions underlying Ph-like ALL (CRLF2 rearrangement, JAK gene mutation and IKZF1 deletion) and with variation in GATA3 expression. Finally, genotype at the GATA3 SNP was also associated with early treatment response and risk of ALL relapse. Our results provide insights into interactions between inherited and somatic variants and their role in ALL pathogenesis and prognosis.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is a special subtype of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with M3 morphology and specific chromosomal translocation t(15;17) with resultant leukemogenic PML-RARalpha fusion gene. Its main characteristics are therapy response using all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) and its high rate of recovery; higher than other subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia. Arsenic trioxide induces a high complete remission rate in patients having an APL relapse. Experience in the use of this drug is still limited in the field of Paediatrics.
The authors report a case of a lady of 45 years of age who presented with a cardiomyopathy with hypothiaminaemia which had been made considerably worse by treatment with imipramine. Once treatment with the antidepressant was stopped, her condition returned to its previous status. The very high plasma imipramine level recorded in his case is undoubtedly the reason for the cardiac toxicity. The mechanism and role of hypothiaminaemia have not far been explained logically.
The worldwide increment of multidrug- and extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis has emphasized the importance of looking for new options in therapeutics. Long-time usage or higher doses of isoniazid and rifampicin have been considered for the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis; however, the risk of liver failure is proportionally increased. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a multitask growth factor that stimulates both antiapoptotic and antioxidant responses that counteract the toxic effects of drug metabolism in the liver. The present work was focused to address the antioxidant and antiapoptotic effects of HGF on isoniazid- and rifampicin-induced hepatotoxicity. BALB/c mice were subjected to rifampicin (150mg/kg, intragavage [ig]) plus isoniazid (75mg/kg, ig) for 7 days. Increments in alanine aminotransferase activity, steatosis, apoptosis, and oxidative stress markers were found in animals. Recombinant HGF (iv) prevented all the harmful effects by increasing the activation of Erk1/2 and PKCδ signaling pathways and glutathione (GSH) synthesis. Furthermore, inhibition of endogenous HGF with anti-HGF antibody (iv) enhanced the isoniazid- and rifampicin-induced oxidative stress damage and decreased the GSH content, aggravating liver damage. In conclusion, HGF demonstrated to be a good protective factor against antituberculosis drug-induced hepatotoxicity and could be considered a good adjuvant factor for the use of high doses of or the reintroduction of these antituberculosis drugs.
The study aimed to examine if dysmetabolic subjects (MetS+) have lower adiponectin gene expression and lower circulating adiponectin levels than non-dysmetabolic obese subjects (MetS-) at baseline, if adiponectin expression and adiponectin concentration rise more in the dysmetabolic group during weight loss, and if v-SNARE Vti1a (vesicle transport soluble NSF attachment protein receptor vps10p tail interacting 1a) expression increases during the weight loss, as a mechanism for increased adiponectin secretion. Twenty-one obese MetS+ and 19 obese MetS- subjects underwent a very low-energy diet for 16 weeks followed by 2 weeks of refeeding. Abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue biopsies and blood samples were taken before, during, and after dieting for DNA microarray, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, and biochemical analyses. Serum adiponectin was also assessed in a sex- and age-matched healthy, nonobese reference group. Weight decreased by 26.3+/-9.8 kg in the MetS+ group and 28.2+/-8.4 kg in the MetS- group with concomitant reductions in insulin, hemoglobin A1c, and triglycerides that were more pronounced in the MetS+ group. Initially, the MetS+ subjects had lower serum adiponectin, but the differences disappeared at week 8, with a continuous increase in serum adiponectin throughout the study in both groups to a level that was higher than in the reference group. The expression of adiponectin and v-SNARE Vti1a did not differ between the groups or over time. In conclusion, obese subjects with the metabolic syndrome had lower circulating adiponectin than subjects without the syndrome. Weight loss increased serum levels of adiponectin without a parallel increase in adiponectin gene expression. The mechanisms involved in the regulation of adiponectin levels merits further investigation.
Catecholamine depletion, evoked by reserpine, dramatically impaired (5-fold) the testosterone-induced increase of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity in female mouse kidney. However, reserpine did not prevent kidney hypertrophy evoked by testosterone. This is evidenced by the activity of sensitive, biochemical markers of renal hypertrophy, namely arginase and ornithine aminotransferase (OAT), that responded with the increase and decrease of activities to testosterone treatment, respectively. Arginine and ornithine, substrates and/or products of marker enzymes, showed a striking homeostasis as their level was not affected by testosterone and reserpine, and only slightly by DFMO. Northern blot analysis revealed that the ODC mRNA level, that was increased 10-fold by testosterone, was decreased 2-fold in catecholamine-depleted hypertrophic kidney. Thus, ODC transcript level, lowered by reserpine, correlated partially with an attenuated response of ODC activity to testosterone. This was in contrast to DFMO, which inhibited ODC activity, but significantly increased its mRNA content. It is concluded that catecholamines could be involved together with testosterone in regulation of the ODC gene expression in mouse kidney.
The 24-h profile of blood pressure (BP) was studied in 28 patients (21 males and 7 females) with congenital heart failure (CHF) of NYHA class II-III (ejection fraction < 45%). The patients were 46 to 76 years of age and had postinfarction cardiosclerosis. They had not received ACE inhibitors before. Two groups were formed basing on the presence of hypertension. Perindopril was administered in a single daily dose of 2 mg or higher if demanded to reduce symptoms of CHF and/or to normalize BP. The treatment continued for 3 months. The 24-h BP profile was assessed using portable device SpaceLabs 90207 (USA). In CHF patients with hypertension perindopril significantly lowered mean 24-h, day and night BP and its loads, reestablished two-phase circadian rhythm of AP and corrected BP variability. In CHF patients free of hypertension significant changes of the profile were not registered. It is evident that unwanted changes in the BP 24-h profile due to perindopril were absent in CHF normotensives.
A 21-year-old man presented to the emergency department in St James's Hospital by ambulance. He was found collapsed at home by his uncle. He was complaining of severe pain and swelling to his left lower limb, with reduced sensation to his left foot. He was hepatitis C positive from intravenous drug use, and had most recently used both heroin and cocaine 5 days previously on his release from prison. Musculoskeletal exam showed extensive swelling of his left lower limb, with tense calf compartments. Initial laboratory results showed a raised creatine kinase of more than 155,000 IU/l. Urine toxicology was positive for methadone, heroin and benzodiazepines, whereas urinary dipstick was positive for blood, which was confirmed to be myoglobin by subsequent laboratory analysis. Atraumatic rhabdomyolysis is a syndrome characterized by injury to skeletal muscle with subsequent release of intracellular contents, that is myoglobin and creatine kinase. Drugs have direct toxic effects, but may also cause coma-induced rhabdomyolysis, owing to unrelieved pressure on gravity-dependent body parts. Diagnosis is made with history (i.e. recent heroin or cocaine use), elevated serum CK, plus the possible presence of myoglobinuria. Aggressive i.v. rehydration remains the mainstay of treatment. If there is any evidence of compartment syndrome, urgent fasciotomy is required. Electrolyte imbalances should be corrected, unless very mildly abnormal. We have learned from our experience with this case that a high index of suspicion and thereby early recognition is crucial to prevent complications in intravenous drug users presenting with unusual symptoms and signs.
The ICF syndrome (immunodeficiency, centromeric instability, facial anomalies) (OMIM#242860) is a rare autosomal, recessively inherited disorder. Another rare condition, ischiadic hypoplasia, renal dysgenesis, immunodeficiency, and polydactyly (IHRDIP, OMIM#243340), displays features that resemble those of the ICF syndrome. Due to the overlapping symptoms in both syndromes, we asked whether a shared underlying molecular defect exists. Two patients, each with the clinical characteristics of one of these syndromes, were subjected to conventional cytogenetic analysis and the determination of the methylation state of satellite II DNA. We found that both displayed the two hallmark features of the ICF syndrome, namely hypomethylation and centromeric instability of chromosomes 1 and 16. Therefore, we reclassified the patient previously diagnosed with the IHRDIP syndrome as an ICF patient. Since the majority of ICF patients are carriers of mutations in the methytransferase gene DNMT3B, we determined the sequence of its coding, splice site, and putative promoter region and analyzed its transcripts in both patients, without detecting any alterations. Similarly, the coding region of two DNMT3B-interacting proteins, SUMO-1 and UBC9, did not reveal mutations. With this study, the published number of patients that lack mutations in DNMT3B coding region increases to almost 40% of all ICF patients reported. It is, therefore, implied that a significant subset of ICF patients will have a yet unknown, alternative alteration, which may include the involvement of DNMT3B-interacting factors or aberrations of an independent pathway.
Fourteen slightly disabled patients with Parkinsonism were treated separately with benzhexol, amantadine, and levodopa. Benzhexol and amantadine both gave a 15% reduction in functional disability and levodopa a 36% reduction. Benzhexol lessened the rigidity and improved the flexion of posture of Parkinson's disease, but had little or no effect on akinesia and tremor. Amantadine and levodopa caused improvement in all these symptoms. The combination of benzhexol and amantadine was as effective after four weeks of treatment as levodopa was after six months.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a clonal B-cell malignancy characterized by slow-growing plasma cells in the bone marrow (BM). Patients with MM typically respond to initial chemotherapies; however, essentially all progress to a chemoresistant state. Factors that contribute to the chemorefractory phenotype include modulation of free radical scavenging, increased expression of drug efflux pumps, and changes in gene expression that allow escape from apoptotic signaling. Recent data indicate that arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) induces remission of refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia and apoptosis of cell lines overexpressing Bcl-2 family members; therefore, it was hypothesized that chemorefractory MM cells would be sensitive to As(2)O(3). As(2)O(3) induced apoptosis in 4 human MM cell lines: 8226/S, 8226/Dox40, U266, and U266/Bcl-x(L). The addition of interleukin-6 had no effect on cell death. Glutathione (GSH) has been implicated as an inhibitor of As(2)O(3)-induced cell death either through conjugating As(2)O(3) or by sequestering reactive oxygen induced by As(2)O(3). Consistent with this possibility, increasing GSH levels with N-acetylcysteine attenuated As(2)O(3) cytotoxicity. Decreases in GSH have been associated with ascorbic acid (AA) metabolism. Clinically relevant doses of AA decreased GSH levels and potentiated As(2)O(3)-mediated cell death of all 4 MM cell lines. Similar results were obtained in freshly isolated human MM cells. In contrast, normal BM cells displayed little sensitivity to As(2)O(3) alone or in combination with AA. Together, these data suggest that As(2)O(3) and AA may be effective antineoplastic agents in refractory MM and that AA might be a useful adjuvant in GSH-sensitive therapies. (Blood. 2001;98:805-813)
A group of 150 Belgian women aged 17-47 taking various oral contraceptives was compared with a control group of 400 with respect to incidence of cholasma and piloseborrheic disorders. While taking pills, 10% of alopecia and 5.3% of juvenile acne cases were improved, but the following symptoms appeared: hypertrichosis in 4%, alopecia in 14.6, juvenile acne in 16.6%, and rosaceous acne in 3.3%. The incidence of these symptoms in the controls was cholasma .75%, hypertrichosis 5.25%, alopecia 11.5%, juvenile acne 21%, and acne rosacea 1%. The pill seemed to aggravate cholasma and rosaceous acne or to improve piloseborrheic symptoms, depending on whether the formulation was dominant in estrogen or progestagen.
Alterations in the balance of several cations have been shown to affect the severity of acute renal failure. It has been suggested in both clinical and experimental studies that changes in phosphate balance can markedly potentiate as well as ameliorate the renal dysfunction seen in both acute and chronic nephropathies. To determine the role phosphate plays in the course of gentamicin-induced acute renal failure, we examined rats maintained on control, phosphate-supplemented, and phosphate-depleted diets. In both control and phosphate-supplemented groups of rats, the degree and severity of gentamicin-induced acute renal failure was similar. By contrast, renal function was better preserved in the phosphate-depleted group. Furthermore, morphologic evaluation revealed a significantly lower number of necrotic proximal tubule cells in phosphate-depleted rats when compared to the control or phosphate-replete rats. Renal cortical gentamicin concentrations were not different between the phosphate-depleted and phosphate-supplemented groups. We conclude that phosphate depletion is protective against nephrotoxicity. This effect appears to be independent of alterations in serum calcium, urinary calcium excretion and renal cortical gentamicin concentration.
