Azathioprine and rheumatoid arthritis are known to be associated with an increased risk of the development of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; however, the manifestation of fulminant hepatic failure is extremely uncommon in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. In this article, we describe a patient with rheumatoid arthritis who was taking azathioprine, in whom fulminant hepatic failure occurred because of massive lymphomatous infiltration of the liver.
The in vitro activity of telavancin was tested against 743 predominantly antimicrobial-resistant, gram-positive isolates. Telavancin was highly active against methicillin-resistant staphylococci (MIC(90), 0.5 to 1 microg/ml), streptococci (all MICs, < or =0.12 microg/ml), and VanB-type enterococci (all MICs, < or =2 microg/ml). Time-kill studies demonstrated the potent bactericidal activity of telavancin.
Some studies suggest that the sympathetic nervous system and the renin-angiotensin system are activated in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), potentially resulting in negative cardiopulmonary and muscular effects. The aim of this pilot study was to evaluate the efficacy of an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor on cardiopulmonary exercise performance in COPD patients. Primary outcome was the effect of treatment on the ventilatory response to exercise (VE/VCO(2) slope). Secondary outcomes were exercise variables evaluated by the cardiopulmonary exercise test, and pulmonary function according to ACE genotyping.
4 weeks treatment with enalapril (10 mg od) or placebo was evaluated in 21 COPD patients (FEV(1) < 60%) and without cardiovascular disease in a double-blind, cross-over study.
18 patients completed the study. Enalapril did not exert a significant effect on exercise VE/VCO(2) slope or on peak O(2) consumption. However enalapril significantly improved peak O(2) pulse and work rate compared to placebo. A mild but significant worsening of the diffusion capacity of the lung was observed. ACE genotype did not significantly affect patients' response to treatment, except for a trend toward a more evident effect of treatment in patients with II ACE genotype in terms of O(2) pulse and gas diffusion.
In this pilot study, ACE inhibition did not affect the ventilatory response to exercise in COPD patients. However, treatment resulted in improvement in work rate and O(2) pulse, suggesting that ACE inhibitor therapy warrants consideration and may provide beneficial effect on the cardiovascular response to exercise in COPD.
Anthracyclines are well established as highly efficacious antineoplastic agents for childhood malignancy, but they frequently cause dose-related cardiotoxicity. For this reason, children who have received anthracyclines need periodical cardiac evaluation. The plasma levels of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) have been shown to increase in proportion to severity of cardiac dysfunction. N-terminal BNP (NT-pro-BNP) is secreted from the cardiac ventricles in response to volume expansion and pressure overload. The aim of our study was to investigate whether plasma levels of NT-pro-BNP and cardiac troponin I (cTnI) can be used as specific markers for doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in children with malignancy.
We performed the study in Dicle University Hospital, Pediatric Hematology and Oncology clinic. Were measured plasma NT-pro-BNP and cTnI in 31 patients (14 boys and 17 girls) who received doxorubicin-containing chemotherapy for their malignancy at cumulative doses of 30-600 mg/m2, between October 2000 and December 2004. Cardiac evaluation of the patients included recording of electrocardiography and assessment of systolic and diastolic functions of the heart by echocardiography.
Of the 31 patients, 4 (12.9%) had left ventricular dysfunction as assessed by echocardiography. Plasma NT-pro-BNP levels in these patients were significantly elevated in comparison with healthy controls (p<0.001). Plasma NT-pro-BNP levels were significantly elevated in patients with cardiac dysfunction when compared with normal cardiac function (p<0.008). The cTnI levels were found under normal value in all patients.
Measurement of NT-pro-BNP level may be an easy and practical tool, and during treatment may allow earlier-identification of individuals at risk for monitoring cardiac damage. Plasma NT-pro-BNP concentration may be a useful and sensitive indicator of cardiac dysfunction in children receiving doxorubicin therapy.
Methamphetamine (MA) is associated with behavioral and cognitive deficits that may be related to macrostructural abnormalities. Quantitative anatomical comparisons between controls and methamphetamine-dependent individuals have produced conflicting results. We examined local and global differences in brain structure in 61 abstinent methamphetamine-dependent individuals and 44 controls with voxel-based morphometry and tissue segmentation. We related regional differences in gray matter density and whole brain segmentation volumes to performance on a behavioral measure of impulsivity and group membership using multiple linear regression. Within the MA group, we related cortical and subcortical gray matter density to length of abstinence. Controls had greater density relative to MA in bilateral insula and left middle frontal gyrus. Impulsivity was higher in the MA group and, within all subjects, impulsivity was positively correlated with gray matter density in posterior cingulate cortex and ventral striatum and negatively correlated in left superior frontal gyrus. Length of abstinence from MA was associated with greater amygdalar density. Earlier age of first use of MA (in subjects who initiated use before age 21) was associated with smaller intracranial volume. The findings are consistent with multiple possible mechanisms including neuroadaptations due to addictive behavior, neuroinflammation as well as dopaminergic and serotonergic neurotoxicity.
We investigated the effects of various serotoninergic drugs and serotonin (5-HT) depletion on physostigmine-induced visible tremor in rats. Physostigmine (0.25-1.5 mg/kg) caused dose-dependent tremor, initiated at 3-5 min (latency decreases as dose increases) and lasted for 30-35 min. Serotonin agonists, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (2.5 mg/kg) and buspirone (5 mg/kg) augmented the tremor response caused by physostigmine. The 5-HT(1)/5-HT(2) receptor antagonist, metergoline (1 mg/kg), and 5-HT(2) blocker, cyproheptadine (10 mg/kg) significantly decreased the duration (40%) as well as intensity (45-50%) of physostigmine-tremor. The 5-HT(2a)/5-HT(2c) antagonist ritanserin (5 mg/kg) significantly reduced the duration (60%) without affecting the intensity of the tremor. In 5-HT depleted rats (p-chlorophenylalanine; 300 mg/kg, for 3 days), physostigmine failed to produce tremor. Interestingly, in these animals, administration of a non-specific 5-HT agonist, 5-methoxy-N,N-dimethyl tryptamine, caused high intensity tremor. These results suggest that presence of 5-HT at the pre-synaptic terminals is needed for the tremor response by physostigmine and the response is greatly mediated via post-synaptic 5-HT receptors. The overall data indicated a direct involvement of central 5-HT system in the cholinergic tremor induced by physostigmine.
Although coronary artery disease is a frequent cause of left bundle branch block, the prognostic value of myocardial ischemia in patients with this conduction abnormality has not been defined. We investigated the value of pharmacologic stress echocardiography in risk stratification of patients with left bundle branch block.
Three hundred eighty-seven patients [230 men and 157 women, mean (+/- SD) age, 64 +/- 9 years] with complete left bundle branch block on the resting electrocardiogram underwent dobutamine (n = 217) or dipyridamole (n = 170) stress echocardiography to evaluate suspected or known coronary artery disease. A summary wall motion score (on a one to four scale) was calculated. The primary end points were cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction.
A positive echocardiographic result (evidence of ischemia) was detected in 109 (28%) patients. During a mean follow-up of 29 +/- 26 months, there were 21 cardiac deaths and 20 myocardial infarctions, 63 patients underwent coronary revascularization, and 1 patient received a heart transplant. In a multivariate analysis, four clinical and echocardiographic variables were associated with increased risk of cardiac death: resting wall motion score index [hazard ratio (HR) = 7.5 per unit; 95% confidence interval (CI), 2.8 to 20; P = 0.001], previous myocardial infarction (HR = 2.9; 95% CI, 1.1 to 7.3; P = 0.02), diabetes (HR = 2.7; 95% CI, 1.1 to 6.6; P = 0.03), and the change in wall motion score index from rest to peak stress (HR = 3.0 per unit; 95% CI, 1.0 to 8.6; P = 0.04). The 5-year survival was 77% in the ischemic group and 92% in the nonischemic group (P = 0.02). Four variables were associated with increased risk of cardiac death or infarction: previous myocardial infarction (HR = 3.4; 95% CI, 1.7 to 6.8; P = 0.0005), diabetes (HR = 2.4; 95% CI, 1.2 to 4.6; P = 0.01), resting wall motion score index (HR = 2.2 per unit; 95% CI, 1.1 to 4.1; P = 0.02), and positive echocardiographic result (HR = 2.2; 95% CI, 1.1 to 4.5; P = 0.03). The 5-year infarction-free survival was 60% in the ischemic group and 87% in the nonischemic group (P < 0.0001). Stress echocardiography significantly improved risk stratification in patients without previous myocardial infarction (P = 0.0001), but not in those with previous myocardial infarction (P = 0.08). In particular, it provided additional value over clinical and resting echocardiographic findings in predicting cardiac events among patients without previous infarction.
Myocardial ischemia during pharmacologic stress echocardiography is a strong prognostic predictor in patients with left bundle branch block, particularly in those without previous myocardial infarction.
To evaluate the efficacy of pentoxifylline therapy in improving the walking capacity of patients with moderate intermittent claudication.
A search of MEDLINE for trials published between 1976 and 1994 inclusive, and a bibliographic review of all articles retrieved.
Randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trials were selected that evaluated the pain-free walking distance (the distanced walked on a treadmill before the onset of calf pain) and the absolute claudication distance (the maximum distance walked on a treadmill) among patients with moderate intermittent claudication. Twelve study groups in 11 trials were included in the analysis.
In addition to information regarding the trial design, patient characteristics, dosages and treatment periods, the means and standard deviations were collected for both the pain-free walking and absolute claudication distances. Trial quality was also assessed.
Overall, there was a statistically significant improvement in the pain-free walking distance after pentoxifylline therapy (weighted mean difference 29.4 m [95% confidence interval (CI) 13.0 to 45.9 m]); this finding was based on a total sample of 612 patients (308 in the treatment groups and 304 in the control groups). A significant improvement was also noted in the absolute claudication distance (weighted mean difference 48.4 m [95% CI 18.3 to 78.6 m]); this was based on a total sample of 511 patients (258 in the treatment group and 253 in the control group). In a sensitivity analysis of the pain-free walking distance, significant treatment effects and no statistically significant heterogeneity were found when only trials were included that were "medically eligible" (involved patients with stage II disease and a pain-free walking distance of 50 to 200 m). In a similar sensitivity analysis of the absolute claudication distance, the two conditions resulting in a significant treatment effect and no significant heterogeneity were the inclusion of "medically eligible" trials and those with a shorter treatment duration (13 weeks or less).
Pentoxifylline therapy may be efficacious in improving the walking capacity of patients with moderate intermittent claudication. However, properly conducted clinical trials are required to provide a true estimate of the benefit.
Aluminum (Al(3+)) is the most prevalent metal in the earth's crust and is a known human neurotoxicant. Al(3+) has been shown to accumulate in the substantia nigra of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), and epidemiological studies suggest correlations between Al(3+) exposure and the propensity to develop both PD and the amyloid plaque-associated disorder Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although Al(3+) exposures have been associated with the development of the most common neurodegenerative disorders, the molecular mechanism involved in Al(3+) transport in neurons and subsequent cellular death has remained elusive. In this study, we show that a brief exposure to Al(3+) decreases mitochondrial membrane potential and cellular ATP levels, and confers dopamine (DA) neuron degeneration in the genetically tractable nematode Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans). Al(3+) exposure also exacerbates DA neuronal death conferred by the human PD-associated protein α-synuclein. DA neurodegeneration is dependent on SMF-3, a homologue to the human divalent metal transporter (DMT-1), as a functional null mutation partially inhibits the cell death. We also show that SMF-3 is expressed in DA neurons, Al(3+) exposure results in a significant decrease in protein levels, and the neurodegeneration is partially dependent on the PD-associated transcription factor Nrf2/SKN-1 and caspase Apaf1/CED-4. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the deletion of SMF-3 confers Al(3+) resistance due to sequestration of Al(3+) into an intracellular compartment. This study describes a novel model for Al(3+)-induced DA neurodegeneration and provides the first molecular evidence of an animal Al(3+) transporter.
Hypertension is one of the main risk factors for the development of cardiovascular diseases and the search for new therapeutic strategies aimed at optimizing its control remains an ongoing research and clinical challenge. In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of combinations of antihypertensive drugs with complementary mechanisms of action, with the aims of reducing blood pressure levels more rapidly and vigorously than strategies employing monotherapy and improving treatment compliance and adhesion. Therefore, as recommended by the 2009 reappraisal of the European Society of Hypertension/European Society of Cardiology Guidelines, the use of a triple combination that combines a calcium channel blocker, an angiotensin II receptor blocker and a thiazide diuretic seems a reasonable and efficacious combination for the management of hypertensive patients with moderate, high or very high risk. This article reviews the clinical trials carried out with the fixed combination of amlodipine/valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide at the doses recommended for each drug in monotherapy. The data show that this combination achieved greater reductions in mean sitting diastolic and systolic blood pressure than amlodipine, valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide in monotherapy, with favorable pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profiles. The triple combination at high single doses should be used with caution in elderly patients and those with renal or liver failure. Although the tolerability and safety of the triple combination are good, the most-frequently reported adverse effects were peripheral edema, headache and dizziness. Analytical alterations were consistent with the already-known biochemical effects of amlodipine, valsartan or hydrochlorothiazide in monotherapy. In summary, triple-therapy with amlodipine/valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide in a single pill contributes additional advantages to fixed -combinations of two drugs, achieving a greater and more rapid reduction in blood pressure levels in a safe, well-tolerated manner.
Catalepsy, a symptom of Parkinson's disease and related disorders can be produced in rats and other laboratory animals by the blockade of nigrostriatal dopamine using dopaminergic antagonists such as haloperidol. When haloperidol-induced cataleptic rats are placed facing downward on an inclined plane, they will brace against the resulting downward force by pushing backwards, and if they lose postural stability, or their position on the inclined plane, they will jump forward. Females, however, jump from the inclined plane at a significantly lower angle than do males. Frame-by-frame analysis of the jumping sequences revealed that females and males use a different combination of postural adjustments to maintain their position on the inclined plane prior to jumping. Furthermore, gonadal hormone manipulations at birth and in adulthood reveal that these sex differences in postural adjustments are dependent on the organizational effects of gonadal hormones in the perinatal period. These results provide evidence for sex differences in postural support mechanisms and suggest that the sex of subjects, or their hormonal state, must be considered when studying the behavioral aspects of neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease which include a postural component.
Central dopamine function is reduced by decreasing the availability of the catecholamine precursor, tyrosine, using a tyrosine-free amino acid mixture containing multiple large neutral as well as branched chain amino-acids, which compete with tyrosine for uptake into the brain. Current mixtures are cumbersome to make and administer, and unpalatable to patients and volunteers. Here, we investigate whether individual or limited amino-acid combinations could reduce brain tyrosine levels and hence dopamine function. Measurements of regional brain tyrosine levels, catecholamine and indoleamine synthesis (L-DOPA and 5-HTP accumulation, respectively) were used to identify an effective paradigm to test in neurochemical, behavioral and fos immunocytochemical models. Administration of leucine or isoleucine, or a mixture of leucine, isoleucine, and valine reduced tyrosine and 5-HTP, but not L-DOPA accumulation. A mixture of leucine, valine, and isoleucine supplemented with tryptophan reduced brain tyrosine and L-DOPA, but not 5-HTP. In microdialysis experiments this amino-acid mixture reduced basal and amphetamine-evoked striatal dopamine release, as well as amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. This mixture also reduced amphetamine-induced fos expression in striatal areas. In conclusion, the present study identified a small combination of amino acids that reduces brain tyrosine and dopamine function in a manner similar to mixtures of multiple amino acids. This minimal mixture may have use as a dopamine reducing paradigm in patient and volunteer studies.
To assess the pharmacodynamical actions of Danqi capsule which was reported to promote blood circulation by removing blood stasis, regulation Danqi and relieving pain so as to be used to treat thoracic obstruction, headache, menstrual pain in clinic.
To compare the pharmacologic effects of Danqi capsule Danqi tablet in the rats with acute myocardial ischemia and the mice with the increased oxygen-consumption induced by isoproterenol injected subcutaneously. The pain models were prepared by injection of acetic acid and uterospasm model in the female mouse was induced by diethylstilbestrol and pitocin. A hyperlipidemia model was also made in the rats.
Danqi capsule could significantly improve ECG in myocardial ischemia of rats induced by isoproterenol and prolong the mice survival time under hypoxic situation. In the experiment to observe the pain response with body twist as a index induced by acetic acid and uterospasm induced by diethylstilbestrol and pitocin, Danqi capsule could significantly shorten the latency and the time course of body twist. The contents of triglyceride(TG) and total cholesterol(TC) were decreased, while the level of high-density liporotein-cholesterol(HDL-c) was increased after treatment of Danqi capsule in in the rats with hyperlipidemia. Hemorheological data showed that the blood viscosity, blood reductive viscosity, erythrocyte rigidity index and electrophoresis time were significantly decreased by Danqi capsule in the animal model mentioned above as compared with control group (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). In addition, the dose of Danqi capsule is less than that of Danqi tablet for producing equivalent effect.
Danqi capsule plays a good role in improving myocardial ischemia, increasing the tolerant ability against oxygen-deficiency, alleviating pain and descending the levels of blood fat and blood viscosity.
In ischemia-reperfusion (I/R)-induced tissue injury, oxygen radicals can be generated by several mechanisms. One of the important sources of oxygen radicals is thought to be mitochondrial respiration. The aim of this study was to investigate the antioxidative defense effect of the mitochondrial electron transport inhibitor, rotenone using the I/R-induced rat intestinal mucosal injury model in vivo. Intestinal ischemia was induced for 30 min by applying a small clamp to the superior mesenteric artery in rats. Rotenone at a dose of 100 mg/kg was given to rats orally 2 h before the ischemia. Intraluminal hemoglobin and protein levels, the mucosal content of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), the mucosal myeloperoxidase activity, and the content of inflammatory cytokines (CINC-1, TNF-alpha) were all significantly increased from mean basal levels after 60 min of reperfusion. These increases after I/R were inhibited by treatment with rotenone at a dose of 100 mg/kg. Co-administration with succinate (100 mg/kg), a substrate of the mitochondrial electron transport system, cancelled significant reduction of intraluminal hemoglobin and mucosal TBARS treated with rotenone alone. The results of the present study indicate that rotenone inhibited lipid peroxidation and reduced development of the intestinal mucosal inflammation induced by I/R in rats. This investigation suggests that rotenone has potential as a new therapeutic agent for reperfusion injury.
Mesna is widely used for the prevention of cyclophosphamide-related hemorrhagic cystitis. It has been associated with hypersensitivity-like cutaneous and systemic reactions in adult patients. We report a series of children with malignant disease, who developed such reactions following mesna administration and discuss possible mechanisms and management issues.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) agonists of the thiazolidinedione family are used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus due to their ability to reduce glucose and lipid levels in patients with this disease. Three thiazolidinediones that were approved for treatment are Rezulin (troglitazone), Avandia (rosiglitazone), and Actos (pioglitazone). Troglitazone was withdrawn from the market due to idiosyncratic drug toxicity. Rosiglitazone and pioglitazone are still on the market for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The authors present data from a gene expression screen that compares the impact these three compounds have in rats, in rat hepatocytes, and in the clone 9 rat liver cell line. The authors monitored the changes in expression in multiple genes, including those related to xenobiotic metabolism, proliferation, DNA damage, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and inflammation. Compared to the other two compounds, troglitazone had a significant impact on many of the pathways monitored in vitro although no major perturbation was detected in vivo. The changes detected predict not only general toxicity but potential mechanisms of toxicity. Based on gene expression analysis, the authors propose there is not just one but multiple ways troglitazone could be toxic, depending on a patient's environment and genetic makeup, including immune response-related toxicity.
The study included 54 patients with multiple sclerosis, aged from 23 to 53 years (mean age 37.7 +/- 8.5 years). To reduce muscle tension, 34 patients of the main group received tizanidine with the modified release of active substance (sirdalud MR) in dosage one capsule (6 mg) per day. Twenty-two patients of the comparison group received a standard form of tizanidine--sirdalud in tablets (2 mg) 3 times daily. Patients were examined at baseline, 1, 2 and 4 weeks of the treatment and 2 weeks after the end of the trial. The use of different forms of sirdalud had no effect on disability (the EDSS) scores in patients. Spasticity scores (the Ashworth scale) were decreased during the treatment with different forms of sirdalud but sirdalud MR had more stable effect which remained for 2 weeks after the end of treatment (p < 0.05). Significant differences were observed between tolerability of two forms: side-effects (sleepiness, asthenia) were more frequents in patients treated with the standard form of sirdalud (p < 0.05), the rate of their reduction was significantly higher in the sirdalud MR group (p < 0.05).
Reactive oxygen species are, at least partly, involved in the diabetogenic agent-induced dysfunction of pancreatic beta-cells because the expression of antioxidative and redox proteins is low. We examined the levels of antioxidant/redox proteins, peroxiredoxins-1, -4, and -6 and glutathione reductase (GR), by immunohistochemistry and found that the expression of GR was very high in pancreatic islet cells compared to exocrine cells. When diabetes was induced by an intravenous injection of streptozotocin, the pre-administration of 1,3-bis[2-chloroethyl]-1-nitrosourea, an irreversible inhibitor of GR, made islet cells more vulnerable to streptozotocin. These data point to a pivotal role of the glutathione redox system in pancreatic islet cells against diabetogenic stress.
The present study focused on investigating whether the inhibitory effect of di (n-butyl) phthalate (DBP) on testosterone (T) biosynthesis was mediated by the glucocorticoid (GC) pathway in prepubertal male rats and T production after the exposure to DBP ceased. Prepubertal male rats were administered DBP in corn oil orally at 0, 250, 500, 1000, and 2000 mg/kg daily for 30 days. Serum T and GC were measured by radioimmunoassay and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. The responses, including glucocorticoid receptor (GR), type I 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11beta-HSD1), and steroidogenesis acute regulatory protein (StAR) in the testes tissues, were determined by Western blotting and reverse transcriptase PCR. DBP exposure resulted in testicular toxicity, such as seminiferous tubule degeneration and a decrease in the number of spermatogenic cells. T was decreased and GC was increased in a DBP concentration-dependent manner in the exposure group. The expression of GR and 11beta-HSD1 was significantly increased, with an associated decrease in expression of StAR. Neither the expression of the GR nor 11beta-HSD1 and StAR were statistically significantly different in the postexposure group compared with the control. However, the weight and morphology of the testes did not recover in the postexposure group. These data suggest that DBP inhibits testosterone production through a GC-mediated pathway in prepubertal male rats, and after exposure to DBP ceases, testosterone biosynthesis returns.
For elucidation of the effects of hyperprolactinemia on the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis, five healthy men were exposed to sulpiride (300 mg/day by mouth); four among the five maintained hyperprolactinemia (71.6 to 95.3 ng/ml) for 78 days. Clomiphene citrate (CC), luteinizing hormone (LH)-releasing hormone, and human chorionic gonadotropin tests were performed before and after sulpiride treatment. The CC test, given as a measure of hypothalamic function, was carried out in each of the five volunteers before sulpiride treatment (control) and on days 14 (2 weeks) and 60 (2 months) of sulpiride administration. Each value of plasma LH stimulated by CC was integrated and expressed as a ratio of the integrated value obtained after administering CC at 2 weeks and 2 months to that from each control experiment. The mean ratio in the four subjects at 2 months (mean +/- standard deviation, 0.769 +/- 0.121) was significantly lower than that at 2 weeks (0.942 +/- 0.073; P less than 0.05) and before sulpiride treatment (1.000; P less than 0.01). Impairment of LH responses to CC by 2-month long sulpiride-induced hyperprolactinemia suggests that chronic hyperprolactinemia in men partly suppresses LH secretion by its inhibitory action on the hypothalamus.
The effects of status epilepticus on the concentration, synthesis, release, and subcellular localization of acetylcholine, the concentration of choline, and the activity of acetylcholinesterase in rat brain regions were studied. Generalized convulsive status epilepticus was induced by the administration of pilocarpine to lithium-treated rats. The concentration of acetylcholine in the cortex, hippocampus, and striatum decreased prior to the onset of spike activity or status epilepticus. Once status epilepticus began, the concentration of acetylcholine increased over time in the cortex and hippocampus, reaching peak levels that were 461% and 304% of control levels, respectively, after 2 h of seizures. Such high in vivo levels of acetylcholine had not been reported previously following any treatment. During status epilepticus, the concentration of acetylcholine in the striatum returned to control levels after the initial depression, but did not accumulate to high levels as it did in the other two regions. The in vivo cortical efflux of acetylcholine was also increased during the seizures. Choline levels were increased by status epilepticus in all three brain regions. Inhibition of seizures by pretreatment with atropine blocked the increases of acetylcholine and choline. Synaptosomes prepared from the cortex and from the hippocampus of rats with status epilepticus had elevated concentrations of acetylcholine: in the hippocampus the acetylcholine was principally in the cytoplasmic fraction, whereas in the cortex the acetylcholine was elevated in both the cytoplasmic and the vesicular fractions. The extra acetylcholine was in a releasable compartment, since increased K+ in the media or ouabain increased the release of acetylcholine from cortical slices to a greater extent in tissue from seized rats than from controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We retrospectively studied 474 patients seen at Hennepin County Medical Center because of medical complications related to acute cocaine intoxication. Of the 474, 403 had no history of seizures. Seizures within 90 minutes of cocaine use was the primary diagnosis in 32 (7.9%) of the 403. The majority of seizures were single, generalized, induced by intravenous or "crack" cocaine, and not associated with any lasting neurologic deficits. Most that were focal, multiple, or induced by nasal cocaine were associated with an acute intracerebral complication or concurrent use of other drugs. Of 71 patients with a history of non-cocaine-related seizures, 12 (16.9%) presented with cocaine-induced seizures; most of these were multiple, of the same type as those in their history, and induced by even nasal cocaine. In the 44 cocaine-induced seizure patients, a pattern of habitual cocaine abuse was associated with diffuse brain atrophy on CT and diffuse slowing on EEG.
A 48-year-old man presented with a history of recurrent erythematous lesions on the trunk and limbs. Examination suggested a fixed drug eruption and this was confirmed by oral challenge with paracetamol. The histology was unusual as it showed a leucocytoclastic vasculitis. Patients may have difficulty avoiding the offending drug because many drugs bought over the counter have similar names but different constituents. In addition, it may be difficult to persuade the patient that a specific drug is responsible for their skin problem.
We present a report of markedly elevated calcium and magnesium requirements in an AIDS patient receiving central venous nutrition. These increased requirements were attributed to urinary magnesium losses associated with intravenous pentamidine therapy. The combination of intravenous pentamidine and electrolyte abnormalities resulted in the development of the dysrhythmia, torsade de pointes, in the patient. A review of literature presenting similar cases is included. Nutrition practitioners should be aware of the often prolonged effect of intravenous pentamidine on magnesium and calcium homeostasis so that adequate supplementation will be provided, perhaps preventing the development of life-threatening torsade de pointes.
With the advent of chemotherapy, mortality rates in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) have decreased, but complications in the central nervous system have appeared. These include direct involvement of the brain itself and the development of chemotherapy-related encephalopathy as a delayed reaction. In most reported cases, this encephalopathy is believed to be due to necrotising angiitis arising from the combination of chemotherapy with adjuvant radiotherapy. We report the cases of four children with ALL who had been treated with high-dose intravenous and intrathecal chemotherapy but no radiation therapy, and who were admitted to hospital because of seizures. CT of the brain revealed the presence of diffuse periventricular white matter hypodensities in all cases and subcortical hyperdense foci in three cases. MRI showed diffuse hyperintense white matter lesions on T2-weighted images in all four patients; hypointense changes were observed on susceptibility-sensitive FLASH sequences in the hyperdense foci seen on CT as well as changes that were hyperintense on T1-weighted images. It was, therefore, concluded that the lesions corresponded to a leukoencephalopathy with calcific deposits. These findings are of a pure form of methotrexate encephalopathy causing seizures.
In this study, lung lesions were found in male A/J mice 24 wk after intraperitoneal injection of 1-nitropyrene (1-NP). The lesions were classified into three categories: alveolar/bronchiolar hyperplasia, adenoma, and adenocarcinoma. The proliferation kinetics of cells in the lesions were evaluated by assessing proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) expression and silver-staining nucleolar organizer regions (AgNORs). Furthermore, the role of the Ki-ras gene in tumorigenesis was studied by detecting point mutations in Ki-ras codons 12, 13, and 61 by polymerase chain reaction and sequence analysis. The PCNA-positive rates (+/- standard deviations) in various samples were as follows: 0% for specimens from six untreated animals and six uninvolved areas, 4.26 +/- 3.94% for 19 hyperplasias (hyperplasias vs normal lung tissue, P < 0.01), 13.24 +/- 6.35% for 25 adenomas (adenomas vs hyperplasias, P < 0.01), and 38.0 +/- 9.63% for four adenocarcinomas (adenocarcinomas vs adenomas, P < 0.01). The corresponding mean AgNOR scores were as follows: 1.10 +/- 0.05 for the untreated animals, 1.32 +/- 0.09 for the uninvolved areas, 1.72 +/- 0.59 for the hyperplasias (hyperplasias vs normal lung tissue, P > 0.05), 2.74 +/- 0.70 for the adenomas (adenomas vs hyperplasias, P < 0.01), and 5.22 +/- 0.62 for the adenocarcinomas (adenocarcinomas vs adenomas, P < 0.01). Ki-ras gene mutations were identified in three of four (75%) adenocarcinomas, six of 23 (26%) adenomas, and two of 17 (12%) hyperplasias. No mutations were found in normal lung tissue. The most frequent Ki-ras mutation was an arginine (CGA)AT --> GC transition at codon 61 in exon 2. The PCNA-positive rates and AgNOR scores of cases with Ki-ras mutations were higher than those without an identified mutation (P < 0.05). Ki-ras mutations at codon 61 (Arg) may therefore influence the growth or development of 1-NP-induced lung lesions in A/J mice.
Propylthiouracil (PTU) can effectuate antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA)-positive vasculitis. We report a case of severe, PTU-induced leucocytoclastic vasculitis with diffuse pulmonary hemorrhage within a month of initiating PTU. Emergent plasmapheresis was initiated with excellent clinical response. A clinical suspicion for this potential side effect coupled with early cessation of the drug is generally adequate. Clinical manifestations, posited pathogenetic mechanisms, and therapeutic strategies, including the role of plasmapheresis, are discussed.
The goals of this study were to determine if the use of phenytoin to prevent early posttraumatic seizures following head injury was associated with significant adverse side effects and also to determine if the reduction in early posttraumatic seizures after phenytoin administration was associated with a change in mortality rates in head-injured patients.
The authors performed a secondary analysis of the data obtained in a prospective double-blind placebo-controlled study of 404 patients who were randomly assigned to receive phenytoin or placebo for the prevention of early and late posttraumatic seizures. The incidence of adverse drug effects during the first 2 weeks of treatment, however, was low and not significantly different between the treated and placebo groups. Hypersensitivity reactions occurred in 0.6% of the patients in the phenytoin-treated group compared with 0% in the placebo group (p = 1.0) during week 1, and in 2.5% of phenytoin-treated compared with 0% of placebo-treated patients (p = 0.12) for the first 2 weeks of treatment. Mortality rates were also similar in both groups. Although the mortality rate was higher in patients who developed seizures, this increase was related to the greater severity of the injuries sustained by these patients at the time of the original trauma.
The results of this study indicate that the incidence of early posttraumatic seizure can be effectively reduced by prophylactic administration of phenytoin for 1 or 2 weeks without a significant increase in drug-related side effects. Reduction in posttraumatic seizure during the 1st week, however, was not associated with a reduction in the mortality rate.
