Glioblastoma is a malignant tumor that occurs in the cerebrum during adulthood. With current treatment regimens including combined surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, the average life expectancy of the patients is limited to approximately 1 year. Therefore, patients with glioblastoma sometimes have intracarotid injection of carcinostatics added to the treatment regimen. Generally, carboplatin is said to have milder side effects than cisplatin, whose ocular and orbital toxicity are well known. However, we experienced a case of severe ocular and orbital toxicity after intracarotid injection of carboplatin, which is infrequently reported.
A 58-year-old man received an intracarotid injection of carboplatin for recurrent glioblastomas in his left temporal lobe. He complained of pain and visual disturbance in the ipsilateral eye 30 h after the injection. Various ocular symptoms and findings caused by carboplatin toxicity were seen.
He was treated with intravenous administration of corticosteroids and glycerin for 6 days after the injection. Although the intraocular pressure elevation caused by secondary acute angle-closure glaucoma decreased and ocular pain diminished, inexorable papilledema and exudative retinal detachment continued for 3 weeks. Finally, 6 weeks later, diffuse chorioretinal atrophy with optic atrophy occurred and the vision in his left eye was lost.
When performing intracarotid injection of carboplatin, we must be aware of its potentially blinding ocular toxicity. It is recommended that further studies and investigations are undertaken in the effort to minimize such severe side effects.
The dual peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) α/γ agonist tesaglitazar has been shown to produce fibrosarcomas in rats. Here, the authors studied morphology, proliferation, differentiation, and inflammation markers in adipose tissue from rats exposed to 1, 3, or 10 µmol/kg tesaglitazar for 2 or 12 weeks, including recovery groups (12 weeks treatment followed by 12 weeks recovery), and 3 or 10 µmol/kg tesaglitazar for 24 weeks. Subcutaneous white and brown fat revealed reversible dose-related histopathological alterations and after 12 and 24 weeks developed areas of thickened skin (fatty lumps). There was a dose-dependent increase in proliferation of interstitial cells in white and brown fat as shown by increased mitotic index in all dose groups after 2 weeks. This was limited to the high dose after 12 and 24 weeks in white fat. Gene expression analyses showed that while tesaglitazar induced differentiation of adipose tissue characterized with a switch in cyclin D1 and D3 mRNA by 12 weeks, longer exposure at high doses reversed this differentiation concurrent with a reappearance of early adipocyte and inflammatory markers. These data suggest that sustained increased turnover of mesenchymal cells in adipose tissues, concomitant with onset of inflammation and fibrosis, drives development of fibrosarcomas in rats treated with tesaglitazar.
Leukocyte emigration from blood to sites of inflammation involves sequential interaction of specific adhesion molecules expressed by both leukocytes and endothelial cells. The central steps in leukocyte-endothelial adhesive interactions are leukocyte rolling, sticking, and transmigration. This study investigated the effect of monoclonal antibodies against CD54 (ICAM-1) and CD11b (alphaM-chain of MAC-1) on intestinal inflammation. Anti-CD54 and anti-CD11b were tested in rats with indomethacin-induced chronic ileitis. Macroscopic changes were assessed by a modified version of the Wallace et al. score. Leukocyte rolling and sticking were investigated by intravital microscopy. Results show that indomethacin administration led to a chronic inflammatory response characterized by significant increase (P<0.05) in rolling (from 5.41+/-2.87 to 32.41+/-15.03 100 microm(-1) s(-1)) and sticking (from 0.16+/-0.18 to 9.11+/-5.3 100 microm(-1) s(-1)) leukocytes. After antibody treatment only the anti-CD11b group showed significant (P<0.05) reduction in rolling (from 32.41+/-15.03 to 6.6+/-2.7 100 microm(-1) s-1) and sticking (from 9.11+/-5.3 to 0.07+/-0.09 100 microm(-1) s-1) leukocytes. This was also the case for macroscopic changes. Indomethacin led to a rise in the Wallace score from 0 to 4.29+/-0.76 points (P<0.05) and anti-CD11b to a reduction from 4.29+/-0.76 to 1.29+/-1.11 points (P<0.05). Anti-CD54 and combined anti-CD11b/CD54 administration was not followed by significant changes. Therefore we suggest that leukocyte-based CD11b but not endothelial-based CD54 contributes most to leukocyte adhesion in the setting of indomethacin-induced ileitis in rats.
It has previously been found that a number of typical and atypical antidepressants, given chronically, intensify clonidine-induced aggressiveness in mice. Further experiments now show that chronic, but not acute, administration of nisoxetine, a selective inhibitor of noradrenaline uptake, potentiates clonidine-induced aggressiveness. Citalopram and fluvoxamine, two selective inhibitors of serotonin uptake, have no such action. Of the two isomers of flupenthixol, only the trans-form potentiates clonidine-induced aggressiveness of chronic experiments. The cis-form induces an inhibiting effect. Clonidine-induced aggressiveness is also intensified by chronic, but not by acute, administration of pizotifen, an antagonist fo serotonin and noradrenaline. The results seem to support the previous hypothesis that potentiation of clonidine-induced aggressiveness is mediated by an alpha 1-adrenergic mechanism.
Acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APML) is a biologically and clinically distinct variant of AML, currently classified as acute myeloid leukaemia with recurrent cytogenetic anomalies t(15;17) (q22;q21), promyelocytic leukaemia-retinoic acid receptor alpha, diagnosis regardless of blast count in the World Health Organization classification system. It is one of the curable malignancies, has a unique clinical presentation, often with disseminated intravascular coagulation, and has a targeted therapy for its treatment in the form of all trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and arsenic trioxide (ATO). Here, we report a complex type of variant APML t(3;15) (q26;q13), the need for conventional karyotyping for diagnosing such rare variants, and its response to ATRA and ATO.
The purpose of this study was to determine the contribution of the functional changes in resistance vessels to the hypertension induced by chronic nitric oxide synthase inhibition in rats. Another goal of this study was to evaluate whether this model of hypertension is accompanied by changes in the activity of endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF).
Hypertension was induced by long-term (6 weeks) oral administration of N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 75 mg/100 ml in the drinking fluid). Vascular reactivity to vasoconstrictors (phenylephrine and barium chloride) and vasodilators (acetylcholine and nitroprusside) and the flow-pressure curve were examined in isolated perfused kidneys preparations. Vascular reactivity to vasoconstrictors and the flow-pressure curve were studied under basal conditions or after the infusion of L-arginine (100 mumol/l). The activity of EDHF was evaluated by comparing the dose-response curves for acetylcholine obtained in potassium chloride- and phenylephrine-preconstricted preparations.
Kidneys from L-NAME-induced hypertensive rats showed increased sensitivity to vasoconstrictors with a greater duration of the pressor responses at high doses and markedly up-shifted flow-pressure curve in comparison with that obtained in control kidneys. These differences disappeared when the kidneys from control and L-NAME-treated rats were infused with L-arginine. The kidneys from L-NAME-treated rats also showed a decreased responsiveness to acetylcholine with an augmented reactivity to nitroprusside. The acetylcholine dose-response curve was reduced in control preparations and greatly attenuated in L-NAME-treated preparations when the renal vasculature was preconstricted with potassium chloride.
The changes in vascular reactivity observed in L-NAME-induced hypertensive rats may play an important role in the pathogenesis of this type of hypertension. Moreover, it is also suggested that long-term nitric oxide inhibition may be associated with increased activity of EDHF.
The neurotoxicity of a homologous series of 1-substituted, 2-nitroimidazole compounds, synthesized in this laboratory, has been studied in mice. This involves measurement of the enzyme beta-glucuronidase in the distal sciatic, tibial and common peroneal nerves. The amount of compound required to give a known neurotoxic response, in terms of elevated beta-glucuronidase (arbitrarily set at 60% increase) has been determined. A correlation between increased number of methylene groups (N) in the side chain and neurotoxicity has been shown. A correlation between increased neurotoxicity and effective octanol; water coefficient, at pH 7.4, was also established. A more soluble version of the n = 4 member of the homologous series, that is the compound RSU 1047 (NSC 328897), and misonidazole also fit this correlation of partition coefficient and dose.
We report a case of a 10-year-old boy, being treated for seizures with carbamazepine, who developed acute liver failure within four days of initiation of therapy for suspected tuberculosis with isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol. Isoniazid-induced liver disease was diagnosed. The likely role of carbamazepine and rifampin in potentiating the hepatotoxicity of isoniazid, and the importance of early recognition of isoniazid-induced liver disease, are discussed.
To compare the risk of extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS) between risperidone, olanzapine, and haloperidol, taking into account patients' past antipsychotic drug use and past EPS.
Data were obtained from the PHARMO-database, containing filled prescriptions of 450,000 community-dwelling people in the Netherlands from 1986 through 1999. We defined cohorts of first-time users of haloperidol, risperidone, or olanzapine aged 15 to 54 years. In the first 90 days of treatment, we assessed the occurrence of EPS, defined as first use of any antiparkinsonian agent. We estimated relative risks of EPS for risperidone and olanzapine versus haloperidol using a Cox proportional hazards model. Patients were subdivided according to prior use of antipsychotic and antiparkinsonian drugs.
We identified 424 patients starting treatment with haloperidol, 243 with risperidone, and 181 with olanzapine. Prior use of antipsychotic plus antiparkinsonian medication was significantly more frequent among users of risperidone and olanzapine than in those using haloperidol (36.2%, 40.3%, and 4.5%, respectively; p < 0.001). Within most subgroups of comparable treatment history, patients using risperidone and olanzapine showed reduced risks of EPS compared with haloperidol, although some of these findings did not reach statistical significance (RR 0.03-0.22). However, this was not observed for patients using risperidone who had experienced EPS in the past (RR 1.30; 95% CI 0.24 to 7.18).
In general, we observed reduced risks of EPS for risperidone and olanzapine compared with haloperidol within subgroups of patients with a similar treatment history. However, the added value of risperidone in patients who have experienced EPS in the past needs further study.
Extravasation of antitumor drugs and particularly doxorubicin (DXR) can be followed by skin ulceration and slowly evolving perivascular necrosis. DXR lesions have some characteristics in common with those induced by ionizing radiation and, with respect to gross morphology, are reminiscent of skin lesions induced by necrotizing agents. Time course and histopathology of toxic phenomena induced by intradermal or perivascular injection of various doses of either DXR or caustic chemicals have been studied in hairy outbred and hairless inbred (MF1 hr/hr) mice. The latter strain has been found to be intrinsically more sensitive to DXR induced toxic effects, particularly as far as perivascular administration is concerned. Long lasting lesions and, in a few cases, systemic involvement have been observed. On the contrary, necrotic foci induced by caustic chemicals rapidly regressed in both strains. The perivascular administration model, which has not been previously investigated, appears to be representative of what happens in clinical conditions and can be of use for assessing either skin toxicity of antitumor compound or the protective effect of candidate antidotes.
Raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator, is indicated for the prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. However, its effect on the risk of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) is unclear. Therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis to evaluate the effect of raloxifene on these outcomes. To identify randomized controlled trials of raloxifene, a systematic search of PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane Collaboration databases was performed from the date of inception of these databases to October 2007. Search was limited to trials that were published in peer-reviewed English-language medical journals. Articles were included in the meta-analysis if they had reported on DVT, PE, or thromboembolic events. Nine trials, including 24,523 postmenopausal women, (median age 59.4 years, range 55 to 67 years; median follow-up 24 months, range 3 to 67 months) met inclusion criteria. Therapy with raloxifene was associated with a 62% increase in odds of either DVT or PE (odds ratio = 1.62; 95% confidence interval = 1.25 to 2.09; p-value < 0.001). Similarly, raloxifene therapy was associated with 54% increase in odds of DVT (odds ratio = 1.54; 95% confidence interval = 1.13 to 2.11; p-value = 0.006) and 91% increase in odds of PE alone (odds ratio = 1.91;95% confidence interval = 1.05 to 3.47; p-value = 0.03). Raloxifene increases the risk of DVT and PE in postmenopausal women.
To report a case of symptomatic bradycardia and hypotension that resulted from the therapeutic use of citalopram and to review any previous reports in the literature, from the manufacturer, and the Australian Drug Reaction Advisory Committee (ADRAC).
A 60-year-old white woman who had been taking citalopram 20 mg/d for two weeks presented to the hospital with a heart rate of 39 beats/min, mild hypotension (systolic BP 105 mm Hg), and a normal electrocardiogram (QTc < 440 msec), following a presyncopal episode. The patient was admitted for cardiac monitoring, and citalopram was discontinued. The bradycardia and hypotension resolved in the 48-hour period following cessation of citalopram. No other medical or pharmacologic cause was found for the adverse drug reaction.
Bradycardia has been reported rarely with citalopram in therapeutic doses, but this is the first detailed case with a dose of only 20 mg. The manufacturer reports bradycardia as an infrequent adverse effect (0.1-1%) of citalopram. There have been no reports to ADRAC or to the manufacturer in postmarketing surveillance. There is a case report of asymptomatic bradycardia in a patient whose dose was increased to 40 mg. In the case reported here, there was no QTc prolongation consistent with previous reports. The sinus bradycardia reported more often with therapeutic doses would appear to be distinct to QT abnormalities seen with citalopram overdose.
Citalopram should be used with care in the elderly and in persons with a history of heart disease. Heart rate and blood pressure should be monitored in the first week of therapy and when doses are modified.
Clinical trials have shown that beta-blockers can produce symptomatic improvement and decrease the risk of death in chronic heart failure patients. However, the side effects of beta-blockers including worsening heart failure, AV-block, contracting peripheral vessels and unfavorable effects on glucose and cholesterol metabolism tend to make physicians hesitate to prescribe beta-blockers for elderly patients. Carvedilol is a novel non-selective beta-blocker without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA) and has vasodilating effect through blocking alpha 1 receptor. We examined the effects of carvedilol on cardiac parameters in order to clarify whether beta-blocker may affect left ventricular function in elderly Japanese patients with hypertension, angina pectoris, or both. We examined the hemodynamic effect of carvedilol in 16 patients with hypertension, angina patients or both, aged 65 and over (75.5 +/- 5.6 y.o.). After 12 weeks treatment with 10-20 mg daily oral administration, echocardiography was performed and hemodynamic parameters were calculated to evaluate their cardiac functions. Blood pressure was significantly decreased, especially in systolic pressure (163.8/87.6 +/- 15.6/11.2 mmHg to 141.6/76.9 +/- 16.6/11.7 mmHg, p < 0.001/p < 0.01, respectively). Ejection fraction increase (65.8 +/- 11.8% to 71.2 +/- 11.4%, p < 0.05) accompanied heart rate decrease (72.0 +/- 16.1 bpm to 63.9 +/- 11.4 bpm, p < 0.05). Carvedilol increased ejection fraction and decreased blood pressure safely in elderly patients with hypertension, angina pectoris, or both. Taking the condition of each patient into consideration, alpha-beta-blocker can be beneficial in elder patients.
To report a case of severe hepatotoxicity from a four-day course of trazodone in a patient being treated according to protocol in a detoxification center.
A 46-year-old HIV-positive man with a past medical history of intravenous drug abuse and hepatitis C, who was well controlled with HIV medications, was admitted for cocaine withdrawal. The patient was started on a standard protocol at the detoxification center with methadone 50 mg/d, clonidine 0.1 mg twice daily for four days, and trazodone 200 mg/d for four days. Laboratory results showed acute hepatitis and cholestasis five days following admission. Trazodone and clonidine were discontinued at that time. His methadone and HIV regimens remained unchanged. Liver function test results were greatly improved 10 days after trazodone and clonidine discontinuation.
This is the first case report of trazodone-induced liver damage after only a few days of therapy. Previous reports describe hepatitis developing after weeks to months of trazodone therapy. All comorbidities thought to affect the described laboratory abnormalities were ruled out as a cause by a hepatologist. The observation of the sudden rise and fall of liver enzymes is characteristic of a drug reaction in the absence of trauma and severe shock.
Due to the temporal relationship of the introduction and withdrawal of trazodone in the medication regimen and the elevations in liver enzymes, we conclude that this patient experienced acute hepatitis induced by trazodone 200 mg/d therapy for four days. The findings of this case warrant caution and closer monitoring in a patient with multiple risk factors for liver damage.
Identifying susceptibility genes for endophenotypes by studying analogous behaviors across species is an important strategy for understanding the pathophysiology underlying psychiatric disorders. This approach provides novel biological pathways plus validated animal models critical for selective drug development. One such endophenotype is avoidance behavior.
In the present study, novel automated registration methods for longitudinal behavioral assessment in home cages are used to screen a panel of recently generated mouse chromosome substitution strains that are very powerful in quantitative trait loci (QTL) detection of complex traits. In this way, we identified chromosomes regulating avoidance behavior (increased sheltering preference) independent of motor activity levels (horizontal distance moved). Genetic information from the mouse QTL-interval was integrated with that from the homologous human linkage region for a mood disorder.
We genetically mapped a QTL for avoidance behavior on mouse chromosome 15, homologous with a human genome region (8q24) linked to bipolar disorder. Integrating the syntenic mouse QTL-interval with genotypes of 1868 BPD cases versus 14,311 control subjects revealed two associated genes (ADCY8 and KCNQ3). Adenylyl cyclase 8 (Adcy8) was differentially expressed in specific brain regions of mouse strains that differ in avoidance behavior levels. Finally, we showed that chronic infusion of the human mood stabilizer carbamazepine (that acts via adenylyl cyclase activity) significantly reduced mouse avoidance behavior, providing a further link between human mood disorders and this mouse home cage behavior.
Our data suggest that Adcy8 might encode a translational behavioral endophenotype of bipolar disorder.
The role of two forms of cyclooxygenase (COX-1 and COX-2) in gastric mucosal lesions is not well understood. The regulation of both forms of COX and the effect of COX-2 on the repair process of gastric mucosal lesions in mice were investigated.
Gastric mucosal erosions and ulcers were induced experimentally in mice. The level of COX messenger RNA (mRNA) was determined by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. COX proteins were detected by Western blot analysis, and COX activity was determined in the presence or absence of NS-398, a specific COX-2 antagonist. The effects of long-term administration of NS-398 on gastric ulcers were examined.
COX-2 mRNA levels were not detected in control conditions but were high during the acute stages of gastric erosions and ulcers. COX-2 protein was detected 5 days after ulcer induction but not in control mice. Gastric ulceration was not associated with a change in COX-1 mRNA and protein levels. Administration of NS-398 to mice with ulcers at acute stages impaired the healing of ulcers.
High levels of COX-2 mRNA and protein during the acute stages of gastric mucosal lesions may be involved in the repair process of these lesions in mice.
Torsades de pointes (TdP) is polymorphic ventricular tachycardia occurring in the setting of a prolonged cardiac repolarization. Drug interactions between macrolide antibiotics such as erythomycin and pharmacologic agents that prolong the QT interval have been known to cause TdP. However, clarithromycin is thought to be less frequently associated with drug induced TdP, because it inactivates hepatic cytochrome P-450 to a lesser extent than erythromycin. We describe a case of TdP caused by a drug interaction in a 76-year-old woman taking long-term disopyramide after she was given clarithromycin concomitantly for chronic bronchitis.
Mice fed on semisynthetic formulas containing 15% of corn oil (CO), cod fish liver oil (FO), oleic acid (O) or a mixture of 46% of palmitic and 50% of stearic acids (PS) were treated with urethan during 18 weeks for lung tumor induction. Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) assay, hemagglutination assay and the amount of lung nodes (alveolar adenocarcinomas) were recorded. Results showed significantly greater DTH in CO and FO with respect to O and PS feeding mice; the two last ones induced an essential fatty acid (EFA) deficiency (EFAD). In the O lot there was a non-significant diminution of the humoral response. EFAD animals exhibited a tendency to increase number of lung nodes in relation to CO and FO lots. Splenomegalia was recorded in FO lot. Confront between spleen weight and DTH showed a 72% correlation, suggesting an increase in cellular immunity as increasing unsaturation. It may be concluded that in this suitable model of tumorigenesis the manipulation of dietary lipids may be a strategy to modify the immune system response.
Virgin and breeder, male and female, Sprague-Dawley rats were unilaterally nephrectomized and given 1% saline drinking water. Animals were injected i.p., twice daily, with a 10 mg/100 g body wt dose of the 11-beta hydroxylation inhibitor, Metyrapone. After 7 weeks of treatment, both the previously nonarteriosclerotic virgin rats and the breeder rats with pre-existing arteriosclerosis developed de nove, widely distributed, intimal hyalinization of their peripheral arteries along with myocardial fibrosis and hyalinization of their intramyocardial coronary arteries. The Metyrapone-treated animals developed severe hypertension with greatly elevated serum creatin phosphokinase, glucose, BUN and cholesterol levels. The adrenal glands, hearts, and kidneys were greatly hypertrophied, in keeping with Metyrapone-induced extra ACTH release and the hypertension-induced myocardial and renal histopathology. Uniparous, Metyrapone-treated, female rats manifested an unusually high incidence of saccular aneurysms of the aorta. It is suggested that the hypertension and the intimal hyalinization and other specific morphologic characteristics of the cardiovascular degenerative changes observed were directly related to excess production of mineralocorticoids, e.g., deoxycorticosterone.
Lamotrigine (LTG) is a new antiepileptic of habitual use in monotherapy as much in partial epileptic as in generalised, which presents among other adverse effects: slight rashes and less frequently severe rashes such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and Lyell syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis, above all in combination with valproate (VPA).
A 44-yr-old woman in toxico-alcoholic epileptic treatment with VPA, showed a neutropenia possibly of secondary type which it was intended to change to LTG, following an ascending dose of LTG joined to a descending dose of VPA. In the sixth treatment week, the patient developed an erythematous rash which after a week of solar exposure, presented temperature, general discomfort, and in the head, on the front and back part of the thoracic and upper and lower limbs, erythematous lesions with scabbed areas, loosening epidermis areas with a positive Nikolsky sign and severe mucous membrane involvement, being diagnostic of Lyell syndrome. The lesions got slowly better with serum therapy, antibiotherapy, parenteral corticoids and topical treatments.
There is a probability of severe rash associated with lamotrigine which has to be taken into account, and we advise patients to suppress the medication when they present a minimum rash.
To report a case of intracerebral hemorrhage following short-term, concomitant use of celecoxib and clopidogrel.
An 86-year-old white woman with a medical history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, heart failure, osteoarthritis, peptic ulcer disease, chronic airway limitation, and surgery for carcinoma of the bowel and breast began clopidogrel therapy following a syncopal episode. She also began taking celecoxib for osteoarthritis at the same time. Three weeks later, she presented with headaches and left hemiparesis. Computed tomography scan revealed intracerebral hemorrhage that had not been previously detected. Celecoxib and clopidogrel were discontinued, and she recovered fully.
This is the first case describing a possible interaction between celecoxib and clopidogrel. A pharmacokinetic interaction mediated by CYP2C9 is possible. However, the hemorrhage may have been secondary to the effects of either drug alone or concomitant disease.
Celecoxib and clopidogrel have favorable risk profiles and, therefore, are prescribed widely among older people. However, clinicians should recognize that there may be an interaction between celecoxib and clopidogrel that increases the risk of hemorrhage in older people.
