Herbacetin (HER) is a natural flavonoid compound that can be extracted from Ramose Scouring Rush Herb, and its biological and pharmacological activities lack of corresponding attention. In this study, the apoptotic effect of HER against the human hepatoma cell line (HepG2) was investigated. The results showed that HepG2 cells apoptosis occurred in a dose-dependent manner within 48h incubated with HER, which was confirmed by DNA fragmentation, nuclear shrinkage, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage. HER at 25-100μM induced a mitochondria-dependent apoptotic pathway associated with Bcl-2/Bax ratio decrease, mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨ) collapse, cytochrome c release, and caspase-3 activation. Increasing expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator 1α (PGC-1α) was also observed in HER-treated cells. Furthermore, the addition of a ROS inhibitor (N-Acetyl-l-cysteine, NAC) significantly attenuated the apoptosis induced by HER and also blocked the expression of PGC-1α protein. Additionally, HER effectively inhibited the phosphorylation of Akt and the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) inhibitor LY294002 increased the inhibition effect of HER on Akt phosphorylation. These findings provide evidences that HER induces HepG2 apoptosis in a ROS-mediated mitochondria-dependent manner that correlate with the inactivation of the PI3K/Akt pathway.
Cholesterol is associated with the regulation of melanogenesis which is the major physiological defense against solar irradiation. The present study was designed to determine the effects of artemisinic acid on melanogenesis and its mechanisms of action in human epidermal melanocytes. In this study, we found that artemisinic acid inhibited melanin content. The mRNA levels of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) and its downstream genes tyrosinase, tyrosinase-related protein (TRP)-1, and TRP-2 were reduced by artemisinic acid treatment. Additionally, the mRNA levels of melanogenesis-related genes (c-KIT, stem cell factor (SCF), and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF)) were down-regulated by artemisinic acid. Furthermore, cAMP production and protein kinase A (PKA) activity were suppressed by artemisinic acid. Moreover, attempts to elucidate a possible mechanism underlying the artemisinic acid-mediated effects revealed that artemisinic acid regulated melanogenesis by inhibiting cholesterol synthesis through downregulation of the hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA (HMG CoA) reductase gene, which was mediated through reduced expression of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP) α gene. Taken together, these findings indicate that the inhibition of melanogenesis by artemisinic acid occurs through reduced expression of the HMG CoA reductase gene, which is mediated by C/EBP α inhibition and suggest that artemisinic acid may be useful as a hyperpigmentation inhibitor.
Influence of transient global cerebral ischemia on baroreceptor reflex sensitivity (BRS) was investigated in anesthetized dogs. Cerebral ischemia was produced by the combined occlusions of the left subclavian (LSA) and the brachiocephalic (BCA) arteries with preceding ligations of the intercostal arteries (ICA). BRS was assessed by phenylephrine-induced reflex bradycardia. Ischemia of 5- and 10-min duration produced a significant decrease in BRS during the reperfusion period of 60-120 min. On the other hand, such a change was not observed following the ischemia of less than 2-min or occlusions of LSA and BCA without preceding ligations of ICA. Heart rate response to the electrical stimulation of the vagal afferent nerve was attenuated by 10-min ischemia, while response to the vagal efferent nerve stimulation and ECG parameters were not influenced. These results indicate that some regions vulnerable to the relatively short duration of cerebral ischemia may be involved in the central pathway of the baroreflex mechanism.
Effect of intravenous administration of GABA antagonists on gastric acid secretion in perfused stomachs was studied in rats anesthetized with urethane. Bethanechol (BeCh)-stimulated acid secretion was definitely inhibited by bicuculline, a GABA antagonist, and strychnine, a glycine antagonist, but not by picrotoxin and pentylenetetrazol, GABA antagonists. The inhibitory effect of bicuculline and strychnine was accompanied by vigorous convulsions. Only the bicuculline-induced inhibition was still seen in d-tubocurarine paralyzed rats, and it was abolished in spinal rats. 2-Deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG)-stimulated acid secretion was apparently depressed by all the GABA antagonists of bicuculline, picrotoxin and pentylenetetrazol. The inhibitory effect of picrotoxin, but not bicuculline, on the 2-DG stimulation was still elicited in spinal rats. Inhibition of acid secretion stimulated by pentobarbital, a centrally acting secretagogue, was produced by picrotoxin and pentylenetetrazol in spinal rats. These findings suggest that bicuculline acts centrally to inhibit acid secretion stimulated both peripherally by BeCh and centrally by 2-DG, besides nonspecific mechanisms due to convulsions, and the action would be directed to centers which are implicated in stimulation of the sympatho-adrenomedullary system; picrotoxin and pentylenetetrazol also act centrally to inhibit 2-DG- or pentobarbital-stimulated acid secretion through depression of the central vagal tone which leads to inhibition of gastric acid secretion.
Quinoxaline-1,4-dioxides (QdNOs) are the potent heterocyclic N-oxides with interesting biological properties such as antibacterial, anticandida, antitubercular, anticancer and antiprotozoal activities. Here, we tested and compared the mequindox (MEQ) for mutagenic abilities in a battery of different short term tests according to OECD guidelines. When compared with the controls, a strong mutagenicity of MEQ and carbadox (CBX) was observed with an approximate concentration-effect relationship in Salmonella reverse mutation test, chromosome aberration test, unscheduled DNA synthesis assay and HGPRT gene mutation test, in the absence and presence of S(9)-mix. In in vivo micronucleus test, CBX produced significant increase in the proportion of micronucleus formation than MEQ in mice bone marrow cells. From these results, we can conclude that MEQ had a strong genotoxic potential to mammalian cells in vitro as well as in vivo and its mutagenicity is slightly higher than CBX. Our results, for the 1st time, discuss the genotoxic potential of MEQ. These results not only confirm the earlier findings about CBX but also extend the knowledge and awareness about the genotoxic risk of QdNO derivatives.
The mechanisms of prevention of the development of liver cancer by NIK-333, an acyclic retinoid (ACR), were investigated. The transgenic mice expressing the dominant negative form of retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARE mice), that produce reactive oxygen species and lead to development of liver tumor were used. The effect of NIK-333 on hepatocarcinogenesis in RARE mice was studied. The RARE mice were examined after feeding 0.03% and 0.06% NIK-333 diets at 12 months of age. In the mice fed 0.06% NIK-333 diet, tumor incidence was greatly suppressed, compared to that of wild type mice (0/9 versus 5/9, P<0.05), but not in the mice fed 0.03% NIK-333 diet. In addition, expression of cytochrome p450 4a14 and acyl-CoA oxidase was normalized, and the percentages of positive cells for 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal and proliferating cell nuclear antigen were decreased. Furthermore, expression of beta-catenin and cyclin D1 was also depressed. These data suggest that NIK-333 suppressed liver tumor in association with repression of oxidative stress.
L-DOPA has progressively replaced atropinic substances in the treatment of the Parkinson's disease but its superiority is not evident in all domains. The same as these substances, it can occasion a secondary psychical pathology essentially presented by affective disorders and psychotic phenomena. The proposed study lays on the comparison between two parkinsonian groups, one undergoing a dopaminergic treatment the other one not. The hallucinary and confusing properties and to a lesser degree the depressive properties of L-DOPA are correlated to risk factors amongst which the average advanced age of the patients has the greatest place.
Twenty-one cases of clear cell adenocarcinoma of the cervix and vagina have been reviewed. Fifteen cases occurred in females under 25 years of age and four in women over 45 years. In seven cases, a positive history of maternal ingestion of diethylstilbestrol (DES) was obtained. One mother gave a history of medication with conjugated estrogens and ethisterone. Of the 13 patients with a negative history, three were born during the time period when DES was commonly used to prevent abortion. Fifteen carcinomas were cervical in origin; seven of these also involved the vagina. In six cases the carcinoma was entirely vaginal. Vaginal involvement of the carcinomas was more common in the estrogen-related group. Two non-estrogen-related cases had coexisting congenital malformations with double uterus and vagina and unilateral renal agenesis. The histopathologic appearance was similar in both groups. In most cases, a mixture of papillary, microcystic, tubular, and solid features was seen. Vaginal adenosis was found in nine cases, six of which were estrogen-related. Surgical therapy was employed in most cases and was generally superior to radiation therapy. Five patients had lymphatic involvement. All died from carcinoma. The survival rate among sixteen patients followed for 2 years or more was 62.5%. The probable müllerian origin of clear cell adenocarcinoma is discussed. It is suggested that DES, by virtue of being an estrogen, interferes with the normal process of differentiation and degeneration of müllerian epithelium in the fetal vagina. The persistence of müllerian cells altered at the subcellular level could form the basis for development of carcinoma in later life. However, a similar sequence of events must also be accepted to occur "spontaneously" since clear cell adenocarcinoma can develop in women without a history of maternal estrogens.
We describe a patient who developed tetany with sudden respiratory arrest after the infusion of intravenous diltiazem. The administration of calcium chloride rapidly resolved the patient's tetany with prompt recovery of respiratory function, averting the need for more aggressive airway management and ventilatory support. The emergency physician should be aware that life-threatening tetany may accompany the administration of intravenous diltiazem and that calcium chloride may be a rapid and effective remedy.
The present investigation examines baseline patient characteristics to predict dosing of buprenorphine-naloxone, a promising treatment for opioid addiction in youths.
This study of 69 opioid-dependent youths is a secondary analysis of data collected during a National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Clinical Trials Network study. Outpatients aged 15-21 were randomized to a 12-week buprenorphine-naloxone dosing condition (including 4 weeks of taper). Predictors of dosing included sociodemographic characteristics (gender, race, age, and education), substance use (alcohol, cannabis, cocaine, and nicotine use), and clinical characteristics (pain and withdrawal severity).
Most (75.4%) reported having either "some" (n=40, 58.0%) or "extreme" (n=12, 17.4%) pain on enrollment. Maximum daily dose of buprenorphine-naloxone (19.7 mg) received by patients reporting "extreme" pain at baseline was significantly higher than the dose received by patients reporting "some" pain (15.0mg) and those without pain (12.8 mg). In the adjusted analysis, only severity of pain and withdrawal significantly predicted dose. During the dosing period, there were no significant differences in opioid use, as measured by urinalysis, by level of pain.
These data suggest that the presence of pain predicts buprenorphine-naloxone dose levels in opioid-dependent youth, and that patients with pain have comparable opioid use outcomes to those without pain, but require higher buprenorphine-naloxone doses.
A series of 74 cases of delayed polyneuropathy induced by acute middle to serious toxicosis with Methamidophos is analysed. It consists of 49 males and 25 females aged 12 to 45 years, mean age 22.6 years. The clinical features is similar to those of acute polyneuritis in common. The determination of nerve conduction velocity and electromyography show denervation lesions. The recovery cause is from 0.5 to 2 years. The proposal of the five requirements for diagnosis is listed. It is regarded that the pathogenesis of methamidophos-induced delayed polyneuropathy is the toxic effect produced by the "aging" of the phosphoryl-enzyme complex caused by the phosphorylation of a protein neurotoxic esterase (NTE) in the nervous system, and also is the autoimmuno disorder induced by the "aging" of the NTE being probably an immunological basis.
This study highlights respondent sensitivity to daily hassles as it relates to situational cocaine use and perceived long-term effects of adverse events in childhood. Data were drawn from a larger study on stress reactivity in cocaine dependent individuals. Participants (n=104) were cocaine dependent men and women without comorbid posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). They completed the Early Trauma Inventory (ETI), the Daily Hassles Scale (DHS), the Inventory of Drug-Taking Situations (IDTS), and the Time-Line Follow-Back (TLFB; for 90 days prior to interview). There were no gender differences in the amount or frequency of cocaine use, although the patterns of use differed between male and female users. Overall, there were some associations in the patterns of cocaine use and sensitivity to daily hassles, particularly the use in response to conflict with others. Early negative life events were positively related to response to daily hassles, but current triggers were more relevant. Reactivity to cocaine cues was related to daily hassle sensitivity among women only. Limitations and implications of the findings are discussed.
Leukotrienes (LT's) and prostaglandins (PG's) have been proposed as mediators of vascular permeability changes in inflammatory reactions. Also, prostaglandins, especially of the E-type, have been shown to enhance pain responses. In the present studies in rats, the effects of LTB4 and LTD4 on edema and pain thresholds were examined in combination with PGE1 and/or brewer's yeast. Subplantar injections of LTD4 or LTB4 induced small increases in paw thickness which were potentiated by the co-administration of PGE1. LTD4 alone had no significant effect on the development of the yeast paw edema. LTB4 was found to reduce significantly the yeast edema and this reduction could be reversed by administration PGE1. A small but significant decrease in pain threshold was caused by PGE1 and this was significantly enhanced in the presence of LTD4. LTB4, like PGE1, was found to cause slight hyperalgesia but no synergy between the two agents was observed. LTD4 was found to have no effect on the initial hypoalgesia or subsequent development of hyperalgesia caused by brewer's yeast. Both LTB4 and PGE1, however, prevented the initial hypoalgesia and significantly reduced the latency for development of yeast induced hyperalgesia. These effects of LTB4 are discussed in terms of possible release of cyclooxygenase products.
An increasing amount of data show that central inflammation contributes to many debilitating diseases and produces spontaneous pain and hyperalgesia (an increased sensitivity to painful stimuli), and these processes may be associated with the production of proinflammatory cytokines by activated microglia. In the present study, we demonstrate that neonatal intracerebral injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (1mg/kg) in postnatal day 5 (P5) rats produced hyperalgesia that lasted into adulthood as indicated by decreased latency in the tail-flick test. Neonatal LPS administration resulted in a long-lasting increase in the number of activated microglial in the P70 rat brain. The effects of interleukin-1beta (IL-1β) and IL-1 receptor antagonists on hyperalgesia were determined to examine the possible role of inflammatory cytokines in LPS-induced hyperalgesia. Our data show that neonatal intracerebral injection of IL-1β (1 μg/kg) produced a hyperalgesic tendency similar to that induced by LPS. Neonatal administration of an IL-1 receptor antagonist (0.1mg/kg) significantly attenuated long-lasting hyperalgesia induced by LPS and reduced the number of activated microglia in the adult rat brain. These data reveal that neonatal intracerebral LPS exposure results in long-lasting hyperalgesia and an elevated number of activated microglia in later life. This effect is similar to that induced by IL-1β and can be prevented by an IL-1 receptor antagonist. The present study suggests that an IL-1 receptor antagonist effectively attenuates or blocks long-lasting hyperalgesia and microglia activation produced by LPS exposure in the neonatal period of rats.
In a multicenter prospective trial, 58 healthy women aged between 35 and 49 years were studied for one year (639 cycles) while taking an oral contraceptive (OC) containing desogestrel 0.150 mg and ethinylestradiol (EE) 0.020 mg. Efficacy, control of the cycle, side effects, complaints, and climacteric symptoms were monitored after 3, 6, 9 and 12 cycles. No pregnancies occurred during the study period. Spotting gradually decreased from 29.3% in cycle 1 to 4.2% in cycle 12, while breakthrough bleeding (BTB) disappeared after cycle 7. One case of superficial thrombophlebitis and 3 cases of minor side effects were registered. With regard to the complaints, breast tenderness, headache, and depression gradually decreased during the study (basal vs. 12-month data: 50.9% vs. 31.2%, 48.3% vs. 18.7%, 39.6% vs. 20.8%, respectively), while nausea disappeared after three months. A significant treatment-dependent reduction of climacteric symptoms was obtained after cycle 3 and this tendency was maintained up to cycle 12. No changes were registered in body mass index (BMI) or blood pressure.
The biochemical basis for modulation of fluorouracil (FU) activity by leucovorin is elevation of the metabolite methylenetetrahydrofolate, which stabilizes the inhibitory ternary complex formed between thymidylate synthase and the active metabolite of FU, 5-fluorodeoxyuridylate. Folic acid, because it can also potentially be metabolized to methylenetetrahydrofolate, was evaluated for its ability to potentiate FU antitumor activity in a dietary folic acid restricted murine model. The plasma pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution of folic acid and all stable metabolites thereof were determined in the model to establish administration schedules. FU was administered to mice implanted subcutaneously with a mammary adenocarcinoma 4 hr after folic acid administration, when the metabolites, methylenetetrahydrofolate and tetrahydrofolate, were elevated maximally in both plasma and tumor tissue. While FU alone suppressed growth 25%, folic acid in combination with FU increased growth suppression to over 70%. These results indicate that folic acid is a potent modulator of FU activity and could be considered as an alternative to leucovorin in the clinical setting.
A case of phenobarbital-induced algodystrophy is reported. The classical clinical picture is a very often bilateral "shoulder-hand" syndrome which, when associated with articular involvement in the two lower limbs, produces an unusual form known as "extensive". Interest lies in the possible confusion with rheumatoid arthritis. Doubts still persist concerning the physio-pathological mechanism by which the medication may lead to osteo-articular symptoms. An association of several factors is frequently found at the onset of the disease.
Pain is a complex and subjective experience that involves not only the transduction of noxious stimuli by nociceptive fibers, but also the cognitive and emotional processing by the brain. Previous studies on the transmission of nociception suggest that the activation of mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system plays an important role in mediating the suppression of tonic pain. The aim of the current study was to examine the role of DA D3 receptor in modulating basal and amphetamine-induced changes in pain sensitivity in mice. We used wild-type and D3 receptor mutant mice and determined allodynia induced by both noxious heat (radiant heat) and mechanical (von Frey hair) stimuli. We show that D3 receptor mutant mice exhibit hypoalgesia in both the tail-flick test and von Frey hair test compared to wild-type mice. Amphetamine-induced hyperalgesia in both D3 receptor mutant and wild-type mice in the tail-flick test and von Frey hair test. There was no significantly difference in the relative change in pain sensitivity between wild-type and D3 receptor mutant mice in both the tail-flick test and von Frey hair test following amphetamine administration. These results suggest that the D3 receptor regulates the transmission of nociception. Moreover, amphetamine can lower pain threshold in mice.
Several moderate- and high-risk breast cancer susceptibility genes have been discovered, but more are likely to exist. To discover new breast cancer susceptibility genes, we used 2 populations (from Poland and Quebec, Canada) and applied whole-exome sequencing in a discovery phase (n = 195), followed by validation. We identified rare recurrent RECQL mutations in each population. In Quebec, 7 of 1,013 higher-risk breast cancer cases and 1 of 7,136 newborns carried the c.634C>T (p.Arg215*) variant (P = 0.00004). In Poland, 30 of 13,136 unselected breast cancer cases and 2 of 4,702 controls carried the c.1667_1667+3delAGTA (p.K555delinsMYKLIHYSFR) variant (P = 0.008). RECQL is implicated in resolving stalled DNA replication forks to prevent double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) breaks. This function is related to that of other known breast cancer susceptibility genes, many of which are involved in repairing dsDNA breaks. We conclude that RECQL is a breast cancer susceptibility gene.
The vasodepressor and bradycardia responses of saline control, serotonin-depleted and serotonin-potentiated rats to an intravenous dose of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) were assessed under the urethane anesthesia. Elevation of serotonin concentration in brain with either 5-hydroxytryptophan (a serotonin precursor) or chlorimipramine (an inhibitor of serotonin reuptake), although causing no changes in vasodepressor reuptake), although causing no changes in vasodepressor response, did enhance the PGE1-induced bradycardia in contrast, depleting serotonin concentration in brain with either p-chlorophenylalanine or 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine greatly reduced the PGE1-induced bradycardia without changes in vasodepressor response. Moreover, the reduced PGE1 bradycardia induced by p-chlorophenylalanine treatment was readily reversed by the replacement of the depleted brain serotonin with 5-hydroxytryptophan in combination with a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor Ro4-4602. The data indicate that brain serotonergic systems play a role in the elaboration or modulation of the PGE1-induced bradycardia. Specifically, brain serotonin seems to facilitate the PGE1-induced bradycardia since its depletion causes a decrease and its potentiation or elevation causes an increase in the PGE1-induced bradycardia.
An enriched environment is known to promote structural changes in the brain and to enhance learning and memory performance in rodents. We previously reported that prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) impaired passive avoidance responses and increased levels of phosphorylated Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (pCaMKII) in the hippocampus of mice. In this study, we examined whether an enriched environment affects the behavioral and neurochemical changes induced in mice prenatally exposed to DES. Male DES-exposed mice were placed in a standard or enriched environment at 3 weeks of age and subjected to behavioral testing after 3 weeks of exposure to these environments. Immunoblot analysis and 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) immunohistochemistry were then performed. In DES-exposed mice reared in an enriched environment, passive avoidance responses were significantly improved compared to those in mice reared in a standard environment. Moreover, the increase in level of pCaMKII in the hippocampus of DES-exposed mice was reversed by rearing in an enriched environment. Numbers of BrdU-positive cells in the dentate gyrus were significantly increased in normal and DES-exposed mice reared in the enriched environment compared to those in mice reared in the standard environment. These findings suggest that rearing in an enriched environment may mitigate the defects in brain function induced by prenatal exposure to endocrine disrupters such as DES.
Zimmermann-Laband syndrome (ZLS) is a developmental disorder characterized by facial dysmorphism with gingival enlargement, intellectual disability, hypoplasia or aplasia of nails and terminal phalanges, and hypertrichosis. We report that heterozygous missense mutations in KCNH1 account for a considerable proportion of ZLS. KCNH1 encodes the voltage-gated K(+) channel Eag1 (Kv10.1). Patch-clamp recordings showed strong negative shifts in voltage-dependent activation for all but one KCNH1 channel mutant (Gly469Arg). Coexpression of Gly469Arg with wild-type KCNH1 resulted in heterotetrameric channels with reduced conductance at positive potentials but pronounced conductance at negative potentials. These data support a gain-of-function effect for all ZLS-associated KCNH1 mutants. We also identified a recurrent de novo missense change in ATP6V1B2, encoding the B2 subunit of the multimeric vacuolar H(+) ATPase, in two individuals with ZLS. Structural analysis predicts a perturbing effect of the mutation on complex assembly. Our findings demonstrate that KCNH1 mutations cause ZLS and document genetic heterogeneity for this disorder.
Mannitol overuse-induced acute renal failure (ARF) has rarely been described. We report four cases, all male, between the ages of 20 and 42 years, who developed acute renal failure (3 anuric, 1 nonoliguric) after receiving mannitol 1,172 +/- 439 g (mean +/- SD) during a time period of 58 +/- 28 h. The infusion rate was 0.25 +/- 0.02 g/kg/h. The onset of acute renal failure was detected 48 +/- 22 h after infusion. In 2 of the 3 cases in which urinary cytology was evaluated, the presence of vacuole-containing renal tubular cells was observed. All patients had hyponatremia (120 +/- 11 mEq/l), and hyperosmolality (osmolar gap 70 +/- 11 mosm/kg water). No other factors could be pointed to as causing acute renal failure. In the 3 anuric cases in which hemodialysis was performed, immediate recovery of diuresis was observed. Two patients recovered renal function on the fifth and sixth days, and 2 died due to endocranial hypertension - one of them while recovering - on the fourth and sixth days. In the present report, mannitol-induced ARF occurred at clustered doses of 0.25 mg/kg/h.
In an 81-year-old patient with a history of long-standing stable chronic renal failure a diagnosis of multiple myeloma was made. After an initial chemotherapy, a therapy with intravenous pamidronate, 90 mg monthly, was initiated. After four years of well tolerated therapy, pamidronate was stopped and zoledronate, 4 mg intravenously every four weeks, was started. After approximately one year, an elevated plasma creatinine was noted for the'first time, progressing to end stage renal failure within the next months. At admission, besides end-stage renal failure, severe asymptomatic hypocalcemia was noted. Renal biopsy findings included severe tubulointerstitial damage compatible with drug-induced tubular injury. Prerenal and postrenal failure could be excluded as well as myeloma kidney. The diagnosis of zoledronate-associated end-stage renal failure was made and treatment with hemodialysis was started. Hypocalcemia was treated with calcium and vitamin D3 supplements. After two years of follow up, the patient still required hemodialysis.
The electrophysiological effects of bethanidine and meobentine were studied on isolated canine cardiac tissues and the in situ dog heart using standard techniques. The "direct" electrophysiological effects of bethanidine (in the beta-adrenergic-blocked Purkinje fiber) resemble the effects of meobentine in the normal canine Purkinje fiber; both drugs produce use-dependent decreases of the maximum rate of depolarization of phase 0 and action potential amplitude. In addition, meobentine prolongs action potential duration (100%) of Purkinje fibers. In ventricular muscle cells, the only significant effect of meobentine is a decrease in the maximum rate of depolarization. In studies of ouabain-induced tachycardias and 24-h infarct-induced ventricular arrhythmias, bethanidine tends to increase heart rate and/or exacerbate the ectopic activity (due to its sympathomimetic effects), whereas meobentine tends to reduce heart rate and restore normal sinus rhythm. Both bethanidine and meobentine increase ventricular fibrillation threshold. This increase is evident following bethanidine injection after the subsidence of the sympathomimetic effects. Finally, moderate increases of ventricular fibrillation threshold following treatment with meobentine are accompanied by partial cardiac sympathetic blockade, as indicated by reduced chronotropic responses to stellate ganglion stimulation. The antiarrhythmic and antifibrillatory effects of bethanidine and meobentine may be explained by the use-dependent effects of these drugs on phase 0 of the action potential and by their sympatholytic actions on the autonomic nervous system. Meobentine may, in addition, exert antiarrhythmic effects by decreasing automaticity in partially depolarized cells.
The tumor suppressor gene p53 and its downstream effector p21 are thought to play major roles in the development of human malignancy. Polymorphic variants of p53 at codon 72, and p21 at codon 31, have been found to be associated with cancer susceptibility, but few studies have investigated their effect on prostate cancer risk. In this case-control study, we investigated the association of p53 codon 72 and p21 codon 31 polymorphisms with prostate cancer risk in a Taiwanese population. In total, 200 patients with prostate cancer, 247 age-matched male controls, and 181 non-age-matched symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH; American Urological Association symptom score > or = 8 and prostate volume > 20 gm) recruited from two medical centers in southern Taiwan were genotyped. Overall, we found no significant association between p53 polymorphism and risk of prostate cancer. However, for p21 polymorphism, the frequencies of p21 Ser/Ser, Ser/Arg and Arg/Arg were 52 (26.0%), 85 (42.5%), 63 (31.5%) in case patients, 48 (26.5%), 82 (45.3%), 51 (28.2%) in BPH patients, and 76 (30.8%), 119 (48.2%), 52 (21.1%) in controls, respectively. Among the prostate cancer cases and controls, subjects with Arg/Arg genotype were found to have a 1.78-fold increased risk [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.06-3.01] of developing prostate cancer compared with those having the Ser/Ser genotype, after adjusting for other potential covariates. This significant association was slightly stronger [odds ratio (OR), 2.13; 95% CI, 1.16-3.92] in younger men (< or = 72 years; n = 99 and 126 for cases and controls, respectively) and correlated with localized disease stage (OR, 1.96; 95 % CI, 1.15-3.35) and moderately differentiated prostate cancer (OR, 2.04; 95% CI, 1.17-3.53). In addition, the Arg/Arg genotype was associated with BPH risk in those with large prostate volumes (> 50 mL) compared with those having the Ser/Ser genotype [OR, 2.29; 95% CI, 1.07-4.98]. Our findings suggest that the p21 codon 31 polymorphism may be associated with the development of prostate enlargement and cancer.
The effect of vitamin A deficiency and hypervitaminosis A on the urothelial carcinogenicity of N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formanmide (FANFT) was determined in female weanling Sprague-Dawley rats. Vitamin A deficiency resulted in squamous metaplasia of the urinary bladder and high incidences of cystitis, ureteritis, and pyelonephritis. Administration of FANFT to vitamin A-deficient rats appeared to accelerate the carcinogenic process, with earlier appearance of urinary bladder tumors and the development of ureteral and renal pelvic carcinomas. Most of these tumors were squamous cell, occasionally with transitional cell foci. Hypervitaminosis A prevented the appearance of squamous metaplasia and squamous cell neoplasia in rats fed FANFT, but it did not inhibit the formation of transitional cell hyperplasia or neoplasia in comparison to rats receiving normal levels of vitamin A and FANFT.
