A protective effect of Rho-kinase inhibitor on various organ injuries is gaining attention. Regarding liver injury, Rho-kinase inhibitor is reported to prevent carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)- or dimethylnitrosamine-induced liver fibrosis and hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats. Because Rho-kinase inhibitor not only improved liver fibrosis but also reduced serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level in CCl4-induced liver fibrosis, we wondered whether Rho-kinase inhibitor might exert a direct hepatocyte-protective effect. We examined this possibility in acute CCl4 intoxication in rats. Rho-kinase inhibitor, HA-1077, reduced serum alanine ALT level in rats with acute liver injury induced by CCl4 with the improvement of histological damage and the reduction of the number of apoptotic cells. In cultured rat hepatocytes in serum-free condition, HA-1077 reduced apoptosis evaluated by quantitative determination of cytoplasmic histone-associated DNA oligonucleosome fragments with the reduction of caspase-3 activity and the enhancement of Bcl-2 expression. HA-1077 stimulated phosphorylation of Akt, and wortmannin, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase)/Akt pathway, abrogated the reduction of hepatocyte apoptosis by HA-1077 in vitro. Furthermore, wortmannin abrogated the reduction of serum ALT level by HA-1077 in rats with acute liver injury induced by CCl4, suggesting that the activation of PI3-kinase/Akt pathway may be involved in the hepatocyte-protective effect by Rho-kinase inhibitor in vivo. In conclusion, Rho-kinase inhibitor prevented hepatocyte damage in acute liver injury induced by CCl4 in rats and merits consideration as a hepatocyte-protective agent in liver injury, considering its direct antiapoptotic effect on hepatocytes in vitro.
Mice lacking hepatocyte IKKbeta (Ikkbeta(Delta hep)) are defective in TNFalpha-activation of hepatocellular transcription factor NF-kappaB, and highly susceptible to hepatotoxicity. Following diethylnitrosamine (DEN) exposure, Ikkbeta(Delta hep) mice develop more hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) than control mice due partly to enhanced DEN-induced hepatocyte death. Here we show that Ikkbeta(Delta hep) hepatocytes display growth advantages over normal hepatocytes consisting of precocious PCNA and cyclin D1 expression during liver regeneration (shortened hepatocyte G(0)-->G(1) transitions), and enhanced recovery efficiency, cyclin D1 expression and cell proliferation after plating. Ex vivo deletion of Ikkbeta also accelerates hepatocyte growth. Ikkbeta(Delta hep) hepatocyte proliferative responses show heightened sensitivity to TGFalpha and TNFalpha, and heightened expression of fibronectin, collagens I/III, nidogen, beta-actin and integrin beta1 mRNAs. These findings suggest that altered mitogen signaling and expression of extracellular matrix and its associated components underlie growth advantages. Increased HCC development in Ikkbeta(Delta hep) mice may also be caused by growth advantages of surviving Ikkbeta-deleted hepatocytes.
Chronic manganese (Mn) exposure produces a neurological syndrome with psychiatric, cognitive and parkinsonian features. Gene expression studies in the frontal cortex of Cynomolgus macaques exposed to different doses of Mn showed gene expression changes associated with cell cycle regulation, DNA repair, apoptosis, ubiquitin-proteasome system, protein folding, cholesterol homeostasis, axonal/vesicular transport and inflammation. Amyloid-beta (A-beta) precursor-like protein 1 (APLP1), a member of the amyloid precursor family, was the most highly up-regulated gene. Immunohistochemistry confirmed increased APLP1 expression and revealed the presence of A-beta diffuse plaques. Cortical neurons and white matter fibers from Mn-exposed animals exhibited accumulation of silver grains indicative of on-going degeneration. Cortical neurons also expressed nuclear hypertrophy, intracytoplasmic vacuoles, and apoptotis stigmata. The levels of p53 were increased in neurons and glial cells in Mn-exposed tissue. Analysis of another amyloidogenic protein, alpha-synuclein, also exhibited aggregation in the gray and white matter from Mn-exposed animals. In summary, chronic Mn exposure in non-human primates produces a cellular stress response leading to neurodegenerative changes, diffuse A-beta plaques and alpha-synuclein aggregation in the frontal cortex. These changes may help explain the cognitive and working memory deficits expressed by these animals.
levo-alpha-Acetylmethadol (LAAM) and methadone are full mu-opioid agonists used to treat opioid dependence. Current labeling indicates that LAAM is less potent than methadone. Clinical studies have not determined the relative potency of these drugs. This study compared the effects of acute doses of LAAM and methadone and also examined the ability of naloxone to reverse their effects. Five occasional opioid users received once weekly doses of either placebo, LAAM, or methadone (15, 30, or 60 mg/70 kg p.o.) in agonist exposure sessions and then received naloxone (1.0 mg/70 kg i.m.) 24, 72, and 144 h after agonist exposure. Subject-rated, observer-rated, and physiological measures were assessed regularly. Comparisons of physiological and subjective measures collected in agonist exposure sessions indicate that LAAM is not less potent than methadone under acute dosing conditions. For some measures, LAAM was significantly more potent. Three subjects who entered the study were withdrawn for safety reasons due to greater than anticipated and clinically relevant respiratory depression after receiving 60 mg of LAAM. Naloxone did not fully reverse the pupil constriction produced by 60 mg of LAAM. Acute agonist effects suggest that LAAM may be more potent than methadone and more potent than current labeling indicates. An accurate LAAM:methadone relative potency estimate will aid determination of adequate doses for opioid-dependent patients inducted onto LAAM and for methadone maintenance patients who choose to switch to more convenient thrice-weekly LAAM.
The chemopreventive effect of nitric oxide-releasing aspirin (NO-ASA) against gastrointestinal tumorigenesis was evaluated in Min (APC(Min/+)) mice. NO-ASA consists of a traditional ASA that bears covalently attached to it an NO-releasing moiety. Four groups (N=10) of six-week-old female C57BL/6J APC(Min/+) and the corresponding C57BL/6J(+/+) wild type mice were treated either with vehicle or NO-ASA 100 mg/kg/day intrarectally for 21 days. There were no signs of overt toxicity including gastrointestinal toxicity from NO-ASA. Vehicle treated Min mice had 24.7 +/- 3.8 tumors (mean +/- SEM) and NO-ASA treated Min mice had 10.1 +/- 1.4 tumors (59% reduction; P<0.001). Wild type mice showed no tumors. NO-ASA did not affect cell proliferation in small intestinal mucosa, determined by immunohistochemical staining for PCNA. Our findings establish the strong inhibitory effect of NO-ASA in intestinal carcinogenesis in the Min mouse and suggest that this agent merits further evaluation as a chemopreventive agent against colon cancer.
The present two studies were designed to determine whether oxidized LDL contributes to the tubulointerstitial changes seen in rats during the acute phase of acute puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN). In the single-dose study, rats were given one injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PA; 15 mg/100 g body wt) and killed 1, 2, or 3 wk thereafter. The four animal groups were saline controls, PAN controls, PAN plus probucol, and PAN plus lovastatin. This study showed that the addition of probucol significantly reduced the mean levels of serum cholesterol and renal lipid-peroxidation products, an effect not seen with lovastatin therapy. Compared with saline controls, PAN controls had a significant increase in total kidney collagen (7.9 +/- 1.2 versus 5.9 +/- 0.6 mg/kidney at 3 wk). Neither probucol nor lovastatin therapy attenuated the interstitial inflammation or fibrosis. In the multidose study, rats were given the same initial PA dose and were uninephrectomized on day 12. They were killed on day 35 after two smaller PA doses were given on days 16 and 23. Animal groups were saline controls, PAN controls, PAN plus probucol, and PAN plus vitamin E. Hepatic lipid-peroxidation products were significantly lower in the probucol-treated, but not in the vitamin E-treated, PAN groups when compared with the PAN controls. Neither probucol nor vitamin E prevented the increase in total kidney collagen that was observed in the PAN control group (7.4 +/- 0.7, 10.1 +/- 2.6, and 9.3 +/- 1.8 mg of collagen/kidney, respectively, versus 5.4 +/- 0.5 mg/kidney for the saline controls). Renal cortical mRNA levels for matrix-encoding genes and protease inhibitors were similar in the three nephrotic groups. Transforming growth factor-beta1 mRNA levels were highly variable within each group and not significantly different at day 35, but showed a significant positive correlation with the degree of albuminuria (r = 0.70). The present results demonstrate that the treatment of acutely nephrotic rats with antioxidant therapy did not attenuate interstitial inflammation or fibrosis. We speculate that other factors, possibly a consequence of proteinuria itself, are the predominant pathogenetic mediators of the tubulointerstitial damage in acute nephrotic syndrome.
Two patients exhibited permanent neurological deficits following relatively uncomplicated episodes of lithium intoxication. Lithium toxicity alone appears to result in a fairly consistent combination of neurological findings, including deficits in recent memory, limb and truncal ataxia, and choreoathetosis or parkinsonism. The potential role of early hemodialysis in preventing these permanent deficits is discussed.
Isoniazid (INH) therapy for tuberculosis carries a known risk for hepatoxicity, and leads to hepatic failure in a small subset of patients. This incidence has been described for adults, but is uncertain in children. Our aim was to estimate the incidence of pediatric referrals for INH-related liver failure, and to describe the characteristics and outcomes of these patients.
The 84 U.S. centers performing pediatric liver transplants between 1987 and 1997 were surveyed regarding patients with INH-induced liver failure. Additional transplant statistics were obtained from the United Network for Organ Sharing. Estimates of the number of children taking preventive INH were derived from a nationwide public health database.
Twenty cases of INH-related liver failure were found during a 10-year period. Four patients (20%) recovered spontaneously; 10 (50%) underwent orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT), while six (30%) died awaiting OLT. Mean age at presentation was 9.8 years (range 1.3-17). Mean length of INH therapy was 3.3 months (range 0.5-9). Notably, five patients seen for symptoms of hepatitis were initially told not to stop treatment. INH-associated liver failure accounted for 0.2% (8 of 4679) of all pediatric OLTs, and 14% (8/56) of transplants for drug hepatoxicity. The estimated incidence of liver failure was up to 3.2/100,000 for children on prophylactic INH.
While INH-associated liver failure in children is rare, discontinuation at the onset of symptoms does not assure recovery. This indicates a need for increased awareness of hepatotoxicity risk, expanded biochemical monitoring for children receiving INH, and prompt withdrawal in symptomatic patients.
The present monocenter prospective study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of intravenous high-dose methylprednisolone pulse therapy in patients with severe alopecia areata (AA).
30 patients (aged 14-56 years) were treated with methylprednisolone (8 mg/kg body weight) intravenously on 3 consecutive days at 4-week intervals for at least 3 courses.
67% of patients with AA plurifocalis showed >50% regrowth of hair. None of the patients with AA totalis or universalis and only 1 patient with ophiasic AA responded to therapy. In patients with AA plurifocalis, higher response rates could be observed in those suffering from long-term disease compared to patients treated during their first episodes of AA (73 vs. 57%).
High-dose methylprednisolone pulse therapy is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for patients with severe AA plurifocalis but might be less beneficial for patients with ophasic AA, AA totalis or universalis.
A sensitive and selective isotope dilution liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESIMS/MS) method is presented for the simultaneous analysis of the metabolites of four nitrofuran veterinary drugs, that is, furazolidone, furaltadone, nitrofurantoin, and nitrofurazone, in honey samples. The method entails a combined hydrolysis of protein-bound drug metabolites and derivatization of the resulting metabolites with 2-nitrobenzaldehyde (NBA) during an overnight incubation, followed by a liquid-liquid extraction and a cleanup on a polymeric solid-phase extraction cartridge. Mass spectral acquisition is carried out in the positive ion mode by applying multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) of three diagnostic transition reactions for each analyte under survey. A reliable quantification is obtained by the use of one deuterated analogue per analyte (NBA-d(4) derivative). The method has been validated in honey according to the European Union criteria for the analysis of veterinary drug residues in food. Expressed in underivatized nitrofuran metabolite concentrations, the decision limits (CCalpha) ranged within 0.07-0.46 microg/kg, and the detection capabilities (CCbeta) were within 0.12-0.56 microg/kg. The method has been successfully applied in a survey of honeys of various geographical origins, showing that furazolidone is the main nitrofuran antibiotic administered to treat bacterial diseases of bees.
The determinants of susceptibility to troglitazone-induced idiosyncratic liver injury have not yet been determined; however, troglitazone has been shown to target mitochondria and induce mitochondria-mediated hepatocellular injury in vitro. The aim of this study was to use a systems approach to analyze the dynamics of mitochondrial changes at the proteome level and more clearly define the mechanisms and time course of troglitazone hepatotoxicity by using a previously characterized mouse model that is highly sensitized to troglitazone hepatotoxicity. Mice heterozygous in mitochondrial superoxide dismutase-2 (Sod2(+/-)) were injected intraperitoneally with troglitazone (30 mg/kg/day) or vehicle daily for 2 or 4 weeks. Hepatic mitochondria were isolated, purified, and subjected to two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE). We found that among the ~1500 resolved hepatic mitochondrial proteins, 70 exhibited significantly altered abundance after troglitazone treatment. MALDI-TOF/TOF MS/MS analysis revealed that early changes (2 weeks) included increased levels of heat shock protein family members (mortalin, HSP7C), Lon protease, and catalase, indicating induction of a mitochondrial stress response. In contrast, after 4 weeks, a number of critical proteins including ATP synthase beta-subunit, aconitase-2, and catalase exhibited decreased abundance, and total protein carbonyls were significantly increased, suggesting uncompensated oxidative damage. Aconitase-2 (ACO2) was decreased at both time points, making this protein a potential sensitive and early biomarker for mitochondrial oxidant stress. These results show that, in this murine model of underlying clinically silent mitochondrial stress, superimposed troglitazone induces a two-stage response: an initial adaptive response, followed by a toxic response involving oxidant injury to mitochondrial proteins.
Vancomycin was used to treat a patient with Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. After 3 weeks of therapy, the patient developed a diffuse maculopapular rash, which resolved upon stopping the drug. Rechallenge with vancomycin several days later resulted in reappearance of the rash and rapid onset of acute anuric renal failure. Renal biopsy revealed acute granulomatous interstitial nephritis. This is the first report of biopsy-proven vancomycin-induced acute interstitial nephritis. Renal function should be monitored closely in patients receiving vancomycin therapy.
The neural mechanisms of propofol-induced central respiratory depression remain poorly understood. In the present study, we studied these mechanisms and the involvement of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptors in propofol-induced central respiratory depression. The brainstem and the cervical spinal cord of 1- to 4-day-old rats were isolated, and preparations were maintained in vitro with oxygenated artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Rhythmic inspiratory burst activity was recorded from the C4 spinal ventral root. The activity of respiratory neurons in the ventrolateral medulla was recorded using a perforated patch-clamp technique. We found that bath-applied propofol decreased C4 inspiratory burst rate, which could be reversed by the administration of a GABAA antagonist, bicuculline. Propofol caused resting membrane potentials to hyperpolarize and suppressed the firing of action potentials in preinspiratory and expiratory neurons. In contrast, propofol had little effect on resting membrane potentials and action potential firing in inspiratory neurons. Our findings suggest that the depressive effects of propofol are, at least in part, mediated by the agonistic action of propofol on GABAA receptors. It is likely that the GABAA receptor-mediated hyperpolarization of preinspiratory neurons serves as the neuronal basis of propofol-induced respiratory depression in the newborn rat.
To assess the beneficial effects of the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker telmisartan on a non-obese animal model of reduced function and mass of islet beta-cells prior to the development of diabetes, Spontaneously Diabetic Torii (SDT) rats were treated with telmisartan at 8 weeks of age. At 24 weeks of age, the treatment with telmisartan dose-dependently ameliorated hyperglycemia and hypoinsulinemia, and high-dose (5 mg/kg/day) treated SDT rats did not developed diabetes. Real-time RT-PCR analysis revealed that treatment with high-dose telmisartan reduced mRNA expression of local renin-angiotensin system (RAS) components, components of NAD(P)H oxidase, transforming growth factor-beta1 and vascular endothelial growth factor in the pancreas of male SDT rats. Immunohistochemical and Western blot analyses revealed that treatment with telmisartan also reduced expression of p47(phox). These results suggest that treatment with telmisartan reduces oxidative stress by local RAS activation and protects against islet beta-cell damage and dysfunction. These findings provide at least a partial explanation for the reduced incidence of new-onset diabetes that has been observed in several clinical trials involving angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockers and ACE inhibitors.
In evaluating the cytotoxic effects and the mechanisms of the apoptotic and necrotic actions of trimethyltin chloride (TMT) on human hepatoma G2 (HepG2) cells, the present study focused on the involvement of antiproliferation, DNA damage, cell death, apoptosis-related proteins, and p53-dependent transcriptional activity. Twenty-four hour TMT treatments (4-64 microM) induced apoptosis and necrosis in HepG2 cells. Thirty-two micromolar and higher concentration significantly increases cell death. DNA damage was observed at 8 microM. Additionally, TMT increased the activity of cellular caspase-3 and the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c in a concentration-dependent manner. Our data demonstrated that the Bcl-2 family of proteins was involved in the apoptotic process but that p53 expression level was not affected. The results of luciferase reporter assay indicated that TMT-induced apoptosis seemed to adopt a transcription-dependent route, by activating p53 target genes such as PUMA and p21.
Prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) slightly inhibited the amphetamine (AMPH) induced stereotypy after administration of bradykinin (BRS) or stimulation the activity of kininogenic enzymes of the cerebral tissue by kallikrein administration. After administration of PGE1, BRS did not affect the apomorphine (APO)-induced stereotypy. The effect of kinins on catalepsy induced by haloperidol (HAL) was changed depending on the dose of PGE1. PGE1 given in combination with BRS increased the NA turnover in the rat striatum in comparison with the group receiving BRS, and given together with BRS and APO depressed the NA turnover in comparison with the group BRS and APO. A combined administration of PGE1 and BRS did not change the DA and HVA content under the experimental conditions used.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of an intravenous liposomal dispersion of prostaglandin E1 as TLC C-53 in the treatment of patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
Randomized, prospective, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase III clinical trial.
Forty-seven community and university-affiliated hospitals in the United States.
A total of 350 patients with ARDS were enrolled in this clinical trial.
Patients were prospectively randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either liposomal prostaglandin E1 or placebo. The study drug was infused intravenously for 60 mins every 6 hrs for 7 days starting with a dosage of 0.15 microg/kg/hr. The dose was increased every 12 hrs until the maximal dose (3.6 microg/kg/hr) was attained or intolerance to further increases developed. Patients received standard aggressive medical/surgical care during the infusion period.
The primary outcome measure was the time it took to wean the patient from the ventilator. Secondary end points included time to improvement of the PaO2/FIO2 ratio (defined as first PaO2/FIO2 > 300 mm Hg), day 28 mortality, ventilator dependence at day 8, changes in PaO2/FIO2, incidence of and time to development/resolution of organ failure other than ARDS.
A total of 348 patients could be evaluated for efficacy. The distribution of variables at baseline describing gender, lung injury scores, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II scores, PaO2/FIO2, pulmonary compliance, and time from onset of ARDS or from institution of mechanical ventilation to the first dose of study drug was similar among patients in the liposomal prostaglandin E1 (n = 177) and the placebo (n = 171) treatment arms. There was no significant difference in the number of days to the discontinuation of ventilation in the liposomal prostaglandin E1 group compared with the placebo group (median number of days to off mechanical ventilation, 16.9 in patients receiving liposomal prostaglandin E1 and 19.6 in those administered placebo; p = .94). Similarly, mortality at day 28 was not significantly different in the two groups (day 28 mortality, 57 of 176 (32%) in the liposomal prostaglandin E1 group and 50 of 170 (29%) in patients receiving placebo; p = .55). In contrast, treatment with liposomal prostaglandin E1 was associated with a significantly shorter time to reach a PaO2/FIO2 ratio of >300 mm Hg (median number of days to reaching a PaO2/FIO2 ratio >300 mm Hg: 9.8 days in the liposomal prostaglandin E1 group and 13.7 days in patients receiving the placebo; p = .02). Among the subgroups examined, time to off mechanical ventilation was significantly reduced in patients who received at least 85% of a full dose (i.e., > 45.9 microg/kg) of liposomal prostaglandin E1 (median number of days to discontinuation of ventilation, 10.3 in the liposomal prostaglandin E1 group and 16.3 days in patients receiving placebo; p = .05). The overall incidence of serious adverse events was not significantly different in the liposomal prostaglandin E1 (40%) or placebo-treated (37%) groups. Drug-related adverse events of all kinds were reported in 69% of the patients receiving liposomal prostaglandin E1 compared with 33% of the placebo group, with hypotension and hypoxia (occurring in 52% and 24% of the liposomal prostaglandin E1-treated patients, respectively, and 17% and 5% of the placebo-treated patients, respectively) being noted most frequently.
In the intent-to-treat population of patients with ARDS, treatment with liposomal prostaglandin E1 accelerated improvement in indexes of oxygenation but did not decrease the duration of mechanical ventilation and did not improve day 28 survival.
To report a case of erythema nodosum (EN) and related inflammatory arthropathy in a patient on cabergoline therapy for a microprolactinoma.
A 25-year-old white female, who had been receiving cabergoline 0.5 mg orally once per week for the preceding 2 months for a microprolactinoma, developed classic skin lesions of EN (proved by histology) and an associated acute inflammatory arthropathy of her left ankle joint in the absence of any other identifiable causes of EN. She improved substantially (skin lesions of EN and inflammatory arthropathy disappeared) after cessation of cabergoline therapy. Rechallenge with cabergoline in a lower dose of 0.25 mg orally once per week led to a milder recurrence of EN lesions that once again disappeared after withdrawal of the drug. She had not had a recurrence at a 3 month follow-up visit.
Although possible autoimmune adverse effects (pleuropulmonary and cardiac) have been reported with the use of cabergoline, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of EN (panniculitis) associated with cabergoline therapy. Causality assessment using the Naranjo probability scale revealed that the adverse drug event was probable.
Cabergoline was probably associated with EN (panniculitis) and the related arthritis in a patient being treated for a microprolactinoma. Panniculitis, like EN, needs to be considered a possible but reversible adverse effect of cabergoline therapy for microprolactinoma of the pituitary gland.
Substance abuse with cocaine is associated with multiple cardiovascular conditions, including myocardial infarction, dissection, left ventricular hypertrophy, arrhythmias, sudden death, and cardiomyopathy. Cocaine has effects to potentiate the physiologic actions of catecholamines and has direct effects on voltage-dependent sodium ion channels related to local anesthetic properties. The effects of cocaine can be augmented with concomitant alcohol consumption. Acute myocardial ischemia caused by cocaine may be related to in situ thromboisis and/or coronary vasospasm. Treatment strategies for cocaine-induced myocardial infarction would include antiplatelet therapy, thrombolysis, and vasodilators (eg, nitrates, nifedipine). Beta-adrenergic blockers should not be used unless concomitant vasodilator therapy is given.
The illicit use of cocaine continues in epidemic proportions and treatment for cocaine overdose remains elusive. Current protein-based technology offers a new therapeutic venue by which antibodies bind the drug in the blood stream, inactivating its toxic effects. The therapeutic potential of the anticocaine antibody GNC92H2 was examined using a model of cocaine overdose. Swiss albino mice prepared with intrajugular catheters were tested in photocell cages after administration of 93 mg/kg (LD50) of cocaine and GNC92H2 infusions ranging from 30 to 190 mg/kg. GNC92H2 was delivered 30 min before, concomitantly or 3 min after cocaine treatment. Significant blockade of cocaine toxicity was observed with the higher dose of GNC92H2 (190 mg/kg), where premorbid behaviors were reduced up to 40%, seizures up to 77% and death by 72%. Importantly, GNC92H2 prevented death even post-cocaine injection. The results support the important potential of GNC92H2 as a therapeutic tool against cocaine overdose.
To determine if increased local production of glucocorticoids by the pancreatic islets might play a role in the spontaneous noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus of obesity, we compared islet 11beta-HSD-1 mRNA and activity in islets of obese prediabetic and diabetic Zucker Diabetic Fatty (ZDF) (fa/fa) rats and lean wild-type (+/+) controls. In diabetic rat islets, both mRNA and enzymatic activity of the enzyme were increased in proportion to the hyperglycemia. Troglitazone (TGZ) treatment, beginning at 6 weeks of age, prevented the hyperglycemia, the hyperlipidemia, and the increase in 11beta-HSD-1. To determine if the metabolic abnormalities had caused the 11beta-HSD-1 increase, prediabetic islets were cultured in high or low glucose or in 2:1 oleate:palmitate for 3 days. Neither nutrient enhanced the expression of 11beta-HSD-1. We conclude that 11beta-HSD-1 expression and activity are increased in islets of diabetic, but not prediabetic ZDF rats, and that TGZ prevents both the increase in 11beta-HSD-1 and the diabetes.
The utility of liver H-ras codon 61 CAA to AAA mutant fraction as a biomarker of liver tumor development was investigated using neonatal male mice treated with 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP). Treatment with 0.1, 0.3, or 1.0 mumol 4-ABP produced dose-dependent increases in liver DNA adducts in B6C3F(1) and C57BL/6N mice. Eight months after treatment with 0.3 mumol 4-ABP or the DMSO vehicle, H-ras codon 61 CAA to AAA mutant fraction was measured in liver DNA samples (n = 12) by allele-specific competitive blocker-polymerase chain reaction (ACB-PCR). A significant increase in average mutant fraction was found in DNA of 4-ABP-treated mice, with an increase from 1.3 x 10(-5) (control) to 44.9 x 10(-5) (treated) in B6C3F(1) mice and from 1.4 x 10(-5) to 7.0 x 10(-5) in C57BL/6N mice. Compared with C57BL/6N mutant fractions, B6C3F(1) mutant fractions were more variable and included some particularly high mutant fractions, consistent with the more rapid development of liver foci expected in B6C3F(1) mouse liver. Twelve months after treatment, liver tumors developed in 79.2% of 4-ABP-treated and 22.2% of control B6C3F(1) mice; thus measurement of H-ras mutant fraction correlated with subsequent tumor development. This study demonstrates that ACB-PCR can directly measure background levels of somatic oncogene mutation and detect a carcinogen-induced increase in such mutation.
To provide an appropriate animal model of liver cancer and sensitive indicator for carcinogen risk assessment.
The developmental processes of liver cancers in rats initiated by non-necrotizing dose of diethylnitrosamine and promoted by phenobarbital were studied.
Most of the preneoplastic lesions and liver cancers were made up of eosinophilic cells. The placental glutathione S-transferase (P-GST) staining could allow a lot of positive single cells, foci and nodules to be seen. But the lesions showed by HE staining expressed higher proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) than those showed by P-GST staining expressed, indicating a greater possibility for these lesions to persist and develop further. The cellular morphologic analysis demonstrated that the ratio of nuclear radii to cytoplasm radii decreased in the cell in PCNA positive expressing nodules. In addition, the nodules showed by P-GST expressed higher PCNA than those the foci expressed, indicating an increased possibility to develop further in the nodules.
PCNA expression may be used as a relatively ideal marker for predicting the potential development of precancerous lesions in the experimental model of rat liver cancer induction.
The effects of four commonly prescribed diuretics on serum potassium were assessed. One hundred sixteen elderly clinic patients, independently living, (mean age 74.3 years, range 60 to 99 years) were taking hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) (n = 40; mean daily dose, 53.9 mg), a combination of hydrochlorothiazide-triamterene (HCTZ-TMTR) (n = 38; mean daily dose, 1.28 capsules), furosemide (n = 20; mean daily dose, 38.0 mg), or chlorthalidone (n = 18; mean daily dose, 55.6 mg). Patients did not take more than one diuretic. No patients received potassium supplementation or had diseases affecting potassium balance. The study design was a nonblinded, noncrossover retrospective chart audit with chi-square analysis. All patients were counseled about reducing excessive sodium intake and using potassium-rich foods and salt substitutes, although compliance concerning these dietary factors was not assessed. Even though some comparisons of diuretics showed statistical significance, these differences probably are not clinically significant because all serum potassium values were above 3.0 mEq/L and no patient was symptomatic. This study supports the use of HCTZ as an initial antihypertensive diuretic; it is as efficacious as the other diuretics in this study, is less expensive, and usually does not cause clinically significant hypokalemia more often than do the other diuretics.
Formaldehyde (FA) can cause severe central nervous system impairment. But, there are only a few studies about biochemical and histopathological changes of frontal cortex and hippocampal tissue caused by FA toxicity. The aim of our study was to investigate these changes occurring after chronic formaldehyde toxicity in frontal cortex and hippocampal tissues, and protective effect of Vitamin E (vit E) against oxidative damage. Eighteen rats were divided into three groups: (1) control, (2) treated with FA (FAt), and (3) treated with FA and vit E (FAt+vit E) groups. After the treatment, the animals were sacrificed and frontal cortex and hippocampal tissues were removed for biochemical and histopathological investigation. FA significantly increased tissue malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyl (PC) levels and also decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) enzyme activities in frontal cortex and hippocampal tissue compared to control. Vit E treatment decreased MDA and PC levels and prevented inhibition of SOD and CAT enzymes in the tissues. In the FAt group, the neurons of both tissues became extensively dark and degenerated with picnotic nuclei. The morphology of neurons in FAt+vit E group was protected well, but not as neurons of the control group. The number of neurons in frontal cortex and hippocampal tissue of FAt group was significantly less than both control and FAt+vit E groups. It was concluded that vit E treatment might be beneficial in preventing FA-induced oxidative frontal cortex and hippocampal tissue damage, therefore, shows potential for clinical use.
Locally-induced digitalis arrhythmia was produced to study whether antiarrhythmic drugs suppress arrhythmia by directly acting on the abnormal impulse generation or by suppressing Na channels of normal myocardium to make it unresponsive to abnormal impulses. Dogs were thoractomized and the anterior descending artery (ADA) was isolated and autoperfused with arterial blood from the carotid artery. Forty micrograms and an additional 10 micrograms every 20 min of ouabain was injected directly into the ADA produced ventricular tachycardia originating from the digitalis intoxication. Locally injected class 1 antiarrhythmic drugs, including tetrodotoxin, were effective in suppressing this arrhythmia. However, when intravenously applied lidocaine was prevented from reaching the ADA area, lidocaine was not effective in suppressing this arrhythmia. We conclude that class 1 drugs produce antiarrhythmic effect by directly suppressing the digitalis toxicated area, not by suppressing the normal myocardium.
The response rate of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer to the 4-drug combination [5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), dacarbazine, vincristine and bis-chloronitrosourea given 5 weekly (FIVB)] was better than the response rate to 5-FU. The dose limiting toxicity of the FIVB was myelosuppression. The present study investigates the effect of FIVB given with GM-CSF so that drug cycles could be given every 4 weeks. Thirty-five ambulatory patients with measurable metastatic colorectal cancer were treated with FIVB plus GM-CSF 4 weekly. All patients were evaluable for toxicity. Among the 163 cycles given only 4 were delayed because of leucopenia and 8 cycles were delayed because of gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity. A 50% dose reduction was given to 10 patients who had Grade 2 and 3 GI toxicity. Four of the 35 patients developed thromboembolic complications, 2 of which were lethal. Two patients were not evaluable for response as they were removed from study early because of toxicity. There were 2 complete responses and 6 partial responses. The median time to treatment failure was 3.8 months and median survival time 9.9 months. The addition of GM-CSF to FIVB decreased the expected leucopenia allowing drug treatment to be given 4 weekly to most patients. GI toxicity was dose limiting. Despite the increased dose intensity that could be delivered (to two thirds of patients), response rates were not definitely increased, no survival benefit was seen and important thromboembolic complications occurred.
