Non-inbred SHR/u 3-month old mice were injected a single dose of urethane 1 g/kg, intraperitoneally. Beginning from day I after injection, they received melatonin 20 mg/l or 2 mg/l with drinking water at nighttime. After 28 days of the experiments, mice were sacrificed, lung adenomas counted and examined morphologically. Samples of blood and ling tissue were taken from each group and assayed for malonic dialdehyde (MDA) and catalase level. Tumor count of lung adenomas in the untreated group (control) was 23 +/- 2.63, melatonin 20 mg/l--14 +/- 1.2 (p < 0.01) and melatonin 2 mg/l--11 +/- 0.72 (p < 0.01). Urethane-treated mice revealed increased levels of MDA (62%) and catalase (70.7%) in blood-serum and in lung tissue (36.5%) as compared with control. Melatonin treatment significantly lowered concentrations of MDA in blood-serum and catalase (blood-serum and lung) rather than in the lung bearing urethane-induced tumor. Antitumor and antioxidant effect of relatively low dosage of melatonin appeared to be more effective than those of a larger one.
Pancreatic carcinoma exhibits a unique genetic profile of mutations that may play key roles in its progression to malignant phenotypes. Constitutive activation of transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) is a frequent molecular alteration in pancreatic carcinoma, suggesting a possible link between inflammation and cancer. The aims of the current study were to determine the effects of aspirin on pancreatic carcinoma prevention and to reveal a possible mechanism of aspirin-mediated cancer chemoprevention.
An orthotopic mouse model with human pancreatic carcinoma cell lines PANC-1, PANC-1/Puro, and PANC-1/IkappaBalphaM was used to study the inhibitory effects of aspirin on pancreatic tumor formation.
Aspirin inhibited constitutive NF-kappaB activity in culture and, in turn, decreased the expression of the NF-kappaB downstream target gene, Cox-2, in PANC-1 or PANC-1/Puro cells, without significantly inhibiting the in vitro growth of PANC-1/Puro cells. All animals inoculated with either PANC-1 or PANC-1/Puro cells, and not given aspirin, developed pancreatic tumors, whereas none of the mice injected with PANC-1/IkappaBalphaM cells showed any evidence of pancreatic tumor formation. Animals given aspirin for 6 days before, or at the time of, orthotopic tumor cell injection showed a significantly lower incidence of tumor formation compared with those receiving aspirin 2 weeks after inoculation and controls receiving no aspirin.
Aspirin repressed tumor formation by PANC-1 cells in vivo in a prophylactic setting, suggesting a possible mechanism for aspirin's preventive effect in pancreatic carcinoma through inhibition of NF-kappaB activation and a mechanistic link between inflammation and tumorigenesis. Aspirin-mediated antiinflammatory approaches might be an effective strategy to prevent pancreatic carcinoma.
The effect of halothane and enflurane on changes in heart rate during reversal of neuromuscular blockade was compared in 48 patients. Premedication and anaesthetic technique was standardized. Either halothane or enflurane was used as the primary anaesthetic. Neuromuscular block was reversed by injection of glycopyrrolate and neostigmine, given either separately or simultaneously. Heart rate changes were significantly different between the halothane and enflurane subgroups. Patients anaesthetized with enflurane showed less fluctuations in heart rate. Simultaneous injection of glycopyrrolate and neostigmine minimized the tachycardia in the halothane subgroups only.
This study examined the effect of administration with food on the ability of ranitidine bismuth citrate to suppress and eradicate Helicobacter pylori in 41 infected volunteers.
After a 7-day course of treatment with ranitidine bismuth citrate (400 mg b.i.d.), 90% (18/20) of subjects who received the drug with food compared with 55% (11/20) of subjects who received the drug without food tested H. pylori-negative in a 13C-urea breath test (p = 0.031). Follow-up 13C-urea breath tests performed at least 3 months after therapy showed that H. pylori was eradicated in 14% (2/14) of subjects who received ranitidine bismuth citrate with food compared with 0% (0/18) of subjects who received ranitidine bismuth citrate without food (p = 0.183). The incidence of potentially drug-related adverse events was similar regardless of whether subjects received ranitidine bismuth citrate with or without food. Headache was the most common potentially drug-related adverse event.
These data demonstrate that administration of ranitidine bismuth citrate with food compared with without food significantly improves the suppression of H. pylori in infected volunteers.
We describe four patients who suffered asystole, myocardial infarction (in two cases) and supraventricular tachycardia at the time of high-dose methylprednisolone infusion. One patient died during infusion. We measured the effects of methylprednisolone and placebo infusion on heart rate, blood pressure, and cardiac output in six stable renal allograft recipients. A significant rise in arterial pressure, caused by an increase in total peripheral resistance, occurred during methylprednisolone infusion. Possible mechanisms include potentiation by methylprednisolone of the vascular effects of the high plasma noradrenaline levels that are found in renal allograft recipients. We suggest that electrocardiograms and blood pressure measurements should be monitored during methylprednisolone infusion, especially in patients with preexisting cardiovascular disease.
Affective disorders and impulsivity are quite common when using anabolic substances, in this case-study one of the rather rare cases of a psychotic disorder following the abuse of androgenic steroids is described. A 30-year old formerly healthy white male was admitted as inpatient to psychiatric hospital showing symptoms of anxiety and paranoid ideation. In the last 1.5 years he had consumed androgenic steroids, directly before the onset of the first psychotic symptoms 8 weeks before admission he had received an i.m.-injection of nandrolone. Under therapy with neuroleptics the patient recovered completely within 2 months.
Electrolytes imbalance has been reported with the use of several antimicrobials. We report a case of severe hypokalemia secondary to piperacillin/tazobactam in a patient with normal renal function and normal serum potassium level who had presented with a fractured neck of femur. The electrolytes abnormality was corrected once piperacillin/tazobactam was stopped. To our knowledge, this is the first case to describe an early severe hypokalemia induced by piperacillin/ tazobactam therapy in an otherwise healthy individual.
We report the case of a 62-year-old woman with parkinson's disease and depression. Her symptoms included episodes of flushing, palpitations and hypertension, giving rise to the suspicion of the existence of a phaeochromocytoma. The levels of adrenaline and vanillymandelic acid in the urine were moderately elevated, the noradrenaline level was high-normal. Upon further examination, there was no evidence of a phaeochromocytoma or a carcinoid tumor. In the literature, there are reports of pseudophaeochromocytoma in patients receiving levodopa. Elevated levels of catecholamins and their metabolites can be caused by the metabolic process of levodopa and levodopa can influence the outcome of laboratory tests. The patient's depression resolved and the flushing disappeared after treatment with antidepressants and after changing the Parkinson regime.
Restless legs syndrome is a frequent dyssomnia with well-known clinical features but uncertain origin and treatment. This paper describes a case of restless legs syndrome worsened by paroxetine. A possible pathogenic hypothesis related to the attributed neurochemical properties of the drug is proposed.
Ethanol consumption causes serious liver injury including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Ethanol is metabolized mainly in the liver to acetic acid through acetaldehyde. We investigated the effect of ethanol and acetaldehyde on polyamine metabolism since polyamines are essential factors for normal cellular functions. We found that acetaldehyde induced spermine oxidase (SMO) at the transcriptional level in HepG2 cells. The levels and activities of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) and spermidine/spermine acetyltransferase (SSAT) were not affected by acetaldehyde. Spermidine content was increased and spermine content was decreased by acetaldehyde treatment. Knockdown of SMO expression using siRNA reduced acetaldehyde toxicity. Acetaldehyde exposure increased free acrolein levels. An increase of acrolein by acetaldehyde was SMO dependent. Our results indicate that cytotoxicity of acetaldehyde involves, at least in part, oxidation of spermine to spermidine by SMO, which is induced by acetaldehyde.
Mycotoxin zearalenone (ZEN) is a cereal contaminant produced by various species of Fusarium fungi. When interacting with estrogen receptors, ZEN leads to animal fertility disturbances and other reproductive pathologies. Few data are available on the effects of perinatal exposure to ZEN, particularly in the blood-testis barrier. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of ZEN in adult rats exposed neonatally. We focused on the expression and cellular localization of major ABC transporters expressed in adult rat testis, comparing ZEN effects with those of Estradiol Benzoate (EB) neonatal exposure. Dose-dependent and long term modulations of mRNA and protein levels of Abcb1, Abcc1, Abcg2, Abcc4 and Abcc5 were observed, along with Abcc4 protein cellular delocalization. ZEN exposure of SerW3 Sertoli cells showed modulation of Abcb1, Abcc4 and Abcc5. Comparison with EB exposure showed similar modulation profiles for Abcg2 but differential modulations for Abcb1, Abcc1, Abcc4 and Abcc5 in vivo, and a similar profile for Abcb1 modulation by ZEN and EB, but differential modulation for Abcc4 and Abcc5 in vitro. ZEN and EB effects were inhibited by in vitro addition of the pure anti-estrogen ICI 182.780, suggesting the at least partial implication of ZEN estrogenic activity in these modulations. These results suggested that ZEN neonatal exposure could affect the exposure of testis to ABC transporter substrates, and negatively influence spermatogenesis and male fertility.
Combined spinal-epidural anaesthesia is commonly used for elective caesarean section. Intrathecal injection produces rapid onset with minimal doses of local anaesthetic and epidural administration can be used to prolong the block. Our study examined the effects of adding magnesium sulphate to epidural bupivacaine and fentanyl in patients undergoing elective caesarean section using combined spinal-epidural anaesthesia.
Women ASA physical status I or II at term were recruited. All received 2 mL intrathecal 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine, 10 mL epidural 0.25% plain bupivacaine with fentanyl 100 μg, and were randomly allocated to receive either 10 mL of epidural 0.9% sodium chloride or 10 mL epidural 5% magnesium sulphate. The quality of surgical anaesthesia, incidence of hypotension, Apgar scores, intraoperative pain assessment, onset of postoperative pain, sedation scores and side effects were recorded in the postoperative period.
Ninety women were recruited. There was no difference in the time taken for the block to reach T4 sensory level, time to reach the highest level of sensory block, time interval between first neuraxial injection and onset of surgery between the groups. Women who received magnesium had greater motor block and muscle relaxation (P<0.05). Apgar scores were 7 or more in almost all neonates in both groups. There was no significant difference in the incidence of hypotension, nausea and vomiting and duration of motor blockade between the groups. Women who received magnesium showed less shivering and later onset of post operative pain (P<0.05).
The addition of magnesium to epidural bupivacaine and fentanyl in women undergoing elective caesarean section with combined spinal-epidural anaesthesia improved intraoperative conditions and the quality of postoperative analgesia.
One thousand two hundred twenty-two patients treated in the Rituximab with CHOP over age 60 years (RICOVER-60) trial were examined for central nervous system (CNS) disease developing during first-line therapy or after a complete or partial remission had been achieved. Patients received 6 or 8 courses of CHOP (cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, vincristine, prednisone) administered every 2 weeks (CHOP-14) with or without rituximab. CNS prophylaxis for patients with involvement of bone marrow, testes, upper neck, or head consisted of intrathecal (i.th.) methotrexate (days 1 and 5 of first 2 courses). Fifty-eight cases of lymphoma in the CNS were observed (36/609 patients in the CHOP-14 and 22/608 patients in the arituximab-CHOP-14 [R-CHOP-14] arm). The estimated 2-year incidence of CNS disease was 6.9% (confidence interval [CI] 4.5; 9.3) after CHOP-14 and 4.1% (CI 2.3; 5.9) after R-CHOP-14. R-CHOP reduced the relative risk for CNS disease to 0.58 (95% CI 0.3; 1.0, P = .046). Cox regression analysis identified "involvement of more than 1 extranodal site" and "B-symptoms" as significant risk factors for CNS disease. Patients treated with R-CHOP-14 did not show any benefit from i.th. methotrexate. We conclude that elderly patients with aggressive CD20-positive lymphoma show a significantly lower incidence of CNS disease if treated with R-CHOP-14 instead of CHOP-14. Intrathecal methotrexate has no role in preventing CNS disease for patients treated with combined immunochemotherapy (R-CHOP-14)--with the possible exception of patients with testicular involvement.
We studied the immediate and long-term effects of azidothymidine (AZT) and heme on murine hemopoietic and stromal progenitor cells in vivo and in vitro. Treatment of mice for 37 days with AZT produced anemia and leukopenia, whereas combined treatment with heme abrogated some of the toxic effects which were apparent even 2 weeks after cessation of treatment. Quantitation of spleen (CFU-S), erythroid (BFU-E) and myeloid (CFU-GM) colony formation from AZT-exposed animals revealed reductions in these progenitors, and this was partially reversed after heme treatment, especially when mice were allowed a 2-week recovery period. Long-term bone marrow cultures (LTBMC) of cells from treated groups revealed difficulty in establishing an adherent cell layer (ACL) by the first week in culture. Total cellularity, CFU-S, BFU-E and CFU-GM clonogenic potential of cultures remained depressed throughout 10 weeks of culture, whereas heme treatment overcame these depressions when AZT-exposed mice were allowed to recover for 14 days prior to culture of their cells in LTBMC. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) treatment to the same recovery group of AZT-exposed mice also resulted in an improvement of CFU-GM growth in LTBMC that was not seen in the nonrecovered group. Transplantation of cells from treated mice under the renal capsule of recipient mice revealed that AZT depressed the regeneration of osteogenic and hemopoietic cell growth within ectopic foci. These effects were reversed with heme treatment in vivo. In other experiments, heme was found to inhibit human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) reverse transcriptase and to potentiate the activity of AZT triphosphate against HIV-1 reverse transcriptase. In summary, these results demonstrate that AZT inhibits the growth and development of a variety of hemopoietic, stromal and adherent cells in vivo and in vitro. Treatment of animals with heme produced recovery to near normal levels and suggests possible therapeutic potential.
Caffeine has been known to trigger seizures, however, the precise mechanism about the proconvulsive effect of caffeine remains unclear. Glutamate transporters play an important role to maintain the homeostasis of glutamate concentration in the brain tissue. Especially, dysfunction of excitatory amino acid transporter type 3 (EAAT3) can lead to seizures. We investigated the effects of caffeine on the activity of EAAT3 and the involvement of protein kinase C (PKC) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). Rat EAAT3 was expressed in Xenopus oocytes by injecting EAAT3 mRNA. l-Glutamate (30μM)-induced inward currents were recorded via the two-electrode voltage clamp method. Caffeine decreased EAAT3 activity in a dose-dependent manner. Caffeine (30μM for 3min) significantly reduced V(max), but did not alter K(m) value of EAAT3 for glutamate. When preincubated oocytes with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA, a PKC activator) were exposed to caffeine, PMA-induced increase in EAAT3 activity was abolished. Two PKC inhibitors (chelerythrine and staurosporine) significantly reduced basal EAAT3 activity. Whereas, there were no significant differences among the PKC inhibitors, caffeine, and PKC inhibitors+caffeine groups. In similarly fashion, wortmannin (a PI3K inhibitor) significantly decreased EAAT3 activity, however no statistical differences were observed among the wortmannin, caffeine, and wortmannin+caffeine groups. Our results demonstrate that caffeine attenuates EAAT3 activity and this reducing effect of caffeine seems to be mediated by PKC and PI3K.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been demonstrated to protect spontaneously hypertensive rats from cerebral ischemia. The present study investigated the protective effect of enalapril and moexipril in models of permanent focal cerebral ischemia in normotensive mice and rats. To elucidate the mechanism of neuroprotection the influence of these angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors on glutamate-, staurosporine- or Fe2+/3+-induced generation of reactive oxygen species and neuronal cell death in primary cultures from chick embryo telencephalons was studied. Treatment with moexipril or enalapril dose-dependently reduced the percentage of damaged neurons, as well as mitochondrial reactive oxygen species generation induced by glutamate, staurosporine or Fe2+/3+. Furthermore, moexipril and enalapril attenuated staurosporine-induced neuronal apoptosis as determined by nuclear staining with Hoechst 33258. In mice, 1 h pretreatment with enalapril (0.03 mg/kg) or moexipril (0.3 mg/kg) significantly reduced brain damage after focal ischemia as compared to control animals. Additionally, moexipril (0.01 mg/kg) was able to reduce the infarct volume in the rat model after focal cerebral ischemia. The results of the present study indicate that the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors enalapril and moexipril promote neuronal survival due to radical scavenging properties.
This study utilized a historical cohort to examine the relationship between maternal cocaine use during pregnancy and the occurrence of congenital cardiovascular abnormalities. All neonatal drug screens performed at Boston City Hospital during an 18-month period were reviewed (n = 554); for 214 (39%) screened high-risk neonates, results of toxicologic screens were positive for cocaine, and 340 (61%) neonates had no detectable cocaine. We compared the occurrence of cardiovascular malformations and electrocardiographic abnormalities in these two groups. Matches were sought between these 554 infants and our pediatric cardiology data base, which consisted of inpatient consultation, outpatient consultation, and electrocardiography. Forty-nine patients had drug screens and were also entered into our cardiology data base: 25 had both consultations and electrocardiograms, and 24 had electrocardiograms only. The rate of cardiac anomalies among the cocaine-positive infants was significantly higher (relative risk = 3.7; 95% confidence interval: (1.4, 9.4)) than the rate of these anomalies among the cocaine-negative comparison group (65/100 vs 18/1000); the rate for cocaine-positive infants was also significantly higher than published rates for general populations of infants. Several electrocardiographic abnormalities, high-grade ventricular ectopy, and cardiorespiratory arrests were also noted in our study population. We conclude that cocaine exposure during prenatal life appears to predispose infants to structural cardiovascular malformations, electrocardiographic abnormalities, and, possibly, cardiopulmonary autonomic dysfunction.
Although a variety of dyskinesias are known to develop during anticonvulsant therapy, carbamazepine-induced tics are rarely recognized. We report three patients with an underlying movement disorder (Huntington's disease, tardive dyskinesia, and Tourette's syndrome) who experienced the onset or exacerbation of tics after the introduction of carbamazepine. These cases confirm the phenomenon of carbamazepine-induced tics and suggest that basal ganglia neuropathology may be an important predisposing factor. The dopaminergic effects of carbamazepine may be responsible for the induction of tics.
Nephrotic syndrome associated with mesangial lupus nephritis developed in a young woman. The heavy proteinuria exhibited a striking steroid-dependent course during a three-year period of time, with ten relapses occurring whenever attempts were made to withdraw prednisone therapy. A prolonged remission was induced by the administration of chlorambucil.
A variety of drugs have been implicated in causing or exacerbating SLE (drug-related lupus). Griseofulvin, the most commonly used agent in the treatment of fungal infections in the skin, has been shown to be a possible SLE-activating drug in several case reports. In the literature, however, any similar drug reactions have not been reported in MCTD, despite sharing features of SLE. The first case of drug (griseofulvin)-exacerbated MCTD was described and discussed. The patient was a 36-year-old woman with a six-year history of MCTD and subclinical Sjögren's syndrome. She developed aseptic meningo-encephalitis and disseminated intravascular coagulation after two weeks of continuous oral administration of griseofulvin 375 mg per day for trichophytosis of the feet. Following cessation of griseofulvin with anticoagulants, antibiotics, and high dose steroids at the same time, she greatly improved within one week.
Depression is common among patients who abuse both opiates and cocaine, and its treatment has had mixed success. This study compares buprenorphine-maintained patients with lifetime major depressive disorder (MDD, N = 53) with those never depressed (ND, N = 96) on cocaine and opiate-free urines during a 12-week outpatient double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial. The 149 subjects were assigned to four groups: 1) desipramine (DMI) + contingency management (CM); 2) DMI + noncontingency management (NCM); 3) placebo + CM; and 4) placebo + NCM. Depression assessments included Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Inventory, and Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV interview for diagnosis of lifetime MDD. Urine toxicologies were performed thrice weekly and the CES-D was performed monthly. The MDD group had a larger proportion of females (45% vs 21%, P = 0.02) and were more likely to be married (13.2% vs 7.3%, P = 0.02) than the ND group. Treatment retention did not vary by depression status. Hierarchical Linear Modeling found that depressive symptoms decreased comparably across the four treatment groups. Although participation in CM improved drug-free urines more for patients with MDD than for the ND group (Z = 2.44, P = 0.01), treatment with DMI was significantly more efficacious for the ND group than for the MDD group (Z = -2.89, P = 0.003). These results suggest that patients with MDD may respond better to behavioral treatments such as CM than to desipramine plus buprenorphine. The ND cocaine-abusing, opiate-dependent patients may be more responsive to the anticraving effects of DMI.
22q11 deletion (del22q11) syndrome is characterized genetically by heterozygous deletions within chromosome 22q11 and clinically by a constellation of congenital malformations of the aortic arch, heart, thymus, and parathyroid glands described as DiGeorge syndrome (DGS). Here, we report that compound heterozygosity of mouse homologs of two 22q11 genes, CRKL and TBX1, results in a striking increase in the penetrance and expressivity of a DGS-like phenotype compared to heterozygosity at either locus. Furthermore, we show that these two genes have critical dose-dependent functions in pharyngeal segmentation, patterning of the pharyngeal apparatus along the anteroposterior axis, and local regulation of retinoic acid (RA) metabolism and signaling. We can partially rescue one salient feature of DGS in Crkl+/-;Tbx1+/- embryos by genetically reducing the amount of RA produced in the embryo. Thus, we suggest that del22q11 is a contiguous gene syndrome involving dose-sensitive interaction of CRKL and TBX1 and locally aberrant RA signaling.
An 11-year-old girl with obstructive hydrocephalus developed akinetic mutism after treatment for hydrocephalus due to aqueductal stenosis by ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunting. Bilateral chronic subdural hematomas developed about 2 months after insertion of the VP shunt and were evacuated. Postoperatively, the patient developed akinetic mutism, but her condition improved after administration of bromocriptine. Absence of abnormalities on dopamine transporter single photon emission computed tomography, lack of clinical response to levodopa treatment, and normal homovanillic acid concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid all indicated normal dopamine production. Pressure on the periventricular monoamine projections in the thalamus and hypothalamus without major dopamine deprivation in the striatum may have been the most important factors in the development of akinetic mutism in this patient.
The present study determined whether oral flunitrazepam was effective reducing CNS toxicity of lidocaine and bupivacaine. Pretreatment of mice with flunitrazepam, 0.065-0.25 mg X kg-1, significantly reduced or prevented convulsions and mortality induced by lidocaine 106 and 209 mg X kg-1 or bupivacaine 58 and 90 mg X kg-1 injected intraperitoneally. The doses of flunitrazepam used did not cause measurable sedation in mice. The efficacy of oral flunitrazepam in preventing local anaesthetic-induced convulsions is similar to that previously reported by intraperitoneal or intramuscular injections in mice. Flunitrazepam could be useful for oral premedication of patients before regional anaesthesia.
Pentobarbitone, 20 mg X kg-1 IV followed by infusion of 25 mg X kg-1 X hr-1, produced a progressive decrease in mean arterial pressure in dogs from 113 +/- 17 mmHg (SD) after one hour of infusion to 82 +/- 21 mmHg after 3.5 hours and to 49 +/- 22 mmHg after 5.5 hours. EEG silence occurred at 3.6 +/- 0.6 hours. In dogs similarly treated with pentobarbitone, a two hour infusion of dopamine 5 micrograms X kg-1 X min-1 beginning at the time of EEG silence prevented the further decrease in pressure and restored pressure to 87 +/- 18 mmHg. The mechanism for this effect of dopamine was an increase in cardiac output as systemic vascular resistance was unaffected by dopamine. The cardiac output increase was mainly the result of an increase in stroke volume as heart rate increased only slightly. Since reduced stroke volume was the main reason why pentobarbitone lowered blood pressure, the effect of dopamine on stroke volume and thus on blood pressure makes it an appropriate antagonist to the cardiovascular effects of toxic doses of pentobarbitone.
Oxidative stress generated by ascorbate-driven menadione redox cycling kills MCF7 cells by a concerted mechanism including glycolysis inhibition, loss of calcium homeostasis, DNA damage and changes in mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPK) activities. Cell death is mediated by necrosis rather than apoptosis or macroautophagy. Neither 3-methyladenine nor Z-VAD affects cytotoxicity by ascorbate/menadione (Asc/Men). BAPTA-AM, by restoring cellular capacity to reduce MTT, underlines the role of calcium in the necrotic process. Oxidative stress-mediated cell death is shown by the opposite effects of N-acetylcysteine and 3-aminotriazole. Moreover, oxidative stress induces DNA damage (protein poly-ADP-ribosylation and gamma-H2AX phosphorylation) and inhibits glycolysis. Asc/Men deactivates extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) while activating p38, suggesting an additional mechanism to kill MCF7 cells. Since ascorbate is taken up by cancer cells and, due to their antioxidant enzyme deficiency, oxidative stress should affect cancer cells to a greater extent than normal cells. This differential sensitivity may have clinical applications.
