Ninety-six manic-depressive patients were studied during long-term lithium treatment. Highly significant elevations were observed respecting the levels of serum immunoreactive parathyroid hormone (P less than 0.001) as well as the protein-corrected levels of serum calcium (P less than 0.001) and serum magnesium (P less than 0.001), thus indicating a state of 'primary' hyperparathyroidism. The patients as a group had normophosphataemia and normophosphatasia supporting the impression of a rather mild state of biochemical hyperparathyroidism.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO), an effective therapeutic agent for acute promyelocytic leukaemia, can cause sudden cardiac death due to long QT syndrome (LQTS). The present study was designed to determine whether ATO could induce cardiac fibrosis and explore whether cardiac fibroblasts (CFs) are involved in the development of LQTS by ATO.
ATO treatment of guinea pigs caused substantial interstitial myocardial fibrosis and LQTS, which was accompanied by an increase in transforming growth factor β1(TGF-β1) secretion and a decrease in ether-à-go-go-related gene (HERG) and inward rectifying potassium channel (I(K1)) subunit Kir2.1 protein levels. ATO promoted collagen production and TGF-β1 expression and secretion in cultured CFs. Whole-cell patch clamp and western blotting showed that treatment with TGF-β1 markedly reduced HERG and I(K1) current densities and downregulated HERG and Kir2.1 protein expression in HEK293 cells stably transfected with the human recombinant HERG channel and in cardiomyocytes (CMs). These changes were completely reversed by treatment with the protein kinase A (PKA) antagonist, H89. CM and CF co-cultures showed that ATO significantly increased TGF-β1 levels in the culture medium, whereas markedly reduced HERG and Kir2.1 protein levels were observed in CMs compared with ATO-treated CMs not co-cultured with CFs. Finally, in vivo administration of LY364947, a pharmacological antagonist of TGF-β signalling, dramatically prevented interstitial fibrosis and LQTS and abolished aberrant expression of TGF-β1, HERG, and Kir2.1 in ATO-treated guinea pigs.
ATO-induced TGF-β1 secretion from CFs aggravates QT prolongation, suggesting that modulation of TGF-β signalling may provide a novel strategy for the treatment of drug-induced LQTS.
Alcohol abuse has been linked to intracranial hemorrhage, both intracerebral and subarachnoid. Some studies have found a dose-response relationship, so that increasing levels of abuse are associated with greater risk of hemorrhage. However, alcohol abuse has not been clearly linked to cerebral infarction, and some studies find that mild-to-moderate drinking appears to be associated with a decreased risk of cerebral infarction. Intravenous administration of drugs of abuse predisposes to endocarditis, which may lead to embolic stroke. Associations have been reported between various sympathomimetic drugs and cerebral infarction. A possible mechanism for cerebral infarction is focal arterial vasoconstriction and occasionally cerebral vasculitis. Associations have also been reported between various sympathomimetic drugs and intracranial hemorrhage. A likely mechanism for intracranial hemorrhage is acute arterial hypertension. With the exception of endocarditis, management of stroke related to drug abuse is largely supportive, with emphasis on supportive care to prevent stroke complications, physical and occupational therapy, and aggressive addiction rehabilitation.
Ritonavir, a protease inhibitor, demonstrated strong antiviral activity when combined with AZT and ddC at dosage levels of 1200, 600 and 2.25 mg respectively. Six-month therapy resulted in a median CD4 count increase that was nearly double from baseline, and significant viral load reductions that were sustained throughout the study. Ritonavir was generally well tolerated. A study using AZT and 3TC with an experimental protease inhibitor, indinavir, also greatly reduced viral loads. The effects lasted throughout the six-month treatment period. A specific HIV protease gene that contributes to the emergence of resistance during treatment with ritonavir has also been identified.
To determine the safety and effectiveness of fentanyl administration for prehospital pain management.
This was a retrospective chart review of patients transported by ambulance during 2002-2003 who were administered fentanyl citrate in an out-of-hospital setting. Pre- and post-pain-management data were abstracted, including vital signs, verbal numeric pain scale scores, medications administered, and recovery interventions. In addition, the emergency department (ED) charts of a subgroup of these patients were reviewed for similar data elements.
Of 2,129 patients who received fentanyl for prehospital analgesia, only 12 (0.6%) had a vital sign abnormality that could have been caused by the administration of fentanyl. Only one (0.2%) of the 611 patients who had both field and ED charts reviewed had a vital sign abnormality that necessitated a recovery intervention. There were no admissions to the hospital, nor patient deaths, attributed to fentanyl use. There was a statistically significant improvement in subjective pain scale scores (8.4 to 3.7). Clinically, this correlates with improvement from severe to mild pain.
This study showed that fentanyl was effective in decreasing pain scores without causing significant hypotension, respiratory depression, hypoxemia, or sedation. Thus, fentanyl citrate can be used safely and effectively for pain management in the out-of-hospital arena.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves amyloid beta (Abeta) accumulation, oxidative damage, and inflammation, and risk is reduced with increased antioxidant and anti-inflammatory consumption. The phenolic yellow curry pigment curcumin has potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities and can suppress oxidative damage, inflammation, cognitive deficits, and amyloid accumulation. Since the molecular structure of curcumin suggested potential Abeta binding, we investigated whether its efficacy in AD models could be explained by effects on Abeta aggregation. Under aggregating conditions in vitro, curcumin inhibited aggregation (IC(50) = 0.8 microM) as well as disaggregated fibrillar Abeta40 (IC(50) = 1 microM), indicating favorable stoichiometry for inhibition. Curcumin was a better Abeta40 aggregation inhibitor than ibuprofen and naproxen, and prevented Abeta42 oligomer formation and toxicity between 0.1 and 1.0 microM. Under EM, curcumin decreased dose dependently Abeta fibril formation beginning with 0.125 microM. The effects of curcumin did not depend on Abeta sequence but on fibril-related conformation. AD and Tg2576 mice brain sections incubated with curcumin revealed preferential labeling of amyloid plaques. In vivo studies showed that curcumin injected peripherally into aged Tg mice crossed the blood-brain barrier and bound plaques. When fed to aged Tg2576 mice with advanced amyloid accumulation, curcumin labeled plaques and reduced amyloid levels and plaque burden. Hence, curcumin directly binds small beta-amyloid species to block aggregation and fibril formation in vitro and in vivo. These data suggest that low dose curcumin effectively disaggregates Abeta as well as prevents fibril and oligomer formation, supporting the rationale for curcumin use in clinical trials preventing or treating AD.
The potential for tolerance to develop to zafirlukast, a cysteinyl leukotriene (CysLT) receptor antagonist (LRA) in persistent asthma, has not been specifically examined.
To look for any evidence of tolerance and potential for short-term clinical worsening on LRA withdrawal. Outcome measures included changes in; airway hyperresponsiveness to inhaled methacholine (PD20FEV1), daily symptoms and peak expiratory flows (PEF), sputum and blood cell profiles, sputum CysLT and prostaglandin (PG)E2 and exhaled nitric oxide (eNO) levels.
A double blind, placebo-controlled study of zafirlukast, 20 mg twice daily over 12 weeks in 21 asthmatics taking beta2-agonists only (Group I), and 24 subjects treated with ICS (Group II).
In Group I, zafirlukast significantly improved morning PEF and FEV1compared to placebo (p < 0.01), and reduced morning waking with asthma from baseline after two weeks (p < 0.05). Similarly in Group II, FEV1 improved compared to placebo (p < 0.05), and there were early within-treatment group improvements in morning PEF, beta2-agonist use and asthma severity scores (p < 0.05). However, most improvements with zafirlukast in Group I and to a lesser extent in Group II deteriorated toward baseline values over 12 weeks. In both groups, one week following zafirlukast withdrawal there were significant deteriorations in morning and evening PEFs and FEV1 compared with placebo (p < or = 0.05) and increased nocturnal awakenings in Group II (p < 0.05). There were no changes in PD20FEV1, sputum CysLT concentrations or exhaled nitric oxide (eNO) levels. However, blood neutrophils significantly increased in both groups following zafirlukast withdrawal compared to placebo (p = 0.007).
Tolerance appears to develop to zafirlukast and there is rebound clinical deterioration on drug withdrawal, accompanied by a blood neutrophilia.
Himachalol has been identified as the major antispasmodic constituent in the wood of Cedrus deodara. The pharmacological studies of himachalol on various isolated smooth muscles (guinea pig ileum, rabbit jejunum, rat uterus, and guinea pig seminal vesicle) and against different agonists (acetylcholine, histamine, serotonin, nicotine, and barium chloride) indicated spasmolytic activity similar to that of papaverine. It was a more potent antagonist of barium chloride-induced spasm of guinea pig ileum than papaverine but less effective in reverting a similar spasm of rabbit jejunum and had no relaxing effect alone. In the conscious immobilized cat, intragastric administration of himachalol or papaverine (100 mg/kg) produced equal inhibition of carbachol-induced spasm of the intestine, lasting about 2 hr, but himachalol had a faster onset of action. Himachalol was devoid of spasmolytic effect on the bronchial musculature of guinea pig but was 3.3 times more potent than papaverine in antagonizing epinephrine-induced contraction of the guinea pig seminal vesicle. Intravenous injection of himachalol (3-10 mg/kg) in the cat produced a dose-dependent fall in blood pressure and an increased femoral blood flow.
Excessive testosterone in males or estrogens in females could explain their differences in coronary heart disease event rates. As a contraceptive testosterone is likely to be used at large scale the role of testosterone in increasing the risks of coronary heart disease needs investigation.
To look at the role of testosterone in development of insulin resistance and other cardiovascular risk factors.
Prospective, before-after study on ten male subjects with idiopathic hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism pre- and post-testosterone replacement therapy; outcome measures: anthropometry, lipoprotein profile and M value (whole body glucose disposal rates on standard hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp; at insulin infusion rate: 40 mU x (m-2)).
Pre-treatment serum testosterone was 0.43 (0.515) ng x mL(-1), LH was 1.29 (0.08) IU x L(-1), and FSH was 1.54 (0.08) IU x L(-1). None had glucose intolerance. After replacement testosterone levels increased to 9.4 ng x mL(-1) (p=0.0005); weight increase of 5.0 kg (p=0.140), body mass index increase of 1.2 kg x m(-2) (p=0.28), and the change in waist to hip ratio (p=0.31) were not statistically significant. M-value (mg x kg x min(-1)) did not change after testosterone therapy (5.86 [0.72] vs 5.29 [0.82], p=0.62). Insulin levels (mU x L(-1)) achieved during the clamps were 89.5 (14.2) before and 146 (32.2) after androgen therapy (p=0.127). There was no change in glucose area under curve (mg x min x dL(-1)) (14406 [502.2] vs 12557 [826.5], p=0.312). On testosterone replacement therapy total and LDL cholesterol levels (mg x dL(-1)) declined (122.5 [13.4] vs 91.6 [5.0], p=0.04; 65.9 [9.9] vs 39.4 [7.3], p=0.05); Ratio of total cholesterol to HDL ratio also decreased significantly (p=0.05). Changes of serum triglycerides (p=0.25) and HDL cholesterol (p=0.19) did not attain statistical significance.
Insulin sensitivity does not decrease on testosterone replacement therapy of male subjects with idiopathic hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism. Testosterone replacement was associated with decrease in other cardiovascular risk factors.
While recent human studies suggested adverse neurobehavioral outcomes of low-level exposure to mercury vapor (Hg0) as found among those having dental amalgam fillings and dental personnel, past animal experiments only dealt with exposure at much higher mercury concentrations. The present study aimed to examine neurobehavioral effects of prolonged, low-level Hg0 exposure in mice and to evaluate the protective role of metallothionein-I,II (MT-I,II) against Hg0-induced neurotoxicity, using a knock-out strain of mice. Adult female metallothionein-I,II-null (MT-null) and wild-type OLA129/C57BL6 mice were exposed to 0.06 mg/m3 of Hg0 for 8 h per day for 23 weeks. Neurobehavioral effects were evaluated at 12 and 23 weeks of exposure using open-field test and passive avoidance test. Subcellular distribution of mercury and the induction of MT were also assessed. The Hg0 exposure resulted in significantly enhanced locomotion in the open-field test and poorer performance in the passive avoidance test at a brain Hg concentration less than 1 ppm. These effects were slightly exaggerated in MT-null mice, which showed less induction of MT, lower brain Hg concentration, and lower calculated concentration of MT-unbound cytosolic Hg. The results showed, for the first time, that a concentration of Hg0 relevant to human exposure level could cause neurobehavioral effects in adult mice. The higher susceptibility of MT-null mice suggested that MT-I,II have protective roles in the metal-induced neurobehavioral toxicity, which cannot be entirely explained by kinetic mechanisms, thus suggesting an involvement of nonkinetic mechanisms.
Long-term oral anticholinergic (AC) therapy can occasionally produce intellectual impairment. We investigated a patient with Parkinson's disease accompanied by intellectual impairment induced by long-term AC therapy. The intellectual impairment of the patient disappeared after cessation of AC therapy. Positron emission tomography (PET), during and after long-term oral AC therapy, revealed that it causes bilateral diffuse decrease of glucose metabolism in the cortex, basal ganglia, thalamus, hippocampus and cerebellum. Cessation of the therapy resulted in diffuse increase of glucose metabolism in all of the above regions. Cranial CT and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed no abnormalities. Our results suggest that long-term AC therapy causes reversible bilateral diffuse glucose hypometabolism.
Arsenic trioxide is effective and approved for treatment of relapsed or refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cases resistant to all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), but its effect on new cases of APL is not clear.
We studied 111 patients with APL. Arsenic trioxide was infused at 0.15 mg/kg daily dose, until complete remission was achieved. Then, after 28 days of rest, arsenic trioxide was infused daily for 28 days as consolidation therapy. We studied minimal residual disease (MRD) by semi-sensitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) on peripheral blood samples.
Complete remission was observed in 95 patients (85.6%). With the median (range) follow-up period of 16.5 (1-57) months, 1- and 2-year disease-free survival was 88.3% and 63.7%, respectively; 24 patients relapsed, 19 of whom achieved a second complete remission, again by arsenic trioxide. Third and fourth remissions were seen in some relapsed patients, again by arsenic trioxide. For patients in complete remission, 1- and 3-year survival was 95.5% and 87.6%, respectively. MRD was positive in four (8.3%) out of 48 cases during 1 year after remission induction; three of them relapsed clinically.
Arsenic trioxide is effective as first-line treatment for APL. Results of arsenic trioxide combination therapy with chemotherapy/ATRA requires further study.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) and allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) are common allergic and inflammatory skin diseases caused by a combination of eczema, scratching, pruritus, and cutaneous sensitization with allergens. This paper examines whether oleanolic acid acetate (OAA) modulates AD and ACD symptoms by using an existing AD model based on the repeated local exposure of mite extract (Dermatophagoides farinae extract, DFE) and 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene to the ears of BALB/c mice. In addition, the paper uses a 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene-sensitized local lymph node assay (LLNA) for the ACD model. The oral administration of OAA over a four-week period attenuated AD symptoms in terms of decreased skin lesions, epidermal thickness, the infiltration of immune cells (CD4⁺ cells, eosinophils, and mast cells), and serum IgE, IgG2a, and histamine levels. The gene expression of Th1, Th2, Th17, and Th22 cytokines was reduced by OAA in the lymph node and ear tissue, and the LLNA verified that OAA suppressed ACD. The oral administration of OAA over a three-day period attenuated ACD symptoms in terms of ear thickness, lymphocyte proliferation, and serum IgG2a levels. The gene expression of Th1, Th2, and Th17 cytokines was reduced by OAA in the thymus and ear tissue. Finally, to define the underlying mechanism, this paper uses a TNF-α/IFN-γ-activated human keratinocyte (HaCaT) model. OAA inhibited the expression of cytokines and chemokines through the downregulation of NF-κB and MAPKs in HaCaT cells. Taken together, the results indicate that OAA inhibited AD and ACD symptoms, suggesting that OAA may be effective in treating allergic skin disorders.
We have treated 19 B-chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (B-CLL) patients with CDA (Leustat, Janssen-Cilag). Four patients developed severe autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, and 2 of these had severe reticulocytopenia due to red cell aplasia/hypoplasia. Two patients died as a complication of the haemolysis one during the primary episode, with a clinical course suggestive of transfusion associated graft-versus-host disease (taGVHD), and one following a relapse of haemolysis. The onset of haemolysis occurs within 4 cycles of CDA therapy and is temporally related to the T-lymphocyte nadir induced by CDA. The presence of a positive DAT prior to therapy in 3 of 4 patients developing haemolysis suggests that the CDA induced T-lymphocytopenia may exacerbate the tendency of certain CLL patients to autoimmune haemolysis.
This study ensued from clinical observations based on spontaneous accounts by crack abusers undergoing their first psychiatric assessment, where they reported using cannabis in an attempt to ease their own withdrawal symptoms. Throughout a period of nine months, the researchers followed up on 25 male patients aged 16 to 28 who were strongly addicted to crack, as diagnosed through the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (CIDI), according to CID-10 and DSM-IV diagnostic criteria. Most of the subjects (68%, or 17 individuals) ceased to use crack and reported that the use of cannabis had reduced their craving symptoms, and produced subjective and concrete changes in their behavior, helping them to overcome crack addiction. The authors discuss some psychological, pharmacological and cultural aspects of these findings.
The formation of blood-filled cavities in developing tumors of the anterior pituitary of estrogen-treated male Sprague-Dawley rats was studied in a serial sacrifice experiment. Two treated and 2 control rats were killed at each of 15 time points ranging from 7-272 days after sc implantation of an estradiol-17 beta pellet. The pituitaries were examined using light and electron microscopy. Changes at 7-9 days after implantation included epithelial cell swelling and trabecular arrangement. At 11-13 days, epithelial cells were further enlarged. Arrangement of epithelial cells in islands and endothelial degeneration were first seen at this interval. Also, any sinusoids were distended, whereas some were compressed by swollen epithelial cells. At 16-81 days, scattered necrotic and immature epithelial cells were present, and cell size decreased. Endothelial degeneration and both distended as well as compressed sinusoids were more prominent at this time. Loss of basement membrane was first seen during this interval. At 114-133 days, small hemorrhagic areas partially lined by epithelium were first seen; sinusoidal compression, endothelial necrosis, and loss of basement membrane were more frequent, but there was less sinusoidal distention. Between 150 and 272 days, epithelial cells were increasingly pleomorphic and arranged in nodules, and there was an increase in number and size of the hemorrhagic areas. Sinusoidal compression, endothelial necrosis, and loss of basement membrane were abundant, whereas sinusoidal distention had almost disappeared at this interval. Local compression of sinusoids and perhaps compression of pituitary surface veins due to epithelial cell swelling, were thought to play a primary role in the development of ischemic endothelial damage leading to loss of endothelial lining and basement membrane, and eventually to the formation of blood-filled spaces partially lined by epithelial cells.
Pretreatment with 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP), a potent human CYP2A6 inhibitor, strongly suppresses lung tumorigenesis by 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) in female A/J mice. Since it has been reported that CYP2A protein is highly expressed in NNK-induced lung adenomas and adenocarcinomas, potential anticancer properties of 8-MOP in female A/J mice were examined subsequent to initiation. The agent was administered at 100 ppm levels in the diet during the promotion phase (experimental weeks 1-16) and progression phase (experimental weeks 16-32) and mice were sacrificed for histopathological examination of lung tumor development at 16 and 32 weeks after the initiation of NNK treatment (2 mg/0.1 ml saline/mouse, i.p.), respectively. Chemopreventive effects of 8-MOP were not observed in either experiment. In addition, no modifying effects on hepatic mRNA levels for CYP2A5, considered to be the mouse ortholog of human CYP2A6, were evident. On immunohistochemical analysis, the CYP2A protein was found to be overexpressed in all lung adenomas and adenocarcinomas, with or without 8-MOP. It can be concluded from the present data that 8-MOP at 100 ppm in the diet does not prevent mouse lung carcinogenesis when administered in the post-initiation phase.
There is increasing evidence to suggest that various growth factors play a crucial role in fetal lung growth and morphogenesis. An array of peptide growth factors regulate cell proliferation, differentiation, and various other cell functions in the developing lung. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of antenatal glucocorticoids administration on gene expression of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 in nitrofen-induced congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) in rats.
A CDH model was induced in pregnant rats after administration of nitrofen. Dexamethasone (Dex; 0.25 mg/kg) was given intraperitoneally on day 18.5 and 19.5 of gestation (term, day 22). Cesarean section was performed on day 21 of gestation. mRNA was extracted from left lung and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to evaluate mRNA expression of each growth factors. Relative levels of mRNA were expressed as a ratio of the band density divided by that of beta-actin, a housekeeping gene known to be expressed at a constant level.
Relative mRNA levels of bFGF and TGF-beta1 were decreased significantly in CDH lung compared with controls. Antenatal Dex treatment up-regulated gene expression of bFGF, PDGF, and TGF-beta1 in the hypoplastic CDH lung.
The authors' findings suggest that decreased gene expression of bFGF, PDGF, and TGF-beta1 in the CDH lung may suppress lung growth and development. Increased gene expression of bFGF, PDGF, and TGF-beta1 in Dex-treated lung suggests that antenatal glucocorticoid administration may accelerate fetal lung growth by up-regulating these growth factors.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study has been carried out to compare long-acting diethylpropion hydrochloride (Tenuate Dospan, Wm. S. Merrell Company, hereafter referred to as TD) in a rural general practice. TD was found to produce significantly more weight loss than placebo and side effects were not significantly greater. The need for the treatment of obese patients in general practice is discussed, as is the role of anorexiant therapy.
The behavioural and convulsant effects of imipenem (Imi), a carbapenem derivative, were studied after intraperitoneal (i.p.) or intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration in DBA/2 mice, a strain genetically susceptible to sound-induced seizures. The anticonvulsant effects of some excitatory amino acid antagonists and muscimol (Msc), a GABAA agonist, against seizures induced by i.p. or i.c.v. administration of Imi were also evaluated. The present study demonstrated that the order of anticonvulsant activity in our epileptic model, after i.p. administration, was (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)-cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) > (+/-)(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoate ethyl ester (CGP 39551) > 3-((+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propenyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPPene) > 3-((+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CCP) > 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo(F)-quinoxaline (NBQX). Ifenprodil, a compound acting on the polyamine site of NMDA receptor complex was unable to protect against seizures induced by Imi, suggesting that the poliamine site did not exert a principal role in the genesis of seizures induced by Imi. In addition, the order of anticonvulsant potency in our epileptic model, after i.c.v. administration, was CPPene > MK-801 > Msc > (-)-2-amino-7-phosphonic acid (AP7) > gamma-D-glutamylaminomethylsulphonate (gamma-D-GAMS) > NBQX > kynurenic acid (KYNA) > 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). The relationship between the different site of action and the anticonvulsant activity of these derivatives was discussed. Although the main mechanism of Imi induced seizures cannot be easily determined, potential interactions with the receptors of the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitters exists. In fact, antagonists of excitatory amino acids are able to increase the threshold for the seizures or to prevent the seizures induced by Imi. In addition, Imi acts on the central nervous system by inhibition of GABA neurotransmission and Msc, a selective GABAA agonist, was able to protect against seizures induced by Imi.
A 74-year-old male was admitted to hospital with acute rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria due to hypokalemia. The hypokalemia resulted from diuretic treatment. He had no family history of myopathy, and no diarrhea and vomiting. The neurological examination revealed painful quadriplegia. The blood pressure was 160/74 mm Hg. Laboratory examination showed hypokalemic and hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis (serum K 1.5 mEq/l, serum Cl 89 mEq/l, base excess + 20.9, HCO3- 44.9 mmol/l, pH 7.563) and marked elevations of serum CPK, LDH, GOT, GPT and myoglobin. Endocrinological and renal functions were normal. Muscle biopsy revealed marked necrosis with remarkable phagocytosis and vacuolar degeneration. The cessation of diuretics and intravenous infusion of potassium chloride resulted in a marked improvement in clinical and laboratory findings. The diuretics-induced hypokalemic myopathy is rare in the literature.
Morphine-6-glucuronide is an active metabolite of morphine that has analgesic properties and is measurable in the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid of patients treated with this opioid. Decreased clearance of the compound has been observed in patients with renal insufficiency, and this has been associated with an increase in the ratio of morphine-6-glucuronide to morphine. Clinical effects from accumulation of morphine-6-glucuronide have not been described with the exception of case reports in which patients with renal failure were noted to develop opioid toxicity with high plasma levels of the metabolite and low levels of the parent drug. We describe a patient who experienced chronic nausea and an episode of confusion while treated with a small, stable dose of oral morphine in the setting of mild renal insufficiency. Relatively high levels of morphine-6-glucuronide were measured and all symptoms resolved promptly as the concentration of this metabolite declined. This case provides suggestive evidence that morphine-6-glucuronide can produce clinically significant effects in patients with mild renal insufficiency.
Fourteen patients are described with a syndrome of methicillin-induced interstitial nephritis. In all patients severe renal dysfunction developed with an average peak serum creatinine of 8 mg/100 ml. An increased total peripheral eosinophil count was found in all patients. All patients had sterile pyuria and each of nine patients studied by Wright's stain of urine sediment had marked eosinophiluria. These findings are suggestive of methicillin-induced interstitial nephritis, although proteinura was a variable finding in our patients. Eight of 14 patients in our study received prednisone therapy for their interstitial nephritis, and the time lapse between maximal and final base line serum creatinine levels was statistically less in the prednisone-treated compared to the nontreated groups. Clinical manifestations of this syndrome are discussed, and the light and electron microscopic and immunofluorescent findings on renal biospy are described.
Androgen ablation therapies are effective in controlling prostate cancer. Although most cancers relapse and progress despite androgen ablation, some patients experience antiandrogen withdrawal syndrome, in which those treated with antiandrogen show clinical improvement when antiandrogen is discontinued. Although the androgen receptor (AR) is suggested to play an important role in prostate cancer progression even after the androgen ablation, limited tissue availability for molecular studies and small numbers of human prostate cancer cell lines have restricted prostate cancer research. Here, we describe KUCaP, a novel serially transplantable human prostate cancer xenograft model. We established KUCaP from liver metastatic tissue of a patient treated with antiandrogen bicalutamide. KUCaP expressed the AR with a point mutation at amino acid 741 (tryptophan to cysteine; W741C) in the ligand-binding domain. This mutation was also present in cancerous tissue used for generation of KUCaP. Although the growth of KUCaP in male mice was androgen dependent, bicalutamide aberrantly promoted the growth and prostate-specific antigen production of KUCaP. For the first time, we show the agonistic effect of bicalutamide to a xenograft with clinically induced AR mutation. This bicalutamide-responsive mutant AR will serve in the development of new therapies for androgen ablation-resistant prostate cancers.
Benzene is a ubiquitous occupational hematotoxin and leukemogen, but people vary in their response to this toxic agent. To evaluate the impact of interindividual variation in enzymes that activate (i.e., CYP2E1) and detoxify (i.e., NQO1) benzene and its metabolites, we carried out a case-control study in Shanghai, China, of occupational benzene poisoning (BP; i.e., hematotoxicity), which we show is itself strongly associated with subsequent development of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia and the related myelodysplastic syndromes (relative risk, 70.6; 95% confidence interval, 11.4-439.3). CYP2E1 and NQO1 genotypes were determined by PCR-RFLP, and CYP2E1 enzymatic activity was estimated by the fractional excretion of chlorzoxazone (fe(6-OH)) for 50 cases of BP and 50 controls. Subjects with both a rapid fe(6-OH). and two copies of the NQO1 609C-->T mutation had a 7.6-fold (95% confidence interval, 1.8-31.2) increased risk of BP compared to subjects with a slow fe(6-OH) who carried one or two wild-type NQO1 alleles. In contrast, the CYP2E1 PstI/RsaI polymorphism did not influence BP risk. This is the first report that provides evidence of human susceptibility to benzene-related disease. Further evaluation of susceptibility for hematotoxicity and hematological malignancy among workers with a history of occupational exposure to benzene is warranted.
The Multicenter Isradipine Diuretic Atherosclerosis (MIDAS) Study was a comparison between the dihydropyridine-derived calcium antagonist isradipine and hydrochlorothiazide in 883 hypertensive patients. B-mode ultrasonography of the carotid artery was used in order to evaluate changes in wall thickness and the development of atherosclerotic plaques during a 3-year period. The final publication has yet to appear in a medical journal. However, the study and its main findings have been presented at several international scientific meetings. In brief, isradipine was significantly more effective than hydrochlorothiazide in preventing an increase in intima-media thickness at several points of measurement in the carotid artery in spite of the fact that systolic blood pressure was not as effectively lowered by isradipine as by the diuretic therapy. Since the results and their implications are of great scientific as well as clinical importance we wish to briefly comment on some of the key aspects of the MIDAS Study, as presented at some international meetings.
Fluvoxamine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is frequently used along with benzodiazepine anxiolytics in clinics. In this study, the effects of fluvoxamine on the anxiolytic effects as well as adverse effects of benzodiazepines were examined in the light/dark box, rota-rod and passive avoidance tests using mice. Diazepam, ethyl loflazepate and its active metabolite, CM7116, were used as benzodiazepine anxiolytics. The anxiolytic effects of diazepam, ethyl loflazepate and CM7116 were potentiated by intraperitoneal treatment with fluvoxamine at 10 mg/kg, whereas only those of ethyl loflazepate were potentiated by fluvoxamine at 45 mg/kg. The motor incoordination and amnesia induced by ethyl loflazepate and CM7116 were not affected by fluvoxamine, although these adverse effects of diazepam were potentiated by fluvoxamine at 45 mg/kg. Fluvoxamine itself showed no effects in any of the tests. These results suggest that low-dose fluvoxamine potentiates the anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines, while high-dose fluvoxamine augments the adverse effects depending on the benzodiazepine used. Consequently, when fluvoxamine is administered along with benzodiazepines, the doses of both fluvoxamine and benzodiazepines should be carefully chosen to achieve anxiolytic effects without any adverse results.
The new anti-arrhythmic agent, amiodarone, is increasingly recognized as a cause of pulmonary toxicity (APT). In the present series, 11 of 171 patients (6.4%) receiving the drug had APT develop. Clinical symptoms varied from mild cough and dyspnea to acute respiratory failure. Chest x-rays demonstrated alveolar and/or interstitial opacities in all 11 patients. The microscopic appearance of APT resembled that seen in lung injury from other drugs. The features were those of diffuse alveolar damage, ranging from the early acute to the organizing phase. Mural and intraalveolar foam cells were a prominent component. The epithelial origin of these cells was confirmed by positive immunoperoxidase staining for carcinoembryonic antigen. They were further identified as type II pneumocytes by electron microscopic examination. These findings support the concept that amiodarone is responsible for a drug-induced phospholipidosis. APT was clinically reversible in all patients; however, five patients (45%) died of arrhythmia shortly after discontinuation of amiodarone.
We conducted meta-analyses of genome-wide association studies for atrial fibrillation (AF) in participants from five community-based cohorts. Meta-analyses of 896 prevalent (15,768 referents) and 2,517 incident (21,337 referents) AF cases identified a new locus for AF (ZFHX3, rs2106261, risk ratio RR = 1.19; P = 2.3 x 10(-7)). We replicated this association in an independent cohort from the German AF Network (odds ratio = 1.44; P = 1.6 x 10(-11); combined RR = 1.25; combined P = 1.8 x 10(-15)).
The entorhinal cortex (EC) plays an important role in temporal lobe epilepsy. Under normal conditions, the enriched cholinergic innervation of the EC modulates local synchronized oscillatory activity; however, its role in epilepsy is unknown. Enhanced neuronal activation has been shown to induce transcriptional changes of key cholinergic genes and thus alter cholinergic responses. To examine cholinergic modulations in epileptic tissue we studied molecular and electrophysiological cholinergic responses in the EC of chronically epileptic rats following exposure to pilocarpine or kainic acid. We confirmed that while the total activity of the acetylcholine (ACh)-hydrolysing enzyme, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was not altered, epileptic rats showed alternative splicing of AChE pre-mRNA transcripts, accompanied by a shift from membrane-bound AChE tetramers to soluble monomers. This was associated with increased sensitivity to ACh application: thus, in control rats, ACh (10-100 microm) induced slow (< 1Hz), periodic events confined to the EC; however, in epileptic rats, ACh evoked seconds-long seizure-like events with initial appearance in the EC, and frequent propagation to neighbouring cortical regions. ACh-induced seizure-like events could be completely blocked by the non-specific muscarinic antagonist, atropine, and were partially blocked by the muscarinic-1 receptor antagonist, pirenzepine; but were not affected by the non-specific nicotinic antagonist, mecamylamine. Epileptic rats presented reduced transcript levels of muscarinic receptors with no evidence of mRNA editing or altered mRNA levels for nicotinic ACh receptors. Our findings suggest that altered cholinergic modulation may initiate seizure events in the epileptic temporal cortex.
