Lindane administration to rats (60 mg/kg b.w.) led to an enhancement in the oxidative stress status of the liver at 4 h after treatment, characterized by increases in hepatic thiobarbituric acid reactants (TBARS) formation and chemiluminescence, reduced glutathione (GSH) depletion, and diminution in the biliary content and release of GSH. These changes were observed in the absence of changes in either microsomal functions (cytochrome P450 content, NADPH-dependent superoxide radical production, and NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase or NADPH oxidase activities) or in oxidative stress-related enzymatic activities (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and glutathione-S-transferases), over control values. Phenobarbital (PB) administration (0.1% in drinking water; 15 days) elicited an enhancement in liver microsomal functions, lipid peroxidation, and GSH content, without changes in oxidative stress-related enzymatic activities, except for the elevation in those of glutathione reductase and glutathione-S-transferase, compared to control rats. Lindane given to PB-pretreated rats did not alter liver microsomal functions, lipid peroxidation, glutathione status, or oxidative stress-related enzymatic activities, as compared to PB-pretreated animals. In addition, lindane induced periportal necrosis with hemorrhagic foci in untreated rats, but not in PB-pretreated animals. It is concluded that the early oxidative stress response of the liver to lindane and hepatic injury are suppressed by PB pretreatment via induction of microsomal enzymes in all zones of the hepatic acinus. reserved.
Administration of trifluoperazine in a single dose of 3 mg/kg induced catalepsy and locomotor disorders in 86% intact animals, which persisted for 4 h. Catalepsy developed in only 15% animals pretreated with antihypoxic and antioxidant agent energostim in a dose of 230 mg/kg. The protective effect of energostim was associated with its ability to maintain the balance between dopaminergic, cholinergic, and adrenal activity in the substantia nigra and medulla oblongata during administration of neuroleptics.
One hundred and fifty-three cats undergoing surgery in seven veterinary practices in Great Britain were studied. They were randomly allocated to receive either 10-20 microg/kg buprenorphine or 0.4 mg/kg butorphanol with acepromazine before anaesthesia with propofol, Saffan or thiopentone and isoflurane or halothane. Routine monitoring was undertaken. Pain and sedation were assessed blind using a four point (0-3) simple descriptive scale (SDS) at 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24h. Pain and sedation data were compared using non-parametric statistical tests and continuous data using t tests or analysis of variance (ANOVA). Anaesthesia and surgery were uneventful, and cardiorespiratory data were within normal limits. After surgery, overall, more cats had pain score 0 after buprenorphine and more had pain score 3 after butorphanol (P=0.0465). At individual time points, more cats had lower pain scores after buprenorphine at 2 (P=0.040) and 24 (P=0.036)h. At 24h 83% after buprenorphine and 63% after butorphanol had pain score 0 (P<0.04). Buprenorphine provided better and longer lasting postoperative analgesia than butorphanol.
Mice lacking c-jun in the liver display impaired regeneration after partial hepatectomy (PH), and were reported to be more resistant to chemically-induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We investigated the role of c-jun in normal and preneoplastic hepatocyte proliferation induced by ligands of nuclear receptors, which cause liver hyperplasia in the absence of cell loss/death.
The effect of 1,4-bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]benzene (TCPOBOP) on hepatocyte proliferation was determined in c-jun conditional knockout (c-jun(Δli)) or in mouse liver where c-jun has been silenced. To study the role of c-jun in HCC development, c-jun(Δli) and WT mice were given diethylnitrosamine (DENA) followed by repeated injections of TCPOBOP.
Hepatocyte proliferation induced by TCPOBOP was associated with a stronger proliferative response and earlier S phase entry in c-jun(Δli) mice, compared to WT animals. Moreover, silencing of c-jun in the liver of CD-1 mice caused increased hepatocyte proliferation. A stronger hepatocyte proliferative response of c-jun(Δli) mice was observed also following treatment with a ligand of thyroid hormone receptor. Finally, loss of c-jun did not inhibit the development of HCC induced by DENA and promoted by TCPOBOP.
(i) c-jun may, under certain conditions, negatively regulate proliferation of normal hepatocytes, (ii) c-jun is not an absolute requirement for DENA/TCPOBOP-induced HCC formation, suggesting that the therapeutic potential of c-jun/JNK inhibition in liver tumors might be impaired by an increased stimulation of cell growth due to blockade of the c-jun pathway.
A patient with sinus bradycardia and atrioventricular block, induced by carbamazepine, prompted an extensive literature review of all previously reported cases. From the analysis of these cases, two distinct forms of carbamazepine-associated cardiac dysfunction emerged. One patient group developed sinus tachycardias in the setting of a massive carbamazepine overdose. The second group consisted almost exclusively of elderly women who developed potentially life-threatening bradyarrhythmias or atrioventricular conduction delay, associated with either therapeutic or modestly elevated carbamazepine serum levels. Because carbamazepine is widely used in the treatment of many neurologic and psychiatric conditions, the recognition of the latter syndrome has important implications for the use of this drug in elderly patients.
To assess the effect of nonionic versus ionic contrast media on abrupt vessel closure and major ischemic complications after coronary angioplasty.
There is a continuous debate about the "thrombogenic potential" of nonionic contrast media. The results of both in vitro and in vivo investigations are incongruent.
We prospectively evaluated the outcomes of 2,000 patients undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). According to a randomized, double-blind protocol, they received either iomeprol (nonionic; n = 1,001) or ioxaglate (ionic; n = 999). Intracoronary thrombus before PTCA was found more often in the iomeprol group (4.2% vs 2.7%, p = 0.04). No other significant differences between both groups were observed with regard to pre-PTCA clinical and angiographic characteristics.
The frequency of reocclusions necessitating repeat angioplasty occurring either in laboratory (2.9% with iomeprol and 3.0% with ioxaglate) or out of laboratory (3.1% vs 4.1%) was not significantly different. The rate of major ischemic complications was also comparable after both contrast media (emergency bypass surgery: 0.8% vs 0.7%, myocardial infarction: 1.8 vs 2.0%, cardiac death during hospital stay: 0.2% vs 0.2%). In the iomeprol group, more patients had dissections post-PTCA (30.2% vs 25.0%, p = 0.01) and more patients received intracoronary stents (31.6% vs 25.7%, p = 0.004). Allergic reactions requiring treatment occurred only in the ioxaglate group (0.0% vs 0.9%, p = 0.002).
The nonionic contrast medium was not associated with a higher rate of abrupt vessel closure requiring repeat angioplasty, or major ischemic events. These data suggest that nonionic contrast media do not increase the risk of thrombotic complications in patients undergoing coronary interventions.
This work describes the gastroprotective actions of esculin (6,7-dihydroxycoumarin-6-o-glucoside) against indomethacin- or ethanol-induced lesions and verifies the role of nitric oxide, ATP-dependent K(+) channels, prostaglandins, transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 and antioxidant effects in the gastroprotective mechanism of esculin in the ethanol-induced gastric lesion model. The intragastric administration of esculin at doses of 12.5, 25 and 50 mg/kg was able to protect the gastric mucosa against ethanol (0.2 mL/animal p.o.), and esculin at doses of 25 and 50 mg/kg protected against indomethacin-induced lesions (20mg/kg p.o.). Administration of l-NAME (10mg/kg i.p.), glibenclamide (10mg/kg i.p.) or indomethacin (10mg/kg p.o.), but not capsazepine (5mg/kg p.o.), was able to reduce the gastroprotection promoted by esculin (25mg/kg) on the ethanol-induced lesions. Measurements of nitrite, a NO metabolite, were increased in the group that was pretreated with esculin. In terms of antioxidant activity as a gastroprotective mechanism of esculin, the results show that pre-treatment with esculin decreased the amount of GSH, increased SOD activity, did not interfere with the CAT activity and decreased both the MPO activity and the MDA amount. In conclusion, pre-treatment with esculin confers significant gastroprotective and antioxidant activity and leads to a reduction in gastric injury; the mechanisms underlying these effects include stimulation of endogenous prostaglandins, nitric oxide synthesis, opening of K(ATP) channels and reduction of free radicals or modulation of antioxidant enzyme systems.
The main objective of this study was to characterize the phenomenon of variation in the P-QRS relation during atrioventricular node reentry tachycardia.
Variation of P-QRS relation during tachycardia has been observed occasionally in atrioventricular node reentry tachycardia. However, the incidence, the characteristics and the mechanisms of this phenomenon have not been investigated previously.
Retrospective analysis was performed in 311 consecutive patients with slow-fast form and 108 patients with atypical or multiple form of atrioventricular node reentry tachycardia to examine whether variation of P-QRS relation with changes in AH, HA and AH/HA (A = atria; H = His bundle) ratio occurred during tachycardia.
A total of 28 patients, 8 with slow-fast and 20 with atypical or multiple tachycardias, were found to manifest this phenomenon. There were 6 males and 22 females, with an average age of 38+/-16 years. In 10 patients, this phenomenon occurred transiently following electrical induction of the tachycardia. In 15 patients, changes in AH, HA and AH/HA ratio were associated with the occurrence of Wenckebach or 2:1 block proximal to the His bundle (H) recording site without interruption of the tachycardia. In nine patients, three with nonsustained tachycardia and six after administration of adenosine triphosphate, this phenomenon was observed at the termination of the tachycardia. This phenomenon was usually accompanied by a mild lengthening of the tachycardia cycle length.
Variation of P-QRS relation with or without block may occur during atrioventricular node reentry tachycardia, especially in atypical or multiple-form tachycardias. It was postulated that decremental conduction in the distal common pathway, which exists between the distal link of the reentry circuit and the H, is primarily responsible for this phenomenon.
Vitamin C acts as a potent antioxidant; however, it can also be a prooxidant and glycate protein under certain circumstances in vitro. These observations led us to hypothesize that a high intake of vitamin C in diabetic persons might promote atherosclerosis.
The objective was to examine the relation between vitamin C intake and mortality from cardiovascular disease.
We studied the relation between vitamin C intake and mortality from total cardiovascular disease (n = 281), coronary artery disease (n = 175), and stroke (n = 57) in 1923 postmenopausal women who reported being diabetic at baseline. Diet was assessed with a food-frequency questionnaire at baseline, and subjects initially free of coronary artery disease were prospectively followed for 15 y.
After adjustment for cardiovascular disease risk factors, type of diabetes medication used, duration of diabetes, and intakes of folate, vitamin E, and beta-carotene, the adjusted relative risks of total cardiovascular disease mortality were 1.0, 0.97, 1.11, 1.47, and 1.84 (P for trend < 0.01) across quintiles of total vitamin C intake from food and supplements. Adjusted relative risks of coronary artery disease were 1.0, 0.81, 0.99, 1.26, and 1.91 (P for trend = 0.01) and of stroke were 1.0, 0.52, 1.23, 2.22, and 2.57 (P for trend < 0.01). When dietary and supplemental vitamin C were analyzed separately, only supplemental vitamin C showed a positive association with mortality endpoints. Vitamin C intake was unrelated to mortality from cardiovascular disease in the nondiabetic subjects at baseline.
A high vitamin C intake from supplements is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease mortality in postmenopausal women with diabetes.
ACTH in high doses and over long periods of time is the treatment of choice in infantile spasm. Serious side effects can occur, but are not so often described. Two cases are published with hypertonia and immunosuppression. Control of blood pressure and electrolytes is mandatory. The importance of rather careful control of infections is stressed, as symptoms during ACTH-therapy are somewhat altered.
Angiotensin (Ang) II exerts diverse physiological actions in both the peripheral and central neural systems. It was reported that the activity of Ang II is higher in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and that angiotensin type-1 receptors are colocalized with NAD(P)H oxidase in the neurons of the NTS, resulting in the induction of local reactive oxygen species production by Ang II. However, the signaling mechanisms of Ang II that induce hypertension remain unclear.
The aim of this study was to investigate the possible signaling pathways involved in Ang II-mediated blood pressure regulation in the NTS.
Male SHRs were treated with losartan or tempol for 2 weeks, after which systolic blood pressure was observed to decrease significantly. Dihydroethidium staining showed many cells with high reactive oxygen species in the NTS of SHRs. The addition of losartan or tempol decreased the numbers of reactive oxygen species-positive cells in the NTS. The systemic administration of losartan or tempol reduced the systolic blood pressure and increased NO production. Immunoblotting and immunohistochemical analysis further showed that inhibition of Ang II activity by losartan or tempol significantly increased the expression extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2, ribosomal protein S6 kinase (RSK), and also increased neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) phosphorylation. RSK was also found to bind directly to nNOS and induce phosphorylation at the Ser1416 position.
Taken together, these results suggest that the ERK1/2-RSK-nNOS signaling pathway may play a significant role in Ang II-mediated central blood pressure regulation.
The effects of hyperprolactinemia on the testis, epididymis and prostate are not fully understood. The aim of this study was to determine the influence of hyperprolactinemia induced with metoclopramide (MCP) on expression of the androgen receptor (AR) in the testis, epididymis and the lateral and dorsal lobes of the prostate in rats. Male, sexually mature, inbred Wistar rats were divided into two groups of ten rats each. Hyperprolactynemia was induced in the study group with metoclopramide intraperitoneally at 2.2 mg/kg b. w. for 14 days. Rats of the control group were given saline. Prolactin (PRL) levels in serum were measured with an enzyme immunoassay. Serum levels of testosterone (T) were measured with a radioimmunoassay. The testis, epididymis and lateral and dorsal lobes of the prostate were obtained for light and electron microscopy. The immunohistochemical reaction to AR was assessed by optical density measurements with a computer image analyzer. Ultrastructural studies of androgen receptor expressing cells were carried out with transmission and scanning electron microscopes.
PRL concentrations in MCP rats were increased by more than twice, while T concentrations were reduced by half. The intensity of the immunohistochemical reaction to AR in the testis, epididymis and lateral and dorsal lobes of the prostate differed significantly in the study and control groups. Hyperprolactinemia produced structural changes in cells expressing the androgen receptor in the testis, epididymis and the lateral and dorsal lobes of prostate.
Chronic hepatitis B is a worldwide health problem. Research interests have focused on the development of potent and safe antiviral agents with low resistance rates. Telbivudine is a nucleoside analogue that has been approved for treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
This review article concentrates on the pharmacokinetics and therapeutic efficacy of telbivudine. The resistance and safety profiles are also addressed.
Relevant publications were identified from searches of MEDLINE (1996-June 2007), the Cochrane Library and BIOSIS (1993-June 2007). Search items included, but were not limited to, telbivudine, pharmacokinetics, hepatitis B, resistance and adverse events.
Clinical trials demonstrated telbivudine to be a safe and potent antiviral agent for treatment of chronic hepatitis B. Telbivudine has superior efficacy compared to lamivudine and adefovir.
Selective low (15 mg sodium fluoride (NaF)/L) and relatively high (150 mg NaF/L) doses of in vivo fluoride (F) treatment to Swiss albino mice through drinking water elicited organ-specific toxicological response. All the F-exposed groups showed severe alterations in both liver and kidney architectures, but there was no significant change in the rate of water consumption and body weight. Vacuolar degeneration, micronecrotic foci in the hepatocytes, and hepatocellular hypertrophy were evident in the mice exposed to low dose (15 mg NaF/L for 30 days) while sinusoidal dilation with enlarged central vein surrounded by deep-blue erythrocytes were preponderant when treated with the same dose for a period of 90 days. Blood filled spaces, disintegration of tubular epithelium, and atrophy of glomeruli were also recorded in the kidney of the same treatment group. Change in reduced glutathione level (GSH), glutathione-s-transferase (GST) activity, malondialdehyde (MDA) production in both liver and kidney, disturbances in liver function, induction of heat shock protein 70 (Hsp 70) expression in kidney and its down regulation in liver were positively correlated with histopathological lesion.
The aim of this study was to evaluate effects of strychnine, as well as bicuculline and picrotoxin on the anticonvulsant action of felbamate against maximal electroshock (MES)-induced seizures in mice. Strychnine (up to 0.5 mg/kg), bicuculline (up to 2 mg/kg) and picrotoxin (3 mg/kg) did not affect the seizure threshold. However, strychnine (0.25-0.5 mg/kg) and picrotoxin (3 mg/kg) impaired the protective activity of felbamate against MES. It may be concluded that GABAergic inhibition and strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor-mediated events may contribute to the anticonvulsant activity of felbamate.
This study tries to compare the cardioprotective effects of the desferrioxamine (DFO) and deferiprone (L1) therapies on thalassemia major patients. We enrolled nine patients with thalassemia major complicated by some degree of myocardial dysfunction. These patients, recipients of >10 years of DFO injection therapy, were switched from DFO to L1. Echocardiographic measures of left ventricular systolic, diastolic and global functions, were assessed regularly every 6 months. Mean values of each parameter for the DFO and L1 treatment periods were compared using paired t-test and Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Global cardiac function improved significantly. Myocardial dysfunction in patients with thalassemia major can be reversed by regular use of the oral iron chelator L1.
In a crossover study of 26 hypertensive patients, the effects of triamterene (50 mg/day) and amiloride (5 mg/day) on urinary sediment were compared. Each drug was given for one month and all patients also received hydrochlorothiazide (50 mg/day). An abnormal urinary sediment--evident grossly as a reddish-brown precipitate after routine staining procedures and microscopically as characteristic reddish-brown crystals and casts, as previously described--was identified in 14 of 26 (54%) triamterene urine samples but in none of the amiloride samples. Results of renal function tests were similar for both drugs. In a clinic population of more than 1000 hypertensive patients over 4 years, interstitial nephritis was diagnosed in 4, all of whom were taking a triamterene-containing combination diuretic. It is possible that triamterene is a factor in the aetiology of interstitial nephritis.
43-year-old male with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma which was resistant to standard treatment received high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation. He had a past history of nephrectomy due to renal cell carcinoma. He had received adriamycin at a total dose of 280mg/m2, but had no episode of heart disease. His chest radiograph, electrocardiogram and serum creatinine were within normal ranges at the start of high-dose chemotherapy. He was given 120 mg/kg of cyclophosphamide (CPM) over two days. Serum creatinine levels elevated two days before transplantation, and he felt discomfort of the chest followed by severe arrhythmia. He died of heart failure one day after the transplantation. Postmortem examination revealed diffuse myocardial hemorrhage with degeneration and necrosis of the heart muscle. CPM is one of the useful antitumor alkylating agents for the treatment of malignant neoplasms. Although conventional doses of CPM can be used without adverse cardiac effects, high-dose CPM has been reported to induce cardiotoxicity in a few cases. Patients often develop fatal acute heart failure. For the safe use of high-dose CPM, we must consider about the dosing schedule, early detection of adverse cardiac effects, and patient risk factors.
Seven patients with acute renal failure after ingestion of analgesic drug combinations including paracetamol were seen. They presented with oliguric renal failure and restitution of renal function was complete. Only 2 patients had severe liver damage and 2 patients had no signs of liver abnormality. Renal biopsies, studied by light and electron microscopy, in 3 patients showed focal tubular epithelial cell necrosis. Focal vascular damage, predominantly of endothelial cells, was also present in all specimens. This vascular injury was found in various locations in the kidney, including the glomerular and peritubular capillaries and small arterioles. This suggests that microvascular damage is an important mechanism for the renal injury after analgesic drugs.
Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia is an uncommon complication of sotalol use.
The aims of this study were: (1) to report five cases of sotalol proarrhythmia and (2) to audit the use of sotalol in a teaching hospital population.
Five patients with sotalol proarrhythmia (defined as new ventricular arrhythmias associated with sotalol administration) were identified over an 18 month period. Sotalol use for patients admitted to the John Hunter Hospital was audited over a six month period with 85 patients (55 males) identified from the pharmacy database. Medical records were reviewed and the details of treatment including sotalol dose and indication determined. Creatinine clearance was estimated by the Cockcroft and Gault regression equation.
The audit indicated that sotalol was prescribed predominantly for management of atrial arrhythmias (80%). Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was the most common indication (71%). Although female patients were older (72 +/- 13 vs 62 +/- 15 years, p < 0.001) and had a lower creatinine clearance (55 +/- = 24 vs 82 +/- = 32 mg/minute, p < 0.001) than male patients, they were prescribed similar doses of sotalol (206 +/- 112 vs 193 +/- 93 mg/day). The ratio of sotalol dose to creatinine clearance was higher in female patients (4.0 +/- 2.6 vs 2.16 +/- 1.5, p < 0.01). The five patients with proarrhythmia (torsades de pointes in four patients and polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in one patient) were all female. Daily sotalol dose (odds ratio for each 160 mg tablet 4.9 [95% confidence interval 1.5-16] and female gender (p < 0.01) were significant risk factors for proarrhythmia.
Sotalol dose was not appropriately adjusted for creatinine clearance which is age and gender dependent. Female patients have an increased risk of proarrhythmia and should receive lower doses of sotalol.
Stem cells play an important role in the pathogenesis and maintenance of most malignant tumors. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a stem cell disease. The inefficient targeting of the leukemic stem cells (LSC) is considered responsible for relapse after the induction of complete hematologic remission (CR) in AML. Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is a subtype of AML characterized by the t(15;17) translocation and expression of the PML/RARalpha fusion protein. Treatment of APL with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) induces CR, but not molecular remission (CMR), because the fusion transcript remains detectable, followed by relapse within a few months. Arsenic induces high rates of CR and CMR followed by a long relapse-free survival (RFS). Here we compared the effects of ATRA and arsenic on PML/RARalpha-positive stem cell compartments.
As models for the PML/RARalpha-positive LSC we used: (i) Sca1+/lin- murine HSC retrovirally transduced with PML/RARalpha; (ii) LSC from mice with PML/RARalpha-positive leukemia; (iii) the side population of the APL cell line NB4.
In contrast to ATRA, arsenic abolishes the aberrant stem cell capacity of PML/RARalpha-positive stem cells. Arsenic had no apparent influence on the proliferation of PML/RARalpha-positive stem cells, whereas ATRA greatly increased the proliferation of these cells. Furthermore ATRA induces proliferation of APL-derived stem cells, whereas arsenic inhibits their growth.
Taken together our data suggest a relationship between the capacity of a compound to target the leukemia-initiating cell and its ability to induce long relapse-free survival. These data strongly support the importance of efficient LSC-targeting for the outcome of patients with leukemia.
To review the reported cases of myocardial infarction temporally related to recreational and topical anesthetic use of cocaine, with special regard for underlying etiologic factors in patients subsequently found to have normal coronary arteries.
Personal records of three cases and a comprehensive literature review using MEDLINE and supplemented by Index Medicus and the bibliographies of case reports.
A total of 114 cases of cocaine-induced myocardial infarction were identified. The coronary anatomy was defined by angiography or autopsy in 92 patients, 38% of whom had normal coronary arteries. In these 35 patients (average age, 32; range, 21 to 60 years), myocardial infarction typically involved the anterior left ventricular wall (77%). Moderate cigarette smoking with one or fewer associated coronary risk factors was prevalent (68%). Focal coronary vasospasm was shown convincingly in only two cases. Intracoronary thrombus was initially found on 9 of 11 angiograms (82%) done within 12 hours of the myocardial infarction. Experimental evidence suggests that cocaine has direct and indirect sympathomimetic effects on vascular smooth muscle, attenuates endothelium vasodilator capacity, exerts a potent depressant effect on cardiac myocytes, and promotes atherogenesis.
Cocaine-induced myocardial infarction in patients with normal coronary arteries probably involves adrenergically mediated increases in myocardial oxygen consumption, vasoconstriction of large epicardial arteries or small coronary resistance vessels, and coronary thrombosis. Accelerated atherosclerosis and impairment of endothelium vasodilator function may occur after chronic cocaine use.
The synthetic sphingosine analog FTY720 is undergoing clinical trials as an immunomodulatory compound, acting primarily via sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor activation. Sphingolipid and cholesterol homeostasis are closely connected but whether FTY720 affects atherogenesis in humans is not known.
We examined the effects of FTY720 on the processing of scavenged lipoprotein cholesterol in human primary monocyte-derived macrophages.
FTY720 did not affect cholesterol uptake but inhibited its delivery to the endoplasmic reticulum, reducing cellular free cholesterol cytotoxicity. This was accompanied by increased levels of Niemann-Pick C1 protein (NPC1) and ATP-binding cassette transporter (ABC)A1 proteins and increased efflux of endosomal cholesterol to apolipoprotein A-I. These effects were not dependent on sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor activation. Instead, FTY720 stimulated the production of 27-hydroxycholesterol, an endogenous ligand of the liver X receptor, leading to liver X receptor-induced upregulation of ABCA1. Fluorescently labeled FTY720 was targeted to late endosomes, and the FTY720-induced upregulation of ABCA1 was NPC1-dependent, but the endosomal exit of FTY720 itself was not.
We conclude that FTY720 decreases cholesterol toxicity in primary human macrophages by reducing the delivery of scavenged lipoprotein cholesterol to the endoplasmic reticulum and facilitating its release to physiological extracellular acceptors. Furthermore, FTY720 stimulates 27-hydroxycholesterol production, providing an explanation for the atheroprotective effects and identifying a novel mechanism by which FTY720 modulates signaling.
There is still a need for a new analgesic devoid of the side effects presented by opioids or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, for the treatment of some acute and chronic pain conditions. Lamotrigine (Lamictal1, 10-100 mg/kg), a new anticonvulsant, showed analgesic effects in the acute model of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-induced hyperalgesia when given orally before or after the subplantar injection of PGE2 in the rat. It also inhibited the development of sustained hyperalgesia induced by multiple subplantar injections of PGE2 when administered orally prior to the PGE2 injections. Furthermore, lamotrigine induced analgesia in the model of chronic hyperalgesia in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. The effects of carbamazepine and phenytoin are compared to the effects of lamotrigine in this model. The results suggest that lamotrigine could be used in pain conditions where neuronal sensitization may be present and possibly also where it could inhibit the development of this sensitization.
To compare the effects of carvedilol, losartan and their combination in preventing from left ventricular remodeling (LVRM) after acute myocardial infarction(AMI) in rats.
Twenty-four hours after ligating left coronary artery, 100 surviving AMI female SD rats were randomly assigned to: (1) AMI control (n = 25), (2) carvedilol (1 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) (C1) (n = 25); (3) losartan (3 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) (L3)(n = 25); and (4) carvedilol (1 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) + losartan (3 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) (C1 + L3) (n = 25) groups. Sham-operated group (n = 17) were selected randomly as non-infarction control. After 4 weeks of therapy with the drugs by gastric gavage, hemodynamic studies were performed, then the rat hearts were fixed and pathologically analyzed. Exclusive of the rats with MI size < 35% or > 55%, complete data were obtained in 65 rats, which were comprised of AMI control (n = 13), C1 (n = 12), L3 (n = 13), C1 + L3 (n = 14) and sham-operated (n = 13) groups.
There were no significant differences in MI size among the four AMI groups (45.8% - 46.7%, P > 0.05) . Compared with sham-operated group, Left ventricular (LV) end diastolic pressure (LVEDP), volume (LVV), weight (LVW), septal thickness (STh) and right ventricular weight (RVW) were all significantly increased (all P < 0.01 ) in AMI group, while the left ventricular pressure maximal rate of rise and fall (dp/dt) were significantly decreased (all P < 0.01). In comparison with AMI group, LVEDP, LVV, LVW, STh and RVW were all significantly decreased (all P < 0.01), while +/- dp/dt and +/- dp/dt/LVSP were significantly increased (P < 0.05 - 0.01) in all three therapy groups, with LVEDP decreasing more in the combination and L3 groups than in C1 group (P < 0.05 - 0.01) and STh decreasing more in the combination group than in C1 group (P < 0.01), but there were no significant differences in other variables among the three therapy groups.
Carvedilol, losartan and their combination all can prevent from LVRM after AMI in rats, improve hemodynamics and LV function, with the combination superior.
