The purpose of this study was to examine whether histone deacetylase inhibitor suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA; Zolinza/vorinostat) could sensitize tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL)-resistant breast carcinoma in vivo. BALB/c nude mice were orthotopically implanted with TRAIL-resistant MDA-MB-468 cells and treated i.v. with SAHA, TRAIL, or SAHA followed by TRAIL for four times during first 3 weeks. The effects of drugs on tumor growth and markers of apoptosis, metastasis, and angiogenesis were examined. SAHA sensitized TRAIL-resistant xenografts to undergo apoptosis through multiple mechanisms. Whereas TRAIL alone was ineffective, SAHA inhibited growth of MDA-MB-468 xenografts in nude mice by inhibiting markers of tumor cell proliferation, angiogenesis, and metastasis and inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. The sequential treatment of nude mice with SAHA followed by TRAIL was more effective in inhibiting tumor growth, angiogenesis, and metastasis and inducing apoptosis than SAHA alone, without overt toxicity. Treatment of nude mice with SAHA resulted in down-regulation of nuclear factor-kappaB and its gene products (cyclin D1, Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), vascular endothelial growth factor, hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha, interleukin-6, interleukin-8, matrix metalloproteinase-2, and matrix metalloproteinase-9) and up-regulation of DR4, DR5, Bak, Bax, Bim, Noxa, PUMA, p21(CIP1), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1, and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 in tumor cells. Furthermore, control mice showing increased rate of tumor growth had increased numbers of CD31(+) or von Willebrand factor-positive blood vessels and increased circulating vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2-positive endothelial cells compared with SAHA-treated or SAHA plus TRAIL-treated mice. In conclusion, sequential treatment with SAHA followed by TRAIL may target multiple pathways in tumor progression, angiogenesis, and metastasis and represents a novel therapeutic approach to treat breast cancer.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the hepatoprotective and anti-fibrotic actions of crude extracts of Ganoderma tsugae (GTE) on chronic liver injury induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) in rats. CCl4 (20%, 0.5 ml/rat) was given twice a week for 8 weeks, and animals received GTE through the whole experimental period. GTE showed obvious reducing actions on the elevated levels of glutamate-oxalate-transaminase (GOT) and glutamate-pyruvate-transaminase (GPT) caused by CCl4 at weeks 3, 6 and 8. Liver fibrosis in rats induced by CCl4 led to the drop of serum albumin and hepatic protein concentrations, while GTE increased serum albumin and hepatic protein concentrations. The CCl4-induced liver fibrosis may prolong the prothrombine time and increase albumin/globulin (A/G) ratio. GTE significantly decreased the prothrombine time and A/G ratio. Liver fibrosis induced by CCl4 markedly increased the weight of the spleen, hepatic water and hydroxyproline contents in rats, while GTE decreased the rat's spleen weights, hepatic water and hydroxyproline contents. All these results clearly demonstrated that GTE has hepatoprotective and anti-fibrotic activities.
The effects of cyclosporine A (CSA) administration, started as early as renal lesion is induced, on the development of Adriamycin-induced nephropathy were assessed by comparing the time course of this nephropathy in rats receiving CSA with that in non-treated animals (group ADR) over 16 weeks. Throughout the experiment, no significant difference in proteinuria was observed between the groups. At the end of the experiment, there was no significant difference between the groups regarding the frequency of glomerular lesion (Group AADR: Md = 23%, P25 = 15%, P75 = 75%; Group ADR-CSA: Md = 48%, P25 = 11%, P75 = 70%); tubulointerstitial lesion index (Group ADR: Md = 1.5, P25 = 1.0, P75 = 2.5); glomerulosclerosis area (Group ADR = 18.2 +/- 4.2%; Group ADR-CSA = 13.2 +/- 1.4%); and, interstitial fibrosis area (Group ADR+V: 1.75 +/- 0.10%; group ADR-CSA: 1.34 +/- 0.09%). In conclusion, CSA, when administered since nephropathy induction does not change the course of the disease.
Clinical studies regarding chemotherapy for gastric cancer patients with malignant ascites have been classically rather limited in scope, largely because peritoneal seeding produces no measurable lesions, and patients generally exhibited poor performance status. Herein, we have evaluated the efficacy and toxicity of a fortnightly modified FOLFOX-4 (m-FOLFOX) regimen.
Gastric cancer patients with cytologically confirmed malignant ascites were treated with cycles of oxaliplatin at 85 mg/m(2) plus leucovorin 20 mg/m(2) on the first day of treatment, followed by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) via a 400 mg/m(2) bolus and a 22 h continuous infusion of 600 mg/m(2) 5-FU on Days 1-2 at 2-week intervals.
Forty-eight patients participated in this study. Twenty-two patients (45.8%) were treated with m-FOLFOX-4 as a first line palliative treatment. Twenty-one patients (43.8%) were adjudged to have an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 2. Thirty-six patients were assessable and exhibited measurable lesions. Twelve (33.3%) patients evidenced partial responses. Decreases or disappearances of ascites levels were observed in 17 (35.4%) patients. The median time to progression and overall survival time were 3.5 (95% CI: 2.9-4.1) months and 8.4 (95% CI: 4.9-11.9) months, respectively. Major hematologic toxicities included Grades 1-2 anemia (53.9%), neutropenia (41.6%) and, Grades 3-4 neutropenia (15.8%). The most frequently detected non-hematological toxicities were Grades 2 and 3 nausea/vomiting (17%). We noted no deaths related to treatment.
The m-FOLFOX-4 regimen utilized herein was determined to be both safe and feasible even for gastric cancer patients with malignant ascites in poor performance status.
The characteristic ECG pattern of ST-segment elevation in V1 and V2 in the Brugada syndrome is dynamic; it is often intermittently present in affected individuals and can be unmasked by sodium channel blockers, including antiarrhythmic drugs and tricyclic antidepressants. We report here 2 patients who developed the Brugada ECG pattern after administration of lithium, a commonly used drug not previously reported to block cardiac sodium channels.
Lithium induced transient ST-segment elevation (type 1 Brugada pattern) in right precordial leads at therapeutic concentrations in 2 patients with bipolar disorder. Lithium withdrawal in the patients resulted in reversion to type 2 or 3 Brugada patterns or resolution of ST-T abnormalities. In Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with SCN5A, which encodes the cardiac sodium channel, lithium chloride caused concentration-dependent block of peak INa at levels well below the therapeutic range (IC50 of 6.8+/-0.4 micromol/L).
The widely used drug lithium is a potent blocker of cardiac sodium channels and may unmask patients with the Brugada syndrome.
Retinoids are natural and synthetic derivatives of vitamin A, which can be obtained from animal products (milk, liver, beef, fish oils, and eggs) and vegetables (carrots, mangos, sweet potatoes, and spinach). Retinoids regulate various important cellular functions in the body through specific nuclear retinoic-acid receptors and retinoid-X receptors, which are encoded by separate genes. Retinoic-acid receptors specifically bind tretinoin and alitretinoin, whereas retinoid-X receptors bind only alitretinoin. Retinoids have long been established as crucial for several essential life processes-healthy growth, vision, maintenance of tissues, reproduction, metabolism, tissue differentiation (normal, premalignant cells, and malignant cells), haemopoiesis, bone development, spermatogenesis, embryogenesis, and overall survival. Therefore, deficiency of vitamin A can lead to various unwanted biological effects. Several experimental and epidemiological studies have shown the antiproliferative activity of retinoids and their potential use in cancer treatment and chemoprevention. Emerging clinical trials have shown the chemotherapeutic and chemopreventive potential of retinoids in cancerous and precancerous conditions of the uterine cervix. In this review, we explore the potential chemopreventive and therapeutic roles of retinoids in preinvasive and invasive cervical neoplasia.
Animal studies have clearly demonstrated the effects of in utero cocaine exposure on neural ontogeny, especially in dopamine-rich areas of cerebral cortex; however, less is known about how in utero cocaine exposure affects longitudinal neurocognitive development of the human brain. We used continuous arterial spin-labeling perfusion functional MRI to measure the effect of in utero cocaine exposure on resting brain function by comparing resting cerebral blood flow of cocaine-exposed adolescents with non-cocaine-exposed control subjects.
Twenty-four cocaine-exposed adolescents and 25 matched non-cocaine-exposed control subjects underwent structural and perfusion functional MRI during resting states. Direct subtraction, voxel-wise general linear modeling, and region-of-interest analyses were performed on the cerebral blood flow images to compare the resting cerebral blood flow between the 2 groups.
Compared with control subjects, cocaine-exposed adolescents showed significantly reduced global cerebral blood flow. The decrease of cerebral blood flow in cocaine-exposed adolescents was observed mainly in posterior and inferior brain regions, including the occipital cortex and thalamus. After adjusting for global cerebral blood flow, however, a significant increase in relative cerebral blood flow in cocaine-exposed adolescents was found in anterior and superior brain regions, including the prefrontal, cingulate, insular, amygdala, and superior parietal cortex. Furthermore, the functional modulations by in utero cocaine exposure on all of these regions except amygdala cannot be accounted for by the variation in brain anatomy.
In utero cocaine exposure may reduce global cerebral blood flow, and this reduction may persist into adolescence. The relative increase of cerebral blood flow in anterior and superior brain regions in cocaine-exposed adolescent participants suggests that compensatory mechanisms for reduced global cerebral blood flow may develop during neural ontogeny. Arterial spin-labeling perfusion MRI may be a valuable tool for investigating the long-term effects of in utero drug exposure.
Myocardial perfusion imaging with coronary vasodilators is routinely used for patients with suspected coronary disease who are unable to exercise. Since these agents work by increasing blood flow without significantly changing myocardial oxygen demand, they generally do not produce ischemia. A minority of patients show evidence of ischemia which some investigators suggest is due to a coronary steal phenomenon, but this has been challenged by several investigators. We present the case of a patient who developed severe transmural myocardial ischemia manifested by ST-segment elevation and severe perfusion defects which occurred after dipyridamole administration and which were reversed with aminophylline and nitroglycerin. This case supports the notion that coronary vasodilation with dipyridamole can induce a coronary steal.
Since bupivacaine and epinephrine may both precipitate dysrhythmias, circulating bupivacaine during regional anesthesia could potentiate dysrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. We therefore examined whether bupivacaine alters the dysrhythmogenicity of subsequent administration of epinephrine in conscious, healthy dogs and in anesthetized dogs with myocardial infarction. Forty-one conscious dogs received 10 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 epinephrine. Seventeen animals responded with ventricular tachycardia (VT) within 3 min. After 3 h, these responders randomly received 1 or 2 mg/kg bupivacaine or saline over 5 min, followed by 10 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 epinephrine. In the bupivacaine groups, epinephrine caused fewer prodysrhythmic effects than without bupivacaine. VT appeared in fewer dogs and at a later time, and there were more sinoatrial beats and less ectopies. Epinephrine shortened QT less after bupivacaine than in control animals. One day after experimental myocardial infarction, six additional halothane-anesthetized dogs received 4 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 epinephrine until VT appeared. After 45 min, 1 mg/kg bupivacaine was injected over 5 min, again followed by 4 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 epinephrine. In these dogs, the prodysrhythmic response to epinephrine was also mitigated by preceding bupivacaine. Bupivacaine antagonizes epinephrine dysrhythmogenicity in conscious dogs susceptible to VT and in anesthetized dogs with spontaneous postinfarct dysrhythmias. There is no evidence that systemic subtoxic bupivacaine administration enhances the dysrhythmogenicity of subsequent epinephrine.
Recently, we reported that monosodium glutamate-treated mice (MSG mice) developed severe hyperlipidemia and diabetes mellitus and several complications of obesity. MSG mice acquired fatty livers and subsequently underwent changes that are characteristic of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)/nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). In the present study, the effects of bezafibrate on obesity, diabetes mellitus, and NAFLD/NASH were examined in MSG mice. A single dose of MSG (4 mg/g) was administered subcutaneously to neonatal male mice within 24h of birth. Bezafibrate was mixed into the normal feed for 8 weeks. The weight and body mass index of MSG mice increased significantly despite the unchanged intake of food. Triglyceride and total cholesterol levels in blood, visceral adipose tissue, and interscapular adipose tissue rose significantly. In the livers of MSG mice, moderate centrilobular microvesicular steatosis, ballooning degeneration with Mallory bodies, and scattered infiltration of neutrophils and lymphocytes were observed. Centrilobular hepatocytes were 4-hydroxynonenal-positive in MSG mice. Bezafibrate ameliorated the severity of diabetes mellitus, hyperinsulinemia, and hyperlipidemia. Adiponectin and leptin concentrations in blood improved, and the accumulation of visceral fat was inhibited. The expression of acyl-CoA oxidase, a beta-oxidation gene, and carnitine palmitoyl transferase, which regulates lipid metabolism, increased markedly on administration of bezafibrate. The liver pathology in MSG mice also improved with bezafibrate; specifically, macro- and microvesicles in hepatocytes nearly disappeared, and NAFLD activity score improved. It is concluded that bezafibrate inhibits the accumulation of visceral fat, following amelioration of hyperlipidemia, in MSG-induced obese mice, due to improvements in diabetes mellitus, fatty liver, and NAFLD.
Calcium-channel blockers are a safe and effective treatment modality and have been used extensively in the treatment of angina and hypertension. Dilacor XR capsules, a new extended-release formulation of diltiazem, has been developed for the treatment of hypertension. Dilacor XR (Rhône-Poulenc Rorer Pharmaceuticals Inc., Collegeville, PA) uses a novel drug delivery system, the Geomatrix (JAGO Research AG, Zollikon, Switzerland) controlled-release system, to deliver diltiazem at a constant rate for 24 hours. The rate of absorption is also slower. As doses of Dilacor XR were increased from 120 mg to 540 mg/day, there were disproportionate increases observed in area under the curve, maximum peak plasma concentration, minimum peak plasma concentration, and average peak plasma concentration. The efficacy data from two clinical trials have confirmed the established efficacy of diltiazem and the 24-hour efficacy of Dilacor XR in the control of mild-to-moderate hypertension. The incidence of adverse effects with Dilacor XR in doses as high as 540 mg/day was generally comparable to that of placebo. This new extended-release formulation of diltiazem should significantly facilitate blood pressure control because of better patient compliance with a once daily regimen.
Testicular cancer is the most common solid tumor among young men aged 15 to 35 years. Combination chemotherapy with cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin remains the mainstay of treatment. We present a 27-year-old man who presented with an acute anterior myocardial infarction during the second course of chemotherapy for seminoma. Because the patient had no significant risk factors for coronary heart disease, the infarction was likely caused by the chemotherapy regimen.
Endothelium-derived nitric oxide (NO) is synthesised from L-arginine by endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) encoded by the NOS 3 gene on chromosome 7. Because reduced NO synthesis has been implicated in the development of coronary atherosclerosis, which has a heritable component, we hypothesised that polymorphisms of NOS 3 might be associated with increased susceptibility to this disorder.
Single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis of NOS 3 identified a G-->T polymorphism in exon 7 of the gene which encodes a Glu-->Asp amino acid substitution at residue 298 of eNOS. We investigated the relationship between this Glu(298)-->Asp variant and atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (CAD) using 2 independent case-controlled studies. In the first study (CHAOS), cases consisted of 298 unrelated patients with positive coronary angiograms and controls were 138 unrelated healthy individuals ascertained through a population health screen. In the second study (CHAOS II), the cases were 249 patients with recent myocardial infarction (MI), and a further 183 unrelated controls. There was an excess of homozygotes for the Asp298 variant among patients with angiographic CAD, and among patients with recent MI when compared with their respective controls (35.9% versus 10.2%, P<0.0001 in CHAOS, and 18.1% versus 8.7%, P<0.02 in CHAOS II). In comparison to Glu(298) homozygotes, homozygosity for Asp(298) was associated with an odds ratio of 4.2 (95% CI, 2.3 to 7.9) for angiographic CAD and 2.5 (95% CI, 1.3 to 4.2) for MI.
Homozygosity for a common NOS 3 polymorphism (894 G-->T) which encodes a Glu298-->Asp amino acid substitution in eNOS is a risk factor for angiographic CAD and recent MI in this population.
Accumulating evidence suggests that statins have beneficial effects which are independent of their lipid-lowering actions, on vascular cells. Here, we investigated whether the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor rosuvastatin can inhibit atherosclerotic lesion development with favorable effects on endothelial cells in ApoE-deficient mice. Rosuvastatin rapidly phosphorylated Akt and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in human endothelial cells. Endothelial cell death induced by serum starvation was significantly inhibited by rosuvastatin (percent cell death; 45.9+/-2.4% vs. 37.3+/-1.1%, p<0.05). Eight-week-old ApoE-deficient mice were orally administered vehicle or rosuvastatin at a dose of 20mg/kg/day for 24 weeks. There was no significant difference in cholesterol profile. Rosuvastatin preserved endothelial lining at the aortic root (CD31-positive luminal side; 63.8+/-2.8% vs. 81.7+/-3.9%, p<0.05). En face Sudan IV staining of aorta revealed that rosuvastatin significantly decreased the atherosclerotic area (21.9+/-2.9% vs. 11.9+/-1.9%, p<0.05). Lipid deposition at the atherosclerotic area was also suppressed by rosuvastatin with more stabilized morphologic features as determined by oil red O staining (3.4+/-0.4% vs. 1.7+/-0.4%, p<0.05). Our findings indicate that rosuvastatin protects endothelial cells from death with phosphorylation of Akt and eNOS. These effects may contribute, at least in part, to the anti-atherosclerotic effects of rosuvastatin.
The main objective of this study was to test the effectiveness of astemizole in vitro in blocking the release of histamine from blood of patients with allergic rhinitis. The results of this investigation indicated that astemizole inhibited allergen-mediated histamine release from blood basophils of patients with this allergic disorder. The inhibition by astemizole (33-156 mumol) was immediate, requiring no pre-incubation of the cells, and was dose-dependent, with maximal inhibition of about 91%. The relatively high potency of astemizole in inhibiting the immunologic release of histamine may provide an additional measure in the treatment of allergic rhinitis with this H1-receptor antagonist.
The Foscarnet-Ganciclovir Cytomegalovirus Retinitis Trial compared the use of either ganciclovir or foscarnet for the initial treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. We previously reported that patients treated with foscarnet lived longer but were more likely to have their treatment switched, the latter suggesting foscarnet may not have been as well tolerated as ganciclovir. This study compared the morbidity and toxic reactions reported during the trial.
Two hundred thirty-four patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and previously untreated cytomegalovirus retinitis at 11 university centers were randomly assigned to receive intravenously either foscarnet (n = 107) or ganciclovir (n = 127). Medical histories, laboratory tests, and drug treatment histories during the first 6 months of treatment were analyzed.
Neutropenia was more common in patients assigned to ganciclovir than to foscarnet (34% vs 14%; P = .001). Patients assigned to foscarnet reported more infusion-related symptoms (58% vs 24%; P < .001) and, in male patients, more genitourinary symptoms (36% vs 16%; P > .001); they also experienced a trend toward more nephrotoxic effects (13% vs 6%; P = .082) and electrolyte abnormalities. The incidence of seizures was similar in both groups (foscarnet, 12%; ganciclovir, 9%; P = .511). Patients assigned to foscarnet were more likely to be switched to the alternative treatment (foscarnet to ganciclovir, 46%; ganciclovir to foscarnet, 11%; P < .001), and most of this excess was attributable to toxic reactions. In 88% of cases in which treatment was switched as a result of toxic reactions and in which follow-up data were available, the toxic reaction resolved after the switch. No permanent disability or death resulted from toxic reactions.
Compared with ganciclovir, the use of foscarnet was more frequently limited by the occurrence of toxic reactions. However, these toxic reactions rarely had long-term sequelae. In light of the previously reported survival benefit seen in patients treated with foscarnet, these data support the use of foscarnet for the initial treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis.
Hemorrhagic cystitis is a therapy-limiting side effect of cyclophosphamide (CP) treatment for cancer. The purpose of this study was to investigate the potential protective effect of L-2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylate (OTZ; Procysteine) on CP-induced cystitis in the rat.
Thirty-six rats were divided into 6 groups: Group 1--Untreated controls, Group 2--OTZ alone (100 mg./kg., p.o.), Group 3--CP alone (68 mg./kg., i.v.), Group 4--CP + OTZ (68 mg./kg., i.v. + 100 mg.,/kg., p.o.), Group 5--CP + OTZ (68 mg./kg., i.v. + 1.0 g./kg., i.v.), and Group 6--CP + OTZ (68 mg./kg.,i.v. + 1.0 gm./kg., i.p.). OTZ was given once a day to groups 2 and 4 on the day prior to and on the day of CP administration. OTZ was given twice a day to groups 5 and 6 on the day prior to, the day of, and the day after CP administration. On the day of CP administration, CP was given 30 minutes prior to OTZ. Blood and bladder samples were taken for evaluation two days after CP administration.
Expected depression in blood cell parameters were identified in all groups receiving CP with no differences noted between the CP-treated groups. Histologic changes (cystitis) were identified in the bladders of all CP treated groups. The lesions in the CP + OTZ groups were found to be less severe than the groups that received CP alone, with higher dosages of OTZ resulting in a significant (p < 0.05) decrease in lesion incidence and severity.
Under the conditions of this study, L-2-oxothiazolidine-4 carboxylate caused a reduction in the incidence and severity of cyclophosphamide-induced lesions in the urinary bladder of rats. Further studies are needed to investigate optimal dosage scheme, mechanism of action, and interference with anti-tumor activity and prevention of long-term side effects of cyclophosphamide.
Striatal neurons that contain GABA and enkephalin and project to the external segment of the pallidum are thought to be overactive in Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, it has been shown that the appearance of L-dopa-induced dyskinesias is correlated to an increase of preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA expression and that some antagonists of glutamate receptors can prevent and reverse L-dopa-induced dyskinesias in parkinsonian rats. The aim of this study was therefore to analyse the effect of a systemic treatment with glutamate receptor antagonists, alone or in combination with L-dopa, on the PPE mRNA level in rats with a 6-hydroxydopamine-induced unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway. In vehicle-treated animals, PPE mRNA levels were markedly increased in the striatum on the lesioned side. Sub-chronic L-dopa treatment, with bi-daily injections for 22 days, induced a further increase in PPE mRNA expression in the denervated striatum. Administration of the AMPA receptor antagonist, LY293558, partially reversed the lesion-induced and L-dopa-induced increases in PPE mRNA expression. However, although the administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist MK801 showed a tendency to decrease this L-dopa induced overexpression, it did not reach significance. This study provides evidence that glutamatergic antagonists, and particularly AMPA antagonists, tend to reverse PPE neurochemical changes at the striatal level induced by L-dopa in hemiparkinsonian rats.
DNA damage induces cell cycle arrest through both Chk1 and the p53 tumor suppressor protein, the latter arresting cells through induction of p21(waf1) protein. Arrest permits cells to repair the damage and recover. The frequent loss of p53 in tumor cells makes them more dependent on Chk1 for arrest and survival. However, some p53 wild type tumor cell lines, such as HCT116 and U2OS, are also sensitive to inhibition of Chk1 due to attenuated p21(waf1) induction upon DNA damage. The purpose of this study is to determine the cause of this attenuated p21(waf1) protein induction. We find that neither the induction of p21(waf1) mRNA nor protein half-life is sufficient to explain the low p21(waf1) protein levels in HCT116 and U2OS cells. The induced mRNA associates with polysomes but little protein is made suggesting these two cell lines have a reduced rate of p21(waf1) mRNA translation. This represents a novel mechanism for disruption of the p53-p21(waf1) pathway as currently known mechanisms involve either mutation of p53 or reduction of p53 protein levels. As a consequence, this attenuated p21(waf1) expression may render some p53 wild type tumors sensitive to a combination of DNA damage plus checkpoint inhibition.
Calcium antagonists are unique antihypertensive drugs that appear to exert selective blood pressure-lowering and possibly renal hemodynamic and functional effects in hypertensive patients and animals. There is evidence for inhibition of tubular sodium reabsorption and renal vasodilatation when certain of these agents are given by acute intravenous or intrarenal arterial administration. These renal effects have been observed to occur either independently or together. Both natriuresis and diuresis have been found to occur with these drugs. In the deoxycorticosterone-salt hypertensive dog, chronically administered diltiazem reduces blood pressure, transiently increases renal blood flow and increases urine volume. Administered either acutely or chronically to these hypertensive dogs, diltiazem depresses renal vascular reactivity. Pressor and renal vasoconstrictor responses to angiotensin II and norepinephrine are attenuated to a similar degree. The chronic blood pressure-lowering effect of diltiazem is most likely a function of depressed vascular reactivity; however, actions at other sites cannot be ruled out based on our experiments. Postprandial renal vasodilatation readily occurs in the conscious instrumented dog, and although this response is blocked by the acute administration of a calcium antagonist, the response is unaltered during the chronic administration of diltiazem.
Endothelial dysfunction is a crucial feature in the evolution of atherosclerosis. Adiponectin is an adipocyte-specific plasma protein with antiatherogenic and antidiabetic properties. In the present study, we investigated the relation between adiponectin and endothelium-dependent vasodilation. We analyzed endothelial function in 202 hypertensive patients, including those who were not taking any medication. Forearm blood flow was measured by strain-gauge plethysmography. Plasma adiponectin level was highly correlated with the vasodilator response to reactive hyperemia in the total (r=0.257, P<0.001) and no-medication (r=0.296, P=0.026) groups but not with nitroglycerin-induced hyperemia, indicating that adiponectin affected endothelium-dependent vasodilation. Multiple regression analysis of data from all hypertensive patients revealed that plasma adiponectin level was independently correlated with the vasodilator response to reactive hyperemia. Vascular reactivity was also analyzed in aortic rings from adiponectin-knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice. Adiponectin-KO mice showed obesity, hyperglycemia, and hypertension compared with WT mice after 4 weeks on an atherogenic diet. Endothelium-dependent vasodilation in response to acetylcholine was significantly reduced in adiponectin-KO mice compared with WT mice, although no significant difference was observed in endothelium-independent vasodilation in response to sodium nitroprusside. Our observations suggest that hypoadiponectinemia is associated with impaired endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation and that the measurement of plasma adiponectin level might be helpful as a marker of endothelial dysfunction.
The first case of chronic cardiac toxicity due to an antimalarial agent was reported in 1971 and since then several cases of heart failure, restrictive cardiomyopathy or atrioventricular block have been ascribed to this family of drugs. We report the case of a 43-year-old woman who developed juvenile chronic arthritis at the age of ten, followed in adulthood by sero-positive rheumatoid arthritis. In 1980 she was put under chloroquine sulfate (hydroxychloroquine was not available) in a dose of 200 mg/d (152.66 mg of chloroquine), with 10 mg/day of prednisone. She developed myalgia and increased skin pigmentation, but disregarded recommendations that these symptoms required discontinuation of chloroquine therapy. She was lost to follow-up, but continued the chloroquine therapy of her own accord. In December 1993, she developed a third-degree atrioventricular block with syncopes requiring implantation of a pacemaker. The rare but well-documented myopathy induced by antimalarial agents can produce early severe lesions of the cardiac muscle, which may have a predilection for the interventricular septum, explaining the risk of atrioventricular block. Although histologic studies were not performed in our patient, the clinical evidence of toxicity, absence of underlying heart disease and fairly young age of the patient pointed to chloroquine toxicity. Periodic cardiac investigations including electrocardiography may be warranted in patients under antimalarial therapy.
Gene expression profiling has revealed that the gene coding for cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) is highly up-regulated in rhabdomyosarcoma biopsies bearing the typical chromosomal translocations PAX3/FKHR or PAX7/FKHR. Because cannabinoid receptor agonists are capable of reducing proliferation and inducing apoptosis in diverse cancer cells such as glioma, breast cancer, and melanoma, we evaluated whether CB1 is a potential drug target in rhabdomyosarcoma. Our study shows that treatment with the cannabinoid receptor agonists HU210 and Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol lowers the viability of translocation-positive rhabdomyosarcoma cells through the induction of apoptosis. This effect relies on inhibition of AKT signaling and induction of the stress-associated transcription factor p8 because small interfering RNA-mediated down-regulation of p8 rescued cell viability upon cannabinoid treatment. Finally, treatment of xenografts with HU210 led to a significant suppression of tumor growth in vivo. These results support the notion that cannabinoid receptor agonists could represent a novel targeted approach for treatment of translocation-positive rhabdomyosarcoma.
Capecitabine, a new member of the fluoropyrimidine family, is an orally administered drug that delivers fluorouracil (5-FU) selectively to the tumour. Although the cardiotoxicity of 5-FU is well documented, there is little published data about cardiovascular adverse effects of Capecitabine. This case highlights the possible development of acute coronary syndrome as a side effect of Capecitabine therapy.
Integrating genetic data from families with highly penetrant forms of disease together with genetic data from outbred populations represents a promising strategy to uncover the complete frequency spectrum of risk alleles for complex traits such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here, we demonstrate that rare, low-frequency and common alleles at one gene locus, phospholipase B1 (PLB1), might contribute to risk of RA in a 4-generation consanguineous pedigree (Middle Eastern ancestry) and also in unrelated individuals from the general population (European ancestry). Through identity-by-descent (IBD) mapping and whole-exome sequencing, we identified a non-synonymous c.2263G>C (p.G755R) mutation at the PLB1 gene on 2q23, which significantly co-segregated with RA in family members with a dominant mode of inheritance (P = 0.009). We further evaluated PLB1 variants and risk of RA using a GWAS meta-analysis of 8,875 RA cases and 29,367 controls of European ancestry. We identified significant contributions of two independent non-coding variants near PLB1 with risk of RA (rs116018341 [MAF = 0.042] and rs116541814 [MAF = 0.021], combined P = 3.2 × 10(-6)). Finally, we performed deep exon sequencing of PLB1 in 1,088 RA cases and 1,088 controls (European ancestry), and identified suggestive dispersion of rare protein-coding variant frequencies between cases and controls (P = 0.049 for C-alpha test and P = 0.055 for SKAT). Together, these data suggest that PLB1 is a candidate risk gene for RA. Future studies to characterize the full spectrum of genetic risk in the PLB1 genetic locus are warranted.
Severe cholestatic jaundice occurred in two patients receiving prednisolone and azathioprine, one for chronic progressive hepatitis, the other for Wegener's granulomatosis. Reversible abnormal liver function, involving both elimination and synthesis, was in the foreground clinically. Signs of parenchymal-cell damage were only moderately severe. When azathioprine had been discontinued all previously abnormal values returned to normal within six to eight weeks. Azathioprine is an indirect optional hepatotoxin. If given over long periods there should be regular controls of blood count and liver functions.
Cocaine is the most powerful central nervous stimulant found in nature. All forms of cocaine cause tachycardia and vasoconstriction. A smokable, rapidly reacting form of cocaine base, "crack," is highly addictive. Smoking crack introduces a high concentration of cocaine into the bloodstream, rendering it especially dangerous. We report a case that visually demonstrates severe aortic vasoconstriction from the suprarenal aorta and extending to both femoral arteries and beyond, resulting in renal failure and fatal bowel ischemia after a 5-day binge of crack cocaine.
