In a recent study, we reported that interleukin (IL)-4 had a protective role against acetaminophen (APAP)-induced liver injury (AILI), although the mechanism of protection was unclear. Here, we carried out more detailed investigations and have shown that one way IL-4 may control the severity of AILI is by regulating glutathione (GSH) synthesis. In the present studies, the protective role of IL-4 in AILI was established definitively by showing that C57BL/6J mice made deficient in IL-4 genetically (IL-4(-/-)) or by depletion with an antibody, were more susceptible to AILI than mice not depleted of IL-4. The increased susceptibility of IL-4(-/-) mice was not due to elevated levels of hepatic APAP-protein adducts but was associated with a prolonged reduction in hepatic GSH that was attributed to decreased gene expression of γ-glutamylcysteine ligase (γ-GCL). Moreover, administration of recombinant IL-4 to IL-4(-/-) mice postacetaminophen treatment diminished the severity of liver injury and increased γ-GCL and GSH levels. We also report that the prolonged reduction of GSH in APAP-treated IL-4(-/-) mice appeared to contribute toward increased liver injury by causing a sustained activation of c-Jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK) since levels of phosphorylated JNK remained significantly higher in the IL-4(-/-) mice up to 24 h after APAP treatment. Overall, these results show for the first time that IL-4 has a role in regulating the synthesis of GSH in the liver under conditions of cellular stress. This mechanism appears to be responsible at least in part for the protective role of IL-4 against AILI in mice and may have a similar role not only in AILI in humans but also in pathologies of the liver caused by other drugs and etiologies.
Hepatotoxicity secondary to the administration of thiabendazole has been rare since this drug was produced in 1964. In 14 of 15 patients reported previously in the literature, severe intrahepatic cholestasis resolved within seven months of the onset of illness. A recent report documented the progression to cirrhosis in a 15th patient. We report the second case of a patient with intrahepatic cholestasis that developed after treatment with thiabendazole and progressed to severe micronodular cirrhosis.
A patient with transfusion-dependent thalassemia was undergoing home intravenous desferrioxamine (DFX) treatment by means of a totally implanted system because of his poor compliance with the nightly subcutaneous therapy. Due to an accidental malfunctioning of the infusion pump, the patient was inadvertently administered a toxic dosage of the drug which caused renal insufficiency. Given the progressive deterioration of the symptoms and of the laboratory values, despite adequate medical treatment, a decision was made to introduce haemodialytical therapy in order to remove the drug and therapy reduce the nephrotoxicity. From the results obtained, haemodialysis can therefore be suggested as a useful therapy in rare cases of progressive acute renal failure caused by desferrioxamine.
Amphetamine productes protein leakage in the brain when given to rats under nitrous oxide anesthesia. The blood-brain barrier dysfunction is caused by the combined effect of blood pressure increase and vasodilatation. In the present experiments pretreatment with dexamethasone, 2 mg.kg-1, diminished the amphetamine-induced extravasation of Evans blue albumin and 125IHSA in the rats' brain. Possible explanations to the effect of dexamethasone on cerebrovascular permeability are discussed.
CPT-11, a DNA topoisomerase I inhibitor, has demonstrated clinical activity in colorectal cancer. Flavopiridol, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, is rapidly emerging as a chemotherapy modulator. To enhance the therapeutic index of CPT-11 in colon cancer, we studied the combination of these two drugs in relatively resistant human colon cancer cells, Hct116. Exposure of parental Hct116 cells to clinically achievable concentrations of SN-38 (the active metabolite of CPT-11) induces p21 and a G(2) arrest. However, these conditions fail to induce apoptosis. In contrast, Hct116 cells that are p21 deficient (p21-/- Hct116) readily undergo apoptosis after treatment with SN-38. In this study we show that the parental Hct116 cells can be sensitized to undergo apoptosis by the addition of flavopiridol after SN-38 treatment. The induction of apoptosis was greatest with sequential therapy consisting of SN-38 followed by flavopiridol. Clonogenic assays also showed greatest inhibition with this sequence. Sequential treatment with SN-38 followed by flavopiridol was associated with higher activation of caspase-3 and greater cleavage of both p21 and XIAP, an inhibitor of apoptosis, compared with other treatment schedules. CPT-11 induced some tumor regressions but no complete responses in the p21-intact Hct116 xenografts. CPT-11 with flavopiridol more than doubled tumor regression, compared with CPT-11 alone, and produced a 30% complete response rate. Our studies indicate that CPT-11 induces cell cycle arrest rather than cell death and that flavopiridol, by activating the caspase cascade, cleaves the inhibitors of apoptosis and sensitizes the cells to undergo cell death. Thus, flavopiridol combined with CPT-11 may provide a completely new therapeutic approach in the treatment of colon cancer.
In a double-blind crossover study, carbamazepine and phenytoin were compared as single anticonvulsants in 47 patients with focal and major generalized seizures. Each drug provided superior seizure control in about half the patients, but significantly fewer patients had objective side effects while taking carbamazepine. Neuropsychologic testing showed improved performance in cognitive function and emotional status of patients while and carbamazepine. No hematotoxic complications arose, but vigilant follow-up is advised. Mean serum level of carbamazepine was 9.3 microng per milliliter with a suggested therapeutic range of 8 to 12 microng per milliliter reached by eventual doses of 16 to 20 mg per kilogram. Carbamazepine offers an independent choice of improved seizure control with a possibility of fewer side effects.
An 11-week-old infant experienced toxicity following the intranasal instillation of a four percent cocaine solution in preparation for an examination to rule out choanal stenosis. The child recovered fully but required the use of anticonvulsants and admission to the hospital. To our knowledge, this is the first case report where cocaine toxicity was experienced following this routine practice. We present our case and a review of the literature involving other instances where there have been complications with the use of topical cocaine. This report should alert the medical community to the potential complications of using topical cocaine for its anesthetic properties.
Our study evaluates the association between prostate cancer and exposure to pesticides in agricultural settings in Italy. The data were derived from a hospital-based multi-site case-control study carried out in 5 rural areas between 1990-92. In our study, 124 new cases of prostate cancer were ascertained and interviewed, along with 659 cancer controls. A team of agronomists assessed past exposure to pesticides by using a checklist of 100 chemical families and 217 compounds applied from 1950-85 in the areas considered. The association between prostate cancer and different occupational risk factors was measured by maximum likelihood estimation of the odds ratio, controlling for potential confounders. "Ever been employed in agriculture" was associated with a 40% increased risk (OR = 1.4, 95% CI = 0.9-2.0). Prostate cancer was also related positively to food and tobacco (OR= 2.1, 95% CI = 1.1-4.1), and chemical products (OR = 2.2, 95% CI = 0.7-7.2) industries. The analyses carried out to estimate the association between different types of pesticides and prostate cancer showed increased risks among farmers exposed to organochlorine insecticides and acaricides (OR = 2.5, 95% CI = 1.4-4.2), more specifically to the often contemporary used compounds DDT (OR = 2.1, 95% CI = 1.2-3.8), and dicofol (OR = 2.8, 95% CI = 1.5-5.0), whose effects could not be well separated.
Diabetes is a chronic disease characterized by the metabolic disorder in specific tissues. Our present study was designed to assess the potential benefits of puerarin (PR) on hypoglycemic and hypolipemic effects in diabetic mice induced by streptozotocin (STZ). The results achieved from these experiments showed that glycemia in STZ-diabetogenic mice were significantly reduced following the PR administration, while serum insulin concentration was increased. In addition, PR contributed to improving the dyslipidemia conditions. Histopathological examination indicated that the STZ-lesioned pancreas tissue in PR-administrated mice was effectively alleviated. Meanwhile, intrapancreatic protein levels of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) were up-regulated, respectively. On the other hand, endogenous mRNA levels of skeletal muscle insulin receptor (InsR) and peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor α (PPARα) were increased after administration of PR. Taken together, these findings reveal that puerarin effectively exerts the hypoglycemic and hypolipemic roles, which its potential anti-diabetic activity is associated with elevating insulin expression and maintaining metabolic homoeostasis in STZ-diabetogenic mice.
Sirolimus is increasingly used in transplantation for prevention and treatment of graft-versus-host disease and organ rejection. Voriconazole is contraindicated when used concomitantly with sirolimus because of a substantial increase in sirolimus drug exposure with unadjusted dosing, but voriconazole is also considered the best initial treatment of invasive aspergillosis and other fungal infections. Patients who received voriconazole and sirolimus concomitantly were identified by a review of the medical records of all allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell recipients at our institution from September 1, 2002, to June 1, 2005. Data including baseline characteristics, indications for both drugs, and potential adverse effects were evaluated. Eleven patients received voriconazole and sirolimus concomitantly for a median of 33 days (range, 3-100 days). In 8 patients whose sirolimus dose was initially reduced by 90%, trough sirolimus levels were similar to those obtained before the administration of voriconazole; no obvious significant toxicity from either drug was observed during coadministration. Serious adverse events were observed in 2 patients in whom sirolimus dosing was not adjusted during voriconazole administration. Sirolimus and voriconazole may be safely coadministered if there is an empiric initial 90% sirolimus dose reduction combined with systematic monitoring of trough levels.
In this study the predictive value of the combined dexamethasone/CRH test (DEX/CRH test) for acute antidepressant response was investigated.
In 114 depressed inpatients suffering from unipolar or bipolar depression (sample 1) the DEX/CRH test was performed at admission and shortly before discharge. During their stay in the hospital patients received different antidepressant treatment regimens. At admission, the rate of nonsuppression (basal cortisol levels >75.3 nmol/l) was 24.6% and was not related to the later therapeutic response. Moreover, 45 out of 114 (39.5%) patients showed an enhancement of HPA axis function at discharge in spite of clinical improvement. In a second sample, 40 depressed patients were treated either with reboxetine or mirtazapine for 5 weeks. The DEX/CRH test was performed before, after 1 week, and after 5 weeks of pharmacotherapy. Attenuation of HPA axis activity after 1 week was associated with a more pronounced alleviation of depressive symptoms after 5-week mirtazapine treatment, whereas downregulation of HPA system activity after 5 weeks was related to clinical response to reboxetine. However, early improvement of HPA axis dysregulation was not necessarily followed by a beneficial treatment outcome.
Taken together, performance of a single DEX/CRH test does not predict the therapeutic response. The best predictor for response seems to be an early attenuation of HPA axis activity within 1 or 2 weeks. However, early improvement of HPA system dysfunction is not a sufficient condition for a favourable response. Since a substantial part of depressive patients display a persistence of HPA axis hyperactivity at discharge, downregulation of HPA system function is not a necessary condition for acute clinical improvement either. Our data underline the importance of HPA axis dysregulation for treatment outcome in major depression, although restoration of HPA system dysfunction seems to be neither a necessary nor a sufficient determinant for acute treatment response.
Effective medical treatment and preventive measures for chemical warfare agent sulfur mustard (HD)-caused incapacitating skin toxicity are lacking, because of limited knowledge of its mechanism of action. The proliferating basal epidermal cells are primary major sites of attack during HD-caused skin injury. Therefore, employing mouse JB6 and human HaCaT epidermal cells, here, we investigated the molecular mechanism of HD analogue 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES)-induced skin cytotoxicity. As compared to the control, up to 1 mM CEES treatment of these cells for 2, 4, and 24 h caused dose-dependent decreases in cell viability and proliferation as measured by DNA synthesis, together with S and G2-M phase arrest in cell cycle progression. Mechanistic studies showed phosphorylation of DNA damage sensors and checkpoint kinases, ataxia telangiectasia-mutated (ATM) at ser1981 and ataxia telangiectasia-Rad3-related (ATR) at ser428 within 30 min of CEES exposure, and modulation of S and G2-M phase-associated cell cycle regulatory proteins, which are downstream targets of ATM and ATR kinases. Hoechst-propidium iodide staining demonstrated that CEES-induced cell death was both necrotic and apoptotic in nature, and the latter was induced at 4 and 24 h of CEES treatment in HaCaT and JB6 cells, respectively. An increase in caspase-3 activity and both caspase-3 and poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP) cleavage coinciding with CEES-caused apoptosis in both cell lines suggested the involvement of the caspase pathway. Together, our findings suggest a DNA-damaging effect of CEES that activates ATM/ATR cell cycle checkpoint signaling as well as caspase-PARP pathways, leading to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis/necrosis in both JB6 and HaCaT cells. The identified molecular targets, quantitative biomarkers, and epidermal cell models in this study have the potential and usefulness in rapid development of effective prophylactic and therapeutic interventions against HD-induced skin toxicity.
Consultation psychiatrists are frequently called upon by their medical and surgical colleagues to assist in the management of agitated, delirious patients in the intensive care unit. Intravenous haloperidol has a reputation for safe and effective sedation of these patients and has been found to be free of many of the dangerous anticholinergic and cardiac side effects of the lower-potency neuroleptics. The authors report the cases of three patients who developed torsades de pointes arrhythmia or lengthening of the Q-T interval during treatment with intravenous haloperidol. The cases suggest that the use of intravenous haloperidol should be accompanied by cardiac monitoring and that risk factors for torsades de pointes during haloperidol treatment may include dilated cardiomyopathy and a history of alcohol abuse.
Risk factors associated with the occurrence of protease inhibitor (PI)-related severe and serious adverse drug reactions (SADRs) were analyzed in a prospective cohort of 1155 patients who initiated PI-containing therapy. During a total follow-up of 2037 patient-years, 169 SADRs were reported, yielding a rate of 8 incidents per 100 patient-years (95% confidence interval [CI], 6.8-8.6). The most frequent SADRs were elevated transaminase levels (in 49 events); renal colic (27); abnormal hematological findings (23); and metabolic (18), neuromuscular (7), pancreatic (6), cutaneous (6), cardiovascular (5), and psychiatric disorders (5). Among baseline characteristics, plasma human immunodeficiency virus RNA levels of >or=5 log(10) copies/mL (hazard ratio [HR], 1.5; 95% CI, 1.1-2.2), elevated aspartate aminotransferase levels (HR, 1.1 for each 20 IU of elevation; 95% CI, 1.1-1.2), creatinine clearance levels of <70 mL/min (HR, 2.1; 95% CI, 1.2-3.7), test results positive for hepatitis C virus antibodies or hepatitis B surface antigenemia (HR, 2.6; 95% CI, 1.8-3.7), and receipt of indinavir (HR, 1.7; 95% CI, 1.2-2.4) were independently predictive of a SADR. SADRs were frequent in the first 4 months after initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy but continued to occur after that time period.
Cocaine produces hepatotoxicity. To study the acute effect of cocaine on the liver, we used the isolated, single-pass perfused rat liver. When perfusion pressure was measured in a constant flow system, a 15-min infusion of cocaine (1.47 mM) increased perfusion pressure (136 +/- 15%), decreased bile flow (61 +/- 5%), and decreased oxygen uptake (82 +/- 5%). The vasoconstriction was concentration-dependent and reversible. The pressure increase elicited by cocaine was not inhibited by the alpha-receptor antagonists phentolamine, prazosin, or yohimbine. These antagonists did inhibit phenylephrine-induced increases in perfusion pressure. Neither serotonin at concentrations up to 1 mM nor lidocaine or procaine in concentrations equimolar to cocaine increased the perfusion pressure. Indomethacin (5 microM), SKF-525A, and chloramphenicol also failed to block vasoconstriction induced by cocaine. High concentrations of cocaine were cholestatic, while concentrations lower than 0.6 mM were choleretic. These results indicate that cocaine-induced vasoconstriction in the liver is not mediated by alpha-receptor activation or prostaglandins and does not require metabolic activation of cocaine. The acute effects of cocaine in the perfused liver are vascular (vasoconstriction) and functional (alteration in bile formation).
Infusion of angiotensin II (AngII) to hyperlipidemic mice augments atherosclerosis and causes formation of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). Each of these AngII-induced vascular pathologies exhibit pronounced inflammation. Previous studies demonstrated that coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) promote inflammation in endothelial cells and adipocytes, two cell types implicated in AngII-induced vascular pathologies. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that administration of PCB77 to male apolipoprotein E (ApoE) -/- mice promotes AngII-induced atherosclerosis and AAA formation. Male ApoE-/- mice were administered vehicle or PCB77 (49 mg/kg, i.p.) during week 1 and 4 (2 divided doses/week) of AngII infusion. Body weights and total serum cholesterol concentrations were not influenced by administration of PCB77. Systolic blood pressure was increased in AngII-infused mice administered PCB77 compared to vehicle (156±6 vs 137±5 mmHg, respectively). The percentage of aortic arch covered by atherosclerotic lesions was increased in AngII-infused mice administered PCB77 compared to vehicle (2.0±0.4 vs 0.9±0.1%, respectively). Lumen diameters of abdominal aortas determined by in vivo ultrasound and external diameters of excised suprarenal aortas were increased in AngII-infused mice administered PCB77 compared to vehicle. In addition, AAA incidence increased from 47 to 85% in AngII-infused mice administered PCB77. Adipose tissue in close proximity to AAAs from mice administered PCB77 exhibited increased mRNA abundance of proinflammatory cytokines and elevated expression of components of the renin-angiotensin system (angiotensinogen, angiotensin type 1a receptor (AT1aR)). These results demonstrate that PCB77 augments AngII-induced atherosclerosis and AAA formation.
This study aimed to explore the mechanisms by which prodigiosin protects against hypoxia-induced oxidative/nitrosative brain injury induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (MCAo/r) injury in mice. Hypoxia in vitro was modeled using oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) followed by reoxygenation of BV-2 microglial cells. Our results showed that treatment of mice that have undergone MCAo/r injury with prodigiosin (10 and 100μg/kg, i.v.) at 1h after hypoxia ameliorated MCAo/r-induced oxidative/nitrosative stress, brain infarction, and neurological deficits in the mice, and enhanced their survival rate. MCAo/r induced a remarkable production in the mouse brains of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and a significant increase in protein nitrosylation; this primarily resulted from enhanced expression of NADPH oxidase 2 (gp91(phox)), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and the infiltration of CD11b leukocytes due to breakdown of blood-brain barrier (BBB) by activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB). All these changes were significantly diminished by prodigiosin. In BV-2 cells, OGD induced ROS and nitric oxide production by up-regulating gp91(phox) and iNOS via activation of the NF-κB pathway, and these changes were suppressed by prodigiosin. In conclusion, our results indicate that prodigiosin reduces gp91(phox) and iNOS expression possibly by impairing NF-κB activation. This compromises the activation of microglial and/or inflammatory cells, which then, in turn, mediates prodigiosin's protective effect in the MCAo/r mice.
Fourteen hypertensive patients hospitalized in a paediatric intensive care unit were studied to evaluate safety and hypotensive efficacy of intravenous nicardipine. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure significantly decreased 1 h after the beginning of the treatment (1 microgram/kg per minute). Mean decrease in systolic blood pressure during the first 24 h was between 9.9% and 13.4% of the initial value. Mean lowering of diastolic blood pressure was between 16.7% and 25.6%. Nicardipine did not significantly affect heart rate with dose of 1 microgram/kg per minute. No clinical side-effects were observed. Nicardipine could be a first line drug for the treatment of hypertension in paediatric intensive care units.
Amikacin, a new aminoglycoside antibiotic, was utilized in the treatment of 49 cases of infection which occurred in 39 neutropenic cancer patients. Thirty-four patients (69 per cent) responded to this antibiotic. Pneumonia and septicemia were the most common types of infection treated and the response rates were 65 per cent and 75 per cent, respectively. Gram-negative bacili were responsible for 93 per cent of the identified infections and 74 per cent responded. E. coli, Ps. aeruginosa, and organisms of the Klebsiella-Enterobacter-Serratia group were the most common gram-negative bacilli causing infection. Responses were more frequent among patients who maintained higher serum concentrations of antibiotic, but the differences were not statistically significant. Patients with severe neutropenia (less than 100 neutrophils/mm3) had a response rate of 68 per cent. Toxicity was manifested as azotemia and hearing loss which occurred in 13 per cent and 6 per cent, respectively. However, toxicity was directly related to serum concentration and to the number of treatments with amikacin. This antibiotic is of potential importance because of its efficacy against gram-negative bacilli infections. Best results were obtained when sufficient drug was given as a continuous intravenous infusion to maintain serum concentrations of about 15 mu g/ml.
A 41-year-old man with rheumatoid arthritis developed severe acute hepatitis 3 days after starting cimetidine for duodenal ulcer. Other causes were ruled out and he recovered after cimetidine was discontinued. Mild transient elevations of hepatic enzymes have been reported in 3.6% of patients taking cimetidine. However, only 12 cases of severe acute hepatitis associated with cimetidine, mostly secondary to idiosyncrasy, have been reported in the English literature. This rare but serious complication of cimetidine should be kept in mind.
Familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) has been linked in some families to dominant mutations of the SOD1 gene encoding Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (Cu,ZnSOD). We have used a transgenic model of FALS based on expression of mutant human Cu,ZnSOD to explore the etiology and therapy of the genetic disease. Expression of mutant, but not wild-type, human Cu,ZnSOD in mice places the brain and spinal cord under oxidative stress. This causes depletion of vitamin E, rather than the typical age-dependent increase in vitamin E content as occurs in nontransgenic mice and in mice expressing wild-type human Cu,ZnSOD. Dietary supplementation with vitamin E delays onset of clinical disease and slows progression in the transgenic model but does not prolong survival. In contrast, two putative inhibitors of the glutamatergic system, riluzole and gabapentin, prolong survival. However, riluzole did not delay disease onset. Thus, there was clear separation of effects on onset, progression, and survival by the three therapeutics tested. This suggests the hypothesis that oxidative damage produced by the expression of mutant Cu,ZnSOD causes slow or weak excitotoxicity that can be inhibited in part by alerting glutamate release or biosynthesis presynaptically.
A patient with seronegative inflammatory polyarthritis developed a predominantly motorperipheral neuropathy associated with the use of indomethacin. Three other cases of peripheral neuropathy associated with indomethacin treatment have been reported to the Committee on Safety of Medicines. In all cases the neuropathy regressed when indomethacinwas stopped. Peripheral neuropathy should be recognized as a rare complication of indomethacin therapy and considered in the differential diagnosis of a neuropathy accompanyingrheumatoid arthritis.
Ginsenoside Re (GRe) is a major active component of the Chinese medicinal herb ginseng, Panax ginseng . A sensitive and specific monoclonal antibody (mAb), designated as mAb3D6, was generated with a GRe-bovine serum albumin conjugate as an immunogen. Microcantilever immunosensors (MCS), one modified with thiolated anti-GRe antibody and one modified with thiolated goat antimouse immunoglobulin G (IgG), were developed to detect the content of ginsenoside. The MCS immobilized with thiolated goat antimouse IgG had a better sensitivity than the MCS modified with thiolated anti-GRe antibody. The advantage of a secondary antibody thio-functionalized MCS was verified with the anti-paclitaxel mAb. An indirect competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (icELISA) was also established with mAb3D6. The concentration of analyte producing 50% inhibition and the working range of icELISA were 1.20 and 0.15-16.1 ng/mL, respectively. The icELISA had a cross-reactivity of 89% with ginsenoside Rg1 and less than 3% with other ginsenosides. The icELISA and MCS with thiolated secondary antibody were applied for the determination of GRe in ginseng samples, and the results agreed well with those determined by high-performance liquid chromatography.
We report a 33-year-old man with seronegative arthritis who had an acute infarct at the left lentiform nucleus while taking etoricoxib and thalidomide regularly. Extensive investigations did not find any evidence of large artery atherosclerosis, vasculitis, cardioembolic source or anti-phospholipid antibodies. While it is possible that a short smoking history, hyperlipidemia, and the use of thalidomide could have contributed to the thrombosis of a small penetrator vessel, we postulated that the prolonged use of etoricoxib is another possible contributing factor.
Cyclophosphamide was introduced in 1958 in an effort to minimize the side effects of nitrogen mustard. Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan, Endoxan) is not an alkylating agent which has been used for the treatment of a variety of non-malignant as well as malignant diseases. It has also recently been the focus of considerable interest as an immunosuppressive agent, perhaps the most potent immunosuppressive drug that has been synthesized. Reports of urologic complications from this drug are haemorrhagic cystitis, vesical fibrosis and urothelial carcinoma.
A pilot study was performed to investigate a clinical algorithm using serum-eosinophil cationic protein level (S-ECP) as an objective parameter for tapering the anti-inflammatory treatment in chronic childhood asthma. We studied 21 outpatient asthmatic children (6 girls and 15 boys, mean age 9 yr, range 3-12 yr, all with initial S-ECP > or = 15 microg/l) over a period of 12 months at monthly intervals. At each visit a short history, clinical examination, blood sample for S-ECP and eosinophil count, lung function tests and drug compliance were assessed. According to the initial S-ECP, patients were allocated to two anti-inflammatory treatment groups: patients with S-ECP between 15 microg/l and 30 microg/l were treated with Budesonide 200 microg twice daily, while patients with S-ECP of 30 microg/l and above received Budesonide 400 microg twice daily. After this induction treatment the anti-inflammatory medication was tapered at monthly intervals according to actually measured S-ECP: patients with S-ECP < 15 microg/l received sodium cromoglycate (SCG) 10 mg twice daily per inhalation via spacer, patients with S-ECP > or = 15 microg/l and < 30 microg/l received Budesonide 200 microg twice daily via spacer, and patients with S-ECP > or = 30 microg/l received Budesonide 400 microg twice daily. Prior to inhalation of topical steroids or SCG all patients had to inhale 500 microg Terbutaline twice daily for optimal bronchodilatation. The use of medication was assessed by weighing the metered dose inhaler containers each month. Our results showed a decrease in symptoms (p = 0.0001) and in S-ECP (p= 0.02) and MEF50% predicted (p= 0.02) after the initial month of Budesonide treatment. During a total of 246 months of investigation there was no need for emergency room treatment or hospital admission, and no need for oral steroids. During the whole study period there was a tendency for inhaled steroids to be more effective than SCG in reduction of markers of airway inflammation, improvement of symptoms and lung function. Inadequate use of medication was related to an increase in S-ECP in all treatment groups. From this open pilot study it is concluded that a clinical algorithm including S-ECP for tapering the anti-inflammatory treatment may be helpful in childhood asthma. These first observations should be confirmed by a controlled long-term study.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is an endogenous steroid having a wide variety of biological and biochemical effects. In the present study, we have examined the role of DHEA on various rodent models of experimental hypertension. Sprague-Dawley rats were given subcutaneous injections of 1.5 mg dexamethasone every alternate day, resulting in an increase in systolic blood pressure within 1 wk. Interestingly, administration of a pharmacological dose of 1.5, 3, or 7.5 mg DHEA along with dexamethasone prevented dexamethasone-induced hypertension in a dose-dependent manner. DHEA had no effect on the hypertension induced by deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt administration using uninephrectomized rats or on the genetic model of spontaneously hypertensive rats. Dexamethasone administration resulted in a significant weight loss in rats, which was not prevented by simultaneous administration of DHEA. These results indicate that dexamethasone-mediated weight loss may involve mechanisms separate from its hypertensive action. Dexamethasone treatment resulted in a significant decrease in food consumption that was not reversed by DHEA. It is concluded that DHEA at doses above physiological levels when given subcutaneously has no effect on DOCA-salt or a genetic model of hypertension but has a beneficial effect on dexamethasone-induced hypertension.
