Class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC II) is normally silenced in plasma/multiple myeloma (MM) cells at the transcriptional level through downregulation of class II transactivator (CIITA), allowing MM cells to escape from immunological responses. Here we demonstrate that a retinoic acid receptor-alpha/beta-selective retinoid Am80 (tamibarotene) could induce the expression of functional MHC II molecules in human MM cell lines. Am80 upregulated expression of the interferon regulatory factor-1 gene, followed by enhancement of CIITA expression. This is the first report demonstrating that retinoid can induce the expression of MHC II in terminally-differentiated plasma/MM cells.
Darier disease (DD) and Hailey-Hailey disease (HHD) are rare autosomal dominantly inherited genodermatoses with mutations in the respective genes, ATP2A2 and ATP2C1, that encode the respective calcium adenosine triphosphatases SERCA2 and PMRI/SPCA1. Lithium is an effective therapy used in psychiatry as prophylaxis against recurrent mania and to treat acute schizoaffective, impulsive, and alcoholic disorders.
We discuss a patient with DD who claimed that her skin condition had flared after she was administered lithium therapy for bipolar disorder.
DD may flare after lithium therapy, an association that has rarely been reported. Not uncommonly, DD has been observed to coexist with affective disorders, with reports of the bipolar disorder susceptibility locus cosegregating with a separate DD gene. A mechanism by which lithium worsens disease has recently been studied in rats. DD's coexistence with affective disorders and the mechanisms by which lithium may cause exacerbation of DD and HHD are reviewed.
Neurogenic dyssynergia was treated with alpha-adrenergic blockers. Only 21 of 43 highly selected patients with residual urines and low flow rates continued therapy with phenoxybenzamine for more than 6 months, despite initial benefits. The causes of therapy discontinuation are discussed. A combination of 5 mg dibenzylin, 3 times daily, with parasympathomimetic drugs is often necessary. The mechanisms of action of alpha-adrenergic-blocking agents are discussed.
The mechanisms of the antinociceptive, depressor and bradycardic responses produced by intravenous (i.v.) administration of morphine were examined in rats lightly anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium. Intravenous administration of 0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 1.0 or 2.5 mg/kg of morphine produced dose-dependent inhibition of the nociceptive tail flick (TF) reflex, hypotension, and bradycardia. Bilateral cervical vagotomy (CVAG) significantly attenuated the antinociception produced by i.v. morphine and the degree of attenuation was inversely related to drug dose. CVAG had no effect on the depressor response produced by lesser doses of morphine (0.1 or 0.5 mg/kg), but at greater doses converted the depressor response into either a pressor response (1.0 mg/kg) or an initial pressor response followed by a depressor response (2.5 mg/kg). Morphine-induced bradycardia was blocked by CVAG at all drug doses tested (0.1, 0.5, 1.0 and 2.5 mg/kg). In selective tests of either 0.5 or 2.5 mg/kg of i.v. morphine, prior administration of the peripherally acting opioid receptor antagonist naloxone methobromide (NMB) attenuated the antinociception to the same degree as CVAG. NMB also completely blocked the depressor and bradycardic responses of these doses of morphine. Bilateral subdiaphragmatic vagotomy (SDVAG) resulted in a marginal attenuation of antinociception at 0.5 mg/kg but not 2.5 mg/kg of morphine, and the attenuation produced by SDVAG was delayed in onset following morphine administration relative to that produced by CVAG. Bilateral sino-aortic deafferentation (SAD) had no significant effect on the antinociception in tests with 0.5 mg/kg of morphine. SDVAG and SAD had little effect on cardiovascular responses produced by these doses of morphine. The spinal antinociceptive systems activated by vagal afferents following i.v. morphine administration were characterized with the 0.5 mg/kg dose. Spinal cold block significantly antagonized the antinociception, hypotension and bradycardia produced by this dose of morphine. Intrathecal administration of naloxone (1.5, 15 or 30 micrograms) significantly antagonized the antinociception compared to saline controls, whereas intrathecal administration of methysergide (30 micrograms), phentolamine (30 micrograms), or the combination of methysergide with phentolamine (30 micrograms each) had no significant effect on the antinociception. These intrathecal doses of naloxone also antagonized the depressor and bradycardic responses produced by morphine. However, the antagonism produced by 1.5 micrograms of intrathecal naloxone was not due to spread to the systemic circulation, since i.v. administration of 1.5 micrograms of naloxone did not significantly affect either the antinociceptive or cardiovascular responses produced by morphine. These findings indicate that vagal afferents play a significant role in the antinociception produced by i.v. administration of morphine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A case of multiple life-threatening postoperative apnoeas in a term neonate undergoing inguinal herniorrhaphy and orchidopexy who received light inhalation anaesthesia combined with caudal block with 1 ml.kg-1 ropivacaine 0.2% plus 2 microg.kg-1 clonidine is reported. The patient showed no apparent risk factors for postanaesthetic apnoea. Oxycardiorespirography five days after surgery only showed minor abnormalities. Clonidine though administered caudally in the usual dose of 2 microg.kg-1 appeared to be the most likely cause for postanaesthetic apnoea in this neonate.
The reproducibility and tolerability of intradermal (i.d.) administration of capsaicin as a method for eliciting human pain was assessed in healthy male volunteers (n = 12). The primary endpoints for assessing pain were spontaneous pain response and areas of allodynia, pinprick hyperalgesia and neurogenic inflammation. These were recorded before, immediately after, and at regular intervals following each of four doses (250 microg) of capsaicin (two per trial day). Within- and between-subject variability to the technique was assessed by measuring the maximum recorded values (max), time to maximum value (t(max)) and area under the curve (AUC(0-1 h)) of each of the endpoints. Tolerability to the technique was addressed by recording adverse events. Reproducibility of the i.d. capsaicin model was demonstrated for each type of capsaicin-induced pain. Following each dose, the magnitude and profile of response and overall AUC values were similar for each parameter although some decrease in pinprick hyperalgesia was observed over time. For spontaneous pain, evidence of a period effect was observed in mean AUC data, with values increasing following the second dose of each trial day. This effect was confounded by the possibility of an arm effect, with the non-dominant arm appearing to be more sensitive to pain than the dominant arm. The data were not sufficient to confirm the existence of these effects. Between-subject variability and within-day, within-subject variability accounted for most of the variability observed in the trial. By optimising study design to eliminate these sources of variability, it was estimated that spontaneous pain and the area of allodynia would be the least variable endpoints. A positive correlation was found between the area of allodynia and area of pinprick hyperalgesia (r(2) = 0.835). Overall, the model was well tolerated with no reports of adverse events. We conclude that the tolerability profile, and variability of i.d. capsaicin-induced pain is acceptable for pharmacological profiling of novel anti-nociceptive agents, with limited number of subjects.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by a dominant polyglutamine expansion within the N-terminus of huntingtin protein and results in oxidative stress, energetic insufficiency and striatal degeneration. Copper and iron are increased in the striata of HD patients, but the role of these metals in HD pathogenesis is unknown. We found, using inductively-coupled-plasma mass spectroscopy, that elevations of copper and iron found in human HD brain are reiterated in the brains of affected HD transgenic mice. Increased brain copper correlated with decreased levels of the copper export protein, amyloid precursor protein. We hypothesized that increased amounts of copper bound to low affinity sites could contribute to pro-oxidant activities and neurodegeneration. We focused on two proteins: huntingtin, because of its centrality to HD, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), because of its documented sensitivity to copper, necessity for normoxic brain energy metabolism and evidence for altered lactate metabolism in HD brain. The first 171 amino acids of wild-type huntingtin, and its glutamine expanded mutant form, interacted with copper, but not iron. N171 reduced Cu(2+)in vitro in a 1:1 copper:protein stoichiometry indicating that this fragment is very redox active. Further, copper promoted and metal chelation inhibited aggregation of cell-free huntingtin. We found decreased LDH activity, but not protein, and increased lactate levels in HD transgenic mouse brain. The LDH inhibitor oxamate resulted in neurodegeneration when delivered intra-striatially to healthy mice, indicating that LDH inhibition is relevant to neurodegeneration in HD. Our findings support a role of pro-oxidant copper-protein interactions in HD progression and offer a novel target for pharmacotherapeutics.
The modulatory efficacy of capsaicin on lung mitochondrial enzyme system with reference to mitochondrial lipid peroxidation (LPO), antioxidants, key citric acid cycle enzymes and respiratory chain enzymes during benzo(a)pyrene (B(a)P) induced lung cancer in Swiss albino mice was studied. Elevations in mitochondrial LPO along with decrements in enzymic antioxidants (superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST)), non-enzymic antioxidants (reduced glutathione (GSH), vitamin C, vitamin E and vitamin A), citric acid cycle enzymes (isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH), alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (alpha-KDH), succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) and malate dehydrogenase (MDH)), and respiratory chain enzymes (NADH dehydrogenase and Cytochrome c oxidase) were observed in B(a)P (50mg/kg body weight) administered animals. CAP (10mg/kg body weight) pretreatment decreased lung mitochondrial LPO and augmented the activities of enzymic, non-enzymic antioxidants, citric acid cycle enzymes and respiratory chain enzymes to near normalcy revealing its chemoprotective function during B(a)P induced lung cancer.
Adenylyl cyclase (AC) messenger RNA (mRNA) expression is decreased in failing hearts. Diminished expressions are accompanied by desensitization of beta-adrenergic signal transduction. Factors contributing to such changes in mRNA expression for the major myocardial isoform AC V are not well established. To assess the contributions of hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAS), and the sympathetic nervous system to these changes, ventricular expression of AC V mRNA was measured at different ages in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). In addition, the effects on them of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and beta-adrenoceptor antagonists were determined. Prior to quantitative Northern blotting at ages 5, 9, or 12 weeks, hemodynamic and morphologic variables were measured in SHRs and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKYs). The SHRs and WKYs were treated with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril (10 mg/kg/d), or a beta(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist, atenolol (100 mg/kg/d), for 8 weeks preceding Northern analysis. Myocardial AC V mRNA expression increased from 5-12 weeks in both SHRs and WKYs. Expression of AC V mRNA in SHRs increased somewhat less than in WKYs at 9 weeks and significantly less at 12 weeks. This was accompanied by development of LVH and hypertension in SHRs. Blood pressure and left ventricular weight relative to body weight were markedly decreased by enalapril and were moderately decreased by atenolol. Expression of AC V mRNA in SHRs at 12 weeks was normalized equally by enalapril and atenolol to the level of WKYs. Thus AC V mRNA expression increases are blunted in the early stages of LVH in SHRs under the influences of beta(1)-adrenergic signal transduction and the RAS.
The role of drug abuse as a risk factor for cerebrovascular events has been underestimated, particularly in patients with juvenile stroke. The drug most often associated with acute cerebrovascular events is cocaine. After cocaine hydrochloride abuse intracerebral hemorrhages or subarachnoid hemorrhages--predominantly caused by ruptured aneurysms or arteriovenous malformations--are by far the most frequently observed cerebrovascular complications, whereas on abuse with the alkaloidal form ("crack") intracranial hemorrhages and ischemic strokes are encountered with equal frequency. In most cases, the time interval between drug abuse and the cerebrovascular event is less than 3 hours. Several pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed as serving as triggers for the cerebrovascular event, either alone or in combination. No specific antidote to cocaine is known. Nevertheless drug screening (urine analysis) should be performed immediately to allow optimal management of patients with drug-associated acute cerebrovascular events, especially in cases with juvenile stroke.
The effect of isoflurane-induced hypotension on glomerular function and renal blood flow was investigated in 20 human subjects. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and effective renal plasma flow (ERPF) were measured by inulin and para-aminohippurate (PAH) clearance, respectively. Anesthesia was maintained with fentanyl, nitrous oxide, oxygen, and isoflurane. Hypotension was induced for 236.9 +/- 15.1 min by increasing the isoflurane inspired concentration to maintain a mean arterial pressure of 59.8 +/- 0.4 mmHg. GFR and ERPF decreased with the induction of anesthesia but not significantly more during hypotension. Postoperatively, ERPF returned to preoperative values, whereas GFR was higher than preoperative values. Renal vascular resistance increased during anesthesia but decreased when hypotension was induced, allowing the maintenance of renal blood flow. We conclude that renal compensatory mechanisms are preserved during isoflurane-induced hypotension and that renal function and hemodynamics quickly return to normal when normotension is resumed.
We report a case of clinical hepatitis associated with occupational exposure to halothane in a research laboratory. A biochemist who for 3 y repeatedly used halothane for sedation and euthanization of rats suffered recurrent episodes of epigastric discomfort, culminating in an episode of malaise, anorexia, jaundice and elevated liver associated enzymes that promptly resolved after removal from exposure to halothane. Serologic testing for viral sources and risk factors for non-infectious hepatitis were negative. Halothane-induced hepatitis has been documented as an idiosyncratic reaction among anesthetized patients and has been reported once in operating room personnel. The mechanism for halothane-induced hepatitis is proposed to be a hypersensitivity reaction to liver neo-antigens produced by the halothane metabolite 2-chloro-1, 1, 1-trifluoroethane.
We evaluated the properties of glomerular angiotensin II receptors in renal glomeruli isolated from control rats and from rats with gentamicin-induced renal failure. There were no differences in the affinity of angiotensin II for its receptor between glomeruli from control and those from rats treated with gentamicin. Angiotensin II receptor density was lower in glomeruli from rats with renal failure than in those from control rats (985 +/- 71 in gentamicin treated rats vs. 1602 +/- 213 fmol/mg prot in controls). No significant differences were observed in renin activity in the supernatant from glomeruli isolated from control rats (3.74 +/- 0.29 ng angiotensin l/mL h) and those isolated from rats with gentamicin-induced renal failure (2.99 +/- 0.29 ng angiotensin l/mL h, p > 0.1). These findings do not support the contention of a role of angiotensin II in the development and maintenance of gentamicin-induced ARF.
Omeprazole is a proton pump inhibitor that is used commonly in the treatment of acid-peptic disorders. Although omeprazole is generally well tolerated, serious adverse effects such as renal failure have been reported. Thus far, 17 cases of acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) secondary to omeprazole have been described. Another case of AIN is described in a 36-yr-old woman presenting with nausea, vomiting, weight loss, and a rising serum creatinine concentration. Omeprazole therapy had ceased 2 wk before admission. AIN was diagnosed by renal biopsy and corticosteroid therapy was initiated. After 4 wk of therapy the serum creatinine concentration had normalized. Among the reported cases in the literature, AIN was diagnosed after an average of 2.7 months of therapy with 20-40 mg of omeprazole daily. Recurrence was universal on rechallenge. Common symptoms included fatigue, fever, anorexia, and nausea. The classic triad of fever, rash, and eosinophilia was uncommon. Typical laboratory features included hematuria, proteinuria, pyuria, eosinophilia, and anemia. Management consisted of withdrawal of omeprazole and corticosteroid therapy in some patients. All but one patient recovered normal renal function. Corticosteroid therapy was well tolerated and may have been beneficial.
Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity has been recognized since 1966. Patients experiencing a massive hepatic insult due to acetaminophen (APAP) may recover with minimal residual complications or develop fulminant hepatic necrosis. We report 3 patients with hepatic failure due to an APAP overdose who received orthotopic liver transplants and survived.
An 18-y-o female ingested 60 500 mg APAP tablets (30 g). She presented with tachycardia and lethargy stating that she had taken amoxipine, carbamazepine, and lorazepam. She began to recover but on day 2 experienced an upper gastrointestinal bleed and became hypotensive and hyperpyrexic. She developed hepatic encephalopathy and it was then determined she had ingested APAP. Her APAP level was 13 micrograms/ml 96 h post-ingestion. She was successfully transplanted 19 d post-ingestion with recovery. A 40-y-o female was admitted for flu-like symptoms persisting for 7 d. She was jaundiced, hyperventilating and hypotensive. She admitted ingesting approximately 17 g APAP over 36 h. Her APAP level was 12.2 micrograms/ml. Her condition worsened and on day 3 she was in grade IV coma. She was successfully transplanted 4 d post-arrival with recovery. A 16-y-o female ingested an unknown amount of APAP. She presented approximately 24 h post-ingestion with a serum APAP level of 130 micrograms/ml. Her condition deteriorated and she became encephalopathic with grade IV coma. She was successfully transplanted on day 7 post-arrival.
Hepatotoxicity can occur as a result of either acute or chronic APAP overdose. Although n-acetylcysteine (NAC) is effective antidotal therapy, it must be used within 8-12 h post-ingestion to be optimally effective. Inaccurate patient histories may prevent NAC administration resulting in hepatotoxicity.
Liver transplantation is a viable option to be considered in those APAP overdose patients who experience rapidly progressing encephalopathy, hemolysis, and hepato-renal failure.
Fifty one patients with leprosy from the Urban Leprosy Centre, attached to the Department of Dermatology and Venereology, Goa Medical College on treatment with Dapsone were studied from the point of view of development of haemolysis related to the drug. The findings are described and discussed. Anaemia developed in 60.7 percent of the patients during the course of treatment. It was mild and well compensated. The haemolytic effect of dapsone was related to the dose and duration of the treatment, being more manifested in doses above 50 mg daily.
This study was aimed to observe whether expressions of JAK2, STAT1, STAT5 proteins in indomethacin-treated CML cells involved in the proliferation inhibition of CML cells, and elucidate the pharmacological mechanism of indomethacin anti-leukemia. MTT assay and trypan blue dye exclusion test were used to detect the inhibitory effect of indomethacin on CML cells proliferation. JAK2, STAT1, STAT5 proteins were analyzed by Western blot; the subcellular distribution of STAT1, STAT5 were detected with indirect immunofluorescence technique. The results showed that indomethacin at >or= 400 micromol/L significantly inhibited the proliferation of CML cells and down-regulated the expression of STAT1, STAT5 protein, no JAK2 change was observed. STAT1 and STAT5 were located in cytoplasm. It is concluded that indomethacin inhibits the proliferation of CML cells and the mechanism may be related to down-regulated expression of STAT, or blockage of cells growth signals.
Carbachol induces headache in healthy subjects, but the migraine eliciting effect of carbachol has not previously been studied. We hypothesized that the cholinomimetic agonist carbachol would induce headache and migraine-like attacks in migraineurs. Carbachol (3 µg/kg) or placebo was randomly infused into 18 patients with migraine without aura in a double-blind crossover study. Headache was scored on a verbal rating scale from 0 to 10. Velocity in the middle cerebral artery (V(MCA)) and diameter of the superficial temporal artery (STA) were recorded. Fifteen patients experienced headache after carbachol compared with eight after placebo (P = 0.039). There was no difference in incidence of migraine-like attacks after carbachol (n = 8) compared with placebo (n = 6) (P = 0.687). Carbachol caused a decrease in V(MCA) (P = 0.044), but no change in STA (P = 0.089) compared with placebo. The study demonstrated that carbachol provocation is not a good model for experimental migraine.
The cytotoxicity of three biocidal agents frequently employed as active ingredients in phenolic-based disinfectants, were evaluated in three established fish cell lines (EPC, CHSE and RTG-2). Cell viability was assessed using two fluorescent indicator dyes, Alamar Blue for metabolism and neutral red for lysosomal activity. Total protein content was also quantified as a measure of cell detachment. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the cell cultures, the results obtained were compared with toxicity data obtained from a previous study with the same three compounds and the in vivo lethality test with rainbow trout. Results from this study established that each of the three cell lines ranked the tested chemicals in the same order of toxicity as the in vivo test; however, the cell cultures were found to be an order of magnitude less sensitive than whole fish studies with the same compounds. The chemical sodium o-benzyl-p-chlorophenol was consistently ranked the most toxic of the tested compounds with each cell line and the endpoints employed. The rank order of toxicity was always sodium o-benzyl-p-chlorophenol > sodium p-tertiary amylphenol > sodium o-phenylphenol. The EPC cells were found to be the most sensitive cell line tested based on Alamar Blue IC(50) data, and the Alamar Blue assay was consistently found to be the most sensitive endpoint of the three cytotoxicity assays employed.
In order to identify EEG parameters that might be specific for identifying amnesia during midazolam infusion, we examined changes in the EEG power spectrum associated with a period of amnesia, determined by inability to recall a sequence of numbers and objects presented verbally, after intravenous midazolam 0.07 mg/kg in ten normal volunteers. Measurements were taken at baseline, during infusion immediately before and after the onset of amnesia, immediately at end of infusion, and 0.5 and 1.5 h after infusion. All subjects had onset of amnesia during infusion, were completely amnesic by the end of infusion, partially amnesic 0.5 h after infusion, and had complete recall by 1.5 h after infusion. The EEG beta power increased and alpha power decreased during amnesic periods. The beta 1/alpha power ratio was the parameter most specific for amnesia. From a baseline value of 0.20 +/- 0.05 (standard error of the mean [SEM]), it increased to 0.96 +/- 0.26 at the end of infusion and decreased to 0.61 +/- 0.15 0.5 h after infusion. By 1.5 h after infusion, all EEG parameters had returned to baseline values. Beta power changes associated with midazolam amnesia were most pronounced in the Fz and Cz lead positions, and alpha power changes were most pronounced in the Oz position. We conclude that 1) EEG power values, particularly the beta 1/alpha ratio, can identify periods of amnesia after midazolam infusion; 2) specific EEG changes and the presence of amnesia vary with the probable serum concentration of midazolam; and 3) the characteristic EEG pattern during partial or complete amnesia varies as one moves across the cerebral cortex.
Currently, no cholera vaccine is available for persons traveling from the United States to areas of high cholera transmission and who for reasons of occupation or host factors are at increased risk for development of the disease. A single-dose oral cholera vaccine with a rapid onset of protection would be particularly useful for such travelers and might also be an adjunct control measure for cholera outbreaks. The attenuated Vibrio cholerae O1 vaccine strain CVD 103-HgR harbors a 94% deletion of the cholera toxin A subunit gene (ctxA) and has a mercury resistance gene inserted in the gene encoding hemolysin A. We undertook a phase I randomized placebo-controlled two-site trial to assess the safety and immunogenicity of a preliminary formulation of CVD 103-HgR prepared from new master and working cell banks. Healthy young adults were randomized (5:1 vaccinees to placebo recipients) to receive a single oral dose of ∼4.4 × 10(8) CFU of vaccine or a placebo. Blood serum vibriocidal and cholera toxin-specific IgG antibodies were measured before and 10, 14, and 28 days following vaccination or placebo. Excretion of the vaccine strain in the stool was assessed during the first week postvaccination. A total of 66 subjects were enrolled, comprising 55 vaccinees and 11 placebo recipients. The vaccine was well tolerated. The overall vibriocidal and anti-cholera toxin seroconversion rates were 89% and 57%, respectively. CVD 103-HgR is undergoing renewed manufacture for licensure in the United States under the auspices of PaxVax. Our data mimic those from previous commercial formulations that elicited vibriocidal antibody seroconversion (a correlate of protection) in ∼90% of vaccinees. (This study has been registered at ClinicalTrials.gov under registration no. NCT01585181.).
The toxicity of muraglitazar, an oxybenzylglycine, nonthiazolidinedione peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha/gamma agonist, was evaluated in a comprehensive nonclinical toxicology program that included single-dose oral toxicity studies in mice, rats, and monkeys; repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats, dogs, and monkeys; a battery of in vitro and in vivo genetic toxicity studies; carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats; reproductive and developmental toxicity studies in rats and rabbits; and studies to investigate species-specific findings. Pharmacologically mediated changes, similar to those observed with other PPARgamma agonists, were observed following chronic administration and included subcutaneous edema, hematologic/hematopoietic and serum chemistry alterations, and morphologic findings in the heart and adipose tissue in rats and monkeys. In dogs, a species highly sensitive to PPARgamma agonists, muraglitazar caused pronounced species-specific clinical toxicity and degenerative changes in the brain, spinal cord, and testes at high doses and exposures. Muraglitazar was nongenotoxic in the standard battery of genotoxicity studies. Gallbladder adenomas in male mice and adipocyte neoplasms in male and female rats were seen at suprapharmacologic exposures, whereas urinary bladder tumors occurred in male rats at lower exposures. Subsequent investigative studies established that the urinary bladder carcinogenic effect was mediated by urolithiasis rather than a direct pharmacologic effect on urothelium. Muraglitazar had no effects on reproductive function in male and female rats at high systemic exposures, was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits, and demonstrated no selective developmental toxicity. Overall, there were no nonclinical findings that precluded the safe administration of muraglitazar to humans.
A two-phase study was undertaken designed to investigate the impact of computer-aided drug monitoring on tobramycin concentrations and clinical outcomes in adult patients with cystic fibrosis. In phase one, a baseline (historical control) study of drug use patterns was performed. During the second phase, patients admitted for intravenous treatment with tobramycin for acute exacerbations of pseudomonal pulmonary infections were randomly allocated to one of two schedules. Group A patients had tobramycin dosage regimens decided by clinicians based on pre-existing protocols using serum tobramycin assay data determined three times weekly. Group B patients had dosage regimens determined by a computerized pharmacokinetic predictive program using both population-based pharmacokinetic parameter estimation and fitting of serum concentration-time data using Bayesian regression. The agreed therapeutic target was a peak serum tobramycin concentration of 8-10 mg/L and a trough concentration of 1-2 mg/L. There was a major difference between the two groups comparing the number of paired trough and peak concentrations within the target concentration ranges (group A-14%; group B-34.7%, chi 2 test, P less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To test our hypotheses that gender-related differences in cocaine toxicity exist in the rat, cocaine (2 mg/kg/min) was infused intravenously in chronically catheterized male and ovariectomized or intact female rats until the onset of circulatory collapse. Sequential manifestations of cocaine toxicity from mild central nervous stimulation to fatal cardiovascular collapse were observed. Arterial blood was withdrawn at the onset of the toxic signs or symptoms for determination of cocaine concentrations. Dosages and plasma concentrations of cocaine required to produce cardiovascular toxic manifestations were significantly lower in male and ovariectomized rats than in intact females. Plasma cholinesterase activity was lowest in the male animals and highest in intact females. These data suggest that systemic toxicity of cocaine is enhanced in male rats, because lower doses and plasma concentrations are required to induce toxic signs and symptoms.
We evaluated the effects of chronic hyperglycemia on L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons using immunohistochemical and electrophysiologic techniques for evidence of oxidative injury. Experimental diabetic neuropathy was induced by streptozotocin. To evaluate the pathogenesis of the neuropathy, we studied peripheral nerve after 1, 3, and 12 months of diabetes. Electrophysiologic abnormalities were present from the first month and persisted over 12 months. 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine labeling was significantly increased at all time points in DRG neurons, indicating oxidative injury. Caspase-3 labeling was significantly increased at all three time points, indicating commitment to the efferent limb of the apoptotic pathway. Apoptosis was confirmed by a significant increase in the percentage of neurons undergoing apoptosis at 1 month (8%), 3 months (7%), and 12 months (11%). These findings support the concept that oxidative stress leads to oxidative injury of DRG neurons, with mitochondrium as a specific target, leading to impaired mitochondrial function and apoptosis, manifested clinically as a predominantly sensory neuropathy.
To evaluate whether folate levels in mucosal tissue and some common methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) variants are associated with the risk of gastric cancer through DNA methylation.
Real-time PCR was used to study the expression of tumor related genes in 76 mucosal tissue samples from 38 patients with gastric cancer. Samples from the gastroscopic biopsy tissues of 34 patients with chronic superficial gastritis (CSG) were used as controls. Folate concentrations in these tissues were detected by the FOL ACS:180 automated chemiluminescence system. MTHFR polymorphisms were analyzed by PCR-RFLP, and the promoter methylation of tumor-related genes was determined by methylation-specific PCR (MSP).
Folate concentrations were significantly higher in CSG than in cancerous tissues. Decreased expression and methylation of c-myc accompanied higher folate concentrations. Promoter hypermethylation and loss of p16(INK4A) in samples with MTHFR 677CC were more frequent than in samples with the 677TT or 677CT genotype. And the promoter hypermethylation and loss of p21(WAF1) in samples with MTHFR 677CT were more frequent than when 677CC or 677TT was present. The 677CT genotype showed a non-significant higher risk for gastric cancer as compared with the 677CC genotype.
Lower folate levels in gastric mucosal tissue may confer a higher risk of gastric carcinogenesis through hypomethylation and overexpression of c-myc.
