Werner syndrome is a disorder characterized by a premature aging phenotype. The disease is caused by mutations in the WRN gene which encodes a DNA helicase/exonuclease which is involved in multiple aspects of DNA metabolism. Current methods mostly rely on radiometric techniques to assess WRN exonuclease activity. Here we present an alternative, quantitative approach based on non-radioactive isotope dilution mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). A oligoduplex substrate mimicking the telomeric sequence was used for method development. Released nucleotides, which correlate with the degree of oligoduplex degradation, were dephosphorylated, purified, and quantified by LC-MS/MS. Heavy-isotope-labeled internal standards were used to account for technical variability. The method was validated in terms of reproducibility, time-course and concentration-dependency of the reaction. As shown in this study, the LC-MS/MS method can assess exonuclease activity of WRN mutants, WRN's substrate and strand specificity, and modulatory effects of WRN interaction partners and posttranslational modifications. Moreover, it can be used to analyze the selectivity and processivity of WRN exonuclease and allows the screening of small molecules for WRN exonuclease inhibitors. Importantly, this approach can easily be adapted to study nucleases other than WRN. This is of general interest, because exonucleases are key players in DNA metabolism and aging mechanisms.
Bambuterol tablets, 10 and 20 mg, and terbutaline CR-tablets, 5 and 7.5 mg, have been compared for their capacity to produce subjectively determined tremor in a randomised, double-blind, cross-over study in 40 healthy volunteers. The duration of each treatment was one week, with an intervening washout period of at least 2 weeks. On the second and the last treatment days in each period, tremor was subjectively assessed on six occasions. In addition, an overall assessment of night and day tremor was made each morning and evening. Analyses were made for the second and last treatment days and during the treatment week. Paired comparisons for tremor during daytime showed a significant difference between the treatments, with the exception of bambuterol 20 mg and terbutaline 5 mg. Bambuterol 10 mg caused less tremor and terbutaline 7.5 mg caused more tremor than the other treatments. At the end of the week, the differences were smaller and were only significant when comparing bambuterol 10 mg with the 20 mg dose and with high dose terbutaline. Terbutaline 7.5 mg caused more tremor at night than the other treatments. The tremor experienced was generally mild, and after bambuterol 10 mg it was almost negligible (mean 0.13 after the first dose). Two subjects recorded a score of 3 after terbutaline 7.5 mg. The results indicate that, in doses equipotent with regard to bronchodilation, tremor is less pronounced after bambuterol as compared to controlled release tablets of terbutaline.
Three German shepherd dogs were diagnosed with pituitary dwarfism and subsequently treated with proligestone. Treatment resulted in development of an adult hair coat, increased bodyweight and elevated insulin-like growth factor-1 concentration. Two dogs received thyroid supplementation during proligestone therapy. Adverse effects (cystic endometrial hyperplasia and acromegaly) were reported in two cases. No side effects were reported in the remaining case. This is the first report of the use of proligestone in the management of pituitary dwarfism.
Weight gain, a serious problem associated with some antipsychotic drugs, notably olanzapine and clozapine, was suggested to be associated with -759C/T polymorphism of the 5-HT2C receptor gene. This study aimed to examine a potential association of two functional polymorphisms of the promoter region of this gene: -759C/T (rs3813929) and -697G/C (rs518147), with weight gain after 6 weeks of olanzapine monotherapy. It included 107 patients with schizophrenia; among them 36 are first-episode drug-naive patients. Analysis was carried out by PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism. A protective effect of -759T and -697C alleles was found: significantly less patients with -697C (3/51) and no patient with -759T (0/28) alleles experienced body mass index increase >or=10% (P=0.0006 and 0.002, respectively). The same was true for drug-naive patients possessing any of the variant alleles. There was a significant association of haplotypes with a >or=10% body mass index increase (P=0.001). On the basis of the additional statistical analysis, the more important role of -697C allele was suggested.
Three male children with G-6-PD deficiency developed intravascular haemolysis leading to acute renal insufficiency following the administration of chloroquine. In two cases chloroquine seemed to be the only offending agent. One child required peritoneal dialysis. All patients showed complete recovery. The prevalence of this deficiency in India is discussed.
Carcinoma of the thyroid gland is the most common malignancy of the endocrine system. Differentiated tumors are often curable with surgical resection and radioactive iodine. A small percentage of such patients, however, do not undergo remission and need new therapeutic approaches. Both anaplastic and medullary thyroid carcinomas exhibit aggressive behavior and are usually resistant to current therapeutic modalities. Thyroid carcinoma represents a fascinating model and a particularly promising paradigm for targeted therapy because some of the key oncogenic events are activating mutations of genes coding for tyrosine kinases, and these occur early in cancer development. A prototype is the RET proto-oncogene, a receptor tyrosine kinase, which is a key regulator of development and a 'hotspot' for oncogenic mutations. Mutations in the RET proto-oncogene have been identified as causative for papillary carcinoma and familial medullary thyroid carcinoma, making it an attractive target for selective inhibition in these subtypes. ZD 6474 has shown promising activity in preclinical models against RET kinase, and its contemporary inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor and epidermal growth factor pathways renders it a very attractive drug for clinical trials in thyroid cancer. Activating point mutation of B-RAF can occur early in the development of papillary carcinoma. Moreover, papillary carcinomas with these mutations have more aggressive properties and are diagnosed more often at an advanced stage. Clinical evaluation of B-RAF-targeting drugs is undergoing and trials in thyroid cancer are planned. Agents that restore radioiodine uptake, such as histone deacetylase inhibitors and retinoids, represent another exciting field in new drug development in thyroid cancer.
The alpha-glucosidase inhibitor acarbose is beneficial in the prevention of type 2 diabetes. To determine whether it attenuates the commonly associated non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), we used an experimental NASH model. Rats were fed ad libitum a nutritionally adequate high fat diet (71% of calories as fat) with or without acarbose (200 mg/1000 calories) for 3 weeks. All rats given the high fat diet only developed typical NASH whereas acarbose attenuated several of the characteristic hepatic alterations of NASH: there was less steatosis and inflammation, with a significant reduction in the mRNA of the hepatic inflammatory cytokine TNF-alpha and of its protein. There was also a decrease in the CYP2E1 mRNA and in collagen, with similar trends for CYP2E1 protein and procollagen mRNA. Because acarbose attenuates many of the hepatic alterations associated with experimental NASH, it is now indicated to determine whether it exerts similar beneficial effects in patients afflicted by this disease.
STAT3 mainly acts as a signal transducer of IL-6 family cytokines and transcriptionally activates specific target genes. STAT3 has also been demonstrated to mediate cellular transformation and is found in numerous cancers. Endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are a diverse group of chemicals that bind to estrogen receptors (ERs), mimic estrogenic actions, and may have adverse effects on human health. In our previous study, we demonstrated that estrogens suppressed the STAT3-mediated transcription activity through ERs. In this study, we examined the effects of EDCs on STAT3-mediated signaling through ERs. Surprisingly, some of EDCs enhanced STAT3-mediated transcription activity through ERs. This finding strongly suggests that EDCs may play an important role in the endocrine functions by mimicking cytokine activity by stimulating STAT3 actions through ERs.
Hypertension is a well-known finding in some patients with neuroblastoma. However, it has not previously been described in association with the use of Imipramine. We report the occurrence of severe hypertension (blood pressure 190/160) in a 4-year-old girl with neuroblastoma who was given Imipramine to control a behavior disorder. It was determined later that this patient's tumor was recurring at the time of her hypertensive episode. Since she had no blood pressure elevation at initial diagnosis and none following discontinuation of the Imipramine (when she was in florid relapse), we believe that this drug rather than her underlying disease alone caused her hypertension. The mechanism for this reaction is believed to be increased levels of vasoactive catecholamines due to interference of their physiologic inactivation by Imipramine. From this experience, we urge extreme caution in the use of tricyclic antidepressants in children with active neuroblastoma.
A rare complication of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use, particularly in patients with collagen vascular or autoimmune diseases, is aseptic meningitis. A healthy 21-year-old man receiving naproxen for muscle spasm was admitted with a chief complaint of severe headache. Approximately one week after beginning naproxen, the patient developed headache, fever (T 38.8 degrees C), shaking chills, and nuchal rigidity with occasional nausea and vomiting resulting in a 15-lb weight loss. Findings from a cerebrospinal fluid examination revealed polymorphonuclear pleocytosis and elevated protein, but no evidence of infection with bacteria, fungi, mycobacteria, or viral agents was noted. Within 36 hours of discontinuing naproxen, the meningitis-like symptoms markedly improved. Rechallenge with naproxen was not performed. In patients exhibiting meningitis-like symptoms, a thorough drug history, including that of recent or intermittent NSAID use, should be obtained.
The role of propranolol in addition to EVL in the prevention of first variceal bleed has not been evaluated. This prospective randomized controlled trial compared endoscopic variceal ligation (EVL) with propranolol and EVL alone in the prevention of first variceal bleed among patients with high-risk varices.
One hundred and forty-four consecutive patients with high-risk varices were randomly allocated to EVL plus propranolol (Gr I, n = 72) or EVL alone (Gr II, n = 72). EVL was done at 2-wk interval till obliteration of varices. In Gr I, incremental dosage of propranolol (sufficient to reduce heart rate to 55 beats/min or 25% reduction from baseline) was administered and continued after obliteration of varices. The endpoints of the study were bleeding and death.
The two groups of patients had comparable baseline characteristics; follow-up (Gr I: 13.1 +/- 11.5 months, Gr II: 11.2 +/- 9.9 months), number of cirrhotic and noncirrhotic portal hypertension patients [Gr I 64 (88.6%) and 8 (11.4%), Gr II 63 (87.5%) and 9 (12.5%)], and frequency of Child's A (15 vs 18), B (38 vs 35), and C (19 vs 19). The mean daily propranolol dose achieved in Gr I was 95.6 +/- 38.6 mg. Eleven patients had bleeds, 5 in Gr I and 6 in Gr II. All patients bled before the obliteration of varices, the actuarial probability of first bleed at 20 months was 7% in Gr I and 11% in Gr II (p= 0.72). Six patients died in the combination and 8 in EVL group. All deaths in Gr I were due to nonbleed-related causes, while in Gr II, 2 deaths were bleed related, the actuarial probability of death at 20 months was 8% and 15%, respectively (p= 0.37). The probability of bleed-related death was comparable (p= 0.15). At the end of follow-up, 4 patients in Gr I and 11 in Gr II had recurrence of varices (p= 0.03). Side effects on propranolol were seen in 22% patients, in 8% it had to be stopped. There were no serious complications of EVL.
Both EVL plus propranolol and EVL alone are effective in primary prophylaxis of bleed from high-risk varices. Addition of propranolol does not decrease the probability of first bleed or death in patients on EVL. However, the recurrence of varices is lower if propranolol is added to EVL.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are recommended for patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) because they slow disease progression. But physicians' concerns about the risk of hyperkalemia (elevated serum potassium level), a potentially fatal adverse effect, may limit optimal management with ACE-inhibitors. We synthesized known predictors of hyperkalemia into a prognostic risk score to predict the risk of hyperkalemia.
We assembled a retrospective cohort of adult patients with possible CKD (at least one estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) value less than 60 ml/min/1.73 m(2)) who started an ACE-inhibitor (i.e., incident users) between 1998 and 2006 at a health maintenance organization. We followed patients for hyperkalemia: (1) potassium value >5.5 mmol/L; or (2) diagnosis code for hyperkalemia. Cox regression synthesized a priori predictors recorded in the electronic medical record into a risk score.
We followed 5171 patients and 145 experienced hyperkalemia, a 90-day risk of 2.8%. Predictors included: age, eGFR, diabetes, heart failure, potassium supplements, potassium-sparing diuretics, and a high dose for the ACE-inhibitor (lisinopril). The risk score separated high-risk patients (top quintile, observed risk of 6.9%) from low-risk patients (bottom quintile, observed risk of 0.7%). Predicted and observed risks agreed within 1% for each quintile. The risk increased gradually in relation to declining eGFR with no apparent threshold for contraindicating ACE-inhibitors.
The risk score separated high-risk patients (who may need more intensive laboratory monitoring) from low-risk patients. The risk score should be validated in other populations before it is ready for use in clinical practice.
This study examined the imaging results and kinetics of technetium 99m teboroxime after its intracoronary injection during papaverine-induced coronary hyperemia in patients with one-vessel disease before and after coronary angioplasty. Thirteen patients with > or = 90% diameter stenosis of either the left anterior descending or the left circumflex coronary artery were included. Two patients were excluded because of ventricular tachycardia during papaverine injection in one patient and unsuccessful angioplasty in the second patient. One mCi of technetium 99m teboroxime was injected into the left main coronary artery during coronary hyperemia induced by intracoronary injection of papaverine. Dynamic acquisition in a frame mode (20 sec/frame) was performed for 5 minutes in the left anterior oblique projection with a multicrystal gamma camera before and after successful angioplasty. Ischemic:normal count ratio increased from 0.75 +/- 0.4 before to 1.00 +/- 0.50 after angioplasty (p < 0.1). The T 1/2 of teboroxime was 6.5 +/- 1.5 min in the normal zone and 7.2 +/- 1.9 min in the ischemic zone (p, NS). Perfusion defects were visible in the territory of the stenosed coronary artery in 9 of 11 patients before angioplasty and in 7 of 11 patients after angioplasty. The image quality was excellent in all studies. Thus this study shows that performing dynamic imaging with intracoronary injection of technetium 99m teboroxime is feasible. This technique may be useful to study the impact of angioplasty on coronary flow and tracer kinetics.
Evidence is limited that long-term human exposure to organophosphate (OP) pesticides, without poisoning, is associated with adverse peripheral nervous system (PNS) function.
We investigated associations between OP pesticide use and PNS function by administering PNS tests to 701 male pesticide applicators in the Agricultural Health Study (AHS).
Participants completed a neurological physical examination (NPx) and electrophysiological tests as well as tests of hand strength, sway speed, and vibrotactile threshold. Self-reported information on lifetime use of 16 OP pesticides was obtained from AHS interviews and a study questionnaire. Associations between pesticide use and measures of PNS function were estimated with linear and logistic regression controlling for age and outcome-specific covariates.
Significantly increased odds ratios (ORs) were observed for associations between ever use of 10 of the 16 OP pesticides and one or more of six NPx outcomes. Most notably, abnormal toe proprioception was significantly associated with ever use of 6 OP pesticides, with ORs ranging from 2.03 to 3.06; monotonic increases in strength of association with increasing use was observed for 3 of the 6 pesticides. Mostly null associations were observed between OP pesticide use and electrophysiological tests, hand strength, sway speed, and vibrotactile threshold.
This study provides some evidence that long-term exposure to OP pesticides is associated with signs of impaired PNS function among pesticide applicators.
TRPM7, a non-selective cation channel of the TRP channel superfamily, is implicated in diverse physiological and pathological processes including cell proliferation. Recently, TRPM7 has been reported in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Here, we investigated the contribution role of TRPM7 in activated HSC-T6 cell (a rat hepatic stellate cell line) proliferation. TRPM7 mRNA and protein were measured by RT-PCR and Western blot in rat model of liver fibrosis in vivo and PDGF-BB-activated HSC-T6 cells in vitro. Both mRNA and protein of TRPM7 were dramatically increased in CCl4-treated rat livers. Stimulation of HSC-T6 cells with PDGF-BB resulted in a time-dependent increase of TRPM7 mRNA and protein. However, PDGF-BB-induced HSC-T6 cell proliferation was inhibited by non-specific TRPM7 blocker 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB) or synthetic siRNA targeting TRPM7, and this was accompanied by downregulation of cell cycle proteins, cyclin D1, PCNA and CDK4. Blockade of TRPM7 channels also attenuated PDGF-BB induced expression of myofibroblast markers as measured by the induction of α-SMA and Col1α1. Furthermore, the phosphorylation of ERK and AKT, associated with cell proliferation, decreased in TRPM7 deficient HSC-T6 cells. These observations suggested that TRPM7 channels contribute to perpetuated fibroblast activation and proliferation of PDGF-BB induced HSC-T6 cells via the activation of ERK and PI3K pathways. Therefore, TRPM7 may constitute a useful target for the treatment of liver fibrosis.
Hepatoblastoma is a primary liver cancer that affects children, due to the sensitivity of this tumor to insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). In this paper we show that azathioprine (AZA) is capable of inhibiting IGF1-mediated signaling cascade in HepG2 cells. The efficiency of AZA on inhibition of proliferation differs in the evaluated cell lines as follows: HepG2 (an experimental model of hepatoblastoma)>Hep3B (derived from a hepatocellular carcinoma)>HuH6 (derived from a hepatoblastoma)>HuH7 (derived from a hepatocellular carcinoma)=Chang Liver cells (a non-malignant cellular model). The effect of AZA in HepG2 cells has been proven to derive from activation of Ras/ERK/TSC2, leading to activation of mTOR/p70S6K in a sustained manner. p70S6K phosphorylates IRS-1 in serine 307 which leads to the uncoupling between IRS-1 and p85 (the regulatory subunit of PI3K) and therefore causing the lack of response of HepG2 to IGF-1. As a consequence, proliferation induced by IGF-1 is inhibited by AZA and autophagy increases leading to senescence of HepG2 cells. Our results suggest that AZA induces the autophagic process in HepG2 activating senescence, and driving to deceleration of cell cycle but not to apoptosis. However, when simultaneous to AZA treatment the autophagy was inhibited by bafilomycin A1 and the degradation of regulatory proteins of cell cycle (e.g. Rb, E2F, and cyclin D1) provoked apoptosis. In conclusion, AZA induces resistance in hepatoblastoma cells to IGF-1, which leads to autophagy activation, and causes apoptosis when it is combined with bafilomycin A1. We are presenting here a novel mechanism of action of azathioprine, which could be useful in treatment of IGF-1 dependent tumors, especially in its combination with other drugs.
The calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs) cyclosporine (CsA) and tacrolimus are key drugs in current immunosuppressive regimes for solid organ transplantation. However, they are nephrotoxic and promote death and profibrotic responses in tubular cells. Moreover, renal inflammation is observed in CNI nephrotoxicity but the mechanisms are poorly understood. We have now studied molecular pathways leading to inflammation elicited by the CNIs in cultured and kidney tubular cells. Both CsA and tacrolimus elicited a proinflammatory response in tubular cells as evidenced by a transcriptomics approach. Transcriptomics also suggested several potential pathways leading to expression of proinflammatory genes. Validation and functional studies disclosed that in tubular cells, CNIs activated protein kinases such as the JAK2/STAT3 and TAK1/JNK/AP-1 pathways, TLR4/Myd88/IRAK signaling and the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) to promote NF-κB activation and proinflammatory gene expression. CNIs also activated an Nrf2/HO-1-dependent compensatory response and the Nrf2 activator sulforaphane inhibited JAK2 and JNK activation and inflammation. A murine model of CsA nephrotoxicity corroborated activation of the proinflammatory pathways identified in cell cultures. Human CNIs nephrotoxicity was also associated with NF-κB, STAT3 and IRE1α activation. In conclusion, CNIs recruit several intracellular pathways leading to previously non-described proinflammatory actions in renal tubular cells. Identification of these pathways provides novel clues for therapeutic intervention to limit CNIs nephrotoxicity.
Environmental cues can become classically conditioned to cocaine exposure and are known to contribute to drug craving and relapse in addicts. The 5-HT2C receptor (5-HT2C R) has been shown to control the behavioral effects of acute cocaine administration and, in the present study, we investigated the role of this receptor in the expression of cocaine-induced conditioned hyperactivity. Rats received repeated pairings of a distinct test environment with either saline or cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) for 7 days. In a drug-free test 2 days after the last pairing, expression of conditioned hyperactivity was seen in the rats previously exposed to cocaine in the test environment. The 5-HT2C R agonist MK 212 (0.0625-0.5 mg/kg, i.p., 5 min before test) significantly decreased, while the 5-HT2C R antagonist SB 242084 (0.5-1 mg/kg, i.p. 30 min prior to test) enhanced, expression of cocaine-induced conditioned hyperactivity. The effective doses of MK 212 and SB 242084 did not alter basal activity on the test session. These results suggest that the 5-HT2C R controls expression of cocaine-induced conditioned hyperactivity and suggest that such ligands may be useful in preventing relapse and promoting abstinence in cocaine-dependent individuals.
Doxorubicin is an anti-tumor agent that represses cardiac-specific gene expression and induces myocardial cell apoptosis. Doxorubicin depletes cardiac p300, a transcriptional coactivator that is required for the maintenance of the differentiated phenotype of cardiac myocytes. However, the role of p300 in protection against doxorubicin-induced apoptosis is unknown. Transgenic mice overexpressing p300 in the heart and wild-type mice were subjected to doxorubicin treatment. Compared with wild-type mice, transgenic mice exhibited higher survival rate as well as more preserved left ventricular function and cardiac expression of alpha-sarcomeric actin. Doxorubicin induced myocardial cell apoptosis in wild-type mice but not in transgenic mice. Expression of p300 increased the cardiac level of bcl-2 and mdm-2, but not that of p53 or other members of the bcl-2 family. These findings demonstrate that overexpression of p300 protects cardiac myocytes from doxorubicin-induced apoptosis and reduces the extent of acute heart failure in adult mice in vivo.
Following status epilepticus in the rat, dentate granule cell neurogenesis increases greatly, and many of the new neurons appear to develop ectopically, in the hilar region of the hippocampal formation. It has been suggested that the ectopic hilar granule cells could contribute to the spontaneous seizures that ultimately develop after status epilepticus. However, the population has never been quantified, so it is unclear whether it is substantial enough to have a strong influence on epileptogenesis. To quantify this population, the total number of ectopic hilar granule cells was estimated using unbiased stereology at different times after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. The number of hilar neurons immunoreactive for Prox-1, a granule-cell-specific marker, was estimated using the optical fractionator method. The results indicate that the size of the hilar ectopic granule cell population after status epilepticus is substantial, and stable over time. Interestingly, the size of the population appears to be correlated with the frequency of behavioral seizures, because animals with more ectopic granule cells in the hilus have more frequent behavioral seizures. The hilar ectopic granule cell population does not appear to vary systematically across the septotemporal axis, although it is associated with an increase in volume of the hilus. The results provide new insight into the potential role of ectopic hilar granule cells in the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy.
Hexamethylmelamine (HMM), NSC 13875, a synthetic agent structurally related to triethylenemelamine, has clinical antitumor activity and a role in the treatment of ovarian cancers of epithelial origin. Fifty-four patients, with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics Stage III or IV carcinomas, previously untreated with chemotherapy or irradiation therapy, were treated with HMM (8 mg/kg/day) as a single agent at the M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute in Houston, Texas, between January, 1973, and May, 1976. The response end points analyzed were complete plus partial response rate, duration of remission, and survival time. The complete and partial responses were verified whenever possible by "second-look" operation. Seventeen patients (31.8%) responded to HMM and three had no evidence of cancer, determined by multiple biopsies at second-look operation. Gastrointestinal, hematologic, and nervous system toxic effects were severe in 10 patients, requiring discontinuation of HMM. This study shows that HMM can induce a complete response and provide an extended disease-free interval without maintenance chemotherapy.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the long term effects of the selective Ca2+-blocker verapamil on atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) levels in patients with moderate essential hypertension. The drug was given orally in a daily dose of 300 mg for 30 days. At the end of this clinical trial, plasma ANP levels increased by 16.14% despite the drop in blood pressure while left atrial and ventricular diameters remained unchanged. These findings indicate that the increase of ANP plasma levels is not the result of a mechanical load on the left cardiac chambers but the result of a pharmacological action. These observations also indicate that verapamil exerts part of its antihypertensive action by increasing ANP plasma levels.
