Resveratrol, a polyphenolic phytoalexin present in red wine, has a protective role against tumor-induced angiogenesis. Exudative age-related macular degeneration is characterized by hypoxia-induced choroidal vascular endothelial cell (CVEC) proliferation. In this study, we evaluated the effect of resveratrol on hypoxic CVECs and the underlying signaling pathways involved.
CVECs (RF/6A) after induction of hypoxia with cobalt chloride (CoCl2, 200 μM) were exposed to increasing doses of resveratrol (2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 μg/ml). Cell viability was measured with 4-[3-(4Iodophenyl)-2-(4-nitrophenyl)-2H-5-tetrazolio]-1, 3-benzene disulfonate (WST-1) colorimetric assay. The effect of resveratrol on hypoxia-induced vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) release was analyzed with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The mechanistic pathway was further evaluated by analyzing phosphorylated stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (SAPK/JNK) using immunoblot and cleaved caspase-3 with In-Cell enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Resveratrol inhibited hypoxic CVEC proliferation. Hypoxia-induced VEGF release (30.9±2.6 pg/ml) was inhibited in a dose-dependent fashion by 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 μg/ml resveratrol to 12.4±2.1, 11.0±1.9, 10.3±3.0, 7.5±1.9, 5.5±2.0, and 5.5±2.3 pg/ml, respectively. SAPK/JNK increased by 1.8-fold and 3.9-fold after treatment with 4 and 12 μg/ml resveratrol, respectively. Significant increase in caspase-3 levels was observed with 12 μg/ml resveratrol.
Our study demonstrates that resveratrol suppresses hypoxic CVEC proliferation through activation of the SAPK/JNK pathway. Resveratrol, a nutritional supplement and inhibitor of CVECs, may be a useful adjunct to current anti-VEGF therapy in wet age-related macular degeneration.
A 64-yr-old asthmatic patient underwent a two-vessel aortocoronary vein grafting. Before surgery, the patient received cimetidine 400 mg and labetalol 650 mg. During the first 60 min of bypass, hypotension (40-45 mm Hg) was observed in spite of phenylephrine 14 mg. This initial hypotension was followed, during rewarming, by a slow increase in arterial pressure to 150 mm Hg. On cessation of bypass, bronchospasm was observed and was protracted. It is assumed that labetalol clearance and metabolism were reduced by cimetidine, that labetalol alpha-antagonism was responsible for the vasodilatation withstanding the phenylephrine, and that a combination of labetalol beta-antagonism and phenylephrine alpha-agonism initiated the bronchospasm. These observations indicate that, after labetalol therapy, higher doses of vasopressor agents such as phenylephrine may be necessary, but that such therapy may lead to bronchospasm in asthmatic patients.
In patients with acute ischemic stroke, intracranial hemorrhages are categorized as symptomatic or asymptomatic based on the presence or absence of a clinically detectable neurological deterioration. Asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhages are believed by many to be clinically innocuous. We examined whether the occurrence of an asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhage affects functional outcome in patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS) treated or not treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA).
We combined data from the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial and the ATLANTIS Trials, excluding patients with symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (n=1193). We used generalized estimating equations to test whether asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhage altered the likelihood of a normal or near-normal outcome at 90 days, as measured across 4 commonly used functional outcome scales, controlling for other variables that affect outcome. To look at additional outcomes, including the likelihood of disability and death, we used logistic regression equations. Additionally, we systematically reviewed previous studies that assessed the effect of intracranial hemorrhage in AIS.
In the combined database, the rate of asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhage was higher in rt-PA treated than in nontreated patients (9.9% versus 4.2%, P<0.0001). Controlling for other prognostic factors, the odds of a normal or near-normal outcome was lower when a patient had an asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, but this effect did not reach statistical significance (OR=0.69, 95% CI: 0.43 to 1.12, P=0.13). Similarly, the odds of not being moderately to severely disabled (modified Rankin Score < or =2) was also lower for patients with asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (OR=0.60, 95% CI: 0.33 to 1.08, P=0.09). Despite using a larger sample than any previously published study, the power in our study to detect a 30% decrease in the odds of a good outcome was inadequate ( approximately 32%).
We could not confirm or exclude a clinically significant effect for asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhages based either on our analysis or on any previously published trial. Analysis of substantially larger databases are needed to assess the import of this common clinical event.
Vesicular zinc was initially considered the sole source of toxic intraneuronal zinc accumulation in response to acute brain injury, but recent evidence suggests that additional sources also exist. Because metallothioneins (MTs) can bind and release zinc, we examined the possibility that the brain-specific form, MT-III, is such a zinc source. After kainate-induced seizures, cytoplasmic zinc accumulation and neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 region and the thalamus were substantially lower in Mt3-null mice than in wild-type mice. Furthermore, compared with zinc transporter 3 (Znt3)-null mice, Znt3/Mt3 double-null mice exhibited further reductions in neuronal death in CA1 following kainate-induced seizures. Similar reductions in zinc accumulation and neuronal death in hippocampal CA1 and the dentate gyrus in Mt3-null mice were observed in a sodium nitroprusside model of acute brain injury. In contrast to CA1, more neuronal death occurred after kainate-induced seizures in CA3 of Mt3-null mice. These results suggest that intracellular zinc release from MT-III may contribute substantially to zinc-mediated neuronal death in certain brain areas, including the hippocampal CA1 region and the thalamus.
Many substances that form methemoglobin (MHb) effectively counter cyanide (CN) toxicity. Although MHb formers are generally applied as treatments for CN poisoning, it has been proposed that a stable, long-acting MHb former could serve as a CN pretreatment. Using this rationale, the 8-aminoquinoline WR242511, a potent long-lasting MHb former in rodents and beagle dogs, was studied in the rhesus monkey for advanced development as a potential CN pretreatment.
In this study, WR242511 was administered intravenously (IV) in 2 female and 4 male rhesus monkeys in doses of 3.5 and/or 7.0 mg/kg; a single male also received WR242511 orally (PO) at 7.0 mg/kg. Health status and MHb levels were monitored following exposure.
The selected doses of WR242511, which produced significant methemoglobinemia in beagle dogs in earlier studies conducted elsewhere, produced very little MHb (mean < 2.0%) in the rhesus monkey. Furthermore, transient hemoglobinuria was noted approximately 60 minutes postinjection of WR242511 (3.5 or 7.0 mg/kg), and 2 lethalities occurred (one IV and one PO) following the 7.0 mg/kg dose. Myoglobinuria was also observed following the 7.0 mg/kg dose. Histopathology analyses in the 2 animals that died revealed liver and kidney toxicity, with greater severity in the orally-treated animal.
These data demonstrate direct and/or indirect drug-induced toxicity. It is concluded that WR242511 should not be pursued as a pretreatment for CN poisoning unless the anti-CN characteristics of this compound can be successfully dissociated from those producing undesirable toxicity.
Aim of this study is to investigate the haemodynamic effects, after the short and long-term antihypertensive treatment. After a wash-out period and a placebo treatment period, 30 hypertensive patients received verapamil SR (slow release, 240 mg o.d.) for 30 days. A significant decrease in systolic and diastolic blood pressure was obtained already 4 h after the first administration of verapamil; it was more evident and persistent throughout the study. No significant changes of heart rate or PR interval in ECG were observed. A significant decrease in total vascular resistances, both supine and upright, was evident already 4 h after the drug intake and observed throughout the study. The major effect was obtained after one month. No significant changes of cardiac output, cardiac index and stroke volume were recorded. Furthermore, plasma verapamil levels were measured to confirm that the haemodynamic effects are obtained by low drug concentrations. The present study provides evidence that the antihypertensive effect of verapamil, whose mechanism is the reduction of total vascular resistances, is progressive, long acting and achieved by low plasma levels, when slow release formulation is considered.
Epidemiological studies suggest that regular moderate consumption of red wine confers cardioprotection but the mechanisms involved in this effect remain unclear. Recent studies demonstrate the presence of melatonin in wine. We propose that melatonin, at a concentration found in red wine, confers cardioprotection against ischemia-reperfusion injury. Furthermore, we investigated whether both melatonin and resveratrol protect via the activation of the newly discovered survivor activating factor enhancement (SAFE) prosurvival signaling pathway that involves the activation of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) and the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Isolated perfused male mouse (wild type, TNFα receptor 2 knockout mice, and cardiomyocyte-specific STAT3-deficient mice) or rat hearts (Wistars) were subjected to ischemia-reperfusion. Resveratrol (2.3 mg/L) or melatonin (75 ng/L) was perfused for 15 min with a 10-min washout period prior to an ischemia-reperfusion insult. Infarct size was measured at the end of the protocol, and Western blot analysis was performed to evaluate STAT3 activation prior to the ischemic insult. Both resveratrol and melatonin, at concentrations found in red wine, significantly reduced infarct size compared with control hearts in wild-type mouse hearts (25 ± 3% and 25 ± 3% respectively versus control 69 ± 3%, P < 0.001) but failed to protect in TNF receptor 2 knockout or STAT3-deficient mice. Furthermore, perfusion with either melatonin or resveratrol increased STAT3 phosphorylation prior to ischemia by 79% and 50%, respectively (P < 0.001 versus control). Our data demonstrate that both melatonin and resveratrol, as found in red wine, protect the heart in an experimental model of myocardial infarction via the SAFE pathway.
Halothane-nitrous oxide-oxygen (GOF), nitrous oxide-oxygen with diallyl-nor-toxiferine (Jackson-Rees method), or nitrous oxide-oxygen with droperidol-pentazocine (modified NLA) were administered in 190 instances of repair of cleft lips and cleft palates. Epinephrine, 1:30,000, 1:100,000, or 1:300,000, was injected as the vasoconstrictor around the operative field. Epinephrine concentration of 1:100,000 provided sufficient hemostasis, whereas 1:300,000 was insufficient. With the same concentration of epinephrine, GOF and modified NLA seemed to be better than the Jackson-Rees method, since the GOF and modified NLA groups showed less increase of pulse rate, blood pressure, and plethysmographic changes. A 1:30,000 concentration of epinephrine could be used safely with the Jackson-Rees method and the hemostasis with this concentration was superior to 1:100,000. However, it is recommended only for the cleft lip operation, since these patients are younger and need better hemostasis, and hypersalivation after reversal does not disturb the postoperative course. So-called epinephrine-induced arrhythmia with halothane anesthesia occurred in 1 of 34 instances with 1:300,000 solution and in 5 of 48 instances with 1:100,000 solution. Propranolol was given in only one instance. All others returned to normal rhythm with hyperventilation with pure oxygen. The use of 1:100,000 solution of epinephrine as an adjunct with modified NLA is the most satisfactory and safe method for cleft palate operations, and 1:30,000 with the Jackson-Rees is the better method for cleft lip repairs.
The effects of continuous and intermittent caffeine abstinence and their time course were investigated under field conditions. After 3 days with habitual coffee, subjects were switched for 9 days to regular instant coffee (n = 40), decaffeinated coffee (n = 40), or an intermittent regime (2 days decaff, 1 day caff, repeated, n = 40). Subjects were blind to the caffeine treatment. Motor activity was assessed continuously; subjective variables, blood pressure (BP), and heart rate (HR) were assessed by the subjects six times per day (electronic diary). Compliance was confirmed by the different caffeine concentrations in daily saliva samples. Continued caffeine consumption showed no effects. Caffeine abstinence resulted in increased HR, decreased motor activity, subjective wakefulness, and well-being, and in increased headaches and use of analgetics. The subjective effects and headaches were transient, i.e., they disappeared after a few days of abstinence and weakened over successive, separated abstinence periods. BP was not affected by the caffeine treatment. The intermittent onset of caffeine consumption resulted in increased wakefulness, whereas the other variables normalized to baseline level.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) is an effective and tolerable agent in the treatment of recurrent and refractory ovarian carcinoma. One of the most common dose-limiting toxicities of PLD is palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE). We report a retrospective review of patients who took cod liver oil (CLO) while being treated with PLD at Roswell Park Cancer Institute. None of the patients required dose reduction, treatment interruption or discontinuation secondary to skin toxicity. No patient experienced grade 2 or greater PPE. The mechanism for the development of PLD-induced PPE is unknown. CLO may possibly mitigate it via decreased extravasation of PLD and/or by a blunting of the local inflammatory response. The effects of CLO should be further evaluated in a prospective, randomized trial, and attempts to elucidate the mechanism by which CLO may exert its effects should be pursued.
Little progress has been made in the treatment of adult high-grade gliomas over the last two decades, thus necessitating a search for novel therapeutic strategies. Malignant gliomas are vascular or angiogenic tumors, which leads to the supposition that angiogenesis inhibition may represent a potentially promising strategy in the treatment of these tumors. We present the results of a phase II trial of thalidomide, a putative inhibitor of angiogenesis, in the treatment of adults with previously irradiated, recurrent high-grade gliomas.
Patients with a histologic diagnosis of anaplastic mixed glioma, anaplastic astrocytoma, or glioblastoma multiforme who had radiographic demonstration of tumor progression after standard external-beam radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy were eligible. Patients were initially treated with thalidomide 800 mg/d with increases in dose by 200 mg/d every 2 weeks until a final daily dose of 1,200 mg was achieved. Patients were evaluated every 8 weeks for response by both clinical and radiographic criteria.
A total of 39 patients were accrued, with 36 patients being assessable for both toxicity and response. Thalidomide was well tolerated, with constipation and sedation being the major toxicities. One patient developed a grade 2 peripheral neuropathy after treatment with thalidomide for nearly a year. There were two objective radiographic partial responses (6%), two minor responses (6%), and 12 patients with stable disease (33%). Eight patients were alive more than 1 year after starting thalidomide, although almost all with tumor progression. Changes in serum levels of basic fibroblastic growth factor (bFGF) were correlated with time to tumor progression and overall survival.
Thalidomide is a generally well-tolerated drug that may have antitumor activity in a minority of patients with recurrent high-grade gliomas. Future studies will better define the usefulness of thalidomide in newly diagnosed patients with malignant gliomas and in combination with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Additionally, studies will be needed to confirm the potential utility of changes in serum bFGF as a marker of antiangiogenic activity and/or glioma growth.
Altered impulse control is associated with substance use disorders, including cocaine dependence. We sought to identify the neural correlates of impulse control in abstinent male patients with cocaine dependence (PCD). Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was conducted during a stop signal task that allowed trial-by-trial evaluation of response inhibition. Fifteen male PCD and 15 healthy control (HC) subjects, matched in age and years of education, were compared. Stop signal reaction time (SSRT) was derived on the basis of a horse race model. By comparing PCD and HC co-varied for stop success rate, task-related frustration rating, and post-error slowing, we isolated the neural substrates of response inhibition, independent of attentional monitoring (of the stop signal) and post-response processes including affective responses and error monitoring. Using region of interest analysis, we found no differences between HC and PCD who were matched in stop signal performance in the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA) previously shown to be associated with SSRT. However, compared with HC, PCD demonstrated less activation of the rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC), an area thought to be involved in the control of stop signal inhibition. The magnitude of rACC activation also correlated negatively with the total score and the impulse control subscore of the Difficulty in Emotion Regulation Scale in PCD. The current study thus identified the neural correlates of altered impulse control in PCD independent of other cognitive processes that may influence stop signal performance. Relative hypoactivation of the rACC during response inhibition may represent a useful neural marker of difficulties in impulse control in abstinent cocaine-dependent men who are at risk of relapse.
Alpha-methyldopa is a regularly used antihypertensive drug during pregnancy. Methyldopa, which decreases the sympathoadrenal system, is the first drug of choice since decades. The reactive hepatitis is not frequent, but known serious side effect of alpha-methyldopa. In non-pregnant women the estimated rate of manifest hepatotoxicity is 2.5-10%. In our case, gestation hypertension developed at the 21st gestation week of a 35 year-old pregnant woman. Oral methyldopa, a central alpha adrenergic blocker therapy was introduced. On the 23rd gestation week acute hepatitis developed. During differential diagnosis of hepatitis, the etiology of methyldopa was taken into account. Viral and autoimmune origin was rolled out. No fetal aberration was found during ultrasound examination. The function of drug metabolizing function from blood was measured by CYP phenotyping (CYP gene expression analysis). CYP3A4 enzyme plays a primary role in the metabolism of nifedipine. Antihypertensive therapy was changed from methyldopa to nifedipine. Nifedipine dosage was based on the value of CYP3A4 gene expression. With the reduced nifedipine therapy (30 mg daily), blood pressure was successfully under control. The diagnosis of alpha-methyldopa induced hepatitis was based on anamnesis, clinical picture and the results of chemical and radiological examination and confirmed by the level of drug-metabolizing capacity. The gestation hepatotoxicity of alpha-methyldopa was reported first in 1969 by Elkington Smith, who suggested the monitoring of serum aminotransferase during alpha-methyldopa therapy in pregnancy in their case report. Our case report confirms that monitoring of serum aminotransferase level is still valuable when treating a pregnant woman with alpha-methyldopa.
Intractable hemorrhagic cystitis secondary to radiation or cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) therapy could lead to serious complications; however, intravesical instillation of phenol has reduced the dilemma of this life-threatening problem. We present a case of intractable hemorrhagic cystitis secondary to cyclophosphamide therapy treated with 100 per cent phenol with no untoward side effects. Since formalin instillation into the bladder has been associated with severe complications, phenol appears to be safer and more effective in the treatment of intractable hematuria, and, therefore, its clinical trial is recommended.
Although the amobarbital interview is an effective means of temporarily relieving catatonic mutism, some catatonic patients simply fall asleep during an amobarbital interview. We are examining the feasibility of administering intravenous caffeine benzoate during an amobarbital interview to prevent patients from falling asleep. This paper describes an open trial of the administration of 500 mg caffeine benzoate during amobarbital interviews with ten patients. The procedure was well tolerated, but further studies are needed to determine whether or not caffeine is an advantage over amobarbital alone.
Cisplatin is one of the most common DNA-damaging agents used for treating patients with solid tumors such as squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Unfortunately, significant levels of resistance in SCC cells emerge rapidly following cisplatin treatment. Here we report that the proteasome inhibitor PS-341, the representative of a new class of chemotherapeutic drugs, was capable of inducing apoptosis in cisplatin-resistant SCC cells via the endoplasmic reticulum stress. PS-341 stimulated the phosphorylation of PERK and the unfolded protein response, resulting in the induction of the transcription factor ATF-4. Importantly, the Bcl-2 homology domain 3-only (BH3-only) protein Noxa was found to be strongly induced in cisplatin-resistant SCC cells by PS-341 but not by cisplatin. The knock-down of Noxa using small interference RNA significantly abolished PS-341-mediated apoptosis in SCC cells. Using eIF2alpha mutant mouse embryonic fibroblasts, we found that functional eIF2alpha played an essential role in PS-341-induced Noxa expression. Taken together, our novel findings reveal a direct link between PS-341-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress and the mitochondria-dependent apoptotic pathway and suggest that PS-341 may be utilized for overcoming cisplatin-resistance in human SCC.
The present investigation is aimed to identify and characterize tumor-associated antigen (TAA) in animals exposed to hepatocarcinogen. Swiss albino mice showed an enhanced expression of an approximately 58 kDa glycoprotein in liver cells upon exposure to a potential hepatocarcinogen N-nitrosodibutylamine (DBN). Carcinogenesis induction in mice was monitored by assays of y-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), acetylcholine esterase (AChE), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activities and the level of glutathione (GSH) in liver. DBN treated animals showed cell distortion and extensive necrosis as observed by histological examination. The over-expressed TAA was purified by ion-exchange chromatography and further characterized by SDS-PAGE. The carbohydrate contents and glycan linkage to the polypeptide backbone was analyzed by using the DIG glycan differentiation and de-glycosylation kits. The glycoprotein has glycan chains that are N-linked via asparagines to the polypeptide backbone. It was also observed that the molecule is rich in sialic acid residues with a significantly high carbohydrate to protein ratio (> 2:1). The over-expressed high molecular weight glycoprotein TAA was found to be highly immunogenic and could eventually be used to induce immune response in order to counter tumor regression.
We report on a newborn girl with microcephaly, abnormal brain development, optic atrophy and hypoplasia, persistent lactic acidemia, and a mildly elevated plasma concentration of very-long-chain fatty acids. We found a defect of the fission of both mitochondria and peroxisomes, as well as a heterozygous, dominant-negative mutation in the dynamin-like protein 1 gene (DLP1). The DLP1 protein has previously been implicated, in vitro, in the fission of both these organelles. Overexpression of the mutant DLP1 in control cells reproduced the fission defect. Our findings are representative of a class of disease characterized by defects in both mitochondria and peroxisomes.
Metabotropic glutamate 2/3 receptors (mGluR2/3) are emerging targets for the reduction of stress that contributes to drug relapse. The effect of a history of cocaine escalation on stress reactivity during abstinence and the role of mGlu2/3 receptors in stress in these animals were tested. Experiment 1-Rats trained to self-administer cocaine, under short (ShA, 1-h) or long (LgA, 6-h) access conditions, or noncaloric food pellets (Ctrl, 1-h), were tested for stress reactivity in the shock-probe defensive burying test following 1, 14, 42, or 84 days of abstinence. Experiment 2-Experimentally naive rats receiving the mGlu2/3 receptor agonist LY379268 (0, 0.3, 1.0, or 3.0 mg/kg) were tested in the defensive burying test to establish the anxiolytic efficacy of this compound in this model. Experiment 3-Rats with a history of ShA vs LgA cocaine self-administration, or a history of operant responding reinforced by noncaloric food pellets, were tested in the defensive burying test, following administration of LY379268 (0.3, 1.0, or 3.0 mg/kg) at 14 days of abstinence. LgA rats exhibited a two- to threefold increase in defensive burying at 1, 14, and 42 days of abstinence compared to ShA or control animals. LY379268 (3.0 mg/kg) reduced burying in all groups, whereas the 1.0-mg/kg dose reduced burying only in the LgA group. A robust and enduring increase in stress reactivity developed in rats with a history of daily 6-h access to cocaine. The anxiolytic-like effects of LY379268 identify mGlu2/3 receptors as targets for ameliorating stress-associated relapse risk, and point toward the possibility that a history of cocaine escalation in rats may modify glutamatergic function.
Sixty consecutive patients, 15-60 years old, with ANLL were divided randomly into three groups for induction treatment with one of the following regimens: R1, daunorubicin (DNR) 1.5 mg/kg on day 1 + ARA-C 2 mg/kg body weight on days 1-5; R2, DNR 1.5 mg/kg on days 1 and 2 + ARA-C 2 mg/kg on days 4-8; R3, DNR-DNA complex 1.5 mg/kg on days 1 and 2 + ARA-C 2 mg/kg on days 4-8. Maintenance treatment consisted of monthly courses of DNR 1.5 mg/kg (R1, R2) or DNR-DNA 1.5 mg/kg (R3) combined with ARA-C 1 mg/kg on days 1-5, alternating with thioguanine 2 mg/kg PO on days 1-5 combined with ARA-C 1 mg/kg IV on days 1-5. Fourteen patients of 20 went into complete remission with R1, 13 or 18 with R2, and 15 of 22 with R3. The overall remission frequency was 70% and there was no significant difference between the different groups. The median time in first remission and the median survival time were 300 and 510 days, respectively, with R1; 335 and 495 days with R2; and 295 and 677 days with R3. There was no statistically significant difference between the groups treated according to the different regimens concerning the time in first remission. Survival was slightly better with R3 than with R1. Treatment with the DNR-DNA complex caused less pronounced thrombocytopenia and fewer 'minor' cardiac abnormalities than treatment with free DNR in the same dosage schedule.
This study was undertaken to compare the molecular response (MR) rates of 2 regimens, central lymphatic irradiation (CLI) and alternating triple therapy (ATT), in the treatment of Stage I-III follicular lymphoma. MR was defined as disappearance of t(14;18) (q32;q21) amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Sixty-five patients with Stage I to III follicular lymphoma were randomized. CLI consisted of the mantle, abdomen, and pelvic radiation fields. ATT alternated among CHOD-Bleo, ESHAP, and NOPP for 12 courses. Bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood (PB) samples were obtained before treatment for PCR analysis. PCR-positive patients were followed by PCR analysis. The random-effects logistic model was fitted to the data from the posttreatment PCRs. The factors included in the model were treatment arm, type of PCR (BM vs. PB), and time to PCR sample procurement from the date of registration.
At a median follow-up of 71 months, the 5-year relapse-free survival (RFS) rates were 45% and 54% for CLI and ATT, respectively (p = 0.42). The probability of attaining an MR increased with time after registration (p = 0.007), was lower for BM compared with PB (p = 0.012), and was higher for ATT than for CLI (p = 0.020).
ATT regimen achieved a higher MR than CLI, although both arms had similar 5-year RFS.
Few serious complications have been associated with the intrathecal administration of corticosteroids in the treatment of lumbar radiculopathy. This case of conus medullaris syndrome, which occurred coincident with multiple intrathecal steroid injections, suggests a more cautious approach to the treatment of benign disease by this method.
A new hyaluronic acid filler containing pre-incorporated 0.3% lidocaine reduces pain and enhances patient comfort. In vitro studies confirm functional equivalence with non-lidocaine-containing products, but only limited data are available on the long-term effects of lidocaine on filler performance in the clinical setting.
To investigate whether inclusion of lidocaine impacts the longevity of hyaluronic acid fillers.
60 patients with moderate-severe bilateral nasolabial folds received 24 mg/mL hyaluronic acid with pre-incorporated lidocaine or an equivalent product without lidocaine and were followed-up for up to 76 weeks.
Significantly better results were found in favor of HA gel with pre-incorporated lidocaine for physician assessment of injection pain and patient pain assessment after injection (both P < 0.001). Long-term follow-up of patients after almost a year showed that 91% (52/57) of patients had no evidence of facial asymmetry, and investigators confirmed lidocaine had no effect on filler longevity. High levels of patient satisfaction and prolonged benefits due to persistence of the product were noted, with those patients needing additional treatment requiring 'top-up' rather than full re-treatment.
The addition of 0.3% lidocaine does not affect product longevity and the small volume required for 'touch-up' also suggests that longevity is maintained.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and desferoxamine (DFO) administered alone or in combination together in rats with doxorubicin (DOX)-induced nephrotic syndrome, by monitoring oxidative stress parameters and trace elements in renal tissue and erythrocytes. Fifty-four male Sprague-Dawley rats were included the study. Equal volume of isotonic saline was injected to control rats. After DOX administration, the animals were divided into four experimental groups: (a) rats given only DOX; (b) rats treated with NAC; (c) rats treated with DFO; (d) rats treated with NAC plus DFO. The combination of N-acetylcysteine and DFO has no beneficial effect on reducing proteinuria in experimentally nephrotic rats, although both of these agents ameliorate the condition when administered separately. It seems likely that detrimental effects of NAC plus DFO could be secondary to its effects on erythrocyte selenium levels demonstrated here. Consequently, the results may propose caution to the use of antioxidant therapeutic strategies such as NAC plus DFO against nephropathy.
The present study was performed in order to establish whether dopamine (DA) release from behaviorally functional intracerebral DA transplants is dependent on changes in neuronal impulse flow, and is under control of the host brain. Rats were subjected to combined intraventricular and ventral tegmental injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in order to obtain a severe bilateral lesion of the ascending mesocorticolimbic DA projections. Cell suspension grafts of fetal ventral mesencephalic neurons were thereafter implanted into the medial frontal cortex (MFC) and the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Since the neurotoxin injections removed also the ascending noradrenergic systems, fetal locus coeruleus neurons were added to the graft suspension in one group of animals. Age-matched lesion-only and normal animals served as controls. The lesion-induced alterations in spontaneous, amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced locomotor activity and in a skilled paw reaching task were evaluated before transplantation, and at 3 and 6 months post-grafting. Microdialysis probes were finally implanted in the MFC and NAc in order to monitor extracellular DA and noradrenaline (NA) levels (i) during administration of pharmacological agents which augment or depress catecholamine release in the intact brain; (ii) during exposure of the rats to stressful manipulations (handling and immobilization) or appetitive stimuli (eating) known to enhance cortical and limbic DA or NA release in intact animals. The lesion-induced reduction in amphetamine-induced locomotor activity was reversed in all grafted animals, which also showed a higher than normal spontaneous overnight activity. Daytime spontaneous locomotor activity (which was reduced in the lesion-only rats) as well as apomorphine-induced hyperactivity was reversed by the grafts of DA neurons only. By contrast, the lesion-induced impairment in skilled forelimb use was not alleviated by the grafts. The grafted DA neurons restored normal steady-state DA overflow in the NAc, whereas they enhanced cortical DA overflow to significantly higher than normal levels. Restoration of both cortical and striatal NA overflow was observed in the group that received mixed DA and NA grafts, whereas animals that received DA grafts only did not differ from the lesioned controls. The changes in extracellular DA and NA levels measured in the grafted MFC and NAc under potassium depolarization (100 mM KCl), inhibition of terminal catecholamine reuptake (10 microM nomifensine), and sodium channel blockade (1 microM TTX) indicated that graft-derived DA or NA release had normal neuronal properties, and was dependent on an intact axonal impulse flow.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
