The effect of the use of a number of popular solubility treatments was examined on alfaxolone- and diazepam-induced ataxia. The effects of diazepam were not significantly altered by solution in cyclodextrin, Alkamuls EL-620 or a mixture of propylene glycol and ethanol. The effects of alfaxolone were not altered by solution in Alkamuls EL-620, but were significantly lessened by solution in cyclodextrin. In a dose-response experiment, the ED50 of alfaxolone increased from 15.3 mg kg-1 (in Alkamuls EL-620) to 25.6 mg kg-1 (in hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin). The results suggest that although cyclodextrins are popular and effective solubilizers, their use must be considered carefully in the context of the experiments in which they are to be used.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a neurodevelopmetal disorder associated with mutations in the methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) gene. MeCP2-deficient mice recapitulate the neurological degeneration observed in RTT patients. Recent studies indicated a role of not only neurons but also glial cells in neuronal dysfunction in RTT. We cultured astrocytes from MeCP2-null mouse brain and examined astroglial gene expression, growth rate, cytotoxic effects, and glutamate (Glu) clearance. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that expression of astroglial marker genes, including GFAP and S100β, was significantly higher in MeCP2-null astrocytes than in control astrocytes. Loss of MeCP2 did not affect astroglial cell morphology, growth, or cytotoxic effects, but did alter Glu clearance in astrocytes. When high extracellular Glu was added to the astrocyte cultures and incubated, a time-dependent decrease of extracellular Glu concentration occurred due to Glu clearance by astrocytes. Although the shapes of the profiles of Glu concentration versus time for each strain of astrocytes were grossly similar, Glu concentration in the medium of MeCP2-null astrocytes were lower than those of control astrocytes at 12 and 18 h. In addition, MeCP2 deficiency impaired downregulation of excitatory amino acid transporter 1 and 2 (EAAT1/2) transcripts, but not induction of glutamine synthetase (GS) transcripts, upon high Glu exposure. In contrast, GS protein was significantly higher in MeCP2-null astrocytes than in control astrocytes. These findings suggest that MeCP2 affects astroglial genes expression in cultured astrocytes, and that abnormal Glu clearance in MeCP2-deficient astrocytes may influence the onset and progression of RTT.
A mechanism for myocardial dysfunction after ischemia and reperfusion is Na(+)/H(+) exchanger activation. Although past in vivo models of limited ischemia and reperfusion intervals demonstrate that Na(+)/H(+) exchanger inhibition confers myocardial protection when administered at the onset of ischemia, the effect of Na(+)/H(+) exchanger inhibition on myocardial function after prolonged ischemia and reperfusion remains unknown. This investigation tested the hypothesis that Na(+)/H(+) exchanger inhibition instituted at reperfusion and after prolonged coronary occlusion in pigs would influence myocardial contractility independent of myocardial viability.
A coronary snare and sonomicrometry crystals were placed in pigs (n = 21, 32 kg). Coronary occlusion was instituted for 120 minutes followed by reperfusion for 180 minutes. At 105 minutes of ischemia, pigs were randomized to ischemia and reperfusion only (saline solution, n = 11) or Na(+)/H(+) exchanger inhibition (HOE-642, 3 mg/kg intravenously, n = 10). Myocardial injury was determined by tissue staining and measurement of plasma myocyte-specific enzymes. Myocardial contractility was determined by calculation of the regional end-systolic pressure-dimension relation (millimeters of mercury per centimeter) and by assessment of interregional shortening.
Infarct size was not different between groups (39% +/- 6%, P =.26). Moreover, at 180 minutes of reperfusion, plasma troponin-I and creatine kinase MB values had increased to identical levels in the ischemia and reperfusion-only and Na(+)/H(+) exchanger inhibition groups (300 +/- 35 and 50 +/- 6 ng/mL, respectively). At 90 minutes of ischemia, regional end-systolic pressure-dimension relation decreased from baseline (5.7 +/- 0.5 versus 2.7 +/- 0.3, P <.05) in the area at risk. By 30 minutes of reperfusion, regional end-systolic pressure-dimension relation decreased further in the ischemia and reperfusion-only group (1.6 +/- 0.2, P <.05), but improved with Na(+)/H(+) exchanger inhibition (4.4 +/- 0.7, P <.05).
Na(+)/H(+) exchanger inhibition instituted at reperfusion improved contractility independent of myocardial viability as assessed by absolute infarct size and myocyte-specific enzyme release. Thus, modulation of Na(+)/H(+) exchanger activity in the setting of prolonged ischemia and reperfusion may hold therapeutic potential.
Although nitroglycerin and nitroprusside reduce overall myocardial oxygen consumption in patients with acute myocardial infarction, potentially they may increase hypoxia in some areas of the myocardium. The effects on local coronary perfusion pressure and resultant changes in ischemia injury are unpredictably different from the aortic diastolic pressure. The basic principle which is emerging from both animal experiments and human studies is that the perfusion pressure to the ischemic zone must be maintained. Randomized prospective trials of the effects of intravenous nitroglycerin on survival rate or "infarct size" in acute myocardial infarction are not sufficient and thus inconclusive. In consequence, for the present intravenous nitroglycerin infusion should be limited to patients with elevated left ventricular filling pressure. Careful hemodynamic monitoring is mandatory. In 15 patients with acute myocardial infarction nitroprusside significantly reduced the arterial-coronary sinus oxygen difference most probably by dilating the resistance vessels. Concomitantly, there was a significant decrease in myocardial lactate extraction. Therefore, nitroprusside can result in redistribution of intramyocardial flow and increase ischemic injury by a shift of blood flow to non-ischemic areas. During nitroglycerin infusion neither the mean arterial-coronary sinus oxygen difference nor the average myocardial lactate extraction changed. In individual patients the myocardial lactate extraction may deteriorate.
Studies on human fertility genes have identified numerous risk/protective alleles involved in the occurrence of reproductive system diseases causing infertility or subfertility. Investigations we carried out in populations at natural fertility seem to suggest that the clinical relevance that some fertility genes are now acquiring depends on their interaction with contemporary reproductive behaviors (birth control, delayed childbearing, and spacing birth order, among others). In recent years, a new physiological role in human fertility regulation has emerged for the tumor- suppressor p53 gene (P53), and the P53 Arg72Pro polymorphism has been associated with recurrent implantation failure in humans. To lend support to our previous observations, we examined the impact of Arg72Pro polymorphism on fertility in two samples of Italian women not selected for impaired fertility but collected from populations with different (premodern and modern) reproductive behaviors. Among the women at near-natural fertility (n = 98), the P53 genotypes were not associated with different reproductive efficiency, whereas among those with modern reproductive behaviors (n = 68), the P53 genotypes were associated with different mean numbers of children [Pro/Pro = 0.75<Pro/Arg = 1.7<Arg/Arg = 2, (p = 0.056)] and a significant negative relationship between the number of children and P53 Pro allele frequencies (p = 0.028) was observed. These results are consistent with those of clinical studies reporting an association between the P53 Pro allele and recurrent implantation failure. By combining these findings with previous ones, we suggest here that some common variants of fertility genes may have become "detrimental" following exposure to modern reproductive patterns and might therefore be associated with reduced reproductive success. Set within an evolutionary framework, this change could lead to the selection of a set of gene variants fitter to current reproductive behaviors as the shift to later child-bearing age in developed countries.
Adefovir dipivoxil (10 mg once-daily) was added to antiretroviral therapy including lamivudine in 35 HIV/HBV co-infected patients.
Parameters evaluated included alanine aminotransferase (ALT), HBV DNA and serological markers, HIV-1 RNA, and CD4+ cell count.
Twenty-nine patients (83%) completed 144 weeks. Serum HBV DNA declined from a baseline 9.76 log10 copies/mL (median) to 4.68, 5.24, and 5.90 log10 copies/mL at weeks 48, 96, and 144, respectively (P<0.0001 at all time points). Seven patients (25%) achieved HBV DNA<2.3 log10 copies/mL. No adefovir-associated resistance mutations in HBV DNA polymerase or HIV-1 reverse transcriptase were detected. ALT declined from 81 IU/L (median) at baseline by -16.0, -44.5, and -46.0 IU/L at week 48, 96 and 144, respectively (P=<0.05, respectively), and normalized in 71% of patients (20 of 28) by week 144. Two patients developed antibodies against HB 'e' antigen by week 48. No serious adverse events related to adefovir dipivoxil occurred during the study, and HIV-1 RNA and CD4+ cell counts were stable.
Treatment with adefovir dipivoxil for 144 weeks was well tolerated and resulted in significant and sustained reductions in HBV DNA and ALT in HIV/HBV co-infected patients. Efficacy increased with treatment duration, with no loss of viral suppression.
The cardiovascular effects were investigated after acute and subacute treatment with chlorodibromomethane (CDBM; 0.4 to 3.2 mmol/kg p.o.), trichloromethane (TCM; 0.31 and 1.25 mmol/kg p.o.) and mixtures of CDBM and TCM (acute, 0.8 mmol CDBM/kg + 1.25 mmol TCM/kg p.o.; subacute, 0.4 mmol CDBM/kg + 0.31 mmol TCM/kg p.o.) in conscious and urethane anaesthetized male Wistar rats (n = 6-10 per treatment). Furthermore it was observed whether cardiovascular responses were modified in CDBM or TCM treated rats after administration of exogenous catecholamines (epinephrine, 1 microg/kg; norepinephrine, 2 microg/kg) and underpinned with in vitro alterations of Ca2+ dynamics in cardiac myocytes. The present findings demonstrated that single and subacute oral administration of CDBM or TCM and mixtures of CDBM and TCM resulted in arrhythmogenic and negative chronotropic and dromotropic effects in conscious and urethane anaesthetized rats. The atrioventricular conduction time and the intraventricular extension time were extended. A slight shortening of the repolarization velocity was observed. The myocardial contractility was depressed and the heart was sensitized to the arrhythmogenic effects of epinephrine. After catecholamine injection the adrenergic cardiovascular responses in urethane anesthetized rats were modified: increased hypertensive epinephrine and norepinephrine action as well as augmentation of negative chronotropic and negative dromotropic cardiac effects of catecholamines were observed. The positive inotropic adrenergic response was diminished. The present in vivo findings, myocardial depression after acute CDBM treatment, as determined by different indices of contractility, correlate well with the observed inhibitory actions of CDBM on Ca2+ dynamics in isolated cardiac myocytes. All cardiovascular alterations found after CDBM or TCM treatment were not intensified after treatment with mixtures of CDBM and TCM. The effects observed were distinctly stronger after TCM (1.25 and 0.31 mmol/kg) treatment compared to CDBM (0.8 and 0.4 mmol/kg) treatment.
In addition to cancer endpoints, arsenic exposures can also lead to non-cancerous chronic lung disease. Exposures during sensitive developmental time points can contribute to the adult disease. Using a mouse model, in utero and early postnatal exposures to arsenic (100 ppb or less in drinking water) were found to alter airway reactivity to methacholine challenge in 28 day old pups. Removal of mice from arsenic exposure 28 days after birth did not reverse the alterations in sensitivity to methacholine. In addition, adult mice exposed to similar levels of arsenic in drinking water did not show alterations. Therefore, alterations in airway reactivity were irreversible and specific to exposures during lung development. These functional changes correlated with protein and gene expression changes as well as morphological structural changes around the airways. Arsenic increased the whole lung levels of smooth muscle actin in a dose dependent manner. The level of smooth muscle mass around airways was increased with arsenic exposure, especially around airways smaller than 100 microm in diameter. This increase in smooth muscle was associated with alterations in extracellular matrix (collagen, elastin) expression. This model system demonstrates that in utero and postnatal exposure to environmentally relevant levels of arsenic can irreversibly alter pulmonary structure and function in the adults.
Acute cholecystitis is a major health problem. There are multiple etiologies to be considered and early recognition of the condition is important to optimize management and outcome. We report the first case in the medical literature of symptomatic acute cholecystitis triggered by ceftriaxone-associated gallbladder sludge formation and, importantly, solid ceftriaxone gallstone formation in an adult patient with underlying mineral and pigment cholecystolithiasis, necessitating cholecystectomy. This case serves as a reminder for physicians to keep this uncommon cause of cholecystolithiasis and cholecystitis in mind in patients who receive prolonged ceftriaxone therapy. These patients should be cautioned to promptly report to their physicians any signs or symptoms of cholecystitis in order to ensure timely and appropriate evaluation.
Felbamate (2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate), phenytoin, phenobarbital, ethosuximide, and valproate were evaluated in mice and rats with a battery of well-standardized anticonvulsant test procedures. The results obtained indicate that felbamate exhibits a wider range of experimental anticonvulsant activity than either phenytoin or ethosuximide and a somewhat more restricted range than either phenobarbital or valproate. Felbamate is effective in nontoxic intraperitoneal doses in mice by the maximal electroshock seizure (MES), pentylenetetrazol (s.c. PTZ), and picrotoxin (s.c. Pic) tests but ineffective against bicuculline- and strychnine-induced seizures; it is effective after nontoxic oral doses in both mice and rats by the MES and s.c. PTZ tests. When compared on the basis of protective indices (PI = TD50/ED50) calculated from the intraperitoneal data in mice, the PIs for felbamate were from 1.05 to 2.37 times higher than those of the prototype antiepileptics. Overall, except for the s.c. PTZ test in mice and rats after oral administration, the PIs were equal to or higher than those of the prototype agents. The PIs for the s.c. PTZ test in mice and rats after oral administration were within the range of the prototype agents. These data indicate that felbamate is a relatively nontoxic agent with a unique profile of anticonvulsant action.
C57BL/10ScSn mice administered iron--dextran and fed the environmental pollutants hexachlorobenzene (HCB) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) develop hepatic nodules and carcinomas within 18 months. A range of lesions from the livers were analysed for the presence of mutations in the Ha-ras proto-oncogene at codon 61 using the polymerase chain reaction to amplify DNA from formalin-fixed sections, followed by oligonucleotide hybridization. Only two mutations from 23 preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions induced by HCB were detected (a focus of altered cells and a trabecular cell carcinoma). With Aroclor 1254 no mutations were detected in 28 areas at various stages of carcinogenesis analysed. Sequencing of the two mutations generated by HCB showed a C-->T transversion at the first base of codon 61 (carcinoma) and an A-->T transversion at the second base (proliferative focus). Thus, in marked contrast to some other systems of mouse liver tumour induction, hepatocarcinogenesis caused by HCB and PCBs in C57BL/10ScSn mice is an example of carcinogenesis which does not involve a high frequency of Ha-ras gene mutation at codon 61.
Risperidone, a novel neuroleptic with approximately equal D2 and 5HT2A receptor blocking properties, has been used to treat drug-related hallucinations in patients with Parkinson's disease. However, the results of only small numbers of patients have been reported with the drug demonstrating limited usefulness. We report our experience with this drug in 39 patients (25 women and 19 men) with parkinsonism. Monitored clinical data included duration of disease, Hoehn and Yahr score, Mini-Mental State Score, Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) prior to drug administration and after 3 and 6 months of treatment, and response to treatment. Twenty-three patients with Parkinson's disease had either complete or near-complete resolution of hallucinations whereas an unsatisfactory response (N = 6) or worsening of parkinsonism (N = 6) was noted in 12 patients, only six of whom had Parkinson's disease. Excluding patients with diffuse Lewy body disease, there was no significant worsening of the UPDRS scores after either 3 or 6 months of treatment. The presence of dementia did not predict response to treatment. Our results suggest that risperidone is a useful treatment for hallucinations in patients with parkinsonism.
The aim of the present work was to determine if noradrenergic neurons of the anterior and the posterior subregions of the locus coeruleus exhibit a difference in reactivity in response to sodium nitroprusside-induced arterial hypotension, and if the pharmacological induction of tyrosine hydroxylase by RU24722 modifies the reactivity of locus coeruleus neurons to this hypotensive stimulus. Previous findings have demonstrated that administration of RU24722 increases the concentration of tyrosine hydroxylase in the rat locus coeruleus by two different mechanisms in the anterior and in the posterior locus coeruleus subregions. The goal of the present study was to measure in vivo the changes in catecholaminergic metabolism in the locus coeruleus after treatment with RU24722 using differential normal pulse voltammetry (DNPV). In vehicle-treated rats, arterial hypotension increased catecholaminergic metabolism with the same pattern in the two locus coeruleus subregions. However, the changes in the magnitude of the catechol oxidation current throughout the recording period were significantly smaller in the posterior subregion (P < 0.001). In the RU24722-pretreated rats, there was a 39% increase in tyrosine hydroxylase and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the locus coeruleus. The functional reactivity to hypotension measured by DNPV was significantly decreased (P < 0.001) in both the anterior and posterior locus coeruleus subregions with RU24722 treatment. Therefore, this study suggests that the response of locus coeruleus cells to a hypotensive stimulus depends upon the intracellular tyrosine hydroxylase concentration both in the basal condition and during pharmacological induction of tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression.
Long-term levodopa or dopamine agonist treatment in the MPTP-lesioned primate model of Parkinson's disease elicits dyskinesia, which is phenotypically similar to levodopa-induced dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease. AMPA receptor antagonists have previously been shown to have both anti-parkinsonian and anti-dyskinetic actions in MPTP-lesioned primates, suggesting that AMPA receptor transmission is functionally overactive under these conditions. In this study, we investigated the level of striatal AMPA receptor binding in the MPTP lesioned primate using the selective AMPA ligand (3)H-(S)-5-fluorowillardiine. AMPA receptor binding was studied in non-parkinsonian, non-dyskinetic parkinsonian, and dyskinetic macaques. Striatal AMPA receptor binding was not different in any of the treatment groups (P > 0.05). Although AMPA receptor-mediated transmission is functionally overactive in Parkinson's disease and dyskinesia, changes in striatal AMPA receptor levels are not likely to be the cause of such movement disorders.
Impairment of the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) has been proposed to play an important role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Mice with UPS impairment in the nigra have been used for investigating mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration and for testing pre-clinical drugs to treat PD. However, the pathological, biochemical and behavioral features of UPS impairment animal model of PD have not been fully evaluated. For this purpose, we developed a UPS impairment model of nigral dopamine (DA) neuron degeneration by microinjection with proteasome inhibitors lactacystin, PSI or MG-132 into the medial forebrain bundle (iMFB) of C57BL/6 mice and then systematically examined the animal's locomotor activities, and various pathological and biochemical markers of PD. We found that lactacystin iMFB induced a sustained DA neuron degeneration, which can be reproduced by PSI iMFB and MG-132 iMFB. In the animal model, DA neuron degenerated preferentially in the substantia nigra, accompanied by profound inhibition of proteasomal activity, activation of caspase 3, elevated insoluble ubiquitin conjugates and α-synuclein positive inclusion-like granules, activated glia, and decreased motor activities. Thus, this model recapitulates many neuropathological and behavioral features of PD, rendering it likely suitable for studying the mechanisms of nigral DA neuron degeneration and for testing the potential anti-PD medications.
Spontaneous mammary tumors are the most prevalent type of neoplasms in women as well as in female dogs. Although ovarian hormones estrogen and progesterone are known to play a key role in mammary tumorigenesis, conflicting reports have been obtained from in vivo and in vitro studies concerning the role of especially progesterone in mammary tumorigenesis. Prolonged exposure to high concentrations of progesterone during the unusually long luteal phase of the estrous cycle is suspected to be the key event in canine mammary tumorigenesis. Accordingly, previous studies have shown the development of mammary hyperplasia in dogs upon prolonged progestin administration. In this study, a dog-specific cDNA microarray was used to identify oncogenic determinants in progestin-induced canine hyperplasia (CMH) and spontaneous mammary tumors (CMC) by comparing expression profiles to those obtained from mammary glands of healthy dogs. The CMH profile showed elevated expression of genes involved in cell proliferation such as PCNA, NPY, RAN and also alterations in expression of transcription factors and cell adhesion molecules. Whereas in CMC, major alterations to the expression of genes involved in cell motility, cytoskeletal organization and extra cellular matrix production was evident besides differential expression of cell proliferation inducing genes. The overall gene expression profile of CMH was related to cell proliferation where as that of CMC was associated with both cell proliferation as well as neoplastic transformation. In conclusion, our findings support a strong cell proliferation inducing potential of progestins in the canine mammary gland. Moreover, deregulated genes identified in CMC are potentially involved in their malignant and may serve as prospective therapeutic targets.
Although adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) has a unique profile of delayed and infrequent resistance in treatment-naïve chronic hepatitis B patients, the association of ADV resistance with previous lamivudine (LAM) resistance is not well understood. We compared the emergence of the ADV-resistant mutations rtA181V/T and rtN236T between LAM-resistant patients and treatment-naïve patients at 48 weeks of ADV monotherapy. Fifty-seven LAM-resistant patients and 38 treatment-naïve patients were treated with 10 mg/d ADV for more than 48 weeks. Both baseline and 48-week blood samples were analyzed for ADV-resistant mutations via restriction fragment mass polymorphism analysis. Antiviral responses were evaluated according to changes in serum HBV DNA (measured via real-time polymerase chain reaction) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and loss of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg). After 48 weeks, 10 (18%) of the 57 LAM-resistant patients were found to have developed ADV-resistant mutations, whereas none of the 38 treatment-naïve patients developed such mutations (P < .01). Among LAM-resistant patients, the reduction in serum HBV DNA levels was significantly lower in patients with ADV-resistant mutations than in those without such mutations (-1.04 vs. -2.63 log10 copies/mL) (P = .01). However, the rates of serum ALT normalization (60% vs. 55%) and HBeAg loss (14% vs. 21%) were not significantly different between the 2 groups (P > .05). In conclusion, the emergence of the rtA181V/T and rtN236T mutations was more common in LAM-resistant patients than in treatment-naïve patients after 48 weeks of ADV therapy and was associated with reduced antiviral efficacy to drug treatment.
Vincristine is a chemotherapeutic agent used in the treatment of various neoplastic diseases. Its neurotoxicity after therapeutic and pharmacologic doses has been well documented. We report a case of accidental intrathecal administration of vincristine in order to describe the complications seen, discuss possible means of therapeutic intervention, and serve as a reminder that preventive measures are mandatory to avoid such accidents in the future.
To report a case of transient cholestatic hepatitis occurring in an infant between the third and seventh weeks of life, most likely due to carbamazepine exposure during pregnancy and breast feeding.
A boy, born to an epileptic mother who had been treated with carbamazepine monotherapy throughout pregnancy and breast feeding, experienced asphyxia at birth with transient hepatic dysfunction in the first week of life. After full recovery from asphyxia, he experienced a second period of liver dysfunction, presenting as cholestatic hepatitis that lasted approximately 5 weeks. Infectious and metabolic etiologies as well as extrahepatic biliary atresia were excluded.
Carbamazepine is known to induce hepatic damage in children and adults. As the drug crosses the placenta and is excreted into breast milk, infants of mothers taking carbamazepine might also develop liver dysfunction. In addition to the present case, there are 2 well-documented case reports of cholestasis in association with transplacental and transmammary carbamazepine exposure.
Carbamazepine-induced hepatitis may occur in association with prenatal exposure and breast feeding. This may expose infants to unnecessary diagnostic procedures, and should therefore be mentioned in the company's product information.
Exposure of mice to 0.5% halothane in air, which is close to a maintenance concentration in man, after an IP dose of cyclophosphamide produced an increase in the lethality of cyclophosphamide. The LD50 (30 day) for cyclophosphamide without halothane was 251 mg/kg; with 2 h subsequent exposure to halothane it was 152 mg/kg; and with 20 h subsequent exposure to halothane it was 158 mg/kg. The median survival time of mice receiving cyclophosphamide at doses between 137 and 240 mg/kg was more than 30 days in the absence of halothane, 12 days with 2 h halothane, and 10.5 days with 20 h halothane exposure. Survival of mice was decreased irrespective of whether 2 h halothane exposure preceded or followed cyclophosphamide administration. Separation of cyclophosphamide administration and preexposure to halothane by breathing air for 1 h abolished the decrease in survival. Halothane exposure for 2 h after cyclophosphamide had no effect on the antitumor activity of cyclophosphamide. Total-body clearance of cyclophosphamide in mice exposed to halothane was 60 ml/min/kg, as against 188 ml/min/kg in nonexposed mice. No change was produced by halothane in the area under the plasma concentration-time curve over 2 h for 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide following cyclophosphamide administration. The reason for the increased lethality of cyclophosphamide in the presence of halothane could not be determined. There was no increase in leukopenia caused by cyclophosphamide and no increase in bladder toxicity, in liver toxicity, in renal toxicity, or in the penetration of cyclophosphamide into the brain. The study, together with reports of increased toxicity in patients receiving cancer chemotherapy in close proximity to general anesthesia, should alert physicians and others to the possibility of an interaction between volatile anesthetic agents and chemotherapeutic drugs.
The effects of angiotensin II receptor blockers on cerebral hemodynamics in humans have not been well elucidated. The present study evaluated the effects of losartan on cerebral hemodynamics in hypertensive patients using positron emission tomography. Ten patients with essential hypertension (mean age, 60.8 years) were examined. In each patient, regional cerebral blood flow was measured by [O-15] labeled water positron emission tomography before and after the oral administration of losartan for 8 to 23 weeks. In 8 patients, the baseline regional cerebral blood flow measurement was followed by 1,000 mg of acetazolamide challenge to measure the cerebral perfusion reserve. Systemic blood pressures before and after treatment were 153.8 +/- 10.8/96.0 +/- 6.5 mmHg (systolic mean +/- SD/diastolic mean +/- SD) and 133.4 +/- 11.2/83.6 +/- 6.5 mmHg, respectively; this difference was significant. The baseline global cerebral blood flow values before and after treatment were 38.4 +/- 6.9 ml/min/100 g and 38.2 +/- 8.2 ml/min/100 g, respectively; this difference was not significant. The results of the global cerebral blood flow response to the acetazolamide challenges were not statistically different before and after treatment. A regional analysis showed no statistical difference in regional cerebral blood flow or cerebral perfusion reserve throughout the brain before and after treatment. Losartan's effect on reducing the blood pressure did not affect either the baseline regional cerebral blood flow or the cerebral perfusion reserve in patients with mild to moderate hypertension. The inclusion of losartan in anti-hypertensive regimens could be advantageous for cerebral circulation in patients with essential hypertension.
To confirm that alpha1, beta adrenoceptor antagonists and angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockers (ARBs) have different abilities to attenuate progressive cardiac hypertrophy despite their comparable lowering of blood pressure, we compared the effect of these agents alone or in combination on hypertensive cardiac hypertrophy. Eight-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were divided into 7 groups. Single administration of doxazosin, atenolol, or losartan, or half-dose combinations of these drugs were given orally for 6 weeks. The control group did not receive any drugs. The heart weight-to-body weight ratio (HW/BW), left ventricular mass index (LVMI), plasma brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and left ventricular BNP mRNA expression were measured after 6-week administration. Blood pressure did not differ among the drug-treated groups, all of which showed lower blood pressure than the control group. The HW/BW and LVMI of the drug-treated groups, except the doxazosin group, were lower than in the control group. Moreover, the LVMI values of the groups receiving losartan were significantly lower than those in the groups without losartan (p < 0.05). Plasma BNP of the drug-treated groups was lower than that in the control group (p < 0.05). The left ventricular BNP mRNA expression of the drug-treated groups, except the doxazosin group, was lower than that in the control group. The atenolol group showed a higher level of BNP mRNA than the groups receiving losartan monotherapy or combination therapies (p < 0.05). In conclusion, the ARB had the strongest attenuating effect on the development of hypertensive cardiac hypertrophy, and the alpha1 and beta adrenergic receptor blockers were more effective in combination than as monotherapies in SHR.
EEG was recorded on nine occasions of ketamine anesthesia in eight children. Two of the patients were neurologically normal and six were under investigation for various neurological disorders. The EEG during the catatonic phase of ketamine anesthesia is characterized by alternating high amplitude delta complexes and periods of fast activity. The two cases which in the routine EEG showed focal paroxysmal activity did not show any electroencephalographic aggravation or clinical seizure during ketamine influence. One case exhibiting a subcortical type of epileptiform activity showed a marked potentiation of this activity with ketamine. On routine neurological examination during the catatonic phase of ketamine anesthesia the pharyngeal reflex was generally weak and failed altogether in two cases and corneal reflexes were absent in three cases.
We have used the model of L-2-chloropropionic acid (L-CPA)-induced selective cerebellar granule necrosis to study excitatory amino acid-induced necrotic cell death in vivo produced by the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. However, the mechanism for the NMDA receptor activation and the biochemical events which dictate the anatomical selectivity for the L-CPA-induced lesion are as yet unknown. We examined whether blockade of sodium and calcium channels may reduce the neurotoxicity through a reduction of glutamate release from granule cells. None of the sodium channel antagonists examined, i.e. phenytoin, lamotrigine or rilazole nor the mixed sodium/calcium channel blocker, lifarazine, altered the L-CPA neurotoxicity. However, L-type calcium channel blockers, verapamil and nifedipine enhanced the L-CPA-induced granule cell necrosis, assessed by measuring the degree of L-CPA-induced reductions in cerebellar aspartate concentration, increases in cerebellar glycine concentrations and the development of cerebellar oedema. In addition, the locomotor activity of rats receiving both L-CPA and either verapamil or nifedipine was significantly lower than when rats received L-CPA alone, suggesting an enhancement of the neurotoxicity of L-CPA by L-type calcium channel blockade. The data suggest that L-CPA may interfere with non-L-type calcium channels located on granule cell bodies and nerve terminals leading to reduction of the calcium entry into the cells. We suggest that a combination of L-type channel blockade and non-L-type channels which are sensitive to L-CPA produces reductions in intracellular calcium concentrations below that required for neuronal survival.
Human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPS-CMs) are capable of detecting drug-induced clinical arrhythmia, Torsade de Pointes (TdP), and QT prolongation. Efforts herein employ a broad set of structurally diverse drugs to optimize the predictive algorithm for applications in discovery toxicology and cardiac safety screening. The changes in the beat rhythm and rate of a confluent monolayer of hiPS-CMs by 88 marketed and 30 internal discovery compounds were detected with real-time cellular impedance measurement and quantified by measures of arrhythmic beating (IB20, lowest concentration inducing ≥ 20% arrhythmic [irregular, atypical] beats in 3 consecutive 20-s sweeps, and predicted proarrhythmic score [PPS]-IB20) or changes in beat rate (BR20, the lowest concentration inducing a reduction in beat rate of ≥ 20% at 3 consecutive sweeps compared with the time-matched vehicle control group, and PPS-BR20). Drug-induced arrhythmic beats and reductions in beat rates are predictive of clinical arrhythmia and QT prolongation, respectively. A threshold of ≤ 10 μM for class determination results in 82% in vitro-in vivo concordance for TdP prediction and 91% sensitivity for non-TdP arrhythmia detection, or 83% and 91% if clinically efficacious plasma (effective serum therapeutic concentration [C eff]) values are incorporated. This human cardiomyocyte arrhythmic risk (hCAR) model provides greater predictivity for torsadogenicity in humans compared with either human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) inhibition (75%) or QT prolongation (81%). The concordance of beat rate reductions to predict clinical QT prolongation is 86%, or 87% when C eff is considered, which is greater than a hERG signal (80%). Further, arrhythmic beats resulting from cytotoxicity were identified by a distinct arrhythmic beating pattern, which occurred after the onset of cytolethality. This hCAR assay showed increased performance over existing preclinical tools in predicting clinical QT prolongation, arrhythmia, and TdP. Thus, hiPS-CMs are a relevant cell system to improve evaluating cardiac safety liabilities of drug candidates.
