The aim of the present study was to compare the efficacy of 1 yr of sibutramine-induced weight loss versus continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) treatment on sleep-disordered breathing, cardiac autonomic function and systemic blood pressure in obese patients with obstructive sleep apnoea. Subjects with a body mass index of > or =30 kg.m(-2) without previous treatment for obstructive sleep apnoea underwent either sibutramine (n = 22) or CPAP (n = 18) treatment for 1 yr. Sibutramine induced a 5.4+/-1.4 kg decrease in body weight compared to the CPAP group, in which no changes in anthropometric variables were observed. The CPAP treatment improved all sleep and respiratory variables, whereas sibutramine-induced weight loss improved only nocturnal arterial oxygen saturation profile. Only CPAP treatment improved night-time systolic and diastolic blood pressure and 24-h and daytime ambulatory diastolic blood pressure. Sibutramine-induced weight loss had no impact on indices of heart rate variability, whereas CPAP treatment increased daytime time domain indices. CPAP treatment for 1 yr had beneficial impacts on nocturnal breathing disturbances, and improved nocturnal oxygenation, night-time systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and daytime cardiac parasympathetic modulation. Sibutramine did not improve sleep-disordered breathing, systemic blood pressure or heart rate variability. There were no adverse effects, such as increment in blood pressure or arrhythmias, associated with this treatment regimen.
Four cases of sinus node dysfunction with junctional escape which developed during oral treatment with diltiazem in the usual therapeutic doses (180 to 240 mg/day) are reported. In one case the cardiac toxicity of diltiazem may have been potentiated by amiodarone taken concomitantly. In two cases a biological liver alteration may have modified the metabolism of diltiazem by slowing down its degradation. In all 4 patients, a slow intravenous injection of 1 g of calcium chloride resulted in rapid and lasting restoration of a normal sinus rhythm, making temporary ventricular pacing unnecessary. The authors underline the value of calcium administration as a therapeutic test in all disorders of cardiac rhythm or conduction occurring in patients treated with calcium channel blocking agents.
An 81-year-old woman with recurrent epileptic attacks, hemiparesis and rapidly changing consciousness is described in whom the most probable reason for the clinical picture was polymorphous ventricular tachycardia (torsade de pointes). Sotalol (Sotalex), which the patient received for two weeks at a dose of 80 mg twice daily because of asymptomatic ectopic ventricular beats, was identified as the causative agent. Torsade de pointes disappeared after a single intravenous injection of 2 g magnesium sulfate. The patient left the hospital a few days later completely recovered from all neurological deficits.
Adjunctive unfractionated heparin (UFH) during thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) promotes the speed and magnitude of coronary artery recanalization and reduces reocclusion. Low-molecular-weight heparins offer practical and potential pharmacological advantages over UFH in multiple applications but have not been systematically studied as adjuncts to fibrinolysis in AMI.
Four hundred patients undergoing reperfusion therapy with an accelerated recombinant tissue plasminogen activator regimen and aspirin for AMI were randomly assigned to receive adjunctive therapy for at least 3 days with either enoxaparin or UFH. The study was designed to show noninferiority of enoxaparin versus UFH with regard to infarct-related artery patency. Ninety minutes after starting therapy, patency rates (thrombolysis in myocardial infarction [TIMI] flow grade 2 or 3) were 80.1% and 75.1% in the enoxaparin and UFH groups, respectively. Reocclusion at 5 to 7 days from TIMI grade 2 or 3 to TIMI 0 or 1 flow and TIMI grade 3 to TIMI 0 or 1 flow, respectively, occurred in 5.9% and 3.1% of the enoxaparin group versus 9.8% and 9.1% in the UFH group. Adverse events occurred with similar frequency in both treatment groups.
Enoxaparin was at least as effective as UFH as an adjunct to thrombolysis, with a trend toward higher recanalization rates and less reocclusion at 5 to 7 days.
Fish embryos exposed to complex mixtures of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) from petrogenic sources show a characteristic suite of abnormalities, including cardiac dysfunction, edema, spinal curvature, and reduction in the size of the jaw and other craniofacial structures. To elucidate the toxic mechanisms underlying these different defects, we exposed zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos to seven non-alkylated PAHs, including five two- to four-ring compounds that are abundant in crude oil and two compounds less abundant in oil but informative for structure-activity relationships. We also analyzed two PAH mixtures that approximate the composition of crude oil at different stages of weathering. Exposure to the three-ring PAHs dibenzothiophene and phenanthrene alone was sufficient to induce the characteristic suite of defects, as was genetic ablation of cardiac function using a cardiac troponin T antisense morpholino oligonucleotide. The primary etiology of defects induced by dibenzothiophene or phenanthrene appears to be direct effects on cardiac conduction, which have secondary consequences for late stages of cardiac morphogenesis, kidney development, neural tube structure, and formation of the craniofacial skeleton. The relative toxicity of the different mixtures was directly proportional to the amount of phenanthrene, or the dibenzothiophene-phenanthrene total in the mixture. Pyrene, a four-ring PAH, induced a different syndrome of anemia, peripheral vascular defects, and neuronal cell death, similar to the effects previously described for potent aryl hydrocarbon receptor ligands. Therefore, different PAH compounds have distinct and specific effects on fish at early life history stages.
A now 61-year old man with hypersecretion of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) due to carcinoma of the tail of the pancreas was treated and followed for nine years. Combined administration of lomustin (2.5 mg/kg on day 1) and 5-fluorouracil (30 mg/kg on days 2-6) over eight courses at six-week intervals achieved clinical remission for 13 months. No clinical improvement was observed with streptozocin (500 mg/m2 on days 1-5) for two courses four weeks apart. Treatment had to be discontinued after the second course because of the onset of (rarely observed) neurotoxic side-effect of bilateral peroneal paresis. High doses of somatostatin (6.9 micrograms/kg hourly intravenously) immediately and markedly reduced stool quantity. But at a lower dose (3.4 micrograms/kg hourly i.v.) there was no noticeable effect. In the further course of the disease, massive attacks of diarrhoea at varying intervals were best controlled in intensity and duration by prednisolone (50-60 mg daily). Other drugs which have been recommended for such cases (indometacin, lithium, trifluoperazine, nicotinic acid and clonidine) had no worth-while effect. In future long-acting somatostatin analogues may provide better prospects for long-term treatment.
To evaluate the protective effects of ilomastat, an exogenous matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) inhibitor, on trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNB)-induced ulcerative colitis (UC) in rats.
Male SD rats were randomly divided into model group, protective groups A and B, and normal control group. Rats in the model group received only intra-colonic TNB. Rats in the protective groups A and B received intra-peritoneal ilomastat of 10 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg, respectively, beside TNB. Rats in the normal control group received only intra-colonic normal saline. After 3 wk, segments of colon were obtained. RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry were used to examine the expression of MMP-1 and TIMP-1. Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining was used for pathological study.
The model of UC was successfully induced in rats. Inflammation of colonic mucosa greatly improved in protective groups A and B. Expression of MMP-1 and TIMP-1 in the model group, protective groups A and B was significantly higher than that in the normal control group (P < 0.0001) with MMP-1 expression increased more significantly than TIMP-1 expression. Expression of MMP-1 in protective groups A and B was significantly lower than that in the model group (P < 0.0001) . Expression of MMP-1 in protective group B was significantly lower than that in protective group A (P < 0.0001).
Ilomastat improves TNB-induced UC in rats by inhibiting the MMP-1 activity.
Posttransplant anemia is a common problem that may hinder patients' quality of life. It occurs in 12 to 76% of patients, and is most common in the immediate posttransplant period. A variety of factors have been identified that increase the risk of posttransplant anemia, of which the level of renal function is most important. Sirolimus, a mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor, has been implicated as playing a special role in posttransplant anemia. This review considers anemia associated with sirolimus, including its presentation, mechanisms, and management.
We have addressed in the current study the postulate whether or not carnitine deficiency would represent a risk factor in hepatotoxicity. Carnitine-deficient male Swiss albino rats were obtained following administration of D-carnitine (500 mg/kg, IP) for 10 consecutive days. Serum and liver carnitine levels, both total and free, were assessed to confirm carnitine depletion. Hepatotoxicity was induced by challenging animals with a single dose of paracetamol (1 g/kg, IP). Serum tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) concentration, and serum activities of aspartate amino transferase (AST), alanine amino transferase (ALT) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were undertaken as biomarkers for toxicity. Liver contents of reduced glutathione (GSH), malondialdehyde (MDA), total nitric oxide (NO) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activities were also investigated. Histopathological examination of liver sections was achieved to confirm the biochemical alterations. D-carnitine altered all biochemical markers and also induced mild tissue inflammation with dilatation and congestion of central and portal veins. Paracetamol produced an obvious hepatotoxicity model that was well characterized biochemically and morphologically. Combined administration of D-carnitine and paracetamol synergistically provoked marked toxicity that was more profound than either agent given alone. The present work was further extended to elucidate any hepatoprotective effect of carnitine supplementation in such toxicity paradigm. It was apparent that L-carnitine notably ameliorated all biochemical markers and also mitigated the gross histologic alterations induced by paracetamol. Data obtained so far would suggest that carnitine deficiency could possibly be a sequela as well as a causative clue for paracetamol hepatotoxicity.
The present experiments assessed whether morphine-conditioned hyperactivity could be attenuated by either the opiate antagonist naloxone or the dopamine antagonist pimozide. Both of these antagonists were shown to block the unconditioned hyperactivity induced by 2 mg/kg morphine (Experiment 1). Rats were then conditioned by pairing this dose of morphine repeatedly with a distinctive environment (Experiment 2). Following several drug-environment pairings, rats displayed a hyperactive conditioned response (CR) when exposed to the environment in the absence of the drug. CR expression was counteracted by 1 mg/kg naloxone and was attenuated by pimozide (0.25, 0.33, and 0.4 mg/kg) in a dose-related manner. These findings suggest that the unconditioned and conditioned hyperactive responses produced by morphine may involve similar neuropharmacologic substrates.
Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) plays an essential role in tumor angiogenesis and growth by regulating the transcription of several genes in response to hypoxic stress and changes in growth factors. This study was designed to investigate the effects of deguelin on tumor growth and angiogenesis, and the mechanisms underlying the antitumor activities of deguelin. We show here that orally administered deguelin inhibits tumor growth and blocks tumor angiogenesis in mice. Deguelin decreased expression of HIF-1alpha protein and its target genes, such as VEGF, in a subset of cancer cell lines, including H1299 lung cancer cells, and vascular endothelial cells in normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Overexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor by adenoviral vector infection abolished the antiangiogenic effects of deguelin on H1299 nonsmall cell lung cancer cells. Deguelin inhibited de novo synthesis of HIF-1alpha protein and reduced the half-life of the synthesized protein. MG132, a proteasome inhibitor, protected the hypoxia- or IGF-induced HIF-1alpha protein from deguelin-mediated degradation. Our findings suggest that deguelin is a promising antiangiogenic therapeutic agent in cancer targeting HIF-1alpha. Considering that HIF-1alpha is overexpressed in a majority of human cancers, deguelin could offer a potent therapeutic agent for cancer.
We investigated the analgesic effect and the neurological recovery time after administration of remifentanil in mechanically ventilated patients in an intensive care unit. Twenty patients, after trauma or major surgery with no intracranial pathology, were randomized to receive either remifentanil/propofol (n=10) or sufentanil/propofol (n=10). A sedation score and a simplified pain score were used to assess adequate sedation and analgesia. Medication was temporarily stopped after 24 h. Immediately before and 10 and 30 min after, the degree of sedation and pain score were evaluated. Adequate analgesia and sedation was achieved with remifentanil 10.6 microg kg(-1) h(-1) and propofol 2.1 mg kg(-1) h(-1), or sufentanil 0.5 microg kg(-1) h(-1) and propofol 1.3 mg kg(-1) h(-1). The difference in propofol dose between groups was significant. Ten minutes after terminating the medication, the degree of sedation decreased significantly after remifentanil and all patients could follow simple commands. During the following 20 min, all patients with remifentanil emerged from sedation and complained of considerable pain. By contrast, in the sufentanil group, only six (7) responded to commands after 10 (30) min and their pain score remained essentially unchanged during the 30-min observation period. We conclude that, in contrast to sufentanil, remifentanil facilitates rapid emergence from analgesia and sedation, allowing a clinical neurological examination within 10-30 min in mechanically ventilated patients with no intracranial pathology.
Most complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) are caused by Staphylococcus aurens (SA) and streptococcus (SC). More and more isolates of SA and SC are resistant to methicillin (MRSA) and there are concerns that SA will become resistant to vancomycin (VRSA), the current standard of treatment. Dalbavancin (BI397) is a novel semisynthetic lipoglycopeptide that was designed to improve uon the natural glycopeptides currently available, vancomycin and teicoplanin. Phase-III clinical trials comprising more than 1,500 patients evaluating once-weekly dalbavancin in skin and soft tissue infections (SSTIs) associated with Gram-positive bacteria met the primary endpoint of non-inferiority in patients whose clinical response was evaluated at 2 weeks following therapy when compared to linezolid, cefazolin, or vancomycin, the three most widely administered standard-of-care agents for SSTIs. The side effect profile of dalbavancin is mild, with headache and pyrexia being the most adverse effects. Once-a-week dosing with dalbavancin may obviate the need for the continued presence of IV lines in some patients, which could translate into fewer local infections and blood stream infections and which could facilitate transfer of the patients to skilled nursing facilities. Unlike other new antibiotics, such as oritavancin and tigecycline, dalbavancin is not active against vancomycin-resistant enterococcus or VRSA. Its approval by the FDA is expected soon. The extent to which dalbavancin will supplant vancomycin and whether it will be preferred other newer agents such as linezolid.
The divalent cations, Ca++ and Mg++, are known to competitively inhibit a large number of aminoglycoside-membrane interactions, so that Ca++ prevents both the neurotoxic and ototoxic effects of these antibiotics acutely in vitro. Since gentamicin-induced plasma and subcellular membrane damage appear to be critical pathogenetic events in gentamicin nephrotoxicity, Ca++ may play a similar protective role in gentamicin-induced acute renal failure. To test this possibility in vivo, rats (group 2) were given a 4% calcium (in the form of CaCO3) supplemented diet to increase delivery of Ca++ to the kidney and administered single daily subcutaneous injections of gentamicin, 100 mg/kg, for 10 d. Compared with a simultaneously studied group (group 1) of rats receiving identical gentamicin dosages and normal diets, Ca++ supplementation ameliorated gentamicin-induced acute renal failure. After 10 doses of gentamicin, blood-urea nitrogen values in group 1 averaged 213 +/- 15 (SE) and 25 +/- 3 (P less than 0.001) in group 2. The progressive decline in renal excretory function, as measured by BUN, in group 1 animals was accompanied by simultaneous declines in renal cortical mitochondrial function and elevations in renal cortex and mitochondrial Ca++ content, quantitative indices of the degree of renal tubular cell injury. Oral Ca++ loading markedly attenuated these gentamicin-induced derangements. After eight and 10 doses of gentamicin, mitochondria isolated from the renal cortex of group 2 rats had significantly higher rates of respiration supported by pyruvate-malate, succinate and N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-p-phenyldiamine-ascorbate, higher rates of dinitrophenol-uncoupled respiration and greater acceptor control ratios than those measured in mitochondria isolated from the renal cortex of group 1 animals. Similarly, after 8 and 10 doses, renal cortex and renal cortical mitochondrial Ca++ content of group 2 was significantly lower than values observed in group 1. Thus, dietary calcium supplementation significantly protected against gentamicin-induced renal tubular cell injury and, consequently, gentamicin-induced acute renal failure. The mechanism for this protective effect of Ca++ may relate to the manner in which this polycationic antibiotic interacts with anionic sites, primarily the acidic phospholipids of renal membranes. In this regard, Ca++ was found to be a competitive inhibitor both of 125I-gentamicin binding to renal brush border membranes, the initial site of interaction between gentamicin and renal proximal tubule cells, with a composite inhibition constant (Ki) of 12 mM and of 125I-gentamicin binding to phosphatidic acid, an important membrane acidic phosph
One important aspect of risk assessment for the organophosphate and carbamate pesticides is to determine whether their neurotoxicity occurs at lower dose levels in human infants compared to adults. Because these compounds probably exert their neurotoxic effects through the inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), the above question can be narrowed to whether the cholinesterase inhibition and neurotoxicity they produce is age-dependent, both in terms of the effects produced and potency. The rat is the animal model system most commonly used to address these issues. This paper first discusses the adequacy of the postnatal rat to serve as a model for neurodevelopment in the postnatal human, concluding that the two species share numerous pathways of postnatal neurodevelopment, and that the rat in the third postnatal week is the neurodevelopmental equivalent of the newborn human. Then, studies are discussed in which young and adult rats were dosed by identical routes with organophosphates or carbamates. Four pesticides were tested in rat pups in their third postnatal week: aldicarb, chlorpyrifos, malathion, and methamidophos. The first three, but not methamidophos, caused neurotoxicity at dose levels that ranged from 1.8- to 5.1-fold lower (mean 2.6-fold lower) in the 2- to 3-week-old rat compared to the adult. This estimate in the rat, based on a limited data set of three organophosphates and a single carbamate, probably represents the minimum difference in the neurotoxicity of an untested cholinesterase-inhibiting pesticide that should be expected between the human neonate and adult. For the organophosphates, the greater sensitivity of postnatal rats, and, by analogy, that expected for human neonates, is correlated with generally lower levels of the enzymes involved in organophosphate deactivation.
Hypersensitivity vasculitis occurs in response to various exogenous agents. A case of a serum sickness syndrome with cutaneous vasculitis is described in a patient given an intravenous iron-dextran infusion.
1,2,3-Trichloropropane was evaluated in 2-year toxicology and carcinogenesis studies by the National Toxicology Program. The selection of this chemical for study was based on the potential for human exposure, its positive in vitro genotoxicity, and the carcinogenicity of structurally related chemicals. During the 2-year study 1,2,3-trichloropropane was administered in corn oil by gavage 5 days per week; groups of 60 F344/N rats received 0, 3, 10, or 30 mg/kg, while groups of 60 B6C3F1 mice received 0,6,20, or 60 mg/kg. Because of reduced survival associated with the development of chemical-related neoplasms, rats that received 30 mg/kg were terminated at 65 weeks (females) or 76 weeks (males). Similarly, mice that received 60 mg/kg were terminated at 73 weeks (females) or 79 weeks (males), while groups of mice that received 20 mg/kg were terminated at 88 weeks. 1,2,3-Trichloropropane induced benign and/or malignant neoplasms at multiple sites in both rats and mice; this included increased incidences of benign and malignant neoplasms of the squamous epithelium of the oral mucosa and forestomach of male and female rats, benign neoplasms of the kidney and pancreas and benign or malignant neoplasms of the preputial gland in male rats, malignant neoplasms of the mammary gland, and benign or malignant neoplasms of the clitoral gland in female rats. In mice, 1,2,3-trichloropropane induced a low incidence of malignant neoplasms of the oral mucosa in females, high incidences of benign and malignant neoplasms of the forestomach in males and females, benign neoplasms of the liver and harderian gland of males and females, and uterine neoplasms in females.
The effects of administration of vitamin D₃ and Seocalcitol on MNU-induced carcinogenesis of mammary gland in Sprague-Dawley rats have been investigated. Administration of both substances in a weekly dose of 7 μg/kg caused prolonged latency of mammary gland tumors. The latency of tumors was markedly prolonged for 30-40 days by Seocalcitol. Using PET analysis, reduction in [¹⁸F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) uptake or tumor volume in tumors chemopreventively treated with vitamin D₃ were detected in MNU-induced tumors, vitamin D₃ reduced expression of 25-hydroxylase (25OHase) (p<0.01) and 24-hydroxylase (24OHase) (p<0.01) and Seocalcitol 24OHase. Positive regulation of 25OHase mRNA level after the treatment with vitamin D₃ was observed in liver, while in kidney, vitamin D₃ and Seocalcitol induced expression of 24OHase was significant. Our observations indicate a cross talk between respective pathways of VDR, RARs/RXRs, TRs and ERs in carcinogenesis process.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is expressed in the myocardium after myocardial infarction (MI) and in heart failure. Its pathophysiological role in these conditions, however, is not clear. We hypothesized that increased NO production from iNOS expression causes myocardial dysfunction and results in higher mortality after MI.
MI was induced by left coronary artery ligation in iNOS(-/-) mutant and wild-type mice. Mortality was followed up for 30 days. MI resulted in a significant increase in mortality in both iNOS(-/-) and wild-type mice compared with sham operation (P<0.01). Mortality was significantly decreased and LV myocardial contractility was increased, however, in iNOS(-/-) mice compared with the wild-type mice (P<0.05). Five days after MI, myocardial iNOS mRNA expression, plasma nitrate and nitrite concentrations, and myocardial and plasma nitrotyrosine levels were significantly increased in wild-type compared with iNOS(-/-) mutant mice (P<0.05). Both basal LV +dP/dt and its response to dobutamine were significantly increased in iNOS(-/-) compared with the wild-type mice (P<0.05).
Increased NO production from iNOS expression contributes to myocardial dysfunction and mortality after MI in mice.
Peripheral neuropathies (PN) represent the most common neurological manifestation in patients with HIV infection. Introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) had a significant impact on the epidemiology of HIV-associated neuropathies even in poor-resources countries. HIV-infected patients were followed up over a 2-years period from January 2002 to December 2003. PN was clinically diagnosed based on abnormalities of ankle reflexes or vibratory perception and if patients described pain, paresthesia or numbness. Electromyography was not performed in this study Among the 133 HIV-infected patients treated with HAART 31 patients (23 females and 8 males) with 38.8 of mean age were followed up for PN. 95.5% among them were HIV1-infected. According to the availability of the antiretroviral therapy, 9 patients were treated with protocol A including lamivudine + stavudine + nevirapine, 12 patients with protocol B including combination of stavudine + lamivudine + efavirenz, and 10 patients with protocol C with other combinations of antiretroviral therapies. Average CD4 cell count was 229.3/microl and 60% of the sample had < 200 CD4 cell counts at the time of diagnosis. PN occurred within 5.6 months from the institution of the HAART and 80% less than 3 months after the beginning of the treatment. Burning feet syndrome was found in 16.1% of the sample. 45.2% of polyneuropathies occurred in late stage of HIV infection (< 200 CD4/microl). The presence of PN was related to decreased CD4 cells counts and neurotoxic antiretroviral therapy Introduction of HAART has modified the course and the prognosis of HIV infection even in poor resources setting. The incidence of toxic neuropathies is increasing with longer patients' life expectancy and represents a major factor in treatment limitation and the neurological side effects of HAART should be well identified by physicians.
We had the impression that adverse reactions to standard antimalarial prophylaxis were reported much more often than stated by the package insert and medical drug references; and that side effects adversely affected compliance. Therefore, we evaluated adverse effects and compliance of the two standard malaria prophylactic regimens (mefloquine 250 mg per week and proguanil 100 mg twice per day) among short-term travellers. We expected that travellers who had experienced possible adverse effects on previous journeys might avoid antimalarial drugs on subsequent journeys (self-selection) and we therefore looked at adverse effects dependent on prior use.
The presence of neuropsychological and gastrointestinal symptoms were assessed by telephone interviewing of 300 travellers who had visited the travel vaccination service of our regional public health institute. Symptoms, prior use and non-compliance of 104 mefloquine users and 103 proguanil users were compared with 93 non-users in order to control for travel-related symptoms.
Mefloquine showed the following adverse effects: depression [excess risk (ER) 7.2 per 100 users], dizziness (ER 9.3) and itching (ER 12.3). Adverse effects of proguanil were dizziness (ER 7.5) and nausea (ER 12.7). Adverse effects were mostly mild to moderate and occurred mainly during the time abroad. These results did not change when adjusting for age, sex, or destination. For almost every symptom, we found a remarkable difference between the relationship of symptoms and antimalarial drugs in first-time users and that in prior users: in the first-time users the relationship was positive, while in prior users it was absent or negative. This could be due to self-selection or adaptation to adverse effects. 22% of mefloquine users were non-compliant, whereas 35% of proguanil users were non-compliant. Adverse effects (experienced or expected) were the most often reported reason for mefloquine users to stop or even not to start taking the drug (42%). For proguanil, most of the non-compliant participants saw no point in starting or continuing its use (perceived uselessness 54%).
We can confirm the reports by users that adverse effects of mefloquine and proguanil are common and, although mostly mild, adversely affect compliance. We suggest that a longer run-in period for mefloquine as well as counselling travellers about possible adverse effects might improve compliance.
Targeting synthetic lethality in DNA repair pathways has become a promising anti-cancer strategy. However little is known about such interactions with regard to the nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway. Therefore, cell lines with a defect in the NER genes ERCC6 or XPC and their normal counterparts were screened with 53 chemically defined phytochemicals isolated from plants used in traditional Chinese medicine for differential cytotoxic effects. The screening revealed 12 drugs that killed NER-deficient cells more efficiently than proficient cells. Five drugs were further analyzed for IC(50) values, effects on cell cycle distribution, and induction of DNA damage. Ascaridol was the most effective compound with a difference of >1000-fold in resistance between normal and NER-deficient cells (IC(50) values for cells with deficiency in ERCC6: 0.15μM, XPC: 0.18μM, and normal cells: >180μM). NER-deficiency combined with ascaridol treatment led to G2/M-phase arrest, an increased percentage of subG1 cells, and a substantially higher DNA damage induction. These results were confirmed in a second set of NER-deficient and -proficient cell lines with isogenic background. Finally, ascaridol was characterized for its ability to generate oxidative DNA damage. The drug led to a dose-dependent increase in intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species at cytotoxic concentrations, but only NER-deficient cells showed a strongly induced amount of 8-oxodG sites. In summary, ascaridol is a cytotoxic and DNA-damaging compound which generates intracellular reactive oxidative intermediates and which selectively affects NER-deficient cells. This could provide a new therapeutic option to treat cancer cells with mutations in NER genes.
A 38-year-old man developed secondary adrenal insufficiency as a consequence of intrathecal methylprednisolone administration. Evidence in support of this diagnosis included an absent plasma cortisol response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia, an inadequate adrenal response to exogenous corticotropin stimulation, a typical delayed response to prolonged corticotropin infusion over 3 days, and the findings of an elevated level of prednisolone in the cerebrospinal fluid a full 2 months after its administration. It is therefore recommended that patients receiving intrathecal steroids be carefully observed for the possible development of secondary adrenal insufficiency.
A double-blind trial has been carried out to compare the effects of monobutazone and phenylbutazone in ambulant outpatients with rheumatoid arthritis.One patient developed urticaria, vertigo, weakness, tinnitus and blurred vision during monobutazone administration.Side effects occurring in other patients were for the most part trivial.Untoward symptoms were less frequent in patients taking monobutazone than among those on phenylbutazone.The subjects showed neither improvement nor deterioration during administration of ASA, monophenylbutazone or phenylbutazone.Nevertheless, statistical analysis demonstrated differences between the effects of treatment with monobutazone and phenylbutazone which indicated that phenylbutazone is more effective than monobutazone.
Progression of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of blindness in the elderly, was followed in a cohort of 238 individuals from a single center. Individuals with an epsilon (epsilon)2 genotype (c.526C>T of reference sequence NM_000041.2) of the apolipoprotein (APOE) gene were found to be strongly associated with disease with a significant 4.8-fold increased relative risk compared to individuals with an epsilon4 genotype (c.388T>C of reference sequence NM_000041.2) (odds ratio [OR], 4.8; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.19-19.09) and a nearly significant three-fold increased relative risk compared to individuals with an epsilon3 genotype (reference sequence NM_000041.2) (OR, 2.8; 95% CI, 0.96-19.09). This finding was present only in females who progressed with AMD, which suggests that there may be a gender-specific role in progression of AMD in individuals with an epsilon2 allele. A gender-related factor is therefore implicated either directly or indirectly in the AMD disease process.
A persistent, chronic dry cough is the most common adverse effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors therapy. The mechanism of this respiratory adverse effect is related to the inhibition of ACE and the accumulation of bradykinin, substance P, prostanoids and inflammatory neuropeptides in the airways.
The aim of this study was to follow the relationship between 15-days administration of enalapril and the defence reflexes of the airways of experimental animals and possibility of pharmacological restriction with inhaled furosemide.
From the defence reflexes of the airways the changes of the parameters of a mechanically induced cough in nonanaesthetized cats were measured. The reactivity of the smooth muscle of the airways to the bronchoconstrictor mediator was evaluated by in vitro method. The enalapril was administered for 15-days in the dosage of 5 mg/kg b.w. p.o., inhaled furosemide for 15-days in the dosage 10 mg/kg b.w.
The results suggested that long-lasting administration of enalapril resulted in a significant increase of measured cough parameters and increased reactivity of tracheal smooth muscle to the histamine. The reactivity of the lung smooth muscle was not influenced significantly after enalapril treatment. Inhaled furosemide administered with enalapril significantly decreased the enalapril induced cough and decreased enalapril potentiated reactivity of the tracheal smooth muscle to the histamine.
The results showed the protective effect of inhaled furosemide against the respiratory adverse effects induced by ACE-inhibitors administration.
