Thymopoietin or TMPO (indicated by its alternative gene symbol, LAP2, in this work) has been proposed as a candidate disease gene for dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), since a LAP2 product associates with nucleoplasmic lamins A/C, which are encoded by the DCM gene LMNA. We developed a study to screen for genetic mutations in LAP2 in a large collection of DCM patients and families. A total of 113 subjects from 88 families (56 with familial DCM (FDC) and 32 with sporadic DCM) were screened for LAP2 mutations using denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography and sequence analysis. We found a single putative mutation affecting the LAP2alpha isoform in one FDC pedigree. The mutation predicts an Arg690Cys substitution (c.2068C>T; p.R690C) located in the C-terminal domain of the LAP2alpha protein, a region that is known to interact with lamin A/C. RT-PCR, Western blot analyses, and immunolocalization revealed low-level LAP2alpha expression in adult cardiac muscle, and localization to a subset of nuclei. Mutated Arg690Cys LAP2alpha expressed in HeLa cells localized to the nucleoplasm like wild-type LAP2alpha, with no effect on peripheral and nucleoplasmic lamin A distribution. However, the in vitro interaction of mutated LAP2alpha with the pre-lamin A C-terminus was significantly compromised compared to the wild-type protein. LAP2 mutations may represent a rare cause of DCM. The Arg690Cys mutation altered the observed LAP2alpha interaction with A-type lamins. Our finding implicates a novel nuclear lamina-associated protein in the pathogenesis of genetic forms of dilated cardiomyopathy.
Paraquat (PQ), a quaternary nitrogen herbicide, is commonly used as a pesticide despite of its high toxicity. Our study evaluated the effect of subchronic PQ exposure on the neuropathology, genotoxicity, and antioxidant activity on the nervous tissue of Drosophila melanogaster. We also explored the behavioral effect of PQ on D. melanogaster. Furthermore, we attempted to validate the mechanism by evaluating PQ-induced cytotoxicity on the D-Mel2 cell lines. The fruit fly D. melanogaster serves as a feasible model to understand the mechanism of neurodegenerative diseases. Our study shows a dose-dependent PQ-induced neuropathology in the brain tissue of D. melanogaster as evidenced by hematoxylin and eosin staining, silver nitrate staining, and transmission electron microscopy. Electron microscopic study of D. melanogaster brain tissue exhibited vacuolar degeneration and significant neuronal damage across the nervous tissue structure in comparison with control. Our findings also indicate a dose-dependent locomotor impairment and decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) specific activity in PQ-treated D. melanogaster. These PQ-induced neuroanatomical changes and decreased SOD specific activity showed a significant association with oxidative DNA damage as observed by alkaline comet assay. Additionally, we show, for the first time, a dose-dependent PQ-induced cytotoxicity in the D-Mel2 cells suggesting loss of neuronal cell viability via cytotoxic damage. Our data suggest that PQ exposure results in neurodegeneration in D. melanogaster and that fruit fly is a suitable in vivo model for correlating the neuroanatomical changes with neurotoxic damages to nervous system.
Cannabidiol (CBD), a nonpsychoactive cannabinoid of Cannabis, was given to 5 patients with dystonic movement disorders in a preliminary open pilot study. Oral doses of CBD rising from 100 to 600 mg/day over a 6 week period were administered along with standard medication. Dose-related improvement in dystonia was observed in all patients and ranged from 20 to 50%. Side-effects of CBD were mild and included hypotension, dry mouth, psychomotor slowing, lightheadedness, and sedation. In 2 patients with coexisting Parkinsonian features, CBD at doses over 300 mg/day exacerbated the hypokinesia and resting tremor. CBD appears to have antidystonic and Parkinsonism-aggravating effects in humans.
inflammation and proteolysis are important processes in the development of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) (a product of cyclo-oxygenase 2), other inflammatory mediators and proteolytic enzymes are produced in high quantities in the aneurysm wall. We developed an explant culture system for AAA tissue to assess the effects of potential drug therapies.
full thickness biopsies of human AAA were established in culture in the presence or absence of indomethacin (a cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitor). The conditioned medium was collected at 48 h intervals and analysed for products of collagen breakdown, matrix metalloproteinases, PGE2 and inflammatory cytokines. Explant viability was assessed by histology, glucose consumption, lactate dehydrogenase release and demonstration of protein synthesis in the tissue.
nuclear morphology was maintained for 4 or more days and this, together with biochemical assays, indicated that AAA explants were viable in short-term culture. Indomethacin (10 microM) markedly reduced AAA explant production of prostaglandin E2 from 320 ng/ml to 3.3 ng/ml (p=0.028, n=6). Indomethacin also reduced the release of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) (from 166 pg/ml to 9.8 pg/ml, p =0.04, n=5) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) (from 119 ng/ml to 57 ng/ml, p=0.028, n=6), but had no effect on monocyte chemotactic protein 1 or matrix metalloproteinase-9 secretion.
short-term explants of AAA are a novel method to assess the effects of drugs on aneurysm tissue. Indomethacin reduces the production of PGE2, IL-1beta and IL-6, suggesting that cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors may control the inflammation in the aneurysm wall and potentially limit AAA growth.
Milrinone (Win 47203) is a dipyridine related to amrinone, which is about 20-50 times as effective as amrinone when assayed on cardiac contractility. In dog heart-lung preparations, milrinone in a concentration of 0.25-0.5 microM produced a near maximal positive inotropic effect on a variety of acute heart failures. This dosage produced a minimal increase in heart rate and reduced the PR interval. Large doses of milrinone did not produce cardiac irregularities and in Nifedipine heart failure with ventricular irregularities, it eliminated these irregularities. Papaverine-induced heart failure was resistant to ouabain, epinephrine and milrinone therapy. In the presence of positive inotropic amounts of papaverine or theophylline, a pentobarbital heart failure was superimposed. This heart failure responded poorly to milrinone, although it responded to both the addition of epinephrine and ouabain. It is thus possible that milrinone, papaverine and theophylline have closely related sites of action.
We serendipitously found that zonisamide (ZNS), an antiepileptic agent, has beneficial effects on Parkinson disease. A 25 mg once a day of ZNS (200-600 mg/day for epilepsy), significantly improves motor function of advanced patients with Parkinson disease. Its effects maintained at least one year even in patients with advanced stage. It was finally approved as an anti parkinsonian agent in Japan on January 2009. As the mechanism of antiparkinsonian effects of ZNS, we showed that ZNS increases dopamine contents in the striatum by activating dopamine synthesis through increasing the levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA and TH protein. It moderately inhibits monoamine oxydase (MAO) activity. ZNS shows significant inhibition on T-type Ca++ channel. It may also affect the beneficial effects of ZNS on Parkinson disease. ZNS also showed neuroprotective effects on several parkinsonian models. It markedly inhibited quinoprotein formation and increased the level of glutathione by enhancing the astroglial cystine transport system and/or astroglial proliferation through S100beta. We will verify the neuroprotective effects of ZNS on patients with Parkinson disease and study the factors responsible for the individual difference of the effects of ZNS by using genome wide association study (GWAS) in the near feature.
The chemopreventive efficacy of N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), anethole trithione, miconazole and phenethylisothiocyanate (PEITC), each of which would be expected to alter carcinogen metabolism, was examined in the dimethylbenzanthracene (DMBA) mammary carcinogenesis model. In this protocol, animals were exposed to non-toxic doses of the chemopreventives in the diet beginning 7 days prior to DMBA administration and then continuously throughout the duration of the assay (100 days post carcinogen). Miconazole, an antifungal agent with relatively broad inhibitory activity toward a variety of cytochromes P450, increased mammary tumor latency, decreased tumor incidence at the highest dose and decreased tumor multiplicity up to 60%. Anethole trithione, a substituted dithiolthione and an analog of the relatively broad-spectrum chemopreventive oltipraz, was administered in the diet and significantly inhibited mammary cancer multiplicity but not cancer incidence. NAC, an antimucolytic agent, failed to inhibit DMBA-induced mammary tumorigenesis. Surprisingly, treatment with DMBA plus PEITC, a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 2E1, actually increased the multiplicity of tumors relative to that observed with DMBA alone.
Macrolide antibiotics, including azithromycin, also possess anti-inflammatory properties. However, the molecular mechanism(s) of activity as well as the target cells for their action have not been unambiguously identified as yet. In this study, the effects of azithromycin on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced pulmonary neutrophilia were investigated in mice. Using immunohistochemistry, mRNA and specific protein assays, we confirmed that azithromycin ameliorates LPS-induced pulmonary neutrophilia by inhibiting interleukin-1β (IL-1β) expression and production selectively in alveolar macrophages as well as in LPS-stimulated J774.2 macrophage-derived cells in vitro. Inhibition by azithromycin of neutrophilia and IL-1β was accompanied by prevention of nuclear expression of activator protein-1 (AP-1) in both alveolar macrophages and J774.2 cells. The macrolide did not alter nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) or extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) expression, activation or localization in LPS-stimulated lungs or in J774.2 cells. In conclusion, we have shown that inhibition of LPS-induced pulmonary neutrophilia and IL-1β concentrations in lung tissue following azithromycin treatment is mediated through effects on alveolar macrophages. In addition, we have shown for the first time, in an in vivo model, that azithromycin inhibits AP-1 activation in alveolar macrophages, an action confirmed on J774.2 cells in vitro.
Lysyl-oxidases catalyze the oxidation of lysine residues in collagen and elastin thereby promoting their polymerization. We have studied here the expression of four lysyl-oxidases in normal and diseased human liver.
The expression of the different lysyl-oxidases in paraffin embedded liver sections was studied using in-situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The enzymatic activity of lysyl-oxidase like protein-2 (Loxl2 or LOR-1) using a previously described lysyl-oxidase assay.
We have found that the four lysyl-oxidases which we examined are not significantly expressed in the normal liver. By contrast, Wilson's disease and primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) patients express lysyl-oxidase (Lox) and lysyl-oxidase like protein-2 (Loxl2 or LOR-1) in hepatocytes, and the expression is accompanied by collagen deposition around the hepatocytes. Lysyl-oxidases are also expressed in additional fibrotic liver diseases such as hepatitis B and C but in these diseases the expression is confined to the fibrotic lesions and collagen does not accumulate around hepatocytes. We have found that Loxl2 is able to oxidize lysine residues of collagen, and behaves in that respect similarly to Lox. The copper chelator D-penicillamine inhibits Loxl2 induced oxidation of collagen but the Lox inhibitor beta-aminopropionitrile did not inhibit the oxidation using a BAPN concentration at which Lox activity was completely inhibited. Loxl2 also catalyzed the oxidation of cell surface proteins on HepG2 hepatoblastoma cells and inhibited their proliferation.
Upregulation of Lox and Loxl2 in hepatocytes of Wilson's disease and PBC patients may contribute to liver damage by various mechanisms. The upregulation of Lox and Loxl2 in Wilson's disease could perhaps be utilized for diagnostic purposes since their expression is up-regulated in hepatocytes even before the onset of fibrosis.
Homozygous mutant Ncx/Hox11L.1-deficient (Ncx-/-) mice develop mega-ileo-ceco-colon (mega-ICC) with a caliber change in the proximal colon. The authors investigated the mechanism of intestinal dysmotility in these mice.
Five-week-old Ncx-/- mice with mega ICC were compared with age-matched BDF1 control mice. Jejunum, ileum, and colon were excised from all mice and 1.0-cm-long strips of each organ, each with a resting tension of 0.5g, were suspended in an organ bath filled with Tyrode's solution at 37 degrees C and bubbled with a mixture of 95% oxygen and 5% carbon dioxide. Contractile responses to acetylcholine chloride (ACh), histamine, serotonin, and barium chloride (BaCl2) were recorded isometrically.
For ACh, Ncx-/- mice had decreased distal colon circular muscle contraction only at lower doses and decreased distal colon longitudinal muscle contraction for all doses compared with controls (P <.05 or P <.01). In the proximal colon, Ncx-/- mice had increased circular muscle contraction only at higher doses and decreased longitudinal muscle contraction only at lower doses compared with controls (P <.01 or P <.05). ACh did not affect jejunum, and there were no significant effects on ileum. There was no response to histamine and serotonin by any part of the bowel, and the response to BaCl2 was the same for both Ncx-/- mice and controls.
Only ACh differentially affected muscle contraction in Ncx-/- mice in the proximal and distal colon. Thus, ACh is implicated in causing the bowel dysmotility seen in Ncx-/- mice and human IND.
Abdominal wall haematomas are uncommon, difficult to diagnose clinically and often associated with systemic anti-coagulation. Seven cases together with the imaging results are presented and the characteristic features and potential pitfalls are discussed. Ultrasound is the first line investigation but the results can be misleading and computed tomography (CT) is often required to confirm the diagnosis.
We previously published the synthesis, characterization and cytotoxic effect of the novel Zn(II), Ni(II), and Cd(II) complexes with 2-formylpyridine selenosemicarbazone. Here we further investigate the mechanism of their antiproliferative activity against several cancer and vascular endothelial cell lines and compared it to the activity of the ligand itself, corresponding salts and, as a referent compound, cisplatin. Investigated complexes induced apoptosis in a time- and dose-dependent manner as well as changes in a cell cycle distribution. Caspase-3 activation in HeLa cells, MDA-MB-361 and vascular endothelial cells EA.hy 926 cells by ligand alone, as well as Zn(II), Ni(II), and Cd(II) complexes was preceded by the activation of the p53 tumor-suppressor gene family protein p73. In addition to activation of p73, these compounds also trigger cytochrome C release by upregulation of Bax expression. The release of cytochrome C has been linked to loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. However, our data indicated that the increased phosphorylation of ERK could be also one of the mechanism involved in the Zn(II), and Cd(II) complexes- induction of apoptosis. Selenosemicarbazone complexes with Cd(II) and Ni(II), possess dual ability to induce apoptosis as well as necrosis, and might present an added advantage for inducing cell death in a diverse array of malignant cells. Taken together, our findings could indicate potential role of these complexes as activator of cross-talk between different signaling pathways that leads to cell death, and thus making the complex intriguing field for further scientific, and maybe clinical investigations.
Lindane is an organochloride pesticide and scabicide. It evokes convulsions mainly trough the blockage of GABA(A) receptors. Nitric oxide (NO), gaseous neurotransmitter, has contradictor role in epileptogenesis due to opposite effects of L-arginine, precursor of NO syntheses (NOS), and L-NAME (NOS inhibitor) observed in different epilepsy models. The aim of the current study was to determine the effects of NO on the behavioral and EEG characteristics of lindane-induced epilepsy in male Wistar albino rats. The administration of L-arginine (600, 800 and 1000 mg/kg, i.p.) in dose-dependent manner significantly increased convulsion incidence and severity and shortened latency time to first convulsion elicited by lower lindane dose (4 mg/kg, i.p.). On the contrary, pretreatment with L-NAME (500, 700 and 900 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased convulsion incidence and severity and prolonged latency time to convulsion following injection with a convulsive dose of lindane (8 mg/kg, i.p.). EEG analyses showed increase of number and duration of ictal periods in EEG of rats receiving l-arginine prior to lindane and decrease of this number in rats pretreated with L-NAME. These results support the conclusion that NO plays a role of endogenous convulsant in rat model of lindane seizures.
It has been postulated that intrathoracic pressure increases may impair cardiac function by decreasing coronary flow. To determine whether altered coronary flow causes or results from change in cardiac function, we used 14 anesthetized dogs in propranolol-induced heart failure following atrioventricular node ablation. After thoracoabdominal binding, the animals were paced and ventilated at the same frequency, and inspiration was synchronized with cardiac systole, resulting in systole-specific pericardial pressure increases (SSPPI). At SSPPI magnitudes of 15 and 30 mmHg, left atrial transmural pressure decreased and cardiac output increased, whereas decreases in left ventricular end-systolic transmural pressure and myocardial O2 consumption were directly related. Concurrent decreases in coronary sinus flow (CSF) and coronary arteriovenous O2 gradient with SSPPI 15 mmHg indicate autoregulation. However, the arteriovenous O2 gradient remained unaltered with SSPPI 30 mmHg, despite further decrease in CSF. Because the absolute diastolic aortic pressure decreased, a limit may exist for increasing SSPPI above which CSF may be directly affected.
CCL20 expression is known to increase in the mucosal tissues of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs). Moreover, the discovery of Nod2 as the IBD1 susceptibility gene has underscored the significance of blood mononuclear cells in IBD pathogenesis.
This study addresses whether CCL20 expression is similarly altered in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients with ulcerative colitis (UC), a major type of IBD in Korea.
Expression of CCL20 was significantly up-regulated in the PBMCs of patients with UC compared with those of normal healthy controls. Interestingly, untreated UC groups expressed higher levels of CCL20 mRNA than either treated UC or normal control groups, suggesting that CCL20 could be modulated by anti-inflammatory drugs. Accordingly, a strong association between CCL20 levels and disease activity index was observed. Supporting these findings, results from a 3-month follow-up study revealed that the UC groups treated with 5-aminosalicylic acid and glucocorticoid exhibited dramatic decreases of CCL20 mRNA in PBMCs, accompanied by ameliorated disease states. Moreover, tumor necrosis factor-alpha- or interleukin-1beta-induced CCL20 secretion was greatly diminished by 5-aminosalicylic acid and/or glucocorticoid treatment of human intestinal epithelial HT-29 cells. Of note, CCR6 cell populations were significantly reduced in the blood of severe patients with UC compared with normal controls, whereas no significant changes in CCR6 cell populations were observed in the blood of patients with mild UC or acute colitis.
Collectively, these findings suggest that CCL20 expression in blood mononuclear cells is associated with altered immune and inflammatory responses in patients with UC.
A 73-year-old man presented with acute renal failure after 3-month standard antituberculosis therapy with rifampicin for pulmonary tuberculosis. Previously undiagnosed human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection was found at the same time. A kidney biopsy showed crescentic glomerulonephritis and tubulointerstitial nephritis. Furthermore, endothelial tubuloreticular inclusions were seen on electron microscopy. Rifampicin was stopped because it was considered as the most possible cause responsible for the rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN). Immunosuppressive therapy was not carried out because of the risk of aggravation of underlying infectious diseases including tuberculosis and HIV. Fortunately, renal function recovered 1 month after discontinuation of rifampicin. This case presented a clinical challenge in the differential diagnosis of the cause for RPGN in such a complex condition and the therapeutic dilemma regarding the use of immunosuppressive drugs.
DNA repair has been suggested to be a major cause of spontaneous drug resistance in patients with lung adenocarcinomas (LADC). Among the DNA repair-related proteins, excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1) has been shown to be essential for repairing cisplatin-induced interstrand cross-linkage. However, the role of other DNA repair-related proteins in drug resistance has not been clearly elucidated. In this study, we used suppression subtractive hybridization and microarray analysis to identify the DNA repair-related genes associated with cisplatin resistance. We focused on the association of XPC protein expression, which plays a pivotal role in the earliest response to global genomic repair, with the survival of LADC patients. Using suppression subtractive hybridization and a microarray analysis to identify drug resistance-associated DNA repair-related genes, we found that the mRNA levels of ERCC1, MSH-3, MSH-6 and XPC were significantly increased in LADC patients. Since the results of ERCC1 mRNA expression corresponded well with those in previous reports, in this study we focused on the clinical correlation between XPC expression and patient survival. The level of XPC protein was determined by immunohistochemical and immunoblotting analyses. We detected the XPC protein in 46 (43%) of 107 pathological LADC samples. XPC protein expression correlated with tumor stage, cigarette smoking and poor survival. In the in vitro experiments with LADC cell lines, increased XPC expression was associated with elevated drug resistance, and silencing of XPC expression reduced cisplatin resistance. Our results suggest that XPC expression predicts drug resistance in LADC.
A small but significant percentage of opioid-dependent patients will require neuroleptic treatment. Several classes of drugs have been shown to affect opioid metabolism. Two patients who were hospitalized with a diagnosis of opioid dependence received concomitant treatment with opioids and risperidone. After receiving risperidone for several days, both patients exhibited symptoms of opioid withdrawal despite having no change in their opioid doses. These withdrawal symptoms resolved soon after risperidone was discontinued. This finding suggests the possibility that risperidone may precipitate opioid withdrawal in opioid-dependent patients.
Aristolochic acid nephropathy, a progressive tubulointerstitial renal disease, is primarily caused by aristolochic acid I (AA-I) intoxication. Aristololactam I (AL-I), the main metabolite of AA-I, may also participate in the processes that lead to renal damage. To investigate the role and mechanism of the AL-I-mediated cytotoxicity, we determined and compared the cytotoxic effects of AA-I and AL-I on cells of the human proximal tubular epithelial (HK-2) cell line. To this end, we treated HK-2 cells with AA-I and AL-I and assessed the cytotoxicity of these agents by using the 3-(4,5-dimethyl-thiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, flow cytometry, and an assay to determine the activity of caspase 3. The proliferation of HK-2 cells was inhibited in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Cell-cycle analysis revealed that the cells were arrested in the S-phase. Apoptosis was evidenced by the results of the annexin V/propidium iodide (PI) assay and the occurrence of a sub-G1 peak. In addition, AA-I and AL-I increased caspase 3-like activity in a concentration-dependent manner. These results also suggested that the cytotoxic potency of AL-I is higher than that of AA-I and that the cytotoxic effects of these molecules are mediated through the induction of apoptosis in a caspase 3-dependent pathway.
The aims of this randomized study were to determine the effect of prostaglandin-(PGE1) or nitroglycerin-(TNG) induced hypotension on local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) and carbon dioxide reactivity during isoflurane anaesthesia in 20 patients after subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) scheduled for aneurysm clip ligation. Mean arterial blood pressure decreased immediately, after giving either PGE1 or TNG. The LCBF, measured using a thermal gradient blood flowmeter, was unchanged after PGE1, while the LCBF increased after TNG infusion (control; 47.6 + 10.0, 60 min after infusion; 55.1 +/- 6.5 (P < 0.05), before clipping; 55.5 +/- 7.8 (P < 0.05)) but returned to control values after its discontinuation. Carbon dioxide reactivity, calculated from % delta LCBF/delta PaCO2 was unchanged during PGE1- or TNG-induced hypotension (PGE1; 2.13 +/- 0.9, 2.48 +/- 0.68 and 2.31 +/- 0.79%/mmHg for before, during and after hypotension respectively) (TNG; 2.08 +/- 0.68, 2.17 +/- 0.64 and 2.02 +/- 0.69%/mmHg for before, during and after hypotension respectively). Carbon dioxide reactivity correlated with presurgical neurological status (rs = -0.7, -0.648 and -0.458 for before, during and after hypotension respectively) and the initial LCBF (rs = -0.605). These results suggest that both PGE1 and TNG are useful drugs for induced hypotension for cerebral aneurysm surgery, because neither decreased LCBF.
To evaluate the possible influence of buspirone on sexual dysfunction in depressed patients treated with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), we analyzed data from a placebo-controlled trial designed to explore the efficacy of buspirone as add-on treatment for patients not responding to an SSRI alone. At baseline, all patients met the criteria for a major depressive episode according to DSM-IV and had received citalopram or paroxetine during a minimum of 4 weeks without responding to the treatment. Buspirone (flexible dosage, 20-60 mg/day) or placebo was added to the SSRI for 4 weeks; the mean daily dose of buspirone at endpoint was 48.5 mg (SD = 1.0). Sexual dysfunction was evaluated using a structured interview. Before starting medication with buspirone or placebo, 40% (47 of 117) reported at least one kind of sexual dysfunction (decreased libido, ejaculatory dysfunction, orgasmic dysfunction). During the 4 weeks of treatment, approximately 58% of subjects treated with buspirone reported an improvement with respect to sexual function; in the placebo group, the response rate was 30%. The difference between placebo and active drug treatment was more pronounced in women than in men. The response was obvious during the first week, with no further improvement during the course of the study. It is suggested that the effect of buspirone on sexual dysfunction is a result of a reversal of SSRI-induced sexual side effects rather than of an antidepressant effect of the drug.
Serotonin has been involved in major depression and is also related to central and peripheral mechanisms of neuroimmunomodulation. Recently, the uptake of [3H]serotonin into human peripheral blood lymphocytes has been reported. We determined the density of serotonin uptake sites by the binding of [3H]paroxetine to blood peripheral lymphocyte membrane preparations of controls and of patients with major depression before and after treatment with fluoxetine for six weeks. The severity of depression was assessed by the use of Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and of Beck Depression Inventory. There was a reduction in the number of sites for [3H]paroxetine in patients before administration of the antidepressant respecting controls, and a recovery after the treatment. Affinity was unchanged. No correlation was obtained between the severity of symptoms determined by Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression or by Beck Depression Inventory, and the number of binding sites for [3H]paroxetine. The levels of the plasma serotonin metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, did not differ between the three groups of subjects, but serotonin was lower in patients after treatment respecting controls and in patients before treatment. The significant correlation between specific binding of [3H]paroxetine and plasma serotonin levels in controls was not present in the patients. Lymphocyte serotonin transporter is decreased in major depressed patients and is modulated by antidepressant treatment. In addition of counting with a peripheral marker in depression, the study of serotonin system in lymphocytes might contribute to understand the bi-directional interaction between the nervous and the immune systems.
Topical and oral retinoids have been successfully used in antipsoriatic therapy over the last 50 years. Development of more selective agents has led to an improved efficacy and safety profile. The first topical receptor-selective retinoid to be approved for the treatment of plaque psoriasis is tazarotene. Topical tazarotene displays an onset of action and efficacy similar to those of other established antipsoriatic agents. Common adverse events of this agent such as pruritus, burning, local skin irritation, and erythema are limited to the skin and generally mild or moderate in severity. Although effective as monotherapy, evidence is accumulating that combining topical tazarotene with other established antipsoriatic therapies results in enhanced efficacy and reduced adverse events. In particular, concomitant use of topical tazarotene with a mid-potency or high-potency corticosteroid in the treatment of psoriatic plaques enhances efficacy and reduces the risk of corticosteroid-induced skin atrophy. Combination of phototherapy with tazarotene accelerates the clinical response and diminishes the cumulative UVB or psoralen plus UVA (PUVA) exposure load. Recently, an oral form of tazarotene has been developed. The results of completed phase III clinical trials of this agent indicate a beneficial effect in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. Adverse events are generally of mild severity, and most of those observed, such as cheilitis and dry skin, are typical of hypervitaminosis A. Of note, oral tazarotene appears not to be associated with other adverse events that are typical of oral retinoids, including hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia. However, since head-to-head trials with acitretin (the only retinoid currently approved for systemic therapy) have not been conducted, it is unclear whether tazarotene is any safer or more effective than acitretin. Moreover, the major drawback of oral tazarotene is teratogenicity, which may limit its use in female patients. Further studies evaluating long-term clinical outcomes with oral tazarotene and its use in combination therapies are awaited.
The metabolic syndrome comprises a clustering of cardiovascular risk factors but the underlying mechanism is not known. Mice with targeted disruption of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) are hypertensive and insulin resistant. We wondered, whether eNOS deficiency in mice is associated with a phenotype mimicking the human metabolic syndrome.
In addition to arterial pressure and insulin sensitivity (euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp), we measured the plasma concentration of leptin, insulin, cholesterol, triglycerides, free fatty acids, fibrinogen and uric acid in 10 to 12 week old eNOS-/- and wild type mice. We also assessed glucose tolerance under basal conditions and following a metabolic stress with a high fat diet. As expected eNOS-/- mice were hypertensive and insulin resistant, as evidenced by fasting hyperinsulinaemia and a roughly 30 percent lower steady state glucose infusion rate during the clamp. eNOS-/- mice had a 1.5 to 2-fold elevation of the cholesterol, triglyceride and free fatty acid plasma concentration. Even though body weight was comparable, the leptin plasma level was 30% higher in eNOS-/- than in wild type mice. Finally, uric acid and fibrinogen were elevated in the eNOS-/- mice. Whereas under basal conditions, glucose tolerance was comparable in knock out and control mice, on a high fat diet, knock out mice became significantly more glucose intolerant than control mice.
A single gene defect, eNOS deficiency, causes a clustering of cardiovascular risk factors in young mice. We speculate that defective nitric oxide synthesis could trigger many of the abnormalities making up the metabolic syndrome in humans.
The authors present three patients with de novo absence epilepsy after administration of carbamazepine and vigabatrin. Despite the underlying diseases, the prognosis for drug-induced de novo absence seizure is good because it subsides rapidly after discontinuing the use of the offending drugs. The gamma-aminobutyric acid-transmitted thalamocortical circuitry accounts for a major part of the underlying neurophysiology of the absence epilepsy. Because drug-induced de novo absence seizure is rare, pro-absence drugs can only be considered a promoting factor. The underlying epileptogenecity of the patients or the synergistic effects of the accompanying drugs is required to trigger the de novo absence seizure. The possibility of drug-induced aggravation should be considered whenever an unexpected increase in seizure frequency and/or new seizure types appear following a change in drug treatment. By understanding the underlying mechanism of absence epilepsy, we can avoid the inappropriate use of anticonvulsants in children with epilepsy and prevent drug-induced absence seizures.
Craniofacial development of vertebrates depends largely on neural crest contribution and each subdomain of the crest-derived ectomesenchyme follows its specific genetic control. The rat small eye (rSey) involves a mutation in the Pax-6 gene and the external feature of rSey homozygous embryos exhibits craniofacial defects in ocular and frontonasal regions. In order to identify the mechanism of craniofacial development, we examined the cranial morphology and migration of cephalic crest cells in rSey embryos. The chondrocranial defects of homozygous rSey embryos primarily consisted of spheno-orbital and ethmoidal anomalies. The former defects appeared to be brought about by the lack of the eye. In the ethmoid region, the nasal septum and the derivative of the medial nasal prominence were present, while the rest of the nasal capsule, as well as the nasal and lachrymal bones, were totally absent except for a pair of cartilaginous rods in place of the nasal capsule. This suggests that the primary cranial defect is restricted to the lateral nasal prominence derivatives. Dil labeling revealed the abnormal migration of crest cells specifically from the anterior midbrain to the lateral nasal prominence in homozygous rSey embryos. Pax-6 was not expressed in the crest cells but was strongly expressed in the frontonasal ectoderm. To determine whether or not this migratory defect actually resides in environmental cues, normal midbrain crest cells from wild-type embryos were labeled with Dil and were orthotopically injected into host rSey embryos. Migration of the donor crest cells into the lateral nasal prominence was abnormal in homozygous host embryos, while they migrated normally in wild-type or heterozygous embryos. Therefore, the cranial defects in rSey homozygous embryos are due to inappropriate substrate for crest cell migration towards the lateral nasal prominence, which consistently explains the cranial morphology of homozygous rSey embryos.
