Gap junction channels are required for normal cardiac impulse propagation, and gap junction remodeling is associated with enhanced arrhythmic risk. Oculodentodigital dysplasia (ODDD) is a multisystem syndrome due to mutations in the connexin43 (Cx43) gap junction channel gene. To determine the effects of a human connexin channelopathy on cardiac electrophysiology and arrhythmogenesis, we generated a murine model of ODDD by introducing the disease-causing I130T mutant allele into the mouse genome. Cx43 abundance was markedly reduced in mutant hearts with preferential loss of phosphorylated forms that interfered with trafficking and assembly of gap junctions in the junctional membrane. Dual whole-cell patch-clamp studies showed significantly lower junctional conductance between neonatal cell pairs from mutant hearts, and optical mapping of isolated-perfused hearts with voltage-sensitive dyes demonstrated significant slowing of conduction velocity. Programmed electrical stimulation revealed a markedly increased susceptibility to spontaneous and inducible ventricular tachyarrhythmias. In summary, our data demonstrate that the I130T mutation interferes with Cx43 posttranslational processing, resulting in diminished cell-cell coupling, slowing of impulse propagation, and a proarrhythmic substrate.
To evaluate plication of the free wall of the left ventricle, which reduces the left ventricular area and volume, as a method to improve the left ventricular systolic function without cardiopulmonary bypass.
8 mixed-breed adult dogs.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) was induced in each dog by administration of doxorubicin (30 mg/m2, i.v., q 21 d for 168 days). Two dogs died during induction of cardiomyopathy. Plication surgery was performed in 4 dogs. Two dogs did not ondergo to surgery (control group). Values for cardiac output (CO), 2-dimensional and M-mode echocardiography, arterial blood pressure, electrocardiography, blood cell counts, and serum biochemical analyses were recorded after induction of DCM (baseline) and 1, 2, 7, 15, 21, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and 180 days after plication surgery. Ambulatory ECG (Holter) recordings were conducted for 24 hours on the day of surgery.
1 dog died after plication surgery. The remaining dogs undergoing ventricular plication had a significant improvement in CO, ejection fraction, and fractional shortening and reductions of left ventricular area and volume after surgery. Electrocardiographic and Holter recordings revealed premature ventricular complexes, which resolved without treatment during the first week after surgery. Clinical condition of the control dogs declined, and these 2 dogs died approximately 40 days after induction of cardiomyopathy.
Plication of the free wall of the left ventricle improved left ventricular systolic function in dogs with doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy. Additional studies are needed to evaluate its application in dogs with naturally developing DCM.
The inactivation of tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) by aberrant DNA methylation plays an important role in the development of malignancy. Since this epigenetic change is reversible, it is a potential target for chemotherapeutic intervention using an inhibitor of DNA methylation, such as 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC). Although clinical studies show that DAC has activity against hematological malignancies, the optimal dose-schedule of this epigenetic agent still needs to be established.
Clonogenic assays were performed on leukemic and tumor cell lines to evaluate the in vitro antineoplastic activity of DAC. The reactivation of TSGs and inhibition of DNA methylation by DAC were investigated by reverse transcriptase-PCR and Line-1 assays. The in vivo antineoplastic activity of DAC administered as an i.v. infusion was evaluated in mice with murine L1210 leukemia by measurement of survival time, and in mice bearing murine EMT6 mammary tumor by excision of tumor after chemotherapy for an in vitro clonogenic assay.
Increasing the DAC concentration and duration of exposure produced a greater loss of clonogenicity for both human leukemic and tumor cell lines. The reactivation of the TSGs (p57KIP2 in HL-60 leukemic cells and p16CDKN2A in Calu-6 lung carcinoma cells) and the inhibition of global DNA methylation in HL-60 leukemic cells increased with DAC concentration. In mice with L1210 leukemia and in mice bearing EMT6 tumors, the antineoplastic action of DAC also increased with the dose. The plasma level of DAC that produced a very potent antineoplastic effect in mice with leukemia or solid tumors was > 200 ng/ml (> 1 microM).
We have shown that intensification of the DAC dose markedly increased its antineoplastic activity in mouse models of cancer. Our data also show that there is a good correlation between the concentrations of DAC that reduce in vitro clonogenicity, reactivate TSGs and inhibit DNA methylation. These results suggest that the antineoplastic action of DAC is related to its epigenetic action. Our observations provide a strong rationale to perform clinical trials using dose intensification of DAC to maximize the chemotherapeutic potential of this epigenetic agent in patients with cancer.
Cardiomyocyte death resulting from apoptosis has been implicated in the evolution of heart failure. In this review, we focus on the concept that the cardiotoxicity of excessive sympathetic nervous system activity observed in heart failure is in part due to myocytes death by apoptosis. In vitro, high doses of norepinephrine induce adult cardiomyocyte apoptosis via 3-adrenergic receptor-coupled signaling pathways (PKA and Ca2+ entry-dependent mechanisms). beta1-and beta2-AR co-exist in the cardiac cell. beta1-AR stimulation is pro-apoptotic, whereas beta2-AR stimulation is anti-apoptotic, mediating its protective effect via coupling to Gi. These in vitro observations have been confirmed in transgenic mice: cardiac beta1-AR overexpression increases apoptosis and leads to heart failure, whereas cardiac beta2-AR overexpression has no deleterious effects. beta-AR stimulation activates p38 kinases and JNK (via the small GTP protein Rac1); and exert anti- and pro-apoptotic effects, respectively. Other studies suggest that beta1-AR-stimulated apoptosis is dependent on Ca2+ -activated calmodulin kinase II and that the anti-apoptotic effect of beta2-AR is mediated via Akt-coupled pathways. beta-AR-stimulated apoptosis involves the mitochondrial pathway. Inhibition of mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening or caspase activation decreases beta-AR-stimulated apoptosis. Reactive oxygen species production is also involved in this process since superoxide dismutase/catalase-mimetics or catalase overexpression prevent beta-AR-stimulated apoptosis. In vivo, it has been shown that beta-AR blockers such as metoprolol and carvedilol have beneficial effects in animal models of chronic heart failure, associated with reduced apoptosis and improved cardiac systolic function. Understanding the mechanisms involved in the control of myocyte loss by the beta-adrenergic system will have direct clinical implications by improving the treatment of heart failure.
Drug-related autoimmune hemolytic anemia appearing with warm-reacting antibodies can be classified according to the offending substances. One of the subtypes can be induced by alpha-methyldopa. However, the pathophysiology of the underlying mechanism is not yet known. In parallel, patients with Parkinson's disease and other extrapyramidal disorders, who are under administration of dopaminergic drugs, often present with abnormal findings with respect to immune parameters. In order to reveal further mechanisms within the immune response, the capability of patients under dopaminergic medication to release cytokines after a stimulatory signal was examined. Therefore, 18 patients who were treated with the dopamine analogue lisuride were compared with an aged-matched control group of 21 healthy volunteers. After stimulation with phytohemagglutinin (PHA), mitogen-induced concentrations of interferon-gamma were significantly higher in the patients treated with lisuride than in the control group. Interferon-gamma leads to an upregulation of MHC class-I and especially class-II molecules on antigen-presenting cells and to an induction of antibody production in B cells. This condition can result in the induction of an autoimmune process. It might be supposed that alpha-methyldopa-type autoimmune hemolytic anemia is mediated by elevated levels of interferon-gamma produced in T cells after a stimulatory signal.
Mitotane is the most broadly used systemic therapy for adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), but its mechanism of action and possible predictors of treatment response are currently poorly defined. Our aim was to evaluate the gene expression of ribonucleotide reductase large subunit 1 (RRM1) and excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1) in ACC as potential biomarkers for clinical outcome and response to mitotane.
Forty-five and 47 tissue samples from two cohorts (Orbassano, Italy; Wuerzburg, Germany) of completely resected ACC were centrally analyzed using real-time PCR for RRM1 and ERCC1 expression. Fifty-four patients received surgery alone and 38 received adjuvant mitotane after surgery. Clinical and pathologic features were highly comparable in the two series. H295R and SW-13 ACC cell lines were also used for pharmacologic tests.
ERCC1 gene expression was not associated to clinical outcome. In contrast, high RRM1 gene expression was associated to shorter disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival at both univariate and multivariate analysis. In patients with low RRM1 gene expression, adjuvant mitotane was associated with improved DFS, whereas this effect was lost in cases with high RMM1 expression. In vitro mitotane induced strong up regulation of RRM1 transcription (up to 25-fold increase) in mitotane-insensitive SW-13 but not in mitotane-sensitive H295R cells. Furthermore, RRM1 silencing in SW-13 cells induced sensitivity to mitotane.
Our in vitro and in vivo data indicate that RRM1 gene expression is functionally associated to mitotane sensitivity and support a possible role of RRM1 determination as a novel molecular biomarker predicting response to adjuvant mitotane in ACC.
Juzen-taiho-to, a Kampo formula, originally consists of a mixture of Shimotsu-to and Shikunshi-to formulas together with two other crude ingredients. Juzen-taiho-to is reported to have a preventive effect on endometrial carcinogenesis in mice. Shimotsu-to exerts an inhibitory effect on estrogen-induced expression of c-fos, interleukin (IL)-1alpha and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha in uteri of ovarectomized mice. In the present study, short- and long-term experiments were designed to determine the effects of Juzen-taiho-to and Shimotsu-to on the estrogen-related endometrial carcinogenesis in mouse uteri, associated with the expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and -2. In the short-term experiment, exposure to Juzen-taiho-to or Shimotsu-to significantly reduced estradiol-17beta (E(2))-stimulated expressions of COX-2 mRNA (p<0.05) as well as the protein. However, no effects on the expression of COX-1 were observed. Shikunshi-to did not affect COX expression. In the long-term experiment, 90 female ICR mice were given N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) into their uterine corpora. The animals were divided into four groups as follows: group 1, a diet containing 0.07% Shimotsu-to and 5 ppm E(2); group 2, a diet containing 5 ppm E(2); group 3, a diet containing 0.07% Shimotsu-to; group 4 served as a control. Exposure of Shimotsu-to reduced the incidence of MNU- and E(2)-induced endometrial adenocarcinoma and atypical hyperplasia at the termination of the experiment (30 weeks). The above findings and our previous reports suggest that Shimotsu-to is responsible for the preventive effects of Juzen-taiho-to on estrogen-related endometrial carcinogenesis in mice, through the inhibition of estrogen-related COX-2 as well as c-fos, IL-1alpha and TNF-alpha expressions.
Dogs dosed chronically (4-7 weeks) with oral flunitrazepam (7.6 mg/kg/day) or diazepam (24-36 mg/kg/day) administered in 4 equally divided doses had dose-related flumazenil precipitated benzodiazepine abstinence scale scores (BPAS) of comparable intensities despite the fact that plasma levels of flunitrazepam and its metabolites were much lower than nordiazepam levels in the diazepam-dependent dog. Both groups of dependent dogs had clonic and tonic-clonic seizures after oral and IV flumazenil. Precipitated abstinence signs persisted longer in the diazepam than in the flunitrazepam-dependent dogs. Differences in the pharmacokinetics of the drugs of dependence, their metabolites, and their interactions at receptor sites offer a partial explanation for the high level of dependence seen in the flunitrazepam dog. The finding that the estimated plasma free concentration of flunitrazepam and its metabolites is equal to or greater than that of diazepam and its metabolites together with the fact that flunitrazepam has a higher affinity for the benzodiazepine receptor than either diazepam, nordiazepam or oxazepam can explain why the intensity of the precipitated abstinence syndrome is comparable in flunitrazepam- and diazepam-dependent dogs. Although the flumazenil-induced precipitated abstinence syndromes observed in flunitrazepam- and diazepam-dependent dogs differed qualitatively they did not differ quantitatively. It is therefore concluded from these data that the doses of flunitrazepam and diazepam, chosen for producing comparable degrees of weight loss during dose escalation, did not differ in the degree of physical dependence that they produced in the dog.
The report presents rare case of a sudden death of a young man, caused by an oleoresin capsicum spray. In consequence, the victim developed acute laryngeal edema and death by asphyxiation.
Levodopa is the most commonly prescribed drug for Parkinson's disease (PD). Although levodopa improves PD symptoms in the initial stages of the disease, its long-term use is limited by the development of side effects, including abnormal involuntary movements (dyskinesias) and psychiatric complications. The endocannabinoid system is emerging as an important modulator of basal ganglia functions and its pharmacologic manipulation represents a promising therapy to alleviate levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Rats with 6-OHDA lesions that are chronically treated with levodopa develop increasingly severe axial, limb, locomotor and oro-facial abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs). Administration of the cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212-2 attenuated levodopa-induced axial, limb and oral AIMs dose-dependently via a CB(1)-mediated mechanism, whereas it had no effect on locomotive AIMs. By contrast, systemic administration of URB597, a potent FAAH inhibitor, did not affect AIMs scoring despite its ability to increase anandamide concentration throughout the basal ganglia. Unlike WIN, anandamide can also bind and activate transient receptor potential vanilloid type-1 (TRPV1) receptors, which have been implicated in the modulation of dopamine transmission in the basal ganglia. Interestingly, URB597 significantly decreased all AIMs subtypes only if co-administered with the TRPV1 antagonist capsazepine. Our data indicate that pharmacological blockade of TRPV1 receptors unmasks the anti-dyskinetic effects of FAAH inhibitors and that CB(1) and TRPV1 receptors play opposite roles in levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a common inherited neuromuscular disorder caused by homozygous loss of function of the survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene. All SMA patients carry at least one copy of a nearly identical SMN2 gene. However, a critical nucleotide change in SMN2 results in alternative splicing and exclusion of exon 7 in the majority of SMN2 messenger RNA (mRNA), thus producing a low level of functional SMN protein. Increasing SMN protein production by promoting SMN2 exon 7 inclusion could be a therapeutic approach for SMA. It has been shown that cellular pH microenvironment can modulate pre-mRNA alternative splicing in vivo. In this study, we tested whether inhibitors of the Na+/H+ exchanger can modulate the exon 7 splicing of SMN2 mRNA METHODS: We treated SMA lymphoid cell lines with Na+/H+ exchanger inhibitors and then measured SMN2 exon 7 splicing by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and SMN protein production by Western blotting and immunofluorescence
We found that treatment with an Na+/H+ exchanger inhibitor, 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)-amiloride (EIPA), significantly enhances SMN2 exon 7 inclusion and SMN protein production in SMA cells. In addition, EIPA increases the number of nuclear gems in SMA cells. We further explored the underlying mechanism, and our results suggest that EIPA may promote SMN2 exon 7 inclusion through upregulation of the splicing factor SRp20 in the nucleus
Our finding that EIPA, an inhibitor of the Na+/H+ exchanger, can increase SMN protein expression in SMA cells provides a new direction for the development of drugs for SMA treatment. However, further translational studies are needed to determine whether this finding is applicable for SMA treatment or just a proof of cellular pH effect on SMN splicing.
Eight groups of six rats were either injected with saline, pentazocine, naloxone, or a combination of pentazocine and naloxone. Studied were the effects on EEG and behavior. It was found that pentazocine induced epileptic seizures in a dose-dependent fashion. In addition, similar behavioral changes were present after all three doses of pentazocine. High doses of naloxone did not cause epilepsy and affected behavior only slightly. Seizures induced by pentazocine were not antagonized by the opiate antagonist naloxone, but were facilitated after the combination of a noneffective dose of pentazocine and a noneffective dose of naloxone. In addition, exploratory behavior was facilitated by the combination of pentazocine and naloxone. It seems that both an opiate and a nonopiate system are involved in this type of epilepsy and in this type of behavior.
Gender is an important factor in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. In the current study, gender difference in acetaminophen (APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity has been examined. Male and female mice were injected with a toxic dose of APAP (500 mg/kg, ip). Female mice were resistant to the hepatotoxic effects of APAP, depicted by serum alanine aminotransferase and sorbital dehydrogenase activities and histological analysis. Basal hepatic reduced glutathione (GSH) levels were lower in females than in males, suggesting that basal GSH level may not be a factor in determining the gender difference of APAP hepatotoxicity. APAP metabolism was slower in females than males, revealed by lower levels of glucuronidation and sulfation and higher amounts of free APAP in the livers of female mice. Lower basal Cyp1a2 mRNA levels and lower expression of Cyp1a2 and Cyp3a11 mRNAs after APAP dosing were also observed in females compared with males. However, there was no gender difference in N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine covalent binding 2 h after APAP administration, suggesting similar APAP bioactivation between genders. Moreover, liver Gst pi mRNA levels were significantly lower in females than males. This finding is consistent with a previous report, which showed that Gst pi knockout mice are protected from APAP-induced liver toxicity. In conclusion, gender difference of APAP-induced hepatotoxicity is not likely due to APAP metabolism. Perhaps, it is in part due to gender-dependent Gst pi expression. However, the mechanism underlying the association between reduction in Gst pi expression and hepatoprotective effect against APAP toxicity remains to be further explored.
Escitalopram is the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) most recently approved for use in the United States. It is structurally related to citalopram, but is felt to have a more tolerable side-effect profile than its parent compound. Side effects are not generally serious and include headache, diarrhea, and nausea. While hyponatremia and the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) have been associated with treatment with other SSRIs, there has only been one case of escitalopram-induced SIADH reported in the literature to date. We now report another case of a patient who developed SIADH after being treated with escitalopram for 4 weeks. The patient's hyponatremia improved following the discontinuation of escitalopram. Clinicians should be aware of this uncommon but significant side effect of SSRIs and monitor high-risk patients for the development of SIADH.
A method of endodontic treatment, using a modification of Maisto's paste, is suggested for preservation of infected primary teeth. Adding more zinc-oxide reagent and other anti-bacterial materials to the original Walkhoff's paste (Kri 1), for pulp canal medication and final filling, seems to improve the pharmacological effect of the paste by reducing the resorption rate. The literature is reviewed and a case with a follow-up time of three and a half years is described, in which the tooth remained stable.
The continuous spinal administration of baclofen has been shown to have therapeutic benefit in the management of spasticity in humans with neuraxial injuries. The present study systematically investigated the potential spinal neurotoxicity of continuous intrathecally-infused baclofen in dogs. Male beagle dogs were prepared with chronic lumbar intrathecal catheters connected to subcutaneously implanted infusion pumps. Three groups of dogs received 28 days of infusion of saline (vehicle: 1 ml/24 hrs; N = 10), 200 micrograms/ml/24 hrs baclofen (N = 10) or 2000 micrograms/ml/24 hrs baclofen (N = 10). A mild, dose-dependent anti-nociception and muscle weakness was observed. Independent assessment of spinal histopathology in dogs sacrificed and perfusion fixed at 28 days of treatment revealed a mild fibrotic reaction to the catheter, but there were no changes distinguishable from vehicle infused animals which could be ascribed to any dose of intrathecal baclofen. Cisternal CSF protein and cells in samples taken at sacrifice were also not different for the three groups. These findings with chronic intrathecally administered baclofen in this dog model jointly support the lack of toxicity of chronic intrathecal baclofen at concentrations up to 2000 micrograms/ml.
The incidence of major complications associated with nonionic contrast media has not been defined in a large study. Accordingly, cardiovascular complications, especially thrombotic events, were prospectively evaluated in 8,517 consecutive patients undergoing diagnostic cardiac catheterization with either iopamidol (n = 6,293) or iohexol (n = 2,224). Thrombotic events were defined as coronary embolus, coronary occlusion, transient ischemic attack or stroke occurring at the time of catheterization. Thrombotic events occurred in 15 patients (0.18%). Coronary thrombus or embolus occurred in 7 patients, a thromboembolus from the ventricular catheter occurred in 1 patients and transient ischemic attack or stroke occurred in 7 patients. Six of 15 patients with thrombotic events were premedicated with heparin. Thrombotic events were unusual in that they tended to occur in clusters within short time intervals. On 1 occasion, a thrombus was observed in the catheter tip before embolization. Other cardiovascular complications were similarly low with an incidence of ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation of 0.1%, profound bradycardia of 0.2% and prolonged angina of 0.3%. There were 2 deaths unrelated to thrombotic events. Although the clinical thrombotic events associated with nonionic contrast have an unusual temporal clustering and may result in major complications, the overall incidence (0.18%) of these thrombotic complications with nonionic contrast agents is quite similar to that reported with ionic contrast media.
The echocardiographic and psychometric effects of amitriptyline or imipramine combined with alcohol have been studied in a double-blind cross-over trial in 7 healthy volunteers. Amitriptyline or imipramine 25 mg b.d. were given for three days and then the dose was doubled. On Days 1 and 10-13 echocardiographic measurements were done, and on Day 15 psychomotor tests were performed. Ethanol 1 g/kg in each session was administered 1 h after drug intake. Alcohol alone increased heart rate and decreased the systolic blood pressure and ejection fraction. It also impaired most of the psychomotor measures, horizontal nystagmus being the most sensitive test. On Day 1, the first dose of imipramine decreased the heart rate and increased diastolic blood pressure. These effects were partly counteracted by alcohol. Imipramine + alcohol decreased the WSTR. Amitriptyline alone did not affect the echocardiographic findings on Day 1. In combination with alcohol it reduced cardiac output and prolonged PEP, and increased the PEP/LVET ratio. During subacute treatment (Days 10-13) WSTR was increased by both antidepressants, but only amitriptyline increased the heart rate. Unlike imipramine + alcohol, amitriptyline + alcohol decreased WSTR and MCSR. Digit symbol substitution was the only pschometric test in which the alcohol effect was clearly enhanced by both amitriptyline and imipramine.
The side effects of rifampicine due to an immunoallergic mechanism are rare and usually observed during discontinued treatment or administration of high doses.
An immediate hypersensitivity reaction with anaphylactic manifestations and increase in IgE occurred in a 39 year-old man suffering from resistant tuberculosis. The reaction occurred within the first hour following a low dose of rifampicin administered in a desensitisation attempt, the outcome of which was favourable after administration of corticosteroids and antihistamines. A type II hypersensitivity reaction occurred in a 76 year-old male patient in the form of thrombopenia on D76 of a twice weekly treatment, diagnosed because of hemoptysis with normalisation of platelet level on withdrawal of rifampicin. An immune complex hypersensitivity reaction was responsible for hepato-renal failure on D68 of twice weekly treatment and required permanent withdrawal of rifampicin and dialysis, which led to subsequent improvement.
These clinical cases illustrate the variability of the hypersensitivity mechanisms observed with rifampicin, the difficulty in imputability tests and methods for immunological confirmation, the interest of continuous treatment which avoids a certain number of these accidents, and that of desensitisation during immediate hypersensitive reactions which permits the continuation this major anti-tuberculosis drug.
Cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine, 2-CdA) is a new antineoplastic drug which exerts its antilymphoproliferative activity by its resistance to the enzyme adenosine deaminase. Cladribine is mostly administered as a 7-day continuous infusion and in a dose of 0.1 mg/kg/day. However, preliminary data show that the subcutaneous and oral routes of administration might be feasible. The drug is well tolerated, and myelosuppression was found to be the dose-limiting toxicity. Nonhematological toxicity, such as alopecia, nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, diarrhea, and organ toxicity is mild or absent. Cladribine has shown efficacy in phase-II studies in hairy cell leukemia [response rate (RR) = 75-100% and complete response rate (CR) = 46-92%], chronic lymphocytic leukemia (RR = 37-67% and CR = 4-39%), and lymphocytic lymphoma (RR = 43-52% and CR = 14-20%). Furthermore, there is preliminary evidence that cladribine might be effective in the treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma (RR = 47% and CR = 20%), acute myeloid leukemia in children (RR = 59% and CR = 47%), acute lymphoid leukemia in children (RR = 14% and CR = 14%) and Waldenström macroglobulinemia (RR = 58% and CR = 3.5%). In multiple myeloma cladribine was not effective. Comparative randomized studies with established first-line and second-line therapeutic regimens are warranted and will define the ultimate place of cladribine in the therapy of malignant hematological disorders.
Fipronil is a phenylpyrazole insecticide designed to selectively inhibit insect gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors. Although fipronil is often used in or near aquatic environments, few studies have assessed the effects of this neurotoxicant on aquatic vertebrates at sensitive life stages. We explored the toxicological effects of fipronil on embryos and larvae using the zebrafish (Danio rerio) experimental model system. Embryos exposed to fipronil at nominal concentrations at or above 0.7 microM (333 mug/l) displayed notochord degeneration, shortening along the rostral-caudal body axis, and ineffective tail flips and uncoordinated muscle contractions along the body axis in response to touch. This phenotype closely resembles zebrafish locomotor mutants of the accordion class and is consistent with loss of reciprocal inhibitory neurotransmission by glycinergic commissural interneurons in the spinal cord. Consistent with the hypothesis that notochord degeneration may be due to abnormal mechanical stress from muscle tetany, the expression patterns of gene and protein markers specific to notochord development were unaffected by fipronil. Moreover, the degenerative effects of fipronil (1.1 microM) were reversed by coexposure to the sodium channel blocker MS-222 (0.6mM). The notochord effects of fipronil were phenocopied by exposure to 70 microM strychnine, a glycinergic receptor antagonist. In contrast, exposure to gabazine, a potent vertebrate GABA(A) antagonist, resulted in a hyperactive touch response but did not cause notochord degeneration. Although specifically developed to target insect GABA receptors with low vertebrate toxicity, our results suggest that fipronil impairs the development of spinal locomotor pathways in fish by inhibiting a structurally related glycine receptor subtype. This represents an unanticipated and potentially novel mechanism for fipronil toxicity in vertebrates.
Brugada syndrome is a recently identified cause of sudden death. Its primary prevention remains controversial, and epidemiology poorly defined.
Electrocardiograms (ECG) of 35,309 individuals (mean age = 37.2 years, 47% men) recorded over a 1-year period were reviewed and classified as (1) typical, (2) suspicious, and (3) negative. Subjects whose ECG was suspicious were offered a provocative test with flecainide, 2 mg/kg, i.v., and individuals whose ECG was typical were advised to undergo programmed ventricular stimulation (PVS).
In 14 men and 6 women between the ages of 24 and 77 years (mean =47.5), ECGs were typical (n=6) or suspicious (n=14). Among 6 subjects with typical ECGs, 3 underwent PVS, which was positive in 1, who received an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). Among 14 subjects whose ECGs were suspicious, 5 declined further investigations and 5 developed typical ECG characteristics of Brugada syndrome after flecainide administration. PVS was negative in 4 subjects who consented to the procedure. Overall, among 35,309 individuals screened, 11 had ECG findings consistent with Brugada syndrome and, over a follow-up of 30 months, all had remained free of adverse cardiac event.
we estimated a prevalence of Brugada syndrome of 0.3% in Lorraine. A single patient received an ICD for inducible ventricular tachyarrhythmia during PVS, representing a potential 30 per million asymptomatic adult rate of ICD implantation for this indication.
Exposure of newborn animals to a foreign Ag may result in immunological tolerance to that specific Ag, a phenomenon called neonatal tolerance. We have previously reported that neonatal administration to Brown-Norway rats of mercury, a heavy metal toxicant, induces a dominant tolerance, specific for the chemical otherwise responsible for Th2 cell-mediated autoimmune responses in this susceptible strain of rats. Neonatal exposure to Ags can prime immunity, rather than inactivate or delete responses, and sustain regulatory functions effective against autoreactive T cells. Here, we address whether such a tolerant response is due to the generation of regulatory cells. The results suggest that the CD8(+) T cell subset is involved in neonatal tolerance to mercuric salt-induced Th2 autoimmune disease. Thus, we demonstrate that in vivo CD8 depletion breaks tolerance following mercury recall in animals under a neonatal tolerance protocol. Furthermore, adoptive cotransfer of splenocytes from naive and tolerant rats as well as transfer of CD8(+) T cells from tolerant animals prevent naive syngeneic rats from developing pathologic Th2 immune responses. These observations indicate that CD8(+) T cells are endowed with regulatory functions in neonatal tolerance and mediate active suppression. Moreover, neonatal tolerance induced the expansion of CD8(+)CD45RC(high) T cells and the emergence of a high percentage of IFN-gamma-synthesizing CD8(+) T cells, which probably reflects the implication of regulatory Tc1 cells. Thus, in vivo induction of neonatal tolerance suppresses Th2 autoimmune responses via generation of a CD8(+) cell-mediated regulatory response.
Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) has had promising results in life-threatening respiratory failure and postcardiotomy cardiogenic failure. From October 1994 to October 1995, 18 patients received 19 ECMOs at National Taiwan University Hospital for severe cardiogenic shock after cardiac surgery. They included patients receiving cardiac massage or repeated bolus injections of norepinephrine to maintain blood pressure (n = 10), patients who could not be weaned off cardiopulmonary bypass after several attempts despite intraaortic balloon pumping and maximal doses of catecholamine (n = 7), and patients with progressive intractable cardiogenic shock after cardiac surgery. Venoarterial ECMO was set up via femoral artery (17 or 19 Fr cannula) and vein (19 or 21 Fr) in all patients except 2 infants. No left heart drainage was performed in any of the patients. The heparin-coated circuit (with Carmeda Bio-active Surface) was used in the last 13 patients to reduce bleeding. Ten (52.6%) of the 19 cases could be smoothly weaned off ECMO, and 6 (33.3%) of the 18 patients were discharged from the hospital in good condition. Four (80%) of the 5 patients after valvular surgery and all 3 heart transplant patients could be weaned off ECMO successfully with the survival rate being 60% and 67%, respectively. Complications included leg ischemia (n = 3), bleeding (n = 4), renal failure (n = 3), and tube rupture (n = 1). The inability to wean off ECMO was caused by multiple organ failure (n = 5), sepsis (n = 2), tube rupture (n = 1), and dysfunction of the ECMO system (n = 1). The major cause of multiple organ failure was hesitation to set up ECMO. Our preliminary results confirmed the effect of ECMO in postoperative cardiogenic shock.
The use of generic drugs has resulted in considerable cost savings; however, whether all generics are truly bioequivalent to their brand-name counterparts is questionable. Although the efficacy of clozapine in the management of treatment-resistant schizophrenia has been well established, reports of relapse after conversion to a generic formulation are becoming more common.
This article presents 7 case studies of patients in a long-term residential care facility who experienced a relapse of psychotic symptoms when the pharmacy inadvertently switched their therapy from brand-name clozapine to a generic formulation. Neither patients, physicians, nor staff of the facility were aware of this switch. Possible reasons for the apparent increased risk of relapse in some patients switched to the generic formulation of clozapine are explored, with reference to US Food and Drug Administration bioequivalence standards and reports.
All 7 patients, whose condition had been well stabilized with brand-name clozapine, experienced a rapid and profound deterioration after the switch to the generic formulation. Five patients required hospitalization. All patients responded well when brand-name clozapine was reinstated.
The findings suggest that brand-name clozapine and the generic formulation may display important clinical differences, and a comparable therapeutic response may not be achievable despite adequate monitoring. Large, controlled, prospective trials are needed to clarify the potential for treatment failure with the use of generic clozapine.
To evaluate the effects of long-term treatment with sulindac on the progression of diabetic retinopathy (DR).
40 Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes were enrolled in a randomized, single-blind controlled trial in which the effects of sulindac (200 mg/day, 100 mg twice a day; n = 16 patients) on the progression of DR were compared to controls (24 patients) for 3 years. All patients were comparable in their age, gender, duration of disease, body mass index, dipstick proteinuria, insulin therapy, glycemic control, and clinical stages of DR. Outcome was determined by comparing parameters of retinopathy in fundus photographs that were taken at time 0 to those taken 1, 2, and 3 years after the initiation of treatment.
Patients in the sulindac group did not develop DR during the course of treatment nor was there progression of pathology in those who began the study with mild non-proliferative DR (NPDR). On the other hand, six patients progressed to mild NPDR in the control group--three at year 1 and three at year 3--and an additional patient progressed to severe NPDR from mild NPDR by year 1 and to proliferative DR by year 2. The findings at year 3 in the sulindac group were significantly (p < 0.05) different from the control group. None of the patients experienced any adverse effects of treatment.
Long-term treatment with sulindac was clinically effective in decreasing the progression of mild DR in type 2 diabetic patients in this pilot study.
Inflammatory cells can either promote or inhibit tumor growth. Here we studied whether CD40, a key molecule for adaptive immune response, has any role in mammary carcinogenesis of BALB/NeuT transgenic tumor-prone mice. We transferred the HER2/neu oncogene into CD40-null background to obtain the CD40-KO/NeuT strain. CD40-KO/NeuT mice showed delayed tumor onset and reduced tumor multiplicity. BM (BM) transplantation experiments excluded a role of BM-derived cells in the reduced tumorigenicity associated with CD40 deficiency. Rather, CD40 expressed by endothelial cells (ECs) takes part to the angiogenic process. Accordingly, large vessels, well organized around the tumor lobular structures, characterize BALB/NeuT tumors, whereas tiny numerous vessels with scarce extracellular matrix are dispersed in the parenchyma of poorly organized CD40-KO/NeuT tumors. Activated platelets, which may interact with and activate ECs, are a possible source of CD40L. Their localization within tumor vessels prompted the idea of treating BALB/NeuT and CD40-KO/NeuT mice chronically with the anti-platelet drug clopidogrel, known to inhibit platelet CD40L expression. Treatment of BALB/NeuT mice reduced tumor growth to a level similar to CD40-deficient mice, whereas CD40-KO/NeuT mice treated or not showed the same attenuated tumor outgrowth, indicating that activated platelets are the likely source of CD40L in this model. Collectively, these data point to a participation of CD40/CD40L in the angiogenic processes associated with mammary carcinogenesis of BALB/NeuT mice.
A recent large-scale, chemical screening study raised the hypothesis that propranolol may increase the risk of myopathy. We tested this hypothesis in a large population to assess whether (1) propranolol use is associated with an increased risk of myopathy and (2) the concurrent use of propranolol with a statin may further increase risk of myopathy.
New users of propranolol and other beta-blockers (BBs) aged >/=65 were identified using data from Medicare and drug benefit programs in 2 states (1994-2005). The primary end point studied was hospitalization for myopathy or rhabdomyolysis. We used stratified Cox proportional hazards regression to estimate the multivariate-adjusted effect of propranolol compared to other BBs and controlled for demographic variables, risk factors for myopathy, other comorbidities, and health service use measures. We also assessed whether co-use of propranolol and statin further increases the risk, by including an interaction term for use of propranolol and statins.
We identified 9,304 initiators of propranolol and 130,070 initiators of other BBs and found 30 cases of hospitalized myopathy in 15,477 person-years (PYs) of propranolol use and 523 in 343,132 PYs of other BB use. Comparing propranolol with other BB users, the adjusted hazard ratio was 1.45 (95% CI 1.00-2.11) for myopathy and 1.48 (95% CI 0.82-2.67) for rhabdomyolysis. We could not detect interaction between propranolol and statins due to limited power. Similar results were observed when propranolol users were compared to other antihypertensive drug users.
Propranolol may be associated with a 45% increased risk of hospitalized myopathy in the elderly. Our study illustrates how results from in vitro chemical screens can be translated into hypotheses about drug toxicity at the population level.
1/1 atrial flutter is a regularly described complication of class I anti-arrhythmics. It is, however, very rarely encountered with class III anti-arrhythmics because prolongation of the atrio-ventricular node refractory period prevents 1/1 nodo-ventricular conduction. There have only been seven cases of 1/1 atrial flutter with amiodarone reported in the literature. Here we describe a new case of 1/1 atrial flutter with amiodarone. Our case clearly illustrates not only the different pro-arrhythmic effects of amiodarone (prolongation of the flutter cycle, and infra-Hissian block) but also the pathophysiological mechanisms possible with 1/1 conduction (prolongation of the flutter cycle, considerable permeability of the AV node). It demonstrates the difficulties of diagnosing such a rhythm disturbance, and that it is sometimes poorly tolerated, as well as underlining the importance of early diagnosis (in this case by oesophageal recording). Preventive treatment of 1/1 flutter can include amiodarone, digitalis, a betablocker or a bradycardic calcium inhibitor.
