Lethal prostate cancers often become androgen-independent due to androgen receptor (AR) overexpression. The role of cadmium in prostate tumor progression was determined.
Control and cadmium-transformed prostate epithelial cells (CTPE) were compared for steroid-induced proliferation, steroid receptor expression, and androgen metabolism.
CTPE cells showed rapid proliferation in complete medium and sustained proliferation in steroid-reduced medium. Androgens stimulated significantly less cell proliferation and AR-related genes expression in CTPE cells. 5alpha-Dihydrotestosterone increased PSA expression more effectively in control cells. Flutamide reduced 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone-stimulated growth less effectively in CTPE cells compared to control. CTPE cells showed decreased p27 expression. Estrogen receptors were overexpressed and estradiol markedly stimulated proliferation in CTPE cells. In CTPE cells 5alpha-aromatase was markedly increased, while 5alpha-reductase was decreased.
Cadmium-induced malignant transformation stimulates androgen independence, unrelated to AR expression or activity. Increased estrogen receptor and 5alpha-aromatase expression suggest estrogen signaling may be critical to this process.
Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is a commonly used treatment for metastatic prostate cancer. A 78-year-old patient with metastatic prostate cancer had transfusion-dependent anemia develop while on ADT. The patient also had hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT), with chronic gastrointestinal blood loss. Blood transfusions were required every 3 weeks for 4 months to keep hemoglobin levels above 8 g/dL, despite discontinuation of ADT. The anemia, which had been well managed with iron therapy before ADT, was worsened by the loss of bone marrow-stimulating testosterone effects. The case highlights testosterone's important role in erythrocyte production. Practitioners should monitor hemoglobin levels in patients undergoing ADT.
There is no generally accepted treatment for tardive dyskinesia following intake of neuroleptics. Many compounds with effects on serotonine, GABA, cholinergic or dopamine receptors have been clinically useful. We report on a 71-year-old female patient suffering from orofacial tardive dyskinesia after treatment with haloperidol, which did not respond to monotherapy with antidyskinetic drugs. The syndrome disappeared almost completely within two weeks after a multidrug approach consisting of tetrabenazine, olanzapine and tiapride. A combination of antidyskinetic drugs should be considered in patients with severe tardive dyskinesia.
The cardiovascular effects of tubocurarine in patients anaesthetised with thiopentone or ketamine have been compared, using volume-pulse finger plethysmography, electrocardiography, sphygmomanometry and impedance cardiography for the clinical assessments. Tubocurarine potentiates the arterial hypotensive effect of thiopentone and reverses the hypertensive action of ketamine. It also prevents the dysrhythmic (adrenergic) reaction of the heart to orotracheal intubation and has less effect on the positive chronotropic and inotropic reactions thereto. Hypotensive doses of tubocurarine in patients anaesthetised with thiopentone do not prevent reflex constriction of the finger blood vessels in response to surgical stimuli (orotracheal intubation) which means that the drug is not a sympathetic ganglion blocker in man. It is concluded that tubocurarine is a myocardial depressant which acts, like verapamil, as a calcium ion antagonist.
The effectiveness of five different serotonin antagonists in the prevention of migraine was compared in 290 patients followed for periods of up to three years. Methysergide 3-6 mg. daily was most effective, with 20% of treated patients becoming headache-free and a further 44% remaining more than "half improved." The corresponding figures for BC105 were 10% and 40%, respectively.The results with BC105 were significantly better than those with placebo (P<0.02). The total improvement rates with methdilazine (45%) and cyproheptadine (43%) were better than those with placebo (32%) but did not achieve statistical significance. A new preparation, methylergol carbamide maleate, which is chemically related to methysergide, did not give better results than placebo.
The present study was to evaluate the hepatoprotective effect of hesperetin (HTN) on cadmium (Cd) induced hepatotoxicity in male Wistar rats. Administration of Cd (3 mg/kg body weight/day) subcutaneously for 21 days, the levels of hepatic markers such as aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) and bilirubin were significantly increased in serum. The levels oxidative stress markers, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), lipid hydroperoxides (LOOH), conjugated dienes (CD) and protein carbonyl content (PCC) were also significantly increased while the levels of vitamin C, vitamin E, reduced glutathione (GSH), total sulphydryl group (TSH) and the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), glutathione reductase (GR) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) were significantly decreased in the liver of Cd intoxicated rats. HTN, a flavanone in citrus fruits, administrated orally along with Cd injection for 21 days, significantly revert back the status of serum hepatic markers, oxidative stress markers and antioxidant markers in the liver tissue to near normal level in a dose dependent manner. HTN at a dose of 40 mg/kg body weight/day exhibits significant (p<0.05) hepatoprotection compared with other two doses (10 and 20 mg/kg body weight/day). The histopathological studies in the liver of rats also supported that HTN (40 mg/kg) markedly reduced the toxicity of Cd and preserved the histoarchitecture of the liver tissue to near normal. Thus, the results suggest that HTN acts as a potent hepatoprotective agent against Cd induced hepatotoxicity in rats.
To investigate the effects of IV morphine on central pain syndromes through quantitative sensory testing and to assess the long-term benefit of oral morphine.
After an initial open titration phase aiming to determine the maximal tolerated dosage of IV morphine, the efficacy of morphine infusion (9-30 mg; mean dosage, 16 mg) was assessed in a double-blind, placebo-controlled and crossover fashion in 15 patients with poststroke- (6 patients) or spinal cord injury- (9 patients) related pain. All of the patients subsequently received sustained oral morphine.
Morphine significantly reduced the intensity of brush-induced allodynia but had no effect on other evoked pains (i.e., static mechanical and thermal allodynia/hyperalgesia). The effects of morphine on ongoing pain were not significantly different from those of the placebo, but 7 patients (46%) responded to morphine. There was a correlation between the effects of morphine on spontaneous pain and the decrease of the responses to suprathreshold thermal stimuli on the nonpainful contralateral side, suggesting that these effects were related to the general antinociceptive activity of the drug. The effects of IV morphine were correlated with those of oral morphine at 1 month, but only 3 patients (20%) were still taking morphine after 1 year.
IV morphine induces analgesic effects on some components of central neuropathic pain syndromes, but only a minority of patients may benefit from long-term opioid treatment.
We studied the possible role of renal prostaglandins (PGs) in captopril-induced hypotension, renal vasodilation, and increased renin secretion using anesthetized dogs. An intravenous injection of 1 mg/kg captopril significantly decreased blood pressure, increased renal blood flow, and raised the renin secretion rate (RSR). These effects of captopril were similar in indomethacin-pretreated (5 mg/kg, i.v.) and in untreated dogs. Captopril administration did not significantly affect the renal PGE2 secretion rate (p greater than 0.10). These results suggest that under our experimental conditions, captopril-induced hypotension, renal vasodilation, and increased RSR may not be due to renal PGE2 release. This does not rule out the possibility that these effects of captopril may be mediated by alterations in the level of circulating bradykinin.
The rubber accelerator, 2-mercaptobenzothiazole (MBT), is known to cause allergic contact dermatitis (ACD), but the mechanism is unknown. The role of the thiol group in MBT's allergenicity was investigated in the present study. Guinea pigs were sensitized to MBT using a modified guinea pig maximization test (GPMT) and reactivity was assessed toward 2-mercaptobenzothiazole disulfide (MBTS), 2-hydroxybenzothiazole (HBT; thiol-substituted), 2-(methylthio)benzothiazole (MTBT; thiol-blocked), and benzothiazole (BT; thiol-lacking). MBT and MBTS, but not BT, HBT, or MTBT, elicited ACD in MBT-sensitized animals, demonstrating that the thiol group is critical to MBT's allergenicity. In addition, both MBT and MBTS were shown to inhibit both glutathione reductase and thioredoxin reductase, and thus contribute to the stability of MBT-protein mixed disulfides. It is concluded that the probable haptenation mechanism of MBT is through initial oxidation to MBTS with subsequent reduction to form mixed disulfides with proteins.
Bone pain is a common side effect of treatment with filgrastim. Pegfilgrastim is a pegylated long-acting analogue of filgrastim that is administered once per chemotherapy cycle. The profile of prospectively defined, patient-reported bone pain judged by the investigators as related to study drug was analyzed retrospectively for each drug using data from two comparable phase III trials. These multicenter, randomized, double-blind, noninferiority trials compared once-per-cycle pegfilgrastim (6 mg, study 1 or 100 microg/kg, study 2) to daily filgrastim 5 microg/kg in patients with stage II-IV breast cancer undergoing multiple cycles of myelosuppressive chemotherapy (doxorubicin/docetaxel). Subcutaneous once-per-cycle pegfilgrastim 6-mg and 100-microg/kg doses were administered to 76 and 150 patients, respectively; subcutaneous daily filgrastim 5 microg/kg was administered to a total of 227 patients. Because bone pain in study 1 was higher (P = 0.044) in every cycle compared with study 2, all analyses were performed separately for each study. No statistically significant differences in incidence, severity, or duration were observed between patients receiving either once-per-cycle pegfilgrastim or daily filgrastim in either study. Bone pain incidence and severity were significantly greater (P < 0.001) in cycle 1 of both studies compared with later cycles. Among patients with bone pain, a trend towards earlier onset with pegfilgrastim was observed but was not associated with increased bone pain severity or duration. In patients who received a fixed 6-mg dose of pegfilgrastim, the overall bone pain incidence was similar when analyzed by body weight (< 60 kg, 60-100 kg, > 100 kg). No patients were withdrawn from either study for bone pain.
In a previous study we showed that many patients with esophagogastric adenocarcinoma experience anemia during neoadjuvant chemotherapy. We now investigated the role of erythropoietin in managing anemia during neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Patients with esophagogastric adenocarcinoma who experienced anemia (hemoglobin < 12 g/dL) during neoadjuvant treatment received erythropoietin 10,000 IE subcutaneously three times a week. Primary outcomes were the response to erythropoietin, safety, the need for allogeneic red blood cell transfusion, and the rate of postoperative complications.
Between April 2003 and December 2004, 24 patients (median age, 62 years) were enrolled. The mean hemoglobin level before chemotherapy was 12.5 g/dL and the mean hemoglobin level before patients received erythropoietin was 11.5 g/dL. One year after involvement in the trial, 4 of 17 analyzable patients were still anemic (hemoglobin level < 12 mg/dL). Twenty-two patients received erythropoietin, and 16 (73%) responded. We could observe a significant increase in hemoglobin concentrations under therapy with erythropoietin to 12.6 g/dL (p < 0.001). Two patients (8%) received allogeneic transfusions; the rate of postoperative complications was 16%. There were no erythropoietin-related adverse events.
Treatment with erythropoietin is effective and well tolerated in patients with esophagogastric adenocarcinoma who experience anemia during neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Citalopram, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is generally considered to be of low toxicity. However, serotonin syndrome, seizures, electrocardiographic abnormalities as well as respiratory failure and death have been described in patients with citalopram overdose. The mechanisms of severe toxicity remain unclear. Our objective was to study the mechanisms of death following high-dose citalopram administration in Sprague Dawley rats. The median lethal dose (MLD) of intraperitoneal (i.p.) citalopram was measured using Dixon & Bruce's up-and-down method at 102 mg/kg. Dose-effect relationships of citalopram-induced clinical features, alterations in arterial blood gas and plethysmography, and disturbances in blood lactate, plasma and platelet serotonin concentrations were studied. Seizures were significantly increased in rats receiving 80% and 120% of citalopram MLD versus controls (p<0.05 and p<0.01, respectively). A significant decrease in body temperature was observed after 90 min in rats treated with doses >60% MLD in comparison to controls (p<0.05). The occurrence of serotonin behavioural syndrome was comparable in all groups. Citalopram administration did not result in significant hypoxemia, hypercapnia and lactate elevation. However, a significant moderate increase in the inspiratory time (p<0.05) accompanied with an expiratory braking was observed. A significant dose-related linear decrease in platelet serotonin and increase in plasma serotonin concentrations were measured (p<0.05). Pre-treatments of rats receiving 120% of citalopram MLD with diazepam (1.77 mg/kg) and cyproheptadine (17.1mg/kg) prevented seizures and death, but propranolol pre-treatment was ineffective. Neuroprotection with diazepam and cyproheptadine was not associated with decreased serotonin plasma concentrations. In conclusion, citalopram-induced deaths resulted from seizures in relation to serotonin release, whilst respiratory and metabolic toxicity was mild. Our observations support the role of serotonin-induced neurotoxicity in citalopram overdose and suggest that cyproheptadine and benzodiazepines, but not beta-blockers, may have a role in the management of citalopram toxicity.
To determine the incidence of clinically significant adverse events after long-term, fixed-dose, generic highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) use among HIV-infected individuals in South India, we examined the experiences of 3154 HIV-infected individuals who received a minimum of 3 months of generic HAART between February 1996 and December 2006 at a tertiary HIV care referral center in South India. The most common regimens were 3TC + d4T + nevirapine (NVP) (54.8%), zidovudine (AZT) + 3TC + NVP (14.5%), 3TC + d4T + efavirenz (EFV) (20.1%), and AZT + 3TC + EFV (5.4%). The most common adverse events and median CD4 at time of event were rash (15.2%; CD4, 285 cells/microL) and peripheral neuropathy (9.0% and 348 cells/microL). Clinically significant anemia (hemoglobin <7 g/dL) was observed in 5.4% of patients (CD4, 165 cells/microL) and hepatitis (clinical jaundice with alanine aminotransferase > 5 times upper limits of normal) in 3.5% of patients (CD4, 260 cells/microL). Women were significantly more likely to experience lactic acidosis, while men were significantly more likely to experience immune reconstitution syndrome (p < 0.05). Among the patients with 1 year of follow-up, NVP therapy was significantly associated with developing rash and d4T therapy with developing peripheral neuropathy (p < 0.05). Anemia and hepatitis often occur within 12 weeks of initiating generic HAART. Frequent and early monitoring for these toxicities is warranted in developing countries where generic HAART is increasingly available.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the effect of transdermal estrogen therapy in postmenopausal women differs from that of oral therapy with regard to resistance to activated protein C (APC), an important risk factor for venous thrombosis, and levels of related proteins, such as protein S, protein C, and prothrombin.
In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 152 healthy hysterectomized postmenopausal women received daily either placebo (n=49), transdermal 17beta-estradiol (E2) 50 microg (tE2 group, n=33), oral E2 1 mg (oE2 group, n=37), or oral E2 1 mg combined with gestodene 25 microg (oE2+G group, n=33) for 13 28-day treatment cycles, followed by 4 cycles of placebo for each group. Plasma samples were collected at baseline and in cycles 4, 13, and 17. In cycle 13, significant increases versus baseline and placebo were found in normalized APC sensitivity ratios (nAPCsr) in all treated groups (tE2, +26.9%; oE2, +102.7%; oE2+G, +69.9%). Increases in nAPCsr were significantly higher in the oral treatment groups than in the tE2 group. In addition, compared with baseline and placebo, after 13 cycles, decreases were observed in total protein S (tE2, -4.1%; oE2, -7.9%; oE2+G, -5.8%), free protein S (tE2, -7.1%; oE2, -8.4%; oE2+G, -5.2%), and protein C in the oE2+G group (-6.4%), but these changes did not explain the increase in nAPCsr. Changes in prothrombin were small and also did not affect the nAPCsr.
Increases were observed in resistance to APC, which were more pronounced in the oral treatment groups than in the transdermal group. The increase in resistance to APC was not explained by changes in protein S, protein C, or prothrombin and may contribute to the increased incidence of venous thrombosis in users of hormone replacement therapy.
The toxic effects and changes in biochemical markers related to kidney and bone in depleted uranium (DU)-injected rats were examined in order to clarify the relation between clinical biochemical markers and the degree of damage in these organs. Male Wistar rats received a single injection in the femoral muscles of 0.2, 1.0 or 2.0 mg kg(-1) of DU which was dissolved in nitric acid solution adjusted to pH 3.2, for comparison with the group injected with nitric acid solution, and the control group. Urine and faeces were collected periodically over a 24 h period. Thereafter, the rats were killed at 28 d after DU injection. The body weights of the DU-injected groups decreased dose-dependently for the first 3-7 d, and then began to increase. The DU concentrations in the urine and faeces decreased rapidly within 3-7 d after DU injection. Urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG)/creatinine peaked at the third day after DU injection, with a high correlation to the injected DU doses. There were high correlations among the injected DU doses, DU concentrations in the kidney and urinary NAG/creatinine values that were obtained at 28 d, respectively. The blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine in the serum also showed a high correlation with the DU-injected doses. The results indicated that urinary NAG/creatinine, BUN and creatinine in serum were useful indicators to diagnose the renal damage by DU, as well as to estimate the DU intake and concentration in the kidney when the intake is >2 mg kg(-1) DU. The total bone mineral density of the proximal metaphysis of the tibia decreased in the 2 mg kg(-1) DU group. In addition, alterations of the trabecular bone structure by inhibiting bone formation and promoting bone resorption were observed by bone histomorphometery. The bone biochemical markers osteocalcin, tartrate-resistance acid phosphatase, pyridinoline and rat-parathyroid hormone increased in all the DU injected groups, indicating that these markers were useful as sensitive indicators for diagnosing bone damage, even if the DU dose injected is low.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia is a major complication of L-DOPA pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease, and is thought to depend on abnormal cell signaling in the basal ganglia. In this study, we have addressed the possibility to model L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the mouse at both the behavioral and the molecular level. C57BL/6 mice sustained unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) either in the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) or in the sensorimotor part of the striatum. Both types of lesion produced a similar degree of forelimb akinesia on the contralateral side of the body. The lowest dose of L-DOPA that could significantly relieve this akinetic deficit (i.e., 6 mg/kg) did not differ between MFB and intrastriatal lesions. The L-DOPA threshold dose for the induction of dyskinesia did however differ between the two lesion types. A daily dose of 6 mg/kg L-DOPA caused MFB lesioned mice to develop abnormal movements affecting orofacial, trunk, and forelimb muscles on the side contralateral to the lesion, whereas a daily dose of 18 mg/kg was required to produce comparable dyskinetic effects in the intrastriatally lesioned animals. The development of abnormal movements was accompanied by a striatal induction of DeltaFosB-like proteins and prodynorphin mRNA, that is, molecular markers that are associated with L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in both rats and nonhuman primates. We conclude that 6-OHDA lesioned mice exhibit behavioral and cellular features of akinesia and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia that are similar to those previously characterized in rats. The mouse model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia will provide a useful tool to study the molecular determinants of this movement disorder in transgenic mice strains.
Phenacetin is well known to cause hemolytic anemia and methemoglobinemia in humans. Early mechanistic studies clearly established a causal role for active/reactive drug metabolites in the process but did not unequivocally identify these metabolite(s) or resolve the question of whether these two hemotoxicities are mechanistically linked. As part of ongoing studies on the mechanism underlying arylamine-induced hemotoxicities, we have recently shown that the arylhydroxylamine metabolites of aniline and dapsone mediate the hemolytic activity of aniline and dapsone, respectively. The present study was undertaken to determine if N-hydroxyphenetidine (PNOH), the known arylhydroxylamine metabolite of phenacetin, is responsible for phenacetin-induced hemolytic anemia. As measured by decreased survival of 51Cr-labeled erythrocytes in rats, phenacetin, p-phenetidine, and PNOH were all hemolytic in vivo, with PNOH being significantly the most potent of the three. In vitro exposure of 51Cr-tagged erythrocytes to PNOH, followed by transfusion into isologous rats, resulted in a concentration-dependent reduction in erythrocyte survival, indicating that PNOH is a direct-acting hemolytic agent. Phenacetin and p-phenetidine were inactive. Phenacetin, p-phenetidine, and PNOH all produced dose-dependent methemoglobinemia in rats. In parallel in vitro studies, PNOH elevated methemoglobin levels, p-phenetidine and phenacetin did not. However, attempts to identify PNOH in the blood of phenacetin- and p-phenetidine-treated rats were unsuccessful, despite the use of a highly sensitive analytical method. Hemotoxic concentrations of PNOH were found to be highly unstable in the presence of red cells, though relatively stable in the buffer vehicle alone. Inhibitors of acetylation (p-aminobenzoic acid [PABA]) and deacetylation (bis-[p-nitrophenyl]phosphate [BNPP]), used to alter the cyclic interconversion of phenacetin and p-phenetidine, caused changes in phenacetin hemotoxicity that indicated the hemotoxin was a deacetylated metabolite distal to p-phenetidine. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that PNOH, formed during the metabolic clearance of phenacetin, mediates phenacetin-induced hemolytic anemia and methemoglobinemia through direct toxic actions in the erythrocyte.
Endometrial cancer is the most common malignancy of the female genital tract. Its incidence correlates with prolonged estrogen stimulation unopposed by progesterone or synthetic progestins. Estrogen and progestin action is regulated at the pre-receptor level, by interconversion of active hormones (estradiol (E2), progesterone (P)) with their inactive counterparts (estrone (E1), 20alpha-hydroxyprogesterone (20alpha-OHP)) in target tissues. Expression of enzymes that control the ratio of E2 and P may thus play role in the disease process. We first confirmed that AKR1C1 (human 20alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase) in a cellular context inactivates P by forming 20alpha-OHP but does not catalyze the reverse reaction. We next examined the expression of AKR1C1 and AKR1C3 (type 5 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase) in 16 paired specimens of endometrial cancer and adjacent normal endometrium. Quantification by isoform specific real-time PCR revealed higher expression of AKR1C1 in nine specimens and higher expression of AKR1C3 in four specimens of endometrial cancer. Importantly, upregulation of both enzymes in the same specimen was observed. Since AKR1C1 inactivates P its elevated expression in diseased endometrium may contribute to diminished protection by P, while elevated expression of AKR1C3 which forms E2 in vivo, may contribute to the enhanced estrogen action. It is suggested that the expression of AKR1C1 and AKR1C3 in endometrial cancer will govern the ratio of P:E2.
Two patients showed evidence of chronic cardiac toxicity after repeated exposure to 1,1,1-trichloroethane. In both cases there was circumstantial evidence of a deterioration after routine anaesthetic use of the related compound halothane. An adolescent boy who sniffed trichloroethane presented with multiple ventricular arrhythmias during tonsillectomy. Follow up showed mild chronic left ventricular impairment. A 54 year old man had repeated industrial exposure to trichloroethane and deteriorated from mild stable cardiac failure to end stage cardiac failure after halothane anaesthesia for herniorrhaphy. Chronic cardiac toxicity is a previously unreported feature of this type of solvent exposure. Related compounds such as halothane may have a toxic interaction after exposure to trichloroethane.
1. Cortisol-induced blood pressure rises in men are not accompanied by increases in plasma catecholamines. The present study examines the effects of cortisol on the sympathetic co-transmitter, neuropeptide Y (NPY). 2. Eight normal men were given cortisol 200 mg/day over 5 days and haemodynamic, metabolic and hormonal measures were taken. Plasma NPY-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) concentrations were measured by direct radio-immunoassay. 3. Cortisol significantly increased systolic, diastolic and mean arterial pressure, bodyweight, plasma glucose and total white cell concentration and decreased plasma potassium and total eosinophil count, as in previous studies. Plasma NPY concentrations were not altered significantly during cortisol treatment, but increased following cessation of cortisol treatment (P = 0.006). 4. The essentially unchanged pattern for NPY concentration with cortisol treatment resembles that previously reported for adrenaline and noradrenaline, but the increase in NPY on cortisol withdrawal was not seen for adrenaline or noradrenaline. These data do not support a role for sympathetic activation in the genesis of cortisol-induced hypertension.
Claudin-7 (CLDN-7) is a tight junction protein that has been shown overexpressed in several human cancers. We investigated prognostic significance of CLDN-7 overexpression in patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC) and its functional role on cell proliferation in ovarian carcinoma cell lines.
CLDN-7 expression was evaluated by real-time RT-PCR and immunohistochemical analysis in 71 patients with EOC. We assessed the association of CLDN-7 expressions with prognosis of the patients including sensitivity to platinum-based chemotherapy. In vitro experiment was performed with and without inhibition of CLDN-7 by its siRNA to evaluate the sensitivity of the human ovarian cancer cells to cisplatin chemotherapy.
CLDN-7 transcripts in EOCs were significantly up-regulated compared with normal ovarian tissues (P<0.001). The expression of CLDN-7 protein was observed in majority (69/71, 97.1%) of the EOCs but not in normal ovarian tissues (P<0.001). High CLDN-7 expression in primary tumour correlated with shorter progression-free survival (PFS) of the patients (P=0.005) and poor sensitivity to platinum-based chemotherapy (P=0.024). Moreover, CLDN-7 was highly expressed in 2774 and HeyA8 human ovarian cancer cells and inhibition of CLDN-7 by its siRNA significantly enhanced the sensitivity of 2774 and HeyA8 cells to cisplatin treatment.
These findings suggest CLDN-7 expression is an independent prognostic factor for PFS and it may play a role in regulating response to platinum-based chemotherapy in the treatment of EOC.
This study aims to compare younger and older populations of lithium-treated patients and to examine the impact of long-term lithium treatment on renal function.
A retrospective, cross-sectional survey of all patients attending a specialist clinic was carried out. Demographic, clinical and biochemical data from the two groups were compared, and stepwise regression was used to investigate an association between duration of lithium treatment and renal function.
The findings reveal a positive association between duration of lithium use and mean serum creatinine levels (t=3.369, p=0.001), and so prolonged lithium treatment may be a risk factor for progressive renal impairment. However, under appropriate supervision this may not be of clinical relevance.
We conclude that lithium can be safely prescribed over a protracted period of time, even in elderly populations, but should be monitored closely under specialist supervision, to ensure early identification and management of adverse effects.
To determine whether patients with moderate to severe acne who were treated with isotretinoin experienced significant increases in depressive symptoms over a 3- to 4-month period compared with patients who received conservative acne therapy.
Cohort study.
Hospital-affiliated and community-based clinics in St Louis, Mo.
One hundred thirty-two subjects aged 12 to 19 years with moderate to severe acne.
Depressive symptoms were assessed using the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), a standardized self-reported instrument. Mean CES-D scores were compared between treatment groups, as were the prevalence and incidence of scores suggestive of clinically significant depression (CES-D score >16).
A total of 101 subjects completed the study. At follow-up, CES-D scores (adjusted for baseline CES-D score and sex of patient) suggestive of clinically significant depression were no more prevalent in the isotretinoin group than in the conservative therapy group. Similarly, the incidence (new onset) of depressive symptoms suggestive of clinical significance also was not significantly different between the treatment groups.
The use of isotretinoin in the treatment of moderate-severe acne in adolescents did not increase symptoms of depression. On the contrary, treatment of acne either with conservative therapy or with isotretinoin was associated with a decrease in depressive symptoms.
2,3-Dibromo-l-propanol, a colorless liquid, has been used as a flame retardant, as an intermediate in the preparation of the flame retardant tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate, and as an intermediate in the manufacture of pesticides and pharmaceutical preparations. Toxicology and carcinogenicity studies were conducted by applying 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol (approximately 98% pure) in ethanol to the subscapular area of the skin of male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice 5 days per week for 16 days, 13 weeks, 48 to 51 weeks (male rats), 52 to 55 weeks (female rats), 36 to 39 weeks (male mice), or 39 to 42 weeks (female mice). Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium, cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, Drosophila melanogaster, mouse Iymphoma cells, and mouse bone marrow cells. 16-DAY STUDY IN RATS Groups of five male and five female rats received dermal applications of 0, 44, 88, 177, 375, or or 750 mg/kg 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol 5 days per week for 16 days. One male and one female receiving 750 mg/kg died before the end of the study. The mean body weight gains and final mean body weights of dosed rats were similar to those of the controls. There were no clinical findings or gross lesions associated with chemical application. 16-DAY STUDY IN MICE Groups of five male and five female mice received dermal applications of 0, 44, 88, 177, 375, or 750 mg/kg 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol 5 days per week for 16 days. Four males and one female receiving 750 mg/kg died before the end of the study. The mean body weight gains and final mean body weights of dosed mice were similar to those of the controls. There were no clinical findings or gross lesions associated with chemical application. 13-WEEK STUDY IN RATS Groups of 10 male and 10 female rats received dermal applications of 0, 44, 88, 177, 375, or 750 mg/kg 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol 5 days per week for 13 weeks. All rats survived until the end of the for 16 days. One male and one female receiving study. For rats in the 750 mg/kg groups, the mean 750 mg/kg died before the end of the study. The body weight gain was 11% lower than that of the controls for males and 13% lower for females. The mean liver weights and liver-weight-to-body-weight ratios of males receiving 375 or 750 mg/kg and of females receiving 750 mg/kg were increased. Chemical-related lesions occurred in the kidney of male rats and in the liver of female rats. The average severity of nephropathy was slightly increased in males receiving dermal applications of 750 mg/kg, while individual cell necrosis was observed in the liver of all female rats in the 750 mg/kg group. 13-WEEK STUDY IN MICE Groups of 10 male and 10 female mice received dermal applications of 0, 44, 88, 177, 375, or 750 mg/kg 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol 5 days per week for 13 weeks. Eight male mice receiving 750 mg/kg died during the study, while all female mice survived. The final mean body weights of dosed and control mice were similar. The mean liver weights and liver weight-to-body-weight ratios of males receiving 375 or 750 mg/kg and of females receiving 750 mg/kg were increased. Chemical-related lesions occurred in the liver and lung of mice. Centrilobular hepatocellular necrosis occurred in all males in the 750 mg/kg group that died during the study, while individual cell necrosis was observed in the liver of females receiving 177, 375, or 750 mg/kg. Pleomorphism of the epithelium in pulmonary bronchioles occurred with a dose related increased incidence in males and females. Necrosis of the bronchiolar epithelium was observed in males receiving 750 mg/kg. LONG-TERM STUDY IN RATS Originally planned to last for 2 years, the chronic study in rats was terminated early because of reduced survival in the high-dose groups related to chemical induced neoplasms and because of the detection of antibodies to Iymphocytic choriomeningitis virus in sentinel mice. Groups of 50 male and 50 female rats received dermal applications of 0,188, or 375 mg/kg 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol 5 days per week for 48 to 51 weeks (males) or 52 to 55 weeks (females). Su5 weeks (females). Survival, Body Weights, and Clinical Findings The survival of 375 mg/kg male and female rats was significantly lower than that of the controls (males: 50/50, 41/50,16/50; females: 48/50, 38/50, 24/50). In the 375 mg/kg groups, the final mean body weight was 23&percnt; lower than that of the controls for males and 14&percnt; lower for females. There were no chemical related clinical findings. Pathology Findings Application of 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol to the skin produced significant dose-related increases in the incidences of neoplasms at numerous sites in male and female rats. Almost all dosed rats had malignant neoplasms; only one control male and one control female had malignant neoplasms. In male rats, the incidences of benign or malignant neoplasms of the skin, nose, Zymbal's gland, oral mucosa, esophagus, and small and large intestines were significantly increased in the low- and high-dose groups, while the incidences of neoplasms of the forestomach and liver were significantly increased only in the high-dose group. Neoplasms of the kidney, vascular neoplasms of the spleen, and mesotheliomas in males occurred with a significant positive trend. In female rats, the incidences of benign or malignant neoplasms of the nose, Zymbal's gland, oral mucosa, esophagus, large intestine, and liver were significantly increased in the low- and high-dose groups, while the incidences of neoplasms of the skin, forestomach, small intestine, mammary gland, and clitoral gland were significantly increased in the high-dose group only. Neoplasms of the kidney in females occurred with a significant positive trend. LONG-TERM STUDY IN MICE Originally planned to last for 2 years, the chronic study in mice was terminated early because of the detection of antibodies to lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus in sentinel mice. Groups of 50 male and 50 female mice received dermal applications of 0, 88, or 177 mg/kg 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol 5 days per week for 36 to 39 weeks (males) or 39 to 42 weeks (females). Survival, Body Weights, and Clinical Findings All mice (except two low-dose females) survived until study termination. Mean body weights of control and dosed mice were similar throughout the study, and there were no clinical findings attributed to 2,3-dibromo-l-propanol. Pathology Findings Application of 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol to the skin produced significant dose-related increases in the incidences of neoplasms at several sites in male and female mice. Benign or malignant neoplasms were observed in 40&percnt; of the low-dose males, 66&percnt; of the high-dose males, 52&percnt; of the low-dose females, and 56&percnt; of the high-dose females. In control groups, neoplasms occurred in 6&percnt; of the males and 10&percnt; of the females. In male and female mice, the incidences of benign or malignant neoplasms of the forestomach were significantly increased in the low- and high-dose groups, while the incidences of neoplasms of the skin were significantly increased only in the high-dose groups. The incidences of liver and lung neoplasms were increased in high-dose males. GENETIC TOXICOLOGY 2,3-Dibromo-l-propanol was mutagenic in a variety of short-term tests, independent of exogenous metabolic activation (S9). It induced gene mutations in three strains of Salmonella typhimurium (TA98, TA100, and TA1535) and was positive in the mouse Iymphoma assay for induction of trifluorothymidine resistance in L5178Y cells. 2,3-Dibromo-l-propanol induced sister chromatid exchanges and chromosomal aberrations in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells. In germ cells of male Drosophila melanogaster, 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol induced sex-linked recessive lethal mutations and reciprocal translocations. Results of an in vivo bone marrow micronucleus assay in male mice treated with 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol were negative. CONCLUSIONS Under the conditions of these long-term dermal studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol in male F344/N rats based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the skin, nose, oral mucosa, esophagus, forestomach, small and large intestine, Zymbal's gland, liver, kidney, tunica vaginalis, and spleen. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol in female F344/N rats based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the skin, nose, oral mucosa, esophagus, forestomach, small and large intestine, Zymbal's gland, liver, kidney, clitoral gland, and mammary gland. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol in male B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the skin, forestomach, liver, and lung. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol in female B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the skin and the forestomach. The increased incidences of alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas in female mice may have been related to chemical administration. In rats, 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol caused increased incidences of hyperkeratosis in the skin, forestomach, and esophagus, epithelial dysplasia in the nose, pleomorphism and basophilic and clear cell changes in the liver, and nuclear enlargement in the kidney. There were also chemical-related increases in the incidences of forestomach ulcers and acanthosis, angiectasis in the liver, and renal hyperplasia in male rats and epithelial dysplasia of the forestomach and bile duct hyperplasia in the liver in female rats. Chemical-related increases occurred in the incidences of hyperplasia in the skin, epithelial dysplasia of the forestomach, and bronchiolar epithelial pleomorphism and hyperplasia in male and female mice and in the incidence of eosinophilic cytoplasmic change in the liver in males. Synonyms: 2,3-dibromopropanol; 2,3-dibromopropyl alcohol.
Intraventricular (i.c.v.) injection of d(CH2)5-Tyr(Me)-[Orn8]vasotocin, a potent oxytocin antagonist, antagonized in a dose-dependent manner (10-100 ng) penile erection and yawning induced by the systemic injection of apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg s.c.) or by the i.c.v. injection of oxytocin (30 ng). In contrast, the oxytocin antagonist, even at the dose of 10 micrograms, did not modify penile erection and yawning induced by the i.c.v. injection of ACTH-(1-24). These results suggest that apomorphine, but not ACTH-(1-24), induce penile erection and yawning by releasing oxytocin in some brain area.
The ethanolic root extract of Croton zambesicus was investigated for its potential to protect gastric mucosa against ulcers induced by indomethacin, ethanol and reserpine. The anticonvulsant activity of the root extract against pentylene tetrazol (PTZ)- and picrotoxin-induced convulsion in mice was also studied. The extract (27-81 mg/kg) produced a significant (P<0.005-0.001) dose-dependent effects against the ulcerogenic effect of different agents used; indomethacin, ethanol and reserpine. The effect of the extract was lower than that of the standard drug, cimetidine (100 mg/kg) in the indomethacin and reserpine-induced ulcer models and higher than that of propranolol (40 mg/kg) in ethanol-induced ulcer model. The extract (27-81 mg/kg) could not protect mice from convulsion in both PTZ--and picrotoxin-induced convulsion. The root extract significantly (P<0.01-0.001) delayed the onset and latency of convulsion caused by PTZ and picrotoxin. The root extract possesses antiulcer and anticonvulsant properties.
Rotenone is an inhibitor of mitochondrial complex I that produces a model of Parkinson's disease (PD), where neurons undergo apoptosis by caspase-dependent and/or caspase-independent pathways. Inhibition of calpains has recently been shown to attenuate neuronal apoptosis. This study aims to establish for the first time, the time-point of calpain activation with respect to the caspase activation and the possibility of cell cycle re-entry in rotenone-mediated cell death. Immunoblot results revealed calpain activation occurred at 5, 10h prior to caspase-3 activation (at 15 h), suggesting calpain activation was an earlier cellular event compared to caspase activation in the rotenone-mediated apoptosis. In addition, an upregulation of phospho-p53 was observed at 21 h. However, no expression or upregulation of cell cycle regulatory proteins including cdc25a, cyclin-D1 and cyclin-D3 were observed, strongly suggesting that cell cycle re-entry did not occur. These findings provide new insights into the differential patterns of calpain and caspase activation that result from rotenone poisoning and which may be relevant to the therapeutic management of PD.
A case is reported of a patient who was given THA with suxamethonium and who demonstrated a prolonged apnoea. This patient was later shown to have a variant cholinesterase enzyme. The different techniques of THA and suxamethonium administration are discussed and it is suggested that an initial dose of suxamethonium should precede a THA-suxamethonium combination in order to try and avoid a prolonged apnoea.
