Patients with digoxin intoxication may need transvenous temporary cardiac pacing (TCP) when symptomatic bradyarrhythmias are present. However, it has been reported that TCP might be associated with fatal arrhythmias in patients with acute digitalis intoxication caused by attempted suicide. The aim of this study was to assess the safety of TCP in patients with accidental digoxin-related symptomatic bradyarrhythmias.
Seventy patients (30 men; age 74 +/- 12 years) were enrolled in this retrospective study. Patients were divided into two groups: group 1 with TCP and group 2 without TCP. A digoxin overdose was defined as a serum digoxin level higher than 2.0 ng/ml combined with the presence of digoxin-related symptoms. Detailed clinical characteristics were reviewed on the basis of the medical records.
Group 1 included 24 patients (34.3%, 10 men). The rhythms prior to pacemaker insertion in group 1 included sinus arrest with junctional bradyarrhythmias (n = 9), atrial fibrillation with a slow ventricular rate (n = 11), and high-degree atrioventricular block (n = 4). The mean duration of pacemaker implantation was 5.8 +/- 2.9 days (2-12 days). There was no major arrhythmic event or mortality after TCP in group 1. Two patients in group 2 (4%) died of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Group 1 had a higher level of blood urea nitrogen (45.1 +/- 26.0 vs. 33.4 +/- 19.3 mg/dl), of left ventricular ejection fraction (68 vs. 56%), and of digoxin (4.4 +/- 2.1 vs. 3.4 +/- 1.3 ng/ml) but a lower serum calcium level (8.7 +/- 0.6 vs. 9.1 +/- 0.8 mg/dl).
TCP was safe for patients with a digoxin overdose complicated by symptomatic bradycardia and should be recommended in such situations. However, this conclusion does not apply to acute digoxin intoxication as a result of attempted suicide.
Tipranavir (TPV), a protease inhibitor, has box warnings for intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) and hepatotoxicity (including hepatic failure and death). A box warning is a labeling statement about serious adverse events leading to significant injury and/or death. A box warning is the most serious warning placed in the labeling of a prescription medication. As a result of the respective morbidity and mortality associated with ICH and hepatic failure, the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) Adverse Event Reporting System (AERS) was searched for reports of these adverse events in HIV-infected patients receiving a tipranavir/ritonavir (TPV/r)-based regimen. This search comprised part of the FDA's safety analysis for traditional approval. From July 2006 to March 2007, 10 cases of ICH were identified in AERS. From June 2005 to March 2007, 12 cases of liver-associated deaths were identified. One patient experienced liver failure and fatal ICH. Most patients with these events had additional risk factors. Among patients with liver-associated deaths, 3 had HIV-RNA less than 400 copies per milliliter at the time of hepatic failure. Among 10 patients who discontinued TPV/r when hepatic failure developed, median number of days post-TPV/r to death was 23 (range, 2-69 days). Review of AERS did not identify new safety concerns regarding ICH. Among most patients with liver-associated deaths, death appears to occur soon after hepatic failure develops. If considering TPV/r, careful assessment of risk/benefit is suggested for patients at risk for ICH and hepatic failure.
A growing amount of evidence indicates that miRNAs are important regulators of multiple cellular processes and, when expressed aberrantly in different types of cancer such as hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), play significant roles in tumorigenesis and progression. Aberrant expression of miR-199a-5p (also called miR-199a) was found to contribute to carcinogenesis in different types of cancer, including HCC. However, the precise molecular mechanism is not yet fully understood. The present study showed that miR-199a is frequently down-regulated in HCC tissues and cells. Importantly, lower expression of miR-199a was significantly correlated with the malignant potential and poor prognosis of HCC, and restoration of miR-199a in HCC cells led to inhibition of the cell proliferation and cell cycle in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, Frizzled type 7 receptor (FZD7), the most important Wnt receptor involved in cancer development and progression, was identified as a functional target of miR-199a. In addition, these findings were further strengthened by results showing that expression of FZD7 was inversely correlated with miR-199a in both HCC tissues and cells and that over-expression of miR-199a could significantly down-regulate the expression of genes downstream of FZD7, including β-catenin, Jun, Cyclin D1 and Myc. In conclusion, these findings not only help us to better elucidate the molecular mechanisms of hepatocarcinogenesis from a fresh perspective but also provide a new theoretical basis to further investigate miR-199a as a potential biomarker and a promising approach for HCC treatment.
Acute liver failure is a serious condition associated with poor prognosis. It may be associated with changes in systemic hemodynamics, i.e., tissue hypoxia, which contributes to multiple-organ failure. Recent studies have shown that N-acetylcysteine administered to patients with fulminant hepatic failure (paracetamol-induced) increases oxygen delivery and improves survival. The aim of this pilot study was to evaluate N-acetylcysteine administration to patients with non-paracetamol-induced acute liver failure and assess its effect on the clinical course and outcome.
N-acetylcysteine was administered at presentation to 7 patients with non-paracetamol-induced acute liver failure. Patients were followed for changes in clinical parameters (grade of encephalopathy), coagulation factors, biochemical parameters and outcome.
Clinically, 3 patients who initially had grade O/II encephalopathy, did not progress, and have fully recovered. The mean peak prothrombin time, serum factor V, aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels, all significantly improved. Four patients (57%) have recovered fully (1 patient, although fully recovered, died later from an unrelated cause). Two patients required orthotopic liver transplantation and 1 patient died. N-acetylcysteine administration may have prevented progression to grade III/IV encephalopathy and improved serum coagulation factors. This may account for its beneficial effect on survival in patients who had poor prognostic criteria at base-line. No side effects of the drug were noted.
This study suggests that N-acetylcysteine administration should be considered in all patients with acute liver failure.
To study the efficacy of allopurinol and benzbromarone to reduce serum urate concentrations in patients with primary chronic gout.
Prospective, parallel, open study of 86 consecutive male patients with primary chronic gout. Forty nine patients (26 normal excretors and 23 under excretors) were given allopurinol 300 mg/day and 37 under excretors benzbromarone 100 mg/day. After achieving steady plasma urate concentrations with such doses, treatment was then adjusted to obtain optimal plasmatic urate concentrations (under 6 mg/dl).
Patients receiving allopurinol 300 mg/day showed a mean reduction of plasmatic urate of 2.75 mg/dl (from 8.60 to 5.85 mg/dl) and 3.34 mg/dl (from 9.10 to 5.76 mg/dl) in normal excretors and under excretors respectively. Patients receiving benzbromarone 100 mg/day achieved a reduction of plasmatic urate of 5.04 mg/dl (from 8.58 to 3.54 mg/dl). Fifty three per cent of patients receiving allopurinol and 100% receiving benzbromarone achieved optimal plasma urate concentrations at such doses. The patients with poor results with allopurinol 300 mg/day achieved a proper plasma urate concentration with allopurinol 450 to 600 mg/day, the mean final dose being 372 mg/day. Renal function improved and no case of renal lithiasis was observed among benzbromarone treated patients, whose mean final dose was 76 mg/day.
Benzbromarone is very effective to control plasma urate concentrations at doses ranging from 50 to 100 mg/day. Uricosuric treatment is a suitable approach to the treatment of patients with gout who show underexcretion of urate.
1. A study was made of short- and long-term effects of paralysis induced by type A botulinum toxin on the development of innervation of mouse muscles. The toxin was injected locally over the tensor fasciae latae (t.f.l.) and gluteus muscles at various times after birth, and the innervation was later examined by intracellular recording and by a histological technique using a reduced silver stain for axons.2. Paralysis induced at 0-4 days of age delayed but did not prevent the eventual elimination of nearly all focal multiple innervation in gluteus muscle fibres, whereas in t.f.l. up to 50% of the fibres remained focally innervated by more than one axon for at least 120 days. There was an associated reduction in the number of muscle fibres in t.f.l. of between 50 and 70%. The biggest reduction in the number of gluteus fibres was under 40%.3. In the t.f.l., paralysis begun at 6-9 days caused the extent of single-site polyneuronal innervation to increase above the level existing at the time of paralysis. Histologically this increase was seen to be due at least in part to the stimulation of nodal sprout growth from a limited number of nodes.4. Motor nerve terminal sprouts were evoked by paralysis at all ages. In mice injected before 4 days of age recovery from the toxin occurred rapidly and without the formation of ectopic synapses by sprouted motor terminals; however, intrafusal motor nerves also sprouted and established a permanent ectopic innervation on surrounding extrafusal muscle fibres.5. The following conclusions are drawn. (a) In some but not all muscles, neonatally induced paralysis can not only temporarily halt elimination of polyneuronal innervation but actually lead to an increase; it is suggested tentatively that this occurs only during the neonatal period because of the availability at that time of endoneurial pathways associated with normal polyneuronal innervation, rather than because of any special neuronal growth potential then. (b) Permanent establishment of focal polyneuronal innervation is due not to stability of presynaptic elements maintained past a critical developmental stage but is associated with substantial losses of muscle fibres, leading to a high ratio of nerve fibres to muscle fibres.
Twenty-six children, aged 2 months to 15 years, were treated with intravenous ceftriaxone sodium, 37.5 mg/kg every 12 hours, for an average of seven days. Clinical and microbiologic cures occurred in 19 of 21 patients, from whom bacterial pathogens were cultured. Ceftriaxone was not effective in treating an 18-month-old infant with periorbital cellulitis caused by relatively resistant Staphylococcus aureus. A relapse occurred in a 2-month-old infant with meningitis caused by ceftriaxone-sensitive Salmonella. Eleven patients had transient diarrhea, superficial candidiasis developed in ten patients, and one patient experienced skin flushing during administration of the antibiotic. Transient asymptomatic laboratory abnormalities were detected in 15 patients; nine patients had elevated serum concentrations of transaminases or bilirubin, 11 had thrombocytosis, three experienced eosinophilia, and one had thrombocytopenia. Transient suppression of normal flora of the intestine occurred in 21 patients. Side effects were not serious enough to warrant discontinuing ceftriaxone therapy in any patient.
Epidemiological studies underline the fact that obesity represents a significant risk factor for the development of several cancers, one of which is cancer of the colon. Moreover, multiple recent data indicate that some adipose tissue-derived hormones may influence the growth of malignant cells. Leptin, the product of the ob gene, is one of these. However, the evidence from research is still contradictory regarding the role of leptin in colon cancer. The aim of our study was to examine the direct effect of leptin at various concentrations (from 10(-5) to 10(-12) M) when applied alone or jointly with fluorouracil (the classical cytotoxic drug for colon cancer) at two concentrations (0.25 mg/ml and 2.5 mg/ml) on the growth of murine Colon 38 cancer cells in vitro.
Colon 38 cancer cells were preincubated in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with foetal calf serum for 24 hours. The cells were then cultured for a further 72 hours in the presence of various concentrations of the substances under examination, applied either alone or jointly. The growth of the Colon 38 cell line was assessed by a colorimetric kit based on the modified Mosmann method.
We found that leptin increased the growth of murine Colon 38 cancer at concentrations of 10(-6), 10(-7) M and 10(-10), 10(-11), 10(-12) M. Its stimulatory effect was fairly slight, with an increase in cancer growth of 5% to 15% as compared to controls. As we expected, fluorouracil at both the concentrations examined inhibited the growth of Colon 38 cancer maximally up to 28% (2.5 mg/ml) and 34% (0.25 mg/ml) of controls, with a stronger effect obtained from higher doses. Leptin did not modulate the cytotoxic effect of fluorouracil applied at the higher concentration (2.5 mg/ml) but, unexpectedly, at concentrations of 1(-9) and 10(-10) M it heightened the cytotoxic effect of fluorouracil given at a lower concentration (0.25 mg/ml).
These data indicate that leptin is involved in the regulation of colon cancer growth and it may even heighten the cytotoxic effect of fluorouracil.
Terfenadine (TF) is a highly potent histamine H1 receptor antagonist that in clinically effective doses is free of significant central nervous system side effects. Ketoconazole (KT) is a worldwide used oral antifungal agent with a broad spectrum of activity against both superficial and systemic mycosis. Simultaneously administration of KT and TF has been reported to induce several potent symptoms including cardiotoxicity, excitotoxicity, inhibition of blood mononuclear cells proliferation, and cardiovascular toxicity. However, the intracellular molecular mechanisms of TF-KT interactions in cells were still uncertain. In this study, we first demonstrated that TF (5-30 microM) induced apoptosis in several types of human cancer cell lines including human hepatoma (Hep G2), colorectal cancer (COLO 205), and fibroblast (CCD 922SK) cells for 24 h. The cellular responses to TF-induced apoptosis were demonstrated to be associated with the p53-signaling pathway, including induction of p53, p21/Cip1, p27/Kip1, bax protein expression and inhibition of bcl-2 protein expression. To realized the role of H1 receptor involved in TF-induced apoptosis, different H1 receptor antagonists including promethazine, mequitazine, and chlorpheniramin (50-100 microM) were administered and demonstrated that these chemicals cannot induced apoptosis through the H1 receptor signaling pathway. Interestingly, we found that the apoptotic effect of TF (2.5 microM) was significantly potentiated by KT (1 microM) treatment in Hep G2 cells through inhibition of the cytochrome p450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) activity. Such results were demonstrated by decreased of the TF activity with recombinant CYP 3A4, which prepared from baculovirus-infected insect cells. Our results provide the molecular basis of TF-KT interaction and this information should allow more rational forecasting of the risk for TF therapy during co-administration of KT.
A series of 3-(1,2-disubstituted-1H-benzimidazol-5-yl)-N-hydroxyacrylamides (1) were designed and synthesized as HDAC inhibitors. Extensive SARs have been established for in vitro potency (HDAC1 enzyme and COLO 205 cellular IC(50)), liver microsomal stability (t(1/2)), cytochrome P450 inhibitory (3A4 IC(50)), and clogP, among others. These parameters were fine-tuned by carefully adjusting the substituents at positions 1 and 2 of the benzimidazole ring. After comprehensive in vitro and in vivo profiling of the selected compounds, SB939 (3) was identified as a preclinical development candidate. 3 is a potent pan-HDAC inhibitor with excellent druglike properties, is highly efficacious in in vivo tumor models (HCT-116, PC-3, A2780, MV4-11, Ramos), and has high and dose-proportional oral exposures and very good ADME, safety, and pharmaceutical properties. When orally dosed to tumor-bearing mice, 3 is enriched in tumor tissue which may contribute to its potent antitumor activity and prolonged duration of action. 3 is currently being tested in phase I and phase II clinical trials.
This retrospective study was undertaken to assess the efficacy and safety of epidural morphine in providing analgesia following Caesarean section under epidural anaesthesia. The morphine was administered as a single bolus, following delivery, in doses ranging from 2 to 5 mg. The charts of 4880 Caesarean sections, performed on 4500 patients, were reviewed. The duration of analgesia and the occurrence of any symptoms which might be side-effects of the epidural morphine were recorded. The duration of analgesia was 22.9 +/- 10.1 hr and was not correlated with the dose of epidural morphine. Eleven per cent of the patients required no supplemental analgesia during the first 48 hr. Twelve patients (0.25 per cent) had respiratory rates less than 10 breaths per minute, on at least one occasion. No serious sequelae resulted from these periods of bradypnoea. Pruritus occurred in 58 per cent of patients, nausea and vomiting in 39.9 per cent and dizziness in ten per cent. Herpes simplex labialis was recorded in 3.5 per cent of patients. Epidural morphine is thus confirmed as an effective analgesic technique post-Caesarean section with 3 mg being the optimal dose. Even in this young healthy patient population, clinically detectable respiratory depression occurs so clinical respiratory monitoring is indicated.
The DNA-damage-signaling pathway has been implicated in all human cancers. However, the genetic defects and the mechanisms of this pathway in prostate carcinogenesis remain poorly understood. In this study, we analyzed CHEK2, the upstream regulator of p53 in the DNA-damage-signaling pathway, in several groups of patients with prostate cancer. A total of 28 (4.8%) germline CHEK2 mutations (16 of which were unique) were found among 578 patients. Additional screening for CHEK2 mutations in 149 families with familial prostate cancer revealed 11 mutations (5 unique) in nine families. These mutations included two frameshift and three missense mutations. Importantly, 16 of 18 unique CHEK2 mutations identified in both sporadic and familial cases were not detected among 423 unaffected men, suggesting a pathological effect of CHEK2 mutations in prostate cancer development. Analyses of the two frameshift mutations in Epstein Barr virus-transformed cell lines, using reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis, revealed abnormal splicing for one mutation and dramatic reduction of CHEK2 protein levels in both cases. Overall, our data suggest that mutations in CHEK2 may contribute to prostate cancer risk and that the DNA-damage-signaling pathway may play an important role in the development of prostate cancer.
During luteinization, circulating high-density lipoproteins supply cholesterol to ovarian cells via the scavenger receptor-B1 (SCARB1). In the mouse, SCARB1 is expressed in cytoplasm and periphery of theca, granulosa, and cumulus cells of developing follicles and increases dramatically during formation of corpora lutea. Blockade of ovulation in mice with meloxicam, a prostaglandin synthase-2 inhibitor, resulted in follicles with oocytes entrapped in unexpanded cumulus complexes and with granulosa cells with luteinized morphology and expressing SCARB1 characteristic of luteinization. Mice bearing null mutation of the Scarb1 gene (SCARB1(-/-)) had ovaries with small corpora lutea, large follicles with hypertrophied theca cells, and follicular cysts with blood-filled cavities. Plasma progesterone concentrations were decreased 50% in mice with Scarb1 gene disruption. When SCARB1(-/-) mice were treated with a combination of mevinolin [an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase (HMGR)] and chloroquine (an inhibitor of lysosomal processing of low-density lipoproteins), serum progesterone was further reduced. HMGR protein expression increased in SCARB1(-/-) mice, independent of treatment. It was concluded that theca, granulosa, and cumulus cells express SCARB1 during follicle development, but maximum expression depends on luteinization. Knockout of SCARB1(-/-) leads to ovarian pathology and suboptimal luteal steroidogenesis. Therefore, SCARB1 expression is essential for maintaining normal ovarian cholesterol homeostasis and luteal steroid synthesis.
The occurrence of erythema nodosum leprosum among leprosy patients treated with diamino diphenyl sulfone in an endemic area is not rare, unlike in the leprosy patients treated at Lagos University Teaching Hospital. Two Nigerian patients with this disease are described, in whom this rarity was seen. Recurrent monthly fever with painful skin swellings in lepromatous patients from an edemic area is highly suggestive of erythema nodosum leprosum. The occurrence of this reaction in lepromatous leprosy gives a relatively poor prognosis.
Administration of the beta-agonist isoproterenol to rats caused a sharp increase in the influx rate of taurine into the heart, but had no effect on the rate of biosynthesis of taurine in the heart. Influx rates of other amino acids were also stimulated, the distribution ratios, (dpm/g heart)/(dpm/ml plasma), of beta-amino acids being 3--4 times higher than alpha-amino acids. The doses of isoproterenol employed induced cardiac hypertrophy, but the stimulation of taurine influx appeared to be an independent phenomenon, in that near maximum stimulation of influx was achieved prior to stimulation of ornithine decarboxylase activity. Reserpine treatment also produced stimulation of taurine influx with no effect on biosynthesis. These results indicate a close connection between increased sympathomimetic activity and increased influx of amino acids.
A 25-year-old mildly retarded black cocaine user was hospitalized 15 times in 10 years for recurrent maniform psychosis. During the last intake he developed severe dystonia following zuclopenthixol 50 mg and droperidol 10 mg i.m. In view of current knowledge regarding the pathophysiology of acute neuroleptic induced dystonias, this suggests that cocaine may be a risk factor for development of acute dystonia. However, only a few studies with small numbers of patients and/or poor design have been reported. Therefore the conclusion cannot be drawn that an anticholinergic should be added to neuroleptics in patients with cocaine abuse.
Haloperidol has been reported to induce polymorphic ventricular arrhythmias associated with QT prolongation. The present study examined the effects of magnesium sulfate on the cardiovascular system suffering from haloperidol overdose. Beagle dogs were anesthetized with halothane inhalation under the monitoring of monophasic action potential (n=6). After intravenous administration of an intentionally high dose of haloperidol (3 mg/kg), the heart rate (HR), left ventricular contraction and mean blood pressure (BP) decreased, and the ventricular repolarization phase and effective refractory period (ERP) were prolonged, the increment in the former being than in the latter, indicating an increase in electrical vulnerability. However, preload of the left ventricle, cardiac output (CO) and cardiac conduction were hardly affected. An additional intravenous dose of 100 mg/kg of magnesium sulfate increased the preload of the left ventricle, and decreased the HR, mean BP, left ventricular contraction and CO, suppressed atrioventricular as well as intraventricular conduction, and prolonged the ventricular repolarization phase and ERP, in which the increment of the repolarization phase was similar to that of ERP. These results suggest that magnesium sulfate hardly affects the electrical vulnerability of the heart during haloperidol overdose, but may block the calcium, potassium and sodium channels, which may explain its antiarrhythmic action.
We saw three cases of severe reversible azotemia secondary to captopril therapy in hypertension. All patients had extensive peripheral vascular disease involving the renal arteries, and two patients (patients 2 and 3) had high levels of peripheral plasma renin activity. The azotemia occurred approximately two weeks after exposure to captopril, and fever, a maculopapular pruritic cutaneous rash, and eosinophilia developed in two patients (patients 2 and 3). The cause of the azotemia in our patients is not clearly known, since renal biopsies were not performed. The most likely cause for the azotemia was volume contraction with reduction in the glomerular filtration rate, although a direct insult to the kidney could not be excluded.
Bortezomib, a dipeptidyl boronic acid and potent inhibitor of the 26S proteasome, is remarkably effective against multiple myeloma (MM) but not against solid tumors. Dose-limiting adverse effects from "on target" inhibition of the proteasome in normal cells and tissues appear to be a key obstacle. Achieving efficacy against solid tumors therefore is likely to require making the inhibitor more selective for tumor tissue over normal tissues. The simplest strategy that might provide such tissue specificity would be to employ a tumor specific protease to release an inhibitor from a larger, noninhibitory structure. However, such release would necessarily generate an inhibitor with a free N-terminal amino group, raising a key question: Can short peptide boronic acids with N-terminal amino groups have the requisite properties to serve as warheads in prodrugs? Here we show that dipeptides of boroLeu, the smallest plausible candidates for the task, can indeed be sufficiently potent, cell-penetrating, cytotoxic, and stable to degradation by cellular peptidases to serve in this capacity.
To evaluate the effect of TEGDMA on cell cycle progression as well as alterations of cell cycle-related gene and protein expression.
Human dental pulp cells were exposed to 0-5 mmol L(-1) TEGDMA for 24 h. Cytotoxicity was evaluated by 3-(4, 5-dimethyl-thiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide assay. Cell cycle progression was analysed by propidium iodide (PI) flow cytometry. Cell death pathway was surveyed by annexin V/PI dual-staining flow cytometry. The mRNA expression of cell cycle-related genes (cdc2, cyclinB1 and p21) and COX-2 was evaluated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, and their protein expression was evaluated by Western blotting. The production of PGE(2) and PGF(2α) in the culture medium was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate inhibited cellular growth and induced cell cycle deregulation in dental pulp cells. High-dose exposure provoked both necrotic and apoptotic cell death. The gene and protein expression of cdc2, cyclin B1 and cdc25C declined obviously whilst cells treated with 2.5 mmol L(-1) TEGDMA concurrent with the elevated expression of p21. The mRNA and protein expression of COX-2, along with production of PGE(2) and PGF(2α), are drastically raised by 2.5-5 mmol L(-1) TEGDMA.
Triethylene glycol dimethacrylate induced cytotoxicity, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in dental pulp cells, which was associated with the decline of cdc2, cyclin B1, cdc25C expression and elevation of p21 expression. Concomitantly, COX-2 expression, PGE(2) and PGF(2α) production increased. These effects may contribute to explain the pulpal damage and inflammation induced by TEGDMA after operative procedures.
Renal stones and crystalluria can be characterized unambiguously by global physical methods. The authors report four cases of crystalluria induced by aminopenicillin (ampicillin and amoxicillin). Identification of these drug-induced crystalluria was made by high-pressure liquid chromatography and infrared spectrophotometry. The physico-chemical data and infrared absorption characteristics can give us diagnostic for various forms of ampicillin and amoxicillin.
Ascorbic acid was examined for potentiative effects on the catalepsy induced by haloperidol in rats and squirrel monkeys. In both animal species pretreatment with ascorbic acid (1000 mg/kg) markedly potentiated catalepsy induced by haloperidol. It is suggested that vitamin binds to, and inactivates, some brain dopamine receptors and in so doing potentiates an otherwise minimally cataleptogenic dose of haloperidol.
Ethanol is one of the most commonly abused substances, and oxidative stress is an important causative factor in ethanol-induced neurotoxicity. Cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) is involved in ethanol metabolism in the brain. This study investigates the role of brain CYP2E1 in the susceptibility of certain brain regions to ethanol neurotoxicity. Male Wistar rats were intragastrically treated with ethanol (3.0 g/kg, 30 days). CYP2E1 protein, mRNA expression, and catalytic activity in various brain regions were respectively assessed by immunoblotting, quantitative quantum dot immunohistochemistry, real-time RT-PCR, and LC-MS. The generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was analyzed using a laser confocal scanning microscope. The hippocampus, cerebellum, and brainstem were selectively damaged after ethanol treatment, indicated by both lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity and histopathological analysis. Ethanol markedly increased the levels of CYP2E1 protein, mRNA expression, and activity in the hippocampus and cerebellum. CYP2E1 protein and activity were significantly increased by ethanol in the brainstem, with no change in mRNA expression. ROS levels induced by ethanol paralleled the enhanced CYP2E1 proteins in the hippocampus, granular layer and white matter of cerebellum as well as brainstem. Brain CYP2E1 activity was positively correlated with the damage to the hippocampus, cerebellum, and brainstem. These results suggest that the selective sensitivity of brain regions to ethanol neurodegeneration may be attributed to the regional and cellular-specific induction of CYP2E1 by ethanol. The inhibition of CYP2E1 levels may attenuate ethanol-induced oxidative stress via ROS generation.
Although benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) is an environmental endocrine disrupter, it has been unclear whether neonatal exposure to BaP affects the testosterone level and, if so, whether this influence persists into adulthood. In this present study, we gave neonatal rats (through oral gavages) doses of 0, 5, 10, or 25mg/kg day of BaP in corn oil from postnatal day 1 (PND 1) to PND 7. The rats were sacrificed at PND 8, PND 35, and PND 90. BaP exposure was confirmed through the induction of liver and testis CYP1A1 mRNA expression at PND 8 (i.e., immediately after exposure). The testicular daily sperm production and the sperm counts of the epididymis cauda at PND 90 were significantly lower than those of the control. The serum testosterone levels decreased markedly at PND 8, PND 35, and PND 90 after neonatal BaP exposure relative to those of the control. The mRNA expressions of StAR also decreased relative to those of the control at PND 8, PND 35, and PND 90, although the mRNA expressions of P450c17 and 17β-HSD were suppressed significantly only at PND 8. To further elucidate the mechanism of the persistent decrease in the mRNA expression of StAR, we determined the histone acetylation level in the StAR promoter. The extent of acetylation of H3K14 in the determined region decreased after neonatal exposure to BaP; this phenomenon persisted to the adult stage. Our results indicate that neonatal exposure to BaP damages testosterone production and sperm counts in the long term, possibly as a result of epigenetic regulation in the StAR promoter region.
Small intestinal ulceration is a frequent and potentially serious condition associated with nonselective cyclooxygenase 1/2 inhibitors (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, NSAIDs) including diclofenac (DCF). An initial topical effect involving mitochondria has been implicated in the pathogenesis, but the exact mechanisms of NSAID-induced enteropathy are unknown. We aimed at investigating whether DCF caused enterocyte demise via the mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT) and whether inhibition of critical mPT regulators might protect the mucosa from DCF injury. Cultured enterocytes (IEC-6) exposed to DCF readily underwent mPT-mediated cell death. We then targeted mitochondrial cyclophilin D (CypD), a key regulator of the mPT, in a mouse model of NSAID enteropathy. C57BL/6J mice were treated with an ulcerogenic dose of DCF (60 mg/kg, ip), followed (+ 1 h) by a non-cholestatic dose (10 mg/kg, ip) of the CypD inhibitor, cyclosporin A (CsA). CsA greatly reduced the extent of small intestinal ulceration. To avoid potential calcineurin-mediated effects, we used the non-immunosuppressive cyclosporin analog, D-MeAla(3)-EtVal(4)-cyclosporin (Debio 025). Debio 025 similarly protected the mucosa from DCF injury. To exclude drug-drug interactions, we exposed mice genetically deficient in mitochondrial CypD (peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase F [Ppif(-/-)]) to DCF. Ppif-null mice were largely protected from the ulcerogenic effects of DCF, whereas their wild-type littermates developed typical enteropathy. Enterocyte injury was preceded by upregulation of the proapoptotic transcription factor C/EBP homologous protein (Chop). Chop-null mice were refractory to DCF enteropathy, suggesting a critical role of endoplasmic reticulum stress induced by DCF. In conclusion, mitochondrial CypD plays a key role in NSAID-induced enteropathy, lending itself as a potentially new therapeutic target for cytoprotective intervention.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with changes of alpha(1)-adrenoceptor (alpha(1)-AR) on heart electrical function and expression. In this study, we investigated the ionic basis underlying abnormal alpha(1)-AR mediated QT prolongation in the diabetic rat hearts.
Electrophysiological and biochemical techniques were used in Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic and control rat hearts.
In both control and diabetic rats, the alpha(1)-AR agonist, phenylephrine (PE, 10-100 microM) prolonged the rate-corrected QT intervals (QTc) and action potential durations at 30% (APD(30)) and 90% (APD(90)) repolarization levels with the increased QTc and APD(90) significantly greater in diabetic rats. PE significantly decreased the transient outward K(+) current (I(to)) and the steady-state K(+) current (I(ss)) in both control and diabetic rats but had no effects on the delayed rectifier K(+) current (I(k)). However, PE induced a greater reduction mainly in the I(ss), but not I(to), in diabetic rats. Furthermore, using RT-PCR and Western blot analyses, we found that alpha(1A)-ARs were over-expressed in the left ventricular tissues of the diabetic rat hearts at both the mRNA and the protein levels.
These data suggested that in diabetic hearts, a greater sensitivity of the alpha(1A)-AR mediated the larger suppression of I(ss) and resulted in a more prolonged APD(90) and QTc. Thus, higher alpha(1A)-AR expression levels in diabetic heart may underlie this type of diabetic cardiomyopathy and suggests that alpha(1A)-AR may serve as a therapeutic target.
In this paper, we have investigated the mechanism of phototoxicity of fluvastatin, an 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, in human keratinocytes cell line NCTC-2544. Fluvastatin underwent rapid photodegradation upon Ultraviolet-A (UVA) irradiation in buffered aqueous solution as shown by the changes in absorption spectra. Interestingly, no isosbestic points were observed but only a fast appearance of a spectral change, indicative of the formation of a new chromophore. The isolation and characterization of the main photoproduct revealed the formation of a polycyclic compound with a benzocarbazole-like structure. This product was also evaluated for its phototoxic potential. Cell phototoxicity was evaluated by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide test after 72 h from the irradiation in the presence of fluvastatin. The results showed a reduction of the cell viability in a concentration and UVA dose-dependent manner. Surprisingly, the photoproduct showed a dramatic decrease of the cell viability that occurred at concentrations of an order of magnitude lower than the parent compound. Flow cytometric analysis indicated that fluvastatin and its main photoproduct induced principally necrosis as revealed by the large appearance of propidium iodide-positive cells and confirmed also by the rapid drop in cellular adenosine triphosphate levels. Interestingly, a rapid increase of intracellular calcium followed by an extensive cell lipid membrane peroxidation and a significant oxidation of model proteins were induced by fluvastatin and its photoproduct, suggesting that these compounds exerted their toxic effect mainly in the cellular membranes. On the basis of our results, the phototoxicity of fluvastatin may be mediated by the formation of benzocarbazole-like photoproduct that acts as strong photosensitizer.
