Although genetic lesions responsible for some mendelian disorders can be rapidly discovered through massively parallel sequencing of whole genomes or exomes, not all diseases readily yield to such efforts. We describe the illustrative case of the simple mendelian disorder medullary cystic kidney disease type 1 (MCKD1), mapped more than a decade ago to a 2-Mb region on chromosome 1. Ultimately, only by cloning, capillary sequencing and de novo assembly did we find that each of six families with MCKD1 harbors an equivalent but apparently independently arising mutation in sequence markedly under-represented in massively parallel sequencing data: the insertion of a single cytosine in one copy (but a different copy in each family) of the repeat unit comprising the extremely long (∼1.5-5 kb), GC-rich (>80%) coding variable-number tandem repeat (VNTR) sequence in the MUC1 gene encoding mucin 1. These results provide a cautionary tale about the challenges in identifying the genes responsible for mendelian, let alone more complex, disorders through massively parallel sequencing.
Refractive error is the most common eye disorder worldwide and is a prominent cause of blindness. Myopia affects over 30% of Western populations and up to 80% of Asians. The CREAM consortium conducted genome-wide meta-analyses, including 37,382 individuals from 27 studies of European ancestry and 8,376 from 5 Asian cohorts. We identified 16 new loci for refractive error in individuals of European ancestry, of which 8 were shared with Asians. Combined analysis identified 8 additional associated loci. The new loci include candidate genes with functions in neurotransmission (GRIA4), ion transport (KCNQ5), retinoic acid metabolism (RDH5), extracellular matrix remodeling (LAMA2 and BMP2) and eye development (SIX6 and PRSS56). We also confirmed previously reported associations with GJD2 and RASGRF1. Risk score analysis using associated SNPs showed a tenfold increased risk of myopia for individuals carrying the highest genetic load. Our results, based on a large meta-analysis across independent multiancestry studies, considerably advance understanding of the mechanisms involved in refractive error and myopia.
We prospectively evaluated thalidomide-induced neuropathy using electrodiagnostic studies. Sixty-seven men with metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer in an open-label trial of oral thalidomide underwent neurologic examinations and nerve conduction studies (NCS) prior to and at 3-month intervals during treatment. NCS included recording of sensory nerve action potentials (SNAPs) from median, radial, ulnar, and sural nerves. SNAP amplitudes for each nerve were expressed as the percentage of its baseline, and the mean of the four was termed the SNAP index. A 40% decline in the SNAP index was considered clinically significant. Thalidomide was discontinued in 55 patients for lack of therapeutic response. Of 67 patients initially enrolled, 24 remained on thalidomide for 3 months, 8 remained at 6 months, and 3 remained at 9 months. Six patients developed neuropathy. Clinical symptoms and a decline in the SNAP index occurred concurrently. Older age and cumulative dose were possible contributing factors. Neuropathy may thus be a common complication of thalidomide in older patients. The SNAP index can be used to monitor peripheral neuropathy, but not for early detection.
Oligomeric β-amyloid (Aβ) has recently been linked to synaptic plasticity deficits, which play a major role in progressive cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we present evidence that chronic oral administration of carvedilol, a nonselective β-adrenergic receptor blocker, significantly attenuates brain oligomeric β-amyloid content and cognitive deterioration in 2 independent AD mouse models. We found that carvedilol treatment significantly improved neuronal transmission, and that this improvement was associated with the maintenance of number of the less stable "learning" thin spines in the brains of AD mice. Our novel observation that carvedilol interferes with the neuropathologic, biochemical, and electrophysiological mechanisms underlying cognitive deterioration in AD supports the potential development of carvedilol as a treatment for AD.
Hypercholesterolemia is a consistent feature of the nephrotic syndrome. However, the mechanisms underlying this perturbation are unclear. In the present work, we have investigated different factors that influence hepatic cholesterol metabolism using the nephrotic rat as a model. The induction of nephrosis resulted in a severe and sustained hypercholesterolemia. However, no effect on the rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol synthesis, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoA reductase, could be detected. Further, plasma lathosterol/cholesterol ratio, a measure of cholesterol synthesis, was not altered. Also, plasma levels of mevalonate, both a substrate for cholesterogenesis beyond the rate-limiting step and a marker for cholesterol synthesis, did not differ between control rats and those with established hypercholesterolemia. There was no detectable change in the expression of low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor between the two experimental groups. We conclude that the early increase in cholesterol synthesis reported after the induction of nephrosis is not necessary for the maintenance of hypercholesterolemia. Established hypercholesterolemia of the nephrotic syndrome seems to represent a steady state in which neither enhanced hepatic cholesterol synthesis nor retarded LDL cholesterol clearance is of major importance.
The relationship of aberrant DNA hypermethylation of cell cycle checkpoint genes with the sensitivity of cancer cells to anticancer drugs is a question of current interest. In this study, we investigated the relationship between aberrant hypermethylation of the CHFR (checkpoint with forkhead-associated and ring finger) mitotic checkpoint gene and sensitivity to taxanes in endometrial cancer. Methylation-specific PCR (MSP) indicated aberrant hypermethylation of CHFR in 12.0% (6/50) of endometrial cancer specimens, and suggested that aberrant hypermethylation is significantly more frequent in poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (G3) (p<0.05). Of six culture cell lines, SNG-II and HEC108 cells showed aberrant hypermethylation and reduced expression of CHFR. These cells had high sensitivity to taxanes but became resistant after demethylation. Cancer specimens with aberrant hypermethylation of CHFR also exhibited high sensitivity to taxanes. To our knowledge, this study is the first to examine aberrant hypermethylation of CHFR in endometrial cancer, and our results suggest that the methylation status of CHFR may be a new molecular index that will allow design of personalized treatment in endometrial cancer. This may be particularly important in poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (G3), which is known to have a poor prognosis.
The clinical presentation of inborn errors of pyrimidine degradation varies considerably from asymptomatic to severe neurological illness. We have reported a method to screen for and make a chemical diagnosis of beta-ureidopropionase deficiency, leading to the discovery of the first asymptomatic case of this disease. In this method, the recovery of beta-ureidopropionate and beta-ureidoisobutyrate, the key biomarkers, was very high,and the adoption of GC/MS and targeted analysis enabled us to simultaneously obtain information related and unrelated to pyrimidine metabolism. The present study reports the results of a large-scale screening of 24,000 newborns using dried urine on filter paper. Identification of a total of four asymptomatic patients among newborns suggests the high incidence (1/6000) of this disease in Japan. While these newborns were asymptomatic, two additional cases detected at the age of 5 years as well as 3 months with this method for high-risk screening had autism and West syndrome, respectively.The key biomarkers and alpha-ureidobutyrate used as an internal standard were found to give not only their di-trimethylsilyl derivatives but also tri-trimethylsilyl derivatives, upon derivatization. The mass spectra and retention times of their tri-trimethylsilyl derivatives and data handling for quantification of the markers are presented.Identification of individuals with defects in pyrimidine metabolism would realize personalized medication in cancer chemotherapy with pyrimidine analogs such as 5-fluorouracil.
Findings in a 28 year old woman who had been using the hormonal contraceptive Norbiogest Spofa for 3 years are described. She ceased taking the pill 40 days prior to her death. Congestive cardiomyopathy, massive hepatic necrosis, and hemorrhagic infarctions in the lungs and spleen were diagnosed at autopsy. The disease probably occurred in connection with previous pregnancies and had been gradually deteriorating her condition during drug application. Findings in the liver, lung, and spleen are considered a consequence of chronic heart insufficiency, even when the effect of the drug on venostatically changed organs could not be excluded. (author's modified)
Children diagnosed with attention deficit disorder (ADD; n = 44), ADD plus aggression/oppositionality (ADD/O; n = 34), and as not meeting ADD criteria (NC; n = 29) received methylphenidate and placebo for 21 consecutive days each. Parents and teachers rated all groups improved under medication, but teachers reported less improvement for NC than for ADD/O children. Methylphenidate and chronological age had generally similar effects in a Sternberg task: greater accuracy and speed (especially for nontargets at low memory loads), larger P3b waves of event-related potentials, more pronounced slowing of P3b latency by memory load, and a greater trend of earlier peaks for targets than for nontargets. Both methylphenidate and maturation promoted more efficient strategies involving differentiated evaluation of targets and nontargets. These results were comparable among ADD groups.
This study was designed to determine whether vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) exposure is associated with liver fibrosis. A total of 347 workers with occupational exposure to VCM were systemically examined using liver ultrasonography and routine liver function tests. Vinyl chloride monomer cumulative dose (ppm-month) was estimated by summing the products of air VCM concentration levels and months of employment. Liver fibrosis was defined in subjects with precirrhosis and cirrhosis of liver diagnosed using ultrasonography. Significantly increased risks of developing liver fibrosis were found in workers who had history of high exposure jobs (odds ratio 5.5, 95% confidence interval 1.7-25.4) when compared with workers who did not have history of high exposure jobs. We concluded that there was an increased risk of developing liver fibrosis in PVC workers who had high exposure to VCM.
Daily short intravenous (i.v.) infusions (pulses) of interleukin-2 (IL-2) have been developed to decrease toxicity while maintaining anticancer activity of this agent against melanoma. Such IL-2 schedules have previously been shown to promote lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell activity. Famotidine may increase LAK activity by increasing IL-2 internalization by the IL-2 receptor on lymphocytes. We treated 16 patients with metastatic melanoma using pulse IL-2 18 (15 patients) or 9 million IU/M2 (1 patient) i.v. over 15-30 minutes preceded by famotidine 20 mg i.v. daily for 5 days on an oncology inpatient unit. Cycles were repeated every 3 weeks until disease progression. Patient characteristics were as follows: 11 males, median age, 66, median ECOG performance status, 1; common metastatic sites: lymph nodes, lungs, subcutaneous, liver, and bone. Median number of cycles received was 3. Overall, 93% of planned doses were delivered. Most common toxicities were hypomagnesemia, fever, rigors, hypophosphatemia, and nausea/emesis. Three (3) patients had partial responses (19% response rate; 95% confidence interval: 6%-44%). A fourth patient, after resection of residual disease, remains a surgical complete responder at > 12 months. Responses occurred in lung, liver, lymph nodes, bone, and subcutaneous sites. Median response duration was 7 months. Pulse IL-2 with famotidine has activity in melanoma.
This multicenter, randomized trial compared overall response rate between pemetrexed plus irinotecan (ALIRI) and leucovorin-modulated 5-fluorouracil plus irinotecan (FOLFIRI) in patients with advanced colorectal cancer. Secondary objectives included overall and progression-free survival, duration of response, toxicities, and biomarkers.
ALIRI patients received pemetrexed 500 mg/m(2) and irinotecan 350 mg/m(2) with vitamin supplementation on day 1 of each 21-day cycle. FOLFIRI patients received irinotecan 180 mg/m(2) on days 1, 15, 29; on days 1, 2, 15, 16, 29, 30, patients received leucovorin 200 mg/m(2), bolus 5-fluorouracil 400 mg/m(2), and 5-fluorouracil 600 mg/m(2) as 22-hour infusion.
Of 132 patients randomly assigned, 130 patients (64 = ALIRI, 66 = FOLFIRI) received > or =1 dose of treatment. Response rates (ALIRI = 20.0%, FOLFIRI = 33.3%) were not significantly different between arms (p = 0.095). Progression-free survival was 5.7 months for ALIRI and 7.7 months for FOLFIRI (p < 0.001). Neutropenia, fatigue, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting were the major toxicities. There were 5 drug-related deaths (ALIRI = 4, FOLFIRI = 1). Biomarker analysis failed to reveal that any of the 18 preselected genes were clearly associated with tumor response.
Neither efficacy nor safety improved on the ALIRI arm compared to the FOLFIRI arm. Progression-free survival on FOLFIRI was significantly longer compared to ALIRI. Potential biomarkers capable of predicting response to either regimen in advanced or metastatic colorectal carcinoma need further characterization.
The purpose of this study was to determine the rate and quality of recovery when general anaesthesia was induced with a mixture of thiopentone and propofol, compared with thiopentone or propofol alone. Sixty ASA class I and II women scheduled for out-patient laparoscopic surgery underwent induction of anaesthesia with either (i) thiopentone, (ii) propofol, or (iii) a mixture of the two, in a randomized, double-blind fashion. Anaesthesia was then maintained using nitrous oxide, isoflurane and fentanyl. A psychometric test was administered before and after surgery, and the time taken to reach a series of recovery milestones was noted. Patients were discharged as soon as they were ambulant and had satisfactory control of pain and nausea with oral agents. They were telephoned at 24-48 hr later, and asked to rate their experience of a list of side effects on an ordinal scale. Patient groups were demographically comparable and underwent surgery of the same duration. Those receiving thiopentone were discharged after a mean time of 3 hr 25 +/- 58 min (SD). The corresponding figures for propofol and the thiopentone/propofol mixture were 2 hr 40 min (+/- 49) and 2 hr 48 min (+/- 68) respectively. The recovery time between thiopentone and the other two regimes was different (P < 0.05). All three groups experienced equally frequent and severe nausea, headache, tiredness and other side effects during the next 24 hr. It is concluded that induction with a mixture of thiopentone and propofol leads to a similar rate and quality of recovery to that of propofol above.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The beta-blocking effect, intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA), and vasodilating and hypotensive effects of celiprolol were tested. 1. Celiprolol competitively antagonized the isoproterenol-induced positive chronotropic and inotropic effects in guinea pig right atrial and papillary muscles and isoproterenol-induced guinea pig tracheal relaxation with pA2 values of 8.03, 7.98 and 6.43, respectively. 2. In dogs, isoproterenol-induced increases in cardiac contractility and heart rate were markedly inhibited by celiprolol (83.1 and 84.8%, respectively), while isoproterenol-induced hypotension was suppressed only by 16.8%. 3. Celiprolol increased the beating rate of the right atrium and relaxed the trachea isolated from normal and reserpinized guinea pigs. Celiprolol also potentiated the contractility of the left atrium isolated from reserpinized animals. These effects of celiprolol were antagonized by propranolol. 4. Celiprolol concentration-dependently relaxed rat femoral arteries contracted by methoxamine. The concentration-relaxation curve was shifted to the right by pretreatment with propranolol. 5. Orally administered celiprolol produced long lasting hypotension in conscious SHR without any heart rate change. 6. These results indicate that celiprolol is a highly cardioselective beta-blocker with a significant ISA, which contributes to its vasodilatory and hypotensive effects.
Tardive tremor is a very uncommon neuroleptic-induced tardive syndrome which was initially described in five patients by Stacy and Jankovic (Stacy and Jankovic, Mov Disord 1992;7:53-57). Since then, there have been only three additional case reports attesting to the apparent rarity of this condition, although it is unknown whether other unreported cases have been observed. We describe a patient with persistent tardive tremor that was associated with tardive dyskinesia, who closely resembles previously reported cases.
To summarize the 6-year clinical trial data with finasteride. Benign prostatic hyperplasia is a chronic and progressive disease and therefore assessment of long-term safety and efficacy is important.
The North American and International Phase III Finasteride trials enrolled symptomatic men with enlarged prostate glands. The initial 1-year placebo-controlled study was followed by a 5-year open-label extension. In total, 6-year finasteride data were available in 487 patients originally randomized to finasteride, and 5-year data were available on 238 patients originally randomized to placebo.
After 6 years of treatment with finasteride 5 mg, the mean quasi-American Urological Association Symptom Score improved by 4.0 points, the median prostate volume decreased by 24%, and the mean maximal urinary flow rate increased by 2.9 mL/s (P <0.001 for all parameters). Long-term finasteride treatment was well tolerated, with a low incidence of drug-related sexual adverse events occurring during the first year and even fewer occurrences during the 5-year open extension.
Treatment with finasteride leads to durable improvement in urinary tract symptoms, flow rate, and prostate volume, with no increase in the prevalence of drug-related adverse events over time.
The influence of a chronically implanted spinal cannula on the nociceptive response induced by mechanical, chemical or thermal stimuli was evaluated. The hyperalgesia in response to mechanical stimulation induced by carrageenin or prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) was significantly increased in cannulated (Cn) rats, compared with naive (Nv) or sham-operated (Sh) rats. Only Cn animals presented an enhanced nociceptive response in the first phase of the formalin test when low doses were used (0.3 and 1%). The withdrawal latency to thermal stimulation of a paw inflamed by carrageenin was significantly reduced in Cn rats but not in Nv or Sh rats. In contrast to Nv and Sh rats, injection in Cn animals of a standard non-steroid anti-inflammatory drug, indomethacin, either intraperitoneally or into the spinal cord via an implanted cannula or by direct puncture of the intrathecal space significantly blocked the intensity of the hyperalgesia induced by PGE2. Cannulated animals treated with indomethacin also showed a significant inhibition of second phase formalin-induced paw flinches. Histopathological analysis of the spinal cord showed an increased frequency of mononuclear inflammatory cells in the Cn groups. Thus, the presence of a chronically implanted cannula seems to cause nociceptive spinal sensitization to mechanical, chemical and thermal stimulation, which can be blocked by indomethacin, thus suggesting that it may result from the spinal release of prostaglandins due to an ongoing mild inflammation.
Arsenic and fluoride are major contaminants of drinking water. Mechanisms of toxicity following individual exposure to arsenic or fluoride are well known. However, it is not explicit how combined exposure to arsenic and fluoride leads to cellular and/or DNA damage. The present study was planned to assess (i) oxidative stress during combined chronic exposure to arsenic and fluoride in drinking water, (ii) correlation of oxidative stress with cellular and DNA damage and (iii) mechanism of cellular damage using IR spectroscopy. Mice were exposed to arsenic and fluoride (50 ppm) either individually or in combination for 28 weeks. Arsenic or fluoride exposure individually led to a significant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and associated oxidative stress in blood, liver and brain. Individual exposure to the two toxicants showed significant depletion of blood glutathione (GSH) and glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) activity, and single-stranded DNA damage using a comet assay in lymphocytes. We also observed an increase in the activity of ATPase, thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) and a decreased, reduced and oxidized glutathione (GSH : GSSG) ratio in the liver and brain. Antioxidant enzymes like superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) were decreased and increased in liver and brain respectively. The changes were more pronounced in liver compared to brain suggesting liver to be more susceptible to the toxic effects of arsenic and fluoride. Interestingly, combined exposure to arsenic and fluoride resulted in less pronounced toxic effects compared to their individual effects based on biochemical variables, IR spectra, DNA damage (TUNEL and comet assays) and histopathological observations. IR spectra suggested that arsenic or fluoride perturbs the strength of protein and amide groups; however, the shifts in peaks were not pronounced during combined exposure. These results thus highlight the role of arsenic- or fluoride-induced oxidative stress, DNA damage and protein interaction as the major determinants of toxicity, along with the differential toxic effects during arsenic-fluoride interaction during co-exposure. The study further corroborates our earlier observations that at the higher concentration co-exposures to these toxicants do not elicit synergistic toxicity.
5-Lipoxygenase (5-LO) and its downstream leukotriene products have been implicated in the development of pulmonary hypertension. In this study, we examined the effects of 5-LO overexpression in rat lungs on pulmonary hypertension using a recombinant adenovirus expressing 5-LO (Ad5-LO). Transthoracic echocardiography and right heart catheterization data showed that 5-LO overexpression in the lung did not cause pulmonary hypertension in normal rats; however, it markedly accelerated the progression of pulmonary hypertension in rats treated with monocrotaline (MCT). An increase in pulmonary artery pressure occurred earlier in the rats treated with MCT + Ad5-LO (7-10 days) compared with those treated with control vector, MCT + adenovirus expressing green fluorescent protein (AdGFP), or MCT alone (15-18 days). The weight ratio of the right ventricle to left ventricle plus septum was higher in the MCT + Ad5-LO group than that of the MCT + AdGFP or MCT group (0.45 +/- 0.08 vs. 0.35 +/- 0.03 or 0.33 +/- 0.06). Lung tissue histological sections from MCT + Ad5-LO rats exhibited more severe inflammatory cell infiltration and pulmonary vascular muscularization than those from MCT + AdGFP- or MCT-treated rats. Administration of 5-LO inhibitors, zileuton or MK-886, to either MCT- or MCT + Ad5-LO-treated rats prevented the development of pulmonary hypertension. These data suggest that 5-LO plays a critical role in the progression of pulmonary hypertension in rats and that the detrimental effect of 5-LO is manifest only in the setting of pulmonary vascular endothelial cell dysfunction.
With changed consumer behaviour in the drug scene the psychiatric complications with the derivates of amphetamine increase. In some regions methamphetamin is particularly common. Flashbacks, which can be triggered by psychosocial stress, as well as the age of the usually young patients lead to the differential diagnosis of schizophrenia.
During the observation period 1998 - 2000 the diagnostic distributions and the psychosocial base data of all patients admitted to the BKH Bayreuth with the clinical picture of a paranoid psychosis, were examined regarding an increase of drug-induced psychosis.
Both the number of the treated patients with chronic dependence on methamphetamine as well as acute admissions of patients with drug-induced psychosis increased. Differences to patients diagnosed a schizophrenia could be shown.
With the further increasing abuse of stimulants like methamphetamine the number of patients with induced psychosis will escalate. Specific settings for treatment will be required to address the addiction as well as the psychosis.
Amphotericin B colloidal dispersion (ABCD) is a novel lipid formulation of amphotericin B designed to diminish toxic effects of the drug. In the following report, nine cases of suspected (n = 4) and proven (n = 5) deep Candida infection, treated sequentially with amphotericin B deoxycholate and ABCD, are presented. The treatment was successful in seven cases. During treatment with amphotericin B deoxycholate, a rise in serum creatinine was observed in seven patients, hypokalemia in five, and metabolic acidosis in four. After replacing amphotericin B deoxycholate with ABCD, laboratory parameters improved in four of the seven patients with increased creatinine, in four of the five patients with hypokalemia, and in two of the four patients with metabolic acidosis. Infusion-related rigors were observed in four patients receiving amphotericin B deoxycholate and in one patient treated with ABCD. Reversible elevation of liver enzymes was found in one patient receiving ABCD. In this study ABCD proved less toxic than amphotericin B deoxycholate. The efficacy of ABCD alone cannot be assessed because of previous treatment with amphotericin B deoxycholate, but sequential treatment of deep Candida infections with amphotericin B deoxycholate and ABCD seems to be an effective therapeutic modality, especially in patients requiring prolonged administration of amphotericin B.
We report a case of a patient developing complex regional pain syndrome of the upper limb after a laceration injury with glass. The pain in his hand was resistant to all conventional modes of treatment. The pain reduced dramatically after a diagnostic lidocaine infusion and the reduction in pain lasted for 3 days. Following this the patient responded well to lidoderm 5% patches and achieved 80% pain relief with an improved range of movement in his hand.
We have studied the effects of preoperative administration of diclofenac on suxamethonium-induced myalgia, plasma met-enkephalin-like activity (E-LA), prostaglandin E2-like activity (PGE2-LA), leukotriene C4-like activity (LTC4-LA) and histamine-like activity (H-LA). Thirty-four ASA I patients undergoing elective ophthalmic surgery were allocated randomly to two groups to receive either saline placebo or diclofenac 75 mg i.m. 20 min before operation, in a double-blind design. Anaesthesia was induced with thiopentone 5-7 mg kg-1 followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg kg-1 and maintained with 67% nitrous oxide and halothane in oxygen. Plasma PGE2-LA, LTC4-LA, H-LA and E-LA were measured before premedication, 1 min after the administration of suxamethonium and 24 h after operation. Muscle fasciculations, intubation conditions and postoperative myalgia were graded numerically. Postoperative myalgia in the diclofenac group was significantly (P < 0.05) less (47.1%) than in the control group (76.5%). Post-suxamethonium and 24-h concentrations of plasma PGE2-LA and LTC4-LA were also significantly (P < 0.05) greater than baseline in the control group. Plasma H-LA was increased in both groups after suxamethonium and this increase was significant (P < 0.05) in the control group. We conclude that diclofenac reduces significantly the incidence and intensity of suxamethonium-induced myalgia.
Several clinical papers have reported that beta-adrenoceptor antagonists were useful in the management of schizophrenia and tardive dyskinesia. The present study examined effects of beta-antagonists on haloperidol (HAL)-induced catalepsy using mice in order to study the relationship between beta-antagonists and central dopaminergic functions. Catalepsy was tested by the standard bar test 30 min after intraperitoneal treatment of HAL. Beta-antagonists were administered subcutaneously just after HAL-treatment. Propranolol, alprenolol, oxprenolol and pindolol increased the incidence of catalepsy compared to HAL alone. Atenolol, not penetrating into the brain, and the sedative and hypnotic drug chlordiazepoxide did not potentiate it. These results suggest that the potentiation of HAL-catalepsy by beta-antagonists is based on their central action. Therefore, a central beta-receptor appears to be implicated in the regulation of the central dopaminergic functions.
To describe a case of gemfibrozil monotherapy-induced myositis in a patient with normal renal function
A 68-year-old white man presented to his primary care clinic complaining of a 6-month history of total body pain. His past medical history was significant for hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, benign prostatic hypertrophy, arthritis, impotence, and pancreatic cancer that required excision of part of his pancreas. His home drug regimen included bupropion 75 mg twice daily, gemfibrozil 600 mg twice daily for the past 8 months, glimiperide 1 mg daily, insulin glargine 5 units at bedtime, insulin aspart 5 units in the evening, lisinopril 10 mg daily, omeprazole 40 mg daily, pregabalin 100 mg daily, and sildenafil 100 mg as needed. Laboratory test results were significant for elevated aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 78 U/L (reference range 15-46 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 83 U/L (13-69 U/L), and creatine kinase (CK) 3495 U/L (55-170 U/L). Serum creatinine was normal at 1.19 mg/dL. The physician determined that the elevated CK indicated myositis secondary to gemfibrozil use, and gemfibrozil was subsequently discontinued. The patient returned 1 week later to repeat the laboratory tests. Results were CK 220 U/L, AST 26 U/L, ALT 43 U/L, and serum creatinine 1.28 mg/dL. The patient was asked to return in 3 weeks to repeat the laboratory tests. At that time, CK had continued to decrease to 142 U/L, and the AST and ALT had returned to normal, at 22 and 29 U/L, respectively. The patient reported complete resolution of total body pain 3 weeks after discontinuation of gemfibrozil. Follow-up 5 weeks after discontinuation revealed no change compared to the 3-week follow-up.
Myositis most often produces weakness and elevated CK levels more than 10 times the upper limit of normal. The risk of developing myositis, myopathy, or rhabdomyolysis is low (1%) when fibrates such as gemfibrozil are used as monotherapy. Evaluation of the literature revealed one case of gemfibrozil-related myositis in a patient with chronic renal failure. There is also one report of myopathy associated with gemfibrozil monotherapy in a patient with normal renal function. The present case is the first documented case of gemfibrozil monotherapy-induced myositis in a patient with normal renal function. The Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between gemfibrozil treatment and the onset of myositis in our patient. Other potential causes of myositis were ruled out by patient interview and chart review.
Although the risk of myositis appears to be low with gemfibrozil monotherapy, clinicians should be aware of the potential for this adverse event. For patients taking gemfibrozil monotherapy who present with myalgia, discontinuation of the medication may be necessary for the alleviation of pain.
Transferrin receptor 2 (TfR2) plays a key role in the regulation of iron metabolism. Mutations of TfR2 in humans cause type 3 hereditary hemochromatosis. Although highly expressed in liver, several studies have reported TfR2 expression in other tissues. To determine the contribution of liver expressed TfR2 in iron homeostasis, we have generated and characterized a liver-specific TfR2-knockout (KO) mouse.
Liver-specific TfR2-KO mice were generated by crossing TfR2-floxed mice with transgenic albumin-Cre mice. Tissue and serum from homozygous TfR2-floxed mice with and without albumin-Cre were analyzed. Serum transferrin saturation, hepatic, and splenic iron concentrations were determined. The expression of iron-related mRNA transcripts was analyzed by real-time PCR. Levels of the iron-related proteins TfR1, TfR2, ferritin, and prohepcidin were analyzed by immunoblotting.
Liver-specific TfR2-KO mice develop significant iron overload comparable to complete TfR2-KO mice. At all ages studied, transferrin saturation, hepatic iron concentration, and hepatic ferritin were significantly elevated. Hepatic TfR2 mRNA and protein were absent in the livers of liver-specific TfR2-KO mice, and TfR1 expression was reduced consistent with liver iron loading. At 5 weeks of age, hepcidin1 mRNA, and prohepcidin protein were decreased in liver-specific TfR2-KO compared to control mice.
The significant iron loading and modulation of expression of iron-related genes in liver-specific TfR2-KO mice demonstrates that the liver is the primary site for TfR2 expression and activity and that liver-expressed TfR2 is required for the regulation of hepcidin1.
