The myotoxicity of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine has been known for decades. Limb-girdle weakness due to a vacuolar myopathy may occur occasionally in a dose-dependent manner during the first 24 months on chloroquine. However, we report on a case in which muscular weakness developed after a daily intake of 250 chloroquine phosphate (= 155 mg chloroquine base) for a period of 7 years. Even after long-term and apparently well-tolerated chloroquine treatment, the occurrence of severe side-effects is possible.
Twenty patients were studied in a double-blind manner to investigate whether magnesium sulphate, when given during a rapid-sequence induction of anaesthesia, lessens the side effects caused by suxamethonium. Patients were randomly allocated to two groups; equal volumes of either magnesium sulphate (40 mg.kg-1) or saline were given during rapid-sequence induction of anaesthesia, after thiopentone but before the administration of suxamethonium (1.5 mg.kg-1). The changes in the serum potassium concentration, the degree of muscle fasciculations and the presence of postoperative myalgia were recorded. The mean serum potassium concentration increased by 0.08 mmol.l-1 in the magnesium group and by 0.1 mmol.l-1 in the control group at 2 min after injection of suxamethonium; in neither group was there a significant increase from baseline values. The systolic blood pressure and heart rate increased in both groups after tracheal intubation. The incidence of fasciculations was significantly lower in the magnesium group. Magnesium did not clinically prolong muscle relaxation. There was no difference between the groups in the incidence of myalgia after surgery (one patient in each group). Since no significant increase in the serum potassium concentration was demonstrated, no assessment could be made of the effect of magnesium sulphate on the serum potassium concentration after administration of suxamethonium.
Platelet abnormalities have been described in hypertension, especially in the presence of target organ damage. Our aim was to study the differences in morphology and indices of platelet activation in treatment-naive patients with essential hypertension as compared to normotensive controls and secondly, to study the effects of amlodipine-based antihypertensive therapy on these indices.
We recruited 42 previously untreated, newly diagnosed hypertensive patients (25 men; mean age 53 years) for the cross-sectional study, where data were compared with those from 30 normotensive controls (20 men; mean age 57 years). Of the 42 untreated hypertensive patients who were recruited, 27 patients successfully completed, the six-month treatment phase with amlodipine-based antihypertensive therapy. Platelet morphology (volume and mass) was quantified, and plasma markers of platelet activation (betaTG and sPsel) measured in citrated plasma. The mass of P-selectin in each platelet (pPsel) was determined by lysing a fixed number of platelets and then determining the levels of P-selectin in the lysate.
Hypertensive patients had significantly higher platelet volume (P = 0.01) and mass (P = 0.003), plasma betaTG and sPsel, and pPsel levels (all P < 0.001) compared to the controls. After a mean treatment time of 6 months, there was a decrease in platelet volume (P < 0.001) and mass (P = 0.02), with lower pPsel, sPsel and BTG levels (all P < 0.001) compared to the untreated state.
Treatment of uncomplicated essential hypertension using amlodipine-based anti-hypertensive therapy results in a reversal of the platelet morphology abnormalities and indices of platelet activation. This may contribute to a reduction in thrombosis-related complications seen in those whose blood pressure lowering is effective.
We sought to determine the response rate and safety of intravenous amiodarone in patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias refractory to standard therapies.
Numerous small retrospective reports suggest a response of refractory ventricular tachyarrhythmias to intravenous amiodarone, yet no controlled prospective trials exist.
Two hundred seventy-three patients with recurrent hypotensive ventricular tachyarrhythmias refractory to lidocaine, procainamide and bretylium were randomized to receive one of three doses of intravenous amiodarone: 525, 1,050 or 2,100 mg/24 h (mean [+/- SE] dose 743.7 +/- 418.7, 1,175.2 +/- 483.7, 1,921.2 +/- 688.8 mg, respectively) by continuous infusion over 24 h.
Of the 273 patients, 110 (40.3% response rate) survived 24 h without another hypotensive ventricular tachyarrhythmic event while being treated with intravenous amiodarone as a single agent (primary end point). A significant difference in the time to first recurrence of ventricular tachyarrhythmia (post hoc analysis) over the first 12 h was observed when the combined 1,050- and 2,100-mg dose groups were compared with the 525-mg dose group (p = 0.046). The number of supplemental (150 mg) infusions of intravenous amiodarone (given for breakthrough destabilizing tachyarrhythmias) during hours 0 to 6 (prespecified secondary end point) was significantly greater in the 525-mg dose group than in the 2,100-mg dose group (1.09 +/- 1.57 vs. 0.51 +/- 0.97, p = 0.0043). However, there was no clear dose-response relation observed in this trial with respect to success rates (primary end point), time to first recurrence of tachyarrhythmia (post hoc analysis) or mortality (secondary end point) over 24 h.
Intravenous amiodarone is a relatively safe therapy for ventricular tachyarrhythmias refractory to other medications.
In a randomized, prospective study the efficacy and tolerability of extensive multiple intra-articular administrations of two antibiotics, rifamycin SV and pefloxacin, were evaluated in 40 patients with classical or definite rheumatoid arthritis. Total weekly doses of 525 mg rifamycin or 560 mg pefloxacin were given for 10 weeks, and 12 months after treatment all clinical indices, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein improved significantly in the rifamycin group. Some of the treatment indices (morning stiffness, severity of pain by visual analogue scale, grip strength and Ritchie's index) were already improved when the treatment ended, whereas others (erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein, number of painful and swollen joints) improved progressively during the follow-up. In the pefloxacin treatment group all indices except C-reactive protein and severity of pain determined using a visual analogue scale were significantly improved 12 months after treatment. Comparison of the two treatments showed a significant difference in erythrocyte sedimentation rate (P less than 0.047), Ritchie's index (P less than 0.036) and C-reactive protein (P less than 0.028) in favour of rifamycin.
To investigate further bladder cancer mortality excess based on four deaths observed among the internal comparison population of a previous historical cohort study of workers from a chemical plant in Lima, Ohio. The internal population mainly comprised workers from the Nitrogen Products (NP) Division.
The original Lima cohort was expanded to include all workers (n = 1,841) employed between 1955 and 1996. A subcohort of workers employed mainly in the NP Division (NP Subcohort) was identified and used as the primary study population and as the source of cases and controls for a matched case-control study of bladder cancer. All death records were reviewed for any mention of bladder cancer; all available personnel, medical, and insurance files were reviewed to identify any current or former employees with an existing diagnosis of bladder cancer. A qualitative exposure assessment of all cases and controls was performed to evaluate an exploratory hypothesis that the bladder cancer excess may be associated with work histories involving both NP and urea, specifically, nitric acid and urea.
We identified 96 new deaths among the expanded Lima cohort and obtained cause of death for 90. One additional bladder cancer death and one living case were identified and these were members of the original Lima cohort. The bladder cancer standardized mortality ratio (SMR) for the NP Subcohort (SMR = 3.31, 95%CI = 0.90-8.47) fell between the SMRs observed for all workers in the original and expanded Lima cohort (SMR = 3.93, 95%CI = 1.07-10.06 and 3.10, 95%CI = 1.01-7.24, respectively), but was markedly less than the SMR observed for corresponding subcohort of AN-unexposed workers in the original Lima cohort (SMR = 7.01, 95%CI = 1.91-17.96). Sparse data and a high prevalence of exposure among controls precluded an informative statistical analysis of the possible association between work histories involving both nitric acid and urea and bladder cancer risk.
This study confirms that bladder cancer mortality is elevated among persons who worked mainly in the NP Division of the Lima plant, but at a lower, less statistically significant level than indicated by the original cohort study. No occupational risk factors considered to be causally related to the bladder cancer excess could be identified by this intensive investigation; other possible reasons for the excess are suggested by the descriptive data.
Chronic or recurrent inflammation has been suggested as a causal factor in several human malignancies, including prostate cancer. Genetic predisposition is also a strong risk factor in the development of prostate cancer. In particular, Toll-like receptors (TLR), especially the TLR6-1-10 gene cluster, are involved in prostate cancer development. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAK) 1 and 4 are critical components in the TLR signaling pathway. In this large case-control study, we tested two hypotheses: (a) sequence variants in IRAK1 and IRAK4 are associated with prostate cancer risk and (b) sequence variants in IRAK1/4 and TLR1-6-10 interacts and confers a stronger risk to prostate cancer. We analyzed 11 single nucleotide polymorphisms (four in IRAK1 and seven in IRAK4) among 1,383 newly diagnosed prostate cancer patients and 780 population controls in Sweden. Although the single-nucleotide polymorphisms in IRAK1 and IRAK4 alone were not significantly associated with prostate cancer risk, one single-nucleotide polymorphism in IRAK4, when combined with the high-risk genotype at TLR6-1-10, conferred a significant excess risk of prostate cancer. In particular, men with the risk genotype at TLR6-1-10 and IRAK4-7987 CG/CC had an odds ratio of 9.68 (P = 0.03) when compared with men who had wild-type genotypes. Our findings suggest synergistic effects between sequence variants in IRAK4 and the TLR 6-1-10 gene cluster. Although this study was based on a priori hypothesis and was designed to address many common issues facing this type of study, our results need confirmation in even larger studies.
We assessed the effect of pathology and L-dopa therapy on attention, working memory, and executive functions, in newly diagnosed Parkinson's disease patients. Twenty-one consecutive outpatients who met the criteria for de novo Parkinson's disease, and were naive for L-dopa therapy, were observed for the first time. All patients underwent clinical and neuropsychological evaluations (cognitive decline, memory, executive control). Each patient was reevaluated on standard L-dopa therapy. Serial Position Curves showed an increased primacy effect (5.18+/-2.07) and a decreased recency effect (13.35+/-5.51). These findings normalized after L-dopa therapy (3.50+/-1.72 and 16.20+/-3.09 respectively). The effect of L-dopa on working memory is discussed.
To identify putative risk factors for levodopa-induced dyskinesias we studied the effect of several clinical variables on the occurrence of dyskinesias in a series of 168 consecutive patients with Parkinson's disease treated for at least 6 months with levodopa. Of these, 108 (64%) developed dyskinesias after a mean duration of levodopa treatment of 51.4 +/- 43.3 months. Patients tended to suffer dyskinesias on the side of the body first affected by Parkinson's disease. The overall probability of developing dyskinesias increased with levodopa treatment duration, about 10% per year during the first 7 years. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analysis identified the age at onset of Parkinson's disease (OR 0.923; 95% CI 0.883-0.964) and the initial levodopa dose (mean dose of the first 6 months of treatment; OR 1.004; 95% CI 1.002-1.006) as the main independent predictors. Survival curves showed that onset of Parkinson's disease at age 50 years or before (logrank, P < 0.05) and initial levodopa treatment with more than 600 mg/day (logrank, P < 0.05) were associated with a higher risk for the appearance of dyskinesias.
In order to evaluate the biological effects on some haemostasis factors of antithrombotic-hemorheological treatments on patients with vascular dementia, a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, study comparing sulodexide (Sdx, 50 mg bid orally for 6 months) and pentoxifylline (Ptx, 400 mg tid orally for six months) was carried out. Eighty-six patients, 46 in Sdx group, 40 in Ptx group, fulfilling the NINDS-AIREN criteria for probable vascular dementia were evaluated. Plasma fibrinogen levels showed a significant reduction in both groups, in patients with high basal levels (> or = 350 mg/dl), the reduction being earlier in Sdx group (2nd month of therapy) than in Ptx group (4th month of therapy). In Sdx group a significant reduction in factor VII-Ag (baseline 102.8 U/dl; 6th month 90.1 U/dl) was also observed. Both drugs induced a slight reduction in activated factor VII levels as well. A parallel improvement of G.B.S. Rating Scale for dementia scores was observed in Sdx group. These results seem to indicate that sulodexide treatment can have positive effects in vascular dementia.
Na+/H+ exchangers (NHEs) are integral transmembrane proteins found in all mammalian cells. There is substantial evidence indicating that NHEs regulate inflammatory processes. Because intestinal epithelial cells express a variety of NHEs, we tested the possibility that NHEs are also involved in regulation of the epithelial cell inflammatory response. In addition, since the epithelial inflammatory response is an important contributor to mucosal inflammation in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), we examined the role of NHEs in the modulation of disease activity in a mouse model of IBD. In human gut epithelial cells, NHE inhibition using a variety of agents, including amiloride, 5-(N-methyl-N-isobutyl)amiloride, 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)- amiloride, harmaline, clonidine, and cimetidine, suppressed interleukin-8 (IL-8) production. The inhibitory effect of NHE inhibition on IL-8 was associated with a decrease in IL-8 mRNA accumulation. NHE inhibition suppressed both activation of the p42/p44 mitogen-activated protein kinase and nuclear factor-kappaB. Finally, NHE inhibition ameliorated the course of IBD in dextran sulfate-treated mice. Our data demonstrate that inhibition of NHEs may be an approach worthy of pursuing for the treatment of IBD.
In two patients with Parkinson's disease and L-Dopa induced dyskinesia we administered morphine orally to alleviate lumboradicular pain unresponsive to any other form of treatment. Besides an alleviation of the pain both patients showed a decrease in dyskinetic movements at very low doses of morphine and an increase in akinesia at higher doses. This observation indicates a modulation of basal ganglia output by morphine with the possibility of reducing L-Dopa induced dyskinesia in patients treated with morphine for pain.
The authors explored genetic moderators of symptom reduction and side effects in methylphenidate-treated preschool-age children diagnosed with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
DNA was isolated from 81 subjects in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover methylphenidate titration. Parents and teachers completed ADHD symptom scales and side effect ratings for each of five randomly administered weekly conditions that included immediate-release methylphenidate 1.25, 2.5, 5.0, 7.5 mg and placebo given three times daily. Candidate genes hypothesized to influence stimulant effects or individual risks for ADHD were genotyped.
Although the primary analysis did not indicate significant genetic effects, secondary analyses revealed associations between symptom response and variants at the dopamine receptor (DRD4) promoter (p=.05) and synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP25) allelesT1065G (p=.03) andT1069C (p=.05). SNAP25 variants were also associated with tics (p=.02), buccal-lingual movements (p=.01), and irritability (p=04). DRD4 variants were also associated with picking (p=.03). Increasing dose predicted irritability (p=.05) and social withdrawal (p=.03) with DRD4 variants. There were no significant effects for the dopamine transporter (DAT1).
Emerging evidence suggests the potential for understanding the individual variability of response to and side effects of ADHD medications from the study of genetics, although additional research is required before these findings are proven to have clinical utility.
Cytosolic phospholipase A2alpha (cPLA2alpha) preferentially hydrolyzes membrane phospholipids containing arachidonic acid, resulting in the biosynthesis of eicosanoids such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes. To examine the contribution of cPLA2alpha to skin inflammation, we evaluated the effect of (E)-N-[(2S,4R)-4-[N-(biphenyl-2-ylmethyl)-N-2-methylpropylamino]-1-[2-(2,4-difluorobenzoyl)benzoyl]pyrrolidin- 2-yl]methyl-3-[4-(2,4-dioxothiazolidin-5-ylidenemethyl) phenyl]acrylamide (RSC-3388), a potent and selective cPLA2alpha inhibitor, on 2,4,6-trinitro-1-chlorobenzene (TNCB)-induced ear inflammation and mite antigen-induced dermatitis in mice. Topical application of RSC-3388 showed a significant inhibitory activity against TNCB-induced ear swelling and eicosanoid production in mice. Comprehensive expression analysis using Gene-Chip technology and subsequent experiments concerning mRNA and protein expression demonstrated that RSC-3388 clearly reduced the levels of interleukin-1beta, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) and MIP-1beta in a TNCB-induced mouse model. In addition, RSC-3388 ointment significantly alleviated atopic dermatitis-like skin lesions induced by repeated application of mite antigen. Furthermore, increased expression of cPLA(2)alpha, assessed by anti-phospho-cPLA2alpha antibody, was observed in the skin lesions of mite-antigen-induced dermatitis. These results indicate that cPLA2alpha is involved in the development of skin inflammation in mice, and RSC-3388 is expected to be useful for the treatment of inflammatory skin disorders such as atopic dermatitis.
Cryptococcal meningitis (CM) in South Africa is often treated with fluconazole as initial therapy. Surveillance data suggest that the prevalence of fluconazole-resistant CM is increasing, and expanding access to antiretroviral therapy is resulting in increasing recognition of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome. Therefore, we conducted a study to assess the contribution of these factors to CM relapse in this context.
Patients with symptomatic relapse of CM were prospectively identified at 2 hospitals in Cape Town, South Africa, during the period of 2003-2005. Patients met the following criteria: (1) a previous laboratory-confirmed episode of CM, with resolution of symptoms after treatment; (2) reported adherence to fluconazole treatment; (3) recurrence of typical CM symptoms; (4) cerebrospinal fluid antigen test and/or culture positive for Cryptococcus neoformans; and (5) no alternative diagnosis. Data on patients' human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and CM infections and treatment were collected and analyzed.
Thirty-two episodes of relapse occurred among 27 patients. Episodes were classified into 3 groups: culture-positive episodes in antiretroviral therapy-naive patients (6 episodes), culture-positive episodes in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy (15 episodes), and culture-negative episodes in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy (11 episodes). Seventy-six percent of culture-positive relapses were associated with isolates that had reduced susceptibility to fluconazole. Drug-resistant cases required prolonged intravenous therapy with amphotericin B, and despite this treatment, the mortality rate was high (54% at a median of 6 months of follow-up). Despite a long interval between initiation of antifungal therapy and initiation of antiretroviral therapy (median interval, 144 days), immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome contributed to at least one-third of relapses.
After initial treatment with fluconazole, relapses of symptomatic CM are often associated with fluconazole resistance and immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome. These data add to concern about the efficacy of fluconazole, compared with amphotericin B, for initial treatment of HIV-associated CM.
The Met receptor tyrosine kinase and its ligand, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), are overexpressed and/or activated in a variety of human malignancies. However, its role in epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC) has not been clearly elucidated. Therefore, we investigated the role of HGF/c-Met signaling pathway in a large series (156) of Saudi EOC patient samples, a panel of cell lines, and xenografts in a NUDE mouse model. Using immunohistochemistry, c-Met overexpression was found in 27.2% Middle Eastern EOC samples and was associated with an advanced tumor stage (P=0.0187). c-Met overexpression was also associated with antiapoptotic markers X-chromosome-linked inhibitors of apoptosis (XIAP) (P=0.0008) and Bcl-XL (P=0.0493) expression. Treatment of EOC cell lines with PHA665752 causes a dose-dependent inhibition of cell viability and induction of apoptosis. Furthermore, PHA665752 treatment causes dephosphorylation of AKT and downregulation of antiapoptotic proteins XIAP and Bcl-XL. In addition, PHA665752-induced apoptosis occurs through activation of Bax-mediated release of cytochrome c and activation of caspases. Finally, co-treatment of EOC with PHA665752 and cisplatin causes augmented effect on apoptosis of EOC cells and resulted in synergistic inhibition of EOC xenograft tumor growth in NUDE mice. These results indicate that c-Met/HGF pathway may be a potential target for therapeutic intervention for treatment of EOC.
The relationship between cerebrospinal fluid levels of HVA and 5-HIAA and the hypokinetic-rigid symptoms that occurred during oral administration of haloperidol in twenty schizophrenic patients was investigated. Measurement of the silent period in the EMG was used for evaluation of these symptoms. The results support the hypothesis of a positive correlation between the CSF HVA and the hypokinetic-rigid side effect and a negative correlation between the pretherapeutic dopamine turnover and the risk of neuroleptic Parkinsonism.
To determine whether the protease inhibitor indinavir sulfate, which is extremely insoluble at physiologic pH levels and which is known to be associated with nephrolithiasis, is associated with crystalluria at a usual therapeutic dose.
Freshly voided urine from 27 male human immunodeficiency virus patients being treated with indinavir at a dose of 800 mg, tid, in an outpatient setting and from 20 healthy subjects undergoing routine physical examination was subjected to dipstick urinalysis and microscopic examination of urinary sediments.
Three (11%) of 27 patients treated with indinavir developed highly characteristic crystalluria during the course of therapy. No such crystals were observed in the urine of the 20 healthy subjects.
Indinavir crystalluria was identified in asymptomatic patients treated with usual therapeutic doses of the drug. Screening urines of patients taking indinavir may be useful in identifying patients at risk for developing nephrotoxicity.
The effects of heparin-induced aldosterone deficiency on renal sodium and potassium transport and renal function were studied in 65 patients with chronic glomerulonephritis and initial hyperaldosteronism. Heparin-induced aldosterone deficiency resulted in increased diuresis, in natriuresis due to decreased sodium reabsorption in the distal nephron, in a fall in serum sodium and an increase in serum potassium concentration. A transient reduction in potassium excretion occurred during the 2-4 days of heparin treatment. In patients with chronic glomerulonephritis and a compromised renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, heparin may cause drug-induced selective hypoaldosteronism. The suppressive effect of heparin on aldosterone production was partially compensated for by increasing plasma renin activity. Heparin-induced aldosterone deficiency did not change glomerular filtration rate in patients without renal failure. In those with chronic sclerosing glomerulonephritis and a glomerular filtration rate less than 35 ml/min, heparin caused a further decrease in renal function.
MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] method is one of the most widely used methods to analyze cell proliferation and viability. It is taken up through endocytosis and is reduced by mitochondrial enzymes as well as endosomal/lysosomal compartments, then is transported to cell surfaces to form needle-like MTT formazans; however the effect of MTT itself still remains elusive. Our objective was to investigate the direct effects of MTT on in vitro SH-SY5Y cells. Results showed that the endocytosis of MTT did not cause obvious lesion and induce cell death, but the metabolism and exocytosis of MTT could dramatically damage cells. Our results also indicated that MTT could activate apoptosis related factors such as caspase-8, caspase-3 or accelerate the leakage of cell contents after the appearance of MTT formazan crystals. The present data suggest MTT method should be carefully chosen; otherwise the cell viability would be underestimated and incomparable.
Rufinamide is a new, orally active antiepileptic drug (AED), which has been found to be effective in the treatment of partial seizures and drop attacks associated with the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. When taken with food, rufinamide is relatively well absorbed in the lower dose range, with approximately dose-proportional plasma concentrations up to 1,600 mg/day, but less than dose-proportional plasma concentrations at higher doses due to reduced oral bioavailability. Rufinamide is not extensively bound to plasma proteins. During repeated dosing, steady state is reached within 2 days, consistent with its elimination half-life of 6-10 h. The apparent volume of distribution (V(d)/F) and apparent oral clearance (CL/F) are related to body size, the best predictor being body surface area. Rufinamide is not a substrate of cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes and is extensively metabolized via hydrolysis by carboxylesterases to a pharmacologically inactive carboxylic acid derivative, which is excreted in the urine. Rufinamide pharmacokinetics are not affected by impaired renal function. Potential differences in rufinamide pharmacokinetics between children and adults have not been investigated systematically in formal studies. Although population pharmacokinetic modeling suggests that in the absence of interacting comedication rufinamide CL/F may be higher in children than in adults, a meaningful comparison of data across age groups is complicated by age-related differences in doses and in proportion of patients receiving drugs known to increase or to decrease rufinamide CL/F. A study investigating the effect of rufinamide on the pharmacokinetics of the CYP3A4 substrate triazolam and an oral contraceptive interaction study showed that rufinamide has some enzyme-inducing potential in man. Findings from population pharmacokinetic modeling indicate that rufinamide does not modify the CL/F of topiramate or valproic acid, but may slightly increase the CL/F of carbamazepine and lamotrigine and slightly decrease the CL/F of phenobarbital and phenytoin (all predicted changes were <20%). These changes in the pharmacokinetics of associated AEDs are unlikely to make it necessary to change the dosages of these AEDs given concomitantly with rufinamide, with the exception that consideration should be given to reducing the dose of phenytoin. Based on population pharmacokinetic modeling, lamotrigine, topiramate, or benzodiazepines do not affect the pharmacokinetics of rufinamide, but valproic acid may increase plasma rufinamide concentrations, especially in children in whom plasma rufinamide concentrations could be increased substantially. Conversely, comedication with carbamazepine, vigabatrin, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and primidone was associated with a slight-to-moderate decrease in plasma rufinamide concentrations, ranging from a minimum of -13.7% in female children comedicated with vigabatrin to a maximum of -46.3% in female adults comedicated with phenytoin, phenobarbital, or primidone. In population modeling using data from placebo-controlled trials, a positive correlation has been identified between reduction in seizure frequency and steady-state plasma rufinamide concentrations. The probability of adverse effects also appears to be concentration-related.
The Bcr-abl tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib mesylate is the frontline therapy for chronic myeloid leukemia. Imatinib has been reported to cause congestive heart failure and left ventricular contractile dysfunction in patients and cardiomyopathy in rodents, findings proposed to be associated with its pharmacological activity. To investigate the specific role of Abelson oncogene 1 (c-Abl) in imatinib-induced cardiac toxicity, we performed targeted gene inhibition of c-Abl by RNA interference in neonatal cardiomyocytes (NCMs). Suppression of c-Abl did not lead to cytotoxicity or induction of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. To further dis associate c-Abl from imatinib-induced cardiac toxicity, we designed imatinib structural analogs that do not have appreciable c-Abl inhibition in NCMs. The c-Abl inactive analogs induced cytotoxicity and ER stress, at similar or greater potencies and magnitudes as imatinib. Furthermore, combining c-Abl gene silencing with imatinib and analogs treatment did not significantly shift the cytotoxicity dose response curves. Imatinib and analogs were shown to accumulate in lysosomes, likely due to their physicochemical properties, and disrupt autophagy. The toxicity induced by imatinib and analogs can be rescued by bafilomycin A pretreatment, demonstrating the involvement of lysosomal accumulation in cardiac toxicity. The results from our studies strongly suggest that imatinib induces cardiomyocyte dysfunction through disruption of autophagy and induction of ER stress, independent of c-Abl inhibition.
