Nine patients with untreated, essential hypertension (mean casual blood pressure 173/109 +/- 14/7 mmHg (+/- s.d.] were studied in the control state and then following 16 weeks treatment with nifedipine 10 mg orally 8 hourly. Direct arterial blood pressure was monitored continuously over 24 hours and demonstrated that nifedipine significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure throughout the day and the night. The variability of blood pressure was not altered by nifedipine therapy. There was no significant change in heart rate after nifedipine therapy. At each study the sensitivity and setting of the baroreflex response to intravenous phenylephrine was measured. Following chronic nifedipine therapy there was re-setting of the sino-aortic baroreflex and an increase in its sensitivity.
Ticlopidine hydrochloride (Ticlid) has been increasingly used as an antiplatelet agent. Some studies showed that it has higher efficacy in reducing stroke recurrence when compared to conventional aspirin. Side effects like gastrointestinal disturbances and blood dyscrasias are common but ticlopidine-induced cholestatic jaundice has been reported only rarely. We present a case report on a patient who has ticlopidine-induced cholestatic jaundice.
Mutations in patched (PTCH) cause the nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (NBCCS), or Gorlin syndrome. Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome may present with developmental anomalies, including rib and craniofacial abnormalities, and predisposes to several tumor types, including basal cell carcinoma and medulloblastoma. Cleft palate is found in 4% of individuals with nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome. Because there might be specific sequence alterations in PTCH that limit expression to orofacial clefting, a genetic study of PTCH was undertaken in cases with cleft lip and/or palate (CL/P) known not to have nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome.
Seven new normal variants spread along the entire gene and three missense mutations were found among cases with cleft lip and/or palate. One of these variants (P295S) was not found in any of 1188 control samples. A second variant was found in a case and also in 1 of 1119 controls. The third missense (S827G) was found in 5 of 1369 cases and in 5 of 1104 controls and is likely a rare normal variant. Linkage and linkage desequilibrium also was assessed using normal variants in and adjacent to the PTCH gene in 220 families (1776 individuals), each with two or more individuals with isolated clefting. Although no statistically significant evidence of linkage (multipoint HLOD peak = 2.36) was uncovered, there was borderline evidence of significant transmission distortion for one haplotype of two single nucleotide polymorphisms located within the PTCH gene (p = .08).
Missense mutations in PTCH may be rare causes of isolated cleft lip and/or palate. An as yet unidentified variant near PTCH may act as a modifier of cleft lip and/or palate.
The cooked meat-derived heterocyclic amine 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is activated by CYP1A2 to the N-hydroxy metabolite, then esterified by acetyl transferase and sulfur transferase into unstable DNA-reactive products that can lead to mutation. The genotoxicity of PhIP has been implicated in its carcinogenicity. Yet, CYP1A2-null mice are still prone to PhIP-mediated cancer, inferring that alternative mechanisms must be operative in tumor induction. PhIP induces tumors of the breast, prostate, and colon in rats and lymphoma in mice. This profile of carcinogenicity is indicative of hormonal involvement. We recently reported that PhIP has potent estrogenic activity inducing transcription of estrogen (E2)-regulated genes, proliferation of E(2)-dependent cells, up-regulation of progesterone receptor, and stimulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling. In this report, we show for the first time that PhIP at doses as low as of 10(-11) mol/L has direct effects on a rat pituitary lactotroph model (GH3 cells) and is able to induce cell proliferation and the synthesis and secretion of prolactin. This PhIP-induced pituitary cell proliferation and synthesis and secretion of prolactin can be attenuated by an estrogen receptor (ER) inhibitor, implying that PhIP effects on lactotroph responses are ERalpha mediated. In view of the strong association between estrogen, progesterone, prolactin, and breast cancer, the PhIP repertoire of hormone-like activities provides further mechanistic support for the tissue-specific carcinogenicity of the chemical. Furthermore, the recent epidemiology studies that report an association between consumption of cooked red meat and premenopausal and postmenopausal human breast cancer are consonant with these observations.
Inhaled pollutants were recently shown to be responsible for an increased incidence of airway allergic diseases, including asthma. A common feature of all forms of asthma is airway hyperresponsiveness.
Our purpose was to elucidate the effects of diesel exhaust particulate (DEP), one of the most prevalent inhaled pollutants, on airway responsiveness.
A/J and C57Bl/6 mice were used; the former are genetically predisposed to be hyperresponsive to acetylcholine, whereas the latter are not. DEP was administered intranasally for 2 weeks, after which pulmonary function was analyzed by whole-body plethysmography.
Intranasal administration of DEP increased airway responsiveness to acetylcholine in both A/J and C57Bl/6 mice and induced displacement of ciliated epithelial cells by mucus-secreting Clara cells. The effect was mediated by M(3) muscarinic receptors. Acetylcholine-evoked bronchial constriction was reversed by administration of terbutaline, a beta(2)-adrenergic antagonist, which is also characteristic of human asthma. Intranasal administration of antibody raised against GM-CSF abolished DEP-evoked increases in airway responsiveness and Clara cell hyperplasia. The antibody raised against IL-4 also inhibited DEP-evoked increases in airway responsiveness. However, it was to a lesser extent compared with antibody against GM-CSF. In addition, DEP stimulated GM-CSF messenger RNA expression in the lung.
DEP induces airway hyperresponsiveness by stimulating GM-CSF synthesis.
A four-year-old boy with stage IV neuroblastoma was treated using the group study protocol of the Tohoku area for advanced neuroblastoma, consisting of DTIC, CPA, VCR, CDDP and VM-26, as a result of which had obtained complete remission. However, he had severe hemorrhagic cystitis after administration of CPA. He was treated with the usual therapy, but symptoms such as hematuria, pollakiuria and miction pain were not improved. We then tried bladder irrigation with prostaglandin E2. Half a milligram of PGE2 in 100 ml of physiological saline solution was instilled into the bladder and left in situ for 3 hours. The patient was free of symptoms on the day following the therapy. Local therapy with PGE2 thus seems very useful for cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis.
To test the hypothesis that slow acetylators, who may have a greater risk of developing isoniazid hepatitis than rapid acetylators, are exposed to more acetylhydrazine and hydrazine, two toxic metabolites of isoniazid, the urinary excretion of hydrazino metabolites of isoniazid was measured following the ingestion of 300 mg isoniazid. Slow acetylators (n = 7) excreted significantly more isoniazid (32.4 vs 9.2% dose), acetylhydrazine (3.1 vs 1.6% dose), and hydrazine (1.0 vs 0.4% dose) in 24 h than rapid acetylators (n = 5), whereas the excretion of acetylisoniazid and diacetylhydrazine was significantly lower. As the acetylation (i.e. detoxification) of acetylhydrazine is inhibited in the presence of high concentrations of isoniazid, a study was also made of the effect of a slow-release preparation that results in lower plasma concentrations of isoniazid on the production of hydrazino metabolites. The ratio of acetylisoniazid to isoniazid in urine was significantly increased in slow acetylators from 0.84 to 1.02 following administration of the slow release preparation, indicating increased acetylation of isoniazid. However, the excretion of diacetylhydrazine relative to the excretion of acetylhydrazine and hydrazine did not change. It is concluded that exposure to toxic metabolites of isoniazid is increased in slow acetylators. Detoxification of the toxic metabolites was not enhanced by a slow-release preparation of isoniazid.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the toxicity profile of docetaxel/carboplatin versus paclitaxel/carboplatin. All patients with primary ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal malignancies treated with docetaxel and platinum at the University of Iowa between January 1996 and June 1999 were identified. Controls, treated with paclitaxel and platinum, were matched for age, date of diagnosis, type of cancer, stage, and residual disease. Toxicity was evaluated prior to each cycle and was graded according to the Gynecologic Oncology Group criteria. Twenty patients were identified in each group and evaluated. In the docetaxel/carboplatin group, sixteen (80%) patients experienced hematologic toxicity. Nine (45%) had grade III or IV neutropenia and fever developed in two of these patients. Grade III or IV thrombocytopenia developed in two patients. In contrast, among the paclitaxel/carboplatin group, grade III or IV neutropenia developed in only three patients (p < 0.05) and grade III or IV thrombocytopenia developed in two patients. There were no significant differences between the two groups with regard to gastrointestinal or renal toxicity. In the paclitaxel/carboplatin group, 13 patients developed neuropathy compared to only 2 patients (10%) in the docetaxel/carboplatin group (p < 0.05). There was no difference in the clinical response between the two treatment groups. In conclusion, neutropenia was more common with the docetaxel/carboplatin regimen, whereas neuropathy was more common in the paclitaxel-based regimen. The therapeutic efficacy was equivalent between the two groups.
Propofol is a new, fast-acting intravenous (i.v.) anesthetic. Involuntary movements or epileptic seizures have occurred during or after propofol-induced anesthesia in approximately 50 reported cases; a third of the patients have had epilepsy. We report 5 patients with seizures in association with propofol anesthesia. A female epileptic patient developed severe status epilepticus; the other patients with short-lasting seizures had no previous epilepsy. Although propofol has been used in treatment of patients of status epilepticus, the risk of precipitation of epileptic seizures warrants consideration especially when planning anesthesia for epileptic patients.
The effect of isoflurane-induced hypotension on reduction of blood loss, improvement of surgical field, and postoperative edema was investigated in 52 patients undergoing combined maxillary and mandibular osteotomies. Anesthesia was maintained with fentanyl, N2O, O2, and isoflurane. Deliberate hypotension was induced by increasing isoflurane inspired concentration. Blood loss in the hypotensive group (MAP 55-65 mm Hg) was significantly less than that in the control group (MAP 75-85 mm Hg); 454.0 +/- 211.3 mL versus 755.3 +/- 334.6 mL (P less than 0.001). Fewer patients had to be transfused in the hypotensive group, 12.0% versus 44.4% (P less than 0.02). The surgical field was significantly improved by the hypotensive technique, but operative time was not shortened. Subjective and objective measurements of postoperative edema failed to show any effect of deliberate hypotension. Our data suggest that isoflurane-induced hypotension effectively reduces blood loss and the number of transfusions in orthognathic surgery.
Mitochondrial function is a key determinant of both excitability and viability of neurons. Present studies were carried out to decipher cerebral mitochondrial oxidative energy metabolism and membrane function in the chronic condition of generalized seizures induced by picrotoxin (PTX) in rats. PTX-induced convulsions resulted in decreased respiration rates (14-41%) with glutamate, pyruvate + malate, and succinate as substrate. The ADP phosphorylation rates were drastically reduced by 44-65%. An opposite trend was observed with ascorbate + N,N,N',N'-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine [corrected] (TMPD) as substrate. In general, uncoupling of the mitochondrial electron transport was observed after PTX treatment. Malate dehydrogenase (MDH) and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activities were decreased by 20-80%; also, there was significant reduction in cytochrome b content after PTX treatment, while the F(o)F(1) ATPase (complex V) activity increased in basal and 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP)-stimulated condition, indicating increased membrane fragility. The substrate kinetics analysis had shown that K(m) and V(max) of the higher affinity kinetic component of ATPase increased significantly by 1.2- to 1.4-fold in epileptic condition. Temperature kinetic analysis revealed 1.2-fold increase in energies of activation with decreased transition temperature. The total phospholipid (TPL) and cholesterol (CHL) contents decreased significantly with lowering of diphosphatidylglycerol (DPG), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), phosphatidylinositol (PI), and phosphatidylserine (PS), while lysophospholipid (lyso), sphingomyelin (SPM), and phosphatidylcholine components were found to be elevated. Brain mitochondrial membrane was somewhat more fluidized in epileptic animals. Possible consequences of mitochondrial respiratory chain (MRC) dysfunction are discussed. In conclusion, impairment of MRC function along with structural alterations suggests novel pathophysiological mechanisms important for chronic epileptic condition.
Three patients developed chorea while receiving oral contraceptives. Two were young patients whose chorea developed long after treatment had been started and disappeared soon after it had been discontinued. The third patient had acute amphetamine-induced chorea after prolonged oral contraception. Prolonged administration of female sex hormones is a possible cause of chorea in women who have not previously had chorea or rheumatic fever.
Interferon (IFN)-alpha has been used to investigate pathways by which innate immune cytokines influence the brain and behaviour. Previous studies suggest that altered basal ganglia function may contribute to IFN-alpha-induced neuropsychological and behavioural changes. To further examine IFN-alpha effects on neuropsychological functions related to basal ganglia (as well as other brain regions), and explore the relationship between altered neuropsychological function and IFN-alpha-induced depression and fatigue, a selected subset of the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery was administered to 32 hepatitis C patients at baseline (Visit 1) and following approximately 12 weeks (Visit 2) of either no treatment (n=12) or treatment with IFN-alpha plus ribavirin (n=20). Symptoms of depression and fatigue were assessed using the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale and the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory. Compared to control subjects, patients treated with IFN-alpha/ribavirin exhibited significant decreases in motor speed as measured in the simple and five-choice movement segments of the CANTAB reaction time task and slower response times in the rapid visual information processing task, a task of sustained attention. Decreased motor speed on the five-choice movement segments of the reaction time task was in turn correlated with increased symptoms of depression and fatigue (R=0.47, p<0.05 and R=0.48, p<0.05, respectively). IFN-alpha/ribavirin treatment had no effects on executive function, decision time in the reaction time task, or target detection accuracy in the sustained attention task. Motor slowing and its correlation with psychiatric symptoms suggest that altered basal ganglia function may contribute to the pathogenesis of IFN-alpha-induced behavioural changes.
As interactions between the renin-angiotensin and sympathetic nervous systems have been suggested in the pathogenesis of hypertension, we wanted to investigate the effect of chronic renin-angiotensin blockade with losartan and enalaprilat on the sympathetic reactivity to hypotension and on the cardiac beta-adrenergic-coupled adenylyl cyclase pathway in 12-week-old Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Both treatments, exerting equipotent shifts of angiotensin-pressure responses, lowered blood pressure and attenuated cardiac hypertrophy similarly in SHR. The nitroprusside-induced hypotension was similar in both strains, but the associated increases in plasma catecholamines and heart rate were higher in SHR. In SHR treated with losartan and enalaprilat, the nitroprusside-induced hypotension was greater and associated with markedly attenuated increases in norepinephrine and heart rate. The binding affinity of cardiac beta-adrenoceptors was significantly lower, and beta2-adrenoceptor subtype was dominant in untreated SHR in contrast to WKY, in which beta1-adrenoceptor subtype was dominant. Enalaprilat treatment increased total beta-adrenoceptor density, whereas both treatments restored the binding affinity and beta1- and beta2-adrenoceptor proportions to normal in SHR. Isoproterenol-, guanylylimidodiphosphate [Gpp(NH)p]-, and forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase reactivity was increased in SHR. Enalaprilat restored adenylyl cyclase reactivity to normal in SHR and reduced the sensitivity (EC50) of Gpp(NH)p-induced cAMP formation in both strains. The present study supports the possibility that functional alterations of the renin-angiotensin and sympathetic systems are involved in hypertension in SHR. The antihypertensive action of losartan and enalaprilat in SHR may be partly mediated through the normalization of sympathetic hyperreactivity and the restoration of beta-adrenergic signaling pathway sensitivity.
Since there is evidence for estrogen and estrogen-like compounds to have beneficial effect on the pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), this study was designed to investigative the apoptotic and anti-proliferative effects of these compounds on the human hepatoma Hep3B cell line. The Hep3B cells were treated with 17beta-estradiol (E2), diethylstilbestrol (DES), tamoxifen, and genistein. After treatments of these compounds at the concentration of 10(-6) or 10(-8) M, the Hep3B cells were demonstrated to have significant DNA fragmentation, nucleus condensation, cytochrome-c leaking from the mitochondria and caspase-3 activation by DAPI and Western blotting. The cells were also observed to have declined proliferative potential by MTT assay, arrested cell cycle by flow-cytometry measurements. However, the cytochrome-c leaking from the mitochondria induced by E2 and E2-like compounds was blocked totally by ICI 182,780 treatment. These finding suggest that estrogen and the estrogen-like compounds may induce anti-proliferative and apoptotic effects in Hep3B cells, and the E2 and the E2-like compounds mediated apoptotic effect was estrogen receptor dependent. Among the drugs tested, E2, E2 agonists (DES and genistein) and partial antagonist (tamoxifen), all showed the stronger anti-tumor potential.
Clopidogrel is inactive in vitro and is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P-450-3A4 to produce active metabolites. Unlike pravastatin, atorvastatin is a statin that is subject to metabolism by cytochrome P-450-3A4, and drug-drug interactions with other potent inhibitors of this cytochrome system have been demonstrated. However, the clinical impact of this interaction has created debate.
In the PROVE IT-TIMI 22 study, 4162 patients with an acute coronary syndrome within the preceding 10 days were randomly assigned in a 1:1 fashion to pravastatin 40 mg or atorvastatin 80 mg daily. The primary efficacy outcome measure was the time from randomization until the first occurrence of a component of the primary end point: death from any cause, myocardial infarction, documented unstable angina requiring rehospitalization, revascularization with either percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass grafting, or stroke.
At 30 days, there was a trend for less occurrence of the primary end point in patients randomized to atorvastatin compared with pravastatin, irrespective of whether they were taking clopidogrel. This becomes significant at 2-year follow-up in clopidogrel-treated patients (21.66 % vs 26.18% P = .0091). There was no evidence of interaction in the clopidogrel/no clopidogrel subgroup for the primary end point (interaction P = .65) or the components of the composite.
In conclusion, the beneficial affects of atorvastatin 80 mg in reducing the primary end point at 2 years is independent of coadministration with clopidogrel.
Coronary microcirculation plays an important role in the progression of cardiac remodeling. Among angiogenic factors, it has been reported that angiotensin II may contribute to neovascularization. However, it is unknown whether inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system suppresses angiogenesis, especially within the heart. Our aim was to evaluate the effects of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril and the angiotensin II receptor type I blocker valsartan on cardiac microvasculature, function, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression, and survival in cardiomyopathic hamsters.
Male cardiomyopathic hamsters (BIO TO2) were administered either a placebo (group C), enalapril (30 mg/kg/day) (group E), or valsartan (40 mg/kg/day) (group V), starting at the age of 6 weeks. This continued until death. Hemodynamic study, histological analysis, and northern blot analysis were performed at 39 weeks.
Group V showed significant increases in percent fibrosis, end diastolic pressure, and LV dP/dt min, and significant decreases in percent fractional shortening, LV dP/dt max, capillary density, and the level of mRNA expression of VEGF compared with group C. Group E showed significant increases in percent fractional shortening while the capillary density and level of mRNA expression of VEGF were unchanged. The 300-day survival rate was significantly lower in group V (25.0%) but higher in group E (100%) than that of group C (66.7%).
Therapy with valsartan may have adverse effects on survival rate concomitant with the progression of cardiac remodeling owing to impaired VEGF-mediated angiogenesis. Therapy with enalapril has a neutral effect on VEGF-mediated angiogenesis, leading to the suppression of cardiac remodeling and an increase in life expectancy.
Previously we reported on L-DOPA's antinociceptive effect on substance P-induced nociceptive behaviors in mice [Shimizu T, Iwata S, Morioka H, Masuyama T, Fukuda T, Nomoto M. Antinociceptive mechanism of L-DOPA. Pain 2004;110;246-9.]. Since significant hyperalgesia was noted following antinociception, our study was designed to investigate the mechanism of this hyperalgesia. Nociceptive behaviors were enhanced 2 h after L-DOPA administration. L-DOPA induced hyperalgesia occurred after conversion to dopamine because co-administration of benserazide, a DOPA decarboxylase inhibitor, completely abolished the L-DOPA-induced hyperalgesia. The D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole, depressed these behaviors entirely, while the D1 antagonist, SCH23390, inhibited the enhancement of these behaviors by L-DOPA. The D2 receptor antagonist, sulpiride, which induced hyperalgesia of the substance P-induced behaviors in naive mice, did not have any effects on L-DOPA-induced hyperalgesia. Spinal cord dopamine content increased rapidly after L-DOPA administration, exhibiting levels 100 times greater than baseline, and then returned to control after 1 h. These results suggested that the dopaminergic inhibitory system for pain sensation was temporarily impaired by excess amounts of exogenous dopamine that were derived from L-DOPA and both D1 and D2 receptors were involved in L-DOPA-induced hyperalgesia.
The present study was carried out to investigate whether taurine plays any beneficial role in acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute hepatotoxicity. APAP exposure increased the plasma levels of ALT, ALP, LDH, TNF-alpha and NO production. Moreover, APAP treatment reduced the glutathione level and antioxidant enzyme activities, increased lipid peroxidation and caused hepatic DNA fragmentation which ultimately leads to cellular necrosis. Also, incubation of hepatocytes with APAP reduced cell viability, enhanced ROS generation and increased CYP2E1 activity. APAP overdose caused injury in the hepatic tissue and hepatocytes via the upregulation of CYP2E1 and JNK. Taurine treatment was effective in counteracting APAP-induced hepatic damages, oxidative stress and cellular necrosis. Results indicate that APAP overdose caused hepatic injury due to its metabolism to hepatotoxic NAPQI (N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine), usually catalysed by CYP2E1, and via the direct activation of JNK-dependent cell death pathway. Taurine possesses prophylactic as well as therapeutic potentials against APAP-induced hepatic injury.
To study the efficacy and safety of aspirin in prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism (VTE) after total joint arthroplasty.
240 patients who received total joint arthroplasty, 157 undergoing total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and 83 undergoing total hip arthroplasty (THR), were divided into 2 basically matched groups, Group A (n = 100), receiving aspirin enteric-coated tablets 100 mg/day since the first day after operation till discharge 10-14 days after operation, and Group B (n = 140), receiving subcutaneous injection of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) once daily for 10 d. The effects and safety were evaluated.
13 patients (13.0%) were diagnosed with deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in Group A, 7 of them were symptomatic, 3 were suspected of pulmonary embolism, and 2 suffered from cardio-cerebrovascular event. In Group B, 10 patients (7.1%) had DVT, 4 of them were symptomatic; suspicious pulmonary embolism and cardio-cerebrovascular event were diagnosed in 3 and 8 patients respectively. There were no statistic significances between the two groups in all these aspects. The quantity of bleeding, decrease of hemoglobin, hematoma rate, and infection rate of Group A were (693.4 +/- 480.1) ml, (32.9 +/- 18.0) g/L, 1%, and 0% respectively, all not significantly different from those of Group B (648.9 +/- 521.1) ml, (36.4 +/- 21.9) g/L, 2.1%, and 1.4% respectively, all P > 0.05.
Aspirin is as effective as LMWH in venous thromboembolism prophylaxis after total joint arthroplasty. In addition, aspirin is cheap, administered orally, well tolerated, without necessity for surveillance, and with good compliance and potential of prevention of cardio-cerebrovascular events.
The atrioventricular conduction system was studied by means of His bundle records in a preuremic patient during digitalis intoxication. A second degree A-V block of Wenckebach periodicity could be detected in the His-Purkinje system. Localization of the block has been found remarkable since, according to hitherto clinical studies, digitalis-induced Wenckebach block had been present commonly in the atrioventricular node.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major cause of mortality worldwide, and no effective systematic therapy currently exists. Recombinant alpha-interferon (IFN) has been suggested to have some antitumor efficacy in this illness, and synergism with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) has been reported in several gastrointestinal malignancies. We therefore treated 10 patients with advanced HCC with combination therapy consisting of 5-FU 750/mg/m(2) weekly and IFN 9 X 10(6) units three times weekly. Toxicity was substantial in this cirrhotic population, and included mucositis as well as neurologic and hematologic side effects. There were no sustained antitumor responses. Median survival among this heavily pretreated population was 10 months. We were therefore unable to demonstrate any significant benefit to treatment with 5-FU and IFN in patients with HCC.
Miconazole oral gel is frequently prescribed for the treatment of oral Candidal infections. Its ability to be systemically absorbed and interact with other drugs has previously been recorded but is not universally known. As a reminder, a further case of derangement of anticoagulation following concomitant use of warfarin and miconazole is reported. Other potential drug interactions of miconazole and fluconazole are highlighted.
Studies have revealed that macrophages play an important role in the development of severe acute pancreatitis (SAP). Activated macrophages can lead to a systemic inflammatory response, induce lipid peroxidation, impair membrane structure, result in injury to the liver and the other extrahepatic organs, and eventually result in multiple organ dysfunction syndrome by promoting excessive secretion of cytokines. Liver injury can further aggravate the systemic inflammatory response and increase mortality by affecting the metabolism of toxins and the release of excessive inflammatory mediators. Clodronate is a synthetic bisphosphonate, which is often used for treating bone changes caused by osteoporosis and other factors. In the current study, we created liposomes containing superparamagnetic iron oxide particles (SPIOs) for macrophage labeling and magnetic resonance imaging, using a novel method that can bind the clodronate to induce apoptosis and deplete macrophages.
Superparamagnetic Fe3O4 nanoparticles were prepared by chemical coprecipitation. SPIO-containing liposomes and SPIO-clodronate-containing liposomes were prepared by the thin film method. SAP models were prepared by injection of sodium taurocholate (2 ml/kg body weight) into the subcapsular space of the pancreas. Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into a control group, a SAP plus SPIO-liposome group, and a SAP plus SPIO-clodronate-containing group. Two and six hours after SAP models were available, T2-weighted MRI scans (in the same plane) of the livers of rats in each group were performed. At the end of the scans, 2 ml of blood was taken from the superior mesenteric vein to measure the levels of serum amylase, ALT, AST, TNF-alpha, and IL-6. Pathological changes in the liver and pancreas were assessed.
Transmission electron microscopy showed that the liposomes had a uniform size. No pathological changes in the pancreata of rats in the control group were noted. The pathological changes in the pancreata and livers of rats in the SAP plus SPIO-clodronate-containing liposome group were milder than those in the SAP plus SPIO-liposome group. The MRI signal intensity of the livers in the SAP plus SPIO-liposome and SAP plus SPIO-clodronate-containing groups was significantly lower than that in the control group. There were significant changes in the two experimental groups (P<0.01). In addition, the levels of serum amylase, ALT, AST, TNF-alpha, and IL-6 in rats in the SAP plus SPIO-liposome group were higher than those in the control group (P<0.01), while the corresponding levels in the SPIO-clodronate-containing liposome group were significantly lower than those in the SAP plus SPIO-liposome group (P<0.01).
Clodronate-containing liposomes protect against liver injury in SAP rats, and SPIO can be used as a tracer for MRI examination following liver injury in SAP rats.
Sleep deprivation, induced by injections of dextroamphetamine or by forced treadmill activity, resulted in a temporary increase in daily sleep time. However, increasing the period of sleep deprivation above 24 hours to 72 or 120 hours did not result in increased recovery sleep above that present in the 24-hour group.
The intrathecal administration of hyperbaric morphine 1 mg for pain relief during labour was followed, 7 h after injection, and 1 h after delivery, by respiratory depression. Pulseoximetry was helpful in alerting the medical personnel. After an initial 1 mg of naloxone i.v. in increments of 0.1-0.2 mg, a continuous infusion of naloxone 0.4 mg h-1 i.v. was used to prevent a recurrence of the respiratory depression. The total dose of naloxone over an 8-h period was 3.6 mg.
