This pilot, open-label study evaluates the antiemetic efficacy and safety of a single 20-mg intravenous (IV) dose of dexamethasone combined with a single IV dose of ondansetron (32, 24, or 8 mg) in patients receiving highly emetogenic (HE), moderately high emetogenic (MHE), or moderately emetogenic (ME) chemotherapy, respectively.
One hundred forty-six patients received a single 20-mg IV dose of dexamethasone over 15 minutes beginning 45 minutes before chemotherapy and either a single 32-, 24-, or 8-mg IV dose of ondansetron over 15 minutes beginning 30 minutes before chemotherapy. Patients were evaluated for emetic episodes, extent of nausea, and adverse events for 24 hours after chemotherapy.
Complete response (no emetic episodes) was noted in 72% (95% confidence interval [CI], 60% to 84%), 88% (95% CI, 79% to 97%), and 77% (95% CI, 63% to 92%) of patients in the HE, MHE, and ME categories, respectively. The proportion of patients who experienced no nausea on the posttreatment assessment was 51% (95% CI, 37% to 64%), 69% (95% CI, 56% to 81%), and 47% (95% CI, 29% to 65%), respectively. The antiemetic regimens were all well tolerated. The proportion of patients with any drug-related adverse events did not vary across the three study groups despite the range of ondansetron doses and variety of chemotherapy regimens. Mild headache was noted in 28% of patients. Other adverse events, all of which were noted in fewer than 10% of patients, included lightheadedness, fatigue, dizziness, and constipation.
A single IV dose of either 8, 24, or 32 mg of ondansetron combined with a single 20-mg IV dose of dexamethasone resulted in good control of acute emesis across a wide spectrum of chemotherapy regimens. Nausea control proved somewhat more difficult, with approximately 50% of patients in the HE and ME emetogenic categories experiencing some degree of nausea. The results of our pilot study suggest that adjusting the dose of ondansetron to the intrinsic emetogenicity of the chemotherapy regimen permits a more efficient use of ondansetron while maintaining good antiemetic control. Such an approach appears worthy of further investigation.
Our previous study demonstrated the therapeutic potential of gallic acid (GA) for controlling tumor metastasis through its inhibitory effect on the motility of AGS cells. A noteworthy finding in our previous experiment was increased RhoB expression in GA-treated cells. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of RhoB expression on the inhibitory effects of GA on AGS cells. By applying the transfection of RhoB siRNA into AGS cells and an animal model, we tested the effect of GA on inhibition of tumor growth and RhoB expression. The results confirmed that RhoB-siRNA transfection induced GA to inhibit AGS cells' invasive growth involving blocking the AKT/small GTPase signals pathway and inhibition of NF-κB activity. Finally, we evaluated the effect of GA on AGS cell metastasis by colonization of tumor cells in nude mice. It showed GA inhibited tumor cells growth via the expression of RhoB. These data support the inhibitory effect of GA which was shown to inhibit gastric cancer cell metastasis and invasive growth via increased expression of RhoB, downregulation of AKT/small GTPase signals and inhibition of NF-κB activity. Thus, GA might be a potential agent in treating gastric cancer.
An accurate assessment of the carcinogenic potential of chemicals and pharmaceutical drugs is essential to protect humans and the environment. Therefore, substances are extensively tested before they are marketed to the public. Currently, the rodent two-year bioassay is still routinely used to assess the carcinogenic potential of substances. However, over time it has become clear that this assay yields false positive results and also has several economic and ethical drawbacks including the use of large numbers of animals, the long duration, and the high cost. The need for a suitable alternative assay is therefore high. Previously, we have proposed the Xpa*p53 mouse model as a very suitable alternative to the two-year bioassay. We now show that the Xpc*p53 mouse model preserves all the beneficial traits of the Xpa*p53 model for sub-chronic carcinogen identification and can identify both genotoxic and non-genotoxic carcinogens. Moreover, Xpc*p53 mice appear to be more responsive than Xpa*p53 mice towards several genotoxic and non-genotoxic carcinogens. Furthermore, Xpc*p53 mice are far less sensitive than Xpa*p53 mice for the toxic activity of DNA damaging agents and as such clearly respond in a similar way as wild type mice do. These advantageous traits of the Xpc*p53 model make it a better alternative for in vivo carcinogen testing than Xpa*p53. This pilot study suggests that Xpc*p53 mice are suited for routine sub-chronic testing of both genotoxic and non-genotoxic carcinogens and as such represent a suitable alternative to possibly replace the murine life time cancer bioassay.
1. A quantitative comparison was made of the effects of the paralysis caused by botulinum toxin (BoTx) type A with those of surgical denervation on the development of tetrodotoxin (TTX) resistant action potentials and of extrajunctional acetylcholine (ACh) receptors in rat and mouse skeletal muscle.2. After surgical denervation, TTX resistant action potentials were present in all fibres on the third day and their rate of rise and amount of overshoot reached peak values at the fifth day. BoTx poisoning failed, despite causing complete paralysis, to induce TTX resistant action potentials in all fibres and their average rate of rise was at all times (4-12 days) only about half that in denervated fibres. Similarly BoTx poisoning induced a smaller increase than surgical denervation in the number of extrajunctional ACh receptors, measured as (3)H-labelled Naja naja siamensis alpha-neurotoxin binding sites.3. Surgical denervation of BoTx poisoned muscles induced TTX resistant action potentials in all fibres and their rate of rise and amount of overshoot were 2-3 times those in BoTx poisoned muscles only. Denervation also significantly increased the binding of labelled alpha-neurotoxin. These effects of denervation were prevented by the administration of actinomycin D, a blocker of protein synthesis.4. Administration of the alpha-neurotoxin to BoTx poisoned animals resulted in the appearance of TTX resistant action potentials in all fibres and in a significant increase in their rate of rise and overshoot.5. The results show that, despite causing complete paralysis, BoTx is less effective than surgical denervation in inducing denervatory changes in skeletal muscle. This suggests that the BoTx poisoned nerve has an influence which suppresses the appearance of denervation signs. Since the alpha-neurotoxin blocked this influence remaining release of ACh, quantal or non-quantal, may be responsible for this neurotrophic action.
Germline mutation in serine/threonine kinase 11 (STK11, also called LKB1) results in Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, characterized by intestinal hamartomas and increased incidence of epithelial cancers. Although uncommon in most sporadic cancers, inactivating somatic mutations of LKB1 have been reported in primary human lung adenocarcinomas and derivative cell lines. Here we used a somatically activatable mutant Kras-driven model of mouse lung cancer to compare the role of Lkb1 to other tumour suppressors in lung cancer. Although Kras mutation cooperated with loss of p53 or Ink4a/Arf (also known as Cdkn2a) in this system, the strongest cooperation was seen with homozygous inactivation of Lkb1. Lkb1-deficient tumours demonstrated shorter latency, an expanded histological spectrum (adeno-, squamous and large-cell carcinoma) and more frequent metastasis compared to tumours lacking p53 or Ink4a/Arf. Pulmonary tumorigenesis was also accelerated by hemizygous inactivation of Lkb1. Consistent with these findings, inactivation of LKB1 was found in 34% and 19% of 144 analysed human lung adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas, respectively. Expression profiling in human lung cancer cell lines and mouse lung tumours identified a variety of metastasis-promoting genes, such as NEDD9, VEGFC and CD24, as targets of LKB1 repression in lung cancer. These studies establish LKB1 as a critical barrier to pulmonary tumorigenesis, controlling initiation, differentiation and metastasis.
Changes in the hippocampal theta rhythm were used as a model in which anticonvulsant drugs may be screened for their potential to antagonize soman-induced (1xLD(50)) seizures. The zinc chelator, ethylenediaminetetra acetic acid (EDTA) (300mg/kg), and the NMDA receptor antagonist, HA-966 (60mg/kg), both disrupted the theta rhythm, but did not antagonize soman-induced seizures, neither separately, nor in combination. The anticholinergic and antiglutamatergic procyclidine (6mg/kg) did not influence the theta activity. The GABAergic agonists, diazepam (10mg/kg) and pentobarbital (30mg/kg), both reduced the theta frequency. Procyclidine, diazepam, and pentobarbital did not stop soman-induced seizures when administered separately, but both convulsions and seizure activity terminated when these agents were given together, and the rats slept through the critical convulsion period. This triple therapy was 100% effective, when administered 30-40min following onset of convulsions, and the rats displayed apparently normal behavior the next day. A screening model of potential anticonvulsants cannot be based on alterations in hippocampal EEG activity. Procyclidine, diazepam, and pentobarbital in combination disrupted the theta rhythm like the combination of EDTA and HA-966, but the latter combination did not have anticonvulsant effect. It is concluded that a triple regimen consisting of procyclidine, diazepam, and pentobarbital can effectively terminate soman-induced seizures that have lasted 30min or more.
Sophorolipids, a family of natural and easily chemoenzymatically modified microbial glycolipids, are promising modulators of the immune response. The potential of the therapeutic effect of sophorolipids was investigated in vivo in a rat model of sepsis and in vitro by analysis of nitric oxide and cytokine production.
Prospective, randomized animal study.
Experimental laboratory.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats, 200-240 g.
Intra-abdominal sepsis was induced in vivo in 166 rats via cecal ligation and puncture (CLP); 60 rats were used to characterize the model. The remaining rats were treated with sophorolipids or vehicle (dimethylsulfoxide [DMSO]/physiologic saline) by intravenous (iv) tail vein or intraperitoneal (IP) injection immediately post-CLP (25/group). Survival rates were compared at 36 hrs after surgery. In vitro, macrophages were cultured in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) +/- sophorolipid and assayed for nitric oxide (NO) production and gene expression profiles of inflammatory cytokines. In addition, splenic lymphocytes isolated from CLP rats +/- sophorolipid treatment (three per group) were analyzed for cytokine production by RNase protection assay.
CLP with 16-gauge needles optimized sepsis induction and resultant mortality. Sophorolipid treatment improved rat survival by 34% (iv) and 14% (IP) in comparison with vehicle controls (p < .05 for iv treatment). Sophorolipids decreased LPS-induced macrophage NO production by 28% (p < .05). mRNA expression of interleukin (IL)-1beta was downregulated by 42.5 +/- 4.7% (p < .05) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 was upregulated by 11.7 +/- 1.5% (p < .05) in splenocytes obtained 6 hrs postsophorolipid treatment. LPS-treated macrophages cultured 36 hrs with sophorolipids showed increases in mRNA expression of IL-1alpha (51.7%), IL-1beta (31.3%), and IL-6 (66.8%) (p < .05).
Administration of sophorolipids after induction of intra-abdominal sepsis significantly decreases mortality in this model. This may be mediated in part by decreased macrophage NO production and modulation of inflammatory responses.
Pipoxolan has been reported to have antitumor activity. However, the effects of pipoxolan on lung cancer cell metastasis remains unclear. This study examined the anti-metastatic effects of pipoxolan on lung adenocarcinoma cancer cells (i.e. CL1-5, CL1-0, and A549) and its underlying molecular mechanisms. Firstly, CL1-5 cell migration was markedly suppressed by pipoxolan when examined by wound scratch assay. Furthermore, transwell and matrigel invasion assays revealed that pipoxolan inhibited lung cancer cells (i.e. CL1-5, CL1-0, and A549) migration/invasion, and showed more sensitive to CL1-5 cell. Therefore, the anti-metastatic effects from pipoxolan have been focused on CL1-5 lung cancer cells. Secondly, these observations have been associated with the reduction in the activities and expressions of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and -9 in CL1-5 lung cancer cells. Lastly, pipoxolan administration significantly inhibited phosphorylation c-Jun N-terminal kinase (p-JNK), and p38 MAP Kinase (MAPK) of CL1-5 cells. Based on these results, our results showed that management CL1-5 cells with pipoxolan down-regulated phosphorylation JNK and p38, and then, MMP-2 and -9. These results suggest that pipoxolan might have a new therapeutic potential for anti-metastatic effects in lung cancer cells.
Clastogenic potentials of 1,3-, 1,6- and 1,8-dinitropyrenes (DNPs) were compared between Chinese hamster lung (CHL) cells and its subclone MM1 cells, which were recently isolated as menadione-resistant cells after treatment with MNNG. NADPH-cytochrome P-450 reductase activity of the MM1 cells decreased to 50% of that in the parental CHL cells. All 3 DNPs induced chromosomal aberrations without exogenous metabolic activation systems in the CHL cells. 1,6- and 1,8-DNP showed equivalent clastogenic potency: the maximum frequency of cells with chromosomal aberrations was about 50% for both chemicals. The clastogenic potential of 1,3-DNP was lower than that of 1,6- and 1,8-DNP: the maximum frequency of aberrant cells was 10%. In the MM1 cells, in contrast, the frequencies of aberrant cells decreased to about 30% of those observed for the parental CHL cells after treatment with 1,6- and 1,8-DNP, and to the same level as that of the concurrent control after treatment with 1,3-DNP. These results suggest a possibility that the reduced clastogenic effect of 3 DNPs in MM1 cells may correlate with the reduced activity of NADPH-cytochrome P-450 reductase which is thought to contribute to the metabolic conversion of these DNPs to their clastogenic forms in the CHL cells.
To investigate the influence of diabetes mellitus on the hemodynamic-stabilizing effect of clonidine during off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) surgery.
Prospective study.
Public, university-affiliated hospital.
40 patients (32 male, 8 female) scheduled for OPCAB surgery.
Patients were divided into equal groups of diabetic and nondiabetic patients. All patients were given 150 microg oral clonidine 1 hour before induction. Anesthesia was induced and maintained with fentanyl, propofol, and sevoflurane. Propranolol was administered intermittently to maintain an adequate heart rate (HR; 50 to 70 bpm). Preoperative demographic data (fasting blood glucose concentration and hemoglobin A1c), dose of intraoperative drugs (propofol and propranolol), and outcome data (duration of intubation and duration of hospital stay after surgery) were analyzed.
In the diabetic and nondiabetic groups, the mean (+/-SD) plasma glucose values were 7.8 +/- 2.3 mmoL. L(-1) and 5.4 +/- 0.7 mmoL. L(-1), respectively (p < 0.05), and the mean (+/-SD) HbA1c values were 7.1 +/- 1.3% and 5.2 +/- 0.4%, respectively (p < 0.05). The mean propofol infusion rate was 2.8 +/- 0.9 mg. kg(-1). h(-1) in diabetic patients and 3.1 +/- 1.0 mg. kg(-1). h(-1) in nondiabetics (NS, p > 0.05). The total requirement for propranolol was 5.1 +/- 2.4 mg in diabetic patients and 1.6 +/- 1.1 mg in nondiabetics (p < 0.05).
Diabetes attenuates the hemodynamic stabilizing effects of preanesthetic oral clonidine in the clinical setting.
The relationship between propranolol and depression is a subject of controversy. Numerous case reports suggest that propranolol can cause depression, but two small prospective trials have failed to confirm this. The contemporary psychiatric literature is divided as to whether propranolol can cause depression. This study addresses this issue by re-analyzing side effect data from clinical trials of propranolol as an antihypertensive agent. A literature review was carried out and the data were analyzed using meta-analytic statistical techniques. Propranolol was found to cause depression as a side effect with a statistically greater frequency than the control medications used in these trials. As other side effects of propranolol include fatigue, diminished energy, decreased libido, anorexia and poor concentration, it is suggested that propranolol is a cause of organic mood disorder, depressed type.
The anti-androgenic activity of the ethanol extract of the fruiting body of Ganoderma lucidum has been previously reported. Ganoderol B with 5alpha-reductase inhibitory activity and the ability to bind to androgen receptor (AR) can inhibit androgen-induced LNCaP cell growth and suppress regrowth of the ventral prostate induced by testosterone in rats. The down-regulation of AR signaling by ganoderol B provides an important mechanism for its anti-androgenic activity. In view of the fact that PSA (prostatic specific antigen, a well-accepted prognostic indicator of prostate cancer) is down-regulated, an important implication of this study is that ganoderol B intervention strategy aimed at toning down the amplitude of androgen signaling could be helpful in controlling morbidity of prostate cancer. In conclusion, our result suggests that ganoderol B might be useful in prostate cancer and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) therapy through suppressing the function of androgen and its receptor.
Kupffer cell function plays an important role in drug-induced liver injury. Thus, gadolinium chloride (GD), by selectively inactivating Kupffer cells, can alleviate drug-induced hepatotoxicity. The effect of GD was studied in reference to metallothionein and heat shock proteins expression in an in vivo model of liver necrosis induced by thioacetamide. Rats, pre-treated or not with GD (0.1 mmol/kg), were intraperitoneally injected with thioacetamide (6.6 mmol/kg), and samples of blood and liver were obtained at 0, 12, 24, 48, 72 and 96 hr. Parameters related to liver damage, Kupffer cell function, microsomal FAD monooxygenase activity, oxidative stress, and the expression of metallothionein and HSP70 were determined. GD significantly reduced serum myeloperoxidase activity and serum concentration of TNF alpha and IL-6, increased by thioacetamide. The extent of necrosis, the degree of oxidative stress and lipoperoxidation and microsomal FAD monooxygenase activity were significantly diminished by GD. The effect of GD induced noticeable changes in the expression of both metallothionein and HSP70, compared to those induced by thioacetamide. We conclude that GD pre-treatment reduces thioacetamide-induced liver injury and enhances the expression of metallothionein and HSP70. This effect, parallel to reduced levels of serum cytokines and myeloperoxidase activity, demonstrates that Kupffer cells are involved in thioacetamide-induced liver injury, the degree of contribution being approximately 50%.
The cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin (Adriamycin) restricts the usefulness of this potent antineoplastic agent. Since the cardiotoxic mechanism (generation of oxygen radicals) is distinct from the primary chemotherapeutic mechanism (intercalation of DNA) efforts to decrease the cardiotoxic potential are warranted. Three nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, aspirin, ibuprofen and sulindac were tested for effects upon survival in the chronic mouse model of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. The original premise in these studies was that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, through inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity, would suppress the attending generation of superoxide anions and reduce a synergism with oxygen radicals produced by redox cycling of doxorubicin. Acetaminophen was included in the studies as an example of an analgesic agent which lacks anti-inflammatory efficacy. Doxorubicin (4 mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally at 3-week intervals in Swiss-Webster mice. The interventions were administered in equianalgesic doses in the drinking water for 2 days before and 3 days after the doxorubicin injections. Ibuprofen (1 mg/ml) increased survival from 16.0%, for doxorubicin alone, to 63.6% (p less than 10(-6); none of the other interventions demonstrated protection. Ibuprofen-treated mice also lost less weight during the treatment period than all other doxorubicin injected animals (p less than 10(-6]. Since the three antiinflammatory drugs tested are all cyclooxygenase inhibitors, but only ibuprofen inhibits neutrophil infiltration, the latter mechanism is proposed as the primary basis for the observed protection.
A 64-year-old male with an incomplete spinal cord injury had been taking baclofen 20 mg tid for 2 1/2 months without side effects. His blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine rose from 13 and 0.9 mg%, respectively, to 59 and 2.8 mg% after ibuprofen 600 mg tid was begun. The patient displayed baclofen toxicity, developing confusion, disorientation, bradycardia, and hypothermia. His blood pressure dropped and he complained of blurred vision. Ibuprofen discontinuation and fluid repletion corrected the renal indices. Rapid tapering of baclofen was accompanied by reversal of baclofen toxicity. Patients taking baclofen must be monitored closely for toxicity when declining renal function is present. Clinicians should be alert to the possibility of renal insufficiency developing when ibuprofen is initiated. This case demonstrates the potential for ibuprofen-induced renal insufficiency to reduce baclofen clearance, thereby leading to baclofen toxicity. Published reports of ibuprofen-induced renal insufficiency are reviewed and pertinent pharmacokinetics of baclofen discussed.
To determine whether the process of reverse left ventricular remodelling in response to carvedilol is dependent on baseline heart rate (BHR), heart rhythm, or heart rate reduction (HRR) in response to carvedilol.
Retrospective analysis of serial echocardiograms in 257 patients with chronic systolic heart failure at baseline and at 12-18 months after starting carvedilol. Reverse left ventricular remodelling was determined by changes in left ventricular end diastolic dimension (LVEDD), end systolic dimension (LVESD), and fractional shortening (LVFS).
Heart failure clinic within a university teaching hospital.
Changes in LVEDD, LVESD, and LVFS.
LVEDD and LVESD decreased by 2.6 (0.4) mm and 4.9 (0.5) mm, respectively (mean (SEM)), and LVFS increased by 4.3 (0.5)% (all p < 0.0001 v baseline). Simple regression revealed no significant relation between BHR or HRR and the changes in LVEDD, LVESD, or LVFS. Stratification of patients into high and low BHR groups (above and below the mean) or according to the baseline heart rhythm (sinus rhythm v atrial fibrillation) showed no differences between groups in the extent of reverse left ventricular remodelling. Improvements in left ventricular function and dimensions were associated with significant improvements in New York Heart Association functional class.
The benefits of carvedilol in terms of reverse left ventricular remodelling and symptomatic improvement in patients with chronic heart failure are independent of BHR, heart rhythm, and the HRR that occurs in response to carvedilol.
This prospective, randomised, open-label, blinded-endpoint study was to compare the effects of the angiotensin II (Ang II) AT1 receptor antagonist valsartan with those of the ACE inhibitor enalapril on blood pressure (BP) and cognitive functions in elderly hypertensive patients.
One hundred and forty-four patients aged 61-80 years with mild to moderate essential hypertension (DBP > or =95 mmHg and < or =110 mmHg at the end of a 2-week placebo run-in period) were randomly assigned to once daily (o.d.) treatment with valsartan 160 mg ( n=73) or enalapril 20 mg ( n=71) for 16 weeks. The patients were examined every 4 weeks during the study, with pre-dose BP (standard mercury sphygmomanometer, Korotkoff I and V) and heart rate (pulse palpation) being recorded at each visit. Cognitive function was evaluated at the end of the wash-out period and after 16 weeks of active treatment by means of five tests (verbal fluency, the Boston naming test, word list memory, word list recall and word list recognition).
Both valsartan and enalapril had a clear antihypertensive effect, but the former led to a slightly greater reduction in SBP/DBP at 16 weeks (18.6+/-4.6/13.7+/-4.0 mmHg vs 15.6+/-5.1/10.9+/-3.9 mmHg; P<0.01). Enalapril did not induce any significant changes in any of the cognitive function test scores; valsartan significantly increased the word list memory score (+11.8%; P<0.05 vs baseline and P<0.01 vs enalapril) and the word list recall score (+18.7%; P<0.05 vs baseline and P<0.01 vs enalapril), but not those of the other tests.
These findings indicate that, in elderly hypertensive patients, 16 weeks of treatment with valsartan 160 mg o.d. is more effective than enalapril 20 mg o.d. in reducing BP, and (unlike enalapril) improves some of the components of cognitive function, particularly episodic memory.
A patient with fatal submassive hepatic necrosis after methyldopa is described. Patient had positive L.E. cell preparation. The literature and the two previous cases of submassive hepatic necrosis were briefly reviewed. Methyldopa occasionally produces severe hepatitis, chronic active and rarely submassive necrosis.
The central nervous system (CNS) activity of the methanolic extract of Ficus platyphylla stem bark was studied on locomotor activity, pentobarbital sleeping time, exploratory behaviour, amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, apomorphine-induced stereotypy, active-avoidance and performance on tread mills (rota-rod), using mice and rats. The results revealed that the extract significantly reduced the locomotor and exploratory activities in mice, prolonged pentobarbital sleeping time in rats, attenuated amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and apomorphine-induced stereotypy in mice, dose-dependently. The extract significantly suppressed the active-avoidance response in rats, with no significant effect on motor co-ordination as determined by the performance on rota-rod. The results suggest that the extract may possess sedative principles with potential neuroleptic properties.
Captopril, an orally active dipeptidyl-carboxypeptidase inhibitor, is a promising new antihypertensive agent. Cutaneous reactions are the most common side effects of this therapy. The data from 15 previous cases and seven new ones are reviewed. The cutaneous eruptions appear to be pharmacologic. In nature, occurring mostly at higher dosage schedules and resolving at lower dosage levels. Historical data, the results of skin tests, and the known pharmacology of captpril suggest that these captopril-induced eruptions may be the result of potentiation of kinin-mediated cutaneous reactions.
This work was designed to study the influence of drugs during seizures and status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine and mortality in adult rats. Glutamate (10 and 20 mg/kg), N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA, 5 and 10 mg/kg), ketamine (1.5 and 2.0 mg/kg), gabapentin (200 and 250 mg/kg), phenobarbital (50 and 100 mg/kg) and vigabatrin (250 and 500 mg/kg) were administered intraperitoneally, 30 min prior to pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p.). The animals were observed (24 h) to determine: number of peripheral cholinergic signs, tremors, stereotyped movements, seizures, SE, latency to first seizure and number of deaths after pilocarpine treatment. NMDA and glutamate had pro-convulsive effects in both doses tested. Smaller and higher doses of these drugs no protected and increased pilocarpine-induced seizures and/or mortality. Gabapentin, vigabatrin, phenobarbital and ketamine protected against seizures and increased the latency to first seizure. Thus, these results suggest that caution should be taken in the selection of pharmacotherapy and dosages for patients with seizures and SE because of the possibility of facility the convulsive process toxicity, SE and the mortality of adult animals in this seizures model that is similar temporal lobo epilepsy in humans.
The Comparison of Venipuncture and Venous Cannulation Pain After Fast-Onset Needle-Free Powder Lidocaine or Placebo Treatment trial was a randomized, single-dose, double-blind, phase 3 study investigating whether a needle-free powder lidocaine delivery system (a sterile, prefilled, disposable system that delivers lidocaine powder into the epidermis) produces effective local analgesia within 1 to 3 minutes for venipuncture and peripheral venous cannulation procedures in children.
Pediatric patients (3-18 years of age) were randomly assigned to treatment with the needle-free powder lidocaine delivery system (0.5 mg of lidocaine and 21 +/- 1 bar of pressure; n = 292) or a sham placebo system (n = 287) at the antecubital fossa or the back of the hand 1 to 3 minutes before venipuncture or cannulation. All patients rated the administration comfort of the needle-free systems and the pain of the subsequent venous access procedures with the Wong-Baker Faces Pain Rating Scale (from 0 to 5). Patients 8 to 18 years of age also provided self-reports with a visual analog scale, and parents provided observational visual analog scale scores for their child's venous access pain. Safety also was assessed.
Immediately after administration, mean Wong-Baker Faces scale scores were 0.54 and 0.24 in the active system and sham placebo system groups, respectively. After venipuncture or cannulation, mean Wong-Baker Faces scale scores were 1.77 +/- 0.09 and 2.10 +/- 0.09 and mean visual analog scale scores were 22.62 +/- 1.80 mm and 31.97 +/- 1.82 mm in the active system and sham placebo system groups, respectively. Parents' assessments of their child's procedural pain were also lower in the active system group (21.35 +/- 1.43 vs 28.67 +/- 1.66). Treatment-related adverse events were generally mild and resolved without sequelae. Erythema and petechiae were more frequent in the active system group.
The needle-free powder lidocaine delivery system was well tolerated and produced significant analgesia within 1 to 3 minutes.
Activation of the 5-HT(1B/D) receptor inhibits cerebrovascular neurogenic inflammation (NI). The aim of this study was to determine if the 5-HT(1B/D) receptor agonist sumatriptan can also inhibit NI in other regions of the body. NI was assessed by measuring plasma extravasation (PE) and changes in blood flow in the rat hindpaw. Sumatriptan was administered locally (20 microl, 50 or 100 nM, s.c.) into the dorso-medial region of one hindpaw. The other paw was pre-treated with vehicle (20 microl of 0.9% saline) and served as a control. NI was induced after treatment with sumatriptan/vehicle by injecting capsaicin (15 microl, 1%, s.c.) into each paw or by electrically stimulating the saphenous nerve (4 Hz, 30s). Sumatriptan administered locally or systemically (300 microg/kg, i.v.) significantly reduced saphenous nerve and capsaicin-induced PE and vasodilation. The systemic and local inhibitory actions of sumatriptan are mediated by the 5-HT(1B/D) receptor as pre-treatment with the 5-HT(1B/D) antagonist GR127935 (GR; 15 microl, 1 microM, s.c. or 0.2 micromol/kg, i.v.) completely blocked the inhibitory effect of sumatriptan on capsaicin-induced vasodilation and reduced the inhibitory effect of sumatriptan on capsaicin and electrically induced-PE. Neither PE induced by local injection of substance P (SP) (20 pmol, 20 microl, s.c.) nor vasodilation induced by local CGRP injection was affected by pre-treatment with sumatriptan. These findings indicate that both local and systemic activation of the 5-HT(1B/D) receptor by sumatriptan reduce NI induced by nerve stimulation or capsaicin presumably by inhibiting neuropeptide release. 5-HT(1B/D) receptor agonists may be useful for the treatment of non-trigeminal pain conditions involving NI.
The metabolism of poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) is critical for genomic stability in multicellular eukaryotes. Here, we show that the failure to degrade PAR by means of disruption of the murine poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG) gene unexpectedly causes early embryonic lethality and enhanced sensitivity to genotoxic stress. This lethality results from the failure to hydrolyze PAR, because PARG null embryonic day (E) 3.5 blastocysts accumulate PAR and concurrently undergo apoptosis. Moreover, embryonic trophoblast stem cell lines established from early PARG null embryos are viable only when cultured in medium containing the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitor benzamide. Cells lacking PARG also show reduced growth, accumulation of PAR, and increased sensitivity to cytotoxicity induced by N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine and menadione after benzamide withdrawal. These results provide compelling evidence that the failure to degrade PAR has deleterious consequences. Further, they define a role for PARG in embryonic development and a protective role in the response to genotoxic stress.
