Stress or cocaine evokes either a large increase in systemic vascular resistance (SVR) or a smaller increase in SVR accompanied by an increase in cardiac output (designated vascular and mixed responders, respectively) in Sprague-Dawley rats. We hypothesized that the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) mediates this variability. Conscious, freely-moving rats, instrumented for measurement of arterial pressure and cardiac output and for drug delivery into the CeA, were given cocaine (5 mg/kg, iv, 4-6 times) and characterized as vascular (n=15) or mixed responders (n=10). Subsequently, we administered cocaine after bilateral microinjections (100 nl) of saline or selective agents in the CeA. Muscimol (80 pmol), a GABA(A) agonist, or losartan (43.4 pmol), an AT(1) receptor antagonist, attenuated the cocaine-induced increase in SVR in vascular responders, selectively, such that vascular responders were no longer different from mixed responders. The corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) antagonist, alpha-helical CRF(9-41) (15.7 pmol), abolished the difference between cardiac output and SVR in mixed and vascular responders. We conclude that greater increases in SVR observed in vascular responders are dependent on AT(1) receptor activation and, to a lesser extent on CRF receptors. Therefore, AT(1) and CRF receptors in the CeA contribute to hemodynamic response variability to intravenous cocaine.
Isoflurane, a commonly used inhaled anesthetic, induces apoptosis in rat pheochromocytoma neurosecretory cells (PC12) in a concentration- and time-dependent manner via an as yet unknown mechanism. We hypothesize that isoflurane induces apoptosis by causing abnormal calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) via activation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptors. A presenilin-1 (PS1) mutation associated with familial Alzheimer's disease was shown to increase the activity of IP3 receptors, and therefore may render cells vulnerable to isoflurane-induced cytotoxicity. Sevoflurane and desflurane have less ability to disrupt intracellular calcium homeostasis; and thus we predict they will cause less cytotoxicity.
PC12 cells transfected with wild type, vector alone (Vector) or mutated PS1 (L286V) were treated with equivalent of 1 MAC of isoflurane, sevoflurane, and desflurane for 12 h. Mitochondria redox activity (MTT reduction) and lactate dehydrogenase release assays were performed to evaluate cell viability. Changes of calcium concentration in cytosolic space ([Ca2+]c) and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were determined after exposing different types of cells to various inhaled anesthetics. We also determined the effects of IP3 receptor antagonist xestospongin C on isoflurane-induced cytotoxicity and calcium release from the ER in L286V PC12 cells, and in rat primary cortical neurons.
Isoflurane at 1 MAC for 12 h induced cytotoxicity in L286V but not wild type or vector PC12 cells, and also caused greater and faster increase of peak [Ca2+]c in the L286V cells. Xestospongin C significantly attenuated isoflurane cytotoxicity in both L286V cells and primary cortical neurons and inhibited the calcium release from the ER in L286V cells. Isoflurane did not induce significant changes of ROS production in any type of PC12 cells. Sevoflurane and desflurane at equivalent exposure to isoflurane did not induce similar cytotoxicity or increase of peak [Ca2+]c in L286V PC12 cells.
Our results show that the L286V PS1 mutation augments the isoflurane-induced [Ca2+]c increase via calcium release from intracellular stores which, in turn, renders the cells vulnerable to isoflurane neurotoxicity. ROS production was not involved in isoflurane-induced neurotoxicity. Sevoflurane and desflurane, at equivalent exposure to isoflurane, did not induce a similar increase of [Ca2+]c or neurotoxicity in L286V PC12 cells.
Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials of the BRAF kinase inhibitor vemurafenib (PLX4032) have shown response rates of more than 50% in patients with metastatic melanoma with the BRAF V600E mutation.
We conducted a phase 3 randomized clinical trial comparing vemurafenib with dacarbazine in 675 patients with previously untreated, metastatic melanoma with the BRAF V600E mutation. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either vemurafenib (960 mg orally twice daily) or dacarbazine (1000 mg per square meter of body-surface area intravenously every 3 weeks). Coprimary end points were rates of overall and progression-free survival. Secondary end points included the response rate, response duration, and safety. A final analysis was planned after 196 deaths and an interim analysis after 98 deaths.
At 6 months, overall survival was 84% (95% confidence interval [CI], 78 to 89) in the vemurafenib group and 64% (95% CI, 56 to 73) in the dacarbazine group. In the interim analysis for overall survival and final analysis for progression-free survival, vemurafenib was associated with a relative reduction of 63% in the risk of death and of 74% in the risk of either death or disease progression, as compared with dacarbazine (P<0.001 for both comparisons). After review of the interim analysis by an independent data and safety monitoring board, crossover from dacarbazine to vemurafenib was recommended. Response rates were 48% for vemurafenib and 5% for dacarbazine. Common adverse events associated with vemurafenib were arthralgia, rash, fatigue, alopecia, keratoacanthoma or squamous-cell carcinoma, photosensitivity, nausea, and diarrhea; 38% of patients required dose modification because of toxic effects.
Vemurafenib produced improved rates of overall and progression-free survival in patients with previously untreated melanoma with the BRAF V600E mutation. (Funded by Hoffmann-La Roche; BRIM-3 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01006980.).
Recently, cornifin-alpha/SPPR1 has been identified as a putative precursor protein of the cornified cell envelope. In this study, the expression and localization of cornifin-alpha/SPPR1 was examined in untreated and tumor promoter-treated mouse skin, hair follicles, and skin neoplasms. Western analysis with antiserum (SQ37A) to a rabbit cornifin-alpha peptide or antiserum (SQ37C) to a human SPRR1 peptide demonstrated a 31-kDa immunoreactive protein in mouse epidermis and Northern analysis revealed the presence of a 1-kb mRNA. Immunohistochemical staining of mouse skin with SQ37A or SQ37C revealed intense and specific staining of the infundibulum, isthmus, and of Henle's layer of the inner root sheath of the lower anagen hair follicle and weak staining of the telogen follicle and the suprabasal layers of the epidermis. Treatment of mouse skin with 12-0-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) produced a large increase in cornifin-alpha/SPRR1 protein and mRNA. Immunohistochemical localization of cornifin-alpha/SPRR1 in TPA-treated skin indicated that cornifin-alpha/SPRR1 was increased in the suprabasal epidermis but not in the follicle. sn-1,2,-didecanoylglycerol, a model lipid second messenger, produced an increase in cornifin-alpha/SPRR1 protein similar to that of TPA, while mirex, a non-phorbol ester-type promoter had no effect. Topical doses of retinoic acid did not repress TPA-induced cornifin-alpha/SPRR1 expression. Papillomas demonstrated a 10- and 100-fold increase in cornifin-alpha/SPRR1 protein and mRNA, and expression was restricted to suprabasal cells. Squamous cell carcinomas exhibited an intermediate level of cornifin-alpha protein, and expression was restricted to keratinized areas. These data indicate: i) cornifin-alpha/SPRR1 is expressed in mouse skin; ii) cornifin-alpha/SPRR1 is localized to specific areas of the anagen hair follicle with weak staining in the telogen follicle and epidermis; iii) epidermal cornifin-alpha/SPRR1 expression is induced by phorbol ester and sn-1,2-didecanoylglycerol but not mirex, and iv) papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas demonstrate a constitutive increase in cornifin-alpha/SPRR1 in differentiated areas of the neoplasms.
Metabonomic analysis, clinical chemical analysis and histopathology were used to investigate the toxic effects of subchronic exposure to dichlorvos, deltamethrin, and a combination of these two pesticides, in rats. Weight loss, hind limb weakness and histopathological changes in kidney tissue were only observed in rats exposed to high doses of deltamethrin, or a combination of deltamethrin and dichlorvos. Urinary metabonomic analysis indicated that exposure to a mixture of dichlorvos and deltamethrin was followed by increases in urinary lactate, dimethylamine, N-glycoprotein (NAC) and glycine similar to those observed in rats treated with either dichlorvos or deltamethrin alone. Serum metabonomic analysis suggests that dichlorvos induced an increase in lactate and alanine and a decrease in dimethylglycine (DMG), NAC and very low- and low-density lipoprotein (VLDL/LDL). High levels of lactate and low levels of NAC and VLDL/LDL were observed in the deltamethrin treatment group. Treating rats with a mixture of dichlorvos and deltamethrin caused an increase in serum lactate, trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), choline and alanine, with the highest levels of these metabolites observed in those that received the highest dose. Exposure to a mixture of dichlorvos and deltamethrin also resulted in a decrease in serum acetone, DMG, NAC, and VLDL/LDL. Changes in serum TMAO, alanine, choline and acetone in this treatment group were higher than in rats treated with either dichlorvos or deltamethrin. These results suggest that exposing rats to subchronic doses of dichlorvos, deltamethrin, or a combination of these pesticides, disrupted the energy metabolism of the liver and reduced kidney function.
Tomatidine is an aglycone of glycoalkaloid tomatine in tomato. Tomatidine is found to possess anti-inflammatory properties and may serve as a chemosensitizer in multidrug-resistant tumor cells. However, the effect of tomatidine on cancer cell metastasis remains unclear. This study examines the effect of tomatidine on the migration and invasion of human lung adenocarcinoma A549 cell in vitro. The data demonstrates that tomatidine does not effectively inhibit the viability of A549 cells. When treated with non-toxic doses of tomatidine, cell invasion is markedly suppressed by Boyden chamber invasion assay, while cell migration is not affected. Tomatidine reduces the mRNA level of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), MMP-9 and increases the expression of reversion-inducing cysteine-rich protein with kazal motifs (RECK), as well as tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1). The immunoblotting assays indicate that tomatidine is very effective in suppressing the phosphorylation of Akt and extracellular signal regulating kinase (ERK). In addition, tomatidine significantly decreases the nuclear level of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), which suggests that tomatidine inhibits NF-κB activity. Furthermore, the treatment of inhibitors specific for PI3K/Akt (LY294002), ERK (U0126), or NF-κB (pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate) to A549 cells reduced cell invasion and MMP-2/9 expression. The results suggest that tomatidine inhibits the invasion of A549 cells by reducing the expression of MMPs. It also inhibits ERK and Akt signaling pathways and NF-κB activity. These findings demonstrate a new therapeutic potential for tomatidine in anti-metastatic therapy.
Inhibitors of hydroxymethylglutaryl co-enzyme A reductase are widely used to treat hypercholesterolemia. They have a good short- to medium-term safety profile, but long-term safety data are limited.
Seven hundred forty-five patients with severe hypercholesterolemia (mean baseline plasma cholesterol level on diet, 9.3 mmol/L [360 mg/dL]) were treated with lovastatin for a median duration of 5.2 years. Their mean age at baseline was 50 years, 68% were male, 60% had familial hypercholesterolemia, and 42% had a history of coronary heart disease. Seventy-seven percent of patients had titrations of lovastatin to 80 mg/d, and 58% took other lipid-lowering agents, usually bile acid sequestrants, concomitantly.
The mean changes at 5 years in total, low-density lipoprotein, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were -35%, -44%, and +14%, respectively. Eighty percent of patients completed the study, 13% were unavailable for follow-up, 4% were discontinued due to adverse events unlikely to be related to lovastatin, and 3% (21) were discontinued because of drug-attributable adverse events: marked but asymptomatic increase in aminotransferase values (10 patients), gastrointestinal disturbance (three patients), rash (two patients), myalgia (one patient), myopathy (two patients), arthralgia (one patient), insomnia (one patient), and weight gain (one patient). Sixteen patients died during the study, all of coronary disease. Of these, 14 had coronary heart disease at baseline. There were no deaths attributable to trauma, suicide, or homicide, and there were only 14 cases of cancer (vs 21 expected). There was no evidence for an adverse effect on the lens.
Lovastatin is a generally well-tolerated and effective drug during long-term use.
The aim of this study was to measure the effects of past exposure to environmental tobacco smoke on the day-to-day dynamics of four respiratory-symptom classes in a diary study including adult never-smokers.
As part of SAPALDIA (Swiss study on air pollution and lung diseases in adults), a prospective multicenter cohort study, 1421 life-time adult nonsmokers were followed for 2 years with the use of daily questionnaires filled out during one to six periods of 4 weeks spread over 2 years (1992-1993). The hazard ratios (HR) of getting or losing respiratory symptoms from one day to another were determined in association with past exposure to environmental tobacco smoke.
In a sample of adult never-smokers, an association between self-reported past exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and deteriorated average symptom dynamics was found for all of the outcomes considered, showing HR values from 1.09 to 1.21 for developing symptoms and HR values from 0.91 to 0.83 for getting rid of them. Exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, including the workplace, was negatively associated with the length of intervals without symptoms of bronchitis (HR 1.33) and asthma (HR 1.27), while exposure to environmental tobacco smoke confined to places outside work was positively associated with the length of episodes of any respiratory symptom and lower-respiratory-tract symptoms (HR 0.78-0.77).
The results suggest that exposure to environmental tobacco smoke has adverse effects on the dynamics of respiratory symptoms, and the size (magnitude) and type of effects appear to depend on the place of exposure.
Tremor is a widespread phenomenon in human populations. Environmental factors are likely to play an etiological role. Harmane (1-methyl-9H-pyrido[3,4-β]indole) is a potent tremor-producing β-carboline alkaloid. Lead is another tremor-producing neurotoxicant. The effects of harmane and lead with respect to tremor have been studied in isolation.
We tested the hypothesis that tremor would be particularly severe among individuals who had high blood concentrations of both of these toxicants.
Blood concentrations of harmane and lead were each quantified in 257 individuals (106 essential tremor cases and 151 controls) enrolled in an environmental epidemiological study. Total tremor score (range = 0-36) was a clinical measure of tremor severity.
The total tremor score ranged from 0 to 36, indicating that a full spectrum of tremor severities was captured in our sample. Blood harmane concentration correlated with total tremor score (p = 0.007), as did blood lead concentration (p = 0.045). The total tremor score was lowest in participants with both low blood harmane and lead concentrations (8.4 ± 8.2), intermediate in participants with high concentrations of either toxicant (10.5 ± 9.8), and highest in participants with high concentrations of both toxicants (13.7 ± 10.4) (p=0.01).
Blood harmane and lead concentrations separately correlated with total tremor scores. Participants with high blood concentrations of both toxicants had the highest tremor scores, suggesting an additive effect of these toxicants on tremor severity. Given the very high population prevalence of tremor disorders, identifying environmental determinants is important for primary disease prevention.
Triptolide (TP), a diterpenoid triepoxide purified from the Chinese herb Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F is characterized by strong anti-tumor effects on various cancer cells. Except its anti-tumor effects, TP also shows multiple pharmacological side activities, such as anti-inflammatory, immune-suppressive and male anti-fertility. In order to reduce these side effects, especially the immuno-suppressive activity when used to cure cancer, a novel polymeric micelle system containing TP (TP-PM) was constructed. The immune-modulation effects of TP-PM have been evaluated by previous studies. In this study, we compared the cytotoxicity of TP and TP-PM on Jurkat and HT29 cells. Therefore, we determined the cell viability, membrane integrity, cell proliferation, apoptosis, and caspase 3/7 activity after exposure to TP and TP-PM. The results demonstrated that actually low concentrated TP and TP-PM could induce an inhibition of cell growth and proliferation as well as membrane damage in both tumor cell lines. TP and TP-PM induced apoptosis and caused activation of caspase 3/7 even at low concentrations. Both formulations destroyed the membrane of Jurkat cells, nevertheless, TP-PM showed stronger pernicious effects. In general, TP-PM induced in both tested cell lines stronger effects than TP. Therefore, polymeric micelles can be considered as promising carriers for TP in cancer therapy.
Propylthiouracil (PTU) is widely used to treat patients with hyperthyroidism. In rare cases this drug has been found to have toxic effects on the liver. We describe the second assymptomatic case, reported in the literature, of PTU induced hepatotoxicity. Sixteen cases have been published so far, all with clinical manifestations. A 20-year-old female patient developed an elevation of AST, ALT and GGT levels after 5 months of PTU (50 mg tid) therapy for Graves disease with hyperthyroidism. The patient showed normal levels of liver aminotransferases before starting PTU. She had no risk factors for or clinical evidence of pre-existing liver disease. She didn't take any regular medication. After stopping PTU, the plasma levels of hepatic enzymes normalised within 6 weeks. Thirteen days after the reinstitution of PTU (150 mg tid), because of the recurrence of hyperthyroidism, another episode of assymptomatic hepatotoxicity was documented. AST, ALT, GGT and AP levels rose again, but bilirrubin levels remained normal, which represents a very unusual laboratory constellation in this kind of patient. The serology for hepatitis A, B, C and for EBV and CMV was negative. After stopping PTU, methimazole (MMI) was started and the liver enzymes normalised within two weeks. After 12 months of MMI therapy, the patient is assymptomatic, with normal liver enzyme levels and normal thyroid function tests. This case is the second to be described where the diagnosis was confirmed by the rechallenge of PTU, being this a major diagnostic criteria. Despite its rarity the disease should be suspected in any patient receiving PTU in whom clinical or laboratorial evidence of hepatocellular injury develops. The drug should be discontinued immediately when the hepatic injury is detected. Recovery is usually complete after the withdrawal of the drug, but there were al least, three fatalities among the 17 cases described.
To examine the effect of a Chinese medicinal herbal formula (Feitai Capsule, ) on the quality of life (QOL) and progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with unresectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Sixty-two patients were randomly divided into the treatment group (31 cases) and the control group (31 cases). For the treatment group, 4 capsules (1.2 g/capsule) of Feitai Capsule were administered 3 times a day after meals for 3 weeks; then no drug was administered for 1 week. This schedule was continued for at least 3 more cycles (12 weeks totally). If there were no obvious toxic reactions, the treatment was extended. The patients were evaluated at least once every 8 weeks until progressive disease (PD). For the control group, the regular follow-up and evaluation were performed at least once every 8 weeks until PD. Clinical symptoms, objective response, physical constitution and energy, QOL, and PFS were evaluated regularly. Analysis of variance (ANOVA), a non-parametric test, and analysis of covariance were used to compare clinical features, amelioration of clinical symptoms, physical constitution and energy, and QOL. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to compare the two-group PFS.
Sixty patients finished the final evaluation, with 30 patients in each group. Baseline characters between groups were not significantly different (P>0.05). The control group had a 36.7% improvement in clinical symptoms, while the treatment group had a 73.3% improvement. This difference was statistically significant (Z= -2.632, P=0.008). The control group had a 26.7% improvement in the Karnofsky performance status (KPS), while the treatment group had a 53.4% improvement. This was also significantly different (Z=-2.182, P=0.029). A comparative analysis indicated a positive correlation (r=0.917, P<0.001). Compared with the control group, QOL in the treatment group was significantly improved, except in the social/family condition and doctor-patient relationship indicators. The PFS of the treatment group and control group were 6.23 months and 4.67 months, respectively (P=0.048).
Feitai Capsule, a Chinese medicinal herbal treatment could improve the QOL and extend the PFS of the unresectable NSCLC patients.
In this study, the synthesis and analgesic and anti-inflammatory activities of some new 6-acyl-3-(4-substituted benzoylmethyl)-2(3H)-benzoxazolone derivatives are reported. Their structures were confirmed by microanalysis, IR and NMR spectral analysis. Their analgesic activities were determined by using modified Koster method, and antiinflammatory activities were determined by using Peacock Dial Thickness Gauge Ozaki.
Recent studies have suggested that cannabinoids might initiate the consumption of other highly addictive substances, such as opiates. In this work, we show that acute administration of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol in mice facilitates the antinociceptive and antidepressant-like responses elicited by the endogenous enkephalins protected from their degradation by RB 101, a complete inhibitor of enkephalin catabolism. This emphasizes the existence of a physiological interaction between endogenous opioid and cannabinoid systems. Accordingly, Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol increased the release of Met-enkephalin-like material in the nucleus accumbens of awake and freely moving rats measured by microdialysis. In addition, this cannabinoid agonist displaced the in vivo [3H]diprenorphine binding to opioid receptors in total mouse brain. The repetitive pretreatment during 3 weeks of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol in mice treated chronically with morphine significantly reduces the naloxone-induced withdrawal syndrome. However, this repetitive administration of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol did not modify or even decrease the rewarding responses produced by morphine in the place preference paradigm. Taken together, these behavioural and biochemical results demonstrate the existence of a direct link between endogenous opioid and cannabinoid systems. However, chronic use of high doses of cannabinoids does not seem to potentiate the psychic dependence to opioids.
We report instances of fatal leukoencephalopathy associated with the intravenous administration of the antifungal agent amphotericin B (AmB) to a 16-year-old girl treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia and a 22-year-old man who underwent bone marrow transplantation for a myelodysplastic syndrome. Both received AmB in association with cranial irradiation and developed a subacutely evolving neurologic disorder characterized by personality change and confusion rapidly progressing to akinetic mutism. Neuroimaging studies disclosed diffuse nonenhancing abnormalities of the cerebral, particularly frontal, white matter that included hypodensity on CT and increased signal on T2-weighted MRI. Postmortem examinations demonstrated a diffuse, noninflammatory leukoencephalopathy with florid astrogliosis, demyelination, and infiltration of the hemispheric white matter by foamy macrophages. In neither case was there evidence of opportunistic infection or neoplastic infiltration of the nervous system. We review the evidence that polyene macrolide antibiotics such as AmB are potential leukotoxins.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are associated with a greater reduction in mortality in non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy than in ischaemic cardiomyopathy after the results of the V-HeFT-II and SOLVD trials in symptomatic patients. However, a recent analysis of the global, symptomatic and therapeutic, results of the SOLVD trials, demonstrated a similar reduction in mortality with ACE inhibitors in ischaemic and non-ischaemic cardiomyopathies. Moreover, after myocardial infarction, the beneficial effects of ACE inhibitors have been well established in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. Betablockers, especially bisoprolol in the CIBIS-I trial, also seem to be more effective in non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy. However, CIBIS-II and the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Trial Program clearly showed that the benefits of betablockade were identical whether ischaemic or not. The beneficial effects of betablockers in the post-infarction period are more marked when left ventricular dysfunction is severe. The PROVED and RADIANCE trials suggest that digitalis is more effective in non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy. These results were not confirmed by the DIG trial which showed a significant reduction in the combined criterion, mortality and hospital admission for aggravation of cardiac failure, both in ischaemic and in non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy. However, the use of digitalis should be prudent during ischaemic cardiomyopathy, the neutral effect on global mortality in the DIG trial masking divergent results with a tendency to reducing mortality due to aggravation of cardiac failure and a significant increase of other causes of cardiac death, especially from myocardial infarction and arrhythmias. Amiodarone could also be useful in non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy. The reduction in risk of death in the GESICA study, which comprised 60% of patients with non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy, contrasting with the absence of an effect with this molecule in the STAT-CHF trial which only comprised 29% of patients with non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy. The new generation of calcium antagonists could also be more effective in non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy. Although amlodipine significantly reduced mortality in the PRAISE trial in non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy, there was no favourable effect with felodipine in the V-HeFT-III tria. Finally, if in the earlier studies oral anticoagulants were more effective in non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy, the recent results of the SOLVD trial showed that warfarin decreased the mortality in both ischaemic and non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy. The value of anti-aggregant therapy is not questioned in coronary artery disease, but its role in dilated cardiomyopathy has not yet been established. In conclusion, apart from the use of digitalis which must be prudent in post-infarction cardiomyopathy or in patients with ventricular arrhythmias, the treatment of cardiac failure differs little with respect to its ischaemic or non-ischaemic aetiology, and should be based on the NYHA (New York Heart Association) classification.
Although it is generally assumed that metabolism of benzene proceeds through an initial step involving oxidation to benzene oxide (BO) by CYP450 in the liver, the production of BO has never been unambiguously confirmed in animals dosed with benzene. Furthermore, prevailing hypotheses of the mechanism by which benzene causes cancer have ignored the possibility that BO might play a direct role, despite the fact that BO is electrophilic, binds covalently to cell macromolecules and is presumably genotoxic. A likely reason for this lack of attention to the role of BO in the carcinogenesis of benzene is the presumption that this epoxide is too reactive to escape the hepatocyte after it is formed. We employed gas chromatography-mass spectrometry to measure BO in the blood of F344 rats, both in vitro and up to 24 h following oral administration of benzene. Surprisingly, BO was relatively stable in rat blood at 37 degrees C (estimated half-life = 7.9 min) and, after administering a single dosage of 400 mg benzene/kg body wt, a blood concentration of 90 nM BO (8.5 ng/ml) was measured for approximately 9 h. Using a published PBPK model we estimate that approximately 4.3% of the metabolized dose of benzene was released as BO from the liver into blood. This confirms that BO is, indeed, formed from metabolism of benzene and is sufficiently stable to be distributed throughout the body at levels which are likely to be greater than those of the other electrophilic benzene metabolites.
In a variety of laboratory models of experimental epilepsy, imipramine exerts a biphasic action on the CNS as manifested by antiepileptic properties at low doses and convulsant effects at higher doses. In mice, imipramine (17.5-25 mg/kg, i.p.) blocks maximal electroshock seizures while exerting little or no effect on pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures. In cats, imipramine (2.5-15 mg/kg, i.v.) reduces penicillin and estrogen-induced epileptiform discharge, shortens afterdischarge duration and elevates afterdischarge threshold. Higher doses in mice induce neurotoxicity, including clonic seizures. In cats, doses above 20 mg/kg intensify chemically and electrically induced seizures and induce spontaneous epileptiform episodes. Such a biphasic action of imipramine may limit the drug's clinical utility as an antiepileptic agent and may provide an interesting tool for studies of catecholamines and brain excitability.
Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS) is one of a spectrum of overlapping clinical syndromes resulting from mutations in the gene GLI3 on chromosome 7p. Cerebral cavernous malformation (CCM) is caused by mutations in three distinct genes, including Malcavernin (CCM2), which also maps to chromosome 7p and is located 2.8 Mbp from GLI3. The authors describe a new syndrome that combines the vascular lesions characteristic of CCM with the hallmarks of GCPS, including polydactyly, hypertelorism, and developmental delay.
The authors used high-resolution array-based comparative genome hybridization (CGH) analysis to characterize the 3 million-bp deletion on chromosome 7 that accounts for this novel clinical presentation. A 4-year-old girl presented with polydactyly, hypertelorism, and developmental delay and was also found to have multiple CCMs after suffering a seizure. RESULTS. Genetic analysis using array-based CGH revealed a deletion affecting multiple genes in the 7p14-13 locus, the interval that includes both CCM2 and GLI3. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) on genomic DNA confirmed this genomic lesion.
A novel syndrome, combining features of CCM and GCPS, can be added to the group of entities that result from deleterious genetic variants involving GLI3, including GCPS, acrocallosal syndrome, Pallister-Hall syndrome, and contiguous gene syndrome. The deletion responsible for this new entity can be easily detected using either array-based chromosomal analysis or quantitative RT-PCR.
Alzheimer's disease is a complex and multifactorial neurodegenerative disease. Central administration of colchicine, a microtubule-disrupting agent, causes loss of cholinergic neurons and cognitive dysfunction that is associated with excessive free radical generation. The present study was aimed at evaluating the effects of trans-resveratrol in the prevention of colchicine-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative stress in rats. Intracerebroventricular administration of colchicine (15 microg/5 microl) induced impaired cognitive functions in both the Morris water maze task and the elevated plus-maze task. Chronic treatment with resveratrol (10 and 20 mg/kg, p.o.) for a period of 25 days, beginning 4 days prior to colchicine injection, significantly improved the colchicine-induced cognitive impairment. Intracerebroventricular colchicine injection resulted in free radical generation characterized by alterations in oxidative stress markers with a significant increase in malondialdehyde (MDA) and nitrite levels and depletion of reduced glutathione (GSH) activity in the rat brains. It also showed a significant decrease in acetylcholinesterase activity. Besides improving cognitive dysfunction, chronic administration of resveratrol significantly reduced the elevated MDA and nitrite levels and restored the depleted GSH and acetylcholinesterase activity. Results of the present study indicated that trans-resveratrol has a neuroprotective role against colchicine-induced cognitive impairment and associated oxidative stress.
The response to the intracavernosal injection of differing doses of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1)(10, 20 and 30 micrograms) was compared in a randomized prospective manner in 283 men with chronic impotence, in an attempt to identify the optimal drug dose for pharmacological diagnosis. The mean age of patients studied was 63.1 years, and comprised 90 men with arteriogenic impotence, 133 men with either pure venogenic impotence or venous leakage associated with arteriogenic impotence, and 60 men with psychogenic impotence. Erectile responses were quantified using real-time RigiScan monitoring and were compared to a diagnosis based on the patient history, examination findings and all subsequent investigations. In patients with arteriogenic impotence, correct pharmacological diagnosis with doses of 10, 20 and 30 micrograms of PGE1, was made in 71, 89 and 90% of patients respectively. In patients with venous leakage, correct pharmacological diagnosis with doses of 10, 20 and 30 micrograms of PGE1 was made in 95, 95 and 93% of patients respectively. In patients with psychogenic impotence, correct pharmacological diagnosis with doses of 10, 20 and 30 micrograms of PGE1 was made in 72, 95 and 98% of patients respectively. This study indicates that pharmacological diagnosis with PGE1, is a useful screening test to differentiate penile vascular disease from psychogenic impotence and arteriogenic impotence from cavernosal venous leakage, achieves optimal sensitivity and specificity with doses of 20 micrograms or greater, but is associated with a high false diagnosis rate of diagnosis of penile vascular disease if doses of less than 20 micrograms are used.
