Propofol sedation offers advantages for titration and rapid emergence in the critically ill patient, but concern for adverse hemodynamic effects potentially limits its use in these patients. The current study compares the cardiovascular effects of sedation with propofol versus midazolam during the first 12 h after coronary revascularization.
Three hundred fifty-one patients undergoing coronary revascularization were anesthetized using a standardized sufentanil/midazolam regimen, and assigned randomly to 12 h of sedation with either propofol or midazolam while tracheally intubated. The incidence and characteristics of hemodynamic episodes, defined as heart rate less than 60 or greater than 100 beats/min or systolic blood pressure greater than 140 or less than 90 mmHg, were determined using data electronically recorded at 1-min intervals. The presence of myocardial ischemia was determined using continuous three-channel Holter electrocardiography (ECG) and of myocardial infarctions (MI) using 12-lead ECG (Q wave MI, Minnesota Code) or creatine kinase isoenzymes (CK-MB) analysis (non-Q wave MI, peak CK-MB > 70 ng/ml, or CK-MB > 70 IU/I).
Ninety-three percent of patients in both treatment groups had at least one hemodynamic episode during the period of postoperative sedation. Propofol sedation resulted in a 17% lower incidence of tachycardia (58% vs. 70%, propofol vs. midazolam; P = 0.04), a 28% lower incidence of hypertension (39% vs. 54%; P = 0.02), and a greater incidence of hypotension (68% vs. 51%; P = 0.01). Despite these hemodynamic effects, the incidence of myocardial ischemia did not differ between treatment groups (12% propofol vs. 13% midazolam; P = 0.66), nor did its severity, as measured by ischemic minutes per hour monitored (8.7 +/- 5.8 vs. 6.2 +/- 4.6 min/h, propofol vs. midazolam; P = 0.19) or ischemic area under the curve (6.8 +/- 4.0 vs. 5.3 +/- 4.2; P = 0.37). The incidence of cardiac death (one per group), Q wave MI (propofol, n = 7; midazolam, n = 3; P = 0.27), or non Q wave MI (propofol, n = 16; midazolam, n = 18; P = 0.81) did not differ between treatment groups.
Hemodynamic episodes occur frequently in the first 12 h after coronary revascularization. Compared with a standard sedation regimen (midazolam), propofol sedation appears to modulate postoperative hemodynamic responses by reducing the incidence and severity of tachycardia and hypertension and increasing the incidence of hypotension. Both sedation regimens appear similarly safe with respect to myocardial ischemia. These findings indicate that propofol infusion provides effective sedation without deleterious hemodynamic effects in patients recovering from cardiac surgery.
Myeloperoxidase (MPO) functions as a key molecular component of the host defense system against diverse pathogens. We have previously reported that increased MPO levels and activity is a distinguishing feature of rotenone-exposed glial cells, and that either overactivation or deficiency of MPO leads to pathological conditions in the brain. Here, we provide that modulation of MPO levels in glia by resveratrol confers protective effects on rotenone-induced neurotoxicity. We show that resveratrol significantly reduced MPO levels but did not trigger abnormal nitric oxide (NO) production in microglia and astrocytes. Resveratrol-induced down-regulation of MPO, in the absence of an associated overproduction of NO, markedly attenuated rotenone-triggered inflammatory responses including phagocytic activity and reactive oxygen species production in primary microglia and astrocytes. In addition, impaired responses of primary mixed glia from Mpo (-/-) mice to rotenone were relieved by treatment with resveratrol. We further show that rotenone-induced neuronal injury, particularly dopaminergic cell death, was attenuated by resveratrol in neuron-glia co-cultures, but not in neurons cultured alone. Similar regulatory effects of resveratrol on MPO levels were observed in microglia treated with MPP(+), another Parkinson's disease-linked neurotoxin, supporting the beneficial effects of resveratrol on the brain. Collectively, our findings provide that resveratrol influences glial responses to rotenone by regulating both MPO and NO, and thus protects against rotenone-induced neuronal injury.
In 28 patients with first myocardial infarction plasma catecholamines and thrombocyte alpha 2-adrenoceptors were studied. The first determination (by HPLC and radioligand binding, respectively) was performed immediately after hospital admission and 6 weeks later. In the acute phase of myocardial infarction plasma adrenaline and noradrenaline levels were high. No significant differences in thrombocyte alpha 2-adrenoceptors and plasma concentrations of adrenaline and noradrenaline were observed between diabetic and non-diabetic patients. In three non-surviving patients only the affinity of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor to the radioligand was decreased (P less than 0.05), the relatively high catecholamine levels failed to reach statistical significance. Six weeks after hospital admission, adrenaline plasma levels were significantly decreased in diabetic and non-diabetic patients, while noradrenaline was only lowered in non-diabetic patients (P less than 0.05). Only in this group did the receptor number (BMAX) show a significant elevation 6 weeks after hospital admission. We conclude that, in acute myocardial infarction, alpha 2-adrenoceptors mainly interact with noradrenaline. Accordingly, no adrenoceptor alteration occurred in diabetic patients, who showed only a decrease in adrenaline but not in noradrenaline plasma concentrations 6 weeks following myocardial infarction. The different patterns in diabetic and non-diabetic patients suggest an alteration of catecholamine metabolism in diabetes mellitus.
Evaluate the frequency and assess curative and preventive measures against urinary lithiasis in patients treated with indinavir.
Fourteen HIV seropositive patients who developed severe and acute flank pain were included. Four of the patients receiving 800 mg indinavir t.i.d. had fever (38.5 degrees C) or delayed secretion (> 2 h). Delay from indinavir treatment onset was 1 to 321 days. During the same period, 155 patients had been treated with indinavir. Clinical features, radiology and laboratory results were recorded in addition to an analysis of the lithiasis if possible.
Transient moderate renal failure occurred in 8 patients. Mean urine pH was 6. Serum phosphorus, calcium, and uric acid, liver tests and urinalysis were normal. A JJ ureteral stent was inserted in 4 cases due to complications. In all cases, fluids, analgesics and antispasmodics provided favorable outcome. Inversely, nonsteroid antiinflammatory drugs given in 2 patients had a deleterious effect on renal function. The lithiasis was eliminated in 3 cases and infrared spectrophotometry demonstrated a structure compatible with indinavir monohydrate.
The formation of urinary lithiasis is a frequent complication of indinavir therapy (9%). Hyperhydration and urine acidification are usually successful but emergency drainage is required in approximately 3% of cases. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs should be avoided due to the risk of renal toxicity. A precise evaluation of fluid intake and diet, drug associations and personal history is needed to recognize patients at risk of recurrent lithiasis formation.
Certain results of in vitro studies raise the possibility that blockade of ATP-sensitive K+ channels by glibenclamide may induce vasoconstriction. Therefore, this substance might decrease portal pressure and hyperkinetic circulation in animals with portal hypertension. Thus, systemic and regional hemodynamics (radioactive microspheres) were measured before and 20 min after a bolus intravenous injection of glibenclamide (20 mg/kg) in conscious rats with portal vein stenosis. Blood pressure decreased significantly from 14.5 +/- 1.5 to 12.2 +/- 1.2 (mean +/- SE). Cardiac index significantly decreased by 24%, portal tributary blood flow by 31%, and hepatic artery blood flow by 35%. Systemic vascular resistance significantly increased by 38%, portal territory vascular resistance and hepatic artery vascular resistance by 61%, each, and renal vascular resistance by 17%. Arterial pressure, heart rate, and renal blood flow were unchanged. Moreover, glibenclamide blunted the vasodilating action of diazoxide (an ATP-sensitive K+ channel opener). These results show that in rats with extrahepatic portal hypertension the blockade of ATP-sensitive K+ channels by glibenclamide reduces portal pressure and hyperkinetic circulation.
Trans-resveratrol (RSVL; 3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene), a natural compound found in grapes, berries, peanuts and red wine exerts certain anticancer roles in different human cancer types. However, the exact molecular mechanism(s) behind such a role remains to be elucidated, thus the aim of this study.
T47D human breast cancer cells were treated with RSVL and cell proliferation was measured by cell counting. Apoptosis was analyzed by Giemsa staining, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) fragmentation analysis and annexin V assay. Regulation of p53 tumor suppressor protein, p70S6K, and pS6 ribosomal protein was measured by detecting their phosphorylated active forms using ECL-immunoblot analysis.
The present results show that RSVL-induced growth inhibition in T47D cells is caused by apoptosis as demonstrated by morphological changes and PARP fragmentation. RSVL-induced apoptosis is associated with the activation of the p53 in a dose- and a time-dependent manner. Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitors, wortmannin and LY294002 abolished the effect of RSVL on p53 activation. Interestingly, RSVL inhibits the expression of p70S6K and the phosphorylation of pS6RP.
These findings demonstrate that RSVL affects multiple intracellular signaling transduction pathways such as p53 activation/protein translation inhibition/apoptosis, and strongly support a contemplated use of this natural compound as a preventive and/or an adjuvant therapeutic drug for breast cancer. The data indicate that these proteins may be used as predictive biomarkers to evaluate the treatment efficacy of RSVL in clinical trials.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is highly responsive to crizotinib. To determine whether ALK-positive NSCLC is also sensitive to pemetrexed, we retrospectively evaluated progression-free survival (PFS) of ALK-positive versus ALK-negative patients who had been treated with pemetrexed-based chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC.
We identified 121 patients with advanced, ALK-positive NSCLC in the USA, Australia, and Italy. For comparison, we evaluated 266 patients with advanced, ALK-negative, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-wild-type NSCLC, including 79 with KRAS mutations and 187 with wild-type KRAS (WT/WT/WT). We determined PFS on different pemetrexed regimens.
Among 70 ALK-positive patients treated with a platinum/pemetrexed regimen, the median PFS (mPFS) was 7.3 months (95% confidence interval (CI) 5.5-9.5). The mPFS of 51 ALK-positive patients treated with single-agent pemetrexed or nonplatinum/pemetrexed combinations was 5.5 months (2.8-9.0). For ALK-negative patients, PFS on all pemetrexed-based regimens was similar to that of ALK-positive patients, except in the specific setting of first-line platinum/pemetrexed where the mPFS was only 4.2 and 5.4 months in KRAS and WT/WT/WT patients, respectively. However, among patients with a never/light-smoking history (0-10 pack-year smoking history) treated with first-line platinum/pemetrexed, there was no difference in PFS between ALK-positive and ALK-negative patients.
PFS on pemetrexed or nonplatinum/pemetrexed combinations was similar in ALK-positive and ALK-negative patients. PFS on first-line platinum/pemetrexed may be prolonged in never/light-smoking patients regardless of ALK status.
The inhibitory effect of nicardipine, a calcium antagonist, on the antigen- and anti-IgE-induced histamine release from basophilic leucocytes of patients with bronchial asthma was examined. The agent significantly inhibited both antigen-stimulated and anti-IgE-induced histamine release from basophils (the maximum percent inhibition was 57.8 +/- 7.2% and 56.0 +/- 8.8%, respectively). Pre-incubation of basophils with nicardipine for periods of up to 120 min did not alter the inhibitory effect. These results suggest that nicardipine modifies the histamine release from basophils which closely participate in an attack of bronchial asthma.
There are no reports on the effect of 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) on chemically-induced convulsions. Hence, in the present study, its (100 and 200 mg/kg) action was tested alone and in combination with phenobarbitone (20 mg/kg) and diazepam (0.25 mg/kg) on picrotoxin (PCT)-induced convulsions in rats. The changes produced by 7-NI on nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and nitric oxide (NO) concentration were determined in the brain. The effect of 7-NI was tested in L-arginine (1000 mg/kg) pretreated (30 min) animals. The smaller dose (100 mg/kg) of 7-NI did not alter NOS activity and NO concentration, but inhibited PCT-induced convulsions indicating that its anticonvulsant action was devoid of an involvement of NO. But, an inhibition of NOS activity, by a larger (200 mg/kg) dose of it, resulted in a promotion of the convulsant action of PCT and in an impairment of the anticonvulsant effect of both phenobarbitone and diazepam. The proconvulsant action of 7-NI was reverted by L-arginine. These results suggest that 100 and 200 mg/kg of 7-NI produce distinguishable action on PCT-induced convulsions because NOS activity is inhibited by 200 mg/kg and not by 100 mg/kg of it. The results further suggest that NO acts as anticonvulsant and that the NOS inhibitors, like 7-NI, cannot be used as an anticonvulsant either alone or in combination with other anticonvulsants.
To evaluate the incidence and clinical features of abnormal cardiac hypertrophy during treatment of infantile spasms with corticotropin.
A prospective, echocardiographic study.
Eighteen children treated for infantile spasms with high-dose corticotropin at a large tertiary children's hospital.
None.
Abnormal cardiac hypertrophy was seen in 13 (72%) of 18 patients. Five of 18 patients (group 1) developed hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with asymmetric septal hypertrophy; none developed significant left ventricular outflow obstruction. Concentric left ventricular hypertrophy was seen in eight patients (group 2), whereas no changes were observed in five (group 3).
Abnormal ventricular hypertrophy occurs in the majority of patients treated with corticotropin for infantile spasms. In our study, many of these patients developed hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with dramatic asymmetric septal hypertrophy; however, none developed significant obstruction to left ventricular outflow. All changes were reversible, and did not require premature discontinuation of therapy.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by a glutamine expansion within huntingtin protein. The exact pathological mechanisms determining disease onset and progression remain unclear. However, aggregates of insoluble mutant huntingtin (mhtt), a hallmark of HD, are readily detected within neurons in HD brain. Although aggregated polyglutamines may not be inherently toxic, they constitute a biomarker for mutant huntingtin useful for developing therapeutics. We previously reported that the small molecule, C2-8, inhibits polyglutamine aggregation in cell culture and brain slices and rescues degeneration of photoreceptors in a Drosophila model of HD. In this study, we assessed the therapeutic potential of C2-8 in the R6/2 mouse model of HD, which has been used to provide proof-of-concept data in considering whether to advance therapies to human HD. We show that, at nontoxic doses, C2-8 penetrates the blood-brain barrier and is present in brain at a high concentration. C2-8-treated mice showed improved motor performance and reduced neuronal atrophy and had smaller huntingtin aggregates. There have been no prior drug-like, non-toxic, brain-penetrable aggregation inhibitors to arise from cell-based high-throughput screens for reducing huntingtin aggregation that is efficacious in preclinical in vivo models. C2-8 provides an essential tool to help elucidate mechanisms of neurodegeneration in HD and a therapeutic lead for further optimization and development.
The effect of vitamin E administration on the severity of myocardial infarction induced by isoproterenol on rats was studied. Judging from serum enzyme activity (CPK 714 micromoles; GOT 291.7 micromoles; and GPT 155.5 micromoles), mortality rate (60 to 65% survived) and histopathological observation, vitamin E has been observed to offer very little protection to the myocardium during experimental myocardial infarction when compared to control animals given isoproterenol alone (CPK 775.8 micromoles; GOT 336.2 micromoles; and GPT 168 micromoles), mortality rate (60 to 65% survived) and histopathological observation (more or less similar). The level of lipid peroxides namely hydroperoxides (control 3.15; vitamin E + iso. 14.8); conjugated diene (4.45 and 6.85) and malondialdehyde (1.22 and 2.55) in the heart were higher in the vitamin E treated animals given isoproterenol when compared to control animals given vitamin E alone. The level of cholesterol and phospholipid was more or less similar in the control animals given vitamin E alone (183.6 and 3.12) and vitamin E treated animals given isoproterenol (170.25 and 2.49), but the ratio of cholesterol to phospholipid was higher in the vitamin E treated animals given isoproterenol when compared to control animals given vitamin E alone.
To examine patterns, consequences, and correlates of methamphetamine use among adolescent and young adult men who have sex with men (YMSM).
Descriptive, bivariate, and hierarchical regression analyses of cross-sectional data.
Howard Brown Health Center, a community-based facility in Chicago, Ill, from August 2004 to September 2005.
Three hundred ten YMSM who completed an anonymous, computer-assisted survey.
Methamphetamine use in the past year.
Participants ranged in age from 16 to 24 years (mean age, 20.3 years); 30% were white and 70% were of other race/ethnicity (African American, 33%; Hispanic, 26%; Asian or Pacific Islander, 3%; and other, 8%). Participants reported many high-risk sexual and substance use behaviors. Thirteen percent used methamphetamine in the past year. Methamphetamine use was more common among human immunodeficiency virus-infected participants (odds ratio, 2.8; 95% confidence interval, 1.3-5.3) and varied by age and race/ethnicity; substantially higher prevalence was reported by older and non-African American YMSM (P<.001). Compared with other illicit substance users, methamphetamine users reported more memory difficulties, impairments in daily activities, and unintended risky sex resulting from substance use (all P<.01). Hierarchical regression identified sexual risk (unprotected intercourse and multiple partners), sexualized social context (eg, Internet sex, sex in a bathhouse or sex club, sex with older partners, and commercial sex), lower self-esteem, and psychological distress as correlated with methamphetamine use among participants (P<.05).
A substantial percentage of YMSM in this sample used methamphetamine. Methamphetamine use is a public health problem with significant implications for the health and well-being of YMSM. Methamphetamine use was associated with human immunodeficiency virus-related risk, and patterns of use were predicted by demographic data, sexualized social contexts, and psychological variables.
While dyskinetic movements have been reported in primates with unilateral excitotoxic lesions following stimulation by dopaminergic agonists, the presence and intensity of the dyskinetic syndromes have varied extensively with size and location of lesion. With the intent of producing a more reliable behavioral model of Huntington disease, anatomically-defined lesions of limited size were produced by magnetic resonance imaging-guided stereotaxic injection of quinolinic acid in specific regions within the caudate and putamen of rhesus monkeys. The location and extent of the lesions were verified by magnetic resonance imaging as well as quantitative positron emission tomography imaging with the dopamine D1 specific receptor ligand SCH 39166 as a marker for striatal output neurons. The quality, frequency and duration of dyskinetic movements were assessed and quantified before and after administration of 0.5 mg/kg apomorphine in multiple test sessions over several months. Selective unilateral lesions in the posterior putamen, but not in the anterior putamen or the head of the caudate, produced marked dystonia and dyskinesia after apomorphine administration. While combined unilateral lesions of the caudate and posterior putamen produced dyskinesia similar to selective posterior putaminal lesions, combined unilateral lesions of the anterior and posterior putamen did not elicit dyskenesia. On the basis of these results, one monkey received a bilateral selective lesion in the posterior putamen. This animal remained healthy and exhibited marked spontaneous Huntington-like chorea spontaneously in the first 48 h after lesioning and persistent apomorphine-induced dyskinesia thereafter. We conclude that bilateral selective excitotoxic lesions of the posterior putamen provide an improved model of the movement disorder of Huntington disease.
Although chronic arsenic exposure is a well-known risk for cardiovascular disease and has a strong correlation with hypertension, the molecular pathogenesis underlying arsenic exposure-induced hypertension remains poorly understood. To delineate the pathogenesis, we examined changes in the mRNA levels of 2 angiotensin II Type I receptor (AT1R) subtypes, AT1AR and AT1BR, in a mouse aortic endothelial cell line, END-D. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed significant increases in the mRNA levels of 2 AT1R subtypes, AT1AR and AT1BR following sodium arsenite (SA) treatment. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that SA increases the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, western blot analysis revealed that SA enhances the phosphorylations of c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK) and activated protein 1 (AP-1). These phosphorylations were inhibited by N-acetylcysteine (NAC), an anti-oxidant. Finally, SA-induced AT1R expression was found to be prevented both by NAC and specific JNK inhibitor, SP6001325, strongly indicating that AT1R upregulation is a result of the ROS-mediated activation of the JNK signaling pathway. Taken together, our results indicate that arsenic indeed upregulates the AT1R expression, thus highlighting a role of arsenic-induced aberrant AT1R signaling in the pathogenesis of hypertension.
As the metabolic syndrome is an important side effect of some antipsychotics, use of a biomarker will enable clinicians to identify metabolic changes more effectively than anthropometry and biochemistry. Adiponectin, an adipocyte-derived hormone, serves as a central regulatory protein in many of the physiologic pathways controlling lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. The aim of this study is to determine the possible relationship between adiponectin and the metabolic syndrome among Chinese patients taking clozapine for schizophrenia.
The study sample consisted of 188 hospitalized Chinese patients with schizophrenia (DSM-IV criteria) who had been receiving clozapine for at least 3 months. Cross-sectional anthropometric measurements, biochemical analysis, and serum adiponectin levels were assessed to determine the prevalence of metabolic syndrome. Retrospective chart reviews were conducted to obtain demographic data, age at which clozapine treatment was initiated, and weight change after the initiation of clozapine treatment. The study was conducted from March to September of 2005.
The prevalence of the metabolic syndrome was 28.4%. Adiponectin levels were negatively associated with weight change after the initiation of clozapine treatment, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, body weight, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference, serum triglycerides, and insulin and were positively associated with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that age (OR = 1.083, p = .009), BMI (OR = 1.423, p < .001), and serum adiponectin (OR = 0.847, p = .01) each correlated significantly with the presence of the metabolic syndrome.
Independent of age and BMI, hypoadiponectinemia is a potential biomarker of the metabolic syndrome in patients taking clozapine for schizophrenia.
Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) progresses to non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) in many but not all IGT subjects. It remains unsettled whether long-term antidiabetic (i.e. antihyperglycaemic) pharmacotherapy delays the development of NIDDM, and whether such treatment influences macrovascular morbidity and mortality. This report summarizes the results from long-term (> 4 years) antihyperglycaemic interventions addressing these issues. In an American study, tolbutamide (0.5 g 2-3 times daily) promoted a 4-year improvement of glucose tolerance in young, non-obese, mildly diabetic asymptomatic subjects who apparently comprised a mixture of IGT and NIDDM. In a Swedish 5-year study on 178 survivors of myocardial infarction, of whom 79 had intravenous IGT, tolbutamide treatment was associated with improved glucose tolerance, reduced triglyceride levels, and improved 18-month survival. A British 5-year study on a subgroup of about 200 middle-aged men from the Whitehall cohort indicated that phenformin (50 mg once daily) did not influence the deterioration of glucose levels. In a 10-year British study, 241 middle-aged men and women were 4-square randomized to control, weight reduction, placebo and tolbutamide (0.5 g twice daily). A non-lasting reduction of arterial disease was recorded in those on tolbutamide. No reduction of NIDDM development was seen. In a Swedish 10-year study on middle-aged men with IGT, follow-up comprised 59 controls, 98 on diet advice with or without placebo, and 23 on tolbutamide (0.5 g three times daily) added to diet advice. A total of 29% developed NIDDM among controls and 13% in the diet group. In contrast, no subject maintaining tolbutamide treatment developed NIDDM. Moreover, the tolbutamide-treated subjects had reduced blood pressure, triglyceride and cholesterol levels, as well as fewer macrovascular complications. Recently, a lower mortality rate at 22 years after the start of tolbutamide treatment has been recorded. To summarize, treatment with insulin-releasing drugs might help to reduce the development of NIDDM and macrovascular disease in IGT subjects. However, further studies are needed to verify or refute this notion.
We described two patients (brother and sister) with familial adenomatous polyposis of the colon. It is an inherited disease with autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. The incidence is 1:8.000, with usual onset of polyps development late in the first decade of life or during adolescence, and malignant alteration up to the fourth decade of life. APC gene located on long arm of chromosome 5 is responsible for occurrence of the disease that presents with onset of multiple adenomatous polyps in the colon (from some of them to 1000). The treatment includes chemoprevention by sulindac or aspirin that prevents or reverse process of carcinogenesis. Surgical approach is preventive colectomy up to 20 (25) years of life. APC gene mutation (deletion at codon 1309-1311) was proven by DNA analysis from blood and polyp in both patients. There was no evidence of mutations of genes p53 and K-ras. Preventive colectomy is planned as soon as possible.
Recent randomized clinical trials have suggested that estrogen plus progestin does not confer cardiac protection and may increase the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). In this report, we provide the final results with regard to estrogen plus progestin and CHD from the Women's Health Initiative (WHI).
The WHI included a randomized primary-prevention trial of estrogen plus progestin in 16,608 postmenopausal women who were 50 to 79 years of age at base line. Participants were randomly assigned to receive conjugated equine estrogens (0.625 mg per day) plus medroxyprogesterone acetate (2.5 mg per day) or placebo. The primary efficacy outcome of the trial was CHD (nonfatal myocardial infarction or death due to CHD).
After a mean follow-up of 5.2 years (planned duration, 8.5 years), the data and safety monitoring board recommended terminating the estrogen-plus-progestin trial because the overall risks exceeded the benefits. Combined hormone therapy was associated with a hazard ratio for CHD of 1.24 (nominal 95 percent confidence interval, 1.00 to 1.54; 95 percent confidence interval after adjustment for sequential monitoring, 0.97 to 1.60). The elevation in risk was most apparent at one year (hazard ratio, 1.81 [95 percent confidence interval, 1.09 to 3.01]). Although higher base-line levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were associated with an excess risk of CHD among women who received hormone therapy, higher base-line levels of C-reactive protein, other biomarkers, and other clinical characteristics did not significantly modify the treatment-related risk of CHD.
Estrogen plus progestin does not confer cardiac protection and may increase the risk of CHD among generally healthy postmenopausal women, especially during the first year after the initiation of hormone use. This treatment should not be prescribed for the prevention of cardiovascular disease.
The effect of cyclophosphamide on urinary tract infection was studied, using Pseudomonas aeruginosa in a murine model. Urinary tract infections were produced by injecting P. aeruginosa through a urethral catheter into the bladders of mice. The number of P. aeruginosa organisms in the bladder tissue and kidneys, histopathology, peripheral leukocyte count, and antibody response to P. aeruginosa was measured. The local effect of cyclophosphamide on the bladder was determined by measuring the bladder tissue water and examining the histopathology. Cyclophosphamide increased the susceptibility of mice to P. aeruginosa urinary tract infection, resulting in marked cystitis and an increase in renal infection, bacteremia, and mortality. These changes correlated with the toxic effect of cyclophosphamide on the wall of the bladder rather than with peripheral leukopenia or failure of antibody response.
Nebivolol is a new selective beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with nitric oxide (NO)-releasing properties. In the present study we have analyzed whether nebivolol affects the development of the arterial hypertension that follows the chronic inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis. Nebivolol (1 mg/kg/day, 14 days) was given concurrently with the NO synthesis inhibitor Nw-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 0.1, 1, and 10 mg/kg/day, 14 days) to several groups of rats. Blood pressure, renal function, plasma renin activity (PRA), and NO activity and metabolites were measured at the end of the treatment period. L-NAME treatment alone increased mean arterial pressure dose dependently (103.5 +/- 2.4, 110.9 +/- 2.0, and 125.8 +/- 2.2 mmHg, respectively). Nebivolol completely prevented the development of arterial hypertension in the groups treated with L-NAME at the doses of 0.1 and 1 mg/kg/day and reduced the increase achieved with the L-NAME dose of 10 mg/kg/day (110.3 +/- 2.7). There were no differences in glomerular filtration rate or natriuresis between nebivolol-treated and -untreated rats. Plasma nitrates+nitrites and calcium-dependent NO synthase activity in the kidney also decreased dose dependently with L-NAME treatment and nebivolol did not significantly modify it. However, PRA was lower in all groups treated with nebivolol and L-NAME as compared to the rats receiving only L-NAME. These data indicate that nebivolol prevents the development of the arterial hypertension associated with chronic NO deficit and this effect seems to be dependent on the inhibition of renin-angiotensin system.
Vitamin D and its metabolites are believed to impede carcinogenesis by stimulating cell differentiation, inhibiting cell proliferation, and inducing apoptosis. Certain pesticides have been shown to deregulate vitamin D's anticarcinogenic properties. We hypothesize that certain pesticides may be linked to prostate cancer via an interaction with vitamin D genetic variants.
We evaluated interactions between 41 pesticides and 152 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in nine vitamin D pathway genes among 776 prostate cancer cases and 1,444 male controls in a nested case-control study of Caucasian pesticide applicators within the Agricultural Health Study. We assessed Pinteraction values using likelihood ratio tests from unconditional logistic regression and a false discovery rate (FDR) to account for multiple comparisons.
Five significant interactions (P < 0.01) displayed a monotonic increase in prostate cancer risk with individual pesticide use in one genotype and no association in the other. These interactions involved parathion and terbufos use and three vitamin D genes (VDR, RXRB, and GC). The exposure-response pattern among participants with increasing parathion use with the homozygous CC genotype for GC rs7041 compared with unexposed participants was noteworthy [low vs. no exposure: OR, 2.58, 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.07-6.25; high vs. no exposure: OR, 3.09, 95% CI, 1.10-8.68; Pinteraction = 3.8 × 10(-3)].
In this study, genetic variations in vitamin D pathway genes, particularly GC rs7041, an SNP previously linked to lower circulating vitamin D levels, modified pesticide associations with prostate cancer risk.
Because our study is the first to examine this relationship, additional studies are needed to rule out chance findings.
We report on a 32-year old woman with bulimia nervosa treated with fluoxetine for depression. Fluoxetine is the only drug currently recommended for the treatment of bulimia. The patient became severely disturbed with tension, irritability, self-damage by cutting and violent, intense, suicidal and paranoid ideation qualitatively different to previous symptoms in the course of her illness. Clinical impression was of a striking association between fluoxetine and these symptoms. We suggest caution when using fluoxetine in bulimic patients with depression who have additional impulsive behaviours such as self-cutting, alcohol and/or drug abuse and shop-lifting.
Microalbuminuria in diabetes is a risk factor for early death and an indicator for aggressive blood pressure (BP) lowering. We compared a combination of 2 mg perindopril/0.625 mg indapamide with enalapril monotherapy on albumin excretion rate (AER) in patients with type 2 diabetes, albuminuria, and hypertension in a 12-month, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group international multicenter study. Four hundred eighty-one patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension (systolic BP > or =140 mm Hg, <180 mm Hg, diastolic BP <110 mm Hg) were randomly assigned (age 59+/-9 years, 77% previously treated for hypertension). Results from 457 patients (intention-to-treat analysis) were available. After a 4-week placebo period, patients with albuminuria >20 and <500 microg/min were randomly assigned to a combination of 2 mg perindopril/0.625 mg indapamide or to 10 mg daily enalapril. After week 12, doses were adjusted on the basis of BP to a maximum of 8 mg perindopril/2.5 mg indapamide or 40 mg enalapril. The main outcome measures were overnight AER and supine BP. Both treatments reduced BP. Perindopril/indapamide treatment resulted in a statistically significant higher fall in both BP (-3.0 [95% CI -5.6, -0.4], P=0.012; systolic BP -1.5 [95% CI -3.0, -0.1] diastolic BP P=0.019) and AER -42% (95% CI -50%, -33%) versus -27% (95% CI -37%, -16%) with enalapril. The greater AER reduction remained significant after adjustment for mean BP. Adverse events were similar in the 2 groups. Thus, first-line treatment with low-dose combination perindopril/indapamide induces a greater decrease in albuminuria than enalapril, partially independent of BP reduction. A BP-independent effect of the combination may increase renal protection.
Nonclinical studies provide the opportunity to anchor biochemical with morphologic findings; however, liver injury is often complex and heterogeneous, confounding the ability to relate biochemical changes with specific patterns of injury. The aim of the current study was to compare diagnostic performance of hepatobiliary markers for specific manifestations of drug-induced liver injury in rat using data collected in a recent hepatic toxicogenomics initiative in which rats (n = 3205) were given 182 different treatments for 4 or 14 days. Diagnostic accuracy of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total bilirubin (Tbili), serum bile acids (SBA), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), total cholesterol (Chol), and triglycerides (Trig) was evaluated for specific types of liver histopathology by Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis. To assess the relationship between biochemical and morphologic changes in the absence of hepatocellular necrosis, a second ROC analysis was performed on a subset of rats (n = 2504) given treatments (n = 152) that did not cause hepatocellular necrosis. In the initial analysis, ALT, AST, Tbili, and SBA had the greatest diagnostic utility for manifestations of hepatocellular necrosis and biliary injury, with comparable magnitude of area under the ROC curve and serum hepatobiliary marker changes for both. In the absence of hepatocellular necrosis, ALT increases were observed with biochemical or morphologic evidence of cholestasis. In both analyses, diagnostic utility of ALP and GGT for biliary injury was limited; however, ALP had modest diagnostic value for peroxisome proliferation, and ALT, AST, and total Chol had moderate diagnostic utility for phospholipidosis. None of the eight markers evaluated had diagnostic value for manifestations of hypertrophy, cytoplasmic rarefaction, inflammation, or lipidosis.
