The loss of cardiac myocytes is one of the mechanisms involved in acute myocardial infarction (AMI)-related heart failure. Autophagy is a common biological process in eukaryote cells. The relationship between cardiac myocyte loss and autophagy after AMI is still unclear. Carvedilol, a non-selective alpha1- and beta-receptor blocker, also suppresses cardiac myocyte necrosis and apoptosis induced by ischemia. However, the association between the therapeutic effects of carvedilol and autophagy is still not well understood. The aim of the present study was to establish a rat model of AMI and observe changes in autophagy in different zones of the myocardium and the effects of carvedilol on autophagy in AMI rats.
The animals were randomly assigned to a sham group, an AMI group, a chloroquine intervention group and a carvedilol group. The AMI rat model was established by ligating the left anterior descending coronary artery. The hearts were harvested at 40 minutes, 2 hours, 24 hours and 2 weeks after ligation in the AMI group, at 40 minutes in the chloroquine intervention group and at 2 weeks in other groups. Presence of autophagic vacuoles (AV) in the myocytes was observed by electron microscopy. The expression of autophagy-, anti-apoptotic- and apoptotic-related proteins, MAPLC-3, Beclin-1, Bcl-xl and Bax, were detected by immunohistochemical staining and Western blotting.
AVs were not observed in necrotic regions of the myocardium 40 minutes after ligation of the coronary artery. A large number of AVs were found in the region bordering the infarction. Compared with the infarction region and the normal region, the formation of AV was significantly increased in the region bordering the infarction (P < 0.05). The expression of autophagy- and anti-apoptotic-related proteins was significantly increased in the region bordering the infarction. Meanwhile, the expression of apoptotic-related proteins was significantly increased in the infarction region. In the chloroquine intervention group, a large number of initiated AVs (AVis) were found in the necrotic myocardial region. At 2 weeks after AMI, AVs were frequently observed in myocardial cells in the AMI group, the carvedilol group and the sham group, and the number of AVs was significantly increased in the carvedilol group compared with both the AMI group and the sham group (P < 0.05). The expression of autophagy- and anti-apoptotic-related proteins was significantly increased in the carvedilol group compared with that in the AMI group, and the positive expression located in the infarction region and the region bordering the infarction.
AMI induces the formation of AV in the myocardium. The expression of anti-apoptosis-related proteins increases in response to upregulation of autophagy. Carvedilol increases the formation of AVs and upregulates autophagy and anti-apoptosis of the cardiac myocytes after AMI.
Cigarette smoking has an influence on both arterial-type and venous-type thrombosis. However, little is known about the direct effect of cigarette smoke extract (CSE) on fibrinolytic activity of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Most recently, simvastatin has been marked in its effect on endothelial cells protection and anticoagulation. In this study, the effect of CSE on the expression of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) in HUVECs was addressed. The role of simvastatin in CSE-induced fibrinolytic activity changes was investigated as well.
The fourth to fifth generation of HUVECs were incubated respectively with 0, 5%, 10% and 20% CSE for 6 hours or exposed to 5% CSE for 0, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24 hours to determine the expression changes of t-PA and PAI-1 protein. Meanwhile, cells were also accordingly exposed either to 5% CSE alone or simvastatin pre-treated and 5% CSE for 24 hours to assess the role of simvastatin in CSE-induced t-PA and PAI-1 protein and mRNA expression in HUVECs. RT-PCR and ELISA techniques were used for detecting the t-PA or PAI-1 mRNA and protein.
After 6-hour exposure to CSE, the expression levels of t-PA protein in 10% and 20% CSE-treated groups reduced significantly ((0.0365 +/- 0.0083) ng/ml, (0.0255 +/- 0.0087) ng/ml) when compared with that of control group ((0.0660 +/- 0.0120) ng/ml) (P < 0.05). In contrast, the levels of PAI-1 protein in 5%, 10% and 20% CSE-treated groups increased remarkably ((13.3225 +/- 0.5680) ng/ml, (14.2675 +/- 1.5380) ng/ml, (14.4292 +/- 1.6230) ng/ml) when compared with that of control group ((8.5193 +/- 0.7537) ng/ml) (P < 0.05). After stimulation with 5% CSE for 0, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24 hours, the levels of PAI-1 protein increased over time and reached the peak at 24 hours ((14.6400 +/- 1.0651) ng/ml), which was significantly higher than that of control group ((12.0656 +/- 0.6148) ng/ml) (P < 0.05). Additionally, CSE could up-regulate PAI-1 expression at both the mRNA and the protein levels. The levels of PAI-1 mRNA and protein increased significantly in 5% CSE-treated group ((8.8030 +/- 0.4745) ng/ml, (1.8155 +/- 0.0412) ng/ml) compared with those of control groups ((5.0588 +/- 0.2315) ng/ml, (1.3030 +/- 0.0647) ng/ml) (P < 0.01), and decreased after 2-hour simvastatin pre-treatment ((5.4875 +/- 0.3166) ng/ml, (1.3975 +/- 0.0297) ng/ml) (P < 0.01). No significant difference was found at the levels of t-PA protein and mRNA (P > 0.05).
CSE inhibits the fibrinolytic activity of HUVECs in vitro. Simvastatin plays a protective role in CSE-induced fibrinolytic malfunction.
Aspirin-induced asthma (AIA) and aspirin-induced urticaria/ angioedema (AIU) are two major aspirin-related allergies. We summarize recent findings related to their molecular genetic mechanisms in order to identify genetic susceptibility markers for differentiating AIU and AIA. The overproduction of cysteinyl leukotriene has been suggested as a mechanism in both AIU and AIA. Increased expression of CYSLTR1 with CYLSTR1 and CYSLTR2 polymorphisms are new findings in AIA, while the ALOX5 promoter polymorphism has been noted in AIU. An HLA study suggested that DPB1*0301 is a strong genetic marker for AIA, and that HLA DRB1*1302 and DQB1*0609 are markers for AIU susceptibility. Several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the promoters of EP2, TBX21, COX-2, Fc epsilon RIbeta, and TBXA2R were associated with AIA, while an Fc epsilon RIalpha promoter polymorphism was associated with AIU. The functional studies of the key genes involved in AIA and AIU are summarized. The identification and functional study of genetic markers for AIA and AIU susceptibility would further elucidate the pathogenic mechanisms and facilitate the development of early diagnostic markers to establish therapeutic targets.
Ocular side-effects in the form of retinal ischaemia and haemorrhages have been reported in patients undergoing standard alpha-interferon therapy.
To assess the ocular impact of therapy with sustained release pegylated alpha-2a interferon (Pegasys) for chronic hepatitis C.
Ten patients receiving Pegasys and ribavirin and 10 healthy volunteers were recruited. Patients underwent full ophthalmic investigations and multifocal electroretinogram testing at baseline, at regular intervals during treatment and post-treatment. The multifocal electroretinogram maps retinal function. Responses were compared with sequential recordings from healthy volunteers.
All patients had normal clinical ophthalmic investigations at baseline. During therapy a single patient experienced central visual disturbance lasting 24 h with no prolonged ill effect. No other patient was aware of any change in vision. Fundal abnormalities appeared in five patients during treatment. The multifocal electroretinogram showed reductions in retinal function in five patients. Nine of 10 patients exhibited abnormalities on at least one multifocal electroretinogram or fundoscopic investigation.
Subclinical retinal toxicity during anti-viral therapy with pegylated alpha-interferon and ribavirin was frequent in this study and it suggests that patients should be warned of this risk and monitored during therapy.
Preclinical and in vitro studies have determined that copper is an important cofactor for angiogenesis. Tetrathiomolybdate (TM) was developed as an effective anticopper therapy for the initial treatment of Wilson's disease, an autosomal recessive disorder that leads to abnormal copper accumulation. Given the potency and uniqueness of the anticopper action of TM and its lack of toxicity, we hypothesized that TM would be a suitable agent to achieve and maintain mild copper deficiency to impair neovascularization in metastatic solid tumors. Following preclinical work that showed efficacy for this anticopper approach in mouse tumor models, we carried out a Phase I clinical trial in 18 patients with metastatic cancer who were enrolled at three dose levels of oral TM (90, 105, and 120 mg/day) administered in six divided doses with and in-between meals. Serum ceruloplasmin (Cp) was used as a surrogate marker for total body copper. Because anemia is the first clinical sign of copper deficiency, the goal of the study was to reduce Cp to 20% of baseline value without reducing hematocrit below 80% of baseline. Cp is a reliable and sensitive measure of copper status, and TM was nontoxic when Cp was reduced to 15-20% of baseline. The level III dose of TM (120 mg/ day) was effective in reaching the target Cp without added toxicity. TM-induced mild copper deficiency achieved stable disease in five of six patients who were copper deficient at the target range for at least 90 days.
In 1981 a 47-year-old white woman was given a total of 9 g of DPH for treatment of epilepsy. A rare hereditary defect in the metabolism of this drug caused toxic blood levels for about three months and led to persistent neurologic and ophthalmologic disturbances. In addition to an atrophy of the cerebellum, demonstrated by a CT scan, the predominant ophthalmologic findings were bilateral reduced visual acuity (0.1) and restricted visual fields (15 degrees). Despite intensive clinical and electrophysiologic investigations it proved impossible to localize the site of damage in the ascending visual pathway. Only VECP to patterns of low contrast (0.2) exhibited a pathologic response. It was concluded that persistent visual disturbances due to DPH intoxication are caused by a more centrally located action of this drug.
The objectives of this phase I study were to evaluate the toxic effects and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of S9788, a new modifier of multidrug resistance (MDR), when given alone and in combination with doxorubicin to patients with advanced solid tumors; to achieve a potentially active plasma concentration of S9788; and to study the pharmacokinetics of both drugs.
A total of 26 patients (median age 58 years) entered the study. S9788 was given alone as a 30-min infusion at day 1 and in combination with a 50-mg/m2 bolus of doxorubicin at days 8 and 29. Dose levels of S9788 were escalated from 8 to 96 mg/m2 according to the modified Fibonacci scheme. Plasma samples were taken predose as well as during and up to 48 h after the beginning of infusion for S9788 and doxorubicin quantitation. Fractionated urine samples were also collected for up to 24 h for S9788 determination.
The dose-limiting side effects of S9788 consisted of bradycardia, sometimes associated with faintness or dizziness. The MTD of S9788 was 96 mg/m2. No enhancement of doxorubicin toxicity was observed. One partial response (duration 140 days) was observed at 96 mg/m2 in a patient with multiple lung metastases from a refractory urothelial carcinoma. Pharmacokinetic studies were performed in 24 patients. Since the mean apparent elimination half-life of S9788 was 46 +/- 23 h and the last plasma sampling time was 48 h, only model-independent parameters were considered. Plasma levels of S9788 were below the limit of quantitation (4 x 10[-3] microM) before each drug administration. S9788 plasma levels of up to 3.7 microM could be obtained with this administration schedule. The urinary elimination of the unchanged drug was negligible, whatever the collection period. In spite of the large inter- and intraindividual variability, plasma pharmacokinetics of S9788 given as a 30-min i.v. infusion were linear up to 96 mg/m2 and were not modified by doxorubicin administration. Doxorubicin pharmacokinetic parameters did not seem to be influenced by S9788 coadministration.
The dose-limiting toxicity of S9788 consisted of bradycardia or clinical symptoms suggesting a vasovagal impact such as faintness or dizziness. The MTD of S9788 was 96 mg/m2. The pharmacokinetic parameters of doxorubicin in this study were close to those usually described and were not influenced by escalation of the S9788 dose. No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between S9788 and doxorubicin. The clinical tolerability of the combined treatment is in good agreement with the pharmacokinetic findings, since no enhancement of doxorubicin toxicity was observed.
Mercury (Hg2+) affects cell-mediated immunity, including thymulin production. Thymulin, a zinc-dependent thymic hormone synthesized by thymic epithelial cells (TECs), is involved in NK cell cytotoxicity and Th1 cytokine production (IL-2 and IFN-gamma), which in turn affect both NKT and classic NK spleen cell cytotoxicity. High doses of Hg2+ induce an inflammatory status, increased production of IL-6 and consequent Th1/Th2 imbalance as well as cell-mediated immune depression. The mechanisms by which Hg+ affects the cell-mediated immune response are still unclear. The nitric oxide (NO) pathway may be implicated. The aim of this work was to further explore its noxious role in innate and adaptive immunity and to study the possible role played by the NO pathway. Young Balb/c mice treated in vivo for 1 month with 1.0 mg HgCl2/kg b.w. showed low thymulin activity, depressed NO production (as measured by nitrite and nitrate plasma levels), impaired classic NK spleen cell cytotoxicity, decreased Th1 (IL-2 and IFN-gamma) cytokine profiles, and increased IL-6 production. In vitro, 10(-6) M of HgCl2 inhibited active thymulin kinetics, TEC proliferation, NKT cell cytotoxicity and Th1 cytokine production, whereas IL-6 increased. L-arginine restored thymulin activity, TEC proliferation, NKT cytotoxicity, cytokine profiles and nitrite and nitrate plasma levels both in vivo and in vitro. Since L-arginine is the substrate for NO production, it may compensate for the cell-mediated immune defect induced by HgCl2, via the arginine-NO-pathway. L-arginine is also able to reduce glomerular kidney IgG antibodies deposits induced by higher dose of HgCl2 administration.
Most previous studies of the induction of tumor cell apoptosis by morphine have been conducted with concentrations very much higher than those used clinically. An investigation of the ability of morphine to induce apoptosis at its clinical concentration (10(-8) M) was therefore undertaken. Cytotoxicity was tested by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, induction of early apoptosis and necrosis by fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS) analysis with Annexin V and propidium iodide (PI), activation of caspase -2, -3, -8 and -9 by cleavage of specific substrates, DNA fragmentation by agarose gel electrophoresis, radical intensity and O2- scavenging activity by ESR spectroscopy. Millimolar concentrations of morphine showed higher cytotoxicity against human tumor cell lines (HL-60, A549, MCF7) than against normal human cells (HGF, HPC, HPLF). The clinical concentration of morphine produced early apoptotic markers in HL-60 and A549 cells whereas it induced higher numbers of necrotic cells in MCF7 cells, both in a naloxone-sensitive manner. The clinical concentration of morphine failed to activate any caspase species and induced only trace amounts of internucleosomal DNA fragmentation, in contrast to cytotoxic concentrations of morphine. Morphine, with a C-3 hydroxyl group, showed higher cytotoxicity and O2- scavenging activity than codeine, in which the hydroxyl group at C-3 was replaced with a methoxy group, suggesting the involvement of a radical-mediated reaction. The present report may offer new strategies for treatment and prevention of cancer using a clinical concentration of morphine not only as an anti-nociceptive, but also as an apoptosis or necrosis inducer.
Diabetes mellitus is a well-recognized cause of male sexual dysfunction and impairments of male fertility. Streptozotocin (STZ) is used for medical treatment of neoplastic islet β-cells of pancreas and producing of animal model of diabetes mellitus type 1 that is characterized by suppression of reproductive activity due to the hyperglycaemia-induced oxidative stress and histopathological alterations in testes. Seeking for the agents that could alleviate diabetes-induced damage to reproductive system is yet the important area of inquiry. The present study was designed to evaluate whether hydrated C(60) fullerene (C(60)HyFn), which is known to be powerful bioantioxidant, eliminate testicular dysfunction induced by STZ-diabetes in rats. Wistar strain male albino rats were divided into four groups of six animals each: (1) control group, (2) C(60)HyFn-treated nondiabetic group, (3) STZ-diabetic group and (4) C(60)HyFn-treated diabetic group. Once hyperglycaemia was induced by STZ, rats in the second and fourth groups were treated with C(60)HyFn (in the form of drinking water) at the dose of 4μg/kg daily for 5 weeks. In diabetic rats, relative weights of right cauda epididymis, seminal vesicles, prostate, sperm motility and epididymal sperm concentration were significantly less than those of control group, but which were restored in the fourth group treated with C(60)HyFn (p<0.001). In hematoxylin and eosin staining, marked histopathological changes including degeneration, desquamation, disorganisation and reduction in germinal cells, interstitial oedema and congestion were evident in the testis of diabetic rats, but C(60)HyFn treatment resulted in recovery of histopathological changes and an increase in Johnsen's testicular score significantly (p<0.001). C(60)HyFn treatment restores the increased apoptosis induced by STZ-diabetes. In diabetic rats, levels of serum testosterone, testicular reduced glutathione (GSH) and alpha-tocopherol were significantly reduced and testicular lipid peroxidation level was increased (p<0.001). Nevertheless, treatment of diabetic rats with C(60)HyFn resulted in significant corrective effects on these parameters towards the control levels. C(60)HyFn, applied alone, did not exert any toxic effects in testicular tissues. Furthermore, C(60)HyFn treatment in diabetic and nondiabetic rats resulted in considerable elevations of some important polyunsaturated fatty acids. In conclusion, we have presented for the first time substantial evidence that administration of C(60)HyFn significantly reduces diabetes-induced oxidative stress and associated complications such as testicular dysfunction and spermatogenic disruption.
Trichloroacetic acid (TCA) is a common drinking water disinfection byproduct that produces a spectrum of liver effects, including hepatomegaly and liver tumors, in mice. It is also an oxidative metabolite of trichloroethylene (TCE), a solvent used in degreasing with widespread environmental exposure, which also produces hepatomegaly and liver tumors in mice. Physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling of TCE and TCA can be used to quantitatively compare the dose-responses for hepatomegaly for these two chemicals on the basis of internal TCA dose, and thereby test the hypothesis that TCA could fully explain TCE-induced hepatomegaly. Previously, using a PBPK model calibrated using kinetic data from i.v. and gavage dosing of TCA and from TCA produced from TCE, it was concluded that TCA accounted for only about one-fifth of the degree of hepatomegaly produced by TCE. However, recently available data suggest a non-linear change in internal TCA dose attributed to a dose-dependent fractional absorption of TCA administered in drinking water, the primary route of exposure of TCA both environmentally and in experimental toxicity studies. Therefore, in the present reanalysis, the PBPK modeling of TCA was updated using these data and the comparison between TCA- and TCE-induced hepatomegaly was revisited using updated internal dose predictions. With respect to updated PBPK modeling results, incorporating less than complete absorption of TCA administered in drinking water substantially improves the PBPK model fit to the newly available data, based on goodness-of-fit comparison. However, inter-experimental variability is high, with nearly complete absorption estimated for some studies. With respect to the comparison of TCA and TCA-induced hepatomegaly, this reanalysis predicts that TCA can account for roughly one-third to one-half of the effect observed with TCE - greater than previously reported, but still inconsistent with TCA being the sole active moiety for this effect. However, given uncertainty as to the precise degree of contribution of TCA and due to high inter-experimental variability in estimated fractional absorption, a more precise quantitative estimate of the relative contribution of TCA may obtained through an appropriate experiment in mice simultaneously measuring TCA kinetics and TCE- and TCA-induced hepatomegaly.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a developmental syndrome expressed along three domains: inattention, hyperactive-impulsive, and combined type. Both environmental and genetic factors contribute to the etiology of this complex disease. In the current investigation, a catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) polymorphism that codes for a high versus low enzyme COMT activity was examined using family-based methods for a role in ADHD. Using a haplotype relative risk design and a parent-to-proband allele transmission test with 48 ADHD triads, we found an association between COMT and illness (chi(2) = 4.72, p = 0.03, df = 1). In particular, the impulsive-hyperactive type of ADHD (excluding inattention) ascertained by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM IV) criteria (chi(2) = 8.34, p = 0.004, df = 1), by the Conners Teaching Rating Hyperactivity scale (Pearson chi(2) = 5.32, p = 0.02, df = 1) as well as by the Continuous Performance Test False Alarm scale (chi(2) = 2.78, p = 0.096, df = 1) were associated with the high enzyme activity COMT val allele. Similar results were obtained if genotype frequencies were compared. It should be noted that the association between the high-enzyme activity COMT val allele that increases CNS dopamine (and norepinephrine) clearance is consistent with the use of methylphenidate, an agent that increases dopamine (and norepinephrine) turnover, in the treatment of this disorder. These provisional findings suggest that newly developed COMT inhibitors such as tolcapone, applied in Parkinson's disease, might in due time be considered in the treatment of ADHD.
The cephalosporins cefamandole, EMD 29 645, and EMD 29 946 were tested for their nephrotoxicity in female albino Wistar rats (n = 120). The antibiotics were administered i.m. over a course of 5 days; dosage interval 12 h, dosages 1000, 2000, 3000, and 5000 mg/kg per day, respectively. For comparative evaluation of nephrotoxicity, the urinary excretion of tubular cells and enzymes (MDH, GOT, LDH) were taken. Additionally serum urea and urine protein (qualitatively) were determined. Furthermore the kidneys were investigated histologically. These experiments revealed the following tubulotoxic threshold doses: cefamandole: 3000 mg/kg per day, EMD 29 645: 2000 mg/kg per day, and EMD 29 946: 5000 mg/kg per day. EMD 29 645 was also found to be glomerulotoxic at higher doses.
The environmental mutagens, 1-nitropyrene, 1,3-dinitropyrene, 1,6-dinitropyrene and 1,8-dinitropyrene were evaluated for their ability to initiate skin tumors in male and female SENCAR mice. 1-Nitropyrene (greater than 99.5% purity) did not induce papilloma formation over a dose range of 0-3.0 mg/mouse after 30 weeks of promotion with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Systemic administration of 1-nitropyrene by i.p. injection over a dose range of 0-8.0 mg/mouse followed by topical treatment with TPA also did not induce papilloma formation. A mixture of dinitropyrenes (1,3-dinitropyrene, 1,6-dinitropyrene and 1,8-dinitropyrene (1:1.94:1.95] (99% purity) was dermally applied to SENCAR mice over a dose range of 0-2.0 mg/mouse and the mice subsequently promoted with TPA. A significant induction of papillomas was observed at 30 weeks (0.37-0.39 papillomas/mouse, 26-29% of the mice bearing tumors) at 2.0 mg/mouse. Comparison of this data with that obtained from the same mouse strain using diesel exhaust particulate extracts containing 1-nitropyrene and its nitrated products indicate that these nitrated polynuclear aromatics do not significantly contribute to the mouse skin tumorigenic activity of diesel exhaust particulate extracts.
The (S)-2-nitro-6-(4-(trifluoromethoxy)benzyloxy)-6,7-dihydro-5H-imidazo[2,1-b][1,3]oxazine named PA-824 (1) has demonstrated antitubercular activity in vitro and in animal models and is currently in clinical trials. We synthesized derivatives at three positions of the 4-(trifluoromethoxy)benzylamino tail, and these were tested for whole-cell activity against both replicating and nonreplicating Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). In addition, we determined their kinetic parameters as substrates of the deazaflavin-dependent nitroreductase (Ddn) from Mtb that reductively activates these pro-drugs. These studies yielded multiple compounds with 40 nM aerobic whole cell activity and 1.6 μM anaerobic whole cell activity: 10-fold improvements over both characteristics from the parent molecule. Some of these compounds exhibited enhanced solubility with acceptable stability to microsomal and in vivo metabolism. Analysis of the conformational preferences of these analogues using quantum chemistry suggests a preference for a pseudoequatorial orientation of the linker and lipophilic tail.
The pancreatic stones (Pancreatic calculi) collected from patients suffering from chronic calcific pancreatitis were studied in a view to explore the constituents involved in the calcification. The calcified stones were characterized by XRD, EPR and IR spectroscopic techniques. The detailed studies indicate that these stones consist of calcium carbonate as a major component, besides phosphates and other protein content. The presence of aragonite phases in the biomineralized stones is also discussed. The EPR spectra gave an evidence of the presence of traces of manganese in different oxidation states, which is used as one of the EPR probes in the present work. The samples were sintered at different temperatures to remove all the organic matter, and their EPR spectra have been studied to obtain detailed information regarding the changes in the symmetry of these stone samples. The X-irradiated sample was also characterized by EPR and the resonance signals are attributed to freely rotating CO(2)(-) radicals. The infrared spectrum reveals the presence of many organic bands corresponding to the protein amides.
Anticancer drugs docetaxel and vinorelbine suppress cell growth by altering microtubule assembly and activating the proapoptotic signal pathway. Vinorelbine and docetaxel have been approved for treating several advanced cancers. However, their efficacy in the management of advanced hormone-refractory prostate cancer remains to be clarified. Microtubule damage by some anticancer drugs can activate the ERK survival pathway, which conversely compromises chemotherapeutic efficacy. We analyzed the effect of ERK inhibitors PD98059 and U0126 on vinorelbine- and docetaxel-induced cell growth suppression of androgen-independent prostate cancer cells. In androgen-independent C-81 LNCaP cells, inhibition of ERK by PD98059, but not U0126, plus docetaxel resulted in enhanced growth suppression by an additional 20% compared to the sum of each agent alone (p < 0.02). The combination treatment of docetaxel plus PD98059 also increased cellular apoptosis, which was in part due to the inactivation of Bcl-2 by increasing phosphorylated Bcl-2 by more than 6-fold and Bax expression by 3-fold over each agent alone. At these dosages, docetaxel alone caused only marginal phosphorylation of Bcl-2 (10%). Docetaxel plus U0126 had only 20% added effect on Bcl-2 phosphorylation compared to docetaxel alone. Nevertheless, both U0126 and PD98059 exhibited an enhanced effect on docetaxel-induced growth suppression in PC-3 cells. No enhanced effect was observed for vinorelbine plus PD98059 or U0126. Thus, the combination therapy of docetaxel plus PD98059 may represent a new anticancer strategy, requiring lower drug dosages compared to docetaxel monotherapy. This may lower the cytotoxicity and enhance tumor suppression in vivo. This finding of a combination effect could be of potential clinical importance in treating hormone-refractory prostate cancer.
Renal dysfunction is a major complication of long-term immunosuppressive therapy with calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) in liver-transplant recipients. We undertook a randomised study to assess the safety and efficacy of CNI withdrawal and replacement by mycophenolate mofetil.
28 people who had had renal dysfunction attributable to suspected CNI toxicity after liver transplantation participated in the study. We replaced CNI with mycophenolate mofetil in a stepwise pattern in half the group (study patients); the other half (controls) stayed on CNI immunosuppression. Renal function, blood pressure, uric acid, and blood lipids were measured before and 6 months after study entry. Side-effects of medication and graft function were recorded throughout the study.
At the end of the study, mean (SD) serum creatinine had fallen by 44.4 (48.7) micromol/L in study patients compared with 3.1 (14.3) micromol/L in controls; a mean difference of 41.3 micromol/L (95% CI 12.4-70.2). Moreover, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and serum uric acid decreased significantly in the study group but not in the control group (mean [95% CI] between group differences 10.8 mm Hg [3.0-18.6], 5.0 mm Hg [0.9-9.2], and 83.1 micromol/L [12.7-153.6], respectively). There were no changes in cholesterol or triglyceride concentrations in either group. Side-effects were reported by eight of the study patients. Three reversible episodes of acute graft rejection occurred in study patients during mycophenolate mofetil monotherapy, whereas none occurred in the control group.
Substitution of CNI by mycophenolate mofetil can improve renal function, blood pressure, and uric acid concentration of liver-transplant patients, but there is an increased rejection risk with mycophenolate mofetil monotherapy.
Autism is a highly heritable neurodevelopmental disorder whose underlying genetic causes have yet to be identified. To date, there have been eight genome screens for autism, two of which identified a putative susceptibility locus on chromosome 16p. In the present study, 10 positional candidate genes that map to 16p11-13 were examined for coding variants: A2BP1, ABAT, BFAR, CREBBP, EMP2, GRIN2A, MRTF-B, SSTR5, TBX6, and UBN1. Screening of all coding and regulatory regions by denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography identified seven nonsynonymous changes. Five of these mutations were found to cosegregate with autism, but the mutations are not predicted to have deleterious effects on protein structure and are unlikely to represent significant etiological variants. Selected variants from candidate genes were genotyped in the entire International Molecular Genetics Study of Autism Consortium collection of 239 multiplex families and were tested for association with autism by use of the pedigree disequilibrium test. Additionally, genotype frequencies were compared between 239 unrelated affected individuals and 192 controls. Patterns of linkage disequilibrium were investigated, and the transmission of haplotypes across candidate genes was tested for association. Evidence of single-marker association was found for variants in ABAT, CREBBP, and GRIN2A. Within these genes, 12 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were subsequently genotyped in 91 autism trios (one affected individual and two unaffected parents), and the association was replicated within GRIN2A (Fisher's exact test, P<.0001). Logistic regression analysis of SNP data across GRIN2A and ABAT showed a trend toward haplotypic differences between cases and controls.
We tested the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended treatment for mucosal leishmaniasis in 16 Panamanians with disease due to Leishmania braziliensis panamensis. Disease was mild in this population because it was limited to the nasal mucosa and only one patient had septal perforation. The patients were administered 20 mg antimony (in the form of Pentostam) per kg intravenously each day for 28 days. Ten patients completed therapy and were cured at 12 month follow-up. Three patients completed therapy, healed their lesions, but relapsed at the six or 12 month follow-up. Three patients terminated therapy prematurely because of liver enzyme elevations in conjunction with either EKG abnormalities or musculoskeletal complaints; none of these patients were healed. This study indicates that in patients with mild mucosal leishmaniasis, the WHO regimen is curative in 77% patients who complete treatment and in 63% of all patients.
We report a 25-year-old Japanese man with ventricular fibrillation associated with severe hypokalemia. He developed arm and leg paralysis. He had received 2 g of methylprednisolone because thoracic epidural hematoma had been suspected in another hospital. His serum potassium was 0.8 mEq/l on arrival at our hospital. Half an hour after arrival ventricular fibrillation occurred. Treatment with electric defibrillation 8 times was successful. Afterward Graves' disease was diagnosed, therefore, his clinical symptom was diagnosed as thyrotoxic periodic paralysis. We considered that the unusual condition of hyperthyroid-related hypokalemia worsened by steroid therapy induced the ventricular fibrillation.
We tested the effect of two different concentrations (150μg/l and 0.15μg/l) of mycotoxin zearalenone (ZEA) on the reproductive parameters and expression of testicular genes in male mice. In adult males, no reduction of body or reproductive organ weight was observed, and the seminiferous tubules were morphologically normal with ongoing spermatogenesis. However, we found decreased sperm concentration, increase of morphologically abnormal spermatozoa and increased binding of apoptotic marker annexin V. This study was also focused on the evaluation of gene expression profiles of 28 genes playing important roles during the processes occurring in the testicular tissue. We detected changes in the expression of genes important for proper spermatogenesis. Surprisingly, we observed a stronger effect after exposure to the lower dose of ZEA.
Keloids are pathological scars and, despite numerous available treatment modalities, continue to plague physicians and patients.
Identification of molecular mediators that contribute to this fibrotic phenotype.
Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, MALDI-TOF, Mascot online database searching algorithm and Melanie 5 gel analysis software were employed for comparative proteomic analysis between normal skin (NS) and keloid scar (KS) tissue extracts.
Seventy-nine protein spots corresponding to 23 and 32 differentially expressed proteins were identified in NS and KS, respectively. Isoforms of heat shock proteins, gelsolin, carbonic anhydrase and notably keratin 10 were strongly expressed in NS along with manganese superoxide dismutase, immune components, antitrypsin, prostatic binding protein and crystalline. Various classes of proteins were found either to be present or to be upregulated in keloid tissue: (i) inflammatory/differentiated keratinocyte markers: S100 proteins, peroxiredoxin I; (ii) wound healing proteins: gelsolin-like capping protein; (iii) fibrogenetic proteins: mast cell β-tryptase, macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF); (iv) antifibrotic proteins: asporin; (v) tumour suppressor proteins: stratifin, galectin-1, maspin; and (vi) antiangiogenic proteins: pigment epithelium-derived factor. Significant increases in expression of asporin, stratifin, galectin-1 and MIF were observed by Western blot analysis in KS.
This work has identified differentially expressed proteins specific to KS tissue extracts which can potentially be used as specific targets for therapeutic intervention.
To determine the toxicity and efficacy of an outpatient regimen of paclitaxel plus carboplatin in patients with advanced carcinoma of the urothelium.
Patients received paclitaxel 150 to 225 mg/m2 over 3 hours followed by carboplatin (targeted area under the concentration-time curve [AUC], 6 mg/mL x min) every 3 weeks. During phase I accrual, 16 patients were treated; 17 additional patients were enrolled at the phase II dose. The median age was 70 years (range, 47 to 82). The median serum creatinine concentration was 1.1 mg/dL (range, 0.7 to 2.7) and the median estimated creatinine clearance was 52 mL/min (range, 24 to 110).
During phase I accrual, the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of the regimen was not defined. Phase II accrual occurred at the paclitaxel 225 mg/m2 dose level. A total of 156 cycles were administered. The median number of cycles received was five (range, one to eight). Sensorimotor neuropathy was the principal nonhematologic toxicity. Significant granulocytopenia was common, but significant thrombocytopenia was not. Objective responses were demonstrated at all dose levels. At the phase II dose (paclitaxel 225 mg/m2 followed by carboplatin at AUC 6 mg/mL x min), the objective response rate was 50% (95% confidence interval [CI], 28% to 72%).
Paclitaxel plus carboplatin is an active and tolerable outpatient treatment for patients with advanced carcinoma of the urothelium. The ability to administer this combination over multiple cycles even to patients with advanced age and abnormal renal function makes it well suited for this patient population. Confirmatory trials of this regimen are ongoing.
Spinal anesthesia is increasingly used in adolescents. However, the anesthesia provided by bupivacaine alone may be too short for the planned surgery. The addition of clonidine 2 microg/kg to bupivacaine provides a prolonged anesthetic action but may be associated with hypotension. In the present study, we investigated the efficacy and safety of intrathecal clonidine 1 mug/kg in adjunction to bupivacaine in spinal anesthesia in adolescents.
Eighty-three adolescents, 51 males, aged 10-15 yr, scheduled for orthopedic surgery were enrolled in this placebo-controlled, randomized study. Patients were given spinal anesthesia either with plain 0.5% isobaric bupivacaine 0.2-0.4 mg/kg or bupivacaine with clonidine 1 microg/kg. The duration of sensory block was the primary outcome measure.
Clonidine prolonged the duration of both the sensory and motor block. The time to regression of sensory block by two dermatomes was 136 (mean) (sd, 56) min in the adolescents with clonidine versus 107 min (sd, 42) in the controls (95% CI for diff: 5-53 min, P = 0.02). The time to full recovery of motor block was 251 min (sd, 79) in the adolescents with clonidine versus 181 min (sd, 59) in the controls (95% CI: 39-103 min, P = 0.001). Time to the first dose of rescue analgesia was longer in the adolescents with clonidine, 461 min (sd, 147) versus 330 min (sd, 138) in the controls (95% CI: 53-207 min, P = 0.01). There was no difference in the frequency of hypotension or bradycardia between the groups.
In adolescents, clonidine 1 microg/kg prolonged the duration of sensory block achieved with bupivacaine by 30 min and postoperative analgesia by 120 min without severe adverse events.
The increasingly widespread use of cocaine in the United States has been accompanied and perhaps exacerbated by the misconception that the drug is not associated with serious medical complications. In particular, the potential for cocaine to precipitate life-threatening cardiac events needs to be reemphasized. We report the clinical and pathological findings in seven people in whom nonintravenous "recreational" use of cocaine was temporally related to acute myocardial infarction, ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation, myocarditis, sudden death, or a combination of these events. We also review data on 19 previously reported cases of cocaine-related cardiovascular disorders. Analysis of all 26 patients indicated the following findings: the cardiac consequences of cocaine abuse are not unique to parenteral use of the drug, since nearly all the patients took the drug intranasally; underlying heart disease is not a prerequisite for cocaine-related cardiac disorders; seizure activity, a well-documented noncardiac complication of cocaine abuse, is neither a prerequisite for, nor an accompanying feature of, cardiac toxicity of cocaine; and the cardiac consequences of cocaine are not limited to massive doses of the drug. Although the pathogenesis of cardiac toxicity of cocaine remains incompletely defined, available circumstantial evidence suggests that cocaine has medical consequences that are equal in importance to its well-documented psychosocial consequences.
