Mice given five repeated administrations of morphine (10 mg/kg sc) at 3 day intervals in a round tilting-type activity cage (20 cm in diameter) or round spaces 15-30 cm in diameter with fixed floor showed almost the same level of ambulatory sensitization to morphine. Whereas, mice given morphine in the same schedule in spaces 4 and 12 cm, but not 6 and 9 cm, in diameter demonstrated a partial increase in the sensitivity to morphine. Furthermore, mice given morphine five times in a transparent cage (20W x 25L x 15H cm) with woodchip bedding, that was the same as the home cage, showed a weak and strong ambulatory sensitization when they were placed in group of ten and singly, respectively, for 3 h after each morphine administration. Repeated administrations of saline to mice in the space 4 cm in diameter resulted in increased sensitivity to morphine. However, the pretreatment with saline in the other environments (activity cage, spaces 6-30 cm in diameter with fixed floor, and home cage-like cage in which mice were placed singly or in group of ten) did not change the sensitivity to morphine. These results suggest that repeated experience of pharmacological effect of morphine and the resultant ambulation is one of the most important factors for induction of strong ambulatory sensitization to morphine in mice. It is estimated that a space 15 cm in diameter, which corresponds to 2-2.5 times as long as the body length without tail is a minimum requirement for induction of strong ambulatory sensitization to morphine. In contrast, even though mice are placed in a sufficient space for ambulation, an interference of ambulation by the other mice acts to inhibit the induction of ambulatory sensitization. It is also suggested that a strong stress caused by restraint is responsible for significant increase in sensitivity to morphine.
This study employed the pilocarpine model of epilepsy to determine the relative systemic anticonvulsant potencies of five different D-2 agonists in the mouse, and to investigate the site of anticonvulsant action of LY 171555 in the rat's brain following intracerebral microinjection. Control mice pretreated with saline developed motor seizures when challenged with pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, 11/13 convulsed). D-2 agonists protected mice against pilocarpine-induced seizures in the rank order of potency PHNO greater than pergolide greater than greater than lisuride = LY 171555 much greater than RU 24213, with ED50 values ranging from 0.17 mg/kg for PHNO to greater than 4.5 mg/kg for RU 24213. The response to LY 171555 was abolished by the D-2 blocker metoclopramide (1.25 mg/kg), but not by the D-1 antagonist SCH 23390 (0.25 mg/kg). All D-2 agonists induced head-down sniffing and forward locomotion, consistent with central D-2 activation. LY 171555 (ED50 0.19 mg/kg), but not RU 24213 (ED50 greater than 4.5 mg/kg), was similarly efficacious in the rat. When injected into both hemispheres of the conscious rat via indwelling cannulae, intrastriatal saline failed to afford protection against the convulsant action of pilocarpine (600 mg/kg, 13/15 convulsed), whereas LY 171555 did (1 microgram, 1/12 convulsed). Intrastriatal RU 24213 (1 microgram per side) was without effect (7/10 convulsed). Similarly, no protection resulted when saline (15/16 convulsed) or LY 171555 (1 microgram, 17/23 convulsed) were delivered into both nigras. It is concluded that in this model of limbic seizures in the mouse and rat, D-2 agonists exert a powerful anticonvulsant effect which is mediated by D-2 receptors in the striatum, but not by D-2 receptors in the substantia nigra.
Two naturally occurring tropane alkaloids, anisodamine and scopolamine, structurally dissimilar in one OH group, are well established as muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) antagonists in clinic and basic research. However, experimental evidence for central effects of anisodamine is limited and conflicting compared with that of scopolamine. In the present study, Morris water maze test, long-term potentiation (LTP) recording and receptor radioligand binding assays were used to explore the disparity in neuropsychopharmacological influences of anisodamine versus scopolamine and possible mechanisms. Anisodamine, at 10-40-fold higher doses than those of scopolamine, did not produce any spatial cognitive deficits as scopolamine, but tended to improve cognition at the repeated high doses. LTP in vivo was then adopted to predict BBB permeability of the muscarinic antagonists following systemic drug administration. Contrary to scopolamine, anisodamine did not influence the formation of LTP in the CA(1) region of rat hippocampus at 40-fold higher dose than that of scopolamine. Additionally, receptor radioligand binding assays (RRLBA) revealed that the binding affinity of anisodamine to mice brain mAChR was much lower than that of scopolamine. The findings suggested that anisodamine did not impair cognition nor depress LTP primarily due to its poor BBB permeability. This work enlarged knowledge of structure-activity relationship among tropane alkaloids, meanwhile providing evidence for more reasonable drug prescription in clinic.
The combination of irinotecan (CPT-11) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is currently used in the treatment of advanced colorectal carcinoma. When compared to both agents alone, CPT-11 followed by 5-FU treatment demonstrated a synergistic effect. This observation can be related to increased in apoptosis induction after caspase activation. Several studies have demonstrated that changes in mitochondrial membrane potential occur earlier in apoptosis. In this study, we verified whether the collapse in mitochondrial membrane and the activation of caspases is responsible for increased apoptosis observed with CPT-11/5-FU treatment. Thus, HT-29 and SNU-C4 human colon carcinoma cell lines were exposed for 24 h to each drug alone, and to various combinations and treatment sequences, and assessed for colony formation, changes in the mitochondrial membrane potential, and the activities of caspase-3, -8, and -9. The CPT-11/5-FU treatment induced apoptosis in both cell lines; however, the most pronounced effect was observed in HT-29 cells. In these cells, both caspase-3 and -9 were involved in the activation of apoptosis after CPT-11/5-FU treatment. Moreover, in these cells, a reduction of 50% in mitochondrial membrane potential was observed with this treatment. On the other hand, in the SNU-C4 cell line in addition to caspase-3 and-9, caspase-8 seems to be important to apoptosis after CPT-11/5-FU treatment. Furthermore, in this cell line we did not observe alterations in mitochondrial membrane potential. In spite of the differences among the cell lines, these results indicated that the increase in apoptosis in HT-29 cells observed with CPT-11 followed by 5-FU treatment could be explained by a disruption in mitochondria membrane potential that induced caspases activation.
The tolerance of ketoprofen (2-(3-benzoylphenyl)-propionic acid) was studied in sixteen patients with rheumatoid arthritis during a treatment period up to seven months. The drug was well tolerated with only a few minor side-effects and showed a clear anti-rheumatie effect with a dose of 150 mg/day. This effect may equal that of 4.0 g/day of acetylsalicylic acid or even exceed that, and may be somewhat smaller than that of 600 mg/day of phenylbutazone.
Few double-blind trials have examined the efficacy of a combination of a mood stabiliser and an atypical antipsychotic in acute mania.
To determine the efficacy of risperidone in combination with a mood stabiliser in acute mania.
Patients taking a mood stabiliser were randomised to 3 weeks' treatment with risperidone (n=75) or placebo (n=76).
Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) scores improved rapidly with significantly greater reductions at week 1 in the risperidone group compared with the placebo group. At end-point YMRS scores decreased by 14.5 and 10.3 points in the risperidone and placebo groups, respectively. Significant improvements v. placebo (P<0.05) were noted in the risperidone group on several other clinically meaningful measures. Additionally, a post hoc analysis excluding carbamazepine-treated patients (plasma concentrations of risperidone active moiety were 40% lower in this group) revealed significantly greater reductions (P=0.047) in YMRS scores in the risperidone group than in the placebo group. Incidence of adverse events was similar in both groups.
Risperidone is superior to placebo when used in combination with lithium or divalproex in acute mania.
Through exomic sequencing of 32 intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas, we discovered frequent inactivating mutations in multiple chromatin-remodeling genes (including BAP1, ARID1A and PBRM1), and mutation in one of these genes occurred in almost half of the carcinomas sequenced. We also identified frequent mutations at previously reported hotspots in the IDH1 and IDH2 genes encoding metabolic enzymes in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas. In contrast, TP53 was the most frequently altered gene in a series of nine gallbladder carcinomas. These discoveries highlight the key role of dysregulated chromatin remodeling in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas.
We report 3 rare cases of Ménière's disease in children. In Case 1 and 3, vertigo, hearing loss and tinnitus recovered soon after medical therapy. In Case 2, however, vertigo recurred and the hearing level on the right side markedly deteriorated. The equal-loudness contours on three-dimensional audiogram showed that right-sided aggravated hearing loss fluctuated for 4 years at middle-and low-frequencies despite medication. Finally intratympanic injection of gentamicin sulfate was performed. The patient has had no definitive spell of vertigo after gentamicin therapy. At our department, the incidence of Ménière's disease in pediatric patients with vertigo was 2.9%.
The primary aim of this double-blind, parallel group trial was to compare incidence of newly occurring vasodilatory adverse events in elderly patients treated with recommended once-daily doses of felodipine extended release (ER) or amlodipine. A total of 535 patients over 65 years old with a sitting diastolic blood pressure of 90-115 mmHg and/or systolic blood pressure 160-220 mmHg, were recruited at 46 centres worldwide. Patients were randomised to felodipine ER 2.5 mg or amlodipine 5 mg. If blood pressure was > 160/90 mmHg after three or six weeks, felodipine ER was increased to 5 and 10 mg and amlodipine to 10 mg. After nine weeks, average doses of felodipine ER and amlodipine were 5.5 mg and 7.3 mg, respectively. Newly occurring vasodilatory adverse events were reported by 32% of felodipine ER patients and 43% of amlodipine patients (p = 0.007). Both treatments effectively reduced blood pressure 24 hours post-dose. Using a low starting dose and individual titration, felodipine ER achieves good control of blood pressure with few vasodilatory side-effects.
Newly developed alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists including naftopidil are free from the "prazosin-like" side effect of orthostatic hypotension and associated symptoms. We investigated the mechanism for the differential effects of naftopidil and prazosin on the development of postural hypotension, with special attention on their selectivity for the alpha1-adrenoceptor subtype. We observed that head-up tilt caused a similar extent of drop in mean arterial pressure in control, naftopidil (1 mg/kg)- or prazosin (10 microg/kg)-treated rats; however, the tilt-induced postural hypotension was recovered within 2 min in the naftopidil-treated group, but not in the prazosin-treated group. Comparing an inhibitory effect on noradrenaline-induced contraction in the rat aorta and portal vein, we found that naftopidil was sixfold less potent in the portal vein, while prazosin showed similar potency in both tissues. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the expression of alpha1d-adrenoceptor mRNA predominated in the aorta, while that of alpha1b-adrenoceptor mRNA predominated in the portal vein. Using cloned rat alpha1-adrenoceptor subtypes, we found that naftopidil was selective for the alpha1d-subtype with approximately ninefold higher affinity than at the other subtypes. These results show that the pharmacological character of naftopidil, combined with the differential expression of the alpha1-adrenoceptor subtype in the artery and the vein, may partly explain the differential effect of naftopidil and prazosin on head-up tilt-induced hemodynamic responses.
While undergoing urinary bladder catheterization using a lidocaine lubricant, a seven year old boy developed an anaphylactic reaction. Diagnosis of contact sensitization of type I variety following topical application of lidocaine was confirmed by appropriate testing.
This study evaluates the efficacy of the new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist nisoldipine extended-release (ER) compared to amlodipine on ambulatory and clinic blood pressures (BP) and heart rates in African American patients with hypertension.
This prospective, double-blind trial randomized 192 patients with office diastolic BP of 95 to 114 mm Hg to receive either nisoldipine (20 to 60 mg once daily) or amlodipine (5 to 10 mg once daily) for 12 weeks in a titration-to-effect design. Using ambulatory monitoring, efficacy was assessed by measuring change from baseline in systolic and diastolic BP and heart rate during three time intervals: 24-h mean period, awake, and sleep. In addition, a subanalysis was performed to evaluate patients whose nocturnal decline in BP was elevated (nondippers) versus those whose BP declined by 10% or more (dippers).
Substantial and significant mean changes from baseline in 24-h BP were observed for patients treated with nisoldipine ER (-23/-16 +/- 3/2 mm Hg) and amlodipine (-20/15 +/- 3/2 mm Hg) (between-group comparisons, P =.07 for systolic BP; P =.50 for diastolic BP). Significant and similar reductions also were observed for clinic, awake, and sleep BP. Reductions in BP in the nondippers was substantially greater than in patients with a dipper profile. Neither agent had a significant effect on ambulatory heart rate. Adverse events were mild and infrequent (headache, edema, and dizziness at rates of 4% to 15%), and similar for both agents.
Nisoldipine ER was as effective as amlodipine in reducing 24-h BP in African-American patients with hypertension, with a similar adverse effect profile. Thus, this new therapy for delivery of a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker is a useful antihypertensive strategy for African-American patients with hypertension.
Development of tolerance to the nicotine-induced convulsions in rats was examined. Acute intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of nicotine (2.5, 3.75 and 5 mg/kg) produced convulsions in a dose-dependent manner. Mecamylamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) antagonized the convulsions, but hexamethonium (5 mg/kg, i.p.) did not modify them. Daily nicotine administration (2.5, 3.75 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.) once a day for 6 days developed tolerance to the convulsions induced by nicotine. After the daily administrations of nicotine for 6 days, the effects of a challenge administration of nicotine (2 mg/kg) on the nicotine-induced convulsions were tested on the 7th-day. Further tolerances were also developed by the 7th-day challenge administration. After the 7th-day test, nicotine levels of the brain and blood 15 min after the challenge injection were measured. With nicotine (5 mg/kg once a day)-treatment, nicotine levels of all the brain regions were increased. In contrast, a similar challenge injection had no effect on blood nicotine level. These results indicate that the development of tolerance to the nicotine-induced convulsions is produced relatively earlier and day by day by daily administrations to rats, which is closely related with the increase in brain nicotine level.
This 2-year comparative study of EchoCG data dynamics included 230 CHD patients after primary non-Q-wave myocardial infarction of whom 76 were treated with A CE inhibitor perindopril throughout the study period (group 1) and 72 with perindopril and carvedilol (non-selective alpha-1, beta-1,2 adrenergic receptor blocker) (group 2). The control group was comprised of 82 patients that could not use either medicine for a variety of reasons. These patients developed signs of post-infarction left ventricular remodeling (enhanced MS and LVMM index, left ventricular spherization, cavity enlargement, systolic and diastolic LF dysfunction). Combined therapy arrested the remodeling process within 12 months after onset, reduced systolic MS, and promoted the tendency toward restoration of the LV geometric shape, size, diastolic and systolic function.
Dopamine deficiency associated with Parkinson's disease (PD) results in numerous changes in striatal transmitter function and neuron morphology. Specifically, there is marked atrophy of dendrites and dendritic spines on striatal medium spiny neurons (MSN), primary targets of inputs from nigral dopamine and cortical glutamate neurons, in advanced PD and rodent models of severe dopamine depletion. Dendritic spine loss occurs via dysregulation of intraspine Cav1.3 L-type Ca(2+)channels and can be prevented, in animal models, by administration of the calcium channel antagonist, nimodipine. The impact of MSN dendritic spine loss in the parkinsonian striatum on dopamine neuron graft therapy remains unexamined. Using unilaterally parkinsonian Sprague-Dawley rats, we tested the hypothesis that MSN dendritic spine preservation through administration of nimodipine would result in improved therapeutic benefit and diminished graft-induced behavioral abnormalities in rats grafted with embryonic ventral midbrain cells. Analysis of rotational asymmetry and spontaneous forelimb use in the cylinder task found no significant effect of dendritic spine preservation in grafted rats. However, analyses of vibrissae-induced forelimb use, levodopa-induced dyskinesias and graft-induced dyskinesias showed significant improvement in rats with dopamine grafts associated with preserved striatal dendritic spine density. Nimodipine treatment in this model did not impact dopamine graft survival but allowed for increased graft reinnervation of striatum. Taken together, these results demonstrate that even with grafting suboptimal numbers of cells, maintaining normal spine density on target MSNs results in overall superior behavioral efficacy of dopamine grafts.
Seventy percent of breast cancers express estrogen receptor (ER), and most of these are sensitive to ER inhibition. However, many such tumors for unknown reasons become refractory to inhibition of estrogen action in the metastatic setting. We conducted a comprehensive genetic analysis of two independent cohorts of metastatic ER-positive breast tumors and identified mutations in ESR1 affecting the ligand-binding domain (LBD) in 14 of 80 cases. These included highly recurrent mutations encoding p.Tyr537Ser, p.Tyr537Asn and p.Asp538Gly alterations. Molecular dynamics simulations suggest that the structures of the Tyr537Ser and Asp538Gly mutants involve hydrogen bonding of the mutant amino acids with Asp351, thus favoring the agonist conformation of the receptor. Consistent with this model, mutant receptors drive ER-dependent transcription and proliferation in the absence of hormone and reduce the efficacy of ER antagonists. These data implicate LBD-mutant forms of ER in mediating clinical resistance to hormonal therapy and suggest that more potent ER antagonists may be of substantial therapeutic benefit.
Limited space can make rescuer position changes difficult during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Over-the-head (OTH) CPR enables one rescuer to deliver chest compressions and ventilations without changing position. The aim of the present study was to evaluate quality of OTH versus standard CPR with bag-valve-mask (BVM) ventilation in a manikin model during advanced life support (ALS).
In a randomised double-crossover trial, eight paramedic students performed ALS using both OTH and standard CPR with BVM. Initial rhythm was asystole, converting to ventricular fibrillation after atropine, adrenaline, and CPR. Data collection was stopped after atropine and epinephrine had been given. Data are presented as means +/- SD or median with 25% and 75% percentile.
There were no significant differences in ventilation or compression variables or any time factors with median total hands off times of 50% versus 52% for OTH and standard CPR respectively.
OTH CPR is an alternative method during CPR.
Breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer in women, and over two-thirds of cases express estrogen receptor-α (ER-α, encoded by ESR1). Through a prospective clinical sequencing program for advanced cancers, we enrolled 11 patients with ER-positive metastatic breast cancer. Whole-exome and transcriptome analysis showed that six cases harbored mutations of ESR1 affecting its ligand-binding domain (LBD), all of whom had been treated with anti-estrogens and estrogen deprivation therapies. A survey of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) identified four endometrial cancers with similar mutations of ESR1. The five new LBD-localized ESR1 mutations identified here (encoding p.Leu536Gln, p.Tyr537Ser, p.Tyr537Cys, p.Tyr537Asn and p.Asp538Gly) were shown to result in constitutive activity and continued responsiveness to anti-estrogen therapies in vitro. Taken together, these studies suggest that activating mutations in ESR1 are a key mechanism in acquired endocrine resistance in breast cancer therapy.
The diagnosed incidence of small intestine neuroendocrine tumors (SI-NETs) is increasing, and the underlying genomic mechanisms have not yet been defined. Using exome- and genome-sequence analysis of SI-NETs, we identified recurrent somatic mutations and deletions in CDKN1B, the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor gene, which encodes p27. We observed frameshift mutations of CDKN1B in 14 of 180 SI-NETs, and we detected hemizygous deletions encompassing CDKN1B in 7 out of 50 SI-NETs, nominating p27 as a tumor suppressor and implicating cell cycle dysregulation in the etiology of SI-NETs.
Groups of F344 rats were administered biweekly intraperitoneal injections of N-hydroxy-3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (N-OH-DMAB) at a dose of 5, 10 or 20 mg/kg body weight or DMAB, the parent compound, at a dose of 25 mg/kg body weight, for a total of 10 times. Prostate carcinomas in the ventral lobe developed in a N-OH-DMAB dose-dependent manner (0, 17.6 and 66.7%, respectively) with limited tumor yields in other organs. Although intraperitoneal administration of DMAB was similarly found to induce prostate tumors, it also caused severe chemical peritonitis, which resulted in a high mortality. The present data confirmed that intraperitoneal administration of N-OH-DMAB provides a relatively specific induction method for models of prostate carcinogenesis.
This report describes atypical absence seizures induced by phenobarbital (PB) in a patient with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes. An 11-year-old girl had nocturnal motor seizures, beginning at the age of 7 years. Interictal EEG displayed centrotemporal sharp waves in the left and right sides alternatively, which increased significantly in frequency during sleep. She was given a diagnosis of benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spike and was treated with valproic acid (VPA), which controlled her seizures for 3 years. She experienced nocturnal Rolandic seizures again, at the age of 10 years 2 months, 10 years 10 months in spite of the regular medication, and PB 60 mg daily was added to the VPA. Her parents noted de novo a few seconds of unresponsive fits 7 days after PB administration. Ictal EEG of the fits revealed diffuse irregular spike and wave bursts (1-4 seconds). VPA and PB in her blood was within the therapeutic ranges. After discontinuing PB, the atypical absence seizures immediately disappeared. Phenobarbital should be added to the list of drugs that potentially provoke de novo seizures.
Valproate is an anticonvulsive drug whose mechanism of action is based on GABAergic systems. One of the infrequent adverse effects of valproate is choreiform movements. In our study, we report a patient having head trauma history with partial and secondary generalized seizures taking 1500 mg/day valproate. During the second month of the therapy, generalized chorea was observed. Since other aetiologic causes of chorea were excluded, acutely occurring chorea in the patient was thought to be related with valproate usage because of persistence of choreiform movements for days without any fluctuation. Valproate was stopped slowly and lamotrigine was added at a dose of 400 mg/day. Within a two-month period after cessation of the valproate, choreiform movements had disappeared. We thought that the history of head trauma and another antiepileptic drug usage were the risk factors for the occurrence of valproate-induced choreiform movements.
BALB/c female mice were administered several compounds, including 4-ethylsulfonylnaphthalene-1-sulfonamide, acetazolamide, and oxamide, in the diet for six weeks. Fresh urine samples were analyzed three times per week for pH, osmolality, micro-crystals, and protein; and a histopathological evaluation was made of the urothelium at the end of the six weeks test. Incidences of hyperplasia, nodular hyperplasia, vacuolization, ulceration and acute inflammation of the bladder urothelium appeared to be related to the osmolality of the urine and the micro-crystalluria experienced by the mice. Correlation coefficients between lesions and urinary osmolality or crystals were -0.69 (p less than 0.0001) and 0.31 (p less than 0.03), respectively, at the 5% significance level.
Two patients developed acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) following treatment with mezlocillin sodium. Diagnosis was made by renal biopsy. Gallium 67 citrate scanning was abnormal in both. All patients were receiving multiple-drug therapy, but AIN has either not been described with the other drugs, or the temporal relationship between the AIN and termination of other drug therapy makes a causative relationship unlikely. All were infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. A role for the infecting organism or drug synergism in contributing to the renal disease cannot be excluded.
Vascular calcification (VC) is highly associated with increased morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease. Paracrine/autocrine factors such as vasoactive peptides are involved in VC development. Here, we investigated the expression of the novel peptide intermedin (IMD) in the vasculature, tested its ability to prevent VC in vivo and in vitro, and examined the mechanism involved.
Rat VC was induced by administration of vitamin D3 plus nicotine (VDN). IMD (100 ng kg(-1) h(-1)) was systemically administered by a mini-osmotic pump. VDN-treated rat aortas showed lower IMD content and increased expression of its receptors, along with increased vascular calcium deposition and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity. Low IMD levels were accompanied by increased calcium deposition in human atherosclerotic plaques. In vivo administration of IMD greatly reduced vascular calcium deposition and ALP activity in VDN-treated rats when compared with vehicle treatment, which was further confirmed in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells. Concurrently, the loss of smooth-muscle lineage markers and matrix gamma-carboxyglutamic acid (Gla) protein (cMGP) in aortas was ameliorated by administering IMD to rats with VC, and the increased phosphor-Smad(1/5/8) and core binding factor alpha-1 levels in calcified vasculature were also reduced. However, the inhibitory effects of IMD on VC were eliminated upon pre-treatment with warfarin or small interfering RNA to reduce cMGP.
Reduced endogenous IMD levels are associated with increased mineralization in vivo, and administration of IMD inhibits VC development by increasing cMGP levels. IMD may be an endogenous vasoprotective factor for VC.
A 69 year old woman was treated with sotalol (320 mg daily) for intermittent atrial fibrillation. Sotalol was initially well tolerated and reversion to sinus rhythm with sinus bradycardia occurred 4 weeks after initiation of therapy. Shortly thereafter, the patient developed recurrent syncope due to torsade de pointes. This was treated successfully with intravenous magnesium infusion and withdrawal of sotalol. Subsequently, the atrial fibrillation was adequately managed using amiodarone, with no recurrence of torsade de pointes. Development of bradycardia associated with reversion to sinus rhythm represents a potential cause of 'late' pro-arrhythmic effects of sotalol.
