We compared the antithrombotic and hemorrhagic effects of naturally existing human urinary soluble thrombomodulin (MR-33) with those of low molecular weight heparin (LMW-heparin) in rats. In in vitro experiments, MR-33 prolonged APTT in a dose-dependent fashion; its effect in this respect was as potent as that of LMW-heparin, but it was less potent than unfractionated heparin (UF-heparin). MR-33 was effective on endotoxin- or thromboplastin-induced disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) in rats. In both DIC models, infusion of MR-33 improved hematological abnormalities compatible with DIC in a dose-dependent, fashion without excessive prolongation effect on APTT. Although LMW-heparin and UF-heparin also improved both DIC models, excessive prolongation of APTT was observed at high doses. It is well-known that the excessive prolongation of APTT with antithrombotic drugs like heparins is an index for hemorrhage, which is a major side effect in the treatment of DIC. We therefore further compared the antithrombotic (Benefit: dose required for 50% inhibition of fibrinogen decrease: ED50) and hemorrhagic (Risk: minimum dose required for significant prolongation of bleeding time) effects of MR-33 and LMW-heparin in the thromboplastin-induced DIC model. As a result, Benefit-Risk ratio was 1:27 for MR-33 and 1:3 for LMW-heparin. These results indicate that MR-33 may be a clinically useful antithrombotic agent with reduced risk for hemorrhage compared with LMW-heparin.
The aim of this study was to describe the clinical experience with daptomycin in the treatment of bacteremia. Patients with a diagnosis of catheter-related or non-catheter-related bacteremia and no other concurrent infection were identified from the Cubicin Outcomes Registry and Experience (CORE) 2004. Treatment success was determined by investigators using protocol criteria and defined as cure or improvement. Of 168 patients with bacteremia, 126 were clinically evaluable. Of those, 52 (41%) patients were aged > or =66 years, 54 (43%) received daptomycin in an intensive care unit, and 25 (20%) had chronic renal failure. The most common pathogens isolated were methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (33%), vancomycin-resistant enterococci (30%), and coagulase-negative staphylococci (30%). Of 126 patients, 86% received daptomycin after previous antibiotic therapy and most (69%) received concomitant antibiotics with daptomycin. Daptomycin therapy was started at a median dose of 4.0 mg/kg (range, 2.5 to 9.2 mg/kg). Daptomycin therapy had an overall clinical success rate of 89%. Clinical success was independent of baseline renal function, daptomycin dose, pathogen, first-line use, or concomitant antibiotic therapy. These results support the findings of a recent study in which daptomycin was demonstrated to be an effective option in the treatment of S aureus bacteremia. Data in the current study provide insight into the clinical experience using daptomycin to treat bacteremia caused by other gram-positive pathogens. Given the limitations of retrospective studies and lack of follow-up data, additional studies are needed to make definitive evaluations with these pathogens.
Daptomycin (Cubicin; Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Lexington, MA) is a first-in-its-class cyclic lipopeptide approved for the treatment of patients with complicated skin and skin-structure infections due to susceptible gram-positive pathogens and recently approved for Staphylococcus aureus bloodstream infections including right-sided infective endocarditis. The clinical experience of patients registered in the Cubicin Outcomes Registry and Experience (CORE) 2004 database with daptomycin-treated infective endocarditis is described. The registry data were collected retrospectively by trained investigators to document real-world clinical experience. Study limitations included uncontrolled diagnostic criteria, noncomparative data, and lack of follow-up assessments. A total of 49 patients had a diagnosis of endocarditis: 38 with left-sided or both left-sided and right-sided endocarditis, and 11 with right-sided endocarditis alone. Renal failure was the most common comorbid condition. In all, 27 (55%) of the 49 patients had an initial creatinine clearance of < or =30 mL/min, and 14 (29%) were supported by dialysis. Staphylococcus aureus (59%; 83%, methicillin resistant) and enterococci (29%; 43%, vancomycin resistant) were the most commonly identified pathogens. In most instances, patients received gram-positive therapy before receiving daptomycin (43 of 49 [88%]). The median starting dose of daptomycin was 6 mg/kg (range, 4 to 7 mg/kg); 27 (55%) of the patients received a dose of > or =6 mg/kg. Daptomycin therapy was successful for 31 (63%) of the patients: cure was seen in 18 (37%) and improvement in 13 (27%). Therapy failed in 4 (8%) of the patients, and 14 (29%) of the cases were nonevaluable. The median duration of therapy in successful cases was 27 days. No differences in clinical response were observed based on baseline renal function, primary pathogen, or site of endocarditis. The results from the CORE 2004 database suggest that daptomycin should be considered a possible treatment for patients with right-sided infective endocarditis involving S aureus. Further studies are needed to extend daptomycin's experience in left-sided or enterococcal endocarditis.
The severity of ethanol-induced liver injury is associated with oxidative stress and lipid accumulation in the liver. Core circadian clock is known to mediate antioxidative enzyme activity and lipid metabolism. However, the link between circadian clock and ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity remains unclear. Here we showed that extents of acute ethanol-induced liver injury and steatosis in mice exhibit circadian variations consistent with hepatic expression of Period (Per) genes. Mice lacking clock gene Per1 displayed less susceptible to ethanol-induced liver injury, as evidenced by lower serum transaminase activity and less severe histopathological changes. Ethanol-induced lipid peroxidation was alleviated in Per1-/- mice. However, Per1 deletion had no effect on antioxidants depletion caused by ethanol administration. Ethanol-induced triglycerides (TG) accumulation in the serum and liver was significantly decreased in Per1-/- mice compared with that in wild-type (WT) mice. Analysis of gene expression in the liver revealed peroxisome proliferators activated receptor-gamma (PPARγ) and its target genes related to TG synthesis are remarkably down-regulated in Per1-/- mice. HepG2 cells were treated with ethanol at 150 mM for 3 days. Per1 overexpression augmented lipid accumulation after treatment with ethanol in HepG2 cells, but had no effect on ethanol-induced oxidative stress. Expression of genes related to lipogenesis, including PPARγ and its target genes, was up-regulated in cells overexpressing Per1. In conclusion, these results indicated that circadian rhythms of ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity are controlled by clock gene Per1, and deletion of Per1 protected mice from ethanol-induced liver injury by decreasing hepatic lipid accumulation.
Studies on chemoprevention of cancer are generating increasing interest. The anti-neoplastic effect of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) involves cyclooxygenase (COX)-dependent and COX-independent mechanisms. Evidence suggests that mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) may mediate apoptotic signaling induced by anti-neoplastic agents. While many reports have revealed the existence of MAPK activation in apoptosis induced by various stimuli, the signaling transduction pathways used by NSAIDs to trigger apoptosis in human renal cell carcinoma (RCC) remain largely unknown. Treatment of RCC 786-O cells with indomethacin resulted in growth regression and apoptosis. Caspase-dependent apoptosis was evidenced by the detection of enzymatic activities of caspase-3, caspase-6, and caspase-9 and suppression of toxicity using a caspase inhibitor. Indomethacin treatment was associated with increased expression of glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78) and C/EBP homologus protein (CHOP) and activation of ATF-6, characteristics of endoplasmic reticulum stress. In addition, the concomitant induction of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR), especially PPAR-beta, was apparent in treated cells. Western blotting revealed the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p38 MAPK, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) with indomethacin treatment. Selective inhibitors of ERK, p38 MAPK, and JNK suppressed the induction of GRP78, CHOP, and PPAR-beta, attenuated indomethacin-induced cytotoxicity and reduced increased caspase activity. LY294002, a phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K)/AKT inhibitor, and Trolox, an antioxidant, suppressed indomethacin-induced cytotoxicity and caspase activation. Furthermore, Trolox attenuated indomethacin-induced increased phosphorylation in ERK, p38 MAPK, JNK, and AKT. In conclusion, our findings establish a mechanistic link between the oxidative stress, PI3K/AKT pathway, MAPK pathway and indomethacin-induced cellular alterations and apoptosis in 786-O cells.
Trigeminal neuralgia is a recurrent severe shooting neuropathic pain which can be managed both pharmacologically and surgically. However, there are no prospective data that compare these two therapeutic strategies. This study therefore aimed to assess long-term outcome in patients with intractable trigeminal neuralgia treated with oxcarbazepine and later with surgery. Fifteen patients (11 females) with trigeminal neuralgia intractable to available drugs (carbamazepine, phenytoin and baclofen), were prospectively followed for 13 years (1986-1999) with a total follow up time from onset of disease of 16 +/- 6 years (mean +/- SD), range 8-30 years. All patients were contacted in 1999 and 12 replied, two had died and one had last replied in 1996. Patients were first treated with oxcarbazepine 1200 +/- 600 mg daily dosage (mean +/- SD) and subsequently with surgery of their choice. The outcome measures used were: McGill Pain Questionnaire, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, patient satisfaction questionnaire and clinicians' global evaluation. Pain control was initially achieved in all patients and oxcarbazepine was used continuously or intermittently for 4.0 +/- 3 years (mean +/- SD). Thirteen patients experienced some mild side effects and a dose-dependent hyponatraemia was noted. Subsequently, 12 patients required surgery (five microvascular decompressions and seven surgery at the level of the Gasserian ganglion) to control their pain and were followed up for 4.3 +/- 1.7 years post surgery (mean +/- SD). Three patients required repeat surgery to control their pain, which was successful in two. A further two patients continued with low dose medication post initially successful surgery. Three patients reported numbness and one hearing loss after surgery. Kaplan Meier analysis 3 years after oxcarbazepine use and then 3 years after surgery showed that the mean time for recurrence of pain after oxcarbazepine treatment was 10 months whilst for surgery it was 28 months (P<0.0001). Pain free periods and types of complications post surgery varied and depended on the type of surgery performed. Due to the small numbers, it was not possible to analyse the different types of surgical procedures individually. Outcomes after any type of surgery were better on all evaluations and eight patients felt that they should have had surgery earlier. Oxcarbazepine is a potent antineuralgic drug with very good acceptability and tolerability. However, its effectiveness was rather short term necessitating surgical intervention. As surgery was associated with better outcome, patients may therefore benefit from having surgery earlier rather than later in the disease process in order to improve quality of life, freedom from medication and the need for regular follow up. Surgery does not provide pain relief for all patients. This is the first study that has compared outcome in a group of patients who have had both pharmacological and surgical treatments. As these data cannot be extrapolated to other antineuralgic drugs, similar comparative studies would be appropriate.
Acute 1,2-dichloropropane (DCP) poisoning in humans is relatively frequent in Italy, where DCP is widely diffused as a constituent of commercial solvents and dry cleaners. In this study we have investigated the effects of DCP on intracellular glutathione (GSH) content in main target tissues of male Wistar rats, i.e. liver, kidney and blood, in order to establish if a correlation between DCP-induced GSH depletion and tissue damage exists. Administration of DCP (2 ml/kg body weight orally) caused a dramatic loss of tissue GSH occurring 24 h after DCP intoxication, followed by a slow restoration approaching physiological levels after 96 h. GSH depletion was associated with a marked increase in serum GOT, GPT, 5'-nucleotidase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, alkaline phosphatase, urea and creatinine, and a significant degree of hemolysis. When animals were pretreated with a GSH depleting agent, buthionine-sulfoximine (BSO) (0.5 g/kg body weight) i.p. 4 h before DCP intoxication, an increase of overall mortality was found, significantly different from the group of animals treated with DCP alone. On the contrary, the administration of a GSH precursor, N-acetylcysteine (NAC) i.p. (250 mg/kg body weight) 2 and 16 h after DCCP intoxication prevented the dramatic loss of cellular GSH and reduced the extent of injury in target tissues, as demonstrated by laboratory indices. Furthermore, statistical analysis of the data revealed a correlation between: (1) depletion of liver GSH and increase in serum GOT, GPT, 5'-nucleotidase, (2) depletion of kidney GSH and increase in serum urea and creatinine and (3) depletion of blood GSH and the occurrence of hemolysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In spite of intensive therapy, an otherwise fit 34-year-old man died following the hyperpyrexial reaction to an interaction between tranylcypromine and clomipramine. There was no evidence of drug overdose, but severe disseminated intravascular coagulation developed which proved fatal.
Annually, approximately 100 of the 400 postmastectomy patients we studied have persisting serous drainage. Sclerotherapy with the use of tetracycline has been advocated to decrease serous drainage and the formation of seromas. Reports in the literature suggest that the use of tetracycline for treatment has been efficacious and that it is not painful. We devised a prospective, randomized controlled trial to study the effects of tetracycline on patients with prolonged persisting drainage. Six patients in the control group had the drains left in place until the drainage diminished. One of these patients had a seroma develop after the drains were removed. Eight patients were treated with tetracycline. Four of these patients had seromas develop after the drains were removed. Three of the eight patients had severe reactions of pain when the tetracycline was introduced into the drains. Because of the severe pain associated with sclerotherapy treatment and the lack of demonstrable benefit in those treated, we terminated the study. We did not find tetracycline to be of help in treating patients with prolonged drainage after mastectomy and some of those patients had severe pain develop from the treatment.
To evaluate the effects of cisapride, a prokinetic gastrointestinal drug, on the electrocardiographic QT interval, heart rate, and rhythm in infants during routine 8-hour polysomnography. Reported electrocardiogram (ECG) and rhythm disturbances in a small number of patients with the use of cisapride provided the impetus for this prospective study.
Two hundred fifty-two infants born at term were enrolled. Of these, 134 were on cisapride therapy for suspected gastroesophageal reflux and 118 were not on cisapride and served as controls. Cisapride-treated and control infants were from the outset divided into 3 age groups; group 1: under 3 months of age; group 2: between 3 and 6 months of age; and group 3: >6 months of age. Continuous ECG bipolar limb lead I recording, saturation monitoring, and electroencephalography were conducted. QT intervals and heart rate were measured at hourly intervals.
Cisapride doses were: group 1 mean, 0.80 mg/kg/day (range: 0.38-1.55); group 2 mean, 0.80 mg/kg/day (range: 0. 23-1.38); and group 3 mean, 0.72 mg/kg/day (range: 0.32-1.41). Heart rate was higher in the younger infants, with a gradual decrease with age. No difference in heart rate was detected between the cisapride and control groups. The QTc interval in patients in group 1 was statistically longer than the controls, when applying both Bazett's and Hodges' formulae for QT correction. The other age groups did not differ. No arrhythmia or atrioventricular conduction abnormalities were observed.
Infants under 3 months of age on cisapride treatment had significantly longer QTc intervals (with Bazett's formula, the 98th percentile was 504 ms in the cisapride group vs 447 ms in controls). The clinical significance and risk of the increased QTc interval in these infants are unclear and need further evaluation and risk stratification. Meanwhile, cisapride should be judiciously prescribed in infants <3 months of age.
The effects of prolonged exposure to and subsequent withdrawal of the thienotriazolobenzodiazepine etizolam on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptor gene expression and function were compared with those of the benzodiazepine lorazepam. Exposure of rat hippocampal neurons in culture to 10 microM etizolam for 5 days reduced the amounts of alpha5 and gamma2S receptor subunit mRNAs, whereas etizolam withdrawal was associated with a persistent reduction in gamma2S mRNA and an increase in alpha2 and alpha3 mRNAs. Neither chronic exposure to nor withdrawal of etizolam affected the acute modulatory effects of etizolam or lorazepam on GABA-evoked Cl- current. Treatment with 10 microM lorazepam for 5 days reduced the amounts of alpha1 and gamma2S subunit mRNAs and increased that of alpha3 mRNA, whereas lorazepam withdrawal was associated with persistence of the changes in alpha3 and gamma2S mRNAs and an increase in alpha2 and alpha4 mRNAs. Parallel changes in the abundance of alpha1 and alpha4 subunit proteins induced by chronic exposure to and withdrawal of lorazepam, but not etizolam, were detected by immunocytofluorescence analysis. Chronic lorazepam treatment resulted in a reversible reduction in the modulatory efficacy of this drug and conferred on flumazenil the ability to potentiate GABA-evoked Cl- current. The anticonvulsant action of etizolam was not altered in mice chronically treated with this drug, whereas lorazepam-treated animals became tolerant to the acute anticonvulsant effect of this benzodiazepine. These data suggest that etizolam is endowed with a reduced liability to induce tolerance and dependence compared with classical benzodiazepines.
The introduction of lamivudine (LMV) for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B infection has been an important advance in the management of this disease. However, the long-term efficacy of LMV may become limited by the emergence of antiviral-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) mutants. The two most common LMV-resistant mutants produce changes in the viral polymerase protein (rt) of rtM204I and rtL180M/M204V (previously rtM550I and rtL526M/M550V). A number of studies have demonstrated that these HBV mutants appear to be replication impaired, both in vitro and in vivo. The detection and selection of compensatory mutations in the polymerase protein that restore the replication phenotype of these HBV mutants have been poorly described to date. The effects of mutations in the fingers subdomain of the viral polymerase protein arising as a consequence of vaccine and hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIg) selected changes in the overlapping envelope gene (S), and a determinant of the hepatitis Bs antigen (HBsAg) were analyzed in vitro. The LMV-resistant HBV mutants rtM204I and rtL180M/M204V produced substantially weaker HBV DNA replicative intermediate signals by Southern blot analysis and less total intracellular HBV DNA by real-time PCR compared to wild-type virus. The viral polymerase protein of these mutants produced little detectable radiolabeled HBV DNA in an endogenous polymerase assay. In contrast, the HBV a determinant HBIg/vaccine escape mutants sP120T, sT123N, sG145R, and sD144E/G145R (that produce rtT128N, Q130P, rtW153Q, and rtG153E respectively) yielded as much virus as wild-type HBV while the sM133L (rtY141S) mutant was replication impaired. Two of these mutants, rtT128N and rtW153Q, when introduced into a replication-competent HBV vector containing the rtL180M/M204V polymerase mutation restored the replication phenotype of this LMV-resistant mutant. These viruses produced levels of intracellular HBV DNA as determined by Southern blot and real-time PCR that were comparable to those of wild-type HBV, indicating that the changes in the fingers subdomain were able to compensate for the reduced replication of the LMV-resistant mutations. Since these viruses carry mutations in the a determinant of HBsAg that may potentially decrease the ability of anti-HBs antibody to neutralize these viruses, these HBV mutants also have the potential to behave as vaccine escape mutants.
The time course of drug abstinence is not readily amenable to examination using intermittent observations, because abstinence is known to interfere with circadian rhythms of general activity. Accordingly, we propose a model for continuous assessment of spontaneous withdrawal without any intervention by the investigator. This model is based on the automatic recording of locomotor activity. Experiments were performed in rectangular activity cages equipped with two infrared photoelectric cells. In a parallel experiment, to confirm the locomotor activity effects, continuous monitoring of EEG activities was achieved from two cortical and one reference electrodes. Morphine dependence was induced by intraperitoneal injections of increasing doses of morphine twice daily for 10 days (from 5 up to 90 mg/kg). Behavioral and EEG activities were recorded for 8 to 10 days following the last injection of morphine. Although control rats displayed a typical locomotor activity pattern characterized by nocturnal hyperactivity that was markedly reduced during the light phase, opiate abstinent rats developed a constant motor activity during the first 3 or 4 postinjection days and that was associated with a drastic reduction of overall rapid eye movement sleep (REM) and non-REM sleep and with an increase of waking (W). Although morphine-abstinent rats slowly resumed a normal circadian cycle after the fourth day in terms of horizontal activity, REMS, NREMS and W, long-term effects were revealed by the permanent motor instability recorded during both the light and the dark phases when the total amount of photocell counts was considered, and by the perturbation of the circadian rhythm of the ratio of REM sleep to total sleep time. Automatic continuous recording of total motor behavior appears to be a useful index with which to follow, over an extended period of time, the acute and long-term consequences of opiate abstinence. Therefore, long-term withdrawal-induced changes in activity could be a suitable model for the validation of antiabstinence therapies.
Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) and Cockayne syndrome (CS) are two hereditary disorders in which photosensitivity is associated with distinct clinical and cellular phenotypes and results from genetically different defects. We have identified the primary molecular alteration in two patients in whom clinical manifestations strongly reminiscent of a severe form of XP were unexpectedly associated with the CS cellular phenotype and with a defect in the CSB gene. Sequencing of the CSB -coding region in both cDNA and genomic DNA showed that these patients had identical alterations to those in a patient with the clinical features of the classical form of CS. These data, together with fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis, demonstrated that the two siblings with XP as well as the CS patient were homozygous for the same CSB mutated allele, containing a silent C2830T change and a nonsense mutation C2282T converting Arg735 to a stop codon. The finding that the same inactivating mutation underlies different pathological phenotypes indicates that there is no simple correlation between the molecular defect and the clinical features. Therefore, alterations in the CSB gene give rise to the same repair defect at the cellular level but other genetic and/or environmental factors determine the pathological phenotype.
A report is presented of an 85-yr-old woman who developed severe pulmonary fibrosis while receiving tocainide for treatment of ventricular arrhythmias. Severe bilateral interstitial fibrosis was documented in this patient by open lung biopsy and at autopsy. Review of the literature revealed other cases with an association between the use of tocainide and the development of pulmonary complications such as pulmonary fibrosis and interstitial pneumonitis, and suggested that clinical improvement occurs when the correct diagnosis is made early and tocainide therapy is stopped immediately. Because tocainide is currently being widely used for the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias, the pulmonary status of patients receiving tocainide should be monitored closely. Hopefully, awareness of this potential complication of tocainide therapy will minimize the number of cases of serious pulmonary toxicity.
Renal tumours were induced in female mice 132 days after intravenous administration of streptozotocin. The tumours exhibited papillary and/or solid architecture with papillary tumours showing no histological evidence of malignancy. Malignant behaviour, manifest as infiltration of adjacent renal tissue and lymphatic infiltration, was noted for tumours with solid architecture. Intermediate architectural forms exhibiting dual papillary and solid architecture were identified. Proliferation kinetics were evaluated by enumeration of silver-staining nucleolar organizer regions and proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression. The results showed a stepwise progress in cell proliferation between histologically normal renal tubule epithelium [untreated animals, mean AgNOR score (MAS) 2.32, mean PCNA index (MPI) 0.53%; treated animals, MAS, 2.44; MPI 0.99%], dysplastic tubule epithelium (MAS, 4.15; MPI 1.65%), papillary tumours (MAS, 5.90; MPI 3.89%) and solid tumours (MAS, 6.94; MPI, 6.80%). Solid tumours as a group were significantly larger than papillary tumours and were associated with a significantly longer mean post-injection survival interval. The findings suggest that at least some solid tumours evolve from tumours exhibiting papillary architecture.
A case of acute anuric renal failure following hypersensitivity to ampicillin is presented. Renal biopsy showed severe interstitial nephritis. Treatment with prednisolone and heparin, together with supportive measures and peritoneal dialysis, was followed by rapid recovery of renal function. It is concluded that hypersensitivity to ampicillin can cause acute interstitial nephritis, analogous to that seen with penicillin and methicillin.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP)-like immunoreactivity was demonstrated by immunocytochemistry together with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-like immunoreactivity in small to medium-sized neurons in the trigeminal ganglion and in nerve fibers in the iris, ciliary body, cornea, choroid and sclera of the rabbit eye. The regional distribution of PACAP-27- and PACAP-38-like immunoreactivity in the eye was studied by radioimmunoassay: the highest concentrations were found in the iris sphincter and ciliary body. The distribution pattern resembled that of CGRP-like immunoreactivity, which is a well-known constituent of sensory C-fibre neurons. Intravitreal injection of PACAP-27 or PACAP-38 induced conjunctival hyperemia, swelling of the anterior segment of the eye, miosis and breakdown of the blood-aqueous barrier, manifested as a marked aqueous flare response. Tetrodotoxin pretreatment inhibited the conjunctival hyperemia, the swelling of the anterior segment of the eye, and the miosis but not the aqueous flare response. The concentration of PACAP-like immunoreactivity in the aqueous humor was increased greatly following infrared irradiation of the iris, topical application of formaldehyde to the cornea, or intravitreal injection of endotoxin or bovine serum albumin. Also the concentration of CGRP-like immunoreactivity in the aqueous humor was increased greatly. Both in vivo and in vitro studies showed that capsaicin caused a parallel release of PACAP-like immunoreactivity and CGRP-like immunoreactivity from the uvea. Injection of PACAP-27 and PACAP-38 resulted in the release of CGRP-like immunoreactivity (and PACAP-like immunoreactivity) into the aqueous humor and PACAP-27 and PACAP-38 were also found to evoke tachykinin-mediated contractions of the isolated iris sphincter muscle, indicating that PACAP induces positive feedback on C-fibres. Thus, PACAP is a sensory neuropeptide in the eye. Since the PACAP-induced ocular responses mimicked the symptoms of inflammation, and since the PACAP-like immunoreactivity concentration in the aqueous humor was greatly increased following noxious stimulation, we suggest that it takes part in the inflammatory responses of the rabbit eye.
Described is the first reported case of paclitaxel-induced recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis in a patient receiving adjuvant therapy for breast cancer. This rare form of neuropathy was reversible at 3 months, but it was re-induced 11 months later when the patient received vinorelbine.
It has been previously shown that 2-hydroxyestradiol (2-OHE) attenuates the development of renal disease in genetic nephropathy associated with obesity and the metabolic syndrome. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that 2-OHE, irrespective of its effects on metabolic status and/or obesity, exerts direct renoprotective effects in vivo. First, the effects of increasing doses of 2-OHE on mesangial cell growth, proliferation, and collagen synthesis in isolated rat glomerular mesangial cells were evaluated in vitro. Second, the effects of 12-wk administration of 2-OHE (10 micro g/h per kg) on renal function and structure in chronic puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephropathy in rats were evaluated in vivo. 2-OHE concentration-dependently (0.001 to 1 micro mol/L; P < 0.001) inhibited serum (2.5%)-induced cell growth ((3)H-thymidine incorporation), collagen synthesis ((3)H-proline incorporation), and cell proliferation (cell number). Importantly, the inhibitory effects of 2-OHE (0.1 micro mol/L) were not blocked by ICI182780 (50 micro mol/L), an estrogen receptor antagonist. In vivo, chronic administration of PAN (75 mg/kg + 5 x 20 mg/kg) over 12 wk induced severe chronic renal disease. Chronic treatment with 2-OHE significantly (P < 0.05) attenuated PAN-induced decrease in glomerular filtration, reduced proteinuria, and the elevated BP, and it had no effect on PAN-induced increase in plasma cholesterol and triglycerides levels. 2-OHE had no effects on plasma testosterone levels in male nephropathic animals. Immunohistochemical staining for collagen IV and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in glomeruli and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) in renal tubular cells were significantly higher in PAN nephropatic rats versus control animals with intact kidneys. PAN also markedly increased glomerular and interstitial macrophage infiltration (ED1(+) cells). 2-OHE had no effects on renal tubular cell TGF-beta, but it significantly reduced glomerular PCNA and collagen IV and glomerular and interstitial macrophage infiltration. In summary, this study provides the first evidence that 2-OHE exerts direct renoprotective effects in vivo. These effects are mediated by estrogen receptor-independent mechanisms and are due, at least in part, to the inhibition of some of the key proliferative mechanisms involved in glomerular remodeling and sclerosis.
Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) is a ligand-activated nuclear receptor and serves as a key regulator to maintain health of the liver and intestine. Bile acids are endogenous ligands of FXR, and there are increasing efforts to identify FXR modulators to serve as biological probes and/or pharmaceutical agents. Natural FXR ligands isolated from plants may serve as models to synthesize novel FXR modulators. In this study, we demonstrated that epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), a major tea catechin, specifically and dose-dependently activates FXR. In addition, EGCG induced FXR target gene expression in vitro. Surprisingly, in a co-activator (SRC2) recruitment assay, we found that EGCG does not recruit SRC2 to FXR, but it dose-dependently inhibits recruitment of SRC2 to FXR (IC(50), 1μM) by GW6064, which is a potent FXR synthetic ligand. In addition, EGCG suppressed FXR target gene expression induced by either GW4064 or chenodeoxycholic acid in vitro. Furthermore, wild-type and FXR knockout mice treated with an acute dose of EGCG had induced mRNA expression in a subset of FXR target genes in the intestine but not in the liver. In conclusion, EGCG is a unique modulator of FXR in the intestine and may serve as an important model for future development of FXR modulators.
Acute effects of mercury on mouse blood, kidneys, and liver were evaluated. Mice received a single dose of mercuric chloride (HgCl2, 4.6 mg/kg, subcutaneously) for three consecutive days. We investigated the possible beneficial effects of antioxidant therapy (N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)2) compared with the sodium salt of 2,3-dimercapto-1-propanesulfonic acid (DMPS), an effective chelating agent in HgCl2 exposure in mice. We also verified whether metallothionein (MT) induction might be involved in a possible mechanism of protection against HgCl2 poisoning and whether different treatments would modify MT levels and other toxicological parameters. The results demonstrated that HgCl2 exposure significantly inhibited delta-aminolevulinate dehydratase (delta-ALA-D) activity in liver and only DMPS treatment prevented the inhibitory effect. Mercuric chloride caused an increase in renal non-protein thiol groups (NPSH) and none of the treatments modified renal NPSH levels. Urea concentration was increased after HgCl2 exposure. NAC plus (PhSe)2 was partially effective in protecting against the effects of mercury. DMPS and (PhSe)2 were effective in restoring the increment in urea concentration caused by mercury. Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activities and ascorbic acid levels were not modified after mercury exposure. Mercuric chloride poisoning caused an increase in hepatic and renal MT levels and antioxidant treatments did not modify this parameter. Our data indicated a lack of therapeutic effect of the antioxidants tested.
About 15% of men and women in their reproductive years remain childless; in 50% of cases the reasons can be found in the male partner. It is important to define as exactly as possible the reasons for infertility to select those men who can be treated by a causal treatment option and to find the optimum treatment strategy. While FSH is the key hormone for intact spermatogenesis, testosterone as an important modifier of quantitative normal sperm production may sometimes be underestimated. Exogenous substitution with testosterone will suppress spermatogenesis and is thus not indicated in hypogonadal males with hypogonadism and infertility at the same time. In males with normal to elevated gonadotrophins and symptomatic testosterone deficiency, treatment is difficult and evidence-based recommendations are missing. The situation in males presenting with secondary hypogonadotropic hypogonadism exhibiting one of the clearly defined and treatable reasons of male infertility is totally different. To stimulate the gonadal function in secondary hypogonadal patients wishing to father a child, pulsatile GnRH or subcutaneous gonadotrophin treatment are used. They stimulate both testosterone production and spermatogenesis. After the end of successful fertility treatment, substitution is continued by exogenous testosterone treatment with oral, transdermal or intramuscular physiological preparations.
Aldosterone has been linked to the deleterious cardiovascular effects of obesity in humans. The association of aldosterone with obesity in rodents is less well defined, particularly in models of diet-induced obesity. We hypothesized that adrenal aldosterone production and aldosterone synthase expression would be increased in rats with obesity-induced hypertension. Male Sprague Dawley rats were fed a high-fat (HF: 36% fat) or control diet from 3 wk of age, and mean arterial pressure (MAP) was measured by telemetry. MAP was increased after 4 wk of HF diet; this was 6 wk before changes in body weight. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism did not prevent the HF-induced increase in MAP. After 17 wk on the diets, HF rats had increased body and fat weights (abdominal and epididymal) and were insulin resistant (Homeostasis Model Assessment index: 3.53 ± 0.43 vs. 8.52 ± 1.77; control vs. HF, P < 0.05). Plasma aldosterone levels were increased in the HF rats (64.14 ± 14.96 vs. 206.25 ± 47.55 pg/ml; control vs. HF, P < 0.05). This occurred independently of plasma renin activity (4.8 ± 0.92 vs. 4.73 ± 0.66 ng/ml/h, control vs. HF). The increase in aldosterone was accompanied by a 2-fold increase in adrenal aldosterone synthase mRNA expression and zona glomerulosa hypertrophy. Rats were also studied after 8 wk of HF diet, a time when MAP, but not body weight, was increased. At this time plasma aldosterone was unchanged but plasma renin activity was increased (4.4 ± 0.5 vs. 8.1 ± 1.3 ng/ml/h; control vs. HF, P < 0.05). These studies suggest that rats fed a HF diet from weaning may be a useful model for studying obesity-associated hyperaldosteronism.
Antiproteinuric treatment by ACE inhibition (ACEi) provides renoprotection. However, resistance to antiproteinuric intervention occurs frequently, resulting in progressive renal damage. The extent of renal damage prior to treatment with ACEi reversely correlates with the antiproteinuric effects of ACEi in established adriamycin nephrosis. Sodium restriction enhances the response to ACEi, but whether it can overcome the negative predictive value of preceding renal damage on the therapeutic response is unknown. We studied the impact of preceding renal damage on the efficacy of ACEi in adriamycin nephrosis on different oral sodium loads.
Male Wistar rats were randomly assigned to a low (LS), normal (NS) or high (HS) sodium diet, initiated 1 week before adriamycin induction. At week 6, proteinuria was stabilized (195 +/- 172 mg/24 h), a renal biopsy was performed for analysis of preceding damage and rats were instituted on lisinopril for 6 weeks until sacrifice at week 12.
ACEi reduced proteinuria in LS and NS animals. On univariate analysis, the antiproteinuric response was significantly predicted by preceding renal damage (focal glomerulosclerosis, interstitial macrophages and interstitial alpha-smooth muscle cell actin expression). On multivariate analysis, both sodium intake and preceding renal damage independently predicted residual proteinuria during ACEi (R2 model: 80% and 75% for data after 3 and 6 weeks of therapy, respectively).
Our data confirm the predictive value of pretreatment renal damage for the antiproteinuric response to ACEi, despite the fact that the renal damage prior to the ACEi was very mild. The impact of pretreatment damage on the therapeutic response, however, was overcome by low sodium. Thus, the impact of pretreatment damage does not warrant therapeutic nihilism, but rather optimization of therapy response by dietary sodium restriction. Further studies are needed to elucidate whether this also applies to more severe damage, and whether combining ACEi with low sodium diet can improve long-term renal outcome in human.
Paclitaxel and its analogue docetaxel show a significant antitumor activity, particularly evident in breast cancer. Paclitaxel has also been proved to be effective as a peripheral blood progenitor cell (CPC) mobilizing agent. To optimize the use of active, disease-specific drugs as CPC priming, we have evaluated the effects of either paclitaxel or docetaxel both at standard dosages and followed by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), on circulating CPC release and function in 18 patients with advanced breast cancer who had failed previous anthracycline-based regimens. The reported differences in biological behaviour between bone marrow and blood-derived hematopoietic progenitor cells and the ability of both paclitaxel and docetaxel to induce apoptosis, prompted us to simultaneously evaluate the cell cycle perturbations induced on CD34+ cells. Median CD34+ peaks were 24 microl (range: 10-58) in the paclitaxel-treated patients and 39 microl (range: 17-91), respectively, in the patients who received docetaxel. After paclitaxel, the percentage of CD34+ cells in S-phase was low (bromodeoxyuridine, BrdU, labelling index = 3.4+/-2%) with a concomitant presence of early apoptotic cells (8.1+/-3%). On the contrary, after docetaxel, the percentage of CD34+ cells in S-phase was higher (BrdU labelling index = 14.5+/-4%, p<0.05 vs. paclitaxel), while early apoptotic cells were detected at a similar rate (8. 6+/-3%, p = n.s. vs. paclitaxel). In conclusion, when used at standard dosages, with respect to paclitaxel + G-CSF, docetaxel + G-CSF is a more satisfactory tool to mobilize CPC and to induce them into the cell cycle. These data should be taken into account when combinations of docetaxel with other agents are explored as CPC mobilizing regimens for autografting.
