A 5-year-old 20-kg boy developed grand mal seizures following application of 2 mL of tetracaine-adrenalin-cocaine to an oral mucosa laceration. Diazepam 6 mg IV followed by 195 mg phenobarbital was required to terminate the seizures. The patient was transferred to a pediatric intensive care unit for further evaluation and treatment. A toxicology screen obtained after transfer was positive only for diazepam and phenobarbital. The child remained lethargic for several hours but otherwise had a normal neurological examination. Brain computed tomography was normal. Anticonvulsant medication was discontinued prior to discharge and the child had no subsequent seizures.
Short-course therapy for acute otitis media (AOM) improves adherence and may reduce secondary bacterial resistance.
In this multicenter, prospective, investigator-blinded study, patients between the ages of 6 months and 6 years with a clinical diagnosis of AOM were randomized to receive cefdinir oral suspension 7 mg/kg q12h for 5 days or azithromycin oral suspension 10 mg/kg once daily on day 1 and 5 mg/kg once daily on days 2 through 5. Clinical response was assessed at the end-of-therapy (EOT) visit (days 7-9) and the follow-up visit (days 20-25).
Three hundred fifty-seven patients were enrolled in the study. The treatment groups were similar at baseline with respect to demographic characteristics (mean [SD] age, 3.0 [1.7] years; 55% male), incidence of bilateral AOM (45%), and presenting signs and symptoms. The majority of evaluable children (77%) had previously received conjugated heptavalent pneumococcal vaccine (PCV7) against Streptococcus pneumoniae. At the EOT visit, clinical cure rates were comparable for cefdinir and azithromycin (87% [151/174] and 85% [149/176], respectively; 95% CI, -5.5 to 9.8). In addition, clinical cure rates at the EOT visit in the children who had been vaccinated with PCV7 were comparable between cefdinir and azithromycin (86% vs 83%; 95% CI, -6.5 to 11.8). No significant difference in clinical cure rates was observed at the follow-up visit (76% and 86%; 95% CI, -18.9 to 0.0). Parental satisfaction was similar between treatment groups with regard to ease of use, taste, compliance, health care resource utilization, and missed days of work and day-care. Both antibiotics were well tolerated; diarrhea and abnormal stools were the most common antibiotic-related adverse events (< or = 7% each).
Short courses (5 days) of therapy with cefdinir or azithromycin were comparable in these children with AOM based on clinical end points, parental preferences, and health care utilization.
We investigated the immunohistochemical distribution of active NF-kappaB p65 and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) subtypes alpha and gamma in the different phases of liver steatonecrosis and cirrhosis induced in rats after 3 and 9 weeks of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) intoxication. CCl4 treatment can induce changes in the expression of NF-kappaB and PPARs. Immunohistochemical analysis of liver tissue sections from rats with steatonecrosis or cirrhosis demonstrated a significant increase in the number of NF-kappaB-positive and TNF-alpha-positive hepatocytes and Kupffer cells. In healthy controls, no expression of active NF-kappaB was detected. In previous studies, we have demonstrated that Kupffer cells isolated from rats with CCl4-induced steatonecrosis produced more reactive oxygen intermediates than cells isolated from normal rats. These oxidants could activate NF-kappaB and lead to an overexpression of TNF-alpha, observed in liver tissue sections. After CCl4 ingestion, the rat livers demonstrated a significantly decreased number of hepatocytes expressing PPARalpha and PPARgamma and a significantly increased number of ED2-positive Kupffer cells expressing these transcription factors, compared to normal. The activation of the p65 isoform of NF-kappaB correlates negatively with transcription of the alpha and gamma isoforms of PPAR in hepatocytes, and positively in Kupffer cells. These results suggest that the regulation and the role of these two transcription factors differ in the two cell types studied.
Flutamide, an effective competitive inhibitor of the androgen receptor used orally for palliative treatment of prostatic carcinoma and regulation of prostatic hyperplasia was evaluated for its genotoxic effects in the intact rat and in primary cultures of human hepatocytes. Negative responses were obtained in all the in vivo assays as well as in the in vitro assay. In rats given a single oral dose of 500 mg/kg flutamide, fragmentation and repair of liver DNA were absent, and no increase was observed in the frequency of micronucleated hepatocytes. In the liver of rats given flutamide as initiating agent at the dose of 500 mg/kg/week for 6 successive weeks, gamma-glutamyltraspeptidase-positive foci were detected only in 3 of 10 rats. There was no evidence of a promoting effect on the development of aberrant crypt foci in rats given 100 mg/kg flutamide on alternate days for 8 successive weeks. In primary cultures of human hepatocytes from one male and one female donor DNA fragmentation as measured by the Comet assays, and DNA repair synthesis as revealed by quantitative autoradiography, were absent after a 20 hr exposure to flutamide concentrations ranging from 18 to 56 microM. Taken as a whole, our results seem to indicate that flutamide is a non-genotoxic drug.
Glycodelin (GdA) is an immunosuppressive endometrial glycoprotein critical for embryonic implantation and pregnancy establishment.
The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of dioxin [2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)] on GdA production in human endometrial cells.
Controlled endometrial explant (EE) and cell cultures were used in this study.
Work was conducted at university hospital research laboratories in Bern, Switzerland, and in San Francisco, California.
Ovulatory women provided endometrial biopsies in the proliferative or secretory phase.
EEs and cells were cultured without and with TCDD.
GdA protein and gene expression were quantified.
A 2.5-fold increase in GdA production was demonstrated in EEs treated with 10 nm TCDD for 9 d. Fluorography revealed a 3- to 4-fold increase in new GdA biosynthesis and secretion in TCDD-treated endometrial epithelial cells. Because the action of dioxin is mediated by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), we ascertained that primary epithelial and Ishikawa cells express AhR. Dose responses to TCDD and expressed AhR were established in transiently transfected Ishikawa cells using luciferase fusion vectors containing 1.0 kb of 5' flanking DNA relative to the GdA transcriptional start site but not when shorter promoter constructs were used. A dioxin response element was mapped to nucleotides -539 to -533 of the gene promoter and verified by site-directed mutagenesis.
We demonstrated a direct AhR-mediated effect of dioxin on GdA gene transcription and protein secretion that might influence human female fertility.
Low selenium (Se) status has been associated with increased risk of colorectal cancer (CRC). Se is present as the amino acid selenocysteine in selenoproteins, such as the glutathione peroxidases. Se incorporation requires specific RNA structures in the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of the selenoprotein mRNAs. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) occurs at nucleotide 718 (within the 3'UTR) in the glutathione peroxidase 4 gene. In the present study, Caco-2 cells were transfected with constructs in which type 1 iodothyronine deiodinase coding region was linked to the GPx4 3'UTR with either C or T variant at position 718. Higher reporter activity was observed in cells expressing the C variant compared to those expressing the T variant, under either Se-adequate or Se-deficient conditions. In addition, a disease association study was carried out in cohorts of patients with either adenomatous polyps, colorectal adenocarcinomas and in healthy controls. A higher proportion of individuals with CC genotype at the GPx4 T/C 718 SNP was present in the cancer group, but not in the polyp group, compared with the control group (P < 0.05). The present data demonstrate the functionality of the GPx4 T/C 718 SNP and suggest that T genotype is associated with lower risk of CRC.
Stem cell mobilisation can be achieved either by administration of rhG-CSF alone or after high-dose cyclophosphamide (HDCy) plus rhG-CSF. We have compared both mobilisation procedures intra-individually in 43 patients with haematological malignancies. Furthermore, the toxicity data were registered. The CD34+ cell yield was higher after mobilisation with HDCy plus rhG-CSF than after rhG-CSF alone in 21 out of 22 patients who were actually harvested after both procedures. If a patient mobilised insufficiently after rhG-CSF alone, the yield of CD34+ cells after the following HDCy priming was lower compared to patients who mobilised sufficiently after rhG-CSF priming alone. In 12 patients with B cell malignancies a reduced number of B cells such as CD10+, CD19+, CD20+ cells in bone marrow as well as in leukapheresis products was observed after HDCy plus rhG-CSF compared to rhG-CSF alone. Toxicity data revealed HDCy as a relatively toxic priming regimen with all patients hospitalised and 74% experiencing neutropenic fever and administration of intravenous antibiotics. In two patients, seizure-like episodes were observed during cyclophosphamide bolus infusion. In conclusion, HDCy increased the yield of CD34+cell and reduced B cells in leukapheresis products indicating reduced tumour cell load compared with rhG-CSF priming alone. The efficacy of HDCy priming is limited by its profound toxicity and morbidity. Studies evaluating efficacy and safety of lower doses of cyclophosphamide are needed. Bone Marrow Transplantation (2000) 26, 717-722.
Antiarrhythmic activity of the local anesthetic pyromecaine has been studied. The drug has been shown to eliminate flutter of the atria provoked by electrical stimulation of the myocardium, by aconitin, strophanthine and barium chloride. It prevents ventricular fibrillation arising due to calcium chloride poisoning. The drug exhibits marked antiarrhythmic properties. It is similar to lidocaine but less toxic and has a broader therapeutic range. It does not produce any adverse action on myocardial contractility or conduction. Pyromecaine has been demonstrated to exert appreciable antiarrhythmic activity in patients. The Pharmacological Committee of the USSR Ministry of Health approved pyromecaine for use in medical practice as an antiarrhythmic drug.
Brain iron promotes oxidative damage and protein oligomerization that result in highly prevalent age-related proteinopathies such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB). Men are more likely to develop such diseases at earlier ages than women but brain iron levels increase with age in both genders. We hypothesized that brain iron may influence both the age- and gender-related risks of developing these diseases.
The amount of iron in ferritin molecules (ferritin iron) was measured in vivo with MRI by utilizing the field dependent relaxation rate increase (FDRI) method. Ferritin iron was measured in four subcortical nuclei [caudate (C), putamen (P), globus pallidus (G), thalamus (T)], three white matter regions [frontal lobe (Fwm), genu and splenium of the corpus callosum (Gwm, Swm)] and hippocampus (Hipp) in 165 healthy adults aged 19-82.
There was a high correlation (r>0.99) between published post-mortem brain iron levels and FDRI. There were significant age-related changes in ferritin iron (increases in Hipp, C, P, G, and decreases in Fwm). Women had significantly lower ferritin iron than men in five regions (C, T, Fwm, Gwm, Swm).
This is the first demonstration of gender differences in brain ferritin iron levels. It is possible that brain iron accumulation is a risk factor that can be modified. MRI provides the opportunity to assess brain iron levels in vivo and may be useful in targeting individuals or groups for preventive therapeutic interventions.
Edema in nephrotic syndrome results from renal retention of sodium and alteration of the permeability properties of capillaries. Nephrotic syndrome induced by puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) in rats reproduces the biological and clinical signs of the human disease, and has been widely used to identify the cellular mechanisms of sodium retention. Unfortunately, mice do not develop nephrotic syndrome in response to PAN, and we still lack a good mouse model of the disease in which the genetic tools necessary for further characterizing the pathophysiological pathway could be used. Mouse resistance to PAN has been attributed to a defect in glomerular adenosine deaminase (ADA), which metabolizes PAN. We therefore attempted to develop a mouse line sensitive to PAN through induction of normal adenosine metabolism in their podocytes.
A mouse line expressing functional ADA under the control of the podocyte-specific podocin promoter was generated by transgenesis. The effect of PAN on urinary excretion of sodium and proteins was compared in rats and in mice over-expressing ADA and in littermates.
We confirmed that expression of ADA mRNAs was much lower in wild type mouse than in rat glomerulus. Transgenic mice expressed ADA specifically in the glomerulus, and their ADA activity was of the same order of magnitude as in rats. Nonetheless, ADA transgenic mice remained insensitive to PAN treatment in terms of both proteinuria and sodium retention.
Along with previous results, this study shows that adenosine deaminase is necessary but not sufficient to confer PAN sensitivity to podocytes. ADA transgenic mice could be used as a background strain for further transgenesis.
Disulfiram toxicity is a well-recognized cause of peripheral neuropathy and encephalopathy, usually developing within a few months of the start of therapy. We describe a patient who insidiously developed a peripheral neuropathy and encephalopathy after thirty years of disulfiram ingestion. Both complications partially resolved after the medication was stopped.
To examine the impact of maternal prepregnancy body mass index (BMI) on rates of recurrent preterm delivery (PTD) in women receiving 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17P) prophylaxis.
The study population was identified from a large perinatal database containing prospectively collected information from women at high risk for PTD. We included patients with a current singleton pregnancy and a history of PTD who received weekly nursing visits and 17P 250 mg intramuscular injections beginning at 16.0 to 20.9 weeks' gestation. The data were stratified by number of prior PTDs (1 or >1) and maternal prepregnancy BMI (lean, normal, overweight and obese). Primary study outcomes included the rates of recurrent PTD at <35 and 32 weeks' gestation, and pregnancy loss at <24 weeks' gestation.
Delivery outcomes for 606 women receiving 17P were analyzed. There were no significant differences found in the incidence of preterm labor, the rates of recurrent PTD or pregnancy loss at <35, 32 or 24 weeks between the BMI groups.
Maternal prepregnancy BMI does not appear to influence the rates of recurrent PTD in women with singleton gestation receiving 17P prophylaxis. Larger studies are needed to confirm our findings.
The zebrafish is a valuable model for studying hair cell development, structure, genetics, and behavior. Zebrafish and other aquatic vertebrates have hair cells on their body surface organized into a sensory system called the lateral line. These hair cells are highly accessible and easily visualized using fluorescent dyes. Morphological and functional similarities to mammalian hair cells of the inner ear make the zebrafish a powerful preparation for studying hair cell toxicity. The ototoxic potential of drugs has historically been uncovered by anecdotal reports that have led to more formal investigation. Currently, no standard screen for ototoxicity exists in drug development. Thus, for the vast majority of Food and Drug Association (FDA)-approved drugs, the ototoxic potential remains unknown. In this study, we used 5-day-old zebrafish larvae to screen a library of 1,040 FDA-approved drugs and bioactives (NINDS Custom Collection II) for ototoxic effects in hair cells of the lateral line. Hair cell nuclei were selectively labeled using a fluorescent vital dye. For the initial screen, fish were exposed to drugs from the library at a 100-muM concentration for 1 h in 96-well tissue culture plates. Hair cell viability was assessed in vivo using fluorescence microscopy. One thousand forty drugs were rapidly screened for ototoxic effects. Seven known ototoxic drugs included in the library, including neomycin and cisplatin, were positively identified using these methods, as proof of concept. Fourteen compounds without previously known ototoxicity were discovered to be selectively toxic to hair cells. Dose-response curves for all 21 ototoxic compounds were determined by quantifying hair cell survival as a function of drug concentration. Dose-response relationships in the mammalian inner ear for two of the compounds without known ototoxicity, pentamidine isethionate and propantheline bromide, were then examined using in vitro preparations of the adult mouse utricle. Significant dose-dependent hair cell loss in the mouse utricle was demonstrated for both compounds. This study represents an important step in validating the use of the zebrafish lateral line as a screening tool for the identification of potentially ototoxic drugs.
Sulforaphane (SFN) is an indirect antioxidant that protects animal tissues from chemical or biological insults by stimulating the expression of several NF-E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2)-regulated phase 2 enzymes. Treatment of RINm5F insulinoma cells with SFN increases Nrf2 nuclear translocation and expression of phase 2 enzymes. In this study, we investigated whether the activation of Nrf2 by SFN treatment or ectopic overexpression of Nrf2 inhibited cytokine-induced beta-cell damage. Treatment of RIN cells with IL-1beta and IFN-gamma induced beta-cell damage through a NF-kappaB-dependent signaling pathway. Activation of Nrf2 by treatment with SFN and induction of Nrf2 overexpression by transfection with Nrf2 prevented cytokine toxicity. The mechanism by which Nrf2 activation inhibited NF-kappaB-dependent cell death signals appeared to involve the reduction of oxidative stress, as demonstrated by the inhibition of cytokine-induced H(2)O(2) production. The protective effect of SFN was further demonstrated by the restoration of normal insulin secreting responses to glucose in cytokine-treated rat pancreatic islets. Furthermore, pretreatment with SFN blocked the development of type 1 diabetes in streptozotocin-treated mice.
To compare the maternal and fetal side effects of transdermal nitroglycerin and intravenous fenoterol combined with magnesium sulfate in a prospective randomised study.
Fifty pregnant women between 27 and 35 weeks of gestation with preterm labour were treated with either nitroglycerin (0.4-0.8 mg/h) or fenoterol (60 - 120 microg/h). Outcome parameters were (1) the effects on fetal and maternal heart frequency (FHF/MHF) and blood pressure, and (2) subjective experiences of adverse effects assessed by utilising a questionnaire.
In the fenoterol group, elevated mean MHF, FHF and systolic blood pressure were recorded compared to nitroglycerin. Fewer maternal side effects were reported in the nitroglycerin group. Palpitations (82%), tremor (68%) and restlessness (64%) were most common in the fenoterol group (two drop-outs), whereas nitroglycerin caused headaches in 71% of the cases (four drop-outs).
Transdermal nitroglycerin appears to be a safe therapy for the mother and fetus and is a promising new option for the treatment of preterm labour.
Paracetamol, a major cause of acute liver failure (ALF) represents a significant clinical problem. Adrenoceptor stimulation or antagonism can modulate chemical-induced hepatotoxicity. We investigated the role of endogenous catecholamines and alpha(1)-adrenoceptors in the development of paracetamol- induced hepatotoxicity.
Paracetamol (3.5 mmol kg(-1)) was administered to male CD-1 mice, with and without alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonists (prazosin, doxazosin, terazosin and tamsulosin; 35.7 micromol kg(-1)). Serum transaminases and hepatic glutathione (GSH) levels were assessed as markers of hepatic damage. Paracetamol bioactivation was assessed by covalent binding, hepatic and urinary conjugate formation and uridine glucuronosyltransferase activity. Plasma catecholamines levels and hepatic congestion were also analysed.
Plasma catecholamine levels were significantly elevated 5 h post paracetamol administration. Prazosin prevented hepatotoxicity when administered 1 h before a toxic paracetamol insult and importantly, when administered up to 1 h post paracetamol injection. Prazosin had no effect on paracetamol-induced depletion of hepatic GSH, paracetamol bioactivation or paracetamol-induced transcription of defence genes. Paracetamol toxicity is associated with marked accumulation of erythrocytes within hepatic sinusoids and prazosin completely prevented this accumulation.
Paracetamol-induced hepatocellular damage is associated with increased circulating catecholamines. alpha(1)-Adrenoceptor antagonists conferred complete protection from paracetamol -induced hepatotoxicity. Protection was associated with absence of hepatic erythrocyte accumulation. Increased catecholamine levels may contribute to the pathophysiology of paracetamol-induced hepatotoxicity by compromising hepatic perfusion. Protection against paracetamol toxicity by alpha(1) antagonists in mice has implications for therapeutic management of patients presenting with paracetamol overdose and ALF.
Topically applied anaesthetics may lead to a serious keratopathy. Three patients presented to us with disciform keratitis, peripheral corneal ring, and stromal infiltration following the topical use of oxybuprocaine. All three patients developed marked decrease in vision secondary to corneal scarring. In all three patients oxybuprocaine was dispensed over the counter by a pharmacist. Legislation for the restriction of over-the-counter sale of topical anaesthetics, steroids, and antibiotics is essential in the prevention of many of the self-induced ocular disorders seen in developing countries.
The anti-inflammatory profile of the aqueous extract of Bridelia ferruginea stem bark was investigated using both in vivo and in vitro models. The extract exhibited strong topical anti-inflammatory effect shown as inhibition of croton oil-induced ear oedema in mice, and reduced hind-paw swelling and growth retardation in the adjuvant-induced arthritis model in rats, following oral administration at 10, 20, 40 or 80 mg/kg. The extract (10-80 mg/kg, p.o.) caused an inhibition of increase in vascular permeability in both cyclophosphamide-induced haemorrhagic cystitis and acetic acid-induced vascular permeability in rats and mice, respectively. B. ferruginea produced stabilization of erythrocytes exposed to heat and stress-induced lysis. Antipyretic and analgesic properties of the extract were also observed.
We present the first known complication of forearm compartment syndrome after mannitol infusion during partial nephrectomy. We stress the importance of excellent intravenous catheter access and constant visual monitoring of the intravenous catheter site during and after mannitol infusion as ways to prevent this complication. Prompt recognition of compartment syndrome with appropriate intervention can prevent long-term sequelae.
Noninvasive surrogate markers provide valuable information on the asthmatic inflammatory process. We wished to examine the effects of low dose fluticasone/salmeterol combination on different commonly used inflammatory markers in moderate persistent asthma.
Twenty-five moderate persistent atopic asthmatics were enrolled of whom 20 completed an open label study. Following an initial 4 week steroid washout period in which patients took salmeterol 50 microg dry powder inhaler 1 puff BD, they received the addition of fluticasone as fluticasone 100 microg/salmeterol 50 microg combination dry powder inhaler 1 puff BD for the next 2 weeks. Exhaled nitric oxide, spirometry, methacholine PD20, sputum/blood eosinophils and sputum/serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) were measured following the salmeterol only and fluticasone/salmeterol combination treatment periods.
Compared to salmeterol alone (i.e. after the steroid washout), the use of fluticasone/salmeterol combination conferred significant improvements (P < 0.05) in all surrogate markers of inflammation apart from serum ECP. Geometric mean fold changes were 4.3-fold/1.3-fold for sputum/blood eosinophils, 2.2-fold/1.2-fold for sputum/serum ECP, 2.3-fold for methacholine PD20 and 1.8-fold for exhaled nitric oxide.
Surrogate markers apart from serum ECP may be used as a guide to evaluate the anti-inflammatory effects of low dose inhaled corticosteroids. Sputum markers tend to be more sensitive than blood when assessing the anti-inflammatory response.
A sixty-eight-year-old female developed severe hypotension immediately after the administration of epidural meperidine for post-thoracotomy pain. Two preceding injections of epidural opiates had been uneventful. The cardiovascular collapse was difficult to reverse and may have contributed to the patient's subsequent death. Cardiovascular complications have not been reported frequently as a possible side effect of epidural opiate analgesia.
The effects of dexamethasone (DEX) on systolic blood pressure, sodium balance and the renin-angiotensin system were studied in rats. DEX significantly increased systolic blood pressure within three days of its administration, but this effect of DEX on blood pressure was not enhanced by concurrent use of saline solution. In DEX-treated rats, urine volume was significantly increased and urinary sodium excretion showed a tendency toward a slight increase compared to control rats. On the 8th day of DEX administration, plasma renin substrate (PRS) was significantly elevated compared to control rats, whereas plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC) was not significantly different from that of control rats. These results suggest that hypertension induced by DEX may not be dependent on sodium retention or activation of the renin-angiotensin system.
A 38-year old woman receiving phenytoin (diphenylhydantoin) noticed maculopapular erythema as the first manifestation of a syndrome that included acute renal failure and myositis in addition to fever, lymphadenopathy, exfoliative dermatitis, and hepatitis. Prednisolone sodium phosphate therapy resulted in resolution of this hypersensitivity reaction, and she recovered from renal insufficiency. The occurrence of renal failure and myositis in the spectrum of phenytoin hypersensitivity reactions is discussed, and the importance of a morbilliform rash in a patient receiving phenytoin is emphasized.
