The effect of potassium dichromate (K(2)Cr(2)O(7)), a hexavalent chromium compound, on human erythrocytes was studied under in vitro conditions. Incubation of erythrocytes with different concentrations of K(2)Cr(2)O(7) resulted in marked hemolysis in a concentration-dependent manner. K(2)Cr(2)O(7) treatment also caused significant increase in protein oxidation, lipid peroxidation and decrease in total sulfhydryl content, indicating that it causes oxidative stress in human erythrocytes. However, there was no concomitant nitrosative stress as the nitric oxide levels in hemolysates from K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-treated erythrocytes were lower than in control. Exposure of erythrocytes to K(2)Cr(2)O(7) decreased the activities of catalase, glutathione peroxidase, thioredoxin reductase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and glutathione reductase, whereas the activities of Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase and glutathione S-transferase were increased. These results show that K(2)Cr(2)O(7) induces oxidative stress and alters the antioxidant defense mechanism of human erythrocytes.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) suppress various hyperalgesia perhaps via inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity at the spinal cord. The present study aimed to examine whether epidural application of NSAIDs affects hyperalgesia induced by nitric oxide.
The authors studied the antinociceptive effects of epidurally administered NSAIDs in rats with a chronically in-dwelling epidural catheter by three hyperalgesic models, including nitric oxide-induced hyperalgesia by nitroglycerin (10 microg) or l-arginine (100 microg), and the biphasic response in the formalin test.
Epidural, but not systemic, nitroglycerin induced hyperalgesia that was completely blocked by methylene blue but not by N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Epidural l-arginine, but not d-arginine, also induced hyperalgesia that was completely blocked by L-NAME. Epidural S(+)ibuprofen (100-1,000 microg) suppressed the nitroglycerin- and l-arginine-induced thermal hyperalgesia and also the second phase response in the formalin test. Neither systemic S(+)ibuprofen nor epidural R(-)ibuprofen suppressed the hyperalgesia Epidural indomethacin (10-100 microg) or diclofenac (10-1,000 microg) dose-dependently suppressed nitroglycerin-induced thermal hyperalgesia The order of potency for this suppression (ID50 in microg) was indomethacin = didofenac > S(+)ibuprofen > R(-)ibuprofen.
The antinociceptive action of epidurally administered NSAIDs could be the result of suppression of spinal sensitization, perhaps induced with nitric oxide in the spinal cord. The ID50 values for epidural indomethacin, diclofenac, and S(+)ibuprofen were about 10 times higher than those reported in other studies for intrathecal NSAIDs in hyperalgesia models. (Key words: Cyclooxygenase inhibitors; NO donor; NO precursor; optical isomers; neuroplasticity.)
The Menkes protein (MNK; ATP7A) is a copper-transporting P-type ATPase that is defective in the copper deficiency disorder, Menkes disease. MNK is localized in the trans-Golgi network and transports copper to enzymes synthesized within secretory compartments. However, in cells exposed to excessive copper, MNK traffics to the plasma membrane where it functions in copper efflux. A conserved feature of all P-type ATPases is the formation of an acyl-phosphate intermediate, which occurs as part of the catalytic cycle during cation transport. In this study we investigated the effect of mutations within conserved catalytic regions of MNK on intracellular localization and trafficking from the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Our findings suggest that mutations that block formation of the phosphorylated catalytic intermediate also prevent copper-induced relocalization of MNK from the TGN. Furthermore, mutations in the phosphatase domain, which resulted in hyperphosphorylation of MNK, caused constitutive trafficking from the TGN to the plasma membrane. A similar effect on trafficking was observed with a phosphatase mutation in the closely related copper ATPase, ATP7B, affected in Wilson disease. These findings suggest that the copper-induced trafficking of the Menkes and Wilson disease copper ATPases is associated with the phosphorylated intermediate that is formed during the catalysis of these pumps. Our findings describe a novel mechanism for regulating the subcellular location of a transport protein involving the recognition of intermediate conformations during catalysis.
Primary plasma cell (PCL) leukemia is a rare lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by a malignant proliferation of plasma cells in the bone marrow and peripheral blood. Survival with standard therapy using melphalan is very poor. Doxorubicin encapsulated with liposomes has less cardiotoxicity, is at least as efficient and has fewer side effects than conventional doxorubicin. Two female patients (69 and 54 yr old) with primary PCL are described in this study. They both received a modified form of VAD (vincristine, doxorubicin and dexamethasone), a regimen which includes liposomal doxorubicin (40 mg/m2 for 1 d), vincristine (2 mg for 1 d) and dexamethasone 40 mg per os on days 1-4, 9-12 and 17-20. A disease evaluation of the first patient after six courses of the modified \VAD regimen showed no plasma cells in the peripheral blood, a decrease in the serum M protein level and a plasma cell infiltration in the bone marrow of less than 5%. The patient died from a cardiac episode 24 months post-diagnosis, while she was in complete hematological remission. The second patient also exhibited good tolerance to liposomal doxorubicin with no side effects, achieved complete haematological remission and remains in good condition 7 months after the last VAD administration. These results suggest that this modified form of VAD regimen also seems to work in PCL and is well tolerated with no side effects.
We describe a case of 1:1 atrial flutter in a patient with coronary disease taking propafenone. In atrial flutter, the atrial rate is usually about 300 beats/min with 2:1 AV conduction and a ventricular rate of 150 beats/min. Class IA antiarrhythmic drugs, especially quinidine and disopyramide, may cause 1:1 AV response because they reduce atrial rate and are vagolytic. However, propafenone is a Class IC agent and has no anticholinergic properties, and the occurrence of 1:1 AV conduction at a rate of about 250 beats/min is an important side effect that, although uncommon, should be recognized.
The anaesthetic management of a patient with an unsuspected homozygous atypical pseudocholinesterase genotype is described. Suxamethonium was administered after an arterial tourniquet had been applied to the patient's right leg. After release of the tourniquet and termination of the anaesthetic it was noted that the patient was able to move his right leg but no other part of his body. This observation was confirmed by the use of a peripheral nerve stimulator and by the patient's own recollections. It is suggested that this occurrence shows that the slow offset of neuromuscular block in patients with atypical pseudocholinesterases who have received suxamethonium is caused by long lasting effects at the neuromuscular junction rather than the continuing presence of suxamethonium in the plasma.
Serum paraoxonase is a glycoprotein which binds to high-density lipoproteins (HDL) and may prevent oxidation of LDL by hydrolyzing lipid peroxides. Two polymorphisms identified in the paraoxonase gene (Met-Leu 54 and Gln-Arg 192) have been associated with cardiovascular disease. Oxidative low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is also toxic to retinal capillary endothelial cells and pericytes, so that mildly modified LDL may contribute to the development of diabetic retinopathy. To investigate the potential significance of these polymorphisms in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy in IDDM, 80 patients with diabetic retinopathy and 119 controls without diabetic retinopathy were investigated in the current project. The allelic frequency of leucine 54 (L) was significantly higher in the group with retinopathy than without retinopathy (73% vs. 57%, p < 0.001). The genotype L/L was strongly associated with the development of diabetic retinopathy (p < 0.001), but a similar association was not found with Gln-Arg 192. Leucine 54 is a risk factor for diabetic retinopathy.
Because nitroprusside NTP infusion used to differentiate between fixed and reversible pulmonary artery hypertension in heart transplant candidates can result in systemic hypotension before reducing pulmonary artery pressures, we observed the effect or inhaled prostacyclin (PGI(2)) on pulmonary artery pressures and transpulmonic gradient (TPG) in patients with NTP-resistant pulmonary artery hypertension. Six patients undergoing evaluation for orthotropic heart transplant (OHTX) with NTP-resistant pulmonary artery hypertension received inhaled PGI(2), with hemodynamic measurements made at baseline, on NTP- and PGI(2) inhaled after returning to baseline. Compared with hemodynamic results with NTP, inhaled PGI(2) caused significant decrease in pulmonary artery systotic pressure, 43.8 +/- 4.8 mm Hg vs 63.2 +/- 2.04 mm Hg (p < 0.001); Mean pulmonary artery pressure, 22.7 +/- 4.18 vs 32.3 +/- 3.39 mm Hg (p < 0.05); and TPG, 11.5 +/- 3.73 vs 17.0 +/- 4.69 mm Hg (p < 0.05), with a 40% decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance/systemic vascular resistance ratio. We conclude that inhaled PGI(2) has benefit in reversing pulmonary artery hypertension resistant to NTP, in patients undergoing OHTX evaluation which is due to its more selective pulmonary vasodilation.
Toxic encephalopathy is a rarely described side effect of 5-fluorouracil which usually presents with cerebellar, neuropsychiatric, and focal neurological symptoms. Magnetic resonance imaging findings are described as patchy white matter alterations. We report the 1st case of capecitabine-induced toxic encephalopathy with epilepsy-like symptoms and diffuse white matter alterations on magnetic resonance imaging.
In adult and elderly non-epileptic subjects psychoactive drugs may cause an altered state of consciousness and repetitive irritative EEG discharges. The neurotoxic pathogenesis of this drug-induced confusion and the differentiation from absence status are discussed. Dramatic relief by intravenous benzodiazepines is detailed. Recovery is complete and prognosis is excellent on withdrawal of the offending drug.
Atrial fibrillation is a common arrhythmia with considerable morbidity and mortality. Limitations in studying both the mechanisms and therapy of atrial fibrillation arise due to the paucity of models that yield sufficiently high-quality data, are not costly, and in which atrial fibrillation is sustained long enough to make the necessary observations. The canine model we present is based on the hypothesis that atrial fibrillation requires heterogeneity of repolarization, that distribution of vagal fibers is heterogeneous in the atria, and that atrial fibrillation will persist after reflex stimulation of vagal efferents by increased systemic arterial pressure. Dogs were anesthetized with morphine-chloralose because this combination maintains nearly intact autonomic control. Systemic arterial pressure was elevated approximately 75 mm Hg during infusion of phenylephrine (2 microg/kg x min(-1)). The right atrium was paced for 20 min at 40 Hz. Atrial fibrillation was sustained after cessation of atrial pacing in dogs receiving phenylephrine, but terminated within seconds in normotensive animals. In conclusion, atrial fibrillation can be maintained for at least 40 min after cessation of rapid atrial pacing in dogs with phenylephrine-induced hypertension.
Ethyldimethyl(7-methylcoumaran-3-yl)ammonium iodide (SK&F 90,109) and its guanidine analogue [N-(7-methylcoumaran-3-yl)guanidine nitrate] (SK&F 90,238) abolish the effects of adrenergic nerve stimulation in cats, as do xylocholine and bretylium. SK&F 90,109 has slight sympathomimetic actions; these are less marked than in SK&F 90,238. Large doses of SK&F 90,109 have an action, dependent on local noradrenaline stores, that delays the appearance of adrenergic-neurone blockade in conscious cats. Responses to adrenaline are, in general, enhanced by each drug, but SK&F 90,238 transiently antagonizes tachycardia induced by adrenaline and isoprenaline. Both drugs inhibit the release of noradrenaline from the spleen during splenic nerve stimulation, but the release of catechol amines from the adrenal glands, in response to electrical or chemical stimulation, is unimpaired. In contrast to the prolonged adrenergic-neurone blocking action, any inhibition of the effects of cholinergic nerve stimulation is transient. Large intravenous doses produce neuromuscular blockade. The compounds have a slight central depressant action. In contrast to reserpine and guanethidine the noradrenaline content of rat hearts is not appreciably lowered 24 hr after a single dose of either drug. Unlike xylocholine they are not local anaesthetics. Related compounds also block the effects of adrenergic-nerve stimulation. The possible modes of action of these drugs are discussed.
Two groups, each of ten female rats, were orally dosed with the synthetic oestrogens diethylstilboestrol (DES; 6 mg/kg day) and hexoestrol (60 mg/kg/day) for 6 wk. A further group of ten animals received clomiphene citrate (2 mg/kg/day) and DES (6 mg/kg/day), while two groups, each of ten animals, acted as controls. One animal treated with DES died within the 42-day study period. Its death was associated with a bleeding disorder related to severe liver damage. The remaining treated animals showed little overt toxicity. The major haematological finding in the treated animals that survived was a moderate, stable, normocytic, normochromic anaemia. The terminal bone marrows of these animals showed a modest degree of erythroid hypoplasia. There were stimulatory and other changes in the reproductive tract and there were gains in the liver, adrenal and pituitary weights. These effects were more marked in the rats treated with hexoestrol, the gains in the relative organ weights being particularly striking: liver, 51%, adrenals, 210%, uterus, 79% and pituitary, 500%. The oestrogens caused reductions in body weight (18% in both cases) and appetite, a modest degree of fatty change in the liver, and alterations in the serum proteins. The Thrombotest clotting times of the hexoestrol-treated rats were prolonged. Clomiphene citrate decreased the adverse effects of DES on appetite and body weight, and sharply decreased the gains in the pituitary and uterine weights from 243 to 80% and 59 to 14%, respectively. The toxic effects of the oestrogens in the rat were more closely related to the dose administered than to their hormonal potency. Oestrogens are less toxic to the rat than they are to the cat, dog and ferret, and the toxic effects are in many respects qualitatively different.
Acrylonitrile is a potent hepatotoxic, mutagen, and carcinogen. A role for free radical-mediated lipid peroxidation in the toxicity of acrylonitrile has been suggested. The present study was designed to assess the hepatoprotective effect of quercetin against acrylonitrile-induced hepatotoxicity in rats. Liver damage was induced by oral administration of acrylonitrile (50 mg/kg/day/5 weeks). Acrylonitrile produced a significant elevation of malondialdehyde (138.9%) with a marked decrease in reduced glutathione (72.4%), and enzymatic antioxidants; superoxide dismutase (81%), and glutathione peroxidase (53.2%) in the liver. Serum aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferases, direct bilirubin, and total bilirubin showed a significant increase in acrylonitrile alone treated rats (115.5%, 110.8%, 1006.8%, and 1000.8%, respectively). Pretreatment with quercetin (70 mg/kg/day/6 weeks) and its coadministration with acrylonitrile prevented acrylonitrile-induced alterations in hepatic lipid peroxides and enzymatic antioxidants as well as serum aminotransferases and bilirubin. Histopathological findings supported the biochemical results. We suggest that querectin possess hepatoprotective effect against acrylonitrile-induced hepatotoxicity through its antioxidant activity.
N-vinylpyrrolidone dimer (VPD), a novel vehicle for preclinical toxicity studies, was evaluated in a standard 28-day oral toxicity study in rats including a 4 week recovery period. In addition, a subgroup of animals was dosed for 13 weeks. In the 28-day study arm, daily dosages of 0 (saline control, 3mL/kg), 300, 1000 or 3000mg/kg at respective dose volumes of 0.3, 1 and 3mL/kg were administered. In the 13 week study arm, animals received daily doses of 0 or 300mg/kg. No test item related mortality or changes in body weight, food consumption, ophthalmology and clinical pathology parameters were observed after 28-days or 13 weeks of administration. VPD induced transient salivation at all tested dose levels after each dose and increased water consumption at doses ≥1000mg/kg (28-day arm). After 28-days of administration, urinalysis revealed slightly higher mean specific gravity in all treated groups. Relevant organ weight changes consisted of increased mean liver weights. Histopathology revealed hepatocellular centrilobular hypertrophy at a dose-related incidence and severity, minimal to slight follicular cell hypertrophy in male thyroids, hypertrophy of basophil/chromophobe cells in pituitaries and an increase in kidney hyaline droplets consistent with α(2μ)-globuline immunohistochemistry. After a 4-week recovery, all changes were partially or completely reversible. Administration of VPD at 300mg/kg for 13 weeks caused similar histopathological findings observed after 28-days dosing. Overall, in rats, repeated high oral doses of VPD produced changes in the liver, thyroid and pituitary, most likely secondary to hepatic microsomal enzyme induction and stimulation of the thyroid via disruption of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis. In conclusion, our data suggest that VPD is a promising vehicle for preclinical studies. However, in rats, findings secondary to hepatic microsomal enzyme induction and stimulation of the thyroid need to be taken into consideration, depending on dose and study duration. In order to develop VPD as a preclinical excipient, additional preclinical toxicity studies (non-rodents, different administration routes, chronic and reproductive toxicity) would be beneficial.
Caries is the most common oral infectious disease in the world. Its development is influenced also by diet components that interfere with pathogen mutans group Streptococci (MGS) activity. A very active research to identify functional foods and their components that are generally recognised as safe has been ongoing, with the aim of developing alternative approaches, to the use of synthetic chlorhexidine, and at the reduction or prevention of caries. Until now convincing evidence exists only for green tea as a functional food for oral health, partly owing to its high content of catechins, especially epigallocatechin-gallate. A number of other foods showed potential anticaries activity. Some other foods able to act against MGS growth and/or their virulence factors in in vitro tests are: apple, red grape seeds, red wine (proanthocyanidins), nutmeg (macelignan), ajowan caraway (nafthalen-derivative), coffee (trigonelline, nicotinic and chlorogenic acids, melanoidins), barley coffee (melanoidins), chicory and mushroom (quinic acid). In vivo anticaries activity has been shown by cranberry (procyanidins), glycyrrhiza root (glycyrrhizol-A), myrtus ethanolic extract, garlic aqueous extract, cocoa extracts (procyanidins), and propolis (apigenin, tt-farnesol).
Two cases of acute blindness due to quinine poisoning are presented. In both cases, the diagnosis was initially unsuspected. In addition, tinnitus, decreased hearing, vomiting, abdominal pain, and confusion were noted in one patient, and the other experienced decreased hearing, headache, confusion, tachycardia, later bradycardia, and first-degree atrioventricular block. The onset of blindness was delayed more than 12 hours after ingestion in both cases. Quinine levels of 13.6 micrograms/mL and 18.6 micrograms/mL were demonstrated (therapeutic = 1 to 3 micrograms/mL). One patient developed marked constriction of visual fields and some residual decreased acuity, while the other regained normal visual acuity.
Black bear bile has been used in traditional Chinese medicine to treat liver and eye related illnesses for centuries. A major constituent of bile is ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA). Recent analysis of the cellular effects of UDCA and its taurine conjugate tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) have demonstrated their antiapoptotic properties through regulation of Bcl-2 family and survival signaling proteins (Bax, Bad, phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase). In this study, we tested the hypothesis that TUDCA administered to rats prior to a myocardial infarction (MI) would exhibit anti-apoptotic effects and improve cardiac function. Prior to ligation of the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery, TUDCA (50 mg/ml, 400 mg/kg, IV) or PBS was administered to rats. Animals were sacrificed 24 hours after ligation for terminal transferase-mediated dUTP-digoxigenin nick end-labeling (TUNEL) and caspase-3 activity to assess apoptosis. Additional TUDCA or PBS treated rats underwent pre-operative,1 and 4 week transthoracic ultrasounds to assess heart function by quantification of shortening fraction (SF) and infarct area. TUNEL labeling of the cardiac tissue revealed a significant reduction in apoptotic cells in rats given TUDCA prior to ischemic injury (p = 0.05). In support of reducing apoptosis, caspase-3 activity in the TUDCA treated animals also decreased (p = 0.02). By 4 weeks, a significantly smaller infarct area was present in the TUDCA group compared to the PBS group (0.05 vs. 0.13 cm(2), p = NS) and there was also an improvement in SF. The results provide evidence for TUDCA as a viable treatment for reducing apoptosis in a model of myocardial infarction. Additional studies will distinguish the functional result of improved cell survival following infarction, suggesting the potential for clinical application of this anti-apoptotic drug in treatment of acute MI.
Previous research shows that the use of ecstasy results in working memory and executive impairments in some users. The present study sought to assess the functional significance of such deficits using a virtual reality task.
Twenty-three ecstasy-polydrug users and 26 nonusers were recruited. Individuals completed a drug use questionnaire measures of sleep quality and fluid intelligence. Participants also completed a virtual reality executive function task in which they play the role of an office worker for the day completing predefined tasks such as prioritising different activities according to their importance, organising the physical office environment and managing the outgoing mail in accordance with a delivery schedule.
MANOVA revealed that ecstasy users performed worse on the virtual reality task overall, and this was due to poorer performance on the planning and selection subscales. Contrary to expectations, ecstasy-polydrug users performed better on the time-based prospective memory subscale. Indices of ecstasy use were correlated with the planning subscale of the virtual task.
The present study provides further support for ecstasy/polydrug related deficits in executive functioning. As it is possible that this task is more ecologically valid and relevant to day-to-day activities of many users, previous research finding null results on executive function tasks may have underestimated the impact of ecstasy-polydrug use on executive functioning.
The aim of the study was to investigate the association between genetic variation in the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) gene and longitudinal weight change during long-term clozapine treatment.
Fifty-five patients with refractory schizophrenia treated with clozapine for 8 years were recruited. Gender, age, treatment response to clozapine in the first 14 months, baseline BMI, clozapine dose, concomitant use of mood stabilizers and other antipsychotics, and -308 G > A polymorphism in the human TNF-alpha gene were analyzed using generalized estimating equations.
In addition to having a lower baseline BMI (p = 0.0013) and a longer treatment time (p = 0.050), the -308 GG carriers gained significantly more weight than the -308 A allele carriers (p = 0.0084) during 8 years of clozapine treatment, after controlling for other non-genetic factors.
The -308 G > A genetic variant of the TNF-alpha gene is associated with longitudinal weight change during clozapine treatment. Follow-up duration is an important factor to consider when performing pharmacogenetic study of clozapine-induced weight gain.
We discuss the case of a 35-year-old woman who presented with thought impoverishment, disorganized behavior, and echolalia. The patient's condition progressed to treatment-refractory catatonia. She was started on oral Coenzyme Q10 after magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed findings consistent with drug-induced leukoencephalopathy (DIL). Following improvement, she acknowledged cocaine use that suggested a diagnosis of cocaine-induced leukoencephalopathy (CIL). This case report seeks to elucidate radiological and clinical features of DIL.
Verapamil is a calcium channel blocking agent with possible antimanic properties. In two elderly manic patients taking the medication in combination with lithium carbonate, profound bradycardia developed and was followed by a fatal myocardial infarction in one case. Clinical implications and possible mechanisms of cardiovascular interactions between verapamil and lithium are discussed. Caution is advised in the use of lithium and verapamil together.
A reduction in nerve conduction velocity and an increase in resistance to ischemic conduction failure are early signs of neural dysfunction in both diabetic patients and animal models of diabetes. The effect of Bimoclomol (BRLP-42), a drug under clinical development for the treatment of diabetic complications, on experimental peripheral neuropathy was examined in rats made diabetic by injection of streptozotocin. Daily oral doses of Bimoclomol (10 or 20 mg/kg) or control dose of gamma-linolenic acid (260 mg/kg), an agent with known neuropathy-improving effects, were administered for 3 months. Treatments began 1 day after diabetes induction to assess the prophylactic efficacy of Bimoclomol. Neuropathy was evaluated electrophysiologically by measuring motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities and resistance to ischemic conduction failure of sciatic nerve in vivo. Bimoclomol significantly reduced nerve conduction slowing and retarded the typical elevated ischaemic resistance due to streptozotocin-induced neuropathy, suggesting that the drug might be a useful treatment for diabetic peripheral neuropathies.
Direct (intracisternal) injection of aluminum complexes into rabbit brain results in a number of similarities with the neuropathological and biochemical changes observed in Alzheimer's disease and provides the opportunity to assess early events in neurodegeneration. This mode of administration induces cytochrome c release from mitochondria, a decrease in Bcl-2 in both mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum, Bax translocation into mitochondria, activation of caspase-3, and DNA fragmentation. Coadministration of glial cell neuronal-derived factor (GDNF) inhibits these Bcl-2 and Bax changes, upregulates Bcl-XL, and abolishes the caspase-3 activity. Furthermore, treatment with GDNF dramatically inhibits apoptosis, as assessed by the TUNEL technique for detecting DNA damage. Treatment with GDNF may represent a therapeutic strategy to reverse the neuronal death associated with Alzheimer's disease and may exert its effect on apoptosis-regulatory proteins.
A new, rapid dose-induction procedure was used in the evaluation of buprenorphine hydrochloride (buprenorphine) as a treatment for opiate dependence. Nineteen heroin-dependent men were given buprenorphine sublingually in ascending daily doses of 2, 4, and 8 mg and then maintained on 8 mg daily. The observations of the transition from heroin to buprenorphine for the first 4 days are described. During this period, subjects reported significantly elevated ratings of "good effects" and feelings of "overall well-being" and decreased ratings of "overall sickness." Data from subscales of the Addiction Research Center Inventory indicated increasing euphoria and decreasing dysphoria and sedation after buprenorphine administration. Subjects and observers consistently identified buprenorphine as an opiate and not as an opiate antagonist. These findings indicate that a rapid dose induction with buprenorphine is acceptable to heroin-dependent persons and that it causes minimal withdrawal symptoms.
The two major electrophysiologic effects of quinidine are prolongation of refractoriness and prolongation of conduction time. To determine which of these effects contributes to its antiarrhythmic effect, we compared the electrophysiologic effects of quinidine and its stereoisomer quinine (which was expected to prolong conduction time but not refractoriness) in 24 dogs with inducible sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia late after ischemic injury. Conscious but sedated animals were randomly assigned to receive infusions of saline, quinidine, or quinine. Serum concentrations of quinidine and quinine were 18 +/- 9 and 23 +/- 8 microM, respectively. Both drugs prolonged conduction times to a similar extent, but quinidine prolonged local repolarization times and refractoriness much more than quinine. Sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia was consistently inducible during placebo (saline) studies. Antiarrhythmic efficacy was observed with quinidine (3 of 12) but not quinine (0 of 15) or saline (0 of 13) (p less than 0.05, Chi-square test). Quinidine also significantly prolonged monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) cycle length (157 +/- 33 ms on quinidine vs. 129 +/- 26 ms at baseline, p less than 0.001) whereas quinine had no significant effect. Thus, prolonging refractoriness is important in preventing the induction of ventricular tachyarrhythmias and in prolonging VT cycle length.
Venlafaxine, an atypical antidepressant drug, has been used to treat several neurological disorders, presenting excellent efficacy and tolerability. Clinical seizures after venlafaxine treatment have occasionally been reported when the drug was used at very high doses or in combination with other medications. The aim of the present study was to investigate the convulsant effects of venlafaxine in rats under controlled laboratory conditions. Adult male Wistar rats (8 per group) receiving venlafaxine or saline at the doses of 25-150 mg/kg were subjected 30 min later to injections of pentylenetetrazole at the dose of 60 mg/kg. The animals receiving 75, 100 and 150 mg/kg venlafaxine presented increased severity of convulsion when compared to controls (P = 0.02, P = 0.04, and P = 0.0004, respectively). Indeed, an increased percentage of death was observed in these groups (50, 38, and 88%, respectively) when compared to the percentage of death in the controls (0%). The group receiving 150 mg/kg showed an reduction in death latency (999 +/- 146 s) compared to controls (1800 +/- 0 s; cut-off time). Indeed, in this group, all animals developed seizures prior to pentylenetetrazole administration. Surprisingly, the groups receiving venlafaxine at the doses of 25 and 50 mg/kg showed a tendency towards an increase in the latency to the first convulsion. These findings suggest that venlafaxine at doses of 25 and 50 mg/kg has some tendency to an anticonvulsant effect in the rat, whereas doses of 75, 100 and 150 mg/kg presented clear proconvulsant effects in rats submitted to the pentylenetetrazole injection. These findings are the first report in the literature concerning the role of venlafaxine in seizure genesis in the rat under controlled conditions.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is an aggressive cancer with a poor prognosis. The specific cellular gene alterations responsible for hepatocarcinogenesis are not well known. Previous works showed that loss of TIP30, also called CC3, a putative tumor suppressor, increased the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in mice, and some clinical samples of human HCC tissues had aberrant expression of TIP30. Here, we report that the introduction of TIP30 by an adenovirus vector into HCC cell lines that had decreased expressions of TIP30 inhibited cell proliferation, decreased anchorage-dependent growth, suppressed invasion through the extracellular matrix, and inhibited tumorigenesis in nude mice. Moreover, exogenous expression of Tip30 sensitized HCC cells to cytotoxic drugs and to apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor-related ligands in vitro. Ectopic expression of TIP30 in HCC cells enhanced p53 expression and decreased Bcl-2/Bcl-xL expression. Treatment of nude mice bearing subcutaneously established HCC tumors with a combination of an adenovirus expressing TIP30 and the cytotoxic drug 5-fluorouracil completely suppressed tumor growth and prolonged survival. In conclusion, TIP30 may play an important role in the suppression of hepatocarcinogenesis by acting as a tumor suppressor. Overexpression of TIP30 might be a promising candidate as a treatment for HCC that would increase sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs.
