The in vivo characterization of a dual adenosine A(2A)/A(1) receptor antagonist in several animal models of Parkinson's disease is described. Discovery and scale-up syntheses of compound 1 are described in detail, highlighting optimization steps that increased the overall yield of 1 from 10.0% to 30.5%. Compound 1 is a potent A(2A)/A(1) receptor antagonist in vitro (A(2A) K(i) = 4.1 nM; A(1) K(i) = 17.0 nM) that has excellent activity, after oral administration, across a number of animal models of Parkinson's disease including mouse and rat models of haloperidol-induced catalepsy, mouse model of reserpine-induced akinesia, rat 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion model of drug-induced rotation, and MPTP-treated non-human primate model.
Our group developed a new psychostimulant animal model reflecting some clinical aspects of schizophrenia better than the conventional model does. In this model, long-lasting prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficit at the basement state is induced via repeated administration of methamphetamine (METH, 2.5mg/kg) without challenge injection of this psychostimulant. This study elucidates the effects of lamotrigine (LTG, 30mg/kg) on the initiation and expression of a steady-state PPI deficit induced by the repeated METH administration. We assessed the effect of coadministration of LTG and METH on the initiation of PPI deficit. The LTG was injected 120min after each METH injection for 5 times on every alternate day and for an additional 5 times every day, amounting to a total of 10 times. After 11-13 days of the withdrawal period, we measured PPI using the SR-LAB system. Using other animals after 20min of LTG injection, we subsequently examined the effect of a single injection of LTG on the expression of PPI deficit caused by the repeated METH administration. The LTG blocked the initiation of PPI deficit induced by the repeated METH administration at 68dB of prepulse intensity, but had no effect on the startle amplitude. The LTG prevented the initiation and expression of neuroplastic PPI deficit detected at the baseline state without any METH challenge injection, which was induced by the repeated administration of this psychostimulant. Results suggest that LTG is useful for blocking progressive deterioration of neurocognitive function and recovering the neurocognitive deficit in schizophrenia.
Severe side effects, local or systemic, are uncommon with intravesically administered mitomycin C. Bladder fibrosis and contracture, with resultant renal failure, are unusual but possible.
alpha-Tocopherol transfer protein (alpha-TTP) maintains the concentration of serum alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E), one of the most potent fat-soluble antioxidants, by facilitating alpha-tocopherol export from the liver. Mutations of the alpha-TTP gene are linked to ataxia with isolated vitamin E deficiency (AVED). We produced a model mouse of AVED by deleting the alpha-TTP gene, which showed ataxia and retinal degeneration after 1 year of age. Because the brain alpha-TTP functions in maintaining alpha-tocopherol levels in the brain, alpha-tocopherol was completely depleted in the alpha-TTP(-/-) mouse brain, and the neurological phenotype of alpha-TTP(-/-) mice is much more severe than that of wild-type mice when maintained on an alpha-tocopherol-deficient diet. Lipid peroxidation in alpha-TTP(-/-) mice brains showed a significant increase, especially in degenerating neurons. alpha-Tocopherol supplementation suppressed lipid peroxidation and almost completely prevented the development of neurological symptoms. This therapy almost completely corrects the abnormalities in a mouse model of human neurodegenerative disease. Moreover, alpha-TTP(-/-) mice may prove to be excellent animal models of delayed onset, slowly progressive neuronal degeneration caused by chronic oxidative stress.
The histopathology of the olfactory mucosal lesion associated with ip administration of 2,6-dichlorobenzonitrile (dichlobenil) and 3,3'-iminodipropionitrile (IDPN) has been well documented. Whether there is an olfactory deficit associated with the partial loss of the olfactory mucosa (localized around the dorsal medial meatus of the nasal cavity) has yet to be determined. Dichlobenil (100 mg/kg) or IDPN (200 mg/kg) was administered ip to adult male Long-Evans rats previously trained in an olfactory task to find a food pellet buried in approximately 7.5 cm of bedding in a 0.61 x 1.2 x 0.61-m Plexiglass chamber. As a positive control, another group received 300 mg/kg ip of 1-methyl-2-mercaptoimidazole (methimazole), a dosing regimen which destroys nearly all of the olfactory mucosa. All three compounds caused a transient increase in the mean latency to find the pellet, with the magnitude of the effect positively correlated with the extent of the olfactory lesion. In order to determine whether these deficits resulted from olfactory dysfunction or impaired cognitive function (a deficit previously attributed to IDPN exposure), another group of rats was dosed as above and tested in another spatial memory task, the Morris water maze (MWM), which is less dependent upon olfactory function. No performance deficit was detected in the MWM. These data suggest that the transient olfactory deficit in the dichlobenil-, IDPN-, and methimazole-treated rats is attributable to defective olfactory function.
Multidrug-resistant Salmonella typhi has spread to many parts of India, causing severe therapeutic problems. Of the 305 clinically suspected cases of enteric fever seen at Kasturba Hospital in Manipal, Karnataka between January 1990 and June 1991, Salmonella bacteremia was detected in 134 patients; 102 of these were caused by S. typhi. Eighty (78.4%) of the isolates from S. typhi-infected patients were resistant to conventional antibiotics used in the treatment of typhoid fever (i.e., ampicillin, chloramphenicol, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole). No in vitro resistance was observed to ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, and gentamicin. Major complications were seen in four patients infected by multiresistant S. typhi; three responded well to ciprofloxacin. The fourth patient died of hemorrhage and acute renal failure, even after receiving ciprofloxacin. In addition, less severe complications such as hepatitis and jaundice were observed in 12 other patients. Seventy-six of the multiresistant S. typhi belonged to phage type O biotype II and four were of untypeable Vi strains. The emergence of multidrug-resistant S. typhi has necessitated the use of fluoroquinolones in the therapy for enteric fever.
Anti neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies are associated to vasculitis and crescentic glomerulonephritis in adults. However, this association has been seldom reported in children. We report two girls aged 12 and 15 years old with ANCA + glomerulonephritis. Both were subjected to a percutaneous kidney biopsy. One girl had to enter a chronic hemodialysis program. The other patient recovered her renal function and after 12 months of treatment with steroids and cyclophosphamide microscopic hematuria and proteinuria persist but with normal kidney function. ANCA should be measured in children with vasculitis and glomerulonephritis.
Glycogen phosphorylase (PHO) was demonstrated immunocytochemically and enzyme histochemically in cryostat sections of liver from rats treated for 7 weeks with N-nitrosomorpholine (120 mg/l and 200 mg/l drinking water) and from untreated controls. The activity and distribution of PHO protein were studied in normal liver and correlated with morphologically defined stages of hepatic tumour development. In normal liver the amount of enzyme protein, as visualized by the immunoperoxidase method using antibodies against phosphorylase, showed some heterogeneity within the liver lobule. The intralobular and intracellular distribution of PHO protein was the same as that of glycogen, namely coarse and granular in periportal hepatocytes and very fine in perivenular cells. In glycogen storage foci the amount of PHO protein was increased. In contrast, PHO activity was generally decreased. In other preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions such as mixed cell foci, neoplastic nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas, PHO protein was increased in all glycogen-loaded cells while PHO activity was reduced. In all glycogen-poor and basophilic cells, both PHO protein and PHO activity were decreased or absent. It was concluded that the decrease in PHO activity in glycogen storage foci was not the direct consequence of genetic changes leading to a loss in enzyme protein but was due to a defect in the cascade of phosphorylation processes resulting in active PHO. Alteration in gene expression leading to a loss of PHO protein was a late event in the process of hepatocarcinogenesis.
Elevated plasma vasopressin concentrations have been documented in antipsychotic drug-treated patients as well as a drug-free acutely psychotic patients. To evaluate the effects of antipsychotic drugs on plasma vasopressin, we measured vasopressin response to a single dose of intramuscular chlorpromazine or intravenous haloperidol in normal individuals and to 2 weeks of oral antipsychotics in patients with acute schizophrenia. Neither intramuscular chlorpromazine nor intravenous haloperidol affected plasma vasopressin in normals, except in one subject who developed high plasma vasopressin concentrations coincident with marked hypotension following chlorpromazine. Prior to antipsychotics, two acute schizophrenia patients had elevated plasma vasopressin concentrations, which normalized during antipsychotic drug treatment. We conclude that antipsychotics do not directly stimulate vasopressin release, but may indirectly stimulate vasopressin release by well-described baroreceptor reflex mechanisms if hypotension occurs. Also, acute schizophrenia may be associated with increased plasma vasopressin levels in some patients.
Eugenol is widely used in dentistry to relieve pain. We have recently demonstrated voltage-gated Na(+) and Ca(2+) channels as molecular targets for its analgesic effects, and hypothesized that eugenol acts on P2X(3), another pain receptor expressed in trigeminal ganglion (TG), and tested the effects of eugenol by whole-cell patch clamp and Ca(2+) imaging techniques. In the present study, we investigated whether eugenol would modulate 5'-triphosphate (ATP)-induced currents in rat TG neurons and P2X(3)-expressing human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. ATP-induced currents in TG neurons exhibited electrophysiological properties similar to those in HEK293 cells, and both ATP- and alpha ,beta-meATP-induced currents in TG neurons were effectively blocked by TNP-ATP, suggesting that P2X(3) mediates the majority of ATP-induced currents in TG neurons. Eugenol inhibited ATP-induced currents in both capsaicin-sensitive and capsaicin-insensitive TG neurons with similar extent, and most ATP-responsive neurons were IB4-positive. Eugenol inhibited not only Ca(2+) transients evoked by alpha ,beta-meATP, the selective P2X(3) agonist, in capsaicin-insensitive TG neurons, but also ATP-induced currents in P2X(3)-expressing HEK293 cells without co-expression of transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1). We suggest, therefore, that eugenol inhibits P2X(3) currents in a TRPV1-independent manner, which contributes to its analgesic effect.
Ryanodine receptor (RyR) is a Ca(2+) channel that mediates Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores. Altered Ca(2+) homeostasis in skeletal muscle which usually occurs as a result of point mutations in type 1 RyR1 (RyR1) is a key molecular event triggering malignant hyperthermia (MH). There are three RyR isoforms, and we herein show, for the first time, that human dendritic cells (DCs) preferentially express RyR1 mRNA among them. The RyR activator, 4-chloro-m-cresol (4CmC), induced Ca(2+) release in DCs, and this response was eliminated by dantrolene, an inhibitor of the RyR1, and was unaffected by xestospongin C, a selective inhibitor of IP(3) receptor. Activation of RyR1 reduced LPS-induced IL-10 production, promoted the expression of HLA-DR and CD86, and thereby exhibited an improved capacity to stimulate allogeneic T cells. These findings demonstrate that RyR1-mediated calcium signaling modifies diverse DC responses and suggest the feasibility of using DC preparations for the diagnosis of MH.
Tamoxifen (TMX) has proven to be an effective palliative treatment for advanced breast cancer with low reported incidence of side effects. TMX has been demonstrated to be an initiator and/or a promoter in the rat model of hepatocarcinogenesis. To document the long-term effect of TMX in mice treated with p-dimethylaminoazobenzene (DAB), we have investigated the time response action of these drugs on different biochemical parameters.
A group of animals was placed on dietary DAB (0.5%, w/w) during a period of 28 weeks. Control animals received a standard laboratory diet. Two other groups of non-treated and DAB-treated animals received TMX citrate (0.025%, w/w) in the diet since day 20.
The activities of the enzymes involved in heme synthesis and degradation as evaluated in the DAB group was not further affected by TMX. DAB and/or TMX treatment significantly increased the content of total cytochrome P450 and also the activity of glutathione S-transferase indicating liver damage. In all treated groups oxidative stress and an adaptive response of the natural defense system (catalase and superoxide dismutase) were demonstrated. Histological and morphological studies revealed liver cell hyperplasia in DAB treated group; however, only in the DAB+TMX group solid, trabecular and acinar hepatocellular carcinoma was confirmed at the end of the experimental trial.
We have demonstrated that TMX produced changes in hepatic enzyme activities which may be relevant for the metabolism and disposition of this and/or other drugs. Because liver tumors could be initiated and promoted by several agents which need to be activated, the possible hazard of TMX should be considered. This study reports that long-term treatment with TMX enhances hepatocarcinogenesis induced by DAB. The widespread use of TMX as an anticancer agent adds to the significance of this study.
The present study was aimed to determine whether there is an altered regulation of tubular transporters in gentamicin-induced nephropathy. Sprague-Dawley male rats (200~250 g) were subcutaneously injected with gentamicin (100 mg/kg per day) for 7 days, and the expression of tubular transporters was determined by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. The mRNA and protein expression of OAT was also determined. Gentamicin-treated rats exhibited significantly decreased creatinine clearance along with increased plasma creatinine levels. Accordingly, the fractional excretion of sodium increased. Urine volume was increased, while urine osmolality and free water reabsorption were decreased. Immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry revealed decreased expression of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, NHE3, NBC1, and AQP1 in the kidney of gentamicin-treated rats. The expression of OAT1 and OAT3 was also decreased. Gentamicin-induced nephropathy may at least in part be causally related with a decreased expression of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, NHE3, NBC1, AQP1 and OAT.
Not just de novo induction of diabetes mellitus, but also the progression of diabetic nephropathy may be enhanced under immunosuppressive therapy after organ transplantation. We evaluated whether sirolimus (SRL) or cyclosporine A (CsA) therapy would be a superior immunosuppressant in streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy.
Diabetes was induced by intravenous injection of streptozotozin (60 mg/kg body weight) in 26 male Sprague-Dawley rats. Eight days after diabetes induction, animals were divided into three groups, which were treated with placebo (n=8), SRL (n=9), or CsA (n=9). Six nondiabetic placebo-treated rats were included as controls.
After 19 weeks of diabetes, SRL significantly decreased fibrosis as assessed by periodic acid Schiff staining and by specific extracellular matrix proteins such as fibronectin and laminin at messenger RNA and protein level compared with the diabetic placebo group. SRL ameliorated renal inflammation, glomerular hypertrophy, and podocyte loss as indicated by morphometric and immunohistological analysis. SRL lowered expression and activity of glomerular transforming growth factor-beta1/2 and vascular endothelial growth factor, all of which are considered central cytokines in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy. In contrast, calcineurin phosphatase inhibition through CsA did not ameliorate any of the features of diabetic nephropathy compared with placebo treatment but slightly aggravated glomerular fibrosis without affecting transforming growth factor-beta1/2 or vascular endothelial growth factor.
Compared with CsA, SRL by anti-inflammatory, antifibrotic, and podocyte-protective effects clearly seems to be the superior treatment of prevention or amelioration of diabetic nephropathy in the rat.
The anticonvulsant carbamazepine (CBZ) frequently causes cutaneous adverse drug reactions (cADRs), including maculopapular eruption (MPE), hypersensitivity syndrome (HSS), Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). We reported that SJS/TEN caused by CBZ is strongly associated with the HLA-B*1502 gene in Han Chinese. Here, we extended our genetic study to different types of CBZ-cADRs (91 patients, including 60 patients with SJS/TEN, 13 patients with hypersensitivity syndrome and 18 with maculopapular exanthema versus 144 tolerant controls). We used MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry to screen the genetic association of 278 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), which cover the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, heat shock protein and CBZ-metabolic enzymes, including CYP3A4, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 1A2 and epoxide hydrolase 1. In addition, we genotyped 20 microsatellites in the MHC region and performed HLA-typing to construct the recombinant map. We narrowed the susceptibility locus for CBZ-SJS/TEN to within 86 kb flanking the HLA-B gene on the extended B*1502 haplotype, and confirmed the association of B*1502 with SJS/TEN [Pc=1.6x10, odds ratio (OR)=1357; 95% confidence interval (CI)=193.4-8838.3]. By contrast to CBZ-SJS/TEN, HLA-B*1502 association was not observed in the MPE or HSS groups: MPE was associated with SNPs in the HLA-E region and a nearby allele, HLA-A*3101 (Pc=2.2x10, OR=17.5; 95% CI=4.6-66.5), and HSS with SNPs in the motilin gene (Pc=0.0064, OR=7.11; 95% CI=3.1-16.5) located terminal to the MHC class II genes. No SNPs in genes involved in CBZ metabolism were associated with CBZ-induced cADRs. Our data suggest that HLA-B*1502 could contribute to the pathogenesis of CBZ-SJS/TEN, and that genetic susceptibility to CBZ-induced cADRs is phenotype-specific.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a broad-spectrum anthracycline antibiotic that has cardiotoxicity as a major side effect. One mechanism of this toxicity is believed to involve the reactive oxygen radical species (ROS); these agents likely account for the pathophysiology of DOX-induced cardiomyopathy. Aminoguanidine (AG) is an effective antioxidant and free radical scavenger which has long been known to protect against ROS formation. We investigated the effects of AG on DOX-induced changes in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and reduced glutathione (GSH) content. The rats were divided into four groups:1) Control; 2) DOX group; injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) with DOX 20 mg/kg in a single dose 3) AG-treated group; injected i.p. in single dose of 20 mg/kg DOX plus 100 mg/kg AG 1 h before the DOX for 3 days, 4) AG group; injected i.p. with AG 100 mg/kg for 3 days. DOX administration to control rats increased TBARS and decreased GSH levels. AG administration before DOX injection caused significant decrease in TBARS and increase in GSH levels in the heart tissue when compared with DOX only. Morphological changes, including severe myocardial fibrosis and inflammatory cell infiltration were clearly observed in the DOX-treated heart. AG reversed the DOX-induced heart damage. Therefore AG could protect the heart tissue against free radical injury. The application of AG during cancer chemotherapy may attenuate tissue damage and improve the therapeutic index of DOX.
Mice lacking the PACAP gene (PACAP(-/-)) display psychomotor abnormalities such as novelty-induced hyperactivity and jumping behavior, and they show different responses to amphetamine, a typical psychostimulant. The present study examined the possible role of endogenous PACAP in methamphetamine (METH)-induced hyperactivity and behavioral sensitization. The locomotor activity of hyperactive PACAP(-/-) mice was measured using the infrared photocell beam detection system, Acti-Track, after a habituation period. Single administration of METH (1 and 2mg/kg) caused a robust increase in locomotor activity of mice, but this effect did not differ between wild-type and PACAP(-/-) mice. Repeated administration of METH (1mg/kg) for 7 days enhanced METH-induced hyperactivity, and this sensitization was observed even when withdrawn for 7 days. There was no difference in the degree of development and expression of METH-induced behavioral sensitization between wild-type and PACAP(-/-) mice. In addition, there was no difference in METH-induced increases in extracellular serotonin and dopamine levels in the prefrontal cortex of the normal and sensitized mice between the two groups. These results suggest that endogenous PACAP is not involved in the locomotor stimulant activity of acute METH and repeated METH-induced behavioral and neurochemical sensitization.
The use of carbamazepine (CBZ), the most commonly prescribed antiepileptic drug, is hampered by the occurrence of severe, potentially lethal hypersensitivity reactions. The pathogenesis of hypersensitivity is not yet known, but immune mechanisms are involved. Predisposition to CBZ hypersensitivity is likely to be genetically determined, and genes within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) have been implicated. The heat shock protein (HSP70) gene cluster is located in the MHC class III region.
Using a case-control study design, we compared 61 patients with CBZ hypersensitivity (22 with a severe reaction) to 44 patients on CBZ with no signs of hypersensitivity and 172 healthy controls. The genotyping strategy involved identification of common and rare single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within the HSP70 gene cluster by sequencing, estimation of linkage disequilibrium (LD) and haplotype structure, and thereafter, analysis of SNP/haplotype frequencies in the cases and controls. Population substructure was evaluated by genotyping of 34 microsatellites.
Twenty-five SNPs were detected across the three HSP70 genes. Analyses revealed that alleles G, T and C at the SNPs HSPA1A +1911 C/G, HSPA1A +438 C/T and HSPA1L +2437 T/C, respectively, were associated with protection from serious hypersensitivity reactions to CBZ, with the associated alleles falling on a common haplotype. We were unable to detect the presence of population stratification in our patients and controls.
Our data show that HSP70 gene variants are associated with serious CBZ hypersensitivity reactions, but whether this is causal or reflects LD with another gene within the MHC requires further study.
Otopalatodigital syndrome type 1 (OPD1) [OMIM 311300] is an X-linked dominant multiple congenital anomalies disease mainly characterized by a generalized skeletal dysplasia, mild mental retardation, hearing loss, cleft palate, and typical facial anomalies. OPD1 belongs to a group of X-linked skeletal dysplasias known as oto-palato-digital syndrome spectrum disorders that also include OPD2, Melnick-Needles syndrome (MNS), and frontometaphyseal dysplasia (FMD). Recently, it has been demonstrated that mutations in the gene encoding the cytoskeletal protein Filamin A (FLNA) are responsible for this group of clinically overlapping human syndromes. We present the phenotypic and molecular data of a sporadic female patient clinically diagnosed with an OPD1 syndrome who carried a novel FLNA point mutation resulting in an Asp203Tyr substitution in the actin-binding domain of the protein. X-inactivation analyses demonstrated an extremely skewed pattern towards her maternal chromosome. Our results add to the molecular spectrum of the oto-palato-digital related syndromes and contribute to the delineation of phenotype-genotype correlation in this group of X-linked skeletal disorders.
1,3-Butadiene (BD) is an important industrial chemical that is classified as a human carcinogen. BD carcinogenicity has been attributed to its metabolism to several reactive epoxide metabolites and formation of the highly mutagenic 1,2:3,4-diepoxybutane (DEB) has been hypothesized to drive mutagenesis and carcinogenesis at exposures experienced in humans. We report herein the formation of DEB-specific N,N-(2,3-dihydroxy-1,4-butadiyl)valine (pyr-Val) in BD-exposed workers as a biomarker of DEB formation. pyr-Val was determined in BD monomer and polymer plant workers that had been previously analyzed for several other biomarkers of exposure and effect. pyr-Val was detected in 68 of 81 (84%) samples ranging from 0.08 to 0.86 pmol/g globin. Surprisingly, pyr-Val was observed in 19 of 23 administrative control subjects not known to be exposed to BD, suggesting exposure from environmental sources of BD. The mean ± SD amounts of pyr-Val were 0.11 ± 0.07, 0.16 ± 0.12, and 0.29 ± 0.20 pmol/g globin in the controls, monomer, and polymer workers, respectively, clearly demonstrating formation of DEB in humans. The amounts of pyr-Val found in this study suggest that humans are much less efficient in the formation of DEB than mice or rats at similar exposures. Formation of pyr-Val was more than 50-fold lower than has been associated with increased mutagenesis in rodents. The results further suggest that formation of DEB relative to other epoxides is significantly different in the highest exposed polymer workers compared with controls and BD monomer workers. Whether this is due to saturation of metabolic formation or increased GST-mediated detoxification could not be determined.
A 81 year-old female, weighing 56 kgs, had taken carbamazepine (10.2 mg/kg/day) for simple partial motor seizures of recent onset during 15 days. EEG recording showed slow waves on the left hemisphere. CT was normal. The seizures were controlled for a few days and then reappeared beginning as simple partial seizures and progressing to impairment of consciousness. The patient became confused. On admission she was severely confused. Neurological examination was otherwise normal. Plasma sodium level was 134 meq/l and CBZ plasma level was 4.3 micrograms/ml. EEG showed high voltage bilateral delta waves and a left focus. The drug was withdrawn with relief of clinical symptoms and to a lesser extent, of EEG abnormalities. Phenytoin encephalopathy is a well known pathological entity but to our knowledge there has been no report of carbamazepine encephalopathy with neither excessive plasma level of the drug nor water intoxication. An idiosyncratic reaction is considered likely.
Intraplantar injection of melittin has been known to induce sustained decrease of mechanical threshold and increase of spontaneous flinchings. The present study was undertaken to investigate how the melittin-induced nociceptive responses were modulated by changes of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activity. Changes in paw withdrawal threshold (PWT), number of flinchings and paw thickness were measured at a given time point after injection of melittin (10 microg/paw) into the mid-plantar area of rat hindpaw. To observe the effects of mGluRs on the melittin-induced nociceptions, group I mGluR (AIDA, 100 microg and 200 microg), mGluR(1) (LY367385, 50 microg and 100 microg) and mGluR(5) (MPEP, 200 microg and 300 microg) antagonists, group II (APDC, 100 microg and 200 microg) and III (L-SOP, 100 microg and 200 microg) agonists were intrathecally administered 20 min before melittin injection. Intraplantar injection of melittin induced a sustained decrease of mechanical threshold, spontaneous flinchings and edema. The effects of melittin to reduce mechanical threshold and to induce spontaneous flinchings were significantly suppressed following intrathecal pre-administration of group I mGluR, mGluR(1) and mGluR(5) antagonists, group II and III mGluR agonists. Group I mGluR antagonists and group II and III mGluR agonists had no significant effect on melittin-induced edema. These experimental findings indicate that multiple spinal mGluRs are involved in the modulation of melittin-induced nociceptive responses.
A number of studies have shown that hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions are able to down-regulate the expression of inflammatory mediators and inhibit neutrophil-mediated tissue injuries when they are used in patients with sepsis or other diseases with severe inflammatory responses. However, our knowledge about the underlying mechanisms is limited. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling has a pivotal role in inflammatory processes. In this study, we examined the possible involvement of TLR4 signaling in the antiinflammatory effects of HES.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (10 mg/kg, IV) and received IV saline (30 mL/kg) or HES 130/0.4 (15 or 30 mL/kg). Six hours after LPS challenge, rats were killed and their lungs harvested. Lung injury was examined by hematoxylin and eosin staining. TLR4 mRNA expression, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 MAPK activation, and activator protein 1 (AP-1) activity in the lungs were detected with quantitative polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, and electrophoretic mobility shift assay, respectively.
Compared with saline, HES profoundly attenuated the histological changes induced by LPS in the lungs at both dose levels. Molecular analysis showed that both 15 and 30 mL/kg HES significantly decreased TLR4 mRNA levels and inhibited activation of p38 MAPK and AP-1 in rats challenged with LPS, whereas activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 MAPK was not affected by either dose of HES.
These findings indicate that the beneficial effects of HES 130/0.4 on inflammation are mediated at least in part by inhibiting the TLR4/p38 MAPK/AP-1 pathway in lungs from rats challenged with LPS.
Cigarette smoking among reproductive-aged women is increasing worldwide. Cigarette smoking is a lifestyle behavior associated with important adverse health effects including subfertility and premature ovarian failure. We previously demonstrated that cigarette smoke (CS) exposure in mice decreases the primordial follicle pool; however, the mechanism of action is largely unknown. Therefore, the present study was designed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying CS exposure-induced ovarian follicle loss. CS exposure induced a significant decrease in the relative ovarian weight and the number of primordial and growing follicles. Oxidative stress, as shown by increased Hsp25 and decreased superoxide dismutase 2 protein expression, was found in mice exposed to CS for 8 weeks. Exposure decreased Bcl-2 but failed to induce apoptosis. An increased number of autophagosomes in granulosa cells of ovarian follicles together with increased expression of Beclin-1 and microtubule-associated protein light chain 3, key regulatory proteins in the autophagy (Atg) pathway, was found in CS-exposed mice compared with the control group. Taken together, our results suggest that CS exposure does not induce apoptosis but rather activates the Atg pathway ultimately leading to ovarian follicle loss. We further postulate that Atg is a novel mechanism of toxicant-induced ovarian follicle loss.
