This unit provides detailed protocols for establishing rodent models of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. The 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion procedure is described in more detail for mice than for rats since the lesioning procedure in rats has been described extensively in previous work and is less difficult to perform. Unlike primate models, rodent models of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia are relatively simple and fast to set up, thus being affordable to most laboratories. These models allow for studying the dyskinetic complications of L-DOPA treatment on large groups of animals under strictly controlled experimental conditions. Along with information and structured protocols for the practical execution of the test, this unit provides a detailed description of the rating scale and the phenomenology of rodent abnormal involuntary movements, and suggestions for beginners.
Current treatment options for cGVHD are limited. Mast cells (MC) and fibroblasts have been shown to play a role in the murine model of cGVHD. Ketotifen is an anti-H-1 antihistamine with MC-stabilizing properties. We therefore treated eight patients with cGVHD with ketotifen (6 micrograms/day for 3 months). Three additional age- and sex-matched cGVHD patients served as controls. MC count and activation state in cGVHD skin biopsies and the in vitro effect of peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) supernatants on (i) histamine release by MC; (ii) 3T3-fibroblast proliferation; and (iii) prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production, were evaluated. Ketotifen therapy resulted in clinical improvement in 4/8 patients, stabilization of the disease in 2/8, while in 2/8 patients the cGVHD progressed and they died of bacterial sepsis. Side effects were minimal. In the skin biopsies the number of MC was found to be 0.58 +/- 0.17 (n = 8) (field x 400) and the MC looked degranulated (toluidine blue staining). Following ketotifen therapy MC number was increased to 1.2 +/- 0.28 (n = 8) (P < 0.05). PBMC supernatants of cGVHD patients stimulated histamine release from cultured rat MC (n = 8) (2.7 +/- 0.5 micrograms/ml; normal values are 2.1 +/- 0.4 micrograms/ml, n = 5). Ketotifen therapy reduced the histamine release level to the normal range (2.0 +/- 0.5 micrograms/ml, P < 0.05) (n = 8). Ketotifen therapy had no significant effect on: (i) 3T3 fibroblast proliferation which was suppressed by cGVHD PBMC supernatants; (ii) the elevated PGE2 production which we observed when fibroblasts were incubated with the PBMC supernatants. These results indicate that ketotifen may play a therapeutic role in cGVHD.
Serotonin syndrome is the result of the drug interaction that enhances serotonergic tone in the central nervous system. The neurological manifestations are transient in most of the reported cases with rare fatality.
A 30-year-old woman developed ischemic infarction of the right temporoparietal and cerebellar hemispheres 48 hours after administration of a large dose of clomipramine. This drug was given within 24 hours of discontinuation of high-dose fluoxetine, both of which are known to enhance serotonergic tone in the central nervous system. The distribution of the ischemic infarction in this case did not respect the major territorial arteries and was similar to spreading oligemia/ischemia that is described in migraine. A similar pathogenesis may exist for stroke in serotonin syndrome and in migraine.
A mutation of Janus kinase 2 V617F is present in most patients with polycythaemia vera (PV). However, it is generally believed that JAK2(V617F) is not the sole molecular abnormality in PV. Since dasatinib is currently evaluated in patients with PV, it is of interest to study the effects of dasatinib on the growth of clonal progenitor cells in vitro.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with PV, chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) and controls were exposed to dasatinib (0.1 to 500 nm mL(-1)). Colony growth was stimulated by interleukin-3, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and erythropoietin. Endogenous erythroid colony (EEC) growth was investigated without exogenous cytokines. Real-time PCR was performed to assess the percentage of JAK2(V617F) cells.
10 nm of dasatinib suppressed EEC growth from PV by 89% (P = 0.002). This inhibition was dose dependent and occurred at pharmacological concentrations. Erythroid and myeloid colony growth was also significantly suppressed in the presence of exogenous cytokines. When compared to PV the inhibition of stimulated colony growth was significantly less pronounced in controls but tended to be more vigorous in CML. Interestingly, despite the potent inhibition of PV cells real-time PCR revealed that the numbers of JAK2(V617F) transcripts did not decrease upon exposure to dasatinib.
This study shows a marked inhibition of the proliferative capacity of progenitor cells from PV. Although JAK2(V617F) transcript levels did not decrease upon exposure to dasatinib, the drug might suppress PV progenitors through inhibition of a yet undefined molecular target.
In 1996 the total number of prescriptions of the appetite depressant drugs fenfluramine and phentermine exceeded 18 million in the United States. Clinical observation and experimental evidence back in the early 1980's showed that these drugs can cause a pulmonary hypertension. We report the case of a 30-year old woman with a history of seven month medication with dexfenfluramine. She developed severe pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure during late pregnancy. She died of septicemia with multiorgan failure 4 days after cesarean section. Pulmonary hypertension has been reported in association with treatment with fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. These drugs may cause the increased precapillary resistant pressure through the vasoconstrictor action of serotonin. The typical histological finding is a plexogene pulmonary arteriopathy and valvular heart disease. After these observations the drugs were withdrawn.
Four cardiac hormones synthesized by the same gene, i.e. atrial natriuretic peptide, vessel dilator, long acting natriuretic peptide and kaliuretic peptide, and the kidney hormone urodilatin have anticancer effects in vitro.
These cardiac hormones and urodilatin were infused subcutaneously for 28 days with weekly fresh hormones since they lose biological effects at body temperature for more than a week at 0.3 nm kg(-1) body weight in athymic mice bearing human small-cell lung carcinomas.
Long acting natriuretic peptide, vessel dilator, kaliuretic peptide, atrial natriuretic peptide and urodilatin eliminated 86%, 71%, 57%, 43% (P < 0.001 for the cardiac hormones) and 25% (P < 0.05; urodilatin) of the human small-cell lung carcinomas. The treated small-cell lung carcinomas that were not cured grew rapidly, similar to the untreated controls, whose volume was 7 fold larger in 1 week, 18-fold increased in 2 weeks, 39-fold increased in 3 weeks, 63-fold increased in 1 month and 97-fold increased in volume in 6 weeks. One vessel dilator treated small-cell lung carcinoma animal developed a large tumour (8428 mm3 volume) on treatment and this tumour was eliminated with utilizing atrial natriuretic peptide and then long acting natriuretic peptide sequentially.
Four cardiac hormones eliminate up to 86% of human small-cell lung carcinomas in athymic mice. Urodilatin can also eliminate small-cell lung carcinomas but at a lower cure rate of 25%. Unresponsive lesions can be eliminated by utilizing different hormones synthesized by the atrial natriuretic peptide gene in a sequential manner.
Ten new cases of perhexiline induced peripheral neuropathies are reported. The authors emphasize the possible association of other neurological disorders: cerebellar symptoms in one case, complex tremor in two other cases, marked decrease of photomotor reflexes in one case and disgeusia in another one. The pharmacocinetic study of 4 cases revealed the presence of a low metabolism of the drug in one of them. Polymorphous inclusions have been seen in Schwann cell and endothelial cell cytoplasm in the three patients with electron microscopic study of the nerves. The pathological study of one case showed the demyelination of spinal cord posterior columns. In another case, who died from hepatic coma, the biochemical study of cerebral lipids revealed the low values of cerebrosides and sulfatides in cerebellum and cerebral white matter.
Using high-dose methotrexate, doxorubicin, and cisplatinum (or BCD) for adjuvant chemotherapy in osteosarcoma of the extremities, we achieved 8-year metastasis-free survival rates of 60-70%. No relapse has been observed after that time. A dose of 12 g/m2 of high-dose methotrexate seems superior to 6 g; doxorubicin was found to be indispensable for efficient therapy and administering ifosfamide in addition seemed to be beneficial. Primary chemotherapy appeared to be safe and to facilitate surgery. The response on chemotherapy provided valuable prognostic information. Salvage of poor responders by alternative postsurgical chemotherapy was unsuccessful. Intraarterial, as opposed to intravenous, use of cisplatinum, in addition to systemic three-drug chemotherapy, did not improve the local tumor response rate. The local failure rate was low (4.7%); it was higher, however, after limb-salvage procedures than after amputation and rotationplasty (11.1% vs. 2.2%, p < 0.05). The outcome after local failure was almost universally fatal. The most intriguing late sequelae of chemotherapy were cardiomyopathy due to doxorubicin and hearing loss due to cisplatinum. Given the limited number of effective drugs, it might be difficult to further improve the cure rate and also to diminish late toxicity. Exploration of the most effective but least toxic mode of drug administration might be one possibility. Another might be reduction of the cumulative doses and therapy duration, while simultaneously increasing the dose rate.
In a study of structure-activity relationship with drug-induced nephropathy two lipoxygenase inhibitors, the N-hydroxyurea derivative 70C ((E)-N-{3-[3-(4-fluorophenoxy) phenyl]-1-(R, S)-methylprop-2-enyl}-N-hydroxyurea) and the N-hydroxamic acid analogue 360C ((E)-N-{3-[3-(4-fluorophenoxy) phenyl]-1-(R, S)-methylprop-2-enyl}-N-hydroxamic acid), were administered to rats. 70C and 360C were dosed to female Wistar rats at 100 mg/kg po daily for 7 days. Another group of rats was given a single intravenous bolus dose of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) at 100 mg/kg. Urine samples were collected from all groups during the study and plasma samples were collected after 7 days. Kidneys were excised and fixed for examination by electron microscopy. 70C- and PAN-treated groups both showed early changes in the glomeruli, in which the visceral cells appeared enlarged and showed varying degrees of foot process loss. This foot process loss was associated with decreases in total plasma protein and albumin and increases in the plasma cholesterol, triglycerides, creatinine, and urea were recorded. Marked proteinuria was observed in both the 70C and PAN groups. The foot process loss together with increased proteinuria, hypoalbuminemia, hypercholesterolemia, and lipemia are all characteristic of the human condition, Minimal Change Nephrotic Syndrome. All the biochemical and morphological investigations showed that 360C-treated rats were similar to the control group, suggesting that the hydroxyurea moiety of 70C is responsible, either directly or indirectly, for the induction of the nephrotic syndrome seen in rats.
Patients at high risk for intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) are generally excluded from thrombolytic trials. Because the frequency and predictors of ICH reported from these studies may not be widely applicable, we sought to examine this matter further in unselected patients with acute myocardial infarction in the community.
FASTRAK II is a prospective ongoing registry of acute coronary syndromes involving 111 Canadian hospitals. Trained medical personnel recorded admission, treatment, and discharge data on patients admitted with acute coronary syndromes.
From January 1, 1998, to December 31, 2000, 12,739 patients received fibrinolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction. Of these, 146 patients (1.15%) sustained strokes and 82 patients (0.65%) had an ICH. Advanced age, female sex, history of cerebrovascular event, and systolic hypertension on arrival (systolic blood pressure >160 mm Hg) were identified with a multivariate logistic regression model to be important independent risks factors for ICH. Patients receiving streptokinase had a lower risk of ICH. Among the patients at high risk for ICH, the ICH rates remained low, ranging from 0.7% to 1.8%.
ICH is an infrequent event after fibrinolytic therapy in ST-elevation MI; this low rate supports broad penetration of this therapy. Simple clinical characteristics are useful in predicting the risk of ICH and allow a clinician to individualize the risk-benefit assessment of this therapy.
We describe the case of an acromegalic woman with primary infertility who was treated with clomiphene, and subsequently developed pituitary apoplexy.
Cold allodynia and hyperalgesia are frequent clinical findings in patients with neuropathic pain. While there have been several clinical studies showing the involvement of central sensitization mechanisms and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation in mechanical allodynia/hyperalgesia and ongoing pain, the mechanisms of thermal allodynia and hyperalgesia have received less attention. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of the NMDA-receptor antagonist ketamine on thermal allodynia/hyperalgesia, ongoing pain and mechanical allodynia/hyperalgesia in patients with neuropathic pain (11 patients with post-traumatic neuralgia and one patient with post-herpetic neuralgia). All the patients were known to suffer from severe cold allodynia (cold pain detection threshold (CPDT): 23.8 degrees C, median value). The mu-opioid agonist alfentanil was used as an active control. The study design was double-blind and placebo-controlled and the drugs were administered i.v. (bolus dose and infusion). CPDT in the asymptomatic contralateral area was found to be significantly decreased (cold allodynia) compared to CPDT in site- and age-matched normal controls. Heat pain detection thresholds were found to be normal and no consistent heat hyperalgesia occurred. Alfentanil significantly reduced cold allodynia (by increasing CPDT) in symptomatic area (P=0.0076). Ketamine did not significantly increase the threshold. Significant and marked reductions of hyperalgesia to cold (visual analogue score at threshold value) were seen following both alfentanil (4.5 before, 1.4 after, median value) and ketamine (6.8 before, 0.4 after, median value). Alfentanil and ketamine also significantly reduced ongoing pain and mechanical hyperalgesia. It is concluded that NMDA-receptor mediated central sensitization is involved in cold hyperalgesia, but since CPDT remained unaltered, it is likely that other mechanisms are present.
Despite numerous studies aimed at verifying the anti-tumour activity of aspirin on colon carcinogenesis little is known on the molecular targets involved in the anti-carcinogenic properties of this drug. We investigated the long-term administration of low dose of aspirin in a model of experimental colon carcinogenesis in rats. Adult Wistar rats received an intraperitoneal injection of azoxymethane (AOM) once a week for two weeks in order to initiate colon carcinogenesis. One week after AOM injection, rats received daily 0.01% aspirin (6 mg/kg body weight) in drinking water for 10 months. Compared to AOM control rats, aspirin treatment for 10 months caused a 50% reduction of the number of aberrant crypt foci associated with a 50% reduction of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) concentration and suppressed by 80% tumour formation in the colon. RT-PCR quantitative analysis showed that aspirin treatment reduced significantly (P<0.01) the AOM-triggered increase in mRNA levels of soluble inflammatory mediators (TNFalpha and IL-1beta) and metalloproteinases (MMP3 and MMP7). Conversely, we detected an increased expression level of alpha-defensin-5 (Rd-5, 2 fold) and lipocalin-2 (LCN2, 4 fold), two markers of the innate immunity system. The expression of apoptosis-related genes such as death receptors and their ligands were reduced by aspirin and the Bcl-2/Bax transcript ratio droped, Bcl-2 expression being reduced to the level found in saline control rats. The present study identifies new molecular targets triggered by aspirin in the colonic mucosa and may support the use of non-toxic low dose of aspirin in long-term treatments as a prophylactic approach against colon carcinogenesis.
Traditional monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) continue to play an important role in the management of a wide variety of clinical conditions. Accordingly, a practical and safe approach to MAOI dietary restrictions remains an essential component of patient management.
In an effort to refine MAOI dietary recommendations, we report a case of hypertensive crisis following the consumption of a modest amount of tap beer.
A well-documented case report involving tap (draft) beer consumed while on an MAOI supports an earlier study, which recommended that all tap beers be restricted on MAOI diets. The 2 cases were remarkably similar in terms of the offending substance, quantity consumed, and subsequent reaction.
As a result of recent tyramine analyses and 2 well-documented case reports, all tap (draft) beers should now be absolutely restricted on MAOI diets because they represent a very significant risk at modest levels of consumption.
Butyrate has been shown to display anti-cancer activity through the induction of apoptosis in various cancer cells. However, the underlying mechanism involved in butyrate-induced apoptosis is still not fully understood. Here, we investigated the cytotoxicity mechanism of butyrate in human colon cancer RKO cells. The results showed that butyrate induced a strong growth inhibitory effect against RKO cells. Butyrate also effectively induced apoptosis in RKO cells, which was characterized by DNA fragmentation, nuclear staining of DAPI, and the activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3. The expression of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 decreased, whereas the apoptotic protein Bax increased in a dose-dependent manner during butyrate-induced apoptosis. Moreover, treatment of RKO cells with butyrate induced a sustained activation of the phosphorylation of c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) in a dose- and time-dependent manner, and the pharmacological inhibition of JNK MAPK by SP600125 significantly abolished the butyrate-induced apoptosis in RKO cells. These results suggest that butyrate acts on RKO cells via the JNK but not the p38 pathway. Butyrate triggered the caspase apoptotic pathway, indicated by an enhanced Bax-to-Bcl-2 expression ratio and caspase cascade reaction, which was blocked by SP600125. Taken together, our data indicate that butyrate induces apoptosis through JNK MAPK activation in colon cancer RKO cells.
(-)-Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), the major constituent of green tea, inhibits the growth of colorectal cancer cells by inhibiting the activation of various types of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). The RTK vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)/VEGF receptor (VEGFR) axis induces tumor angiogenesis in colorectal cancer. This study examined the effects of EGCG on the activity of the VEGF/VEGFR axis and the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha, which promotes angiogenesis by elevating VEGF levels, in human colorectal cancer cells. Total and phosphorylated (i.e., activated) form (p-VEGFR-2) of VEGFR-2 proteins were overexpressed in a series of human colorectal cancer cell lines. Within 3h, EGCG caused a decrease in the expression of HIF-1alpha protein and VEGF, HIF-1alpha, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1, IGF-2, epidermal growth factor (EGF), and heregulin mRNAs in SW837 colorectal cancer cells, which express a constitutively activated VEGF/VEGFR axis. A decrease was also observed in the expression of VEGFR-2, p-VEGFR-2, p-IGF-1 receptor, p-ERK, and p-Akt proteins within 6h after EGCG treatment. Drinking EGCG significantly inhibited the growth of SW837 xenografts in nude mice, and this was associated with the inhibition of the expression and activation of VEGFR-2. The consumption of EGCG also inhibited activation of ERK and Akt, both of which are downstream signaling molecules of the VEGF/VEGFR axis, and reduced the expression of VEGF mRNA in xenografts. These findings suggest that EGCG may exert, at least in part, growth-inhibitory effects on colorectal cancer cells by inhibiting the activation of the VEGF/VEGFR axis through suppressing the expression of HIF-1alpha and several major growth factors. EGCG may therefore be useful in the chemoprevention and/or treatment of colorectal cancer.
As part of a large community-based trial on the impact of insecticide (permethrin)-treated bed nets (ITNs) on childhood morbidity and mortality in an area of intense perennial malaria transmission in western Kenya, we assessed the effects of ITNs on malaria-specific humoral responses in young children. The IgG responses to Plasmodium falciparum pre-erythrocytic antigens circumsporozoite protein (CSP) and liver stage antigen-1 (LSA-1) and the blood stage antigen merozoite surface protein-1 (MSP-1(19) kD) in children less than three years old were investigated during a series of cross-sectional surveys. At 14 and 22 months after the introduction of ITNs, the frequencies and levels of IgG to CSP and LSA-1 were significantly lower in children from ITN villages than in children from control villages (P < 0.001). In contrast, the prevalence of IgG to MSP-1 was significantly higher in children from ITN villages at 14 months (P = 0.0069), but not at 22 months. Our results show that decreased exposure by ITNs reduces IgG responses to pre-erythrocytic antigens, but there was no evidence that two years of ITN use compromises IgG responses to blood stage antigens in these young children in this malaria holoendemic area.
We previously reported that a lethal dose of monochloroacetate (MCA) causes severe hypoglycemia and lactic acidosis. MCA has been thought to inhibit mitochondrial aconitase; however, the exact effect of MCA on hepatic glucose metabolism is not clear. In this study, we investigated the effects of MCA on liver gluconeogenesis using an isolated perfused rat liver system. Gluconeogenesis from 2.5 mM lactate was inhibited by 1 mM MCA and was completely abolished after 2 h of perfusion. Levels of citric acid cycle intermediates such as citrate, isocitrate, and 2-oxoglutarate (2-OG) were significantly reduced by MCA. The finding that the levels of citrate and 2-OG were similarly reduced (to 31 and 36% of control, respectively) indicates that aconitase was not inhibited by MCA. On the contrary, gluconeogenesis from glycerol, which can be converted to glucose without glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), was not inhibited by MCA. GAPDH was inactivated by MCA in vitro, but enolase, phosphoglycerate mutase, and phosphoglycerate kinase were not inactivated at the same or higher concentrations of MCA. Furthermore, GAPDH activity in the MCA-perfused liver decreased to 33-42% of control and that in the liver of rats exposed to MCA was reduced to 19% of control. We concluded that MCA inactivates GAPDH, and this is the cause of the inhibition of liver gluconeogenesis.
Cooper and associates (1973) developed a method of ascertaining the lithium dosage required to attain a therapeutic serum level of 0.6 to 1.2 mEq/L. However, reports about the safety and accuracy of their method in children are limited (Geller & Fetner 1989). This study relates our experience with using this method in children. Subjects were 16 conduct-disordered children (13 males, 3 females), ages 8.97 to 17.14 years (mean, 12.73 +/- 2.12), who were treated with lithium to decrease aggressive behavior. Following a lithium 600-mg loading dose, a 24-hour serum lithium level was drawn from which a "predicted" lithium dosage was established. These dosages ranged from 600 to 1,800 mg/day (mean, 1,312.5 +/- 450) and the corresponding serum lithium levels at steady-state ranged from 0.58 to 1.13 mEq/L (mean, 0.87 +/- 0.15). No severe side effects were encountered. This suggests that the method is safe and useful for predicting lithium dosages in children.
Management of patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) can consist of colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis (IRA). Sulindac, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, causes regression of colorectal adenomas in the retained rectal segment of FAP patients, although long-term use of this therapy has not been studied. We evaluated the long-term effectiveness and toxicity of sulindac in attempting to maintain retained rectal segments free of adenomas.
Twelve FAP patients (5 women), mean age 37.1 years, with IRA received sulindac (mean dosage, 158 mg/day) for a mean period of 63.4 +/- 31.3 months (range, 14-98 months). Number, size, and histologic grade of polyps, side effects, and medication compliance were assessed every 4 months.
Seven of 12 patients (58%) remained in the study (6 of these polyp-free) for a mean of 76.9 +/- 27.5 months. Five of 12 patients (42%) withdrew from the trial after a mean follow-up period of 44 +/- 28 months (range, 14-89 months). A significant regression of polyp number was observed in all patients at 12 months (P = 0.039) and at a mean of 63.4 +/- 31.3 months (P = 0.006). Prevention of recurrence of higher-grade adenomas (tubulovillous, villous adenomas) was also observed (P = 0.004). At 35 months of follow-up, 1 patient developed stage III cancer in the rectal stump. The most common side effect was rectal mucosal erosions in 6 patients.
Long-term use of sulindac seems to be effective in reducing polyp number and preventing recurrence of higher-grade adenomas in the retained rectal segment of most FAP patients. Erosions at the IRA site can preclude adequate dose maintenance.
Thirty-five limonoids, including 15 of the azadiradione type (1-15), five of the gedunin type (16-20), four of the azadirachtin type (21-24), nine of the nimbin type (25-33), and two degraded limonoids (34, 35), isolated from Azadirachta indica seed extracts, were evaluated for their cytotoxic activities against five human cancer cell lines. Seven compounds (3, 6, 7, 16, 18, 28, and 29) exhibited cytotoxic activity against one or more cell lines. Among these compounds, 7-deacetyl-7-benzoylepoxyazadiradione (7), 7-deacetyl-7-benzoylgeduin (18), and 28-deoxonimbolide (28) exhibited potent cytotoxic activity against HL60 leukemia cells with IC(50) values in the range 2.7-3.1 μM. Compounds 7, 18, and 28 induced early apoptosis in HL60 cells, observed by flow cytometry. Western blot analysis showed that compounds 7, 18, and 28 activated caspases-3, -8, and -9 in HL60 cells. This suggested that compounds 7, 18, and 28 induced apoptotic cell death in HL60 cells via both the mitochondrial- and the death receptor-mediated pathways. Futhermore, compound 7 was shown to possess high selective cytotoxicity for leukemia cells since it exhibited only weak cytotoxicity against a normal lymphocyte cell line (RPMI 1788).
To study the effect of antiretroviral drugs administered to pregnant women on hematologic parameters of the neonate.
A prospective cohort study was conducted on 52 neonates divided into three groups: ZDV group, infants born to HIV-infected mothers taking zidovudine (n=18); triple therapy (TT) group, infants born to mothers taking zidovudine+lamivudine+nelfinavir (n=22), and control group, infants born to normal women (n=12). Umbilical cord blood from the newborn infant was used to determine hemoglobin, lymphocyte and platelet. Data were analyzed statistically by the nonparametric tests, with the level of significance set at p<0.05.
The major maternal demographic and anthropometric data were homogeneous for the various groups. There was a reduction in hemoglobin levels at birth among TT group newborns (p=0.016). There was no difference between groups regarding gestation length, Apgar scores, platelets or absolute lymphocyte count for the newborn.
An association between the use of combination antiretroviral therapy during pregnancy and reduced neonatal hemoglobin levels was observed, supporting the need for short- and long-term follow-up of infants exposed to antiretroviral drugs during uterine life.
