The Swedish irbesartan left ventricular hypertrophy investigation versus atenolol (SILVHIA).
Angiotensin II induces myocardial hypertrophy. We hypothesized that blockade of angiotensin II subtype 1 (AT1) receptors by the AT1-receptor antagonist irbesartan would reduce left ventricular mass (as measured by echocardiography) more than conventional treatment with a beta blocker.
This double-blind study randomized 115 hypertensive men and women with left ventricular hypertrophy to receive either irbesartan 150 mg q.d. or atenolol 50 mg q.d. for 48 weeks. If diastolic blood pressure remained above 90 mmHg, doses were doubled, and additional medications (hydrochlorothiazide and felodipine) were prescribed as needed. Echocardiography was performed at weeks 0, 12, 24 and 48.
Baseline mean blood pressure was 162/ 104 mmHg, and mean left ventricular mass index was 157 g/m2 for men and 133 g/m2 for women. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure reductions were similar in both treatment groups. Both irbesartan (P < 0.001) and atenolol (P< 0.001) progressively reduced left ventricular mass index, e.g. by 26 and 14 g/m2 (16 and 9%), respectively, at week 48, with a greater reduction in the irbesartan group (P = 0.024). The proportion of patients who attained a normalized left ventricular mass (i.e. < or = 131 g/m2 for men and < or = 100 g/m2 for women) tended to be greater with irbesartan (47 versus 32%, P = 0.108).
Left ventricular mass was reduced more in the irbesartan group than in the atenolol group. These results suggest that blocking the action of angiotensin II at AT1-receptors may be an important mechanism, beyond that of lowering blood pressure, in the regulation of left ventricular mass and geometry in patients with hypertension.
Two patients with multiple organ systems failure developed seizures after receiving imipenem/cilastatin (I/C) despite dose adjustment for poor renal function. Neither patient had a past history of seizures, nor had experienced seizures after receiving high doses of other beta-lactam antibiotics. Simple dose adjustment of I/C based on low creatinine clearances may not be adequate to prevent seizures.
This article describes an imipenem/cilastatin (I/C) target drug program. The program, developed following completion of a drug usage evaluation study, was designed to improve I/C dosing, reduce central nervous system (CNS) adverse effects, and reduce antibiotic costs. Following completion of an inservice education program for the medical and pharmacy professional staffs, ongoing monitoring of I/C usage was accomplished through the pharmacy-based drug-dosing service. Pharmacists evaluated I/C dosage based upon culture/sensitivity results and indicators of renal function. If deemed inappropriate, the pharmacist contacted the prescribing physician with a dosage recommendation. Two hundred ten courses of I/C therapy were prescribed in the nine-month period following implementation of the target drug program; 26 cases (12 percent) required dosage adjustment. The incidence of CNS adverse effects including seizures decreased from 15 to 1 percent (p = 0.0015). A $6033 drug cost avoidance also resulted from pharmacist intervention.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HITT) can lead to serious morbidity and may be potentially fatal. We reviewed our experience with this entity over a 4-year period, to determine the following: 1) incidence and type of thrombosis in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), 2) clinical consequences of thrombosis, i.e., amputation, cerebrovascular accidents and death, 3) risk factors associated with development of thrombosis, and 4) impact of therapy on clinical outcomes in patients with HITT. Between 1991-1994, 108 patients were diagnosed to have HIT by heparin-induced platelet aggregation test. Thirty-two (29%) of these developed thrombotic complications, of which 20 were venous, 8 arterial, and 4 both. Five of the 32 died, 3 underwent amputations, and 3 had cerebrovascular accidents. The patients who developed thrombotic complications, when compared to those with HIT alone, were older (68.7 +/- 11.5 vs. 63.3 +/- 16 years, P = .05), had more severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count 46,300 +/- 30,400/mm3 vs. 62,500 +/- 34,400/mm3, P = .02), and developed it earlier (6.0 +/- 2.9 vs. 7.4 +/- 3.1 days, P = .03). Multivariate analysis showed that severity of thrombocytopenia and early fall in platelet count were independent risk factors for development of thrombotic complications. We did not find an association between development of thrombosis and clinical events (myocardial infarction, cardiac procedures or surgery, noncardiac surgery, and sepsis) that occurred immediately prior to onset of thrombocytopenia. Heparin was stopped in all 32 patients with HITT. Six received no additional therapy, and one received a single dose of aspirin. Three of these 7 died. The other 25 received anticoagulant or multiagent therapy, with 2 deaths. The death rate was lower in those who were treated with anticoagulant or multiagent therapy (P = .05). We conclude that: 1) Thrombotic complications occur in about 29% of hospitalized patients who develop HIT. 2) Early, severe fall in platelet count in elderly patients receiving heparin appears to be associated with development of thrombotic complications. 3) Our data do not show an association between development of thrombotic complications and clinical events immediately preceding the diagnosis of HIT. 4) In addition to discontinuation of heparin, anticoagulant or thrombolytic therapy should be considered in patients with HITT.
Two elderly patients, who were chronically receiving aspirin, developed lethargy, incontinence, and confusion after dosing with acetazolamide. Unbound plasma acetazolamide concentrations were elevated and plasma protein binding was reduced, suggesting an interaction with aspirin. In vitro studies demonstrated a concentration-dependent effect of salicylate on acetazolamide binding to serum proteins. At a therapeutic serum acetazolamide level of 8.0 micrograms/ml, the unbound percentage of acetazolamide in serum was 3.3% and increased to 11.0% and 30.0%, with serum salicylate levels of 200 and 386 micrograms/ml, respectively. Furthermore, the apparent association constant of acetazolamide for binding to serum proteins was decreased by 58% and 86% of its control value at these respective salicylate concentrations. The maximal binding capacity of serum for acetazolamide was not affected by salicylate. Pharmacokinetic studies in four volunteers showed that the plasma protein binding and renal clearance of acetazolamide were significantly reduced during chronic salicylate dosing. Salicylate appears to competitively inhibit the plasma protein binding of acetazolamide and simultaneously to inhibit acetazolamide renal tubular secretion. Caution is advised when acetazolamide and salicylate are used concurrently.
Central adenosine A(2A) receptor is a promising target for drugs to treat Parkinson's disease (PD), and the central blockade of adenosine A(1) receptor improves cognitive function. In the present study, we investigated the effect of a novel adenosine A(1) and A(2A) dual antagonist, 5-[5-amino-3-(4-fluorophenyl) pyrazin-2-yl]-1-isopropylpyridine-2(1H)-one (ASP5854), in animal models of PD and cognition. The binding affinities of ASP5854 for human A(1) and A(2A) receptors were 9.03 and 1.76 nM, respectively, with higher specificity and no species differences. ASP5854 also showed antagonistic action on A(1) and A(2A) agonist-induced increases of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration. ASP5854 ameliorated A(2A) agonist 2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl) phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS21680)- and haloperidol-induced catalepsy in mice, with the minimum effective doses of 0.32 and 0.1 mg/kg, respectively, and it also improved haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats at doses higher than 0.1 mg/kg. In unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, ASP5854 significantly potentiated l-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced rotational behavior at doses higher than 0.032 mg/kg. ASP5854 also significantly restored the striatal dopamine content reduced by 1-metyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment in mice at doses higher than 0.1 mg/kg. Furthermore, in the rat passive avoidance test, ASP5854 significantly reversed the scopolamine-induced memory deficits, whereas the specific adenosine A(2A) antagonist 8-((E)-2-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)ethenyl)-1,3-diethyl-7-methyl-3,7-dihydro-1H-purine-2,6-dione (KW-6002; istradefylline) did not. Scopolamine- or 5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine (dizocilpine maleate) (MK-801)-induced impairment of spontaneous alternation in the mouse Y-maze test was ameliorated by ASP5854, whereas KW-6002 did not exert improvement at therapeutically relevant dosages. These results demonstrate that the novel, selective, and orally active dual adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptors antagonist ASP5854 improves motor impairments, is neuroprotective via A(2A) antagonism, and also enhances cognitive function through A(1) antagonism.
Iron overload is a feature of an array of human disorders such as sideroblastic anemias, a heterogeneous group of erythropoietic disorders without identified cause in most cases. However, sideroblastic anemias appear to result from a disturbance at the interface between mitochondrial function and iron metabolism. A defining feature is excessive iron deposition within mitochondria of developing red cells, the consequences of which are an increase in cellular free radicals production, increased damage to proteins, and reduced cell survival. Because of its mitochondrial location, superoxide dismutase (SOD2) is the principal defense against the toxicity of superoxide anions generated by the oxidative phosphorylation. We have used hematopoietic stem cell transplantation to study blood cells lacking SOD2. We became interested in the role SOD2 plays in the metabolism of superoxide anions during erythroid development, as anemia is the major phenotype in transplanted animals. Our exploration of this model suggests that oxidative stress-and in particular, mitochondrial- derived oxidants-plays an important role in the pathogenesis of the human disorder, sideroblastic anemia. Here we review the relation between mitochondrial dysfunction and sideroblastic anemia, describe several methods for assessing oxidative damage to mature or developing red cells, present data on, and discuss the potential of antioxidant therapy for this disorder.
The theory of Ross describes atherosclerosis as a process induced by inflammatory reactions involving cytokines, cell adhesion molecules, and chemokines. The latter have been identified as the principal mediator of cell recruitment into the vascular wall when accumulating monocytes become a source of foam cells. The most potent monocyte attractant among known chemokines is the monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1). This protein is synthesized in vivo by cells of the vascular wall and its expression is largely controlled by NF-kB nuclear transcription factor. The importance of inflammation for the induction and progression of atherosclerosis suggests that anti-inflammatory drugs could be a useful modality in this condition. The present work was undertaken to: 1) adapt the RT-PCR technique to measurements of MCP-1 gene expression in rabbit aorta, 2) assess MCP-1 gene expression in rabbit aorta during atherosclerosis induced with a cholesterol-rich diet, 3) evaluate the effect of ibuprofen on MCP-1 gene expression in rabbit aorta during atherosclerosis induced with a cholesterol-rich diet. The study was done in 72 rabbits assigned to eight even groups on the basis of body weight and starting cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations in serum. All rabbits were fed a standard chow. In some groups, the diet was supplemented with cholesterol and/or ibuprofen. Two months later rabbits in four groups, i.e. control (K2), control with ibuprofen (IK2), cholesterol-rich (M2) and cholesterol-rich with ibuprofen (IM2) were weighed and blood was sampled for measurements of cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations in serum. The liver, heart, kidneys and adrenals were collected at autopsy and weighed. Additionally, a fragment of the ascending aorta was obtained for RT-PCR. The extent of atherosclerosis in aorta was determined using planimetry. Another month later this procedure was repeated for the remaining groups K3, IK3, M3 and IM3. RT-PCR was applied to measure MCP-1 gene expression in relation to constitutive expression of the GAPDH gene. Significantly lower expression was found in rabbits given ibuprofen (groups IK2, IK3, IM3) as compared with groups K2, K3 and M2 (Tab. 1, Fig. 1). Significantly higher concentrations of cholesterol and triglycerides, as well as liver and adrenal mass indices were revealed in rabbits fed a cholesterol-rich diet with or without ibuprofen, in comparison to groups K2, K3, IK2 and IK3. No atherosclerotic lesions were disclosed in control groups. Atheromatous lesions were demonstrated in rabbits fed a cholesterol-rich diet with or without ibuprofen, occupying more than 60% of the intimal surface. The following conclusions were made: 1) RT-PCR corrected for contamination of RNA samples with genomic DNA is a reliable technique for studying MCP-1 gene expression in rabbit aorta, 2) Three months of cholesterol-rich diet is without effect on MCP-1 gene expression in rabbit aorta, 3) Ibuprofen suppresses MCP-1 gene expression in the aorta without affecting the progression of atherosclerosis induced with the cholesterol-rich diet.
Five patients with idiopathic orthostatic hypotension who had physiologic and biochemical evidence of severe autonomic dysfunction were included in the study. They all exhibited markedly reduced plasma catecholamines and plasma renin activity in both recumbent and upright positions and had marked hypersensitivity to the pressor effects of infused norepinephrine. Treatment with propanolol administered intravenously (1-5 mg) produced increases in supine and upright blood pressure in 4 of the 5 individuals with rises ranging from 11/6 to 22/11 mmHg. Chronic oral administration of propranolol (40-160 mg/day) also elevated the blood pressures of these individuals with increases in the order of 20-35/15-25 mmg being observed. In 1 patient, marked hypertension was induced by propranolol and the drug had to be withdrawn. It otherwise was well tolerated and no important side effects were observed. Treatment has been continued in 3 individuals for 6-13 months with persistence of the pressor effect, although there appears to have been some decrease in the degree of response with time. Hemodynamic measurements in 1 of the patients demonstrated an increase in total peripheral resistance and essentially no change in cardiac output following propranolol therapy. The studies suggest that propranolol is a useful drug in selected patients with severe idiopathic orthostatic hypotension.
Idiosyncratic drug reactions are difficult to study in humans due to their unpredictability. Unfortunately, this characteristic also hinders the development of animal models needed for mechanistic studies. Nevirapine, used to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections, results in a severe idiosyncratic skin rash in some patients. We found that nevirapine can also cause a significant rash in some strains of rats. At a dose of 150 mg/kg/day, the incidence in female Sprague-Dawley rats was 6/28 (21%), in female Brown Norway rats 32/32 (100%), and in female Lewis rats 0/6 (0%) while no male Sprague-Dawley or Brown Norway rats developed a rash. Female SJL mice 0/7 also did not develop nevirapine-induced skin lesions. The first sign of a reaction in Brown Norway rats was red ears at days 7-10 followed by a rash with scabbing mainly on the back; this was a shorter time to onset than in Sprague-Dawley rats. Light microscopy of the skin revealed a primarily mononuclear inflammatory infiltrate and lesions typical of self-trauma. Immunohistochemistry results suggest that the infiltrate was composed of CD4 and CD8 T cells as well as macrophages. A lower dose of either 40 or 75 mg/kg/day did not lead to a rash and, in fact, 2 weeks of the lower doses induced tolerance to the 150 mg/kg/day dose in female Brown Norway rats. A dose of 100 mg/kg/day resulted in rash in 2/4 (50%) of female Brown Norway rats. Rechallenge of Brown Norway rats that had been allowed to recuperate after a nevirapine-induced rash led to red ears in less than 24 h followed by hair loss and occasional skin lesions. Although the skin rash was less evident on rechallenge, microscopically, the cellular infiltrate was more prominent, especially surrounding the hair follicles. Moreover, there were lesions of interface dermatitis with apoptosis and satellitosis, indicative of a cell-mediated immune attack on the epidermis. While systemic signs of illness did not accompany the rash on primary exposure, on rechallenge, the animals appeared generally unwell and this forced sacrifice after 2 weeks or less of treatment. Importantly, splenocytes isolated from rechallenged animals were able to transfer susceptibility to nevirapine-induced skin rash to naïve female Brown Norway recipients, which was illustrated by a faster time to onset of rash in the recipients. The characteristics of this adverse reaction are similar to that seen in humans; that is, it is idiosyncratic in that it only occurs in some strains of animals, is delayed in onset, is more common in females, is dose-dependent, and appears to be immune-mediated. Therefore, it may represent a good animal model for the study of idiosyncratic drug reactions.
Docetaxel and carboplatin were used as adjuvant chemotherapy or maintenance chemotherapy for cancer of the ovary and fallopian tube. Docetaxel 70 mg/m2 and carboplatin (area under the concentration-versus-time curve of 5) were administered intravenously every 3 weeks. Thirty-two patients (median age, 54 years) were assessable. We had objective responses from 5 of 7 (70%) assessable patients. Our toxicity findings included the following: grade 3 or 4 neutropenia (70% of courses); grade 3 or 4 leucocytopenia (35% of courses); hypersensitive reaction (25% of patients, none requiring discontinuation of therapy): edema (30% of patients): peripheral neuropathy (6% of patients). The combination of docetaxel and carboplatin is highly active in cancer of the ovary and follapian tube. The adverse effect was significant neutropenia, but peripheral neuropathy was rare. This regimen represents a reasonable first-line option for patients with ovarian cancer.
A 45-year-old man with AIDS was treated for a recurrence of cerebral toxoplasmosis with sulphadiazine, 4 g, and pyrimethamine, 75 mg, daily. Owing to a lack of appetite and dysphagia he drank rather little water during the first week of treatment. On the 13th day after starting the drugs he had bilateral renal colics and renal failure was diagnosed (serum creatinine 3.8 mg/dl). Ultrasound examination demonstrated multiple stones with bilateral urinary retention. After parenteral fluid replacement, alkalization of the urine with sodium-potassium-hydrogen citrate and N-butylcopolamine a stone, consisting of sulphadiazine and acetylsulphadiazine, was passed after two days. Three days later the creatinine concentration was within normal limits, and in further two days the ultrasound picture was normal. It is pointed out that diarrhoea, fever or dysphagia often prevent sufficient fluid intake in AIDS patients. Satisfactory oral fluid intake and alkalization of urine is thus of great importance for avoiding complications during sulphadiazine treatment.
Anandamide [arachidonylethanolamide (AEA)] appears to be an endogenous agonist of brain cannabinoid receptors (CB(1)), yet some of the neurobehavioral effects of this compound in mice are unaffected by a selective CB(1) antagonist. We studied the levels, pharmacological actions, and degradation of AEA in transgenic mice lacking the CB(1) gene. We quantified AEA and the other endocannabinoid, 2-arachidonoyl glycerol, in six brain regions and the spinal cord by isotope-dilution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The distribution of endocannabinoids and their inactivating enzyme, fatty acid amide hydrolase, were found to overlap with CB(1) distribution only in part. In CB(1) knockout homozygotes (CB(1)-/-), the hippocampus and, to a lesser extent, the striatum exhibited lower AEA levels as compared with wild-type (CB(1)+/+) controls. These data suggest a ligand/receptor relationship between AEA and CB(1) in these two brain regions, where tonic activation of the receptor may tightly regulate the biosynthesis of its endogenous ligand. 2-Arachidonoyl glycerol levels and fatty acid amide hydrolase activity were unchanged in CB(1)-/- with respect to CB(1)+/+ mice in all regions. AEA and Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) were tested in CB(1)-/- mice for their capability of inducing analgesia and catalepsy and decreasing spontaneous activity. The effects of AEA, unlike THC, were not decreased in CB(1)-/- mice. AEA, but not THC, stimulated GTPgammaS binding in brain membranes from CB(1)-/- mice, and this stimulation was insensitive to CB(1) and CB(2) antagonists. We suggest that non-CB(1), non-CB(2) G protein-coupled receptors might mediate in mice some of the neuro-behavioral actions of AEA.
We report on two patients with morphine-related seizures associated with either intrathecal or intracerebroventricular administration. Both patients had a history of malignant tumor and both experienced the seizures following bolus application of morphine, while even higher dosages were well tolerated when continuously infused. Seizures occurred without signs of intoxication. Initiation of intrathecal morphine therapy and bolus application should be performed carefully and only when constant monitoring is provided for at least 12 h. Animal data and possible mechanisms for morphine-related seizures are discussed.
The case is reported of a 30-year-old multigravida, with insignificant history and stable vital signs, admitted to the labour room for normal vaginal delivery of twins. She received combined spinal epidural analgesia (bupivacaine plus fentanyl) for 3 h. Following uneventful delivery she received 0.2 mg methylergonovine maleate, intramuscularly. Nausea and vomiting occurred 70 min after placenta delivery, heart rate decreased, arterial blood pressure increased and there was chest pain. After excluding cardiac ischaemia, 0.5 mg atropine sulphate was administered intravenously. Chest pain improved but heart rate and blood pressure increased more than expected. The patient had mild headache and nausea, and antiemetic 4 mg ondansetron was given intravenously. Continuous monitoring for 4 h showed spontaneous chest pain relief and blood pressure improvement. In conclusion, serious delayed side-effects arising from methylergonovine maleate can occur in young, normal patients and close monitoring is required. Intravenous atropine sulphate following methylergonovine maleate administration may lead to severe hypertension and tachycardia.
Melatonin is often used for autistic children with sleep disorders, despite a lack of published evidence in this population.
A randomized, placebo-controlled double-blind crossover trial of melatonin was undertaken in 11 children with autistic spectrum disorder (ASD).
Seven children completed the trial. Sleep latency was 2.6 h [95% confidence intervals (CI) 2.28-2.93] baseline, 1.91 h (95% CI 1.78-2.03) with placebo and 1.06 h (95% CI 0.98-1.13) with melatonin. Wakings per night were 0.35 (95% CI 0.18-0.53) baseline, 0.26 (95% CI 0.20-0.34) with placebo and 0.08 (95% CI 0.04-0.12) with melatonin. Total sleep duration was 8.05 h (95% CI 7.65-8.44) baseline, 8.75 h (95% CI 8.56-8.98) with placebo and 9.84 h (95% CI 9.68-9.99) with melatonin.
Although the study was small owing to recruitment difficulties, it still provides evidence of effectiveness of melatonin in children with sleep difficulties and ASD, which we predict a larger study would confirm.
In the recent past, psychiatrists and paediatricians have avoided prescribing stimulant medication, such as methylphenidate and dexamphetamine to patients with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) because of both doubts about efficacy and concern that these medications make stereotypies worse. Recently, a number of small trials have suggested that methyphenidate does have a role in the management of hyperactivity in children with autistic spectrum disorders.
Children with ASD and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and children with ADHD without ASD received standard treatment with methyphenidate from one specialist centre. A combination of standardized and novel outcome tools was used to allow both an exploratory retrospective study of 174 children and then a prospective study of a further 52 children to be carried out.
After treatment with stimulants, the subjects in both groups showed statistically significant improvements in target symptoms of 'hyperactivity', 'impulsivity', 'inattention', 'oppositionality', 'aggression' and 'intermittent explosive rage'. The Clinical Global Impression-Improvement and efficacy index measures also improved in each group. In both the retrospective and the prospective studies, there was no statistically significant difference in the degree of improvements between each group. Importantly, neither tics nor repetitive behaviours worsened in either group. Children in the 'ADHD-only' group who were prescribed stimulants experienced significant 'nausea', 'giddiness', 'headaches' and 'sleep difficulties', whereas sleep difficulties were the only side effect that emerged in children in the ASD with ADHD group.
Both studies presented here support previous findings from smaller studies that show children with autism and ADHD can respond as well to stimulants as children with ADHD alone. Although randomized controlled trials remain the gold standard for efficacy studies, systems like this that allow clinicians to continue rigorous and consistent monitoring for many years have a valuable role to play. Furthermore, such monitoring systems which now exist electronically can easily accumulate large data sets and reveal details about long-term effectiveness and long-term side effects of medication that are unlikely to be discovered in short-term trials.
Mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumor suppressor gene seem to underlie the initiation of many colorectal carcinomas. Loss of APC function results in accumulation of beta-catenin and activation of beta-catenin/TCF-dependent transcription. Recent studies have implicated APC in controlling retinoic acid biosynthesis during normal intestinal development through a WNT-independent mechanism. Paradoxically, however, previous studies found that dietary supplementation of Apc(MIN) mice with retinoic acid failed to abrogate adenoma formation. While investigating the above finding, we found that expression of CYP26A1, a major retinoic acid catabolic enzyme, was up-regulated in Apc(MIN) mouse adenomas, human FAP adenomas, human sporadic colon carcinomas, and in the intestine of apc(mcr) mutant zebrafish embryos. Mechanistically, cyp26a1 induction following apc mutation is dependent on WNT signaling as antisense morpholino knockdown of tcf4 or injection of a dnLEF construct into apc(mcr) mutant zebrafish suppressed expression of cyp26a1 along with known WNT target genes. In addition, injection of stabilized beta-catenin or dnGSK3beta into wild-type embryos induced cyp26a1 expression. Genetic knockdown or pharmacologic inhibition of cyp26a1 in apc(mcr) mutant zebrafish embryos rescued gut differentiation defects such as expression of intestinal fatty acid-binding protein and pancreatic trypsin. These findings support a novel role for APC in balancing retinoic acid biosynthesis and catabolism through WNT-independent and WNT-dependent mechanisms.
We describe a 27-year-old woman who developed encephalopathy and cerebral edema during treatment of refractory complex partial seizures that included acute administration of valproate (VPA) at a dosage of 35 mg/kg per day. Multiple random VPA levels were within therapeutic range, and results of liver function studies did not show evidence of hepatic failure. Cerebral computerized tomography (CT) showed evidence of massive cerebral edema with central herniation. Just prior to death, plasma levels of free and acyl carnitines were markedly decreased. Analysis of urinary organic acids showed increased excretion of lactate, but a normal distribution of VPA metabolites. Carnitine deficiency may predispose patients to the development of coma and life-threatening cerebral edema associated with acute administration of VPA, even in the absence of concomitant hepatic failure. We suggest specific guidelines for the evaluation and management of altered consciousness in patients with seizures receiving VPA.
The neuropathy caused by a single dose of isoniazid in rats was studied with a computer-assisted morphometric method. Scatter diagrams of the g ratio (quotient fibre diameter/axon diameter) define regenerating fibres as a distinct population, distinguishable from the surviving fibres by reduced sheath thickness and reduced axon calibre. There was also evidence of a subtle direct toxic effect on the entire fibre population, causing axon shrinkage masked by readjustment of the myelin sheath.
This is the first report of a neonatal withdrawal syndrome associated with maternal hydroxyzine treatment (150 mg/day) confirmed by measurements of hydroxyzine plasma concentrations in the mother and infant after birth. Hydroxyzine plasma concentrations were measured by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Neurological symptoms with low neonatal concentrations of hydroxyzine may be due to a withdrawal syndrome. According to previous observations and this case report, clinicians should be warned of this possible rare neurological complication of hydroxyzine in neonates born from long term treated mothers.
To determine whether pharmacological stress leads to prolonged but reversible left ventricular dysfunction in patients with coronary artery disease, similar to that seen after exercise.
A randomised crossover study of recovery time of systolic and diastolic left ventricular function after exercise and dobutamine induced ischaemia.
10 patients with stable angina, angiographically proven coronary artery disease, and normal left ventricular function.
Treadmill exercise and dobutamine stress were performed on different days. Quantitative assessment of systolic and diastolic left ventricular function was performed using transthoracic echocardiography at baseline and at regular intervals after each test.
Both forms of stress led to prolonged but reversible systolic and diastolic dysfunction. There was no difference in the maximum double product (p = 0.53) or ST depression (p = 0.63) with either form of stress. After exercise, ejection fraction was reduced at 15 and 30 minutes compared with baseline (mean (SEM), -5.6 (1.5)%, p < 0.05; and -6.1 (2.2)%, p < 0. 01), and at 30 and 45 minutes after dobutamine (-10.8 (1.8)% and -5. 5 (1.8)%, both p < 0.01). Regional analysis showed a reduction in the worst affected segment 15 and 30 minutes after exercise (-27.9 (7.2)% and -28.6 (5.7)%, both p < 0.01), and at 30 minutes after dobutamine (-32 (5.3)%, p < 0.01). The isovolumic relaxation period was prolonged 45 minutes after each form of stress (p < 0.05).
In patients with coronary artery disease, dobutamine induced ischaemia results in prolonged reversible left ventricular dysfunction, presumed to be myocardial stunning, similar to that seen after exercise. Dobutamine induced ischaemia could therefore be used to study the pathophysiology of this phenomenon further in patients with coronary artery disease.
To compare the gastric ulcer healing rates of lansoprazole with histamine2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) (ranitidine, famotidine, cimetidine, and roxatidine), a meta-analysis was performed using data from five published and eight unpublished randomized controlled trials. Analyses were performed using (1) both evaluable patients (n = 1527) and all randomized patients (n = 1655) (assuming that patients lost to follow-up were treatment failures); (2) all studies and a subset of studies that received high methodologic quality scores; and (3) fixed-effects, random-effects, and Bayesian statistical models. In all cases, lansoprazole was associated with a significantly higher rate of endoscopic healing at both 4 and 8 weeks compared with the H2RAs. When the most conservative Bayesian statistical model and intent-to-treat analysis were used, lansoprazole was associated with a 33% higher healing rate at 4 weeks (risk ratio = 1.33; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.19 to 1.49) and a 12% higher healing rate at 8 weeks (risk ratio = 1.12; 95% CI = 1.06 to 1.19) than were the H2RA agents. Similar results were obtained when the meta-analysis was performed on evaluable rather than all randomized patients and using the three different analytical techniques noted above. Slightly lower, though still highly significant, improvement in ulcer healing rates was obtained when the meta-analysis was performed using a subset of six studies that received high methodologic quality scores. These results support the conclusion that lansoprazole heals ulcers more quickly than do the H2RAs and also achieves higher overall rates of healing. The eradication of Helicobacter pylori associated with gastric ulcers was not assessed in individual studies.
Tamsulosin, an alpha 1A-adrenoceptor antagonist, has recently been approved to treat patients with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Tamsulosin is highly selective for prostatic receptors with minimal affinity for vascular receptors. Therefore, it should have little effect on blood pressure and should not potentiate other agents' antihypertensive activity. To test this hypothesis, we conducted three randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled studies to evaluate how coadministration of tamsulosin would affect the pharmacodynamic profiles of nifedipine, enalapril, and atenolol. Each study enrolled 12 hypertensive men aged 45 years or older whose blood pressure was being controlled with maintenance doses of nifedipine (study 1), enalapril (study 2), or atenolol (study 3). All 36 subjects were treated with placebo for 5 days and then randomly assigned to either placebo (control group) or tamsulosin therapy (0.4 mg/d for 7 days followed by 0.8 mg/d for 7 days) in addition to continuing their maintenance antihypertensive therapy. Blood pressure and pulse rate were monitored over a 24-hour period on study days 4, 11, and 19. Coadministration of tamsulosin in these small studies had no clinically significant effects on the pharmacodynamic action of nifedipine, enalapril, or atenolol; it produced no clinically significant differences in pulse rate and blood pressure, did not alter electrocardiographic or Holter monitoring results, and did not cause increased side effects. Coadministration of tamsulosin with the three antihypertensive agents studied had a favorable safety profile. Our results in these small studies indicate that the dose of nifedipine, enalapril, or atenolol did not require adjustment in patients given tamsulosin, which may give tamsulosin an advantage over other alpha-blocking agents used to treat patients with BPH. Now that tamsulosin has been approved in the United States, further clinical use may confirm these findings.
The extra-pyramidal symptoms associated with manganism often overlap with that seen in Parkinsonism suggesting a common link between the two disorders. Since wide deviations are observed in susceptibility and characteristics of the symptoms observed in manganism, these differences may be due to underlying genetic variability. Genes linked to early onset of Parkinsonism which includes ATP13A2 and parkin have already been suggested to promote development of Mn toxicity. Of the other Parkinson-linked genes, mutations in LRRK2, an autosomal dominant gene, represent another likely candidate involved in the development of manganism. In this paper the effect of shRNA LRRK2 knock-down on Mn toxicity was examined in control and DAT transfected HEK293 cells. Results demonstrate that LRRK2 down-regulation potentiates Mn toxicity in both control and DAT-transfected cell as well as potentiates DA toxicity. Combined treatment of Mn and DA further augments cell toxicity, ROS production and JNK phosphorylation in LRRK2 deficient cells compared to controls. Consistent with studies demonstrating that LRRK2 plays a role in the phosphorylation of p38, our results similarly demonstrate a decrease in p38 activation in LRRK2 knock-down cells. Our findings suggest that null mutations in LRRK2 which cause Parkinsonism potentiate Mn toxicity and increase susceptibility to develop manganism.
