A case of ischemic cardiopathy which was observed after 5-fluorouracil administration for a carcinoma of the small intestine is described.
The safety and efficacy of an extended-release form of diltiazem HCl (diltiazem XR) in patients 55 years or older with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension were examined in a multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study involving 350 patients with supine diastolic blood pressure (DBP) between 95 mm Hg and 114 mm Hg. Patients were randomized to a once-daily dose of diltiazem XR (240 mg) or placebo; 261 patients received diltiazem XR and 89 received placebo. After 4 weeks, the dose was doubled (to 480 mg) in patients whose supine DBP was > 90 mm Hg, and treatment was continued for another 4 weeks. Diltiazem XR consistently reduced blood pressure (BP) in the study population. At end-point, the mean reduction in supine DBP was 8.65 mm Hg in the diltiazem XR group and 2.75 mm Hg in the placebo group (P < 0.0001). Subgroup analysis confirmed the efficacy of diltiazem XR in men, women, patients between the ages of 55 and 64 years, patients 65 years or older, and non-black patients. Other BP values (supine systolic, standing diastolic, and standing systolic) also were significantly reduced in patients treated with diltiazem XR. BP reduction (supine DBP < or = 90 mm Hg or by > or = 10 mm Hg) was achieved in 58% of patients receiving diltiazem XR compared with 27% of patients receiving placebo. Decreases in apical heart rate were minimal and similar in both groups. No significant differences were noted in adverse events in the diltiazem XR and placebo groups: 36.4% of patients in the diltiazem XR group and 37.1% in the placebo group had no adverse experiences, and 63.6% and 62.9%, respectively, had at least one adverse event. Physical examination findings and laboratory values were clinically unremarkable and comparable in the diltiazem XR and placebo groups. Diltiazem XR given once daily at doses of 240 mg and 480 mg was safe and effective in lowering blood pressure in mature and elderly patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension.
To compare the incidence of repeated red blood cell (RBC) transfusion in anemic gynecologic cancer patients receiving platinum-based chemotherapy comparing intravenous and oral iron.
Forty-four anemic gynecologic cancer patients (hemoglobin level below 10 mg/dl) who required RBC transfusion were stratified and randomized according to baseline hemoglobin levels and chemotherapy regimen. Study group received 200 mg of intravenous iron sucrose and control group received oral ferrous sulphate 600 mg/day. RBC transfusion requirement in the consecutive cycle of chemotherapy was the primary outcome. Quality of life was evaluated by validated Thai version of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Anemia (FACT-An).
In a total of the 44 patients, there were 22 patients in each group. Five patients (22.7%) in the study group and 14 patients (63.6%) in the control group required RBC transfusion in consecutive cycle of chemotherapy (p=0.01). No significant difference in baseline hemoglobin and hematocrit levels was demonstrated in both groups. Significantly higher mean hemoglobin and hematocrit levels after treatment were reported in the study group (10.0+/-0.8 g/dl and 30.5+/-2.4%) than the control group (9.5+/-0.9 g/dl and 28.4+/-2.7%). No significant change of total FACT-An scores was noted between before and after treatment in both groups. No serious adverse events were reported and there was no significant difference among adverse events between both groups.
Intravenous iron is an alternative treatment for anemic gynecologic cancer patients receiving platinum-based chemotherapy and reduces the incidence of RBC transfusion without serious adverse events.
CHCl3 hepatotoxicity was studied in the male Mongolian gerbil and compared to that in the male Sprague-Dawley strain rat. Based on elevations in serum transaminase activities in response to CHCl3 exposure, control gerbils were more sensitive to CHCl3 than were gerbils treated with phenobarbital, chlordecone, mirex, or 3-methylcholanthrene. The increased sensitivity of the control relative to the induced gerbil was consistent with earlier observations of CCl4 hepatotoxicity (Ebel, R. E., and McGrath, E. A., 1984, Toxicol, Lett., 22, 205-210). Microsomal enzyme concentrations or activities were not decreased in the control or induced gerbils in response to CHCl3 exposures of up to 200 microliter/kg. At a dose of 500 microliter/kg, cytochrome P-450 and its reductase were decreased by about 25% in the chlordecone-induced gerbil. In contrast, chlordecone- and phenobarbital-induced rats were sensitive to CHCl3 as evidenced by marked elevations in serum transaminase activities, decreases in microsomal enzyme concentrations or activities, and a transient decrease in hepatic nonprotein sulfhydryl groups. Control rats were insensitive to CHCl3. Histopathological changes in the livers of these animals were consistent with alterations in the biochemical parameters measured. The relationship between sensitivity to the hepatotoxic effects of CHCl3 and CCl4 was different for the gerbil and rat.
The actions on central dopamine (DA) mechanisms of raclopride, a new substituted benzamide, were studied by means of behavioural and biochemical methods in the rat. Raclopride blocked the in vitro binding of the dopamine D2 antagonist 3H-spiperone (IC50 = 32 nM), but not of the unselective D1 antagonist 3H-flupenthixol (IC50 greater than 100,000 nM) in rat striatum, and failed to inhibit striatal DA-sensitive adenylate cyclase in vitro (IC50 greater than 100,000 nM). Raclopride caused a dose-dependent increase in the DA metabolites HVA and DOPAC in the striatum and olfactory tubercle. Behavioural studies showed that raclopride discriminates between the motor behaviours induced by the DA agonist apomorphine. Thus, unlike haloperidol, raclopride blocked apomorphine-induced hyperactivity at considerably lower doses than those inhibiting oral stereotypies. Moreover, raclopride showed a high separation between the doses for blockade of apomorphine-induced hyperactivity and those inducing catalepsy in rats. Raclopride caused a dose-dependent blockade of the specific binding of 3H-spiperone and 3H-N-n-propylnorapomorphine (3H-NPA) in vivo at doses similar to those blocking the behavioural effects of apomorphine. The maximal blockade of 3H-spiperone binding in vivo was lower for raclopride than for haloperidol. Raclopride caused a greater inhibition of 3H-NPA than of 3H-spiperone in vivo binding in the striatum. It is suggested that the ability of raclopride to discriminate between different DA-mediated functions may be attributed to a preferential blockade of a subclass of functionally coupled dopamine D2 receptors in striatal as well as in extrastriatal brain regions in the rat.
The application of cyclophosphamide to rats was used to induce interstitial cystitis. Behavioural studies indicated a strong pain reaction that developed within 2 h and levelled off thereafter causing a constant pain during the following 18 h. Neurons prepared from L6/S1 dorsal root ganglia innervating the urinary bladder responded to the application of capsaicin or alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-meATP) with an increase of intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i). The [Ca2+]i responses to capsaicin were identical in the dorsal root ganglion cells of cyclophosphamide- and saline-treated rats, whereas alpha,beta-meATP induced less increase in [Ca2+]i in the cyclophosphamide-treated animals than in their saline-treated counterparts. Hence, alpha,beta-meATP-sensitive P2X3 and/or P2X2/3 receptors of L6/S1 dorsal root ganglion neurons were functionally downregulated during subacute pain caused by experimental cystitis. In contrast, capsaicin-sensitive vanilloid 1 receptors did not react to the same procedure. Thoracal dorsal root ganglia, not innervating the urinary bladder, were also unaltered in their responsiveness to alpha,beta-meATP by cyclophosphamide treatment.
Many ligands for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) are considered endocrine disruptors and carcinogens, and assessment of adverse health effects in humans exposed to such chemicals has often focused on malignancies, including breast cancer. Mammary tissue contains the AhR, and inappropriate activation of the AhR during fetal development causes defects in mammary development that persist into adulthood. However, it is not known whether the extensive differentiation of mammary tissue that occurs during pregnancy is also sensitive to disruption by AhR activation. To examine this, we exposed pregnant C57Bl/6 mice to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on days 0, 7, and 14 of pregnancy. Examination of mammary glands on days 9, 12, and 17 of pregnancy and on the day of parturition showed severe defects in development, including stunted growth, decreased branching, and poor formation of lobular alveolar structures. This impaired differentiation was biologically significant, as expression of whey acidic protein in the gland was suppressed, and all pups born to TCDD-treated dams died within 24 h of birth. Analysis of circulating progesterone, prolactin, and estradiol suggest that hormone production was slightly impaired by inappropriate activation of the AhR. However, hormone levels were affected only very late in pregnancy. Given that the observed defects in gland development preceded these hormonal effects, altered hormone levels are an unlikely mechanistic explanation for impaired mammary development. This novel finding that AhR activation during pregnancy disrupts mammary gland differentiation raises questions about the susceptibility of mammary tissue to direct injury by endocrine disrupting agents and the potential for AhR-mediated signaling to adversely affect lactation and breast tissue development in human populations.
The recovery of mediator metabolites from urine has the potential to provide a rapid, safe, and easily available index of release of mediators. We aimed to determine urinary metabolites of both histamine and leukotrienes (LTs) in patients affected by chronic urticaria (CU).
Twenty patients with CU were studied. They were selected on the basis of double-blind placebo-controlled challenge (DBPC) with acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) and food additives. Ten patients (group B) were negative to both challenges. Ten patients (group C) presented urticaria and/or the appearance of angioedema during or 24 h after challenge, with reactions to ASA (five patients) or food additives (five patients). We recruited 15 healthy volunteers as controls (group A). During a second challenge, groups B and C were challenged double-blind with a single dose of ASA, or a specific food additive, or placebo. The healthy group was challenged only with a placebo (talc capsule). Patients in groups B and C were challenged twice: with placebo (as groups B1 and C1) and with ASA (groups B2 and C2) or food additives (C2). Four samples of urine were collected; one during the night before the specific or sham challenge (baseline), and three at 2, 6 and 24 h after the challenge. Urinary methylhistamine (N-MH) and LTE4 were analyzed and normalized for urinary creatinine.
For urinary N-MH at baseline, there was a significant difference only between group A and groups B1, B2, C1 and C2 (A vs. B1, P < 0.0001; A vs. B2, P < 0.0001; A vs. C1, P < 0.0001; A vs. C2, P < 0.0001). We detected a significant variation in urinary methylhistamine excretion only in group C2 after 2 h, 6 h and 24 h (P < 0.0001). However, no variations were observed in N-MH excretion rate in the other groups (A, B1, C1) after challenge with placebo, and in B2 after challenge with ASA 20 mg. For urinary LTE4 at baseline no differences were found between the mean values for the different groups. After specific challenge, only C2 patients showed significantly increased excretion rates of urinary LTE4 compared with the other groups challenged with placebo (A, B1, C1), or ASA (B2) (P < 0.0001). No significant correlation was seen between urinary LTE4 and methylhistamine excretion rate in any patients.
Our results show that urinary excretion of N-MH and LTE4 is different for CU patients without ASA or food hypersensitivity, compared to those with CU with ASA or food additive hypersensitivity after specific challenge.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been implicated in the etiology of indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal damage. This study investigated amiodarone's protective effects against oxidative gastric mucosal damage induced by indomethacin. Amiodarone is a widely used antiarrhythmic agent. We have investigated alterations in the glutathione level, and the activities of antioxidative enzymes [superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione s-transferase glutathione reductase and myeloperoxidase], as markers for ulceration process following oral administration of amiodarone and ranitidine in rats with indomethacin-induced ulcers. In the present study we found that 1) amiodarone, lansoprazole and ranitidine reduced the development of indomethacin-induced gastric damages, at a greater magnitude for amiodarone and lansoprazole than for ranitidine; 2) amiodarone and ranitidine alleviated increases in the activities of catalase and glutathione s-transferase enzymes resulting from ulcers; 3) amiodarone and ranitidine ameliorated depressions in the glutathione level and the activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione reductase enzymes caused by indomethacin administration; and 4) all doses of amiodarone amplified the myeloperoxidase activity resulting from indomethacin-induced gastric ulcers. The results indicate that the gastroprotective activity of amiodarone, which may be linked to its intrinsic antioxidant properties, cannot be attributed to its effect on myeloperoxidase activity.
A common response to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure in teleost embryos is blue-sac disease, characterized by pericardial and yolk-sac edema. The cellular and extracellular fluids of freshwater fish are hyperosmotic compared to the surrounding water. In order to be in osmotic balance, freshwater fish must maintain a barrier to minimize water entry and excrete excess water that passes the barrier. We hypothesized that edema observed in TCDD-exposed zebrafish was caused by a failure of a barrier to incoming water. As a test of this hypothesis, we removed the osmotic gradient that drives water entry by increasing the osmolarity of the surrounding water with mannitol. Abolishing the osmotic gradient between the interior body fluids and the water environment of the developing zebrafish significantly reduced both pericardial and yolk-sac edema. When added after edema formation had already started, mannitol only partially reversed pre-existing edema. An alternate hypothesis is that TCDD impairs water excretion, allowing water to accumulate as edema fluid. However, we were unable to demonstrate an alteration in kidney function: expression of early markers for kidney development appeared normal, and we did not observe TCDD-induced changes in kidney filtration. An alteration in the overall shape of the kidney was observed, but this may be a consequence of compression by edema. In conclusion, TCDD exposure may inhibit the function of a permeability barrier to water, which is critical for maintaining osmotic balance in early development.
The debilitation of schizophrenia (SCHZ) worsens markedly with comorbid cocaine dependence (CD) and alcohol abuse. To date, no medications have conclusively demonstrated effects against both SCHZ and CD (SCHZ + CD) simultaneously. Because of its dopamine-modulating properties, we hypothesized that aripiprazole would alleviate cocaine craving in patients with SCHZ + CD. We conducted a prospective, 8-week, open-label trial in poorly compliant SCHZ + CD subjects. Each received aripiprazole as their sole neuroleptic agent at a maximum dose of 15 mg/d. The Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) and the Brief Substance Craving Scale (BSCS) measured psychosis and subjective cocaine and alcohol cravings. Urine tests for cocaine provided data on actual use. Of 10 male subjects entered, 6 (60%) completed the 8-week trial. In those cases, positive urine tests dropped significantly (P < 0.001) after 2 weeks, when aripiprazole had reached steady state. Mean cocaine craving scores declined significantly (P = 0.026) as did mean alcohol craving scores (P = 0.006). Declining psychosis scores were associated with declining cocaine craving (r = 0.87, P < 0.01) and alcohol craving (r = 0.88, P < 0.01), respectively. This experience suggests possible aripiprazole effects in lowering both desire for and the use of cocaine in comorbid SCHZ subjects. These data suggest double-blind, randomized, comparison study in this severely ill, comorbid patient group.
Impairment of sexual performance may occur in men on methadone maintenance. A random sample of 50 of 355 men enrolled in a methadone program was interviewed with respect ot sexual activity. Seventeen (33%) reported sexual dysfunction, occurring in 50% within 1 month after initiating methadone therapy. A comparison between these individuals and those without a reported change in sexual activity revealed no differences with respect to demographic parameters, methadone dose, or presence of polydrug abuse. Inadequate sexual function on heroin, however, was reported in 12 (71%) of those experiencing similar difficulties on methadone. This finding was present in only one person (3%) of those individuals whose sexual function on methadone maintenance was considered adequate. This study suggests that those persons with altered sexual function while on street heroin represent a high risk group for the development of inadequate sexual function upon initiation of methadone maintenance.
A patient with alveolar proteinosis developed unexpected cardiovascular instability after broncho-alveolar lavage. He had received two bolus doses of etomidate within an 18-hour period. Serum cortisol concentrations were low and hydrocortisone replacement therapy was necessary to restore arterial pressure. Implications for management of critically ill patients who receive bolus doses of etomidate are discussed.
Humanin (HN) is a 24-amino acid peptide that protects neuronal cells from death caused by Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related genes and amyloid-beta (Abeta). Multiple studies have revealed its biochemical and neuroprotective characteristics in vitro; however, little has been known regarding whether HN is effective in vivo in AD model systems. We examined the effect of S14G-HN, a 1,000-fold more potent derivative of HN in vitro, on amnesia induced by Abeta25-35 in mice. The Y-maze test revealed that at least 50 pmol of S14G-HN by intracerebroventricular injection prevented Abeta-induced impairment of short-term/spatial working memory; however, 5 nmol of S14A-HN, a neuroprotection-defective mutant in vitro, did not prevent Abeta-induced amnesia. These results are in agreement with the structure-function correlation shown previously in vitro. In the water-finding task, S14G-HN prevented prolongation of finding latency (the time to find water) observed in Abeta-amnesic mice, indicating that S14G-HN also blocked Abeta-induced impairment of latent learning. In accordance with these observations, immunohistochemical analysis showed that S14G-HN sustained the number of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain and the striata nearly to the normal level. Furthermore, genistein, a specific inhibitor of tyrosine kinases, blocked recovery from scopolamine-induced amnesia by S14G-HN, suggesting that certain tyrosine kinase(s) are involved in the inhibitory function of S14G-HN in vivo. Taking these findings together, we conclude that S14G-HN has rescue activity against memory impairment caused by AD-related insults in vivo by activating the same intracellular neuroprotective machinery as elucidated previously in vitro.
To observe the effects of Guiqi San (GQS, a Chinese herbal preparation with effect of Kidney Nourishing and Spleen Invigorating), Bushen Dingchuan Tang (BSDCT, with effects of Kidney Nourishing) and Liujunzi Tang (LJZT, with effect of Spleen Invigorating) on glucocorticoid receptor (GCR) and plasma corticosterone (PCC) in asthmatic rats.
The asthmatic model of rats made by intraperitoneal injection of ovalbumin two weeks before, and the asthma consecutively challenged daily with spray inhalation of 1% ovalbumin for 7 days. The asthmatic rat treated with above-mentioned three recipes (per os) and Beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) were taken as treated groups and the asthmatic rat as control group. GCR density of the pulmonary tissue and PCC were determined by radioligand-binding assay and competitive protein radio-binding assay.
The RT value of GCR reduced gradually and PCC lowered also after asthma being developed. On day 7th, the three recipes could markedly up-regulate the RT of GCR and PCC. There was significant difference statistically as compared the pulmonary tissue GCR density and PCC of GQS (P < 0.01, P < 0.05), BSDCT (P < 0.05, P < 0.05) and LJZT (P < 0.05, P < 0.05) groups with those of control (asthmatic group) on the 7th day.
GQS, BSDCT and LJZT played an up-regulate role of GCR density and improvement of adrenocortical function in asthmatic rats in the management of asthma attacks.
Pemphigus, a common immunobullous disease of skin and mucous membranes affecting both sexes of all ages, was almost fatal before the advent of corticosteroids. Better strategies to avoid their side-effects and recent introduction of adjuvant therapy has further improved its prognosis. As the treatment remains need-based and patient-specific, different regimens and strategies have evolved, each with its own merits and demerits. This retrospective hospital-based study was carried out to understand the clinico-therapeutic aspects of pemphigus in our clinic.
Medical records of all new patients admitted to our hospital with the diagnosis of pemphigus from 1990 to 2002 were analyzed. The diagnosis was mainly clinical and confirmed by positive Tzanck's test and histopathology. All patients were assessed clinically on a severity score of 1+ to 4+. These patients had received treatment with dexamethasone-cyclophosphamide pulse (DCP) therapy, oral mini-pulse (OMP) with betamethasone, or intramuscular triamcinolone acetonide alone or with azathioprine, dapsone or cyclophosphamide. They were followed up for clinical remission and side-effects of therapy.
There were a total of 54 new patients comprising 53.7% females and 46.3% males, and 12.9% of these were < 18 years of age. Pemphigus vulgaris was the commonest clinical type seen in 81.48% and mucosal involvement was seen in 63.63% of cases. The severity of mucosal lesions was not proportionate to that of cutaneous lesions. Associated diseases seen were seropositive rheumatoid arthritis, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and hyperthyroidism in one case each. Dexamethasone-cyclophosphamide pulse therapy was given to 75% of the pemphigus vulgaris patients while those having less severe disease were treated with other regimens. In general, clinical remission was seen after 2-16 (mean 6.5) DCP doses. Two patients have been in complete remission for the last 5 and 7 years of completion of DCP therapy, respectively. Addition of other adjuvants to corticosteroids was also helpful. However, azathioprine 50 mg/day was not as effective as cyclophosphamide 50 mg/day. Menstrual irregularities, amenorrhoea, azoospermia, rise in blood pressure and glycosuria were the major side-effects seen during DCP pulse therapy. Drop out rate was unacceptably high with all modes of treatment, although with DCP therapy it appears to be partly owing to early disease control. There was no mortality in this series.
Pemphigus vulgaris is the commonest clinical type. Mucosal surfaces other than the oral cavity are uncommonly involved, it may herald the onset of disease and takes longer to heal. Dexamethasone-cyclophosphamide pulse therapy seems to have a definite advantage over treatment with steroids alone, especially in terms of better control of disease activity, near absence of steroid side-effects and significantly reduced hospital stay. However, ways and means to reduce gonadal toxicity of adjuvants need to be explored as DCP therapy is likely to stay as a treatment of choice.
Two clinical cases of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and poor response to conventional treatment are described. Patients received immunosuppressor treatment with azathioprine (AZA) and developed hepatic hemangiomas without detectable hepatic pathology previous to the treatment with AZA. The hepatic iatrogenesis of AZA is discussed, as well as the etiopathogenic hypothesis regarding hepatic hemangioma.
We report a patient with phenytoin-induced pseudolymphoma mimicking cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). Despite withdrawal of phenytoin, there was persistence of the cutaneous eruption and lymphadenopathy. Southern blot analysis of immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor genes was therefore used to assess whether there was a clonal lymphoid expansion. However, no rearrangement of the beta T-cell receptor gene or immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene was detected in tissue DNA from skin and lymph nodes. One year later the patient became asymptomatic, although he is still at risk of developing a true malignant lymphoma in the future, a condition known as pseudo-pseudolymphoma. It is suggested that genotypic studies may help in the initial diagnosis and the subsequent management of such patients.
Farmer's lung, or hypersensitivity pneumonitis, is an important contributor to respiratory morbidity among farmers.
Using the 1993-7 enrolment data from the Agricultural Health Study, we conducted a cross-sectional study of occupational risk factors for farmer's lung among 50,000 farmers and farm spouses in Iowa and North Carolina using hierarchical logistic regression controlling for age, state, and smoking status. Participants provided information on agricultural exposures, demographic characteristics, and medical history via self-administered questionnaires. Approximately 2% of farmers (n = 481) and 0.2% of spouses (n = 51) reported doctor-diagnosed farmer's lung during their lifetime. We assessed farmers and spouses separately due to different information on occupational exposure history. Only pesticide exposures represented lifetime exposure history, all other farm exposures represented current activities at enrolment.
Among farmers, handling silage (OR = 1.41, 95% CI 1.10 to 1.82), high pesticide exposure events (OR = 1.75, 95% CI 1.39 to 2.21), and ever use of organochlorine (OR = 1.34, 95% CI 1.04 to 1.74) and carbamate pesticides (OR = 1.32, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.68) were associated with farmer's lung in mutually-adjusted models. The insecticides DDT, lindane, and aldicarb were positively associated with farmer's lung among farmers. Current animal exposures, while not statistically significant, were positively associated with farmer's lung, particularly for poultry houses (OR = 1.55, 95% CI 0.93 to 2.58) and dairy cattle (OR = 1.28, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.89). The occupational data were more limited for spouses; however, we saw similar associations for dairy cattle (OR = 1.50, 95% CI 0.72 to 3.14) and organochlorine pesticides (OR = 1.29, 95% CI 0.64 to 2.59).
While historic farm exposures may contribute to the observed associations with pesticides, these results suggest that organochlorine and carbamate pesticides should be further evaluated as potential risk factors for farmer's lung
The scientific literature is replete with reports of cases of benzene-induced toxicity to the haematopoietic system. These mainly involve aplastic anaemia, the first cases of which were reported in 1897. At high level of benzene exposure (air concentration > 100 p.p.m.), the incidence of aplastic anaemia is approximately 1/100 individuals exposed, but this drops precipitously at lower levels of exposure (10-20 p.p.m.) to around 1/10,000. Factors that affect susceptibility may include high liver cytochrome P450 2E1 activity and low folic acid intake. The mechanism of benzene-induced aplastic anaemia remains unclear, but is likely to involve: (a) metabolism of benzene in the liver; (b) transport of metabolites to the marrow and their secondary activation to toxic quinones and free radicals by peroxidase enzymes; (c) induction of apoptosis, DNA damage and altered differentiation in early progenitor cells; and (d) depletion of the stem cell pool.
Paclobutrazol (PBZ) is a triazole-containing fungicide which is widely used in agriculture. Acute toxicity can follow its extensive use but it is generally weaker than traditional pesticides such as organochlorine and organophosphorus. However, its adverse effects on aquatic organisms need to be investigated. This study was conducted to investigate the effect of PBZ exposure on the hepatic lipid metabolism of Sebastiscus marmoratus. After PBZ exposure for 50 days, hepatic lipid droplets were enlarged and the hepatic total lipid, triglyceride, total cholesterol and free fatty acid content had increased in a dose dependent manner compared to the control. The mRNA expression of lipid metabolism associated genes such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs), androgen receptor, acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1, fatty acid synthesis, fatty acid bing protein 4, liver X receptor α (LXRα) and stearoyl-CoA desaturase were up-regulated by PBZ exposure. These results indicated that triazole-containing fungicides might affect the metabolism and health of fish via the multi-signal pathways of nuclear receptors such as PPARs and LXR.
Abuse of the dissociative anesthetic ketamine can lead to a syndrome indistinguishable from schizophrenia. In animals, repetitive exposure to this N-methyl-d-aspartate-receptor antagonist induces the dysfunction of a subset of cortical fast-spiking inhibitory interneurons, with loss of expression of parvalbumin and the gamma-aminobutyric acid-producing enzyme GAD67. We show here that exposure of mice to ketamine induced a persistent increase in brain superoxide due to activation in neurons of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase. Decreasing superoxide production prevented the effects of ketamine on inhibitory interneurons in the prefrontal cortex. These results suggest that NADPH oxidase may represent a novel target for the treatment of ketamine-induced psychosis.
The Aarskog syndrome or facio-genital dysplasia (FGDY, MIM No. 305400) is an X-linked condition characterized by short stature, macrocephaly, facial, genital and skeletal anomalies. It is caused by mutation of the FGD1 gene mapped to the Xp11.21 region. To date, only one point mutation has been reported in an affected family, consisting of the insertion of an additional guanine residue at nucleotide 2122 of exon 7, which causes premature translational termination. We now report the finding of two novel FGD1 mutations, a missense mutation in a family of Italian origin and a deletion of 3 exons in a sporadic case from Germany. These mutations confirm the role of FGD1 as the gene responsible for the Aarskog syndrome.
