Valproic acid (VPA) was given to 24 epileptic patients who were already being treated with other antiepileptic drugs. A standardized loading dose of VPA was administered, and venous blood was sampled at 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 hours. Ammonia (NH3) was higher in patients who, during continuous therapy, complained of drowsiness (7 patients) than in those who were symptom-free (17 patients), although VPA plasma levels were similar in both groups. By measuring VPA-induced changes of blood NH3 content, it may be possible to identify patients at higher risk of obtundation when VPA is given chronically.
Motility-related gastrointestinal adverse drug reactions (GADRs), such as constipation and diarrhea, are some of the most frequently reported adverse events associated with the clinical development of new chemical entities, and for marketed drugs. However, biomarkers capable of detecting such GADRs are lacking. Here, we describe an in vitro assay developed to detect and quantify changes in intestinal motility as a surrogate biomarker for constipation/diarrhea-type GADRs. In vitro recordings of intraluminal pressure were used to monitor the presence of colonic peristaltic motor complexes (CPMCs) in mouse colonic segments. CPMC frequency, contractile and total mechanical activity were assessed. To validate the assay, two experimental protocols were conducted. Initially, five drugs with known gastrointestinal effects were tested to determine optimal parameters describing excitation and inhibition as markers for disturbances in colonic motility. This was followed by a "blinded" evaluation of nine drugs associated with or without clinically identified constipation/diarrhea-type GADRs. Concentration-response relationships were determined for these drugs and the effects were compared with their maximal free therapeutic plasma concentration in humans. The assay detected stimulatory and inhibitory responses, likely correlating to the occurrence of diarrhea or constipation. Concentration-related effects were identified and potential mechanisms of action were inferred for several drugs. Based on the results from the fourteen drugs asssessed, the sensitivity of the assay was calculated at 90%, with a specificity of 75% and predictive capacity of 86%. These results support the potential use of this assay in screening for motility-related GADRs during early discovery phase, safety pharmacology assessment.
Anaemia is a commonly encountered medical condition, although associated ophthalmic manifestations are not often sought or recognised. The authors present a case report of a patient with severe vitamin B12 deficiency anaemia with florid retinal changes classical of anaemic retinopathy. A review of the ocular involvement in anaemia is also presented.
Fischer 344 (F344) and Lewis (LEW) rats differ in methamphetamine self-administration (SA) and methamphetamine-induced reinstatement of previously extinguished behavior. We sought to determine whether genetic background also influences methamphetamine reinforcement efficacy, conditioned reinstatement, and methamphetamine-primed reinstatement of responding in F344, LEW, and Black Agouti (ACI) rats. We implanted rats with jugular catheters and trained them to self-administer methamphetamine (0.06 mg/kg/infusion) under a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement during daily 2-h SA sessions. A compound stimulus (light+tone; LT) was paired with each infusion. Dose-dependent intake was determined for each rat. Rats then entered the extinction phase of the experiment where responding resulted in no programmed consequences. Following extinction sessions, rats underwent conditioned reinstatement testing. For conditioned reinstatement, rats received response-contingent presentations of the LT and no methamphetamine. Last, methamphetamine-primed reinstatement test sessions where conducted where subjects received experimenter delivered infusions of methamphetamine (0.06, 0.12, or 0.24 mg/kg). The strains did not differ in PR responding across the doses tested. The ACI rats demonstrated the highest behavioral output during extinction training, conditioned- and methamphetamine-primed reinstatement of previously extinguished behavior compared to the other strains. These data suggest that genetic background differentially influences extinction, conditioned reinstatement and methamphetamine-primed reinstatement in rats.
Current treatment of X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) employs the combined administration of oral phosphate and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25-(OH)2D3]. Although this drug regimen significantly improves the clinical course of the disease in children, the value of medical treatment in symptomatic adults with XLH has not been established. We, therefore, investigated the clinical, biochemical, and histological responses to phosphate and 1,25-(OH)2D3 in 16 symptomatic adult patients with XLH followed for a mean of 4.2 yr. Eighty-seven percent of the patients had an improvement in bone or joint pain with therapy. There was a significant increase in mean serum phosphate (from 0.61 +/- 0.03 to 0.77 +/- 0.03 mmol/L) and urinary calcium excretion (from 2.45 +/- 0.38 to 4.39 +/- 0.44 mmol/day) with treatment. Pretreatment bone biopsies demonstrated findings characteristic of osteomalacia, including abnormally increased osteoid volume and decreased mineral apposition rates. Treatment was accompanied by a significant decrease in osteoid thickness as well as a reduction in mean osteoid volume. However, therapy did not completely normalize these parameters. Disease severity, as assessed by histomorphometric parameters, did not correlate with any pretreatment serum or urinary biochemical measurement, but did seem to correlate with symptom score. Although most patients tolerated therapy without difficulty, 1 patient developed tertiary hyperparathyroidism during treatment and renal insufficiency that progressed despite cessation of therapy. This study provides evidence that therapy with oral phosphate and 1,25-(OH)2D3 in symptomatic adults with XLH can result in significant clinical and histomorphometric improvement.
We compared 19 men on carbamazepine (CBZ) monotherapy with 19 men on phenytoin (PHT) monotherapy, all of whom had standard therapeutic levels. The two groups were matched for age, sex, education, premorbid predicted IQ, seizure frequency, duration, number, type and aetiology, weekly ethanol consumption and psychiatric history. The two groups did not differ statistically on self- and reliable-informant rated personality inventories, word recognition, face recognition, confrontation naming, finger oscillation or trailmaking series completion times. These data fail to support a behavioural and cognitive advantage of CBZ over PHT in adult epileptics.
The frequency of local venous reactions after the injection i.v. of etomidate or thiopentone was studied in 61 patients undergoing surgery for prolapsed lumbar disc. Of the patients who received etomidate, 24% developed thrombophlebitis in the period after operation (up to 14 days). Of the patients who received thiopentone, 4% developed thrombophlebitis in the period after operation. Pain on injection occurred in 24% of the patients receiving etomidate, but there was no correlation between pain on injection and the subsequent thrombophlebitis.
ELAC2, MSR1, and RNASEL are candidate genes for hereditary prostate carcinoma (HPC). While, studies have demonstrated that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in these genes are associated with sporadic disease as well as HPC, these results are often not replicated in follow-up studies. Given that the majority of patients studied had localized disease and up to 50% of localized prostate cancer is clinically insignificant, the inability to replicate the initial findings may reflect that some subjects had indolent tumors. Herein, we examine patients with metastatic disease to determine if an association exists between HPC SNPs and unambiguously significant prostate cancer.
We examined polymorphisms within ELAC2 (S217L, A541T, E622V), MSR1 (P275A, R293X, aIVS5-59c), and RNASEL (E265X, R462Q, D541E) in 150 European-Americans with metastatic prostate cancer and 170 prostate cancer-free controls using pyrosequencing assays.
Only ELAC2 217L (37% cases vs. 29% controls (P=0.034)) and RNASEL 541E (61% cases vs. 53% controls (P=0.045)) were over-represented. Analysis of genotypes revealed that presence of the leucine ELAC2 allele (OR 1.54: 95% CI=0.99-2.41, SS vs. SL, LL) and homozygosity for the glutamic acid RNASEL allele (OR 1.68: 95% CI=1.04-2.70, EE vs. DE, DD) were associated with increased risk. Patients with both genotypes were of particularly high-risk (OR 2.66: 95% CI=1.36-5.19).
These results suggest that, in a European-American population, ELAC2 217L and RNASEL 541E are associated with metastatic sporadic disease. ELAC2 and RNASEL SNP analysis may prove useful in determining which patients are at risk for developing clinically significant prostate carcinoma.
The first known human case of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) deficiency is presented in this report. The patient is a six-year-old boy with severe growth retardation. He has been suffering from persistent hemolytic anemia characterized by marked erythrocyte fragmentation and intravascular hemolysis, with paradoxical increase of serum haptoglobin and low bilirubin. An abnormal coagulation/fibrinolysis system, associated with elevated thrombomodulin and von Willebrand factor, indicated the presence of severe, persistent endothelial damage. Electron microscopy of renal glomeruli revealed detachment of endothelium, with subendothelial deposition of an unidentified material. Iron deposition was noted in renal and hepatic tissue. Immunohistochemistry of hepatic tissue and immunoblotting of a cadmium-stimulated Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphoblastoid cell line (LCL) revealed complete absence of HO-1 production. An LCL derived from the patient was extremely sensitive to hemin-induced cell injury. Sequence analysis of the patient's HO-1 gene revealed complete loss of exon-2 of the maternal allele and a two-nucleotide deletion within exon3 of the paternal allele. Growth retardation, anemia, iron deposition, and vulnerability to stressful injury are all characteristics observed in recently described HO-1 targeted mice. This study presents not only the first human case of HO-1 deficiency but may also provide clues to the key roles played by this important enzyme in vivo.
To compare adenosine-, isoflurane-, or desflurane-induced hypotension with and without left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery constriction for the effects on myocardial tissue oxygen pressure (PmO(2)) in dogs.
Prospective, randomized, nonblinded.
University teaching hospital.
Male nonpurpose-bred dogs (n = 18).
Dogs were anesthetized with 1.5% isoflurane (n = 12) or 8% desflurane (n = 6). A flow probe and balloon occluder were placed on the LAD artery. A probe that measured myocardial oxygen pressure was inserted into the middle myocardium in the LAD region. Myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO(2)) was calculated as LAD flow x arterial minus coronary sinus oxygen content.
Measures were made during hypotension produced by adenosine infusion, 2.8% isoflurane, or 14% desflurane with and without LAD constriction to decrease blood flow 30%. Without LAD artery constriction, adenosine infusion increased LAD flow 90% and MVO(2) 70%, 2.8% isoflurane produced no change in MVO(2), and 14% desflurane decreased MVO(2) 25%, but no treatment changed PmO(2). LAD artery constriction decreased PmO(2) 50% by itself. Adenosine infusion during LAD constriction decreased tissue oxygen pressure an additional 60%, 2.8% isoflurane produced no change, and 14% desflurane increased PmO(2) 100%.
There was an inverse relationship between the effect of adenosine, 2.8% isoflurane, and 14% desflurane on MVO(2) and PmO(2) during ischemia. This is consistent with reports that increasing oxygen demand worsens myocardial ischemia.
Depression is widely prevalent among former heroin addicts in methadone maintenance treatment (MMT). The risk factors for depression among MMT patients that have not been well characterized, was studied.
In a cross-sectional study (January, 2004-August, 2005), 90 MMT patients were evaluated for depression by the 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (21-HAM-D) and the Brief Psychiatric Rating scale (BPRS). To study possible induction of depression by drug abuse, urine samples tested for opiates, cocaine metabolite (benzoylecgonine), benzodiazepines (BDZ), cannabis (THC), amphetamines and methadone metabolite during 1 month preceding study entry: a drug was defined as being positive if at least one sample was positive.
The 21-HAM-D and BPRS scores were significantly correlated (Pearson R=0.76, p<0.0005). Fifty percent were found to be suffering from depression (21-HAM-D, scored > or = 18). Fifteen new patients in MMT had better scores (5.1+/-5.7) than continuous patients (17.7+/-6.2, p<0.0005), independent of treatment duration. Higher scores were in 51 patients with any Axis I psychiatric diagnosis (18.9+/-5.7 vs. 11.4+/-7.9, p<0.0005), 74 abusing and or using prescribed BDZ (16.3+/-7.4 vs. 11.7+/-8, p=0.03), and 36 prescribed more than one type of medication (17.5+/-7.3 vs. 14.2+/-7.7, p=0.05). Females (N=40) had poorer scores than males (17.6+/-7 vs. 14.1+/-7.9, p=0.03), especially 12 admitted into treatment while pregnant (20.2+/-4.1).
Patient drug abuse and withdrawal could distort evaluation and lead to misclassification of depression.
The major risk factors for depression were already being in MMT, female gender, any DSM-IV Axis I psychiatric diagnosis, taking any psychotropic medication, abuse or using prescribed BDZ, and methadone dose > 120 mg/day.
The eicosanoid signalling pathway promotes the progression of malignancies through the production of proliferative prostaglandins (PGs). Cytosolic phospholipase A(2)α (cPLA(2)α) activity provides the substrate for cyclooxygenase-dependent PG release, and we have previously found that cPLA(2)α expression correlated with EGFR/HER2 over-expression in a small number of breast cancer cell lines.
The importance of differential cPLA(2)α activity in clinical breast cancer was established by relating the expression of cPLA(2)α in tissue samples from breast cancer patients, and two microarray-based gene expression datasets to different clinicopathological and therapeutic parameters.
High cPLA(2)α mRNA expression correlated with clinical parameters of poor prognosis, which are characteristic of highly invasive tumours of the HER2-positive and basal-like subtype, including low oestrogen receptor expression and high EGFR expression. High cPLA(2)α expression decreased overall survival in patients with luminal cancers, and correlated with a reduced effect of tamoxifen treatment. The cPLA(2)α expression was an independent predictive parameter of poor response to endocrine therapy in the first 5 years of follow-up.
This study shows a role of cPLA(2)α in luminal breast cancer progression, in which the enzyme could represent a novel therapeutic target and a predictive marker.
Platinum compound based chemotherapy has contributed to improved survival rates in neuroblastoma patients. We studied the association of hearing loss with the use of platinum based drugs.
Data of children from the two German neuroblastoma study cohorts, NB90 and NB97, were analyzed for the incidence of hearing impairments greater than WHO grade 2. Data from patients surviving more than 1 year after diagnosis without progression or recurrence were used.
Of these 1,170 patients, 146 (12.5 %) had persisting hearing impairments. The incidence was low after localized neuroblastoma INSS stage 1 - 3 with 35/650 (5 %) and stage 4S with 2/113 (2 %), but high in stage 4 disease with 109/405 (27 %). Ototoxicity depended on the cumulative cisplatin dose. For doses of 1 - 200 mg/m (2), 201 - 400 mg/m (2), 401 - 600 mg/m (2) and 601 - 800 mg/m (2) we found hearing impairments in 5/39 (12 %), 28/221 (13 %), 61/230 (26 %) and 50/225 (22 %) patients, respectively. The incidence of hearing impairment was not age dependent. In stage 4 patients, there was an additional effect of high dosed carboplatin. 65/188 (40 %) patients developed hearing impairments after carboplatin containing (1,500 mg/m (2)) high dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell reinfusion compared to only 33/217 (15 %) in patients receiving platinum free maintenance chemotherapy. Substitution of cisplatin (40 mg/m (2) x d, d 1 - 4, 96 h infusion) with carboplatin (100 mg/m (2) x d, d 1 - 4, 1 - 2 h infusion) due to otoxicity during induction chemotherapy did not reduce event free survival.
One fourth of high risk neuroblastoma survivors suffer from treatment induced hearing impairments. The substitution of cisplatin with carboplatin was not associated with an increased rate of tumor recurrences.
Biochemical markers have not been routinely used in children at risk for myocardial damage. Yet, because of somatic growth and the duration of survival, a low level of myocardial damage may ultimately be of more consequence in children than in adults.
We investigated the utility of cardiac troponin T (cTnT) blood levels (CARDIAC T ELISA Troponin T, Boehringer Mannheim Corp) in 51 consecutively sampled patients from 1 day to 34 years of age (median=5.7 years) undergoing cardiovascular (n=19) or noncardiovascular (n=17) surgery or who received doxorubicin for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) (n=15). Minimum detectable cTnT elevations were 0.03 ng/mL. cTnT was measurable in children of all ages with myocyte damage. In patients who underwent cardiovascular surgery, a correlation was noted between a score of increasing surgical severity and the mean level of postoperative cTnT (r=.79, P<.0001). Postoperative cTnT levels were elevated in children who completed cardiovascular surgery with an open chest compared with those with a closed chest (P=.0083). In addition, cTnT levels before cardiovascular surgery predicted postoperative survival (P=.007). cTnT elevations were observed after initial doxorubicin therapy for ALL. The magnitude of elevation predicted left ventricular dilatation (r=.80 when variables were treated as continuous, P=.003) and wall thinning (r=.61, P=.044) 9 months later.
Elevations of blood cTnT in children relate to the severity of myocardial damage and predict subsequent subclinical and clinical cardiac morbidity and mortality.
Ficus religiosa (Moraceae) is reported to have numerous therapeutic utility in folk medicine. Among different biological activities on central nervous system, it has been reported to be used in ethnomedical treatment of epilepsy, which led us to further explore its anticonvulsant activity in various animal models of epilepsy.
To investigate anticonvulsant activity of methanolic extract of figs of Ficus religiosa in animal models and to determine its possible anticonvulsant mechanism.
Anticonvulsant activity of figs extract (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg, i.p.) was studied in seizures induced by maximum electroshock (MES), picrotoxin and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ). Cyproheptadine, a nonselective (5HT(1/2)) serotonin antagonist (4 mg/kg, i.p.) was used to study the reversal of protective effect of extract in the above mentioned models. Acute toxicity, neurotoxicity and potentiation of pentobarbitone induced sleep by extract was also studied.
Extract showed no toxicity, potentiated pentobarbitone induced sleep and inhibited seizures induced by MES and picrotoxin in a dose dependent manner. Anticonvulsant effect of extract was comparable to clinically used antiepileptic drugs (phenytoin and diazepam). However, PTZ induced seizures were not inhibited. Animals pretreated with cyproheptadine showed inhibition of the anticonvulsant effect of extract.
These findings suggested that the methanolic extract of figs of Ficus religiosa had anticonvulsant activity against MES and picrotoxin induced convulsions, with no neurotoxic effect, in a dose dependent manner. Inhibition of the anticonvulsant effect of extract by cyproheptadine substantiates the involvement of serotonergic pathways for the anticonvulsant activity of extract.
We studied the effects of two antiviral agents, human interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) and ribavirin, on subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) virus infections in hamsters. By intracranial administration, IFN-alpha alone improved the survival of infected hamsters by 20% at a dose of 6 x 10(4) IU/kg every other day for 10 days. When the dose of IFN-alpha was increased incrementally to 6 x 10(6) IU/kg, the survival rate increased by 70% in a dose-dependent manner. The combination of IFN-alpha and ribavirin had a synergic inhibitory effect on the replication of SSPE virus in cell culture. Combination of IFN-alpha (at a dose of 6 x 10(5) IU/kg) with ribavirin (at a dose of 1 mg/kg) completely prevented mortality. This was significantly better than either IFN-alpha or ribavirin monotherapy (p < 0.05). Under the conditions used, IFN-alpha did not enhance the toxicity of ribavirin in hamsters. Intraventricular administration of high dose IFN-alpha and ribavirin may have potential usefulness in the treatment of patients with SSPE.
The recommended therapy for chronic hepatitis C, pegylated interferon and ribavirin for 24 or 48 weeks, has many known adverse side effects. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of antiviral therapy on male sexual health.
As part of the Study of Viral Resistance to Antiviral Therapy of Chronic Hepatitis C (Virahep-C), 260 men treated with pegylated interferon alfa-2a and ribavirin completed self-administered questionnaires concerning sexual desire, sexual function, including erectile and ejaculatory function, and sexual satisfaction before, during, and after treatment.
Before therapy, 37% of men reported at least some degree of impairment in sexual desire and 44% reported dissatisfaction with their sexual life, while 26% reported impairment in erectile and 22% in ejaculatory function. During therapy, significant declines were observed in all components of sexual health compared with pretreatment. At the end of therapy (24 or 48 weeks), an estimated 38%-48% of men reported that overall sexual function was worse than before treatment. African American patients reported less impairment in sexual desire and satisfaction than Caucasian American patients during therapy. By 24 weeks after treatment, sexual desire and satisfaction improved and were comparable to baseline levels. However, among men who received 48 weeks of therapy, the estimated percentage of men reporting posttreatment erectile or ejaculatory problems remained higher than baseline, although persistent erectile impairment was limited to Caucasian American patients.
Sexual impairment is common among men with chronic hepatitis C undergoing therapy with pegylated interferon and ribavirin and should be considered as a potential side effect of antiviral therapy.
The environmental contaminant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) produces marked suppression of the primary humoral immune response in virtually every animal species evaluated thus far. In addition, epidemiological studies performed in areas of dioxin contamination have identified an association between TCDD exposure and an increased incidence of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Recent studies using an in vitro CD40 ligand model of human B cell differentiation have shown that TCDD impairs both B cell activation and differentiation. The present study extends these findings by identifying B cell lymphoma-6 [BCL-6] as a putative cellular target for deregulation by TCDD, which may contribute to suppression of B cell function as well as NHL. BCL-6 is a multifunctional transcriptional repressor frequently mutated in NHLs and known to regulate critical events of B cell activation and differentiation. In the presence of TCDD, BCL-6 protein levels were elevated and concurrently the same population of cells with high BCL-6 levels showed decreased CD80 and CD69 expression indicative of impaired cellular activation. The elevated BCL-6 levels resulted in a concomitant increase in BCL-6 DNA binding activity at its cognate binding site within an enhancer region for CD80. Furthermore, a small molecule inhibitor of BCL-6 activity reversed TCDD-mediated suppression of CD80 expression in human B cells. In the presence of a low-affinity ligand of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), suppression of B cell activation and altered BCL-6 regulation were not observed. These results provide new mechanistic insights into the role of BCL-6 in the suppression of human B cell activation by TCDD.
Acute cyclosporine nephrotoxicity is characterized by the dose-dependent reduction of glomerular filtration rate both in patients and experimental animals. Administration of a vasodilator agent such as PGE2 might prevent glomerular vasoconstriction and hence reduce cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. The results of the present investigation in spontaneously hypertensive rats indicate that a synthetic PGE2 prevents cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. Pharmacokinetic studies revealed that CSA plasma peak levels and area under the plasma concentration-time curve were significantly decreased in PGE2 treated rats, indicating reduced bioavailability of oral CSA. Furthermore, the immunosuppressive effect of CSA was completely abolished by concomitant PGE2 administration. In summary, the preventive effect of a synthetic PGE2 analogue on CSA nephrotoxicity in rats is most likely due to a reduced enteral absorption of CSA, resulting in insufficient immunosuppression.
Neurocognitive performances were evaluated in 9 children with different types of epilepsy prior to and at least 6 months after discontinuation of phenobarbital. The patients treated with phenobarbital monotherapy were seizure free for at least 2 years, without electro-encephalographic anomalies for at least 1 year. Results indicated that phenobarbital at low therapeutic doses causes attentional and memory deficits, reversible after therapy discontinuation. Further research utilizing the same design is needed on larger samples in order to confirm our results.
The aim of this study was to assess the antiarrhythmic efficacy and safety of d,l-sotalol in patients with ventricular tachycardia (VT) or ventricular fibrillation (VF) and in survivors of cardiac arrest and to identify the factors that are associated with arrhythmia suppression and therefore might be helpful in predicting drug efficacy.
Despite increasing use of the class III antiarrhythmic agent d,l-sotalol, data on its short- and long-term efficacy in a large patient cohort are lacking. Information on its long-term tolerability and safety is limited.
A total of 396 patients with inducible sustained VT or VF (VT/VF) underwent programmed stimulation before and after receiving oral d,l-sotalol (240 to 640 mg/day). Patients in whom VT/VF was rendered either noninducible or more difficult to induce (more extrastimuli or faster drive cycle length needed for VT/VF induction) were discharged on a regimen of oral d,l-sotalol.
d,l-Sotalol suppressed VT/VF in 151 patients (38.1%) and rendered the arrhythmia more difficult to induce in 76 patients (19.2%). The extent of drug-induced prolongation of right ventricular refractoriness and a shorter VT cycle length at baseline were independent predictors of immediate drug efficacy. Torsade de pointes developed in seven patients (1.8%). Two hundred ten patients (53%) continued to receive d,l-sotalol and were followed up for 34 +/- 18 months (mean +/- SD). The actuarial rates for the absence of arrhythmic recurrence (either VT/VF or sudden death) at 1 and 3 years were 89% and 77%, respectively. Actuarial rates for overall survival at 1 and 3 years were 94% and 86%, respectively. VT/VF suppression by d,l-sotalol was an independent discriminant variable that separated patients with and without arrhythmia recurrence. However, noninducibility of VT/VF did not predict freedom from sudden death.
Oral d,l-sotalol is effective and safe in patients with VT/VF. However, sudden cardiac death develops in a significant proportion of patients, and programmed stimulation seems to be of limited value for its prediction.
An unusual case of hematomyelia during anticoagulant therapy is reported in a patient after cardiac surgery. A review of the pertinent literature is presented. After medical and surgical treatment, the transverse symptoms largely subsided with rehabilitation of the patient.
Nicotine, acting through the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), can induce seizures in mice. We aimed to study brain transcriptional response to seizure and to identify genes whose expression is altered after nicotine-induced seizures. Whole brains of untreated mice were compared with brains 1 h after seizure activity, using Affymetrix U74Av2 microarrays. Experimental groups included wild-type mice and both nicotine-induced seizure-sensitive and -resistant nAChR mutant mice. Each genotype group received different nicotine doses to generate seizures. This approach allowed the identification of significantly changed genes whose expression was dependent on seizure activity, nicotine administration, or both but not on the type of nAChR subunit mutation or the amount of nicotine injected. Significant expression changes were detected in 62 genes (P < 0.05, false discovery rate correction). Among them, gene ontology functional annotation analysis determined that the most significantly overrepresented categories were of genes encoding MAP kinase phosphatases, regulators of transcription and nucleosome assembly proteins. In silico bioinformatic analysis of the promoter regions of the 62 changed genes detected significant enrichments of 16 transcription regulatory elements (TREs), creating a network of transcriptional regulatory responses to seizures. The TREs for activating transcription factor and serum response factor were most significantly enriched, supporting their association with seizure activity. Our data suggest that nicotine-induced seizure in mice is a useful model to study seizure activity and its global brain transcriptional response. The differentially expressed genes detected here can help us to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying seizures in animal models and may also serve as candidate genes to study epilepsy in humans.
This report describes a case of quinine-induced acute renal failure as a result of a combination of haemolytic uraemic syndrome and rhabdomyolysis with disseminated intravascular coagulation. The abrupt onset of symptoms occurred after ingestion of 300 mg of quinine along with atorvastatin. The patient recovered with supportive management, suggesting that plasma exchange may not be necessary in this situation. The possibility of a drug interaction contributing to rhabdomyolysis is raised. The proposed mechanism is through quinine inhibition of the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 3A4, which may increase systemic levels of atorvastatin by reducing its first-pass metabolism.
Sixty patients with theophylline toxicity were hospitalized during a 2-year period. Eleven patients had hypercalcemia; their calcium levels returned to normal as theophylline levels fell to therapeutic or subtherapeutic levels. Serum calcium levels also fell significantly in three additional patients with theophylline toxicity, although the initial serum calcium concentration was not outside normal limits. A significant increase in serum calcium levels associated with therapeutic levels of theophylline in normal volunteers was reversed by propranolol. It appears that theophylline causes elevation of serum calcium by a system subject to beta-adrenergic regulation.
Dysferlin is a protein of the sarcolemma that is mutated in patients with limb girdle muscular dystrophy 2B, Miyoshi myopathy, and distal anterior myopathy. It has been implicated in muscle signaling and sarcolemma repair. To further understand its functional role we studied dysferlin expression in satellite cells (SCs) in normal and pathological human muscle biopsies, as well as in primary cultures of human skeletal muscle. Using immunohistochemistry we detected dysferlin-positive (Dysf+) SCs. Double staining with c-met+, a total SC marker, showed that the number of Dysf+ SCs ranged from 33.7% +/- 4.4% in normal muscle to 68.0% +/- 6.2% in pathological muscles, whereas double staining with MyoD/Dysf showed that all activated SC (MyoD+) were also Dysf+. These results indicate that dysferlin is upregulated in activated SCs. In vitro, immunohistochemistry, semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and real-time PCR showed that both dysferlin mRNA and protein expression were higher in multinucleated myotubes than in the myoblast stage (p < 0.05). Furthermore, experiments of inhibition of myoblast fusion with amiloride, a type T calcium channel antagonist, showed that dysferlin levels were lower in treated than in non-treated cultures (p < 0.001), demonstrating that dysferlin expression reached peak levels upon differentiation into myotubes. These results and the in vivo findings of dysferlin expression when SCs are activated confirm the involvement of dysferlin in human muscle regeneration/repair and its possible role in fusion events during muscle development.
