Lovastatin has been used with increasing frequency over the past few years to reduce serum cholesterol. The onset of muscle weakness, one of the most serious side effects of long-term treatment with the drug, constitutes a contraindication to the continuation of therapy and commonly occurs in patients who are also receiving gemfibrozil or cyclosporine. We report the clinical and pathologic findings in a patient treated for hypercholesterolemia with lovastatin and gemfibrozil who developed a rapidly progressive necrotizing myopathy. A 57-year-old woman with hyperlipidemia, treated with lovastatin and gemfibrozil, was admitted to the hospital for evaluation of muscular weakness in her legs and neck. Neurologic examination revealed severe proximal muscle weakness involving both upper and lower extremities as well as proximal muscle tenderness and areflexia in the lower limbs. A biopsy of the quadriceps muscle showed multiple foci of mononuclear cell infiltration with myophagocytosis and slight variation in the size and shape of muscle fibers. Electron microscopy of the affected fibers showed accumulations of subsarcolemmal autophagic lysosomes. The patient's condition dramatically improved after discontinuation of lovastatin-gemfibrozil therapy.
In numerous studies vigabatrin medication has been associated with visual field constriction and alterations in the full-field electroretinogram (ff-ERG), but it is not clear whether these changes are reversible or not. The purpose of this study was to examine patients with visual field loss and reduced ff-ERG several years after discontinuing vigabatrin therapy, in order to investigate reversibility.
Eight patients with visual field constriction and reduced cone responses measured by 30 Hz flicker ERG were examined with Goldmann perimetry and ff-ERG 4-6 years after discontinuing medication. The results were compared with investigations conducted during medication, 4-6 years previously. Statistical analysis was also used to compare the ff-ERG results of the patients, during treatment and at follow-up, with a group of 70 healthy subjects.
Visual field constriction remained 4-6 years after discontinuing vigabatrin therapy. The amplitude of the 30 Hz flicker response also remained reduced on follow-up both compared with the results during treatment and with the control group. Moreover, the amplitude of the isolated rod response and the combined rod-cone response were decreased in the patients compared with the control group, during vigabatrin treatment as well as on follow-up. On follow-up, oscillatory potentials (OPs) also were registered, showing reduced amplitudes in patients compared with controls. The within subject comparison showed no significant changes.
Vigabatrin attributed visual field constriction and reduced ff-ERG responses remain several years after discontinuing vigabatrin therapy, indicating drug-induced permanent retinal damage.
In this study, the effects of carvedilol, antihypertensive (alpha-beta blocker) agent with antiproliferative and antioxidative properties, on slowing down of chronic renal failure (CRF) progression in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with adriamycin (ADR) nephropathy were examined.
Eighty adult (24 weeks) SHR were divided into four groups:
20 SHR; ADR group: 20 SHR treated with ADR (2 mg/kg i.v. twice in 20 days); ADR-C group: 20 SHR treated with ADR and with carvedilol (30 mg/kg/day); ADR-CC group: 20 SHR treated with carvedilol and captopril (60 mg/kg/day). Systolic blood pressure was measured every two weeks, renal blood flow (RBF), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and renal vascular resistance (RVR) were determined at Weeks 6 and 12, creatinine clearance and proteinuria at Weeks -3 (see measurements), 6 and 12. The rats were sacrificed at Weeks 6 and 12 after the second ADR injection. Glomerular sclerosis, tubulointerstitial and blood vessel changes were determined by semiquantitative scoring.
Carvedilol decreased systolic blood pressure. It decreased RVR and MAP, and increased RBF significantly. Carvedilol also significantly decreased interstitial infiltration in the early phase of the study, slowed down the development of interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy and decreased blood vessel changes. The hemodynamic and morphological effects of carvedilol were associated with slowing down the CRF progression as well as a mild decrease in proteinuria. Captopril addition to carvedilol improved its effects especially on prevention of tubulointerstitial changes.
Results of this experimental study showed beneficial effect of carvedilol and its combination with captopril on CRF progression, indicating that clinical studies are warranted.
The mammalian heart expresses at least five phosphodiesterases (PDE1-5). Catecholamines produce surges of inotropically relevant cAMP through beta(1)-adrenoceptor stimulation. cAMP is mainly hydrolysed by PDE3 and/or PDE4 thereby blunting contractility. Basal sinoatrial beating rate in mouse, rat, piglet and rabbit sinoatrial cells is reduced by PDE3 and/or PDE4 through hydrolysis of cAMP. However, in rodents, the tachycardia elicited by catecholamines through production of cAMP by beta-adrenoceptor activation is not controlled by PDE3 and PDE4, despite a blunting effect of PDE3 or/and PDE4 on basal sinoatrial beating, but it is unknown whether PDE3 limits catecholamine-evoked tachycardia in the rabbit. Since rabbit sinoatrial cells are an important model for pacemaker research, we investigated whether the positive chronotropic effects of (-)-noradrenaline on spontaneously beating right atria of the rabbit are potentiated by inhibition of PDE3 with cilostamide (300 nM). We also studied the sinoatrial effects of the PDE4 inhibitor rolipram (10 microM) and its influence on the responses to (-)-noradrenaline. For comparison, we investigated the influence of cilostamide and rolipram on the positive inotropic responses to (-)-noradrenaline on rabbit left atria and right ventricular papillary muscles. Cilostamide and concurrent cilostamide + rolipram, but not rolipram alone, increased sinoatrial rate by 15% and 31% of the effect of (-)-isoprenaline (200 microM) but the PDE inhibitors did not significantly change the chronotropic potency of (-)-noradrenaline. In contrast in papillary muscle, the positive inotropic effects of (-)-noradrenaline were potentiated 2.4-, 2.6- and 44-fold by cilostamide, rolipram and concurrent cilostamide + rolipram, respectively. In left atrium, the positive inotropic effects of (-)-noradrenaline were marginally potentiated by cilostamide, as well as potentiated 2.7- and 32-fold by rolipram and by concurrent cilostamide and rolipram respectively. To compare the influence of PDE1-5 on basal sinoatrial rate and (-)-noradrenaline-evoked tachycardia, we investigated on rat right atria the effects of selective inhibitors. The PDE4 inhibitor rolipram and non-selective inhibitor isobutyl-methylxanthine caused tachycardia with -logEC(50)s of 7.2 and 5.0 and E(max) of 18% and 102% of (-)-isoprenaline, respectively. Rolipram did not change the chronotropic potency of (-)-noradrenaline. At high concentrations (10-30 microM), the PDE1, PDE3 and PDE5 inhibitors 8-methoxymethyl-3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, cilostamide and sildenafil, respectively, caused marginal tachycardia but did not significantly change the chronotropic potency of (-)-noradrenaline. The PDE2-selective inhibitor erythro-9-[2-hydroxy-3-nonyl]adenine caused marginal bradycardia at 30 microM and tended to reduce the chronotropic potency of (-)-noradrenaline. Rabbit PDE3 reduces basal sinoatrial rate. Although PDE4 only marginally reduces rate, under conditions of PDE3 inhibition, it further reduces sinoatrial rate. Both PDE3 and PDE4 control atrial and ventricular positive inotropic effects of (-)-noradrenaline. In contrast, neither PDE3 nor PDE4 limit the sinoatrial tachycardia induced by (-)-noradrenaline. In the rat, only PDE4, but not PDE1, PDE2, PDE3 and PDE5, reduces basal sinoatrial rate. None of the five rat PDEs limits the (-)-noradrenaline-evoked tachycardia. Taken together, these results confirm and expand evidence for our proposal that the cAMP-compartment modulating basal sinoatrial rate, controlled by PDE3 and/or PDE4, is different from the PDE-resistant cAMP compartment involved in beta(1)-adrenoceptor-mediated sinoatrial tachycardia.
Dent's disease is a hereditary renal tubular disorder caused by mutations of the CLCN5 gene and is clinically characterized by low molecular weight proteinuria, hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis. This disease has been reported in several countries. However, there are some phenotypic differences between countries, such as hypophosphatemic rickets, progressive renal failure and hematuria. In this study, phenotypes were analyzed in three Korean boys with Dent's disease, and genetic diagnoses were performed using a new convenient method using peripheral blood RNA. Gene studies revealed two nonsense mutations, R637X in two patients and E609X in one patient. The phenotypes of the two patients with R637X were very similar to those of Japanese patients, i.e., they presented with asymptomatic proteinuria without rickets, renal failure or hematuria. The E609X patient was diagnosed genetically at 3 months of age before the onset of clinical symptoms because of superimposed furosemide-induced nephrolithiasis. This is the first report to characterize mutations in the CLCN5 gene in Korean patients with Dent's disease, and expands the spectrum of CLCN5 mutations by reporting a novel mutation, E609X. In addition, the mutational analysis using peripheral blood RNA can be easily applied in the clinical diagnosis.
Mitochondrial abnormalities have been associated with several aspects of epileptogenesis, such as energy generation, control of cell death, neurotransmitter synthesis, and free radical (FR) production. Increased production of FRs may cause mtDNA damage leading to decreased activities of oxidative phosphorylation complexes containing mtDNA-encoded subunits. In this study, we investigated whether increased generation of FR during status epilepticus would be sufficient to provoke abnormalities in mtDNA and in the expression and activity of cytochrome c oxidase (CCO), complex IV of the respiratory chain, in the chronic phase of the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy. DNA analysis revealed low amounts of a 4.8 kb mtDNA deletion but with no differences in frequency or quantity in the control and experimental groups. We did not find abnormalities in the expression and distribution of an mtDNA-encoded subunit of CCO (CCO-I) or a relative decrease in CCO-I when compared with nuclear-encoded subunits (CCO-IV and SDH-fp). No abnormality in CCO activity was observed through histochemistry. Although evidences of mitochondrial abnormalities were found in previously published studies, our results do not suggest that the FRs, generated during the acute phase, determined important abnormalities in mtDNA, in expression of CCO-I, and in CCO activity.
An early and reliable blood test is one deficiency in diagnosis of malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM). Megakaryocyte potentiating factor (MPF) and mesothelin variants (MSLN), members of the mesothelin gene family, have been studied as candidate serum markers for MPM. We developed a novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) system to compare the diagnostic efficacy of MPF and MSLN in MPM and control groups.
MPF and MSLN were assayed with ELISA in 27 consecutive MPM patients and 129 controls including patients with lung cancer and asymptomatic asbestos-exposed subjects.
Statistically significant elevation of serum MPF and MSLN levels was noted in MPM patients in comparison with every control group. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was calculated for differentiation of MPM and lung cancer, healthy asbestos-exposed subjects, and healthy adults. While the AUC for serum MPF was 0.879, cut-off=19.1ng/ml (sensitivity=74.1%, specificity=90.4%), the AUC for serum MSLN was 0.713, cut-off=93.5ng/ml (sensitivity=59.3%, specificity=86.2%). Comparison between AUC for MPF and MSLN values shows that MPF is significantly superior to MSLN (p=0.025). Finally, there was a significant correlation between MPF and MSLN values for MPM (Pearson's correlation coefficient=0.77; p<0.001).
These findings suggest that diagnostic value of MPF for MPM was better than that of MSLN although both markers showed almost equal specificity for MPM.
A brief exposure of dissociated hippocampal culture to aluminum (AlCl3, 60 min) is toxic to neurons. The aluminum toxicity is independent of calcium or glutamate receptor activation. However, at a high concentration (1 mM), aluminum seems to have a protective effect.
Oncostatin M (OSM) is an interleukin-6 cytokine family member, which inhibits cell proliferation and induces cell differentiation and apoptosis in cancers. In melanoma cells, epigenetic silencing of OSM receptor (OSMR) by histone deacetylation contributes to escape of cell growth control by OSM. However, the silencing of OSMR by DNA methylation in any cancer has not been examined.
Methylation status of OSMR was determined by sequencing or methylation-specific PCR in primary tumors and cell lines. Cell lines were treated with DNA methyltransferase inhibitors 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine or DNA methyltransferase 1 small interfering RNA or a histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A. OSMR mRNA level was determined by reverse transcription-PCR. The acetylation of histone H3 was analyzed by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay.
We observed methylation of OSMR in 88 of 98 (90%) colorectal cancers, 34 of 38 (89%) colorectal polyps, 17 of 31 (55%) normal-appearing mucosa adjacent to colorectal cancers, 13 of 40 (33%) gastric cancers, and 2 of 10 (20%) pancreatic cancers. OSMR methylation was absent or rarely detected in normal colonic mucosa from noncancer patients or in cancers of nondigestive organs, including breast, lung, liver, prostate, kidney, and melanoma. We observed a significant correlation between OSMR methylation and loss of mRNA expression in 39 cancer cell lines. Following the treatment of colorectal cancer cell lines with 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine, DNA methyltransferase 1 small interfering RNA, or trichostatin A, the induction of OSMR mRNA and the enrichment in the level of histone acetylation were observed.
The epigenetic silencing and DNA methylation of OSMR occur frequently in colorectal cancers and rarely in cancers of nondigestive organs. OSMR methylation is an early event in the colorectal carcinogenesis.
Previous studies in rodent models have shown that early-life exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) reprograms the prostate and enhances its susceptibility to hormonal carcinogenesis with aging. To determine whether the human prostate is similarly sensitive to BPA, the current study used human prostate epithelial stem-like cells cultured from prostates of young, disease-free donors. Similar to estradiol-17β (E2), BPA increased stem-progenitor cell self-renewal and expression of stem-related genes in a dose-dependent manner. Further, 10 nM BPA and E2 possessed equimolar membrane-initiated signaling with robust induction of p-Akt and p-Erk at 15 minutes. To assess in vivo carcinogenicity, human prostate stem-progenitor cells combined with rat mesenchyme were grown as renal grafts in nude mice, forming normal human prostate epithelium at 1 month. Developmental BPA exposure was achieved through oral administration of 100 or 250 μg BPA/kg body weight to hosts for 2 weeks after grafting, producing free BPA levels of 0.39 and 1.35 ng/mL serum, respectively. Carcinogenesis was driven by testosterone plus E2 treatment for 2 to 4 months to model rising E2 levels in aging men. The incidence of high-grade prostate intraepithelial neoplasia and adenocarcinoma markedly increased from 13% in oil-fed controls to 33% to 36% in grafts exposed in vivo to BPA (P < .05). Continuous developmental BPA exposure through in vitro (200 nM) plus in vivo (250 μg/kg body weight) treatments increased high-grade prostate intraepithelial neoplasia/cancer incidence to 45% (P < .01). Together, the present findings demonstrate that human prostate stem-progenitor cells are direct BPA targets and that developmental exposure to BPA at low doses increases hormone-dependent cancer risk in the human prostate epithelium.
A 51-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with cough, hemosputum, dyspnea and chest pain. Chest high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) revealed diffuse ground-glass opacities in both lungs with peripheral predominance. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was fresh-bloody and analysis indicated an increase in the eosinophil proportion. Benzbromarone-induced lymphocyte stimulation test was positive. Therefore, the patient was diagnosed as having drug-induced eosinophilic pneumonia with pulmonary alveolar hemorrhage caused by benzbromarone. After discontinuation of benzbromarone and administration of corticosteroids, chest HRCT images and respiratory manifestation improved. Here, we report this rare case of benzbromarone-induced eosinophilic pneumonia with pulmonary alveolar hemorrhage.
We examined the role of reactive oxygen metabolites and the protective effect of zinc-induced metallothionein (MT) synthesis on gentamicin nephrotoxicity both in vivo and in vitro. In vivo study we found that the MT content of renal cortex of the zinc preinjected rats was significantly increased, and proximal tubular necrosis and acute renal failure caused by injection of gentamicin were ameliorated. In suspended proximal tubules (PT), Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity and DNA synthesis were suppressed by the addition of gentamicin, but in zinc-pretreated rats' PT, these were not suppressed by the addition of gentamicin. Meanwhile MDA and hydroxyl radicals were significantly less in zinc-pretreated rats' PT compared to that in the control. Finally, we found that gentamicin enhanced superoxide anion and hydroxyl radical productin in renal cortical mitochondria. Superoxide anion could be suppressed by SOD and hydroxyl radical could be scavenged by DMSO, DFO and CAT. Our data confirm that hydroxyl radicals play a role in the pathogenesis of gentamicin nephrotoxicity, gentamicin can induce suppression of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity and DNA synthesis in rats' proximal tubules leading to renal injury; this injury may be relevant to reactive oxygen metabolites generated by gentamicin. Renal cortical mitochondria is the source of reactive oxygen metabolites, which induces renal injury, and zinc-induced metallothionein synthesis could ameliorate gentamicin nephrotoxicity via scavenging reactive oxygen metabolites.
Rosiglitazone (RSG) is known to be an agonist for the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) and promotes differentiation of pre-adipocytes into adipocytes. Leptin is highly correlated with adiposity, while the activation of PPARgamma is known to inhibit Lep gene expression and leptin release. This study was performed to evaluate the relationship between changes in circulating leptin levels, insulin sensitivity and regional adiposity after RSG treatment. Two hundred fifty-one type 2 diabetic patients (176 men and 75 women) who had been treated with sulfonylurea and/or metformin received 4 mg of RSG daily, in addition to the previous medications. Before and after RSG treatment (average duration 5.6+/-0.9 months), indices of insulin resistance, metabolic parameters, and serum leptin and adiponectin levels were measured. Abdominal subcutaneous fat thickness (SFT(max)) and visceral fat thickness were measured by sonography. After RSG treatment, HOMA-IR index decreased significantly (2.82+/-1.94 vs. 2.01+/-1.58), while BMI and SFT(max) increased, and leptin (4.72+/-3.77 vs. 5.69+/-4.30 ng/ml) and adiponectin levels (7.54+/-10.20 vs. 12.89+/-10.13 microg/ml) increased. The increase in serum leptin correlated with an increase in SFT(max) (r=0.511, p<0.001) and with a reduction in HOMA-IR (r=-0.368, p<0.001). The correlation of Delta leptin with Delta HOMA-IR and with Delta SFT(max) was higher in females and among insulin-resistant subjects. In conclusion, RSG improves the insulin sensitivity with increased serum leptin levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, which is related to an increase in subcutaneous adiposity.
4,4'-Methylenedianiline (DAPM) is an aromatic amine used in the synthesis of polyurethanes and epoxy resins. Acute exposure to DAPM produces hepatobiliary toxicity in humans as well as animal models. However, the toxic effects of intermittent DAPM exposure have not been explored. We treated male and female rats with 25 mg DAPM/kg or vehicle once per week for 17-22 wk. Though concentric fibrosis around bile ducts of the liver was noted, vascular medial hyperplasia was also prominent. Morphometric analysis of histologic sections revealed that in male rats, vessel wall area increased relative to lumen area in hepatic arteries by 22 wk. However, in female rats, wall areas of both hepatic and pulmonary arteries increased relative to lumen area by 17 wk. In both male and female rats, increased wall thickness was localized to the medial layer; no intimal changes were noted. In vitro treatment of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) with 25-100 microM DAPM resulted in increased DNA synthesis and VSMC proliferation. To test whether the observed alterations in cell cycle control involved VSMC-mediated metabolism of DAPM to electrophilic intermediates, cells were treated with DAPM or DAPM plus 50 microM N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Coincubation with NAC afforded dramatic protection against DAPM-induced VSMC proliferation. Though DAPM had no appreciable effect on levels of reduced glutathione, oxidized glutathione, or oxidant production, DAPM increased glutathione-S-transferase activity in VSMC. These data indicate that DAPM can initiate VSMC proliferation, possibly via VSMC-mediated metabolism of DAPM to reactive intermediates.
A 67-year-old woman with previously untreated lambda-positive B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) had kappa-positive myeloma develop that was treated with daily thalidomide and intermittent dexamethasone. After 4 months, there was a marked reduction in marrow plasmacytosis, urine kappa chains, and peripheral blood and marrow lymphocytosis. She reduced her thalidomide (but not dexamethasone) doses after 6 months, because she had symptoms of peripheral neuropathy. Although blood lymphocyte concentrations remained normal, she had progression of myeloma and died. Thalidomide and dexamethasone therapy similar to that administered for myeloma alone may be effective treatment for myeloma in patients with preexisting B-CLL and may also have anti-B-CLL activity.
The coagulation-fibrinolysis system has been studied in two groups of 16 patients classified ASA 1 undergoing radical mastectomy during controlled hypotensive anesthesia induced by prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) or by trimethaphan (TMP) under enflurane anesthesia. Thrombelastography (TEG) was used to evaluate both coagulation and fibrinolysis systems, while simultaneously measuring platelet aggregation in response to ADP and collagen, prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), serum concentrations of fibrinogen, and platelet counts. In the PGE1 group, APTT was significantly shortened (P less than 0.05) while the drug was being infused, but there was no statistically significant difference between the two groups, which was considered due to the effect of enflurane. Also, no statistically significant changes were noted in the other measured parameters. These results suggest that controlled hypotensive anesthesia using either PGE1 or TMP under enflurane anesthesia produces no significant changes in the blood coagulation-fibrinolysis system and that both are useful for the management of bleeding during surgery. Further, TEG was found to reflect other parameters properly. It is therefore useful for monitoring the blood coagulation-fibrinolysis system during anesthesia.
The development of nephrotoxicity induced by cephaloridine (CER) has been reported to be due to reactive oxygen species (ROS). Protein kinase C (PKC) has been suggested to modulate the generation of ROS. We investigated the possible participation of ROS generation assessed by chemiluminescence (CL) and PKC activity in rat kidney cortical mitochondria in the development of CER-induced nephrotoxicity. We first evaluated the magnitude of the nephrotoxic damage caused by CER in rats. The plasma parameters and ultrastructural morphology changes were increased markedly 24hr after the treatment of rats with CER. We demonstrated that the treatment of rats with CER clearly evoked not only enhancement of Cypridina luciferin analog (CLA)-dependent CL intensity, but also the activation of PKC in mitochondria isolated from the kidney cortex of rats 1.5 and 3.5 hr after injection of the drug. These changes were detected in advance of those observed in plasma and by electron microscopy. The increase in CLA-dependent CL intensity detected in the kidney cortical mitochondria 1.5 and 3.5 hr after injection of CER was inhibited completely by the addition of superoxide dismutase, suggesting the generation of superoxide anion in these mitochondria during the early stages of CER-induced nephrotoxicity. These results suggest that the activation of PKC and the enhancement of superoxide anion generation in kidney cortical mitochondria precede the increases in plasma parameters and the electron micrographic changes indicative of renal dysfunction in rats treated with CER. Additionally, they suggest a possible relationship between PKC activation in mitochondria and free radical-induced CER nephrotoxicity in rats.
Misoprostol, a synthetic analog of prostaglandin, has been widely used in Brazil as an abortifacient. Abortion is illegal in Brazil. An uncertain number of these abortion attempts are unsuccessful and the pregnancy continues. We report on 7 patients whose mothers attempted to abort using this drug in the first trimester of gestation without success. The 7 patients presented with limb defects and in 4 of them a diagnosis of Möbius sequence was made.
Neuronal injury in manganese neurotoxicity (manganism) is thought to involve activation of astroglial cells and subsequent overproduction of nitric oxide (NO) by inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2). Manganese (Mn) enhances the effects of proinflammatory cytokines on expression of NOS2 but the molecular basis for this effect has not been established. It was postulated in the present studies that Mn enhances expression of NOS2 through the cis-acting factor, nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB). Exposure of C6 glioma cells to lipopopolysaccharide (LPS) resulted in increased expression of NOS2 and production of NO that was dramatically potentiated by Mn and was blocked through overexpression of mutant IkappaBalpha (S32/36A). LPS-induced DNA binding of p65/p50 was similarly enhanced by Mn and was decreased by mutant IkappaBalpha. Phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha was potentiated by Mn and LPS and was not blocked by U0126, a selective inhibitor of ERK1/2. Mn decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and increased matrix calcium, associated with a rise in intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) that was attenuated by the mitochondrial-specific antioxidant, MitoQ. Blocking mitochondrial ROS also attenuated the enhancing effect of Mn on LPS-induced phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha and expression of NOS2, suggesting a link between Mn-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and activation of NF-kappaB. Overexpression of a dominant-negative mutant of the NF-kappaB-interacting kinase (Nik) prevented enhancement of LPS-induced phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha by Mn. These data indicate that Mn augments LPS-induced expression of NOS2 in C6 cells by increasing mitochondrial ROS and activation of NF-kappaB.
